-- Taiwan Presidential Candidates Rally Supporters Before Jan. 14 Election
-- B y   C h i n m e i   S u n g
-- 2012-01-07T21:17:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-07/taiwan-presidential-candidates-rally-supporters-before-jan-14-election.html
Taiwan’s (TWGDCONY)  presidential candidates plan
to rally their supporters across the island nation today on the
final weekend before the Jan. 14 election.  “It’s the final leg of the race, we want to boost morale
and win more support,” Yin Wei, a spokesman for President Ma Ying-jeou’s campaign office, said in an interview on Jan. 6.
Opposition Democratic Progressive Party Chairwoman Tsai Ing-wen
hopes to rally at least 10,000 people, Chang Chih-hao, a DPP
spokesman, said.  Ma, 61, the ruling Kuomintang party leader seeking a second
four-year term, is running against the DPP’s Tsai amid slowing
growth, a stock market slump, near-record  home prices  and
stagnant wages.  Tsai, 55,  Taiwan ’s first woman presidential candidate, has
focused on domestic issues and criticizing the pace of Ma’s push
to forge closer economic links with China, avoiding talk of
independence during her campaign.  The issue of closer ties with China dominated a Jan. 6
debate among candidates, the last held before the election on
the island of 23 million people.  “Most people don’t feel the immediate benefits of the
improved China-Taiwan relations that Ma has achieved,” said
Chang Wu-ueh, a professor of political science at Taipei’s
Tamkang University. “They care about jobs and domestic
issues.”  The  Taiex stock index (TWSE)  tumbled 21 percent last year, its
worst year since 2008, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The index ended up 0.7 percent in the first week of the year.
The  Taiwan dollar  strengthened 0.1 percent to NT$30.245 against
its U.S. counterpart at close of trading on Jan. 6, according to
Taipei Forex Inc.  Election Rallies  Ma’s rallies will start at 2:30 p.m. in the capital,
Taipei, Taichung, Hualien and in the eastern coastal town of
Taitung, according to his campaign office. Supporters of Tsai
will gather in southern city of Tainan in the morning, and at
two afternoon rallies in central Taiwan, while Taipei and New
Taipei City will be the scene of rallies at night, Tsai’s
campaign office said in a statement on its website.  Ma returned the Kuomintang to power in 2008 eight years
after its five-decade reign was ended. His government has
resumed direct flights to  China  after a ban that had lasted six
decades. It also allowed Chinese tourists to visit the island,
eased investment rules and signed 16 agreements with China,
including a trade deal.  Ma was widening his narrow lead over Tsai in public opinion
polls taken prior to a blackout period for voter surveys that
began Jan. 4. Taiwanese law bars publication or release of polls
10 days prior to presidential elections.  Civil War  The island exercises de facto independence, having its own
foreign policy, currency and elected government since Mao
Zedong’s Communist Party took over the mainland in 1949 and the
Kuomintang fled to Taiwan after losing the civil war.  China, Taiwan’s largest trading partner and the No. 1
investment destination, has more than 1,000 missiles pointed at
the island.  Taiwan in November cut its forecast for 2011 growth to 4.51
percent and said the economy’s expansion will slow to 4.19
percent this year. The administration also lowered its
projection for export growth this year to 5.27 percent from 6.25
percent.  Taiwan’s central bank in December left  interest rates 
unchanged for a second straight quarter to support domestic
spending as  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis hurts exports and
threatens jobs.  A total of 109 companies reached agreements with 13,034
workers to take unpaid leave as of Dec. 31, according to a
Council of Labor Affairs statement on its website.  The average price of existing homes in Taipei climbed 1.8
percent in November to NT$558,000 per ping, equivalent to 36
square feet, after declining the previous month from a record
NT$571,000 in September, according to Sinyi Realty Co., the
island’s biggest real-estate brokerage.  Taiwan’s consumer prices unexpectedly rose 2.03 percent in
December, the fastest pace in 22 months, as the cost of food
surged, government data showed on Jan. 5.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chinmei Sung in Taipei at 
 csung4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  