-- Annie Sez Chain Owner Said to Plan Bankruptcy Filing as Early as Next Week
-- B y   L a u r e n   C o l e m a n - L o c h n e r   a n d   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 2012-01-07T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-07/annie-sez-chain-owner-said-to-plan-bankruptcy-filing-next-week.html
Big M Inc., the owner of the Annie
sez and Mandee clothing chains, may seek protection from
creditors as early as next week, two people familiar with the
matter said.  The company operates more than 150 stores and is seeking to
reorganize, shut some locations and possibly move all of the
stores under the Mandee name, said one of the people, who
declined to be identified because the matter isn’t public.  Big M was founded by the Mandelbaum family in 1948,
according to Mandee’s website. Mandee sells clothing aimed at
women aged 16 to 35, while Annie sez offers designer merchandise
at discounts, targeting women 25 and older.  Alan Mandelbaum, son of company co-founder Max Mandelbaum,
became CEO in September, according to an October report in The
Record, a newspaper in northern  New Jersey .  Mandelbaum didn’t immediately return calls seeking comment
yesterday. Renee Zuckerman, head of marketing and creative,
declined to comment on whether the company was about to file for
bankruptcy, saying that the firm’s policy is not to comment on
financial matters.  Annie sez, with a contact address in Secaucus, New Jersey,
opened in 1974 and has 14 stores in New York and 16 in New
Jersey, according to its  website . Other stores are in
Connecticut,  Florida ,  Michigan  and  Pennsylvania .  The U.S. economic slowdown since 2008 has helped to drive
other retailers into bankruptcy, including  Loehmann’s Holdings
Inc. (LHMS) , Circuit City Stores Inc. and Borders Group Inc.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lauren Coleman-Lochner in  New York  at 
 llochner@bloomberg.net ;
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net ;
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  