-- Arabs Won’t Tolerate More Violence in Syria, Qatar Premier Says
-- B y   N a d e e m   H a m i d   a n d   N a y l a   R a z z o u k
-- 2012-01-07T12:18:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-07/arabs-won-t-tolerate-more-violence-in-syria-qatar-premier-says.html
The  Arab League  won’t tolerate the
“unacceptable” violence in Syria, where the government hasn’t
executed any of the terms of an accord to end its crackdown on
protests, the Qatari prime minister said.  “The events taking place in Syria are painful and
unacceptable,” Sheikh Hamad Bin Jasim Bin Jaber al Thani, whose
nation currently chairs the Arab League, told Al Jazeera
television in an interview late yesterday.  The Cairo-based Arab League will meet in the Egyptian
capital tomorrow to discuss the findings of its monitors, who
arrived in Syria Dec. 26. The effort is aimed at ensuring that
President Bashar al-Assad follows through on his pledge to
withdraw security forces from cities, release political
prisoners and allow anti-government demonstrations.  “None of these things have been done, and not all
observers were allowed in Syria, as there are many observers who
were not allowed in by the Syrian government,”  Sheikh Hamad 
said. “The observers’ mission has been altered to delivering
food and searching for a missing person, which is not supposed
to be their mission,” he said.  The Arab League will re-evaluate the situation once the
observers hand in their report, he said.  “If the killing does not stop immediately, I think having
observers or not having them would be the same, and this even
makes us part of what’s taking place in Syria, and we don’t
wan’t to be part of that,” he said.  Syria’s capital, Damascus, was hit by a suicide bomb that
left 26 people dead and 63 others wounded yesterday, according
to the official news agency SANA. The unrest in  Syria , which
started in mid-March amid the pro-reform revolts that swept the
Arab world, has left more than 5,000 protesters and military
defectors dead, according to a United Nations estimate. Assad
has repeatedly blamed “terrorists” and foreign provocateurs
for the unrest.  Syrian security forces killed 10 people today, Al Arabiya
television reported.  Pipeline Bombing  A “terrorist group” blew up a pipeline transporting
diesel in central Syria today, SANA reported. The bombing
follows at least five attacks in recent months that have
targeted pipelines in or near Homs province, a flashpoint for
the unrest in Syria.  U.S. and European-led efforts to seek punitive action
against Assad at the UN Security Council have been resisted by
countries including China and  Russia .  The Arab League has tried to “contain” and resolve the
Syrian crisis within the Arab world, Sheikh Hamad said. The
Syrian government however “needs to understand that the Arabs
will not be part of this and will not allow the killing of
Syrian people to continue,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nadeem Hamid in Washington at 
 nhamid3@bloomberg.net ;
Nayla Razzouk in Dubai at 
 nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dick Schumacher at 
 dschumacher@bloomberg.net  