-- Belgium Freezes $1.7 Billion of Spending After EU Warns of Deficit Overrun
-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r
-- 2012-01-07T10:10:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-07/belgium-freezes-1-7-billion-of-spending-after-eu-warns-of-deficit-overrun.html
Belgium  froze 1.3 billion euros ($1.7
billion) in spending after the European Union warned that a
weaker-than-projected economy would push the deficit above the
new government’s targets.  “It’s a purely administrative suspension to give us time
to conduct the budget review,” Budget Minister Olivier Chastel
told  L’Echo newspaper . He defended the government’s budget math,
saying it will squeeze the deficit down to 2.8 percent of gross
domestic product in 2012 as planned.  The EU’s prediction of a higher deficit weighed on  Belgian
bonds (GDBR10)  yesterday, pushing the extra yield over German debt up by
6 basis points to 278 basis points, the most since a six-party
government took office on Dec. 6 with a pledge to cut the
budget.  Belgium, saddled with  Europe ’s fifth-highest debt, is
battling to prevent a surge in borrowing costs amid domestic
economic hardships and investors’ broader skepticism about the
euro area’s response to the two-year-old debt crisis.  Belgium’s first-half economic prospects range from “very
anemic growth” at best to a contraction of 0.5 percent at
worst, said  Luc Coene , head of the Belgian central bank. He
called for budget cuts and steps to boost the nation’s
“meager” employment level.  “It is very important to make this commitment to reassure
the markets and reduce our interest burden,” Coene said in a
 joint interview  with La Libre Belgique newspaper and RTBF radio.  Economic Management  Formed after 18 months of wrangling that led to speculation
that Belgium might break apart, Prime Minister Elio Di Rupo’s
government now faces an earlier-than-foreseen test of its
economic management and fidelity to the EU.  EU Economic and Monetary Commissioner Olli Rehn said on
Jan. 5 that, while immediate cuts of as much as 2 billion euros
would be a “first-best solution,” he would let Belgium buy
time with a spending freeze until a scheduled budget review in
February.  Rehn’s letter, published by  De Tijd newspaper  on its
website, set up Belgium as a test case of new rules that allow
the EU to intervene in national taxing and spending. It
estimated Belgium’s 2012 deficit at 3.25 percent of GDP, above
the euro area’s 3 percent limit.  The EU gave Belgium  until Jan. 9 (BEGDPQS)  to respond and will issue
its opinion on Jan. 11.  Di Rupo’s team responded quickly to previous international
pressure. It took the six parties negotiating the new government
less than 24 hours to reach a budget deal after Standard &
Poor’s Ratings Services on Nov. 25 lowered Belgium’s credit
rating one step to AA with a negative outlook.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  