-- California Appeals Ruling Blocking Low-Carbon Fuel Standard
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2012-01-07T00:36:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-07/california-appeals-ruling-blocking-low-carbon-fuel-standard-1-.html
California  appealed a ruling by a
federal judge who blocked the state’s low-carbon fuel standard
after finding that it discriminates against out-of-state corn
ethanol and crude oil and violates the Commerce Clause of the
U.S. Constitution.  The judge’s decision and a related court order blocks the
state from enforcing rules discouraging refiners such as  Chevron
Corp. (CVX)  and  Tesoro Corp. (TSO)  from processing types of crude that
release more carbon when produced and transported into the
state, such as output from  Canada ’s oil sands.  “We respectfully disagree with the court’s decision,” the
California Air Resources Board said in an e-mailed statement.
“The low-carbon fuel standard is an evenhanded standard that
encourages the use of cleaner low-carbon fuels by regulating
fuel-providers in California. It does not discriminate against
any fuels on the basis of geography.”  The board is asking a federal appeals court in San
Francisco to reverse the judge’s ruling and his order blocking
the rules from being enforced until a lawsuit challenging them
is resolved. The rules were to be enforced starting Jan. 1.  U.S. District Judge Lawrence J. O’Neill in Fresno,
California, on Dec. 29 sided with farming and oil-industry
groups that argued California’s method of assigning a higher so-
called carbon intensity score to ethanol produced in the
Midwest, which is otherwise chemically and physically identical
to that produced in California, discriminates against interstate
commerce.  The lower court case is Rocky Mountain Farmers Union v.
Goldstene, 09-2234, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of
California (Fresno).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in  San Francisco  at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  