-- China Ties Dominate as Ma Faces Tsai in Final Debate Before Taiwan’s Vote
-- B y   J a n e t   O n g   a n d   T i m   C u l p a n
-- 2012-01-07T03:27:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-07/china-ties-dominate-as-ma-faces-tsai-in-final-debate-before-taiwan-s-vote.html
Taiwan ’s President Ma Ying-jeou faced
rivals in the last debate before Jan. 14 elections that will
serve as a referendum on whether to keep pursuing closer ties
with China.  Ma, the Kuomintang party leader who is seeking a second
four-year term, has pledged to press ahead with his policy of
improved China relations that he says helped power  6.6 percent
growth (TWGDCONY)  in the first quarter of 2011.  His opponent, Tsai Ing-wen of the Democratic Progressive
Party, has called for a new approach in negotiations with China.
The government says a victory for Tsai would hurt relations.  “Tsai and her party shouldn’t treat Taiwan’s future as
Russian roulette,” Ma said in his opening address in the final
televised forum yesterday. “People shouldn’t fall victim to
their ideology and don’t deserve to become their guinea pigs.”  Tsai argued that DPP isn’t “anti- China .”  “We advocate peace on cross-strait relations,” Tsai said
in her speech last night. “But we insist that we can’t
sacrifice sovereignty for short-term benefits. We will maintain
the status quo after we win the Jan. 14 election. The new
government won’t alter cross-strait agreements that were signed
previously.”  Trade Agreements  If elected, Tsai probably wouldn’t build on Ma’s policies,
which included signing trade agreements and lifting a six-decade
ban on direct air, sea and postal links, said Erik Lueth, a Hong
Kong-based economist for Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc. Many
of those accords would need more concrete action to have any
real effect, he said.  The main trade deal between the two sides “is merely a
framework for further trade liberalization, and most steps taken
so far are largely symbolic,” Lueth said. “Relations,
including economic relations, would cool and the market would
suffer” if Tsai wins.  Ma was widening his narrow lead over Tsai in public opinion
polls taken prior to a blackout period for voter surveys that
began Jan. 4. Taiwanese law bars publication or release of polls
10 days prior to presidential elections.  Ma returned the Kuomintang to power four years ago, after
Tsai’s predecessor as the head of the  Democratic Progressive
Party , Chen Shui-bian, led Taiwan for eight years. China regards
Taiwan, ruled separately since a civil war ended in 1949, as its
own territory and ties became strained when Chen pushed for
recognition of sovereignty during his presidency.  ‘Correct Path’  “Everyone must choose the correct path,” Ma said at last
night’s debate. “Tsai isn’t responsible; she’s too influenced
by the DPP.”  Wang Yi, head of the Beijing-based Taiwan Affairs Office of
the State Council, said on Dec. 29 that a Tsai victory would
hurt the peaceful development of cross-strait ties.  Tsai advocates spending NT$400 billion ($13.2 billion) over
four years on care for the elderly and social housing and ending
the use of nuclear power. She promised allowances and more
 unemployment benefits  for first-time job seekers younger than 29.  “The number of people unsatisfied with Ma Ying-jeou has
gradually surpassed the number satisfied with Ma,” Tsai said in
her opening speech. “Taiwan needs a change.”  Presidential candidate James Soong, chairman of the People
First Party, also spoke at yesterday’s forum.  Even as she’s sought to focus on the domestic economy,
Tsai’s attitude toward China has dominated her campaign, Lueth
said. She stops short of calling for formal independence.
Instead, she wants to create a  task force  to negotiate with
China and rejects the so-called 1992 Consensus, which China and
Ma’s Kuomintang have used as a framework for past talks.  “The key difference between the two parties is the
attitude toward mainland China,” Lueth said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Janet Ong in Taipei at 
 jong3@bloomberg.net ;
Tim Culpan in Taipei at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  