-- Dexia Unlikely to Need to Tap Government Guarantee in 2012, ECB Coene Says
-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r   a n d   F r a n c o i s   d e   B e a u p u y
-- 2012-01-07T14:21:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-07/dexia-unlikely-to-need-to-tap-guarantees-this-year-coene-says.html
Dexia SA (DEXB) , the French-Belgian lender
being broken up after requiring two bailouts in three years, is
unlikely to have to tap Belgian  government guarantees (DEXB)  in 2012,
said  Luc Coene , the head of Belgium’s central bank.  Dexia, once the world’s largest municipal lender, won
temporary approval last month from European Union regulators for
as much as  45 billion euros (DEXB)  ($57 billion) in guarantees from
Belgium, France and Luxembourg through May 31. The temporary
guarantees, which allow the group to reduce reliance on central-
bank financing, are “the first step” from the three
governments to provide as much as 90 billion euros, Dexia said.  “I don’t see a problem of this guarantee being activated
this year,” Coene, who also sits on the European Central Bank’s
Governing Council, said in a joint interview with  La Libre
Belgique  newspaper and  RTBF radio  published today. “Dexia ought
to be able to get through the year without problems.”  Belgium ’s government, which took over Dexia’s Belgian
banking unit in October, is taking on 60.5 percent of the
guarantees, which cover loans with maturities of as much as
three years and will expire on May 31 unless the EU and the
three countries agree to an extension.  Final approval of the program will be based on a
 restructuring plan (DEXB)  due from the governments within three months,
the EU said on Dec. 21, as newspaper  Le Figaro  reported today
that the French part of the Dexia rescue plan may be at risk.  French Plan  Conditions for a plan agreed in October in which French
state-owned Caisse des Depots et Consignations was to take 65
percent of Dexia’s French municipal business aren’t there
anymore, said Michel Bouvard, chairman of the supervisory board
of Caisse des Depots, according to the French newspaper.  In the current depressed economic environment, Dexia
Municipal Agency’s takeover would cost Caisse des Depots about 2
billion euros of shareholders equity, which would lead to “very
stretched” financial ratios, the newspaper said. Nationalizing
the French units of Dexia is one of the possible solutions,
Bouvard said, according to Le Figaro.  France ’s shareholding agency head Jean-Dominique Comolli
rejected the idea of nationalizing Dexia Credit Local and Dexia
Municipal Agency during a Jan. 6 meeting with Dexia Chief
Executive Officer Pierre Mariani, Le Figaro reported, citing an
unidentified participant at the meeting.  Benoit Gausseron, a spokesman for Dexia, and Benjamin
Perret, a spokesman for Caisse des Depots, declined to comment.  ‘Heightened Risk’  Ratings companies  Standard & Poor’s  and Moody’s Investors
Service are reviewing France’s sovereign credit grade, while
 Fitch Ratings  cut France’s credit outlook on Dec. 16 on the
“heightened risk of contingent liabilities” from the euro-
region crisis.  Moody’s Investors Service cited potential liabilities from
Dexia’s breakup in lowering Belgium’s credit rating by two steps
last month. Moody’s move followed a one-step downgrade by
Standard & Poor’s on Nov. 25.  In the interview, Coene also said that Hungary’s political
and economic woes don’t pose a threat to Belgium’s  KBC Groep NV (KBC) ,
which has operations in that country.  “The exposure isn’t of a nature that puts the bank in
peril,” Coene said. “The situation will probably stabilize
because the Hungarians will have to reach an agreement with the
 International Monetary Fund  and European Commission.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net ;
Francois de Beaupuy in Paris at 
 fdebeaupuy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  