-- Economy Brightening in 2012 Initial Data From U.S. Belying Grim Investors
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a   a n d   R i c h   M i l l e r
-- 2012-01-07T05:01:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-07/economy-in-u-s-brightens-as-early-data-belie-gloomy-investors.html
The U.S. economy is beginning 2012 on
a brighter note in a sign investors may be too pessimistic.  Payrolls rose 200,000 in December, double the gain in
November, a Labor Department report showed yesterday. A weekly
measure of  consumer confidence  ended 2011 at a five-month high.
And manufacturers reported their business in December grew at
the fastest pace in six months. The combination indicates the
world’s largest economy has enough staying power to withstand a
recession in Europe and a slowdown in  China .  “Markets are absolutely preoccupied about the risks from
Europe and the U.S. housing market,” said  John Herrmann , senior
fixed-income strategist at State Street Global Markets in
Boston, and the second most-accurate U.S. economic forecaster
based on data from the last two years compiled by Bloomberg.
“Yet we’re finding the economy continues to hold together
fairly resiliently. We’re getting a good handoff from the fourth
quarter.”  Bob Doll , chief equity strategist at BlackRock Inc., the
world’s biggest asset manager, sees U.S. stock prices rising and
yields on  Treasury securities  climbing this year as investor
concerns about the outlook abate.  “We don’t need  Europe  to solve all its problems in 2012,”
he said in a Jan. 5 note to clients. “Since there is already
such a significant ‘crisis premium’ baked into the markets, just
avoiding disaster could be enough.”  Doll forecasts that U.S. stocks will return at least 10
percent in 2012, beating foreign markets for a third year, as
the nation’s gross domestic product expands by as much as 2.5
percent. GDP grew 1.8 percent last year, according to the median
forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News last month.  Unemployment Rate   The December payrolls report capped four months of declines
in the unemployment rate and six consecutive months of jobs
gains of at least 100,000, indicating the labor market is
gaining momentum heading into a presidential election campaign
season that will be shaped largely by the state of the economy.  “We’re starting to rebound,” President  Barack Obama  said
yesterday at the offices of the Consumer Financial Protection
Bureau in Washington. He appealed to lawmakers to extend a
payroll-tax cut through the rest of the year to ensure growth
continues.  In the latest Gallup tracking poll conducted Jan 3-5, 36
percent of Americans said the economy is getting better versus
59 who said it is worsening. As recently as Dec. 1-3, 27 percent
saw the economy improving versus 69 percent worsening.  Job Approval  Obama’s job approval also has been rising up in recent
months. The Gallup tracking poll showed Obama with a job
approval rating of 45 percent Jan. 3-5 versus monthly averages
of 43 percent in December and November and a monthly average of
41 percent in each of the prior three months. The margin of
error is plus or minus 3 percentage points.  Stocks and Treasury yields fell yesterday after William C. Dudley, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of  New York , said
the outlook for unemployment remains “unacceptably high,” even
though the jobless rate dropped to  8.5 percent (USURTOT) , an almost three-
year low. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 0.3 percent to
1,277.81 at the close in New York. The yield on the benchmark
10-year Treasury note fell to 1.96 percent from 2 percent on
Jan. 5.  At the close yesterday, the S&P index was valued at 13.5
times profits, about four points below the average  price-to-
earnings (SPX)  ratio since 1980, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Investors last year favored bonds over stocks, as they
sought refuge from the financial turmoil in Europe. U.S.
Treasury securities returned 9.8 percent in 2011, their best
annual performance since a 14 percent gain in 2008, Bank of
America Merrill Lynch index data show. Investors bought the U.S.
securities as a haven, with Europe’s debt crisis threatening to
infect the region’s larger economies.  European Economy  The damage to the  U.S. economy  from the euro-zone crisis
has so far been smaller than forecast,  Dominic Wilson , chief
market economist for New York-based Goldman Sachs Group Inc.,
said in a Jan. 4 report. Even so, he cautioned that it’s too
soon to sound the “all clear.”  German factory orders dropped the most in almost three
years in November, as the euro-region economy edged toward a
recession and global demand weakened. Orders, adjusted for
seasonal swings and inflation, slipped 4.8 percent from October,
when they surged a revised 5 percent, the Economy Ministry in
Berlin said in a statement on Jan. 6.  Export Orders  In the U.S., export orders rose in December to the highest
level in three months, according to manufacturer reports
compiled by the Institute for Supply Management in Tempe,
 Arizona . Production and overall orders were the best since
April.  U.S. steel production reached 2.64 million metric tons in
November, 19 percent more than a year earlier, according to the
latest data from the Brussels-based World Steel Association.
That’s the highest single-month output since September 2008,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Steel inventories have remained low, “which suggests a
realistic chance of an ongoing U.S. real and apparent demand-led
recovery in 2012,” Credit Suisse Group AG analysts led by
London-based Michael Shillaker wrote in a Jan. 5 report.  The price of North American hot-rolled coil steel, an
industry benchmark, has advanced 9.4 percent to $700 a ton since
the final week of November, according to Steel Business
Briefing. That compares with a 2 percent decline in European
import prices to 485 euros ($618) a ton.  Steel Production  U.S. Steel Corp. (X) , the largest U.S. producer, will report
net income of $367.5 million this year, compared with $24.7
million in 2011, according to the median of nine analyst
estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Shares of the Pittsburgh-based
company fell 55 percent last year, the worst performance since
2008. They will advance 10 percent to $31.39 in the next 12
months, based on the average of 14 analyst estimates.  Stepped-up consumption of steel is driven partly by
improving car sales. Demand at  Ford Motor Co. (F) ,  General Motors
Co. (GM)  and Chrysler Group LLC exceeded analysts’ forecasts in
December, according to data released Jan. 4. Ford’s U.S. sales
climbed 10 percent from a year earlier, while purchases were up
37 percent for Chrysler and 4.5 percent for GM.  The increase is paced by improving employment,  Don Johnson ,
GM vice president for U.S. sales, said on a conference call with
analysts. “Consumers are more confident and other underpinnings
of our economy are either stable or slowly improving,” he said
on Jan. 4.  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index  climbed (COMFCOMF)  to minus 44.8
in the week ended Dec. 31, the best reading since mid-July, from
minus 47.5 the prior week.  Last Year  Companies added 1.64 million employees in 2011, the best
year for the American worker since 2006, after a 940,000
increase in 2010. Even with the gains, little headway has been
made in recovering the 8.75 million jobs lost as a result of the
recession that ended in June 2009.  Employment will pick up this year, as the economy
strengthens and productivity growth wanes, said  Joseph LaVorgna ,
chief U.S. economist for Deutsche Bank Securities in New York.
He forecasts that payrolls will rise 2.6 million.  The U.S. probably expanded at a 3.6 percent rate during the
fourth quarter, according to Macroeconomic Advisers. That would
be the fastest since the second quarter of 2010 and double the
third quarter’s 1.8 percent. The St. Louis-based forecasting
company sees growth slowing to 2 percent in the current quarter
as a recession in the euro area begins to take a bigger toll on
the U.S.  “The tide is beginning to come back in,”  James Glassman ,
senior economist at JP Morgan Chase & Co. in New York, said in a
radio interview on “Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom Keene  and
Ken Prewitt. “We’ve got a long way to go. This is all positive,
though, that we’re actually moving forward, and that’s an
important trend.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in  Washington  at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net ;
Richard Miller in Washington at 
 rmiller28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  