-- Euro-Area Crisis Presents Significant Risk for South Africa, Lagarde Says
-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 2012-01-07T15:43:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-07/euro-area-crisis-presents-significant-risk-for-south-africa-lagarde-says.html
South Africa  has become increasingly
integrated into the global economy, leaving it exposed to
“global business cycles,” International Monetary Fund Managing
Director  Christine Lagarde  said.  “The ongoing difficulties in the euro area present
significant downside risks to the economic outlook,” Lagarde
said in an e-mailed statement today, the final day of a visit to
meet with the leaders of Africa’s largest economy.  In October, South Africa’s National Treasury cut its
forecast for economic growth this year to 3.4 percent from 4.1
percent in the February budget, saying the revised targets were
contingent on an orderly resolution of  Europe ’s problems. Europe
buys about a third of South Africa’s manufactured exports.  The challenge is to “ensure that monetary policy remains
supportive and competitiveness improves,” Lagarde said. “At
the same time, moderation in wage growth and enhanced
competition would support the ongoing recovery and lay the
foundation for higher growth in the medium term.”  The  Reserve Bank  kept its benchmark lending  rate (SARPRT)  unchanged
at a 30-year low of 5.5 percent last year to support growth as
price pressures increased, causing  inflation (SACPIYOY)  to breach its
maximum 6 percent target.  “South Africa’s recent economic performance has been
impressive,” Lagarde said. “Good macroeconomic policies which,
together with a flexible exchange rate and sound financial
sector, have mitigated the output drop during the global
recession.”  Lagarde met with President Jacob Zuma, Finance Minister
Pravin Gordhan, the head of the National Planning Commission
Trevor Manuel and Central Bank Governor  Gill Marcus  during her
visit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Cohen in Cape Town at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  