-- European Stocks Advance for First Week of 2012 as Reports Boost Optimism
-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 2012-01-07T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-07/european-stocks-climb-first-week-of-2012-as-economic-data-boosts-optimism.html
European stocks (SXXP)  advanced in the first
week of 2012 as economic reports from around the world added to
optimism that the global economy can weather the fallout from
the euro area’s sovereign-debt crisis.  Eurasian Natural Resources Corp. and Fiat SpA led gains in
mining companies and carmakers, both climbing at least 11
percent. Banks limited gains as UniCredit SpA slumped 38
percent, its largest drop since at least 1989, after announcing
that it will hold its planned rights offer at a discount.  The benchmark  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  rose 1.2 percent to
247.53 in the first five trading days of 2012, for the benchmark
measure’s third-consecutive week of gains. The gauge has
 advanced 5.9 percent (SXXP)  since Dec. 16 as U.S. reports from
manufacturing activity to durable-goods orders showed the
economic recovery is gathering pace.  “The good news is that in the absence of a European
meltdown, most of the global economy has been improving,”  Russ Koesterich , the San Francisco-based global chief investment
strategist at the iShares unit of BlackRock Inc., wrote in a
note on Jan. 5. “The most recent measures indicate that growth
in the U.S., other developed countries and  emerging markets  is
stabilizing, albeit at a below-trend level.”  Reports in the past week showed that manufacturing in
Germany, the U.S., China,  India ,  Australia  and the U.K. improved
in December. Separate releases showed that private employers
added 325,000 workers to payrolls, the biggest increase in
records going back to 2001, while Labor Department figures on
Jan. 6 showed the  U.S. jobless rate (USURTOT)  dropped to the lowest level
since February 2009.  Bank Capital Raising  Concern that European banks will have to raise more capital
tempered the Stoxx 600’s weekly advance as  Germany  kicked off
the year’s long-dated sovereign-debt auctions. Germany got bids
for 5.14 billion euros ($6.5 billion) of 10-year bunds, while
 Portugal  sold 1 billion euros of three-month bills and  France 
sold 4.02 billion euros of benchmark 10-year bonds. Greece,
Italy and  Spain  will auction their own debt later this month.  National benchmark indexes rose in 13 of the 18 western-
European markets. France’s CAC 40 Index lost 0.7 percent, the
U.K.’s FTSE 100 Index increased 1.5 percent and Germany’s DAX
Index advanced 2.7 percent.  ENRC led a rally in  mining companies (SXXP) , surging 11 percent in
London trading. The producer of metals in Kazakhstan agreed to
acquire First Quantum Minerals Ltd.’s assets in the Democratic
Republic of Congo for $1.25 billion, ending a legal dispute
between the companies over the Kolwezi copper project.  Mining Companies, Carmakers  Copper producers also advanced. Sweden’s Boliden AB
increased 8.9 percent, Kazakhmys Plc gained 7.3 percent and Rio
Tinto Group, the  world’s third-largest mining company (RIO)  by sales
rallied 6 percent.  Carmakers posted the best performance of the 19 industry
groups on the Stoxx 600. Research company R.L. Polk & Co. said
the number of cars and light trucks sold globally will grow 6.7
percent this year, helped by a 16 percent gain in  China .  Fiat, which expanded its controlling stake in Chrysler
Group LLC, gained 12 percent. Germany’s Bayerische Motoren Werke
AG advanced 7.3 percent, Daimler AG increased 7.5 percent and
Volkswagen AG rallied 7.1 percent.  Bank Shares Slide  Banks (SXXP)  posted the biggest drop on the Stoxx 600 this week.
UniCredit slumped 38 percent to its lowest price since Sept.
1992 after  Italy’s largest lender (UCG)  announced a plan to sell its
new shares at a 43 percent discount.  The bank’s chief executive officer,  Federico Ghizzoni , told
 Il Sole 24 Ore  in an interview that the debt crisis is worsening
and expects other banks raising money to do the same.  France’s Societe Generale SA, which announced plans to cut
about 10 percent of staff from its corporate and investment
bank, fell 9.5 percent, while Deutsche Bank AG,  Germany’s
largest lender (DAX) , lost 8.3 percent.  Banco Santander SA and Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA,
Spain’s biggest lenders, declined 7.2 percent and 6.8 percent
respectively. The Financial Times cited Spain’s Economy Minister
Luis de Guindos as saying banks will have to allocate as much as
50 billion euros in further provisions for “troubled” real-
estate assets.  Elsewhere, Lagardere SCA gained 2.4 percent after Qatar
Holding LLC said it will seek a seat on the media company’s
supervisory board and said it may also raise its stake.  Afren Plc soared 24 percent after the oil and gas explorer
exceeded its year-end production target.  Adecco SA increased 5.5 percent after agreeing to buy
 Japan ’s VSN Inc. for an enterprise value of 90 million euros,
doubling its exposure to professional staffing in Japan.  Among declining shares,  Vestas Wind Systems A/S (VWS)  retreated
9.4 percent after the world’s biggest wind-turbine maker cut its
revenue and profit forecasts.  Next Plc (NXT)  lost 5.8 percent after  the U.K.’s second-largest
clothing retailer (NXT)  reported sales for the 21 weeks ended Dec. 24
that missed analyst estimates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  