-- Exxon Settles Lawsuit Over Gulf of Mexico Offshore Oil Lease Against U.S.
-- B y   A l l e n   J o h n s o n   J r .   a n d   M a r k   C h e d i a k
-- 2012-01-07T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-07/exxon-salazar-reach-settlement-on-offshore-oil-lease-dispute.html
Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) , the largest
publicly traded oil company, settled its lawsuit against U.S.
Interior Secretary  Kenneth Salazar  over the government’s
decision to cancel offshore leases that may yield “billions of
barrels of oil.”  The accord “will allow ExxonMobil to develop this very
large, but technically challenging, resource as quickly as
possible using a phased approach,” Patrick McGinn, a spokesman
for Irving, Texas-based Exxon, said in an e-mail yesterday.  Exxon sued Aug. 12 over a ruling by the department that
canceled Gulf of Mexico leases for the so-called Julia Unit. The
company and the government entered into settlement agreement on
Dec. 30, according to a filing yesterday in U.S. District Court
in  Lake Charles ,  Louisiana .  Exxon said in its complaint that it sought a suspension for
its Julia leases in 2008 because of drilling complexity. It
cited federal regulations that allow oil oil producers to
suspend production in their fields, partly “to facilitate
proper development of a lease.”  The Interior Department denied the request in 2009, stating
that the company“had not demonstrated a commitment to
production” according to court papers. Unsuccessful appeals
followed.  Suspension of Production  As part of the settlement, the Interior Department granted
a suspension of production for the leases from Dec. 13, 2008, to
Oct. 31, 2013. The department will grant a second suspension
until Aug. 31, 2014, if Exxon and  Statoil ASA (STL) , a partner in
Exxon’s Julia fields, remains in compliance with the terms of
the agreement and takes certain steps toward production,
according to court documents.  Exxon and Statoil agreed to pay a yearly fee on the
original leases of $650 per acre until 87.5 million barrels of
oil are produced from the fields. The first fee will be owed for
2011, according to court documents. The minimum royalty rate for
the leases was increased to $11 per acre and the yearly rental
rate increased to $16 an acre.  “The Julia project will play an important role in meeting
America’s energy demand,” McGinn said in the e-mail. “The
initial phase of the project is expected to produce more than
175 million barrels of oil through six production wells.”  Melissa Schwartz, a spokeswoman for the Interior
Department, said in an e-mailed statement that the proposed
settlement affirms the regulatory process, “provides incentives
for timely and thorough development of the leases, and secures a
fair return on those resources to the  U.S. Treasury .”  The case is Exxon Mobil Corp. v. Kenneth Salazar, 11-
CV-1474, U.S. District Court, Western District of Louisiana
(Lake Charles).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Chediak in  San Francisco  at 
 mchediak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  