-- IEA ‘Prepared’ to React to Any Oil Supply Disruption, No Steps Planned Now
-- B y   R a c h e l   G r a h a m
-- 2012-01-07T12:20:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-07/iea-isn-t-actively-considering-any-action-over-middle-east-gulf-tension.html
The  International Energy Agency , the
adviser to U.S., Germany and  Japan , isn’t planning an immediate
release of emergency  oil stockpiles (DOESCRUD)  in response to the tension
in the  Middle East .  “We remain prepared to respond to any significant oil
supply disruption, but as no specific supply disruption is under
way, we are not actively considering any action at the present
time,” the Paris-based adviser said on its website today.  Crude oil gained over the last three weeks, partly on
concern that  Iran  may close the Strait of Hormuz at the mouth of
the Persian Gulf. The waterway carries about 17 million barrels
of oil a day, according to the U.S. Energy Department. That’s
about 19 percent of global consumption.  The IEA’s last emergency release of government and industry
stockpiles was in June, when about 60 million barrels of crude
and oil products were made available in response to the slump in
supply from  Libya (OPCRLIBY) . It also made supplies available during the
1991  Persian Gulf  War and when Hurricane Katrina damaged oil
rigs and refineries in the  Gulf of Mexico  in 2005.  The IEA prepared a plan this week to release as much as 14
million barrels a day if Iran were to close the Strait of
Hormuz, Reuters  reported  yesterday. The IEA estimated its
members could make about that volume of crude available to
markets in a  report  dated Feb. 25 posted on its website.  Inventories of crude and refined products in industrialized
nations fell below their five-year average for a fourth month in
October, the IEA said last month. Stockpiles declined by 36.3
million barrels to 2.63 billion, according to a Dec. 13 report.  Crude oil for February delivery closed at $101.56 a barrel
on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  yesterday, marking an
advance of 2.8 percent this week and 8.6 percent since Dec. 16.  The IEA is an energy policy adviser to 28 industrialized
nations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rachel Graham in London at 
 rgraham13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mike Harrison at 
 mharrison5@bloomberg.net  