-- Jonathan Meets Planned Strikes in Nigeria With Cuts in Salaries, Costs
-- B y   C h r i s   K a y   a n d   E m e l e   O n u
-- 2012-01-07T22:09:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-07/jonathan-meets-planned-union-strikes-by-announcing-cuts-in-salaries-costs.html
Nigerian President  Goodluck Jonathan 
said executive-branch politicians will take a 25 percent pay cut
amid labor union plans for a nationwide strike to protest
scrapping of fuel subsidies that more than doubled gasoline
prices.  The government will reduce overseas traveling and all
ministries and departments must cut costs in 2012, Jonathan
said, adding that he won’t restore the subsidy.  Trade unions called an indefinite nationwide strike Jan. 9
and threatened to shut down ports, fuel stations, banks and oil
operations in  Africa ’s largest crude producer if the government
fails to restore the fuel subsidies. Jonathan abolished 1.2
trillion naira ($7.4 billion) of subsidies on Jan. 1, promising
to use the savings to boost investment in  power plants  and roads
in Africa’s most populous nation. Nigeria imports more than 70
percent of its fuel because of a lack of refining capacity.  “If I were in your shoes at this moment, I probably would
have reacted in the same manner as some of our compatriots, or
hold the same critical views about government,” said Jonathan.
“But tough choices have to be made to safeguard the economy and
our collective survival as a nation.”  The government will start a mass-transport program tomorrow
and will employ 10,000 youths per state under a public-works
program, creating a further 370,000 jobs, Jonathan said today on
state television. That will include the rehabilitation of
railway lines from the southern cities of Lagos and  Port
Harcourt  to northern Kano and Maiduguri, he said.  Still On  Earlier today, Owei Lakemfa, general secretary of the
Nigeria Labor Congress, said by phone from Abuja, the capital,
that the strike is still on. The National Industrial Court of
Nigeria ordered unions to stop the planned strike, the
 Associated Press  reported yesterday. “The court order has not
been served,” Lakemfa said.  Oil workers will join the strike called by the Trade Union
Congress and NLC, Nigeria’s two main labor federations,
according to Babatunde Ogun, president of the Petroleum and
Natural Gas Senior Staff Association of Nigeria, or Pengassan,
which represents about 24,000 workers.  Nigerian ports will remain open next week and their workers
won’t strike, Michael Ajayi, spokesman of the Nigerian Ports
Authority, said by phone yesterday from Lagos. Still, Channels
TV reported that the Maritime Workers Union of  Nigeria  will join
the general strike Jan. 9.  Emergency Meeting  Jonathan held an emergency meeting late yesterday in Abuja
with governors of 36 states to discuss measures that can help
ease higher prices.  “The governors agreed with the president that we are going
to carry on with the removal of subsidies,” said Chibuike
Rotimi Amaechi, chairman of the Governors’ Forum, in an e-mailed
statement today. “This is a sacrifice we have to make as a
country.” Money saved from the subsidy will be spent on
improving transportation, Amaechi said.  Nigeria’s House of Representatives in Abuja will hold an
emergency session tomorrow at 3 p.m. local time to discuss the
fuel subsidy removal, Monima Daminabo, a spokesman for the
National Assembly, said by phone today.  The U.S. embassy said in a  statement  on its website that
its citizens in Nigeria should have food, water and fuel for at
least three days in case the protests shut down shops and
services.  Air travel  may be disrupted, it said.  “Even though organizers state their intent to stage
peaceful strikes and protests, there is the potential that some
events may become confrontational and escalate suddenly into
violence,” the embassy said in the statement.  Fuel stations in Lagos run by the state oil company,
Nigerian National Petroleum Corp., are selling gasoline at 138
naira a liter (0.3 gallon), up from a previously capped 65
naira. In Abuja, Forte Oil Plc stations in the center of town
were selling gasoline at 139.8 naira per liter.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Kay in Abuja at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net ;
Emele Onu in Lagos at 
 eonu1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dick Schumacher at 
 dschumacher@bloomberg.net  