-- Nigeria Labor Unions Plan to Proceed With Strike Over Fuel Subsidy Removal
-- B y   C h r i s   K a y
-- 2012-01-07T12:41:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-07/nigeria-labor-unions-plan-to-proceed-with-strike-over-fuel-subsidy-removal.html
Nigerian labor unions plan to go
ahead with a nationwide strike to protest the scrapping of fuel
subsidies that more than doubled gasoline prices, said Owei Lakemfa, general secretary of the  Nigeria  Labor Congress.  “We are on,” he said today by phone from Abuja, the
capital. The National Industrial Court of Nigeria ordered unions
to stop the planned Jan. 9 strike, the  Associated Press  reported
yesterday. “The court order has not been served,” Lakemfa
said.  Trade unions called an indefinite nationwide strike and
threatened to shut down ports, fuel stations, banks and oil
operations in  Africa ’s largest crude producer if the government
fails to restore the fuel subsidies. President Goodluck Jonathan
abolished 1.2 trillion naira ($7.4 billion) of subsidies on Jan.
1, promising to use the savings to boost investment in  power
plants  and roads in Africa’s most populous nation. Nigeria
imports more than 70 percent of its fuel because of a lack of
refining capacity.  Oil workers will join the strike called by the Trade Union
Congress and NLC, Nigeria’s two main labor federations,
according to Babatunde Ogun, president of the Petroleum and
Natural Gas Senior Staff Association of Nigeria, or Pengassan,
which represents about 24,000 workers.  Nigerian ports will remain open next week and workers
aren’t going on strike, Michael Ajayi, spokesman of the Nigerian
Ports Authority said by phone yesterday from Lagos. The Maritime
Workers Union of Nigeria will join the general strike from Jan.
9, Channels TV reported.  Emergency Meeting  Jonathan held an emergency meeting late yesterday in Abuja
with governors of 36 states to discuss measures that can help
ease higher prices.  “The governors agreed with the president that we are going
to carry on with the removal of subsidies,” said Chibuike
Rotimi Amaechi, chairman of the Governors’ Forum, in an e-mailed
statement today. “This is a sacrifice we have to make as a
country.” Money saved from the subsidy will be spent on
improving transportation, Amaechi said.  Nigeria’s House of Representatives in Abuja will hold an
emergency session tomorrow at 3 p.m. local time to discuss the
fuel subsidy removal, Monima Daminabo, a spokesman for the
National Assembly, said by phone today.  ‘Confrontational’  The U.S. embassy said in a  statement  on its website that
its citizens in Nigeria should have food, water and fuel for at
least three days in case the protests shut down shops and
services.  Air travel  may be disrupted, it said.  “Even though organizers state their intent to stage
peaceful strikes and protests, there is the potential that some
events may become confrontational and escalate suddenly into
violence,” the embassy said in the statement.  Fuel stations in Lagos run by the state oil company,
Nigerian National Petroleum Corp., are selling gasoline at 138
naira a liter (0.3 gallon), up from a previously capped 65
naira. In Abuja, Forte Oil Plc stations in the center of town
were selling gasoline at 139.8 naira per liter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Kay in Abuja at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dick Schumacher at 
 dschumacher@bloomberg.net  