-- Obama Odds May Rise as Unemployment Falls
-- B y   M i k e   D o r n i n g
-- 2012-01-07T18:51:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-07/obama-s-odds-for-re-election-may-rise-as-unemployment-rate-falls.html
President  Barack Obama  called
yesterday’s jobs report a sign the  U.S. economy  is on the
rebound. His prospects for re-election may depend on it.  The drop in the  unemployment rate (USURTOT)  in December to 8.5
percent, a three-year low, showed the job market gaining
momentum heading into a presidential election campaign that will
be shaped by the state of the economy.  The Labor Department figures cap four months of declines in
the unemployment rate and six consecutive months of jobs gains
of 100,000 or more. Employers expanded payrolls by 200,000 in
December, exceeding a median estimate of 155,000 in a Bloomberg
News survey. For all of 2011, 1.64 million positions were
created, the most since 2006, after a 940,000 increase in 2010.  “This can make a difference for Obama if it persists into
the spring,” said  Frank Newport , editor-in-chief of the Gallup
Poll in Princeton,  New Jersey . “It’s the sense of direction in
the economy that matters more than the numbers.”  After the longest period of unemployment above 8 percent
since the Great Depression, the economy is the focal point of
the 2012 campaign, with voters consistently telling pollsters it
is the top issue for them.  Former Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney and other
Republican candidates have cast Obama as an ineffective steward
of the economy and his policies, such as the 2009 stimulus, as
failures. Obama has pointed to progress on jobs and the
challenge of confronting the worst recession in seven decades,
while arguing that Republicans would return to the policies of
President  George W. Bush  that preceded the 2008 collapse of
financial markets.  Early Signs  A pickup in the recovery at the start of last year was
blunted by the earthquake and tsunami in  Japan , the worsening
European debt crisis and a surge in  oil prices . Obama tempered
his embrace of the evidence that the economy is “moving in the
right direction” with some caution.  “There are a lot of people that are still hurting out
there,” he said at the offices of the Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau in Washington. “After losing more than 8
million jobs in the recession, obviously we have a lot more work
to do.”  Romney’s Criticism  Romney, the Republican front-runner, responded with
criticism of Obama’s economic performance.  While Romney said he was “delighted” to see the
unemployment rate drop, he said Obama’s record had been a
“failure.” Romney acknowledged that an improving economy “may
well” boost Obama’s re-election chances.  “I’ll have to make sure that my message is clear and honed
well,” Romney said.  Texas Congressman Ron Paul dismissed the significance of
the economic news.  “A little blip -- glad to see it, but boy, I don’t think
anybody should be lulled,” Paul said.  Andrew Kohut , president of the Pew Research Center in
Washington, said the economy will have to show sustained
improvement to reverse the perception of a public that has
watched rebounds peter out several times already.  Time Needed  “We’ve seen green sprouts before,” Kohut said. “It’s
going to take more for a public that has had a very bleak
outlook to decide things are looking better.”  Newport said voter perceptions of the economy typically are
set during the spring and summer before the November election.  While a majority of voters still views the economy as
deteriorating, perceptions have been improving since early
August, when they reached a low in the aftermath of the standoff
between the White House and Congress over raising the national
debt limit, Newport said.  In the latest Gallup tracking poll conducted Jan 3-5, 36
percent of Americans said the economy is getting better versus
59 who said it is worsening. As recently as Dec. 1-3, 27 percent
saw the economy improving versus 69 percent worsening. In a poll
Aug. 7-9, 16 percent said the economy is getting better and 80
percent said it’s getting worse.  Approval Numbers  Obama’s job approval has been edging up in recent months.
The Gallup tracking poll showed him with an approval rating of
45 percent Jan. 3-5 against monthly averages of 43 percent in
December and November and a monthly average of 41 percent in
each of the prior three months.  Yesterday’s jobs numbers won’t change the strategy for
Republican presidential candidates, according to Matt Mackowiak,
a Republican strategist and president of Potomac Strategy Group
LLC in  Washington .  “One good jobs number doesn’t erase a misery across the
country,” he said in an interview. “No one believes that
because the numbers were better than expected, that the economy
is in good shape.”  Steve Elmendorf , a deputy campaign manager for Democrat
John Kerry’s 2004 presidential campaign who is now a lobbyist,
said “any economic good news is good news” for Obama.  Elmendorf said the president can make the case that if
voters re-elect him he can continue moving the economy in the
right direction, while, “There’s a danger if you elect the
other guy” the recovery could stall.  Losses in Recession  Still, little headway has been made in recovering the 8.75
million jobs lost as a result of the recession that ended in
June 2009. The administration’s own forecast, issued Sept. 1, is
for the  unemployment rate  to remain above 8 percent in 2012.  Only one U.S. president has been re-elected since World War
II with a jobless rate above 6 percent.  Ronald Reagan  won a
second term with the rate on Election Day 1984 at 7.2 percent,
having dropped almost 3 percentage points in the previous 18
months.  Also important will be the jobs situation in swing states
that Obama needs to capture to win a second term.  Obama campaign manager Jim Messina and chief political
adviser David Axelrod last month identified eight states where
they say the general election will be fought:  Arizona ,  Colorado ,
 Florida ,  Iowa ,  New Hampshire ,  North Carolina ,  Ohio  and
 Pennsylvania . Together they total 112 of the 270 Electoral
College votes needed to win the presidency.  Six of the eight had jobless rates in November, the last
month the figures are available, that were below the national
rate. The exceptions are Florida, where the unemployment rate
was 10 percent, and North Carolina, where it was 10.4 percent.
With the exception of Arizona, Obama won those states in 2008.
Only Pennsylvania and New Hampshire went to the Democratic
candidate in 2004.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Dorning in Washington at 
 mdorning@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at   skomarow1@bloomberg.net  