-- Obama Says Cordray Pick Shows Resolve to Aid Ordinary Americans
-- B y   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r
-- 2012-01-07T11:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-07/obama-says-cordray-pick-shows-resolve-to-aid-ordinary-americans.html
President  Barack Obama  said his
decision to use a disputed recess appointment to put  Richard Cordray  in place as director of the U.S. Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau is part of his New Year’s resolution “to make
sure that middle-class families regain the security they’ve lost
over the past decade.”  “We can’t go back to the days when the financial system
was stacking the deck against ordinary Americans,” Obama said
in his weekly radio and  Internet address .  Ramping up his re-election campaign, Obama is using the
recess appointment to draw a distinction between Republicans and
his fellow Democrats. Obama’s opponents blocked Cordray’s
nomination since last summer because “they wanted to weaken his
agency,” the president said.  Cordray, 52, installed by Obama on Jan. 4 over Republican
objections, takes over a bureau created under the Dodd-Frank Act
in response to complaints that regulators didn’t do enough to
protect consumers before the 2008 credit crisis.  Republican lawmakers question the move’s legality.  Charles Grassley  of  Iowa , the top Republican on the Senate Judiciary
Committee, has asked the  Justice Department  for information on
the appointment in a letter signed by seven other senators.  Republicans have opposed the creation of the consumer
bureau and argue that the top position should be replaced with a
five-member commission to disperse oversight. They also say the
agency’s budget should undergo the congressional appropriations
process.  ‘Jeopardy’ Winner  Cordray is a Democrat who served as  Ohio ’s attorney general
and had been the state’s treasurer and a state representative.
He was a U.S. Supreme Court clerk and has argued seven cases
before the justices, according to his official biography. He was
also a five-time winner on the television quiz show
“Jeopardy.”  “This is a make or break moment for the middle class and
all those working to get there,” Obama said, highlighting
yesterday’s Labor Department report that showed the  unemployment
rate  fell to  8.5 percent (USURTOT)  last month, the lowest level since
February 2009.  Obama said the jobs report shows the nation is “heading in
the right direction” and “we’re not going to let up.”  In the  Republican radio Address , Representative Nan Hayworth of  New York  called on the president to use his State of
the Union address later this month to show a “willingness to
work with Republicans” to enact the 30 jobs bills already
passed in the Republican-led House.  Work Together  “The American people know we have our disagreements, but
they rightly expect us to work together to find areas where we
can agree and act,” she said. “Republicans remain ready and
willing to do just that.”  She said the Obama administration failed to fulfill its
pledge to get the unemployment rate below 8 percent and that the
jobless rate shows that “finding work in this economy remains a
struggle.”  She said the 30 bills that haven’t been taken up by the
Democratic-led Senate include one that would extend the payroll
tax cut for a full year and extend  unemployment insurance . She
said the measures are being “bottled up by partisan politics.”  “While the Republican-led House has passed a full-year
extension of the payroll tax holiday, the Senate, controlled by
the president’s own party, has not,” she said.  Hayworth concluded by noting the anniversary of the
shooting a year ago tomorrow of Representative  Gabrielle Giffords , an Arizona Democrat, and several of her constituents
in a Tucson parking lot.  “In those difficult hours, Americans reminded the world
that no act of violence would silence the dialogue of
democracy,” Hayworth said. “All of us who have the privilege
to serve with Gabby continue to pray for her recovery.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kate Andersen Brower in Washington at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  