-- Hormuz Bypass Oil Pipeline Is Delayed Amid Iran Tensions
-- B y   B r u c e   S t a n l e y ,   A y e s h a   D a y a   a n d   A n t h o n y   D i P a o l a
-- 2012-01-09T10:26:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-07/hormuz-bypass-oil-pipeline-delayed-as-iranian-tensions-mount.html
A pipeline that would allow crude oil
from the  United Arab Emirates  to bypass the Strait of Hormuz
separating it from Iran has been delayed because of construction
difficulties, two people with knowledge of the matter said.  As many as 270 construction issues have pushed back the
completion date, said the two people, declining to be identified
because they’re not allowed to speak publicly on the matter. The
$3.3 billion project won’t be ready until at least April, one of
them said. Abu Dhabi, holder of most of the U.A.E.’s crude
reserves, had planned to start exports in January 2011 through
the pipeline to a port outside the strait, Dieter Blauberg, the
project’s former director, said in May 2009.  “The pipeline is almost complete, so hopefully it will be
operational, say, within six months, by May-June,” U.A.E. Oil
Minister Mohamed al-Hamli told reporters in  Abu Dhabi  today,
confirming more time is needed to finish it. “It’s a big
project, there’s a lot to do.”  The 1.5 million barrel-a-day link would ensure the U.A.E.
can export crude without risking a blockade at Hormuz, where
fully laden tankers exit the  Persian Gulf  with one-fifth of the
world’s traded oil. The possibility that Iran might try to close
the waterway has intensified as  Europe  prepares to follow
tougher U.S. sanctions on the country over its nuclear program,
and prompted a U.S. pledge to take action if the strait is
blocked. Iran has started to enrich uranium at its Fordo plant,
the official Kayhan newspaper reported yesterday.  ‘Critical Infrastructure’  “That pipeline would carry pretty much all of Abu Dhabi’s
oil,” Robin Mills, an analyst at Manaar Energy Consulting in
Dubai, said Jan. 5. “It’s a critical bit of infrastructure, and
it is remarkable it hasn’t been completed.”  An average of 14 crude tankers sail each day through the
strait, which is 21 miles (34 kilometers) wide at its narrowest
point, according to the U.S. Energy Information Administration.  Brent crude, may surge to as much as $200 a barrel for a
limited period if  Iran  halts shipping through the waterway for
about two weeks, according to Societe Generale SA. Futures have
risen 5.4 percent so far this month to $113.20.  “A credible threat from missiles, mines, or fast attack
boats is all that it would take for tanker insurers to stop
coverage, which would halt tanker traffic,” wrote  Mike Wittner ,
the bank’s head of oil market research in  New York . “We
estimate that the probability of this very high impact event at
5 percent.”  Important Chokepoint  Most of the oil exported by  Saudi Arabia , OPEC’s biggest
producer, as well as crude from  Iraq ,  Kuwait , the U.A.E., Qatar
and Iran itself must pass through the waterway, making Hormuz
the world’s most important chokepoint, with a daily flow of 17
million barrels a day last year, according to EIA data.  Iran has the ability to block the strait and the U.S. would
take action to reopen it, Joint Chiefs of Staff chairman General
Martin Dempsey said in an interview aired yesterday on the CBS
“Face the Nation” program.  “They’ve invested in capabilities that could, in fact, for
a period of time block the  Strait of Hormuz ,” Dempsey said.
“We’ve invested in capabilities to ensure that if that happens,
we can defeat that.”  An official at International Petroleum Investment Co., the
pipeline’s owner, declined to say when the project would start
when asked by Bloomberg on Jan. 3, and the company didn’t
respond to an earlier e-mail seeking comment.  China Petroleum
Engineering & Construction Corp (CHPECZ) ., the pipeline’s contractor,
didn’t respond to a fax seeking comment on Dec. 15, and a
spokesman for its parent  China National Petroleum Corp (CNPZ) . declined
to comment when Bloomberg contacted him that day by telephone.  Across Desert, Mountains  Once ready, the pipeline will transport crude from Habshan,
the collection point for Abu Dhabi’s onshore oil fields, over
230 miles (370 kilometers) of desert and razorback mountains to
the port of Fujairah, on the U.A.E.’s eastern coast, facing the
 Gulf of Oman . The project’s declared aim is to “offset
reliance” on Gulf terminals while reducing shipping congestion,
according to IPIC, the Abu Dhabi government-run owner.  The line terminates at a kilometer-long (0.6 mile-long)
site containing eight white storage tanks and pipes stacked four
high over the length of a football field nestled at the foot of
the Hajar Mountains.  Faster Sailing  Tankers will also save two days sailing time, worth about
$38,000, by loading at Fujairah instead of Abu Dhabi, according
to data provided by Clarkson Research Services Ltd.  IPIC initially planned to begin filling the pipeline in
September 2010 then load cargoes the following January, Blauberg
said in 2009. It later pushed back the start without
explanation, saying in a bond prospectus on Oct. 19, 2011, that
it expected to deliver first oil in “early 2012.”  The U.S. tightened economic sanctions against Iran over its
nuclear program on Dec. 31, and the European Union is weighing a
ban later this month on purchases of Iranian crude. Iran held 10
days of naval maneuvers east of Hormuz ending Jan. 3 and warned
it would block the strait if prevented from selling its oil,
according to Iranian state-run news agencies.  A potential Hormuz blockade “still remains the ultimate
fear in the oil market,” Barclays Plc said in a Jan. 5 note.  ‘Greatest War Games’  Iran plans even bigger military maneuvers in and near the
strait next month, the state-run Fars news agency reported on
Jan. 5. The drills will be the “greatest naval war games” ever
conducted by the elite Revolutionary Guard Corps, Fars said,
citing Brigadier General Ahmad Vahidi, the defense minister.  Should Hormuz be sealed off to ships, the pipeline alone
won’t prevent price rallies because most of the oil from the
Gulf would still be stopped, Kamel al-Harami, an independent oil
analyst said by phone from  London  on Jan. 6.  Weeks of Iran tension has added about $10 a barrel to  Brent
crude  prices, said al-Harami, who was head of crude and products
marketing at state-run Kuwait Petroleum Corp. during the 1980s
“Tanker War,” when Iran and Iraq attacked each other’s ships.  Still, a closure of the strait by Iran, in response to
opposition to the nation’s nuclear program, is not a “high-
likelihood event,”  David Fyfe , head of the  International Energy
Agency ’s oil market and industry division, said in a Jan. 4
phone interview from Paris.  ADCO, Shareholders  An official at Abu Dhabi Co. for Onshore Oil Operations, or
ADCO, the state company assigned to operate the pipeline,
referred all inquiries to IPIC, speaking by phone on Jan. 6. Abu
Dhabi National Oil Co., or Adnoc, which owns 60 percent of ADCO,
didn’t respond to questions e-mailed on Dec. 21, and public
relations officials had no immediate response when contacted by
phone that day and on Dec. 22 and Jan. 3.  Among ADCO’s minority shareholders,  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) 
declined to comment in a Dec. 21 e-mail, and  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) 
referred inquiries to ADCO in a Dec. 22 e-mail.  BP Plc (BP/)  declined
to comment in a Jan. 3 e-mail, and a Partex Oil and Gas official
declined to comment by phone on Jan. 4.  Total SA (FP)  didn’t respond
to a Dec. 21 e-mail seeking comment.  A Jan. 5 visit to the Fujairah site identified by a black-
and-white sign saying “Abu Dhabi Pipeline Co. Oil Terminal”
showed construction workers in blue overalls and hardhats
shuttling by bus into and out of the oil storage facility.  Of the 270 construction issues detected during an
inspection of the project last year, more than 50 were deemed
critical, according to one of the people with knowledge of them.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bruce Stanley in Dubai at 
 bstanley5@bloomberg.net ;
Ayesha Daya in Dubai at 
 adaya1@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony DiPaola in Abu Dhabi at 
 adipaola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  