-- Mortgage-Servicing Companies That Broke Law Should Be Fined, Raskin Says
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n   a n d   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 2012-01-07T19:15:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-07/mortgage-servicing-companies-that-broke-law-should-be-fined-raskin-says.html
Federal Reserve Governor  Sarah Bloom Raskin  said the central bank should fine mortgage servicing
companies that broke the law and are partly to blame for the
current “foreclosure crisis” in U.S. housing.  “The  Federal Reserve (FDTR)  and other federal regulators must
impose penalties for deficiencies that resulted in unsafe and
unsound practices or violations of federal law,” Raskin said in
a speech today in Washington. “The Federal Reserve believes
monetary sanctions in these cases are appropriate and plans to
announce monetary penalties,” she said.  The  Fed in April  initiated formal enforcement actions
against 10 banking organizations to address a “pattern of
misconduct and negligence” in mortgage loan servicing and
foreclosure processing.  “One purpose of monetary penalties, when they are
appropriately sized, is to incentivize mortgage servicers to
incorporate strong programs to comply with laws when they build
their business models,” Raskin said. “This is an operational
purpose, but as mentioned earlier, monetary penalties also
remind regulated institutions that non-compliance has real
consequences.”  The 10 institutions the Fed announced enforcement actions
against included  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ,  Citigroup Inc. (C) , Ally
Financial Inc., HSBC North America Holdings, Inc.,  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM) , MetLife, Inc., PNC Financial Services Group, Inc.,
SunTrust Banks, Inc., U.S. Bancorp, and Wells Fargo & Co.  Weak Economy  The inability to process foreclosures has damaged an
economy so weak that the  unemployment rate  has remained above 8
percent for nearly three years, Raskin said.  “Home mortgage foreclosures hurt the pace of an economic
recovery,” Raskin said, and “the severe misconduct that has
been uncovered in the mortgage servicing sector” should “be
addressed through intensified public enforcement of the law as
part of the overarching effort to rebuild our damaged
communities and neighborhoods.”  Mortgage servicers collect mortgage payments, negotiate
modifications to loans, and initiate foreclosures.  Raskin said she encourages policy makers to think “through
imaginative and creative ways to put an appropriate response
together” to eliminate practices that triggered the housing
crisis. Monetary penalties and corrective claims are just some
of the possible responses, she said, responding to audience
questions.  ‘Cookie Cutter’  “We don’t and we are not approaching this in such a way
that the remedies become a cookie cutter,” Raskin said. “The
purpose of enforcement action is to tailor the problem, to fix
the problem and to make sure that it doesn’t happen again.”  Raskin told a group of bankers yesterday that the Fed’s
monetary policy actions have been well-suited to address the
weak economy.  “Our deployment of unconventional policy tools has been
completely appropriate to help promote the  Federal Reserve ’s
statutory mandate of maximum employment and price stability,”
said Raskin, 50, who was Maryland’s chief banking regulator
before her appointment to the Fed in 2010.  The Labor Department said yesterday that payrolls rose by
200,000 last month, more than economists forecast.  Raskin’s remarks follow comments yesterday by three Fed
policy makers backing additional action to aid the housing
market. New York Fed President William C. Dudley, in a New
Jersey speech, called on the U.S. government to try new programs
to revive the housing market while saying the central bank may
still consider ways to cut  interest rates .  Boston Fed President  Eric Rosengren , speaking in
 Connecticut , said Fed purchases of additional mortgage-backed
securities “would in my view help provide a more rapid recovery
in housing” and Fed Governor Elizabeth Duke said in Richmond,
 Virginia , that “forceful and effective housing policies have
the potential to significantly influence the speed and strength
of our economic recovery.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in  Washington  at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net 
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  