-- Parisian in America Finding Redemption in Republican Campaign
-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 2012-01-08T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-07/parisian-in-america-finding-redemption-in-republican-campaign.html
In a French presidential campaign,
calling your opponent an “ultra liberal” is an easy and
effective attack. It is in the American Republican primaries as
well, with a different meaning altogether.  The French use it to describe a supporter of unfettered
capitalism, or a believer in “Anglo-Saxon” values. For
Republicans, it’s a way of speaking about people like, well, me
and my 65 million fellow French countrymen.  Traveling this week with U.S. journalists at a  community
center  in central  New Hampshire , where presidential hopeful  Newt Gingrich  addressed a few dozen senior citizens, I took his
ultimate insult a bit personally. The threat facing American
citizens, it seems, is becoming like the French, the subject of
a “European bureaucratic socialist model.”  “In America, you are always a citizen and the government
is always your server,” Gingrich told the people of Plymouth.
“In the European model, you’re merely a subject. The government
is the center of power, and you are the servant.”  Mitt Romney , leading in opinion polls in New Hampshire’s
premiere Republican primary election Jan. 10, said in a debate
of his party’s candidates yesterday that President  Barack Obama 
“wants us to turn into a European-styled welfare state.”  Yes, we do think differently. As a French government
official joked privately when I left on my New Hampshire
mission, Republican candidates make supporters of French
President  Nicolas Sarkozy , whose party is considered right wing
in France, feel like they could find some political space in the
U.S. to the left of Obama.  If it’s any comfort to Gingrich, though, French servants
are becoming more American. French voters are embracing primary
elections, a custom adopted by the two major political parties
in their 2007 campaign. Last October, Socialists attracted
almost 3 million voters by opening the vote to non-party
members.  ‘Show a l’americaine’  Of course, we are a small player. To the French, the U.S.
primaries are a big “show a l’americaine:” a lot of money, a
lot of ads, a lot of media coverage for what feels more like the
actual presidential election than a step in the process.  Candidates have wives with scarily perfect hairdos standing
next to them and shaking hands after speeches like they are the
parents of the bride. I now know about Jon Huntsman Jr.’s seven
children, including an adopted Chinese daughter whom he calls
his senior foreign policy adviser.  All the talk of family is as exotic as it gets for me. In
France, politicians’ families are rarely seen campaigning.
Sarkozy’s then-wife didn’t accompany him to vote in the second
round of the 2007 election.  Yet for all the smartphones and frantic e-mailing of these
primaries, this is one of the rare moments since living in this
country when I have felt the weight of its history.  Town Hall Experience  I’ve followed French candidates to visit factories or speak
with students. I’ve attended large political rallies where
 Francois Bayrou , the third man of the 2007 race, recited poetry
to 15,000 in a concert hall.  Town hall meetings in the U.S. are a different experience.
Standing with 80 locals under the wooden roof of a welcome
center in the town of Lancaster, New Hampshire -- and ignoring a
dozen cameras -- I could imagine for a moment what this country
was like 200 years ago.  There is something moving to see citizens doing their due
diligence, braving temperatures close to zero (Fahrenheit, of
course) or joining a meeting in the middle of the day to get to
hear a candidate.  Having lived a decade in Paris after being raised in the
French Alps, I find it heartening to see states like New
Hampshire in the spotlight with special access to candidates
once every four years thanks to the timing of the contests.  I come from a centralized country, where we all vote on the
same day, which is why you will never see Sarkozy or his
Socialist rival,  Francois Hollande , invest special effort in the
small towns of Brittany or Normandy.  Speech Recitals  Reporters I met here on the campaign trail know the
candidates’ speeches so well they could probably fill in for
them. That’s probably why I was the only one raising eyebrows
when Gingrich said  Iran  may require the use of military force or
when he called Obama the president of  food stamps .  It also felt very foreign to hear Gingrich speak about the
special rights God gave American citizens. God is a banned word
in French politics. In a country that prides itself for its
secularity, mentioning religious values won’t take you very far.  That explains why most French people watch the Republican
primaries like a reality show happening on another planet.  As for the candidates’ economic platforms, I knew what to
expect so I was just glad I didn’t happen to sit in a meeting
where  Europe  was bashed for its debt crisis on top of its
bureaucratic decadence.  No Complaints  I can’t complain, overall.  Being French may have not been an asset to approach
candidates, yet it didn’t hurt my reporting with voters. All
were quite friendly, in typical American fashion. My only rough
encounters have been with candidates’ spokesmen or with that
journalist who shouted at me for using a power outlet for my
BlackBerry that he had his eye on.  I also tried to joke about it.  “Where are you from?” a lady asked me in Plymouth.
“ France ,” I said, “I am one of these lazy Europeans.”  She laughed. “But where do you live now?”  “In the U.S., for the past 2½ years,” I said.  She smiled. I was on the path to redemption.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Manchester, New Hampshire at  srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  