-- New Coach O’Brien Says He’ll Lead Penn State Football in ‘Right Direction’
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l   a n d   R o b   G l o s t e r
-- 2012-01-08T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-07/paterno-s-successor-is-o-brien-as-penn-state-deals-with-sex-abuse-scandal.html
Bill O’Brien took over as football
coach at Penn State University, facing challenges to restore
trust among the school’s donors, alumni and student athletes
amid the child sex-abuse scandal that led to the firing of his
predecessor,  Joe Paterno , after 46 years.  O’Brien, the offensive coordinator for the  New England
Patriots , was introduced yesterday by the  State College ,
Pennsylvania-based university almost two months after Paterno
was fired for his inaction following the disclosure of the
alleged molestation of boys by Jerry Sandusky, a longtime
colleague and former assistant coach.  “We respectfully request the opportunity to earn your
trust through communication and feel that through our abilities,
ethics, beliefs, work ethic and commitment to Penn State, in
time we will find that we have more common interests and goals
than not,” O’Brien said, reading from a letter he had written
on behalf of the football staff.  O’Brien, 42, is following Paterno, 85, who had 409
victories, more than any other coach at college football’s
highest rung. Paterno’s presence was an attraction for many high
school seniors seeking admission to his football program.  O’Brien’s appointment comes less than a month before high
school seniors can formally commit to colleges for next season.
Three top-level recruits have rescinded their verbal commitments
to attend  Penn State  since the scandal broke with Sandusky’s
indictment by a Pennsylvania grand jury on Nov. 5.  Right Direction  “In order to get this football family moving in the right
direction, and I’m the leader of that, and it’s my job to bring
both sides together or all the different sides together, and I
understand that there’s some controversy out there right now,”
O’Brien said during yesterday’s news conference. “I can see it.
I understand that. But it’s my job to head it in the right
direction.”  Jed Hughes, vice chairman of Global Sports for executive
search company Korn/Ferry International, said O’Brien, who is
taking on a major college football program without any previous
head coaching experience as well as one that is muddled in
scandal, is going to have to be “a quick study.”  “At the end of the day it’s going to have to be about
trust,” Hughes said yesterday in a telephone interview. “The
piece about personal credibility and his ability to build trust
will come over time. He’s going to have to be his own man.”  ‘Harder to Repair’  Hughes, who placed Brady Hoke at  Michigan  and  Mark Murphy 
at the  Green Bay Packers , said not only is O’Brien replacing
someone with the stature of Paterno, he’s also facing
“horrific” circumstances that happened for the first time ever
in collegiate sports.  “He must pacify and please all the constituents,” Hughes
said. “He’s dealing with the heart and soul and character of
the organization. It’s so much more diabolical; it’s so much
harder to repair.”  Former Penn State linebacker Sean Lee said many former
players wanted an assistant coach to be elevated to head coach
to “help preserve the tradition built by Coach Paterno.”  At the same time, he said in an e-mail, “Alumni, current
players and students need to rally around him and try to help
him be as successful as possible. We need to embrace him and
help him understand the Penn State way.”  O’Brien said he would remain with the Patriots through the
playoffs, which begin with four games this weekend.  New England 
had a first-round bye.  Josh McDaniels , offensive coordinator with the  St. Louis
Rams , has agreed to re-join the Patriots as offensive assistant
during the playoffs and offensive coordinator in 2012, ESPN
reported, citing an unidentified person. McDaniels left the team
in 2009 to take the head coaching job with the  Denver Broncos .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Gloster in  San Francisco  at 
 rgloster@bloomberg.net ;
Nancy Kercheval in  Washington  at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  