-- Romney Denies Wall Street Association in Pushing for New Hampshire Victory
-- B y   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s   a n d   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 2012-01-07T19:28:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-07/romney-denies-wall-street-ties.html
Former Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney pushed back against critics who call him beholden to big
business as he sought to solidify support in New Hampshire’s
Jan. 10 primary.  “I’m independent of  Wall Street ,” Romney, 64, said in an
interview with Bloomberg Television that began airing yesterday.
“By the way, I haven’t ever worked on Wall Street.”  Romney, who made his fortune at the private equity firm
 Bain Capital  LLC he helped found, said Wall Street firms were
merely “service providers” to his company. The second-time
Republican presidential candidate also said he had created more
jobs than he eliminated in lucrative deals that sometimes
resulted in layoffs.  “The jobs created at Bain Capital by companies that we
helped start or that we helped manage, those companies today
employ well over 100,000 more jobs than, than those that were
lost,” Romney said.  Democrats are holding a series of news conferences
featuring workers who lost their jobs after Bain took over their
companies.  Winning our Future, a political action committee aligned
with former U.S. House Speaker  Newt Gingrich , plans to release a
30-minute video entitled “When Mitt Romney Came to Town,” that
documents the hardships experienced by workers laid off after
Bain bought their companies.  $12 Million House  A preview of the film juxtaposes images of Romney getting
his shoes shined on the tarmac next to a corporate jet and his
$12 million beach house in  La Jolla ,  California , with vignettes
of workers in Marion,  Indiana , describing how they lost homes
and livelihoods after Romney’s firm bought the office supply
products company Ampad.  Gingrich’s campaign began airing television ads against
Romney in  South Carolina  yesterday, calling his economic plan
“timid” and virtually identical to President Barack Obama’s.  “Timid won’t create jobs and timid certainly won’t defeat
 Barack Obama ,” the ad says.  In the interview yesterday, Romney defended his own jobs
record even as he criticized Obama’s economic performance,
responding to the release of the best U.S. jobs report since
February 2009.  Obama’s Record  While Romney said he was “delighted” to see the
unemployment rate drop, he said Obama’s record had been a
“failure.” Romney acknowledged that an improving economy “may
well” boost Obama’s re-election chances.  “I’ll have to make sure that my message is clear and honed
well,” Romney said.  Rivals are working to turn the business experience Romney
cites as his central qualification to be president against him
as they seek to stifle his momentum in the race for the
Republican nomination.  “It becomes very difficult when you’ve taken tens of
millions of dollars from the banking community, from Wall Street
and for many, many years, to have a discussion that
fundamentally alters their course,” said former Utah Governor
Jon Huntsman Jr. in an interview with Bloomberg Television’s
“Political Capital with  Al Hunt ,” airing this weekend. “It
can only be done, I would argue, by someone who isn’t a captive,
a subsidiary of Wall Street.”  ABC Debate  Heading into tonight’s ABC News debate, Romney is
maintaining a 2-1 lead over his nearest rival in a poll of
likely voters in the New Hampshire primary. Romney had 39
percent support compared with 17 percent for Texas
Representative  Ron Paul  in a Suffolk University/7News tracking
poll conducted Jan. 5-6.  Former House Speaker Newt Gingrich came in third, with 10
percent support, followed by former Pennsylvania Senator  Rick Santorum  and Huntsman, who tied at 9 percent. The poll, which
surveyed a total of 500 likely Republican primary voters over
two nights, has a margin of error of plus or minus 4.4 percent.  Huntsman, 52, said Romney would be a “status quo
president” on issues dealing with Wall Street and Washington
influence peddling, in the Bloomberg interview. Huntsman also
said Romney should release his tax returns because
“transparency” and “trust” are central issues in the
campaign.  Tax Returns  Huntsman hasn’t released his own tax returns. Campaign
spokesman  Tim Miller  said the candidate would disclose his
returns if he wins the party’s nomination.  Paul took aim at Santorum yesterday, calling the former
senator, 53, a spendthrift with federal money. Paul’s comments
came as he began a five-day  New Hampshire  campaign push that he
said will highlight his Republican presidential rivals’ backing
for “big government.”  Paul, who is trying to hold off a challenge from Santorum
following Santorum’s late surge in  Iowa , criticized the former
senator for supporting increased spending on education, a
federal prescription drug benefit and legislation to boost the
debt limit.  “He talks about being for the Balanced Budget Amendment --
he never did anything about it,” Paul, 76, told reporters in
Nashua. “Four or five times he voted to raise the national
debt, so that tells you how conservative he is.”  ‘Serial Hypocrite’  Looking to the next primary South Carolina on Jan. 21,
Paul’s campaign announced it would run television ads there
branding Santorum a “serial hypocrite who can’t be trusted”
and charging he has a “record of betrayal” of conservative
principles. Paul is airing similar spots in New Hampshire
calling Romney a “flip-flopper” and reprising his criticism of
Gingrich for “serial hypocrisy.”  Paul distanced himself from a web video circulated by a
group calling itself NHLiberty4Paul that questions whether
Huntsman, the former ambassador to  China , has “American values?
Or Chinese?” and concludes with an appeal to vote for Paul.  “I understand it’s an ugly ad and I’ve disavowed it,”
Paul said. “Obviously, it was way out of order.”  Paul’s campaign aides have said they don’t know who is
responsible for the video and suggested it wasn’t made by
someone who genuinely supports him.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in Washington at 
 jdavis159@bloomberg.net ;
Lisa Lerer in Washington at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  