-- Saudi Shares Climb to Five-Month High on Manufacturing Reports, U.S. Jobs
-- B y   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 2012-01-07T13:33:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-07/saudi-shares-gain-as-global-manufacturing-reports-boost-optimism.html
Saudi Arabian shares rose to the
highest in more than five months, led by banks, as manufacturing
reports bolstered global economic optimism before the release of
earnings in the Arab world’s biggest economy.  The  Tadawul All Share Index (SASEIDX)  increased 0.7 percent to
6,452.38, the highest level since Aug. 1, by the 3:30 p.m. close
in Riyadh. The Middle East’s largest bourse has gained 0.5
percent so far this year.  Al Rajhi Bank (RJHI) , the kingdom’s largest lender by market
value, rose the most since March 20.  Halwani Brothers Co. (HB)  gained
the most since Dec. 25 after announcing plans to increase its
meat processing capacity in Egypt.  Yamamah Cement Co. (YACCO)  closed at
the highest level since July 2008 after releasing earnings
results.  “Investors are adjusting positions ahead of earnings
season,” Asim Bukhtiar, an equity analyst at Riyad Capital,
said in a phone interview today. “Companies could get a boost
as earnings season kicks off later this week.”  Saudi companies started announcing results last week.  Jarir
Marketing Co. (JARIR) , the kingdom’s largest stationery retailer, said
on Jan. 4 its estimated fourth-quarter profit gained 21 percent
on higher sales. A day earlier, Yamamah Cement said its
estimated fourth-quarter profit rose 19 percent.  Confidence  U.S. stocks rose this week after reports in the period
showed that manufacturing in the U.S. and  China  improved last
month. Separate releases showed that U.S. private employers
added 325,000 workers to payrolls, while Labor Department
figures yesterday showed the U.S. jobless rate dropped to the
lowest level since February 2009.  “Positive jobs and manufacturing data can only bolster
confidence,” Bukhtiar said.  Rajhi bank gained 4.7 percent to 72.75 riyals. Yamamah
Cement rose 3.5 percent to 73.25 riyals. Halwani rose 5.8
percent to 59.25 riyals.  Saudi Arabia ’s stock exchange is the only Gulf Arab bourse
open on Saturdays.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Glen Carey in Dubai at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  