-- Shapiro Withdraws as Stratos Counsel in Nicole Murphy Fraud Case
-- B y   A n t h o n y   E f f i n g e r
-- 2012-01-07T01:36:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-07/shapiro-withdraws-as-stratos-counsel-in-nicole-murphy-fraud-case.html
Robert Shapiro, who defended  O.J. Simpson  in a murder trial, withdrew plans to represent Troy
Stratos, who is accused of stealing $7 million from comedian
 Eddie Murphy ’s ex-wife.  Shapiro withdrew his request to represent Stratos in a
filing today in federal court in Los Angeles. The move came one
day after Stratos asked the court for permission to add Shapiro
and lawyer Sara Caplan to his defense team.  Shapiro and Caplan didn’t immediately return phone calls
and e-mails on the matter. Stratos’s other lawyer, Walter Urban,
didn’t immediately return a phone call.  Stratos, 45, was arrested on Dec. 20 and charged with mail
fraud,  money laundering , and obstruction of justice by federal
prosecutors in Sacramento,  California .  Stratos is accused of persuading Nicole Murphy, 44, to turn
over more than $8 million of a divorce settlement, saying he
would invest it in Dubai and the  United Arab Emirates , where she
could earn more interest.  Instead, he transferred the money into personal accounts,
according to an indictment unsealed on Dec. 20. He also urged
Murphy to refinance two houses, one where her mother lived, and
took that money, too, according to the indictment.  Stratos was denied bail after his arrest, according to
court documents, and has been in custody since then. Before his
arrest, he had been living in a rented  penthouse apartment  in
Marina del Rey, California, according to court documents. The
3,848-square foot apartment with ocean views is for sale with an
asking price of $3.95 million.  Shapiro defended O.J. Simpson when the former football star
went to trial on charges of murdering his ex-wife Nicole Brown Simpson and her friend Ronald Goldman. Simpson was acquitted.  The case is USA v. Stratos, 2:11-mj-03007, U.S. District
Court, Central District of California ( Los Angeles ).  To contact the reporter on this story: 
Anthony Effinger in Portland at 
 aeffinger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: 
Michael Serrill at  