-- SNB to Overhaul Rules Governing Financial Transactions by Its Executives
-- B y   K l a u s   W i l l e
-- 2012-01-07T19:59:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-07/snb-bank-council-to-overhaul-rules-on-governing-trades-by-board-members.html
The supervisory body of the Swiss
central bank said it will overhaul rules on executives’
financial transactions following the controversy over a foreign-
exchange trade by the wife of Swiss National Bank Chairman
Philipp Hildebrand.  “With the support of external specialists, a comprehensive
revision of the regulations and directives on own-account
transactions involving financial instruments by members of the
Enlarged Governing Board will be undertaken,” the SNB Bank
Council said in an e-mailed  statement  today. “The corresponding
draft regulations and the revised directives for SNB employees
are to be submitted to the Bank Council as soon as possible.”  In addition, all  bank transactions  by all members of the
Enlarged Governing Board from Jan. 1, 2009 until Dec. 31, 2011
will be examined by external auditors, the bank council said in
the statement.  SNB President Philipp Hildebrand on Jan. 5 expressed regret
that he didn’t curb a purchase of dollars for francs by his wife
on Aug. 15, three weeks before the SNB imposed a limit of 1.20
francs per euro, prompting the dollar to rise sharply against
the Swiss currency. Hildebrand said he didn’t know about his
spouse’s transaction, which was called “sensitive” by an
external probe.  Other trades carried out by himself didn’t breach laws or
the central bank’s internal rules, Hildebrand said. His
statement followed calls for his resignation as media speculated
he used transactions for his personal enrichment.  The council today also said that until the revision of the
rules, members of the Enlarged Governing Board as well as staff
members with access to privileged information must first get
approval from the SNB’s Chief Compliance Officer for foreign
exchange transactions exceeding 20,000 Swiss francs ($20,900).  The SNB Enlarged Governing Board consists of the three
members of the Governing Board and three deputies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Klaus Wille in Zurich at 
 kwille@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  