-- Stricken Container Ship Rena Splits in Two Off New Zealand Coast
-- B y   R o b e r t   F e n n e r
-- 2012-01-07T23:53:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-07/stricken-container-ship-rena-splits-in-two-off-new-zealand-coast.html
Rena, the 236-meter container ship
stranded on a  New Zealand  reef since October, split into two
after stormy weather,  spilling cargo  and debris into the water.  Both sections of the ship are still on the reef, about 30
meters (98 feet) apart, with weather conditions remaining
difficult, Bruce Fraser, a spokesman for  Maritime New Zealand ,
said by phone today. While most of the Rena’s fuel has been
removed, more than 800 containers and some oil were still on
board before the vessel broke up, he said.  “The bow section is still firmly grounded,” Fraser said.
“The stern section looks like it’s still on the reef but with
some movement. It hasn’t come completely free.”  The Rena ran aground on the Astrolabe Reef on Oct. 5 near
Tauranga, 100 miles (160 kilometers) southeast of Auckland. As
much as 350 tons of oil may have leaked from the vessel since
the grounding, according to  Maritime New Zealand . That makes it
the worst  oil spill  that the nation has experienced.  The Liberian-flagged ship, owned by Athens-based  Costamare
Shipping Co. (CMRE) , was carrying 2,171 containers and about 1,700
metric tons of  fuel oil  when it struck the reef, according to
Maritime New Zealand.  The Rena was hit by six-meter swells overnight and a three-
nautical-mile exclusion zone around the vessel may be extended
because of the risk caused by drifting containers, Fraser said.  Hazardous Cargo  The cargo included four containers of ferrosilicon, a solid
substance that can be hazardous when in contact with water and
can emit hydrogen, the agency said.  The Rena’s master and the second officer in charge of the
navigational watch have been charged under New Zealand’s
Maritime Act for operating a vessel in a manner causing
unnecessary danger or risk, the maritime agency said in a
statement on Oct. 13.  The charge carries a maximum penalty of NZ$10,000 ($7,800)
or 12 months’ imprisonment, it said at the time.  A tanker moored alongside the Rena took off 1,000 tons of
oil since the grounding after leaking fuel blackened beaches in
the area and killed seabirds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Fenner in Melbourne at 
 rfenner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  