-- Swindon Upsets Wigan in F.A. Cup Third Round; Newcastle Wins
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2012-01-07T19:39:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-07/swindon-upsets-wigan-in-f-a-cup-third-round-newcastle-wins.html
Swindon, which plays in the fourth
division of English soccer, upset Premier League club Wigan 2-1
in the third round of the F.A. Cup, while Newcastle scored late
to defeat Blackburn.  Paul Benson’s 76th minute goal gave Swindon the home win
over Wigan. Jonas Gutierrez’s goal in stoppage time lifted
Newcastle to the 2-1 win in the day’s only all-Premier League
matchup, as the top-flight teams entered the competition.  “When you beat a Premier League club at home it’s a very
special day for the club,” Swindon manager Paolo Di Canio said
on the club’s website. “It is an amazing day for everyone.”  Stoke, last season’s runner-up to Manchester City,
Tottenham, Everton,  Aston Villa  and Fulham were among the top-
division clubs advancing, while Wolverhampton, Bolton and Queens
Park Rangers all tied lower-division teams to force replays of
their matches.  Wrexham was the only one of the four teams from below the
top four leagues to avoid defeat, drawing 1-1 at Brighton to
gain a replay. Tamworth lost 2-0 at Everton, Fleetwood Town was
a 5-1 loser to Blackpool and Salisbury fell 3-1 at  Sheffield
United  in other results involving non-league teams.  League One Stevenage scored a second straight third-round
upset by defeating Reading of the Championship 1-0. Stevenage
beat Newcastle 3-1 in the third same round last year.  Stoke scored twice in the second half to advance past
Gillingham 3-1, while  Clint Dempsey ’s hat trick led Fulham over
League One leader Charlton 4-0.  Tottenham defeated Cheltenham 3-0, Aston Villa beat Bristol
Rovers 3-1, Norwich beat Burnley 4-1, Swansea won 4-2 at
Barnsley and West Brom beat Cardiff by the same score as Simon
Cox scored three times.  Replays  QPR earned a replay as an 89th-minute goal from Heidar Helguson gave it a 1-1 tie with MK Dons. Bolton drew 2-2 with
League Two Macclesfield and Wolves and Birmingham finished
goalless.  Championships clubs Southampton, Hull, Middlesbrough, Derby
and Watford all advanced, along with League Two leader Crawley
Town and Notts County. Dagenham & Redbridge and Millwall
finished goalless, as did Nottingham Forest and Leicester.
fourth-tier Gillingham, setting up replays.  Manchester City  opens its title defense against record 11-
time F.A. Cup winner Manchester United, Portsmouth visits
Chelsea, West Ham is at Sheffield Wednesday and Peterborough
plays Sunderland in tomorrow’s matches. The third round then
concludes in two days as Arsenal hosts Leeds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in  London  at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 