-- Vizio Aims Low-Price Wrecking Ball at PCs
-- B y   C l i f f   E d w a r d s   a n d   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 2012-01-07T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-07/vizio-aims-low-price-wrecking-ball-at-pcs-after-shaking-up-tvs.html
Vizio Inc., the television maker that
helped drive higher-cost rivals out of the business with rock-
bottom prices, plans to bring the same mayhem to the personal-
computer market.  Vizio will unveil two desktop PCs and three notebooks at
the  Consumer Electronics Show  in  Las Vegas  next week, Chief
Technology Officer Matt McRae said in an interview. The Windows-
based machines will go on sale by June at a “a price that just
doesn’t seem possible,” he said, declining to provide
specifics.  The company’s push into the market could increase pressure
on  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  and other PC makers, which already have
seen profit margins narrow. In the TV business, Vizio put the
squeeze on Pioneer Corp. and Royal Philips Electronics NV, two
consumer-electronics veterans that ultimately exited the market.  “It’s very similar to TV -- we want to get in there and
disrupt it,” McRae said. “We think most PCs have been designed
for the small-business users, that others have not done a very
good job of making them entertainment devices.”  Vizio’s desktop PCs will sport 24- or 27-inch screens that
hide their electronics within the displays, similar to  Apple
Inc. (AAPL) ’s iMac. Vizio also plans to offer a notebook with a 15.6-
inch screen and two ultra-thin versions with 15.6-inch and 14-
inch screens. All the computers will include entertainment
features that deliver audio and video to Vizio TVs and speakers.  Tough Market  Vizio, a closely held company based in  Irvine ,  California ,
is vying with Samsung Electronics Co. for dominance of the U.S.
television market. Most television makers lost money in the
industry last year due to low prices and sluggish consumer
demand. In December, Sony Corp. agreed to sell its stake in a
venture with Samsung that makes liquid-crystal displays after
predicting an eighth consecutive year of losses from TVs.  Vizio has succeeded by getting cheap screens from Taiwanese
contract manufacturers Foxconn Technology Group and AmTRAN
Technology Co., which also hold equity stakes in the company.
Vizio also sells an 8-inch tablet computer for $250 to $300.
Apple’s iPad starts at $499.  Vizio is targeting the two of the fastest-growing
categories for PC makers: ultra-thin laptops and so-called all-
in-ones -- desktop machines with built-in monitors. Still, those
areas is getting more crowded. Hewlett-Packard will introduce a
new all-in-one PC for $1,200 at the  Consumer Electronics Show ,
and other computer makers are unveiling slimmer laptops, a
category known as ultrabooks.  Hewlett-Packard is betting that the ultrabook category will
resemble other parts of the PC market, with consumers and
businesses asking for different designs that meet their needs,
said Page Murray, a marketing vice president.  “I don’t believe there’s a one-size-fits-all laptop out
there, like some of our competitors might,” Murray said.
Driving down prices isn’t a viable long-term strategy, he said.  “There’s always going to be somebody who wants to win a
race to the bottom,” Murray said. “But you get what you pay for
in many of those situations.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in  San Francisco  at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net 
Cliff Edwards in San Francisco at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Palazzo at   apalazzo@bloomberg.net  