-- Adobe, EarthGrains, Megaupload: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2012-07-02T11:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-02/adobe-earthgrains-megaupload-intellectual-property.html
Adobe Systems Inc. (ADBE) , the largest maker
of graphic-design software, won’t have to pay more than $7
million in royalties after a federal jury decided June 29 it
didn’t infringe a patent owned by Tarkus Imaging Inc. of  San
Jose , California.  The jury of seven women in Wilmington,  Delaware ,
deliberated about four hours following a two-week trial before
also deciding Tarkus’s patent 6,628,823 is valid.  The suit, which was filed in 2010, accused Adobe and
several camera manufacturers of patent infringement. Tarkus was
founded in 2009 by an ex-employee of the  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  to
commercialize the color processing technology he invented.  According to court papers, Tarkus founder Jack M. Holm had
an understanding with HP that he was the owner of the invention
covered by the patent, which he then licensed to his employer on
a non-exclusive basis.  The case is Tarkus Imaging Inc. v. Adobe Systems Inc.,
1:10-cv-00064-LPS, U.S. District Court, District of Delaware
(Wilmington).  EU Chiefs Reach Agreement on Patent System, Van Rompuy Says  European Union leaders cleared the final hurdle to an
agreement on a common patent system, paving the way for improved
and cheaper enforcement of  intellectual-property  rights.  “After 30 years of discussions on a European patent, we
reached an agreement on the last outstanding issue, the seat of
the Unified Patent Court,” EU President  Herman Van Rompuy  said
June 29 in Brussels after a two-day summit of European leaders.  The U.K., France and  Germany  each had lobbied to be the
host of the seat of the court. The final compromise splits the
court among the three nations.  The seat of the court’s central division, along with the
office of the court’s president, would be located in Paris,
while other departments dealing in more specialized work will be
based in  London  and Munich. The first president of the court
should come from France, the leaders said.  “The stalemate has been broken and that is a good thing,”
said Geert Glas, head of the intellectual-property practice at
law firm Allen & Overy LLP. “With a central seat in Paris, the
unitary court has a good chance to combine the best practices of
the common-law -- U.K. -- and civil-law -- Germany --
traditions.”  Creating a lower-cost European patent is one of several
reforms that could aid innovation and economic growth, EU
Internal Market Commissioner  Michel Barnier  said on May 16.
Under the current system, companies can pay as much as 18,000
euros ($22,600) for a patent valid in only 13 countries,
including 10,000 euros for translation, according to the
European Commission.  The number of patents filed in the EU lags far behind other
parts of the world, Barnier said. Some 135,000 patents were
filed with the European Patents Office in 2009, compared with
459,000 in the U.S., 348,000 in  Japan  and 315,000 in  China .  The EU said that the common system “will bring down patent
litigation costs for businesses significantly.” The European
Commission has calculated that, with the single court,
litigation expenses incurred by European companies can be
reduced by about 289 million euros a year, it said.  Google Said to Face U.S. Antitrust Probe for Motorola Patent Use  A U.S. antitrust regulator is investigating whether  Google
Inc. (GOOG) ’s Motorola Mobility unit is honoring commitments made to
license industry-standard technology for mobile and other
devices on fair terms, three people familiar with the situation
said.  The Federal Trade Commission has issued a civil
investigative demand, which is similar to a subpoena, to the
owner of the Android mobile operating system as it scrutinizes
whether Google is improperly blocking rivals’ access to patents
for key smartphone technology, one of the people said.  The agency is also seeking information from companies
including  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  and  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  as it probes whether
Google intends to license technology under patents that help
operate 3G wireless, Wi-Fi and video streaming on fair and
reasonable terms, another one of the people said. The people
declined to be identified because they weren’t authorized to
speak publicly about the matter.  Another focus of the FTC probe, the person said, is
Google’s decision to continue litigation started by Motorola
Mobility over industry-standard patents after Google bought the
company. Those lawsuits could end up blocking imports of popular
consumer products such as Microsoft’s Xbox and Apple’s iPhone
and iPad.  Industry-standard technology helps ensure that different
manufacturers’ products, such as mobile phone antennas and
global-positioning system software, work together. Companies
that create technology that helps develop the agreed-upon
industry standard pledge to license patents for those inventions
on reasonable terms.  FTC Chairman  Jon Leibowitz  said March 30 the agency was
“looking at” the legality of companies seeking to prevent
rivals from using patents that cover technology considered
essential for an industry.  Dominic Carr, a spokesman for Redmond, Washington-based
Microsoft, confirmed the company received a civil investigative
demand from the FTC, declining to comment further. Steve
Dowling, a spokesman for Apple, based in Cupertino, California,
and Cecelia Prewett, an FTC spokeswoman, declined to comment on
the investigation.  “We take our commitments to license on fair, reasonable
and non-discriminatory terms very seriously and are happy to
answer any questions,” Niki Fenwick, a Google spokeswoman,
said.  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  EarthGrains Gets Trademark Infringement Damages Doubled by Court  EarthGrains Baking Cos., a maker of packaged bread and
bakery products, persuaded a federal judge in  Utah  that the jury
award in a trademark-infringement case was insufficient.  In a June 26 order, U.S. District Judge Dale Kimball
doubled the $2.3 million damages award made by a jury in April.
The judge found “substantial evidence” of Leland Sycamore and
his Sycamore Family Bakery Inc.’s “deliberate and intentional
disregard for EarthGrains’ trademark rights.”  Judge Kimball said this evidence alone would justify a
doubling and tripling of the damages award. The jury award was
“much lower” than what EarthGrains had sought, and “the
equities in the case favored EarthGrains,” he ruled.  The disputed trademarks had originally belonged to Sycamore
and were sold in 1998, leaving Sycamore with a limited license
to use them, if he was given written approval. The marks’ new
owners objected, and after Sycamore continued their use, the
infringement suit was filed in June 2009. The marks eventually
were acquired by EarthGrains.  In April the jury found infringement and made its award.
EarthGrains then filed papers seeking an increase in the award.  The case is EarthGrains Baking Cos. Inc. v. Sycamore Family
Bakery Inc, 2:09-cv-00523-DAK, U.S. District Court, District of
Utah (Salt Lake City).  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Megaupload Judge Defers Decision on Seizure of Users’ Data  A U.S. judge deferred a decision on whether the government
should set up a way for Megaupload.com users to regain access to
millions of gigabytes of data the company managed before being
shut down as part of a criminal copyright-violation case.  U.S. District Judge Liam O’Grady in Alexandria,  Virginia ,
heard arguments June 29 over a request by a Megaupload user,
Kyle Goodwin, to order the government to create a mechanism
allowing those who used the website for legitimate purposes to
retrieve their data.  “We’ll look at it a little further and issue an order
shortly,” O’Grady said at the end of the 1 1/2-hour hearing.  Investigators in January executed more than 20 search
warrants in the U.S. and eight other countries and seized about
$50 million in assets associated with Megaupload. Company
founder Kim Dotcom was arrested in New Zealand.  Megaupload reproduced copyrighted works directly from
websites including Google Inc.’s YouTube for illegal sharing and
to give the false impression that a related video-sharing
website hosted user-generated, rather than copyrighted, content,
prosecutors allege.  Since September 2005, the conspiracy generated more than
$175 million in criminal proceeds by distributing millions of
copies of copyrighted works, including movies, television
programs, music, books, video games and software, according to
the indictment.  Of that, more than $150 million came from premium
subscriptions and $25 million from online advertising, according
to the indictment. A lifetime subscription cost about $260, the
indictment said.  A New Zealand judge ruled June 28 that Kim Dotcom had his
home searched illegally by police as part of the investigation.
Dotcom is free on bail and awaiting an extradition hearing
scheduled for August.  Prosecutors argued that users who had data stored with
Megaupload should be required to act as unsecured creditors and
file civil actions against Megaupload or  Carpathia Hosting Inc. ,
the Dulles, Virginia-based company that Megaupload paid to store
the data.  Assistant U.S. Attorney Andrew Peterson compared
Megaupload’s data storage to that of a service provider, rather
than a holder of property.  “A file-copying service is what Megaupload provided,” he
said.  Goodwin isn’t “asking that service be restored,” O’Grady
responded. “He’s asking for his data back, and that’s property,
right?”  The case is U.S. v. Dotcom, 12-00003, U.S. District Court,
Eastern District of Virginia (Alexandria).  For more copyright news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  Corinthian Colleges Seeks Trade-Secret Shield During Probe  Corinthian Colleges Inc. (COCO) , an operator of for-profit
schools, sued Illinois Attorney General Lisa Madigan seeking a
state-court order shielding its confidential data while she
investigates its practices.  Madigan, a Democrat, has been investigating for-profit
schools for evidence they misled enrollees about post-graduation
career prospects.  The company, based in Santa Ana, California, said she has
asked for employee compensation data, internal policy, training
and marketing manuals, strategic planning documents, personal
information on ex-students and other data.  “The school desires to cooperate with defendant and at the
same time protect its valuable confidential and proprietary
information from disclosure to third parties and competitors,”
Corinthian said in a complaint filed in  Chicago .  Corinthian operates more than 100 schools in the U.S. and
Canada, including Everest College, Heald College and WyoTech,
with an enrollment of 96,000 students according to its website.  Claiming the attorney general’s procedures violate
Illinois’ Trade Secrets Act, the company asked for a court
finding that her treatment of confidential business records is
invalid and orders barring those practices and directing Madigan
to protect the company’s data.  The company has been unable to negotiate an agreement with
the attorney general, according to its complaint.  Maura Possley, a spokeswoman for Madigan, declined to
comment immediately on the company’s claims. The attorney
general sued Denver-based Alta Colleges Inc. in January, for
allegedly violating state consumer fraud laws.  The case is Corinthian Colleges Inc. v. Illinois Attorney
General, 12-CH-23872, Cook County, Illinois, Circuit Court,
 Chancery Division  (Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 