-- Airbus to Build Planes in Alabama, Challenging Boeing
-- B y   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n   a n d   S u s a n n a   R a y
-- 2012-07-02T19:40:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-02/airbus-to-build-planes-in-alabama-in-challenge-to-boeing-at-home.html
Airbus SAS plans to assemble single-
aisle aircraft in the U.S. for the first time, encroaching on
 Boeing Co. (BA) ’s home market to tap demand from North American
airlines seeking to renew their fleets.  Airbus has chosen Mobile,  Alabama , as the site to build
A320 single-aisle aircraft that compete with Boeing’s 737, the
Toulouse, France-based company said today. Construction will
begin by the middle of next year, with deliveries starting in
2016 and output of 40 to 50 planes annually by 2018.  The facility will move Airbus closer to U.S. customers as
it tries to widen its lead over Boeing in single-aisle planes,
the biggest segment of the jetliner industry. Airbus so far has
captured only a fifth of the U.S. market for single-aisle
planes, while the global split with Boeing is about equal.  “We’re spending $12 billion a year over there, 40 percent
of our procurement comes out of the U.S.” Airbus Chief
Operating Officer  John Leahy  said in a phone interview. “It was
a natural next step to do a final assembly line.”  Airbus is building 40 planes a month between its assembly
plants in Toulouse, Hamburg and Tianjin, in China, and is
ramping up rates to 42 by year-end. There is no effort to move
beyond that target for now, Chief Executive Officer Fabrice Bregier told reporters at a press conference in Mobile.  Doubling in Size  Airbus has the option to double the size of its complex in
Alabama eventually and add support services or passenger-to-
freighter conversions later, said Christian Scherer, Airbus’s
head of future programs and strategy.  “Airbus in Alabama is a big headache” for Boeing, said
Michel Merluzeau, a consultant with G2 Solutions near  Seattle .
“It’s a game-changing event. There’s not much Boeing can do
other than control costs aggressively in order to be able to
compete, and that will be challenging.”  Aircraft are paid for globally in dollars, and moving some
production to the U.S. will help Airbus smooth out currency
swings. The company may also be eligible for export financing
from the U.S. Export-Import Bank, though spokesman Phil Cogan
said the bank needs more information before making a decision.  The A320 family of aircraft is Airbus’s most popular
program and the foundation of the company’s success. US Airways
Captain Chesley B. “Sully” Sullenberger III flew an  Airbus
A320  in his “miracle” Hudson River landing in 2009.  Industry Lead  Airbus leapfrogged Boeing as industry leader in 2003, a
position the company has maintained ever since. The A320 became
popular with airlines for its advanced avionics, and Airbus is
building on that success with a more fuel-efficient variant, the
A320neo, which has become the fastest-selling jet in aviation
history since it was introduced at the end of 2010.  Leahy said Airbus’s goal is to have 60 percent of the world
market for single-aisle planes within the next few years, with
Boeing having 40 percent. Boeing will probably retain 60 percent
of the wide-body market given the success of its 777 and 787
models, until Airbus gets its A350-1000 into service, Leahy
said. That plane is scheduled to enter service in 2017.  A major portion of the supply chain for Airbus jets is
already in the U.S., including parts from companies including
 Spirit AeroSystems Holdings Inc. (SPR) ,  United Technologies Corp. (UTX) ,
 Honeywell International Inc. (HON)  and  General Electric Co. (GE)   ‘Direct Investment’  “With this move, Airbus has highlighted the importance of
foreign direct investment in creating jobs in the United
States,” said Jeff Immelt, the GE CEO and chairman of President
 Barack Obama ’s jobs council.  An assembly line with planes going directly to local
customers would let Airbus, a unit of  European Aeronautic
Defence & Space Co. (EAD) , break Boeing’s monopoly of building large
civil jets in  North America . EADS gained as much as 63 cents, or
2.3 percent, to 28.57 euros in Paris, the fourth consecutive
gain and the longest rising streak in 3 1/2 months.  A final assembly line is where the biggest portions of the
plane, including the fuselage, the wing, the tail section, and
engines, get assembled. Airbus already has one such non-European
line for single-aisle planes, in Tianjin.  The line carries out 5 percent of the total work in
building an aircraft. The biggest and most technologically
demanding parts of Airbus jets are designed and constructed in
Europe. The wings are built in the U.K., cockpits in  France , the
fuselage and parts of the wing in Germany, and the tail section
in  Spain . Engines are provided by companies including  CFM
International , a venture of GE and France’s  Safran SA. (SAF)   Alabama Site  Airbus already has a presence in Alabama from its failed
attempt to win an aerial refueling tanker competition from the
the U.S.  Air Force . Building jets in Alabama will allow Airbus
to take advantage of the state’s so-called right-to-work laws,
which bar union membership as a requirement of employment.  That can hold down employers’ wage and benefit costs.
Boeing chose nearby South Carolina, another right-to-work state,
for a 787 Dreamliner plant in 2009, its first commercial-jet
factory outside the Seattle-area manufacturing hub where the
company was founded in 1916.  Alabama plans to open a new university complex next year to
funnel jobs to Airbus, Republican Senator  Richard Shelby  told
Airbus executives in Mobile.  “We’re going to do everything to create the environment to
make you do well here,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrea Rothman in Toulouse at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net ;
Susanna Ray in Seattle at 
 sray7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net ;
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  