-- Alabama Shakes Bring Musical Fireworks to Free NYC Show
-- B y   J a i m e   W i d d e r
-- 2012-07-02T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-02/alabama-shakes-bring-musical-fireworks-to-free-nyc-show.html
Mild weather greeted fans on Sunday
June 24 at the Central Park outdoor venue  SummerStage , as the
retro soul sound of the  Alabama  Shakes got rolling at 5:30 in
the afternoon.  The free concert began with lead singer Brittany Howard
delivering the opening words to “Going to the Party.”  Fans stood on bleachers in the back and kids rode parents’
shoulders, as the sizzling “Hang Loose” got the venue shaking.
With barely a pause, the quintet from  Athens , Alabama, offered
the number that launched them last year, “Hold On.”  Steve Johnson ’s steady drum beat, a catchy guitar riff from
Heath Fogg and the passionate voice of Howard were all this tune
needed to suck us in. Everyone sang along, wearing the smiles
that attest to the power of live music and a timeless tune.  Howard, a dynamo of emotions, continued to grip the fans on
the rollicking “I Found You.” The powerful and steaming “Rise
to the Sun” ensued, as Ben Tanner’s organ and Johnson’s
pounding had us all rocking.  For a band whose core formed in 2009 and who remained
relatively unknown outside its home state until last year, the
Alabama Shakes have been on a whirlwind ride, helped by the
enthusiasm of blogger Aquarium Drunkard and Patterson Hood,
frontman of the Drive-By Truckers.  ‘Always Alright’  Howard got gritty-voiced, channeling  Jack White , for the
opening notes of the jiving “Always Alright.” The title track
to their debut LP, “Boys & Girls” brings a chance to cool
down. Howard snapped her fingers while emphasizing each word;
Johnson’s tambourine shimmered along with Fogg’s gentle guitar.  The breather was brief. The quick ’60s soul rock of
“Mama” was then met by the dirty bass line of Zac Cockrell
that took us on to “Hurricane Strut.” The speediness continued
on the diner rocking “Making Me Itch” and the chunky rocker
“Heavy Chevy.”  The set came to an end on what might be the group’s most
commanding song, “You Ain’t Alone.” Howard’s voice sent chills
through the words “you ain’t alone, just let me be your ticket
home.” The crowd roared.  The Alabama Shakes will be on the road most of this summer
and autumn. Stops will include  Rhode Island ’s Newport Folk
Festival,  Chicago ’s Lollapalooza,  San Francisco ’s Outside Lands
and  Texas ’s Austin City Limits Festival.  Here’s a selection of New York-area shows in July. Please
note that opening bands aren’t always listed. Shows marked (SO)
are sold out, although online services such as Craigslist often
have tickets.  (Jaime Widder works in sales for Bloomberg News. Any
opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Elin McCoy  on wine and  Warwick
Thompson  on theater.  To contact the writer on this story:
Jaime Widder in  New York  at 
 jwidder@bloomberg.net  or @Widder_Twidder.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 