-- Malaysia’s IHH Healthcare Said to Seek $2 Billion in IPO
-- B y   C h a n   T i e n   H i n   a n d   M a n i r a j a n   R a m a s a m y
-- 2012-07-03T09:39:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-02/malaysia-s-ihh-healthcare-said-to-seek-2-billion-in-ipo.html
IHH Healthcare Bhd. (IHH) ,  Asia ’s biggest
hospital operator, plans to raise as much as 6.4 billion ringgit
($2 billion) in its initial public offering in  Malaysia  and
 Singapore , two people familiar with the matter said yesterday.  The Kuala Lumpur-based company, which has signed up 22 so-
called cornerstone investors including Blackrock Inc., set an
indicative  price range  of 2.67 ringgit to 2.85 ringgit per share
for institutions, said the people, who declined to be named as
the information is private. IHH is controlled by Malaysia’s
state investment company Khazanah Nasional Bhd.  Malaysia has withstood a global IPO slump, with  Felda
Global Ventures Holdings Bhd. (FGV)  raising $3.3 billion last month in
the world’s largest first-time sale since Facebook Inc. Palm oil
producer  Felda  jumped 16 percent in its  Kuala Lumpur  debut last
week after institutional demand for shares exceeded supply by
more than 40 times in the offering.  “The government may want to ride the good momentum of
Felda, which had a very successful IPO,” said Josef Schuster,
founder of Ipox Schuster LLC, which invests in global IPOs.
“It’s also a value play as most of these privatization deals
are priced at a discount like what we saw in Felda.”  The benchmark FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI Index rose 1.2
percent in June, its steepest monthly gain since March, and
closed at a record today amid resilient domestic demand and
private investment. Domestic equity offerings jumped by almost
threefold in the first half of this year to 10.8 billion
ringgit, with Malayan Banking Bhd. leading Bloomberg’s
underwriter league table with a 25 percent market share.  Facebook Disappoints  Globally, IPOs fell 34 percent to $41.3 billion last
quarter as Facebook’s disappointing debut and worsening economic
conditions rattled investors, causing companies including Graff
Diamonds Corp. to halt or delay offerings elsewhere.  “Markets will be markets, but we are confident with the
timing,”  Nazir Razak , chief executive officer of IPO manager
CIMB Group Holdings Bhd., told reporters in Kuala Lumpur today.
“We have good momentum here and people are looking at a long-
term investment story.”  Najib Razak, Malaysia’s Prime Minister and Nazir’s brother,
formally released the prospectus in Kuala Lumpur today. Ahmad
Shahizam Mohd Shariff, IHH’s head of business development,
declined to comment on the price range, according to a
spokeswoman for the company.  Market Size  The group plans to sell as many as 2.23 billion shares,
according to the prospectus filed with Singapore regulators
yesterday. IHH may have a market capitalization of 23 billion
ringgit when it begins trading on July 25, according to a
company statement.  The company has more than 4,900 beds in 30 hospitals under
brands including Gleneagles and Parkway, with operations and
investments spanning much of Asia, including Malaysia, Singapore
and  India , according to its prospectus.  The group, which also has interests in  Turkey , plans 3,300
more beds through new hospital developments and expansion of
existing facilities over the next five years, the document
shows.  “We are not looking at any new acquisitions,” Lim Cheok Peng, IHH’s managing director, told reporters in Kuala Lumpur
today. “Our plates are full.”  IHH has reserved 62 percent of its IPO for cornerstone
investors who must hold the shares for a minimum 180 days,
according to the sales document. This includes the  Government of
Singapore Investment Corp. , Temasek Holdings Pte’s Fullerton
Fund Management Co. and Malaysian billionaire T. Ananda Krishnan’s Usaha Tegas Sdn., it said.  Southeast Asia  is weathering a slump in initial share sales
better than markets including  Hong Kong , as optimism about the
region’s economic outlook draws investors to offerings in
Malaysia,  Thailand  and the  Philippines .  Astro, Malakoff  Among share sales planned for 2012 in Malaysia, Ananda Krishnan is considering a $1.5 billion offering for the local
operations of pay-TV broadcaster Astro All Asia Networks Plc, a
company official said in March. Credit Suisse Group AG, Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. and JPMorgan Chase & Co. were among banks
picked to arrange this sale, two people with knowledge of the
matter said today.  Malakoff Bhd., the country’s largest independent power
producer, is inviting proposals from banks to raise about $1
billion, two people with knowledge of the plan said last month.  Economic growth in Southeast Asia may accelerate to 5.2
percent this year from 4.6 percent in 2011 amid a recovery in
Thailand, according to an April forecast by the  Asian
Development Bank . Gross domestic product may expand 5.7 percent
in 2013, the bank said.  ‘Robust’ Economy  While Malaysia’s expansion slowed to 4.7 percent in the
first three months from 5.2 percent the previous quarter,
central bank Governor Zeti Akhtar Aziz said June 7 that “very
robust” consumption and private investment will help the
economy.  At the same time,  China  and India are losing steam. China
cut borrowing costs on June 7 for the first time in three years
after five straight quarters of slowing growth. India’s
expansion has eased to almost a decade-low.  Thailand, whose economy was ravaged in 2011 by the worst
floods in almost 70 years, had its biggest IPO since 2006 when
 Tesco Lotus (TLGF)  Retail Growth Freehold & Leasehold Property Fund,
controlled by Tesco Plc’s Thai unit, raised 18.4 billion baht
($583 million) in March. In the Philippines,  GT Capital (GTCAP)  Holdings
Inc., owned by billionaire George Ty, raised 18.8 billion pesos
($449 million) in April in the country’s fourth-largest IPO
ever.  Tesco Lotus shares have advanced 18 percent since the IPO,
while GT Capital is up 14 percent from its offer price.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chan Tien Hin in Kuala Lumpur at 
 thchan@bloomberg.net ;
Manirajan Ramasamy in Kuala Lumpur at 
 rmanirajan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Barry Porter in Kuala Lumpur at 
 bporter10@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Gale in Melbourne at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net  