-- Allen & Overy Revenue Rises 6% As Most Fees From Outside London
-- B y   J e r e m y   H o d g e s
-- 2012-07-02T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-02/allen-overy-revenue-rises-6-as-most-fees-from-outside-london.html
Allen & Overy  LLP, the fourth-largest
member by income of the U.K.’s so-called magic circle firms,
reported a 6 percent rise in revenue, bringing in 1.18 billion
pounds ($1.85 billion) for the 2011-12 financial year.  Offices outside the London headquarters accounted for more
than 60 percent of its fee income for the first time.  “We made a conscious decision to grow our business in new
and old markets,” said Wim Dejonghe, managing partner of the
2,700-attorney firm. “If you look at the long-term results they
are pretty solid.”  Allen & Overy, which has advised bondholders including  HSBC
Holdings Plc (HSBA)  and Deutsche Bank AG on Greece’s debt restructuring
and  SAP AG (SAP)  on its $3.4 billion acquisition of SuccessFactors
Inc, is the first of the five firms in the magic circle of
Britain’s largest firms to report earnings. The other members
who release financial data will publish the information later
this week.  Profit increased by 7 percent from the year before to 486
million pounds. Profits per equity partner were unchanged at 1.1
million pounds as their number rose by about 7 percent from a
year earlier.  “We have managed to grow the business without giving in on
our margin,” Dejonghe said in a phone interview yesterday.  Allen & Overy opened new offices in  Washington , Istanbul
and Casablanca, Morocco this past period. Vietnamese outposts in
 Ho Chi Minh City  and Hanoi will be inaugurated later this year,
giving the firm 42 branches, Dejonghe said.  Slaughter and May, the fifth member of the magic circle,
isn’t a limited liability partnership and so doesn’t release its
financial details.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeremy Hodges in London at 
 jhodges17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  