-- Alta Mogiana Sees Brazil Area’s Cane Output at 494 Million Tons
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2012-07-02T17:08:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-02/alta-mogiana-sees-brazil-area-s-cane-output-at-494-million-tons.html
The sugar cane crop in  Brazil ’s
center south, the main growing region of the world’s biggest
producer, will be 494 million metric tons in 2012-13, according
to Usina Alta Mogiana S/A, a sugar mill in the Sao Paulo state.  Output in the region fell for the first time in a decade in
the 2011-12 season to 493.3 million tons, data from industry
group Unica showed. Sugar production will total 31.45 million
tons, said Marcos Mine, a risk manager at the Sao Joaquim da
Barra, Brazil-based mill. He correctly forecast a rally in sugar
prices last year when working for ICAP do Brasil Ctvm. Last
season’s output was 31.3 million tons, Unica data showed.  “The recent rains are likely to benefit agricultural
yields and may result in higher cane output per hectare this
year,” Mine said by phone today. “The sucrose level, however,
may be smaller as the cane absorbs more water, diluting the
sugars.”  The sugar content in the cane will be 135 kilograms (298
pounds) a ton, the mill estimated. That compares with 137.5
kilograms a ton last season, according to Unica data. Rains in
May and June have cut sugar output for the season through June
15 by 28 percent to 4.895 million tons, Unica said on June 26.  “If we have dry weather in the key months of July, August
and September, it may still be possible to catch up with the
harvest delays somewhat,” Alta Mogiana’s Mine said.  Mills may extend the season by another 15 days into
December, but harvesting is unlikely to be extended beyond that,
he said, adding that units have to stop for maintenance.  Next Season  “At the moment, it looks like next season’s output may be
bigger, so mills may opt not to extend the harvest this year to
prepare for the next,” Mine said. Research companies Datagro
Ltd. in Barueri, Brazil, and Kingsman SA in Lausanne,
 Switzerland , said millers may extend processing through January.
Rains that usually increase by the end of the year may also
prevent millers from extending the cane processing period, Mine
said.  Cane output in the center south could fall for a second
year if an El Nino, a warming of the waters of the  Pacific
Ocean , brings more rainfall than usual, Mine said. Under the
weather conditions, production could fall to 475 million tons.  Usina Alta Mogiana will crush 4.9 million tons of cane this
year, Mine said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 Ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 Ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 