-- Amazon Says Data Center Power Back After Storm Outage
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a
-- 2012-07-02T19:52:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-02/amazon-says-data-center-power-back-after-storm-caused-outage-1-.html
Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  said severe East
Coast thunderstorms led to power outages on June 29 at its
Internet-based computing services, which are used by hundreds of
thousands of businesses to store data and run websites.  The storms impacted power to several data centers in
northern Virginia beginning on Friday night, the Seattle-based
company said in an e-mailed statement. In one location, backup
power didn’t operate correctly, affecting certain users. The
company didn’t identify the customers and said power was fully
restored by the next day.  Amazon, which saw its servers crash in April 2011 and
earlier this month, could lose business to competitors, said Dan Kurnos, a Benchmark Co. analyst. Companies may opt for multiple
providers of cloud computing, which allows users to store data
in remote servers on the Internet, something that would help
stop an outage in one  data center  from halting service, he said.  “It doesn’t help that it was the second one in the same
month,” said Kurnos, referring to the outage.  Pinterest Inc., an image-based social network, posted a
note on Facebook on Friday, saying the website was running again
after a server outage.  Netflix Inc. (NFLX) , the online movie service,
was unable to stream content for about three hours on Friday,
Joris Evers, a Netflix spokesman, said.  “This was related to the Amazon Web Services troubles,”
he said. “We are investigating exactly what happened and why
our service wasn’t resilient.”  Netflix, Pinterest  Amazon has billed the company’s six-year old cloud-
computing offering as a cheap and safe way for businesses to
outsource their data centers. The  service  is used by companies
in 190 countries, allowing them to rent servers for their
websites, support mobile applications and store customer data,
according to Amazon.  Users that experienced outages were probably depending on
one data center and should be paying more to use either multiple
data centers or several providers to protect them from crashes,
Kurnos said.  If not, “they’re putting all their eggs in one basket,”
Kurnos, who  recommends  buying Amazon stock, said in a telephone
interview. “It’s a cost-benefit analysis. They were assuming
that that specific data center wouldn’t go down.”  Kay Kinton, an Amazon spokeswoman, declined to comment on
whether the outages would prompt customers to turn to
competitors.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Kucera in  San Francisco  at 
 dkucera6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  