-- AMC Agrees With AT&T to Keep Networks on Pay TV System
-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n   a n d   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 2012-07-02T16:02:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-02/amc-agrees-with-at-t-to-keep-networks-on-pay-tv-system.html
AMC Networks Inc. (AMCX) , which airs “Mad
Men” and “The Walking Dead” on  cable television , reached a
deal to keep its shows on  AT&T Inc. (T) ’s U-verse pay-TV system.  The agreement allows about 4 million U-verse customers to
continue watching the AMC, IFC, We TV and Sundance channels,
AT&T said yesterday in a statement. Financial terms weren’t
disclosed. The accord is “long-term,” according to a statement
yesterday from AMC.  AMC had been seeking “an excessive rate increase,” nearly
double what other competitors pay for the suite of networks,
AT&T said before the announcement. The accord comes in time for
U-verse customers to watch the season premiere of “Breaking
Bad” on July 15, one of AMC’s highest-rated shows.  “We respect AT&T as a partner that has a genuine interest
in working with us to ensure their customers continue to enjoy
our programming,” AMC said in the statement.  Dish Network Corp. (DISH)  failed to reach an accord with AMC and
replaced its channels at 11:59 p.m. on June 30, affecting 14
million customers. Englewood, Colorado-based Dish, the second-
largest U.S. satellite-TV provider, threatened to drop the
channels in May, saying AMC was charging too much for shows with
limited viewership.  AMC contends that Dish is acting in response to litigation
stemming from a 2008 lawsuit that may cost the satellite company
$2.5 billion.  “Dish customers have lost some of their favorite shows
because of an unrelated lawsuit which has nothing at all to do
with our programming, our ratings or our rates,” AMC said in
the statement.  AMC rose 0.3 percent to $35.64 at 11:59 a.m. in  New York .
AT&T increased 0.8 percent to $35.94. Dish advanced 0.1 percent
to $28.58.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net 
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  