-- Mammoth Lakes, California, to File for Bankruptcy Protection
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h   a n d   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 2012-07-02T22:27:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-02/mammoth-lakes-california-to-file-for-bankruptcy-protection-1-.html
Mammoth Lakes, California, voted to
file for bankruptcy to protect itself from a $43 million court
judgment, the resort town said.  The city council voted to seek bankruptcy after its largest
creditor, Mammoth Lakes Land Acquisition, won a court order
requiring the city to pay the judgment by June 30, according to
a  statement  on the city’s website. Under Chapter 9 of the U.S.
 Bankruptcy Code , municipalities can halt court actions against
it while they seek to reorganize their finances. The tactic is
common among corporations that file so-called Chapter 11
bankruptcies.  “Bankruptcy, unfortunately, is the only option that the
town is left with,” the city said in the statement.  The city didn’t say when the filing would occur.  The decision comes five days after the northern California
city of Stockton filed for bankruptcy with plans to try to
impose cuts on bondholders and employees. Vallejo, California,
filed bankruptcy in 2008 and used court protection to cut
benefits to retirees, renegotiate labor contracts and reduce
the interest it was paying lenders. The city exited bankruptcy
last year.  California’s cities have been struggling to pay their debts
in the wake of the financial and housing crisis in part because
of the property tax reform adopted in the 1970s known as
Proposition 13,  Richard Ciccarone , chief research officer at
McDonnell Investment Management LLC in  Oak Brook ,  Illinois , said
in an interview last week.  “California cities are a greater worry because of their
debt structure,” Ciccarone said. “Thank you Prop 13. It’s
coming home to roost.”  Resort Community  Mammoth Lakes, a ski resort community of 8,200 near
Yosemite National Park, has an annual budget of $19 million.  Mammoth Lakes Land Acquisition refused to participate in
the mediation process between Mammoth Lakes and its creditors,
according to a statement on the city website. That mediation,
required under California law, is designed to help cities and
counties avoid bankruptcy.  The company sued the town in 2006 for allegedly breaching a
development agreement allowing the company to build homes,
retail space, hangars and other structural improvements near the
Mammoth Yosemite Airport.  In 2008, a state court awarded the company $30 million,
which the town appealed. An appeals court sided with the
developer, and the  California  Supreme Court refused to hear the
case last year. The judgment has increased to $43 million with
interest and legal fees, according to a statement on the town’s
website.  Offer Rebuffed  The development company has tried to reach a compromise
with the town, said Daniel L. Brockett, a partner at Quinn,
Emanuel Urquhart & Sullivan LLP in  New York , which represented
the developer.  The town rebuffed the developer’s offer for $2.7 million
annual payments over 30 years, Brockett said in a telephone
interview.  “There was no point in us participating in the
mediation,” he said. “The mediation was simply so they could
check off a box before going to  bankruptcy court .  ‘‘They just keep putting their heads in the sand and hoping
that some guy in a black robe will bail them out.’’  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net ;
James Nash in  Los Angeles  at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  