-- Manufacturing in U.S. Unexpectedly Contracted in June, ISM Says
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2012-07-02T14:11:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-02/manufacturing-in-u-s-unexpectedly-contracted-in-june-ism-says.html
Manufacturing in the U.S.
unexpectedly contracted in June for the first time in almost
three years, indicating a mainstay of the U.S. expansion may be
faltering.  The  Institute for Supply Management ’s manufacturing  index 
fell to 49.7, worse than the most-pessimistic forecast in a
Bloomberg News survey, from 53.5 in May, the Tempe, Arizona-
based group’s report showed today. Figures less than 50 signal
contraction. The  median  forecast in the Bloomberg survey called
for a decline to 52.  Assembly lines may slow as consumers temper purchases of
vehicles and other goods and companies limit investments in new
equipment. At the same time, export markets for manufacturers
like  DuPont Co. (DD)  and  Steelcase Inc. (SCS)  may be more difficult as
 Europe  struggles with a debt crisis and some Asian economies
weaken.  “The investment picture is softening in the face of all
the uncertainty,”  Michael Hanson , a senior U.S. economist at
Bank of America Corp. in  New York , said before the report.
“Europe is already weighing on the manufacturing sector, and
U.S. growth is decelerating.”  Estimates in the Bloomberg survey of 70 economists ranged
from 50.5 to 53.5. The gauge averaged 55.2 in 2011 and 57.3 in
the previous year.  Manufacturing is weaker in the rest of the world. The
industry in the euro-area contracted for an 11th straight month
in June as Europe’s debt crisis sapped demand. A measure of the
region’s factories held at 45.1, London-based Markit Economics
said.  European Unemployment  Euro-area unemployment  reached the highest on record in
May, other figures showed. The jobless rate in the 17-nation
area rose to 11.1 percent, the highest since the data series
began in 1995, from 11 percent a month earlier, the European
Union’s statistics office in Luxembourg said.  A manufacturing purchasing managers’ index for  China  fell
to 48.2 in June from 48.4 a month earlier, HSBC Holdings Plc and
Markit said today.  The ISM’s U.S.  production  index decreased to 51 from 55.6.
The new orders measure dropped to 47.8, the lowest since April
2009, from 60.1, and the gauge of export orders declined to
47.5, also the lowest in three years, from 53.5.  The  employment  gauge decreased to 56.6 from 56.9 in the
prior month.  Order Backlogs  The measure of orders waiting to be filled fell to 44.5
from 47. The inventory index dropped to 44 from 46, while a
gauge of customer stockpiles rose to 48.5 from 43.5. A figure
less than 50 means manufacturers are reducing stockpiles.  The index of prices paid decreased to 37 from 47.5.  Manufacturing accounts for about 12 percent of the economy
and has been at the forefront of the recovery that began in June
2009.  The latest regional reports reinforce a recent slowdown in
the industry. Manufacturing in the Philadelphia area shrank in
June at the fastest pace in almost a year, while New York-region
factories expanded at the slowest rate in seven months.  A Commerce Department report on durables orders last week
showed demand for non-defense capital goods excluding aircraft
climbed 1.6 percent in May after a 1.4 percent decrease, helping
allay concern that business spending will falter.  Labor Market  Slower hiring and an  unemployment rate  exceeding 8 percent
may keep restraining household spending, which accounts for
about 70 percent of the economy. Cars and light trucks sold at a
 13.7 million  annual rate in May, the weakest this year and down
from April’s 14.4 million pace, Ward’s Automotive Group data
showed.  Europe also remains a concern for manufacturers. An index
of executive and consumer sentiment in the euro area slumped in
June to the lowest since October 2009, adding to signs the
economy fell back into a recession, figures showed last week.  Executives at Wilmington, Delaware-based DuPont, said while
growth in  North America  is holding up, the third-largest U.S.
chemical maker is concerned about a slowdown in China and
 Germany ’s dependence on exports.  “My number one worry is what will happen in Europe over
the next six to nine months,” Diane Gulyas, group vice
president of DuPont’s performance-materials segment, said on a
conference call with analysts on June 14.  Office Furniture  Steelcase, a  Grand Rapids , Michigan-based maker of office
furniture, said first-quarter sales fell in most major markets
in the region that includes Europe,  Middle East  and  Africa .  “Uncertainty in the global economy continues to take its
toll on specific parts of our business,” Chief Financial
Officer David Sylvester said on a conference call on June 21.  The  U.S. economy  expanded 1.9 percent in the first quarter,
the same as previously estimated and following a 3 percent pace
in the prior three months, revised data showed last week.  To combat flagging growth, Federal Reserve policy makers
said they are ready to take more steps should the U.S. expansion
slacken.  Fed officials said in a policy statement on June 20 that
they expect “economic growth to remain moderate over coming
quarters and then to pick up very gradually.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  