-- Apple Loses Bid for Emergency Ban on HTC Phone Imports
-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 2012-07-03T01:38:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-02/apple-loses-bid-for-emergency-ban-on-htc-phone-imports.html
HTC Corp. (2498)  can continue to bring its
newest smartphones into the U.S. while a trade agency
investigates whether the phones violate an order that the
Taiwanese company stop infringing an  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  patent.  The U.S. International Trade Commission yesterday
instituted an investigation into Apple’s claim that HTC
continues to infringe a patent in violation of an order issued
in December. The agency denied an emergency request to have the
HTC phones, including the One X and EVO 4G LTE, detained at the
U.S. border. Notice was posted on the agency’s electronic
docket.  HTC’s phones were held up at the border in May, delaying
plans by  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)  to sell the HTC EVO 4G. The phones,
made in  Taiwan , were allowed into the U.S. after HTC assured
 U.S. Customs  and  Border Protection  that it had worked around the
Apple patent.  Shares of the Taiwanese company added 0.8 percent to
NT$393.50 as of 9:18 a.m. in Taipei, heading for its highest
close in almost four weeks. The benchmark  Taiex (TWSE)  index climbed
0.3 percent.  The patent covers a system to detect telephone numbers in
e-mails so, when the number on the screen is tapped, they can be
stored in directories or called without dialing.  Apple Complaint  Apple filed a complaint last month, accusing HTC of making
inaccurate representations to customs officials to bypass the
import ban, known as an exclusion order.  “The commission finds that Apple has not demonstrated the
propriety of temporary emergency action here,” the Washington-
based agency wrote. “The commission will not direct Customs to
detain all subject HTC products because the commission does not
have the information necessary to determine whether the
respondents are currently violating the commission’s limited
exclusion order.”  HTC said its mobile devices and software were redesigned,
and that Apple was making legal arguments regarding infringement
it hadn’t made in the original case.  Apple, based in Cupertino, California, had asked that all
HTC phones that run on  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android operating system be
stopped at the border.  One Series  “HTC confirmed that the notice was received, as an
expected matter of process, and will vigorously defend its
case,” the company said in an e-mailed statement to Bloomberg
News today. Kristin Huguet, a spokeswoman for Apple, didn’t
immediately return messages seeking comment.  HTC, Asia’s second-largest smartphone maker, is counting on
its One series of phones to improve its share of a market that
reached $312 billion last year, according to Bloomberg
Industries data.  The Taoyuan, Taiwan-based company had 4.5 percent of the
global smartphone market in the first quarter, down from a peak
of 10.7 percent in the second quarter of 2011, as it lost to
competition from Apple’s iPhone and  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) ’s
Galaxy line.  The case is In the Matter of Certain Personal Data and
Mobile Communications Devices and Related Software, 337-710,
U.S. International Trade Commission ( Washington ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  