-- Apple Pays Proview $60m to Resolve IPad Trademark Dispute
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-07-02T06:40:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-02/apple-pays-60-million-to-end-china-ipad-dispute-with-proview.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL) , the world’s most valuable
company, paid $60 million to settle a two-year-old legal dispute
with  Proview International Holdings Ltd. (334)  regarding the iPad
trademark in China.  The terms of the settlement agreement were reached on June
25 and Apple has transferred  the funds  as agreed, the Higher
People’s Court of  Guangdong Province  announced in a  statement  on
its website today.  The iPad case  had threatened sales of the second-best
selling product of Apple, which had $110.2 billion in  cash  and
investments on its balance sheet at the end of March, in its
largest  market  outside the U.S. Before the agreement, Proview
had applied to Chinese customs to block shipments of Apple’s
iPad tablets in and out of  China , and asked local retailers to
stop sales of the product.  “If I’m Apple, I’m pretty happy, because this amount of
money to them is nothing,” Stan Abrams, an intellectual
property lawyer and a law professor at the Central University of
Finance and Economics in Beijing, said in a phone interview
today. “This isn’t a big amount to get this over and done
with.”  Apple spokeswoman Carolyn Wu didn’t immediately return
calls to her office and mobile phones.  Ownership  The dispute  had centered on whether Proview’s Taiwan unit,
which Apple paid 35,000 pounds ($54,800) in 2009 to use the iPad
name in mainland China, had the right to sell it or whether that
rested with Proview’s Shenzhen unit, which held the mark. Apple
sued Proview Shenzhen in 2010 claiming ownership of the iPad
trademark in China and lost. Its appeal of that case was heard
on Feb. 29, and the two sides had engaged in court-sponsored
mediation since then.  Apple  revenue  in China tripled to $7.9 billion last
quarter, helped by surging demand for products including the
iPad tablet computer. The Cupertino, California-based company’s
global sales of iPads topped 32 million units last year, earning
revenue of $20.4 billion. In less than two years, the device has
become the company’s second-best selling product by revenue,
behind the iPhone.  Proview’s wholly owned subsidiary, Proview Technology
(Shenzhen) Co., obtained the iPad trademark in China in 2001,
according to a Feb. 3, 2010, regulatory filing with the Hong
Kong stock exchange. The mark was obtained for a desktop
terminal with touch-screen display called the Internet Personal
Access Device, or IPAD, that the company developed starting in
1998.  ‘Very Realistic’  “I don’t think Proview Shenzhen is satisfied with the
amount, but it’s very realistic,” said Roger Xie, an attorney
for the company. “Proview accepted the settlement amount
because it’s under great pressure from creditors. Maybe this is
the only choice.”  Proview’s Shenzhen factory was shuttered in November 2010
and is being dismantled after creditor banks took over its
assets when the company missed payments to suppliers and banks,
founder Rowell Yang said in a phone interview today. The
Shenzhen unit still owes about $400 million to creditors,
including Bank of China Ltd. and China Minsheng Banking Corp.,
so the Apple settlement alone won’t cover the total, Yang said.  How Proview Shenzhen is to repay its creditors is still to
be settled by the courts, Yang said.  “We tried to achieve a higher settlement target for our
creditors,” Yang said. “Many of our creditors cannot wait too
long, so we believe it’s best for us to settle at this moment.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  