-- Arab States Call for Unified Front Against Syrian Violence
-- B y   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y
-- 2012-07-02T13:47:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-02/arab-states-call-for-unified-front-against-syrian-violence-1-.html
Syrian opposition groups must forge a
united stance to better advance their cause, the  Arab League ’s
chief said.  Opposition groups met in Cairo today, marking the latest
push to bring together a disjoined movement amid international
efforts that have yielded no real progress in ending a 16-month
conflict that has left nearly 17,000 dead, according to non-
governmental groups. The meeting is being hosted by the Arab
League.  “The sacrifices of the Syrian people are greater than us
all and more valuable than any differences or factional
interests,” Arab League Secretary-General Nabil el-Arabi said
in a conference session televised on state-run Nile News. There
should be no opportunity “after this day for skeptics to
question the ability of the Syrian opposition to bear its
responsibilities,” he said.  The gathering comes after world powers on June 30 backed a
UN-brokered peace agreement that failed to directly spell out
the fate of Syrian President Bashar Assad. The draft plan, which
was submitted by UN special envoy  Kofi Annan , was changed amid
objections from  Russia  about language banning Assad and other
senior officials from participating in a transitional
government.  El-Arabi said a clearer transition was needed. He also said
the Assad regime continued to favor a military option over a
diplomatic solution and that this had led members of the
opposition to defend themselves.  The Syria opposition must represent all segments of that
country in order for it be been seen as a viable force for the
country’s transition, Iraqi Foreign Minister Hoshyar Zebari
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tarek El-Tablawy in Cairo at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  