-- Areva Solar Venture Seeks Power Agreement After Losing Funds
-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 2012-07-02T06:01:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-02/areva-solar-venture-seeks-power-agreement-after-losing-funds-1-.html
A venture led by  Areva SA (AREVA)  planning a
A$1 billion ($1 billion) solar-thermal project in Australia is
in talks to supply power to potential customers after failing to
meet a June 30 deadline to complete an agreement.  The venture is committed to moving ahead with the 250-
megawatt Solar Dawn plant even after the Queensland state
government pulled A$75 million in funding, project director
Anthony Wiseman said in a phone interview today from  Melbourne .
Queensland’s withdrawal puts the project in jeopardy, Australian
Energy Minister  Martin Ferguson  said earlier today.  “Solar Dawn is Australia’s best prospect for a large-scale
solar-thermal plant, and we’re going to continue to work hard to
be able to make it happen,” Wiseman said.  Paris-based Areva and its partner,  Wind Prospect Group
Ltd. , won A$464 million from Australia in 2011 to develop the
solar plant and received an extension until the end of June to
complete financing. The federal government referred the project
to the Australian Renewable Energy Agency, established last year
to spur investment in the industry, Ferguson said today.  Areva wants to develop the venture as Australia moves
toward a target of generating 20 percent of its power from
renewable energy sources by the end of the decade.  Australia  has
the highest average solar radiation per square meter of any
continent, Ferguson said in a speech last month.  Power Agreement Sought  The market for power-purchase agreements is “quite
competitive,” Wiseman said. “Offtakers are understandably
being duly diligent prior to entering into what are very long-
term commitments. However, Solar Dawn is offering promising
benefits previously not available in Australia.”  The venture intends to sign a power agreement “as soon as
possible,” he said. “I don’t think it’s going to be weeks. I
think it will be more than that. It depends on how those parties
move their way through a complex process of analysis but we have
made substantial progress.”  Starting the project near Chinchilla, about 290 kilometers
(180 miles) northwest of Brisbane, by the end of 2015 is still
achievable, Wiseman said. The venture plans to approach the
Queensland government to find ways to develop the plant, he
said.  The Australian Renewable Energy Agency will determine what
happens to Solar Dawn, according to Ferguson. “The fate of the
project now hangs in the balance,” he added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Paton in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  