-- Harrisburg, Pennsylvania, Bankruptcy Ban to Be Extended
-- B y   R o m y   V a r g h e s e
-- 2012-07-02T18:38:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-02/harrisburg-pennsylvania-bankruptcy-ban-to-be-extended.html
Governor Tom Corbett plans to give
creditors and Harrisburg,  Pennsylvania ’s capital, more time to
work out a resolution to the city’s debt by extending a ban on
seeking bankruptcy until after Nov. 30.  Corbett, a Republican, is expected to sign a measure
including the extension later today, said Eric Shirk, a
spokesman. Adding five months to the yearlong prohibition
against the step by the city, where about 30 percent of 49,500
residents live in poverty, may help creditors.  “Long-term, it doesn’t hurt bondholders to get an
extension so they can work out the disposition of assets in an
orderly way,” said Alan Schankel, director of fixed-income
research at Janney Montgomery Scott LLC in Philadelphia.  Legislation  to extend the ban passed the state Assembly
June 30, two days after Stockton,  California , became the biggest
U.S. city by population to seek bankruptcy-court protection. The
agricultural center about 80 miles (130 kilometers) east of  San
Francisco  may be the first to force bondholders to take losses.
Stockton listed debt of as much as $1 billion in its filing in
 Sacramento , California’s capital.  Consultants under Pennsylvania’s distressed cities program,
known as Act 47, said in a June 2011 report that a Harrisburg
bankruptcy might raise borrowing costs for the state and its
municipalities. The city is currently overseen by a state
receiver, who is implementing a fiscal recovery plan that calls
for asset sales and an income-tax increase.  Receiver’s Reaction  “We can live with it,” William B. Lynch, the receiver,
said today by telephone about the extension. He said that, “for
negotiating purposes,” he would’ve preferred the ban to end
June 30.  Harrisburg faces a debt burden of more than $300 million,
mostly tied to an overhaul and expansion of a trash-to-energy
incinerator. The plant doesn’t generate enough revenue to cover
the obligations. Members of the City Council unsuccessfully
sought to put the municipality in Chapter 9 bankruptcy in
October and were rejected a month later by a federal judge who
said the filing wasn’t authorized.  Lynch can put the city in bankruptcy once the prohibition
ends, provided the state’s community and economic development
secretary consents.  Law Challenged  Harrisburg’s council, joined by  Dan Miller  and  John
Campbell , the municipal controller and treasurer, respectively,
challenged the constitutionality of the law that empowered the
state receiver in U.S. District Court last week. Lynch said it
may require court action to force the council to comply with
provisions of the recovery plan it hasn’t implemented, such as
the tax increase.  Meanwhile, Lynch is pursuing proposed asset sales. He said
he chose to negotiate a final incinerator sale agreement with
the Lancaster County Solid Waste Management Authority, in the
nearby city of the same name, from among four qualified bidders.  Discussions are continuing on the disposition of other
Harrisburg assets, including its parking system and a  management
contract  for its water and sewer operations, he said last week
in an interview in his office. Lynch didn’t set a timeframe for
any agreements.  “I’m more interested in doing it correctly,” said the
former Air Force general.  Harrisburg faces a $12.7 million deficit this year on $57.9
million in total spending, according to a report filed with the
state’s Commonwealth Court, where the recovery plan and Lynch’s
appointment were both approved earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Romy Varghese in Philadelphia at 
 rvarghese8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  