-- Treasuries, Dollar Gain on Manufacturing; S&P 500 Rises
-- B y   M i c h a e l   P .   R e g a n   a n d   S t e p h e n   K i r k l a n d
-- 2012-07-02T20:38:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-02/asia-stocks-rally-as-japan-confidence-improves-oil-declines.html
Treasuries and the dollar gained
after a report showed American manufacturing unexpectedly shrank
in June. Most U.S. equities advanced, while European shares
rallied and Italian bonds gained.  Ten-year Treasury yields lost six basis points to 1.59
percent at 4 p.m. in  New York , while the dollar rose versus nine
of 16 major peers. The  Standard & Poor’s (SPX)  500 Index erased
earlier losses after last week capping its best June rally since
1999. The Stoxx Europe 600 Index added 1.5 percent as investors
bet central banks will add to efforts to fight the debt crisis.
Oil slid 1.4 percent to $83.75 a barrel following a 9.4 percent
jump on June 29, its biggest since 2009.  Concern about the  U.S. economy  grew after the  Institute for
Supply Management ’s manufacturing index fell to 49.7, showing
contraction for the first time in almost three years and
trailing the median economist estimate of 52. The S&P 500
followed European equities higher in the first half hour of
trading after factory output in the euro area topped initial
forecasts and manufacturing in  Japan  and  China  beat estimates.  “This is not good,”  Dan Greenhaus , chief global
strategist at broker-dealer BTIG LLC in New York, said in a note
to clients. “Not good at all. Despite the decline of
manufacturing’s importance to the U.S. economy, the ISM
Manufacturing Index remains a premier economic indicator and a
reading below 50 in June is incredibly, incredibly worrisome,”
he wrote. “Investors have to begin, at a minimum, considering
the possibility” that the U.S. will slip into a recession, he
said.  DuPont, AT&T  About two stocks rose for each one that declined on U.S.
exchanges. The S&P 500 increased 0.3 percent after falling as
much as 0.5 percent earlier in the day. The  Dow Jones Industrial
Average  dropped 0.1 percent, with DuPont Co., General Electric
Co. and Bank of America Corp. losing more than 1.5 percent.
JPMorgan Chase & Co., AT&T Inc. and American Express Co. climbed
more than 1.4 percent.  Gauges of phone-service providers and utilities rose at
least 0.7 percent to lead advances among the main industry
groups in the  S&P 500 . Best Buy Co. added 5.9 percent after the
Minneapolis Star-Tribune reported that founder Richard Schulze
is close to making a bid for the electronics retailer.  Global equities rallied the most this year on June 29,
sending the MSCI All-Country World Index up 3 percent, as
European leaders reduced aid requirements for Spain and  Italy .
The 4.7 percent gain for the month was the most in June since
1999, helping stocks beat the dollar, bonds and commodities in
the first half of 2012.  June 1  The S&P 500 has rebounded more than 6 percent since June 1
and 10-year Treasury yields have increased from a record low of
1.4387 that day, when the Labor Department reported the nation
added 69,000 jobs in May for the weakest employment growth in a
year. The S&P GSCI Index of commodities has rebounded more than
6 percent after falling to the lowest level since 2010 on June
21. Labor Department data on July 6 is forecast to show
employers added fewer than 100,000 jobs for a third month,
adding to signs the world’s largest economy is cooling.  Thirty-year U.S. bonds also rose today, sending their
yields down six basis points to 2.69 percent. Two-year rates
lost one basis point to 0.30 percent.  Investors are plowing cash into new Treasuries at a record
pace, making economic growth rather than budget austerity a key
issue as President  Barack Obama  and  Mitt Romney  face off in
November’s presidential election.  Treasury Demand  Bidders offered $3.16 for each dollar of the $1.075
trillion of notes and bonds auctioned by the Treasury Department
this year, above the previous high of $3.04 in all of 2011,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The so-called bid-to-
cover ratio was 2.26 from 1998 to 2001 when the nation ran
budget surpluses.  The  Stoxx 600 (SXXP)  extended its two-day gain to 4.2 percent.
Aviva Plc, the U.K.’s second-biggest insurer, jumped 3.7 percent
after it named a new chairman. Rhoen Klinikum AG slumped 8.9
percent after Fresenius SE failed in its 3.1 billion-euro bid to
buy the company. Barclays gained 3.4 percent as Chairman Marcus
Agius resigned after the bank was fined a record 290 million
pounds for trying to rig inter-bank lending rates.  Factory output in the euro region contracted less than
initially estimated in June, London-based Markit Economics said
today, after Japan’s Tankan index of large manufacturers’
sentiment and China’s  Purchasing Managers ’ Index exceeded
economist estimates.  Italian Bonds  Italy’s 10-year bond yield tumbled a third day, dropping
eight basis points to 5.74 percent after earlier losing as much
as 19 basis points. The rate on similar-maturity Spanish
securities rose five basis points to 6.38 percent. German 10-
year bond yields lost six basis points to 1.52 percent.  European leaders turn to the  European Central Bank  this
week, seeking assistance following moves to calm markets and
accelerate the currency bloc’s integration last week. The ECB
may offer help on July 5, with economists expecting an  interest
rate  cut. The bank has a track record of action following
political progress, including bond purchases that followed
bailout programs and unlimited three-year loans.  Finland said bond buying by the European Stability
Mechanism on the secondary market would require unanimity, as
the Nordic country reiterated its opposition to such purchases.  Dollar, Euro  The Dollar Index, a gauge of the currency against six major
peers, rose 0.3 percent as it rebounded from the biggest drop
since October. The euro weakened against 15 of 16 major
counterparts, losing 1 percent versus the yen. The jobless rate
in the 17-nation area rose to 11.1 percent in May from 11
percent in April, the European Union’s statistics office said.
That’s the highest since the data series started in 1995.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  added 0.6 percent,
extending its biggest gain in eight months on June 29, with
gauges in  Russia ,  Thailand  and the  Philippines  climbing at least
1 percent.  The Shanghai Composite Index rose less than 0.1 percent.
Hong Kong markets were closed for a public holiday. China’s PMI
fell to 50.2 in June from 50.4 in May, the Beijing-based
National Bureau of Statistics and China Federation of Logistics
and Purchasing reported yesterday. That compares with the 49.9
median estimate in survey of 24 economists. A final PMI reading
for June by HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics today was
better than a preliminary level published last month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael P. Regan in New York at 
 mregan12@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Kirkland in London at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  