-- Asia’s Home Prices Rebound as Low Interest Rates Boost Sales
-- B y   P o o j a   T h a k u r
-- 2012-07-02T10:13:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-02/asia-s-home-prices-rebound-as-low-interest-rates-boost-sales.html
Home prices  in China, Singapore and
 Australia  rebounded as demand for property assets rose, boosted
by low interest rates as investors sought real estate
investments in the Asia-Pacific region.  China’s new home prices in June increased for the first
time in 10 months, while those in Australia’s eight major cities
recorded their largest monthly increase in more than two years
as lower mortgage rates encouraged buyers. Singapore prices
rebounded to a record in the second quarter.  The  Federal Open Market Committee  said on June 20 it will
expand the Operation Twist program to extend the maturities of
assets on its balance sheet and stands ready to take further
action as needed. Central banks in China and Australia cut
 interest rates  last month, while Singapore’s mortgage rates are
at a record low.  “The quantitative easing in the West is finding its way to
Asia, which is perceived to be an engine of growth,” said Alan Cheong, a director at Savills Plc in Singapore. “If interest
rates stay low for a prolonged period of time, inflation is
always a certainty.”  The Fed pushed down its target interest rate close to zero
in December 2008 and has engaged in two rounds of asset
purchases totaling $2.3 trillion in a bid to lower long-term
borrowing costs and boost the economy. The  Bank of England  will
probably expand its so-called quantitative easing program this
week as the debt crisis in Europe impedes the U.K.’s return to
growth. according to a Bloomberg news survey.  Shares Rise  The housing data pushed property stocks higher. The
 Bloomberg Asia Pacific Real Estate Index (BPRREAL)  climbed 0.5 percent to
a two-month high. The gauge tracking property stocks on the
 Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  rose the most in more than week, while
Singapore’s real estate  index  increased to the highest since
April 20.  China’s home prices increased 0.1 percent from May to 8,688
 yuan  ($1,369) per square meter (10.76 square feet), SouFun said
in an e-mailed statement today, based on its survey of 100
cities. Beijing led gains among the nation’s 10 biggest cities,
climbing 2.3 percent from May, followed by the southern business
hub of Shenzhen, which added 0.8 percent. Prices climbed as the
central bank cut lending rates for the first time since 2008.  “The rate cut played a big role changing the sentiment on
the market,” said Jeffrey Gao, a Shanghai-based property
analyst for Macquarie Capital Securities. “The government
hasn’t changed the overall direction of the property policy, but
it probably will be less stringent on the easing in smaller
cities.”  Australia’s Prices  In Australia, the median price of dwellings in capital
cities was A$460,000 ($471,000) last month, compared with
A$465,000 a year earlier and 3.2 percent lower than the record
of A$475,000 set in December 2010, according to data from RP
Data and Rismark International.  Reserve Bank  of Australia reduced the overnight cash rate
target by 75 basis points in May and June, and banks have passed
on about 58 basis points of reductions in their standard
variable mortgage rates in the past two months, said Annette Beacher, head of Asia-Pacific research at TD Securities Inc.  In Singapore’s private residential property price index
rose 0.4 percent to a record 206.8 points in the three months
ended June 30 from the previous quarter, according to
preliminary estimates released by the  Urban Redevelopment
Authority  today.  Home Affordability  Housing sales on the island climbed even as the government
introduced more measures to cool the  property market . Home
affordability in Singapore has risen to the highest in a decade
because of historically low interest rates and flexible payment
options available to buyers, according to Jefferies Group Inc.  Average  mortgage rates  are about 70 basis points above the
Singapore Interbank Offered Rate, or Sibor, according to Maybank
Kim Eng Holdings Ltd. The three-month Sibor is at an all-time
low at just under 0.4 percent, compared with a peak 3.56 percent
in 2006, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. A basis point
is 0.01 percentage point. That makes Singapore’s mortgage rates
the lowest in Asia, according to Credit Suisse Group AG.  “The low interest rate environment and investors looking
for investment opportunities to hedge against inflation is
resulting in higher prices,” said Nicholas Mak,  executive
director  at SLP International Property Consultants, a real
estate consulting company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pooja Thakur in  Singapore  at 
 pthakur@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  