-- Austrian Regulator Probes Slim Buying Telekom Austria Stake
-- B y   Z o e   S c h n e e w e i s s
-- 2012-07-02T14:33:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-02/austrian-regulator-probes-slim-buying-telekom-austria-stake-1-.html
Austria’s competition authority is
examining  America Movil (AMXL)  SAB’s acquisition of a stake in  Telekom
Austria AG (TKA) , according to a filing today.  The watchdog is examining  Carlos Slim ’s company increasing
its stake to as much as 22.76 percent of voting rights, which
“at most could be a participation of up to 25.9 percent,” the
competition authority said on its website today. The deadline
for submitting requests for a more in-depth probe ends Aug. 27,
according to the filing.  America Movil on June 15 agreed to buy 21 percent in
Telekom Austria from investor Ronny Pecik, boosting its stake to
about 23 percent. Additionally, the billionaire’s Inmobiliaria
Carso SA investment fund holds a 3.14 percent stake. Telekom
Austria said at the time that the deal was announced that
according to Austrian law the two stakes can’t be added up as
the companies are not controlled by one legal or natural person.  In November,  Austria  amended a law to limit ownership of
infrastructure companies by non-Europeans. A new clause in the
country’s Foreign Trade Act states that stakes of 25 percent or
more require approval by the Ministry of Economics unless the
investor is from the European Union, the European Economic Area
or Switzerland.  Economy Minister Reinhold Mitterlehner said in a television
interview with Austrian state broadcaster ORF on June 19 that a
probe of the deal had started. He declined to elaborate.  The ministry said today that it had nothing to add to
Mitterlehner’s comments. According to Austrian law, the ministry
can start a probe both ex officio or upon request from an
involved party.  America Movil  is establishing footholds in Europe as the
continent’s debt crisis hurts the value of phone companies in
the region. America Movil said June 27 it succeeded in amassing
the 28 percent stake it sought in Royal  KPN NV (KPN) , the former Dutch
phone monopoly.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Zoe Schneeweiss at 
 zschneeweiss@bloomberg.net  