-- Australia TD Inflation Gauge Drops 0.2% as Fuel Price Plunges
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2012-07-02T00:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-02/australia-td-inflation-gauge-drops-0-2-as-fuel-price-plunges.html
A private gauge of Australian
inflation dropped in June on weaker fuel and furniture prices,
signaling little cost pressure on consumers in the second
quarter.  Consumer prices fell 0.2 percent last month, the first
reduction since November, according to an index compiled by TD
Securities Inc. and the Melbourne Institute released in Sydney
today. From a year earlier,  prices  rose 1.6 percent in June, the
fourth consecutive monthly reading below the lower end of the
central bank’s 2 percent to 3 percent target range.  Reserve Bank  of Australia Governor  Glenn Stevens  will keep
the benchmark interest rate unchanged tomorrow, economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News predicted, after he reduced borrowing
costs by 75 basis points in the past two months to 3.5 percent.
A sluggish global recovery and restrained  consumer confidence 
have helped ease inflation, with core consumer prices advancing
in the first quarter at the slowest pace since 1998.  “Given the RBA has moved rapidly by cutting 75 basis
points since May, with 58 basis points passed on to the standard
variable mortgage rate to deliver accommodative monetary policy,
we believe the RBA is in a comfortable position to sit tight,”
said  Annette Beacher , head of Asia-Pacific research at TD
Securities in Singapore. “Given heightened global uncertainty,
accommodative monetary policy puts Australia in good stead for
what lies ahead.”  Today’s report showed the price of automotive fuel plunged
8 percent in June, after falling 2.8 percent in May.  The Melbourne Institute is a research unit of Melbourne
University, and TD Securities is a division of  Toronto-Dominion
Bank (TD) , Canada’s second-largest lender. The monthly inflation
index measures the prices of more than 1,000 goods and services.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  