-- Auto Sales Stall With 500,000 Cut From 2013 U.S. Outlook
-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l   a n d   H a s a n   D u d a r
-- 2012-07-02T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-02/auto-sales-stall-with-500-000-cut-from-2013-u-s-outlook.html
The pace of U.S. auto sales probably
stalled for a second straight month in June as the labor market
stumbled and confidence waned, leading analysts at Citigroup
Inc. and Deutsche Bank AG to lower estimates for demand in 2013.  Light-vehicle sales in June, set for release tomorrow, may
have run at a 13.8 million seasonally adjusted annualized  rate ,
the average estimate of 15 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. That
average estimate matches May’s rate, the year’s first month to
dip below 14 million, and trails the 14.5 million pace in the
first four months of 2012.  Even with the slowdown, U.S. auto sales are on pace for the
best annual total since 2007. With sales in Europe falling a
fifth-straight year and China’s market slowing, automakers such
as  Ford (F)  Motor Co. are counting on demand to warrant more
production in North America to offset losses in other regions.  “We’re talking about less strength than earlier in the
year,” Emmanuel Rosner, a New York-based analyst for Credit
Agricole Securities Inc.’s CLSA, said in a telephone interview.
“The macro data that correlates the best with U.S. auto sales
is  consumer confidence  and employment figures. In both cases,
there’s been some deceleration.”  Ford, Chrysler Group LLC and affiliates Hyundai Motor Co.
and  Kia (000270)  Motors Corp. probably will report smaller June sales
gains than they recorded this year through May, according to
analysts’ estimates. Citigroup’s Itay Michaeli and Deutsche
Bank’s  Rod Lache  each cut their 2013 industry sales estimates by
500,000 cars and light trucks last month as U.S. job gains
slowed and consumer confidence weakened.  ‘Additional Headwinds’  Michaeli lowered his outlook for 2013 to 14.5 million
sales, from 15 million. Lache cut his 2013 estimate to 14.2
million, from 14.7 million.  “We see potential for additional headwinds from the crisis
in Europe, and headwinds from U.S.  federal budget  cuts which may
take effect in January,” Lache wrote in a June 25 report.  Confidence among U.S. consumers dropped for a fourth month,
the Conference Board’s index showed June 26. The private
research group’s measure fell to  62 for June , the lowest since
January. Employers added 69,000 workers in May, the fewest in a
year, and the jobless rate rose to  8.2 percent .  A 20 percent rise in June light-vehicle deliveries to 1.27
million, the average estimate of 10 analysts, is skewed by
comparisons with year-earlier vehicle shortages for  Toyota Motor
Corp. (7203)  and  Honda (7267)  Motor Co., which lost production after  Japan ’s
March 2011 earthquake and tsunami. The June 2011 sales rate was
11.6 million, according to researcher Autodata Corp.  Dynamic Duo  With a better supply of cars and light trucks and the
easier year-earlier comparison, Toyota may lead the industry
with a 66 percent gain in June sales, followed by Honda’s 51
percent increase, the average estimates of eight analysts.  Toyota added 1.2 percentage points of share through May
while Honda lost 0.3 percentage points, according to Woodcliff
Lake, New Jersey-based Autodata. The duo may end the year with a
combined U.S. market-share gain of 1.4 percentage points,
according to a Bloomberg survey of analysts in January.  “I’m surprised by the speed of getting inventory levels
up,” Don Mushin, general manager of Toyota of Hollywood in
 California , said in a phone interview. “We went from a 20-day
supply of cars to about a 45-day supply of cars. They’ve ramped
up real strong.”  Chrysler probably will lead U.S. automakers with an 18
percent sales increase in June, the average of 10 estimates.
Chrysler deliveries climbed 33 percent this year through May,
according to Autodata.  GM Estimates  Dealers took first deliveries in June of the Dodge Dart
compact sedan, which Chief Executive Officer  Sergio Marchionne 
has called the most important new model introduction to the
company since  Fiat SpA (F)  took control in 2009.  General Motors Co. (GM) ’s June deliveries probably rose 7.6
percent, the average of 11 analysts’ estimates. The Detroit-
based automaker’s U.S. market share through May slipped 2
percentage points from a year earlier to 17.8 percent, ahead of
Ford’s 15.6 percent and Toyota’s 14.5 percent.  GM dealers such as Lewis Chevrolet-Cadillac in Garden City,
Kansas, benefited last year when the Japan tsunami and floods in
Thailand disrupted auto production and sapped supply of Tokyo-
based Honda’s best-selling models.  “With a lack of supply for Japanese cars, it made a lot of
people look at other options,” Mike Shook, the dealership’s
general manager, said in a phone interview. After filling the
gap for buyers who couldn’t find Civics at the crosstown Honda
dealership, the dealership’s supply of GM’s Chevrolet Cruze ran
short until recently, he said.  Inventory Rises  GM’s inventory of the Cruze rose to 80 days’ supply at the
end of May,  Chris Ceraso , a New York-based analyst for Credit
Suisse, wrote in a June 12 report. The automaker’s lineup may
have been “overstocked” by about 88,000 cars and trucks by the
end of June, said Ceraso, who estimates that GM will trim its
North American production in the third quarter by 4 percent from
a year earlier, to 711,000 units.  Ford sees industry sales in June being “consistent” with
May,  Mark Fields , president of the Americas, told reporters on
June 26. The Dearborn, Michigan-based automaker will adjust
production if necessary after seeing consumer confidence “come
off its highs,” he said.  Ford sales probably gained 3.7 percent, the average
estimate of 11 analysts. The automaker increased deliveries by
6.5 percent through year’s first five months. Ford said in a
filing last week that it expects to report “good results” for
 North America  in the second quarter while pretax losses may have
tripled overseas from $190 million in the first quarter.  Ford’s inventory levels of smaller cars are closer to
Japan-based automakers than GM’s. The company had a 32-day
supply of Focus compacts at the end of May, while Toyota had 26
days of Corolla cars in stock and Honda had 44 days of Civics.  Yen’s Strength  “When you look at our lots, they’re not full; they’re not
even half-full,” John Hawkins, owner of Metro Honda in
Montclair, California, said in a phone interview. Honda’s supply
of some models is low while the automaker is reluctant to import
models from Japan because of the strong yen, he said.  As the yen rises versus the dollar, Japan-built vehicles
become more expensive to sell in the U.S. It took 111.75 yen to
buy one  U.S. dollar  at the end of 2007 and only 79.79 on June
29.  Korea’s  Hyundai (005380)  and Kia may combine to sell 9.8 percent
more vehicles in June than a year earlier, the average of six
analysts’ estimates. The Seoul-based automakers combined to
increase deliveries by 14 percent this year through May,
according to Autodata.  Nissan, Volkswagen  Nissan Motor Co. (7201) , which began production in May of its
revamped Altima sedan, may report a 21 percent gain in
deliveries for the month, the average of eight estimates.  Volkswagen AG (VOW) , on pace to exceed its target for selling
more than 500,000 vehicles in the U.S. this year, may have
increased combined sales of its Volkswagen and Audi brand
vehicles by 28 percent in June, the average of four analysts’
estimates.  The following table shows estimates for car and light-truck
sales in the U.S. Estimates for companies are a percentage
change from June 2011. Forecasts for the seasonally adjusted
annualized rate, or SAAR, are in millions of light vehicles.  May had 27 selling days, one more than the year-earlier
period.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Craig Trudell in Southfield, Michigan at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net ;
Hasan Dudar in Southfield, Michigan at 
 hdudar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Bill Koenig  at 
 wkoenig@bloomberg.net  