-- Baker McKenzie, Skadden, Sullivan, Akin: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2012-07-02T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-02/baker-mckenzie-skadden-sullivan-akin-business-of-law.html
Private equity lawyer William Kirsch
joined Baker & McKenzie LLP’s Chicago office where he will head
the firm’s North American private equity practice. Stacey Kern
and Garry Jaunal, also private equity attorneys, have joined the
firm, too, bolstering its domestic practice.  Jaunal joins from Kirkland & Ellis LLP, where all three
were previously partners. Kern was most recently a partner at
DLA Piper LLP.  “Bill has one of the best private equity resumes in  North
America ,” Philip F. Suse, the firm’s North American managing
partner said in a statement. “His skills and this team are rare
and special. The addition of this top-tier private equity team
further advances our strategy of strengthening our core
transactional practices in major global money centers and other
key locations around the world.”  Kirsch spent 23 years at Kirkland, where he headed the
corporate group and led the formation of Madison Dearborn
Partners LLC, for which he served as general counsel. He helped
shepherd the investment firm’s $3.9 billion acquisition of
paper-products maker Boise Cascade.  At Kirkland, he also served as general counsel to Carmel,
Indiana-based  Conseco Inc. (CNO)  before leaving the firm to become
chief executive officer of Conseco in August 2004. He resigned
from the company two years later and subsequently joined Paul
Hastings LLP as chairman of its global private-equity practice.
He remained at the firm until October 2010. Since then, he’s
been advising private companies on implementing transactions, he
said in an interview.  “As U.S. private equity firms invest in companies that are
headquartered overseas or are increasingly global in scope, the
firm’s lawyers in 70 offices spanning 43 countries offer clients
a global fluency and commercial approach to structuring and
closing transactions that other firms can’t match,” Kirsch
said.  Kern’s practice focuses on mergers and acquisitions,
private equity, restructuring and general corporate
representation. She has represented a broad range of private
equity funds, public and private companies and Chapter 11
debtors. Her clients have included BP Americas Inc. and Starwood
Capital Group LLC, according to her firm bio.  Jaunal’s practice focuses primarily on borrower-side
representation of private equity clients and their portfolio
companies. He has experience in corporate governance, debt
financing and creditors’ rights, including secured lending
transactions and financial restructurings. He is qualified to
practice in both the U.S. and England and Wales.  “M&A in the last five years have transitioned from cross-
border to transcontinental,” Jaunal said. “While other firms
are clearly making an effort, opening one or two offices does
not make one a global law firm.”  Baker represented clients on more than 300 mergers and
acquisitions globally in 2011, including 16 in the multibillion
dollar category, the firm said. Mergers and acquisitions is the
firm’s largest practice group with about 1,200 lawyers across
the world.  The firm’s global private equity practice has more than 250
lawyers worldwide, combining deal execution and financing with
fund formation and tax planning and financial services.  Baker has 3,800 lawyers in 70 offices in 43 countries. The
firm’s global revenues for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2011,
were $2.27 billion, the firm said.  Deals  AB InBev Seals $20 Billion Modelo Purchase to Gain Corona  Anheuser-Busch InBev NV, the world’s biggest brewer, agreed
to buy the remainder of Mexico’s Grupo  Modelo (GMODELOC)  SAB for $20.1
billion in cash, gaining full control of the Corona maker to
increase its presence in  emerging markets .  AB InBev will pay $9.15 a share, the Leuven, Belgium-based
company said June 29, about 30 percent more than the price of
Modelo shares before talks were first disclosed on June 25. In a
related deal,  Constellation Brands Inc. (STZ)  will buy Modelo’s stake
in their U.S. distribution joint venture for $1.85 billion.  Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP, Sullivan &
Cromwell LLP, and Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer LLP provided
legal advice to AB InBev. Cravath, Swaine & Moore LLP advised
Modelo, while Nixon Peabody LLP advised Constellation.  Skadden’s partners on the deal were New York mergers and
acquisitions partners Paul Schnell, Tom Greenberg and Marie Gibson. On antitrust were Steve Sunshine and Cliff Aronson in
Washington and Ian John in New York.  Victor Hollender, a New
York partner, handed tax matters.  Sullivan’s corporate partners on the deal included:  Frank Aquila , George White, George Sampas, Neal McKnight, John Estes
and Krishna Veeraraghavan. Nader Mousavi handled intellectual
property issues.  Freshfields served as global antitrust counsel for InBev
outside the US. The team was led by partners  John Davies  and
Thomas Janssens from Brussels, and includes partners Paco Cantos
in Madrid and Michael Han in Beijing.  Cravath corporate partners David Mercado and Joel F.
Herold, antitrust partner Christine A. Varney,  tax partner
Michael L. Schler and executive compensation and benefits
partner Jennifer S. Conway worked on the deal.  The Nixon Peabody team was led by corporate partner James
Bourdeau, securities partner Roger Byrd and finance partner
Craig Mills.  The acquisition speeds AB InBev’s push into faster-growing
 developing countries  as high unemployment and sluggish economies
restrain sales in Europe and North America. Mexico’s growth
exceeded Brazil’s last year as domestic consumption and exports
picked up on the heels of a U.S. recovery. AB InBev, the maker
of Budweiser, said it expects the combined company to deliver
cost and revenue benefits of at least $600 million annually.  Corona Extra, the U.S.’s largest imported beer, will become
a global flagship brand of the Leuven, Belgium-based company, a
status currently reserved for Budweiser alone, AB InBev Chief
Executive Officer Carlos Brito said June 29 on a conference
call.  AB InBev already owns a non-controlling 50 percent stake in
Modelo, which it gained when InBev NV bought Anheuser-Busch Cos.
in 2008 for $52 billion in the biggest brewing deal ever.  The acquisition price for the remaining 50 percent
represents a multiple of about 16.2 times earnings before
interest, tax, depreciation and amortization, according to
 Melissa Earlam , an analyst at UBS AG. That compares with an
average multiple of 12.3 times historic Ebitda for similar deals
since 1999, according to UBS estimates.  The acquisition pits the world’s biggest brewer against the
No. 3, Heineken NV, in Mexico. Between them, the companies will
control almost all of the country’s beer market after Amsterdam-
based Heineken bought the brewing business of Fomento Economico
Mexicano SAB in a deal valued at $7.7 billion in 2010. Modelo’s
Mexican market share is about 60 percent, according to Lauren Torres, an analyst at HSBC Holdings Plc, and Heineken has most
of the rest, with brands such as Dos Equis and Tecate.  For more, click here.  Petronas to Buy Canada’s Progress Energy for $4.7 Billion  Petroliam Nasional Bhd, Malaysia’s state-owned oil and
natural-gas company, agreed to buy  Progress Energy Resources
Corp. (PRQ)  for C$4.8 billion in cash ($4.67 billion), advancing its
plan to export Canadian gas by ship. Norton Rose Canada LLP
advised Petronas while Burnet, Duckworth & Palmer LLP advised
Progress.  Norton Rose partners were led by energy partner Chrysten
Perry and securities partner  Kevin Johnson . Also assisting were:
Michael Bennett, securities; Darren Hueppelsheuser, tax; John
Carleton, competition and foreign investment.  The Duckworth team included: John Cuthbertson and Jody
Wivcharuk, energy, investment Canada and competition, Shannon
Gangl, Gary Bugeaud, Alyson Goldman and Lindsay Cox, securities;
and John Brussa and Heather DiGregorio, tax.  The C$20.45-a-share price is 77 percent more than Progress
Energy’s closing price June 28 in Toronto and would be the
biggest purchase ever for Petronas, as the Kuala Lumpur-based
company is known. Including convertible debentures, the deal is
valued at about C$5.5 billion, Calgary-based Progress Energy
said in a statement June 28.  Petronas Chief Executive Officer Shamsul Azhar Abbas said
March 30 he wants to expand the company’s presence in Canada and
Australia. The company bought a stake in three of Progress
Energy’s gas fields last year and agreed to explore development
of a liquefied natural gas terminal to export the fuel. Asian
buyers have been lured to North America by gas prices that are
about 88 percent cheaper.  “The proposed transaction will combine Petronas’s
significant global expertise and leadership in developing LNG
infrastructure with Progress’s extensive experience in
unconventional resource development,” Datuk Anuar Ahmad,
executive vice president of Petronas’s gas and power business,
said in the statement.  For more, click here.  News  Peter Madoff Pleads Guilty to Conspiracy at Brother’s Firm  Peter Madoff  pleaded guilty to conspiracy in Manhattan
federal court three years to the day after his brother Bernard
was sentenced to 150 years in prison for directing the biggest
 Ponzi scheme  in U.S. history.  A chief compliance officer of Bernard L. Madoff Investment
Securities LLC who helped his brother run the firm for four
decades, Peter Madoff, pleaded guilty June 28 to one count of
conspiracy to commit securities fraud and one count of
falsifying records. He faces 10 years in prison.  Bernard Madoff’s account statements when he was arrested
reflected 4,900 accounts with $65 billion in nonexistent
balances. Investors lost about $20 billion in principal. Peter
Madoff, 66, a graduate of Fordham University Law School who
began working at the Manhattan-based firm in 1965, agreed as
part of his plea not to ask U.S. District Judge Laura Taylor Swain in New York for less than a 10-year term.  Madoff also agreed to forfeit $143.1 billion, including all
of his real and personal property. The forfeiture calculation is
based on the total funds that passed through the Madoff firm
during the fraud.  Madoff will remain free before his Oct. 4 sentencing. He is
to be freed on a $5 million personal recognizance bond secured
by $1 million cash or property. His travel is restricted to the
New York metropolitan area and surrounding counties, and he must
give up his passport.  Bernard Madoff told a judge at his sentencing in the same
courthouse that he deceived his brother, his two sons and wife,
Ruth, about the multibillion-dollar fraud.  “ Bernie Madoff  claiming that he acted alone was
ridiculous,” said  Anthony Barkow , a former federal prosecutor
in New York and a partner at Jenner & Block LLP. “His surrender
was clearly a strategy to try to insulate his family and co-
conspirators and made it more difficult for the government to
make the case, so it’s taken time but they’ve shown that they’re
clearly working on it.”  Thirteen people have been charged with criminal wrongdoing
in the almost four years since federal authorities began their
investigation of Madoff’s firm. Peter Madoff is the eighth
person and the highest-ranking employee other than his brother
to plead guilty in the case.  Peter Madoff’s lawyer, John Wing, a partner at Lankler
Siffert & Wohl LLP, didn’t return a voice-mail message yesterday
seeking comment on the plea agreement.  Stephen Miller , a partner at Cozen O’Connor in Philadelphia
and also a former federal prosecutor, said  Bernard Madoff ’s
guilty plea left many victims frustrated that he didn’t give
more information about the workings of the decades-long Ponzi
scheme. If Peter Madoff agrees to cooperate as part of his plea
agreement, he will shed additional light on how the Madoff fraud
operated, Miller said.  For decades, Peter Madoff worked alongside his brother at
an office in the lipstick-shaped building at 885 Third Avenue in
midtown Manhattan, where Madoff Securities occupied three
floors. The brothers were joined by Peter Madoff’s daughter,
Shana Madoff Swanson, a lawyer, and Bernard Madoff’s sons Andrew
and Mark.  Both sons worked for the legitimate, market-making side of
the business and said they had no knowledge of the fraud until
the day their father confessed to them.  Shana Madoff, a Fordham University Law School graduate who
had worked at the firm since 1995, served as its in-house
lawyer. She shared responsibilities with her father and uncle
for all compliance-related activities at the firm. She hasn’t
been accused of wrongdoing.  Her lawyer, Mark Warren Smith, didn’t return a voice-mail
message seeking comment on her father’s plea agreement.  Martin Flumenbaum , a lawyer representing  Andrew Madoff  and
the estate of Mark Madoff, has previously said the brothers had
no knowledge of the fraud until their father confessed to them
the day before his arrest. Neither was charged with a crime.
Flumenbaum, a partner at Paul Weiss Rifkind Wharton & Garrison
LLP, didn’t return a voice-mail message seeking comment on Peter
Madoff.  Ira Lee Sorkin, a lawyer for Bernard Madoff and a partner
at Lowenstein Sandler PC, didn’t return a call seeking comment
on Peter Madoff.  The case is U.S. v. Madoff, 10-cr-00228, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  PBGC Faults Dewey Plan to Hire Proskauer, Keightley Law Firms  The Pension Benefit Guaranty Corp., Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP’s
largest unsecured creditor, faulted the defunct law firm for a
plan to hire Proskauer Rose LLP and Keightley & Ashner LLP at a
cost of $610,000 in the first nine weeks.  The two firms’ work “to date has been unnecessary, has not
affected or benefited the bankruptcy estate, and has been
duplicative of each other’s work,” the PBGC said in a filing in
 U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in Manhattan on June 29. Dewey, which owes
secured lenders more than $225 million, has asked a judge to
approve the hiring of about 11 firms to help it liquidate,
according to filings.  The case is In re Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP, 12-12321, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Savannah Guthrie Named ‘Today’ Co-Anchor, Replacing Curry  Comcast Corp.’s NBC Universal named Savannah Guthrie as
Matt Lauer’s new co-anchor of the “Today” show, a day after
Ann Curry’s departure.  Guthrie, 40, joined “Today” in June 2011 as chief legal
correspondent and co-host of the show’s third hour. She replaces
Curry, who announced she was leaving the show yesterday after
NBC’s ratings lead over competitors including ABC’s “Good
Morning America” dwindled this year.  Before joining NBC, Guthrie served as Court TV’s legal
affairs and national trial correspondent. Guthrie previously
practiced law at Washington-based Akin Gump Strauss Hauer & Feld
LLP.  “As soon as Savannah joined NBC News she was a standout,
reporting for every franchise in the news division and rising
through the ranks,” said Jim Bell, executive producer of
“Today,” in the statement.  The appointment is effective immediately, according to the
announcement from NBC News President Steve Capus.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in New York at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  