-- Banks’ Living Wills, Libor Blueprint, China: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2012-07-02T12:42:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-02/banks-living-wills-libor-blueprint-china-medical-compliance.html
Summaries of company-written plans
for unwinding the nine largest systemically important banks
operating in the U.S. will be made available to the public
tomorrow, Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. officials said.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Bank of America Corp. ,  Citigroup
Inc. (C) ,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,  Morgan Stanley (MS) ,  Barclays Plc (BCS) ,
 Deutsche Bank AG (DB) ,  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  and  UBS AG (UBSN)  are required
to file the so-called living wills to the FDIC and the Federal
Reserve by July 2, FDIC officials said on a conference call June
29. Each bank also must produce a public summary, and the
information in those sections will likely contain data from
existing public sources, with proprietary information reserved
for the regulators, said the officials, who disclosed the
information under terms that required they not be identified.  Lenders with more than $250 billion in nonbank assets will
be the first group of banks to deliver the liquidation plans,
expected to run into thousands of pages. The plans, mandated by
the Dodd-Frank Act, are meant to give regulators a way to
shutter complex financial firms without taxpayer bailouts or
market turmoil that followed the 2008 bankruptcy of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc.  By the end of 2013, a total 125 banks are required to
deliver plans for taking their companies into bankruptcy should
the need arise, FDIC officials said. The regulators will
determine whether each living will represents a credible path to
a rapid and orderly closure. The regulators will have 60 days
from submission of the plans to request more information from
the companies if the plans aren’t considered complete.  Compliance Policy  CFTC Votes 5-0 to Propose Cross-Border Swaps Guidance  The U.S. voted to propose guidance for the international
reach of Dodd-Frank Act derivatives rules for JPMorgan Chase &
Co., Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and other financial institutions,
according to two people briefed on the matter.  The guidance approved June 29 after a unanimous vote by the
CFTC’s five commissioners will determine which overseas units of
U.S. banks must comply with rules dictated by the 2010
regulatory overhaul. The vote was conducted through a private
process in which commissioners gave their approval on paper.  Financial firms set up legal entities in part to minimize
regulatory, capital and other requirements through “regulatory
arbitrage.” CFTC Chairman  Gary Gensler  said. The guidance
allows for so-called substituted compliance in some cases where
overseas jurisdictions have comparable rules, he said.  “Foreign swap dealers, as well as overseas branches of
U.S. swap dealers, in certain circumstances, may rely on
substituted compliance when transacting with foreign affiliates
guaranteed or operating as conduits of U.S. entities,” Gensler
said in the statement.  The CFTC document will be open for public comment, which
Gensler said isn’t required for so-called interpretive guidance.
The agency didn’t immediately release the guidance or a separate
document governing the timetable for compliance.  India Signals Tax-Avoidance Clampdown Won’t Be Retrospective  India proposed that a clampdown on tax avoidance due in
2013 won’t apply retrospectively or to cases below a certain
monetary threshold, seeking to assuage concern that the plan
will deter foreign investment.  The draft guidelines released by the finance ministry in
New Delhi late in the day on June 28 would also exempt foreign
institutional investors if they refrain from routing money to
India via tax shelters. The indicative rules are for discussion
and feedback and haven’t been seen by Prime Minister  Manmohan
Singh , who has final approval, the government said June 29.  Singh, who took charge of the finance ministry earlier last
week, has told officials to revive confidence in India after
economic growth slowed and proposed tax changes from March’s
budget damped investor sentiment, stoking a plunge in the rupee.
The June 28 draft suggests overseas investors with exposure to
Indian  stocks  through so-called participatory notes won’t be
targeted, Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu India Pvt. said.  Overseas funds were net sellers of Indian  stocks  in April
and May on concern the planned General Anti-Avoidance Rule, or
GAAR, would apply to their holdings.  Pranab Mukherjee, who resigned as finance minister on June
26 to run for the presidency, retreated on the GAAR proposals in
May in a bid to salvage investor confidence in Asia’s third-
largest economy, delaying their implementation to the fiscal
year beginning April 1, 2013.  U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  discussed the
tax plans with Mukherjee in April after American trade and lobby
groups said they may lead to retroactive levies for periods of
as much as 50 years and deter foreign investment. U.K.
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  has said the
proposals could damage India’s investment climate.  For more, click here.  Compliance Action  Barclays Fines Mean Libor Enforcement Measures Not Enough  The blueprint regulators gave  Barclays (BARC)  Plc and other banks
for correcting Libor-rate abuses may not be enough to salvage a
benchmark so discredited it needs to be overhauled.  The U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission ordered
Barclays on June 27 to keep thorough records on how it
determines its London interbank offered rate submissions and to
erect so-called Chinese walls between traders and rate-setters.
It also said lenders should expect random checks from regulators
on whether their submissions reflect actual borrowing costs.  Investors say the plans are little more than window-
dressing. Barclays, the U.K.’s second-largest lender, was fined
a record $451 million and its top executives agreed to forgo
bonuses after investigators found traders and senior managers
“systematically” tried to rig the Libor and Euribor, its
equivalent in euros. With other lenders facing similar
sanctions, the British Bankers Association, which oversees
Libor, is under pressure to prove the rate is fit for purpose.  Bank of England Governor  Mervyn King  said at a press
conference to present the central bank’s Financial Stability
Report in London June 29 that the idea of basing the Libor
calculation on the word of bankers “is now dead.” Libor is
determined by banks’ daily estimates of how much it would cost
them to borrow from one another for different time frames and in
different currencies. Because banks’ submissions aren’t based on
real trades, the potential exists for manipulation by traders.  At least a dozen firms are being probed by regulators
worldwide for colluding to rig the rate, the benchmark for more
than $360 trillion of securities, including mortgages, student
loans and swaps. Barclays employees overseeing Libor and Euribor
submissions routinely accommodated requests that benefited
traders at their own and other banks, the CFTC said.  For more, click here.  Separately, the U.K. finance regulator has “a number of
investigations concerning Libor” beyond the case that resulted
in a record fine levied against Barclays last week, the agency’s
acting head of enforcement Tracey McDermott said.  Citigroup Inc.,  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc ,  UBS AG (UBS) ,
ICAP Plc,  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  and  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  are
among the firms some regulators are investigating. A total of 18
banks are surveyed as part of the process of determining Libor
and related rates.  Barclays is assisting the investigation into other firms
and individuals, and was the first to provide “extensive and
meaningful cooperation,” the U.S. Justice Department said.  SEC Suspends Trade in China Medical ADRs on Information Accuracy  Trading of  China Medical Technologies Inc. (CMEDY) ’s American
depositary receipts was suspended by the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission, which cited questions on the accuracy of
the company’s public information.  The regulator ordered a temporary suspension in the
company’s shares, starting June 29 and ending on July 13,
according to a  statement  on the SEC’s website.  Trading was suspended “because of questions that have been
raised about the accuracy and adequacy of publicly disseminated
information concerning, among other things, the status of the
company’s officers and directors, the accuracy of the company’s
financial statements and filings with the Commission,” the SEC
 said .  Japan Advisory Business Registration Revoked on Insider Trading  Japan Advisory Ltd., a hedge-fund adviser, had its business
registration revoked by the nation’s authorities and the
securities watchdog recommended the company be fined for its
involvement with insider trading of  Nippon Sheet Glass Co. (5202) 
shares.  The  Securities and Exchange Surveillance Commission 
recommended Tokyo-based Japan Advisory pay a penalty of 370,000
yen ($4,655) for breaching insider trading rules related to a
Nippon Sheet Glass share offering in 2010, according to a
 statement  by the watchdog. The registration was suspended for
breaching securities laws related to insider trading, the Kanto
Local Finance Bureau said June 29 in a  statement .  The case is among the latest to be brought to light by
Japanese regulators since March as they examine share
transactions before the announcement of public offerings.  Japan Advisory, while advising two foreign-based hedge
funds, obtained information about Nippon Sheet Glass’s  share
sale  from employees at a brokerage in talks to underwrite the
offering, according to the SESC statement.  A person who answered the phone at Japan Advisory said she
wasn’t authorized to speak to the press and declined to comment,
adding that no one with authority was available for a comment.
Calls to the company outside business hours weren’t answered.  Banking Group Cancels Party This Week Following Libor Probe  The British Bankers’ Association, the U.K. group that
oversees the publication of London interbank offered interest
rates, canceled a party scheduled for this week following the
record fine against Barclays Plc for manipulating the benchmark.  Angela Knight , the BBA’s chief executive officer, said in a
memo obtained by Bloomberg News that the industry needs to
“think long and hard about its collective behavior” and it
would be “wrong” to proceed with the reception.  Brian Capon , a spokesman for the BBA, confirmed the event
was canceled. The party was a two-hour summer  reception  at
College Garden near London’s Westminster Abbey.  Finra Says It Lost $84 Million in 2011 Amid Lower Trading Volume  The Financial Industry Regulatory Authority said it lost
$84 million in 2011 as lower trading volume reduced revenue from
fees and a more risk-averse strategy shrank returns on its
portfolio, according to an annual report released June 29.  Finra, which earned $54.6 million in 2010, oversees more
than 4,000 brokers and funds itself through fees on the
industry, including trades conducted by its members, and income
from investments. The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
oversees Finra’s activities and must sign off on the rules it
proposes.  Finra sought SEC approval in April for an increase in
trading and other fees to help offset the revenue loss.  The organization will pay  Richard Ketchum , Finra’s chairman
and chief executive officer, a $1 million salary in 2012,
according to the report, along with almost $1.3 million in
incentive compensation. Vice Chairman Stephen Luparello will
receive a compensation package worth almost $1.3 million this
year and Todd Diganci, the executive vice president and chief
financial officer, will earn almost $1.2 million.  Courts  Peter Madoff Pleads Guilty to Conspiracy at Brother’s Firm  Peter Madoff  pleaded guilty to conspiracy in Manhattan
federal court three years to the day after his brother Bernard
was sentenced to 150 years in prison for directing the biggest
Ponzi scheme in U.S. history.  A chief compliance officer of Bernard L. Madoff Investment
Securities LLC who helped his brother run the firm for four
decades, Peter Madoff, 66, pleaded guilty June 29 to one count
of conspiracy to commit securities fraud and one count of
falsifying records. He faces 10 years in prison.  Bernard Madoff’s account statements when he was arrested
reflected 4,900 accounts with $65 billion in nonexistent
balances. Investors lost about $20 billion in principal. Peter
Madoff, a lawyer who began working at the Manhattan-based firm
in 1965, agreed as part of his plea not to ask U.S. District
Judge Laura Taylor Swain in New York for less than a 10-year
term.  FBI Assistant Director Janice K. Fedarcyk said in a
statement that Peter Madoff played an “essential enabling
role” in the fraud and made “a pretense of compliance.”  Madoff also agreed to forfeit $143.1 billion, including all
of his real and personal property. The forfeiture calculation is
based on the total funds that passed through the Madoff firm
during the fraud and gives the government a green light to
pursue any and all assets it can tie to him.  “I am deeply ashamed of my actions,” Peter Madoff said in
his statement to the court. “I want to apologize to anyone who
was harmed and to my family. And I’m here today to take
responsibility.”  Swain accepted the plea agreement and approved bail so
Madoff can remain free before his Oct. 4 sentencing. His travel
is restricted and he must give up his passport.  The case is U.S. v. Madoff, 10-cr-00228, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Interviews  Wheatley Says FSA Assumes All Collar Products Mis-Sold  U.K. Financial Services Authority Managing Director Martin
Wheatley talked about mis-sold interest-rate derivatives to
small and medium-sized businesses.  He spoke with Bloomberg’s Lindsay Fortado in London.  For the video, click here.  Comings and Goings  Barclays Chairman Agius Resigns Following Record Libor Fine  Barclays Plc Chairman Marcus Agius resigned in a bid to
shield Chief Executive Officer  Robert Diamond  after the bank was
fined a record 290 million pounds ($455 million) for rigging
interest rates.  “I am truly sorry,” Agius, who had been chairman of
Britain’s second-largest bank by assets since 2007, said in a
statement today. “Last week’s events, evidencing as they do
unacceptable standards of behavior within the bank, have dealt a
devastating blow to Barclays’s reputation.”  John Sunderland, a Barclays director and former chairman of
Cadbury Schweppes Plc, will oversee a search for a replacement,
the London-based lender said. Michael Rake will become deputy
chairman. Agius, 65, will remain in his position until his
replacement is appointed.  He is the most senior executive to step down so far
following probes by global regulators into whether lenders
colluded to manipulate Libor. Lawmakers are pushing for
Diamond’s resignation after U.K. and U.S. regulators found the
lender “systematically” attempted to rig the London and euro
interbank offered rates for profit.  Agius’s departure “will do little to appease the many who
see  Bob Diamond  as having primary responsibility,” Gary
Greenwood, a banking analyst at Shore Capital, said by e-mail.
“While Agius’s departure will grab the headlines today, the
bigger issue remains whether Diamond should also remain.”  Agius also stepped down as chairman of the  British Bankers’
Association , the lobby group that oversees Libor.  France’s Ayrault Nominates Jouyet to Head Caisse Des Depots  French Prime Minister Jean-Marc Ayrault nominated Jean-
Pierre Jouyet, currently head of the national stock market
regulator Autorite des Marches Financiers, to become chief
executive officer of state-owned Caisse des Depots et
Consignations.  The nomination is subject to approval by the relevant
National Assembly and senate committees, Ayrault said in an e-
mailed statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New York at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  