-- There’s Something Rotten in Banking
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-07-02T22:30:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-02/barclays-case-shows-something-s-rotten-in-banking-culture.html
You might have missed the latest bank
scandal, the one involving  Barclays Plc (BARC) , in the hubbub of last
week’s U.S. health-care ruling and euro salvage plan.  If so, allow us to fill you in: On June 27, Barclays, the
U.K.’s second-largest bank by assets, admitted it deliberately
reported artificial borrowing costs from 2005 to 2009. The false
reports were used to set a benchmark rate, the London interbank
offered rate, or Libor, which affects the value of trillions of
dollars of derivatives contracts, mortgages and consumer loans.
The bank agreed to pay a hefty $455 million to settle  charges 
with U.S. and U.K. regulators, and on Monday its chairman
resigned.  Earlier today,  Robert Diamond  resigned as chief executive
officer. Marcus Agius, who yesterday said he would resign as
chairman, reversed his decision after Diamond quit and will stay
on to lead the search for a new CEO. In an apology to employees
before he stepped down, Diamond wrote that some of the
misconduct occurred on his watch, when he was head of  Barclays
Capital , the investment-banking unit. Diamond was already in the
doghouse with investors. In April, 27 percent of shareholders,
upset that Barclays had missed profit targets, voted down his
$19.5 million pay package.  Heads should roll at other banks, too. Regulators and
criminal prosecutors, including the U.S. Justice Department, are
investigating at least a dozen other firms to determine whether
they colluded to rig the  rate . Among them: Citigroup Inc.,
Deutsche Bank AG, HSBC Holdings Plc and UBS AG.  Bank Bashing  We don’t countenance bank bashing. Nor have we ever called
on regulators to bust up big banks. But it’s difficult to defend
an industry that defrauds the market with fake interest-rate
figures, thereby stealing from other banks and customers.  Sadly, the Libor case reveals something rotten in today’s
banking culture. We hope the investigations expose the bad
actors, lead to jail terms for those who knowingly manipulated
the market, and force out the senior managers and board
directors who participated in, or overlooked, such conduct.  Why so exercised? In the Barclays settlement documents,
regulators released smoking-gun e-mails that reveal the extent
of the dirty dealing between bank traders (looking to protect
profits and bonuses) and senior officials in bank treasury units
(hoping to convince markets that their banks weren’t in
financial difficulty). The two aren’t supposed to collude, but
it’s obvious that the Chinese walls between them come with
ladders.  Libor and its euro counterpart, the Euribor, are benchmark
rates determined by bank estimates of how much it would cost
them to borrow from one another, in different timeframes and
currencies. The banks submit sheets of numbers every weekday
morning, London time. An adjusted average of the rates
determines the size of payments on mortgages and corporate loans
worldwide. The rates also serve as an indicator of the health of
the banking system. Because some submissions aren’t based on
real trades, the potential exists for manipulation.  A Barclays banker responsible for reporting borrowing rates
was told to make the bank look healthier by not revealing that
borrowing costs had risen. An e-mail he wrote to a supervisor
confirms that he complied: “I will reluctantly, gradually and
artificially get my libors in line with the rest of the
contributors as requested,” he wrote. “I will be contributing
rates which are nowhere near the clearing rates for unsecured
cash and therefore will not be posting honest prices,” he
continued, referring to rates in the overnight money market.  Derivatives Contracts  At times, Barclays traders sought to affect rates on dates
when interest-rate derivatives contracts settled, thus profiting
more from trades, according to documents made public by the U.S.
Commodity Futures Trading Commission, one of the agencies
conducting the Libor probes. Here’s an  e-mail  about the three-
month rate from a senior Barclays trader in  New York  to the
London banker who submitted the rates: “Hi Guys, We got a big
position in 3m libor for the next 3 days. Can we please keep the
lib or fixing at 5.39 for the next few days. It would really
help. We do not want it to fix any higher than that. Tks a
lot.”  Bankers submitting rates responded to such requests as if
they were routine: “For you, anything,” and “done ... for you
big boy,” according to the e-mails. Not that the efforts went
unappreciated: “Dude. I owe you big time!” one trader wrote to
a Libor submitter. “Come over one day after work and I’m
opening a bottle of Bollinger.”  Barclays traders also coordinated with counterparts from
other banks. In an instant message, one Barclays trader wrote to
a trader at another bank: “If you know how to keep a secret
I’ll bring you in on it, we’re going to push the cash downwards.
... I know my treasury’s firepower ... please keep it to
yourself otherwise it won’t work.”  The Libor system, overseen by the  British Bankers
Association , operates much the way it did in the 1980s. Even
after the news media uncovered evidence of manipulation in 2008,
the bank lobby did little to reduce conflicts or improve the
veracity of its numbers. The best solution, as Bloomberg View
has advocated, is to end Libor and create a benchmark using data
from actual loans, rather than relying on banks to tell the
truth about their borrowing costs.  The real tragedy of the scandal is the apparent lack of
ethics or self-restraint among the people involved. Following
billions of dollars of trading losses at JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
out-of-control London unit, the latest installment of big-bank
follies offers yet more proof that the industry shouldn’t be
trusted to regulate itself.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  repealing Jackson-Vanik ;  Noah
Feldman  explains why  liberals should thank John Roberts ;  Jeffrey
Goldberg  on  Eric Schmidt’s techno-optimism ; William Pesek on
 shareholder activism in Japan .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 