-- Berkshire’s Pederson Says U.S. Businesses Scaling Back
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2012-07-02T14:51:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-02/berkshire-s-pederson-says-u-s-businesses-scaling-back.html
Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) ’s furniture-
rental unit saw a slowing in demand from business clients in the
second quarter, indicating that firms are curbing spending on
projects amid less optimism about the U.S. economy.  Demand is “simmering compared to where it was at the
beginning of the year, when it looked like the recovery, at
least from our perspective, would have been pretty robust,”
said Jeff Pederson, the new chief executive officer of
Berkshire’s CORT Business Services Corp., the world’s largest
provider of rental furniture. “It’s not flat-lining, by any
stretch of the imagination, but it has slowed down.”  Warren Buffett , who built Omaha, Nebraska-based Berkshire
into a company valued at more than $200 billion selling products
from ice cream to insurance, uses results at the firm’s more
than 70 operating units to gauge the health of the economy. He
highlighted CORT’s rebound in a February  letter  to shareholders
as an example of how businesses not tied to housing have
recovered since the recession that ended in 2009.  U.S. executives tapped into a record pile of corporate cash
at the beginning of the year, driving spending on plants and
equipment to an all-time high. Cash held by companies in the
 Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  fell 1.4 percent to $1.01 trillion
in the three months ended March 31, the first decline in four
years, according to data compiled by S&P.  Uncertainty about the  European debt crisis  and sources of
economic growth may have slowed second-quarter spending,
Pederson said in a phone interview last week. The  U.S. economy 
is expected to grow 2.2 percent this year, the median estimate
of 70 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  ‘More Cautionary’  “I’ve heard nothing from our business-to-business clients
that would indicate that it’s a cash issue,” he said. “It’s
more cautionary. Where is the growth really going to be by year
end?”  CORT businesses that provide furniture for student housing,
trade shows and events have grown, said Pederson. The Chantilly,
Virginia-based company also offers services to help companies
relocate employees. The Berkshire unit has worked with about 80
percent of the firms in the Fortune 500.  “The commercial furniture rental business kind of a pretty
good indicator of whether American business is involved in a lot
of project growth,” he said. “If they’re involved in a lot of
project growth, it usually means that they’re a bit bullish on
what the future holds.”  A Hammering  The  Institute for Supply Management ’s factory index
 unexpectedly fell  to 49.7 in June from 53.5 a month earlier, the
Tempe, Arizona-based group’s report showed today. Readings less
than 50 signal contraction, and the median forecast of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg called for a decline to 52.
Estimates of the 70 economists ranged from 50.5 to 53.5. The
gauge averaged 55.2 in 2011 and 57.3 in the previous year.  Pretax earnings at CORT and Berkshire’s truck-trailer
rental company XTRA Corp. climbed to  $155 million  last year from
$13 million in 2009. The furniture-leasing company took a
“hammering caused by the severe economic recession” and cut
staff as its managers focused on expenses rather than expansion,
Berkshire Vice Chairman Charles Munger wrote in 2010.  CORT grew as Pederson’s predecessor Paul Arnold made more
than 50 acquisitions. Arnold retired yesterday after a 40-year
career at the company, including two decades as CEO.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in  New York  at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  