-- Biblical Samson Torches Fox Tails in Ancient Synagogue Mosaic
-- B y   G w e n   A c k e r m a n
-- 2012-07-02T08:41:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-02/biblical-samson-torches-fox-tails-in-ancient-synagogue-mosaic.html
Biblical Samson ties burning torches
to the tails of foxes, as related in the Book of Judges, and two
human faces flank a medallion with a Hebrew inscription that
refers to rewards for those who perform good deeds.  These images are depicted in a newly discovered 1,600-year-
old synagogue mosaic, made of tiny colored stone cubes of the
highest quality. The work was uncovered by archaeologists
excavating the Jewish village of Huqoq in  Israel ’s Galilee.  “This discovery is significant,”  Jodi Magness , an
archaeologist from the University of  North Carolina  at  Chapel
Hill , said today. “Only a small number of ancient Late Roman
synagogue buildings are decorated with mosaics showing biblical
scenes, and only two others have scenes with Samson. One is at
another site just a couple of miles from Huqoq.”  Magness said the discovery suggests a high level of
prosperity in the village, which is several miles inland from
the Sea of Galilee and is known for cultivation of the mustard
plant.  “It was a surprise that the village was that affluent,”
Magness said in a phone interview from the site. “I never would
have thought that the mustard plant would be that lucrative.”  Archaeologists plan several more seasons of excavations at
the site, and may have more information at the end of the dig,
she added. The next excavation is planned for the summer of
2013, an e-mailed statement from the  Israel Antiquities
Authority  said.  According to the Bible, Samson caught 300 wild foxes, tied
burning torches to all their tails and made them run through the
corn fields of the Philistines.  Muse highlights include  Elin McCoy  on wine and  Warwick
Thompson  on theater.  To contact the writer on the story:
Gwen Ackerman in  Jerusalem  at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 