-- Big California Cities Exempt From Prevailing-Pay Law
-- B y   P a m e l a   M a c L e a n
-- 2012-07-02T22:09:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-02/big-california-cities-exempt-from-prevailaing-pay-law.html
California charter cities don’t have
to comply with a state law mandating payment of prevailing wages
on municipal construction projects, the state  Supreme Court 
ruled.  The state’s high court rejected 5 to 2 an appeal by the
Building and Construction Trades Council of California AFL-CIO,
comprising 131 local unions, aimed at forcing the city of Vista,
near  San Diego , to pay prevailing wages on city building
projects.  The city argued state law doesn’t apply to charter cities,
which have greater autonomy than general-law cities, according
to the court.  The state’s 120 charter cities include the largest, such as
 Los Angeles ,  San Jose , San Francisco and San Diego, according to
the League of California Cities.  The unions argued the prevailing-wage law is of statewide
concern, giving the state primary legislative authority.  “The city responds that the matter is a municipal affair
and therefore governed by its local ordinances,” Justice Joyce Kennard wrote for the majority. “We agree with the city.”  1931 Law  California  enacted the state’s prevailing wage law in 1931
to require contractors on public works projects to pay “the
general prevailing rate of per diem wages for work of a similar
character in the locality,” according to the opinion.  The law was intended to prevent government contractors from
undercutting the local labor market by importing cheap labor
from other areas, according to the court.  Vista successfully argued that the law “invades Vista’s
constitutionally guaranteed autonomy as a charter city.”  Vista voters approved a sales tax of 0.5 percent in 2006
for new fire stations, a civic center, a sports park and a city
amphitheater, as well as seismic retrofits on firehouses.  In 2007, the city moved to become a charter city to give it
the option of not paying prevailing wages on the projects and
thus saving millions of dollars, according to the court.  Passed With 67%  City voters approved the plan by 67 percent of the votes
cast. Under terms of the ordinance, Vista wouldn’t be required
to pay prevailing wages unless compelled by the terms of a state
or a federal grant, or unless the wage was specifically
authorized by the city, according to the court.  The unions sued to force the city to comply with state law.  “We conclude that no statewide concern has been presented
justifying the state’s regulation of the wages that charter
cities require their contractors to pay to workers hired to
construct locally funded public works,” Kennard wrote  In dissent, Justice Kathryn Werdegar called the majority’s
approach to the case “neither fair nor reasonable.”  “By failing to appreciate the full impact of the
prevailing-wage law, the majority significantly undervalues the
statewide economic concerns the law addresses,” Werdegar wrote.  A union spokesman, Sandy Harrison, said the ruling was
disappointing.  “We had hoped that the court would understand that the
downward pressure on wages in an entire region resulting from
cities exempting themselves from the prevailing wage is very
much a matter of statewide concern,” Harrison said in a
statement.  A charter city may establish any form of government,
including a strong-mayor system, unlike a general-law city,
which must be governed by a five-member city council.  Charter cities set their own election dates and rules,
establish criteria for city office and aren’t required to comply
with bidding statues, provided the charter exempts it. General-
law cities must seek competitive bids for public contracts of
more than $5,000, according to the League of California Cities.  The case is State Building and Construction Trades Council
of California, AFL-CIO, v. City of Vista, S173586, California
Supreme Court ( San Francisco ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pamela MacLean in San Francisco
at  pmaclean@pacbell.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 