-- Big Cats Face Poachers, Safari Hunters, Coming Extinction
-- B y   J a m e s   T a r m y
-- 2012-07-02T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-02/big-cats-face-poachers-safari-hunters-coming-extinction.html
Lucky Dereck Joubert points to the
place on his hand where a boomslang snake bit him four months
ago.  Normally the green boomslang wins these encounters.  “It’s a very deadly snake,” notes wife Beverly, like
Dereck now a citizen of Botswana.  The Jouberts are both  National Geographic  Explorers in
Residence, a designation that recognizes their conservation
efforts, especially their fight on behalf of Africa’s big cats.  They’re being murdered at a rapid rate.  We spoke in Bloomberg’s New York offices about the big cats
and Beverly Joubert’s photography exhibition, “The Wild
Supreme” in New York.  Tarmy: Why focus your conservation efforts on lions?  Dereck Joubert: They’re the indicator species of the whole
of Africa. Without lions, everything collapses.  Beverly Joubert: You have to have the top predators of an
ecosystem. Without top predators there aren’t major migrations,
and if you don’t have migrations, something like buffalo would
stay eating in the same area and eventually die out.  Tarmy: And tourism?  Dereck Joubert: It’s not just the ecosystems that are
dependent on lions, but a major part of the economy of  Africa .  There’s an $80 billion-a-year ecotourism model in Africa,
and a large part of that is based on the safari business and
seeing lions.  Tarmy: How many lions are left to save?  Dereck Joubert: About 50 years ago, there were 450,000
lions. Today, there are 20,000 lions.  Beverly Joubert: It’s a 95 to 97 percent decline.  Lions, Tigers  Tarmy: What about the other large cats?  Dereck Joubert: Leopards are in the same position. About 50
years ago, there were 700,000 leopards. Today there are around
50,000.  Tigers have gone from 45,000 down to about 3,000. Whatever
happens to tigers today will happen to lions tomorrow.  There seems to be this obsession with tiger bones, mostly
for medicinal purposes, but they’re running out of stock.  They can’t get tigers anymore, so they’ve turned to lions,
because lion bones and the tiger bones look exactly the same.  Tarmy: Which nationality is the worst offender in hunting?  Dereck Joubert: 600 male lions are shot every year across
Africa. 556 of those trophies are coming to the  United States .  So Americans are wiping out the stock of breeding males in
Africa.  Beverly Joubert: You’ll hear the excuse that safari hunting
is a form of conservation.  Possibly in the past, the old safari hunter once brought
awareness of animals. But now that they’re in a rapid decline,
killing any animal is no longer a form of conservation.  Ecotourism  Tarmy: Tell me about your safari company, Great Plains
Conservation.  Dereck Joubert: Everything we make from it goes back into
land conservation. At the moment, through Great Plains we have
about 1.5 million acres protected. So it’s a weird blend of an
NGO and a commercial entity.  Tarmy: What would the cost of a safari be?  Dereck Joubert: We focus on two levels of ecotourism. One
is high end: $1,800 a night. Then on the other end is what we
call the “adventure strand,” where you go horse riding, go
walking, canoeing. That costs about $600 a night.  Tarmy: Where do you live?  Dereck Joubert: In tents, going out every day, selecting a
subject -- a single family of lions, or a single leopard -- and
we spend as much time as we can filming until the story is done.  Danger Zone  Tarmy: Any scary encounters beyond the boomslang?  Dereck Joubert: We’ve crashed three airplanes, been
attacked by elephants four times, once by buffalo. We’ve had
over 20 scorpion stings and four bouts of Malaria.  Beverly Joubert: But we feel safer in the field and with
animals than we do around men.  Dereck Joubert: We were doing a film on poachers with the
Botswana government and we got a message while we were in town.
It said, “We know exactly where your camp is and unless you
stop leading the military to us, we will kill you.”  Tarmy: So what did you do?  Dereck Joubert: We carried on filming. It wasn’t the first
time. Once they sabotaged our airplane, cutting the brakes.  But again, you can’t shadow box. You’ve got to keep going
with what you’re doing if you believe that it’s right.  Beverly Joubert’s exhibition is up through September at
340 Madison Avenue in  New York .  Their films are available at:  http://www.wildlifefilms.co .  For information on their safari programs:
 http://www.greatplainsconservation.com .  Information about the Big Cat Initiative:
 http://animals.nationalgeographic.com/animals/big-cats .  (James Tarmy writes for Muse, the arts and culture section
of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own. This
interview was adapted from a longer conversation.)  Muse highlights include  book  and  movie  reviews.  To contact the writer on the story:
James Tarmy in New York:  Jtarmy@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 