-- Biggest Tea Grower Sees Prices Boosting Profit: Corporate India
-- B y   P r a d i p t a   M u k h e r j e e
-- 2012-07-03T10:59:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-02/biggest-tea-grower-sees-prices-boosting-profit-corporate-india.html
McLeod Russel Ltd. (MCLR) , the world’s
biggest tea grower, is forecasting the fastest profit growth in
four years as rising consumption and a drop in global production
boost prices to a record.  Net income at the Kolkata-based company may rise as much as
20 percent in the 12 months through March 31, Chief Financial
Officer Kamal Baheti said in an interview. Prices may increase
by an average 25 rupees (45 cents) a kilogram (2.2 pounds), or
18 percent over last year, as dry weather cuts output of black
tea from  Kenya  to Sri Lanka, he said.  McLeod, which traces its origins to a partnership formed by
two Englishmen in 1869 in the city formerly known as Calcutta,
is benefiting from demand exceeding supply, with the stock
poised for its best year since 2009. Global black-tea
consumption is projected to rise 21 percent in the 10 years to
2021, according to estimates by the  Food and Agriculture
Organization . A rally in prices may increase costs for Unilever
Plc, the world’s second-biggest consumer-goods company, and  Tata
Global Beverages Ltd. (TGBL) , owner of the Tetley brand.  “Tea prices are very strong globally just because
production is not at all good,” said Paras Bothra, vice
president for research at Ashika Stock Broking Ltd. “Even if
McLeod maintains last year’s production levels, still the profit
is going to be quite huge. McLeod is going to post quite strong
results at least for the next two quarters.”  Stock Rally  Group profit at McLeod may climb to 3.45 billion rupees
($62 million) in the year ending March 31, from about 2.9
billion rupees last year, according to the median estimate of
seven analysts compiled by Bloomberg. Sales may also gain 20
percent from 14.45 billion rupees, Baheti said.  McLeod led a rally among tea producers in Mumbai today. The
shares, which have rallied 58 percent this year, compared with a
13 percent gain in the benchmark  Sensitive Index (SENSEX) , climbed 0.8
percent to close at 297.05 rupees. All 13 analysts who track the
stock rate it a buy, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
 Jayshree Tea & Industries Ltd. (JTI)  surged 3.9 percent to 86.2
rupees, the most in more than two months, while  Harrisons
Malayalam Ltd. (HRM)  advanced 2.1 percent to 69.70 rupees, the highest
price at close since May 17.  A loss of about 60 million kilograms because of dry weather
and frost early this year may widen a “pipeline deficit” in
the global tea market, Baheti said. India’s harvest declined 14
percent to 143.4 million kilograms in the first four months of
this year, according to state-run Tea Board of India.  “I don’t think there’s much chance to recover the loss in
production as well as the shortage in pipeline stock,” Baheti
said. “Prices will continue to remain firm for the rest of the
year.”  Output Drop  Production in Kenya, the world’s biggest exporter of black
tea, fell 14 percent to 127.8 million kilograms in the five
months through May from a year earlier, according to the Tea
Board of Kenya. Output in  Sri Lanka , the second-biggest shipper,
is down 3.8 percent to 135.6 million kilograms, according to Sri
Lanka Tea Board.  “Globally, production can’t go up because the area under
tea plantation remains the same,” Baheti said. “Consumption of
all food items including tea is growing. Consumption growth in
India is something that will remain for many years to come.”  India is the second-largest consumer of tea after  China ,
according to Sujit Patra, joint secretary of the Indian Tea
Association. The nation consumed 856 kilograms in 2011,
according to the Tea Board.  Monsoon Rains  McLeod, which owns 38,000 hectares (93,900 acres) of tea
plantations in India, Vietnam and  Uganda , expects its output to
rise about 2 per cent to 104 million kilograms this year, Baheti
said. A rebound in production in the coming months may help it
compensate for a decline of about 2.5 million kilograms since
the start of the year, he said.  India ’s tea harvest may drop to as low as 965 million
kilograms this year from 988 million kilograms a year earlier
after dry weather in April in Assam hurt yields, Baheti said.
Heavy monsoon rains since the end of last month that have
flooded most parts of the northeastern state, which accounts for
more than 50 percent of the nation’s output, may spare the crop,
he said.  McLeod is selling its tea at weekly auctions between 165
rupees and 170 rupees a kilogram, more than the average 135
rupees to 140 rupees a year earlier, he said.  “Once supply moves up rapidly in the global market, these
prices would be coming down or may even crash,” said Ashika’s
Bothra, who rates McLeod a buy. “A good crop is required for
that and that doesn’t seem likely for at least the next two
quarters.”  A slump in India’s rupee against the dollar to a record low
may make Indian exports more competitive and shortages in Kenyan
supplies will boost demand for tea from  South Asia , McLeod’s
Baheti said. McLeod’s shipments may increase to 27 million
kilograms from 24 million kilogram a year ago, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Kutty Abraham in Mumbai at 
 tabraham4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at   jpoole4@bloomberg.net  