-- BOE Reviews Salaries as King Thanks Staff for Coping With Freeze
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2012-07-02T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-02/boe-reviews-salaries-as-king-thanks-staff-for-coping-with-freeze.html
The Bank of England will review its
approach to pay after it identified the struggle to hire and
retain staff as a potential risk to delivering effective
monetary policy.  Governor  Mervyn King , who asked in May to keep his pay
frozen until he leaves in June 2013, thanked staff for putting
up with a second year without pay increases while taking on
extra work as the bank prepares to take on powers from the
Financial Services Authority. The salary freeze ends next March.  “Bank staff have had to grapple with the challenges of our
expanding responsibilities while enduring the second year of a
pay freeze,” King said in the foreword to the bank’s annual
report published yesterday in  London . “We recognize that only
by retaining and nurturing the most talented among bank staff
and those staff transferring from the FSA can we hope to fulfill
our responsibilities, new and old.”  King implemented the pay freeze for two years in March
2011, raising the prospect of staff defections elsewhere in
London’s finance industry. To compensate, he pledged a range of
measures for staff from limiting increases in canteen food
prices to offering dry cleaning and accelerating restroom
repairs.  Yesterday’s report identified “an inability to recruit and
retain sufficiently experienced staff able to exercise the
necessary critical judgment in providing analytical support to
MPC and implementing monetary policy,” as one of the key risks
facing the central bank.  Staff Departures  Bank of England official Simon Wells, who led a team
analyzing British economic data, resigned last year to join  HSBC
Holdings Plc (HSBA)  as its chief U.K. economist. Andrew Benito, a
specialist in  consumer spending , left the central bank for
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)   Among strategic priorities set for the bank is the goal to
“ensure the bank has the right people and processes to carry
out its core purposes -— in particular during this period of
transition,” the report said. The bank will “implement talent
management and rewarding career paths for staff, and conduct a
strategic pay review.”  The central bank hired 403 new staff in the year ended
February, 206 of whom were appointed on a permanent basis,
almost double the number in the previous year, the report
showed. The bank said it is “continuing to take steps to
address its staffing requirements, in particular in respect of
its new responsibilities.”  The  Bank of England  also identified risks for future policy
from “the reputational consequences of inflated public
expectations of what monetary policy can achieve in the face of
a continuing adverse economic environment.”  In his foreword, King said that inflation “should fall
back to around the target” of 2 percent next year, adding that
the Monetary Policy Committee has had to strike a “delicate
balance.”  King’s own salary remained at 305,368 ($478,679), less than
the rate of between 375,000 pounds and 400,000 pounds
recommended in a recent review, the report showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Svenja O’Donnell in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  