-- Brazil Stimulus Won’t Undermine Budget Target, Augustin Says
-- B y   A r n a l d o   G a l v a o   a n d   R a y m o n d   C o l i t t
-- 2012-07-02T20:55:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-02/brazil-stimulus-won-t-affect-budget-performance-augustin-says.html
Brazil’s fiscal stimulus measures
won’t erode the government’s 2012 budget target, as tax revenue
will rebound on stronger  economic growth  in the second half of
the year, Treasury Secretary Arno Augustin said.  The administration of President  Dilma Rousseff  will fully
meet its 139.8 billion reais ($69.9 billion) primary budget
 surplus  target this year, which excludes interest payments,
because it wants to allow room for more interest rate cuts,
Augustin said in an interview in Brasilia. The government
doesn’t intend to discount public investments in infrastructure
from the target as allowed by law, he said.  “Meeting the target opens room for monetary policy,”
Augustin said at the  Finance Ministry  in Brasilia. “The worst
is over, tax income will grow.”  While the government has met 45 percent of its 2012 primary
surplus target in the first five months of the year, its fiscal
performance has shown signs of weakening as government
expenditures grew faster than tax revenue.  Brazil  last week
posted a May budget deficit of 16 billion reais ($7.9 billion),
the largest for the month since the series began in 2001.  More Investment  The bulk of the spending came from higher investments,
while current expenditures fell, Augustin said. “That’s good,
not bad,” he added.  Financial markets are questioning Brazil’s commitment to
fiscal discipline because they want a higher Selic rate to boost
profits, he said. Brazil made a strategic decision to maintain
fiscal discipline and distinguish its economy during the current
global crisis, Augustin said when asked what his message to the
market was.  The government last week stepped up government purchases of
vehicles and equipment by 6.6 billion reais and increased
agricultural financing by 14.8 billion, the latest in a series
of stimulus measures this year that include tax breaks on
industrial and consumer goods to boost consumer demand.  Such measures have had a small impact on the budget and can
be partially offset by stimulating demand that contributes to
stronger tax revenues, Augustin said.  More worrisome are several bills in Congress that would
increase salaries for police officers, teachers and civil
servants in the judiciary, increasing expenditures mostly of
state governments, he said. “There are some that are very
worrying,” he added.  Policy makers have cut the benchmark Selic rate by 400
basis points since August to a record 8.5 percent. Traders are
betting the central bank will cut the Selic to 7.5 percent this
year.  Slower Growth  The world’s sixth-largest economy has recovered more slowly
than expected from a contraction in the third quarter of 2011,
growing 0.8 percent in the first three months of this year on an
annual basis. Economists have cut their 2012 economic growth
forecast to 2.05 percent from 3.2 percent on May 11, according
to a central bank survey published today.  With net public debt at a record low 35 percent of gross
domestic product and borrowing needs met six months in advance,
Brazil has never been in such a comfortable position to manage
its debt, Augustin said.  “If the market tests us and asks for rates beyond what the
fundamentals suggest, we won’t sell,” he said, adding that the
government has not yet set a date to issue sovereign bonds this
year.  Recent gains by the real have also eliminated the need to
use Brazil’s sovereign wealth fund to control currency
fluctuations, the  Treasury Secretary  added.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Raymond Colitt in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 rcolitt@bloomberg.net ;
Arnaldo Galvao in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 agalvao1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  