-- Brazil Stops Authorizing Loans for Foreign Wind Companies
-- B y   S t e p h a n   N i e l s e n
-- 2012-07-02T21:56:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-02/brazil-stops-authorizing-loans-for-foreign-wind-companies.html
BNDES,  Brazil ’s state development
bank, stopped authorizing loans for purchases of  wind turbines 
produced domestically by international companies that the lender
said aren’t meeting local-content requirements.  BNDES is auditing five turbine manufacturers and will
decide this week whether they no longer qualify for loans that
developers use to purchase the gear for wind farms, according to
the wind-energy trade group Associacao Brasileira de Energia
Eolica.  International turbine companies have built factories in
Brazil to meet surging demand. The plants must get 40 percent of
their components from within Brazil to qualify for BNDES
financing, and cutting off loans will threaten developers that
have already placed orders, Elbia Melo, executive president of
Sao Paulo-based Abeeolica, said today in a telephone interview.  “The only place to get a loan for wind farms is BNDES,”
she said. “This could jeopardize the development of projects.”  BNDES, formally Banco Nacional de Desenvolvimento e Social,
has temporarily suspended loans for turbines from  India ’s  Suzlon
Energy Ltd. (SUEL) ,  Denmark ’s  Vestas Wind Systems A/S (VWS) , Germany’s
Fuhrlaender AG, Clipper Windpower Ltd. of the U.S and Spain’s
 Acciona SA (ANA) , Melo said. It will decide this week whether to make
the ban official.  Rapid Growth  There are seven turbine factories in operation in Brazil,
up from two in 2008, she said. Wind farms with more than 6,000
megawatts of capacity have been awarded contracts to sell power
in government-organized auctions since 2009.  “The industry has grown so quickly over the last three
years,” she said. “Suppliers have had little time to find
local providers of components.”  BNDES is “seeking a solution that allows for the continued
support of projects, but at the same time favoring manufacturers
that meet the local-content requirements established by the
bank,” according to an e-mail today from an official who didn’t
want to be identified, citing the lender’s policy. The local-
content requirement eventually increases to 60 percent.  Vestas, which was was judged in 2010 to be meeting BNDES’s
local-content rules, has asked the lender why it’s no longer
considered compliant and how it can regain the designation,
Maria Jose Vazquez, senior manager for communication and
branding at Vestas, said today in an e-mail.  The company, based in Aarhus, Denmark, built a factory last
year in the northeastern city of Fortaleza that is set to go
into full production by the end of this year, Vazquez said.  Suzlon, Clipper, Fuhrlaender and Acciona didn’t immediately
reply to e-mails seeking comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephan Nielsen in  Sao Paulo  at 
 snielsen8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  