-- Breast-Feeding Won’t Make Your Children Smarter
-- B y   S a m   W a n g   a n d   S a n d r a   A a m o d t
-- 2012-07-02T22:30:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-02/breast-feeding-is-not-how-mothers-make-kids-smart.html
Advocates of so-called attachment
parenting take an all-encompassing approach: assiduous attention
to a child’s every need, including prolonged breast-feeding. But
those who claim that these practices benefit children’s
intelligence miss an important point.  A child’s biggest advantage arises from having the family
resources that make such care giving possible in the first
place. In this sense, attachment parenting is a trend among
families whose children need it least -- the affluent.
Fortunately, there is a way for parents of lesser means to get
similar benefits.  Attachment parenting has not yet been subjected to rigorous
scientific study. It is not known, for example, if it makes kids
more independent or secure. But one claim has been thoroughly
investigated: that breast-feeding increases a child’s IQ. Even
many mothers who return to work believe their breast milk to be
essential to their babies’ future intellect. Research shows that
this is a myth.  Although it is true that children who were breast-fed as
babies have higher intelligence than bottle-fed children, the
reason for the correlation is in the mother’s brain, not her
breast. A U.S. mother whose IQ is 15 points higher than her
neighbor’s is more than twice as likely to breast-feed. Women
who breast-feed are also more educated and less likely to smoke.
Intelligent parents pass along their genes and also create a
more stimulating environment, two advantages for the baby’s
development. In short, smart mothers have smart babies.  Mom Differences  In one  analysis  of multiple studies, combining data from
more than 5,000 children, the IQ differences associated with
breast-feeding were eliminated when the mothers’ characteristics
were taken into account. Among 332 pairs of siblings in which
one was breast-fed and the other bottle-fed, researchers also
found no difference in IQ.  So mothers who are unable to breast-feed need not worry
that they are harming their baby’s intellectual development.
Indeed, adopted children, many of whom are not breast-fed, have
higher IQs,  on average , than their siblings who remain in the
birth family, presumably because their adoptive families provide
an environment better suited to cognitive development.  A key factor in development is the family’s socioeconomic
status -- a combined measure of income, occupation and
education. The possible effect of environment can be measured by
comparing differences within the same household in outcomes
between identical twins, who share all their DNA, with those
between fraternal twins, who share half their DNA. In middle-
class households, identical twins have more similar outcomes
than fraternal twins have, suggesting that environmental
influences have a smaller impact than genetics on the growth of
children’s intelligence. It seems that most middle-class
environments are good enough to allow most children to approach
their full genetic potential.  For children growing up in households of low socioeconomic
status, on the other hand, good parenting is crucial. In one
recent  study , parents’ IQ influenced the child’s IQ at 2 years
of age -- but not if the household was low-status. In 7-year-
olds, only 10 percent of  IQ variability in low-status children 
was attributable to genes. In other words, a poor environment
can wipe out genetic advantages.  Low social status often means economic insecurity, unsafe
neighborhoods and chaotic households. And it means increased
secretion of stress hormones. At age 10, low-status children
have twice as much stress hormone in their blood as high-status
children do. Chronic stress reduces the volume of the
hippocampus, a brain region involved in learning, and leads to
memory problems. It also  interferes  with development of the
frontal cortex, which is important for planning and organizing
behavior and for self-control.  Social Advantages  The influence of social environment can even outweigh
physical hazards: High-status children  recover  from lead
poisoning better than low-status children do.  For these reasons, efforts to encourage young mothers to
breast-feed should take into account their economic
circumstances. Working mothers, already strapped by the expenses
of new parenthood, cannot necessarily afford to shell out
hundreds of dollars for a breast pump and accessories.  The next barrier comes at work, where pumping requires a
private room with an electrical outlet. One woman we know, a
phlebotomist, couldn’t find a regular place or time to pump
until her baby was more than 3 months old, too late for the
mother to begin lactating. In contrast, a physician who gave
birth around the same time regularly caught up on work at her
computer while using an electric breast pump in her private
office.  Of course, breast-feeding is a healthy thing to do. It
enhances the baby’s immune system, and builds a bond with mom.
But social pressure on mothers may itself be harmful to
children. Stress hormones can be passed from mother to baby
during pregnancy and nursing.  Even in families of modest means, effective strategies are
available to help a baby’s brain grow. Babies learn best from
communicating with other people, especially with those who
respond to them promptly and appropriately.  Support programs 
that train mothers to be more responsive to their babies lead to
improved cognitive development. An  analysis  of multiple studies
involving 900 mother-infant pairs showed that short-term
behavioral training for mothers to enhance sensitivity also made
children more likely to form a secure attachment to the mother,
a major goal of attachment parenting. Such interventions are
especially  effective  for mothers of fussy infants.  There is no One True Way to be a mother, as humans have
been raising children successfully under a variety of
circumstances for thousands of years. Putting pressure on women
to adhere to a particular set of practices that may not fit
their lives is likely to be counterproductive. Societal support,
on the other hand, including support for breast-feeding where
possible, can help all parents to help their children grow up
well.  (Sam Wang, an associate professor of molecular biology and
neuroscience at  Princeton University , and Sandra Aamodt, a
former editor in chief of Nature Neuroscience, are the authors
of “Welcome to Your Child’s Brain: How the Mind Grows from
Conception to College.” The opinions expressed are their own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  repealing Jackson-Vanik  and
why Barclays CEO  Robert Diamond  should resign;  Noah Feldman 
explains why  liberals should thank  John Roberts ;  Jeffrey
Goldberg  on  Eric Schmidt ’s techno-optimism; William Pesek on
 shareholder activism in  Japan .  To contact the writer of this article:
Sam Wang at  sswang@princeton.edu 
Sandra Aamodt at  sandra.aamodt@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net  