-- BRICs Priced for Economic Meltdown
-- B y   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n
-- 2012-07-03T15:38:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-02/brics-priced-for-economic-meltdown.html
The biggest emerging markets are
contributing more than ever to the global economy as their
proportion of the world stock market shrinks, leaving investors
with the widest valuation gap in seven years.  Brazil,  Russia (INDEXCF) , India and China, known as the BRICs, will
comprise 20 percent of the world economy this year after growing
more than four-fold in the past decade, International Monetary
Fund data show. At the same time, their combined stock-market
value has dropped to a three-year low of 16 percent of the total
invested in  equities , according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To  Jim O’Neill , the chairman of Goldman Sachs Asset
Management who coined the term BRIC in a 2001 research report,
the 4 percentage point difference makes stocks in these markets
irresistible. The last time the gap was this wide, in 2005, the
 MSCI BRIC Index (MXBRIC)  jumped 53 percent in 12 months, more than double
the gain in the  MSCI All-Country World Index. (MXWD)   “Unless we are seeing a major collapse of those economies,
it’s a huge opportunity for investors,” O’Neill, who helps
oversee $824 billion, said in a June 28 phone interview. The
BRIC stock markets may double by 2020 as their share of world
gross domestic product increases to about 27 percent, he said.  Combined GDP in the BRICs will rise to more than $14
trillion this year from $2.8 trillion in 2002, according to the
IMF. Their equity value, which includes locally-traded shares
and companies based in the BRIC nations with primary listings
abroad, has dropped to $7.6 trillion from $9.5 trillion a year
ago, when they made up 18 percent of the global total, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Fund Outflows  The MSCI BRIC index advanced 1.8 percent to 269.58 at 10:56
a.m. in New York. The MSCI All-Country gauge rose 0.8 percent.  Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4) , Brazil’s state-controlled oil
company, fell to the world’s 39th-largest company by value from
the 10th-biggest in July 2011.  China Construction Bank Corp. (939) ’s
rank dropped to 20 from 12 while OAO Rosneft, Russia’s largest
oil producer, sank to 106 from 70.  ICICI Bank Ltd. (ICICIBC) , India’s
second-biggest lender, has lost 17 percent during the past year,
compared with an average gain of 9 percent for global peers.  Downside Risk  The retreat has pared what was a 180 percent increase in
the MSCI BRIC index since October 2008 and reflects concern that
economic growth is slowing, according to John-Paul Smith, an
emerging-market strategist at Deutsche Bank AG in London. Mutual
funds that invest in BRIC equities, which recorded about $70
billion of inflows in the past decade, have posted 16 straight
weeks of withdrawals, losing a net $5.3 billion, EPFR Global
data show.  While the BRIC economies expanded by 4.8 percent on average
during the first quarter, more than double the pace in the U.S.,
their growth decelerated from 6.8 percent a year earlier.  Falling stock markets suggest the slowdown will worsen
because share prices are a leading indicator of economic growth
and corporate profits, said  Michael Shaoul , the chairman of
Marketfield Asset Management in New York. The $2 billion
 Marketfield Fund (MFLDX)  has topped 99 percent of its peers this year in
part because of bets that emerging-market shares will retreat.  “Equity markets have started to anticipate much more
difficult economic times in these countries,” Shaoul said in a
June 28 phone interview from New York. “The balance of risks is
to the downside.”  Petrobras Falls  Brazilian consumer  defaults  increased to a 30-month high in
May, while prices for Russia’s oil exports have dropped about 10
percent this year. In India, the central bank unexpectedly left
 interest rates  unchanged last month after inflation accelerated.
A gauge of Chinese manufacturing compiled by the government fell
to a seven-month low in June.  BRIC stocks will trail shares of developed markets as many
state-owned companies put the interests of their governments
ahead of shareholders, Smith wrote in a June 26 research report.  Petrobras, as the Brazilian oil producer is known,  tumbled 
9 percent on June 25 to the lowest level since November 2008
after securing a smaller fuel price increase than investors had
anticipated. The Rio de Janeiro-based company, whose market
capitalization has dropped to $122 billion from $214 billion a
year ago, sells fuel at below-market prices to help the
government contain inflation in Brazil.  Low Rates  India may lose its investment-grade credit rating as Prime
Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s administration struggles to curb a
record trade deficit, a budget shortfall that exceeded targets
and fighting within the ruling coalition, Standard & Poor’s and
Fitch Ratings said last month.  The  BSE India Sensitive Index (SENSEX)  has declined 7.3 percent
during the past year and trades for 15 times earnings, down from
a peak of 26 times in 2009. ICICI Bank, based in Mumbai, is
valued at 1.7 times net assets, compared with a five-year
average of 2.2, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Fitch cut its
outlook on Indian financial companies, including ICICI Bank and
 State Bank of India , to negative from stable on June 20.  Low interest rates around the world will buoy growth in the
BRIC countries, said O’Neill, the former chief economist at
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  The New York-based bank predicted two
years after O’Neill coined the term that the countries would
join the U.S. and Japan as the world’s biggest economies by
2050.  Cheap Stocks  The  Federal Reserve  has kept its benchmark lending rate
near zero since 2008 and last month extended a program to cut
long-term borrowing costs by selling short-term securities and
buying longer-term debt through December. The  European Central
Bank  will probably cut its main rate on July 5, according to the
median estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg. China
reduced its lending  rate  last month, while Brazil has lowered
its benchmark Selic rate seven times since August.  “The economic growth numbers are still going to be very
good,”  Mark Mobius , who oversees about $50 billion as the
Singapore-based executive chairman of Templeton Emerging Markets
Group, said in a phone interview yesterday. “Over the long
term, we would expect the market cap to expand.”  MSCI’s BRIC index jumped an average 48 percent in the 12
months after policy makers began cutting borrowing costs in
2003, 2005 and 2008, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The gauge dropped 1.1 percent this year through yesterday,
compared with a 4.6 percent gain in the MSCI All-Country index.
The BRIC index  trailed  the global measure in the first half for
the fourth straight six-month period, the longest stretch since
the data began in 1994.  The emerging-country gauge is  valued  at 8.9 times earnings,
down from an average multiple of 13 during the past three years
and less than the ratio of 14 for the MSCI All-Country index,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Growth Recovery  “They are cheap now,” Burton Malkiel, an economics
professor at Princeton University and author of “A Random Walk
Down Wall Street,” said in a June 28 e-mail. Malkiel is the
chief investment officer at Walnut Creek, California-based
Baochuan Capital Management LLC, a money-management and advisory
firm that oversees about $30 million.  Falling valuations for developing-nation shares spurred
 Jonathan Garner , the chief Asia and emerging-market strategist
at Morgan Stanley, to recommend “maximum” overweight holdings,
or 10 percent more than benchmark weights, on June 8. The last
two times Garner turned this bullish, in December 2011 and
October 2008, the MSCI BRIC index climbed at least 8 percent
within three months.  “It’s not news that growth in emerging markets has been
slow, and our argument is that it’s discounted in equity
valuations,” Garner said in a June 26 phone interview. “What’s
not discounted is the capability of emerging markets to generate
GDP acceleration at some point in the second half.”  ‘Very Attractive’  The Hong Kong-based strategist has overweight ratings on
China and Russia and advises holding stocks in Brazil and India
equal to their shares in benchmark indexes.  Ctrip.com
International Ltd. (CTRP) , China’s biggest online travel agency, and
Rosneft are among companies on Garner’s “focus list.”  Shanghai-based Ctrip is valued at 16 times profits, a
 record  low, after tumbling 63 percent during the past year.
Earnings will probably jump 22 percent in 2013, faster than the
19 percent median increase for global peers, according to
analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Rosneft trades for 5.4 times earnings, compared with 9.1
times for MSCI’s gauge of global energy companies, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The Moscow-based company has dropped
13 percent in the past year.  “The emerging markets are a place to be,”  Byron Wien , the
vice chairman of Blackstone Group LP’s advisory services unit,
said in a June 26 interview on Bloomberg Radio in New York.
“They’ve done poorly but now prices have come down to very
attractive levels.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Patterson  in London at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  