-- Brown Lifts Agency Default Risk in Budget Balancing: Muni Credit
-- B y   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 2012-07-02T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-02/brown-lifts-agency-default-risk-in-budget-balancing-muni-credit.html
California  Governor  Jerry Brown ’s
decision to wipe out 400 blight-fighting redevelopment agencies
has increased municipal-bond defaults in the state and pushed
the yield penalty on the authorities’ debt to a six-month high.  Scrapping the agencies freed about $1 billion for schools
and helped close a budget gap. Brown’s plan, which took effect
Feb. 1, called for local governments to handle payments on the
bonds using reserves and property taxes from redevelopment
zones. Payments were disrupted in the case of cities including
Monrovia in Los Angeles County and Hercules near  San Francisco .  The debt, issued to rehabilitate buildings and land, traded
in June at yields averaging 3.3 percentage points above similar-
maturity Treasuries, the most this year, according to BondDesk
Group LLC.  Invesco Ltd. (IVZ)  is among investors concluding
disruptions will be temporary, enhancing the appeal of the extra
yield on the nearly $30 billion of redevelopment securities as
municipal  interest rates  remain near four-decade  lows .  “What we’ve been looking at are deals where it’s a good
redevelopment bond with debt service coverage that is fairly
solid,” said Bill Black, a portfolio manager for the  Invesco
Van Kampen High Yield Municipal Fund (ACTDX) , which has outpaced 92
percent of its peers this year, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  California accounts for about 15 percent of 108 issuers
added to the Municipal Market Advisors default database this
year, close to double the historical rate. The agencies’ debt
was involved in about a half-dozen defaults, said Matt Fabian at
Concord, Massachusetts-based MMA.  Invesco Adding  Debt from California, with a 4.8 percent return this year,
is still beating the 4.1 percent earned by the $3.7 trillion
municipal market,  Standard & Poor’s  data show.  Invesco is adding redevelopment bonds to its $6.5 billion
of high-yield munis, Black said from  Oakbrook Terrace ,  Illinois .  Some of the securities “are very solid but may have cash-
flow timing issues,” he said.  He said he favors debt from former agencies in regions such
as metropolitan Los Angeles over inland areas more susceptible
to boom-and-bust cycles.  Brown, 74, and his fellow Democrats in the state
Legislature moved in June 2011 to eliminate the agencies and
redirect their assets to help close a $10 billion deficit. The
entities had $29.8 billion in debt as of June 30, 2010,
according to the state controller’s office.  Junk Status  Moody’s Investors Service cut $11.6 billion in California
redevelopment debt to junk last month, saying legal and
political disputes may disrupt payments to bondholders.  Monrovia, a city of 37,000, missed an $11.75 million
payment due on June 1 for tax-allocation notes issued in 2007,
according to a disclosure statement.  Mark Alvarado, Monrovia’s administrative services director,
said the city routinely refinanced tax-allocation notes to
extend payments. The city defaulted this time because its
lawyers couldn’t ascertain that refinancing was legal under the
current law.  In June, state lawmakers passed a  bill  that allows the
former agencies to refinance debt as long as the change doesn’t
increase costs. The bill awaits Brown’s signature.  Brown’s spokesman,  Gil Duran , didn’t respond to an e-mail
seeking comment.  If Brown signs the bill, Alvarado said he plans to
refinance the Monrovia debt and end the default.  Not Enough  Investors are demanding the most extra yield in four months
on a taxable San Jose redevelopment bond maturing in 2035.  It traded at a yield spread about 3.30 percentage points
higher than similar-maturity Treasuries last month, the widest
difference since February, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The agencies’ yields still aren’t attractive enough for
some investors.  “We are absolutely not looking for that kind of debt,”
said Michael E. Johnson, a managing director at Gurtin Fixed
Income Management LLC in Solana Beach, California, which manages
$4 billion in munis. “There’s way too much short-term
uncertainty.”  Redevelopment debt has always been riskier than local-
 government bonds  and the changes in California have only
marginally increased the prospect of defaults, said Joseph Krist, a municipal credit analyst for UBS Wealth Management in
 New York . The firm manages $620 billion.  “In this interest-rate environment, the argument can be
made that you’re getting good yields relative to risk,” Krist
said. “The same fundamentals apply before and after the
legislation.”  Following is a pending sale:       COLUMBUS,  Ohio , plans to sell about $447 million of
general-obligation bonds through a competitive sale as soon as
July 10, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Proceeds will
be used for capital projects, according to a Fitch Ratings
report. (Added July 2)  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Nash in  Los Angeles  at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  