-- Cameron Says Parliament Will Probe U.K. Banks Over Libor
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n   a n d   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2012-07-02T16:44:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-02/cameron-announces-parliamentary-probe-of-u-k-banking-industry.html
Prime Minister  David Cameron 
announced a parliamentary inquiry into the U.K. banking industry
after  Barclays Plc (BARC)  was fined for rigging  interest rates  and the
lender’s chairman, Marcus Agius, resigned.  “This committee will be able to take evidence under oath;
it will have full access to papers, officials and ministers,”
Cameron told lawmakers in the House of Commons in  London  today.
“It will be able to start immediately, it will be accountable
to this house, it will be able to make sure we get to the truth
quickly so this can never happen again.”  The probe -- to be conducted by members of both the Commons
and the upper, unelected House of Lords -- will be headed by the
Tory chairman of the Commons Treasury Committee,  Andrew Tyrie ,
the premier said. Cameron set the inquiry a year-end deadline
for reporting, so that its recommendations can be incorporated
into the bill on overhauling bank regulation that will be
submitted to Parliament in January.  Agius resigned today after Barclays was fined a record 290
million pounds ($455 million) last week for attempting to rig
the London and euro interbank offered rates for profit. Chief
Executive Officer  Robert Diamond  said he has the full support of
the bank’s non-executive directors and pledged to stay and
implement the recommendations of a review into its Libor
submissions.  Wheatley Probe  Martin Wheatley, the chief executive officer-designate of
the Financial Conduct Authority, will conduct an inquiry into
the functioning of Libor, Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  told lawmakers after the prime minister’s statement.  The Financial Services Authority is conducting a number of
other investigations concerning Libor following the Barclays
case, the agency’s acting head of enforcement, Tracey McDermott,
said in a speech today. Separately, U.K. fraud prosecutors said
they would decide whether to open a criminal probe into attempts
to manipulate the rates within a month.  Osborne told lawmakers that people had asked him that if
“fraud is a crime in ordinary business, why couldn’t it be so
in banking?”  Unlike the inquiry into media ethics under Judge Brian Leveson that was set up by Cameron last year, the banking probe
will be time-limited and controlled by lawmakers. The Leveson
inquiry has seen a third of the Cabinet questioned under oath
and the publication of private  text messages  between the premier
and media executives.  News Corp .  The probe to be led by Tyrie will draw comparisons with an
investigation that the Commons Culture Committee began this time
last year into how it came to be misled by News Corp. over the
extent of phone hacking at the News of the World newspaper. It
called 11 witnesses, finishing hearings in November, and didn’t
report until the end of April of this year.  Cameron said the public wants to see bankers punished for
wrongdoing, and that the government has “learnt the broader
lessons of this scandal,” though he did not call directly for
Diamond to resign.  “I don’t think it is for prime ministers to hire and fire
bank chiefs,” he told lawmakers, saying Diamond has “some
serious questions to answer.”  The leader of the opposition  Labour Party ,  Ed Miliband ,
said the public wouldn’t be satisfied with “politicians
investigating bankers” and repeated his call for a wider,
judge-led inquiry. Labour was today putting forward an amendment
to the Financial Services Bill currently going through the House
of Lords, calling for such a probe. The vote may take place
tomorrow.  Bankers Feted  British politicians feted bankers until the credit crunch,
offering them honors and appointing them to inquire into areas
of public life far from their usual expertise.  That changed after the 2007 run on Northern Rock Plc. Since
then all sides have raced to distance themselves from finance.  Cameron’s coalition government set up an investigation into
the structure of the industry in 2010 that produced
recommendations to set up firewalls between retail and
investment banking, which ministers plan to implement.  Former Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc CEO  Fred Goodwin 
was stripped of his knighthood in January for leading the lender
into the world’s biggest bailout.  Lawmakers from Tyrie’s Commons committee will question
Diamond and Agius separately later this week over Libor. The
probe Cameron announced will have a wider remit than those
hearings.  Under Oath  Cameron’s office said the joint committee’s wider inquiry
would have the power to force witnesses to appear and give
evidence under oath. A government paper published in April said
while such powers, along with the power to fine or imprison
witnesses for contempt, have existed historically, they’re
“untested in recent times.” The Commons hasn’t levied a fine
on a non-member since 1666.  Osborne said that ministers in the Labour government that
was in power until 2010 would also be called to testify.  Wheatley’s inquiry will “include looking at whether
participation in the setting of Libor should become a regulated
activity, the feasibility of using of actual trade data to set
the benchmark;  and the transparency of the processes
surrounding the setting and governance of Libor,” the
chancellor told lawmakers. “The review will also look at the
adequacy of the U.K.’s current civil and criminal sanctioning
powers with respect to financial misconduct, and market abuse
with regards to Libor.”  Citigroup Inc.,  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS) , UBS AG
ICAP Plc,  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  and Deutsche Bank AG are
among the 18 firms regulators are investigating in relation to
Libor rates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net  or
Robert Hutton in Brussels at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  