-- Carbon-Price Future Clouded as Gillard Trails in Polls
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2012-07-02T04:35:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-02/carbon-price-future-clouded-as-gillard-trails-in-polls-2-.html
Australia’s price for  carbon
emissions  will survive whatever happens in elections due next
year, the government says. Power markets aren’t so sure.  Australian electricity futures markets after 2014 indicate
doubts that carbon prices will remain in force, according to
Westpac Banking Corp. The nation started yesterday charging
about 300 of its largest polluters a fixed rate of A$23 ($23.50)
a metric ton for greenhouse gases under the law Prime Minister
 Julia Gillard  pushed through Parliament last year. A market-
based price is scheduled to begin in 2015.  With a poll showing Gillard trailing  Tony Abbott , the
opposition leader, by as much as 16 points, her plan to rein in
the highest emissions per capita in the developed world may be
in jeopardy, even as the law takes effect this week. Abbott is
vowing to repeal the levy if he wins office, calling it a
“wrecking ball” for the economy in Australia, the world’s
largest exporter of thermal coal.  “Abbott’s stance is having a bearing on investment
decisions,” Tim Jordan, a carbon analyst at Deutsche Bank AG in
Sydney, said by phone. “The fact there are so many ways the
election can play out does affect investor calculations.”  Gillard’s carbon price is the government’s main tool for
reducing the country’s reliance on coal and meeting its target
for a 5 percent cut in  greenhouse-gases  from 2000 levels by 2020.
The levy will be fixed until 2015, when the nation will
introduce a cap-and-trade system that lets companies buy and
sell a fixed number of emissions permits.  ‘Wild Predictions’  “Those expecting prices to rise unimaginably or the coal
industry to die will be getting a shock, because those wild
predictions are wrong,” said Mark Dreyfus, Gillard’s
parliamentary secretary for  climate change . By the time of the
election in late 2013, the carbon price will “have been in
effect for over a year and the heat will have gone out of the
debate,” he said.  Australia, which relies on coal for 80 percent of its
energy, will join the European Union, South Korea,  New Zealand ,
seven manufacturing regions in China and states such as
California and Canada’s Quebec in adopting emissions trading
systems.  The new law creates a new tradable commodity that carries
the right to emit one metric ton of greenhouse gases in
Australia. While a fixed price on carbon is different than a tax,
which is used in some Scandinavian countries, Abbott still dubs
it a “toxic tax” that will raise prices in Australia and
eliminate jobs as mines are forced to close or relocate.  Sliding Popularity  Gillard’s popularity slid after she backtracked on a pre-
election pledge not to introduce carbon trading. When the 2010
ballot saw her  Labor party  lose its parliamentary majority, she
proposed the legislation to secure the support of the Greens
party to form a government.  Labor’s primary vote fell 1 percentage point to 30 percent,
while support for Abbott’s Liberal-National coalition increased
2 points to 46 percent, according to a Newspoll published in the
Australian newspaper on June 25.  “If we win the next election, rescinding the tax will be
our first legislative act,”  Greg Hunt , the opposition’s climate
change spokesman, said in an interview June 28. “It can and
will be done in six months. The election will be a mandate on
the carbon tax, and we assume a defeated Labor party will
recognize this and won’t stand in our way.”  ‘Basically Zero’  The chances of the U.S., Canada, India and Japan pricing
carbon in the next 20 years “are basically zero,” rendering
Australia’s plan ineffective in lowering global emissions, Hunt
said. The coalition is committed to curbing pollution and will
do it through direct action, such as creating a fund to help
carbon emitters upgrade equipment, he said.  The Treasury estimates the carbon tax will reduce gross
domestic product and employment growth by less than a quarter
percentage point in the fiscal year beginning July 1. It will
have “no discernible impact” on the nation’s unemployment rate
that has hovered just above 5 percent for the past year,
Treasury estimates.  The  Reserve Bank  of Australia forecasts the tax will add a
quarter-point to  core inflation , currently near the lower end of
the central bank’s 2 percent to 3 percent target range, in the
12 months through June 2013.  The  Minerals Council of Australia , which represents
companies such as  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  and Rio Tinto Group, has
called the carbon price a “retrograde step” for the country.
The  mining industry  faces carbon costs of at least A$25 billion
by 2020, according to the group. It will also be hit by a 30
percent tax on  iron ore  and coal profits that started yesterday.  High Price  Qantas Airways Ltd. (QAN)  and Virgin Australia Holdings Ltd., the
nation’s biggest airlines, may struggle to pass on costs
associated with the tax to customers through higher ticket
prices, JPMorgan Chase & Co. said in a note dated June 18.  Not all Australian businesses oppose Gillard’s climate plan.
 General Electric Co. (GE) ,  Fujitsu Ltd. (6702)  and more than 300 other
companies signed a statement today that said the carbon price
“will assist Australia in remaining globally competitive, and
will deliver new industries in clean energy,  energy efficiency 
and low-carbon technology.” Parliament should be encouraged
“to support stable, long-term policies” like a price on carbon,
the Businesses for Clean Economy group said on its website.  Futures for baseload power in New South Wales, Australia’s
most populous state, climbed 25 percent to A$74 a megawatt-hour
for the third quarter of this year, according to Australia Stock
Exchange data compiled by Bloomberg. Prices in Victoria surged
52 percent to A$87 a megawatt-hour, the data shows.  Too High  The government has faced criticism from the Australian
Industry Group, which represents the interests of more than
60,000 businesses, for potentially setting its carbon price too
high at A$23 a metric ton. European Union carbon allowances this
week traded for less than 8 euros ($10) on London’s ICE Futures
Europe exchange.  “The fact that the European price, partly as a result of
the economic downturn in the area, has dropped doesn’t by any
means mean there won’t be quite a substantial rise in coming
years,” Dreyfus said in a June 27 interview in the capital,
Canberra.  Wholesale electricity markets, although illiquid, indicate
there is a 65 percent to 75 percent chance Australia’s carbon
laws will be scrapped from July 2014 onwards, Connell Burke,
Westpac Banking’s executive director of commodities, carbon and
energy trading, said by e-mail.  Rudd’s Legacy  Baseload power futures for 2014 have declined as the market
factors in the probability of a “carbon tax being abolished,”
Sandra McCullagh and Benjamin McVicar, Credit Suisse Group AG
analysts based in Sydney, said in a May 23 report.  Market doubts about the tax’s long-term future are
compounded by former Prime Minister  Kevin Rudd ’s failure to
implement a prior carbon-trading plan, according to Kumar
Padisetti, a Melbourne-based partner at Deloitte Access
Economics.  Rudd was elected in November 2007 promising to introduce
his Carbon Pollution Reduction Scheme. He shelved the plan
following industry criticism and resistance in the Senate, and
was ousted by Gillard in a June 2010 party coup amid a slump in
his poll ratings.  “Once bitten, twice shy,” Padisetti said by telephone. In
preparing for the Carbon Pollution Reduction Scheme, businesses
“spent a lot of money setting up desks and recruiting people,
and they then had to let them go. When they combine that with
the opposition’s stance, they see the repeal scenario as a real
threat, so they’re deciding to wait and see what happens.”  Dwindling Support  Support for Gillard’s carbon policy fell 4 percentage
points to 33 percent, the lowest level since it was announced,
the Sydney Morning Herald said today, citing a Nielsen poll of
1,400 voters taken June 28-30 with a margin of error of 2.8
percent.  “People will now have the opportunity to judge carbon
pricing for themselves,” Gillard told Australian Broadcasting
Corp. radio today. ‘There has been a hysterical fear campaign
from the doomsday merchants. Those claims will be proved
false.”  Upon winning  government , Abbott would need the support of
Parliament’s upper and lower houses to scrap the carbon price,
which Treasury forecasts will reap A$24.7 billion in revenue
within four years. Without an outright majority in the Senate,
Abbott would be forced to dissolve both houses in a so-called
double dissolution election to break the deadlock.  “Abbott’s put himself in a bind because he’s been talking
so tough that if he doesn’t repeal the carbon tax, he’ll have
broken voters’ trust,” said Zareh Ghazarian, a political
analyst at  Monash University  in Melbourne. “If he does, he’ll
be risking his government’s financial credibility because that
would create a revenue shortfall. And to get there, he may have
to hold a double dissolution, which aren’t popular.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Scott in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  