-- Carlyle, Sunoco Agree to Joint Venture for Refinery
-- B y   J i m   P o l s o n
-- 2012-07-02T18:38:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-02/carlyle-sunoco-agree-to-joint-venture-for-refinery.html
Carlyle Group , the Washington-based
private-equity firm that went public this year, is taking over
operations of a  Sunoco Inc. (SUN)  refinery on a bet that revived U.S.
oil and natural-gas output can restore to profit the oldest
continually operating refinery on the U.S. East Coast.  Carlyle will invest an undisclosed amount in Sunoco’s
330,000-barrel-a-day Philadelphia refinery as part of a joint
venture, the companies said today in a statement. Sunoco will
retain a minority stake.  Carlyle plans to process oil delivered by rail from  North
Dakota ’s Bakken formation where production has risen fourfold in
the last three years. It will also use gas from the Marcellus
Shale in  Pennsylvania , where output doubled last year, to run
the refinery.  Oil from the Bakken and the Eagle Ford deposit in  Texas 
will displace almost half the more costly imported oil used by
the refinery by early next year, Phil Rinaldi, chief executive
officer of the venture, Philadelphia Energy Solutions, said
today on a conference call.  “This refinery could be profitable if it were running on
Bakken crude instead of Nigerian crude,” said  Bradley Olsen , a
Houston-based analyst at Tudor Pickering Holt & Co. who rates
Sunoco a buy and doesn’t rate Carlyle. “The rest of it is just
trying to make it a sufficiently efficient operation.”  Bakken crude, constrained by limited pipeline capacity, has
sold for an  average  $88.51 a barrel this year, compared with
$113.47 a barrel for Brent, the global benchmark that sets the
price for oil Sunoco has been refining, according to data
complied by Bloomberg.  State’s Aid Package  The agreement means that two of three Pennsylvania
refineries that faced shutdown will keep operating. The Carlyle
joint venture follows Delta Air Lines Inc.’s decision to buy a
ConocoPhillips refinery south of Philadelphia in April for $150
million. Pennsylvania lawmakers have opposed plans to close the
three refineries, saying the shutdowns would reduce jobs and
raise gasoline prices.  The state will contribute $10 million toward the rail
terminal, capable of unloading 140,000 barrels per day by early
2013. That’s part of a $25 million package that includes $15
million to overhaul the plant. The refinery will also be
eligible for tax abatements and tax-free bond sales, Governor
Tom Corbett, a Republican, said on the conference call.  “Pennsylvania is going to be the energy capital of the
country,” Corbett said in an interview outside the United
Steelworkers Local 10-1 union hall in Trainer, Pennsylvania. “I
saw the  steel mills  go away because there wasn’t that kind of
cooperation between business and labor and government.”  Low-Sulfur Diesel  Carlyle will add jobs and invest at least $140 million in
plant improvements, Steve Kratz, a spokesman for Pennsylvania’s
Department of Community and Economic Development, said in an
interview. Carlyle declined to comment on how much it would
spend.  “This was a no-brainer for us,” Kratz said. “It saves
jobs directly and indirectly, because with the plant
construction and improvements there will be construction jobs.”  After the overhaul, the plant will produce more and higher
quality low-sulfur diesel, for which demand is growing, and less
high-sulfur heating oil, Carlyle Managing Director David
Marchick said on the call.  “Demand in the Northeast for heating oil continues to
decline,”  Andy Lipow , president of Lipow Oil Associates LLC,
said today in a telephone interview. “ New York  state is going
to require an ultra-low-sulfur heating oil.”  Within two years, Carlyle hopes to be fueling the plant
with abundant natural gas from Pennsylvania’s Marcellus Shale
formation instead of imported oil, Marchick said.  Marcus Hook  Sunoco rose 18 cents to $47.68 at 2:32 p.m. in New York.
Carlyle, which began trading publicly on May 3, rose 1.9 percent
to $22.85.  Carlyle joins private-equity firms Blackstone Group LP and
TPG Capital, which made refinery deals in the past two years to
expand natural resources investments. Unlike public companies,
which have to answer to shareholders every quarter, private-
equity funds can make longer-term bets on a business or an
industry because their capital is usually locked up for 10
years.  Sunoco, based in Philadelphia, had said it would close the
refinery this month unless it found a buyer. Sunoco shut another
refinery in the state,  Marcus Hook , after it got no bids for it.
The company, which is being purchased by  Energy Transfer
Partners LP (ETP)  for $5.3 billion, has sold or closed all its other
refineries.  ‘Christmas’ for Union  Keeping the Philadelphia refinery running will save 850
jobs and “secure the region’s fuel supply,” according to the
statement.  “If Sunoco’s Philadelphia refinery, which alone accounted
for nearly a quarter of refinery capacity on the East Coast in
2011, were to shut down in July 2012, petroleum product markets
in the Northeast could be significantly impacted,” the Energy
Information Administration said in a February report.  Delta announced plans to buy the 185,000 barrel-a-day
Trainer refinery and spend $100 million to make it capable of
supplying 80 percent of the airline’s U.S. jet fuel needs.  Workers are voting today on a tentative contract with
Carlyle, Jim Savage, president of Steelworkers Union Local 10-1,
said in an interview. The agreement will be approved
overwhelmingly, United Steel Workers President  Leo Gerard  said
on today’s call.  “The young guys will have a chance to retire,” said John
Read, a retired United Steelworker union member who worked in
the Philadelphia refinery for 40 years. “It’s a load off
everyone’s shoulders. It’s like Christmas.”  Carlyle Group got legal advice from Vinson & Elkins and
Buchanan Ingersoll & Rooney. Sunoco received financial advice
from Credit Suisse AG and legal advice from Kirkland & Ellis
LLP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Polson in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tina Davis at 
 tinadavis@bloomberg.net  