-- McDonald’s New CEO Focuses on Chicken Amid Shaky Economy
-- B y   L e s l i e   P a t t o n
-- 2012-07-02T20:38:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-02/mcdonald-s-new-ceo-focuses-on-chicken-amid-shaky-economy.html
McDonald’s Corp. (MCD) ’s new chief
executive officer is playing chicken with the menu.  As  Don Thompson , 49, steps into the CEO role at the world’s
largest restaurant chain, customers may see more new chicken
items instead of beef. Thompson is pulling from McDonald’s 160-
item recipe book, which includes bone-in chicken wings and
cashew teriyaki salads with chicken, to sell new food and
attract cash-conscious consumers amid a shaky global economy.
It’s a “tremendous opportunity,” Thompson said during a
consumer conference on May 30.  “Some great examples include our large wrap in  Europe  and
snack items like Chicken McBites,” he said. “Our customers
have given us permission to stretch our brand, so we are
entering new categories with new products.”  McDonald’s is looking to draw budget-minded Americans with
chicken items, which can be priced lower than other proteins,
according to Bryan Elliott, an analyst at Raymond James &
Associates in  St. Petersburg ,  Florida . “The consumer is
expressing some recent signs of distress” and chicken costs are
“cheap relative to beef right now by a lot,” he said.  McDonald’s, along with other fast-food operators, is facing
government austerity programs in Europe, declining  consumer
confidence  in the U.S. and slowing economic growth in  Asia .
Sales at McDonald’s stores open at least 13 months rose 3.3
percent worldwide in May, trailing analysts’ estimates for
growth of 5.2 percent.  McDonald’s fell 0.5 percent to $88.08 at the close in  New
York . The company’s  shares  have slumped 12 percent this year,
compared with a 3 percent gain for the  Bloomberg U.S. Quick-
Service Restaurant Index. (BNUSQSVR)   Healthier Perception  Chicken also is “perceived to be healthier,” Elliott
said. “That could certainly be a factor in their thinking.”  A Big Mac has 550 calories, while a six-piece order of
Chicken McNuggets has 280 calories.  Last week, the  Oak Brook , Illinois-based company began
selling 410-calorie Spicy Chicken McBites in the U.S. At the
same time, Americans are expected to eat more poultry. Chicken
consumption in the U.S. will increase 1.7 percent to 82 pounds
(37 kilograms) a person in 2013, while beef consumption may
decline 2.2 percent next year to 54.5 pounds, according to  data 
from the  U.S. Department of Agriculture .  Thompson, who introduced Americans to McCafe specialty
coffees and smoothies, started at McDonald’s 22 years ago as an
electrical engineer. He’s  managed  regions including Denver,  San
Diego  and the Midwest, and was president of McDonald’s USA from
2006 to 2010, before being named chief operating officer. After
Jim Skinner, the previous CEO, Thompson was the company’s
highest paid executive last year -- making $4.07 million,
including an $829,000 salary.  Strategic Plans  “I’ve kind of led a lot of strategic planning and
initiatives,” Thompson said during a telephone interview
earlier this year. He brought McCafe drinks from  Australia  to
the U.S. in 2009 and is now introducing them in  Canada . As COO,
he also led remodeling efforts, added double-lane drive-throughs
to stores and extended restaurant hours -- about 40 percent of
U.S. locations are open 24 hours a day.  The chain has introduced snack wraps, 290-calorie oatmeal
and McCafe fruit smoothies during the past five years to appeal
to more health-conscious consumers and draw afternoon traffic.
McDonald’s is also promoting chocolate-dipped ice cream cones
and s’mores pies for a limited time in the U.S. and may test new
dessert items this year, Phillip Juhan, an analyst at BMO
Capital Markets in Atlanta, said in an interview.  “Dessert is going to be an area of opportunity for them
and one that they’re going to push” at U.S. stores, he said.  Recipe Book  McDonald’s recipe book “can be a core strength, but it can
also be a detriment if you get to be too broad with your menu,”
Darren Tristano, executive vice president at Chicago-based
researcher Technomic Inc., said in an interview. They have to
make sure that new food can be made quickly at thousands of
locations, he said.  There is no change from McDonald’s strategy -- the
company’s so-called Plan to Win, Thompson said in the interview.  “A transition in leadership is not a change in strategy at
McDonald’s,” Thompson said.  McDonald’s has more than 33,500 stores worldwide, of which
about 80 percent are franchised.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leslie Patton in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  