-- CEZ Receives Three Bids for Temelin Nuclear Power Project
-- B y   L a d k a   B a u e r o v a
-- 2012-07-02T10:49:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-02/cez-receives-three-bids-for-temelin-nuclear-power-project-1-.html
CEZ AS (CEZ) , the  Czech Republic ’s largest
producer of electricity, received three bids for its project to
build two new reactors at the Temelin nuclear power station.  Westinghouse Electric Corp.,  Areva SA (AREVA)  and a Russian-Czech
consortium led by Rosatom Corp.’s Atomstroyexport unit, the
three bidders selected by CEZ in 2010, submitted their final
offers today, the Prague-based utility said in an e-mailed
statement.  The new third-generation reactors are intended to replace
CEZ’s aged coal-fired plants, reduce carbon dioxide emissions
and solidify the Czech Republic’s position as a regional power
exporter. CEZ will choose the winner of the tender, whose value
is estimated by analysts at $10 billion, before the end of 2013
and the construction should start no later than 2016, it said.  “The construction of new Temelin reactors is a key pillar
of CEZ’s strategy,” Chief Executive Officer Daniel Benes said
in the statement. “Today marks a significant step towards
ensuring steady electricity supply for Czech customers for
decades to come.”  CEZ fell 0.7 percent to 692.2 koruna at 12:07 p.m. in
Prague. The stock has lost 12 percent of its value this year.  The company said it may hold another public tender to
choose a strategic partner that would help it finance the
Temelin expansion after the supplier is chosen in 2013.
Electricite de France SA, the largest nuclear-reactor operator
in  Europe , is among companies that have held talks with CEZ on a
possible partnership.  While CEZ is capable of financing the construction of
Temelin units 3 and 4 on its own through a combination of cash
flow and debt, inviting another investor remains an option
because it would leave the Czech utility a freer hand to invest
in other projects, Benes said last month.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ladka Bauerova at 
 lbauerova@bloomberg.net  