-- McGraw-Hill, CME Group Start S&P Dow Jones Indices Venture
-- B y   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g
-- 2012-07-02T13:49:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-02/mcgraw-hill-cme-group-start-s-p-dow-jones-indices-venture-1-.html
McGraw-Hill Cos. (MHP)  and  CME Group Inc. (CME) 
said a joint venture to combine index businesses started today
with the creation of S&P Dow Jones Indices.  CME Group, the world’s largest futures exchange, in 2010
agreed to take control of News Corp.’s stock-index business,
owner of the  Dow Jones Industrial Average , to bolster revenue by
licensing equity benchmarks. The new business publishes indexes
for 575 exchange-traded funds with $387 billion in assets and
benchmarks that comprise $1.5 trillion, the companies said today
in a statement.  McGraw-Hill, the New York-based finance and publishing
company that’s splitting in two, owns 73 percent of the
business, the companies said in the statement today. Chicago-
based CME controls 24.4 percent and  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Dow Jones & Co.
indirectly owns the rest, the companies said.  CME will pay S&P Dow Jones Indices a share of the profits
from listing, trading and clearing futures, options and swaps
tied to its equity indexes.  As a part of the deal, S&P Capital IQ, a data business of
McGraw-Hill, bought derivatives pricing service CMA from CME
Group,  Standard & Poor’s  said in a separate statement. CMA,
based in London, compiles credit-default swaps prices that are
quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market.  “This acquisition significantly expands S&P Capital IQ’s
asset-class coverage for data and pricing and adds the
technology to move into intraday quotes on derivative and other
OTC securities,” Lou Eccleston, president of S&P Capital IQ and
chairman of S&P Dow Jones Indices, said in the statement.  CME Group bought CMA in 2008 to help it expand into
clearing credit swaps. No terms for McGraw-Hill’s purchase of
CMA were disclosed.  S&P Dow Jones Indices recorded $421 million in revenue last
year, the companies said in the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Leising in  New York  at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  