-- Chesapeake’s 1% Tax Rate Shows Cost of Drilling Subsidy
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   M i d e r ,   B r a d l e y   O l s o n ,   J e s s e   D r u c k e r ,   a n d   T o d d   W h i t e
-- 2012-07-02T20:07:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-02/cheaspeake-s-1-tax-rate-shows-cost-of-drilling-subsidy.html
Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK)  made $5.5
billion in pretax profits since its founding more than two
decades ago. So far, the second-largest U.S. natural-gas
producer has paid income taxes on almost none of it.  Chesapeake paid $53 million over its 23-year history, or
about 1 percent of the cumulative pretax profits during that
period, data compiled by Bloomberg show. That’s less than half
of Chief Executive Officer  Aubrey McClendon ’s compensation, for
example, in 2008 alone.  The company and other  U.S. oil and gas producers  can thank
a century-old rule that allows them to postpone income taxes in
recognition of the inherent risk of drilling wells that may turn
out to be dry. The break may be outdated for companies such as
Chesapeake, which, thanks to advances in technology, struck oil
or gas in 99.6 percent of its wells last year.  “To the extent the world is a different place than it was
when the policy was first devised, that’s a powerful reason to
revisit the need for this subsidy,” said Edward Kleinbard, a
former chief of staff on the congressional Joint Committee on
Taxation who now teaches at the University of  Southern
California  in  Los Angeles .  While Oklahoma City-based Chesapeake is the biggest U.S.
oil and gas producer with such low tax payments, it’s far from
alone, according to the data that calculated several companies’
so-called long-run cash effective tax rates.  Range Resources
Corp. (RRC)  paid income taxes of about 0.4 percent of pretax income
over the past decade, the data show.  Southwestern Energy Co. (SWN) 
paid 2.1 percent and  EQT Corp. (EQT)  paid 5.3 percent, the data show.  The U.S. corporate income tax rate is 35 percent.  Google’s Tax  Other companies whose tax strategies have attracted
scrutiny in recent years have much higher rates than the oil and
gas producers. Google Inc., which has used tax strategies with
names like the “Double Irish” and “Dutch Sandwich” to
minimize its tax bill, had a cash effective rate of 18 percent
over the past 10 years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  General Electric Co., whose tax strategy the  New York  Times
termed “aggressive” in a front-page article in 2010, paid 12
percent.  The biggest tax break, for Chesapeake and other independent
U.S. oil and gas companies, is a rule that’s been around  since
at least 1916  that allows some producers to expense “intangible
drilling costs.” Companies can count most of the cost of boring
a new well against their taxes at the time the money’s spent,
rather than recognizing it over several years. That allows them
to effectively put off tax payments, even during years when they
turn a profit.  Helps Economy  Chesapeake has paid out more than $5 billion in cash toward
taxes over the past 12 years, a figure that includes taxes other
than income taxes, said Michael Kehs, a company spokesman. The
income  tax rate  for accounting purposes has varied from 36
percent to 40 percent since 2000 in years that the company
turned a profit, he said.  The rule on drilling costs “puts money back into the
economy and helps drive innovation,” Kehs said. “Those are
clear benefits for the economy.”  Chesapeake has lost more than $7 billion in market value in
the past year amid falling energy prices and shareholder unrest
about McClendon’s personal financial dealings. Chesapeake, which
faces an estimated cash shortfall of $18.6 billion through 2013,
replaced McClendon as chairman along with four directors after
it was revealed that the CEO amassed more than $846 million in
debt, including from from companies and banks also doing
business with Chesapeake.  Obama Opposition  Chesapeake  rose  0.7 percent to $18.73 at the close in New
York. The shares have dropped 16 percent this year, the second-
worst performance among the 17 members of the Standard & Poor’s
500  Oil & Gas Exploration & Production (4O1)  index.  President  Barack Obama  has repeatedly sought, without
success, to repeal the drilling-costs benefit in annual budget
proposals. In its  most recent plan , the White House estimated
this year that the change would add $3.5 billion to federal
coffers in 2013 and $13.9 billion over 10 years.  Ending the break would deprive the U.S. oil and gas
industry of capital it depends on to continue paying for new
wells, said Stephen Comstock, manager for tax policy at the
 American Petroleum Institute , a Washington-based trade
association for oil and gas companies.  “Fewer wells would get drilled, and the economics of
certain operations in the U.S. would not be able to compete with
operations elsewhere,” he said. “We would have less energy
production here in the U.S. and less jobs associated with it.”  Diminishing Risks  When the  tax policy  first came into use, an average of 80
percent of all the wells drilled were dry holes, according to a
 2008 Congressional Research Service report  on the history of
energy tax policy. The benefit was meant to increase domestic
oil and gas reserves and production, the report says.  In recent years, much of the risk associated with onshore
drilling has been reduced dramatically with the use of new
technology. Using a combination of horizontal drilling and
hydraulic fracturing, or fracking, companies can blast apart
layers of shale rock with a mixture of water, sand and chemicals
to free fossil fuels. Geologists had long known hydrocarbons
were prevalent in shale, but lacked the technology to extract
the oil and gas.  Chesapeake drilled or invested in 13 dry holes in 2011 out
of 2,979 total wells drilled, a 0.4 percent failure rate,
according to company filings. Exxon Mobil Corp. drilled or
invested in 16 dry holes in 2011 out of a total of 1,334 wells
in the U.S., a 1.2 percent failure rate, a public filing showed.  ‘Key Consideration’  Companies that focus on domestic oil and gas production are
best positioned to take advantage of the drilling-costs benefit.
That’s because it applies to wells drilled within the U.S. and
the full benefit is only available to so-called independent
producers like Chesapeake that don’t refine or market fuel.  Ed Hirs, who teaches energy economics at the  University of
Houston  and manages a small production company, said the break
for intangible drilling costs is “probably not necessary
anymore to encourage new drilling. But it’s a really helpful and
very key consideration in a macro sense for the entire
industry.”  Bloomberg analyzed the companies’ rates by comparing their
cash income taxes -- what they actually paid -- to the pretax
profits on their income statements over at least a decade. This
long-run cash-effective tax rate was described by three
accounting professors in a  2007 paper  on  tax avoidance .  Cash Taxes  The measure is different from the standard gauge of tax
rates, which compares pretax income to the amount of tax the
company accrues for accounting purposes.  Those figures can vary widely. In 2010, Chesapeake accrued
$1.1 billion of income tax expense for accounting purposes and
reported a 38.5 percent tax rate. But it didn’t pay any cash
taxes that year, even though it had $2.9 billion of pretax
income. Instead, it got a refund of $291 million.  Companies’ income tax disclosures include payments to
federal, state, and local authorities and to foreign
governments. They don’t include other types of taxes, such as
 sales tax .  When production from old wells outstrips the expense of
drilling new ones, companies that postponed taxes will have to
pay up. Chesapeake had a deferred income tax liability of $3.4
billion as of Dec. 31.  ‘Defer Forever’  “If they’re a growing company, that deferral will get
pushed out a long time,” said Michelle Hanlon, an accounting
professor at the  Massachusetts Institute of Technology  and one
of the authors of the 2007 study. “If you defer forever, it’s
an exemption.”  The 2007 study, whose co-authors are Scott Dyreng of  Duke
University  and Edward Maydew of the University of  North
Carolina , found that many oil and gas companies have unusually
low long-term cash tax rates, because of breaks that benefit the
industry.  “This is a purely commercial subsidy,” USC’s Kleinbard
said of the drilling-costs policy. “It’s really inexcusable.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zachary R. Mider in New York at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net ;
Bradley Olson in Houston at 
 bradleyolson@bloomberg.net ;
Jesse Drucker in New York at 
 jdrucker4@bloomberg.net ;
 Todd White  in Madrid  at 
 twhite2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  