-- Cheap Wind Power Tested as Renova Starts Farms: Corporate Brazil
-- B y   S t e p h a n   N i e l s e n
-- 2012-07-02T03:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-02/cheap-wind-power-tested-as-renova-starts-farms-corporate-brazil.html
Renova Energia SA (RNEW11) ’s strategy to
produce wind energy cheaper than anywhere else in the world will
be tested as it brings its first turbines online, helping to
transform  Brazil  into the world’s fourth-biggest market.  Renova, which counts utility  Light SA (LIGT3)  as among its biggest
shareholders, started operating South America’s biggest wind
farm cluster in northeastern Brazil last week. The company,
based in Sao Paulo, plans to build at least six farms next year.  Brazil aims to more than double its capacity to generate
wind power next year by harnessing the same weather system that
brought Portuguese and Spanish sailors to the continent in the
1500s. Renova is betting its farms can produce energy for as
little as a quarter of the price needed to make some European
projects viable.  “There’s uncertainty over whether these turbines will
perform as expected,” Unai Otazua Aranguren, director of
renewable energy consultant Garrad Hassan Group Ltd.’s Brazil
office, said by telephone. “The wind here behaves differently
to what we have in  Europe  and the U.S.”  Renova rose 0.3 percent to 31 reais in  Sao Paulo  trading on
June 29, bringing its year-to-date gain to 16 percent. It has
more than doubled since it first sold shares in 2010.  Brazil’s government is promoting wind and other renewable
energy projects in a bid to diversify away from hydroelectric
plants, which account for 66 percent of the nation’s installed
capacity. Wind farms can help shore up the supply of electricity
in drier months when dam reservoirs diminish.  $16.9 Billion Investments  National energy agency Empresa de Pesquisa Energetica,
known as EPE,  expects  10 gigawatts of wind farms to come online
between 2012 and 2020, requiring investments of about 34 billion
reais ($16.9 billion).  Developers including  Spain ’s Iberdrola Renovables SA and
Renova signed wind contracts in six auctions through December to
add 6.8 gigawatts of generating capacity. The first of the farms
are required to start operating this month.  Brazil was the world’s 11th market for the renewable energy
last year,  Steve Sawyer , secretary general of the Brussels-based
industry lobby group Global Wind Energy Council, said in a Feb.
7 interview.  Europe Projects  In an August auction, companies agreed to generate power at
an average rate of 99.54 reais, or about $49.31, per megawatt-
hour, according to EPE. Wind developers receive about 150 euros
($190) a megawatt hour in  Italy , 75 euros in  Germany  and 74
euros in Spain, Bloomberg New Energy Finance analyst Eduardo
Tabbush said by telephone from  London .  Renova estimates its turbines will spin more than 50
percent of the time, compared with an average of 25 percent for
wind farms in Europe. The gusts that blow westward over the
Atlantic across Brazil’s northeast are the most consistent
weather system in the world, the American Meteorological Society
says, allowing companies to use cheaper and lighter turbines.  Renova declined to comment when contacted by Bloomberg
News.  Brazil’s drive to become a major producer of  wind energy 
has lured France’s Alstom SA, the U.S.’s  General Electric Co. (GE) 
and  India ’s  Suzlon Energy Ltd. (SUEL) , which have all built factories
to make equipment in Brazil in the past three years.  ‘Tight’ Margins  Turbine makers likely agreed to cut prices for the Brazil
auctions after the market for the equipment collapsed in the
U.S. and Europe as the debt crisis prompted governments to scale
back the size of subsidies for renewable energy projects,
Tabbush said.  Even with the discounts, margins will be “very tight” on
the projects, Tabbush said. A weaker local currency, which makes
imported parts and equipment more expensive, may erode margins,
he said.  Brazil’s real has weakened 23 percent against the  U.S.
dollar  in the past 12 months, the worst performer of the 16
most-traded currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Pacific Hydro Pty., a Melbourne-based developer that’s
built two wind farms in the northeastern state of Paraiba, chose
not to participate in the auctions on concern the rates being
offered were too low.  Unsustainable Returns  “We’re pleased we didn’t take part,” said Rob Grant,
chief executive officer of Pacific Hydro, which aims to develop
wind farms and sell to the free market. “After the 2010
auctions, we realized the regulated market wasn’t the place to
make sustainable returns.”  Light SA, a Rio de Janeiro-based utility, bought a 26
percent stake in Renova Energia for 360 million reais last year
and agreed to purchase power from 400 megawatts of wind farms on
the free  electricity market , the companies said in a statement
last July.  Renova expects to raise at least 250 million in a private
stock offering to BNDES Participacoes SA, a unit of Brazil’s
development bank, to fund current and future projects, according
to a June 25 regulatory filing.  “We’ll see what will happen -- maybe there will be
problems,” said Garad Hassan’s Aranguren. “When you’re
bidding, it’s like a gamble, like a game.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephan Nielsen in Sao Paulo at 
 snielsen8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jessica Brice in Sao Paulo at 
 jbrice1@bloomberg.net . 