-- Christie Feuds With N.J. Lawmakers Over 2013 Tax Rollback
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p   a n d   E l i s e   Y o u n g
-- 2012-07-03T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-02/christie-prods-lawmakers-to-turn-tax-increase-into-cut.html
Whether it takes a day, a week or
months for New Jersey lawmakers to pass a tax cut, the outcome
would be the same: no relief until at least 2013, if then.  Governor  Chris Christie , a Republican, conditionally vetoed
a measure backed by Democrats to raise the income-tax rate on
those earning $1 million or more a year. He sent the bill back
and convened a special legislative session yesterday with an
appeal to produce a levy rollback.  “A bipartisan tax-cut plan is on all of your desks right
now,” Christie said in remarks to lawmakers yesterday. “Let’s
show our state we can work together and finish the job before we
leave.” Tomorrow is a U.S. holiday,  Independence Day .  Democrats who run the Legislature had a deal with Christie,
49, over a tax reduction. While they set aside $183 million for
refunds based on property levies, Democratic leaders said they
won’t consider implementing the plan until the revenue picture
clarifies and questioned the need for a special session. That
prompted Christie to say they’re holding a tax cut “hostage.”  The Legislature hasn’t passed proposed tax reductions or
credits for fiscal 2013. Assembly Speaker Sheila Oliver of  East
Orange  and Senate President Stephen Sweeney of West Deptford,
both Democrats, said they’re in no rush to act on a rollback.
Democrats won’t agree to one until they know revenue will meet
forecasts, Oliver told reporters after Christie’s remarks.  No Rush  “This is not an issue of emergent concern,” Oliver told
reporters in Trenton, the state capital. “If we agree upon
revenue projections, if we see that revenue roll in, the
Legislature is more than prepared to put forth a piece of
legislation to effectuate a tax reduction.”  The governor has touted what he calls a “Jersey Comeback”
that will cover tax cuts and higher spending. His proposed
fiscal 2013 budget counted on a 7.2 percent revenue gain
compared with 2012, second only to a 7.7 percent jump projected
by California Governor  Jerry Brown , a Democrat, according to an
analysis of a National Governors Association report by the New
Jersey treasurer’s office.  Treasurer Andrew Sidamon-Eristoff, a Christie appointee,
has said that revenue through the June 2013 end of the fiscal
year may trail the governor’s target by $700 million, while the
Legislature’s chief budget analyst has said the gap may be
almost twice that size.  Democrats have said they will wait at least until December,
halfway through the fiscal year, to evaluate the revenue
picture. They may act to implement a tax rollback at that time.  ‘Big Hole’  “We’re giving him the benefit of the doubt here and saying
the money is in the budget,” Sweeney said in his statehouse
office after Christie’s remarks. “Why would we jump and do
something today, then come December, we may have a big hole in
our budget.”  Sweeney called the special session unneeded and “political
theater” aimed at boosting Christie’s profile among national
Republicans ahead of their August convention in Tampa,  Florida .
While average residential property taxes in  New Jersey  are the
highest in the nation, Sweeney said Christie’s proposed 10
percent income-tax rollback is designed to appeal to voters
nationwide. The governor flirted with a presidential bid last
year before rejecting a run, saying he wasn’t ready for it.  Christie, who faces re-election in 2013, had wanted to
spread his across-the-board cut over three years. Democrats said
that plan favored the wealthy and ignored residents’ property-
tax burdens. Their proposal would provide credits for 10 percent
of residential property levies for those households earning less
than $400,000 annually.  Millionaire Tax  Christie and Senate Democrats agreed on a 10 percent
property-tax credit. The Assembly doubled its size and added a
surcharge on residents making at least $1 million to pay for it.
The bill Christie conditionally vetoed provided that funding.  “New Jersey has gotten an image over the past decade of
being a place where the first answer to everything is higher
taxes,”  Assemblyman Declan O’Scanlon, a Republican from Little
Silver and his party’s budget officer, said by telephone. A
rollback, he said, “sends a message that the people running New
Jersey realize tax relief is important.”  Christie is trying to avoid increasing taxes. He said last
month he would back Sweeney’s 10 percent credit.  After the Legislature passed the budget and failed to cut
levies, the governor said the Democrats were holding “tax
relief hostage.” He signed the spending plan June 29 after
vetoing $361 million added by Democrats, such as $50 million of
credits for the working poor.  Governor’s Appeal  “Let’s open the board, vote for a middle-class tax cut and
show that bipartisanship is alive and well in New Jersey,”
Christie told lawmakers yesterday. “I have come to the center
of the room and agreed to the Senate Democratic tax plan. Will
you join me?”  Peter Woolley , who leads the PublicMind poll and teaches
politcs at Fairleigh Dickinson University in Madison, New
Jersey, said Democrats are partly right in that a tax cut would
boost Christie’s national stature. Closer to home, it would also
let him keep a campaign pledge for a rollback.  “Both sides have some risk here but ultimately the object
for either side is to get what you want or be in a position to
blame somebody else,” Woolley said by telephone. “And nobody
is going to be asking Steve Sweeney to speak at the national
convention.”  Christie’s calls for smaller government and lower taxes
have helped to make him a national figure. The governor’s office
has used videos of his speeches and town-hall style meetings on
 Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s  YouTube.com  website to spread his message.  “This was a YouTube moment -- that’s all,” Sweeney said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net ;
Elise Young in Trenton at 
 eyoung30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  