-- Kim Clijsters Bids Goodbye to Wimbledon After Loss
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2012-07-02T23:21:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-02/clijsters-withdraws-from-unicef-open-semis-with-injury.html
Four-time Grand Slam singles champion
 Kim Clijsters  says she’s looking forward to her career’s end.  A 6-1, 6-1 Wimbledon fourth-round loss in 49 minutes to No.
8 seed Angelique Kerber of  Germany  brought that closer
yesterday, marking the end of a run at the grass-court tennis
tournament that began in 1999.  The 29-year-old is the mother of four-year-old Jada, and is
struggling with injuries. The right-hander from Bree,  Belgium ,
will return to the All England Club for the London Olympics and
then retire from the women’s tour for a second time after the
U.S. Open in August.  “In a few months, it will all be different,” Clijsters
said in a televised interview after her match. “I will be a
wife and mother again.”  Although she never made the championship match at
Wimbledon, losing in the semifinals in 2003 and 2006, Clijsters
has only good memories when it comes to playing on the grass
courts in  London .  She said she first became aware of Wimbledon as a child,
watching the tournament on television from Belgium during the
school summer holidays.  “When I was able to be here for the first time as a
junior, it was just very special,” Clijsters told reporters.
“To me this was like Disneyland to another child. It was such a
beautiful thing.”  Andy Murray , the No. 4 seed from Britain, today resumes his
fourth-round match against Marin Cilic of  Croatia  leading 7-5,
3-1 after it was suspended for rain yesterday along with two
other men’s singles matches. Two other round of 16 matchups are
yet to begin. Four-time women’s title winner  Serena Williams  of
the U.S. plays defending champion Petra Kvitova of the  Czech
Republic  in a quarterfinal.  Injury Prone  With a game built on athleticism and aggressive baseline
play, Clijsters has been vulnerable to injuries throughout her
15-year professional career.  She was ranked No. 1 in both singles and doubles in 2003
and won 34 career titles before retiring in May 2007 at the age
of 23. The Belgian, one of the most popular players on the
women’s tour, had her daughter in February 2008 with her
husband, U.S. basketball player Brian Lynch. Her father, former
international soccer player Lei Clijsters, died in January 2009.  “I have a lot of good memories, a lot of special memories
also emotionally with my family and with my dad,” Clijsters
said. “Wimbledon is a nice place to go back to every year.”  Major Victories  Following a 20-month break, Clijsters returned to the
women’s game in 2009, and promptly won the  U.S. Open  as a wild-
card entry. She successfully defended her title in  New York  in
2010, and also won the 2011 Australian Open.  This season, Clijsters has struggled physically, missing
the clay-court swing in  Europe  because of a hip injury. Three
days before the start of Wimbledon, she pulled out of the
semifinals of the Unicef Open in the Netherlands because of an
abdominal injury.  She said she won’t be leaving Wimbledon with any regrets.  “I know that every time that I’ve played here I’ve given
my best,” Clijsters said. “I’ll never say that I didn’t work
hard enough or I didn’t practice hard enough. So I don’t think
I’ll feel sorry about anything when I leave.”  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Danielle Rossingh at Wimbledon through the London sports desk at
   drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  