-- Comic Greeks, Odd Goats, Wife-Swappers Inhabit Frayn’s ’Skios’
-- B y   H e p h z i b a h   A n d e r s o n
-- 2012-07-02T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-02/comic-greeks-odd-goats-wife-swappers-inhabit-frayn-s-skios-.html
Michael Frayn’s new novel was
inspired by a thought that will have crossed many a frequent
flyer’s mind. What if, failing to spot your name among the
placards held up by limo drivers in the arrivals hall, you
pretended to be someone else?  Landing on Skios, the fictitious Greek island that provides
the book’s title, floppy-haired scoundrel Oliver Fox does
exactly that. Having already grabbed the wrong suitcase from the
baggage carousel, his eye alights on blond, tan Nikki Hook
holding her sign for Dr. Norman Wilfred.  Dr. Wilfred is the world’s leading expert on
“scientometrics,” and Nikki has booked him to lecture at the
Fred Toppler Foundation’s annual jamboree. She knows he’s
middle-aged and probably has “a bald head and a lot of
expensive meals built into him.” Yet with a dishy imposter
striding toward her, she is blinded by her own wishful thinking.  So begins “ Skios ,” a rib-tickler that doubles as a
philosophical head-scratcher, blending classic farce with
musings on (mistaken) identity and fate. As Oliver marvels,
“You were who you said you were, even if they knew you
weren’t!”  The Toppler crowd isn’t so hard to dupe. The foundation’s
figurehead is Mrs. Fred Toppler, a former Vegas showgirl who got
to be the industrial-refuse mogul’s fourth wife for just six
weeks before he died. Its fuzzy mission is to foster “civilized
values,” though really it’s an excuse for pseudo-intellectual
showboating.  Extra Wives  Its patrons arrive by yacht or private jet, and include the
second-richest man in  Rhode Island  and His Excellency Sheikh
Abdul hilal bin-Taimour bin-Hamud bin-Ali al-Said, who
inconveniently turns up with two extra wives.  “It’s so inspiring,” one attendee coos at Oliver, “to
find someone who knows about science -- and who can explain it
in a way that we can all understand! No figures, no equations,
no funny business about extra dimensions or time going
backwards!”  Instead, he’s using coffee cups to demonstrate -- well,
he’s not quite sure what. Gradually, though, he begins to feel
trapped by his own ruse.  Meanwhile, the real Dr. Wilfred ends up in the taxi meant
for Oliver, which drops him off on the other side of the island
at a villa Oliver’s estranged girlfriend has borrowed from
friends. Assuming it belongs to the foundation, Dr. Wilfred
settles in for an early night, which is when Oliver’s other
squeeze turns up.  Wrong Beds  Frayn’s 11th novel is full of sublimely choreographed
slapstick that at its best recalls his evergreen stage smash,
“Noises Off.” Not only do people hop into the wrong beds,
their mobile phones fizzle at crucial moments, herds of goats
are mistaken for helpful locals, and all manner of linguistic
misunderstandings arise.  “Phoksoliva!” Dr. Wilfred calls, having decided that his
cab driver’s repeated “Fox, Oliver” must be a Greek
salutation.  Egotism and hubris are rife, and Frayn has a knack for
zeroing in on the details that bring his characters thudding
down to earth -- Dr. Wilfred’s penchant for silk underpants, the
“bloated dark thundercloud of naked stomach” belonging to a
corrupt Greek businessman caught in flagrante.  As the hour of the lecture nears and subplots involving
 money laundering , smuggling and backstage power struggles simmer
to a boil, Frayn creates the sense that the ancient gods may yet
be keeping an eye on these foolish mortals.  Ideal summer reading, “Skios” sets the world
mischievously to rights even as it whisks the reader so far from
reality that not a single mention is made of economic meltdown
on the mainland.  “Skios” is published by Faber in the U.K. and
Metropolitan in the U.S. (257 pages, $25, 15.99 pounds). To buy
this book in  North America , click  here .  (Hephzibah Anderson is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
her own.)  Muse highlights include  Greg Evans  on  movies  and Scott
Reyburn on  art sales .  To contact the writer on the story:
Hephzibah Anderson in London at
 Hephzibah_anderson@hotmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 