-- Con Ed Seeks to Resume Talks as Managers Run Operations
-- B y   J u l i e   J o h n s s o n   a n d   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 2012-07-02T18:51:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-02/con-ed-seeks-to-resume-talks-as-managers-run-operations.html
Consolidated Edison Inc. (ED)  is seeking
to resume contract negotiations with its largest union as soon
as possible after 5,000 managers began handling daily operations
amid a heat wave.  The  Utility Workers Union of America  Local 1-2 said 8,000
workers were locked out early yesterday after contract talks
failed. Negotiations with the New York-based utility may resume
July 5 when federal mediators are due to arrive, according to
John Melia, a union spokesman.  Negotiations are stalled as temperatures in New York
reached 88 degrees Fahrenheit (31 degrees Celsius), Allan Drury,
a Con Ed spokesman, said in a phone interview today. The sides
are sparring over compensation and benefits, and can’t agree on
when mediators became involved. Drury said mediators joined the
negotiations April 12.  “The goal is to get the union leadership back to the
negotiating table,” he said.  The company called in managers to maintain electric, gas
and steam service its 3.2 million customers after the two sides
failed to reach an agreement before the union’s contract expired
July 30, according to a  statement  on Con Ed’s website.  “Our mediators have been at the table and continue to be
in contact with the parties, Kimberly Warren, a spokeswoman for
the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service, said in a
telephone interview today.  The union rejected an offer to extend the current contract
until July 14 while talks continue, Drury said. When union
leaders refused to give assurances that they wouldn’t call a
strike without notice, the company assigned managers to carry
out tasks normally handled by union members.  ‘Wrong Fight’  Mario Cilento, president of the New York State AFL-CIO,
criticized Con Ed’s actions as ‘‘reprehensible” and pledged the
union’s resources to support the locked-out utility workers.  “We have one very clear and simple message for Con Edison:
You picked the wrong fight,” Cilento said in an e-mail today.  “We offered to work without a contract, we requested dates
to resume negotiations from Con Ed, and Con Ed informed the
union negotiators shortly before 1:30 this morning that they had
decided to lock us out,” Melia said in a phone interview
yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julie Johnsson in Chicago at 
 jjohnsson@bloomberg.net ;
Cordell Eddings in  New York  at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tina Davis at 
 tinadavis@bloomberg.net  