-- Construction Spending in U.S. Climbs to More Than Two-Year High
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   J a m r i s k o
-- 2012-07-02T14:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-02/construction-spending-in-u-s-climbs-to-more-than-two-year-high.html
Construction  spending  in the U.S.
increased in May to the highest level in more than two years,
held up by improvement in the housing market.  The 0.9 percent climb followed a 0.6 percent increase in
April that was bigger than previously estimated, Commerce
Department figures showed today in Washington. The median
estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News called for a
0.2 percent increase. The value of all projects rose to $830
billion at an annual rate, the most since December 2009.  A sustained housing recovery is supporting the construction
sector even as public spending weakens. Concern over the  European
debt crisis  and domestic fiscal uncertainty may also limit
business confidence, restraining commercial projects.  “We’re definitely seeing a rebound in home building,
absolutely no question about that,”  Gus Faucher , a senior
economist at PNC Financial Services Group Inc. in Philadelphia,
said before the report. “Construction is going to be a positive
for growth, primarily on the residential side this year, and
maybe more on the commercial side in 2013.”  Estimates from 46 economists in the Bloomberg  survey  ranged
from an increase of 1 percent to a decline of 0.8 percent,
following an initially reported 0.3 percent increase for April.  Construction spending increased 7 percent in the 12 months
ended in May, after adjusting for seasonal variations.  Private construction spending climbed 1.6 percent in May
from the prior month.  Residential Construction  Homebuilding outlays increased 3 percent, the most since
October, including a 3.6 percent gain in home improvement.
Private non-residential projects spending advanced 0.4 percent.  Spending on public construction dropped 0.4 percent in May
from the prior month, led by a 1 percent decline for state and
local government agencies. The value of such projects fell to
$242.6 billion, the lowest since November 2006.  Federal construction spending increased 5.6 percent, the
biggest gain so far this year.  Housing demand has shown a gradual recovery. Purchases of
new houses rose 7.6 percent in May to reach the highest level
since April 2010, while those of existing homes dropped 1.5
percent, figures showed last month.  Housing starts fell 4.8 percent to a 708,000 annual pace in
May from a revised 744,000 rate in the prior month, paced by a
decline for multifamily units, according to Commerce Department
figures released on June 19.  ‘Pent-Up Demand’  “We continue to see slowness for larger-ticket repair,
remodel activity, but our sense is that if we look out a little
bit, there ought to be some pent-up demand,” Tim Wadhams, chief
executive officer of Taylor, Michigan-based Masco Corp., said at
a June 13 conference.  “We’re encouraged by what we see, but certainly
anticipating a much better year than we had last year,” said
Wadhams, whose company makes home-improvement and building
products.  Borrowing costs remain attractive. The average rate for a
30-year fixed mortgage held at 3.66 percent in the week ended
June 28, the lowest in Freddie Mac records dating to 1971. The
average 15-year rate dropped to 2.94 percent, also a record, from
2.95 percent, the McLean, Virginia-based mortgage-finance company
said in a statement.  Construction funded by government agencies is likely to
continue to face headwinds. Communities and states across the
nation endure soaring costs for pensions and retiree health
benefits as sales and property-tax revenue have fallen from the
longest recession since the 1930s.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Jamrisko in  Washington  at 
 mjamrisko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  