-- Credit Swaps in U.S. Fall as Manufacturing Data Shrank in June
-- B y   B r o o k e   S u t h e r l a n d
-- 2012-07-02T20:47:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-02/credit-swaps-in-u-s-fall-as-manufacturing-data-shrank-in-june.html
A gauge of U.S. corporate credit risk
declined to its lowest level in more than a month even as U.S.
manufacturing contracted for the first time since 2009.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark used to hedge against losses on
corporate debt or to speculate on creditworthiness, decreased
3.1 basis points to a mid-price of 109.2 basis points at 4:38
p.m. in New York, according to prices compiled by Bloomberg. The
measure fell to its lowest level since it closed at 108.6 basis
points on May 11.  U.S. manufacturing contracted in June for the first time in
almost three years, with the  Institute for Supply Management ’s
factory index falling to 49.7 from 53.5 in May. Economists had
called for a decline to 52, according to the median of 70
estimates in a Bloomberg News Survey. Readings below 50 indicate
contraction. The slowdown in the U.S. may signal a weakening in
demand as European leaders initiate new measures to curb the
turmoil spurred by the currency bloc’s financial-debt crisis.  Credit markets withstood the contraction in U.S.
manufacturing, Marc Pinto, head of corporate bond strategy at
Susquehanna International Group LLP, said in a telephone
interview. “We’re still looking toward further concrete actions
from the Europeans.”  Rising Yields  Euro-area leaders on June 29 eliminated requirements that
taxpayers get preferred creditor status on aid to  Spain ’s banks
and relaxed the means of recapitalizing lenders in an effort to
curb rising bond yields in Spain and  Italy . German  Chancellor
Angela Merkel  said after the summit that produced the plans that
she maintained her rejection of joint-debt sales in the currency
bloc.  The volume of trading on the benchmark will also be low
this week, given the July 4 holiday in the U.S., which may offer
a skewed perception of investor confidence, according to Pinto.  In  China , the government’s  purchasing managers’ index  fell
to 50.2 in June from 50.4 in May, the Beijing-based National
Bureau of Statistics and China Federation of Logistics and
Purchasing reported, which was less than the median drop of 0.5
forecast by 24 economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  Japan ’s
quarterly Tankan index of large manufacturers’ sentiment was
minus 1 in June, compared with minus 4 in March and a median
estimate of minus 4 called for by 19 economists. A negative
number means pessimists outnumber optimists.  Default Rate  The 12-month trailing default rate on U.S. speculative-
grade corporate debt increased to 2.7 percent in June from 2.6
percent in May, according to a  Standard & Poor’s  report. The
total number of defaults rose by two in June for a total of 22
for the year.  The extra yield investors demand to hold U.S. high-yield,
high-risk corporate debt rather than  government securities  fell
to 685 basis points at the end of June from 702 basis points in
May, according to S&P. Investment-grade spreads declined to 213
basis points from 226 basis points.  High-yield bonds are rated below Baa3 by Moody’s Investors
Service and lower than BBB- by S&P.  The swaps gauge typically falls as investor confidence
improves and rises as it deteriorates. Credit swaps pay the
buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations,
less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals
$1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brooke Sutherland in  New York  at 
 bsutherland7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  