-- Credit Agricole Said in Cheuvreux Talks With Kepler, Viel
-- B y   F r a n c o i s   d e   B e a u p u y ,   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i   a n d   J a c q u e l i n e   S i m m o n s
-- 2012-07-02T10:58:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-02/credit-agricole-said-in-cheuvreux-talks-with-kepler-viel.html
Credit Agricole  SA is holding talks
with brokers as it considers exiting the unprofitable trading
and research activities of its CA Cheuvreux unit, according to
three people familiar with the plans.  Credit Agricole, France’s third-biggest bank, is in talks
with firms including Kepler Capital Markets SA,  Viel & Cie (VIL)  and
 Jefferies Group Inc. (JEF) , said one person, who declined to be
identified because the discussions are private. An agreement may
be reached for the equity broking activities as soon as mid-
July, two of the people said.  Representatives of Paris-based Kepler and Jefferies
declined to comment. An official at Viel was not immediately
available for comment.  Credit Agricole Chief Executive Officer Jean-Paul Chifflet
is trimming the bank’s balance sheet and shrinking investment
banking as the crisis curbs access to funding and regulators
impose stricter capital requirements. A drop in stock trading
volumes combined with a squeeze in commissions has prompted
lenders including  UniCredit SpA (UCG) , which combined its broking with
Kepler, and Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc to abandon their
brokerage businesses.  Cheuvreux, which covers 600 stocks from 13 offices, posted
a 53.9 million-euro ($68 million) loss last year, deeper than
its 12.5 million euro loss in 2010. Credit Agricole’s profit
dropped 75 percent in the first quarter hurt by losses at the
bank’s Greek lender, Emporiki  Bank of Greece (TELL)  SA.  Cheuvreux may be sold for less than its  shareholders’
equity  because it’s unprofitable amid high fixed costs and a
tough environment for stock brokerages, one of the people said.
Just two bidders are still in the running, that person said.
Cheuvreux reported shareholder equity at the end of last year at
about 165 million euros, down from 219 million euros the year
before.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Francois de Beaupuy in Paris at 
 fdebeaupuy@bloomberg.net ;
Elisa Martinuzzi in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons in Paris at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  