-- Darden Sees Olive-Garden-Red Lobster Making New Revenue: Retail
-- B y   L e s l i e   P a t t o n
-- 2012-07-02T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-02/darden-sees-olive-garden-red-lobster-making-new-revenue-retail.html
Brunswick,  Georgia , has a new two-
for-one deal: an Olive Garden-Red Lobster combo store.  This is  Darden Restaurants Inc.’s (DRI)  third such location as
the world’s largest casual-dining chain seeks to cash in on
smaller U.S. cities such as Brunswick, an industrial port town
of about 16,000.  If the strategy works, Darden will have created a new
revenue stream and action plan for expansion, allowing it to
move into markets that would not have previously been
economically viable. For the past three years, the company’s
average sales growth has trailed that of  BJ’S Restaurants (BJRI)  Inc.,
 Texas Roadhouse Inc. (TXRH)  and  Bravo Brio Restaurant Group Inc. (BBRG) ,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Still, the combo strategy, which has been tried with mixed
results by fast-food chains, won’t necessarily turn things
around, said Sara Senatore, an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein.  “This is really the first casual diner, full-service
restaurant that I’ve seen do this,” said Senatore, who is based
in  New York . “You have to ask: ‘Why has nobody else done it?’
Sometimes it’s because it’s not a great idea.”  Darden has advanced 11 percent this year, compared with a
17 percent rise in the Bloomberg U.S. Casual Dining Restaurant
Index. And Senatore asks if the combo-store strategy is “the
right use of capital or could they be doing something else?”  Darden’s origins go back to 1938 when Bill Darden opened a
25-seat luncheonette in Waycross, Georgia, called The Green
Frog. Thirty years later, the first Red Lobster opened in
Lakeland, Florida; Olive Garden in 1982.  LongHorn Steakhouse  In 1970  General Mills Inc. (GIS)  acquired Darden, spinning it 
off as a public company in 1995. The Darden empire comprises 
 Olive Garden  and Red Lobster -- its two biggest brands -- along 
with such smaller chains as  LongHorn Steakhouse , The Capital
Grille and Eddie V’s.  After the downturn, Americans began eating out less, and
comparable-store sales dipped at Olive Garden and Red Lobster.
Efforts since to woo diners with cheap eats, including a Taste
of Tuscany meal for $10.95 and a $12.99 Festival of Shrimp,
didn’t goose sales. Revenue trailed analysts’ estimates in the
quarter ended May 27, the company said on June 22.  The company hit on the small-town strategy because there
aren’t “a lot of sites in major metropolitan and suburban areas
that we’re not in already,” John Caron, president of Olive
Garden, said in a telephone interview.  Shared Bar  The first combination store opened in March 2011 in Flagler
County,  Florida . The locations, which are typically about the
same size as a single Darden restaurant, have a separate
entrance and dining room for each brand while sharing bathrooms,
the bar area and the kitchen.  While the combo stores are a test, sales at the Flagler
County restaurant are “up to expectations,” Caron said. “We
think there’s opportunity there.”  Still, even as Darden embraces the strategy, other chains
are reversing course. Until the late 2000s, putting two brands
under one roof was  Yum! Brands Inc. (YUM) ’s key strategy to boost U.S.
sales. No longer, according to Virginia Ferguson, a spokeswoman
for the Louisville, Kentucky-based company.  Yum expected one plus one to equal three, Senatore said.
“It was more like one plus one maybe equals two.”  While Darden says its restaurants create 170 jobs on
average, not everyone is keen on the company moving into their
town -- especially since Darden extracted property tax breaks to
do so. The Brunswick combo store, for example, is worrying some
mom-and-pops, according to Nathan Sparks,  executive director  at
the Brunswick and Glynn County Development Authority.  The community as a whole has been “ecstatic” about the
store, he said. Still, “there have been some concerns expressed
by local restaurateurs who see a competitor coming in to the
market and one that has tremendous resources.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leslie Patton in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  