-- Dell Agrees to Buy Quest for $2.4 Billion Adding Software
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   C h a y k o w s k i
-- 2012-07-02T20:13:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-02/dell-agrees-to-buy-quest-for-2-4-billion-adding-software.html
Dell Inc. (DELL)  agreed to buy  Quest
Software  Inc., a maker of programs to manage corporate computer
systems, for about $2.4 billion, ending a bidding contest with
Insight Venture Partners.  The acquisition for $28 a share in cash is expected to
close in Dell’s fiscal third quarter, the  Round Rock , Texas-
based company said in a joint statement today with Quest.  The purchase caps a months-long bidding war for Quest and
fits with Dell’s aim to add technology that helps customers
outfit data centers for handling storage and cloud computing.
Quest’s software lets companies administer databases and
servers, as well as back up information and recover lost data.  “Quest Software plays in Dell’s sweet spot,” said Abhey Lamba, an analyst at Mizuho Securities USA Inc., in a research
report today. “The combination could help Dell jump start its
software business.”  Dell’s shares fell 1 percent to $12.39 at the close in New
York, and the stock has dropped 15 percent this year. Quest was
little changed at $27.82, gaining 50 percent in 2012.  Several companies made offers for Quest since it said on
March 9 that it had agreed to be bought by Insight Venture
Partners, a private equity firm, for about $2 billion, or $23 a
share.  Previous Offers  Aliso Viejo , California-based Quest said last week that it
received an offer for $27.50 a share, or about $2.32 billion,
from a company that it didn’t identify. Dell was that company,
people familiar with the matter said.  Dell told analysts at a June 13 meeting that it plans to
use deals to boost revenue from data-center hardware, software
and services by 45 percent to $27.5 billion by fiscal 2016,
reducing the company’s reliance on the slow-growing desktop and
notebook computer businesses.  “This becomes the cornerstone asset for Dell’s software
business,” said John Swainson, president of Dell’s software
group, on a conference call today.  Quest had cash and marketable securities of $263.2 million
as of March 31, and debt of $104.1 million, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen Chaykowski in  New York  at 
 kchaykowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  