-- Denmark Says EU-Wide Regulator Hampers Bubble Fighting
-- B y   J o s i a n e   K r e m e r
-- 2012-07-03T08:12:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-02/denmark-says-eu-wide-regulator-hampers-bubble-fighting.html
Denmark  is unwilling to sign up to a
European banking authority and warns such a model could rob
national regulators of the tools they need to prevent asset
bubbles from forming in local markets.  “It is very important that there are macro-prudential
tools for each member state in order to make sure that you do
not build up housing bubbles and other things,” Danish Economy
Minister  Margrethe Vestager  said in an interview in Oslo
yesterday. “Tools so that you can calibrate the risk weights in
your banking system.”  Denmark’s lenders  have yet to emerge from a regional
banking crisis triggered by a burst housing bubble more than
four years ago.  House prices  have tumbled more than 20 percent
since their peak in 2007 and will decline 5.5 percent this year,
the government estimates. The country’s financial regulator has
told banks to comply with stricter writedown standards after
finding a number of lenders understated their impairment risk.  Thanks to “first-hand experience, I have some reluctance
in having a really thorough European authority, if that would
mean that you would dismantle all national tools or national
authorities in that respect,” Vestager said.  First Step  Euro-area nations, after agreeing in Brussels last week to
ease the terms of  Spain ’s bank bailout, plan to set up a single
European banking supervisor as a first step toward enabling
direct recapitalization of the region’s lenders. A regional
regulator would affect Nordic bank supervisory work even if
Scandinavian countries including Denmark don’t sign up, Vestager
said.  In neighboring  Sweden , the financial regulator has told the
country’s four biggest banks to target stricter rules than those
set in the rest of  Europe  in an effort to protect taxpayers from
losses. Swedish Prime Minister  Fredrik Reinfeldt  reiterated his
country’s opposition to a European Union-wide regulator on June
27. While a regional bank authority will include all 17 euro
members, EU countries with their own currencies can opt out.  “Of course we have the highest degree of respect for the
euro countries, that they may need to take steps towards further
integration because of the insecurities of the  euro zone ,”
Vestager told reporters. “We would like to participate in the
debate, but we have some skepticism.”  Nordic banks remain “solid” and comply with requirements
set by the Basel Committee for Banking Supervision, Norwegian
Finance Minister Sigbjoern Johnsen told reporters in Oslo
yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Josiane Kremer in Brussels at 
 jkremer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  