-- Deutsche Telekom Teams Up With Mastercard for Mobile Payments
-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 2012-07-02T11:15:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-02/deutsche-telekom-teams-up-with-mastercard-for-mobile-payments.html
Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE)  teamed up with
 Mastercard Inc. (MA)  to enable consumers to pay with mobile handsets
as  Europe ’s second-largest phone company seeks to use its
network for new services.  In a first step, the Bonn-based operator will offer payment
cards in  Germany  this year that come with a so-called near-field
communication chip, allowing transactions by moving it close to
a cash register, Deutsche Telekom said in a statement today. The
company will later integrate the NFC technology into mobile-
phone SIM cards.  Deutsche Telekom plans to almost double revenue areas such
as mobile data, online services and machine-to-machine
communication to 29 billion euros ($36.7 billion) by 2015. The
former German phone monopoly and other wireless operators such
as  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  are starting their own mobile-payment
offerings to take on  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and its mobile-wallet software
for NFC-enabled phones.  “Our aim is to build a complete ecosystem around paying
with smartphones,” said Thomas Kiessling, Deutsche Telekom’s
chief innovation officer.  Deutsche Telekom said its mobile-wallet product will allow
clients to buy train tickets, cash in rebates and participate in
customer loyalty programs when a specific product is purchases
several times. An offering to use other payment cards or systems
will be started in Poland this year, with a German release
planned for next year.  Missing Out  One in five new smartphones will be NFC-enabled by 2014,
which amounts to about 300 million units, according to estimates
by Juniper Research. Phone companies will introduce the service
in 20 countries before the end of the year, mostly in western
Europe and  North America , the researcher has said.  Europe has missed out on the “most promising” mobile-
phone payment initiatives because the region lacks a regulatory
framework for the technology, European Union regulators have
said, citing initiatives by  Visa Inc. (V) , Google  and Apple Inc.   Visa last year agreed to license its mobile-payment
technology to Google to be incorporated into the design of a new
smartphone.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cornelius Rahn in Frankfurt at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  