-- Dish Tells Judge Ad-Free TV Suits Should Be in New York
-- B y   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 2012-07-03T16:14:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-02/dish-tells-judge-tv-ad-skipping-case-should-be-heard-in-new-york.html
Dish Network Corp. (DISH) , the third largest
pay-television provider, told a judge that lawsuits over its
service allowing viewers to watch ad-free TV should be heard in
 New York  instead of Los Angeles, where the major broadcast
networks filed their complaints.  U.S. District Judge Laura Taylor Swain in  Manhattan  heard
arguments last night on whether the lawsuit by Dish, filed in
New York against the television networks, should continue. In
May, Swain ordered a temporary halt to the networks’ suits filed
in California. She said she plans to rule on where the cases
will be heard “within a week.”  “This controversy belongs in New York,” Peter Bicks, a
lawyer for Dish, told the judge yesterday. Dish said the cases
should be in in New York because its complaint was the first
filed and its contracts with the networks require litigation to
be heard there. “Dish is standing by the contract provisions,”
Bicks said.  TV broadcasters including  CBS Corp. (CBS) ,  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s NBC
and  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Fox sued Dish in May, claiming that its new
Auto Hop digital video-recording feature, which allows viewers
to automatically skip through commercials on recorded programs,
infringes their copyrights and breaches Dish’s contracts with
them. At issue is the broadcasters’ advertising revenue.  Dish’s service “will ultimately destroy the advertiser-
supported ecosystem that provides consumers with the choice to
enjoy free over-the-air varied, high-quality prime time
broadcast programs,” Fox said in its complaint. The networks
seek an injunction to shut down the service.  ‘True’ Plaintiffs  The networks argued that the cases should be heard in Los
Angeles because the violation of their copyrights and contracts
makes them the “true” plaintiffs. They said Dish filed its
complaint first because it knew it was about to be sued, and
that its suit should be dismissed as an “improper
anticipatory” filing. The Dish complaint was stamped 29 minutes
before the first of three suits was filed in  Los Angeles .  “Dish admitted it filed its declaratory judgment suit
because it was operating under the threat of imminent
litigation,” Richard Stone, a lawyer for Fox, told the judge.  Paul LiCalsi, a lawyer for CBS and NBC, said in court that
Dish’s complaint “serves no useful purpose” and should be
dismissed. “It misses crucial issues,” he said.  Stifle Innovation  The networks are trying to stifle innovation, Dish said in
its complaint. Auto Hop “complies with Dish’s bargained-for
contractual rights,” it said. Dish added that it pays the
networks “hundreds of millions of dollars per year in
retransmission fees, collected from its subscriber base, for the
right to rebroadcast these signals.”  It seeks a judicial ruling that it didn’t violate contracts
or copyrights.  Dish , based in Englewood,  Colorado , introduced its new DVR,
the Hopper, in March. It can record all the major networks’
primetime shows and store them for eight days after their
initial broadcast. Auto Hop, introduced in May, allows viewers,
with the touch of a button, to skip all the ads automatically,
without having to manually fast-forward through them.  Fox said in its complaint that the Hopper is a “bootleg”
video-on-demand service and that its contracts for such services
with Dish “include prohibiting fast-forwarding through
commercials.”  Comcast and  DirecTV (DTV)  are the largest U.S. pay-TV providers.  Manhattan Venue  Mitch Stoltz of the Electronic Frontier Foundation said
Dish may prefer a Manhattan venue because of a New York-based
appeals court ruling in 2008. Under that decision, pay-
television providers may offer digital video-recording services
to their customers without being held liable for copyright
infringement.  The fourth major broadcast network,  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s ABC,
didn’t sue in Los Angeles. It is a defendant in Dish’s complaint
in New York. Kevin Baine, a lawyer for ABC, told the judge that
the company doesn’t object to litigating in Los Angeles.  The Los Angeles cases are Fox Broadcasting v. Dish Network
LLC, 12-4529; NBC Studios LLC v. Dish Network Corp., 12-4536;
and CBS Broadcasting Inc. v. Dish Network Corp., 12-4551, U.S.
District Court, Central District of  California  (Los Angeles).
The New York case is Dish Network LLC v. American Broadcasting
Cos., 12-04155, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New
York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Don Jeffrey in New York federal court
at   djeffrey1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  