-- DNA Mapping of Alzheimer’s Patients Gives Deep Dive View
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2012-07-02T13:57:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-02/dna-mapping-of-alzheimer-s-patients-gives-deep-dive-view.html
Over the past 18 months, 81-year-old
Bill Bunnell has visited the doctor a half-dozen times to take
memory tests, provide blood samples, and undergo a spinal tap
and imaging scans. It’s all part of the most  extensive study 
ever conducted on Alzheimer’s.  Now researchers are about to take an even closer look at
Bunnell, a retired engineer from Madison,  Connecticut .  Working with $2 million in new grants to be announced this
week, the researchers for the  Alzheimer’s Disease  Neuroimaging
Initiative will, for the first time, start mapping the DNA of
800 participants in a study attempting to find the root causes
of  memory loss . The goal is to see if physical changes from
Alzheimer’s can be matched to genetic disparities, which can
then be compared with findings from healthy people like Bunnell.  “If there’s ever to be progress in the discovery of the
fundamentals that lead to Alzheimer’s, this is the way to do
it,” said Aubrey Milunsky, director of the  Boston  University
Center for Human Genetics, which isn’t involved in the research.  The grants are split evenly from the  Alzheimer’s
Association , a nonprofit health group focused on the care and
treatment of people with the disease, and the nonprofit Brin
Wojcicki Foundation, a charitable organization created by
23andMe Inc. co-founder Anne Wojcicki and her husband  Sergey Brin , co-founder of  Mountain View , California-based Google Inc.  Tracking Changes  The research initiative, funded by the U.S. government,
nonprofit groups and private industry, began  tracking  physical
and mental changes in people ages 60 and older in 2004.
Alzheimer’s is an irreversible  disease  that destroys brain cells
and makes it difficult for patients to think, remember and
function. It afflicts 5.1 million  Americans , a number that may
grow to 16 million by 2050, according to the U.S. National
Institutes of Health.  The ADNI study has sought to tie the development of
symptoms to physical changes in people with Alzheimer’s,
including deposits of protein tangles and plaque in the brain
over time.  By diving deeply into the genetics of healthy people and
those with the disease, scientists may find differences that
either spur the buildup of the amyloid plaque that’s a hallmark
of the disease, or protect people from it.  Illumina Sequencing  The genetic samples have already been gathered, the
researchers said. They’ll be sequenced at  Illumina Inc. (ILMN) , the
gene-mapping company based in  San Diego  that fought off a $6.7
billion takeover bid from  Roche Holding AG (ROG)  earlier this year.  It will take 16 weeks to get the results, which will
generate so much information that the data on each participant
will be sent to the researchers on separate hard drives. The
team is working on ways to share the raw data when it emerges,
and is considering alternatives like lending them to
investigators the way libraries lend books.  Researchers plan to study the genetic makeup of the
participants. While roughly 10 genes are already linked to the
condition, crucial details about genetic variations and how they
interact remain unknown, said  Robert Green , a medical geneticist
at Brigham and Women’s Hospital and  Harvard Medical School  in
Boston who is coordinating the sequencing efforts.  “Alzheimer’s is one of the many diseases that is starting
to reach the point where we can benefit from the explosion of
genomic information that’s becoming available,” Green said in a
telephone interview. “We still don’t know the entire pathway of
what causes it. There are mysteries that likely have to be
solved before we have truly effective treatments.”  Open Access  The results of the genetic tests, as with all the other
information gathered by the program investigators, will be
available to anyone studying Alzheimer’s, said  Mike Weiner , the
leader of the initiative from the  University of California ,  San
Francisco , in a telephone interview. That promises to speed
progress, he said.  Open access helped draw funding to expand the program into
genetic testing, said Wojcicki, also chief executive officer of
Mountain View, California-based gene-testing company 23andMe.  “For something like Alzheimer’s disease, where there is
such a critical need, and where it is so urgent and will impact
so many of us, we need as many smart minds as we can find
working on it,” Wojcicki said. “I’m a big believer that if we
have more data, we can solve our health care problems.”  The 8-year-old program is already a watershed in the
history of Alzheimer’s, leading to the publication of nearly 500
research reports, said  William Thies , chief medical officer of
the  Alzheimer’s Association , an early contributor to the
initiative.  Integrated Data  The integration of patients’ medical history with their
genetic makeup will provide an unprecedented view of how
Alzheimer’s disease emerges and eventually dominates the mind,
Thies said by telephone.  “Until you understand the relationship between basic
blocks of genetics and the clinical condition of the patient,
you’re not going to get very far,” Thies said. “We believe
this is the biggest project of whole genome sequencing in a
single disease.”  Most people don’t realize Alzheimer’s is strongly
inherited, often because their relatives died before developing
it, Weiner said. Past research looked mainly at snippets of the
genetic code where variations are thought to exist, a method
that’s been productive but “hasn’t nailed it,” he said.  Weiner compares the approach to a blurry map of the U.S.
showing major cities and roads. Looking at the whole genome will
provide crisp details and more information, making it easier to
pinpoint the disease’s strengths and weaknesses.  “This is a disease that has the potential to wreck our
health-care system, our economy and ruin the lives of increasing
numbers of people in the next 50 years,” Thies said. “All that
can be avoided if we invest appropriately in research and we
have the public volunteering for clinical opportunities.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  