-- Dynegy Unit Judge to Allow Bankruptcy Plan Vote
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n   a n d   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2012-07-02T18:51:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-02/dynegy-unit-judge-to-allow-bankruptcy-plan-vote.html
A bankruptcy judge said she will
allow a  Dynegy Inc. (DYN)  unit’s creditors to vote on its
reorganization plan after some wording changes are made.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Cecelia Morris in Poughkeepsie,  New
York , said at a hearing today that she will approve Dynegy
Holdings LLC’s so-called disclosure statement, allowing the
vote. Morris asked lawyers involved in the case to change the
wording of an order approving the statement to give creditors
more information about the unit’s proposed restructuring.  “I am interested in proper notice and lack of confusion,”
Morris said. “I am going to approve it, after all this work.”  The plan will pay bondholders between 59 cents to 89 cents
on the dollar, the power producer says. The ruling moves
Houston-based Dynegy closer to completing the restructuring of
the holdings unit, whose creditors include holders of about $3.4
billion in senior notes. Dynegy put the unit into bankruptcy
last year.  Under the proposal, the holdings unit will merge with the
parent company, and creditors will own 99 percent of the
combined entity. The plan is the result of a settlement reached
with creditors following a court-ordered investigation into
asset transfers. The Dynegy parent plans to file for bankruptcy
to complete the merger, according to court papers.  General unsecured creditors with claims of about
$4.2 billion, including noteholders, will receive a recovery of
between 59 percent and 89 percent, according to court documents.  The case is In re Dynegy Holdings LLC, 11-38111,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York (Poughkeepsie).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 David McLaughlin  in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net ;
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  