-- Teacher’s Wages Garnished as U.S. Goes After Loan Default
-- B y   J o h n   H e c h i n g e r
-- 2012-07-02T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-02/teacher-s-wages-garnished-as-u-s-goes-after-loan-default.html
Lawyers drained Linda Brice’s bank
account and seized a quarter of her take-home pay, or more than
$900 a month. Brice, a first-grade teacher and Coast Guard
veteran, begged for mercy, saying she couldn’t afford food, gas
or utilities.  Brice’s transgression: she defaulted on $3,100 she had
borrowed more than 30 years ago to pay for college. The chief
federal judge in  Los Angeles  took her side, ruling that Brice
should pay only $25 a month. The law firm of Goldsmith & Hull --
representing the federal government -- then withdrew $2,496 from
her bank account.  “I am at the end of my rope,” Brice wrote in a May 2009
court filing. “I apologize for taking the court’s time, but I
simply do not know what to do.”  Brice’s case shows how tough the government can be when it
comes to collecting its share of student-loan debt, which totals
$1 trillion, surpassing the amount owed on credit cards.
Students who borrow as teenagers and whose degrees don’t pay off
confront some of the harshest treatment and fewest chances for a
fresh start of any debtors, except those owing child support.  When the U.S. Education Department fails to get repaid, the
agency can turn borrowers’ names over to federal prosecutors. In
turn, U.S. attorneys are hiring private law firms to retrieve
money for taxpayers -- after the firms keep a cut for
themselves.  Lawyers representing federal prosecutors have told
borrowers to turn over their cars and cancel their health
insurance, debtors said in interviews and court filings.
Attorneys have insisted on steep  wage garnishments  while turning
down offers that would have satisfied their obligations over
several years.  Giving Back  Borrowers have almost no way out. Because of a 1998 change
in federal law, student loans can rarely be discharged through
bankruptcy. Unlike most  consumer debt , there has been no statute
of limitations on collections since 1991.  Brice, 58, said she had no idea that she could be pursued
for debts from the 1970s.  “If you are a person who gave to your country, who does
the kind of work I do, or is a police officer or firefighter --
anyone who gives back to their community -- I think the
government needs to give you a break,” Brice said in an
interview at a Burbank,  California , coffee shop, after a day of
teaching in the Los Angeles school system.  William Goldsmith, an attorney with Goldsmith & Hull, the
firm that pursued Brice, referred questions to the Justice
Department, which declined to discuss details of borrowers’
cases.  Leniency Vows  The government’s aggressive collections efforts contrast
with President  Barack Obama ’s recent speeches on student debt
that stress his administration’s offers of leniency for strapped
borrowers.  During a June 7 speech at the  University of Nevada ,  Las
Vegas , Obama promoted his executive order making it easier for
students to sign up for a program that lets borrowers tie loan
payments to their incomes. The loans could be forgiven in 20
years.  Even as Obama makes those statements, student-loan
borrowers who default are being pursued and punished more
severely than just about any other kind of debtor, said Deanne
Loonin, an attorney with the National Consumer Law Center, a
nonprofit advocacy group in  Boston .  “It’s a huge contradiction,” Loonin said in a telephone
interview. “It’s misleading to say you’re being more flexible
when you’re being so aggressive with people who are already in
default.”  Last Resort  The Education Department turns to lawsuits as a last
resort, said  Justin Hamilton , a spokesman.  Former students must stop making payments for at least four
years before they are sued, Hamilton said. The Justice
Department gives borrowers a chance to settle their debts before
filing a lawsuit, Allison Price, a spokeswoman, said in an e-
mail.  Along with the  income-based program  that Obama cited, the
government lets borrowers defer payments if they lose their
jobs, Hamilton said. Borrowers in public-service careers,
including teachers, can be eligible for  loan forgiveness  after
10 years of making regular, reduced payments. Brice didn’t
qualify because she was in default and had a legal judgment
against her.  “We go out of our way to help folks,” Hamilton said in a
telephone interview. “It is a very long road to go from default
to litigation. For the vast majority of people, we’re able to
work with them and get them back into a payment plan.”  4,841 Lawsuits  More than five million borrowers are in default, generally
meaning they have stopped making payment for 270 days or more.
As of September, they owed $67 billion.  In the year ended Sept. 30, the federal government filed
4,841 lawsuits to recover money from student-loan borrowers,
almost three times the number a year before, according to the
 Justice Department . Private lawyers filed about 90 percent of
the suits. The Justice Department returned $9.4 million to
taxpayers, after paying private lawyers and other expenses.  Since 2008, the federal litigation returned $37 million to
the Education Department. The private lawyers received $8
million in contingency fees, about 30 percent of the amount that
their suits collected, according to data released by the agency.  Government Power  Before heading to court, the Education Department has
powerful collection tools.  Without a court order, it can seize part of borrowers’
paychecks, tax refunds and Social Security payments.  Private debt collectors -- working directly for the federal
government and for state agencies -- earned $1 billion in
commissions chasing down debtors in the year ended Sept. 30,
according to a review of Education Department data.  Using all its collection powers, the Education Department
last year retrieved $11.3 billion. The government projects in
budget documents that it will recover almost every dollar of
federal  student loans  that default, a forecast no private lender
could make. Even after factoring in collection costs and the
time-value of money, the agency said it expects to collect 85
cents of every dollar that defaults.  To chase student loans and other debts worth $100,000 or
less, the Justice Department started using private lawyers in
1986, during the  Reagan administration . Congress had passed
legislation authorizing the approach as a way to recover
taxpayer money without the expense of tying up prosecutors.  The Education Department selects the cases it sends to U.S.
attorneys based on whether the government can expect to recover
money and has lawyers to pursue debtors. That means borrowers
with smaller balances are sued more often in the 19 of 94 court
districts that hire private lawyers.  Texas Sun  Central California, eastern  Michigan  and southern  Texas  --
all with longstanding private-lawyer programs -- accounted for
half of all federal lawsuits against student-loan debtors since
2007, according to  Syracuse University ’s Transactional Records
Access Clearinghouse, which collects federal records.  “Someone was working hard in this hot Texas sun, so the
government could lend out this money and give someone else an
education,” said M.H. “Butch” Cersonsky, who said his five-
attorney Houston firm has collected as much as $1 million from
student debtors in its best year. “They need to pay it back.”  Lawyers are relentless, borrowers say.  Charles Griffiths, a former auto worker who lives near
 Detroit , said an attorney representing the federal government
told him to sell his only car, which he had driven more than
100,000 miles. Griffiths, 46, owed $50,000 from loans he took
out to attend the  University of Michigan , the government said in
a lawsuit.  Hard Times  In 2005, Griffiths filed for bankruptcy after quitting his
job as a political consultant to care for his grandmother, he
said. He mistakenly thought the loan had been canceled through
the bankruptcy, he said.  “They just want to get the money out of you -- get their
commission and walk away,” Griffiths said in a telephone
interview.  Deborah Winslow, the attorney at  Shermeta, Adams & Von
Allmen , a Troy, Michigan-based firm collecting on Griffiths’
loan, declined to discuss her fee or his case.  “It’s hard to collect these days -- people aren’t working
in Michigan,” Winslow said in a telephone interview. “Some
people feel they have a right to have their loans forgiven
because so much time has passed.”  1970s roots  In California, Brice’s battle with lawyers hired by the
government has its roots in the 1970s, when the Los Angeles
teacher attended Syracuse University and other schools in  New
York . After a stint in the Coast Guard, she completed her
college education, getting a bachelor’s degree in psychology at
 California State University , Northridge.  The Education Department said it mailed 90 notices to Brice
between 1990 and 1999 that some of her loans were in default.
Brice said she never received them.  In 2004, Brice consolidated some of her college debt
through an Education Department program that lets students make
lower monthly payments. Brice said she didn’t know that $3,100,
which was in default, wasn’t included.  Around the beginning of 2009, through a court order,
Goldsmith & Hull started taking 25 percent of Brice’s pay, after
taxes and certain other items.  Brice said she pleaded with the firm for lower payments,
saying she couldn’t afford $918 a month. Supporting her then 24-
year-old daughter, she had had maxed out her credit cards. To
buy groceries, she borrowed from her then 82-year-old mother, a
retired nurse living on a fixed income.  ‘Personal Belongings’  Felicia Falcon, Goldsmith & Hull’s collections-department
supervisor, told her to give up her car, which she needed to get
to work, Brice said. Over several conversations, Falcon yelled
at her and treated her rudely, Brice said.  “You owe us this money,” Brice remembered Falcon saying.
“Whatever we need to do, we’re going to go after you to get it.
We’re going to go after your bank account. We’re going to go
after your salary. We’re going to go after your personal
belongings.”  In an e-mail, Falcon referred questions to the Justice
Department.  Brice couldn’t afford a lawyer. Representing herself, with
help from Public Counsel, a Los Angeles-based nonprofit group,
she took her complaints before Audrey Collins, chief judge of
U.S. District Court for the Central District of California. In
March 2009, Collins ruled that Brice could afford $25 “to meet
the necessities of life.”  Frantic E-Mail  After the judge issued her order, Goldsmith then seized
$2,496 from Brice’s bank account, through another court order.
Brice said her paychecks had been deposited in that account. The
law firm took another $918 directly from her paycheck, as well,
she said.  “I need to know what I can do to stop them and make them
conform to the court order???” Brice wrote in an April 2009 e-
mail, filed in court.  In a filing, Goldsmith & Hull, based in Northridge,
California, said it didn’t have time to stop that month’s wage
garnishment because of the order’s timing. The firm said it
couldn’t give the matter priority because it handles almost
6,000 collection cases for the U.S. Attorney’s office.  Brice, in her interactions with the firm’s staff, “has
consistently been highly unreasonable, combative and
unprofessional,” Goldsmith & Hull said in the filing.  ‘Discourteous Tone’  Siding with Brice, Judge Collins issued a restraining order
and demanded that the firm return the money from her bank
account. She reprimanded Goldsmith & Hull for its “snippy and
discourteous tone” and told the U.S. Attorney’s office to
examine the firm’s performance.  Goldsmith & Hull settled for the $3,000 to $4,000 it had
taken from her paycheck, around the amount of the principal of
her original loan, Brice said.  Brice said she would have been willing to pay back $25 a
month for as long as necessary to cover the interest she owed,
as well.  “That wasn’t enough for them,” she said of the law firm.
“I was really upset. I said to them, ‘You know what, I’m a
single parent. What do you want?’ Why should the government go
after you with a vengeance, even though you are trying to pay
back your loan?”  $2,375 loan  Judge Collins questioned the tactics of  Goldsmith & Hull  in
another case: its pursuit of Jimi Demmitt, a clerk at a title
insurance company who was making about $30,000 a year.  In 2009, through a court order, Goldsmith & Hull started
taking 25 percent of Demmitt’s pay, or more than $674 a month.
She had defaulted on a $2,375 loan to attend a Los Angeles trade
school in the 1990s.  Demmitt, who lives near Los Angeles, told Goldsmith &
Hull’s Falcon that she couldn’t afford to pay that much.  Falcon questioned her honesty, and another law firm
employee suggested she get rid of her health insurance, Demmitt,
who has diabetes, said in a court filing. Negotiating on her
behalf, her boyfriend offered $150 a month, which the firm
refused, she said.  In an October 2009 order, Judge Collins said Demmitt
provided “unrefuted evidence” that the law firm failed to
notify her of the judgment against her, contacting her at an
address where she had never lived and when she was out of town.  Collins threw out the judgment, ordered a halt to the wage
garnishment and said she would consider sanctions against
Goldsmith & Hull. She declined to impose sanctions after the
firm said it would take steps to prevent “future violations,”
Collins said.  Case Closed  The  U.S. Attorney’s office in Los Angeles  looked into the
complaints involving Brice and Demmitt, which were “resolved
between private counsels and the debtors,” Price, the Justice
Department spokeswoman, said in an e-mail. Collins declined to
discuss her orders.  Goldsmith & Hull agreed to settle Demmitt’s case for what
it had already taken from her paycheck, almost $7,000, she said.  “They were treating me like a criminal, like someone who
wasn’t offering to pay,” Demmitt said. “They were going to get
the money, no matter what.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Hechinger in Boston at 
 jhechinger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonathan Kaufman at 
 jkaufman17@bloomberg.net  