-- Heat to Grip U.S. East Coast as Severe Storms Possible
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2012-07-02T13:13:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-02/heat-to-grip-u-s-east-coast-as-severe-storms-possible.html
Temperatures past 90 degrees
Fahrenheit (32 Celsius) and severe thunderstorms are possible on
the East Coast this week as almost 500,000 customers remain
without power following weekend storms in the Washington area.  New York  City may reach a high of 91 today before dropping
to 89 tomorrow, according to the  National Weather Service .
Temperatures are expected to stay at or above 90 for the rest of
the week in Washington and Philadelphia and throughout the
central U.S., including Chicago.  St. Louis  is forecast to be at
100 or higher all week.  The heat along the East Coast may start to break at week’s
end, said  Matt Rogers , president of Commodity Weather Group LLC
in Bethesda,  Maryland .  “Before that point, we expect more upper 90s to sometimes
100-plus temperatures in key areas from the Midwest and East
Coast,” Rogers said. “The biggest day-to-day challenges are
occasional thunderstorm threats.”  Such high temperatures in the large cities and suburbs of
the U.S. East Coast spike energy demand, raising prices in spot
electricity markets.  The cooling-degree days value for the week is forecast to
be 97, 29 more than normal, according to the  Climate Prediction
Center  in Camp Springs, Maryland.  The value is calculated by subtracting a base of 65 degrees
from the daily average temperature to show. Higher values mean
warmer weather and more energy for cooling. Energy and weather
derivatives traders use the value to gauge market demand.  Power Out  At least 492,000 customers in  Washington , Maryland and
Virginia were still without power today, according to statements
by Dominion Resources Inc. and Pepco Holdings Inc. The weekend
storms knocked down trees, closed roads and interrupted Amtrak
service between Philadelphia and Washington.  There is a chance of severe thunderstorms today and
tomorrow from Virginia to South Carolina and later this week
from Maine to Maryland, according to the  U.S. Storm Prediction
Center  in Norman, Oklahoma.  Rogers said temperatures will range at least 5 degrees
above normal from  Colorado  to Massachusetts for the rest of the
week. In Midwest, it may be even warmer, he said.  After that, he expects more seasonal temperatures to spread
across the Northeast. The Midwest and mid-Atlantic may remain
warmer than normal through July 16, he said.  For July 10, the normal average temperature in  New York
City  is 77, according to  MDA EarthSat Weather  in Gaithersburg,
Maryland. It’s 73 in  Boston ; 80 in Washington; 80 in Atlanta; 75
in Chicago; 84 in Houston; 65 in Seattle and 74 in Burbank,
California.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  