-- MEMC Gains on Sale of 98 Megawatts of Europe Solar Farms
-- B y   J u s t i n   D o o m
-- 2012-07-02T20:13:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-02/memc-gains-on-sale-of-98-megawatts-of-projects-in-europe.html
MEMC Electronic Materials Inc. (WFR) , the
second-largest U.S. polysilicon maker, gained the most in more
than three years after announcing the sale of four solar farms
in  Europe  with a total capacity of 98 megawatts.  MEMC rose 22 percent to $2.64 at the close in New York, the
most intraday since November 2008.  MEMC completed sales in the second quarter of 60 megawatts
of solar capacity in  Bulgaria  and 38 megawatts in  Italy , the St.
Peters, Missouri-based company said in a statement today. Terms
weren’t disclosed. The company’s SunEdison project development
unit became its largest source of revenue in the fourth quarter.  “The company guided to this sale on its last conference
call, so it’s good to see the company doing as it had planned,”
 Jesse Pichel , an analyst with Jefferies Group Inc. in New York,
said in an interview. The sales will “alleviate some liquidity
concerns.”  Not all of the funds from the sales will add to MEMC’s
liquidity because it borrowed against one of the projects in
Bulgaria. The company has “non-recourse term loans from
multiple financial institutions which are secured by a 60.4 MW
solar energy system in Bulgaria,” according to a May 9  filing .  “It looks like the company has debt outstanding against
these projects that it has to repay now,” Pichel said. “It
basically hands this cash right back to the banks, which doesn’t
help in a cash crunch.”  Altai Capital Management LP, a New York-based investment
company, said June 8 it had more than doubled its  stake  in MEMC
to become its second-largest holder. Altai is seeking to add co-
founder Steven V. Tesoriere to MEMC’s board, according to a June
18 filing.  Bill Michalek, an MEMC spokesman, had no immediate comment
today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Justin Doom in  New York  at 
 jdoom1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  