-- Emerging Stocks Rise to 1-Week High on China Data, Europe
-- B y   G a n   Y e n   K u a n   a n d   S t e p h e n   G u n n i o n
-- 2012-07-02T22:17:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-02/emerging-stocks-rise-to-1-week-high-on-china-data-europe.html
Emerging-market stocks rose to the
highest level in more than a week as economic data from  China 
and  South Korea  beat estimates and  Europe ’s leaders took steps
to stem the debt crisis.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  added 0.4 percent to 941.40
at the close in  New York , extending its biggest gain in eight
months on June 29. Energy companies led the advance as  OGX
Petroleo e Gas Participacoes SA  surged the most since 2008 to
lift  Brazil ’s Bovespa by 0.6 percent. Russian stocks advanced to
the highest since May 10 after OAO E.On Russia, the power
generator controlled by  Germany ’s EON AG, rallied.  China’s Purchasing Managers’ Index for June exceeded
economists’ estimates while South Korean exports grew for the
first time in four months. European leaders eased aid
requirements for Spain and  Italy  last week. Institutional
Revolutionary Party candidate Enrique Pena Nieto claimed victory
in  Mexico ’s presidential election yesterday. Construction
spending in the U.S. increased 0.9 percent in May.  “The positive sentiment after the European Union summit
has seen a strong risk-on trade globally,” Quinten Bertenshaw,
a Johannesburg-based analyst at Tradition Analytics, wrote in e-
mailed comments. The  European Central Bank  “will feel more at
ease in adopting more accommodative monetary policy without
feeling that it is bowing to government pressure to do so.”  The 21 countries in the developing-nation gauge send about
30 percent of their exports to the EU on average, data compiled
by the World Trade Organization show.  ETF Index  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  gauge has advanced 2.7 percent
this year, compared with a 4.9 percent gain in the MSCI World
Index. Shares in the emerging-markets index are trading at 10.1
times estimated earnings, compared with the MSCI World’s
multiple of 12.3, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The IShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index exchange-traded
fund, the most-traded  ETF (EEM)  tracking developing-nation shares, was
little changed at $39.13 today.  The Chicago Board Options Exchange Emerging Markets  ETF
Volatility Index (VXEEM) , a measure of options prices on the fund and
expectations of price swings, rose 2.3 percent to 26.39.  Construction spending in the U.S. increased 0.9 percent in
May to the highest level in more than two years, held up by
improvement in the housing market. The median estimate of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News called for a 0.2 percent
increase.  A manufacturing index by the  Institute for Supply
Management  fell to 49.7 in June from 53.5 a month earlier.
Estimates of the 70 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News called
for a drop ranging from 50.5 to 53.5.  Micex Gains  Russia’s Micex Index climbed 1.1 percent, reversing an
earlier 0.3 percent decline. E.On Russia gained 5.5 percent in
Moscow after its board approved paying its first dividend in
four years.  The Bovespa rose 0.6 percent, paring earlier losses of as
much as 0.7 percent, led by  OGX Petroleo e Gas Participacoes SA ,
the Brazilian  oil company  controlled by billionaire  Eike Batista . The company’s shares jumped 15 percent for a second day
of gains.  Egypt’s  benchmark stock index  gained the most in a week,
jumping 5 percent in the first trading session after Mohamed Mursi was sworn in as the country’s first democratically elected
president.  Home Prices  Hungary’s BUX Index dropped 0.4 percent while the PX Index
in  Prague  jumped 1.2 percent.  The ISE National 100 Index fell 1 percent in Istanbul.
Turkey’s economy expanded by an annual 3.2 percent in the first
quarter, the slowest pace since 2009.  Poland’s  WIG20 Index (WIG20)  retreated 0.9 percent.  PBG SA (PBG)  jumped
19 percent. The Polish construction company declared bankrupt
last month may ask a government fund for state aid to resume
operations.  China’s  Purchasing Managers ’ Index fell to 50.2 in June
from 50.4 in May, the Beijing-based National Bureau of
Statistics and China Federation of Logistics and Purchasing
reported yesterday. That compares with the 49.9 median estimate
in a Bloomberg survey of 24 economists. A final PMI reading for
June by HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics today was better
than a preliminary level published last month.  The nation’s new home prices rose for the first time in 10
months, adding 0.1 percent from May to 8,688  yuan  ($1,368) per
square meter, according to a survey of 100 cities by SouFun
Holdings Ltd., China’s biggest real estate website owner.  Hyundai Motor  The Shanghai Composite Index rose less than 0.1 percent.
Shares of Chinese companies listed in  Hong Kong  did not trade
today as the city was closed for a public holiday.  South Korea’s overseas shipments rose 1.3 percent in June
from a year earlier, after a revised 0.6 percent decline in May,
according to data from the Ministry of  Knowledge Economy  on July
1. That beat the median estimate of a 0.5 percent gain in a
Bloomberg survey of 16 economists.  Hyundai Motor (005380)  climbed 1.3 percent, providing the biggest
boost to the consumer discretionary index. The company said it
sold 374,827 vehicles in June, up 5.8 percent from a year
earlier, according to a regulatory filing today. It shipped 7
percent more cars overseas while domestic sales rose 0.1
percent, Hyundai said.  Samsung Electronics Co., the world’s top handset maker,
fell 2.3 percent in  Seoul , the most in a week. Apple Inc. won a
court ruling blocking sales of Samsung’s Galaxy Nexus smartphone
in the U.S. The Kospi index fell 0.1 percent.  Maruti Suzuki advanced 0.8 percent in Mumbai after saying
sales grew 20 percent in June and exports climbed. The BSE India
Sensex Index fell 0.2 percent.  The extra  yield  investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries rose 3 basis points, or 0.03
percentage point, to 377, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gan Yen Kuan in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 ykgan@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Gunnion in Johannesburg at 
 sgunnion@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  