-- Eric Schmidt’s Irrational Optimism
-- B y   J e f f r e y   G o l d b e r g
-- 2012-07-02T22:30:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-02/eric-schmidt-s-techno-utopia-ignores-web-s-ugly-realities.html
The other morning, after I read on
Twitter of an especially gruesome massacre of civilians by
Syrian government forces, I plugged the words “Syria” and
“massacre” into Google’s search engine.  I wanted to read as much as possible about events in Syria,
as quickly as possible, from a variety of legitimate news
sources.  The search engine -- what Kurt Andersen describes in his
new novel “True Believers” as a kind of “prosthetic cerebral
cortex” -- came up with thousands of matches. But the No. 1
return was not a story from Bloomberg News or the  Associated
Press  or the  New York  Times. It was an article from the website
of Russia Today, a government-controlled propaganda organization
known for advancing the thinking of the Kremlin.  The Russia Today headline: “Leaked: Shock footage allegedly
shows Syrian family slain by rebels (GRAPHIC VIDEO).” The  story
that followed , which described the killing of four people,
contained this line: “Sources say that opposition rebels
committed the atrocity.”  Russia Today, in a natural reflection of the Russian
government’s policies, has been weighting its coverage of the
Syrian intifada in favor of a regime that has killed more than
10,000 of its citizens. Undoubtedly, these “sources” are Syrian
government sources, and it is fair to surmise that they often
lie about the actions of Bashar al-Assad’s dictatorship.  Propaganda, Facts  I believe I’m a fairly sophisticated consumer of  Middle
East  news. Or, at least, I’m sophisticated enough to distinguish
obvious propaganda from depictions of observable facts. But I
believe that other Internet surfers, when coming upon the work
of Russia Today, might not understand its politics and
motivations. Which raises the obvious question: Why can’t Google
do better in presenting information to the world?  Eric Schmidt , the executive chairman of  Google Inc. (GOOG) , and
one of the world’s most effective evangelists for technology-
enhanced living, told me in an interview last week at the Aspen
Ideas Festival that Google should “rank against” disinformation.
But he suggested that isn’t a task easily accomplished. So he
issued this recommendation: “You all have to be aware that
searching for something doesn’t mean you have to believe it.”  Well, that settles it. The Internet-fueled rise of
birtherism, Sept. 11 trutherism and the wild conspiracy theories
that cripple discourse in the Middle East are containable just
as soon as people understand that not everything on the Internet
is true. I asked Schmidt if he could cite any evidence that
American democracy is better off for having the Internet. After
all, there seems to be something of a correlation between the
rise of the Web and the polarization of U.S. politics, along
with the mainstreaming of irrationality.  “I don’t think when we built the Internet, we thought that
was the problem we were solving,” he said. “I think most people
would agree that more speech is better. The clear outcome of the
current situation is that more speech means constant polling,
etc. There is a lack of deliberative time in our political
process. And our political leaders will eventually figure out
that they’re going to make better decisions if they actually
take a break and spend a week thinking about them.”  This last statement seemed incredible -- or, as the laconic
Schmidt himself might put it, unsupported by existing data. The
idea that politicians will become more thoughtful as the
velocity of information, good and bad, increases seems fanciful.
So what mechanism will help politicians become more
contemplative?  “Well, they actually are elected, and they can actually
talk to each other,” Schmidt said.  And you have that much faith? I asked. “Yes. Things will
get bad enough that eventually reason will prevail.” I pushed a
bit more, and he said, “Well, you know, these problems will get
themselves resolved.”  Google’s Religion  I understand that the official religion of Google is the
belief that faster communication will lead to a better-informed
global citizenry and the demise of top-down authoritarianism.
Not even Google’s unfortunate experience in  China  -- where the
government insisted the company follow censorship rules -- seems
to make Schmidt question his company’s philosophy, although he
is aware that China has so far not cooperated with Google’s
vision of what the future should be.  “Our theory was that if we put up with the censorship,
which we did not like, we would empower the citizens, and the
citizens would revolt if this stuff was taken away from them,”
Schmidt told me. This didn’t happen, of course, and Google moved
its servers to  Hong Kong , to the other side of the Chinese
government’s so-called  Great Firewall . Google’s experience, he
said, was that “we were wrong.”  Only provisionally wrong, though. Technology will help
people eventually overcome authoritarianism, especially when
mobile devices are omnipresent, Schmidt said. They will help
citizens publicize crimes against humanity, and shame their
persecutors.  Again, there isn’t a great deal of data available to
support this notion. I asked Schmidt about  Syria , where the
Assad regime seems immune to the shaming power of Google’s
YouTube service, which carries videos of the government’s
atrocities. “There’s always an evil person,” Schmidt said. “But
that doesn’t mean everyone’s evil. Most governments, even
autocratic governments, can be embarrassed.”  The Atlantic’s Alexis Madrigal has labeled Schmidt a
“ radical optimist ” for his naive views of human nature.
Certainly, radical optimism is a sound business policy for a
company that seeks to change the way we gain knowledge.  But here is the main irony of Schmidt’s worldview: His
belief that the Internet has given humankind a radical new
ability to reason its way to truth is in itself irrational.  ( Jeffrey Goldberg  is a Bloomberg View columnist and a
national correspondent for the Atlantic. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  repealing Jackson-Vanik  and
why Barclays CEO  Robert Diamond should resign ;  Noah Feldman 
explains why  liberals should thank John Roberts ; William Pesek
on  shareholder activism in Japan .  To contact the writer of this article:
Jeffrey Goldberg at  goldberg.atlantic@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 