-- Euro-Area Unemployment Climbs to Record on Spanish Cuts
-- B y   M a r k   D e e n   a n d   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2012-07-02T10:16:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-02/euro-area-unemployment-climbs-to-record-on-spanish-cuts-1-.html
Euro-area  unemployment  reached the
highest on record as a deepening economic slump and budget cuts
prompted companies from Spain to Italy to reduce their
workforces.  The jobless rate in the 17-nation euro area rose to 11.1
percent in May from 11 percent in April, the European Union’s
statistics office in Luxembourg said today. That’s the highest
since the data series started in 1995.  Europe’s companies are under pressure to lower costs to
protect earnings as the worsening fiscal crisis erodes exports
and  consumer spending . Companies including Deutsche Lufthansa
AG, PSA Peugeot Citroen and Spanish news agency Efe are seeking
to eliminate jobs to cope with flagging demand.  “The overall picture is worrying, as problems in the real
economy are being compounded by problems in financial markets,”
said  Mark Miller , an economist at Capital Economics Ltd. in
London. “The tone of the business surveys has been pretty
downbeat of late, suggesting that labor market conditions may
deteriorates for some time yet. It’s very difficult to see an
immediate end to this.”  In the euro area, 17.561 million people were unemployed in
May, an increase of 88,000 from the previous month, today’s
report showed.  Staff Cuts  Spain’s unemployment rate, highest in the European Union,
increased to 24.6 percent in May from 24.3 percent a month
earlier.  Air France-KLM Group, Europe’s largest carrier, said on
June 21 it plans to eliminate more than 5,000 jobs from its
French workforce as it seeks a return to profitability. In
 Spain , state-owned news agency Efe said on June 8 it may
eliminate 275 jobs, about a fifth of its workforce, after
subsidies were cut and it lost customers.  Euro-area officials are fighting to prevent the sovereign
debt crisis from spreading and took additional measures to
bolster growth amid concern of a global slump. European Union
leaders at a June 28-June 29 summit approved a 120 billion-euro
($149 billion) plan to promote growth in the 27-nation bloc that
includes a capital boost for the  European Investment Bank .  Economists expect the  European Central Bank  on July 5 to
lower its benchmark  interest rate  by at least 25 basis points to
a record low of 0.75 percent, according to the median of 57
estimates in a Bloomberg survey, as a worsening economic outlook
dampens price pressures.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net ;
Svenja O’Donnell in  London  at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  