-- Europe Burns Coal Fastest Since 2006 in Boost for U.S.
-- B y   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y ,   R a j e s h   K u m a r   S i n g h   a n d   R a c h e l   M o r i s o n
-- 2012-07-03T10:22:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-02/europe-burns-coal-fastest-since-2006-in-boost-for-u-s-energy.html
Europe  is burning coal at the fastest
pace since 2006, as surging imports from U.S. producers such as
 Arch Coal Inc. (ACI)  helped cut prices 26 percent in a year and
benefited European power companies including EON AG.  Demand for coal, the dirtiest fuel for making electricity,
grew 3.3 percent last year in Europe while sales of less-
polluting natural gas fell 2.1 percent, the steepest drop since
2009, according to a BP Plc report.  Germany ’s EON and  RWE AG (RWE) ,
the biggest utilities in Europe’s largest power market, are
considering shutting unprofitable gas-fired plants even as
 Chancellor Angela Merkel  promotes gas to replace nuclear energy.  Europe’s higher coal use defies its policies to penalize
 carbon emissions  and is based on profit margins climbing to a
two-and-a-half year high for coal-burning power stations, data
compiled by Bloomberg Industries show. Cheaper coal was made
possible partly by a 49 percent jump in first-quarter  imports 
from the U.S., Energy Information Administration data show.  “Coal will continue to remain on the money in Europe
because it’s more competitive to burn than gas,” said  Trevor Sikorski , an analyst at Barclays Plc in  London . “More and more
of the coal to Europe will come from the U.S. where just the
opposite is happening.”  Thanks to the explosion of shale drilling, natural gas
futures have fallen about 34 percent in 12 months in  New York ,
pushing utilities to combust more gas and rely less on coal.  $530 Million Expansion  Lower prices resulted in gas increasing its share in
electricity generation in the U.S. to 32 percent in April,
compared with 23 percent a year earlier, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg Industries. Coal’s share dropped to 32
percent from 41 percent a year earlier.  That decline has pushed U.S. producers such as Arch Coal to
increasingly look to Europe as an export market.  Peabody Energy
Corp. (BTU) ,  Alpha Natural Resources Inc. (ANR)  and Arch stand to gain from
Europe’s rising appetite for coal.  Arch, which opened a London sales office on March 1,
“expanded our reach with a dedicated sales team in Europe
because we see increasing energy demand,” Kim Link, a
spokeswoman for the St. Louis-based company, said in an e-mail
yesterday.  Companies in the world’s biggest economy are spending at
least $530 million to expand coal-export capacity to meet
overseas demand, David Host, chief executive officer of shipping
agent T Parker Host Inc., said June 22 at the IHS McCloskey Coal
USA Conference in New York. Capacity will grow 35 percent to 285
million tons annually by 2015, he said.  Coal accounted for 30 percent of global energy consumption
last year, the highest share since 1969, according to the BP
Statistical Review of World Energy 2012. Demand grew 5.4 percent
in 2011, the fastest among fossil fuels.  Shutting Gas Plants  In Germany, as much as 6,400 megawatts, or 25 percent of
the nation’s gas-plant capacity, will shut through 2015,
Deutsche Bank AG predicts. EON, based in Dusseldorf, credited
“improved market conditions for coal-fired assets” in Britain
among drivers for first-quarter earnings. An EON spokesman
yesterday didn’t respond to requests for comment.  Essen-based RWE, the  best-performing European power utility
stock  this year, increased electricity from lignite coal by 20
percent in Germany in the first quarter. RWE spokeswoman Annett Urbaczka declined to comment on specific plants’ profitability.  Gas suppliers whose sales may be undercut by the switch
include  Russia ’s OAO Gazprom, the world’s biggest producer,  BG
Group Plc (BG/)  of the U.K. and Norway’s and  Statoil ASA. (STL)   Carbon Permits  Gas-fired plants need about half the carbon permits of coal
burners. Even so, the 17 percent drop in permit prices to about
8 euros a ton ($10) from their February high has reduced their
competitive advantage.  “Even if they were twice the current level, utilities
would prefer coal over gas for power generation,” said Paolo Coghe, senior analyst at Societe Generale SA in Paris.  European utilities burning coal had a profit of 16.3 euros
per megawatt-hour in the second quarter this year, compared with
9 euros a year earlier, according to data compiled by Bloomberg
Industries. Plants using gas as a fuel only broke even in the
quarter.  Coal delivered into Amsterdam, Rotterdam and Antwerp
slumped 26 percent in the past year to $91 a ton on July 3.
Prices in  South Africa ’s Richard’s Bay dropped to the lowest in
more than two years on June 12 and rates at  Australia’s
Newcastle port  declined to the lowest since Dec. 18, 2009.  Coal delivered into Europe is likely to fall 9 percent in
this year’s fourth quarter from the period a year earlier as
 China  raises capacity and the U.S boosts exports to a record,
according to a median of four analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rakteem Katakey in  New Delhi  at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net ;
Rajesh Kumar Singh in New Delhi at 
 rsingh133@bloomberg.net ;
Rachel Morison in London at 
 rmorison@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  