-- Euro May Weaken Versus Aussie on ECB Rate View, Citi Says
-- B y   L i n d s e y   R u p p
-- 2012-07-02T16:37:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-02/euro-may-weaken-versus-aussie-on-ecb-rate-view-citi-says.html
The euro may sink further against the
Australian dollar on speculation the  European Central Bank  will
cut  interest rates  while the  Reserve Bank  of  Australia  is
forecast to keep its rate target unchanged week, according to
Citigroup Inc.  Australia’s central bank is projected to hold its so-called
cash target at 3.5 percent tomorrow after cutting it in each of
the past two months, as the nation’s strongest economic
expansion in five years reduces the need to guard against
fallout from Europe’s debt crisis. The ECB may lower the
benchmark rate by 25 basis points, or 0.25 percentage point, at
its meeting July 5 as European leaders consider actions to
control the area’s debt crisis and bolster the bloc’s economies.  “What’s important is the language of the RBA statement and
the assessment of the economy,”  Valentin Marinov , head of
European and Group of 10 currency strategy at Citigroup in
 London , said in a telephone interview. “The growing divergence
between the increasingly accommodative ECB and the more data-
dependent RBA could lead to further tightening in the rate
differential between the euro and Australian dollar. In turn,
this could add to the cyclical headwinds for euro-Aussie.”  The euro was down 0.7 percent to 1.2290 per Australian
dollar at 11:45 a.m. in New York, the least since March 2.  Central Bank  All 28 economists surveyed   by Bloomberg News predicted the
RBA will leave borrowing costs unchanged tomorrow. The nation’s
central bank has cut rates by 75 basis points in its past two
meetings. June’s “finely balanced” rate cut was spurred by
concern Europe’s debt crisis will slow global growth, the RBA
said in the minutes of the policy meeting.  Interest-rate swaps  indicate a 76 percent chance the RBA
will keep the overnight cash-rate target at 3.5 percent, the
highest among major developed nations. The central bank will
drop the policy rate to 3 percent by year-end, the data show.  The euro jumped and stocks rose at the end of last week
after European leaders dropped the requirement that governments
get preferred creditor status on crisis loans to Spain’s
blighted banks.  “The ECB attempts to save the EMU should remain inherently
euro-negative, especially against risk-correlated currencies,”
Marinov said. “Potential ECB measures on Thursday, like rate
cuts, extension of the LTRO loan maturity or even additional
unconventional monetary policy easing, could support market risk
sentiment while adding to the cyclical winds for the single
currency on Thursday.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lindsey Rupp in  New York  at 
 lrupp2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  