-- Euro Options Show a Year More of Pain on Record Flow
-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k   a n d   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a
-- 2012-07-02T15:16:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-02/euro-options-show-a-year-more-of-pain-on-record-flow.html
Derivatives traders see at least a
year of pain for the euro even after the currency surged the
most in eight months following the approval by European Union
leaders of measures making it easier for  Spain  and  Italy  to
obtain aid.  The 17-nation euro rallied as much as 2 percent against the
dollar on June 29, yet option traders are still the most bearish
ever on the currency versus the greenback over the next 12
months compared with the next 90 days. More than 50 economists
and strategists surveyed by Bloomberg cut their median year-end
estimate to the lowest since at least 2007.  While EU officials granted immediate relief to the debt
markets of Spain and Italy, German  Chancellor Angela Merkel 
maintained her opposition to joint bonds backed by the region’s
governments to help lower borrowing costs and fix the crisis
that has led to five nations seeking bailouts. Two rescue funds,
the European Financial Stability Facility and the yet-to-start
European Stability Mechanism, may only amount to about 20
percent of the debt of Italy and Spain.  “This is still going to be a drawn out affair,” Jeff Applegate, the chief investment officer at Morgan Stanley Smith
Barney, which manages over $1.7 trillion, said in a June 29
interview. “On a long term basis what you need to make the euro
a survivable currency is fiscal-policy union in  Europe , and you
are a long way from that. The value of the euro will go lower.”  Shrinking Economy  Applegate, based in  New York , said the euro will drop to
less than $1.20 in the next year, from $1.2667 last week.  As the region struggles with its debt, Europe’s economy
will probably shrink this year for the first time since 2009,
contracting 0.4 percent, according to the median forecast of 30
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Investors have pulled an average 8 billion euros ($10.1
billion) of assets from the region per month in the six months
through April, after adding six times as much on average in the
half year through last July, a record reversal, according to
Deutsche Bank AG, the world’s biggest foreign-exchange trader.  While there was progress at the summit, there was no
“silver bullet,” George Saravelos, a currency strategist at
Deutsche Bank in  London , said in a June 29 telephone interview.  Risk Reversals  The euro fell 0.7 percent to $1.2578 at 11:13 a.m. New York
time, from June 29 when it closed 1.8 percent higher. It’s down
3 percent this year. The shared currency slipped 1.2 percent to
99.79 yen today. It was 0.5 percent lower in a basket of 10
major currencies based on data compiled by Bloomberg. The euro,
which began trading at about $1.17 in January 1999, has ranged
from 82.3 U.S. cents in 2000 to $1.6038 in 2008, averaging about
$1.21 over its lifetime.  One-year options show that the premium for puts, which
grant the right to sell the euro versus the dollar, over calls,
which confer the right to buy, is the highest relative to three
month contracts since Bloomberg began tracking the data in 2003.  The gap between the so-called 25-delta risk reversal rates
reached 1.06 percentage points. The difference between the two
gauges has averaged less than 0.1 percentage point since 2003.  Risk reversals measure the difference between implied
volatility, or a gauge of price and demand, on similar puts and
calls. Traders pay a premium for puts when they expect the euro
to decline.  ‘Worth Paying’  “That’s a premium worth paying,”  Neil Jones , head of
European hedge-fund sales at Mizuho Corporate Bank Ltd. in
London, said in a June 26 phone interview. “The euro will exist
in the long run, but things have to get worse first. A fall in
the euro to $1.15 isn’t particularly aggressive, and parity is
possible. Historically, the euro has traded much lower.”  The level of the spread between the two different maturity
risk reversals is 3.88 standard deviations from its mean.
Greater than three standard deviations is defined as occurring
less than 0.3 percent of the time in a statistical model of data
that follows a standard normal distribution.  Investors betting against the euro may be underestimating
the determination of Europe’s leaders to push through reforms,
said  Gavin Friend , a London-based markets strategist at National
Australia Bank Ltd. The dollar may weaken at the prospect of the
 Federal Reserve  creating more money and buying bonds, a policy
known as quantitative easing, he said.  Last week’s EU summit was “an encouraging step, though
there’s clearly more to do,” said Friend, who expects the euro
to climb to $1.33 by year-end.  Dollar Focus  Investors and traders may now turn their attention to the
dollar, sending it lower on the prospects of more QE from the
Fed when it next meets Aug. 1 to decide monetary policy, Friend
said.  After the policy makers agreed on June 20 to extend its
$400 billion Operation Twist program by swapping an additional
$267 billion of short-term securities for longer-term debt,
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said in  Washington  that the central
bank is “prepared to take additional steps if appropriate.”  The euro’s advance on June 29 was its first in five days as
13 1/2 hours of talks in Brussels ended with EU leaders paving
the way for cash-strapped lenders to tap Europe’s bailout funds
directly once they establish a single banking supervisor. Until
now, they had to get aid through their governments, piling
pressure on already stretched national coffers.  The  European Central Bank  will play a role in the new
supervisory body, officials said. They also agreed to drop a
requirement that taxpayers get preferred creditor status on
emergency loans to Spanish banks. Other steps included agreeing
to use rescue funds to stabilize markets under some conditions.  Yields Fall  Spain’s 10-year bond yield tumbled the most since Aug. 8 at
the end of last week, though at 6.33 percent was about 2
percentage points more than the average 4.30 percent the past
decade. Italian bond yields were about 1.4 percentage points
above their average.  The rescue funds, the EFSF and the ESM, which may have 500
billion euros available for bond purchases, are dwarfed by the
combined debt of Italy and Spain, which totals about 2.4
trillion euros, Bloomberg data show.  “What is missing? The list is long, but to mention the
important ones: For one, the ESM got a bigger mandate, but not
more money,” economists at New York-based JPMorgan Chase & Co.
said in a June 29 report. “It will thus run out sooner.”  Strategists have cut their euro forecasts by more than 5
percent since April. The median analyst prediction compiled by
Bloomberg is for the currency to end the year at $1.23, down
from a forecast of $1.30 on April 30.  Money Flows  The average monthly withdrawal from euro area stocks and
bonds in the six months through April by domestic and foreign
investors compared with a peak average monthly inflow of 47
billion euros in the period ended July 2011, according to
Deutsche Bank.  Spain lost the most foreign investment in April since the
start of the euro amid the turmoil. Non-residents withdrew 24.6
billion euros of stock and bond investments, the most since at
least 1999, the Bank of Spain said June 29.  “The reversal in the investment flows shows an easing of
demand for European assets given the euro-zone crisis, which is
creating all of this uncertainty,” Deutsche Bank’s Saravelos
said. The euro may weaken to $1.20 by the end of 2013, he said.  While investors cut bets on the odds of a monetary union
split, they are still more than 50 percent, according to Dublin-
based Intrade.com data. Wagers last week showed a 61 percent
chance of the bloc disintegrating by December 2014, down from 70
percent in November. The odds were 39 percent in February.  ‘Fragile’ Situation  “While the latest announcements by the EU may impart some
market stability, the situation in Europe remains fragile, and I
expect to see renewed weakness in the euro at some point,”
Stephen Jen, a managing partner at hedge fund SLJ Macro Partners
LLP in London and a former economist at the  International
Monetary Fund , said in a June 29 interview. “When it happens,
the prospective depreciation will likely be disorderly.’  Demand for euros may wane further if the ECB in  Frankfurt 
cuts interest rates this week for the first time since December.  Policy makers led by President  Mario Draghi  will reduce the
 main refinancing rate  by 25 basis points to a record 0.75
percent on July 5, according to the median forecast of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg. The Fed’s benchmark has been
in a range between zero and 0.25 percent since December 2008.  The euro fell as much as 0.5 percent on June 28 as a report
by the Nuremberg-based Federal Labor Agency showed that
 unemployment  in  Germany , Europe’s biggest economy, rose in June
for the fourth month this year. Retail  sales  fell in May,
slipping 0.3 percent from April, the Federal Statistics Office
in Wiesbaden said the next day. Economists predicted a gain of
0.2 percent, a Bloomberg News  survey  showed.  “The euro will remain under continuous pressure,” said
 Ulrich Leuchtmann , the head of currency strategy at Commerzbank
AG in Frankfurt, who sees the euro depreciating to $1.21 at
year-end. “Politicians will find it hard to come up with a
convincing solution, and the ECB will have to come in again and
again. This is something that cannot be good for the euro.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Liz Capo McCormick in New York at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net ;
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh News at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net ;
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  