-- European Stocks Advance as Investors Eye ECB Decision
-- B y   A d r i a   C i m i n o
-- 2012-07-02T16:10:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-02/european-stock-futures-rise-on-asian-economic-data.html
European stocks  rose to the highest
in eight weeks as investors bet central banks will add to
measures unveiled by the region’s governments to contain the
sovereign-debt crisis and data from China and  Japan  fueled
optimism Asia will drive global growth.  Invensys Plc (ISYS)  advanced 1.4 percent after a report said China
South Locomotive & Rolling Stock Corp. may make an offer. Aviva
Plc, the U.K.’s second-biggest insurer, jumped 3.7 percent after
it named a new chairman.  Rhoen Klinikum AG (RHK)  slumped 8.9 percent
after Fresenius SE failed in its 3.1 billion-euro bid to buy the
company.  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  climbed 1.5 percent to 254.82 at
the close of trading, the highest since May 7. The gauge rallied
1.9 percent last week, trimming its second-quarter decline to
4.6 percent, as policy makers eased repayment rules for Spanish
banks and relaxed conditions for possible aid to Italy. The
actions prompted Morgan Stanley to upgrade the region’s stocks
to neutral today.  “Investors will focus on the European Central Bank
decision this week,” said Guillaume Chaloin, a  fund manager  at
Meeschaert Asset Management in Paris, which oversees $2.5
billion in assets. “There is a rotation toward cyclical stocks,
such as oil and technology, with the idea that if we’ve found a
solution to the debt problem, there will be less negative impact
on industries sensitive to the economy.”  The volume of shares changing hands on Stoxx 600 companies
was 13 percent more than the average of the last 30 days, data
compiled by Bloomberg showed.  National benchmark indexes advanced in all of the 18
western European markets except Iceland. France’s CAC 40 climbed
1.4 percent and the U.K.’s FTSE 100 added 1.3 percent. Germany’s
DAX increased 1.2 percent.  Interest Rates  The ECB and the  Bank of England  announce interest-rate
decisions on July 5. ECB officials will lower their  benchmark
rate  by 25 basis points to a record low 0.75 percent, according
to the median forecast in a Bloomberg survey of 57 economists.
Five predict a cut of 50 basis points and 12 foresee no change.  “There still seems to be some positivity left over from
Friday’s European summit announcement on bank bailouts,”  David
Jones , chief market strategist at IG Index in London, wrote.
“With interest-rate decisions expected this week from the ECB
and the Bank of England, hopes may be raised about the prospect
of further quantitative easing.”  Morgan Stanley’s European Equity Strategy team including
 Graham Secker , Ronan Carr and Matthew Garman raised the region’s
equities to neutral from underweight, saying last week’s
decisions by euro-area leaders have lowered risk.  Home prices  in China, Singapore and Australia rebounded as
demand for property assets rose, boosted by low  interest rates .  Asian Manufacturing  In China, the government’s  Purchasing Managers ’ Index fell
to 50.2 in June from 50.4 in May, the Beijing-based National
Bureau of Statistics and China Federation of Logistics and
Purchasing reported yesterday. That beat the 49.9 median
estimate in survey of 24 economists.  A separate PMI, compiled by HSBC Holdings Plc and Market
Economics, posted a final reading of 48.2 in June compared with
48.4 in May, according to figures released today.  In Japan, large manufacturers became less pessimistic as
declines in commodity prices aided profitability, boosting the
outlook for the world’s third-biggest economy.  The quarterly Tankan index of sentiment was minus 1 in June
from minus 4 in March, the  Bank of Japan  said today in Tokyo.
The median estimate of 19 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News
called for a reading of minus 4. A negative number means
pessimists outnumber optimists.  U.S. Economy  A U.S. report showed the  Institute for Supply Management ’s
 factory index  fell to 49.7 in June from 53.5 a month earlier.
The median forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News
called for a decline to 52. Readings less than 50 signal
contraction.  Invensys, which makes software that runs the London
Underground trains, gained 1.4 percent to 225.8 pence. China
South Locomotive is in the early stages of planning a possible 2
billion-pound ($3.14 billion) takeover bid for the company, the
Sunday Times reported, without saying where it got the
information.  Aviva advanced 3.7 percent to 282.7 pence. John McFarlane
is taking over the position of chairman from Colin M. Sharman,
who is retiring, the company said.  Barclays Chairman  Barclays Plc (BARC)  gained 3.4 percent to 168.4 pence after
earlier falling as much as 3.8 percent. Chairman Marcus Agius
resigned after the bank was fined a record 290 million pounds
for trying to rig inter-bank lending rates. Agius, 65, will
remain in post until his replacement is appointed. Michael Rake
will become deputy chairman.  BNP Paribas SA (BNP) , France’s largest bank, jumped 4.3 percent
to 31.56 euros. CA Cheuvreux added the stock to its  select list ,
upgrading its recommendation from outperform.  Credit Agricole SA (ACA)  increased 6.9 percent to 3.71 euros, the
highest since May 2. The lender is holding talks with brokers as
it considers selling the unprofitable trading and research
activities of its Cheuvreux unit, according to three people
familiar with the plans. The stock rallied 8.7 percent on
Friday.  Storebrand ASA (STB)  climbed 3.5 percent to 24.01 kroner as
Norway plans changes to occupational pension-product rules that
could boost the earnings prospects of the country’s second-
largest insurer.  Subsea Order  Subsea 7 SA (SUBC) , an oilfield-services company, rallied 3.3
percent to 121 kroner. The company won a $400 million contract
from BG Norge Ltd. for the development of the Knarr Field in the
 North Sea .  Rhoen Klinikum tumbled 8.9 percent to 17.20 euros after
Fresenius’s bid to buy the hospital operator was foiled by rival
Asklepios Kliniken GmbH, which took a 5 percent stake in Rhoen.
About 84 percent of Rhoen Klinikum shares were tendered in the
offer, Fresenius said after the market closed June 29. The
22.50-euro-a-share bid was contingent on garnering at least 90
percent of the stock.  Linde AG (LIN)  fell 1.7 percent to 120.60 euros after agreeing to
acquire Lincare Holdings Inc. for about $3.8 billion to add U.S.
oxygen and respiratory therapy services delivered to the home.  Vestas Wind Systems A/S (VWS)  fell 8.1 percent to 29.79 kroner.
Sunday Times reported that the turbine maker is in talks with
two banks about restructuring debts after drawing a 300 million-
euro credit line. Mikkel Friis-Thomsen, a Vestas spokesman,
declined to discuss details of the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adria Cimino in Paris at 
 acimino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  