-- Ex-JPMorgan Trader Feldstein Wins in Betting Against Bank
-- B y   S h a n n o n   D .   H a r r i n g t o n ,   M a r y   C h i l d s   a n d   S t e p h a n i e   R u h l e
-- 2012-07-03T13:06:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-02/ex-jpmorgan-trader-feldstein-biggest-winner-betting-against-bank.html
Andrew Feldstein, who bet against
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  before helping the bank unwind more than
$20 billion of trades, has emerged as one of the biggest winners
among hedge-fund managers profiting from a flawed strategy.  The $4.3 billion flagship fund of Feldstein’s BlueMountain
Capital Management LLC returned 9.5 percent this year through
June 22, according to a person familiar with the data. That’s up
from the 5.4 percent return before JPMorgan announced a $2
billion loss by one of its traders known as the  London  Whale.
BlueMountain, which was on the other side of those wagers,
stands to make as much as $300 million, said market participants
familiar with the trades.  Feldstein, a former JPMorgan executive who helped the
company create the credit-derivatives market, profited by
exploiting price distortions caused by the outsized bets and
then aiding the bank in unwinding the trades as it sought to cap
the loss, according to four people with knowledge of the
strategy who asked not to be identified because the matter is
private. BlueMountain enabled JPMorgan to unload more than $20
billion of bets on a credit-swaps index, two of the people said.  “Andrew Feldstein is one of the most creative and
sophisticated investors in fixed income,” said Sarah Quinlan,
founder of hedge-fund advisory firm QAM in  New York  and a former
BlueMountain investor. “It is not surprising that JPMorgan
would reach out to him to assist in the unraveling of this
complicated and very public situation.”  Helping JPMorgan  By assisting JPMorgan in unwinding its trades, Feldstein,
47, enabled the bank to take losses in the second quarter and
move ahead with less uncertainty, said  Adrian Miller , director
of global markets strategy at GMP Securities LLC in New York.
BlueMountain also helped JPMorgan Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon  put behind him a trading debacle that brought scrutiny
from Congress and regulators and tarnished his reputation as one
of the industry’s best risk managers.  Dimon “will be judged by how this problem is rectified,”
Miller said.  Feldstein’s profit from betting against JPMorgan probably
exceeds that of Boaz Weinstein, the Saba Capital Management LP
founder who gained media attention for recommending the trade at
a February hedge-fund conference in New York. His main fund,
with $5 billion in assets, is up 2.3 percent this year as of
June 22, according to a person familiar with Saba’s returns.  Doug Hesney, a spokesman for BlueMountain, declined to
comment, as did Kristin Lemkau of JPMorgan.  Obama Basketball  JPMorgan hired Feldstein, a graduate of  Georgetown
University  and  Harvard Law School , in 1992, as it was developing
a new market that allowed banks to pay investors to take on the
risk that companies default on their debt. Those financial
instruments, known as credit-default swaps, evolved into a
market with more than $62 trillion of outstanding contracts at
its peak in 2007.  A former Harvard Law classmate of  Barack Obama ’s who played
pickup basketball with the future U.S. president, Feldstein has
kept a low profile outside financial markets, rarely giving
interviews. He lives in Scarsdale, New York, in a home he and
his wife purchased for $4.6 million in 2006, according to real
estate records, and contributed to both Obama and Republican
candidate  John McCain  in 2007. In her 2009 book “Fool’s Gold,”
about JPMorgan’s creation of the credit-swaps market, Gillian Tett described him as introverted and “exceedingly bright.”  ‘No Ego’  “He’s a very modest individual,” said William S. Demchak,
president of Pittsburgh-based regional lender  PNC Financial
Services Group Inc. (PNC) , who hired Feldstein at JPMorgan. “The
reason he doesn’t talk publicly is he has no ego. He’s not a
master of the universe and wanting to make big bets and be a
hero. He comes to work every day and tries to, with his team,
earn a sensible return on the money they’re investing.”  Feldstein and Demchak later teamed up to raise money for
the Darfur Project, which from 2007 to 2009 sponsored airlifts
of food and medicine to those affected by conflict in  Sudan ’s
Darfur region.  Since starting New York-based BlueMountain in 2003 with
Harvard Law friend Stephen Siderow in a spinoff from BlueCrest
Capital Management LLP, Feldstein has earned a reputation as a
master arbitrager. His hedge fund has generated almost 10
percent annual average returns largely by spotting abnormalities
in the price relationships in credit swaps. Rather than bet on
whether the price of a company’s debt will rise or fall, the
fund often takes both sides of the trade and profits when the
price relationships revert to normal.  Goldman Counterparty  “Our objective is to avoid placing any bets on these macro
outcomes,” Feldstein said in a Bloomberg Television interview
that aired Dec 22. “We don’t think they’re very predictable.”  With complex trades that can sometimes have more than 100
separate pieces, that strategy also has helped make BlueMountain
one of Wall Street’s biggest clients.  By June 2008, BlueMountain was  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ’s
fourth-largest counterparty in the credit-derivatives market,
with $590 billion of outstanding contracts, bigger than that of
banking giants Barclays Plc and Credit Suisse Group AG,
according to a 2010  report  by the Financial Crisis Inquiry
Commission, a U.S. panel that investigated the credit seizure.  Goldman Sachs at the time was acting as a prime broker for
BlueMountain, loaning money and securities and clearing credit-
swaps transactions, according to two people familiar with the
firm, who asked not to be identified because they aren’t
authorized to discuss the business.  Saving BlueMountain  The hedge fund’s trading book reached the size it did in
large part because, rather than tear up the bulk of its swaps
when it was ready to close out a position, BlueMountain put on
offsetting trades to cancel them out, the people said.  After Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s 2008 bankruptcy, as
fears of a cascade of bank and hedge-fund failures gripped
markets, BlueMountain faced an exodus of investors, even as its
flagship Credit Alternatives Master Fund outperformed an
industry average tenfold. Feldstein moved to bar withdrawals and
freeze $3.1 billion of assets.  BlueMountain shifted almost all of its trades out of
Goldman Sachs. Most of those went to JPMorgan, now the fund’s
biggest prime broker, perceived by the market at the time as a
more creditworthy counterparty, according to a person familiar
with the fund. Tiffany Galvin, a Goldman Sachs spokeswoman,
declined to comment.  Feldstein laid out a plan to restructure the fund, and
investors owning 80 percent of the assets agreed to keep their
money in place while markets improved, according to a November
2008 letter to investors, a copy of which was obtained at the
time by Bloomberg News.  Gap Arbitrage  The credit-alternatives fund, which lost 6 percent in 2008,
went on to return 24.4 percent in the first eight months of 2009
as markets recovered from the crisis, according to a letter to
investors at the time.  One of the trades BlueMountain has mastered better than
almost any other hedge fund, according to market participants,
involves arbitraging the gap between credit-swaps indexes and
contracts on the companies tied to those benchmarks. When the
cost to buy protection on the index drops below the average cost
of swaps on the companies, the fund will purchase protection on
the benchmark and sell it on its constituents, profiting when
the swaps converge.  London Whale  That was the opportunity that funds from BlueMountain to
Saba noticed last year as a trader in JPMorgan’s chief
investment office in London, Bruno Iksil, began making outsized
bets on the Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index
Series 9. The index, known as IG9, is tied to 121 companies that
were investment-grade when it was created in September 2007,
including now junk-rated bond guarantor MBIA Insurance Corp., a
unit of MBIA Inc., and retailer J.C. Penney Co.  Dimon, 56, transformed the chief investment office in
recent years to make bigger and riskier speculative trades with
the bank’s money, Bloomberg News first reported April 13, based
on information provided by five former employees. Iksil managed
a portfolio of credit swaps that, Dimon told the Senate Banking
Committee June 13, was intended to profit in a financial crisis
and make “a little money” in a benign market.  Iksil’s group was instructed to cut positions in December
in anticipation of new capital rules, Dimon told the Senate
panel. Instead Iksil, who became known as the London Whale for
the size of his bets, sought to offset the hedges by selling
protection on the IG9 index through December 2017 to dealers
such as Bank of America Corp. and Citigroup Inc., which in turn
sold that protection to money managers including BlueMountain
and Saba, market participants said.  Iksil’s Bets  In the 14 weeks ended April 6, outstanding bets on the
index using credit swaps surged an unprecedented 65 percent to
$148.2 billion, according to the Depository Trust & Clearing
Corp., which runs a central registry for the market.  The net amount of credit-derivatives protection the bank
sold on investment-grade companies using contracts expiring in
more than five years doubled to $101.3 billion in the three
months ended March 31, Federal Reserve data shows.  Iksil’s bets were so large that he drove the price of the
index far below the average of the underlying companies. That
made the price of the index equivalent to buying $1 of
protection for about 80 cents, market participants said.  Hedge
funds  could arbitrage the gap and build positions against
JPMorgan by buying swaps on the index and selling CDS on the
constituent companies.  Saba, BlueCrest  The potential gains lured BlueMountain, Saba and other
hedge funds including BlueCrest and Hutchin Hill Capital LP to
buy more protection as Iksil continued offering to sell to
brokers -- even as it initially led to losses because the
JPMorgan trader’s bets moved the index lower.  BlueCrest founder  Michael Platt  said in a May 21 interview
with Bloomberg News that the $32 billion hedge fund traded in a
“small way” to profit from the distortions.  After JPMorgan announced the $2 billion loss, the cost of
the IG9 index surged in anticipation the bank would unwind its
bets. The swaps, which had fallen to as low as 102 basis points
in March, jumped to 175 on June 5, or $175,000 a year to protect
$10 million of debt, according to data provider CMA.  “It could easily get worse,” Dimon said of the loss on a
May 10 conference call with investors and analysts, when buying
protection on the index cost less than 127 basis points, or
$127,000 annually for every $10 million insured. A basis point
is one-hundredth of a percent.  ‘Treacherous Landscape’  Exiting the index bets quickly was difficult because they
were large relative to the amount that trades on any given day,
DTCC data show. Unlike the current version of the index known as
Series 18, on which an average $27.6 billion trades each day,
$5.5 billion of IG9 exchanged hands each day in the 12 weeks
ended June 22.  “When you put on a large trade, it’s hard for people not
to notice what you’re doing,”  Scott MacDonald , head of research
at MC Asset Management Holdings LLC in  Stamford ,  Connecticut ,
said in a telephone interview last month. “It’s a treacherous
landscape to be unwinding the trade in.”  That’s where BlueMountain came in. Because the hedge fund
executes so many trades in credit swaps to support its arbitrage
strategies, and it falls outside the typical web of market-
makers, it was in a better position than JPMorgan to take the
bank out of a large chunk of its losing bets without tipping off
other investors, said two market participants familiar with
credit-swaps trading.  IG9 Protection  “Feldstein is a former JPMorgan exec and likely has a good
relationship with senior management,” said Miller of GMP
Securities. “Since transacting these trades with as little
market knowledge as possible is the key to not creating big
price fluctuations, who better to go to than a trusted prior
colleague?”  Within the past few weeks, BlueMountain, which oversees
$9.2 billion across all of its funds, has been buying default
protection on IG9, a position that would offset the bets
JPMorgan already has, and then selling it to the bank.  The transactions, first reported by Bloomberg News on June
20, are among trades that may have helped reduce the bank’s
exposure to the index by more than half, according to estimates
from market participants familiar with trading activity.  Exiting Wagers  Both Saba and Hutchin Hill have exited their bets against
JPMorgan, people familiar with the funds said last week. Hutchin
Hill returned 2.65 percent this year through June 22, according
to a person familiar with the fund. That compares with a 1.1
percent gain for hedge funds worldwide over the same period,
according to Chicago-based Hedge Fund Research Inc.’s benchmark
HFRX Global Hedge Fund Index.  During the three weeks ended June 22, as the cost of the
IG9 index contracts fell to 159 basis points from as high as
175, swaps dealers cut the net amount of protection they had
sold on the index by 65 percent, DTCC data show. JPMorgan is the
only one of the six biggest U.S. banks to have sold more
protection on investment-grade companies than it had bought, Fed
data through the end of March show.  Dimon said on May 10 that the bank’s loss could reach $3
billion or more. Charles Peabody, an analyst at Portales
Partners LLC in New York, estimated the amount could be between
$4 billion and $5 billion. JPMorgan hasn’t disclosed how much of
the money-losing trades it’s still holding. The bank has said it
will provide an update on the loss and where its position stands
when it reports earnings July 13.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shannon D. Harrington in New York at 
 sharrington6@bloomberg.net ;
Mary Childs in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net ;
 Stephanie Ruhle  in New York at 
 sruhle2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Alan Goldstein  at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  