-- Mexico Stocks Drop on Congressional Gridlock Concern; Peso Gains
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   J .   L e v i n   a n d   B e n   B a i n
-- 2012-07-02T22:15:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-02/mexican-peso-climbs-as-presidential-vote-mostly-free-of-violence.html
Mexican stocks  fell as signs of U.S.
economic weakness damped the outlook for the Latin American
country’s exports and on concern its next president won’t have a
majority in congress to pass legislative changes.  The benchmark IPC index of 35 Mexican companies declined
0.2 percent to 40,108.92 at the close of trading after rallying
2.9 percent last week to a record close of 40,199.55. The peso
rose 0.2 percent to 13.3386 per dollar at 4 p.m. in Mexico City.
Yields on peso bonds due in 2024 dropped four basis points, or
0.04 percentage point, to a record low closing level of 5.47
percent.  While Enrique Pena Nieto of the  Institutional Revolutionary
Party  claimed victory last night, the second in command of his
campaign said today his party’s coalition won’t get a majority
in the nation’s Chamber of Deputies, making it harder to open up
the state-controlled oil industry to more private investment and
boost the formal job market and tax collection. Equities
declined earlier after a U.S. manufacturing index unexpectedly
dropped, damping the outlook for Mexico’s exports.  “It’s a bad figure that’s generating noise in the U.S.
market and evidently the Mexican market as well,” said Jorge Lagunas, who oversees about $200 million in equities as a  money
manager  at Mexico City-based Grupo Financiero Interacciones SA.
“I hope the congress can be mature” and work across party
lines to pass legislative initiatives, Lagunas said.  Peso’s Rally  The peso gained today after rising 3.8 percent last week,
its best five-day performance since Dec. 2. The currency will
advance by the end of the first half of next year to 12.91 per
dollar, according to the median forecast of 20 analysts in a
Bloomberg survey, a level last seen May 3.  “What could be the most important driver here is the fact
that the valuation is still quite cheap,”  Siobhan Morden , head
of Latin American fixed-income strategy at Jefferies Group Inc.,
said by phone from  New York . “It allows you to kind of shrug
off or downplay” the U.S. data and concern that Pena Nieto may
not have a majority in Congress to pass changes, she said.  The currency earlier dropped as much as 0.7 percent after
the  Institute for Supply Management ’s U.S. factory index fell to
49.7 in June from 53.5 a month earlier, with readings less than
50 signaling contraction. The median forecast of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg was for a decrease to 52. Mexico sends 80
percent of its exports to its northern neighbor.  The extra yield investors demand to own Mexican government
dollar bonds over  U.S. Treasuries  widened four basis points, or
0.04 percentage point, to 206 basis points today, according to
JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global index.  Congressional Seats  With more than 90 percent of the votes counted, Pena
Nieto’s PRI and the allied  Green Party  will have about 241
lawmakers in the 500-seat lower house, said Carlos Ramirez
Marin, the second in command of Pena Nieto’s campaign.  “We’ll have to work a lot in the construction of
consensus,” Ramirez Marin, a PRI lawmaker, said in a telephone
interview from Mexico City.  A two-thirds majority is necessary to amend the
constitution, a step required to loosen Petroleos Mexicanos’s
control over oil production.  Mexico’s ruling  National Action Party  favors opening the
nation’s energy sector and will support “reforms that are in
the best benefit of the country regardless of who proposes
them,” Senator Ruben Camarillo said today in a phone interview.  Pena Nieto won 37.8 percent, topping 31.9 percent for
 Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador  of the Democratic Revolution Party,
according to preliminary results from the nation’s electoral
authority. Josefina Vazquez Mota of the ruling National Action
Party, or  PAN , gained 25.5 percent of the vote.  PRI Optimism  Pena Nieto said at an event today in Mexico City that he is
“convinced” he will reach an agreement on Mexico’s energy
industry with opposition parties in Congress.  He had maintained a lead throughout the campaign, buoyed by
pledges to boost salaries held back by economic growth that
averaged 1.8 percent a year, half the rate of  Brazil , since
Calderon took office in 2006. Pena Nieto also promised to turn
the tide in a drug war blamed for more than 47,000 deaths under
Calderon’s administration.  “The way Pena Nieto thinks is much more pro-market” than
 Lopez Obrador  is, Claudio Irigoyen, head of  Latin America  fixed-
income and foreign-exchange strategy at Bank of America Corp.,
said by phone from New York.  Supporters of Lopez Obrador, a former Mexico City mayor who
has opposed more private investment in the oil industry, shut
down the capital’s main business boulevard for weeks after the
last presidential election, claiming the victory by Calderon was
marred by fraud.  Speaking to supporters last night in the capital, Lopez
Obrador said there isn’t enough information for him to decide
what his position will be after yesterday’s vote. He said in a
televised message that his campaign won’t act irresponsibly.
Calderon congratulated Pena Nieto last night in a televised
address and called on the nation to respect the election
results. He said he would work with Pena Nieto.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan J. Levin in  Mexico  City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net ;
Ben Bain in New York at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  