-- Fed’s Hawks, Doves Fight Stimulus Civil War, Blinder Says
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   F a i r c h i l d   a n d   E r i k   S c h a t z k e r
-- 2012-07-02T17:48:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-02/fed-s-hawks-doves-fight-stimulus-civil-war-blinder-says.html
Federal Reserve  policy makers are
fighting a “civil war” over how best to boost the faltering
U.S. economy, Princeton University economist  Alan Blinder  said.  Today’s report showing U.S. manufacturing unexpectedly
contracted for the first time in almost three years indicates
that the slower economic growth may promote more accommodative
policies from the central bank, Blinder said today in an
interview on Bloomberg Television’s “Market Makers” with Erik
Schatzker and Scarlet Fu.  “Data like this that keep coming in are encouraging or
strengthening the positions of the doves on the Fed,” Blinder,
a former Fed vice chairman, said. “You know there’s a big civil
war going on in the Federal Reserve, and weakening the position
of the hawks.”  Fed officials led by Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  on June 20
downgraded their forecasts for U.S. growth and employment while
noting “significant downside risks” to the economy. They also
announced they would swap $267 billion in short-term  Treasury
securities  with longer-term debt in an extension of their so-
called Operation Twist program.  Blinder, 66, said a third round of so-called quantitative
easing by policy makers purchasing additional mortgage-backed
securities “is waiting in the wings as the most likely thing
for the Fed to do next.”  The  Institute for Supply Management  said today its
manufacturing gauge fell to 49.7 in June, worse than the most-
pessimistic forecast in a Bloomberg News  survey , from 53.5 the
month before. Figures less than 50 signal contraction. Measures
of orders, production and export demand dropped to three-year
lows.  FOMC Debate  Blinder said members of the policy-setting  Federal Open
Market Committee  should engage in a lively debate and express
dissenting views, while also exhibiting more discipline in
public.  “Have as much of a food fight as you want inside the FOMC,
which would be the opposite of the Greenspan FOMC, which is
totally polite and structured,” Blinder said. “Then try to
come out and sing from the same hymnal.”  Blinder said the Fed doesn’t have the power to counteract
the negative effects of the automatic government spending cuts
that would result if Congress can’t agree on a budget, known as
the “fiscal cliff.” He said triggering that provision may
cause gross domestic product to contract by 3.5 percent to 4
percent.  ‘Fiscal Cliff’  The term “fiscal cliff” refers to tax-and-spending
changes set to take effect at the end of this year unless
Congress acts. The George W. Bush-era income tax cuts will
expire, as will a temporary cut in the  payroll tax . About $1.2
trillion in automatic spending cuts over a decade will be poised
to start, expanded jobless benefits will expire, and the
government will approach the legal limit on federal borrowing.  “ Ben Bernanke  opens the cupboard, it’s not bare. He keeps
saying that, ’It’s not bare; I have some things in there,’”
Blinder said. “Well where are the 4 percent of GDP weapons?
There isn’t any, there isn’t. I don’t think they have anything
that’s 1 percent of GDP, maybe not a half a percent of GDP.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Caroline Fairchild in  New York  at 
 cfairchild2@bloomberg.net ;
 Erik Schatzker  in New York at 
 eschatzker@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  