-- Fed's Williams Says Record Stimulus Not Inflationary
-- B y   A k i   I t o
-- 2012-07-02T19:31:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-02/fed-s-williams-says-record-stimulus-not-inflationary.html
Federal Reserve Bank of  San Francisco 
President  John Williams  said the U.S. central bank’s ability to
pay interest on bank reserves will enable it to keep inflation
in check even after pumping a record amount of stimulus into the
economy.  “Some commentators have sounded an alarm that this massive
expansion of the monetary base will inexorably lead to high
inflation,” Williams said in the text of prepared remarks in
San Francisco today. “Despite these dire predictions, inflation
in the  United States  has been the dog that didn’t bark” and
“the change is that the Fed now pays interest on reserves.”  The Fed last month expanded a program lengthening the
maturity of bonds on its balance sheet, aiming to cut longer-
term interest rates and spur hiring. Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke 
signaled the central bank may ease policy even more if job
growth falters, including buying securities.  “Getting the timing just right to engineer a soft landing
with low inflation is always difficult,” Williams said at the
annual conference of Western Economics Association
International. “This time, it will be especially challenging,
given the extraordinary depth and duration of the recession and
recovery.”  Interest Rate  Williams said that when the time comes, the Fed can begin
withdrawing its stimulus by raising the interest rate paid on
reserves along with its benchmark interest rate, and also by
reducing its holdings of longer-term bonds.  Fed officials reduced their forecasts for employment and
growth in their June 19-20 meeting, and the policy-setting
 Federal Open Market Committee  said it stands ready to take
additional  action  to promote stronger growth and job gains.  Recent data have fanned concerns the U.S. expansion is
stalling, with a report today showing that the  Institute for
Supply Management ’s manufacturing index unexpectedly contracted
in June for the first time in almost three years.  Williams, 50, is a voting member of the FOMC this year. He
became president of the district bank in March 2011.  The San Francisco Fed chief said in a panel discussion
today after his speech that uncertainty around fiscal policy is
holding back growth, adding that monetary policy can’t solve all
the problems the economy currently faces. The Fed should
eventually normalize policy by raising  interest rates  first then
and then reduce the size of its balance sheet, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aki Ito in San Francisco at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  