-- U.S. Olympic 100-Meter Spot Comes Down to Historic Run-Off
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n   a n d   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-07-02T10:42:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-02/final-u-s-olympic-100-meter-spot-comes-down-to-historic-run-off.html
The final spot on the U.S. team for
the 100-meter Olympic sprint will be decided today in an
unprecedented run-off between Allyson Felix and Jeneba Tarmoh.  The head-to-head race in Eugene,  Oregon , comes nine days
after the two training partners tied for third place in the
women’s event at the U.S. Olympic trials. The run-off is
scheduled for 8 p.m. New York time and will be televised by NBC,
with the winner advancing to the London Olympics.  “We’re really excited that this decision will be on the
track and we’ll both get to fight for our spots,” Felix said in
a televised interview with NBC. Tarmoh is reconsidering her
decision to take part in the run-off, the  Associated Press 
reported, citing a person with knowledge of the situation.  Felix and Tarmoh each finished the June 23 100-meter final
with a time of 11.068 seconds, initially leaving  USA Track and
Field  without a protocol to determine the third Olympic
qualifier. The race was won by Carmelita Jeter in 10.92 seconds,
followed by Tianna Madison in 10.96.  Tarmoh, 22, at first was announced as the third-place
finisher, giving her what she thought was an Olympic berth after
beating Felix by 0.0001. After officials reviewed video, they
announced the finish as a dead heat.  The following day, procedures were released that provided
for the possibility of a run-off or a coin toss if one of the
runners didn’t agree to resign her position.  The decision to conduct a run-off didn’t come until after
both women competed two days ago in the 200 meters, a race won
by Felix in a time of 21.69 seconds to break the 24-year-old
meet record held by Florence Griffith-Joyner. Tarmoh was fifth.  Relay Teammates  Both runners, who will head to  London  as members of the
sprint relay team, said they never gave serious consideration to
letting the final individual spot be decided on a coin flip.  “Neither of us wanted it to come to that,” said Felix, a
two-time Olympic 200-meter silver medalist. “We both worked
extremely hard and we’re teammates. We’ve seen each other each
day struggling and we couldn’t let it come to that.”  Felix, 26, is ranked ninth in the world in the 100 meters,
according to All-Athletics.com, while Tarmoh is 66th.  Should Felix and Tarmoh tie in tonight’s rematch, a coin
toss would then determine who races the 100 meters in London.
The games begin July 27.  Wallace Spearmon won the men’s 200 meters in 19.82 seconds
yesterday, earning a trip to London and another shot at
 Jamaica ’s Usain Bolt four years after a lane violation cost him
a bronze medal in Beijing.  “That’s definitely something that’s been on my mind for a
while,” said Spearmon, who finished ahead of Maurice Mitchell
and Isiah Young. “If I didn’t make the team this year that
would have been on my mind for the rest of my life. I don’t take
my second chances lightly.”  Bolt Beaten  Olympic champion Bolt finished second to Yohan Blake
yesterday in the 200 meters final at the Jamaican team trials.
Blake also upset Bolt in the 100 meters on June 29 by winning in
9.75 seconds, the fastest time this year.  Michael Tinsley won the men’s 400-meter hurdles at the U.S.
trials yesterday, finishing ahead of reigning Olympic champion
Angelo Taylor and 2008 silver medalist Kerron Clement.  Lashinda Demus won the women’s 400-meter hurdles and will
be joined in London by Georganne Moline and T’Erea Brown.  Leonel Manzano won the men’s 1,500 meters with Morgan Uceny
finishing first in the women’s race. Brittney Reese claimed her
fifth straight U.S. long jump title, and Brittany Borman won the
women’s javelin throw.  Reigning Olympic gymnastics all-around champion Nastia Liukin failed to qualify for this year’s U.S. women’s team, a
squad that features Gabby Douglas, Jordyn Wieber, Aly Raisman,
McKayla Maroney and Kyla Ross.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mason Levinson in  New York  at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net ;
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  