-- Finland Firm on Collateral as Spain Aid Terms Discussed
-- B y   J o s i a n e   K r e m e r
-- 2012-07-03T14:21:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-02/finland-firm-on-collateral-as-spain-aid-terms-discussed.html
Finland underlined its determination
to get collateral in exchange for loans to  Spain’s banks  as the
Nordic country targets similar terms to those won last year on
its contribution to  Greece ’s second bailout.  “We have the requirements of collateral on the loans that
are from the temporary vehicle,” Jukka Pekkarinen, director
general at the Finnish  Finance Ministry  in Helsinki, said in an
interview in Oslo yesterday. “The details are still open, but
the principle standpoint is the same” as in the case of Greece,
he said.  Euro-area nations agreed in Brussels last week to ease the
terms of Spain’s bank bailout after the country’s borrowing
costs soared above 7 percent. Finland is fighting its corner to
reassure taxpayers they’re no worse off after euro-zone leaders
decided Spain’s emergency loan of as much as 100 billion euros
($126 billion) won’t give preferred status to contributor
countries. Finland has demanded collateral for any loans that
don’t give taxpayers seniority.  “In negotiations everything can happen,” Pekkarinen said.
“That is a kind of substitute for the seniority.”  Leaders of the 17 euro countries agreed that crisis loans
to  Spain ’s banks will be made through the euro region’s
temporary bailout fund and, when it becomes available,
transferred to the European Stability Mechanism without gaining
seniority status.  Collateral Demand  Finland, one of only four AAA rated nations left in the
euro area, threatened to hamper efforts to agree on a second
bailout for Greece by insisting on collateral last year. The
Nordic country was the only nation to negotiate security in
exchange for loans from the temporary fund, or the European
Financial Stability Facility, because the vehicle doesn’t give
its creditors preferred status.  “I think this has to do a lot with domestic politics in
Finland, because the government has been promising that they
don’t want to lend money without collateral,” Jussi Hiljanen,
head of fixed income research at SEB AB in Stockholm said by
phone.  Voters in Finland, which kept its deficit within the
European Union’s 3 percent threshold even as its economy
contracted 8.4 percent in 2009, rewarded groups critical of
 Europe ’s rescue mechanism in April 2011 elections, when the
anti-euro “The Finns” party become the nation’s third-largest.  Top Rating  Inside the euro area, Finland shares its top  credit rating 
with  Germany , Luxembourg and the Netherlands. The other
countries in the monetary union are  Austria ,  Belgium , Cyprus,
 Estonia , France, Greece, Ireland,  Italy , Malta,  Portugal ,
Slovakia, Slovenia and Spain.  The Nordic country yesterday questioned the ability of the
permanent rescue fund, the ESM, to purchase bonds through the
secondary market. Finland, which opposes such purchases, argues
the process would require unanimity inside the euro area to be
possible.  There exists no unanimous agreement on the bond purchases
because Finland and the Netherlands reject the model, the
Finnish government said in a report dated June 29 and presented
yesterday by Prime Minister  Jyrki Katainen  to the parliament’s
Grand Committee in Helsinki. The government reiterated its
opposition today, citing the rescue funds’ limited resources and
the shown “ineffectiveness” of bond purchases.  Can’t Block  Spain’s Economy Minister Luis de Guindos said today that
the two countries won’t be able to block Spain from receiving
aid via the euro region’s permanent rescue fund.  “There is a fundamental point in the ESM and that is that
decisions are taken with a qualified majority, not
unanimously,” de Guindos told journalists in  Madrid . “I don’t
want to go into calculations but Holland and Finland won’t have
the capacity to block an agreement.”  The rules of the ESM include an emergency voting procedure,
which requires a qualified majority of 85 percent of the votes
cast if the European Commission and the  European Central Bank 
see a threat to the economic and financial sustainability of the
euro area. Finland’s parliament voted on June 21 to approve the
permanent bailout fund and the Dutch upper house of parliament
approved it today.  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  declined to take sides in
the dispute over sovereign-bond buying, saying “we have to
respect” Finland’s opposition to such aid. Conditions for
emergency financial aid to euro countries will be decided case
by case, she said in Berlin today.  Sovereign bond purchases by the region’s permanent rescue
fund could reduce pressure on rising yields, which have
threatened to cut off Spain’s access to bond markets. The
country’s borrowing costs declined after the decision last week
to ease repayment rules for emergency loans to banks in the euro
area’s fourth-biggest economy.  “I have difficulties in seeing that Finland could be a
show-stopper on these issues when it comes to the Spanish
package,” said Hiljanen.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Josiane Kremer in Oslo at 
 jkremer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  