-- Fisker Hires Former Ford, Dana Executive Yost as CFO
-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 2012-07-03T18:20:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-02/fisker-hires-former-ford-dana-executive-yost-as-cfo.html
(Corrects name of  Dana Holding Corp. (DAN)  in first paragraph of
story published July 2.)  Fisker Automotive Inc., a maker of
luxury plug-in hybrid cars, hired a former  Ford Motor Co. (F)  and
Dana Holding Corp. executive as its chief financial officer as
the company works to overcome funding and quality challenges.  Jim Yost, who was CFO for auto-parts maker Dana from 2008
until May, takes on the same job for Anaheim, California-based
Fisker, the carmaker said in a statement today. Yost will report
to Chief Executive Tom LaSorda and  Henrik Fisker , Fisker’s
executive chairman and co-founder.  “Jim’s extensive financial, operational and strategic
skills as well as international experience will be a tremendous
asset as we continue to expand the global reach of the Karma
sedan and prepare the path for the next-generation Atlantic
sedan’” LaSorda said in the statement.  Yost’s hiring follows the appointment in February of
LaSorda, a former CEO of the predecessor of Chrysler Group LLC,
as Fisker turns to auto industry veterans to aid operations. The
closely held company that received $529 million in U.S. loans to
engineer and build rechargeable cars, is fixing battery-pack
glitches in its Karma model and trying to regain access to
federal funds for a Delaware factory after missing delivery
deadlines.  Yost will replace Joe DaMour, who remains a special adviser
to the company, said Russell Datz, a spokesman for Fisker, by
telephone. Yost began his career at Ford, where he worked for 27
years, serving in senior- and executive-level finance roles in
 North America , Europe and South America, Fisker said in the
statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in  Los Angeles  at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Koenig at 
 wkoenig@bloomberg.net  