-- Fourth of July Grillers Pay for Record Burgers: Chart of the Day
-- B y   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s
-- 2012-07-02T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-02/fourth-of-july-grillers-pay-for-record-burgers-chart-of-the-day.html
Consumers are set to pay the most
ever for hamburgers and steak for this year’s Fourth of July
holiday as rising demand pushes beef prices to a record and
increases the cost of a basket of barbecue staples.  The CHART OF THE DAY shows retail beef jumped to a record
in May and the cost of seven foods commonly consumed while
grilling gained 1.8 percent from a year earlier. Rising prices
may not crimp demand for foods eaten on the American holiday
because it falls on a Wednesday this year, boosting sales for
parties on the weekends before and after.  “This is a boom time for us,” said Beth Weiss, a
spokeswoman at Omaha Steaks, the largest U.S. direct shipper of
beef that now has 80 stores. “On the Fourth of July, you grill,
that’s what you do. I can certainly understand that there are
more parties if the Fourth falls mid-week.”  July 4 is the most popular day of the year for Americans to
grill outdoors, according to the Hearth, Patio & Barbecue
Association. Beef prices have climbed as U.S. exports reached a
record last year and the domestic cattle herd shrunk to the
smallest since 1952.  Meat packers “feel like they’re getting a three-for-one
bang for the Fourth of July,” Ryan Turner, a risk manager at
INTL FCStone, said during an interview in  Chicago . “It’s a
really good thing for them because they catch the weekend
before, catch the day of and catch the weekend after.”  U.S. retail beef climbed to a record $4.687 a pound in May,
according to the most recent data from the Department of
Agriculture. The price is a composite that includes choice beef
and other beef and hamburger values. The Bloomberg-compiled
index of barbecue staples comprises lean ground beef, white
bread, American cheese, iceberg lettuce, tomatoes, ice cream and
potato chips.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony C. Dreibus in Chicago at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Patrick McKiernan at 
 pmckiernan@bloomberg.net  