-- France Poised to Beat U.S. in Wheat Exports After Drought
-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g   a n d   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 2012-07-03T16:02:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-02/france-poised-to-beat-u-s-in-wheat-exports-after-drought.html
U.S. farmers, the biggest wheat
shippers, are poised to lose their advantage over French growers
in export markets after the worst Midwest drought in more than a
decade wilted grain crops and drove prices to a 10-month high.  Wheat traded in  Chicago  jumped 18 percent in the past two
weeks as Paris grain rose 12 percent. French supply for delivery
after the harvest traded at a premium of $2.44 a metric ton to
the U.S. in Paris today, from a record $25.27 on May 2. That may
flip to a $5 discount in the next several weeks, said Alexandre Marie, a Bourges, France-based analyst at Offre & Demande
Agricole, which advises 5,000 farmers on crop sales.  Just four months ago, European crops were damaged by winter
freezes and  France , the world’s second-biggest exporter, shipped
about 32 percent less grain outside the 27-nation European Union
in the first 11 months of the crop year that ended last week.
French output forecasts are now rising after ample rain as the
U.S. government cut its ratings for domestic grain crops.  “U.S. wheat is going to be priced out of export bids,”
said Nick Higgins, a commodities analyst at Rabobank
International in  London . “The EU is going to have to pick up
more of the export burden.”  September futures rose 13 percent to $7.9025 a bushel this
year on the Chicago Board of Trade, as dry weather also damaged
developing corn, threatening to cut U.S. feed grain supplies. In
Paris, November futures gained 23 percent to 235.75 euros
($296.60) a metric ton on the NYSE Liffe exchange today. Both
reflect the most active contracts. The premium is based on the
November Paris contract and December Chicago wheat.  Crop Office  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Agriculture Index of eight
 commodities  advanced 5.5 percent this year, led by soybeans and
wheat. The wider GSCI  gauge  of 24 raw materials tumbled into a
 bear market  last month, dropping more than 20 percent from its
closing high in February, on mounting concern that slower growth
will curb demand. The MSCI All-Country World Index of equities
gained 5.7 percent and Treasuries returned 2.1 percent, a Bank
of America Corp. index shows.  About 72 percent of France’s wheat crop was rated in good
or excellent  condition  last month, up from 62 percent in April
and 29 percent a year earlier, according to FranceAgriMer, the
national crop office. Rainfall in the country’s main growing
regions has been in line with the long-term average since March,
U.S. Department of Agriculture satellite data show.  Harvest Forecasts  France will reap 35.2 million tons of wheat this season,
1.1 million tons more than estimated in March, Coceral, which
lobbies on behalf of producers in the EU, said June 29. Copa-
Cogeca, a farm group based in Brussels, increased its forecast
by 2.2 million tons to 34.5 million tons the same day. The
harvest typically starts in July.  In the U.S., 54 percent of the winter-wheat crop was judged
to be in good or excellent condition by June 24, down from 64
percent at the end of April, the USDA estimates. Two thirds of
the U.S. suffered from “abnormally dry” weather or worse as of
June 26, according to the National Drought Mitigation Center in
Lincoln,  Nebraska . About 92 percent of  Ohio , the biggest grower
of soft, red winter wheat traded in Chicago, and all of  Kansas ,
 Oklahoma ,  Indiana  and  Illinois  were drier than normal.  USDA Estimates  Farmers in the U.S. will reap 60.8 million tons this year,
the USDA said June 12, reducing its estimate by 310,000 tons.
That would still be almost 6.4 million tons more than in the
previous season, when drought also parched fields, causing a
combined $7.6 billion in agriculture losses in  Texas  alone. The
winter-wheat harvest started last month and the spring variety
is normally ready from August.  Rain in a seven-state region of the Midwest was 2 inches
(5.1 centimeters) below normal in June, the driest for the month
since 1988 and the second driest since 1936, said Mike Tannura,
the owner of T-storm Weather LLC. Temperatures in Dodge City,
 Kansas , reached 111 degrees Fahrenheit (44 degrees Celsius) last
week, the hottest since 1874, he said from Chicago.  While the U.S. may harvest less than previously expected,
the USDA is still projecting a 9 percent increase in exports to
31.3 million tons. Even after the decline since April, crop
conditions as of last week were better than in nine of the past
10 years. The department is scheduled to issue new production
and export forecasts on July 11.  Food Prices  Prices in Chicago would have to advance another 71 percent
to match the record $13.495 reached in February 2008, the middle
of a three-year period when the U.S. State Department estimates
more than 60 food riots erupted worldwide. World food  prices 
tracked by the  United Nations ’ Rome-based Food & Agriculture
Organization fell 14 percent from a record in February 2011.  Global wheat output will drop 3.2 percent to 672.1 million
tons this year, with lower production from  Argentina  to
 Kazakhstan  to  Australia , the USDA estimates. Stockpiles at the
end of the season will be 5 percent lower at 185.8 million tons,
still 45 percent higher than the 26-year low reached in 2008,
USDA data show.  Consumption may exceed forecasts and drive stockpiles lower
should farmers feed more wheat to livestock as corn costs surge.
The U.S. corn crop by yesterday was in its worst condition for
that date since 1988 and futures rose 19 percent in the past two
weeks. The use of wheat in feed jumped 21 percent to a record
143.1 million tons last year as corn averaged a record $6.78,
according to the London-based International Grains Council.  Black Sea  Demand for French wheat may also strengthen as competing
supply from the  Black Sea  region declines. Russia will probably
ship 24 percent less this year as Kazakh sales drop 15 percent
less and those from Ukraine retreat 20 percent, the USDA
estimates. The 27-nation EU will send 14.5 million tons abroad,
a decline of 10 percent from the previous season, the department
predicts. Australia was the third-largest wheat exporter last
year, according to International Trade Centre data.  The EU granted export licenses for 21,194 tons of soft
wheat in the week through June 26, the smallest amount since at
least 2008. French soft-wheat loaded for destinations outside
the EU stood at 8.2 million tons at the end of May, from 12.1
million tons a year earlier, FranceAgriMer estimates.  French shipments dropped after frost in February damaged
wheat, barley and rapeseed plants. Crops were lost in the north
of the country and in  Germany  as temperatures dropped to -20
degrees Celsius (-4 degrees Fahrenheit) that month. Wheat covers
about 9 percent of mainland France and generated a record $6.75
billion in export income in 2011, Geneva, Switzerland-based ITC
data show. That compares with $11.1 billion for the U.S. and
$1.97 billion for Germany, the EU’s second-largest exporter.  Months of Rain  Three months of rain have helped the surviving crops
flourish and should give Western Europe more wheat to ship
abroad than in the previous season, said Pierre Raye, a Paris-
based analyst at InVivo, the largest exporter of French wheat.
He forecast the country’s soft-wheat crop will climb to 35
million tons from last year’s 33.9 million tons.  Algeria bought 600,000 tons last month, most of it French,
according to Offre &  Demande Agricole ’s Marie. The anticipated
rebound in exports will probably take Paris wheat to a $10
premium to Chicago by the end of October, he said.  “This could be a very good opportunity for European wheat,
particularly on North African destinations,” said Raye of
InVivo. “The world market needs this wheat.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net ;
Whitney McFerron in London at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  