-- FSA Says Barclays Not Alone as Prosecutors Weigh Libor Probe
-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o
-- 2012-07-02T17:14:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-02/fsa-says-barclays-not-alone-as-fraud-office-weighs-libor-probe.html
The U.K. finance regulator has “a
number of investigations concerning Libor” beyond the case that
resulted in a record fine levied against  Barclays Plc (BARC)  last week,
the agency’s acting head of enforcement said.  Barclays put “the interest of the bank and its traders”
ahead of customers, Tracey McDermott said in a speech today.
Separately, U.K. fraud prosecutors said they would decide
whether to open a criminal probe into attempts to manipulate the
rates “within a month.”  Barclays “was not an isolated case,” the Financial
Services Authority’s McDermott said. “You will hear more of
this in due course.”  Britain’s second-biggest bank was fined $451 million last
week in the U.K. and U.S. after it admitted to submitting false
Libor rates to benefit derivatives trades and bolster its own
financial position. Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne 
told lawmakers today that Martin Wheatley, designated to become
chief executive officer when the FSA becomes the Financial
Conduct Authority, will conduct an inquiry into the functioning
of the  London  interbank offered rate.  The case offers the most detailed public account of the
conduct that prompted regulators and criminal authorities on
three continents to investigate whether traders colluded to rig
interest rates and banks sought to bolster their perceived
stability by hiding their true borrowing costs in 2008.  18 Banks  Citigroup Inc.,  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS) ,  UBS AG (UBSN) ,
ICAP Plc,  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  and Deutsche Bank AG are
among the firms some regulators are investigating. A total of 18
banks are surveyed as part of the process of determining Libor
and related rates.  Osborne told lawmakers last week that the FSA was in touch
with prosecutors at the  Serious Fraud Office  about a possible
criminal investigation. Opposition Labour leader  Ed Miliband  and
London Mayor  Boris Johnson  both called for criminal probes.  Osborne said today he welcomes the SFO’s confirmation that
they are pursuing the case and “will encourage them to use
every legal avenue available to them,” including fraud and
false accounting charges.  “The issues are complex and the assessment of the evidence
the FSA has gathered will take a short time,” the SFO said in
an e-mailed statement.  Richard Alderman , who stepped down as director of the SFO
two months ago, had said the agency wasn’t involved in the
inquiry. People familiar with the probe said last month that
individuals in the case were unlikely to face a criminal
investigation in the U.K. and that suspects were told to expect
civil penalties. The  U.S. Department of Justice  is already
conducting a criminal probe.  ‘Fraud Is Crime’  “Fraud is a crime in ordinary business, why can’t it be so
in banking?” Osborne said today.  Barclays is assisting the investigation into other firms
and individuals and was the first to provide “extensive and
meaningful cooperation,” the U.S. Justice Department said.  Arlene McCarthy, a member of the European Parliament from
the U.K., called for stronger European Union market abuse rules
to include jail sentences in situations like the Libor scandal.  “There is no doubt that this is market manipulation of the
worst kind,” McCarthy said in an e-mailed statement. “Fines
have proved ineffective and have not changed the greedy culture
in the banking industry.”  Wheatley Inquiry  Wheatley’s inquiry, to conclude this summer, will look into
whether Libor setting should be regulated, whether actual trade
data can be used to set the benchmark, and “the adequacy of the
U.K.’s current criminal and civil sanctioning powers with
respect to financial conduct, and market abuse with regards to
Libor,” Osborne said.  The FSA’s biggest challenge is that financial services “is
no longer an industry that society respects and has confidence
in,” McDermott said. “Last week’s penalty should have
dispelled” any doubt of that, she said.  Osborne said last week the number of people under formal
investigation by the FSA is “expected to increase.” The
regulator can’t prosecute for Libor manipulation itself and
needs more powers to bring criminal charges, FSA Chairman  Adair Turner  said yesterday on the  BBC ’s “Andrew Marr Show” in
London.  If “left to its own devices,” the industry can’t regulate
itself, McDermott said. “Perhaps the events of last week will
be a watershed moment, where the industry realizes that it has
to rise to the challenge.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lindsay Fortado in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  