-- Full Tilt Poker’s Bitar Can Be Released on Bond Judge Rules
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2012-07-03T00:05:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-02/full-tilt-poker-s-bitar-charged-in-new-indictment-in-n-y-1-.html
Full Tilt Poker  founder Raymond Bitar
and Nelson Burtnick, head of payment processing, were named in a
new indictment alleging they defrauded customers to conceal the
firm’s cash-poor condition after charges were filed last year.  Prosecutors said that even after  Manhattan  U.S. Attorney
Preet Bharara unsealed the initial indictment against the two
men and nine others in April 2011, Bitar and Burtnick conspired
to lie to customers about the security of the funds. The U.S.
also filed a related civil suit against the company and other
online poker companies as well as payment processors last year.  The revised indictment, unsealed today in federal court in
 New York , alleges that both men used player funds to finance
Full Tilt Poker’s operations and pay its owners. Full Tilt Poker
developed a shortfall between the amount of cash in its bank
accounts and the money it owed players.  Bitar remained in Ireland and didn’t come to the U.S. to
face charges filed more than 15 months ago, prosecutors said.
“He was running it, I submit, because by this time, the company
was at this point little more than a  Ponzi scheme  and he had to
be there,” Assistant U.S. Attorney Arlo Devlin-Brown said in
court day. “He was attempting to keep it from unraveling.”  Money Spent  Both men failed to hold player cash in “segregated”
accounts and that they then “concocted a method to temporarily
disguise the company’s problems,” the U.S. said.  After Ireland-based Full Tilt Poker was forced to stop
operating in the U.S. in April 2011 and internationally in June
2011 following a court order issued by federal judges overseeing
related civil and criminal cases in the U.S., prosecutors said
the company “was unable to repay players around the world the
approximately $350 million it owed them.”  While Full Tilt Poker agreed with the U.S. Justice
Department to immediately return all money owed to U.S. players,
neither the company nor Bitar and Burtnick repaid customers as
the company claimed to have done on its website, prosecutors
said.  “In truth and in fact, however, Full Tilt Poker could not
return player money because, as Bitar knew, the player money had
been spent by the company and distributed to its owners,”
prosecutors said in the new indictment.  Persisted  Prosecutors said that while the company’s internal
financial statements reported that as of March 31, 2011, it owed
$390 million to players around the world yet had less than $60
million in its bank accounts,’’ prosecutors alleged.  “Bitar and Full Tilt Poker persisted in soliciting U.S.
gamblers long after such conduct was outlawed,” said Janice Fedarcyk, the head of the FBI’s New York office. “Bitar has
already been charged with defrauding banks to conceal the
illegal gambling. Now he stands accused of defrauding Full
Tilt’s customers by concealing its cash-poor condition and
paying off early creditors with deposits from later customers.
The online casino become an Internet Ponzi scheme.”  Bitar, 40, who has residences in Ireland and California,
was taken into custody earlier today by  Federal Bureau  of
Investigation agents after his plane landed at John F. Kennedy
Airport in New York, said  Jim Margolin , a spokesman for the
FBI’s New York office. Bitar moved the company to Ireland in
2006.  ‘Come Back’  Bitar pleaded not guilty to the charges at his arraignment
before U.S. Magistrate Judge Debra Freeman. She agreed to
release him on $2.5 million personal recognizance bond secured
by $1 million in cash or property and the signatures of five
financially responsible people.  The judge said Bitar couldn’t be released until he’d met
all the conditions she set and told prosecutors that she would
grant their request to stay her ruling for 24 hours because it
wasn’t likely that Bitar would be able to meet the conditions of
his release by the end of business today.  She also directed that he confine his travel to the
Southern and Eastern District of New York and the Central
District of  California , where Bitar has a home and where
relatives live. Bitar was directed to surrender his passport.  Freeman rejected a request by prosecutors that he be
detained without bail because he posed a flight risk. Devlin-
Brown had argued that Bitar had known about the indictment and
had failed to appear in the U.S. to face the charges.  “Mr. Bitar was a U.S. citizen who traveled back and forth
to the U.S. from Ireland, but knowing he was indicted he decided
not to come back,” Devlin-Brown told the judge.  ‘Returned Voluntarily’  “Today, I returned voluntarily to the U.S. from Full
Tilt’s headquarters in Ireland to face the charges against me,”
Bitar said in a statement. “I know that a lot of people are
very angry at me. I understand why. Full Tilt should never have
gotten into a position where it could not repay player funds.
For the last 15 months, I have worked hard on possible solutions
to get the players repaid. Returning today is part of that
process,” he said.  “I will continue to do whatever is required to get the
players repaid and I hope that it will happen soon,” he said.  John Baughman and Roberto Finzi, defense lawyers for Bitar,
told Freeman today that their client hadn’t attempted to evade
prosecution and that he’d been had been in Ireland where he has
continued to act as Full Tilt’s chief executive officer,
attempting to help authorities locate funds.  “When Full Tilt Poker’s operations were shut down last
year, it was not able to refund money it was holding in players’
accounts,” Baughman said. “We hope that we will be able to
resolve Mr. Bitar’s remaining legal issues in a way that is
satisfying to all parties,” he said in a statement.  Around the Clock  Finzi told the judge his client has been working around the
clock since the charges were filed in April 2011 to get Full
Tilt’s players repaid.  “Arranging for those repayments has been and remains his
top priority,” he said.  Bitar and Burtnick were originally charged in an indictment
unsealed in April 2011 that accused the two as well as the
founders of three of the largest Internet poker companies with
bank fraud,  money laundering  and illegal gambling.  The revised indictment against both men adds two new
charges, one of money laundering and a second charge of
operation of an illegal Internet gambling business. The most
serious charge of bank fraud conspiracy, carries a term of as
long as 30 years in prison, prosecutors said.  Both Baughman and Finzi declined to comment after court.  The case is U.S. v. Bitar, 10-cr-336, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  