-- Garfield, Stone Heat Up Latest ‘Spider-Man’ Film: Review
-- B y   G r e g   E v a n s
-- 2012-07-02T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-02/garfield-stone-heat-up-latest-spider-man-film-review.html
Maybe a Spider-Man reboot wasn’t
exactly screaming to be made, coming just a half-decade after
Tobey Maguire ditched the bodysuit for good.  But  “The Amazing Spider-Man”  is a sweeter, quirkier spin
than Sam Raimi’s blockbuster action franchise trilogy. The
dazzling newcomer swings decidedly on its own terms.  Director  Marc Webb  (was “Spider-Man” his destiny?) laces
the skyscraper-scaling crime-busting with a fetching, awkward
romanticism that made his  “(500) Days of Summer”  such a low-
key charmer.  Not that “Spider-Man” skimps on battle time and CGI
heroics (though the 3-D seems rote). And to cut to the chase:
 Andrew Garfield  is terrific in the lead role as a younger, more
self-effacing superhero than the Maguire version.  With a grin that seems wider than his shoulders and a
fumbling modesty that’s neither too soft nor overly calculated,
the winning Garfield ( “The Social Network,”  Broadway’s “Death
of a Salesman”) skitters to the top of his generation’s
sensitive-hero heap.  Webb clearly knows what he has in the star. A full hour
passes before the tale’s spider-bitten outsider makes his full,
Spandexed transformation, giving the goofy-handsome Garfield
plenty of time to get under our skin as soulful high schooler
 Peter Parker .  Beautiful Stone  The screenplay by James Vanderbilt, Alvin Sargent and Steve
Kloves (based, of course, on Stan Lee and Steve Ditko’s Marvel
comic) taps the familiar story. Peter’s an orphan, raised by
Uncle Ben ( Martin Sheen ) and Aunt May (Sally Field), bullied by
jock Flash Thompson (Chris Zylka) and smitten with the
beautiful, brainy Gwen Stacy ( Emma Stone ).  In this telling, Peter’s long-dead dad (Campbell Scott) was
a scientist studying cross-species genetic engineering. His
mysterious death left his research partner Dr. Curt Connors
(Rhys Ifans) to carry on alone.  And carry on he has, developing a serum to give humans the
regenerative powers of lizards. The one-armed Connors has his
own selfish motivations (obviously) and soon bears a decided
resemblance to Godzilla.  Lizard Smackdown  Webb, with cinematographer John Schwartzman, puts  New York 
City through its paces, with Spider-Man dangling from the
Williamsburg Bridge, scaling glass-towered peaks and swinging
down avenues. His Lower Manhattan smackdown with the Lizard
follows “The Avengers” in essentially refighting a re-
imagined, but exhausted, 9/11 trope.  The film’s greatest victories are its smallest. Garfield,
in Peter’s discovery of his newfound strengths, finds the horror
and promise of adolescence humorously magnified, and his
chemistry with Stone is delightful.  Sheen and Fields, meanwhile, show the kids how it’s done.
Every year of experience shines in their performances and, near-
wondrously, on their faces.  “Spider-Man” is exceptionally well-cast across the board.
Denis Leary, as Stacy’s apparently well-to-do police chief dad,
can’t help but suggest the working-class grit of a former beat
cop.  He sounds like old New York, even as his character pushes
young Spidey forward into the inevitable sequels.  “The Amazing Spider-Man,” from  Columbia Pictures , is
playing across the U.S. Rating: ***  ( Greg Evans  is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  James S. Russell  on architecture
and  Hephzibah Anderson  on books.  To contact the writer on the story: Greg Evans at
 gregeaevans@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 