-- GE to Sell Lending Unit to EverBank for $2.51 Billion
-- B y   T i m   C a t t s
-- 2012-07-02T20:19:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-02/ge-to-sell-lending-unit-to-everbank-for-2-51-billion.html
General Electric Co. (GE)  agreed to sell a
commercial property lender to  EverBank Financial Corp. (EVER)  for $2.51
billion in cash as Chief Executive Officer  Jeffrey Immelt 
shrinks real estate operations.  The  deal  for Business Property Lending Inc. includes $2.44
billion in performing commercial real estate debt and servicing
rights on $3.1 billion of loans securitized by GE Capital, the
companies said in a statement today. The sale is expected to
close next quarter, pending regulatory approval, EverBank said.  Immelt has been working to exit some businesses tied to
real estate as he pares GE Capital’s balance sheet after $32
billion of credit losses during the financial crisis. GE curbed
the unit’s loan originations as credit markets froze following
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s 2008 collapse.  “The platform has excellent potential to grow,” EverBank
CEO Robert Clements said on a conference call. Even as  Stamford ,
Connecticut-based  GE Capital  cut new loans at Business Property
Lending, it kept “the people and the essential infrastructure
required to restore and expand lending volumes,” he said.  The acquisition will immediately provide a “low double-
digit” boost to earnings per share, Jacksonville, Florida-based
EverBank said. Business Property Lending’s new loans fell 97
percent to $43 million in 2009, and are on pace in 2012 for $317
million, according to a  presentation  on EverBank’s website.  Shares Rise  EverBank rose 4.4 percent to $11.35 at the close in  New
York . That was the biggest jump since May 3, a day after the
company held an initial public offering. GE fell 1.7 percent to
$20.49.  The sale will reduce GE Capital’s ending net investment, a
measure of the unit’s size that excludes non-interest-bearing
liabilities and cash, by $5 billion, a spokesman,  Russell Wilkerson , said in an e-mail. Ending net investment at the unit
is targeted to fall 3.4 percent to $425 billion this year from
2011, CEO Mike Neal reiterated in May.  “The transaction is consistent with our strategy of
reducing our real estate portfolio,” Wilkerson said in the e-
mail.  GE Capital sold its Irish mortgage unit last month to
Pepper Home Loans Group, Australia’s largest non-bank mortgage
lender.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Catts in New York at 
 tcatts1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  