-- GeoResources Seen Returning 56% With July Halcon Deal: Real M&A
-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e
-- 2012-07-02T16:02:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-02/georesources-seen-returning-56-with-july-halcon-deal-real-m-a.html
Halcon Resources Corp. (HK) ’s takeover of
GeoResources Inc. is giving traders the opportunity to reap the
biggest arbitrage profit in America.  GeoResources, which owns  oil fields  in the Bakken shale
formation in  North Dakota  and  Montana , slid for a second week
and ended last month $1.63 a share below Halcon’s cash-and-stock
offer of $38.24. While both companies have fallen as oil slumped
to a nine-month low, traders can still secure an annualized
profit of 56 percent by buying GeoResources on the bet the deal
will close by July 31, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The takeover will let Halcon, run by former Petrohawk
Energy Corp. head Floyd C. Wilson, more than double production
and gain footholds in the Bakken and the Austin Chalk formation
in  Texas , the biggest continuous  oil deposits  in the continental
U.S. With GeoResources’s cash from operations increasing four
times as fast as similar-sized U.S. exploration companies since
2009, Halcon will also acquire more currency to finance its
expansion at a time when analysts are forecasting a rebound in
oil to more than $100 a barrel, Stephens Inc. said.  “If you look at GeoResources’s cash flows and production
levels, it’s a great fit for what Halcon’s trying to do,” Jason Wangler, a Houston-based analyst at Wunderlich Securities Inc.,
said in a telephone interview. “The deal just makes a lot of
sense to me and it’s likely going to get done.”  Frank Lodzinski, GeoResources’s chief executive officer,
declined to comment beyond the company’s June 25  joint statement 
with Halcon. In it, the companies said they “hope to complete
the merger as soon as reasonably practicable” and expect it to
close this quarter.  ‘We’re Confident’  “We’re confident the deal will close as expected,” said
Scott Zuehlke, a spokesman for Halcon. “The special meeting and
shareholder vote is scheduled for July 31 and we expect to close
that day or the following the day.”  Halcon agreed April 25 to pay GeoResources holders $20 in
cash and 1.932 shares of Halcon for each one they own. Both
companies are based in Houston. The deal, which valued
GeoResources at $992 million excluding net cash, was 20 percent
higher than GeoResources’s average share price in the 20 days
before the announcement, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The purchase will boost Halcon’s average net daily
production to the equivalent of 11,070  barrels of oil  per day,
the companies said in the April statement.  While GeoResources climbed to a record on June 20, it has
since retreated as oil-industry stocks fell along with a slump
in crude  oil prices . Oil futures declined 18 percent to $84.96 a
barrel last quarter, the biggest plunge since the depth of the
financial crisis in the fourth quarter of 2008.  Committed Buyer  GeoResources ended at $36.61 a share last week, 4.3 percent
below Halcon’s offer. That meant traders buying GeoResources
today could lock in a profit of about 56 percent on an
annualized basis if the deal closes July 31, when shareholders
of both companies are scheduled to vote, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  That’s the biggest windfall for any pending U.S. takeover
worth more than $500 million, the data show. Directors for
GeoResources and Halcon have approved the transaction.  “It is an attractive spread, especially when you consider
Halcon is a committed, strategic buyer,” Yemi Oshodi,  New York- 
based managing director of M&A and special situations trading at
WallachBeth Capital LLC, said in a telephone interview. “Some
people are worried about energy prices. But all you need to do
is speak to the guys at Halcon and they’ll tell you, ‘We’re not
buying this for an overnight flip.’”  Today’s Trading  GeoResources slipped 0.7 percent to $36.36 at 11:58 a.m.
today in  New York  after earlier gaining as much as 1.1 percent.
Halcon dropped 1.3 percent to $9.32.  With GeoResources, Halcon gains access to the Williston
Basin, an ancient sedimentary deposit stretching from  South
Dakota  into  Canada ’s province of Saskatchewan, said William Butler, a Fort Worth, Texas-based analyst at Stephens.  Some of GeoResources’s assets are located in Williston’s
Bakken formation, which the  U.S. Geological Survey  said in April
2008 may contain as much as  4.3 billion barrels  of technically
recoverable oil under western North Dakota and eastern Montana.  The amount is enough to meet all U.S. crude oil needs for
more than 220 days, based on an estimate by the Central
Intelligence Agency.  “The primary reason for the deal is to get Halcon a
starter kit in the Williston Basin,” Butler said in a telephone
interview. “That’s going to be one of the most important oil
basins to the U.S. energy supply for the next generation. Halcon
sees that and therefore wants a position in it.”  Austin Chalk  Halcon is also getting GeoResources’s Woodbine shale
deposit in the Austin Chalk formation, which rests above the
Eagle Ford region in Texas and is the second-biggest continuous
oil deposit behind the Bakken.  “They’re the next hot resources that people haven’t really
tapped into,” Hsulin Peng, a New York-based analyst at Robert
W. Baird & Co., said in a telephone interview.  GeoResources’s cash flow will increase to $5.14 a share
this year, a 253 percent gain since 2009, according to analysts’
estimates compiled by Bloomberg. That’s four times the median
increase for U.S. oil explorers and producers with market values
from $500 million to $1 billion, the data show.  Halcon can use the cash from GeoResources’s conventional
oil fields in  Louisiana ,  New Mexico  and western Texas to fund
more shale acquisitions, Wunderlich’s Wangler said.  Traders who want to exploit the difference between
GeoResources’s stock and Halcon’s offer price may not be able to
find enough Halcon shares to borrow, said John Maysles, a Los
Angeles-based event-driven analyst at Elevation LLC.  Short Sale  Merger arbitragers usually short the acquirer’s stock while
buying shares of the target. In a short sale, investors sell
borrowed stock and profit from buying it back at a lower price.  Executives, directors and other  insiders  own more than half
Halcon’s stock, while speculators have already borrowed 88
percent of its shares available for lending, according to data
compiled by Markit, a London-based research firm.  The cost to borrow Halcon’s stock has now climbed to a
level of 10, the most expensive point on its scale. That’s the
reason the spread between  GeoResources (GEOI) ’s stock price and
Halcon’s offer hasn’t narrowed further, Maysles said.  “There’s not any indication of worries that the deal might
be in any kind of jeopardy,” he said. “It’s simply an issue
with borrowing shares to short Halcon.”  For Stephens’s Butler, the deal will benefit Halcon so much
that investors can just purchase GeoResources as a way to get a
slice of the combined company’s  future earnings  at a discount.  Analysts are also projecting that oil prices will recover
and average $102 a barrel this quarter, according to the median
estimate compiled by Bloomberg. On June 29, oil futures surged
by the most in more than three years, rebounding from the lowest
price since October, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “The deal probably will close,” Butler said. “Even if
you couldn’t short Halcon, you could actually go naked long on
GeoResources and synthetically get Halcon at a cheaper price.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Lachapelle in New York at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net . 