-- Italian Notes Gain on ECB Bets as Spanish Bonds Drop
-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e   a n d   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a
-- 2012-07-02T16:32:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-02/german-bonds-climb-before-manufacturing-unemployment-reports.html
Italian and Spanish notes rose on
speculation European Central Bank policy makers will take steps
to address the debt crisis this week after a report showed the
euro area’s jobless rate surged to a record.  Spain ’s two-year  yield  reached less than 4 percent for the
first time since June 11 as its 10-year bonds declined before
auctions of securities due between 2015 and 2022 on July 5. The
ECB will cut its benchmark  interest rate  to a record 0.75
percent the same day, according to the median estimate of 61
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News. Securities of  Europe ’s so-
called peripheral nations outperformed benchmark German debt
after regional leaders last week said they would use rescue
funds to stabilize markets.  “People are not willing to go too short on Italian or
Spanish bonds ahead of the ECB meeting and before we see details
of measures announced last week,” said  Charles Diebel , the head
of market strategy at Lloyds Banking Group Plc in London. A
short position is a bet the price of an asset will decline.  Italian two-year note yields fell 10 basis points to 3.40
percent at 5 p.m. London time, after reaching 3.14 percent, the
lowest since May 14. The 3 percent security due April 2014 rose
0.160, or 1.60 euros per 1,000-euro ($1,259) face amount, to
99.37. The yield on Spanish securities due in April 2014
decreased seven basis points to 4.20 percent.  Track Record  The ECB has a track record of action following political
progress to tackle the debt crisis, including bond purchases
that followed bailout programs and unlimited three-year loans on
the heels of pledges supporting fiscal discipline. Spanish and
Italian bonds rallied on June 29 after political leaders said
they would ease repayment rules for emergency loans to Spain’s
banks and relax conditions on potential help for  Italy .  The securities stayed higher today even after the Finnish
government said it is opposed to purchases of bonds in the
secondary market by the European Stability Mechanism, the
region’s permanent bailout fund.  Dutch Prime Minister  Mark Rutte  also said last week that
his nation was not in favor of Italy’s request for “direct
bond-buying by the aid funds in the secondary markets.”  Irish bonds climbed, pushing the yield on the country’s
debt due October 2020 down 12 basis points to 6.34 percent.
Volatility on Belgian government debt was the highest in
developed markets today, followed by Finland and Ireland,
according to measures of 10-year bonds, the spread between two-
and 10-year securities, and credit default swaps.  Common Debt  Spanish 10-year bonds declined before this week’s debt
offerings and amid speculation that moves toward common debt
issuance in Europe will face resistance from top rated countries
including  Germany . The yield increased five basis points to 6.38
percent.  “Market players may be demanding a concession ahead of
supply on Thursday, weighing on the longer end” in Spain, said
 Nick Stamenkovic , a fixed-income strategist at broker RIA
Capital Markets Ltd. In Edinburgh. “There’s still some
implementation risk. There was no agreement whatsoever on
whether debt mutualization is a good thing.”  Spain will auction as much as 3 billion euros of bonds
maturing between 2015 and 2022, the Treasury said. The maximum
sales target at Spain’s last bond auction on June 21 was 2
billion euros.  Germany’s  10-year bunds rose  after a report showed the
jobless rate in the 17-nation euro area increased to 11.1
percent in May from 11 percent in June. That’s the highest since
the data series was started in 1995.  Euro-Area Manufacturing  Markit Economics said separately its index of euro-area
manufacturing based on a survey of  purchasing managers  was 45.1
in June, compared with an initial estimate of 44.8. Another
report showed manufacturing in the U.S. contracted last month.  The bund yield fell six basis points to 1.52 percent, after
dropping to a record low of 1.127 percent on June 1.  Bunds also advanced after German President  Joachim Gauck 
withheld approval of the 500 billion-euro ESM pending lawsuits
seeking to challenge the plan. Germany’s 10-year yield is nearly
2 percentage points below its 10-year average of 3.54 percent.  German “yield levels are still at very extreme levels,”
said Rasmus Rousing, a fixed-income strategist at Credit Suisse
Group AG in Zurich. “It’s more than just data weakness that’s
priced in. The market is pricing for a very adverse outcome in
the  euro zone .”  The yield on two-year Dutch notes slipped three basis
points to 0.26 percent after the Netherlands sold 86-day
Treasury bills at a rate of minus 0.013 percent. That’s a
record-low yield at Dutch auctions of three-month securities,
according to the nation’s debt management agency.  German bonds have returned 2 percent this year, while
Spanish securities handed investors a loss of 3.5 percent,
according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European
Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. Italian debt earned
8.7 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anchalee Worrachate in  London  at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net ;
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  