-- German Counterintelligence Head Quits Amid Neo-Nazi Probe
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2012-07-02T13:19:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-02/german-counterintelligence-head-quits-amid-neo-nazi-probe.html
Germany ’s chief of counter-
intelligence quit amid an unfolding investigation into an
underground neo-Nazi cell, following revelations that files
detailing government surveillance of the group were destroyed.  Heinz Fromm, president of the Federal Office for the
Protection of the Constitution, informed Interior Minister Hans- Peter Friedrich of his decision, Markus Beyer, a ministry
spokesman, told reporters in Berlin today. Fromm who has headed
the office since 2000, will take early retirement on July 31.  A top-level probe and a parliamentary investigation are
examining how a group known as the National Socialist
Underground was able to carry out a series of murders, attacks
and bank robberies for over a decade. The investigation has also
turned to the role of domestic intelligence.  Fromm, 63, told  Der Spiegel  in this week’s edition that a
“grave loss of trust” in his office occurred. The magazine had
reported that a counterintelligence employee destroyed files in
November after the cell’s crimes came to light. The documents
detailed the activity of government agents in an extremist group
in the eastern state of Thuringia that members of the NSU later
joined, Spiegel reported.  In what  Chancellor Angela Merkel  called a “disgrace for
Germany,” the cell is accused of killing nine men of Turkish or
Greek origin and a policewoman between 2000 and 2007, carrying
out a bomb attack in Cologne and robbing banks to raise cash.
The racially motivated crimes remained unsolved until last
November, when the corpses of two of the group’s members were
found, leading to a trove of evidence detailing connections with
Germany’s neo-Nazi scene and possible knowledge of secret
government agents.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  