-- GlaxoSmithKline Reaches Plea Agreement Over Drug Labeling
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y ,   S e t h   S t e r n   a n d   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 2012-07-02T21:49:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-02/glaxosmithkline-reaches-plea-agreement-over-drug-labeling.html
GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  agreed to plead
guilty and pay $3 billion to resolve criminal and civil
allegations that it illegally promoted  prescription drugs  and
failed to report safety data, the U.S. said.  The settlement, the largest-ever in a health-care fraud
case in the U.S., includes a criminal fine of $956.8 million,
the Justice Department said today. London-based Glaxo will also
forfeit $43 million, the U.S. said.  GSK will plead guilty to marketing the drugs Paxil and
Wellbutrin for uses not approved by the U.S. Food and Drug
Administration and for failing to report clinical data on
Avandia, federal prosecutors said. The company has agreed to
admit to the charges, which are misdemeanors, according to
filings today by the U.S. in federal court in  Boston .  “Today’s historic settlement is a major milestone in our
efforts to stamp out health care fraud,” Bill Corr, deputy
secretary of health and human services, said in a statement.
“For a long time, our health care system had been a target for
cheaters.”  The $3 billion total settlement surpasses the previous
record, a $2.3 billion accord that Pfizer Inc. entered in 2009
over marketing of the painkiller Bextra and other drugs.  Long Investigation  Glaxo, the U.K.’s largest drugmaker, last year set aside
2.2 billion pounds ($3.5 billion) to cover the cost of the
settlement, which resolves a seven-year investigation of the
company’s marketing practices for the three drugs. The reserve
brought to $6.4 billion the amount the drugmaker has set aside
for legal costs tied to Avandia and the other medicines.  The settlement “brings to resolution difficult, long-
standing matters for GSK,” Chief Executive Officer  Andrew Witty 
said today in a statement. “Whilst these originate in a
different era for the company, they cannot and will not be
ignored.”  Federal prosecutors began an investigation in  Colorado  in
2004, later taken over by the U.S. attorney in Massachusetts,
into whether Glaxo promoted drugs for unapproved uses and into
ways Glaxo potentially influenced doctors. The probe concerns
nine of the company’s best-selling products from 1997 to 2004,
including the Advair lung treatment, Glaxo said in its annual
report.  The company doesn’t admit to any liability or wrongdoing in
connection with marketing of Avandia, Advair and six other
drugs, GSK said.  Best Prices  Today’s agreement includes a $300 million civil settlement
for failing to provide best prices and underpaying rebates owed
under the Medicaid drug program. GSK doesn’t admit wrongdoing on
pricing practices, the company said.  Glaxo’s U.S. shares rose 79 cents to $46.36, or 1.7
percent.  The U.S. claimed that GSK failed to provide certain safety
data to regulators about Avandia, a diabetes drug, from 2001 to
2007. Since 2007, the FDA has added two black-box warnings to
the Avandia label to alert doctors about the potential risk of
congestive heart failure and heart attack, the U.S. said.  Glaxo promoted Paxil, which is approved by the FDA for
adult use, for the treatment of depression in patients under the
age of 18 through sales calls, spa programs, a “false and
misleading” medical journal article and “lavish weekend
conferences” in  Puerto Rico  and  Hawaii , according to a  Justice
Department  fact sheet.  ‘Misbranded’  The company promoted Wellbutrin, a depression medication,
for unapproved uses including  weight loss , sexual dysfunction
and substance abuse. Some sales representatives referred to the
drug as “the happy, horny, skinny pill,” according to the fact
sheet.  Under federal law, while doctors are allowed to prescribe
medications for unapproved uses, drug companies are barred from
promoting such sales. Promotion by a manufacturer for off-label
uses renders the product “misbranded,” the U.S. said in its
statement today.  The settlement includes $1.04 billion resolving civil
allegations of off-label marketing of these and other drugs.  Glaxo also promoted its Advair asthma drug for first-line
therapy for mild asthma patients even though it wasn’t approved
or medically appropriate for these people, the DOJ said today.
The settlement also resolves allegations that the company
promoted Zofran, approved only for post-operative nausea, for
treatment for morning sickness in pregnant women.  Four Suits  Glaxo will pay $832 million to the federal government and
$210 million to states participating in the civil off-label
marketing settlement, the U.S. said. This portion of the
settlement will also resolve four whistle-blower lawsuits
pending in federal court in Boston.  Two of these whistle-blowers informed Glaxo in 2001 that
company personnel were marketing drugs illegally, their attorney
Tavy Deming said today in a statement.  “An ensuing GSK internal investigation verified their
allegations, but the company took no action, choosing hefty
profits over compliance and  patient safety ,” she said.  The government’s investigations of allegations brought by
her clients, whistleblowers Greg Thorp and Blair Hamrick, lasted
nine years, Thorp said in a statement today.  “I cannot be certain, if I knew beforehand what was coming
after filing this case, that I could do it again,” he said.  He was pushed out of Glaxo in 2002 and afterward was unable
to get work in the pharmaceutical industry, he said. “I applied
to some 23 companies without getting a single interview,” Thorp
said. “Financially, my life became a nightmare.”  Thorp, Hamrick and other whistle-blowers will receive a
share of the governments’ recovery, under federal and state
false claims laws. The amounts of these shares haven’t been
determined, said attorney Brian Kenney, who also represents
whistleblowers Thorp and Hamrick.  The case is U.S. v. GlaxoSmithKline LLC, 12-10206, U.S.
District court, District of  Massachusetts  (Boston).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington
at   jfeeley@bloomberg.net ;
Seth Stern in  Washington 
at   sstern14@bloomberg.net ;
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Southfield,  Michigan ,
at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 