-- Global Factory Indexes Beat Forecasts as Slumps Ease
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2012-07-02T10:54:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-02/global-factory-indexes-beat-forecasts-as-slumps-ease.html
Manufacturing indexes from the euro
region to the U.K. and  Japan  beat economists’ forecasts,
suggesting contractions in factory production are easing.  A Markit Economics index of euro-area manufacturing output
rose to 45.1 in May from an initial estimate of 44.8 earlier
this month, and a measure for the U.K. rose to 48.6, exceeding
the median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey. Readings below
50 indicate contraction. A gauge of sentiment among Japan’s
large manufacturers showed they were more optimistic.  The data signals global manufacturing may be starting to
weather the effects of the European sovereign debt crisis.
Economists still predict the  European Central Bank  and  Bank of
England  will seek to bolster stimulus this week to unblock
credit markets and pull economies out of recession.  “We seem to have a bit of a bounce and this would point
toward a softer landing for the global economy,” said Tom Vosa,
director of economic research at National Australia Bank in
London. “We expect further stimulus from the ECB and Bank of
England this week with the second half looking better based on
policy stimulus.”  In the U.S., manufacturing probably grew at a slower pace
in June, with the  Institute for Supply Management ’s factory
index showing a decline to 52.0, the lowest level in eight
months, according to economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg. That data
will be released at 10 a.m.  New York  time.  European Data  U.K. manufacturing shrank for a second month. Markit’s
index rose from 45.9 in May and exceeded the median estimate in
a Bloomberg survey of 25 economists for an increase to 46.5.
Euro-area manufacturing shrank for an 11th month, and separate
data today showed unemployment in the 17-nation bloc rose to a
record 11.1 percent in May.  The ECB will probably lower its benchmark rate to 0.75
percent from 1 percent, according to the median estimate of 60
economists in a Bloomberg News survey. The U.K. central bank
will probably expand its bond-purchase program by 50 billion
($78 billion) pounds to 375 billion pounds, according to
economists in a separate poll. The banks will announce their
decisions on July 5.  Japan’s quarterly Tankan index of sentiment was minus 1 in
June from minus 4 in March, the  Bank of Japan  said today in
 Tokyo . The median estimate of 19 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News was for a reading of minus 4. A negative number
means pessimists outnumber optimists.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  added 0.4 percent in its fourth
day of gains as of 11:50 a.m. in London. The Stoxx Europe 600
index rose 1 percent to 253.57, and the FTSE-100 index was up
0.6 percent to 5,606.  China Gauge  Factory data elsewhere in  Asia  signaled deterioration. A
purchasing managers’ index for  China , the world’s biggest
exporter, fell to 48.2 in June from 48.4 in May,  HSBC Holdings
Plc (HSBA)  and Markit said. A similar measure released by the
government yesterday also slid, though by less than economists
forecast.  South Korea  yesterday lowered its export growth
forecast to 3.5 percent from 6.7 percent.  “The Asian manufacturers are finding that the lack of
demand in many parts of the western world is beginning to wash
upon their shores,” said  Peter Dixon , an economist at
Commerzbank AG in London. “Manufacturers are suffering from
huge amounts of uncertainty and are holding back on
investment.”  The Chinese  purchasing managers’ index  released yesterday
by the Beijing-based statistics bureau and China Federation of
Logistics and Purchasing fell to 50.2 in June from 50.4 in May,
a smaller drop than the decline to 49.9 forecast in the median
estimate of 24 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Nike Inventory  Companies from  Nike Inc. (NKE)  to McDonald’s Corp. and
 Caterpillar Inc (CAT)  are feeling the effects of a cooling Chinese
economy. Nike said last week that it has too much inventory
there.  South Korea’s exports rose 1.3 percent in June from a year
earlier, the Ministry of  Knowledge Economy  said yesterday. That
compared with the 0.5 percent median estimate in a Bloomberg
News survey of analysts and an 11.1 percent increase a year
earlier. Shipments to the European Union fell 22.7 percent from
a year earlier in the first 20 days of June and sales to China
were flat, the data showed.  India’s manufacturing PMI expanded at the fastest pace in
four months in June, rising to 55 in June from 54.8 in May, a
report from HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics showed today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  