-- Goldman Sachs’s Hawker Files Reorganization Plan
-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 2012-07-02T21:05:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-02/goldman-sachs-s-hawker-files-reorganization-plan.html
Hawker Beechcraft Inc., the private-
jet maker owned by  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  Onex Corp. (OCX) ,
filed a plan to reorganize that would give control of the
company to secured creditors.  Holders of secured debt valued at $921.6 million would get
81 percent of the new common stock in the reorganized company,
according to the plan filed in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in
Manhattan June 30. Estimated recoveries for unsecured creditors
and holders of subordinated notes weren’t disclosed.  Other interests in the company would be canceled, Hawker
said, leaving nothing for existing shareholders, including funds
affiliated with New York-based Goldman Sachs and Onex. Each
owned 49 percent of Hawker stock. Former managers and directors
held the remainder, according to court papers.  The company, based in Wichita,  Kansas , indicated it would
borrow an unspecified amount to exit court protection and repay
a $400 million loan that financed operations while in
bankruptcy.  “With a sustainable  capital structure  aligned with the
debtors’ revised business plan and adequate operating liquidity,
the reorganized debtors will be positioned to compete more
effectively,” Hawker said in court papers.  Debt Reduced  From the outset of its Chapter 11 case on May 3, the
majority of Hawker’s noteholders had agreed to a rough plan that
would reduce its $2.6 billion in debt. The company’s initial
proposal drew support from more than two-thirds of its lenders
and senior bond debt holders.  Goldman Sachs Capital Partners, the fifth-biggest U.S.
bank’s private-equity arm, and Toronto-based Onex bought Hawker
in 2007 for $3.3 billion. Hawker reported net losses totaling
more than $900 million in the past two years as U.S. military
contracts and plane sales declined.  Hawker’s aircraft include the Hawker 4000 business jet and
the  Beechcraft King Air  propjet. Sales last year fell
13 percent from a year earlier to $2.4 billion.  Affiliates of GS Capital Partners VI LP and Onex Partners
II LP own about $159.4 million of Hawker notes, according to an
April filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission.  The case is In re Hawker Beechcraft Inc., 12-11873,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  