-- Goldman to Expand REIT to 300 Billion Yen as Market Bottoms
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   C h u   a n d   K a t s u y o   K u w a k o
-- 2012-07-02T08:03:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-02/goldman-aims-to-expand-reit-to-300-billion-yen-as-market-bottoms.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  plans to
expand its new private real estate investment trust to as much
as 300 billion yen ($3.7 billion) to buy Japanese properties as
the Wall Street bank foresees a turnaround in prices.  The bank’s asset management unit will begin the REIT in
August with as much as 30 billion yen including equity and plans
to increase the size to about 300 billion yen in five years,
said Taro Squires, head of real estate investment management at
Goldman Sachs Asset Management Co. in Tokyo.  Goldman Sachs joins Mitsubishi Estate Co., Mitsui Fudosan
Co. and  Nomura Real Estate Holdings Inc. (3231)  that have set up
private REITs in the past 12 months as four years of price
declines, amid more than a decade of deflation, seem to be
slowing. Office property prices in  Tokyo , down about 40 percent
from a 2007 peak, are little changed this year, according to Los
Angeles-based property broker CBRE Group Inc.  “We are close to the bottom of the real estate cycle,”
said Squires in an interview. “I expect the market to bottom
out within the next six to 12 months.”  The REIT, which targets a 4 percent to 5 percent dividend
yield, will have a leverage of 50 percent, enabling it to buy as
much as 30 billion yen of real estate at the start, Squires said.
The company has a target to expand the REIT initially to 100
billion yen in two years, he said.  Office buildings will account for more than 60 percent of
the trust, while residential and retail will represent the rest,
he said, adding that a majority of assets will be in Tokyo.  Different Cycle  The Tokyo Stock Exchange REIT Index rose the most in more
than two months, gaining 1.4 percent. That compares to the 0.1
percent drop in the benchmark Topix index.  “ Japan  is in a different cycle compared with other markets
in Asia-Pacific,” said Christopher Lee, Hong Kong-based
managing director of corporate ratings for the region at
 Standard & Poor’s . “The other markets are coming off from a
cyclical top so they are well under way for correction. Japan
has been in correction for some time now, so it’s on its way for
a recovery.”  Goldman Sachs, the first non-Japanese company to start a
private REIT, is looking to raise money from financial
institutions and corporate pensions in Japan, Squires said.  Stable Returns  Two decades of slumping stocks, one of the world’s lowest
bond yields and an aging population are prompting the nation’s
pensions to expand investments into alternative assets,
including real estate and hedge funds. The 10-year Japanese
government bond yield is 0.8 percent, the second lowest after
 Switzerland . The Nikkei 225 Stock Average is less than a quarter
of its 1989 peak.  Private  REITs (TSEREIT)  own buildings and pay investors dividends
from rental income. They are not traded on exchanges so don’t
have daily price fluctuations that listed REITs have. That
matches the need of pension funds seeking stable income.  “What we are trying to target is to provide investors that
were in publicly listed REITs with more stability, to give
investors that were originally in private real estate funds with
more clarity,” said Squires. “For JGB investors, it still
provides them with yen-denominated return albeit at a higher
level.”  Investment Yield  The capitalization rate for office buildings that cost more
than $10 million in Japan has declined to 5.57 percent in the
first three months of this year after an average of 5.74 percent
in the past 12 months, according to Real Capital Analytics Inc.,
a New York-based research and consulting company. A drop in the
rate, a measure of investment yield for properties, signals an
increase in prices.  Japan’s $3.36 trillion in pension money is the world’s
second-largest retirement pool after the U.S., according to
 Towers Watson & Co.  Japan was the only market among 12 that had
a drop in pension assets because of the poor returns on local
stocks and bonds, according to the report.  Japanese pensions have 31 percent of investments in
equities and 59 percent in bonds, with only 6 percent in
alternative assets, according to Towers Watson. That compares
with 25 percent in such assets in the U.S. and 23 percent in
 Australia , it said.  J-REITs account for 8.3 trillion yen of Japan’s 23.2
trillion real estate investment market, while private equity
real estate funds represent the rest, according to  STB Research
Institute Co.  The size of Japan’s private REIT market is less
than $2 billion, said Squires.  “Private REIT is really the one product that has been
missing in the market,” he said. “It’s still a very young
industry. We expect the market to grow.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kathleen Chu in Tokyo at 
 Kchu2@bloomberg.net ;
Katsuyo Kuwako in Tokyo at 
 kkuwako@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  