-- Google Outlines Proposals to EU to End Antitrust Probe
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 2012-07-02T18:01:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-02/google-makes-concessions-to-eu-regulators-to-end-antitrust-probe.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  outlined proposals to
European Union regulators in an effort to end an antitrust
investigation into allegations that the operator of the world’s
largest search engine discriminates against rivals.  Google Executive Chairman  Eric Schmidt  sent EU antitrust
chief  Joaquin Almunia  a letter responding to the probe, the EU
said in a statement. The settlement offer addresses the “four
areas the European Commission described” as potential concerns,
Google spokesman Al Verney said in a separate e-mail. Details of
the proposals weren’t disclosed.  Almunia in May asked Google to make an offer to settle
concerns it promotes its own specialist search services, copies
rivals’ travel and restaurant reviews, and that agreements with
websites and software developers stifle competition in the
advertising industry. He said last month he would send Google an
antitrust complaint, that could lead to a fine or limits on
conduct, if the proposal was unsatisfactory.  “Three of the four areas are relatively easy to address,”
 Greg Sterling , a senior analyst at Opus Research, said in a
statement. “The ‘concern’ about placement of ‘Google content’
in search results is more problematic given that it goes to the
heart of Google’s ability to control its search experience and
algorithm.”  Global Regulators  Google, based in  Mountain View , California, is under
growing pressure from global regulators probing whether the
company is thwarting competition in the market for Web searches.
The U.S. Federal Trade Commission and antitrust agencies in
Argentina and South Korea are also scrutinizing the company.  In 2010, regulators began investigating claims Google
discriminated against other services in its search results and
stopped some websites from accepting competitors’ ads.  While Microsoft Inc. and partner  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)  have about a
quarter of the U.S. Web-search market, Google has almost 95
percent of the traffic in Europe, Microsoft said in a blog post
last year, citing data from regulators.  Microsoft, maker of the Bing search engine, Foundem, a U.K.
shopping website, and other companies filed complaints with the
EU that triggered the probe.  “We hope the proposals reflect a greater willingness to
end Google’s anti-competitive behavior than has its consistent
rejection of the concerns that Mr. Almunia identified after
collecting evidence for nearly two years,” said  Thomas Vinje , a
lawyer for the FairSearch Coalition, a group that represents
Microsoft,  Expedia Inc. (EXPE)  and Foundem.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 