-- Groupon Chairman Lefkofsky Shifts Focus to Investment Firm
-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 2012-07-03T01:47:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-02/groupon-chairman-eric-lefkofsky-shifts-focus-to-investment-firm.html
Groupon Inc. (GRPN)  Chairman Eric Lefkofsky
plans to devote more attention to Lightbank LLC, the venture
capital firm he founded, while management at the online coupon
company handles more of the tasks he initially oversaw there.  Lefkofsky, who is also Groupon’s co-founder and first
investor, assisted Chief Executive Officer  Andrew Mason  with
early support in the areas of finance, operations and legal, he
said in a blog  post  today.  “When Groupon was a ‘young’ company, Andrew and I wore a
lot of different hats,” Lefkofsky wrote. “Every time we hired
someone new, we gave up a hat. Given the breadth of the team
today, everyone’s hat is planted firmly on the right head, which
has allowed me to focus on doing what I do best.”  Lefkofsky is pulling back at a time when Groupon is under
pressure from investors. The stock lost 48 percent of its value
in its first six months on the public market, a period that
ended on May 3. Since 2001, only four companies have performed
worse among newly public U.S. Internet stocks.  Lefkofsky is still executive chairman of Groupon’s board
“and his role has not changed,”  Charles Sipkins , a spokesman
for the board, said in an e-mailed statement.  While the investor helped Groupon during its early years of
growth, his outspoken manner drew regulatory scrutiny. Lefkofsky
said in June 2011, in remarks to Bloomberg News, that he
expected the company to become “wildly profitable.”  Startup Investing  The remarks caught the attention of the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission, whose rules limit what companies can say
about prospects between the time they file for an IPO and when
shares start trading. Groupon later updated its IPO filing to
tell investors to disregard the comments.  Chicago-based Lightbank has  invested  in more than 40
technology startups, including e-commerce website Beachmint Inc.
and mobile-commerce app Zaarly Inc.  Lefkofsky wrote in the blog post that Lightbank stands
apart from other venture capital firms because it gets more
involved in the early stages of growth.  “We roll up our sleeves and actually do the work to build
the business, just the like entrepreneurs we invest in and
partner with,” Lefkofsky wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Douglas MacMillan in  San Francisco  at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  