-- John Roberts, a Conservative Liberals Can Love
-- B y   N o a h   F e l d m a n
-- 2012-07-02T17:16:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-02/liberals-should-be-glad-john-roberts-is-so-conservative.html
(Corrects ninth paragraph to reflect that Justices Stephen
Breyer and Elena Kagan, not Breyer and  Sonia Sotomayor , joined
the relevant part of Chief Justice  John Roberts ’s opinion.)  Conservatives hoping to salvage
something from the wreckage of the U.S. Supreme Court’s  decision
upholding  the Affordable Care Act have something in common with
liberals who want to whip up fear of a conservative Supreme
Court in the run-up to the presidential election.  Both sides claim that unheralded parts of Chief Justice
John Roberts’s opinion made significantly conservative new law.
For conservatives, that means things could have been worse, and
that Roberts shouldn’t be shunned. For liberals, it means
Roberts’s court can still be condemned as wildly activist, even
though it chose not to strike down President  Barack Obama ’s
signature domestic policy accomplishment.  Both versions of this story are what we might call news-
cycle revisionism. Roberts’s opinion will not have the dramatic
conservative effects that are being claimed for it. In this
case, the first headlines were correct: Roberts actually
exercised judicial restraint -- and the decision is a victory
for anyone who believes that such restraint is a good thing.  The first topic of revisionism is Roberts’s statement that
Congress lacked authority to enact the ACA under the  Commerce
Clause , because the health-care-reform law regulates inaction
(failure to buy insurance) rather than action. Roberts, writing
only for himself, essentially bought the broccoli argument: If
Congress can require you to buy health insurance, what is to
stop it from making you buy (and eat) your vegetables?  No Difference  On the surface, this looks like a win for conservatives and
a restriction on Congress’ commerce power. It isn’t. The reason
isn’t that the four conservatives, including Justice  Anthony Kennedy , deliberately chose not to join Roberts’s opinion ( maybe
because  they were angry at him for breaking ranks). It is that
in the real world, as opposed to the realm of legal theory,
there is no meaningful difference between action and inaction.
In the future, Congress can simply phrase  Commerce Clause 
commands in the affirmative.  Consider the Civil Rights Act: Does it require public
businesses to serve customers regardless of race? Or does it
prohibit them from refusing to serve customers on the basis of
race? See the difference? Oh yes, there isn’t one.  If that weren’t enough, there is also Congress’s power to
tax, on which Roberts relied. If Congress wants to penalize you
for not doing something in the future, it can impose a tax. And
as Roberts’s ACA decision affirmed explicitly, Congress doesn’t
even have to call it a tax. In short, in practical terms,
Congress has no less power than it had prior to the decision.  We have been down this road of pseudo-limitations on the
commerce power before. In the 1990s, the  Supreme Court  twice
struck down laws for exceeding the commerce power, once in  the
case of  the Gun Free School Zones Act and  once concerning  a
provision of the Violence Against Women Act. Constitutional
lawyers sweated over whether the extensive commerce power had
been meaningfully restrained. In practice, they concluded, it
had not. Congress could find ways to do what it needed -- and it
still can.  The other revisionist argument concerns the court’s holding
that Congress could bribe the states to extend Medicaid to about
16 million previously uninsured persons -- but could not
blackmail the states by threatening to withdraw almost all of
their existing Medicaid funding if they did not participate in
the extension. This part of Roberts’s opinion was joined by
Justices Stephen Breyer and  Elena Kagan , so it would be
surprising if it were radically conservative.  Drinking Age  It is true that this part of the ACA ruling marks the first
time the court has ever struck down a congressional act that
conditioned funding on the states taking some action. In the
past, it had upheld a very minor blackmailing provision, in
which Congress threatened to take away 5 percent of states’
highway construction funding if they did not make their legal
drinking age 21.  As the court noted, the threat in the case of the ACA was
far, far greater: Congress must not issue a threat to the states
that amounts to what Roberts called “a gun to the head.” This
does constitute an outer limit on Congress’s power -- but it is
hardly a very important one. It is hard to think of a case where
a state could not be bribed rather than blackmailed.  Indeed,  many observers  think that the states will end up
accepting the Medicaid extension without the threat of losing
funding -- which would show the threat to have been unnecessary
in the first place.  In the real world, then, barring Congress from such an
extreme threat will not change the balance of power between the
federal government and the states in any fundamental way. The
upshot is that nothing terribly conservative happened in the ACA
case. The chief justice’s gestures toward conservatism were just
that -- symbolic gestures to soften the blow.  The day after the decision was handed down,  Roberts joked 
that he planned to spend some time this summer in  Malta , which
he called “an impregnable island fortress.” His joke
acknowledges the painful reality of a true practitioner of
judicial restraint: No one loves you for it. Roberts is still a
judicial conservative. Regardless of what he does in the future,
his legacy will always include what he did not do when the ACA
was on the line.  ( Noah Feldman , a law professor at  Harvard University  and
the author of “Scorpions: The Battles and Triumphs of FDR’s
Great Supreme Court Justices,” is a Bloomberg View columnist.
The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  To contact the writer of this article:
Noah Feldman at  noah_feldman@harvard.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
 Michael Newman  at   mnewman43@bloomberg.net . 