-- Icahn Says He’ll Investigate Forest CEO’s Stock Sales
-- B y   M e g   T i r r e l l
-- 2012-07-02T20:57:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-02/icahn-says-he-ll-investigate-forest-ceo-s-stock-sales.html
Carl Icahn  said he’ll investigate
stock sales made by  Forest Laboratories Inc. (FRX)  Chief Executive
Officer Howard Solomon as the billionaire investor pursues his
second proxy fight against the drugmaker.  Icahn, in a letter to Solomon today, said Forest  management 
made “a savvy bet against” the New York-based drugmaker’s
prospects by selling shares before its top-selling therapy, the
antidepressant Lexapro, lost patent protection in March.  “We intend to thoroughly investigate by all available
means whether the knowledge you had at the time you sold your
stock was fully disclosed to other less fortunate shareholders
and to determine how you were so prescient in selling your
Forest stock at prices well above the current market,” Icahn,
76, wrote.  Icahn, Forest’s  second-largest stockholder  with 9.9 percent
of shares outstanding as of May 29, has nominated four directors
and last week sued the company for access to its books and
records. Icahn failed last year to get any of his four nominees
elected to the board.  Icahn also urged Solomon to avoid a “contentious and
costly proxy fight” and give him board seats. That strategy
allowed Icahn to place two directors on the board of Cambridge,
Massachusetts-based Genzyme Corp. in 2010 after posting a slate
of four nominees. Genzyme was sold to Paris-based Sanofi last
year for about $20.1 billion.  Stock Sales  A call today to a Forest spokesman, Frank Murdolo, wasn’t
immediately returned. Forest addressed Icahn in a statement last
week, saying the investor’s comments are part of a “tired
playbook designed for maximum distortion, distraction and
litigation rather than engaging constructively with the
company.”  Icahn contends that Solomon sold more than $500 million of
Forest stock and oversaw a decline of 50 percent in the
company’s share price. He also has demanded the company provide
a  succession plan  for the 84-year-old chief executive officer
and today criticized the promotion of Solomon’s son, “whose
only other experience involves promoting movies,” Icahn wrote
in his letter.  The stock fell 68 percent from a high of $57.84 in 2007 to
$18.79 in March 2009, and has rebounded since then. Forest  rose 
2.3 percent to $35.79 at the close of trading today.  Forest said in its June 29 statement that Icahn has ignored
the progress the company has made in the last year, such as
bringing three drugs to the market and filing for approval of
two others. The drugmaker also said it’s involved in “ongoing
succession planning,” and that it would be “both inappropriate
and unusual” to announce a successor to Solomon now.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Meg Tirrell in  New York  at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  