-- Phelps Won’t Compete in 200-Meter Freestyle at London Olympics
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2012-07-02T18:22:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-02/michael-phelps-drops-200-meter-freestyle-from-olympics-program.html
Michael Phelps  dropped the 200-meter
freestyle from his London Olympics swimming schedule, leaving
him with a shot at one fewer gold medal than the record eight he
won in Beijing in 2008.  Phelps said in a telephone interview that he will skip the
200 freestyle to focus on other events, as his coach, Bob
Bowman, had posted on his Twitter account moments before. Phelps
won the event at the U.S. Olympic swimming trials on June 27,
beating  Ryan Lochte  by five-hundredths of a second.  “The biggest thing we wanted to do is make sure that we
could compete at a high level with a lot of events,” Phelps
said. “After this week, thinking about everything that will be
there in  London  with possibly adding three relays, we just want
the best shot at doing the best that we can with the events that
we have.”  Phelps, whose 14 Olympic gold medals are the most in
history, will race in four individual events in London -- the
100- and 200-meter butterfly and the 200- and 400-meter
individual medley -- and make himself available for the three
relays.  Bowman said on Twitter that Phelps would have a “full
slate of seven events,” meaning he would race in all three
relays -- the 400- and 800-meter freestyle and 400-meter medley.  “It’s all just based off of the schedule,” Phelps said.
“I have an extra day to recover after the IM and really prepare
for the 400 free relay and the 200 fly as well. It just really
gives me more time to recover.”  ‘Support the Dream’  Phelps was speaking in his role as a spokesman for Hilton
Worldwide Inc.’s “Support the Dream” program that funds
Olympic training centers when fans post good-luck messages on
its  website . He said he hadn’t changed his mind that London
would be his fourth and final Olympics.  “There are things outside of the water that I want to
do,” said Phelps, who turned 27 two days ago. “‘I just told
myself I never want to swim past the age of 30 and that’s the
biggest thing for me. Enough is enough.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in  New York  at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 