-- Phelps Set to Chase Another 8 Olympic Golds After U.S. Trials
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-07-02T04:01:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-02/michael-phelps-wins-100m-butterfly-event-at-u-s-olympic-trials.html
Michael Phelps  is placed to pursue
another eight gold medals in London after winning his final
event at the U.S. Olympic swimming trials.  Phelps won the 100-meter butterfly yesterday in a time of
51.14 seconds, recovering from a poor start to beat Tyler McGill
to the wall by 0.18 of a second in Omaha,  Nebraska . It was the
same event in which Phelps overtook  Serbia ’s Milorad Cavic with
his last stroke at the 2008 Olympics to win by 0.01 second and
claim his seventh of a record eight golds.  With his win yesterday, Phelps is on track for the same
program in London as he had in Beijing. He also qualified in the
200-meter butterfly, the 200- and 400-meter medleys and the 200-
meter freestyle. He may also compete on three relay teams.  “It is crazy because so many times I said I wasn’t going
to do it again,” Phelps, 27, said in a televised interview with
NBC. “Being able to have these events here and have them go as
they did, I’m able to see I can handle this kind of pressure at
this level again in multiple events.”  The  London  games begin July 27, and Phelps said he’ll sit
down with coach Bob Bowman over the next several days to
determine whether he’ll race all eight events again in what he
has said will be his last Olympics.  “I have a great opportunity here to put that final topping
on my sundae,” Phelps told NBC. “The more the better, but I
don’t know if I’ll be able to handle it like that again. In
2008, everything fell into place perfectly. So we’re going to
re-evaluate everything and see what we need to do to be at our
best, to be better than we were here.”  His only loss in the finals in Omaha was to  Ryan Lochte  in
the 400-meter individual medley.  Seven Events  Missy Franklin is set to swim in seven Olympic events after
winning the women’s 200-meter backstroke yesterday in 2 minutes,
6.12 seconds. Elizabeth Beisel took the second qualifying spot.  Franklin, 17, also qualified in three other individual
events -- the 100- and 200-meter freestyle and the 100-meter
backstroke -- and will participate in three relays.  Cullen Jones won the men’s 50-meter freestyle by one-
hundredth of a second over Anthony Ervin, while Kathleen Ledecky
won the women’s 800-meter freestyle by more than two seconds
over second-place finisher Kate Ziegler.  Dara Torres, who at 45 is bidding to compete in her sixth
Olympics, yesterday advanced to tonight’s final of the women’s
50-meter freestyle. Torres has 12 Olympic medals, tied with
Jenny Thompson for the most won by a U.S. female swimmer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  