-- Micron Agrees to Buy Rexchip Stake Amid Elpida Takeover Plan
-- B y   T i m   C u l p a n
-- 2012-07-02T04:07:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-02/micron-agrees-to-buy-rexchip-stake-amid-elpida-takeover-plans.html
Micron Technology Inc. (MU)  agreed to buy
 Powerchip Technology Co. (5346) ’s stake in Rexchip Electronics Co. as
the U.S. company negotiates to take over Elpida Memory Inc. in
the memory-chip industry’s largest consolidation in four years.  Powerchip and an investment unit will sell 691 million
shares in its  Taiwan  venture with Elpida for NT$9.7 billion
($325 million), the Hsinchu, Taiwan-based company said in
 exchange filings  in Taipei today. The sale is conditional on
Micron’s purchase of Elpida, Powerchip spokesman Eric Tang said,
declining to comment on if or when that deal may be announced.  Micron, the largest U.S. memory-chip maker, in May got
approval to negotiate to acquire Elpida, which filed for
bankruptcy in February after at least five straight quarters of
 losses . Buying Elpida will allow Boise, Idaho-based Micron to
double its share of the market for dynamic random-access memory
chips, the most commonly used memory in computers.  “Under the proposed arrangement with Powerchip, if Micron
entered into an agreement to acquire Elpida, Micron would have
the right to purchase the Rexchip shares held by Powerchip,”
Dan Francisco, a spokesman for Micron, said in an e-mailed
statement today. Micron has not yet purchased the shares, he
said, declining to comment on the status of discussions to buy
Elpida.  Shares Rise  Powerchip and its fully owned Li Hsin Investment unit
agreed to sell the 691 million shares of the Taichung-based
company, at NT$14.03 per share, according to the exchange
filing. That’s 58 percent higher than  Rexchip (4932) ’s June 29 closing
price, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Powerchip has a
21.3 percent direct stake in Rexchip,  data  compiled by Bloomberg
shows.  Rexchip added 4 percent to NT$9.26 as of 12:01 p.m. on
Taiwan’s GreTai over the counter exchange. Powerchip climbed
5.45 percent to 58 NT cents and is heading for its highest close
in two weeks.  Micron will buy Elpida for an estimated 200 billion yen
($2.5 billion), the Nikkei newspaper reported June 29.  “After the merger formally takes effect, Micron and Elpida
will likely work to integrate production, which will bring
sweeping changes to the industry landscape and supply chain
relationships,” Taipei-based researcher DRAMeXchange wrote in a
press release today.  Rexchip is expected to continue to make standard computer
memory, while one of its factories may be converted to make NAND
flash chips, a type of memory used to store information in
phones and digital cameras, it wrote.  Micron’s share of global DRAM manufacturing capacity would
climb to 35 percent and it would become the second-largest by
revenue behind  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) , DRAMeXchange said.  In 2008, Micron bought a 35 percent stake in Taoyuan,
Taiwan-based  Inotera Memories Inc. (3474)  from Qimonda AG for $400
million, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Elpida owns 65
percent of Rexchip, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Elpida’s public relations department declined to comment on
the transaction.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Culpan in Taipei at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net . 