-- Microsoft Writing Down $6.2 Billion Over AQuantive Deal
-- B y   D i n a   B a s s
-- 2012-07-03T17:44:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-02/microsoft-will-write-down-6-2-billion-related-to-aquantive-deal.html
Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  is taking a $6.2
billion writedown for almost the entire amount it paid for
Internet-advertising company AQuantive Inc., signaling that its
online division will perform worse than the company projected.  The non-cash charge means the company will probably post a
loss for the quarter, which ended in June. Before yesterday’s
statement, analysts had  predicted  that Microsoft would report
profit of $5.3 billion in the period, data compiled by Bloomberg
show.  Microsoft bought AQuantive for about $6.3 billion in 2007
to catch  Google Inc. (GOOG) , amid an acquisition spree for companies
that specialize in online advertising. The deal failed to
accelerate growth as much as anticipated at the company’s  money-
losing  online division, Microsoft said. The company won’t
reverse losses as quickly as it intended, said a person with
knowledge of the matter, who’s not authorized to speak publicly.  “Online services is the biggest drag on the company right
now,” said  Colin Gillis , an analyst at BGC Partners LP in  New
York , who has a buy recommendation on Microsoft.  Microsoft’s shares climbed less than 1 percent to $30.76 at
the close of trading today in New York. It has climbed 18
percent this year.  ‘Slow Improvement’  Even as the AQuantive deal didn’t meet projections,
Microsoft said its online division has shown improvement in
other areas, including revenue per search and market share gains
for the Bing search engine.  Operating losses in online services narrowed to $1.45
billion in the nine months through March 31, from $1.91 billion
a year earlier, Microsoft  said  in April. Sales gained 11 percent
to $2.13 billion in the period.  “It’s the classic come-from-behind, slow, incremental
improvement,” Gillis said. “Bing has made incremental gains.”  Microsoft agreed to buy AQuantive weeks after Google said
it would acquire DoubleClick Inc., which also handles online
advertising.  The company had to take the writedown because the online
business isn’t growing as quickly as forecast, and it’s taking
longer to turn around than Microsoft expected, said the person.
The company hasn’t boosted revenue per search as much as it had
projected. What’s more, distribution deals in which Microsoft
pays companies like  Dell Inc. (DELL)  and  Verizon Wireless  have added
customers -- though at a high cost, the person said.  “This is an accounting decision that the company made
based on how the business is performing relative to the
projections we had made during the past five years,” Microsoft
Chief Executive Officer  Steve Ballmer  and online unit President
Qi Lu, wrote in an e-mail to employees obtained by Bloomberg.  “We want to be very clear that we are strongly committed
to a strong and financially successful” online division,
according to the memo, whose authenticity was confirmed by
Microsoft.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dina Bass in Seattle at 
 dbass2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  