-- Micron Agrees to Buy Elpida in $2.5 Billion Transaction
-- B y   I a n   K i n g   a n d   N a o k o   F u j i m u r a
-- 2012-07-02T20:09:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-02/micron-agrees-to-buy-elpida-in-2-5-billion-transaction.html
Micron Technology Inc. (MU)  agreed to buy
bankrupt Japanese chipmaker Elpida Memory Inc. in a transaction
valued at 200 billion yen ($2.5 billion), gaining memory chip-
making assets that may help it avert price swings that fueled
four straight quarters of losses.  Micron will pay 60 billion yen in cash at the closing of
the deal, while the remaining 140 billion yen in future annual
installments through 2019 will come from  cash flow  generated by
Boise, Idaho-based Micron’s payment for chips made by Elpida,
according to a statement today. Micron shares  rose .  Acquiring Elpida, an Apple Inc.  supplier , would double
Micron’s share of the global market for DRAM, the most widely
used memory chips in personal computers, to about 24 percent.
That would help Micron vie with industry leader Samsung
Electronics Co. while giving it greater control over supply
gluts that have caused it to report  losses  amid falling prices.  “We’re pretty excited about where this puts us in the
memory industry as a strong number two,” Micron President  Mark Adams  said in a telephone interview. Micron has remained
conservative with its use of debt and is still “within the
tolerances of where we like to be,” he said.  The deal will settle all of Elpida’s debt. Micron, the
largest U.S. maker of computer memory, won approval from the
Tokyo District Court in May to negotiate to buy Elpida’s entire
business after the Japanese company held two rounds of bidding.
Today’s agreement is subject to court approval, which Elpida
will seek in August, and sign off from Elpida creditors. The
transaction will close in the first half of 2013, Micron said.  ‘Transformative Acquisition’  “This is a transformative acquisition,” said Dan Berenbaum, an analyst at MKM Partners in  Stamford ,  Connecticut ,
who recommends buying Micron shares. “The structure of the deal
is great. Only $1.1 billion in cash upfront is much lower than
most were expecting.”  Micron rose 3.8 percent to $6.55 at 4 p.m. in  New York 
trading, its fifth consecutive gain. The stock has gained 4.1
percent this year.  In a related transaction, Micron also agreed to buy Taiwan-
based  Powerchip Technology Corp. (5346) ’s 24 percent stake in  Rexchip
Electronics Corp. (4932)  for about NT$10 billion ($334 million). The
deal will give Micron control of manufacturing facilities that
will boost its output by about 200,000 silicon wafers per month,
or 50 percent.  Elpida sought protection from creditors in February after
prices of DRAM chips plummeted. The lower prices and a stronger
yen, which erodes the value of repatriated earnings from
overseas, led the company to report a fifth straight quarter of
losses.  SK Hynix Inc. (000660) , the only company that had publicly
expressed interest in buying Elpida at the time, decided not to
participate in the second round, the Icheon, South Korea-based
manufacturer said May 4.  Quarterly Losses  President Yukio Sakamoto is heading Elpida’s restructuring
efforts as a court-appointed trustee. The company plans to
submit its revival plan by Aug. 21.  Micron reported a fourth consecutive quarterly loss on June
20 after sluggish demand for personal computers dragged down
chip prices. The company had a net  loss  of $320 million in the
three months that ended May 31, compared with profit of $75
million a year earlier, Micron said.  Elpida’s business is improving, Micron Chief Financial
Officer Ron Foster told analysts on a conference call. The
transaction will begin to contribute to cashflow and earnings
per share within twelve months, he said.  Under the terms of the deal, Micron is getting factories at
less than one third of the cost of building them from scratch
and expects to be able to reduce its spending on plants and
equipment, Chief Executive Officer Mark Durcan said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ian King in  San Francisco  at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net ;
Naoko Fujimura in Tokyo at 
 nfujimura@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  