-- IMF Sees Increasing Pressure to Relax Romanian Fiscal Policy
-- B y   A n d r a   T i m u   a n d   I r i n a   S a v u
-- 2012-07-02T16:10:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-02/imf-sees-increasing-pressure-to-relax-romanian-fiscal-policy.html
Romania is at risk of the government
facing increased pressure to relax fiscal policy before
parliamentary elections this year as the cabinet needs to speed
up reforms, the  International Monetary Fund  said.  Political pressures in the country will remain “strong”
in the coming months, according to the Washington-based lender,
which published a country report after a review of Romania’s 5
billion-euro ($6.3 billion) international bailout loan. The IMF,
which provided the loan with the European Union, said Romania’s
continued fiscal discipline is “essential” to contain spending
pressures and meet a budget deficit target.  “Domestic political risks remain and the authorities will
have to firmly resist pressure for fiscal loosening or further
delays in structural reforms,” the IMF said. “While the first-
quarter deficit target was met, underlying spending pressures
have intensified. For the first time in this arrangement,
arrears for the central and local governments have increased and
the targets have been breached.”  The government of Prime Minister Victor Ponta,  Romania ’s
third Cabinet this year, pledged to continue the precautionary
loan agreement as it negotiated a looser budget-deficit target
for this year to allow for an increase in public wages. The IMF
board on June 22 approved Romania’s letter of intent and granted
a waiver after the country failed to meet a target for unpaid
debt to private companies.  Budget Target  Following the board approval, the IMF made an additional
amount of about $651 million available for disbursement,
bringing the total resources reachable for Romania under the
stand-by arrangement to about $3.35 billion. The country hasn’t
drawn any more from the accord so far.  The Finance Ministry plans to “strictly” meet its end-
June budget-deficit target of as much as 8.8 billion lei ($2.5
billion) agreed with the lenders, it said on June 29. The
government seeks to narrow the gap to about 2.2 percent of the
gross-domestic product at the end of this year from 4.35 percent
last year.  “Strict spending discipline will remain paramount to
achieve the new target,” the IMF said today.  Romania also plans to improve the functioning of state-
owned companies, especially in the  energy industry , and pledged
to sell minority stakes in natural-gas company Romgaz SA and
hydro-power generator Hidroelectrica SA, which entered an
insolvency procedure last month, this year. It will also seek to
sell majority stakes in chemical company Oltchim SA and mining
company Cuprumin SA.  Asset Sales  Ponta said June 22 that a planned 15 percent share sale in
natural-gas grid operator  Transgaz SA (TGN)  by the end of June will
probably be delayed “by a short time period,” because of
political disputes.  “The calendar for privatization continues to slip and
several tenders have failed for reasons that could have been
prevented,” the IMF said today. “This sends a poor signal of
Romania’s commitment to structural reforms and undermines its
growth potential. The new government will have to firmly resist
pre-election political pressures from within its own coalition
to achieve this objective.”  The IMF also urged “cautious” monetary-policy easing,
citing risks to inflation and the leu. The Banca Nationala a
Romaniei kept its benchmark rate unchanged for a second meeting
on June 27 at a record low of 5.25 percent.  The banking industry, which has solid liquidity and capital
buffers, is facing “high risks,” the IMF said. The ratio of
non-performing loans in total credits increased to 15.9 percent
at the end of March, while “the authorities must continue to
closely monitor bad-loans and remain aggressive in asking for
additional provisions and capital when needed.”  Romania’s banking industry is 90 percent owned by
international lenders as Erste Group Bank AG’s Banca Comericiala
Romana SA and  BRD Group Societe Generale SA (BRD)  are the country’s
biggest lenders. Austrian banks have a market share of about 38
percent, while Greek banks control 13 percent of the market,
according to central bank data.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  