-- Lincoln Hires Goldman’s Cooper to Oversee Investments
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2012-07-02T20:19:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-02/lincoln-hires-goldman-sachs-s-cooper-to-oversee-investments-1-.html
Lincoln National Corp. (LNC)  hired Ellen
Cooper to be chief investment officer as lower interest rates
pressure income on a bond portfolio valued at more than $70
billion.  Cooper, 47, joins from  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ’s asset-
management business where she was a managing director and global
head of insurance strategy. She’ll report to Lincoln Chief
Executive Officer Dennis Glass, 62, the Radnor, Pennsylvania-
based insurer said today in a statement.  Insurers including MetLife Inc., Prudential Financial Inc.
and Aflac Inc. have turned to new money managers to maintain
investment results amid lower yields on the safest bonds.
Lincoln’s portfolio included more than $60 billion in corporate
bonds as of March 31, according to a regulatory filing.  Cooper, who starts Aug. 6, has “a deep background in asset
management, risk management and insurance,” Glass said in the
statement. “The wealth of experience she brings to the role
will be a benefit to the company and our clients.”  She has also worked for Aegon NV and Ernst & Young LLP,
according to the statement. Cooper received a bachelor’s degree
from  Temple University  in Philadelphia. Cooper takes over duties
previously handled by Fred Crawford, who was hired by insurer
CNO Financial Group Inc. as chief financial officer in January.  Lincoln slipped 2.1 percent to $21.42 at 4:15 p.m. in  New
York . The seller of life insurance and annuities  fell  27 percent
in the past year as the  Federal Reserve  said its benchmark
 interest rate  will remain low until at least late 2014.  ‘Multiyear Headwind’  “We expect low interest rates to be a multiyear headwind”
for Lincoln, Barclays Capital analysts including  Jay Gelb  wrote
in a research note today before her hiring was announced.  Mike Siegel, global head of the Goldman Sachs insurance
asset-management operation, will assume Cooper’s
responsibilities for the insurance strategy team, said Andrea Raphael, a spokeswoman for the New York-based bank, in an e-mail
today. The insurance asset-management business oversees more
than $125 billion.  Goldman Sachs last month hired Robert Goodman as managing
director, global head of insurance relationships. Goodman, who
previously worked at Deutsche Bank AG as global co-head of
Deutsche Insurance Asset Management, is a graduate of  Harvard
Law School .  Cooper is the latest departure from the Goldman Sachs
insurance asset-management unit. Eric Kirsch, who was global
head of insurance asset management, left the bank to become
chief investment officer at Columbus, Georgia-based Aflac, the
seller of supplemental health insurance said in September.  ‘Substantial Investment’  Goldman Sachs is making a “substantial investment” in
overseeing insurers’ funds as more companies pay external
managers to handle portions of their portfolios, according to
the firm’s  annual report .  “We have seen an increase in the outsourcing of insurance
asset management globally, which has been accelerated by new
capital regimes, greater demand as a result of the financial
crisis and a sustained low interest-rate environment, making it
more difficult to generate returns,” CEO  Lloyd Blankfein  and
President  Gary Cohn  wrote in the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  