-- Indonesia Inflation Unexpectedly Accelerates on Food Prices
-- B y   N o v r i d a   M a n u r u n g   a n d   H i d a y a t   S e t i a j i
-- 2012-07-02T05:54:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-02/indonesia-s-inflation-unexpectedly-accelerates-on-food-prices.html
Indonesian inflation unexpectedly
accelerated in June as food costs climbed, exacerbating the
impact of a weaker currency on prices.  Consumer prices  rose 4.53 percent last month from a year
earlier after climbing 4.45 percent in May, the statistics
bureau said in Jakarta today. The  median forecast  of 21
economists in a Bloomberg News survey was for a 4.38 percent
increase.  Bank Indonesia  has held off from adding to a February  rate 
cut, seeking to support a currency that has fallen more than 3
percent in 2012 as  Europe ’s debt turmoil spurred outflows from
 emerging markets . The country will face inflationary pressures
as the world’s largest Muslim population observes the fasting
period of Ramadan from this month, central bank Deputy Governor
 Hartadi Sarwono  said last week.  “Inflation is still moderate and manageable,” Eric Alexander Sugandi, an economist at  Standard Chartered  Bank Plc
in Jakarta, said after the announcement. “BI will hold the rate
this month to guard against rupiah volatility and reduce
imported inflation from a weakened currency.” Standard
Chartered revised its full-year inflation forecast to 4.5
percent from 6.5 percent, he said.  Trade Deficit  Exports in May fell 8.6 percent from a year earlier, after
declining a revised 2.3 percent in April, the statistics bureau
said. Imports rose 16.1 percent in the same period.  Indonesia ’s
trade deficit in May was $486 million.  “Slowing global demand accompanied by declining global
commodity prices, all led to a downward pressure on the export
performance,”  Anton Gunawan , chief economist at PT Bank Danamon
Indonesia, said before the announcement. There has been “no
significant improvement from the economies of the main trading
partners, thus external demand will remain low.”  The rupiah gained 0.3 percent to 9,400 per dollar as of
12:23 p.m. in Jakarta today, after reaching a three-week high of
9,363 earlier, according to prices from local banks compiled by
Bloomberg. The currency saw its worst quarter since 2009 in the
three months ended June, declining 2.9 percent.  Consumer prices rose 0.62 percent last month from May,
today’s report showed. The core inflation rate was 4.15 percent,
compared with a previously reported 4.14 percent pace in April.  The inflation bias is toward the lower end of the central
bank’s target of 3.5 percent to 5.5 percent this year, Sarwono
said June 27.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Novrida Manurung in Jakarta at 
 nmanurung@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  