-- Inflation Set to Fall Below Central-Bank Targets, JPMorgan Says
-- B y   L i n d s e y   R u p p
-- 2012-07-02T21:02:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-02/inflation-set-to-fall-below-central-bank-targets-jpmorgan-says.html
Global inflation is poised to fall
below central-bank targets for the first time since 2010,
providing fuel for increased  consumer spending  and room for
monetary stimulus, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  0f 26 central banks the firm monitors that have inflation
targets, prices will decline below them at 23 by year-end,
Joseph Lupton and  David Hensley , New York-based economists,
wrote in a note June 29. Global consumer price inflation may
slide to 2.1 percent by the end of 2012, half a percentage point
lower than the average central-bank target, they wrote. The drop
in  oil prices  may accelerate the decline, they wrote.  “The purchasing-power lift is an important cushion to
weakening elsewhere,” Lupton said in a phone interview. “It
provides a cushion not only to the real purchasing power of
labor income, but it also increases the purchasing power of
stock market gains. I don’t think it’s something that’s going to
completely offset the softening in the labor market in the U.S.”  Crude oil for August delivery dropped 27 percent from May
1, when it closed at $106.16 a barrel in New York, to June 28.
It traded yesterday at $83.66, down 1.5 percent.  Inflation-linked global  government bonds  lost 0.82 percent
last month, the most since November 2010, according to a Bank of
America Merrill Lynch bond index.  “With inflation finally moving back below targets, central
banks are likely to shift their attention more fully to the
increase in downside growth risks in recent months,” the
JPMorgan economists wrote. “This is most clear in the  emerging
markets .”  The economists wrote that they used a “top-down global
model” of headline inflation designed to gauge the impact of
commodity prices on inflation.  Editors: Greg Storey,  Paul Cox   To contact the reporter on this story:
Lindsey Rupp in New York at 
 lrupp2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  