-- Ingram Micro to Buy BrightPoint for $840 Million
-- B y   N i a m h   R i n g
-- 2012-07-02T20:07:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-02/ingram-micro-to-buy-brightpoint-for-840-million.html
     July 2 (Bloomberg) -- Ingram Micro Inc. (IM) , the world’s largest
technology distributor, agreed to acquire  BrightPoint Inc. (CELL)  for
about $840 million, including debt, to expand its reach as a
provider of mobile products and services.  The deal values BrightPoint, a distributor of mobile
devices for phone companies, at $9 a share, representing a 66
percent premium to the company’s  closing price  on June 29. The
transaction includes about $190 million of BrightPoint’s
estimated debt, net of cash, as of June 30, the companies said
in a statement today.  With the BrightPoint acquisition,  Santa Ana , California-
based Ingram Micro plans to create a global provider of services
and solutions for the mobile industry, according to the
statement. The combined company will target vendors and
operators of wireless networks.  Indianapolis-based BrightPoint’s “offerings are highly
complementary to both our logistics and distribution businesses,
which will enable us to go to market with the leading portfolio
of mobility device lifecycle services and solutions,” Ingram
Micro Chief Executive Officer Alain Monie, said in the
statement.  The combined company will offer “customers one-stop access
to one of the widest ranges of mobility and technology products,
services and solutions,” Monie said.  The deal, which Ingram Micro expects to complete next
 quarter , will be “meaningfully accretive” and will create $55
million in anticipated cost savings by 2014, the companies said.  Ingram Micro rose 0.5 percent to $17.55 at the close in  New
York . The shares have dropped 3.5 percent this year. BrightPoint
surged 67 percent to $9.01. The shares had tumbled 50 percent
this year through June 29.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Niamh Ring in New York at 
 nring@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kevin Miller at 
 kmiller@bloomberg.net  