-- Internet Stocks Lead Retreat on Manufacturing: China Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o   a n d   L e o n   L a z a r o f f
-- 2012-07-02T20:33:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-02/internet-stocks-lead-retreat-on-manufacturing-china-overnight.html
Chinese  Internet companies  fell in
New York, extending the benchmark index’s worst quarter since
the three months ended September 2011, after data showed
manufacturing expanded at the slowest pace this year.  The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded
Chinese companies in New York lost 0.7 percent to 90.59 after
declining 11 percent in the second quarter.  Youku Inc. (YOKU)  and  Tudou
Holdings Ltd. (TUDO) , the biggest video website operators in China,
fell more than 6 percent.  Sina Corp. (SINA)  tumbled to the lowest since
January after Maxim Group LLC cut its price estimate. Shares of
 Qihoo 360 Technology Co. (QIHU)  sank after Anonymous Analytics said
user traffic on its website is lower than reported.  Mounting concern that a slowdown in the world’s second-
largest economy will reduce online ad spending pushed Internet
stocks lower, U.S. Global Investors Inc. said. China’s
 Purchasing Managers ’ Index dropped to 50.2 in June from 50.4 in
May, government data released on July 1 showed. A separate PMI
gauge by HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics also indicated
manufacturing growth weakened to the slowest pace this year.  “As Chinese industrial consumption goes down, ad spending,
Internet spending is also going down,” Michael Ding, who helps
manage $2.2 billion at U.S. Global Investors, said by phone
yesterday from  San Antonio , Texas. “The impact is being felt by
Internet stocks that are very sensitive to macro numbers.”  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund , the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., slid 0.1 percent to $33.65,
after jumping 3.6 percent on June 29. The  Shanghai Composite
Index (SHCOMP)  of mainland stocks was little changed at 2,226.11. The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index of U.S. shares rose 0.2 percent to
1,365.51 as company acquisitions outweighed data showing
manufacturing unexpectedly contracted.  Focus on Europe  Euro-area  unemployment  reached 11.1 percent in May, the
highest on record, as the region’s debt crisis prompted
companies from  Spain  to  Italy  to reduce their workforces.  “Investors’ primary focus is still  Europe , but when
industrial production is slowing in  China  and the U.S., the two
largest economies in the world, that’s a negative for stocks,”
Nelson Saiers, who oversees $639 million at Alphabet Management
LLC as chief investment officer of the New York-based hedge
fund, said in a telephone interview.  China’s government may report next week export growth for
June slowed from May, according to the median of 15 economists’
estimates in a Bloomberg survey.  American depositary receipts of Youku sank 6.9 percent to
$20.18, the lowest close since Jan. 18. Tudou’s ADRs lost 6.5
percent to $31.35.  Beijing-based Youku agreed to acquire smaller competitor
Tudou in a stock swap deal announced in March, which is
currently valued at $804.23 million. The transaction is expected
to complete in the third quarter after the approval of
shareholders, the companies said in a March 12 statement.  Youku, Qihoo  Youku’s chief financial officer Dele Liu has been promoted
to President and Michael Xu, previously senior vice president of
finance, will succeed Liu as CFO, the company said yesterday in
a statement.  Qihoo, a Chinese developer of online security software,
tumbled 7.5 percent to $16 after its Chief Financial Officer
denied allegations made by Anonymous Analytics that user traffic
on its website is lower than reported. The information cited in
Anonymous’s report is “inaccurate,” Qihoo CFO Alex Xu said
yesterday by phone from Beijing.  Qihoo had been “exaggerating” user traffic on its
hao.360.cn site, according to a report published July 1 by
Anonymous, citing data from Reston, Virgina-based  ComScore Inc. (SCOR) ,
an Internet traffic data provider.  Short Sellers  Chinese companies have come under scrutiny in the past year
as short sellers who profit from declining share prices have
claimed accounting fraud or mismanagement. Trading of  China
Medical Technologies Inc. (CMEDY) ’s American depositary receipts was
suspended last week by the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission, which cited questions on the accuracy of the
company’s information.  Sina Corp., the Chinese operator of the Twitter-like Weibo
service, retreated to the lowest level since January after Maxim
Group LLC reduced the company’s revenue forecast. Shanghai-based
Sina lost 3.4 percent to $50.07, the lowest since Jan. 9.  Sina will probably report sales of $547 million this year,
Echo He, an analyst at Maxim Group in  New York , wrote in an e-
mailed report today. He’s previous forecast was for $560
million. Maxim’s He also lowered the 12-month target price on
the shares to $44 from $45.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net ;
Leon Lazaroff in New York at 
 llazaroff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  