-- Intel Planning Booming Touch Screen Demand for New Laptops: Tech
-- B y   I a n   K i n g   a n d   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o
-- 2012-07-02T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-02/intel-planning-booming-touch-screen-demand-for-new-laptops-tech.html
With demand for tablets and
smartphones surging,  Intel (INTC)  Corp. is betting that supplies of
touchscreens will start to run short just as PC makers begin to
introduce touch-enabled laptops and other devices.  To ensure that PC  manufacturers  don’t get squeezed out, the
chipmaker last month said it had agreed to pay four Taiwanese
touch-screen makers to secure supplies of the parts.  Intel’s deals reflect the difficulty of getting key
components as the tablet market is poised to jump 48 percent to
$66.4 billion in 2012, according to researcher DisplaySearch.  Shares of Intel partners  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  and  Dell Inc. (DELL) 
have sagged this year as they play catch-up with Apple Inc. and
 Samsung (005930)  Electronics Co., which together hold more than half the
smartphone and tablet market. With the PC makers adding tablets
and similar devices, Intel’s move will prevent suppliers from
favoring  Apple (AAPL)  and Samsung in selling screens.  “What’s growing is tablets and smartphones,” said Vinita
Jakhanwal, an  analyst  at IHS ISuppli Corp. “It makes sense to
make sure that you put your resources behind growth markets.”  From 2011 to 2016 the market for tablets will grow an
average of 42 percent annually, versus 9 percent average growth
for notebooks, IHS predicts. In 2015, tablets, with some 314
million shipments, will overtake laptops. The smartphone market
will average 22 percent growth to reach 1.27 billion units in
2016, according to the researcher.  With its strength in tablets and smartphones, Apple’s
shares have jumped 44 percent this year, while Samsung’s are up
14 percent. By contrast, Hewlett-Packard is down 22 percent and
Dell has slipped 14 percent. Intel’s shares are up 10 percent.  Costly Components  Touch screens range in size from 3.5 inches to 27 inches or
more. They can cost as much as $100 for smaller devices and $200
for bigger ones, making them one of the priciest elements in a
computer, said Linn Huang, an analyst at IDC. Designed to
respond to a user’s finger and hand swipes, the screens are
increasingly being used in personal computers.  Intel’s projection of a possible dearth of touch-screen
parts is at odds with most estimates. Huang, for example, said
supply appears healthy because a flurry of smaller companies
have entered the market. In addition, production has been
getting more efficient.  “There are definitely more touch screens being produced
than there are being shipped in to customers hands,” Huang
said.  Intel, the largest semiconductor maker, isn’t taking any
chances as it plans for the introduction of  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s
Windows 8, the software maker’s first mainstream computer
operating system designed around a touch-screen interface.  Windows 8  The new software is aimed at stemming the inroads into
computing made by smartphones and Apple’s iPad. It will probably
run mainly on devices powered by Intel chips.  On June 5, Intel said it had reached supply agreements with
four touch-screen sensor manufacturers:  TPK Holding Co. (3673) ,  Wintek
Corp. (2384) ,  HannsTouch Solution Inc. (3049)  and Cando Corp.  Under the arrangement, the touch-screen makers will provide
a certain number of screens to PC makers specified by Intel.
While Intel isn’t paying for the screens, it will foot the bill
for any unused capacity, meaning that the screen makers can set
aside production without any risk. Intel and the Taiwanese
companies declined to give details on the money or number of
screens involved.  “We believe there’s going to be more demand than current
forecasts,” said Bill Calder, a spokesman at Intel. “We’re
ensuring our customers get enough supply.”  Intel’s Challenge  Intel, whose processors run more than 80 percent of the
world’s computers, has struggled to achieve comparable success
in the market for chips that run phones and tablets. The company
is pushing a new line of thinner and lighter notebook computers
-- called Ultrabooks -- to rekindle demand for its chips. It’s
also seeking to sell its products to phone and tablet makers.  While touch-screen makers have enough capacity to cope with
smartphone growth, according to DisplaySearch analyst  Richard
Shim , laptop screens are at least three times the size of those
used in phones. That means growing sales of touch-enabled
notebooks would significantly increase demand. And as touch
screens get larger, there’s a greater chance they will have
defects, Shim said.  Underpinning Intel’s attempts to help its PC customers are
concerns that the success of Apple and Samsung in phones and
tablets strengthens their ability to jump to the front of the
queue for parts.  Apple’s ‘Power’  “The Intel action is slightly unusual and is indicative of
Apple’s power over the technology supply chain,” said Andrew Dailey, managing director at MGI Research in  Mill Valley ,
 California . “Intel really understands supply-chain
relationships, and the fact that they are going out of their way
to do this says a lot.”  Apple Chief Executive Officer  Tim Cook  said last year that
his company would spend $3.9 billion over two years on
components. He said Apple had identified a critical part that it
would be spending heavily on to secure supplies, though he
wouldn’t disclose details. Some analysts, including Katy Huberty
of Morgan Stanley, have speculated the money is being used for
touch panels like those Intel is now trying to secure.  South Korea ’s Samsung, the world’s biggest smartphone
maker, is also the largest manufacturer of memory chips and LCD
displays. Touch screens are currently assembled separately, then
layered on top of the display itself. That cumbersome process is
increasingly going to be replaced by a technique where the touch
capabilities are built into the display in the manufacturing
process, according to Rhoda Alexander, an analyst at IHS.  ‘Chess Game’  Increasing integration of components and attempts to lock
up supply through advance purchases are reversing the 30-year
history of specialization among parts manufacturers, said Horace
Dediu, an industry analyst at Asymco. According to Dediu, Apple
now buys the machines used to manufacture phones and tablets and
installs them in the plants of its contract manufacturers.  “The supply-chain chess game has moved beyond writing
these big checks to be sure that you have right of first
refusal,” said Dediu.  With the help of Intel -- a company that has $13.8 billion
in  cash  and generates about $3 billion a quarter -- the PC
industry may be able to keep pace with technology and supply.  “It’s very encouraging that you have a heavyweight like
Intel to come in and help drive proliferation and adoption of
touch technology,” said Freddie Liu, chief financial officer at
touch-screen sensor maker TPK. “We welcome such a strategic
move.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ian King in  San Francisco  at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net ;
Adam Satariano in San Francisco at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  