-- Intel Says EU Withheld Evidence in Antitrust Case
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e   a n d   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 2012-07-03T11:36:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-02/intel-to-say-eu-withheld-evidence-mitigating-1-34-billion-fine.html
Intel Corp., (INTC)  the largest maker of
computer chips, asked judges to overturn a record European Union
1.06 billion-euro ($1.34 billion) antitrust fine, arguing
regulators withheld evidence and didn’t let Intel fully defend
itself.  Intel told the EU General Court to throw out the European
Commission’s ruling that its use of rebates violated EU
antitrust rules. Intel  said  the EU failed to use mitigating
evidence or to allow it respond to all of the allegations.  “The burden of proof on the commission is a heavy one”
and “the commission simply has not met the burden of proof,”
Nicholas Green, a lawyer for Intel, said to the court in
Luxembourg. “The commission’s analysis is simplistic and static
and fails to capture the dynamics of competition.”  The fine was levied after  Advanced Micro Devices Inc. (AMD) 
complained that the rebates were unfair.  Santa Clara ,
California-based Intel agreed to pay AMD $1.25 billion in 2009
to end a U.S. lawsuit and the company reached a separate
settlement with the U.S. Federal Trade Commission. Intel expects
2012 to be a year of “record revenues,” with growth in the
mobile-phone market adding to its 80 percent market share for
chips in personal computers.  ‘Threatening Effect’  At the time, had companies such as  Dell Inc. (DELL)  and Hewlett-
Packard Co. turned to Intel rival AMD, it “would have had a
threatening effect” so Intel shut out AMD, said commission
lawyer Nicholas Khan. “The industry was rife with the sort of
practices which were condemned by this decision.”  Intel’s appeal cites numerous errors with the EU decision,
including its failure to make notes of a witness who was
“highly likely” to provide evidence supporting Intel’s
argument that its rebates to PC makers weren’t conditional on
excluding AMD from the market. It also says the EU should have
sought documents from AMD that were “potentially exculpatory”
and given Intel an additional hearing to defend itself.  The competition ruling has already been criticized by the
EU’s own ombudsman, who said in 2009 that the antitrust agency
was guilty of “maladministration” for failing to record notes
of the meeting with Dell. The report wasn’t binding on the
commission, which disagreed on the need for formal minutes.  The antitrust fine was the EU’s biggest, more than double
the 497 million-euro penalty against  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  in 2004. It
represented about 4 percent of Intel’s $37.6 billion in  sales  in
2008, below the maximum penalty of 10 percent of yearly sales
regulators can impose.  Procedural Grounds  Intel’s chances of getting the fine cut or canceled “lie
more on procedural than on substantive grounds,” putting the
focus on Intel’s arguments that regulators didn’t respect basic
due process, said Alfonso Lamadrid, a lawyer at Garrigues in
Brussels.  The EU’s eight-year investigation found that Intel impeded
competition by giving rebates to computer makers from 2002 until
2005 on the condition that they buy at least 95 percent of chips
for PCs from Intel. It said Intel imposed “restrictive
conditions” for the remaining 5 percent, supplied by AMD, which
struggled to overcome Intel’s hold on the market for processors
that run PCs.  The case may be less likely to affect the law on rebates
because the EU’s approach on refunds linked to sales volumes has
changed since the Intel case, with a greater emphasis on
regulators proving that the alleged abusive behavior has
concrete effects on competition.  Loyalty Reducing  “Traditionally, it was sufficient for the commission to
show that the rebate had a loyalty-reducing effect to establish
a violation of competition rules,” Lamadrid said. “In the
Intel case, the commission claimed that negative effects on
competition could be shown in the foreseeable future.”  The computer makers coaxed to not use AMD’s chips included
Acer Inc., Dell, Hewlett-Packard, Lenovo Group Ltd. and NEC
Corp., the commission said in 2009. The EU also said Intel made
payments to electronics retailer Media Markt on the condition
that it only sell Intel-based PCs. It also ordered Intel to stop
using illegal rebates to thwart competitors, an instruction that
Intel complained was unclear.  Intel settled an antitrust case with the  U.S. Federal Trade
Commission  in August 2010 and agreed not to give computer makers
discounts or other inducements in exchange for promises they
will buy chips exclusively from Intel.  Sunnyvale, California-based AMD, which initiated the EU
antitrust case, is no longer involved and won’t intervene at
this week’s hearing after settling with Intel.  The hearings are scheduled to last four days. Decisions by
the EU court can be appealed a last time to the  European Court
of Justice , the 27-nation bloc’s highest court, which is also in
Luxembourg.  The case is T-286/09 Intel v Commission.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Bodoni in Luxembourg at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  