-- Interpublic Sued by Former Executive Over Facebook Stake
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2012-07-02T22:00:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-02/interpublic-sued-by-former-executive-over-facebook-stake.html
Interpublic Group of Cos. , the
second-largest U.S. advertising company, was sued by a former
executive demanding $381 million for his alleged role in
company’s gains from the sale  Facebook Inc. (FB)  stock.  The executive, Ray Volpe, who served as first commissioner
of the LPGA women’s professional golf tour from 1975 to 1982,
accused the company of refusing to compensate him even though he
had “sourced and procured” the Facebook investment for
Interpublic, according to the lawsuit filed today in New York
State Supreme Court in  Manhattan .  Volpe claims that he brought Interpublic the opportunity to
invest and form a strategic alliance with Facebook in early
2006. The advertising company invested $2.5 million in Facebook
in June 2006, taking a stake of about 0.5 percent in the
company’s capital stock on a fully diluted basis, according to
the suit.  Interpublic sold half of its stake on the secondary market
for $133.5 million in August 2011 then sold its remaining shares
for about $249 million in connection with Facebook’s initial
public offering in May, according to the suit.  “Thus, the value, or the realized gain, conferred on IPG
by the insight, actions and persistence of Ray Volpe exceeds
$380 million and is most likely in the range of $400-435
million,” lawyers for Volpe said in the suit. “Yet he has been
paid nothing for these efforts.”  Without Merit  The suit is without merit, Tom Cunningham, a spokesman for
Interpublic, said in an e-mail. Volpe was a full-time employee
during the period in question and his allegations of a side deal
are contradicted by his employment agreement, Cunningham said.  “The Facebook transaction was entered into at the
corporate level, and the claims made by Mr. Volpe are based on
self-serving, one-way e-mails sent by Mr. Volpe to IPG
management after the fact, in an attempt to garner personal gain
from a very successful commercial decision taken by IPG,”
Cunningham said. “The claim that IPG would act as his bank on
this transaction is absurd, and wholly inconsistent with how we
do business.”  The case is Volpe v. Interpublic Group of Cos.,
652308/2012,  New York  State Supreme Court (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  