-- Iranians Replace Meat With Pasta as Oil Sanctions Hit Nation
-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i   a n d   Y e g a n e h   S a l e h i
-- 2012-07-02T11:19:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-02/iranians-replace-meat-with-pasta-as-oil-sanctions-hit-nation-1-.html
Maryam Taghavi is feeding her family
more pasta and grinding vegetable filler into her chopped meat
as she seeks to cope with international sanctions that are
taking their toll on the Iranian economy.  “These days, I mince meat with vegetable protein because
we can’t afford as much meat as before,” said the 53-year-old
retired accountant and mother of two. Taghavi said her monthly
budget of 6,000,000 rials ($488) for food and utilities now “is
nothing.”  European Union sanctions against  Iran  took effect
yesterday, banning imports of the country’s crude, restrictions
that build on earlier U.S. and United Nations measures limiting
trade with the Islamic Republic.  Iran’s economy has deteriorated amid the sanctions, which
have weakened the national currency and pushed up costs that
were already surging after the government started removing
energy and food subsidies a year and a half ago. Inflation
accelerated to 22.2 percent in the 12 months ended May 20, the
 Central Bank  said.  The EU embargo on Iranian oil purchases comes as three
rounds of negotiations this year between Iran and world powers
over the country’s nuclear-enrichment program failed to reach a
breakthrough. Iran rejects allegations by the U.S. and its
allies that its nuclear program is aimed at developing weapons.  Remain Defiant  Iranian officials have remained defiant, repeatedly saying
the punitive measures won’t make the country abandon its atomic
program.  “The Iranian nation will never stop on its path of
progress and will stand firmly in the face of all the greedy
demands and oppressive sanctions” Vice President Mohammad Reza Rahimi said yesterday, according to the website of state
television. “We are faced today with the most severe sanctions
and we are asking people to help their officials so that they
are not swayed from the path of progress due to some temporary
confusion in the market.”  Iranian central bank Governor Mahmoud Bahmani said the
country has a “very suitable” $150 billion in foreign currency
reserves to help weather the crisis.  “We have programs to fight the sanctions, and we will
confront hostile policies,” Bahmani said yesterday, according
to the state-run Mehr  news agency .  Plans Shelved  Iranian officials seem to have shelved plans to further
increase energy and food prices this year as part of a five-year
program started in December 2010 to gradually remove subsidies.  “The adoption of a next step in reforming subsidies by
increasing prices has been completely taken off the agenda,”
Economy Minister Shamseddin Hosseini said, the state-run  Iranian
Students News Agency  reported yesterday.  The government also said it’s combating high prices and
shop owners’ hoarding goods by sending inspectors to the
bazaars. Merchants selling goods at inflated prices will be
fined and their businesses will be closed if they receive three
citations, said Nematollah Torki, Tehran’s deputy governor for
planning, the state-run ISNA news agency reported today.  The Iranian rial has lost about half its value on the open
market, reaching 19,950 rials to the dollar today from 13,200 on
Nov. 2.  Iran’s economy will shrink 1 percent this year, the  World
Bank  said in a June 12 report. The $480 billion economy is
expected to contract 0.7 percent in 2013, it said.  Shun Imports  Supreme Leader  Ayatollah Ali Khamenei  told Iranians in a
speech marking the start of the March 20 Iranian New Year that
the best way to combat the sanctions was to shun imports and buy
domestic goods.  Mohammad Mousavi, managing director of a company that
imports and manufactures parts for the energy sector, said he’s
increasing his focus on local production though “it’s also
difficult to produce most of the required industrial items due
to sanctions.” Mousavi, a 41-year-old petroleum engineer, said
that’s due to a lack of local expertise and difficulties in
importing raw materials for manufacturing.  Oil and its derivatives account for nearly 80 percent of
Iranian exports and about half of government revenue, according
to the U.S. Energy Information Administration, which estimates
the country’s 2010 net oil export revenues at $73 billion.  Oil Production  Iran was producing about 3.3 million barrels a day in May.
Full implementation of sanctions will remove about 1 million
barrels a day during the second half of the year, the Paris-
based  International Energy Agency  forecast in a June 13 report.  Babak Qomi, an importer and distributer of tires for heavy
vehicles, said he’s been losing both customers and competitors
this year.  “Less customers means less income and profit, and this
comes right at a time when the prices of all goods are going
up,” Qomi, 30, said, speaking in his office in downtown Tehran.  Qomi, who six years ago imported goods from  Germany ,  Italy 
and  Spain , said trade restrictions have left him with few
suppliers willing to do business.  “Now only Chinese companies are willing to trade with
Iranians,” Qomi said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladane Nasseri in Dubai at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net ;
Yeganeh Salehi in Tehran via Dubai.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  