-- Manufacturing in U.S. Unexpectedly Contracted in June
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2012-07-02T20:21:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-02/ism-index-of-u-s-manufacturing-decreased-to-49-7-in-june.html
Manufacturing in the U.S.
unexpectedly shrank in June for the first time since the economy
emerged from the recession three years ago, indicating a
mainstay of the expansion may be faltering.  The  Institute for Supply Management ’s  index  fell to 49.7,
worse than the most-pessimistic forecast in a Bloomberg News
survey, from 53.5 in May, the Tempe, Arizona-based group’s
report showed today. Figures less than 50 signal contraction.
Measures of orders, production and export demand dropped to
three-year lows.  Treasury yields fell on concern Europe’s debt crisis and a
slowdown in  Asia  are taking a bigger toll on the world’s largest
economy and hurting manufacturers like  DuPont Co. (DD)  and  Steelcase
Inc. (SCS)  Assembly lines are at risk of slowing further as consumers
temper purchases and companies cut back on investment.  “Manufacturing is gearing down,” said Neil Dutta, head of
U.S. economics at Renaissance Macro Research LLC in  New York ,
whose 50.5 forecast was the lowest in the Bloomberg survey.
“It’s consistent with the idea that the uncertainty is weighing
on businesses. Europe is taking a bite out of the export
sector.”  The yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note declined
to 1.59 percent from 1.65 percent on June 29. The Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index erased earlier losses after last week capping
its best June rally since 1999. The  S&P 500  climbed 0.3 percent
to 1,365.51 at the close in New York.  The ISM index, which dropped to its lowest level since July
2009, was less than the  median  forecast of 52 in the Bloomberg
survey. Estimates of 70 economists ranged from 50.5 to 53.5. The
gauge averaged 55.2 in 2011 and 57.3 the prior year.  No Recession  Today’s reading is well above the 42.6 level that generally
indicates the economy as a whole is expanding, according to ISM.  “We are not yet in recession territory,”  Nigel Gault ,
chief U.S. economist at IHS Global Insight in Lexington,
 Massachusetts , said in an e-mail to clients. “Recessions are
usually accompanied by ISM readings in the low-40s. And the
construction news is improving, while consumers are being helped
by tumbling gasoline prices.”  A separate report today from the Commerce Department in
 Washington  showed the improvement in the  housing market  helped
boost construction spending in May to the highest level in two
years. Housing demand has shown a gradual recovery. Purchases of
new houses rose 7.6 percent in May to reach the highest level
since April 2010, recent data showed.  Manufacturing is also weaker in the rest of the world. The
industry in the euro-area contracted for an 11th straight month
in June as  Europe ’s debt crisis sapped demand. A measure of the
region’s factories held at 45.1, London-based Markit Economics
said.  Europe’s Economy  Euro-area unemployment  reached the highest on record in
May, other figures showed. The jobless rate in the 17-nation
region rose to 11.1 percent, the highest since the data series
began in 1995, from 11 percent a month earlier, the European
Union’s statistics office in Luxembourg said.  A manufacturing purchasing managers’ index for  China  fell
to 48.2 in June from 48.4 a month earlier, HSBC Holdings Plc and
Markit said today.  The ISM’s U.S.  production  index decreased to 51, the lowest
since May 2009. The new orders measure dropped to 47.8, the
weakest since April 2009, from 60.1. The drop in demand from the
previous month was biggest since October 2001, after the
September 11 terrorist attacks.  The  employment  gauge decreased to a three-month low. The
index of prices paid decreased to 37 from 47.5.  Manufacturing accounts for about 12 percent of the economy
and has been at the forefront of the recovery that began June
2009.  Jobless Rate  Slower hiring and an  unemployment rate  exceeding 8 percent
may keep restraining household spending, which accounts for
about 70 percent of the economy. Cars and light trucks sold at a
 13.7 million  annual rate in May, the weakest this year and down
from April’s 14.4 million pace, Ward’s Automotive Group data
showed.  Executives at Wilmington, Delaware-based DuPont said while
growth in  North America  is holding up, the third-largest U.S.
chemical maker is concerned about a slowdown in China and
 Germany ’s dependence on exports.  “My number one worry is what will happen in Europe over
the next six to nine months,” Diane Gulyas, group vice
president of DuPont’s performance-materials segment, said on a
conference call with analysts on June 14.  Steelcase Sales  Steelcase, a  Grand Rapids , Michigan-based maker of office
furniture, said first-quarter sales fell in most major markets
in the region that includes Europe,  Middle East  and  Africa .  “Uncertainty in the global economy continues to take its
toll on specific parts of our business,” Chief Financial
Officer David Sylvester said on a conference call on June 21.  The  U.S. economy  expanded 1.9 percent in the first quarter,
the same as previously estimated and following a 3 percent pace
in the prior three months, revised data showed last week.  To combat flagging growth, Federal Reserve policy makers
said they are ready to take more steps should the U.S. expansion
slacken.  Fed officials said in a policy statement on June 20 that
they expect “economic growth to remain moderate over coming
quarters and then to pick up very gradually.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  