-- QE2 Ocean Liner to Be Turned Into 300-Room Hotel Moored in Dubai
-- B y   T a m a r a   W a l i d
-- 2012-07-02T14:31:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-02/istithmar-to-turn-queen-elizabeth-ship-into-300-room-hotel-1-.html
The Queen Elizabeth II ocean liner,
whose passengers included Britain’s royal family, will be
converted into a 300-room hotel in a Dubai port, according to
the owner.  Istithmar World PJSC, the state-owned company that bought
the 963-foot (294-meter) cruise ship known as the QE2 for $100
million in 2007, will renovate the liner while preserving its
interior, Chairman Sultan Ahmed Bin Sulayem said at a briefing
in the emirate today. The ship made its final voyage in 2008.  “We realized that a lot of people love the ship as it
is,” bin Sulayem said. “We will fix what needs to be fixed,
but we will preserve its tradition and the way it was.”  The QE2 made its maiden voyage from Southampton,  England ,
to  New York  in 1969. The ship, operated by Cunard, completed
more than 5 million miles at sea, according to a  website  about
the QE2. The liner was the victim of a bomb hoax and ransom
demand in 1972 and hit rocks near  Martha’s Vineyard  in 1992.  The ship has five restaurants, a cinema, a casino, a health
club, a shopping area, a hospital, library and several bars. The
ship survived Hurricane Luis on a westbound Atlantic crossing
and was hit by a 95-foot wave in 1995.  Palm Jumeirah  Istithmar had planned to move the ship to the Palm
Jumeirah, an artificial island shaped like a palm tree off the
coast of Dubai. However, it will now stay at Port Rashid, where
it’s currently moored, as part of a plan to turn the area into a
maritime attraction, bin Sulayem said. Renovation will include
changes to the water-supply and drainage system as well as air-
conditioning to make it more suitable for the desert climate, he
said.  The company is in talks with three hotel operators,
including Dubai-based Jumeirah Group, to manage the property,
said bin Sulayem, who is also chairman of  DP World Ltd. (DPW)  He
declined to say how much the conversion will cost.  Neither DP World, which owns and operates Port Rashid, nor
Istithmar will finance the project, bin Sulayem said. “This
will not affect the financial commitments of Istithmar; There
are plenty of resources available,” he said.  Istithmar has $286 million in outstanding debt, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  An old cruise terminal at the port will be converted to
become the Dubai Maritime Museum, which will house 25,000
artifacts and maritime artworks owned by DP World, bin Sulayem
said. It will be finished within the same timeframe as the ship.  DP World said in October it planned to expand Port Rashid’s
cruise terminal to cater to five  cruise ships  at a time by the
end 2012, compared with two vessels at present.  “We want to make Port Rashid a seaport village,” bin
Sulayem said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tamara Walid in Dubai at 
 twalid@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Inal Ersan at 
 iersan@bloomberg.net . 