-- Japan Seeks Expansion of $3 Billion China Swap Deal, Nakao Says
-- B y   M a y u m i   O t s u m a   a n d   K y o k o   S h i m o d o i
-- 2012-07-02T01:28:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-02/japan-seeks-expansion-of-3-billion-china-swap-deal-nakao-says.html
Japan  will seek to expand a $3
billion currency swap agreement with China to strengthen direct
trading between the yen and  yuan , the nation’s top currency
official said.  “We’re aware of the need” to enhance the agreement signed
in 2002, Takehiko Nakao, 56, vice finance minister for
international affairs, said in an interview in Tokyo last week.
“It’s encouraging to have such a measure as a last resort” to
provide liquidity and promote trading, he said.  Japan hopes to make the agreement akin to the yen-dollar
swap deal between the  Bank of Japan (8301)  and the U.S. Federal
Reserve, he said. In other signs of increased cooperation with
its largest trading partner, Japan and China started direct
trading of the yen and yuan last month and Japan also plans to
buy $10.3 billion in China’s sovereign bonds.  The swap agreement enables the BOJ and the Chinese central
bank to provide yen and yuan liquidity to each other should a
shortage in their currencies occur.  The trading arrangement started in June has helped daily
transaction volumes in Tokyo swell by 10 times to 10 billion yen
($125 million), which will help make Tokyo an offshore market
for Chinese  currency trading , Nakao said.  Japan’s planned purchases of Chinese sovereign bonds
“don’t necessarily mean that we would try to diversify our
foreign-currency reserves” away from the  U.S. dollar , Nakao
said. “The dollar is expected to remain a reserve currency and
we maintain our trust in U.S. treasuries, which we consider an
attractive asset.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mayumi Otsuma in Tokyo at 
 motsuma@bloomberg.net ;
Kyoko Shimodoi in Tokyo at 
 kshimodoi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  