-- Japan Stock Futures Gain on Expectations Fed, ECB to Ease
-- B y   N o r i e   K u b o y a m a   a n d   T o s h i r o   H a s e g a w a
-- 2012-07-02T23:26:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-02/japan-stock-futures-gain-on-expectations-fed-ecb-to-ease.html
Japanese and Australian  stock futures 
rose on expectations that a contraction in U.S. manufacturing
may encourage the Federal Reserve to ease monetary policy as the
 European Central Bank  cuts  interest rates  to help contain the
region’s sovereign-debt crisis.  American depositary receipts of  Nissan Motor Co. (7201) , which
gets about 80 percent of its sales overseas, added 0.6 percent
from the closing share price in  Tokyo . Shares of Kawasaki Kisen
Kaisha Ltd. may be active after the Japanese shipping line said
it will raise as much as 28.6 billion yen ($360 million) in a
public share sale. Bandanna Energy Ltd., may be active in Sydney
trading after Credit Suisse Group initiated coverage of the coal
explorer with an “outperform” rating.  Futures on Japan’s Nikkei 225 Stock Average expiring in
September closed at 9,035 in Chicago yesterday, up from 9,020 in
Osaka, Japan. They were bid in the pre-market at 9,030 in Osaka
at 8:05 a.m. Futures on Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index rose 0.4
percent today. New Zealand’s NZX 50 Index slid 0.1 percent in
Wellington.  “Additional policy easing by the ECB and U.S. will support
the economy and market liquidity,” said  Fumiyuki Nakanishi , a
strategist at Tokyo-based SMBC Friend Securities Co. “Those
expectations are bolstering stock markets.”  U.S. manufacturing unexpectedly shrank in June for the
first time since the economy emerged from a recession three
years ago, indicating a mainstay of the expansion may be
faltering, a report showed yesterday.  Fed Action  The weakness in manufacturing may encourage more
accommodative policies from the Federal Reserve, Princeton
University economist  Alan Blinder  said in an interview on
Bloomberg Television’s “Market Makers” with  Erik Schatzker  and
Scarlet Fu.  “Data like this that keep coming in are encouraging or
strengthening the positions of the doves on the Fed,” said
Blinder, a former Fed vice chairman. “You know there’s a big
civil war going on in the  Federal Reserve , and weakening the
position of the hawks.”  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index added 0.1
percent today. The stock gauge gained 0.3 percent in New York
yesterday as takeovers helped the market recover from earlier
losses triggered by the manufacturing contraction. Micron
Technology Inc. agreed to acquire Elpida Memory Inc., an Apple
Inc. supplier. Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. agreed to pay $5.3
billion for drugmaker Amylin Pharmaceuticals Inc.  Europe Rates  Unemployment in the 17-nation euro area reached the highest
level on record as a deepening economic slump and budget cuts
prompted companies from Spain to Italy to reduce their
workforces, a report showed yesterday.  European stocks rose as investors bet central banks will
add to measures unveiled by the region’s governments to contain
the sovereign-debt crisis. The ECB and the  Bank of England 
announce interest-rate decisions on July 5. ECB officials will
lower their benchmark rate by 25 basis points to a record low
0.75 percent, according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg
survey of 57 economists.  The  Bloomberg China-US 55 Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded Chinese
equities in the U.S lost 0.7 percent to 90.59 in New York
yesterday.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  gained 3.4 percent this year
through yesterday, compared with an 8.6 percent advance by the
 S&P 500  and a 4.2 percent increase by the Stoxx Europe 600
Index. Stocks in the Asian benchmark are valued at 12 times
estimated earnings on average, compared with 13.2 times for the
S&P 500 and 10.7 times for the Stoxx 600.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Norie Kuboyama in Tokyo at 
 nkuboyama@bloomberg.net ;
Toshiro Hasegawa in Tokyo at 
 thasegawa6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  