-- Jive Bids Seen Spurred by Microsoft-Yammer Deal: Real M&A
-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e   a n d   A l e x   B a r i n k a
-- 2012-07-03T20:29:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-02/jive-bids-seen-spurred-by-microsoft-yammer-deal-real-m-a.html
Jive Software Inc. (JIVE)  is poised to lure
acquirers with the fastest sales growth in the applications
software industry after  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  agreed to purchase its
competitor Yammer Inc. for $1.2 billion.  Jive, which like Yammer provides businesses with social-
networking software that helps employees communicate and
collaborate on projects, may post a 157 percent increase in
revenue through 2014, according to analysts’ estimates compiled
by Bloomberg. That would be the steepest gain in the Bloomberg
Industries Global Application Software Index, the data show.  The $1.3 billion company’s sales growth may entice
Microsoft’s competitors from  SAP AG (SAP)  to Oracle Corp. to pursue an
acquisition, said  Robert W. Baird  & Co. and Citigroup Inc., even
as the  Palo Alto , California-based company trades at a multiple
that’s twice as expensive as the industry median relative to
2014 revenue. Since its initial public offering in December,
Jive has surged 72 percent, the fourth-best performance for any
U.S. IPO of more than $100 million, the data show.  “If Microsoft buys a company in the space, it forces
Microsoft’s peers to look around and see what they should now
buy,” Walter Pritchard, a San Francisco-based analyst for
Citigroup, said in a telephone interview. “Everyone is
questioning whether or not the social wave of interaction is
going to make its way into enterprise in a big way. Jive brings
a new way of doing that. If you want to buy into a new trend,
you want to see a company that’s growing fast.”  Facebook Capabilities  Today, Jive shares rose 3.3 percent to $21.33, the highest
price in almost two months. The gain was the third-biggest in
the Bloomberg Industries Global Application Software Index.  “We can’t comment on rumors or speculation,” Kyle
Arteaga, a spokesman for Jive, said in an e-mailed statement.
“However, we would like to point out that Jive has a real
opportunity to change the way people work, and thus, lots of
room to grow. Transformative companies such as Jive tend to
remain independent.”  Jive provides businesses with social-networking software --
similar to  Facebook Inc. (FB) ’s platform for consumers -- that helps
employees interact more efficiently than traditional e-mail
services. E*Trade Financial Corp., Nike Inc., Starbucks Corp.
and Verizon Communications Inc. are among Jive’s largest
customers, according to its annual regulatory filing.  Jive is “a very souped-up version of Facebook for
enterprise use,” Karl Keirstead, a New York-based analyst for
BMO Capital Markets, said in a phone interview. “The younger
generation is using e-mail less and less and using their social
networks to collaborate with their communities more and more.
Why wouldn’t that trend also take place in business if it were a
better way to communicate? The market could be massive.”  Sales Growth  The market for social enterprise applications and related
services is projected to expand to $6.4 billion in 2016 from an
estimated $900 million in 2011, according to a November report
from Cambridge, Massachusetts-based Forrester Research Inc.  While Jive has yet to make a profit, the company offers
suitors the chance to grab the fastest-growing application
software maker of its size.  Jive’s revenue will climb to $199 million in 2014, a 157
percent gain since 2011, according to analysts’ estimates
compiled by Bloomberg. That’s a bigger sales increase than all
of the 31 other public companies in the Bloomberg Industries
Global Application Software  Index (BIASFTGP)  and almost three times the
group’s average, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Jive’s losses are “vastly outweighed by the growth
profile,” BMO Capital’s Keirstead said in the interview. “Most
investors are tolerant of Jive investing aggressively to grab
market share while it can.”  ‘Holy Grail’  Microsoft agreed to buy San Francisco-based Yammer last
week and its Facebook-like business capabilities will join
Microsoft’s Office division, which includes the SharePoint,
Office 365 and Skype products. It will still be maintained as a
standalone product. Yammer is on track to post revenue of about
$23 million this year, indicating Microsoft valued it at about
50 times revenue when including net cash, according to a June 26
note from Keirstead.  The Yammer purchase “validates that someone is willing to
pay” for corporate social-networking software similar to
Jive’s, said  Ed Maguire , a New York-based managing director and
analyst at CLSA Asia-Pacific Markets. “Collaboration and
improving communication has been something of a holy grail.”  Shares of Jive have risen  23 percent  since June 13, when
Bloomberg News reported Microsoft was in talks to buy Yammer.  SAP and Oracle could bolster their social business
communication services and complement their current software
offerings by buying Jive, said  Steve Ashley , a Milwaukee-based
analyst at Robert W. Baird.  Needing Jive  “All of the major software platform vendors need this
service,” Ashley said in a phone interview. “Microsoft needed
it. Oracle needs it. SAP needs it. Software companies are faced
with the very question of do they build their own offering from
scratch, which can take years, or do you try to acquire that
capability? That capability is only in a handful of hands, and
Jive is the most substantial.”  Jive’s competitors include  Salesforce.com Inc. (CRM) ’s Chatter
product,  International Business Machines Corp. (IBM) ’s Connections and
closely held companies such as Lithium Technologies Inc.,
Socialtext Inc. and  Telligent Systems Inc.  SAP’s venture arm has
invested in Lithium.  SAP focused on routine enterprise tasks such as payroll and
supply-chain management for the first 35 years of its existence
until starting to branch out in 2007 into business analytics and
cloud computing. The company said last year that it wants to add
a new field of business every 12 to 18 months and singled out
collaborative software as the next category.  Short Sellers  Jim Dever, a spokesman for Walldorf, Germany-based SAP,
said the company doesn’t comment on speculation, when asked
whether it is considering a takeover of Jive.  Deborah Hellinger ,
a spokeswoman at  Redwood City , California-based Oracle, also
wouldn’t comment.  Short sellers  are betting a deal won’t happen any time
soon. Last week, a record 6.2 million shares of Jive were sold
short, or 10.1 percent of the stock outstanding, according to
data from Markit, a London-based research firm. In a short sale,
traders sell borrowed stock assuming the price will drop,
enabling them to profit by buying it back at a lower price.  Chief Executive Officer Tony Zingale, 56, and the rest of
Jive’s managers, which include co-founders Bill Lynch, 34, and
 Matt Tucker , 33, may not want to sell the company right away,
said Cindi Profaca, an analyst at Green Brook, New Jersey-based
IPOfinancial.com.  ‘In Play’  “The management team is very young, and I am sure there
are many things, innovations, that they want to come up with
before they just say, ‘We want to sell,’” Profaca said in a
phone interview. “But if the price is right, anyone would be
willing to sell their company.”  Jive closed yesterday at $20.65 a share, 6.4 times
estimated 2014 sales, making it the second-most expensive stock
in the Bloomberg Industries Global Application Software Index,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. Companies in the index trade at
a median of 3.1 times sales for that year.  While the management team may not want to sell before the
social-enterprise industry expands, Jive is still probably
attracting takeover interest from SAP and  Oracle (ORCL) , said BMO
Capital’s Keirstead.  “My guess is Jive has been in play for a while now,” he
said. “Just given that a lot of these social assets have been
acquired now, I have no doubt that the CEO’s phone has been
ringing from interested buyers.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tara Lachapelle in  New York  at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Barinka in New York at 
 abarinka1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at   srabil@bloomberg.net . 