-- Jonathan’s Reform Plan for Nigeria Mired in Scandals
-- B y   M a r a m   M a z e n   a n d   C h r i s   K a y
-- 2012-07-02T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-02/jonathan-s-reform-plan-for-nigeria-mired-in-scandals.html
Farouk Lawan led a Nigerian
parliamentary committee that grilled fuel importers in January
over accusations they received 1.1 trillion naira ($6.7 billion)
in illegal payments.  Now, Lawan is under the spotlight, facing police
questioning over allegations, which he denies, that he took a
$620,000 bribe from a fuel importer and frequent donor to
Nigeria’s ruling party.  His transition from accuser to accused is symptomatic of
the web of allegations and political infighting that have
hamstrung President  Goodluck Jonathan ’s ability to meet his
pledge to end fuel subsidies, reorganize the oil industry and
clean up the financial markets, said Roddy Barclay, a Nigeria
analyst at Control Risks, a London-based business consulting
group. That’s put on hold billions of dollars in investment from
companies such as  China State Construction Engineering Corp. (601668)  and
 Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  and weakened support for his government.  “The initial groundswell of optimism surrounding
Jonathan’s reform agenda has given way to a more sober
appraisal,” Barclay said. “The government’s record on driving
reform and tackling corruption has been underwhelming.”  The record includes an aborted attempt to completely end
fuel subsidies that were the equivalent of more than half of
last year’s budget and a failure for three years to win
parliamentary approval of a law that changes how  Africa ’s
biggest oil and gas industry is regulated and funded. Jonathan
also has been unable to unify his fractious ruling People’s
 Democratic Party  to push through his legislative agenda.  ‘Real World’  Jonathan’s office, in a statement yesterday, said the bill
will be evaluated by the “relevant government ministries” and
be presented to his Cabinet before being sent to Parliament.  “This is the real world and cleaning up a system like that
in Nigeria that has embedded itself over decades is going to
take time,” said Gary van Staden, a political analyst at NKC
Independent Economists, a Paarl, South Africa-based risk
advisory group.  Jonathan, 54, had raised expectations for change by
appointing Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala, a former managing director of
the  World Bank , as finance minister; Olusegun Aganga, an ex-
 Goldman Sachs (GS)  managing director, as trade and investment
minister; and Arunma Oteh, once vice president of the  African
Development Bank , as head of the Securities and Exchange
Commission. He also retained Lamido Sanusi as central bank
governor.  “Jonathan made a clear political statement on coming to
office,” said Barclay. “The international community lauded
these technocratic appointments, which were seen as a signal of
Jonathan’s commitment to driving an ambitious reform agenda.”  Agenda Delivery  Delivering change in Africa’s most populous nation has been
more troublesome.  The president’s partial reversal of a plan to eliminate
fuel subsidies in January, due to opposition from unions, civil
groups and members of Parliament, puts at risk agreements such
as the $23.8 billion accord China State Construction signed with
the state-owned Nigerian National Petroleum Corp. in May 2010 to
build new refineries and a petrochemical plant.  Nigeria ’s ability to attract private investment in
refineries, the Petroleum Ministry said in December, depends on
allowing the market to set prices, which the subsidies depress.  Offshore Exploration  The delay in the new petroleum law has kept out at least
$40 billion in investments, Rolake Akinkugbe, London-based
energy analyst at Ecobank Research, said in an e-mailed note on
May 15. Companies including Shell,  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ,  Chevron
Corp. (CVX) ,  Total SA (FP)  and  Eni SpA (ENI)  have said the draft bill’s proposed
tax hikes would make exploration “uneconomical.” They pump
more than 90 percent of the country’s oil through ventures with
state-owned Nigerian National Petroleum Corp.  “A lack of clarity as to when and what form the reforms
will take makes it very difficult for the  oil companies  to know
what they will be buying into,”  Antony Goldman , the head of PM
Consulting, a London-based risk advisory company, said in a June
27 telephone interview.  Offshore exploration, which found billion-barrel fields
such as Shell-run Bonga and Chevron-operated Agbami in the late
1990s, is at a 10-year low, according to Department of Petroleum
Resources figures released in February last year, the latest
data available.  Jonathan’s ability to act is hampered by opposition to his
government in Parliament, even among members of his ruling
party.  “One of the problems we have is that some Nigerians play
politics with everything, but we cannot destroy our country
because of personal political ambitions,” Jonathan said in a
speech in  Rio de Janeiro  to Nigerians living in  Brazil ,
according to a June 20 e-mailed statement. Much of the criticism
of his government, he said, was based on lies.  Religious Divide  As a southern Christian from the oil-rich Niger River
delta, he’s enjoyed little support in the mainly Muslim north,
where the Boko Haram Islamist group has carried out a violent
campaign to impose strict Shariah law that has killed more than
1,000 people in the past 18 months, according to the U.S. State
Department.  The government’s inability to deal with the Boko Haram
insurgency prompted Jonathan to fire his defense and security
ministers on June 22, saying the government needed to change
tactics.  “While they may not all be linked directly, the climate of
economic reform in Nigeria has certainly reversed under the
blistering attacks from Boko Haram and a less than enthusiastic
defense of the reform agenda by President Jonathan,” Sebastian Spio-Garbrah, managing director of New York-based DaMina
Advisors LLP, a frontier-market risk adviser, said in an e-
mailed response to questions.  Anti-Corruption Pledge  Responding to criticism that he’s failing to deal with
graft, Jonathan’s office issued a statement on July 1 listing
steps he has taken, including the dismissal of the head of the
Nigerian National Petroleum Corp. and three senior directors on
June 26.  Lawan’s parliamentary committee said the state oil company
should repay 704 billion naira in illegal fuel-subsidy payments
and needed an overhaul of its management and board.  “President Jonathan remains fully committed to the
diligent and effective implementation of his administration’s
agenda for national transformation and the eradication of
official corruption,” according to the statement.  It may not be enough, analysts at CSL Research in  London 
led by Guy Czartoryski wrote June 27 in an e-mailed note to
clients.  ‘Dwindling Confidence’  “A further move to indict and prosecute other involved
parties who allegedly benefited from the subsidy fraud is needed
to restore dwindling confidence in the government’s sincerity
and ability to tackle corruption and wholly reform the petroleum
sector,” they said.  Jonathan’s economic team has suffered setbacks too. SEC
head Oteh was suspended on June 13 by the agency’s board
following an audit of spending on celebrations of the 50th
anniversary of the  capital market .  Oteh had created enemies by firing Ndi Okereke-Onyiuke as
head of  Nigerian Stock Exchange , saying the action was needed to
curb “poor corporate governance,” manipulation of the market
and financial waste. She cited cases in which hundreds of Rolex
watches were bought as gifts and 1.7 billion naira was shared
among employees of the bourse.  ‘Vested Interests’  Oteh’s fate “is actually a manifestation of that battle
between regulatory autonomy and vested interests,” Bismark
Rewane, chief executive officer of Lagos-based Financial
Derivatives Co. and a council member of the Nigerian Stock
Exchange, said by phone on June 13.  After central bank Governor Sanusi criticized members of
Parliament in 2010 for awarding themselves jumbo pay packets,
lawmakers initiated a process to amend the central bank act to
curb its independence and subject its budget to parliamentary
review and approval.  Nigeria’s “image and credentials are being questioned
right now,” Rewane said. “The reality is that Mr President has
to move swiftly to restore the credentials of Nigeria as a
country that’s fighting corruption.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maram Mazen in Abuja at 
 mmazen@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Kay in Abuja at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  