-- JPMorgan’s Largest ETN Rises to Record Premium After Share Halt
-- B y   M a t t   R o b i n s o n
-- 2012-07-02T20:26:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-02/jpmorgan-s-largest-etn-rises-to-record-premium-after-share-halt.html
A  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  exchange-
traded note tied to oil assets reached a record premium over its
underlying index after the bank limited shares of the security.  The  JPMorgan Alerian MLP Index ETN (AMJ) , under the ticker AMJ,
closed 2.7 percent above its underlying index on June 29, the
highest level since its inception in April 2009, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The New York-based bank’s ETN, the
largest in the U.S. at $5 billion in market capitalization,
traded at a 5.3 percent premium at 1:48 p.m. in New York, before
retreating to 2.5 percent at 3:50 p.m.  JPMorgan limited share creation to 129 million on June 14,
a threshold reached six days later, raising concern that the
note could become unhinged from its linked index, as occurred in
March with an  ETN (TVIX)  issued by Credit Suisse AG. The AMJ note,
which tracks partnerships that don’t pay federal income taxes
and rely on assets such as oil pipelines to generate  cash flow ,
has added 35 million shares this year, an increase of 37
percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Everyone expected AMJ to trade at a premium once the cap
was announced because investors are scrambling for yield,” said
Samuel Lee, an exchange-traded product analyst for Morningstar
Inc. in  Chicago . “I don’t expect to see crazy, TVIX-level
premiums in this product because that premium becomes too
attractive and people will start to short AMJ,” he said,
referring to the ticker of Credit Suisse’s volatility note.  Elizabeth Seymour, a spokeswoman for JPMorgan in  New York ,
declined to comment.  The Alerian MLP-linked security was the fourth-most traded
U.S. ETN on June 29, at 2,717,800 shares, compared with less
than a third that volume on the day before the announcement that
its size would be restricted.  TVIX Premium  On Feb. 21, Zurich-based Credit Suisse stopped issuing
shares of an ETN tied to the VIX, as the Chicago Board Options
Exchange Volatility Index is called. A month later, the TVIX
note began diverging from its underlying index to trade at a
premium of as much as 89 percent. Over two days in March, it
lost more than 50 percent of its value, and the U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission is probing price gyrations in the
security, a person familiar with the matter said in March.  The JPMorgan ETN, which has a total return of  10 percent 
for the last year, makes up more than a quarter of the ETN
market. It tracks a gauge of 50 publicly traded master limited
partnerships and matches dividends from the Alerian MLP Index
minus a 0.85 percent management fee, according to a prospectus
filed with the SEC. The partnerships typically invest in assets
ranging from pipelines to ships transporting commodities.  Investors who want to bet on master limited partnerships
can choose from at least nine other exchange-traded products.
UBS AG and Credit Suisse offer ETNs, and ALPS Advisors Inc.
sells the largest exchange-traded fund tied to an MLP index.  ETNs are unsecured bank debt backed by their issuer’s
credit, unlike exchange-traded funds, which hold assets. Banks
create and redeem shares of ETNs based on the level of demand
for the securities. That demand typically doesn’t affect the
price since the ETNs track the performance of an index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matt Robinson  in New York at 
 mrobinson55@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net ; 