-- JPMorgan Tightens Bond Grip as Whale Loss Weighs
-- B y   C h a r l e s   M e a d
-- 2012-07-02T16:02:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-02/jpmorgan-tightens-bond-grip-as-whale-loss-weighs.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  is tightening
its grip on the global corporate  bond market  while  Bank of
America Corp. (BAC)  sees its market share decline with issuance on
pace to exceed $3 trillion for a fourth straight year.  JPMorgan, the most profitable  U.S. bank , underwrote 6.8
percent of sales, excluding self-led deals, in the first half of
2012, up from 6.4 percent in all of 2011, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Charlotte, North Carolina-based Bank of
America dropped to third, with 5.2 percent from 6.1 percent.  Jamie Dimon , JPMorgan’s chief executive officer, is
benefiting from debt underwriting as offerings approach $2
trillion, including a record $1.19 trillion in the first three
months of the year. The New York-based lender is the top choice
of companies even as it suffers more than $2 billion of losses
from derivatives tied to corporate credit markets.  “They have an advantage in the marketplace and they’re
taking advantage of it,”  Richard Bove , an analyst with Rochdale
Securities LLC in Lutz,  Florida , who recommends the firm’s
stock, said in a telephone interview. “They have the ability,
given their incredible capital strength, to attract customers
presumably because their cost of capital is lower,” which they
can pass on to clients, he said.  JPMorgan has underwritten $110.9 billion of corporate bonds
this year, versus $94.5 billion at New York-based  Citigroup
Inc. (C) , which ranks second with a 5.8 percent share, the data
show. Citigroup came in fourth in 2011, with a 5.7 percent
share.  ‘Difficult Markets’  Issuance for the full year in the U.S. and Europe will
probably trail 2011, as Europe’s debt crisis threatens global
markets, according to  Barclays Plc (BARC)  strategists.  “JPMorgan tends to do better in more difficult markets,”
 Jim Casey , co-head of global debt capital markets at the bank in
 New York , said in a telephone interview. “When the going gets
tough, some of the smaller players arguably will reduce their
capital allocation, whereas we tend not to do that.”  Elsewhere in credit markets, the cost of protecting
corporate bonds from default in the U.S. declined for a second
day, with the Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index,
which investors use to hedge against losses or to speculate on
creditworthiness, decreasing 1.7 basis points to a mid-price of
110.6 basis points as of 11:55 a.m. in New York, according to
prices compiled by Bloomberg.  That’s the lowest level on an intra-day basis since May 14
for the index, which typically falls as investor confidence
improves and rises as it deteriorates. Credit-default swaps pay
the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point
equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of
debt.  Citigroup Bonds  The U.S. two-year interest-rate swap spread, a measure of
bond market stress, rose 1.66 basis points to 26.16 basis points
as of 11:58 a.m. in New York. The gauge widens when investors
seek the perceived safety of  government securities  and narrows
when they favor assets such as corporate bonds.  Bonds of Citigroup are the most actively traded dollar-
denominated corporate securities by dealers today, with 38
trades of $1 million or more as of 11:57 a.m. in New York,
according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  Sales of corporate bonds worldwide declined 10.9 percent
last week to $60.1 billion from $67.4 billion in the period
ended June 22, Bloomberg data show. For the first half of the
year, issuance fell to $1.93 trillion from $1.99 trillion in the
corresponding period of 2011, Bloomberg data show.  Market Share  JPMorgan managed $42.4 billion of offerings last quarter,
excluding self-led transactions, a 38 percent decline from $68.5
billion in the three months ended March 31, Bloomberg data show.
That compares with a 47 percent drop at Bank of America, which
underwrote $29.3 billion in the April-through-June period.  “One of the ways you can grow is by taking share from
others, and the investment bank is probably a place where
JPMorgan is doing this,” Shannon Stemm, an analyst with Edward
Jones & Co. in  St. Louis , said in a telephone interview. “We’re
by no means in a strong capital markets environment, but to the
extent that the economy continues to recover, this segment is a
revenue generator, so I think there’s a lot of push to grow.”  John Yiannacopoulos, a spokesman at Bank of America, and
Mark Costiglio of Citigroup declined to comment on underwriting
market share.  Investors are pressing leaders in the 17-nation euro region
to contain a sovereign-debt crisis that’s threatening a
contagion across the financial system such as the one that
followed the failure of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in 2008.  Forecast Lowered  Following a summit last week in Brussels, policy makers
dropped requirements that taxpayers get preferred-creditor
status on aid to Spain’s banks, opening the way to recapitalize
lenders directly. Euro chiefs said they’re determined to “break
the vicious circle between banks and sovereigns” that began in
Greece in 2009.  While sales of dollar-denominated company debt declined 42
percent in the second quarter from the three months ended in
March, euro issuance dropped 54 percent as the region’s
faltering economy dissuaded borrowers from tapping debt markets.
The  European Central Bank  has forecast a 0.1 percent contraction
in the euro-area economy for 2012.  Citigroup strategists led by Jason Shoup revised their
issuance estimate for investment-grade debt to $827 billion in
2012, including $462 billion from non-financial companies,
according to a June 29 report. That’s down from a January
estimate of $855 billion with $490 billion from non-financials.  London Whale  “For some credits, it’s currently easier to do a deal in
the U.S. than in Europe,” said Chris Whitman, head of global
risk syndicate at  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , which ranks fourth in global
underwriting with a 5.2 percent share, down from 5.9 percent in
2011 and coming in third. “The U.S. benefits from a bigger and
deeper credit market.”  Investors added $57 billion to U.S. fixed-income mutual
funds in the second quarter, compared with $2.3 billion of
outflows from European funds, according EPFR Global data.  “The U.S. market has been the most consistently liquid
market,” Huw Richards, co-head of investment-grade finance at
JPMorgan in New York, said in a telephone interview. “There’s
no doubt that having insight on those investor flows, we’re
definitely able to translate that into international borrowers”
coming to market to issue dollar-denominated debt.  JPMorgan’s share has increased even as it faces
Congressional scrutiny after its London chief investment office
built a portfolio of  credit derivatives  so large it distorted
prices and earned trader Bruno Iksil a nickname: the London
Whale.  ‘Short-Term Blow’  At the start of the year, the group was ordered to reduce
its positions and instead executed a series of trades that left
the bank with even bigger and harder-to-manage exposures, Dimon
told the Senate Banking Committee in Washington last month.  While the losses amount to “a short-term blow to their
reputation,” it probably won’t be a meaningful problem in the
long run, Richard Staite, a London-based analyst at Atlantic
Equities LLP who recommends JPMorgan stock, said in a telephone
interview. “Looking across the investment banking landscape,
JPMorgan is one of the best placed to pick up market share” as
European competitors cut employees, he said.  Rounding out the top 10 underwriters, excluding self-led
deals, are Barclays at No. 5; HSBC Holdings Plc. at No. 6;
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  at No. 7;  Morgan Stanley (MS)  at No. 8;  UBS
AG (UBSN)  at No. 9; and  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  at No. 10 with a 3.3
percent share.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Mead in New York at 
 cmead11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  