-- Kazakh Strategy to Repair Bank Capital Won’t Work, Moody’s Says
-- B y   N a r i m a n   G i z i t d i n o v
-- 2012-07-02T12:05:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-02/kazakh-strategy-to-repair-bank-capital-won-t-work-moody-s-says.html
The Kazakh central bank’s strategy of
allowing lenders to hide bad debts while they rebuild  capital
ratios  through profits probably won’t work because credit growth
is too slow, Moody’s Investors Service said.  “The regulator’s anti-crisis policy facilitated the
preservation of banking-system stability,” Moody’s Moscow-based
analyst Maxim Bogdashkin said today in an interview. “Today,
that stability is imaginary.”  Capital levels at many banks are overstated because
insufficient reserves have been set aside to cover bad debts,
Moody’s said in a June 22 report. Credit growth won’t exceed 4
percent in real terms this year, the ratings company predicts.
The central bank didn’t immediately reply to an e-mailed request
for response.  Central Asia’s biggest energy producer tapped its oil fund
for $10 billion to support banks and companies after credit
markets froze and a property bubble burst in 2008. BTA Bank, the
biggest lender at the time, Alliance Bank and Temirbank agreed
with creditors to discount and extend payments on about $20
billion of debt after they defaulted the following year.  With reserves of 32 percent of gross loans in 2011, Kazakh
banks will probably have to write off most of their problem
loans, Moody’s said in its June 22 report. Creating sufficient
loan-loss provisions would trim the banking industry’s capital
adequacy ratio to about 8 percent from 14.2 percent at end-2011,
below the 12 percent regulatory minimum, it added.  Credit Risks  Banks are significantly underestimating credit risks,
Bogdashkin said. Net interest margins of 3 percent to 4 percent
aren’t enough for Kazakh banks to withstand another economic
crisis, he said.  Loans overdue by more than 90 days at  Kazakhstan ’s 38 banks
reached 3.43 trillion tenge ($23 billion) as of June 1, or 31.7
percent of the total, led by BTA with 1.6 trillion tenge,
central bank data show. State-owned BTA is seeking its second
debt restructuring in as many years, predicting its capital
shortfall will grow to $6 billion by end-2012.  Kazakh lenders may continue to operate for “ a very long
time” as their capital gradually disappears, Bogdashkin said.  “There are two possible scenarios: in the first, banks
make profits and replenish capital to an acceptable level; in
the second, banks’ capital will become so depleted that even
with an understanding regulator they’ll no longer be able to
work,” he said. “Neither scenario will happen soon but, in the
current conditions, the second is more probable.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nariman Gizitdinov in Almaty at 
 ngizitdinov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  