-- Keiser’s Bandon East Tees Off in Nova Scotia as Courses Close
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-07-02T17:26:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-02/keiser-s-bandon-east-tees-off-in-nova-scotia-as-courses-close.html
A former  coal mine  on the remote west
coast of Cape Breton Island is the site of  Canada ’s first
authentic links golf course. The property also bucks an
unprecedented rash of course closures in the industry.  Cabot Links , which is surrounded by dunes and rolling
hills, sprawls along the  Nova Scotia  shoreline of Inverness on
the Gulf of St. Lawrence. It’s the latest creation of greeting
card magnate Mike Keiser, whose  Bandon Dunes  property along the
Oregon coast boasts 85 holes and is ranked as the No. 1 golf
resort in the U.S.  Cabot Links, which opened last weekend, is among a handful
of 18-hole courses scheduled to debut in  North America  this
year. The course, nicknamed “Bandon East,” epitomizes the
build-it-and-golfers-will-come belief shared by the new
destination designs, which have been in the works as more than
400 U.S. courses have closed since 2006.  “If someone could figure out why Bandon Dunes works and
multiple other attempts have not, they’d turn their attention to
predicting the stock market and make a killing,” said Jim
Koppenhaver, president of golf-consulting firm Pellucid Corp.
“I personally believe that it has to supersede a ‘great
location’ or a ‘superior product’ and has something to do with
word-of-mouth and buzz.”  Like Bandon Dunes, Cabot Links isn’t easy to get to. From
 New York , it’s a flight of about two hours to Halifax and then a
drive of three to four hours to Cape Breton. There’s also an
airstrip for private planes in Port Hawkesbury, about 50 miles
from the course.  Solitary Appeal  Yet Keiser said he expects that, like his resort in Oregon,
the experience will draw avid golfers and that the solitary
location is part of the allure. Bandon Dunes, with four 18-hole
courses and a 13-hole par-3 course, had more than 100,000 rounds
played last year as golfers from around the U.S. made the
pilgrimage for a links style of play found in Scotland or
Ireland.  “Golfers love links golf, why else would we go to Scotland
and Ireland year after year,” Keiser, the founder of Chicago-
based Recycled Paper Greetings Inc., the third-largest U.S.
greeting card company, said in a telephone interview. “Bandon
Dunes, now that it has five courses, is an easy way to go to
Scotland and Ireland. To me, this is new formula.”  It’s an equation he’s sought to replicate at Cabot Links
with co-owner Ben Cowan-Dewar, the founder of executive travel
company Golf Travel Impresarios. Two other golf projects
similarly sought sites off the beaten path.  Old Mines  The  Streamsong Resort  is finishing two 18-hole courses on
more than 16,000 acres of formerly mined phosphate land in
central Florida, about a one-hour drive from Tampa and 1 1/2
hours from  Orlando . Next year, a second 18-hole layout is set to
open at the  Dismal River Golf Club  in the Sandhills of  Nebraska ,
382 miles from Omaha and 366 miles from Denver.  These courses are in contrast not only to their
surroundings but to the rest of the industry, where many clubs
are closing and other projects that had started, including one
by  Tiger Woods  in  North Carolina , halted development.  In 2011, there were more than 150 closings of 18-hole
courses in the U.S. versus 19 openings, according to the
National Golf Foundation. After a boom that saw more than 4,500
golf courses built from 1986 through 2005, including 362
facilities in 2000, the market has experienced a “natural
correction,” said Greg Nathan, the foundation’s senior vice
president. The net reduction of 358.5 courses over the past six
years represents a drop of 2.4 percent off the peak supply year
of 2005, the NGF said.  Decade Imbalance  “It’s still got a ways to go,” said Josh Lesnik, the
president of KemperSports, which manages more than 100 golf
properties, including Cabot Links and Streamsong. “More golf
courses need to close than open for another 10 years before that
supply and demand balance are even close.”  The  Mosaic Company (MOS) , the world’s leading producer and
marketer of phosphate-based crop nutrients, owns and is
developing Streamsong, which has one golf course designed by Tom Doak and the other by the architectural firm of Bill Coore and
Ben Crenshaw. Both layouts, scheduled to debut in December,
incorporate the dunes, lakes and contours left on Mosaic’s
property from years of phosphate mining.  “I don’t think we would ever take the position that simply
build it and you’re going to be successful,” Mosaic Executive
Vice President Rich Mack said. “You’ve got to do it right. If
you can add truly special golf courses, you are going to find
there are high-end and affluent golf aficionados and golf
purists that are going to have those locations on their list.”  Natural State  The minimalist designs, which harken back to the Scottish
golf architecture principles of using land in its natural state,
are a far cry from usual  Florida  courses dotted with palm trees
and alligator-filled lakes.  The Sandhills of Nebraska, a 20,000-square mile region atop
the Ogallala Aquifer marked by sand dunes and prairie grasses,
has proven to be similarly alluring for golfers. The private
Dismal River Golf Club is joined in the region by the Sand Hills
Golf Club, which in 1994 ushered in golf in the region, as well
as courses such as the 36-hole Prairie Club, which opened in
2010 near Valentine, and Awarii Dunes in Axtell.  “We are very uncrowded, very remote and in a county with
less than 1,000 people,” said Dismal River co-owner Chris
Johnston, whose club has about 400 members and often no cell-
phone coverage. “It’s pure prairie golf. It’s a little like
Scottish and Irish golf here in the U.S.”  Like Bandon Dunes, Cabot Links is open to public play and,
depending on how it’s received, the facility may grow like its
 Oregon  predecessor. Keiser and Cowan-Dewar have purchased an
additional 500 acres nearby that boasts more ocean frontage than
Cabot Links and sits much higher off the water.  High Rankings  Coore and Crenshaw, who have designed 10 of the top 100
layouts in  Golfweek’s Best Modern Courses  including No. 1 ranked
Sand Hills and No. 5 Friar’s Head on  Long Island , would build
the second 18 holes at the so-called Cabot Cliffs site.  “Mike sort of jokes that, ‘If you build it they will
come,’ and now we have to prove that theory,” Cowan-Dewar said
by phone from Cabot Links. “Assuming they do come, and we’re
pretty confident they will, we’ll plow ahead with course two.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  