-- Kenya, Somali Forces Rescue Four Refugee Workers in Somalia
-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 2012-07-02T10:40:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-02/kenya-somali-forces-rescue-four-refugee-workers-in-somalia-1-.html
Kenyan and Somali troops rescued four
aid workers in Somalia two days after they were kidnapped from a
United Nations refugee camp in northeastern  Kenya , and killed
one abductor during the operation.  Two gunmen fled the firefight that broke out about 11 p.m.
local time yesterday, Kenya Defence Forces spokesman Cyrus Oguna
said by phone from Kenya’s capital, Nairobi. The four hostages
are from  Canada , the  Philippines ,  Pakistan  and  Norway  and work
for the Norwegian Refugee Council, he said.  “We received local information that they had carjacked a
vehicle and we used that to lay an ambush,” he said today.
“There was a lot of collaboration locally.”  Kenya’s military entered neighboring Somalia in October to
fight al-Shabaab, an al-Qaeda-linked militia, after blaming it
for the kidnapping of at least four foreigners and murder of a
British tourist that risked the country’s tourism industry. It
earned 98 billion shillings ($1.2 billion) last year.  The identity, motives and affiliation of the kidnappers was
not clear, Oguna said. Kenya’s remote frontier, which borders
Somalia,  Ethiopia ,  South Sudan , and  Uganda , for decades has been
the site of banditry, smuggling and criminal activity.  Victims Safe  Al-Shabaab, which has fought a five-year-insurgency against
Somalia’s UN-backed transitional government, vowed to attack
Kenyan targets in response to the military incursion. Kenyan
troops, along with Somali and African Union forces, have driven
the Islamic militants out of a series of cities and towns,
including Mogadishu, Somalia’s capital, this year.  Kenya’s entry into Somalia has been followed by blasts,
kidnappings and assaults authorities in most cases blamed on al-
Shabaab. Attacks yesterday on two churches in the Kenyan town of
Garissa, 200 miles (322 km) northeast of Nairobi, killed at
least 12 people and wounded more than 50, police said.  The Norwegian Refugee Council said it “is relieved and
pleased” the kidnap victims were safe, according to a statement
on the charity’s website. They are receiving treatment for minor
injuries in Dhobley, about 4 miles from Kenya’s border, and will
be taken to Nairobi soon, Oguna said.  The four were abducted on June 29 from a convoy in the
Dadaab refugee complex in Kenya, which houses more than 450,000
people, many of whom fled war and drought last year in Somalia.
A Kenyan driver was killed in the attack.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  