-- Kingsman Reduces Brazil Area’s Sugar Cane Crop Estimate by 2%
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2012-07-02T11:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-02/kingsman-reduces-brazil-area-s-sugar-cane-crop-estimate-by-2-.html
The sugar cane crop in Brazil’s
center south, the main growing region of the world’s biggest
producer, will be 2 percent smaller than a previous estimate,
according to broker and researcher Kingsman SA.  Growers there will harvest 500 million metric tons of cane
in the 2012-13 season under way, down from an April forecast
of 510 million tons, the Lausanne, Switzerland-based company
said in its third estimate for the crop. Output in the region
was 493.3 million tons in 2011-12, industry group Unica said.  “The wet weather has taken its toll on the cane and it
will take at least a month for it to dry out and to start
building sucrose,”  Jonathan Kingsman , managing director of
Kingsman, said in a report e-mailed today. “We will by then
have lost three months of crushing poor quality cane, and it
will take exceptional sucrose content at the end of the season
to boost the harvest average.”  Sugars in the cane, known as sucrose, was cut to 137.5
kilograms a ton from 139 kilograms a ton, according to Kingsman.
That will result in sugar production at 31.8 million tons, 1
million tons smaller than previously estimated, data from the
researcher showed. Ethanol output will total 20.8 billion liters
(5.49 billion gallons), down from an April forecast of 21.4
billion liters, it said.  “This harvest is lagging behind and will need either
exceptionally rain‐free weather in July and August or relatively
rain-free conditions through to January,” Kingsman said.  Center South  Sugar output in  Brazil ’s center south declined 32 percent
to 1.37 million tons in the first half of June as rainfall
hindered harvesting, Unica said on June 26. Dry weather has
returned to the region and a “pick up” in shipments is
expected in July, Kingsman said.  “It is probably safe to say that this reduced crop number
will not affect nearby availabilities,” the company said.
“Rather it will reduce availability at the end of the crop
year. In our own trade flow estimates it will show up as one
million tons less availability in the first quarter of 2013.”  The sugar cane crop projection may be revised lower
if El Nino weather conditions, a warming of the waters of the
 Pacific Ocean , bring more wet weather to Brazil’s center south,
Kingsman said. The current estimate assumes cane crushing will
take place through January, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 Ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 Ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 