-- Kodak, Solar Millennium, Xanadoo, St. Vincent: Bankruptcy
-- B y   B i l l   R o c h e l l e
-- 2012-07-02T13:19:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-02/kodak-solar-millennium-xanadoo-st-vincent-bankruptcy.html
Eastman Kodak Co. (EKDKQ)  lost $88.3 million
in May and depleted cash by $43.4 million.  In other developments at the end of last week, the
bankruptcy judge in Manhattan refused to appoint an official
committee to represent shareholders, while the company filed
papers telling a federal district judge why the  bankruptcy court 
is qualified to handle all aspects of the sale of digital
imaging technology.  The operating report for May filed with the bankruptcy
court shows that the $88.3 million net loss would have been
greater were it not for a $54.5 million tax benefit.  The $191.9 million cost of sales in May exceeded
$173.6 million of revenue by $18.2 million. Interest expense and
reorganization costs were $12.7 million and $16.3 million,
respectively.  Kodak ended the month with $574.2 million cash, a decline
of $43.4 million from April, according to a comparison of the
two months’ operating reports.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Allan L. Gropper wrote a 9-page
opinion on June 28 where he declined to appoint an official
shareholders’ committee, saying “there is no substantial
evidence that equity will be entitled to a meaningful
distribution in this case.” Should it later appear that Kodak
is solvent, Gropper said shareholders can renew their request
for an official committee.  For now, Gropper said the interests of creditors and
shareholders are “generally aligned” in terms of seeking the
highest price for the assets. If there were an equity committee
now, “the costs appear unreasonable in light of the possible
benefits,” Gropper said.  The shareholders filed their motion for a committee in
March. The motion was argued in Gropper’s court in April.  Kodak is in bankruptcy court today asking Gropper to
approve sale procedures culminating in a technology auction in
August. As required by the bankruptcy judge, Kodak filed a
lawsuit in bankruptcy court to decide whether it or  Apple Inc. (AAPL) 
owns 10 disputed patents.  Apple responded to the lawsuit by filing papers telling
U.S. District Judge George B. Daniels he should remove the suit
from bankruptcy court because it requires decisions on
complicated patent-law issues. Kodak’s papers filed June 28
provide the company’s opinions explaining why the bankruptcy
court is entitled to decide questions involving patent
ownership.  Kodak told Daniels that Apple’s claims to ownership are
“merely tactical” and were made some 10 years or more after
the patents were issued. As to nine of the patents, Kodak points
out that Apple didn’t make ownership claims until three months
after the Chapter 11 case began.  The bankruptcy judge will be able to throw out Apple’s
ownership claims because they are barred by the so-called
statute of limitations, according to Kodak’s theory. The crux of
the dispute, Kodak says, are issues regarding enforcement of a
contract under California law where the bankruptcy court is
fully competent. To the extent there are patent issues, the law
is “well settled,” not requiring removal of the suit to
district court, Kodak argues.  Kodak contends that Apple’s claim to a  jury trial  is
specious because an inventorship claim is an equitable claim
decided by a judge and not a jury.  Even if Apple might be entitled to a jury trial later, it’s
the custom in New York, Kodak says, for suits to remain in
bankruptcy court until ready for trial.  If the ownership dispute remains in bankruptcy, all
questions regarding ownership and sale of the technology can be
handled by one court, Kodak says.  Other companies contending the bankruptcy court doesn’t
have the right to make decisions on patent law include  Intel
Corp. (INTC) ,  Ricoh Co. Ltd. (7752) ,  Nikon Corp. (7731)  and  Motorola Solutions Inc. (MSI)   Kodak’s $400 million in 7 percent convertible notes due
2017 traded on June 29 for 15 cents on the dollar, according to
Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority.  Rochester, New York-based Kodak filed for Chapter 11
reorganization in January, listing $5.1 billion in assets and
$6.75 billion in debt. Liabilities for borrowed money, totaling
$1.6 billion, included $100 million on a first-lien revolving
credit and $96 million in outstanding letters of credit. Other
liabilities include $750 million in second-lien notes, $406.1
million in convertible notes, and $252.4 million in senior
unsecured notes. Kodak said trade debt is $425 million.  The motion to remove the new lawsuit from bankruptcy court
is Eastman Kodak Co. v. Apple Inc., 12-04881, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan). The lawsuit in
bankruptcy court is Eastman Kodak Co. v. Apple Inc., 12-01720,
 U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York
(Manhattan). Kodak’s Chapter 11 case is In re Eastman Kodak Co.,
12-10202, in the same court.  Updates  Jefferson County Ruling Is Win for All Bondholders  Bondholders won a resounding victory over Jefferson County,
Alabama, when the bankruptcy judge ruled that the bond indenture
limits what the county may deduct from sewer revenue before
paying the remainder to bondholders.  The county filed for municipal reorganization in November,
taking the position that the U.S.  Bankruptcy Code  allowed taking
deductions for depreciation, amortization and reserves for
future expenses, before paying the remainder to holders of the
$3.1 billion in defaulted sewer bonds. The bankruptcy judge in
Birmingham held a trial in April to resolve the dispute.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Thomas B. Bennett handed down his 43-
page, single-spaced opinion on June 29, rejecting the county’s
contention. The dispute revolved around Section 928(b) of the
Bankruptcy Code, which says that holders of revenue bonds are
entitled to receive income after payment of “necessary
operating expenses.” The county took the position that Section
928 allows taking larger deductions for operating expenses than
the indenture would permit.  Bank of New York Mellon Corp. , as indenture trustee,
contended that only those operating expenses could be deducted
that were permitted under the indenture. Bennett agreed, giving
bondholders a victory worth $54 million more a year than the
county was offering, the judge said.  The sewer bonds are the type where bondholders are only
entitled to be paid from sewer revenue and have no other claim
against the county. Bennett’s decision is important for the
municipal  bond market  in general because it shuts off an avenue
for using bankruptcy to divert income streams from bondholders
to capital expenses for municipal operations.  The language of the indenture prohibits deductions from
sewer revenue for depreciation, amortization and reserves for
future expenses, Bennett said. Section 928 doesn’t permit
deductions greater than those allowed by the indenture, and the
county may not pay Chapter 9 professional costs from sewer
revenue, he said.  Bennett reasoned that depreciation and amortization aren’t
current expenses because they weren’t paid. Including charges
for those items would reduce the amount bondholders would
receive by $100 million over the life of the bonds, the judge
said in his opinion.  The judge noted that the failure of the county to raise
sewer rates since 2008 contributed to the inability to pay the
bonds. He said that Section 928 cannot be used as a loophole for
shortchanging bondholders by refusing to raise rates. He said
that the drafters didn’t intend for Section 928 to be used to
“second guess” the governing bond indentures’ rules governing
the revenue to which their liens attach.  Assured Guaranty Municipal Corp., one of the bond insurers,
said in papers before the trial that no court yet had ruled on
what the statute means.  The county said it wasn’t attempting to deduct the entire
$10 million in monthly deprecation, which would wipe out all
sewer income. Instead, the county said it only wanted to
withhold the annualized cost of the next 10 years’ projected
capital budgets.  Bennett said that future costs should be covered by new
borrowings or revenue increases.  The dispute over how much bondholders are entitled to
receive became an issue when Bennett ruled in January that the
county’s Chapter 9 municipal bankruptcy filing automatically
ousted the receiver who had been appointed at the bondholders’
behest to take over the system and its revenue. Under an interim
agreement, the bondholders have been receiving
$5.5 million a month. Bennett said he will sign a separate order
that may lay out exactly how much the bondholder are to be paid.  For more background on the dispute, click here for the
April 5 Bloomberg bankruptcy report.  For a Bloomberg feature story on municipal bankruptcies,
including those for Jefferson County and Stockton, California,
click here. The story discusses how Stockton’s bankruptcy may be
the first where holders of general obligations bonds end up with
less than full payment.  Jefferson County began the country’s all-time largest
Chapter 9 municipal bankruptcy in November, saying long-term
debt is $4.23 billion, including about $3.1 billion in defaulted
sewer debt.  The lawsuit over control of the sewers and revenue is Bank
of New York Mellon v. Jefferson County, Alabama (In re Jefferson
County, Alabama), 12-00016, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Northern
District of Alabama (Birmingham). The bankruptcy case is In re
Jefferson County, Alabama, 11-05736, in the same court.  AMR Committee Can’t Propose US Air Merger this Year  AMR Corp. (AAMRQ) , the parent of  American Airlines  Inc., said last
week that the official creditors’ committee agreed to an
extension of the company’s exclusive right to propose a Chapter
11 plan until Dec. 27.  AMR’s statement didn’t say whether there were any
conditions accompanying the committee’s consent to pushing out
exclusivity from the current September expiration.  An extension of exclusivity, if approved by the bankruptcy
judge, would mean precluding the committee for the remainder of
the year from filing a competing plan proposing a merger between
AMR and  US Airways Group Inc. (LCC)   For other Bloomberg coverage, click here.  Based at the airport midway between Dallas and Fort Worth,
Texas, AMR listed assets of $24.7 billion and debt totaling
$29.6 billion in the Chapter 11 reorganization begun in
November. American Airlines entered bankruptcy with 600 aircraft
in the mainline fleet and another 300 with American Eagle, the
feeder airline.  The case is In re AMR Corp., 11-15463, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  CME, MF Global Settlement Put Off Until Aug, 8  Even though the Commodity Futures Trading Commission and
the Securities Investor Protection Corp. filed papers in
support, the trustee liquidating MF Global Inc. put off the
hearing that would have been held on July 11 for approval of a
settlement with  CME Group Inc. (CME)  The new hearing date is Aug. 8.  The settlement would dispose of the entire $175 million of
MF Global funds held at CME, the owner of the world’s largest
commodity and futures exchanges. Of the total, $130 million
would be divided evenly between MF Global’s foreign and domestic
customers. In addition, CME is subordinating
$30 million of its claims.  SIPC and the CFTC both say the settlement falls within the
range of reasonableness and should therefore be approved to
avoid the uncertainties of litigation over an interplay between
federal law and exchange rules.  The settlement provides for the sale of the shares of CME
that MF Global owns, with the proceeds going to the MF Global
trustee.  The  MF Global Holdings Ltd. (MFGLQ)  parent and the commodity
brokerage subsidiary went into separate bankruptcies on Oct. 31.
The holding-company parent is under control of a Chapter 11
trustee, while the broker is under control of a separate trustee
selected by the Securities Investor Protection Corp.  The holding company’s Chapter 11 case is In re MF Global
Holdings Ltd., 11-15059, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern
District of New York (Manhattan). The liquidation of the broker
is In re MF Global Inc., 11-02790, in the same court.  Solyndra Provides No Hints about Liquidating Plan  Solar-panel maker Solyndra LLC for a third time is seeking
an expansion of the exclusive right to propose a liquidating
Chapter 11 plan.  If approved by the bankruptcy judge at an Aug. 8 hearing,
the new deadline will be Aug. 31. Solyndra didn’t say when a
plan would be filed or what the plan could mean in terms of
recoveries by creditors.  Compared with the amount of investment and debt, the
liquidation so far has generated little. Unable to locate a
buyer to acquire the plant and restart production, the assets
were sold in four piecemeal auctions.  An auction in June generated $1.79 million from the sale of
7,200 lots of equipment. Two auctions late last year brought in
a total of $8 million. A three-day auction in February generated
another $3.8 million.  Solyndra halted manufacturing in August and filed under
Chapter 11 in September. The Fremont, California-based company
filed definitive lists showing property with a claimed value of
$854.1 million against debt of $867.1 million.  Liabilities include $783.8 million in secured claims and
$74.1 million of unsecured debt. In addition to the
$535 million government-guaranteed loan, financing came from
$709 million in eight issues of preferred stock, plus
$179 million in convertible notes.  The case is In re Solyndra LLC, 11-12799, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  NextEra, BrightSource Approved to Buy Solar Projects  NextEra Energy Inc. (NEE)  received formal authority last week to
buy the 1,000-megawatt facility in Blythe, California, owned by
 Solar Millennium Inc. (S2M)  It will be the world’s largest solar power
plant when completed.  At the end of the week, the U.S. Bankruptcy Court in
Delaware also approved selling the 500-megawatt project under
development in Desert Center, California, to  BrightSource Energy
Inc. (BRSE)  for a price that could be as much as about $30 million, if
all contingent payments are made.  For the larger project, NextEra is paying $10 million cash
plus contingent payment of as much as an additional $40 million
when the project is completed.  There is no buyer as yet for the 500-megawatt project still
in the planning stage in Amargosa Valley, Nevada. Global Finance
Corp. started a lawsuit in bankruptcy court in June contending
that Solar Millennium lost its ownership interest in the project
by not moving forward with development.  Solar Millennium is a U.S. subsidiary of Germany’s Solar
Millennium AG. Mason Capital Management LLC is providing
financing for the Chapter 11 case with a $25 million working
capital term loan along with an $18.3 million letter of credit.
As a secured lender, New York-based Mason can bid at auction
with debt rather than cash.  Oakland, California-based Solar Millennium filed in Chapter
11 on April 2 when rent was coming due on the 7,000-acre Blythe
project.  The company’s solar-power projects are all in the
development stage and generate no income. There is only $200,000
in secured debt. Financing had been provided by the German
parent and Ferrostaal AG, the owner of a 30 percent interest in
the joint venture developing the U.S. projects. Ferrostaal
provided no financing in two years, and the German parent
suspended financing in late 2011 after initiating its own
insolvency proceedings in Germany.  The petition listed assets of less than $100 million and
liabilities exceeding $100 million.  The case is In re Solar Trust of America LLC, 12-11136,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  Xanadoo Frequency Auction Scheduled for Aug. 20  Bankrupt subsidiaries of  Xanadoo Co. (XAND)  were authorized to
conduct an Aug. 20 auction for the sale of their most valuable
frequency assets if they don’t land an agreement to refinance
the business and pay secured lenders in full.  Auction and sale procedures approved last week by the U.S.
Bankruptcy Court in Delaware authorize the lenders to purchase
assets not already under contract with a $30.5 million credit
against secured debt. The lenders will be the so-called stalking
horse bidder at one or two auctions to be held Aug. 20. If the
assets are sold through the auction rather than through a
refinancing coupled with a reorganization plan, there will be a
hearing on Aug. 22 for approval of the sale.  If the company finds a new lender to pay existing lenders
in full, the Chapter 11 plan must be filed by Aug. 21.  The company previously said there is “potential” for
distribution to unsecured creditors.  The assets to be sold include 23 licenses in the 700
megahertz frequency band that were purchased in 2000 and 2001
for $96 million. In addition, the companies will sell licenses
they lease in the 2.5 gigahertz spectrum. From the lenders’
credit bid, $30 million is attributed to the 700 megahertz
frequency band.  The bankruptcy court last week approved the sale of tower
facilities for $3 million to Rhino Communications Inc.,
according to court records.  The companies filed a proposed reorganization plan in
February, predicting the sale of licenses in the 700 megahertz
spectrum would pay all secured and unsecured creditors in full,
with interest. For details on the original plan filed in
February, click here for the Feb. 9 Bloomberg bankruptcy report.  The Chapter 11 filing in June 2011 followed the maturity in
May 2011 of almost $60 million in secured notes owing to Beach
Point Capital Management LP.  The Bala Cynwyd, Pennsylvania-based companies previously
said their total current liabilities were $66.3 million. The
parent isn’t in Chapter 11. One of the petitions says assets and
debt both exceed $100 million.  The case is In re Pegasus Rural Broadband LLC, 11-11772,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  St. Vincent Hospital Confirms Liquidating Chapter 11  St. Vincent  Catholic Medical Centers, whose flagship was a
shuttered hospital in Manhattan’s Greenwich Village, is prepared
to emerge from Chapter 11 for a second time. The second visit to
bankruptcy court was a liquidation.  The U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Manhattan signed a
confirmation order on June 29 approving a liquidating Chapter 11
plan. The disclosure statement didn’t venture a guess about the
recovery by unsecured creditors. There were no secured creditors
left after settlements.  Some $9.5 billion in unsecured claims were filed, according
to disclosure materials accompanying the plan that was accepted
by the requisite vote of creditors. The hospital estimates that
unsecured claims eventually will be cut to about $1 billion. The
work to reduce claims will take place after confirmation, the
hospital said.  The hospital was authorized in August 2011 to sell the 300-
bed St. Elizabeth Ann’s skilled nursing facility on Staten
Island, New York for $34 million. St. Vincent previously
received court approval to sell the main facilities for $260
million to the Rudin family and  North Shore-Long Island Jewish
Health System .  St. Vincent was a 727-bed acute-care hospital before it
shut down and filed in Chapter 11 a second time in April 2010.
The petition listed assets of $348 million and debt totaling
$1.09 billion.  The first bankruptcy began in July 2005. At the time, St.
Vincent had seven operating hospitals. Five were sold. The not-
for-profit hospital was sponsored by the Catholic Diocese of
Brooklyn and the Sisters of Charity. It was founded in the
mid-19th century.  The second case is In re Saint Vincent Catholic Medical
Centers of New York, 10-11963, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern
District of New York (Manhattan). The prior case was In re Saint
Vincent Catholic Medical Centers of New York, 05-14945, in the
same court.  Ashapura Minechem Chapter 15 Upheld on Appeal  Ashapura Minechem Ltd. (ASMN) , a mining company based in Mumbai,
won a victory last week in U.S. District Court in Manhattan
upholding the company’s right to have Chapter 15 protection from
creditors in the U.S.  In November, U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  James M. Peck  ruled that
Ashapura qualified for Chapter 15 protection, even though the
company committed “a strategic error of colossal portions.” In
last week’s 28-page opinion, U.S. District Judge Shira A. Scheindlin found that Peck was correct in giving the company
protection in the U.S.  Peck said that the Chapter 15 filing in October was the
“latest example” of “coordinated efforts” by the company and
its managing directors indicating that they “are not acting in
good faith.”  Ashapura filed the Chapter 15 petition to stop collection
in the U.S. on more than $100 million in judgments handed down
in arbitrations commenced in London by two shippers. For details
on the tongue-lashing that Peck gave the company, click here for
the Nov. 25 Bloomberg bankruptcy report.  Peck and Scheindlin both concluded that Ashapura’s
bankruptcy proceedings in India qualified as a “foreign main
proceeding,” thus entitling the U.S. courts to use powers in
Chapter 15 to halt creditors actions in the U.S.  Scheindlin concluded that Peck was correct when he found
the law in India complied with the requirements for Chapter 15
protection. To read Scheindlin’s opinion, click here.  Ashapura mines iron ore, bentonite and bauxite. It said it
owes $70.1 million to secured lenders. Unsecured claims, not
including the arbitration awards, total $29 million, according
to a court filing. The petition claims assets are worth more
than $100 million.  The company filed for reorganization in India in May 2011
with the Board of Industrial and Financial Reconstruction.  The appeal is Armada (Singapore) Pte Ltd. v. Shah (In re
Ashapura Minechem Ltd.), 12-257, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of New York (Manhattan). The Chapter 15 case is In re
Ashapura Minechem Ltd., 11-14668, U.S. Bankruptcy Court,
Southern District New York (Manhattan).  Nebraska Book Implements Plan Confirmed on June 1  College bookseller Nebraska Book Co. implemented the
Chapter 11 reorganization plan on June 29 that the bankruptcy
judge in Delaware approved with a June 1 confirmation order. The
plan reduces debt by $270 million.  The plan approved last month was in substitution for the
original version that didn’t work because banks wouldn’t lend
$250 million. The confirmed plan is financed with a $80 million
secured loan.  Holders of the existing $200 million in second-lien debt
were given the new stock plus a new $100 million second-lien
note, for a projected 81 percent recovery. Holders of
subordinated debt ultimately supported the plan when second-lien
noteholders allowed them to have a larger recovery.  Warrants or cash of equivalent value are going to holders
of subordinated debt and general unsecured creditors. Existing
shareholders and holders of $77 million in notes issued by the
holding company received nothing. For details on the plan, click
here for the March 27 Bloomberg bankruptcy report.  Nebraska Book was unable to pass quickly through bankruptcy
after filing for Chapter 11 protection in June 2011 because
lenders wouldn’t put up $250 million.  Based in Lincoln, Nebraska, the company sells used
textbooks and operated approximately 290 college bookstores at
the outset of the reorganization. There are 251 campus
locations, the company said recently.  Nebraska Book’s $598 million in sales during fiscal 2011
produced a net loss of $98 million, including an $89 million
writedown of intangible assets.  The case is In re Nebraska Book Co. Inc., 11-12005, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  Seven Professionals for Dewey Draws U.S. Trustee Objection  Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP, the defunct law firm, will face
opposition from the U.S. Trustee at a July 9 hearing for
authority to hire seven professional firms to conduct the
liquidation.  In a 38-page objection along with 18 pages of charts, the
U.S. Trustee explains why some of the firms will duplicate one
another’s services. She also contends that Proskauer Rose LLP,
hired to handle employment-law issues, may have a conflict of
interest because it hired 63 partners, lawyers, and staff that
worked for Dewey.  Dewey is proposing to hire three law firms, one public
relations firm, one firm of financial advisers and two non-law
firms to assist in the liquidation and collection of accounts
receivable. For Bloomberg coverage, click here.  Dewey once had 1,300 lawyers before the liquidation under
Chapter 11 began in late May. There are two official committees,
one representing creditors and the other for former partners.
There is secured debt of about $225 million and accounts
receivable the firm recently said was $217.4 million. The
petition listed assets of $193 million and liabilities of $245.4
million as of April 30.  The case is In re Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP, 12-12321, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District New York (Manhattan).  Peter Madoff Pleads Guilty Three Years After Brother Sentenced  Peter Madoff , brother of  Bernard Madoff , pleaded guilty on
June 29 to two felony counts and agreed to ask the federal judge
for a prison sentence of no less than 10 years.  His plea came exactly three years after his brother was
sentence to 150 years.  Peter Madoff was the chief compliance officer for Bernard
L. Madoff Investment Securities Inc. Although he said he was
unaware the firm was a  Ponzi scheme , he admitted to falsifying
documents. For the Bloomberg story on the plea hearing, click
here.  Peter Madoff’s criminal case is U.S. v. Madoff, 10-
cr-00228, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  New Filings  GameTech Files to Stop Yuri Itkis Takeover  GameTech International Inc. (GMTC) , a Reno, Nevada-based producer
of  bingo , video and electronic slot-machine equipment, filed a
petition for Chapter 11 protection today in Delaware to fend off
a takeover by competitor Yuri Itkis Gaming Trust.  The company’s $16 million secured credit matured on June
30. Three days earlier, the loan was purchased by Yuri Itkis,
which GameTech describes as a “principal competitor.” GameTech
rejected an offer that Yuri Itkis made to combine the two
companies.  GameTech said in a court filing that it’s holding
discussions with someone else for a more favorable transaction.
GameTech said that Yuri Itkis purchased the loan at discount
from lenders US Bank NA and Bank of the West.  Assets are $27.3 million and liabilities total
$22.9 million, according to a court filing. For the fiscal year
ended Oct. 30, there was a $6.4 million net loss on revenue of
$30.9 million. The operating loss for the year was $4.7 million.  In the fiscal first quarter ended Jan. 29, net income was
$858,000 on revenue of $8.3 million.  The case is In re GameTech International Inc., 12-11964,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  Sports Charter Operator Swift Air Files in Phoenix  Swift Air LLC , a charter airline providing service for
seven professional sport teams, filed a petition for Chapter 11
protection on June 27 in Phoenix, the hometown.  Swift operates four leased aircraft. The Federal Aviation
Administration is yet to give authorization to lease two more to
be flown under contract with Saipan Air Inc.  The company was forced into bankruptcy when it was unable
to arrange a $5 million loan to cover the slow period from April
into September when the sports teams aren’t playing.  The petition states that assets are less than $1 million
while debt exceeds $10 million.  The case is In re Swift Air LLC, 12-14362, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, District of  Arizona  (Phoenix).  Watch List  Edison Mission’s Midwest Gen Doesn’t Extend Revolver  Power producers Edison Mission Energy and subsidiary
Midwest Generation Co. have a capital structure that will be
“difficult to sustain” without a “a marked improvement in
power prices,”  Standard & Poor’s  said June 29 while lowering
the corporate credit by one grade to CCC.  Midwest Generating didn’t renew a $500 million revolving
credit that matured on June 29, S&P said. Nothing was
outstanding on the credit.  The downgrade was influenced by a $500 million bond
maturity in June 2013. Capital spending requirements and weak
 cash flow  stemming from low power prices create a “significant
risk that the company will not be able to successfully refinance
the 2013 debt maturity,” S&P said.  The new S&P rating lines up with the demotion issued in
March by Moody’s Investors Service.  S&P didn’t change the CC rating of affiliate Homer City
Funding LLC, where there is a “high potential for capital
restructuring in the next few months,” S&P said.  The  Irvine , California-based company had 10,377 megawatts
of generating capacity at the year’s end. The about
$1.2 billion in 7 percent senior unsecured notes maturing in
2017 traded on June 29 for 54.6 cents on the dollar, to yield
about 23 percent, according to Trace, the bond-price reporting
system of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  Downgrades  AK Steel Downgraded on Difficult Industry Conditions  AK Steel Corp. (AKS) , a steelmaker based in West Chester, Ohio,
received a downgrade from Standard & Poor’s on June 29 to match
the action taken in November by Moody’s Investors Service. The
new corporate rating is B+, in view of what S&P called
“difficult competitive conditions.”  Although there likely will be negative cash flow this year
and next, S&P said liquidity is “strong.” Moody’s likewise
said liquidity is “good.”  The company has seven plants in Indiana, Kentucky, Ohio and
Pennsylvania.  The parent AK Steel Holding Corp. reported a net loss of
$160.1 million in 2011 on sales of $6.47 billion. The operating
loss for the year was $201.3 million.  Altegrity Demoted to B- on Lower Government Spending  Altegrity Inc., a provider of pre-employment screening,
professional security and background investigation services, is
back to a B- rating from Standard & Poor’s after having been
upgraded two years ago.  S&P lowered the senior unsecured notes by one level as
well, to CCC, coupled with a judgment that the holders won’t
recover more than 10 percent following default.  The culprit is lower  government spending  for part of the
business that performs background checks and is responsible for
35 percent to 40 percent of revenue.  Then named U.S. Investigations Services Inc., the Falls
Church, Virginia-based company was purchased for $1.5 billion in
2007 by Providence Equity Partners Inc. The sellers were Welsh,
Carson, Anderson & Stowe LP and Carlyle Group LP.  Daily Podcast  American Airlines, Vitro, Madoff, Kodak: Bankruptcy Audio  A long-term contract to provide hotel rooms for airline
crews could end up being a “forward contract,” if American
Airlines Inc. loses a dispute erupting in the bankruptcy court
in New York. A loss by the airline would set a precedent where
many companies in bankruptcy reorganization might be unable to
compel performance under contracts to supply goods and services,
as Bloomberg Law’s Lee Pacchia and Bloomberg News bankruptcy
columnist Bill Rochelle discuss on their podcast. Vitro SAB may
have an appeal heard near the end of the year where the
glassmaker will try to reinstate the Mexican reorganization plan
a bankruptcy judge refused to enforce in the U.S. Rochelle talks
about two recent events in the liquidation of Bernard L. Madoff
Investment Securities Inc., one a $1 billion victory on appeal
and the other a suggestion that a district judge will extend the
sweep of the safe harbor protecting swaps. The podcast wraps up
describing the importance of hearings on July 2 and July 26
bearing on the sale of technology owned by Eastman Kodak Co. To
listen, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bill Rochelle in New York at 
 wrochelle@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 