-- Kodak Can Sell Its Patents in Bankruptcy, Judge Rules
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2012-07-03T17:38:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-02/kodak-can-sell-its-patents-in-bankruptcy-judge-rules.html
Eastman Kodak Co. (EKDKQ) , the photography
pioneer that seeks to sell digital-imaging patents, won court
approval to auction the assets as part of its bankruptcy
restructuring.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Allan Gropper in Manhattan said at a
hearing yesterday that he would approve an order allowing a sale
process for more than 1,100 patents.  Kodak is selling its digital-imaging patents as part of a
plan to  shrink the company  and focus on printing rather than
photography. The patents relate to the capture, manipulation and
sharing of digital images, according to the company.  Kodak, based in Rochester, New York, is moving ahead with
the sale amid a fight with  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  over ownership of 10 of
the patents being sold. Kodak sued Apple to block ownership
claims by Apple, while Apple has filed counterclaims against
Kodak over the patents.  Timothy Lynch, Kodak’s chief intellectual property officer,
said in a statement that the sale of the patents can proceed
even if the dispute with Apple isn’t resolved by the time any
deal is completed. Lynch called Apple’s claims “baseless.”  “We are gratified that the court has enabled us to move
ahead with our patent auction in a timely manner and with
clarity on ownership for the winning buyer,” he said.  Kristin Huguet, an Apple spokeswoman, declined to comment.
The Cupertino, California-based company said in a court filing
that Kodak “unlawfully” used confidential disclosures by Apple
to obtain patents and claimed Apple’s technology as its own.  Data Room  Kodak said in June that 20 parties had signed
confidentiality agreements and had been given access to an
electronic data room. Kodak, which filed for bankruptcy in
January, hired  Lazard Ltd. (LAZ)  to help find a buyer for the assets.  Kodak said it has generated more than $3 billion since 2001
from licensing the digital-imaging patents to users, including
 Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) ,  LG Electronics Inc. (066570)  and  Nokia Oyj. (NOK)   Under the sale process, interested buyers must submit bids
by July 30, and if there’s more than one qualified bid, Kodak
may conduct an auction Aug. 8, according to rules outlined in
court papers. After the bid deadline, the company can engage in
exclusive negotiations with a bidder and reach a sale agreement
without prior notice to other bidders, according to a court
filing.  The identities of unsuccessful bidders will be kept secret
from other bidders and the public, Kodak said. Only the winning
bidder and the amount of the bid will be announced.  The case is In re Eastman Kodak Co., 12-10202,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 David McLaughlin  in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  