-- MTN Asks Judge to Dismiss Turkcell Lawsuit Over Iran Deal
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2012-07-02T22:12:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-02/mtn-asks-judge-to-dismiss-turkcell-lawsuit-over-iran-deal.html
MTN Group Ltd. (MTN) , Africa’s largest
wireless operator, asked a federal judge to dismiss a lawsuit
brought by Turkcell Iletisim Hizmetleri AS over a mobile-phone
service deal in Iran, saying the core of the case has “no
conceivable” connection to the U.S.  MTN, in a filing today in  Washington , said Turkcell is
improperly trying to use the Alien Tort Statute to bring a
commercial dispute between a Turkish company and a South African
company before a U.S. court. The 1789 law, usually cited in
human rights and torture cases, gives U.S. courts jurisdiction
in some instances to consider claims by foreigners for illegal
conduct that occurred in another country.  “This is not a case about grave issues of universal
international concern that the ATS addresses -- such as piracy
and genocide,” according to MTN’s court filing. “This case is
about one thing: Turkcell trying to get paid by a nonstate actor
for an Iranian cellular telephone license that it claims it lost
unfairly. We respectfully submit that a U.S. district court has
no business deciding this dispute.”  Internal Memos  Turkcell, which initially was awarded the Iranian mobile-
phone license, sued its Johannesburg-based rival on March 28 for
$4.2 billion in damages. The suit alleges MTN bribed officials,
arranged meetings between Iranian and South African leaders, and
promised  Iran  weapons and United Nations votes in exchange for a
license to provide mobile-phone service in the Islamic Republic.  The complaint includes numerous alleged internal MTN memos
that detail the company’s efforts to win the Iranian business
after losing the bid to Istanbul-based Turkcell in February
2004.  “This is far from a routine business dispute,” David
Farber, a lawyer for Turkcell, said in an e-mail.
“Contemporaneous documents and recent testimony clearly
demonstrate MTN’s efforts to assist  Iran’s nuclear program , and
its attempt to facilitate Iranian arms sales in spite of the
international embargo.”  Farber of Patton Boggs LLP in Washington said “advancing
the nuclear ambitions of a rogue regime for commercial gain
raises ‘grave issues of universal international concern.’”  The case is  Turkcell Iletisim Hizmetleri AS (TCELL)  v. MTN Group
Ltd, 12-cv-479, U.S. District Court,  District of Columbia 
(Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 