-- N.J. Lawmakers Ordered to Return for Special Tax Session
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p   a n d   E l i s e   Y o u n g
-- 2012-07-02T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-02/n-j-lawmakers-ordered-to-return-for-special-tax-session.html
New Jersey lawmakers are under order
to return to the Statehouse in Trenton today after Governor
 Chris Christie  called a special session when he failed to win
a  tax cut  from the Democratic-controlled Legislature.  The 49-year-old Republican plans to address a joint meeting
of the Senate and Assembly at 1 p.m. He called the session June
30, a day after he signed a $31.7 billion budget that he said
holds “tax relief hostage.” Democrats sent Christie a spending
plan June 25 that would delay a tax cut until they have
confidence that revenue will meet his targets.  Christie, who faces re-election in 2013, has traveled the
state to tout what he calls a “Jersey Comeback,” an economic-
recovery plan fueled by a 10 percent income-tax cut. His calls
for smaller government and lower taxes have made him a national
Republican figure. The special session will be “a little bit of
a dance,” said Ben Dworkin, director of the Rebovich Institute
for New Jersey Politics at  Rider University  in Lawrenceville.  “Democrats have no desire, politically, to give this
governor a guaranteed tax-cut victory on the eve of the
 Republican National Convention ” in August, Dworkin said June
30. “They don’t want to promise a tax cut on revenue that’s not
going to be there.”  Growth Forecasts  The budget Christie proposed in February for the fiscal
year that began July 1 predicted revenue growth of 7.2 percent,
the second-most hopeful projection after  California ’s, according
to the  National Governors Association .  Standard & Poor’s  in
February called New Jersey’s plan unbalanced and dependent on
“optimistic” economic forecasts.  Treasurer Andrew Sidamon-Eristoff, a Christie appointee,
has since said that revenue through June 2013 may be $700
million less than Christie’s target, while the Legislature’s
chief budget analyst has said the gap may be almost twice that.  Lawmakers typically recess in July and August.  New Jersey ’s
constitution allows governors to bring them back into session
“whenever in his opinion the public interest shall require.”
While Christie may convene the session, under state law Senate
President Stephen Sweeney and Assembly Speaker Sheila Oliver,
both Democrats, control the agenda.  “While the last thing anyone wants in the middle of a heat
wave is hot air coming from Trenton, we will be there,” Sweeney
said in a June 30 statement in response to the session.  ‘More Theater’  Senator Loretta Weinberg, a Teaneck Democrat, said in a
June 30 telephone interview that she didn’t know what the
party’s strategy will be. She called the governor’s move “more
theater for Christie.”  “What’s he going to do?” she said. “Lecture us?”  Brigid Harrison , a professor of law and political science
at  Montclair State University , said the session won’t happen if
the Legislature lacks a quorum, the result of members not
reporting to the Statehouse. Another scenario, she said, may be
that leaders open and close the session without taking action.  In either case, the governor may continue to call sessions
all summer, Harrison said, adding that she didn’t think it would
reach that point.  “There is some negative public relations to deal with if
the Legislature is seen by the public as not wanting to take
action on a tax cut,” she said by telephone on June 30. “I
don’t think anyone wants to deal with that.”  Immediate Attention  New Jersey residents shoulder the highest combined state
and local tax burden, 12.2 percent of their income, according to
the Washington-based  Tax Foundation . The national average is 9.8
percent.  Christie notified Sweeney and Oliver of the special session
at which he hopes to reduce that in a letter, according to his
June 30 statement.  “The budget, which contained billions of dollars in
spending, failed to address the single issue that strikes at the
heart of our shared interests, and our continued prosperity,”
Christie said in the letter. “Lowering the tax burden on every
New Jersey resident is a matter of unique and critical interest
that demands our immediate and full attention.”  The Democrats stuck with Christie’s revenue and spending
levels in their budget, while swapping his proposed 10 percent
income-tax cut for a property-tax credit conditional on revenue
meeting the governor’s projections. Christie signed the plan
after erasing $361 million in Democrats’ spending add-ins,
including tax credits for the working poor, and technology
grants for private schools.  Christie, during a June 29 interview in his office, said he
will travel to “every corner of this state” in coming months
to prod Democrats into releasing $183 million set aside in the
budget for tax credits.  “As governor you have two bits of leverage: whatever power
or authority in the office you have, and the bully pulpit,”
Christie said. “I’m going to use both of them.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net ;
Elise Young in Trenton at 
 eyoung30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  