-- Navy to Combat Sexual Assault With New Training Video
-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 2012-07-02T16:36:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-02/navy-to-combat-sexual-assault-with-new-training-video.html
The Navy is turning to professional
actors to help teach the fleet to be on guard against sexual-
assault crimes.  A new two-hour training course on sexual assault prevention
includes a 40-minute video filmed on a ship that depicts
situations of improper conduct.  “We used actors and actresses to give it a real feel,”
said Rear Admiral Martha Herb, the deputy of Navy Personnel
Command, in a conference call with reporters today. “It looks
at decisions the people on the ship have to make to determine
whether they need to intervene.”  The number of reported sexual assaults in the military
increased by 1 percent is fiscal 2011 over the previous year,
according to a Pentagon report released in April. There were
3,192 reports of sexual assault involving service members as
either victims or subjects, the report found.  “This is a focused effort by the entire force to eliminate
this crime from our ranks,” Herb said.  The  Air Force  said last week it is investigating 12 male
military training instructors for alleged sexual misconduct with
female cadets. Herb said the Navy’s new training effort had no
connection to the Air Force probe.  All Navy leaders -- those with ranks of E-7 and above --
with receive the new training by the end of September, said
Captain Scott Seeberger, who heads a Navy task force on sexual-
assault prevention and joined Herb in the conference call. The
rest of the fleet will be trained by the end of the year, he
said.  Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  in April announced plans to
create a “special victims unit” in each military service
branch to help curb sexual assaults. Trained investigators,
prosecutors and other personnel would collect evidence and
assist victims of assault.  Panetta also issued a directive to ensure the most serious
assault offenses, such as rape and forcible sodomy, will be
elevated to a higher level of command. Those cases will be
handled at a minimum by an officer at the colonel or Navy
captain level, according to a Pentagon statement.  There were 237,401 women serving in the U.S. military in
2011, making up about 14.5 percent of the force, according to
Pentagon figures.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  