-- Need for Transfusion in Heart Surgery Questioned in Study
-- B y   N i c o l e   O s t r o w
-- 2012-07-02T20:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-02/need-for-transfusion-in-heart-surgery-questioned-in-study.html
Jehovah’s Witnesses , whose faith
forbids them from blood transfusions, recover from heart surgery
faster and with fewer complications than those who do get blood,
in a study that may change thinking on current practice.  Patients who are Jehovah’s Witnesses had better survival
rates, shorter hospital stays, fewer additional operations for
bleeding and spent fewer days in the intensive care unit than
those who received blood transfusions during surgery, a study
today in the  Archives of  Internal Medicine  showed.  Members of the Jehovah’s Witness faith undergo extensive
blood conservation before surgery, including red blood-cell
boosting erythropoietin drugs, iron and B-complex vitamins to
guard against anemia. The practice offered a “unique natural
experiment” for scientists to study the short- and long-term
effects of the blood management strategy and may point to ways
to reduce need for transfusions, researchers said.  “How we care for Jehovah’s Witness patients with this
pretty extreme blood conservation doesn’t put a patient at
increased risk,”  Colleen Koch , a study author and professor of
anesthesiology at the  Cleveland Clinic  in  Ohio , said today in a
telephone interview. “Perhaps it needs to be examined more
closely applying some of these practices to our routine cardiac
surgery patients.”  Researchers in the study included 322 Jehovah’s Witness
patients and 87,453 other patients who underwent heart surgery
at the Cleveland Clinic from 1983 to 2011. All Jehovah’s Witness
patients refused  blood transfusions . In the other group, 38,467
didn’t receive transfusions while 48,986 did.  Blood Conservation  The authors wanted to look at the difference between
patients who receive blood transfusions during surgery and
Jehovah’s Witness patients, who undergo strict blood
conservation practices before, during and after surgery, Koch
said.  While many patients don’t have blood transfusions during
and after heart surgery, they also don’t undergo the same blood
conservation practices that doctors use for Jehovah’s Witness
patients, she said.  The study found that Jehovah’s Witnesses had lower
occurrences of heart attack following surgery and less need for
prolonged ventilation. Jehovah’s Witness patients had an 86
percent chance of survival at five years and a 34 percent chance
of survival 20 years after surgery, compared with 74 percent at
five years and 23 percent at 20 years for non-Jehovah’s Witness
patients who had transfusions.  Preventing Transfusion  Victor Ferraris , who wrote an accompanying editorial in the
journal, said doctors can do many things before and during
surgery to conserve blood and prevent the need for a
transfusion.  He said for some procedures, instead of patients being
placed on a  heart-lung machine , which takes over the operations
of the heart and lungs during surgery, doctors may want to
consider performing the operation while the heart is still
beating to reduce the risk of bleeding and the need for
transfusions. Patients can also be given drugs to help reduce
their risk of bleeding.  “The question to ask is why don’t they do that for
everybody,” said Ferraris, a professor of surgery at the
 University of Kentucky  in Lexington, in a June 29 telephone
interview. “We’ve proven we can do really good blood
conservation and maybe we should expand this to a broader
audience and really focus on limiting bleeding and blood
transfusion.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Ostrow in  New York  at 
 nostrow1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  