-- New Life for North Sea Oil Hinges on Coal Gas
-- B y   J e r e m y   K a h n
-- 2012-07-02T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-02/new-life-for-north-sea-oil-hinges-on-coal-gas.html
The mud, shin deep and soot gray,
squelches and tugs at  John Murray ’s work boots, holding them
fast.  It’s as though the earth wants to snatch something back, to
exact some small payment for the black rock that miners have
gouged and blasted from mineral veins half a mile beneath the
surface for almost a century now.  One of Murray’s boots is ripped from his foot, sucked down
into a hole quickly filling with muddy water. He curses, then
chuckles, Bloomberg Markets magazine reports in its August
issue.  “As you can see, there’s a lot of work to do before we can
even start construction,” he says.  Murray is the facilities general manager for 2Co Energy
Ltd.’s Don Valley Power Project located on a 110-acre (45-
hectare) site next to the tiny village of Stainforth in
northeast England.  Since 1916, the Hatfield Colliery has dumped its mine
tailings here, building piles of mud and rock that rise to
heights of 130 feet (40 meters) and loom over Stainforth’s
houses.  This is where 2Co plans to build a coal-fired power station
unlike any other in the U.K.  Among the First  If all goes according to plan, when 2Co’s power station
begins operation in 2016, it will be one of the first in  Europe 
-- and one of only a handful of projects worldwide -- to
demonstrate  carbon capture  and storage, or CCS, technology on an
industrial scale.  In June, BOC Ltd., a division of German gas and engineering
company  Linde AG (LIN) , agreed to buy 15 percent of 2Co’s Don Valley
power project.  2Co’s 650-megawatt plant will turn coal into a gas, remove
more than 90 percent of the carbon dioxide and then use the
remaining gas to run electricity turbines.  So far, carbon capture technology has been tried in pilot
projects that store less than 1 million tons of CO2 a year. 2Co
says it will capture five times that amount.  The  International Energy Agency  is counting on carbon
capture to provide 20 percent of the reductions in greenhouse
gas emissions by 2050 if the world is to avoid catastrophic
climate change.  More than any other country in Europe, the U.K. has staked
its future on carbon capture. Without it, the U.K. is unlikely
to meet its 2050 target of cutting greenhouse gas emissions by
80 percent from 1990 levels.  Facing a Shortfall  Britain also faces a shortfall in electricity-generating
capacity unless new power stations come online within the next
decade.  “The U.K. must champion carbon capture and storage on all
new coal-fired  power plants  to clean up our national power
infrastructure and drive new jobs and growth in the low-carbon
industries of the future,” says  Ed Miliband , leader of the
opposition  Labour Party .  “The Don Valley Power Project in my constituency is not
only one of the most ambitious infrastructure projects in
Yorkshire but in the whole of Europe.”  Making money from carbon capture, however, has proved
difficult.  2Co Chief Executive Officer Lewis Gillies says his company
has found a path to profits: Rather than pumping captured CO2
into saline aquifers or abandoned  oil wells , as most such
projects do, it will pipe it out to the North Sea and inject it
into oil wells to boost their productivity.  Increasing Reserves  While CO2 has been used for what’s known as enhanced oil
recovery, or EOR, onshore in the U.S., its use offshore is new.
2Co plans to have an ownership stake in the wells, allowing it
to make money from oil sales as well as electricity generation.  EOR can increase recoverable reserves by 20 percent on
average, according to a 2010 U.S. Department of Energy study. In
the U.S., EOR produced 281,000 barrels a day last year, or 6
percent of domestic oil production.  If 2Co’s idea works and others follow, carbon capture and
EOR could extend by more than 20 years the life of Britain’s
North Sea oil industry, where production has been in decline
since 1999, says Jon Gluyas, a professor of geoenergy and carbon
capture and storage at Durham University in Durham, England.  That could mean at least 3 billion additional barrels of
oil -- plus the jobs and tax revenue that come with continued
production.  Tantalizing Benefits  Enhanced oil recovery would also defer the decommissioning
of those fields at a cost of as much as 30 billion pounds ($47
billion), according to a Lloyds TSB Bank Plc estimate.  The 2Co project offers tantalizing benefits to a U.K.
government struggling with a floundering economy.  It would bring jobs to one of England’s most economically
depressed corners, according to Peter Davies, the mayor of
Doncaster, which is the nearest city to Stainforth. And it could
help spawn a new  energy industry  worth billions of pounds,
according to London-based energy and environmental consulting
firm AEA.  Some environmentalists oppose carbon capture linked to
enhanced oil recovery because it doesn’t help wean the world off
fossil fuels.  “We see carbon capture and storage as part of the shift to
a low-carbon economy, not as a crutch for maintaining the carbon
economy,” says Mike Childs, head of science policy and research
at Friend of the Earth U.K. “CCS for enhanced oil recovery seems
perverse.”  Major Hurdles  Even with oil money to help, the estimated cost of 2Co’s
venture -- as much as 5 billion pounds -- is a major hurdle.
 National Grid Plc (NG/) , a publicly traded utility, says it will
spend up to 1 billion pounds to build the pipeline to carry CO2
from Stainforth to the North Sea, assuming it can reach a deal
with either 2Co or the U.K. government over costs.  2Co will need to find up to 4 billion pounds more.  “Don Valley is one of the front-runners in the pack of
European CCS projects,” says Kieron Stopforth, an analyst at
Bloomberg New Energy Finance. “But there are still a couple of
big question marks over cost and financing.”  With this in mind, 2Co has been pursuing investors. U.S.
private-equity giant TPG Capital invested an undisclosed sum
when 2Co launched in 2010.  This year, in addition to BOC,  Samsung C&T Corp. (000830) , the South
Korean construction company, agreed to purchase 15 percent of
the power project for an undisclosed amount.  Samsung Invesment  Gillies says he’s hopeful that with Samsung’s investment,
one of Korea’s export credit agencies will also extend financing
to 2Co.  He says 2Co has spent about 40 million pounds so far and
plans to spend another 50 million pounds to 60 million pounds
before it makes its final  investment decision  on the Don Valley
project in mid-2013.  2Co is also counting on government subsidies.  In April, the British government announced a contest to
award 1 billion pounds to carbon capture projects by October.
2Co says it will enter, and 15 other companies have also
expressed interest.  The company is also competing for a share of dwindling
European Union funding. The European Commission is selling
 carbon emissions  credits to raise a pool of money to award to
carbon capture and renewable energy projects.  With the price of those  credits plummeting  from a high of
28.59 euros in July 2008 to 7.13 euros on June 11, the potential
pot of available money fell to an estimated 2 billion euros
($2.5 billion) from about 10 billion euros.  ‘Make or Break’  As difficult as fundraising is, Gillies says what keeps him
up at night is the question of a government-guaranteed
electricity price.  Electricity from carbon capture-equipped power plants is
likely to cost from 120 pounds to 160 pounds per megawatt-hour
by 2020 compared with about 80 pounds without carbon capture,
according to estimates from the U.K. Department of Energy and
 Climate Change .  By 2013, Gillies says, he needs a government-backed
contract covering the difference between 2Co’s generation costs
and the average wholesale price.  “That is the single thing that will make or break this
project,” he says.  The British government plans to implement these guarantees
as part of electricity market reforms this year, although it
hasn’t determined the level of price support.  Without subsidies, the financial risk becomes untenable.  ‘Massive Projects’  “These are massive projects, and in the current investment
climate, it is difficult to see how you can borrow large amounts
of money without having a tight grip on risk, and that’s
difficult with a new technology,” says Jim Ward, head of carbon
capture at National Grid.  Ward is a veteran of an earlier U.K. carbon capture
competition that collapsed last year after the winner, Scottish
Power, a subsidiary of Spanish energy company  Iberdrola SA (IBE) ,
decided that proceeding at its then-41-year-old Longannet coal-
fired power station in Fife,  Scotland , would be too expensive.  Ward points out that Longannet failed even though it
involved three established companies, an existing pipeline and
an operating North Sea gas platform.  In June, General Electric Co. and Norway’s Sargas AS
announced they were launching a new technology to capture CO2
from gas-fired power stations for enhanced oil recovery with no
need for subsidies.  Gillies’s partner -- Gareth Roberts, 2Co’s co-founder and
chairman -- has a knack for wringing new oil from old wells.  Extinct Volcano  Though Roberts was born in Bradford, West Yorkshire, about
30 miles (48 kilometers) northwest of Stainforth, and studied
geology at the University of Oxford, he made his name across the
pond.  Denbury Resources Inc. (DNR) , the Plano, Texas-based company he
founded in 1990, pioneered EOR using naturally occurring CO2
from an extinct volcano buried 2,900 feet beneath Jackson,
Mississippi.  Today, Denbury produces about 31,000 barrels of oil a day
using CO2 injection, a figure that has grown at a compound rate
of 30 percent a year since 1999.  When Roberts retired from Denbury in 2009, he called
Gillies.  Born in the remote Outer Hebrides, Scotland, Gillies had
spent most of his career working at  BP Plc (BP/) , where he had once
tried unsuccessfully to sell to Denbury CO2 from a hydrogen
energy project.  First Fund  In July 2010, the duo created 2Co. The name is a semantic
play on what the company does -- reversing the damage caused by
CO2 -- and what it seeks to be: two companies in one, both a
power generator and an oil producer.  Roberts convinced  TPG  to invest. The private-equity shop
had put $40 million from its first fund into Denbury in 1995 and
then gave the company another $100 million in 1998 to help it
move into CO2-based EOR. TPG declined to comment.  Rather than start from scratch, Roberts and Gillies set out
to graft EOR onto an existing carbon capture project.  In May 2011, they bought Powerfuel Power Ltd., a bankrupt
company that had planned to build a coal-fired carbon capture
power station in Stainforth. 2Co renamed the project after the
surrounding Don Valley.  Roberts is confident of 2Co’s business model.  “Somebody once told me this can’t be done,” he says,
sitting with his sleeves rolled up in the company’s design and
engineering offices in the London suburb of Guildford.  “Well, you don’t tell a Yorkshireman he can’t do something.
And you certainly don’t tell a Yorkshireman and a Scot that they
can’t do something.”  In Contention  The majority of large carbon capture projects that have
gotten past the PowerPoint stage have EOR at their core.  These include two U.S. projects that have already broken
ground -- one a project run by  Air Products & Chemicals Inc. (APD)  at
a refinery owned by  Valero Energy Corp. (VLO)  in Port Arthur, Texas,
and another at Mississippi Power Co.’s Kemper County power
plant.  They are in contention to be the first operational
industrial-scale carbon capture projects on the planet.
Roberts’s old company, Denbury, is taking CO2 from both
projects, meaning that, if 2Co succeeds, Roberts will have
helped midwife carbon capture on two continents.  The U.K. has a stake in the technology’s success.  To meet its carbon reduction targets, it has decreed that
all coal-fired power stations must use the technology by 2025.  Aging Facilities  In the face of new environmental rules, six of 16 existing
coal-fired power plants will cease operation by 2016 and all of
the U.K.’s aging nuclear facilities are due to be retired by
2035.  That leaves the country facing a potential shortfall of 24
gigawatts, or more than a third of current peak demand.  The government had hoped to fill the gap with offshore wind
farms and a new generation of nuclear reactors. Offshore wind
farms are expensive and weather dependent, however, and
investors have been skittish about nuclear power.  “It’s risky, therefore, to rely entirely on those two
proven sources of low-carbon power,” Adam Dawson, the U.K.
official in charge of carbon capture policy, told an industry
conference in February. “So CCS, in a sense, is something you do
to buy yourself an option.”  For Britain, the big payoff will come if 2Co’s venture and
other carbon capture projects give rise to an industry exporting
a new generation of carbon capture-enabled power stations. That
could mean 100,000 jobs and a 6.5 billion-pounds-a-year boost to
the British economy by 2030, according to AEA.  Deep Underground  2Co’s immediate impact, however, will be felt in the Don
Valley. Coal mined here once powered the British Empire, and
generations of Yorkshiremen made their living deep underground.  Today, unemployment hovers stubbornly above 9 percent. 2Co
says its project would employ 3,000 workers during the
construction phase and about 300 permanently.  It will also help keep alive Hatfield Colliery, which will
supply half the Don Valley Power Project’s fuel.  First, though, 2Co must find 4 billion pounds -- and, no
doubt, rescue a few boots from the mire.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeremy Kahn in London at 
 jkahn21@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Laura Colby at 
 lcolby@bloomberg.net . 