-- News Corp.’s Internal Hacking Probers Confuse Skeptics
-- B y   G r e g   F a r r e l l   a n d   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2012-07-02T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-02/news-corp-s-internal-hacking-probers-confuse-skeptics.html
If there was any doubt about the
gravity of the mission facing the three members of  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s
management-and-standards committee, board member  Viet Dinh 
dispelled it at a meeting held a year ago in a 13th-floor
conference room with a panoramic view of  London .  A scandal threatened not just the company’s U.K.
newspapers, which had been accused of using hacking and bribery
to gather news. It also jeopardized the very future of  Rupert Murdoch ’s News Corp. as a global media player, Dinh said,
according to two people familiar with the session.  The committee, constituted to help police in London
investigate the allegations, wasn’t to flinch from its duty and
should call him about any resistance, said Dinh, an outside
director, according to the people.  “You are insuring that there is a license to operate for
anti-establishment companies like ours,” Dinh told the men,
with the houses of Parliament and London’s new Olympic Stadium
as a backdrop, according to one of the people, who asked not to
be identified because of the confidential nature of the meeting.  Since the pep talk by Dinh, an assistant attorney general
during the George W. Bush administration, the committee has gone
from being dismissed by critics as a Band-Aid on a mortal wound
to being accused of leading a witch-hunt. Its willingness to
help the once-hostile Scotland Yard has so far shielded the
parent company, Murdoch, and his son James, the former chairman
of the company’s U.K. unit, from criminal charges.  Aggressive Approach  The tale of the group’s aggressive approach was compiled
from background interviews with current and former News Corp.
executives, outside advisers and former employees. The story
details how an incremental, seat-of-the-pants reaction to
damaging revelations last year at News of the World, a problem-
child newspaper, evolved into an effective legal strategy.  The approach was judged so successful that some U.K. law
firms have asked for information on how they might use it as a
model for internal investigations of misconduct, the people
said.  Dinh’s meeting with the committee took place two weeks
after revelations that reporters employed at News of the World
had hacked into the voice-mail account of Millie Dowler, a
murdered schoolgirl. The public shock from that story demolished
the company’s five-year defense that any phone-hacking had
involved only one “rogue reporter” who’d been fired in 2006.  Before the meeting, which took place in the East London
corporate office tower of News International, the company’s U.K.
unit, police officials had accused that publishing arm of a
cover-up that had started in 2006. They threatened to file
obstruction charges. Sparked by the Dowler incident, a more
intense investigation by Scotland Yard loomed.  BSkyB Impact  The scandal also scuttled Chairman Rupert Murdoch’s attempt
to acquire the 61 percent of  British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY) 
that News Corp. didn’t already own, causing dismay among
investors keen on the profit-boosting idea.  The week of the Viet Dinh meeting, the Murdochs said at a
Parliamentary hearing that the company’s London operations had
made grave lapses in handling the scandal and promised that News
Corp. would undertake a thorough review of its U.K. newspapers,
a reference to the committee’s assignment.  In the year since the Dinh meeting, the management-and-
standards committee, or MSC, has turned over evidence to the
police that has resulted in arrests and charges against News
International executives and journalists.  “In terms of  corporate governance , the MSC has turned into
a great piece of  crisis management ,” said Louise Mensch, a
member of a Parliamentary committee that conducted its own probe
into phone hacking at News Corp.  Skepticism  “There was a lot of skepticism from people, not just the
congenitally anti-Murdoch people,” she said. “The doubters
have been proven completely wrong. In the hardest cases, the MSC
has gone against the interests of Mr. Murdoch. They’ve put the
interests of News Corp. at the front of their agenda.”  Well before he arrived at News International,  William Lewis , one of the MSC members who met with Dinh, was a well-
known figure on London’s Fleet Street. In 2009, as editor of the
 Daily Telegraph , he presided over the news scoop of the year.  The paper was approached by a source who claimed to have
detailed information about expense account abuses among
lawmakers. Lewis approved a payment of 150,000 pounds ($235,000)
for the data.  The subsequent publication of stories highlighting the
venality of members of the House of Commons touched off a
national scandal and helped boost the Telegraph’s circulation.
In March 2010, Lewis was named “journalist of the year” at the
British Press Awards for presiding over the reporting effort.  He was hired by Rebekah Brooks, chief executive of News
International, to be general manager of Murdoch’s U.K.
newspapers in September of that year.  Friend Hired  In January 2011, Lewis helped persuade Brooks to hire a
longtime friend,  Simon Greenberg , to head up communications and
corporate strategy at News International.  Then came the phone-hacking crisis. After a lawsuit
revealed that an editor at News of the World had been involved
in voice-mail hacking, the police opened a new investigation,
Operation Weeting.  For several months, News International’s law firm, BCL
Burton Copeland, provided minimal cooperation with the police,
frustrating Deputy Assistant Commissioner Sue Akers, who was in
charge of the inquiry.  In 2006, the firm’s stonewalling strategy succeeded, but by
April 2011, Akers was threatening to bring obstruction charges
if the company didn’t begin to provide meaningful cooperation.  Brooks dispatched Lewis and Greenberg, new hires having no
historical involvement with the company’s phone-hacking
situation, to meet with Akers. They promised full cooperation.  The Trio  Lewis and Greenberg, along with Jeff Palker, News Corp.’s
general counsel for Europe and Asia, were to respond to Akers’
requests for information. At Murdoch’s direction, Brooks would
continue to be responsible for the efforts of the committee.  The plan changed on July 4, 2011, when The Guardian
revealed that phone-hacking at News of the World extended back
to the period when Brooks was editor, citing the example of
Dowler, the 13-year-old who was abducted and murdered in 2002.  The story propelled News International’s involvement in
phone-hacking and police bribery into an issue of widespread
outrage in Britain. It became clear to Murdoch that Brooks could
no longer be in charge of the company’s interactions with
Scotland Yard. She resigned July 15.  Legal Adviser  Murdoch turned to  Joel Klein , head of News Corp.’s
education division and his primary legal adviser at the time,
for counsel. The company’s top officials looked at the crisis-
management responses of beleaguered U.K. firms, including BP
Plc, which is still contending with the fallout of the 2010 Gulf
of Mexico spill, and BAE Systems Plc, a defense contractor that
had been accused of political corruption.  Forced to take remedial action, Murdoch approved the
creation of a quasi-independent committee to review journalistic
behavior at all of his U.K. newspapers. The committee would
report to Klein and be managed by Lewis, Greenberg and Palker.  In order to give the unit some instant credibility, Murdoch
and Klein recruited Lord Anthony Grabiner, a widely respected
commercial lawyer in London, to serve as chairman. Grabiner
retained the Linklaters law firm to assist. For good measure,
the group’s findings would be reported to Dinh, 44, rather than
to Murdoch.  Scotland Yard  Klein, 65, paid a visit to Akers at Scotland Yard. He gave
her his card and told her that if she ever had reason to doubt
the efforts of Lewis and Greenberg, who accompanied him on the
visit, she should call him directly. Akers said she didn’t want
News Corp. to interview or even notify any employees who came
under suspicion as a result of the evidence generated by the
company’s internal probe.  Over the next seven months, the committee demonstrated its
independence from the personal interests of New York-based News
Corp.’s management. In December, senior lawyers from Linklaters
reviewed a printout of an e-mail that undercut  James Murdoch ’s
testimony before Parliament regarding what he knew about phone-
hacking at News of the World.  Although a Parliamentary committee ultimately made no
judgment as to whether James Murdoch had been truthful in his
testimony, several News Corp. executives who asked not to be
identified point to the production of the e-mail itself as
something that wouldn’t have happened in previous years.  Bribery  Meanwhile, a committee review of accounting records at The
Sun, another Murdoch paper, revealed evidence that bribery of
government officials was a widespread practice there. After the
management-and-standards unit gave evidence to Scotland Yard,
nine journalists from The Sun were arrested on suspicion of
bribery in January and February.  Trevor Kavanaugh, an associate editor of The Sun, wrote an
article in the Murdoch-owned paper describing the committee’s
efforts as a “witch-hunt” and claiming that the paper’s
“journalists are being treated like members of an organized
crime gang.”  Rupert Murdoch arrived in London in February to oversee the
start of The Sun on Sunday, a paper to replace the News of the
World, which had been shuttered because of the scandal. He found
employees at News International were irate about the management-
and-standards committee’s work.  Geoffrey Robertson , a human-rights lawyer who describes
himself as an expert on protecting journalist’s sources in
Britain, criticized the committee’s willingness to hand
sensitive material over to Scotland Yard.  A Betrayal  “Technically, and substantively, they are betraying their
journalistic mission,” Robertson said. “They are handing over
to the police what their journalists have a duty to keep secret,
namely their sources of information.”  On March 7, former News of the World reporter Neville Thurlbeck posted an item on his blog in which he repeated a
claim that two arrested Sun journalists had attempted suicide.
Thurlbeck reported that Lewis had hired a security firm to
protect himself, and published the name of the street where
Lewis lived in North London.  The reaction from Scotland Yard was swift. Thurlbeck
removed the address from his blog post within hours. A week
later, he was arrested on suspicion of intimidating a witness.  Akers defended the committee’s work while testifying before
a judge-led inquiry into media ethics. Armed with information
from the committee she told investigators: “There appears to
have been a culture of illegal payments” at The Sun.  The alleged bribery went beyond the occasional wining and
dining of sources and included retainer payments which, in some
cases, exceeded $100,000, Akers said.  Police Praise  Akers was asked whether the committee had been of
assistance in uncovering evidence of bribery.  “They have,” she said. “That’s because of their
independence from News International, and it’s that set-up that
I hope goes a long way to allay some criticisms that have been
made about how it’s perceived that it can’t be necessarily an
independent inquiry. The fact that we are dealing with the MSC
directly and not News International I think should make any
contention that it isn’t independent without foundation.”  The reaction in Parliament was similar. “They’ve been
doing an unpleasant job, but doing it well,” lawmaker Louise
Mensch said. “The MSC provided us with key pieces of evidence
that could not have been obtained any other way,” she said,
referring to the James Murdoch e-mail.  Challenges Ahead  News Corp. and Chairman Murdoch still face serious
challenges. The 81-year-old chief executive has been declared
“not a fit person” to lead an international company by Labour
Party members of the Parliamentary committee that conducted its
own phone-hacking probe, a declaration that threatens the
company’s minority stake in BSkyB.  Criminal charges have been filed against Brooks, 44, the
former chief executive of News International, and  Andy Coulson ,
former editor of News of the World. Other lower-ranking Murdoch
journalists in London will probably be charged with phone-
hacking or bribery based on their arrests. More than 50 persons
have been arrested in a 17-month investigation.  The judge-led inquiry into media ethics in the U.K. could
produce recommendations that curtail Murdoch’s publishing empire
there. Much of his political clout in the U.K. has already
disappeared as a result of the phone-hacking scandal and the
muzzle it put on his once-politically dominant newspapers.  U.S. Investigation  In the U.S., federal prosecutors in  Manhattan  are
monitoring News Corp.’s cooperation with British authorities,
under the theory that bribery of police officials in the U.K.
could constitute a violation of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt
Practices Act.  Julie Henderson , a spokeswoman for News Corp., declined to
comment.  For all the legal obstacles still facing Murdoch and News
Corp. today, the financial future is brighter than it appeared a
year ago, during the depths of the phone-hacking crisis, when
Murdoch’s leadership was being questioned and investors knocked
the share price down 25 percent in just over a month to $13.62
on Aug. 8.  Since then, the share price has soared, closing up 56 cents
to $22.85 yesterday in Nasdaq Stock Market trading, partly
because of the impact of a plan announced last week to spin off
the troubled publishing operations from News Corp.’s
entertainment and television businesses.  Split-Up Plan  As a side benefit of the committee’s work, News Corp.
didn’t have to deal with the distraction of accusations of foot-
dragging and cover-up about hacking and bribery when it
announced the plan.  The committee’s work is in wind-down mode after its primary
mission was completed in May, according to the people familiar
with the matter. Joel Klein, the News Corp. executive in charge
of the committee, handed over his responsibilities to Gerson Zweifach, the company’s general counsel, in June. Lewis and
Greenberg expect to leave their positions later this year,
according to the people.  Still, the perceived success of the management-and-
standards committee may change with time, said  Charles Elson ,
director of the John L. Weinberg Center for Corporate Governance
at the  University of Delaware .  “The mere fact that they were accused of cooperating with
police means nothing,” Elson said. “We have to wait until we
know all the facts. Until then it’s premature to declare it a
success.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Greg Farrell  in  New York  at   gregfarrell@bloomberg.net  and;
Erik Larson in London at   elarson4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 