-- Nude Photo ‘Sexts’ Sent by One in Four Teens, Study Finds
-- B y   J e a n n a   S m i a l e k
-- 2012-07-02T20:13:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-02/nude-photo-sexts-sent-by-one-in-four-teens-study-finds.html
More than a quarter of American
teenagers sent nude photos of themselves electronically, and
those who engaged in ‘sexting’ were almost twice as likely as
their peers to have had sex, researchers found.  About half of almost 1,000 students ages 14 to 19 from
seven public high schools in  Texas  said they had been asked to
send a naked photo electronically, according to a study
published today in the  Archives of Pediatric and Adolescent
Medicine . Another third reported asking someone else to send
them a nude picture.  The study found the 28 percent of teens who exchanged nude
messages were more likely to have sex. Pediatricians and other
adults should ask about sexual messaging to screen for other
sexual behavior, said Jeff Temple, a researcher from University
of Texas Medical Branch Health in Galveston and the study’s lead
author.  “These messages are really important to adolescents,”
said Megan Moreno, a  University of Wisconsin  adolescent medical
specialist whose editorial about the connection between online
and offline behavior accompanies the study. “I think we’ll want
to think about how do we provide education about it and how do
we provide prevention.”  More boys asked for a ‘sext,’ though the same percentage of
boys and girls had sent one, according to the study.  Of girls who had sent a nude message, more than 77 percent
reported having had sex. For those who had never sent a naked
photo, 42 percent said they had had sex. For boys, those numbers
were 82 percent compared with 45 percent.  Girls’ Activity  Teen girls who sent the images were more likely to have
multiple partners or use drugs and alcohol before sex, though
the same was not true for boys.  “The main implications are that sexting is prevalent, that
it’s common,” Temple said today in a telephone interview. “If
we know that they’re more likely to have sex, then maybe that
gives the pediatrician or the parent information to start a
conversation,” he said.  Asking for and sending nude photos was most prevalent among
white non-Hispanics and black teens, the study found.  White, black and Hispanic students each accounted for about
30 percent of study participants. All respondents were
sophomores or juniors.  More older teens reported ‘sexting,’ and 16- to 17-year-
olds were most likely to have been asked to send a naked photo.  Age Effect  “There is a very strong age effect. The older the person,
the more likely,” said  Donald Strassberg , a University of Utah
psychology professor who researched sexting in a study published
earlier this year.  In Strassberg’s study, which appeared in the Archives of
Sexual Behavior, about 20 percent of teens at a private school
reported sending text message photos of genitals or breasts.
Another telephone survey published in the journal Pediatrics put
the number at as little as 2.5 percent.  “Different samples come up with different results,”
Strassberg said. “Part of it depends on the specific question
that was asked.”  The growing number of sexting studies in the result of
media attention that has sparked researcher’s curiosity,
Strassberg said.  “I think it just became apparent to more researchers that
‘hey, we don’t really have a good idea of how prevalent this
is,’” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanna Smialek in  New York  at 
 jsmialek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  