-- Obama Looks for Lift From Court Rulings, Euro Debt Deal
-- B y   M i k e   D o r n i n g
-- 2012-07-02T17:28:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-02/obama-looks-for-lift-from-court-rulings-euro-debt-deal.html
President  Barack Obama  travels this
week to two states vital to his re-election, strengthened by a
pair of victories in the Supreme Court and progress in solving
Europe’s sovereign debt crisis.  The court’s decisions affirmed Obama’s signature health-
care law and his administration’s intervention to block an
Arizona immigration law. Together, they confer legitimacy on the
president’s actions and signal competency to the public, said
Kathleen Hall Jamieson, a professor at the  University of
Pennsylvania ’s Annenberg School for Communication in
Philadelphia.  “The Republican attack on Obama has been ‘nice guy, not up
to the task,’” Jamieson said. “This blunts the narrative, and
it does it with two different decisions in one week.”  The rulings’ weight with voters is greater because Chief
Justice  John Roberts , a Republican appointee who usually sides
with conservatives, joined both opinions, she said.  Obama remains vulnerable in his re-election bid. The public
is dissatisfied over the economy as job growth has slowed in
recent months. Obama had an approval rating of 46 percent in a
Gallup tracking poll taken June 29-July 1. He led Republican
challenger  Mitt Romney  48 percent to 43 percent in a Gallup poll
taken June 25-July 1.  Still, the threat of a pre-election shock to the  U.S.
economy  receded as euro zone leaders reached an agreement on
June 29 that alleviated financial market concerns of cascading
 bank failures  on the continent.  Stocks Surge  Announcement of the deal sent global stocks and the euro on
their biggest surge this year. The  MSCI All-Country World Index (MXWD) 
climbed 3 percent, the most since November, while the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index advanced 2.5 percent to cap its best June since
1999. The euro appreciated 1.7 percent against the dollar and
rallied as much as 2 percent, the most since Oct. 27.  The cumulative political significance of the events “is as
important as anything that’s happened up to this point” of the
election year, Jamieson said.  The court decisions and European deal eclipsed a week of
frenetic political maneuvering in the U.S.  On June 28, the  House of Representatives  passed its first-
ever contempt resolution against a cabinet member, Attorney
General Eric Holder, who refused to provide documents on the
“Fast and Furious” gun-running investigation after Obama
asserted executive privilege to withhold the material.  Student Loans  Congress passed a multiyear transportation funding package
on June 29 after more than two years of short-term stopgap
extensions, allowing states to proceed with infrastructure
construction. The measure included an Obama-backed provision
staving off an increase in student-loan  interest rates , which
would have doubled to 6.8 percent yesterday.  With Congress taking a break this week, Obama begins a
campaign bus tour through Ohio and  Pennsylvania  immediately
after the July 4th holiday.  He will be in the midst of the trip when the country gets a
fresh read on the state of the domestic economy. A Labor
Department report to be released July 6 is expected to show the
 unemployment rate  steady at 8.2 percent, according to the median
estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  “Fundamentally this race is still going to hover around
the economy,” said  Tom Davis , a former Virginia congressman who
headed the  Republican Party ’s national congressional campaign
committee from 1998 to 2002. “If we get bad job numbers, that
trumps the rest pretty quickly.”  Burnish Standing  Even so, the victories Obama won in the Supreme Court
burnish his standing in a way that may transfer to voters’
perception of his ability to handle the economy, said Steve Jarding, a professor at Harvard University’s Kennedy School of
Government. That link is one reason the Romney campaign has
repeatedly sought to portray Obama as in over his head, he said.  “The court decisions say, ‘maybe he’s more competent than
I thought,’” said Jarding, a former Democratic consultant.
“That also gives him credibility on the economy.”  Had the  Supreme Court  ruled that the 2010 Patient
Protection and Affordable Care Act -- Obama’s biggest
legislative accomplishment -- didn’t pass legal muster, it would
have fed a narrative characterizing the president as
ineffectual, Jarding said. Rejection of the law would also have
hurt because Obama once taught constitutional law, Jarding said.  Romney Fundraising  After the ruling, Romney repeated his pledge to repeal the
health-care overhaul if elected, a vow that intensifies
questions about how he would cover the tens of millions of
uninsured people the law is designed to cover. His campaign
aides see no gain in providing such specifics, believing that
doing so would only give Obama and Democrats a political target.  Instead, the Romney campaign is using the court’s 5-4
decision to stoke public discontent with the health-care law.
His aides put word out less than an hour after the June 28
ruling that it had raised $100,000 in unsolicited donations. By
the next morning, the total had jumped to $4.2 million, campaign
spokeswoman Andrea Saul said in a Twitter message June 29.  Obama’s campaign, playing off the Romney fundraising
effort, attacked the presumed Republican nominee over the lack
of specifics he’s offered on health policy.  “It’s perverse that Mitt Romney won’t share details about
what he’d do for the millions he’d leave uninsured or at the
whims of insurance companies when he ‘kills Obamacare dead,’ but
he’ll share the hourly details of his fundraising,”  Ben LaBolt ,
press secretary for the president’s re-election team, said in an
e-mail June 29.  Repeal Dispute  The White House is also urging congressional Republicans to
drop their drive to repeal the law. Obama’s Chief of Staff Jack Lew, speaking yesterday on  CNN ’s “ State of the Union ” program,
said the public wants its government to “get over the debate
and implement the law.”  Senate Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell , a Kentucky
Republican, said the law amounts to a tax on the American people
and its repeal remains the party’s top priority. “We need to go
step by step to replace it with more modest reforms,” he said
on the same program.  Both Supreme Court victories safeguarded administration
action on issues important to Democratic constituencies Obama
needs to turn out on Election Day.  The health law, culminating a push for a national health
plan that stretches back to  Theodore Roosevelt ’s 1912 “Bull
Moose” candidacy, is a tangible achievement for the Democrats’
liberal base. The stand against Arizona’s immigration law is
important to Hispanics, a large constituency in battleground
states including  Nevada ,  Colorado , Florida and Virginia.  “It’s a strong signal to Hispanic voters,” Jamieson said.
“There’s an immediate, tangible benefit because parts of that
law cannot be enforced.”  Among conservative voters, determination to turn Obama out
of office will grow, Davis said. The court’s health-care opinion
that the law is constitutional under the federal government’s
taxing authority will give Republicans ammunition to portray
Obama as raising taxes, he said.  “In politics, the losers don’t forget,” Davis said. “The
winners move on.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Dorning in Washington at 
 mdorning@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  