-- Oil Rebounds in New York on Global Stimulus Speculation, Iran
-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 2012-07-03T06:19:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-02/oil-trades-near-two-day-low-on-u-s-manufacturing-europe-jobs.html
Oil rebounded in  New York  on signs
that central banks from Europe to  China  may ease monetary policy
to spur economic growth and speculation sanctions against Iran
will curb supply.  Futures gained as much as 1.1 percent, reversing earlier
losses. The  European Central Bank  is forecast to cut interest
rates this week to help curb the debt crisis, while a state-
owned newspaper in China said the time is right to increase
liquidity in the banking sector. An embargo targeting Iranian
oil exports will probably have a bigger affect than previously
estimated, according to Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  “It’s getting to a point, I think, that the bad numbers
become a good thing for the market because we believe that there
will be some action for stimulus,” Carl Larry, the president of
Oil Outlooks & Opinions LLC in New York, said in a Bloomberg
Television interview. He forecast that New York crude will
average $92 to $94 a barrel this year.  Oil for August delivery climbed as much as 88 cents to
$84.63 a barrel and was at $84.45 in electronic trading on the
 New York Mercantile Exchange  at 4:14 p.m. in Sydney. The
contract slid $1.21 yesterday to $83.75, the lowest close since
June 28. Prices are 15 percent lower this year.  Brent oil for August settlement was at $98.21 a barrel, up
87 cents, on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. The
European benchmark’s premium to West Texas Intermediate was at
$13.77, up from $13.59 yesterday.  Iran Sanctions  A European Union embargo on Iran entered into full force on
July 1 after exemptions on some contracts and insurance ended.
Iran’s crude exports may drop to about 1 million barrels a day,
Goldman Sachs said in a report yesterday.  Iran’s parliament is working on a bill to close the  Strait
of Hormuz  to  oil tankers  linked to countries applying new
European Union sanctions, a lawmaker from the national security
committee told Jam-e-Jam newspaper. The waterway is a transit
route for a fifth of the world’s crude.  According to the draft bill, Iran would block vessels
carrying crude to countries that have initiated EU sanctions,
Javad Karimi-Ghodousi said in an interview with the Tehran-based
newspaper.  “Growing political tension and potential supply
disruptions will be supportive for  oil prices , particularly
Brent, despite macroeconomic concerns,”  Mark Pervan , the head
of commodity research at  Australia & New Zealand Banking Group
Ltd. (ANZ)  in  Melbourne , said in a note today.  Rate Cut  European bank officials will lower the main  interest rate 
by a quarter percentage point to a record 0.75 percent on July
5, a Bloomberg News survey of economists shows. EU leaders, who
announced plans last week to stem the region’s debt crisis by
amending bailout rules and moving toward a banking union, are
now looking to the central bank to help.  U.S. crude stockpiles probably dropped by  1.9 million
barrels  last week, according to the median estimate of eight
analysts in a Bloomberg News  survey  before an Energy Department
report tomorrow. The industry-funded  American Petroleum
Institute  will report its own data today.  Gasoline supplies increased 1 million barrels last week,
according to the survey. Refineries traditionally step up
operations with the start of the so-called driving season, which
runs from Memorial Day at the end of May to Labor Day in early
September.  U.S. regular gasoline prices averaged $3.356 a gallon at
the pump in the week ended yesterday, down 8.1 cents a gallon
from the previous week, according to the EIA. The fuel is 22.3
cents a gallon cheaper than at this time last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  