-- Oil-Tankers Slump Is Sign to Morgan Stanley of Imports Slide
-- B y   R o b   S h e r i d a n
-- 2012-07-02T16:37:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-02/oil-tankers-slump-is-sign-to-morgan-stanley-of-imports-slide-2-.html
A collapse in the number of tankers
booked to haul 2 million-barrel cargoes of Middle East oil to
the U.S. may be a sign that the world’s largest crude buyer is
poised to cut imports, a Morgan Stanley analyst said.  Twelve very large crude carriers were booked last month to
ship  Persian Gulf  crude to the U.S., compared with 37 in May,
Fotis Giannakoulis, a New York-based analyst at the investment
bank, said in an e-mailed report today.  U.S. crude stocks climbed to 387.3 million barrels in June
to the highest since July 1990, which was the month before
 Saddam Hussein ’s Iraqi forces invaded  Kuwait , Energy Department
data show.  Saudi Arabia  is the second-biggest foreign supplier
to the U.S., after  Canada , and a round-trip between the two
countries ties up tankers for 24,000 miles, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  “Chartering activity in the Middle East has started to
slow down, indicating a potential drop in seaborne imports,
particularly to the U.S.,” Giannakoulis said.  VLCCs plowing the Middle East-to-U.S. route are losing
$8,231 a day, according to the London-based Baltic Exchange, a
publisher of freight costs on more than 50 maritime routes.
Owners sometimes contribute to fuel costs rather than sailing
empty.  Domestic Supply  Demand for VLCCs has fallen in part because of high crude
inventories and also because of increased domestic supply,
according to Sverre Bjorn Svenning, an analyst at Fearnley
Consultants A/S, a unit of Astrup Fearnley.  U.S. oil production averaged 5.99 million barrels a day
this year, according to the Energy Department. That would be the
highest annual average since 1998.  Bookings to the U.S. climbed in May because Motiva
Enterprises LLC was preparing to supply 325,000 barrels a day of
oil to a new crude distillation unit at  Port Arthur ,  Texas ,
according to a June 29 report from Poten & Partners, a  New York- 
based shipbroker. An outage of the unit may continue for several
months, Motiva said June 25.  There are 140 VLCCs  available  in the Persian Gulf for the
next 30 days, up from 95 on June 1, according to the Morgan
Stanley report. The monthly average spot rate for the tankers is
$16,000 a day, half of what they earned in May, it said.  Busiest Route  Returns for VLCCs hauling  Middle East  crude to  Asia , the
industry’s busiest trade route, fell the most in nine months
during June as the surplus of ships expanded and charter demand
to hire ships slowed, Baltic Exchange data show.  Daily income for VLCCs on the benchmark Saudi Arabia-to-
Japan voyage slid 23 percent to $6,114, according to data from
the exchange today. Earnings plunged 51 percent last month, the
most since September.  Hire rates for VLCCs on the benchmark voyage declined 3.7
percent to 38.86 industry-standard Worldscale points, a seventh
straight retreat, exchange figures showed. The exchange’s
assessments don’t reflect speed cuts aimed at reducing fuel
costs, vessel owners’ largest expense. Owners can boost returns
by slowing ships on return journeys after unloading of cargoes.  The price of ship fuel, or bunkers, added 2.5 percent to
$579.37 a metric ton, data compiled by Bloomberg from 25 ports
worldwide show.  The Worldscale system is a method for pricing oil cargoes
on thousands of trade routes. Each individual voyage’s flat
rate, expressed in dollars a ton, is set once a year. Today’s
level means hire costs on the benchmark route are 38.86 percent
of the nominal Worldscale rate for that voyage.  The Baltic Dirty Tanker Index, a broader measure of oil-
shipping costs that includes vessels smaller than VLCCs,
declined 0.7 to 677, according to the exchange.  “The VLCC freight market has declined over the last two-
to-three weeks in all directions,” Svenning said by phone. “We
will see rates remaining under pressure well into August.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Sheridan in London at 
 rsheridan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  