-- Oil Declines After Biggest Gain Since 2009 on Europe
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2012-07-02T12:44:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-02/oil-declines-after-biggest-gain-since-2009-on-european-concern.html
Oil declined in  New York  on
speculation that last week’s surge, the biggest in three years,
may have been excessive amid signs of slowing growth in  China 
and a deepening slump in  Europe .  West Texas Intermediate futures lost as much 2.1 percent,
paring some of a 9.4 percent rally on June 29 that was crude’s
biggest jump since 2009. Manufacturing output in the euro area
contracted in May, a Markit Economics index showed. The region’s
jobless rate rose to a 17-year high of 11.1 percent, data from
the European Union’s statistics office in Luxembourg showed. An
EU embargo on Iranian oil started yesterday.  “Crude’s strong movement last week was a bit too much too
fast probably, so today we’re seeing it a bit lower again,”
said  Hannes Loacker , an analyst at Raiffeisen Bank International
AG in Vienna, who correctly predicted  Brent crude  would rebound
at the end of last month. “Headwinds from the  euro zone ” may
delay oil’s recovery, he said.  Crude for August delivery dropped as much as $1.80 to
$83.16 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  and was at $83.55 at 1:26 p.m.  London  time. Prices
gained $7.27 on June 29 to $84.96, the highest close since June
6. Crude declined 18 percent last quarter, the most since the
final three months of 2008, and slipped 1.8 percent last month.  Brent oil for August settlement on the London-based ICE
Futures Europe exchange fell as much as $2.50, or 2.6 percent,
to $95.30 a barrel. The European benchmark crude was at a $12.53
 premium  to New York contracts compared with $12.84 on June 29.  Bullish Bets  Euro-area manufacturing output contracted for an 11th
straight month in June. A Markit Economics index of euro-area
manufacturing output rose to 45.1 in May from an initial
estimate of 44.8 earlier this month. Readings below 50 indicate
contraction.  Oil prices  surged on June 29 because of optimism the
 European debt crisis  may be contained after leaders agreed to
ease repayment rules for emergency loans to Spanish banks and
relax conditions on help for  Italy . Hedge funds raised bullish
oil bets for the first time in eight weeks before the price
rise, according to a weekly report from the U.S. Commodity
Futures Trading Commission.  Crude’s advance brought prices in New York close to
technical resistance, prompting investors to sell futures. The
August contract has resistance at $85.33 a barrel, the 23.6
percent Fibonacci retracement of the drop to last week’s
intraday low of $77.28 from the March 1 high of $111.38,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Sell orders tend to be
clustered near chart-resistance levels.  The EU banned the purchase, transportation, financing and
insurance of Iranian oil because of the Persian Gulf nation’s
nuclear program. The insurance embargo affects 95 percent of the
world’s tankers because they’re covered by the 13 members of the
London-based  International Group  of P&I Clubs.  Iran Sanctions  Iran was producing about 3.2 million barrels a day in May,
according to estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Full
implementation of sanctions will remove about 1 million barrels
a day during the second half of the year as buyers disappear and
Iranian  storage tanks  become full, the Paris-based  International
Energy Agency  said in a June 13 report.  “The Iranian import ban is well known, but now that it’s
officially coming into effect this also helps sentiment for oil
prices,” said Raiffeisen Bank International’s Loacker. “If
Brent moves above $100, its gains can go very fast from here,
but if some headwinds from the euro zone pop up it will take
longer.”  A reduction in Iranian exports may become the biggest
supply disruption from a member of the Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries since an armed rebellion all but halted
pumping in  Libya  last year, according to the IEA. A strike by
oil workers in  Norway  also curbed flows from North Sea fields.  Iranian Minister  Iran  called on OPEC to hold an emergency meeting to address
the group’s production in excess of the targeted 30 million
barrels a day, Mehr news agency reported June 30, citing the
country’s oil minister.  Disregard of the target by some OPEC members “will
negatively impact prices in the international market,” Rostam Qasemi said, according to the state-run agency’s report. “The
organization’s members must respect the production ceiling to
maintain the supply and demand in oil markets,” he said.  China’s manufacturing activity slowed in June. The HSBC
Manufacturing Purchasing Managers’ Index for China fell to 48.2
last month from 48.4 in May. The final figure is higher than the
48.1 flash reading released June 21.  Official figures peg China’s PMI at 50.2 in June, down from
50.4 in May, the Beijing-based National Bureau of Statistics and
China Federation of Logistics and Purchasing reported yesterday.  In London,  hedge funds  and other money managers reduced
bullish bets on Brent crude futures and options by 10,697
contracts, or 21 percent, in the week ended June 26,  data from
ICE Futures Europe  show.  Speculative bets that prices will rise, in futures and
options combined, outnumbered short positions by 41,415 lots,
the exchange said in its weekly Commitment of Traders report.
That compares with net-longs of 52,112 a week earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  