-- Hollande Needs EU43 Billion 2012-13 Savings, Auditor Says
-- B y   M a r k   D e e n   a n d   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t
-- 2012-07-02T11:53:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-02/hollande-needs-up-to-eu43-billion-2012-13-savings-auditor-says.html
France  needs as much as 43 billion
euros ($54 billion) in savings this year and next, the national
 auditor  said, setting the stage for budget cuts by Socialist
President  Francois Hollande .  The coming year is “a crucial one in which the budgetary
calculation will be difficult -- more difficult than thought
because of slower growth,” Didier Migaud, who heads the audit
body, told journalists today in Paris. “It will require an
unprecedented brake on spending and higher taxes.”  The auditor’s report comes before Prime Minister Jean-Marc Ayrault lays out an economic plan tomorrow and Finance Minister
Pierre Moscovici details a revised budget the following day.
Taken together, the events will mark Hollande’s effort to get to
grips with France’s budget deficit as growth stalls, after being
elected on an anti-austerity platform.  “There will be tax increases, there will be spending
cuts,” Moscovici said June 25. “But I reject any talk of
austerity. We must avoid a budget policy that hurts economic
activity.”  The auditor said today that France needs between 6 billion
euros and 10 billion euros in savings this year and 33 billion
euros in 2013 to meet deficit-reduction targets. France’s
deficit last year amounted to 103 billion euros and the public
spending of the government was 358 billion euros, excluding
local government and social security.  Borrowing Costs  Ayrault blamed the government of former President  Nicolas Sarkozy  for the worsening state of French public finances,
noting in an e-mailed statement today that the country’s debt
rose by 600 billion euros between 2007 and 2011.  With  Europe ’s debt crisis pushing up borrowing costs in
neighboring Spain and  Italy , Hollande has little choice but to
scale back. His repeated promises to slash the deficit to 4.5
percent of gross domestic product this year and 3 percent have
reassured investors, and the government has little room for
error, Bank of France Governor Christian Noyer warned.  “French borrowing costs are benefiting from the
government’s “inflexibility” on reducing the deficit, Noyer
said June 26. The government needs to maintain that consistency
because “markets can change their mind quickly,” he added.  France pays about 2.68 percent to borrow for 10 years,
compared with 6.33 percent for  Spain  and 5.80 percent for Italy.
The  spread between French and German bond yields  is at about 112
basis points, down from more than 140 points in mid-May.  ‘More Painful’  Implementing the cuts will be harder than promising them.
Hollande’s popularity rating has dropped 7 points this month,
with 51 percent of voters expressing confidence in his
leadership, according to a CSA poll of 1,005 adults taken June
26 and 27.  Migaud, a former Socialist lawmaker appointed by Sarkozy to
the audit body, also warned today that the risk of failing to
act now would be that investors and France’s European partners
would force more drastic cuts later.  “If this is not done now, the effort will be heavier, more
painful and above all imposed by the creditors and our European
partners,” he said today. “The sovereign debt crisis shows
that the risks are not theoretical.”  Migaud said that France’s debt of 1.7 trillion euros
amounts to 62,000 euros per household. The debt burden has risen
from 46 percent of gross domestic product in 1993 and 64 percent
in 2007 to 86 percent at the end of last year.  ‘Determined Action’  The auditor recommended that the government focus on
spending cuts rather than tax increases in order to protect
French competitiveness. At 56 percent of GDP, French public
spending is the second-highest among members of the Organization
of Economic Cooperation and Development, behind  Denmark .  “Priority must be given to spending cuts,” Migaud said.
All international experience shows that savings on expenditure
is “less damaging in the short term and more helpful to growth
in the long term.”  Prime Minister Ayrault has told ministers to prepare
spending cuts for the next three years. The government aims to
freeze spending excluding pensions and debt-service costs and
has asked departments other than those of education, justice and
the interior to reduce total spending by 2.5 percent a year.  Ayrault has also asked ministers to cut operating costs by
7 percent in 2013 and 4 percent each in 2014 and 2015. Today the
prime minister again vowed to meet the government’s deficit-
reduction targets.  “Growth in 2012 will be weaker than expected by the
previous government,” Ayrault said in a statement. This
requires “determined action” on the part of the government.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net ;
Helene Fouquet in Paris at 
 hfouquet1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  