-- London’s Shard Owner Estimates Towers’ Value at $3.9 Billion
-- B y   N e i l   C a l l a n a n
-- 2012-07-02T14:05:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-02/london-s-shard-developer-estimates-towers-value-at-3-9-billion.html
The Shard, the European Union’s
tallest skyscraper, and its neighboring  London  building, The
Place, may together be worth as much as 2.5 billion pounds ($3.9
billion) when they are fully leased, according to  Irvine  Sellar,
one of the buildings’ developers. The tower will open July 5.  Sellar Property Group Ltd. and Qatar Central Bank will
spend about 1.5 billion pounds constructing the buildings,
Sellar, chairman of the London-based company, said in an
interview. The final cost includes the purchase price of the
sites and interest on debt, he said June 29 at the development
next to London Bridge rail station.  The tower is being completed as the U.K. suffers a  double-
dip recession  and  Bank of England  governor  Mervyn King  warns it
may take five more years before the global financial crisis
recedes. The 310-meter (1,017 feet) Shard will have a Shangri-La
hotel, about 585,000 square feet (53,350 square meters) of
office space for which no tenant has been found, 10 luxury
apartments and some shops. The Place will have a further 600,000
square feet of office space, which also hasn’t been leased.  “Are we concerned about full occupation of this? No,
we’re not. We’re taking a long-term view,” Sellar said. “We’re
certainly not in a position of being put under pressure to take
shortcuts to get this space occupied.”  Lease Talks  The developers are in talks to lease “well in excess of
100,000 square feet” of  office space , Sellar said. He declined
to identify the companies.  Qatar Central Bank owns 95 percent of the building with
Sellar Property Group owning the remainder, according to a
statement by the bank in April.  The building’s three floors of restaurants will be at the
same height as The London Eye, a 135-meter Ferris wheel. They
will have Michelin stars and be “brands that I think you’ll be
familiar with,” Sellar said. The shops in the building have all
been leased, the developer said.  A decision hasn’t been made on whether to lease or sell the
building’s 10 apartments, which will have views stretching as
far as 44 miles (71 kilometers), Sellar said. He declined to
estimate the apartments’ value.  “If you’re entertaining your people in the lounge, there
you won’t need television or Monopoly to keep your guests
busy,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Neil Callanan in London at 
 ncallanan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 