-- Mongolia Pushes Russia, China to Re-Route Planned Gas Line
-- B y   Y u r i y   H u m b e r   a n d   A n n a   S h i r y a e v s k a y a
-- 2012-07-03T02:50:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-02/mongolia-pushes-russia-china-to-re-route-planned-gas-pipeline.html
Mongolia  is calling upon China and
 Russia  to re-direct a planned natural- gas pipeline  across its
territory as the world’s fastest growing economy seeks to tap
the cleaner-burning fuel.  Altering the route to pass through Mongolia would save
1,000 kilometers (622 miles) of pipeline, Mongolian President
Tsakhia Elbegdorj said in an interview in  Ulan Bator , the
nation’s capital. It would also allow Mongolia to switch to gas
heating in the capital, which ranks among the world’s most
polluted cities due to widespread use of coal-fired stoves.  “This is economically beneficial,” Elbegdorj said. “We
are trying to persuade our two neighbors not to exclude us from
that project. The Chinese side has already agreed to discuss
this and also the Russian side.”  Russia has discussed a gas pipeline to China, the world’s
biggest energy user, for almost a decade without reaching a
final agreement. Mongolia, squeezed between Russia and China, is
struggling to end power shortages that threaten to hold back the
development of the country’s resources industry, which helped
its economy grow 17.3 percent last year.  Rio Tinto Group (RIO) , the biggest foreign investor in Mongolia,
is due to begin importing power from China this year to help run
its $7 billion copper and gold mine in southern Mongolia when it
begins. Western Mongolia runs entirely on electricity imports
from Russia, according to a March report by London-based Oxford
Business Group.  OAO Gazprom (GAZP) , the world’s biggest gas company, has yet to
agree with state-run China National Petroleum Corp. on the
starting price of supplies, according to  Alexander Medvedev ,
deputy chief executive officer of the Moscow-based gas producer.  ‘Economic Feasibility’  Dmitry Peskov, a spokesman for Russian President  Vladimir Putin , said he isn’t aware of the proposal to run the pipeline
via Mongolia.  “We are staunch supporters for energy transportation
routes to be based solely on economic feasibility criteria,” he
said in a phone interview.  Sergei Kupriyanov , a spokesman for
Gazprom, didn’t reply to a text message.  Gazprom plans to supply about 30 billion cubic meters a
year, less than a quarter of China’s consumption in 2011, via
the so-called  Western route . The pipeline would take gas from
Gazprom’s biggest western Siberian fields directly to western
China through a border line squeezed between Kazakhstan and
Mongolia. The plans have been questioned by analysts as China
needs most of its gas for its more populated and industrially
developed eastern territory, meaning the route will span a
longer distance to reach customers.  Price Issues  While having also considered a second pipeline from eastern
Siberia, which would be shorter, Gazprom has made supplies of
liquefied natural gas by tanker a priority from that region. Any
pipeline would only be considered after LNG export plans have
been determined, Medvedev said June 18.  Gazprom has suspended plans to build a link from eastern
Siberia, which would be shorter than the western route, in favor
of producing liquefied natural gas for shipment by tanker from
Pacific ports, according to Chief Executive Officer Alexey
Miller. Gazprom may build an LNG plant in Vladivostok as early
as 2016 or 2017.  Gazprom and  China  will hold the next round of talks on gas
supplies this month, Medvedev said June 24. To reach an accord,
Gazprom is discussing advance payments for fuel supplies, which
may lower the price, as well as a potential role in marketing
and distribution in China and LNG shipments, Medvedev said last
month.  Study Begins  Mongolia, which voted to elect a new parliament last week,
plans to form a trilateral working group to study changing the
gas route, Elbegdorj said.  The Asian nation, which relies on Russia for almost all of
its oil supply, is also working on introducing technologies that
would allow it to produce the fuel and also gas from coal.
Elbegdorj oversaw the signing of accords with German companies
that will help Mongolia produce its own fuel from coal reserves,
he said.  China’s gas consumption increased 22 percent to 130.7
billion cubic meters last year, according to  BP Plc (BP/) ’s
Statistical Review of World Energy. Mongolia hasn’t been singled
out as a consumer of the fuel in the review.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yuriy Humber in Tokyo at 
 yhumber@bloomberg.net ;
Anna Shiryaevskaya in Moscow at 
 ashiryaevska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  