-- Top Inventor Silicon Valley to Get Own U.S. Patent Office
-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 2012-07-02T20:21:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-02/top-inventor-silicon-valley-to-get-own-u-s-patent-office.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL) ,  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and  Intel
Corp. (INTC)  soon won’t have to travel across the U.S. to get patent
protection on their latest inventions.  Silicon Valley,  Dallas  and Denver have been selected as the
new homes for regional patent offices as part of an effort to
cut down on a backlog of applications awaiting review, the U.S.
Patent and Trademark Office said today.  The agency, which is opening a satellite office in Detroit
on July 13 and has declared a “critical need for electrical
engineers,” is trying to hire more examiners to cut into the
640,000 applications awaiting a first review. By expanding
beyond its Alexandria, Virginia, campus, the patent office is
seeking to take advantage of a pool of engineers who understand
technology and can work closer to where inventors are located.  “Silicon Valley was a logical location to us, but it was
by no means a foregone conclusion it would be in  California  or
in Silicon Valley,” said  Carl Guardino , president of the
Silicon Valley Leadership Group, which has lobbied for more than
three years to get a patent office in Northern California.
“We’ve ordered the red carpet and will do everything we can to
go from red tape to red carpet.”  The additional offices were authorized under an overhaul of
the patent system signed into law last year. About 600
applications were submitted, and the selections were based on
geographic diversity, economic impact, the local workforce and
proximity to companies that are submitting applications.  Innovation Hubs  “The single most important step we can take to support an
economy built to last is to bring new inventions to market as
quickly as possible,” said David Kappos, director of the Patent
and Trademark Office.  The regional offices -- one for each time zone -- would
become hubs with “a tangible impact on each city’s innovation
economy,” he said. Kappos said the office could bring in law
firms, entrepreneurs and investors as a sort of ecosystem to
interact with the agency.  The four offices also could develop their own expertise to
reflect local communities -- Detroit for automotive, metallurgy
and paints; Dallas for energy; Denver for aerospace; and Silicon
Valley for electronics and biotechnology. Denver also was
selected in part because it has a large number of veterans with
advanced degrees, and President  Barack Obama ’s administration
has a policy to hire more veterans, Kappos said.  Denver, Dallas  Denver said it beat out competition from  Portland ,  Oregon ;
 Seattle ; Salt Lake City; and  Albuquerque , New Mexico, because of
its educated workforce, relatively low cost of living and
research in the fields of bioscience, aerospace and renewable
energy. It has projected the new examiners and related jobs
could have a $440 million economic impact in the first five
years of operation.  “As the world flattens, intellectual property rights are
at the core of almost every business,” Steve Katsaros, founder
of Denver-based solar light-bulb company  Nokero  International
Ltd., said in a statement. “This satellite office will bring a
community of patent and technology experts to  Colorado . With
hundreds of intellectual property rights experts sprinkled among
us, the entire business community will benefit.”  ‘Big Win’  Extensive lobbying by the cities preceded the selections.
Silicon Valley’s 58-page application was signed by the chief
executives of 125 companies and suggested space in  San Jose ’s
city hall, Guardino said.  “This is a big win for San Jose and California that will
directly benefit the  U.S. economy ,” Representative Zoe Lofgren,
a California Democrat, said in a statement.  The Silicon Valley area, which also includes Sunnyvale and
Santa Clara, is the top recipient of patents, with more than
10,000  issued in 2010 , agency figures show. The region
comprising  San Francisco , Oakland, and Fremont adds another
6,290 patents, the third-most behind the  New York  and northern
New Jersey region.  California inventors were named in 28,148 patents, more
than a quarter of the 108,626 issued to U.S. inventors in 2011.
Texas was the second-highest recipient, at 7,584, and Colorado
was 14th with 2,102, according to patent office  statistics .  Dallas’s submission included corporate executives,
university researchers and legal professionals promoting the
region’s role as a center for southwest U.S. innovation in
energy, smart grids, telecommunications, life sciences and
software.  Detroit Jobs  “We told the story of the region,” said Jeremy Vickers,
director of innovation for the  Dallas Regional Chamber . “We
wanted them to see how invested the region was. It was a good-
sized document, outlining the strengths of the region and how we
were a good fit.”  The  Detroit  office will add about 120 jobs to the region,
and the plan is for at least one of the other offices to be
online within two years, said Vikrum Aiyer, a spokesman for the
patent office. Michigan residents received 3,964 patents in
2011, the sixth-highest.  The agency is hiring 1,500 examiners this fiscal year, to
bring the total to 7,800 from 6,800 plus filling in for
turnover. It said it expects to hire a comparable number next
year, depending on a budget getting approved by Congress.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  