-- Lopez Obrador Seeks Fraud Probe in Mexican Presidential Election
-- B y   E r i c   M a r t i n   a n d   N a c h a   C a t t a n
-- 2012-07-03T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-02/lopez-obrador-calls-for-probe-of-fraud-in-mexican-election-1-.html
Mexican presidential candidate Andres Manuel  Lopez Obrador  said he will submit evidence to authorities
of fraud and vote-buying by the  Institutional Revolutionary
Party  of Enrique Pena Nieto in the July 1 election.  Pena Nieto benefited from the PRI buying at least one
million votes and exceeding the campaign finance limit, Lopez
Obrador of the Democratic Revolution Party said yesterday at a
press conference in Mexico City. Pena Nieto has claimed victory
in the contest.  Lopez Obrador, 58, the former Mexico City mayor, whose
backers blockaded the capital’s main commercial boulevard in
2006 for weeks after he lost to President  Felipe Calderon  by
less than a percentage point, didn’t call his supporters into
the streets yesterday and said he would use legal means should
he challenge the results. Lopez Obrador said most of  Mexico ’s
media supported Pena Nieto’s campaign, manipulating and
deceiving voters.  “We can’t accept a fraudulent result,” said Lopez
Obrador, adding that middle-class and affluent Mexicans who
backed Pena Nieto were voting “to maintain a regime of
corruption.”  Jesus Zambrano, the head of Lopez Obrador’s party, said in
an interview yesterday that the PRD will decide whether to
formally protest the election’s result by tomorrow, once the
district counts have been completed.  The PRI candidate leads by 3.2 million votes with 99
percent of the ballot counted, according to the Federal
Electoral Institute.  Allegations Denied  Eduardo Sanchez, a spokesman for Pena Nieto’s party, denied
the allegations last night.  “The charges are offensive to the dignity of all the
voters who supported Pena Nieto, because they allege that
Mexican voters are susceptible to vote buying,” he said in a
phone interview.  The press office for the electoral institute declined to
comment.  Lopez Obrador “will not be able to run the kind of post-
electoral dispute that he ran in 2006,” said Federico Estevez,
a political science professor at the Autonomous Institute of
Technology of Mexico in Mexico City. “It’s obvious he lost. It
wasn’t so obvious last time. That doesn’t mean there wasn’t
skulduggery in the election.”  Lopez Obrador’s coalition did not initially accept the
results when its candidate lost in the 2011 Mexico state
election by 41 percentage points. Few protesters took to the
streets after the race in that state, which was governed by Pena
Nieto from 2005 to 2011 and is not a PRD stronghold.  Vote Count  With about one percent of votes remaining to be tallied in
a preliminary count in the presidential race, Pena Nieto won
38.2 percent, topping 31.6 percent for Lopez Obrador, according
to election authorities. Josefina Vazquez Mota of Calderon’s
 National Action Party , or  PAN , gained 25.4 percent of the vote.  The vote returned to power the PRI, which ruled alone for
seven decades until 2000, a period marked by corruption and
cronyism. Pena Nieto pledged during his campaign to avoid
repeating that experience.  “The Mexican people have given our party a second
opportunity,” Pena Nieto, 45, told supporters in his victory
speech. “I will be a modern, responsible president, open to
criticism, ready to listen, and taking into account the views of
everyone.”  The PRI and the allied  Green Party  fell short of winning a
majority in Congress and will need support from opposition
parties to enact Pena Nieto’s proposals for overhauling the
state-run oil industry, tax and labor laws, according to Jorge
Carlos Ramirez Marin, Pena Nieto’s deputy campaign chief.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eric Martin in Mexico City at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net ;
Nacha Cattan in Mexico City at 
 ncattan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  