-- Morgan Stanley Notes Wrongly Touted by Raters, Suit Says
-- B y   J o h n   L i p p e r t ,   Z e k e   F a u x   a n d   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 2012-07-03T17:04:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-02/morgan-stanley-pushed-s-p-to-boost-ratings-investors-say.html
Morgan Stanley successfully pushed
 Standard & Poor’s  and Moody’s Investors Service Inc. to give
unwarranted investment-grade ratings in 2006 to $23 billion
worth of notes backed by subprime mortgages, investors claimed
in a lawsuit, citing documents unsealed in federal court.  According to the plaintiffs, the documents reveal that what
the ratings companies describe as independent judgments were
actually unsupported by evidence and written in collaboration
with the bank that was packaging the securities. Morgan Stanley
and the ratings companies deny the allegations.  Executives at the ratings companies failed to warn
investors about the risks associated with subprime-backed notes
that were issued by a unit of London-based hedge fund Cheyne
Capital Management Ltd., the investors claimed. Moody’s and S&P
sought to reap financial rewards from doing business with  Morgan
Stanley (MS) , the sixth-largest U.S. bank by assets, they alleged,
citing court filings unsealed yesterday in Manhattan.  “All of us were under instructions to rate everything that
we could bring in the door, and they were measuring market share
on a monthly basis,” Frank Raiter, a former analyst of
residential-mortgage bonds at S&P, said in a deposition,
according to the documents. “I wasn’t real confident we were
doing a very good job at it.”  Claims Dismissed  U.S. District Judge Shira Scheindlin last month dismissed
some claims against the defendants, while allowing the investors
to proceed on a claim of negligent misrepresentation. In 2009,
she rejected an argument that the ratings were protected speech
under the U.S. Constitution.  The unsealing of the internal documents from Moody’s and
Standard & Poor’s came in one of the largest ratings lawsuits to
emerge from the 2008 financial crisis. The lawsuit was filed in
2008 by Abu Dhabi Commercial Bank, based in the  United Arab
Emirates , and Washington’s King County, which includes  Seattle .  The case focuses on notes issued by Cheyne Finance Plc, a
so-called structured-investment vehicle that collapsed in 2007.
SIVs issued short-term debt to fund purchases of higher-yielding
long-term notes and failed when credit dried up amid the
financial crisis, sparked by investments in mortgage-backed
securities.  The Cheyne SIV declared bankruptcy in August 2007 when
borrowers defaulted on the mortgages that secured the notes,
according to the 2009 ruling. Holders of the notes that were
initially rated AAA got back little of their investment and some
other securities turned out to be worthless, the judge said.  Designing Notes  As Morgan Stanley bankers were designing the Cheyne notes,
they asked Moody’s to use the same volatility assumptions for
subprime-backed mortgage securities as for those that had prime
home loans as collateral, the investors allege in yesterday’s
filing. The ratings company agreed, the investors claim.  “We in fact built everything,” Dorothee Fuhrmann, an
executive for New York-based Morgan Stanley, said according to
the documents, allegedly referring to the risk-analysis methods
applied to the Cheyne ratings.  The investors are using e-mails “chosen from thousands of
pages of documents” out of context to support a “baseless”
case,  Ed Sweeney , a spokesman for S&P, said in a statement.  Mary Claire Delaney, a spokeswoman for Morgan Stanley, said
that the investors’ allegations are “without merit.”  “Our rating opinions in this case were, as always, fully
independent,”  Michael Adler , a spokesman for New York-based
Moody’s, said in a phone interview.  AAA Ratings  Before the crisis, Moody’s Investors Service, a unit of
 Moody’s Corp. (MCO) , had given AAA ratings to 42,625 mortgage-backed
securities, the same seal of approval  U.S. Treasury  bonds get.
Of those rated in 2006, 83 percent were downgraded within four
years, according to the Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission.  The credit-rating companies have successfully defended
themselves from investor lawsuits since the financial crisis by
arguing that ratings are opinions, protected by the right to
free speech, and that any mistakes were inadvertent. Terry McGraw, the chief executive officer of S&P’s parent company,
McGraw-Hill Cos., said last year on a conference call with
analysts that 30 lawsuits against S&P have been dismissed or
dropped and that he’s seeing “those dark clouds go away.”  “They’ve made an argument that effectively they’re just
journalists,” David Reiss, a professor at Brooklyn Law School
who has studied credit ratings, said in a phone interview. Other
judges have accepted this argument for decades, he said.  Scheindlin in 2009 rejected the free-speech defense in the
Abu Dhabi case, saying the rating companies’ comments were
distributed privately to a select group of investors, and not to
the general public.  ‘Very Inappropriate’  Morgan Stanley successfully pressured New York-based S&P to
raise its rating on some of the Cheyne securities, according to
the plaintiffs. After Lapo Guadagnuolo, an S&P employee, told
Morgan Stanley that some of the securities would get BBB ratings
instead of the desired A grade, a banker e-mailed his boss and
said the ratings were “very inappropriate.” S&P then agreed to
give the higher rating, according to the court filing.  Morgan Stanley earned fees totaling as much as $30 million
when the Cheyne notes were issued, according to the documents.
The ratings companies earned about $6 million initially,
according to the 2009 ruling.  “Because MS was responsible for the SIV from cradle to
grave, MS is liable for the fraudulent ratings and for its
omission of material facts from the Cheyne SIV documents it
created and distributed,” the investors said in the filing.  Market Share  While the analysts who devised S&P ratings were supposed to
be insulated from the pressure to win business, some appeared to
take market share into consideration, according to the
plaintiffs. Perry Inglis, the head of the S&P group that rated
the Cheyne securities, wrote in an e-mail that it would be a
“good idea” to figure out how to change its methodology to be
more “competitive,” according to the court filing.  “I’m a bit unclear if it is a big change or a ‘wee itty
bitty no-one’s going to notice’ change!” Inglis is quoted as
saying in an e-mail.  Scheindlin, the  Manhattan  federal judge, ordered the
documents unsealed because the plaintiffs are using them to
oppose motions presented by Moody’s and Standard & Poor’s for
summary judgment to dismiss the case. Many of the other cases
against the ratings companies were dismissed before the
investors could review internal documents, according to Sylvain Raynes, a principal at R&R Consulting in New York and a former
analyst at Moody’s.  ‘This Time’  “Now the pendulum has shifted,” Raynes said in a phone
interview. “That’s why things will be different this time.”  Scheindlin has previously rejected Moody’s, S&P’s and
Morgan Stanley’s bid to have the suit thrown out on the grounds
that the economic downturn, not the defendants’ misconduct, was
to blame for investors’ losses on the notes. The judge said the
securities received the “highest credit ratings ever given to
capital notes,” according to court filings.  In December, after a procedural ruling in  New York  state
court, Scheindlin also allowed the plaintiffs to reinstate their
claim that the ratings companies are guilty of negligent
misrepresentation. This would require the plaintiffs to show
only that Moody’s and Standard & Poor’s should have known that
the ratings were wrong, as opposed to proving they knowingly and
fraudulently disregarded facts at their disposal.  “The case has the potential to be a landmark moment for
rating agency accountability, which has been sorely missing in
the wake of the financial crisis,”  Jeffrey Manns , a professor
of law at George Washington University who specializes in
securities regulation, said in an e-mail.  Plaintiffs in the case are represented by Robbins Geller
Rudman & Dowd LLP, a San Diego-based law firm that settled
shareholder claims stemming from the 2001 collapse of Enron
Corp. for $7.2 billion.  The case is Abu Dhabi Commercial Bank v. Morgan Stanley,
08-7508, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zeke Faux in New York at   zfaux@bloomberg.net ;
John Lippert in  Chicago  at 
 jlippert@bloomberg.net ;
Jef Feeley in Wilmington,  Delaware , at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  