-- Osborne to Make Statement on U.K. Banks as Labour Seeks Inquiry
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2012-07-02T11:56:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-02/osborne-to-make-statement-on-u-k-banks-as-labour-seeks-inquiry.html
U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer
 George Osborne  will make a statement today on banking as the
opposition Labour Party seeks an inquiry into the industry after
 Barclays Plc (BARC)  was fined for trying to rig interest rates and its
chairman resigned.  Osborne will address lawmakers in the House of Commons in
London at about 4:30 p.m. A spokesman for the Labour leader  Ed Miliband  said he would propose an amendment to the Financial
Services Bill, being debated by the upper House of Lords, to
force Prime Minister  David Cameron  to set up a judge-led inquiry
into banking practices, similar to the probe currently under way
into media ethics.  Barclays Chairman Marcus Agius quit today after the bank
was fined a record 290 million pounds ($455 million) last week
for attempting to manipulate the London and euro interbank
offered rates for profit. Miliband called for the lender’s chief
executive officer,  Robert Diamond , to step down too.  “I don’t think that he can carry Barclays forward,”
Miliband told ITV’s “Daybreak” program. “If you go out and
nick 50 pounds from Tesco, you are punished; at least we hope
that you are punished. If you fiddle, lie, cheat to the tune of
millions of pounds, you should also have the full force of the
law brought against you.”  The House of Commons Treasury Committee has called on
Diamond to testify about Libor on July 4 and on Agius to appear
the following day.  ‘Restoring Trust’  “There needs to be much better explanations of the
responsibility at Barclays,” Miliband said. “I really don’t
believe that the leadership and restoring trust in Britain’s
banking can be done by  Bob Diamond .”  Both Cameron and Business Secretary  Vince Cable , a Liberal
Democrat, have said they see limited value in an independent
judicial inquiry. The government has ordered an independent look
at practices surrounding the setting of Libor.  Cameron’s spokesman, Steve Field, repeated the government’s
statement that there is no need for an inquiry today.  “We know what went wrong,” he told reporters in London.
Asked if Cameron welcomes the resignation of Agius, Field said
it was a “matter for the shareholders” of Barclays. He
indicated that Agius would also step down as a U.K. trade envoy,
as that position was the result of his role at the bank.  Deputy Governor  The Treasury Committee will also ask questions this week
about  Paul Tucker , the deputy governor of the Bank of England,
who spoke to Barclays by telephone in October 2008, Field said.  At least a dozen firms, including Citigroup Inc.,  Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  and UBS AG, are being probed by
regulators worldwide for colluding to rig the Libor rate, the
benchmark for more than $360 trillion of securities, including
mortgages,  student loans  and swaps.  Conservative lawmaker Mark Field, who represents London’s
financial district, said he expects more bankers to step down.  “It is fairly evident” that Barclays was not the only
bank involved,” Field told Sky News television. “Four traders
were dismissed by RBS earlier in the year and the  Bank of
England  have also been caught up to a certain extent as well. It
is a very fluid situation and I expect that there will be
several more resignations.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  