-- Shareholder Activism in Japan? Not Yet
-- B y   W i l l i a m   P e s e k
-- 2012-07-02T21:00:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-02/tough-legs-loins-urged-by-shareholder-activists-william-pesek.html
Investor activism is on the rise in
post-Fukushima  Japan. (NKY)  If it takes effect, the proof may show up
at  Nomura (8604)  Holdings Inc.  Some stockholders want to rename the venerable investment
bank “Vegetable Holdings” to urge healthy business practices
on a board embroiled in insider-trading accusations. Just as
untenable was the suggestion at the annual general meeting that
Nomura re-equip its offices with old-style Japanese toilets --
essentially holes in the ground. Yet another shareholder
 proposal  aims at “toughening the legs and loins and hunkering
down on a daily basis, aiming at achieving 4-digit stock
prices.”  At least that one, as bizarre as it sounds, raises a real
issue: at 296 yen ($3.72), Nomura shares are a disaster, down
more than 80 percent in the past five years.  Tokyo  Electric Power Co., which brought us the worst
nuclear crisis since Chernobyl, is on its own hot seat.
Shareholders are demanding that the owner of the crippled
Fukushima reactors abandon or reduce its dependence on nuclear
power and do more for the 100,000-plus people forced to abandon
their homes. Tepco isn’t used to such bluntness.  Yet let’s not get ahead of ourselves. For all the signs
that shareholders are speaking up after decades of reticence,
there are even more suggesting that a revolution in Japanese
corporate governance is more myth than fact.  Gone Stale  First, the good news. As scandals go, the last 15 months
have been rough on  Japan . From Tepco to  Olympus Corp. (7733) ’s merger
deceptions to AIJ Investment Advisors Co.’s hidden losses,
investors received ample reminders that the stale status quo
reigns in a nation that needs to plot a new course to remain
competitive.  The government’s clumsy response to last year’s earthquake
and tsunami added fuel to electoral activism that in August 2009
ended almost 55 years of unbroken  Liberal Democratic Party  rule.
A steady parade of shocking corporate scandals since then, the
slow pace of post-quake reconstruction and unpopular efforts to
raise sales taxes now have the ruling  Democratic Party of Japan 
fighting for its life.  Even “Mrs. Watanabe” is losing faith. That’s the
metaphorical name for individual Japanese investors, many of
whom are housewives who tend to control the family purse
strings.  “This has translated into unprecedented public
condemnation of former Japan Inc. stalwarts such as Tepco,”
says  Ed Rogers , the chief executive officer of Tokyo-based
Rogers Investment Advisors. “We expect this will all lead to
further shareholder activism as Mrs. Watanabe becomes
increasingly vocal in dissent on both economic and political
issues. As a voter and as a shareholder, Mrs. Watanabe no longer
trusts Japan Inc. in the way she once did, and may never
again.”  The bad news is that corporate Japan isn’t listening very
closely. Japanese companies are cash-rich at a time when  Europe 
is in turmoil and America is in risk-aversion mode. The
expectation is that the strong yen will lead to an explosion of
mergers-and-acquisitions that pumps up profits.  Not so fast, says  Naomi Fink , an equity strategist at
Jefferies Japan Ltd. in Tokyo. She points to evidence that
corporations are squandering their built-up cash stores by
paying too much for overseas acquisitions. Return on investment
doesn’t tend to improve after these acquisitions. There are few
signs this is changing even as more shareholders speak out.  To those giddy that change is sweeping Japan,  Nicholas Smith , a strategist at CLSA Asia-Pacific Markets Ltd. in Tokyo,
has two words:  Michael Woodford . He was the Olympus president
dismissed last October for daring to ask why the company’s books
didn’t add up. The scandal led to an earnings restatement and a
$1.3 billion cut in its total equity.  Stay Away  When the vindicated Woodford volunteered to return to his
job, no domestic institutional  investors  supported him. “That
is the core of the problem,” Smith says. “People get the
corporate governance that they deserve -- as well as the pension
returns that they deserve.”  Granted, our system of capitalism isn’t exactly
distinguishing itself. Every day brings a new tale of
malfeasance or incompetence. JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s trading loss
may reach $9 billion. China’s economic data can’t be trusted.
Facebook Inc.’s initial public offering was a bomb. The Libor
market is rigged. I could go on, but why should anyone trust the
financial markets and those who participate in them?  Yet if Tokyo wants to remain a world financial center, it
must make companies more accountable. It must clamp down on
 insider trading , and that includes stopping companies from
leaking earnings figures to the media. It must shorten the
period for public stock offerings -- currently 15 days -- to
discourage dodgy dealings. It must, in general, take white-
collar crime seriously and hand out more prison terms.  That will only happen when shareholders find their voice,
ask pointed questions and demand change. It’s great that we are
seeing more of this, but we need much, much more of it. Only
that will get Japanese managers to pay attention to the
interests of investors.  (William Pesek is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  repealing Jackson-Vanik  and
why Barclays CEO  Robert Diamond should resign ;  Noah Feldman 
explains why  liberals should thank John Roberts ;  Jeffrey
Goldberg  on  Eric Schmidt’s techno-optimism .  To contact the writer of this article:
William Pesek in Tokyo at 
 wpesek@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net . 