-- Louis Dreyfus Sued by Trader Over Cotton Futures Pricing
-- B y   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e
-- 2012-07-02T21:16:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-02/louis-dreyfus-sued-by-trader-over-cotton-futures-pricing.html
Three units of Louis Dreyfus Holdings
BV of the Netherlands were sued by a trader who accused the
company of manipulating the cotton-futures market.  Trader Mark Allen alleged in a lawsuit filed June 29 in
federal court in  Manhattan  that he lost more than $57,000
because he was forced to pay artificially high prices for
cotton. The defendants and their co-conspirators colluded to
artificially fix the price of the futures, he said in the
complaint.  The alleged monopoly involved “almost 100 percent of the
relevant market,” Allen said.  The suit was filed as a proposed class action, or group
suit, on behalf of all traders who may have lost money from the
alleged manipulation. Other defendants include Allenberg Cotton
Co., a merchant affiliated with one of the units, Louis Dreyfus
Commodities Holdings BV. The other defendant units are Louis
Dreyfus Commodities BV and Louis Dreyfus Commodities LLC.  Allen claims Dreyfus’s conspiracy to violate antitrust laws
took place in two periods, from March 30, 2011, to May 6, 2011,
and from June 7, 2011, to July 7, 2001.  Julie Hibon, a spokeswoman for Louis Dreyfus, didn’t
immediately respond to an e-mail requesting comment on the suit.
Joseph Nicosia, chief executive officer of Allenberg Cotton,
didn’t immediately return a voice-mail message left at his
office seeking comment.  Futures Prices  Cotton futures jumped to a record $2.197 a pound on March
7, 2011, after the worst drought in at least a century decimated
crops in  Texas , the biggest U.S. producer. Prices plunged
58 percent by the end of the year as demand tumbled in  China ,
the world’s largest consumer. The fiber has fallen another 22
percent in 2012.  At issue in the lawsuit were futures contracts expiring in
May 2011 and July 2011. The suit alleged Louis Dreyfus
manipulated the prices by taking deliveries of millions of
pounds of cotton.  In June 2011, the cotton market experienced a supply
“squeeze,” with stockpiles plunging 73 percent in one day,
according to consulting firm FCStone Fibers & Textiles.  Louis Dreyfus was founded in 1851 as a grain trading
company and has since grown into a leader in the global
agricultural processing and sales markets, according to its
corporate website.  The group is closely held by the Louis-Dreyfus family,
controlled by the Robert Louis-Dreyfus trust, according to the
site.  The case is Allen v. Term Commodities Inc., 12-cv-5126,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christie Smythe in New York at 
 csmythe1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 