-- Housing, Domestic Oil May Boost U.S. Growth, Pimco Says
-- B y   L i n d s e y   R u p p
-- 2012-07-02T13:30:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-02/housing-domestic-oil-may-boost-u-s-growth-pimco-says.html
The  U.S. economy  is poised to grow
for the next three to five years amid improvement in the housing
market and reduced reliance on imported energy, according to
Pacific Investment Management Co.  Domestic factors could boost economic growth by half a
percentage point, year-over-year, beyond its 2 percent pace,
Saumil H. Parikh, who leads  Newport Beach , California-based
Pimco’s cyclical economic forums, said in a copy of comments
obtained by Bloomberg News. He said the federal deficit could
hinder employment growth if politicians fail to address the so-
called fiscal cliff.  “Despite legacy issues of debts and deficits, the U.S.
economy remains fundamentally one of the most productive,
innovative and vibrant,” Parikh said.  More Americans than forecast signed contracts to purchase
previously owned homes in May, suggesting the real estate
industry is firming three years after the start of the economic
recovery. The  index  of pending home resales climbed 5.9 percent
to 101.1, matching a two-year high reached in March, after a 5.5
percent decline in April, according to figures from the National
Association of Realtors released June 27.  Energy Output  U.S. oil production has  increased  to the highest level in
more than 12 years. Drilling has expanded in states including
 North Dakota ,  Texas ,  Oklahoma ,  Wyoming  and  Colorado .  Parikh said he expects the dollar to strengthen against its
developed peers. The dollar has depreciated against all but one
of its 16 major counterparts during the past 10 years.  The U.S. currency is 25 percent undervalued against the
yen, based on an index developed by the Organization for
Economic Cooperation and Development in Paris that measures
currencies using prices for similar goods and services in two
countries.  “The outlook for the  U.S. dollar  is relatively better than
for several other developed currencies, as relative
considerations including valuations begin to matter,” Parikh
said. “For all those reasons, and because the dollar has
already weakened substantially relative to such currencies as
the euro, yen and pound, we expect the dollar to begin to
appreciate over a secular horizon.”  Growth Markets  He said the emerging-market currencies will likely
outperform the dollar, long-term.  “Globally, we see  emerging markets  as potentially offering
much more value from real economic growth,” Parikh said. “We
believe their growth rates are likely to continue to outpace the
developed world over a secular horizon, and they tend to have
less leverage on their public and private balance sheets.”  The November U.S. elections will be critical in assessing
progress to address tax increases and spending cuts scheduled to
begin next year, he said. Failure to adopt changes to the deal
linked to last year’s increase in the federal debt limit may end
the recovery, he said.  “We expect they would result in a contraction of about 4
percent of gross domestic product,” Parikh wrote. “Since the
U.S. economy is expanding at a rate of about 2 percent, such a
fiscal cliff would mean certain recession in 2013.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lindsey Rupp in  New York  at 
 lrupp2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  