-- Ozawa Leaves Ruling DPJ Over Japan Sales Tax in Blow to Noda
-- B y   I s a b e l   R e y n o l d s   a n d   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a
-- 2012-07-02T08:08:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-02/ozawa-to-leave-japan-ruling-party-over-sales-tax-in-blow-to-noda.html
Former  Democratic Party  of Japan
leader Ichiro Ozawa will leave the ruling bloc to form his own
political group, complicating Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda ’s
efforts to pass legislation doubling the  consumption tax .  Lawmaker Kenji Yamaoka submitted a letter of resignation to
DPJ Secretary-General Azuma Koshiishi today in  Tokyo  on behalf
of 50 lawmakers, 38 from the lower house of parliament and 12
from the upper chamber. Ozawa, 70, and 56 other ruling party
legislators voted against the sales tax bill in the lower house
on June 26.  While Ozawa’s new group can try to block the legislation by
submitting a no-confidence motion against the government, it
lacks sufficient numbers to topple the DPJ. The opposition
 Liberal Democratic Party ’s support of the tax makes passage
through the upper house likely, and it has shown no sign of
cooperation with Ozawa, who left the LDP two decades ago.  “It appears Ozawa really thinks that opposing the  sales
tax  is going to bring him a lot of seats,” said Steven R. Reed,
a professor of political science at Chuo University in Tokyo.
“Politics always involves strange bedfellows, but given his
history of breaking up parties, it is hard to imagine who would
want to work with him now.”  Yamaoka corrected his list to 50 defectors from 52 after
lower house lawmakers Takeshi Shina and Megumi Tsuji denied on
TBS Television that they were leaving the DPJ.  Ozawa ‘Destroyer’  The legislation would increase the five percent tax to 8
percent in April 2014 and to 10 percent in October 2015. Its
opponents argue the increase contradicts the platform on which
the DPJ came to power in 2009, and say it may discourage
consumption and fail to increase  tax revenue .  Ozawa, who engineered the Democrats’ 2009 election victory,
was acquitted in April of violating campaign finance laws. He
has been nicknamed “the destroyer” for his 20-year history of
leaving political parties and forming new ones.  Opinion polls show the tax bill is unpopular with voters,
without translating to support for Ozawa. In a survey published
in the Asahi newspaper on June 28, 52 percent of respondents
said they opposed the bill, while 78 percent said they did not
have high expectations for Ozawa’s breakaway party.  Noda has repeatedly said raising the tax is necessary to
address the world’s largest public debt and soaring welfare
costs. The  International Monetary Fund  and the Organization for
Economic Cooperation and Development have both urged  Japan  to be
more aggressive in tackling a debt that the OECD predicts will
reach 223 percent of gross domestic product next year.  Even with the defections, the DPJ will retain its majority
in the 480-seat lower house and remain the party with the most
seats in the upper house.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Isabel Reynolds in Tokyo at 
 ireynolds1@bloomberg.net ;
Takashi Hirokawa in Tokyo at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  