-- Pena Nieto Campaign Head Claims Win on Mexico Exit Poll Lead
-- B y   E r i c   M a r t i n   a n d   N a c h a   C a t t a n
-- 2012-07-02T02:05:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-02/pena-nieto-campaign-head-claims-win-on-mexico-exit-poll-lead-1-.html
Enrique Pena Nieto leads his rivals
in exit polls of  Mexico ’s presidential election as he seeks to
return the once-dominant  Institutional Revolutionary Party  to
power after a 12-year hiatus.  Pena Nieto received 42 percent of the vote, topping 31
percent for  Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador  of the Democratic
Revolution Party and 23 for Josefina Vazquez Mota of President
 Felipe Calderon ’s  National Action Party , according to a survey
of voters at polling stations by GEA-ISA. The poll of 3,588
people had a margin of error of 2 percentage points. A survey by
BGC, Ulises Beltran y Asociados showed Pena Nieto with a similar
lead.  “Tonight, Enrique Pena Nieto is the next president” of
Mexico, the candidate’s campaign manager Luis Videgaray said in
an interview with Milenio TV. “If the numbers of GEA-ISA are
sustained, we’re talking about Enrique Pena Nieto winning the
presidential election with a margin between five and six million
votes.”  Pena Nieto, 45, led polls from the campaign’s start, fueled
by pledges to boost salaries held back by economic growth that
averaged 1.8 percent a year since Calderon took office in 2006.
That’s half the rate of  Brazil ’s 4.1 percent average over that
period, though Mexico has caught up in the past two years. Pena
Nieto also promised to turn the tide in a drug war blamed for
more than 47,000 deaths under Calderon and pursue tax, labor and
energy overhauls to boost competitiveness.  In a televised speech, Vazquez Mota thanked all her
supporters and said that the early results didn’t favor her.  PAN Rule  Pena Nieto has criticized the ruling  PAN  for not spreading
the benefits of economic stability more widely during 12 years
of rule since President Vicente Fox’s election in 2000 ended the
PRI’s 71-year reign. Mexico remains economically dependent on
the U.S., the world’s largest economy, sending 80 percent of
exports to its northern neighbor. Mexico is also the biggest
buyer of U.S. goods after  Canada .  Investors took the election in stride. Mexico’s peso has
rallied 5 percent in the past six months, the best performance
of 16 major currencies tracked by Bloomberg. The benchmark IPC
stock index surged to a record on June 29 and has gained 1.7
percent in the past three months, compared with a 9.7 percent
drop in the MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index spurred by  Europe ’s debt
crisis.  Analysts surveyed by Bloomberg forecast Mexico’s gross
domestic product will expand 3.7 percent in 2012, outpacing
growth in Brazil for a second straight year. Mexican peso bonds
have returned 12.9 percent in dollar terms this year, compared
with a gain of 3.4 percent for local-currency emerging-market
debt, according to Bank of America Corp.  Conceding Defeat  Many Mexicans will be looking to see if Lopez Obrador, 58,
who has focused his campaign on boosting spending for the poor,
will concede defeat if he loses. After the last elections in
2006, which the PRD candidate lost by less than a percentage
point after leading in many pre-election polls, his supporters
occupied streets in the capital for weeks claiming fraud.  Lopez Obrador  arrived today before 8 a.m. at his voting
station in Mexico City and had to wait more than 45 minutes
until it was formally opened.  “I trust the people of Mexico, I believe in the people,”
he said, according to the Reforma newspaper. “We are going to
win.”  Allegations  Lopez Obrador’s party has alleged the PRI tried to buy
votes by handing supporters shop gift cards, while the PAN has
said Pena Nieto’s party gave away bank cards. The PRI denied the
claims and its leadership yesterday in a press conference said
it has asked all of its representatives to abide by electoral
laws.  Whereas Lopez Obrador arrived in a single car to vote, Pena
Nieto came in a convoy of three dark  sport utility vehicles  and
took several photos with supporters on his way in and out.  The PRI’s years in power were marked by “theft and
devaluation,” said Maria Etchegaray, 82, as she lined up to
vote in Mexico City. “I am going to vote for Vazquez Mota
because I’ll never vote for the PRI,” she said, adding that
Lopez Obrador “scares” her.  At the same polling station, Enrique Torres said he would
vote for Pena Nieto, describing him as more “refined.” Lopez
Obrador’s “time has passed,” he said.  Student Protests  In the past few weeks, Pena Nieto has faced student
protests organized on the Internet and driven in part by concern
he will erode civil liberties and revive corruption that thrived
under previous PRI regimes.  Vazquez Mota, 51, has promised to continue the pro-business
policies and drug crackdown initiated by Calderon, who is barred
by the constitution from seeking re-election.  To push his agenda Pena Nieto will need the support of
Calderon’s party in Congress. A poll by Consulta Mitofsky taken
June 22-24 showed the PRI-Green alliance garnering at least 274
of the 500 seats in the lower house of Congress. Currently, the
PRI’s  coalition  has 262 seats.  Preliminary results for congressional seats haven’t been
released yet.  Pena Nieto has said that if elected he plans to spur growth
by making it easier for companies to hire and fire workers,
increasing tax collection and encouraging more businesses to
join the formal economy. He also said he plans to loosen
Petroleos Mexicanos’ oil monopoly, which was formed when his
party nationalized the then foreign-owned industry in 1938.  Changing Tactics  Pena Nieto has said he’ll change tactics in the drug war,
reducing violence by focusing on the worst crimes such as murder
and kidnapping and eventually return the army to the barracks.  It was President Carlos Salinas de Gortari of the PRI who
signed the  North American Free Trade Agreement  with the U.S. and
Canada that took effect in 1994. Mexican sales to the U.S. have
since jumped six-fold to $263 billion last year, according to
the U.S. Commerce Department data. That helped more than double
Mexico’s GDP in those years to more than $1 trillion in 2011.  Pena Nieto filled most of the Azteca soccer stadium for his
final rally in Mexico City on June 24, telling supporters he’s
“part of a generation that has grown up in a democracy, and I
aspire to be a president who governs respecting liberties,
listening to everyone and including the voices of all.”  His rivals have said that he isn’t capable of bringing
about the change he promises and that returning the PRI to power
would reignite corruption that blossomed under its previous
rule.  “People are going to be asking ‘Is this a new PRI?’ which
his campaign suggests, or is he the young, handsome face of the
old PRI,” said Diana Villiers Negroponte, a nonresident senior
fellow at the  Brookings Institution  in  Washington . “I don’t
think any of us can make that conclusion with certainty until
January or February,” after the new president takes office on
Dec. 1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Martin in Mexico City at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net ;
Nacha Cattan in Mexico City at 
 ncattan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 