-- Pena Nieto Claims Mexico Vote Win as PRI Returns to Power
-- B y   E r i c   M a r t i n   a n d   N a c h a   C a t t a n
-- 2012-07-02T19:02:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-02/pena-nieto-claims-win-in-mexico-election-as-pri-returns-to-power.html
Enrique Pena Nieto was elected
 Mexico ’s president yesterday, returning the once-dominant
 Institutional Revolutionary Party  to power following a 12-year
hiatus, while failing to win a majority in congress.  “The Mexican people have given our party a second
opportunity,” Pena Nieto, 45, told supporters in a speech at
his PRI party’s headquarters in Mexico City last night. “I will
be a modern, responsible president, open to criticism, ready to
listen, and taking into account the views of everyone.”  With 93 percent of the vote counted, Pena Nieto won 37.8
percent, topping 31.9 percent for  Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador  of
the Democratic Revolution Party. Josefina Vazquez Mota of
outgoing President Felipe Calderon’s  National Action Party , or
PAN, gained 25.5 percent of the vote. The new president will
serve a six-year term and is barred from seeking reelection.  President  Barack Obama  called Pena Nieto today to
congratulate him on his victory “based on the initial
results,” the White House said in a statement. Obama told Pena
Nieto he “looks forward to advancing common goals,” including
promoting democracy, prosperity and security in the region, the
White House said.  Pena Nieto’s margin of victory, which was about half the 13
percentage points in the final pre-election poll, probably cost
the PRI and its alliance partner, the  Green Party , their
majority in the Chamber of Deputies.  Congress Control  With more than 90 percent of the votes counted, the PRI
alliance will have about 241 lawmakers in the 500-seat lower
house, Jorge Ramirez Marin, the second in command of Pena
Nieto’s campaign, said in a telephone interview.  The ruling alliance will also fall short of the 65 seats
needed to control the Senate, winning about 58, Arturo Sanchez,
a former board member of the electoral institute, said in an
interview.  The results will force the PRI to seek support from the
opposition and give  Lopez Obrador ’s party more power to block
legislation, including a proposal to overhaul Petroleos
Mexicanos’ oil monopoly created by the PRI’s 1938
nationalization of the then foreign-owned industry. Ending the
monopoly can be accomplished only through a constitutional
amendment, which requires a two-thirds majority.  “We know we’ll need agreements to generate the necessary
reforms,” said Arturo Zamora, who was elected senator for the
state of Jalisco in yesterday’s election. “The big reforms must
get approval in the first year of the new government,” he said
in a telephone interview from Guadalajara, Jalisco’s capital.  Potential Deadlock  The exact composition of Congress may not be known until
July 4, when final tally of votes is expected.  The lack of a majority “at best could cause reforms to be
watered down, at worst it could lead to a continuation of the
political deadlock that has stalled reform during the  PAN ’s”
12-year rule, London-based Capital Economics Ltd. said in a
report.  Pena Nieto led polls from the campaign’s start, fueled by
pledges to boost salaries held back by economic growth that
averaged 1.8 percent a year since Calderon took office in 2006.
That’s half the rate of  Brazil ’s 4.1 percent average over that
period, though Mexico has caught up in the past two years. Pena
Nieto also promised to turn the tide in a drug war blamed for
more than 47,000 deaths under Calderon and pursue tax, labor and
energy overhauls to boost competitiveness.  “In facing organized crime, there will be no pact or
truce,” Pena Nieto told supporters just before midnight.  Final Word  Lopez Obrador, who claimed fraud in 2006 when he lost to
Calderon by less than a percentage point, hasn’t conceded defeat
amid calls for him to do so by the PRI leadership. Instead, the
former Mexico City mayor, who focused his campaign on the poor,
said he’d wait for district tallies.  “The final word hasn’t been spoken,” Lopez Obrador said
in a televised speech from Mexico City last night, adding that
he’d act “responsibly” when the results are known.  In a televised speech, Vazquez Mota thanked her supporters
while outgoing President  Felipe Calderon  called on the nation to
respect the results, adding that he’d work with the Pena Nieto
to assure a smooth transition before the next government takes
office Dec. 1.  Pena Nieto has criticized the ruling PAN for not spreading
the benefits of economic stability more widely during 12 years
of rule since President Vicente Fox’s election in 2000 ended the
PRI’s 71-year reign. Mexico remains economically dependent on
the U.S., the world’s largest economy, sending 80 percent of
exports to its northern neighbor.  Interdependence  Mexico is also biggest buyer of U.S. goods after  Canada ,
and about 12 million people living in the U.S. were born in
Mexico, 30 percent of all immigrants, the Washington-based Pew
Research Center said in an April report. Remittances, which
totaled $23 billion in 2011, are Mexico’s third-largest source
of foreign income after automobile and oil exports.  Mexico’s peso dropped, falling 0.5 percent to 13.4224 per
 U.S. dollar  at 10:07 a.m. in Mexico City, after data from the
 Institute for Supply Management  showed manufacturing in the U.S.
unexpectedly shrank in June. The currency earlier touched a
seven-week high.  Investors had taken the election in stride. The peso
rallied 4.2 percent in the six months through last week, the
best performance of 16 major currencies tracked by Bloomberg.
The benchmark IPC stock index surged to a record on June 29 and
has gained 9.2 in the past year, compared with a 19 percent drop
in the MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index spurred by  Europe ’s debt
crisis.  Growth Outlook  Analysts surveyed by Bloomberg forecast Mexico’s gross
domestic product will expand 3.7 percent in 2012, outpacing
growth in Brazil for a second straight year. Mexican peso bonds
have returned 12.9 percent in dollar terms this year, compared
with an average gain of 3.4 percent for local-currency emerging-
market debt, according to Bank of America Corp.  The PRI’s years in power were marked by “theft and
devaluation,” said Maria Etchegaray, 82, as she lined up to
vote in Mexico City yesterday. “I am going to vote for Vazquez
Mota because I’ll never vote for the PRI,” she said, adding
that Lopez Obrador “scares” her.  At the same polling station, Enrique Torres said he would
vote for Pena Nieto, describing him as more “refined.” Lopez
Obrador’s “time has passed,” he said.  Whereas Lopez Obrador arrived in a single car to vote, Pena
Nieto came in a convoy of three dark  sport utility vehicles  and
took several photos with supporters on his way in and out.  Student Protests  In the past few weeks, Pena Nieto has faced student
protests organized on the Internet and driven in part by concern
he will erode civil liberties and revive corruption that thrived
under previous PRI regimes.  Pena Nieto has said that if elected he plans to spur growth
by making it easier for companies to hire and fire workers,
increasing tax collection and encouraging more businesses to
join the formal economy.  Pena Nieto has said he’ll change tactics in the drug war,
reducing violence by focusing on the worst crimes such as murder
and kidnapping and eventually return the army to the barracks.  The PRI’s rivals have said that Pena Nieto isn’t capable of
bringing about the change that he promises and that returning
the party to power would reignite corruption that blossomed
under its previous rule.  Speaking to the supporters in the auditorium of the PRI’s
headquarters, which is adorned with a several-story high mural
depicting peasants in the Mexican revolution charging forward
with outstretched bayonets, Pena Nieto promised a more inclusive
administration and a new era for the PRI in Mexico.  “I want a new country that’s successful and recognizes the
potential and talent of every Mexican,” he said, moments before
he and his family were showered with confetti. “It’s time to
leave the country that we are for the country that we deserve.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Martin in Mexico City at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net ;
Nacha Cattan in Mexico City at 
 ncattan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 