-- Pena Nieto Prosperity Vow for Mexico Means Mastering the PRI
-- B y   N a c h a   C a t t a n
-- 2012-07-02T17:10:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-02/pena-nieto-prosperity-vow-for-mexico-means-mastering-his-party.html
Enrique Pena Nieto rode a wave of
discontent with  Mexico ’s ruling party to win the presidency. Now
he must master his own party and a divided legislature to
deliver on pledges to reduce drug violence, boost wages and
break a state monopoly on oil.  Pena Nieto has 37.9 percent of the vote with 92 percent of
ballots counted, beating his closest by six percentage points,
according to preliminary results. His victory restores the
 Institutional Revolutionary Party  to the presidency it held for
71 years until 2000, while falling short of a majority in
congress.  While the 45-year-old presents himself as part of a more-
democratic generation of leaders, many PRI governors continue to
rule their states like “fiefdoms” and won’t take easily to
centralized control, said  Enrique Krauze , a historian and author
of “Mexico: Biography of Power.” Pena Nieto also faces the
threat of protests from an anti-PRI student movement and
supporters of second-place finisher  Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador ,
who performed better than opinion polls had forecast.  “Pena Nieto has proved during these months that he has
political instincts, that he’s a political animal,” Krauze said
in an interview in Mexico City prior to yesterday’s balloting.
“But he won’t have an easy ride now in the sense that he’ll
have to fight both inside and outside” his party.  Pena Nieto said in an interview in November that he would
stake his administration’s success on ending the state’s
monopoly over oil company  Petroleos Mexicanos . He has vowed to
improve coordination between federal and local police forces to
reduce drug-related violence that has left more than 47,000 dead
under outgoing President  Felipe Calderon ’s rule.  Congress  “The Mexican people have given our party a second
opportunity. We will honor it with results,” Pena Nieto said in
a televised speech yesterday. “In facing organized crime, there
will be no pact or truce.”  The new president will take office on Dec. 1, inheriting an
economy that  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  forecasts will grow as much as
4 percent in 2012, about twice the pace of the U.S., which buys
80 percent of Mexico’s exports.  Still, Pena Nieto failed to achieve the majority in
congress many opinion polls had predicted he would win. With
more than 90 percent of the votes counted, the PRI will likely
get about 241 lawmakers in the 500-seat Chamber of Deputies,
said Jorge  Carlos Ramirez  Marin, the second in command of Pena
Nieto’s campaign.  Even with the cooperation of Calderon’s  National Action
Party , Pena Nieto may not have the two-thirds majority necessary
to amend the constitution, a step required to end Pemex’s grip
on oil production.  Opposition  Lopez Obrador ’s Democratic Revolution Party, which opposes
more private investment in the oil industry, won between 116 and
148 seats in the lower house, according to projections by Mexico
City-based polling company Consulta Mitofsky.  Opposition to Pena Nieto spurred student protests that have
taken aim at what organizers allege is favorable coverage of the
PRI candidate by Grupo Televisa SAB, the world’s largest
Spanish-language broadcaster and the dominant network in Mexico.  “There’s no time for a victory lap,” said Antonio Garza,
the U.S. ambassador to Mexico under President  George W. Bush ,
who now works at law firm White & Case LLP’s Mexico City office.
“He’ll have to convince people and sell a vision to the
country.”  Mexico’s economy has expanded 1.8 percent a year since
Calderon took office, half the pace of  Brazil , though it has
overtaken  Latin America ’s largest economy in the past two years.  Bond Rally  Yields on Mexico’s peso bonds due in 2021 fell 63 basis
points, or 0.63 percentage point, to 5.36 percent last month as
Pena Nieto’s victory looked increasingly likely, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Yields on similar-maturity Brazilian
bonds dropped 32 basis points over the same period to 9.96
percent.  The yield dropped another five basis points, or 0.05
percentage point, to a record low of 5.30 percent today on a
closing basis.  Pena Nieto’s well-picked advisers, such as his campaign
manager Luis Videgaray, have been behind much of his success,
said  James Jones , a former U.S. congressman and ambassador to
Mexico under President  Bill Clinton .  “I would put Pena Nieto in a similar category as  Ronald Reagan ,” said Jones, referring to the actor-turned-president’s
early portrayal by Democrats as a shallow lightweight. “Reagan
was not analytically smart, but he had good political instincts.
He chose people around him who knew how to run a government.”  Drug War  On the drug war, Pena Nieto must now negotiate the support
of state governors to fulfill a pledge to create an elite
federal security force that will contend with local police in
hunting down traffickers.  “He needs the governors in order to accomplish most of the
things he wants to do for the economy and security,” said
Carlos Ramirez of Eurasia Group, a Washington-based policy
analysis firm. “Can he convince the governors they need to
reform their institutions? That’s where the question lies.”  The PRI will control at least 21 of Mexico’s 31 states and
one federal district following yesterday’s vote, according to
forecasts by Mitofsky based on early results. Some parts of the
country remain tainted by allegations of corruption and cronyism
associated with the old PRI regime that Pena Nieto has vowed to
overcome.  Humberto Moreira stepped down as the party’s president in
December after  Standard & Poor’s  said the state of Coahuila
racked up undisclosed debt while he was governor. U.S.
prosecutors in May filed civil charges against a former PRI
Tamaulipas governor, Tomas Yarrington, for allegedly taking
millions of dollars in bribes from drug cartels and investing
them in Texas real estate. He denies the charges, according to
his lawyer.  Rapid Ascent  In dealing with his party’s old-style governors, Pena Nieto
can point to his family’s long history in the party.  He was born into a political family in Atlacomulco, a city
in Mexico state that’s been a PRI stronghold for decades. Pena
Nieto’s uncle and great uncle were both governors of the state,
Mexico’s most populous. Trained as a lawyer, Pena Nieto entered
politics early and at the age of 34 rose to a cabinet-level
position in the state government.  In 2005, Pena Nieto was elected governor himself, beginning
a tradition of signing his campaign pledges before a notary to
convince voters he’d deliver. He also refused his advisers’
suggestion to cut his gelled-back pompadour, according to a
campaign biography. In a race short on policy debate, Pena
Nieto’s signature hairstyle garnered attention, with supporters
donning wigs at rallies to emulate it while student protesters
pointed to it as a sign of vanity.  Building a Reputation  As governor, Pena Nieto earned a reputation for building
roads, hospitals and other public works. Standard & Poor’s
awarded the state its first investment grade credit-rating in
2007, when Videgaray served as Pena Nieto’s state finance
minister.  Sergio Luna, chief economist for Citigroup Inc.’s Banamex
unit, said in an interview that Videgaray stands to become chief
of staff or finance minister when Pena Nieto takes office.  Pena Nieto’s campaign has not been without its pratfalls.  On Dec. 3, he struggled when asked by journalists at a
literary festival to name three books that influenced him,
finally identifying the Bible and attributing to Krauze, the
historian, a title written by novelist  Carlos Fuentes . That same
month Pena Nieto told Spanish newspaper El Pais he didn’t know
the price of tortillas, Mexico’s staple food, explaining that he
wasn’t the “woman of the household.”  Before the campaign started, Pena Nieto revealed that he
had two children out of wedlock from his first marriage to
Monica Pretelini, who died in an epileptic attack while he was
governor. In 2010 he married Angelica Rivera, a soap opera star.  Popularity  The missteps had little impact on Pena Nieto’s popularity
in opinion polls as his rivals failed to portray him as a
product of television marketing and incapable of preventing a
return to the corruption of previous PRI administrations, Krauze
said.  He’ll need to make good on his promise of an improved PRI,
with students threatening mass demonstrations if they see signs
of the party reverting to its old authoritarian ways.  “He’ll have to call out acts of corruption of any party,
even his own,” said Jose Antonio Crespo, a political analyst at
the Center for Economic Research and Teaching, a Mexico City-
based university, “He’ll need to show he can dialogue with
opposing forces with respect.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nacha Cattan in Mexico City at 
 ncattan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 