-- Pentagon Seeks More Afghan Surveillance Drones in Shift
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2012-07-03T04:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-02/pentagon-seeks-more-afghan-surveillance-drones-in-shift.html
The Pentagon is seeking congressional
approval to shift as much as $641 million in funding for
intelligence and surveillance to priorities such as expanding
 Afghanistan  operations of a  Boeing Co. (BA)  drone for Navy commandos.  The request for the “reprogramming” of previously
approved military intelligence funds was submitted yesterday to
the four congressional defense committees in a 20-page document.
It follows an $8.2 billion request on June 29 to shift funds for
other defense programs.  The $94.2 million sought for the ScanEagle drones made by
Chicago-based Boeing would provide more ground stations. Six
sites operated by contractors in Iraq would be moved to
Afghanistan and ground stations operated by Navy SEALs would be
doubled to eight from four.  The surveillance drones are vital to supporting Afghan
local police and village-stability efforts “aimed at building
an enduring, self-reliant Afghani general population able to
resist insurgent” threats, according to the document.  While Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  has cited progress in
such efforts, others have questioned the prospects for stability
in Afghanistan under President  Hamid Karzai .  “A transition that focuses primarily on Afghan security
force levels and capabilities cannot adequately address the
flaws in governance that have alienated ordinary Afghans from
the Karzai administration and fueled the insurgency,” Stephen Hadley, national security adviser under President  George W.
Bush , and  John Podesta , a White House chief of staff under
President  Bill Clinton , wrote in the July/August issue of
Foreign Affairs magazine.  Africa Command  The Pentagon’s unclassified reprogramming request provides
a window into U.S. military intelligence systems and their
missions. Among the items sought is $2.6 million to purchase
hardware and software for an intelligence-gathering and
dissemination system the U.S. Africa Command can use to share
data with partner nations.  The reprogramming documents must be approved by the
congressional defense committees -- the authorization and
appropriations panels in the House and Senate -- before the
shift takes effect.  Monitoring Pirates  The ScanEagle gained international attention when the Navy
revealed in April 2009 it used the drone to monitor a lifeboat
off  Somalia  where pirates held hostage the captain of an
American-flagged container ship.  The Boeing ScanEagle weighs 40 pounds (18 kilograms) and
has a wingspan of 10 feet (3 meters). The planes, under the
direction of seven-member Navy Special Warfare teams, have flown
more than 5,600 hours of reconnaissance since November 2008,
according to Navy officials.  The U.S. Central Command told Bloomberg News in July 2010
that the unmanned planes have “supported missions to kill or
capture over 40 high-value individuals,” spotted weapons caches
and thwarted efforts to ambush troop convoys or plant roadside
bombs.  The plane is built by Insitu Inc., a Boeing subsidiary
based in Bingen,  Washington .  Money to pay for such initiatives would be shifted from
numerous programs within unclassified military intelligence
accounts, reflecting savings in contract negotiations, reduced
requirements or funds once spent in  Iraq  and now available for
Afghanistan, according to the Pentagon document.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  