-- Pfizer’s Quigley Files Sixth Reorganization Plan
-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 2012-07-02T20:39:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-02/pfizer-s-quigley-files-sixth-reorganization-plan.html
Pfizer Inc. (PFE) ’s non-operating Quigley
Co. unit filed a new plan to exit bankruptcy that bars all
asbestos claims against the two companies, except some made
against Pfizer under Pennsylvania law.  Quigley, in bankruptcy since 2004, filed the sixth version
of its plan June 29. The new plan addresses an April appeals
court ruling on how Pfizer can use Quigley’s bankruptcy to
protect itself from asbestos claims. The court found that law
firm Peter G. Angelos PC can sue Pfizer based on manufacturer
liability under Pennsylvania law.  The new plan’s exception for claims under Pennsylvania law
would be “null and void” if the Second Circuit’s decision is
modified upon rehearing or on appeal to the U.S. Supreme Court,
Quigley said in the plan, filed in  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in
 Manhattan . The company will seek plan approval from U.S.
Bankruptcy Judge Stuart Bernstein at a hearing set for Aug. 15.  The plan builds on a fifth version, under which New York-
based Pfizer increased contributions to a proposed trust into
which all future asbestos lawsuits against the two companies
would be channeled. Such “channeling injunctions” allow
companies with ongoing liabilities to exit bankruptcy.  “We are pleased that the Quigley bankruptcy proceeding is
moving forward,” Pfizer spokesman  Christopher Loder  said in an
e-mailed statement.  Stopped Operations  Quigley, founded in 1916, made three products for the  steel
industry  from the 1940s to the 1970s that contained asbestos.
Pfizer bought Quigley in 1968. The unit stopped most operations
in 1992 and filed for bankruptcy in 2004.  Pfizer, the  world’s largest drugmaker , has said it never
made or sold any Quigley products. Some claimants haven’t
released Pfizer from alleged “derivative liability,” according
to the company.  Under the sixth amended plan, Pfizer will contribute $260
million in cash to a trust that will pay most future asbestos
claims brought against it and Quigley. Pfizer will also forgive
a secured claim of $95 million against Quigley, a loan of $19
million to Quigley, and an unsecured claim of $33 million. It
will also contribute insurance benefits that cover asbestos
personal injury claims.  Pfizer will also contribute a property leased to a
distributor of Anheuser-Busch in Orange County,  California , to
pay future asbestos claims. The property has an estimated value
of $43.6 million and produced cash flow of $1.9 million in the
first 12 months since Pfizer acquired it, according to court
papers.  Appealed Ruling  The April ruling from an appeals court had come after
Pfizer had appealed a ruling that found the bankruptcy didn’t
bar certain lawsuits against the  drug company .  Angelos began bringing lawsuits against Pfizer in 1999,
saying that because the drug company’s logo appeared on Quigley
products, it should have liability for the asbestos-containing
products.  During Quigley’s bankruptcy, Bernstein has said that Pfizer
manipulated the bankruptcy process, and refused to allow Quigley
to exit Chapter 11 court protection under a deal with Pfizer.
The company has also been at odds with a committee of creditors
known as the “Ad Hoc Committee of Tort Victims,” which asked
in October 2010 to have Quigley’s bankruptcy dismissed so it
could bring tort claims, which are otherwise blocked by
bankruptcy law.  Can’t Sue  The U.S. Trustee, an arm of the  Justice Department , had
asked the  bankruptcy court  to end Quigley’s Chapter 11, citing
the fact that creditors alleging asbestos-related health issues
have been unable to sue New York-based Pfizer during the case,
and many of them have died.  Asbestos claims against Quigley may total $4.45 billion
during the next 42 years, according to testimony cited by
Bernstein in September. In November, Pfizer reported a $701
million third-quarter charge for asbestos litigation related to
Quigley.  The case is In re Quigley Co., 04-15739, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan). The appeals
case is 11-2635, 11-2767,  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Second
Circuit (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  