-- Pimco’s El-Erian Says U.S., Emerging Markets Are Top Investments
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e   a n d   B e t t y   L i u
-- 2012-07-02T15:24:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-02/pimco-s-el-erian-says-u-s-emerging-markets-are-top-investments.html
Markets in the U.S. and some emerging
economies are the best investment opportunities, according to
Pacific Investment Management Co.’s Mohamed El-Erian.  The U.S. as the preferred option “speaks to lots of
investment opportunities that are better than what you see
elsewhere in the advanced world,” El-Erian, the chief executive
officer of the world’s largest manager of bond funds, said
during an interview on Bloomberg Television’s “In the Loop”
with  Betty Liu . “Let’s not forget that the emerging world
offers opportunities in the local rates and external credit and
some equity markets.”  The  U.S. economy  is forecast to expand 2.2 percent this
year and 2.4 percent in 2013, according to the median estimate
of economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Treasuries have returned
1.7 percent and U.S. company debt has gained 5.3 percent this
year as of June 30, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch
indexes. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index has appreciated 9.1
percent.  The U.S. is on course for tax cuts enacted under President
 George W. Bush  to expire at the end of this year and for more
than $1 trillion of automatic spending reductions to take effect
in January. Investors are exposed to risks from the so-called
fiscal cliff, which could cut economic growth by about 4
percent, El-Erian said.  “We would like our politicians to get their act together
quicker,” he said. “You’re not going to see much done and
we’re probably going to have to wait until the lame-duck session
to see decisions out of  Washington .”  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Detrixhe in  New York  at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net ;
Betty Liu in New York at 
 bliu17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  