-- Poker $1 Million Buy-In Event Opens as Player Folds Quad Eights
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2012-07-02T15:50:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-02/poker-1-million-buy-in-event-opens-as-player-folds-quad-eights.html
Russian businessman Mikhail Smirnov
folded four eights, believing he was beaten by a straight flush,
as the first $1 million buy-in charity tournament at the  World
Series of Poker  began.  Poker professional Bryan Rast leads 37 players remaining in
the tournament, called the Big One for One Drop, out of an
opening field of 48. Rast has 10.7 million in chips, followed by
Phil Hellmuth with 8.4 million.  Play began yesterday in the 55th event at this year’s  World
Series  of Poker at the Rio All-Suite Hotel & Casino in  Las
Vegas . The winner will claim $18.3 million, topping the $12
million Jamie Gold won by claiming the World Series of Poker’s
$10,000 buy-in no-limit  Texas  hold’em world championship, known
as the main event, in 2006. Gold’s win was the largest in a
poker tournament.  Greenlight Capital Inc. co-founder  David Einhorn , who is
donating any winnings to the charity City Year, is 16th with 3.8
million chips.  The tournament concludes July 3.  Day 1’s  most dramatic moment  occurred when Smirnov, 39,
folded quad eights, believing he had been beaten by a straight
flush.  In no-limit Texas hold’em, each player gets two concealed
cards and everyone at the table shares five “community cards,”
giving each player seven cards from which to make the strongest
possible five-card hand.  Getting what’s called a quad, the same valued card in all
four suits, is extremely rare. It’s beaten only by the straight
flush, in which five successive cards of the same suit are held,
and the ultimate hand, the royal flush, which is 10-jack-queen-
king-ace of the same suit.  Quick Call  Smirnov was dealt a pair of 8s. After getting a third eight
when three community cards were dealt, he bet only to be quickly
called by 71-year-old John Morgan, the chairman and chief
executive officer of  Winmark Corp (WINA) , a Minneapolis-based company
that owns and operates 900 franchises that sell used and new
merchandise, such as Play It Again Sports.  A fourth community card brought the fourth eight and, after
another round of betting between the two, the fifth and final
community card was the king of spades. That left four spades,
including the seven, eight and jack, on the board, meaning
Morgan could have topped Smirnov’s four eights if he was holding
the nine and 10 of spades in his hand, which would have
completed a straight flush.  When Morgan pushed all of his remaining chips -- about 3.4
million -- into the pot, Smirnov considered every possible hand
Morgan could have had before giving up his almost unbeatable
cards.  Hand Folds  Smirnov showed the two eights he had concealed and let
everyone know he had folded one of poker’s most unbeatable
hands.  “It seemed like a very difficult call to make,” he said,
according to WSOP.com. “But for me, I think that my read of the
table and when you think about his hand and it’s very easy for
me to fold.”  After the hand Morgan was asked if he had the straight
flush or if he was bluffing.  “I’m not going to tell anyone,” he said, according to
WSOP.com. “And the reason I am not going to reveal it is
totally out of respect for my opponent.”  One Drop, which is the main beneficiary of the poker event,
fights poverty worldwide by supporting access to water.  Players eliminated included poker pros Erik Seidel,
Jonathan Duhamel, Michael Mizrachi and  Justin Smith .  Rast, 30, won two champion’s bracelets during the 2011
World Series of Poker. Born in Denver, he’s won more than $2.8
million in worldwide tournaments. His biggest win came in the
2011 WSOP $50,000 Poker Player’s Championship, where he took
home $1.7 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in  New York  at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 