-- Polish June PMI Falls to 35-Month Low on Orders, Output
-- B y   D o r o t a   B a r t y z e l
-- 2012-07-02T08:10:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-02/polish-june-pmi-falls-to-35-month-low-on-orders-output.html
Polish manufacturing dropped to a 35-
month low in June, remaining for a third month below 50, a level
indicating contraction, as new orders and output declined and
 inflation  eased, HSBC Holdings Plc said.  Poland’s purchasing managers’ index, a gauge of
manufacturing, fell to 48.0 in June from 48.9 in May, HSBC said
today in a statement posted on the website of Markit Economics.
The median estimate of 18 economists in a Bloomberg News survey
was 48.6.  Companies cut output and purchases of new inputs during the
month and new export orders declined for the fourth time in five
months, signaling “broad-based weakness in both domestic and
export markets,” HSBC said. Growth in the European Union’s
largest eastern  economy , the only member of the 27-nation bloc
to avoid a recession in 2009, is expected to slow to 2.7 percent
this year from 4.3 percent last year, according to the European
Commission’s forecast.  “The PMI shows ongoing deterioration of the conditions in
the manufacturing sector,”  Agata Urbanska , a London-based
economist at HSBC, said in an e-mailed statement. “The pace of
output contraction deepened in June to levels last seen in mid-
’09 in line with deteriorating new orders.”  Economic confidence in the euro area slumped to the lowest
in more than 2 1/2 years in June. The  European Central Bank  said
last month that the euro-region economy will probably shrink 0.1
percent this year, compared with the commission’s forecast for a
0.3 percent contraction. Poland sells 55 percent of its exports
to the euro region.  Average input prices rose at the slowest rate since March
2010, while inflation has eased gradually since peaking at the
start of the year, “reflecting falling oil prices and reduced
pressure from demand on raw materials,” HSBC said.  The zloty traded at 4.226 per euro at 9:30 a.m. in Warsaw,
little changed from the close on June 29. The yield on the
government’s five-year bond was unchanged at 4.73 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dorota Bartyzel in Warsaw at 
 dbartyzel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  