-- Pound Strengthens Versus Euro as EU Bond Plan Faces Resistance
-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 2012-07-02T15:09:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-02/pound-strengthens-versus-euro-as-eu-bond-plan-faces-resistance.html
The pound rose for the first time in
four days against the euro as investors sought the U.K. currency
as a haven amid concern measures announced last week to shore up
the region’s debt markets will be blocked.  Sterling rose the most in two weeks against the 17-member
currency after  Finland  joined the Netherlands in saying it
opposed granting the European Stability Mechanism, the region’s
permanent bailout fund, the ability to purchase bonds on the
secondary market. Gilts gained after a U.S. report showed
manufacturing unexpectedly contracted in June.  “Money is flying from the euro back to the U.K.,” said
 Neil Jones , head of European hedge-fund sales at Mizuho
Corporate Bank Ltd. in London. European Union “officials are
infighting over whether or not ESM bond buying is permitted.
Some member nations are voicing their plan to block the
intervention and the market is losing confidence. Sterling
remains a safe haven.”  The pound strengthened 0.5 percent to 80.23 pence per euro
at 4:04 p.m. London time after rising as much as 0.6 percent,
the biggest gain since June 18. The U.K. currency declined 0.2
percent to $1.5682.  Finland reiterated its opposition to bond buying by the ESM
in the secondary market and said any purchases would require
unanimity. The nation’s stance was announced in a report dated
June 29 and presented today by Prime Minister  Jyrki Katainen  to
the parliament’s Grand Committee in Helsinki.  Italy’s demand for direct bond buying by the aid funds in
the secondary market is “not going to happen,” Dutch Prime
Minister  Mark Rutte  said last week.  Popular Vote  The pound was also supported after Prime Minister  David Cameron  said in an article in the Sunday Telegraph newspaper
yesterday that he was not opposed to a popular vote on Britain’s
membership of the European Union.  “A referendum in the U.K. is good for the pound,”
Mizuho’s Jones said. “The U.K. will be deemed stronger if it
quits the EU. Any official comment that alludes to a referendum
will produce sterling demand.”  Sterling slid 0.5 percent against the euro on June 29 after
EU leaders agreed to loosen bailout rules, lay the foundations
for a banking union and break the link between sovereign and
banking debt through the direct recapitalization.  The pound has strengthened 1.1 percent in the past three
months, according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes,
which track 10 developed-nation currencies. The dollar jumped
3.6 percent, and the euro weakened 2.8 percent.  Gilts Gain  Gilts advanced after the U.S. Institute for Supply
Management said its manufacturing index fell to 49.7, worse than
the most-pessimistic forecast in a Bloomberg News survey, from
53.5 in May. Figures below 50 signal contraction.  U.K. bonds rose earlier after British reports showed
manufacturing output contracted and  house prices  stagnated last
month, adding weight to calls for the  Bank of England  to expand
stimulus measures this week.  The 10-year gilt yield dropped three basis points, or 0.03
percentage point, to 1.7 percent. The 4 percent bond maturing in
March 2022 gained 0.33, or 3.30 pounds per 1,000-pound face
amount, to 120.445.  The Bank of England will raise its target for bond
purchases by 50 billion pounds to 375 billion pounds on July 5,
according to 30 of 41 economists in a  Bloomberg news survey .
Eight predict an increase to 400 billion pounds, and the rest
see a smaller gain or no change.  The Debt Management Office plans to sell 1.75 billion
pounds of bonds due in December 2030 tomorrow, and 4.5 billion
pounds of notes maturing in September 2017 the following day.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucy Meakin in  London  at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  