-- Prokhorov’s RenCap Said to Be Closing India, Hong Kong Offices
-- B y   J a s o n   C o r c o r a n
-- 2012-07-02T11:18:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-02/prokhorov-s-rencap-said-to-be-closing-india-hong-kong-offices.html
Renaissance Capital  is closing its
offices in  India  and  Hong Kong  as the investment bank half-owned
by billionaire  Mikhail Prokhorov  retrenches to focus on Russia
and  Africa , according to two people familiar with the matter.  RenCap, as the Moscow-based bank is known, is also
shuttering its sales, trading and research operations in
Kazakhstan and Ukraine, the people said, declining to be
identified because the closures haven’t been made public.
RenCap’s press service in Moscow declined to comment, as did
Onexim Group, Prokhorov’s holding company.  RenCap plans to cut as much as 15 percent of its global
workforce this year as business slows, two people with knowledge
of the matter said in May. The bank has slumped to 18th in
Russian debt sales this year from fifth last year, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Soroosh Shambayati, hired as global
co-head of markets in Moscow from Nomura Holdings Inc. less than
a year ago, left RenCap last month, according to the people. The
bank is also closing its smaller Chinese office in Beijing, Asia
Money  reported  June 22.  Founder Stephen Jennings sold half of RenCap to Prokhorov
for $500 million to keep it afloat in September 2008 amid a
record rout in Russian stocks that included a 25 percent plunge
in the benchmark Micex Index over three days. Prokhorov’s Onexim
Group in February gained a minority stake in Renaissance Group’s
consumer finance unit and part of its holdings in London-listed
miner Beacon Hill Resources Plc and Ukrainian Agrarian
Investments.  Jennings has been trying to transform RenCap from a Russian
investment bank into a global  emerging markets  firm by opening
offices in Sub-Saharan Africa, India and  China . He also bought
Turkish brokerage Mira Menkul Degerler AS last November.  RenCap Chief Executive Officer Alexander Pertsovsky is
stepping down to become a director of Renaissance Group, the
bank said June 29, confirming a report in the Vedomosti
newspaper. Pertsovsky’s deputy, Andrew Cornthwaite, went on
leave for an indeterminate period in May, the same month
RenCap’s Asia chief, Jeremy Sparrow, left the company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Corcoran in Moscow at 
 jcorcoran13@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  