-- Publicis Employees Win Class Status in Sex-Bias Suit
-- B y   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e
-- 2012-07-02T23:05:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-02/publicis-groupe-employees-win-class-status-in-sex-bias-suit-1-.html
Publicis Groupe SA (PUB)  and its MSLGroup
unit can be sued by current and former public relations
employees as a group for allegedly discriminating against women
in pay, a judge ruled.  U.S. District Judge Andrew L. Carter Jr. ruled June 29 in
federal court in  Manhattan  that as many as 125 workers can
proceed as a group with allegations that they were subject to
discriminatory pay policies.  The plaintiffs want to represent a class of hundreds of
women who are current and former public relations employees of
Paris-based Publicis and MSLGroup in the U.S. The suit seeks
more than $100 million in damages.  “We are delighted by the court’s certification decision
because it will provide female Publicis Groupe professionals an
opportunity to participate directly in this suit,” Janette Wipper, a partner at Sanford Wittels & Heisler LLP and the
plaintiffs’ lead counsel, said in a statement. “Even more
importantly, it brings women one step closer to making equal pay
for equal work a reality in the PR industry.”  Publicis spokeswoman Kasha Kruse said she couldn’t
immediately comment on the ruling.  ‘Procedural Ruling’  Monique da Silva Moore, a former global health-care
director for MSLGroup, filed the suit in February 2011 alleging
women were treated unfairly in pay, promotions and firings.  The June 29 ruling applies only to equal pay claims in the
case. The court hasn’t yet ruled on whether plaintiffs can
proceed as a class for other allegations in the suit.  In an e-mail statement, MLSGroup spokesman Michael Echter
said the decision was “a procedural ruling only and not
unexpected.”  “Additionally, the court made no finding that our pay
practices are discriminatory; any final decision on the issue
will not be made until trial which we expect to occur sometime
in 2014,” Echter said.  Publicis is an advertising services holding company based
in Paris,  France . MSLGroup is a unit of Publicis focusing on
public relations.  Publicis has asked to be dismissed from the lawsuit and
alleges that the court does not have jurisdiction over it in the
case, according to court filings.  The case is Da Silva Moore v. Publicis Groupe, 11-CV-1279,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christie Smythe in New York at 
 csmythe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 