-- Qihoo CFO Denies Anonymous’s Report of Lower Online Traffic
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o   a n d   M a r k   L e e
-- 2012-07-02T21:05:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-02/qihoo-cfo-denies-anonymous-s-report-of-lower-online-traffic-2-.html
Qihoo 360 Technology Co. (QIHU) , a Chinese
developer of online security software, denied allegations made
by Anonymous Analytics that user traffic on its website is lower
than reported. The shares sank 7.5 percent.  The information cited in Anonymous’s report is
“inaccurate,” Chief Financial Officer Alex Xu said yesterday
by phone from Beijing. “This report is basically a repetition
of what other short sellers said before,” which Qihoo has
denied and clarified in the past, he said.  Qihoo had been “exaggerating” user traffic on its
hao.360.cn site, according to a report published yesterday by
Anonymous, citing data from Reston, Virgina-based  ComScore Inc. (SCOR) ,
an Internet traffic data provider.  “Qihoo’s directory page gets significantly less traffic
than management has led the  capital markets  to believe,”
Anonymous said in the report. “All that massive traffic volume
that was supposed to transform Qihoo into an Internet marvel
doesn’t exist.”  American depositary receipts  of the Beijing-based Qihoo
tumbled to $16 yesterday in  New York , the lowest since Jan. 13.
They surged as much as 5.3 percent to $18.20 before Anonymous’s
report was published. The slump triggered a short-selling
restriction by the Securities and Exchange Commission that
forces traders who want to bet on a further drop to wait after
the stocks fall 10 percent from the prior day’s closing level.  Xu said Qihoo has been working together with ComScore since
the beginning of the year, seeking to provide third-party data
to investors. The data have yet to be finalized, he said.  ‘Technical Problems’  “We haven’t officially released the data as some technical
problems remain to be solved for applying ComScore’s system in
 China ” including compatibility and safety, Xu said.  The Chinese company said in April that it rejected “all
allegations” made by Citron Research and other individuals
which had questioned revenue from the hao.360.cn site. Qihoo
said then that it “stands by” its filings to the SEC.  Qihoo, which also provides computer desktop software
including a browser, had net income of $14 million for the first
three months, compared with a net loss of $21.4 million a year
ago, according to its May 22 statement. Second-quarter sales
will more than double from a year earlier to as much as $73
million, from $69.3 million in the prior quarter, it estimated.  Sino-Forest, China Medical  Chinese companies have come under scrutiny in the past year
as short sellers who profit from declining share prices have
claimed accounting fraud or mismanagement. Sino-Forest Corp.
filed for bankruptcy in March after it was accused by a short-
seller of misstating business and assets. Trading of  China
Medical Technologies Inc. (CMEDY) ’s ADRs was suspended last week by the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, which cited questions
on the accuracy of the company’s information.  Anonymous in April questioned the financial statements of
 Huabao International Holdings Ltd. (336) , a Hong Kong-listed maker of
flavors and fragrances used in cigarettes. Huabao shares dropped
8 percent before trading in its shares was halted for six days.
The company responded by describing Anonymous Analytics’
allegations as “incorrect.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net ;
 Mark Lee  in  Hong Kong  at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  