-- Rand Retreats From Seven-Week High on U.S. Manufacturing Data
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d   a n d   S t e p h e n   G u n n i o n
-- 2012-07-02T14:57:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-02/rand-retreats-from-seven-week-high-on-u-s-manufacturing-data.html
The rand weakened, rebounding from
its strongest level in seven weeks, as stocks and commodity
prices fell after data showed U.S. manufacturing unexpectedly
shrank in June, damping demand for riskier assets.  The currency depreciated 0.2 percent to 8.1783 per dollar
as of 4:30 p.m. in Johannesburg, after rising to its strongest
level since May 14 in earlier trading. Yields on  South Africa ’s
6.75 percent bonds due 2021 declined two basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, to 7.24 percent.  The  Institute for Supply Management ’s manufacturing index
fell to 49.7, worse than the most-pessimistic forecast in a
Bloomberg News survey, from 53.5 in May, the Tempe, Arizona-
based group’s report showed today. Figures less than 50 signal
contraction. Earlier, data showed South Africa’s PMI below 50
for the first time in six months in June.  “From the response of the rand it is clear that the bulk
of the focus rests with offshore developments,” Quinten Bertenshaw, a Johannesburg-based analyst at Tradition Analytics,
wrote in e-mailed comments. “Investors should be wary of
believing that the latest bout of rand strength will be
sustained. The situation abroad is very fluid and prone to bouts
of disappointing news.”  Commodities, Stocks Decline  Factory output in the euro region, Japan and  China  also
contracted, reports showed earlier. The Standard & Poor’s GSCI
Index of raw materials declined as the prices of metals
including copper and platinum fell. Metals and other commodities
account for 45 percent of South Africa’s exports.  The nation’s benchmark stock  index  slid, led by commodity
exporters including  Anglo American Plc (AAL)  and  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)   Foreign investor purchases of South African bonds helped
arrest the currency’s decline. Foreigners were net  buyers  of 2.6
billion rand ($320 million) of South African bonds last week,
bringing net foreign purchases of the nation’s debt this year to
48.5 billion rand, the most since Bloomberg started compiling
the data in 1996.  Inflows into bonds supported the rand as the nation’s  trade
deficit  widened on slowing demand from  Europe , which buys a
third of South Africa’s exports, said  John Cairns  and Josina Solomons, currency strategists at Rand Merchant Bank in
Johannesburg.  The rand stayed stronger after South Africa’s purchasing
managers’ index fell below 50 for the first time in six months
in June, indicating a contraction in manufacturing.  “Trade figures have been horrendous but bond inflows have
been more than enough to compensate,” Cairns and Solomons wrote
in e-mailed comments. “We’re still confident that the rand will
manage to make some gains on a multi-month basis.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Gunnion in Johannesburg at 
 sgunnion@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  