-- Rangel Lead Narrows in New York Democratic Primary for House
-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n   a n d   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2012-07-02T21:14:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-02/rangel-s-lead-narrows-in-new-york-democratic-primary-for-house.html
The vote margin in the Democratic
primary between U.S. Representative Charles Rangel of  New York 
and his top challenger, state Senator Adriano Espaillat, has
narrowed to 2 percentage points.  Rangel has 802 more votes than Espaillat out of 40,810 cast
by machine, with 2,152 absentee and affidavit ballots yet to be
counted as of 3 p.m. today, said Valerie Vazquez, spokeswoman
for the Board of Elections. Those paper ballots will be tallied
July 5, Vazquez said. Absentee ballots continue to arrive by
mail, and several affidavits, which stem from registration
disputes at poll sites, may be invalidated, she said.  On Election Night last week, Rangel declared victory and
Espaillat conceded defeat after results showed the incumbent
ahead by 45.2 percent to 39.8 percent with 84 percent of polling
places unofficially counted. The  Associated Press , which reports
the vote count, called the race for Rangel.  By June 30, with 40,810 votes counted on all machines,
Rangel’s lead had narrowed to 44 percent to 42 percent,
according to Vazquez.  A hearing today in  Manhattan  requested by Espaillat asking
state Supreme Court Justice Donna Mills to ensure secure ballot-
counting procedures was adjourned. Attorneys for the candidate
told the judge they were satisfied that the ballots would be
kept in a locked room and that the count would be observed by
representatives of all parties. Espaillat’s lawyers told Mills
they would file another petition citing other election-law
provisions.  ‘Dead-Heat Race’  Rangel, 82, has represented  New York City ’s Harlem
neighborhood in the House for more than 41 years and once served
as chairman of the tax-writing Ways and Means Committee.
Democrats make up almost 97 percent of the district in northern
Manhattan and the Bronx, so winning the primary almost ensures
victory in the November general election.  “With each new tally, Senator Espaillat’s vote total
increases,” Ibrahim Khan, a campaign spokesman, said in a June
30 e-mail. “As paper ballots begin to be counted and this dead-
heat race continues, we are grateful to all of our supporters
and will continue to push for full transparency.”  Espaillat, 57, seeks to become the first Dominican-born
member of  U.S. Congress . He campaigned saying Rangel’s 2010
House censure for ethics violations had reduced the
congressman’s effectiveness and made him a “poster child for
dysfunction in  Washington .”  Seeking Security  Martin Connor, Espaillat’s attorney and a former state
senator, said the candidate wants the election board to explain
how, in its unofficial returns, more than 70 polling places
showed no ballots cast.  “It’s rather curious that we had all these election
districts reporting zeroes,” Connor said in an interview.  Vazquez said Election Night totals missed some districts
because police precincts, which collect the tallies from polling
places and relay them to the board, reported some in error. The
mistakes have been corrected and all machine votes have been
counted, she said.  In the event the margin shrinks to within 0.5 percentage
point, the law requires a machine-by-machine recount of the
election, which would take weeks, she said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Henry Goldman in New York at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  