-- Regulators on Libor Probe Said to Seek More Time
-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u
-- 2012-07-03T06:54:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-02/regulators-grappling-with-libor-probe-said-to-seek-more-time.html
Barclays Plc (BARC) ’s settlement of about
$451 million with U.S. and U.K. regulators last week offered the
first glimpse of what banks may have to pay to resolve a global
probe of interest-rate manipulation. The question now is who’s
next.  The two-year investigation, which involves regulators on
three continents, has touched as many as 18 financial
institutions that help set  London  and Tokyo interbank offered
rates for dollars, euros and yen. That number includes as many
as 12 firms that have fired or suspended traders in connection
with related internal probes of whether their employees tried to
manipulate the rates known as Libor and Tibor.  The span of the investigation has prompted at least one
regulator to ask for more time, according to a person with
knowledge of the matter. The U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission recently sent out so-called tolling agreements in
which the banks would waive their right to claim a lawsuit
should be thrown out if a five-year statute of limitations has
elapsed, said the person, who asked not to be identified because
the agreements aren’t public. CFTC spokesman  Steven Adamske 
declined to comment.  Diamond Resigns  The stakes in the probe are high. Barclays Chief Executive
Officer  Robert Diamond  stepped down today one day after Chairman
Marcus Agius resigned in a bid to shield Diamond from pressure
from British lawmakers. U.K. Prime Minister David Cameron
yesterday announced a parliamentary inquiry into the U.K.
banking industry and Libor.  Regulators including the U.K. Financial Services Authority
and  U.S. Department of Justice  have signaled more claims are on
the way.  Barclays “was not an isolated case,” Tracey McDermott,
the FSA’s acting head of enforcement, said yesterday in a
speech. She said the regulator is conducting “a number of
investigations concerning Libor.”  The  Justice Department , as part of its settlement with
Barclays last week, said the firm is assisting the investigation
into other firms and individuals, and was the first to provide
“extensive and meaningful cooperation.”  False Rates  The investigations focus on whether banks reported false
rates in an attempt to hide their true cost of borrowing during
the financial market turmoil of 2008, and whether traders
colluded to rig the benchmark to profit from interest rate
derivatives.  Traders at Barclays, the U.K.’s second-biggest bank by
assets, routinely coordinated with counterparts from at least
four other banks in an attempt to move interest rate benchmarks,
according to regulators. The bank also reported artificially low
borrowing costs in October 2008 after a senior manager discussed
outside perceptions about the bank’s strength with regulators at
the  Bank of England .  The investigation began to unfold publicly after  UBS AG (UBSN) 
disclosed in July 2011 that it had gotten conditional immunity
for cooperating with the U.S. Justice Department’s antitrust
investigation. In February, the Zurich-based bank said it had
received similar immunity from the Swiss Competition Commission,
and people with knowledge of the matter said it also sought
protection from prosecution by Canadian regulators in January
2010.  Based on UBS’s disclosures, regulators in  Canada  have
alleged that banks communicated with each other and through
brokers to manipulate the yen Libor rate.  Libor is derived from a survey of banks conducted daily for
the  British Bankers’ Association  in London. Lenders are asked
how much it would cost them to borrow from one another for 15
different periods, from overnight to one year, in currencies
including dollars, euros, yen and Swiss francs. A predetermined
number of quotes are excluded and those left are averaged and
published for each currency by the BBA before noon.  Canadian Regulators  According to documents filed in the Ontario Superior Court
in May 2011, lawyers for UBS gave information to Canadian
regulators, including details of the lender’s own internal
probe. Based on UBS’s information, the regulator said  HSBC
Holdings Plc (HSBA) ,  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc ,  Deutsche Bank
AG (DBK) ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Citigroup Inc. (C) , as well as brokers at
 ICAP Plc (IAP)  and RP Martin Holdings Ltd. colluded to manipulate the
yen Libor rate.  The European Union, which raided UBS in October as part of
its own investigation, hasn’t said if it will grant immunity.  Euroyen Tibor  So far, only Japanese regulators have punished the lender
over the interest-rate probe. In December,  Japan ’s Financial
Services Agency ordered UBS Securities Japan division to suspend
trading in derivatives transactions related to yen Libor and
Euroyen Tibor from Jan. 10 to 16. The regulator found that the
securities unit had “serious problems” in its internal
controls and ordered it to develop a new compliance program.  In a related case, Citigroup’s Tokyo-based securities unit
was banned from trading tied to Libor and Tibor for two weeks in
January after the Japanese regulator found that employees at
Citigroup and UBS tried to improperly influence Tibor to their
firms’ advantage.  The bank, which said last week that it wasn’t part of the
FSA’s probe, didn’t say whether it was still ensnared in other
regulators’ investigations.  Credit Suisse has disclosed that it’s also cooperating
fully with the investigations, including a probe by the Swiss
Competition Commission into whether traders and rate-setters at
12 banks and other financial intermediaries colluded to affect
the bid-ask spread for derivatives tied to Libor and Tibor.
Credit Suisse is not a panel bank for yen Libor, yen Tibor or
Euroyen Tibor, the bank said.  Traders Disciplined  Several firms have disciplined traders involved in the
conduct.  RBS terminated or suspended at least four employees in
connection with the probe and is facing a wrongful dismissal
lawsuit from one of the employees, who accused the bank of using
him as a scapegoat after condoning traders’ conduct. Tan Chi Min, who filed the lawsuit with the Singapore High Court in
March, said RBS interest-rate traders were seated with one of
the main rate setters in its London office to share information
and discussed rates on conference calls.  Lloyds Traders  Two  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  traders who had been suspended
earlier this year because of the investigation returned to work
last week, two people briefed on the matter said.  Along with the regulatory scrutiny, many of the banks face
private lawsuits related to the alleged conduct. A lawsuit in
U.S. District Court in  Manhattan  is seeking damages from Bank of
America, Barclays, Citibank, Credit Suisse, Deutsche Bank, HSBC,
JPMorgan, Lloyds, RBS, The Norinchukin Bank, UBS, WestLB AG,
Rabobank Group, HBOS Plc,  Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd , RBC,
and  Societe Generale. (GLE)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Gallu in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  