-- Rennert Countersues Perelman Over Joint Venture
-- B y   P h i l   M i l f o r d
-- 2012-07-02T19:23:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-02/rennert-countersues-perelman-over-joint-venture.html
Billionaire Ira Rennert countersued
 Ronald Perelman  and his MacAndrews & Forbes Holdings Inc. after
being accused of wrongly enriching himself when a company he
controls took $109 million in loans from a joint venture he co-
owned with Perelman.  MacAndrews’s AM General Holdings LLC said in filing in
Delaware Chancery Court June 20 that the joint venture, Ilshar
Capital LLC, improperly made the loans to another Rennert
company between 2009 and last year on favorable terms that
included no required collateral or payments for five years.
Ilshar was managed by the Rennert-owned ILR Capital LLC.  In a lawsuit filed June 29 in the same court, Rennert’s
Renco Group Inc. accuses Perelman’s firm of “ongoing acts of
self-dealing” and breach of contract for allegedly “diverting
to themselves as much as $175 million (and possibly more) that
rightfully belongs to Renco.”  Renco asked a judge to consider damages based on
“excessive management fees” and royalty expenses allegedly
charged by MacAndrews.  Perelman’s MacAndrews bought control of truckmaker AM
General from Renco Group in 2004. As part of that transaction,
Ilshar was created and capitalized by AM General’s holding
company, which MacAndrews controls, according to the first
complaint.  Operating Agreement  Rennert caused Ilshar to loan Renco money in violation of
Ilshar’s operating agreement, according to the first complaint.  Andrew Shea, a Renco spokesman, said in a phone interview
that he had no comment on the dispute “beyond what’s in the
complaint.”  “The suit is baseless because our conduct was consistent
with the parties’ agreements and their course of conduct for
almost 10 years,” said New York-based Perelman’s spokeswoman,
 Christine Taylor , in an e-mailed message.  The first case is AM General Holdings LLC v. Renco Group,
7639, Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington). The countersuit is
Renco Group v.  MacAndrews and Ronald Perelman, 7668, Delaware
Chancery Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Milford in Wilmington at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  