-- Renzo Piano’s Shard Points Finger at London Neighbors
-- B y   J a m e s   S .   R u s s e l l
-- 2012-07-02T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-02/renzo-piano-s-shard-points-finger-at-london-neighbors.html
The trouble with the European Union’s
tallest skyscraper is that it’s too short to soar.  The Shard in  London  needs neighboring towers so that it
doesn’t look like a shiny weed sprouting from the south bank of
the  River Thames .  For nearly four decades Londoners have debated when,
whether and how skyscrapers should pierce the low-rise skyline,
presided over by  St. Paul’s Cathedral  since 1711.  The tower is inaugurated on July 5 after 12 years of permit
processes and  economic busts . Now its steeply pyramidal form
rises 1,016 feet (310 meters) from the London Bridge rail
station, and towers over the city. Its exterior is complete and
office tenants will soon begin moving in.  The name refers to the tower’s tapering icicle shape,
designed by Genoa-based Renzo Piano. It’s paired with a 17-story
office building to form a 2.5-million square foot commercial
project called  London Bridge Quarter  developed by  Irvine  Sellar,
of the Sellar Property Group Ltd. It will cost 1.5 billion
pounds ($2.4 billion) when completed and be worth 2.5 billion
pounds when fully leased, Sellar said.  Although it’s 250 feet shorter than the 80-year-old Empire
State Building, it’s the first and the tallest of a new crop of
skyscrapers planned or in construction in central London.  Hoping to assuage local skyscraper skeptics, Piano tailored
the surface to enliven it on the skyline. I like the way its
soaring top popped unexpectedly into view as I navigated the
Dickensian twisting streets and heavenly smells of Borough
Market on my way to a tour of the building.  Icy Planes  Piano nudged each side into facets to catch the varying
light, and carved deep vertical seams that appear to reveal the
building’s steel frame. The effect is to make the glass cladding
seem ephemeral. The icy planes taper to pincer-like points at
the top, visually dissolving the building into the clouds.  The surface modeling gives the tower presence on the
skyline, but its proportions, seen full height, are ruinous.
It’s too thick at the bottom and looks as if it crushes its
brick and stone surroundings -- among the most ancient in London
-- rather than soars out of them.  The laborious voyage through London’s planning process
resulted in a building 300 feet shorter than initially proposed
and with no fewer square feet. Lesson: in skyscrapers, tall and
thin is usually better than short and dumpy.  At least it doesn’t intrude on St. Paul’s dominance of the
skyline, and may encourage the City to grow across the Thames
into Bermondsey. Though Londoners may be horrified by the idea,
the Shard could use neighboring towers.  Dotted Skyline  It stands alone because its design began when former mayor
 Ken Livingstone  sensibly wanted large buildings concentrated
around rail hubs. That could leave London’s skyline aimlessly
dotted with towers rather than massed together where they work
better, as in the City.  Piano has described the Shard as a “vertical city”
because it stirs together offices, a hotel, apartments, and
restaurants. That’s typical of super-tall towers that have risen
from  Abu Dhabi  to Guangzhou, and Piano uses the mix to riposte
such sterile office precincts as  Canary Wharf .  An outdoor escalator under jazzy overlapping glass canopies
theatrically conveys commuters up from the street past two
stacked glass-walled lobbies to the train-departure level. The
developer agreed to build an elegant, Piano-designed station
entrance plaza and glass-roofed station lobby.  Oldest Station  It’s the first phase of a full-scale overhaul of the 1836
station, London’s oldest, by  Grimshaw  architects.  Floor-to-ceiling glass of unusual transparency brings the
light of even London’s dimmest days into office floors that are
as big as 40,000 square feet. Instead of the usual acres of
opaque reflective glass,  the Shard’s  cladding reveals the
activity within.  Three dining levels in the restaurants wrap a three-story
atrium with a cable-suspended stair at the 31st floor, opening
vertigo-inducing views. The 18 floors of the five-star Shangri-
La hotel enclose only 200 rooms.  Just 10 apartments take up the top 13 floors with some
duplex panoramas that range from the great parks and palaces of
west London to the eastern docklands set amid the twisting lower
reaches of the Thames. The view is 44 miles (71 kilometers),
Sellar said. Visitors to four public-viewing levels nestled amid
the tower’s glass peaks will sometimes find themselves above the
clouds.  The Shard isn’t good enough to quiet the tower haters, but
its best moments point the way to tall building design that can
gracefully coexist with the city’s invaluable history.  Information:  http://londonbridgequarter.com/  and
 http://www.the-shard.com/   (James S. Russell writes on architecture for Muse, the arts
and culture section of Bloomberg News. He is the author of “The
Agile City.” The opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include: Scott Reyburn on art market and
 Hephzibah Anderson  on books.  To contact the writer of this column:
James S. Russell in London at  jamesrussell@earthlink.net .
 http://web.me.com/jscanlonrussell   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at   mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 