-- Republican Governors Group Outraises Democrat Counterpart
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 2012-07-02T17:13:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-02/republican-governors-group-outraises-democrat-counterpart.html
The  Republican Governors Association 
outpaced its Democratic counterpart during the first six months
of 2012, taking in $29 million from January to June, including
almost $17 million in the last three months.  The Democratic Governors Association brought in $21
million, including $13 million from April to June.  Both groups issued statements today on their fundraising in
advance of their filings later this month with the Internal
Revenue Service. Neither reported cash on hand. The two
associations also have related nonprofit groups that don’t
disclose their donors.  During 2012’s first quarter, the Republican governors group
received $1 million from Koch Industries Inc. executive vice
president David Koch, and $500,000 each from the U.S. Chamber of
Commerce and the health insurance company  Wellpoint Inc. (WLP)   Top donors to the Democratic group from January to March
included  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ) ,  Duke Energy Corp. (DUK) ,  Oracle Corp. (ORCL) ,
and the American Federation of State, County and Municipal
Employees, each of which donated $200,000.  The two associations are led by chief executives of
neighboring states -- Maryland’s  Martin O’Malley , a Democrat,
and Virginia’s  Bob McDonnell , a Republican. The groups can
contribute directly to gubernatorial candidates and to the state
parties, and can advertise in support of their parties’
nominees.  ‘Record Resources’  “With record resources and a favorable political map that
includes critical battleground states and many pickup
opportunities, the RGA is prepared to make a major impact on
this year’s elections and expand our majority,” McDonnell said.  Of the 50 state governorships, Republicans hold 29 and
Democrats have 20. Rhode Island Governor Lincoln Chafee is an
independent.  In November’s elections, Democrats are defending eight of
the 11 governorships on the ballot. Washington-based political
analysts Charlie Cook and Stu Rothenberg rate the North Carolina
governorship a good bet to switch from Democratic to Republican.
Their three tossup races all involve governors’ offices
currently occupied by Democrats:  Montana , New Hampshire and
Washington state.  “While the electoral map remains challenging in 2012, our
tremendous fundraising efforts will ensure the DGA has the
resources we need to support Democratic incumbents and
candidates to fight for our core priorities, jobs and
opportunity, in competitive races,” O’Malley said in a
statement.  The Republican governors’ group raised $44 million in 2011,
compared with $20 million for the Democrats.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan D. Salant in Washington at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  