-- Rob Pullen, Tellabs CEO Who Focused on Wireless Gear, Dies at 50
-- B y   S c o t t   M o r i t z
-- 2012-07-02T16:29:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-02/rob-pullen-tellabs-ceo-who-focused-on-wireless-gear-dies-at-50.html
Rob Pullen, chief executive officer
of  Tellabs Inc. (TLAB) , who steered the telecommunications-equipment
maker to focus on its wireless carrier customers and
international expansion, has died. He was 50.  Pullen died today of cancer, Michael J. Birck, chairman and
co-founder of the Naperville, Illinois-based company, said in a
letter to shareholders. In an April 20 message to shareholders,
Pullen said he had been diagnosed with  colon cancer  and had
started chemotherapy. On June 27, Birck said the Tellabs board
appointed Dan Kelly as acting president and CEO.  Pullen, who was named chief executive in February 2008,
took over amid a period of technology spending cuts and phone
company consolidation following an Internet expansion bust.
About eight months into his new job, Tellabs recorded a record
third-quarter loss of  $999 million , resulting from a writedown
of old line phone-switching businesses.  Pullen then refocused the company more on its wireless-
carrier customers who were gearing up for growth in mobile
services. Tellabs returned to profitability in 2009 and 2010.  “I was honored to have worked side by side with Rob at
Tellabs for 30 years,” Birck said. “No words can describe the
grief I feel right now.”  Robert W. Pullen was born May 29, 1962. He played shortstop
on the University of Illinois’s varsity baseball team and joined
Tellabs as an engineer right after graduation. Pullen earned a
master’s of business administration from  Northwestern
University .  During his career at the company he held executive
positions in sales and service before taking the top job. He
also was chairman emeritus of the Telecommunications Industry
Association.  Pullen is survived by his wife, Dawn, and two children,
Brittany and Brendan.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Moritz in  New York  at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  