-- Asian New Money Fights Russia as Constable Tops Art Sale
-- B y   S c o t t   R e y b u r n
-- 2012-07-03T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-02/rodin-s-kiss-sells-saatchi-views-313-million-art-in-london.html
Paintings by Constable and Rembrandt
starred at a $133 million auction in  London  last night that set
a record total for any sale of  Old Masters .  Constable’s 1824 landscape “The Lock” sold for a top price
of 22.4 million pounds ($35 million), a record for the artist at
auction, as Christie’s International found buyers for 84 percent
of 64 lots.  In recent years, totals at auctions of historic European
paintings -- traditionally the most expensive of artworks --
have lagged behind those at sales of Impressionist and
contemporary pieces. Demand last night was bolstered by new
bidders from emerging economies, said Christie’s, which had
showed some of the pictures in Doha, Moscow, New York,  Hong Kong 
and Amsterdam.  “We’re seeing the internationalization of the Old-Master
market,” Jussi Pylkkanen, president of Christie’s  Europe , said
after the sale. “Asian and Russian clients are now buying.”  Christie’s confirmed that an Asian client was the lone
telephone bidder for the 1626-27 Rembrandt painting “A Man in a
Gorget and Cap,” at 8.4 million pounds. The work was one of 11
paintings being sold by Pieter Dreesmann, the son of the late
Dutch department-store heir Anton Dreesmann.  All the Dreesmann lots sold, raising 25.3 million pounds, 
against an upper estimate of 27.6 million pounds. Most had 
been acquired within the last 15 years from the Maastricht-
based dealer, the late Robert Noortman.  Asian bidders paid a further 2.6 million pounds and 1.8 
million pounds respectively for 17th-century still lives by 
Balthasar van der Ast and Adriaen Coorte from the collection.  Taste Tribute  “It was a tribute to Noortman’s taste,” the Paris-based
dealer Robert Haboldt said. “The market is good for quality
pictures in fine condition that haven’t been overestimated.”  The Constable was the most highly valued lot, at 20 million
pounds to 25 million pounds, and was consigned by Baroness
Carmen ‘Tita’ Thyssen-Bornemisza, a former Miss  Spain , who
became Baron Hans Thyssen-Bornemisza’s fifth wife in 1985. It
had been acquired by him at  Sotheby’s (BID)  in 1990 for 10.8 million
pounds, then a record for any British painting sold at auction.  The work was guaranteed to sell courtesy of a third party
“irrevocable bidder” that dealers identified as one of the
auction house’s Russian clients. There were no other bidders and
the unidentified guarantor was the buyer, Christie’s said.  Price Question  “There just aren’t any private collectors for this kind of
picture at the moment,” the New York-based dealer Richard L. Feigen said. “The Constable sold for the price of a second-tier 
Warhol. It’s ridiculous.”  Feigen said the Constable was the best painting in the 
sale, together with an unrestored panel of Christ flanked by 
Saints Paul and Peter by the 14th-century Sienese master Pietro 
Lorenzetti.   Thought by experts to the lower predella section from an 
altarpiece now in the Philadelphia Museum of Art, this was 
bought by Feigen for a record 5.1 million pounds, five times the 
lower estimate. The  New York  dealer wouldn't reveal the identity 
of the client he was representing.  Other records included the 4.6 million pounds given by a 
phone bidder for an oil-on-copper painting by Joachim Anthonisz 
Wtewael of the god Vulcan surprising his wife Venus in bed with 
Mars, and the 3.7 million pounds from the London dealer Jean-Luc Baroni for a Pieter Jansz Saenredam landscape. Both these 17th- 
century Dutch works were discoveries in unrestored condition.  The event raised 85.1 million pounds with fees against an
estimate of 61.8 million pounds to 88.3 million pounds, based on
hammer prices. It surpassed the 68.4 million-pound previous high
for an Old Master auction at Christie’s in December 2009.  Masterpiece Sale  Elsewhere, a Rodin bronze of “The Kiss” was snapped up at
the Masterpiece London fair.  Now in its third year,  Masterpiece  is billed as the U.K.
capital’s equivalent of the European Fine Art Fair in
Maastricht, with the addition of luxury brands such as Rolls-
Royce cars,  Ruinart  champagne and  Vacheron Constantin  watches.  More than 160 dealers are exhibiting in a temporary
structure on the Chelsea Embankment. Sheikh Saud al Thani of
Qatar and  Charles Saatchi  were among 5,175 VIPs at the preview.  Sladmore Gallery  sold a bronze of “The Kiss,” cast during
Rodin’s lifetime, to a Swiss collector for $2 million. A Middle
East client bought a pair of earrings by the Parisian jeweler
JAR from  Symbolic & Chase  for $500,000.  A hand-signed 1895 lithograph of Edvard Munch’s “The
Scream” -- one of just 26 made -- is being offered by the Oslo-
based dealer  Kaare Berntsen , priced at 1.7 million pounds. The
fair runs through tomorrow.  Pace Space  Pace Gallery  is the latest New York contemporary-art
dealership to announce that it’s opening a London space to
coincide with the Frieze Art Fair in October.  It has commissioned the U.K. architect  David Chipperfield 
to renovate a gallery in 6 Burlington Gardens, part of the  Royal
Academy of Arts . The space was previously occupied by Christie’s
dealership,  Haunch of Venison .  Pace joins fellow New York dealers  Per Skarstedt ,  Michael Werner  and David Zwirner scheduling to open spaces for Frieze.  (Scott Reyburn writes about the art market for Muse, the
arts and culture section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed
are his own.)  Muse highlights include  James Russell  on architecture and
 Hephzibah Anderson  on books.  To contact the writer on the story:
Scott Reyburn in London at  sreyburn@hotmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 