-- Romania’s Leu Remains Steady After Moody’s Cuts Credit Outlook
-- B y   A n d r a   T i m u   a n d   I r i n a   S a v u
-- 2012-07-02T09:16:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-02/romania-s-leu-remains-steady-after-moody-s-cuts-credit-outlook.html
Romania ’s leu remained steady after
Moody’s Investors Service cut the outlook on the country’s
rating to negative from stable, citing ties with the euro-area
amid its sovereign debt crisis.  Romania’s currency weakened as much as 0.2 percent against
the euro and last traded less than 0.1 percent lower at 4.4513
per euro at 12:06 p.m. in Bucharest. The country’s central bank
has a managed floating policy for the leu.  “The leu moves as much as the central bank allows it to;
the limited volatility is nothing new,”  Mateusz Szczurek , ING
Groep NV’s chief economist for central and eastern  Europe , said
in a phone interview today. “The fact that another rating
agency,  Fitch Ratings  confirmed Romania’s rating last week
helped ease market pressures.”  Moody’s reaffirmed Romania’s local- and foreign-currency
government bond rating at Baa3 late on June 29 and changed the
credit outlook, saying the country’s trade, investment and
financial ties with the European Union are heightening “the
economy’s susceptibility to event risk” in the next 12 to 18
months. About 70 percent of Romania’s exports go to the EU,
according to data from the  National Institute of Statistics .
Fitch affirmed Romania’s long-term foreign- and local-currency
ratings on June 28.  The eastern European country, whose leu has been the
second-worst performing emerging-market currency this year, has
had three governments this year and is facing general elections
in November or December as the euro-region’s crisis spreads.
That helped send the currency to the weakest on record June 11.  ‘Weaken in the Future’  “Some of the vulnerabilities mentioned by Moody’s are one
reason for which we would expect the  exchange rate  to weaken in
the future,” Szczurek said.  The weaker leu and the domestic political wrangling
prompted the Banca Nationala a Romaniei to keep its benchmark
rate unchanged for a second meeting on June 27 at a record low
of 5.25 percent.  “The main driver that prompted Moody’s decision to change
Romania’s rating outlook is the economy’s strong links to the
European Union, which could affect growth prospects,” the
rating company said. “Relatively” high external debt is the
second driver, and “could put pressure on its growth and
balance-of-payments position in the event of prolonged
volatility in international capital and credit markets.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andra Timu in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net ;
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  