-- Romney Planning Israel Trip That Includes Netanyahu Meeting
-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2012-07-03T14:41:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-02/romney-planning-trip-to-israel-that-includes-netanyahu-meeting.html
Republican presidential candidate
 Mitt Romney , seeking to bolster his support among Jewish voters
and evangelical Christians, plans to visit Israel in the coming
weeks and meet with Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu .  It will be Romney’s fourth visit to Israel, said a campaign
official who declined to provide a specific timetable for the
former Massachusetts governor’s trip. The official wasn’t
authorized to discuss the trip publicly.  Romney has said he plans to travel to the  Summer Olympics 
that start in London on July 27, and the Israel trip could be
timed to coincide with that travel.  Andrea Saul, a Romney campaign spokeswoman, said today that
 Robert Diamond , who stepped down as chief executive officer of
 Barclays Plc (BARC) , will no longer co-host a London campaign
fundraiser for Romney as part of the Olympics trip. Diamond, 60,
will leave the CEO post immediately, the London-based bank said
in a statement today, a day before he faces questions by British
lawmakers.  Barclays was hit by a record 290 million-pound ($455
million) fine last week for rigging the benchmark for more than
$360 trillion of securities. Diamond yesterday had defied
pressure to quit, pledging to implement the findings of a review
into how the bank sets the London interbank offered rate. U.K.
regulators are weighing whether to start a criminal probe into
Libor-fixing.  Democratic Supporters  Romney’s trip to Israel comes as the presumptive Republican
nominee courts Jewish voters, a group that typically backs
Democrats and gave 78 percent support to President  Barack Obama 
in the 2008 White House race, according to national exit polls.
Swing states with large Jewish populations include Florida and
Ohio.  Presidential nominees often take overseas trips in a bid to
demonstrate their foreign policy credentials.  Romney’s trip has similarities to one Obama made in July
2008 as he was running for the presidency. On that visit, the
then-Illinois senator declared his commitment to Israeli
security and also visited Palestinian officials in the  West Bank 
to signal balance in his approach to the region.  As president, Obama has had public disagreements with
Netanyahu’s government over issues such as limiting Jewish
settlement construction in Palestinian areas and as to when a
military strike might be needed to destroy  Iran’s nuclear
program . The discord has given Republicans a chance to appeal to
Jewish voters.  ‘Under the Bus’  During the Republican primary season, Romney accused Obama
of repeatedly throwing Israel “under the bus,” and said his
policy toward the Jewish state would be the opposite of the
incumbent’s.  Romney and Netanyahu first met in the mid-1970s, when both
worked as corporate advisers at a consulting firm in Boston, and
have continued a friendship during the following decades.  During a Republican debate in December, Romney referred to
Netanyahu by his nickname, Bibi, and said he had known him “for
a long time.”  The  New York  Times earlier reported Romney’s planned travel
to Israel.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John McCormick  in Chicago at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  