-- Rupiah Hits Three-Week High on Europe Progress, Trade Optimism
-- B y   Y u d i t h   H o
-- 2012-07-02T02:40:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-02/rupiah-hits-three-week-high-on-europe-progress-trade-optimism.html
The rupiah rose to the highest level
in almost three weeks after members of the euro area agreed on
measures to tackle the debt crisis, supporting riskier assets
before data today that’s forecast to show  Indonesia ’s trade
balance swung to a surplus.  European leaders agreed to relax conditions on bailout
funds for Spanish banks and possible aid for  Italy  at a two-day
summit that concluded June 29 in Brussels. Indonesia’s  trade
balance  swung to a $311 million surplus in May from an April
deficit of $641 million, according to the median estimate of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg before figures are released at
11 a.m. in Jakarta. A separate report at that time is forecast
to show  consumer prices  gained 4.38 percent in June from a year
earlier after increasing 4.45 percent in May.  “The very positive sentiment from Friday pushed regional
markets higher and in turn led the rupiah higher,” said
Artanavaro Gasali, the Jakarta-based head of global markets at
PT Bank ICBC Indonesia. “The rupiah will have some support as
foreign investors reenter Indonesia’s capital market. Inflation
is expected to be moderate and the  reference rate  on hold.”  The rupiah strengthened 0.4 percent to 9,395 per dollar as
of 9:21 a.m. in Jakarta, according to prices from local banks
compiled by Bloomberg. The currency touched 9,363, the strongest
level since June 12.  One-month implied volatility, which measures exchange-rate
swings used to price options, held at 8.5 percent today.  “Inflation is not going to be a problem for the next few
quarters,” as the threat of a global economic slowdown damps
the price of oil and  Bank Indonesia  takes steps to restrict
credit growth, analysts at DBS Group Holdings Ltd. led by  David
Carbon  wrote in a report today.  The  yield  on the government’s benchmark 10-year bonds fell
five basis points, or 0.05 percentage point, last week to 6.15
percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yudith Ho in Jakarta at 
 yho35@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  