-- Salehi Urges West’s Cooperation to Avert Iran Showdown
-- B y   Y e g a n e h   S a l e h i   a n d   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i
-- 2012-07-02T14:02:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-02/salehi-urges-west-s-cooperation-to-avert-iran-showdown.html
Iran ’s foreign minister urged Western
powers to reach an accord with Iranian officials over the
country’s nuclear program or risk a confrontation, the Iranian
Students’ News Agency reported.  “The other side has no choice but to come to an agreement
with Iran,” ISNA cited  Ali Akbar Salehi  as saying. “Otherwise,
instead of interaction, the next option will be confrontation,
and I don’t believe that any rational mind is after
confrontation given the latest developments in the region.”  European Union sanctions against Iran banning imports of
the country’s crude oil took effect yesterday. The restrictions
build on earlier U.S. and United Nations measures limiting trade
and financial transactions with the Persian Gulf country.  Three rounds of discussions this year between Iran and the
five permanent United Nations Security Council members -- China,
 France ,  Russia , the U.K., the U.S. -- plus Germany have failed
to reach a breakthrough. Technical experts representing the
parties are meeting for further talks tomorrow in Istanbul.  In comments aimed at Iranians, Salehi sought to boost
morale, calling on the nation to unite in the face of the
additional punitive measures.  “We have been subjected to sanctions for the past 33
years,” he said in an interview with the state-run  Fars   news
agency  today, referring to the start of the Islamic Republic in
Iran. The latest measures “come in addition to previous ones,
and it isn’t a problem.”  Iranians must “show national unity and have resistance and
patience against these sanctions because one has to pay the
costs for preserving one’s independence,” he was quoted as
saying by Fars.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yeganeh Salehi in Tehran at 
 yalehi@bloomberg.net ;
Ladane Nasseri in Dubai at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  