-- Samsung Requests Stay of Nexus Sales Ban in Apple Lawsuit
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2012-07-02T20:58:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-02/samsung-requests-stay-of-nexus-sales-ban-in-apple-lawsuit-1-.html
Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) ’s request to
stay a court order barring sales of its Galaxy Nexus smartphone
in the U.S. will be ruled on “shortly,” a federal judge said
today at a court hearing in  San Jose ,  California .  U.S. District Judge Lucy Koh wasn’t more specific about
when she’ll issue her ruling. Samsung, the world’s biggest maker
of mobile phones, asked Koh for the stay of her June 29 order
while the company pursues an appeal.  In granting the ban on Nexus sales, Koh ruled last week
that although Samsung will be harmed by the order, “the harm
faced by Apple absent an injunction is greater.” That decision
followed Koh’s June 26 order blocking U.S. sales of Samsung’s
Galaxy Tab 10.1 computer.  The world’s two biggest makers of high-end phones have
accused each other of copying designs and technology for mobile
devices and are fighting patent battles on four continents to
retain their dominance in the $219 billion global smartphone
market. To win its request, Samsung must demonstrate it will
suffer irreparable harm from the injunction.  William Price , a lawyer for Samsung, told Koh in court
today that Nexus sales represent 0.5 percent of the smartphone
market, and that the balance of hardships Koh must weigh in
deciding whether to stay her injunction tips in favor of
Samsung.  ‘Lost Sale’  Under the injunction, “every sale to us is a lost sale,”
Price said. “Every sale of that phone in the market is not a
lost sale to Apple -- there’s no evidence of that. It impacts us
much more.”  Josh Krevitt, a lawyer for Cupertino, California-based
Apple, told Koh that there is “loads” of evidence proving
Apple is suffering direct harm from Nexus sales. In Samsung
documents shared in an exchange of pretrial evidence gathering,
the company shows the Nexus is “designed to take sales from the
iPhone,” Krevitt said.  Apple is “the only competitor identified by Samsung in
document after document after document,” Krevitt said. “Their
sales cause Apple irreparable and immediate harm.”  Samsung accounts for 29.1 percent of global shipments of
smartphones, according to market research firm IDC. Apple is
second with 24.2 percent, IDC said.  Outside courtroom battles, Samsung and Apple have a close
business relationship. Samsung is one of Apple’s biggest
suppliers, making parts including semiconductors and screens.
About 7.6 percent of Samsung’s revenue comes from Apple,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The case is  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  v. Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd., 12-
cv-00630, U.S. District Court, Northern District of California
(San Jose). The tablet case is Apple Inc. v. Samsung Electronics
Co. Ltd., 11-cv-1846, U.S. District Court, Northern District of
California (San Jose).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  