-- Samsung Drops After U.S. Court Blocks Nexus Phone Sales
-- B y   J u n   Y a n g
-- 2012-07-02T06:34:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-02/samsung-drops-after-u-s-court-blocks-nexus-phone-sales.html
Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) , the world’s
top handset maker, fell the most in a week in Seoul trading
after  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  won a court ruling blocking sales of the Galaxy
Nexus smartphone in the U.S.  Samsung dropped 2.3 percent, the most since June 25, to
1,174,000 won at the close of trading on the Korea Exchange. The
stock was the  biggest contributor  by index points to the 0.1
percent decline in the benchmark  Kospi (KOSPI)  index.  Samsung has been fighting patent battles for more than a
year with Apple, also the South Korean electronics maker’s
 largest customer , as they compete for leadership in the $219
billion global smartphone market. The latest U.S. ruling puts
handset sales in a major market at stake for Samsung, as Apple
has sought to bar as many as 25 Samsung smartphones, including
the latest, the Galaxy S III.  “People are concerned that this could spill over to the S
III, because if the same rationale applies to the S III, it’ll
be a big blow to Samsung,” Shin Hyun Joon, a Seoul-based
analyst at Dongbu Securities Co., said by phone. “This isn’t an
issue that will conclude any time soon.”  Sales of the Galaxy S III, the latest version in Samsung’s
best-selling smartphone series, started in the U.S. last month.
Sales in America were the largest overseas source of revenue for
Samsung last year, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  Samsung appealed the ruling on July 1, Nam Ki Yung, a
Seoul-based spokesman, said by phone today.  Google Search  The impact of the ban on the Nexus phone alone won’t be big
for Samsung, as the model is estimated to sell fewer than 1
million units a year in the U.S., Shin said. Samsung, which
doesn’t disclose shipment figures for smartphones and tablet
computers, sold 44.5 million smartphones globally in the first
quarter, topping Apple, according to market researcher  Strategy
Analytics .  The ruling by U.S. District Judge Lucy Koh in  San Jose ,
 California , follows her June 26 order blocking  sales  of
Samsung’s Galaxy Tab 10.1 tablet in the country. On June 7, Koh
expedited evidence sharing for Apple’s bid to block sales of
Samsung’s Galaxy S III.  The Nexus phone, the first smartphone to run Google Inc.’s
Android version 4.0, was unveiled by Samsung and Google in  Hong
Kong  in October.  The disputed patent that led to the June 29 ruling involves
a  Google search  function that shows results from multiple
sources, and Samsung is working closely with the U.S. partner to
resolve the ban, the South Korean company said on June 30 in a
statement.  Rivalry Partnership  Google may be able to tweak its software to dodge the
ruling, C.W. Chung, a Seoul-based analyst at Nomura Holdings
Inc., wrote in a report today.  Samsung, the world’s largest maker of computer-memory chips
and flat panels, may have more to lose in the dispute than
handset sales as the company relies on Apple to get more than 7
percent of its revenue, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Samsung is the exclusive manufacturer of Apple-designed
processors powering the iPhone and iPad.  The iPhone maker will probably try to diversify away from
Samsung to get parts supplies where it can, Shin said. NAND
flash, a type of memory chips used in mobile devices, is one of
the components Apple may seek to source elsewhere, while it will
have to keep relying on Samsung to get processors, he said.  “Although Samsung is trying to run its component and
consumer-electronics businesses independently of each other,
it’s hard to say there won’t be any impact,” Shin said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jun Yang in Seoul at 
 jyang180@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  