-- Sanko Steamship, Elpida Memory, PGB, China Medical: Bankruptcy
-- B y   S o f i a   H o r t a   e   C o s t a   a n d   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 2012-07-02T16:38:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-02/sanko-steamship-elpida-memory-pgb-china-medical-bankruptcy.html
Sanko Steamship Co., the Japanese
operator of 185 ships, filed for  bankruptcy protection  in  Tokyo 
after failing to reach agreement with creditors on an out-of-
court turnaround.  The company had liabilities of  155.8 billion yen  ($2
billion), according to Teikoku Databank Ltd., a Tokyo-based
corporate research company. Yasunao Goto, a Sanko spokesman,
declined to comment on the size of the liabilities or to name
creditors, when called in Tokyo today.  The Tokyo District Court granted permission for closely
held Sanko to continue operations under supervision and it will
appoint a trustee to oversee a reorganization, the company said
in an e-mailed statement today. The ship operator suffered from
a drop in demand after the 2008 collapse of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. and didn’t cut expensive charters quickly enough
as  shipping rates  fell, it said.  Sanko had won agreement from creditors to defer payments on
some debts through tomorrow as it worked on an out-of-court
restructuring plan. The Tokyo-based company was due to present a
new business plan tomorrow.  Micron Agrees to Acquire Elpida in $2.5 Billion Transaction  Micron Technology Inc. (MU)  agreed to buy bankrupt Japanese
chipmaker Elpida Memory Inc. in a transaction valued at 200
billion yen, gaining memory chip-making assets that may help it
avert price swings that fueled four straight quarters of losses.  Micron will pay 60 billion yen in cash at the closing of
the deal, while the remaining 140 billion yen in future annual
installments through 2019 will come from  cash flow  generated by
Boise, Idaho-based Micron’s payment for chips made by Elpida,
according to a statement today.  Acquiring Elpida, an Apple Inc.  supplier , would double
Micron’s share of the global market for DRAM, the most widely
used memory chips in personal computers, to about 24 percent.
That would help Micron vie with industry leader Samsung
Electronics Co. while giving it greater control over supply
gluts that have caused it to report  losses  amid falling prices.  PBG Jumps Most in 3 Weeks on Possible State Help: Warsaw Mover  PBG SA (PBG) , the Polish builder that filed for bankruptcy last
month, jumped the most in almost three weeks on a report that
the company may ask the government for help to continue work on
infrastructure projects.  The shares  gained  as much as 13 percent, the most since
June 13, and traded 9.8 percent higher at 6.74 zloty at 2:36
p.m. in Warsaw, the highest since June 15. The stock has lost 91
percent of its value in 2012,  data  compiled by Bloomberg show.  PBG is considering asking Agencja Rozwoju Przemyslu SA, the
state-owned fund for developing industry, for help as “one of
its options,” Kinga Banaszak-Filipiak, a spokeswoman, said in a
phone interview today. She confirmed a report in the Gazeta
Wyborcza newspaper, which said on June 30 that the company is in
talks to get assistance, citing Chief Executive Officer Wieslaw Rozacki.  PBG, which 15 months ago was  Poland ’s largest builder by
market value, has asked a court for protection from creditors
and offered to pay back at least 69 percent of its debt. The
company had about 1.5 billion zloty ($447 million) of debt on
June 4, it said in a statement.  Commerzbank’s Maritime Exit Raises Threat of Shipping Bankruptcy  Commerzbank AG (CBK) ’s decision to pull out of ship finance may
push some operators toward bankruptcy as they lose access to the
world’s third-largest maritime lender.  “This is definitely a move in the wrong direction for the
future prospects of the industry,” said Peter Sand, an analyst
at Danish shipping association BIMCO. “Ship owners stuck in a
financial moment they cannot get out of are likely to get closer
to a bankruptcy as yet another option in the traditional ship
finance banking market is lost.”  Commerzbank said June 26 that it will close its ship
finance unit amid  Europe ’s debt crisis to focus on “business
that is sustainably profitable.” That follows withdrawals by
 Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  and  Societe Generale SA (GLE)  as a shipping
industry burdened by high fuel costs and low freight rates
struggles to secure funding and refinance debt.  About $249 billion is needed in new debt and equity in the
coming three years to cover orders for new ships and sales and
purchases of existing vessels, according to a January 26
presentation by shipping fund manager Tufton Oceanic Ltd.  SEC Suspends China Medical ADR Trade on Information Accuracy  Trading of  China Medical Technologies Inc. (CMEDY) ’s American
depositary receipts was suspended by the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission, which cited questions on the accuracy of
the company’s information.  The regulator ordered a temporary suspension in the
Beijing-based medical device company’s shares on June 29 until
July 13, according to a statement on the SEC’s website. The
action was caused by “questions that have been raised about the
accuracy and adequacy of publicly disseminated information
concerning, among other things, the status of the company’s
officers and directors, the accuracy of the company’s financial
statements and filings with the Commission,” the SEC said.  The SEC enforcement action “further reiterates concern
investors have expressed regarding financial reporting and
corporate governance at Chinese companies over the past two
years,” Kevin Barnes, an equity analyst at Absaroka Capital
Management LLC, said by phone.  Bondholders of China Medical, which is registered in the
 Cayman Islands , directed the Wilmington Trust Co. to file a so-
called winding-up petition on June 15 with the Grand Court of
the Cayman Islands to liquidate the company after it defaulted
on interest payment on two notes from December.  The company issued $150 million of 6.25 percent six-year
convertible bonds in December 2010 and $276 million of 4 percent
five-year convertible bonds in August 2008.  China Medical said it intended to implement a debt
restructuring plan to improve its balance sheet, according to a
Dec. 14 regulatory filing. The company hasn’t released any
public statements since then.  Irish Bank Lobby Has ‘Serious Concern’ About Insolvency Bill  Irish Banking Federation Chief Executive Officer Pat Farrell said that he has a “serious concern” about the terms
of proposed legislation that would allow debtors, including home
owners, to seek write-offs of as much as 3 million euros, with
creditor consent.  “We believe the whole intent of the bill was that it would
be focused on the family home,” Farrell said in an interview
with Dublin-based RTE on June 29. “The reality is that now it
is bringing in speculative investments such as buy-to-lets; it
also brings in perhaps” lending to smaller companies.  “The 3 million is obviously completely out of the ball
park in terms of the average mortgage situation in this
country,” he said. Farrell said banks’ “principal concern”
with the Personal Insolvency Bill, published June 29, was that
people who invested in properties-to-let would use available
funds to pay off investment-related debt “at the expense of the
actual mortgage loan.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sofia Horta e Costa in London at 
 shortaecosta@bloomberg.net ;
Ben Moshinsky in Brussels at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  