-- Scene in D.C.: Guests Cheer Tiger Woods, Japanese Party
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   G r e e n
-- 2012-07-02T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-02/scene-in-d-c-guests-cheer-tiger-woods-japanese-party.html
Japanese Ambassador Ichiro Fujisaki
played host to more than 1,000 visitors on his sprawling lawn
yesterday for his annual summer barbecue.  His wife, Yoriko Fujisaki, said that the sweltering weather
was about the same in  Japan  where she is headed for the holiday
break. Her husband, who sported a red polo shirt with “Japan”
emblazoned across the front, will stay behind for business.  Japanese cuisine and all-American fare like hot dogs were
offered. Steaks and chicken were roasted on steaming grills
under the watchful eyes of the embassy’s chefs.  “I love noodles,” Yoriko Fujisaki said as she held a
plate of ramen cooked for her on the grill.  She said her guest list consisted of business leaders like
Mark Schuermann, the executive director of public affairs for
 Nomura (8604) , and volunteers who assisted in the aftermath of the
earthquake in Tohoku last year.  Lars Hydle, who works for U.S. Representative Edolphus Towns, a  New York  Democrat, cooled off with a Popsicle. Other
guests stayed cool by taking a dip in the Fujisakis’ swimming
pool. Their tennis court was also open for business.  In the shade, a crowd gathered around a martial arts
demonstration that generated a chorus of gasps.  Guests departed with the Fujisaki signature “Japan-U.S.
Friendship” plastic bracelet, and children got a bracelet
designed especially for them.  Woods Foundation  A violent storm Friday evening postponed the first annual
“District on the Green” party at the AT&T National  Golf
Tournament  to Sunday afternoon.  Hosted by the  Tiger Woods Foundation , the party introduced
 Washington  scenesters to the excitement of a golf tournament at
Congressional Country Club in Bethesda.  Host committee member Winston Lord, the co-founder of
Venga, an Internet startup company, was among the many social
stars who helped get the young and beautiful on the green on a
Sunday afternoon, the last hurrah before the summer doldrums.  Guests gathered on the terrace of the club house to see
Woods swing at the nearby 10th tee. The crowd applauded when
they saw Woods approach in a bright red shirt.  Woods, 36, went on to win a two-stroke victory over Bo  Van Pelt  to become the first golfer to win three times on the U.S.
 PGA Tour  this season and surpass  Jack Nicklaus ’s career win
total.  Chef  Jose Andres  provided appetizers, while a chic bar
served the signature beverage of the afternoon: the Grey Goose
Cherry Noir. Cupcakes with green icing were decorated like mini-
golf courses.  Financial advisers George Bassett, with Merrill Lynch, and
David Bubby, with TD Ameritrade, sat on terrace sofas while
waiters passed around chilled Evian water spray cans. Guests
departed with silver martini sticks from Grey Goose.  (Stephanie Green is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include  Elin McCoy  on wine and  Warwick
Thompson  on theater.  To contact the writer on this story:
 Stephanie Green  in Washington at  sgreen57@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter @stephlgreen.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 