-- U.S. SEC to Meet on Conflict Mineral and Advertising Rules
-- B y   S t e v e n   S l o a n
-- 2012-07-02T20:15:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-02/sec-to-meet-in-august-on-conflict-mineral-and-advertising-rule.html
Members of the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission will meet next month to consider rules
mandated by the 2010 financial regulatory overhaul and a
separate law enacted this year to ease the initial public
offering process for small companies.  In an  announcement  posted on the SEC website, the agency
said the five commissioners will meet on Aug. 22 to consider
rules requiring public companies to disclose whether they use
minerals mined in the  Democratic Republic  of Congo or make
payments to overseas governments to develop natural gas. The
agency will also consider a rule required by the 2012 JOBS Act
lifting advertising restrictions on some companies going public.  The meeting will be the first since April for the
commission, whose pace of rulemaking has been slowed by demands
for cost-benefit analyses and the complexity of the rules. SEC
Chairman  Mary Schapiro  has told lawmakers that some rulemakings,
like the conflict mineral proposal, have been especially
challenging to complete because they center on human rights
issues that are typically outside of the agency’s jurisdiction.  Humanitarian groups accuse warlords in the DRC of
enslaving, raping and murdering residents in the aftermath of
the country’s civil war. That misery, they say, is funded by
conflict minerals from the nation’s rich mines.  Product Disclosure  The SEC proposed a rule in December 2010 requiring
companies to disclose how they acquire the gold, tin, tantalum
and tungsten used in their products. The proposal reaches into
the operations of tech giants such as  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , jewelry makers
such as  Tiffany & Co. (TIF) , aerospace firms such as  Boeing Co. (BA)  and
retailers such as  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)   The agency proposed the disclosure of payments to other
governments, known as the resource-extraction rule, at the same
time. That measure would require public companies to publish
information about the type and total payments made to other
governments for the commercial development of oil, natural gas
or minerals.  The meeting will mark the SEC’s first attempt to propose
rules that would lift the ban on general solicitation for
smaller companies that are going public. Though Congress
required the SEC to propose the rule by July 4, Schapiro has
told lawmakers that deadline would be challenging to meet.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Sloan in Washington at 
 ssloan7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  