-- Singapore Private Home Prices Rebound to Record in 2nd Quarter
-- B y   P o o j a   T h a k u r
-- 2012-07-02T01:34:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-02/singapore-private-home-prices-rebound-to-record-in-2nd-quarter.html
Singapore  home prices rebounded to a
record in the second quarter after developers sold more homes, a
government report showed.  The island state’s private residential property price index
rose 0.4 percent to 206.8 points in the three months ended June
30 from the previous quarter, according to preliminary estimates
released by the Urban Redevelopment Authority today.  The latest recovery in prices may renew concerns on
government measures to regulate the sale of smaller-sized
residential units after developers sold a record number of so-
called shoebox apartments in the first quarter. Home sales have
climbed 54 percent to 10,880 units this year, according to data
from the authority.  “The low interest rate environment and investors looking
for investment opportunities to hedge against inflation is
resulting in higher prices,” said Nicholas Mak,  executive
director  at SLP International Property Consultants, a real
estate consulting company. “Still, it’s too small an increase
to justify an intervention by the government.”  Prices of non-landed private residential properties
increased by 0.6 percent in the Core Central Region in the
quarter compared with a decrease of 0.6 percent in the three
months to March 31. Prices in Outside Central Region climbed at
a slower pace of 0.4 percent in the quarter, compared with a
gain of 1.1 percent in the previous quarter.  The Singapore property  index  climbed 0.5 percent to the
highest in more than two months.  CapitaLand Ltd. (CAPL) ,  Southeast
Asia ’s biggest developer, increased 1.5 percent to S$2.74 as of
9:26 a.m. in Singapore trading, set for the highest since May 7.
 City Developments Ltd. (CIT) , the country’s second-largest developer,
added 0.4 percent.  Government Concern  The increase in the sales of such homes is a concern and
the government has asked developers to provide more details,
Khaw Boon Wan, Singapore’s National Development Minister, said
in May. Shoebox apartments are those smaller than 50 square
meters (538 square feet).  Singapore has been attempting to rein in prices since 2009,
when it barred interest-only loans for some housing projects and
stopped allowing developers to absorb interest payments for
apartments still being built. Foreigners and corporate entities
have to pay an additional 10 percent stamp duty following
measures introduced in December.  The extra levy is 3 percent for permanent residents
purchasing a second home and for citizens buying their third
residential property. The government earlier imposed a 1 percent
duty on the first S$180,000 ($142,879) of the property price, 2
percent on the next S$180,000 and 3 percent for the remainder.  Property Measures  In January 2011, the government also raised down-payment
requirements for second mortgages and extended the period
homeowners must hold their properties to avoid a sales
transaction tax to fend off speculators.  Still, home sales in May fell 32 percent from a month ago,
posting the lowest sales this year as the Europe crisis damped
demand. Private home sales fell to 1,702 units in May from this
year’s peak of 2,496 units in April, according to data from the
 Urban Redevelopment Authority . Sales fell below 2,000 units for
the first time in four months.  Developers are increasing sales by offering smaller units,
according to CBRE Group Inc., the Los Angeles-based property
broker. The median size of units declined 24 percent to 667
square feet in the first quarter the previous three months while
the median price slid 18 percent to S$786,340, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pooja Thakur in Singapore at 
 pthakur@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  