-- Slovenia Heads for Euro-Area Bailout Request to Aid Banks
-- B y   B o r i s   C e r n i   a n d   R a d o s l a v   T o m e k
-- 2012-07-03T08:18:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-02/slovenia-heads-for-sixth-euro-area-bailout-request-to-aid-banks.html
Slovenia is headed toward becoming
the sixth euro-area nation to seek a bailout as faltering banks
strain the finances of the first post-communist nation to adopt
the common currency, said economists from  London  to Warsaw.  The nation, which adopted the euro in 2007, is assessing
the fiscal burden of covering the liabilities of its financial
industry after Nova Ljubljanska Banka d.d., the largest bank,
got a capital boost. Premier  Janez Jansa , who said on June 27
that Slovenia risks a “Greek scenario,” told reporters two
days later in Brussels the government is “doing everything to
find a solution” and avoid the need for assistance.  “It’s increasingly likely that Slovenia will be the next
small economy asking for a European Union bailout, which would
be focused on the banking sector,” Michal Dybula, an economist
at  BNP Paribas SA (BNP)  in Warsaw, said by phone.  Cyprus last week became the fifth euro-area country to ask
for help from the 17-nation region’s firewall, while Slovenian
borrowing costs soared last month to the highest level since
February, with the yield on the 2021 bond reaching 6.1 percent
on June 29.  Greece , Ireland,  Portugal  and  Spain  were forced to
seek financial aid after their borrowing costs surged.  Slovenia’s benchmark bond dropped today, pushing the yield
on government notes maturing in 2021 to 6.003 percent at 10:12
a.m. in Ljubljana from 5.808 percent yesterday, according to
mid-pricing data compiled by Bloomberg.  EU Convergence  The convergence of the European Union’s richest nation to
join the EU since 2004 has stalled, putting its per-capita
output at the same level below the EU average as it was before
entry. The economy may contract 2 percent this year, according
to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development.  “The main thing is that we have completed the NLB capital
increase,” Finance Minister Janez Sustersic said in a phone
interview yesterday when asked to comment about economists’
statements. “I think we can solve this by domestic funding. I
don’t think a bailout will happen and these economists may say
what they say since they don’t have up-to-date information.”  The government in Ljubljana has adopted measures including
public-sector wage and social benefit cuts this year to reduce
spending by about 800 million euros ($1.01 billion) to trim the
 budget deficit  after it reached 6.4 percent of gross domestic
product in 2011.  Industry Recapitalization  Still, the central bank has repeatedly urged Slovenia to
recapitalize its banking industry, which relies on loans from
the  European Central Bank  for liquidity. A plea for financial
assistance from Slovenia may emerge if European leaders don’t
come up with a quick fix to the worsening debt and banking
crisis, said Dybula.  “It would take a further escalation of the euro crisis,
pushing up bond yields to prohibitively costly levels, to force
a request to the  International Monetary Fund  and the EU,”
 William Jackson , an emerging-markets economist at  Capital
Economics  in London, said in an e-mail. “It doesn’t look like
we’re there yet, but they’re probably not too far off.”  NLB needed 381 million euros, with Slovenia and its
agencies providing all of the money after its second-largest
owner,  KBC Groep NV (KBC) , withdrew from the transaction because it
failed to win approval from the European Commission.  KBC,  Belgium ’s largest bank and insurance company by market
value, received 7 billion euros in state aid in 2009. The
Slovenian government called the capital boost a “temporary
solution” as it seeks to lower its majority holding in NLB to
25 percent plus one share.  Funding Needs  NLB needs 500 million euros and “much more” to restart
lending to boost the economy, Sustersic has said earlier. The
bank borrowed 1.2 billion euros from the ECB, acting Chief
Executive Officer Bozo Jasovic said.  “I think we will avoid seeking assistance,” said
Sustersic yesterday, adding NLB is stable for at least a year
after the government contributed a majority of the capital
increase by purchasing contingent convertible bonds. “So I
don’t see any further problems with our biggest bank. I don’t
see a reason to seek help for banks. I don’t see this scenario
happening.”  Public debt has more than doubled to 47.6 percent of
economic output since euro adoption and will advance to 54.7
percent by the end of 2012, according to a May report by the
European Commission.  “This generation will have to pay dearly for the stupidity
of those that have delayed decisions,” Jansa said in an
interview with Koper, Slovenia-based Radio Ognjisce on June 27,
urging lawmakers to approve spending limits.  No Danger  After the summit of European Union leaders in Brussels on
June 29, Jansa said “our assessment is that Slovenia, since we
adopted measures to balance budget finances, is not in danger of
seeking help. There are no reasons to speculate that Slovenia
may need assistance.”  Slovenia is the only eastern EU nation that didn’t get
richer relative to its peers last year, according to Eurostat.
Its output per capita, adjusted for purchasing power, fell for a
third year to 84 percent of the bloc’s average from 85 percent a
year ago. Seven other former communist nations, including
 Poland , which has the region’s largest economy, continued to
catch up with the west.  At the heart of investors’ concerns are local banks, which
rely on financing from the ECB as record losses and uncertainty
in the European banking industry limits access to funding.
Lenders borrowed 2 billion euros from the ECB, the Slovenian
central bank said on June 14.  Not Clever  “Comments to seek an EU rescue when reforms aren’t
approved quickly aren’t clever because markets will push
Slovenia into this situation by cutting finances,” said  Lutz Roehmeyer , who oversees 10 billion euros and holds Slovenian
bonds at  Landesbank Berlin (BEB2)  Invest. The country is in better
shape than Spain, Ireland, Greece and Portugal, he said.  “It’s unwise to provoke a self-fulfilling prophecy,”
Roehmeyer said.  Nova Kreditna Banka Maribor (KBMR)  d.d., the country’s second-
biggest lender, invited companies to carry out due diligence to
see how much more capital it needs.  Abanka Vipa (ABKN)  d.d. is seeking
to raise 50 million euros in a share sale.  “By the end of the year we may have to ask for aid to
recapitalize banks,” said Radivoj Pregelj, an analyst at Abanka
Vipa d.d. in Nova Gorica, Slovenia. “If we look at the banks
and their bad loans, they would need 3 billion euros to 3.5
billion euros, with about half of that for NLB, which represents
about 10 percent of Slovenia’s economic output.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net 
Radoslav Tomek in Bratislava at 
 rtomek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  