-- Soco International Rises in London on Vietnam Field Purchase
-- B y   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n
-- 2012-07-02T16:16:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-02/soco-jumps-most-since-2008-in-london-on-vietnam-field-purchase.html
Soco International Plc (SIA)  rose in  London 
on plans to buy out the minority partner in its main oil
subsidiary in  Vietnam .  The U.K. explorer  advanced  6.9 percent to 309.4 pence. It
earlier jumped as much as 10 percent.  It plans to pay $95 million for the 20 percent it doesn’t
already own in Soco Vietnam from Lizeroux Oil & Gas Ltd.,
London-based Soco said today in a statement. Soco and its
partners plan to boost output 38 percent to 55,000 barrels a day
from the Te Giac Trang fields (TGT) by starting the second
platform off Vietnam in August.  “It’s a great asset and we basically, if you look at the
metrics of what people have been paying for things in Vietnam,
we’ve paid about half as much for this interest because of our
majority interest,” Chief Financial Officer Roger Cagle said
today in a phone interview. “It’s a sweet deal for us.”  Investors are concerned that the production target at TGT
may not be met, Tao Ly, a London-based analyst at Nomura
International Plc, wrote in an e-mailed report. If output
targets are met, Soco will generate $780 million in cash by the
end of 2015 on its balance sheet at $95 a barrel oil price.  It plans to expand exploration in Vietnam and is examining
opportunities in West Sub-Saharan Africa and  Southeast Asia .  The company is reviewing possible projects in at least four
new countries and has a $25 million exploration budget for new
ventures this year, Cagle said.  ‘Light Year’  “We have a number of projects for exploration
opportunities,” he said. “They are just not mature to the
drilling stage this year. On the exploration side this is a
light year for us.”  Directors will consider paying a special dividend in the
second half with production ramping up in Vietnam. Soco has
already begun a buyback program to return funds to shareholders.  “Many of the managers and directors of this company have a
number of shares and we’ve never taken any money off the
table,” Cagle said. “We are not an  investment company . The
cash builds up and if we can’t increase the value of our
portfolio, then we will distribute back to shareholders.”  Lizeroux is majority-owned by former Soco manager Hai Hoang
Nguyen, who helped the company to set up business in Vietnam.  “One time, early on, initially he was one of the managers
of one of the joint operating companies, but he is no longer,”
Cagle said. “He had a lot of contacts, so we got to the front
of the line, met the people, worked the deals.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduard Gismatullin in London at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  