-- Solvency II Needs to Reflect European Bond Risks, Pimco Says
-- B y   O l i v e r   S u e s s
-- 2012-07-02T14:37:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-02/solvency-ii-needs-to-reflect-european-bond-risks-pimco-says.html
New rules for insurers in  Europe  need to
better reflect risks of holding European  government bonds , according to
Pacific Investment Management Co., which manages the world’s largest
bond fund.  “We expect that the Solvency II rule, under which all government
bonds within the European Economic Area are regarded as risk-free, will
be adjusted before the end of this year,” Matthieu Louanges, head of
European insurance asset management at Pimco in Munich, said in an
interview. “We would expect a differentiation using country ratings,
for example.”  European regulators plan to impose common capital standards for
insurers in Europe through rules known as Solvency II  from next year ,
with full application coming in 2014. The rules require insurers not to
set aside any capital for holdings of sovereign debt from countries
within the European Economic Area, which includes the 27 members of the
European Union as well as Iceland, Liechtenstein and Norway.  “The haircut on Greek bonds was the final evidence that this zero-
capital rule has to be adjusted,” Louanges said. Pimco expects Solvency
II to be modified to take account of conditions in individual countries,
so that Italian insurers could hold Italian bonds at lower  capital
requirements  than their German counterparts, he said.  ‘Re-localization’  “A re-localization of insurers’ government bond investments is
happening already, and local government bonds have always been the
preferred benchmark for insurers,” Louanges said. He helps manage more
than 200 billion euros ($252 billion) in assets for European insurers at
 Newport Beach , California-based Pimco.  Pimco, a unit of Munich-based  Allianz SE (ALV) , Europe’s biggest insurer,
has seen “tremendous growth” in mandates to manage assets on behalf of
other insurers, especially in  Switzerland ,  France ,  Italy  and the U.K.,
Louanges said. While the majority of funds at Pimco’s insurance asset-
management unit in Europe still come from Allianz, the third-party
business is growing at a rate of around 20 percent, he said.  “European insurers in general are under increasing pressure
because of the low interest-rate environment, and as their book reserves
on fixed-income securities and equities are much lower than in the
past,” Louanges said. “After a period of redistribution of the
investment risks out of the periphery into the core of Europe, we have
seen a trend to diversify the investments outside the  euro zone , in
global corporate bonds or  emerging markets .”  ‘Clear Picture’  Louanges said he expects to get “a clear picture of how Solvency
II will look” by the end of the year. The Solvency II rules are being
developed by the European Commission and the Frankfurt-based European
Insurance and Occupational Pensions Authority, or  Eiopa , along with
local regulators.  One point of discussion within the EU is a phasing in of the new
capital rules for life insurers over seven years under a proposal made
by Burkhard Balz, a German member of the European Parliament who is
steering the legislation.  “This would be extremely difficult to implement, as insurers would
have to separate old contracts from new ones in their portfolios,”
Louanges said.  Solvency  capital ratios  of European insurers “started to slightly
decrease” this year because of the low  interest rates , Frankfurt-based
insurance watchdog Eiopa  said  in its Financial Stability Report
published on June 11.  Increasing pressure on insurers in Europe may also lead to more
consolidation as some companies boost their capital ratios by selling
some non-core businesses, Louanges said.  Allianz agreed on June 8 to acquire the property and casualty
assets belonging to Groupama SA’s Gan Eurocourtage industrial insurance
unit for slightly more than 100 million euros. The Paris-based insurer
is scaling back some businesses after it swung to a loss last year on
Greek debt writedowns.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oliver Suess in Munich at 
 osuess@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net 
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  