-- Sony to Buy Cloud Gaming Company Gaikai for $380 Million
-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u
-- 2012-07-02T10:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-02/sony-to-buy-cloud-gaming-company-gaikai-for-380-million.html
Sony Corp. (6758)  agreed to acquire U.S.
gaming platform company Gaikai Inc. for about $380 million, as
the maker of PlayStation game consoles prepares to expand cloud-
based entertainment services.  The transaction is scheduled to be completed by the end of
August and the effect on  earnings  is expected to be small, the
Tokyo-based electronics maker said in a statement. Closely held
Gaikai, based in  Aliso Viejo ,  California , has expertise in
transmitting data between cloud servers and users without delay,
said Satoshi Nakajima, a spokesman for Sony’s game unit.  Chief Executive Officer  Kazuo Hirai  pledged in April to
revive earnings at Sony by focusing on game players,  digital
imaging products  such as cameras, and mobile devices including
smartphones. The proposed acquisition shows that the company
seeks to boost sales from going online, said Takashi Oka, a
Tokyo-based analyst at TIW Inc.  “It’s a positive move that shows Sony is focusing on
online gaming services,” said Oka. “Online services have the
potential to grow into a stable source of revenue within two to
three years, if Sony can line up good titles.”  Sony aims to revive earnings by boosting sales at its  game
unit  after introducing PlayStation Vita handheld machines last
year. The maker of Cyber-shot cameras and Bravia televisions
posted a 457 billion yen ($5.7 billion)  loss  for the year ended
March 31, as its TV unit continued losing money amid the strong
yen, falling prices and competition from South Korea’s Samsung
Electronics Co.  Turnaround  Hirai, who made Sony’s game business profitable as head of
the unit, is cutting 10,000  jobs  as part of a turnaround plan.  Sony  forecasts  revenue will rise 14 percent to 7.4 trillion
yen this fiscal year, helped by smartphones and portable game
players. Smartphone sales may rise to 33.3 million units from
22.5 million and handheld game players including PlayStation
Vita may more than double to 16 million units from 6.8 million,
the company said May 10.  Sony “will deliver a world-class cloud-streaming service
that allows users to instantly enjoy a broad array of content
ranging from immersive core games with rich graphics to casual
content anytime, anywhere on a variety of internet-connected
devices,” Andrew House, who heads Sony’s game unit, said in the
statement.  The timing for Sony to start the cloud-streaming service of
games hasn’t been determined, Nakajima said.  Samsung Tie-up  Samusung will offer cloud-based gaming services that were
developed jointly with Gaikai to users of some of its TV models
in the U.S., the world’s biggest TV maker said last month.  Sony’s Nakajima declined to comment whether Gaikai will
continue offering services to its existing clients.  Sony has been increasing online services including
PlayStation Suite, which allows users to download games on
devices that run on Google Inc.’s Android, reaching out beyond
its PlayStation machines to challenge competitors such as
 Nintendo Co. (7974)   Japan ’s biggest exporter of consumer electronics sold 196.7
million game titles in the year ended March 31, down from 210.9
million sold in the previous year, Sony said in May. The company
projected game software sales to remain little changed for this
fiscal year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  