-- South Africa to Track Intended Grain Imports and Exports
-- B y   T s h e p i s o   M o k h e m a
-- 2012-07-02T11:26:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-02/south-africa-to-track-intended-grain-imports-and-exports.html
South Africa , the continent’s biggest
corn producer, will start tracking how much of the grain will be
imported and exported to prevent price swings and excessive
shipments that could threaten local  food supply .  Grain SA, the biggest representative of commercial grain
farmers in South Africa, asked the Department of Agriculture’s
National Agricultural Marketing Council to chair a committee
that will collate the data after a government-backed plan to
export a record surplus cut stocks to the lowest in at least 12
years by the end of April. The nation shipped the most corn in
the season through April since 2003-04.  An antitrust crackdown that led to grain miller  Pioneer
Foods Ltd. (PFG)  being fined a record 500 million rand ($61 million)
in 2010 curbed information-sharing in the industry, leaving
buyers unclear on how much corn is leaving the country.  “An efficient market requires transparent  information
systems  that are timely and accurate,” Andre Jooste, who is a
senior research manager at the NAMC, said in an e-mailed
response to questions on June 28. “The mechanism will
contribute to this and will have a significant enhancement of
the agricultural information system in South Africa.”  The local price of white corn, used to make the corn meal
eaten by many of the nation’s citizens, rose to a record on Jan.
25 on concern exports are depleting stocks.  Forward Sales  The NAMC chairs the government’s Crop Estimates Committee,
which releases forecasts on grain output and plantings on the
agriculture department’s website. The  South African Grain
Information Service  also reports historical delivery, import and
export data weekly and provides information on stocks of grains
on a monthly basis.  “We know exactly when cargo is leaving the ports and by
the end of that month it will be in our stock situation,”
Jannie de Villiers, Grain SA’s chief executive officer, said in
an interview. “But when you talk to traders and ports people
who deal with loading ships, they’ve already sold some grain,
and that forms part of our local stock. They must declare it so
it can be deducted from the local stock.”  Actual Exports  The information-sharing committee, which will comprise of
farmers, traders, food manufacturers and government departments,
plans to hold its first session on July 10, Ronald Ramabulana,
NAMC chief executive officer, said by phone from  Pretoria  on
June 27. The committee will also track intended imports and
exports of wheat, sunflower and soybeans.  “With that in place, there will be a bit more clarity in
terms of the volumes that are actually going to be exported,
rather than the intentions to export,” Ramabulana said.  White corn for December delivery, the most active contract,
rose 2.1 percent to 2,300 rand ($282) a metric ton by the midday
close in Johannesburg. The yellow variety increased 2.2 percent
to 2,270 a ton.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tshepiso Mokhema in Johannesburg at 
 tmokhema@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  