-- Spain Answers Critics With Record-Breaking Victory at Euro 2012
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2012-07-02T02:41:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-02/spain-answers-critics-with-record-breaking-victory-at-euro-2012.html
Spain  saved its best for last at
soccer’s European Championship.  Going for an unprecedented third straight major trophy
having been accused of boring opponents into submission, Spain
routed  Italy  4-0 in last night’s final with a style that
produced the most lopsided result in the continental
championship’s title match.  The victory at Kiev’s Olympic Stadium made Spain the first
team to repeat as European champion and the first from the
continent to win three straight major competitions following its
2010  World Cup  success.  “Those people who think we are playing boring in my
opinion don’t understand the game,” Spain midfielder Cesc Fabregas, recalled to the starting lineup for the final after
coach Vicente  Del Bosque  opted to play without a specialist
striker, told reporters. “Three major trophies in a row has
never been done before in the history of football.”  Before the match, critics including Arsenal manager  Arsene Wenger  said Spain had “ betrayed its philosophy ” by starving
opponents of the ball with its so-called Tiki-Taka style, where
it uses short, fast passes to dominate possession and thwart
rivals rather than creating chances.  Last night’s match was the first time in the elimination
stages of a major tournament that Spain scored at least three
goals since beating Russia 3-0 in the Euro 2008 semifinals.  Of the seven games in between that game and last night’s
final, Spain had five straight 1-0 victories before a 2-0 win
against  France  on June 23. It beat  Portugal  in a penalty
shootout in last week’s semifinal following a 0-0 draw.  Boring Question  Throughout the monthlong Euro 2012 tournament in Poland and
 Ukraine , Del Bosque and his players were repeatedly asked the
same question by reporters: “Are Spain boring?”  “We are not here to say that our game is the most
beautiful of them all,” Spain midfielder  Andres Iniesta  said
after being named as the final’s man of the match. “Everyone
has a different opinion. Today, we had a great level of play and
we were faithful to our style.”  Against an Italian team forced to play a man down for the
last 30 minutes because of injury, Spain scored twice in each
half by passing the ball around, in between and through its
opponent accurately and quickly.  The 4-0 scoreline was the biggest margin of victory for any
European Championship or World Cup final.  Passing Patterns  Unlike many of Spain’s recent opponents, Italy pressed high
up the field to try and break up its passing patterns that had
yielded a tournament-high possession average of 60 percent in
the five matches before the final.  While that created openings for Italy, it allowed a Spain
team featuring  seven of the top 10 passers  at the tournament to
pick gaps. The opening goal involved a 13-pass move and ended
with  David Silva  heading in Fabregas’s cross in the 14th minute.
Left-back Jordi Alba added a second five minutes before half
time when he collected  Xavi Hernandez ’s return pass before
hitting a low shot past Italy goalkeeper Gianluigi Buffon.  Italy’s half time substitute Antonio Di Natale missed two
chances to get his team back into the game within six minutes of
the second half starting. When Thiago Motta’s contribution ended
four minutes after he came on in the 57th minute as Italy’s
final substitute, Italy was forced to play the remainder of the
match with 10 men.  “Perhaps we could have got back into it at the start of
the second half, but once Thiago Motta went off injured we had
nothing left in the tank,” Italy coach Cesare Prandelli said in
a post-match news conference.  Torres’s Tally  Del Bosque introduced striker  Fernando Torres  and Chelsea
forward  Juan Mata  to stretch the tired Italians, who had one
fewer day to recover following their 2-1 semifinal win against
tournament favorite  Germany .  Following a period of possession that had Spanish fans
cheering each pass with shouts of “Ole,” Torres got the third
goal in the 84th minute. He took Xavi’s pass before placing the
ball into the corner for his third goal of the tournament,
putting him into a six-way tie atop the goal-scoring list.  Rather than trying to take the outright scoring lead,
Torres teed up his club teammate Mata four minutes later to
complete the rout with his first touch.  After lifting the Henri Delaunay Cup for the second
straight time, Spain captain Iker Casillas said his team is
hungry to extend its record-breaking run.  “We want to keep on winning,” Casillas told reporters.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja at the Olympic Stadium in Kiev via the London
newsroom at   tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  