-- Spurs to Hire Villas-Boas on Four-Year Contract: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-07-02T07:48:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-02/spurs-to-hire-villas-boas-on-four-year-contract-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  Four-Year Contract  Andre Villas-Boas will be appointed as Tottenham Hotspur’s
new manager this week on a four-year contract worth 16 million
pounds ($25 million), the  Sun reported .  Villas-Boas, 34, won’t officially be named as  Harry Redknapp ’s replacement until after the players return to pre-
season training today, the newspaper added.  Dzagoev’s Offers  Spurs may make CSKA Moscow’s Alan Dzagoev one of Villas-
Boas’s first signings, the  Daily Mail reported , citing the
Russian national team player’s father.  “I don’t know if he will stay at CSKA,” the Mail cited
Tariel Dzagoev as saying. “There are offers, from Spurs and
other foreign clubs.”  Dzagoev, 22, who scored three goals at Euro 2012 playing as
an advanced midfielder, is keen to test himself in a top
European league and has also been tracked by Arsenal, Chelsea
and Real Madrid, the newspaper added.  Walcott Move  Villas-Boas is planning a surprise move to sign Arsenal
winger Theo Walcott, who has one year remaining on his contract
with the Gunners, the  Daily Express reported .  Terry Bid  Paris Saint-Germain is set to bid 8 million pounds for
Chelsea captain  John Terry , the  Daily Mirror reported .  PSG coach  Carlo Ancelotti  wants Terry to be the defensive
linchpin for his team’s Champions League campaign this season
and the French club can also match Terry’s current salary of
160,000 pounds a week, the newspaper added.  Interest Cools  Manchester City manager  Roberto Mancini  talked down the
chances of the Premier League champion bidding for Arsenal
striker  Robin van Persie , the  Sun reported .  “He is an Arsenal player and I don’t want to disrespect
 Arsene Wenger ,” the Sun cited Mancini as saying. “We have four
strikers and we will start the pre-season in five days. It’s
unlikely there will be major changes in such a short time.”  Fee Agreed  Newcastle agreed a fee of 5 million pounds with  FC Twente 
for Brazilian defender Douglas, although the Dutch club is
holding out for 15 million pounds from the Magpies for striker
Luuk De Jong, the  Express reported .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  