-- Statement by the IMF Mission to Austria (Text)
-- B y   A i n h o a   G o y e n e c h e
-- 2012-07-02T14:25:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-02/statement-by-the-imf-mission-to-austria-text-.html
Following is the text of the mission
statement from the  International Monetary Fund  visit to Austria:  While Austria has comparatively favorable macroeconomic
fundamentals, these need to be strengthened further, especially
in light of the ongoing crisis in the euro area and the legacy
of an overly ambitious eastward expansion by the banking sector.
We commend the authorities for the progress made so far in tackling
these challenges. Going forward, we encourage them to:  • Fully implement the envisaged structural fiscal consolidation path
and continue reforms to contain aging costs to put public debt on a
downward trajectory;
• Develop a more comprehensive strategy for the disposal of legacy
assets in banks with substantial state ownership to minimize final
fiscal costs;
• Rapidly adopt a new early intervention and bank resolution
framework to give supervisors stronger tools to deal with banking
sector fragilities;
• Reduce in a budget-neutral way the taxation of labor to foster
labor supply.  Macroeconomic Outlook And Challenges  1. After stalling in the second half of 2011, economic growth is set
for a gradual revival throughout 2012 and 2013. Against the background
of the ongoing financial crisis in the euro area, growth will remain
modest this year and next, as a moderate pick-up in domestic consumption
will partly be offset by slower external demand. Activity will remain
somewhat below potential in both years, with unemployment rising slightly
from a low level and inflation falling from its 2011 peak.  2. Starting from a relatively strong external position, the ongoing
rebalancing of GDP growth toward domestic demand is welcome. Real wage
growth is picking up, facilitating a shift in demand toward private
consumption and resulting in a decline in  Austria ’s current account
surplus. The continuation of these developments would contribute to
restoring macroeconomic equilibrium within the monetary union.  3. Further intensification of financial stress in the euro area is the
greatest threat to the Austrian economy in the short run. With strong
trade and financial ties to the rest of the euro area and a large
internationally active banking sector, Austria would have much to
lose if efforts to bring the crisis under control faltered.
To forestall this risk, the policy response needs to be first and
foremost at the euro area level, as outlined in the concluding
statement of the recent IMF Article IV consultation with the euro
area.  In this regard, we strongly welcome the decisions by the European
Council at last week´s summit.  II. Fiscal Policy
4. The new consolidation path strikes a good balance between
fiscal prudence and growth considerations and should be fully
implemented in structural terms. While Austria’s fiscal position
is favorable relative to other euro area countries, the public
debt-to-GDP ratio is high and still rising. The planned average
annual structural adjustment of almost ½ percent of GDP is
fostering the credibility of the new fiscal rules and should put
debt on a downward path. The adjustment is also relatively
growth-friendly. Its full implementation needs to be ensured by
rapidly identifying specific measures in health care, subsidies,
and at the subnational level. To the same end, contingency plans
need to be designed in case some consolidation steps do not generate
the projected yield or new outlays emerge, with the possibility of
further bank restructuring costs being an area of particular concern.
Finally, while the structural adjustment should be strictly implemented,
purely cyclical effects on the deficit (“automatic stabilizers”)
should be allowed to work.  5. To anchor debt reduction and sustainability in the medium and long  term, further expenditure reforms will be necessary. Even if a
structural deficit close to balance is reached by 2016 as envisaged,
aging-cost pressures will tend to push it up again and hamper further
debt reduction. To contain these pressures, the authorities should soon
adopt additional reforms, given the long implementation lags of such
policies in particular in the pension area. The other main areas to
tackle remain health care spending and subsidies.  6. While the recent introduction of a system of fiscal rules is
commendable, more progress is needed in fiscal governance reform.
Incentives for compliance with fiscal rules at the subnational level
would be strengthened by streamlining intra-governmental financial
arrangements, establishing a stronger nexus between spending decisions
and financing responsibilities, and granting meaningful tax autonomy to
states. These reforms should take place in connection with the renewal
of the fiscal equalization law.  III. Financial Sector Policies
7. Intensive monitoring of systemic banks, including through regular
stress tests, is warranted in light of the fragile European market
situation. Large banks have improved the quantity and quality of their
capital in response to stricter regulatory requirements and market
pressures while avoiding disruptive deleveraging in their core markets.
The increase in  capital ratios  in recent quarters is the result of genuine
build-up of risk-bearing capacity, one-off accounting changes, and
risk-weighted asset optimization. However, the continuing need to provision
against non-performing loans keeps hampering profitability, thus
reducing internal capital generation capacity. Swiss franc loans to
unhedged borrowers in Austria are also a source of risk, which the
authorities are rightly planning to address through additional
supervisory measures, in line with the ESRB recommendations.
Exposures to high-yield euro area countries are low in regional
comparison with the exception of  Italy , which is Austria’s second
largest trading partner.  8. The mission welcomes the new macroprudential guidelines for large
Austrian banks. Early implementation of the new Basel III capital
requirements and capital surcharges on systemic banks will increase
the capacity of these institutions to absorb unexpected losses.
The requirement to draft recovery and resolution plans is a potentially
important crisis management tool. Lastly, close monitoring of the
funding structure of foreign subsidiaries to encourage reliance on
local funding for new lending should help reduce structural
vulnerabilities. Appropriately, the monitoring will take place in
close cooperation with host country supervisors.  9. The recent experience with medium-sized banks has shown the cost
of delaying the disposal of legacy and non-core assets. Regarding
troubled banks with significant government ownership, we encourage
the authorities to develop a strategy for a more efficient disposal
of these assets with the goal of minimizing final fiscal costs. The
exit strategy from government ownership following balance sheet
clean-up should take into account the need to reduce overbanking in
the Austrian market.  10. Putting in place a new early intervention and bank resolution
framework remains a priority. Stronger intervention tools would give
the Austrian supervisors a better basis -- and clearer responsibility
-- to impose early and forceful corrective measures. The authorities
have started consultations on the design of a new national framework
based on principles consistent with the European Commission’s June 2012
proposal. We encourage rapid progress on this front.  IV. Structural Issues
11. Taxation of labor should be reduced in a budget-neutral way to
foster labor supply and increase potential growth. A reduction in
social security contributions would lower the burden on labor; there
is also a case for smoothing marginal effective tax rates to improve
incentives to get employment or move from part-time to full-time work.
The fiscal impact could be offset by spending reductions or increases
in less distortionary forms of taxation, such as environmental, excise,
or real estate taxes. The latter is especially low in international
comparison, and its increase could also strengthen the tax autonomy of
subnational governments.  12. Substantial steps have been taken to increase the employment of older
workers, and further action is desirable. The authorities have introduced
several measures to reduce early retirement; together with the social
partners, they should continue on this road of reform. Robust implementation
is essential for maximizing the impact. In addition, there is clear scope
for accelerating the timetable for unifying female and male statutory
retirement ages and tying both to  life expectancy . Further efforts to
improve the employability of older workers (including reducing age-based
wage premiums) would also be welcome.  The mission wishes to thank the authorities and all other counterparts
for their cooperation and hospitality.  1 See  http://www.imf.org/external/pubs/ft/survey/so/2012/CAR062112A.htm .  SOURCE: International Monetary Fund 