-- Stelios-Backed FastJet to Announce Fundraising in Coming Weeks
-- B y   S i k o n a t h i   M a n t s h a n t s h a
-- 2012-07-02T13:25:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-02/stelios-backed-fastjet-to-announce-fundraising-in-coming-weeks.html
Fastjet (RUBI) , the discount airline for
Africa to be created under the guidance of  EasyJet Plc (EZJ)  founder
 Stelios Haji-Ioannou , said it will announce plans to raise funds
for expansion in the “next few” weeks.  “We’ll democratize air travel by bringing a low-cost model
that will allow people to pay as little as $20 per flight,”
Chief Executive Officer Ed Winter said in a telephone interview
from London today. “We see many opportunities in Africa.”  Fastjet will be built from services offered through four
regional hubs under the  Fly540  brand of  Lonrho Plc (LAF) , which spun
the airline off as part of Rubicon Diversified Investments Plc.
Fly540 operates domestic services in Ghana and Angola, while
regional flights are offered from Kenya and Tanzania to Uganda
and South Sudan. Fastjet said it’s in talks to acquire new
operating licenses.  “In any low-cost service, a third of the seats in a flight
should cost about $20 for those who book early,” Winter said,
adding that the average domestic and regional flight costs $70
to $80 in  Africa .  Stelios’ EasyGroup Holdings Ltd. owns 5 percent of the
company while London- and Johannesburg-listed industrial group
Lonrho holds 73.7 percent, the company said in a statement on
June 13. Stelios assembled the management team and will work as
a consultant for Fastjet, said Winter.  Winter said Fastjet plans to increase its services across
Africa, with the exception of South Africa.  Of particular interest to the company is west Africa,
including Nigeria, a market of 170 million people, Winter said.  “A good, affordable network is needed to connect the
cities there as there is very poor connectivity for the cities
making up the region,” he said.  Winter was the chief executive officer of Go, the low-cost
airline of the  International Consolidated Airlines Group (IAG)  SA’s
British Airways before joining EasyJet as chief operating
officer, according to Fastjet.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sikonathi Mantshantsha in Johannesburg at 
 sikonathim@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  