-- Storms Leave 1.37 Million Without Power in Mid-Atlantic
-- B y   B e n j a m i n   H a a s
-- 2012-07-03T12:43:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-02/storms-leave-1-86-million-without-power-in-mid-atlantic.html
About 1.37 million customers in the
Midwest and mid-Atlantic remain without power as cleanup
continues from weekend storms that brought down trees and power
lines across 10 states.  The line of storms, known as a derecho, affected power for
as many as 4.3 million customers from Virginia to  New Jersey . At
least 22 people were killed, the  Associated Press  reported.
Power service may not be restored until next week in some areas,
according to utility companies.  “Devastating winds and rain that ripped through Maryland
last Friday left considerable damage, much of which still
remains,”  Exelon Corp. (EXC) ’s Baltimore Gas & Electric said in a
statement today. The utility has restored power to 75 percent of
its customers and expects work to continue into the coming
weekend.  Temperatures are forecast to reach 90 degrees Fahrenheit
(32 degrees Celsius) for the rest of the week in Washington,
Philadelphia and the central U.S. There’s a chance of additional
severe thunderstorms from Virginia to South Carolina, according
to the  U.S. Storm Prediction Center  in Norman, Oklahoma.  A  derecho  is a widespread wind storm with gusts of at least
58 miles (93 kilometers) per hour, according to the  National
Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration . Gusts from the storm
system were clocked at 91 mph near Fort Wayne, Indiana, and 71
mph at Dulles airport in northern Virginia, the  National Weather
Service  said.  Historic Outages  “Power companies say these are historic levels of outages,
typically seen only after hurricanes,” according to a statement
from Virginia Governor  Bob McDonnell  yesterday. “It will take
the rest of this week to fully restore power, especially in
hard-hit southwestern and northern Virginia.”  President Barack Obama yesterday declared West Virginia and
Ohio federal disaster areas. The  District of Columbia  has
requested disaster status.  Federal government employees  in the Washington area are
allowed to work from home or take an unscheduled day off for a
second day. The District of Columbia government remains under a
state of emergency because of storm damage, with recreation
centers and libraries opened as cooling centers for residents.  Pepco Holdings Inc. (POM)  needs to do a better job responding to
the storm and outages, Washington Mayor Vincent Gray said on his
official Twitter account yesterday. Pepco, which serves
customers in the Washington area, said 118,098 were without
power today.  Dominion Resources Inc., based in Richmond, Virginia, and
owner of the state’s largest utility, had 139,051 customers
without service today, according to its website. The company
sees power returning to “virtually all” customers by July 8.
Almost 1 million of its 2.4 million customers lost power because
of the storms.  American Electric Power Co. reported about 768,000 homes
and businesses without electricity in Ohio, Virginia and West
Virginia today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Benjamin Haas in  New York  at 
 bhaas7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tina Davis at 
 tinadavis@bloomberg.net  