-- Swiss Stocks Rise for Second Day; Transocean Shares Gain
-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 2012-07-02T15:47:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-02/swiss-stocks-rise-for-second-day-transocean-shares-gain.html
Swiss stocks  advanced to a two-month
high as better-than-forecast manufacturing reports from
Switzerland to China and  Japan  eased concern that global
economic growth is slowing.  UBS AG (UBSN) , the nation’s largest lender, climbed 1.4 percent.
Transocean Ltd., the owner of deepwater oil rigs, increased 0.8
percent after crude surged the most in more than three years on
June 29.  The  Swiss Market Index (SMI)  rose 0.7 percent to 6,109.41 at the
close in Zurich, the highest since April 27. It advanced 1.3
percent last week as European leaders opened the door to
directly recapitalizing lenders using the European Stability
Mechanism, the euro area’s permanent bailout fund. The broader
Swiss Performance Index also gained 0.7 percent today.  “The positive sentiment generated by the euro-zone summit
has been carried over the weekend by better-than-expected
Chinese PMI figures and stronger readings from the Japanese
Tankan survey,” said  James Knightley , senior economist at ING
Groep NV in London. “These have offered hope that the global
economy may not be slowing as quickly as many feared.”  The volume of shares changing hands in companies listed on
the gauge was 21 percent lower than the average of the last 30
days, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Manufacturing Data  Switzerland’s manufacturing  contracted less in June than
economists had predicted. The procure.ch  Purchasing Managers ’
Index stood at 48.1, when adjusted for seasonal swings, Credit
Suisse said in Zurich today.  Economists had forecast  a reading
of 45, the median of 11 estimates in a Bloomberg survey showed.
A PMI below 50 indicates contraction.  In China, the  government’s PMI  fell to 50.2 in June from
50.4 in May, the Beijing-based National Bureau of Statistics and
China Federation of Logistics and Purchasing reported. That beat
the 49.9  median estimate  in a survey of 24 economists.  A separate PMI, compiled by HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit
Economics, posted a final reading of 48.2 in June compared with
48.4 in May, according to a release today. A report showed that
new  house prices  advanced for the first time in 10 months.  In Japan, large manufacturers became less pessimistic as
declining commodity prices aided profitability, boosting the
outlook for the world’s third-biggest economy. The Bank of
Japan’s quarterly  Tankan index  of sentiment was minus 1 in June
compared with minus 4 in March.  The median estimate  of 19
economists surveyed by Bloomberg had called for a reading of
minus 4. A negative number means pessimists outnumber optimists.  Central Banks  The European Central Bank and the  Bank of England  announce
interest-rate decisions on July 5. ECB officials will lower
their benchmark rate by 25 basis points to a record low 0.75
percent, according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg survey
of 61 economists. Five predict a cut of 50 basis points and 11
foresee no change.  “With the  European Central Bank  and the Bank of England
set to offer more stimulus, the market is more inclined to go
with the flow and continue pushing higher,” said ING’s
Knightley.  Swiss stocks pared their gains after a U.S. report showed
that manufacturing unexpectedly shrank in June, the first
contraction since 2009. The  Institute for Supply Management ’s
 factory index  fell to 49.7 from 53.5 a month earlier, missing
the median forecast of 60 economists in a Bloomberg  survey  that
called for a drop to 52.  UBS Advances  Financial shares gained, with UBS adding 1.4 percent to
11.20 Swiss francs.  Baloise Holding AG (BALN)  rose 1.4 percent to 63.40
francs and  Swiss Life Holding AG (SLHN) , the country’s biggest life
insurer, climbed 1.2 percent to 90.10 francs.  Transocean advanced 0.8 percent to 42.54 francs as a gauge
of European oil and gas producers rallied. Crude surged 9.4
percent to $84.96 in  New York  trading on June 29.  Sulzer AG (SUN) , the world’s second-biggest maker of pumps,
jumped 2.2 percent to 114.50 francs after Chief Executive
Officer Klaus Stahlmann told SonntagsZeitung the company is
seeking acquisitions and could spend as much as 1 billion francs
($1.1 billion). He also said Sulzer could expand its
petrochemicals services and components businesses
geographically.  Bucher Industries AG (BUCN) , the agricultural machinery maker,
advanced 4.1 percent to 157.60 francs. Andre Rudolf von Rohr, an
analyst at UBS, raised the stock to buy from neutral.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  