-- Banking Group Cancels Party This Week Following Libor Probe
-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 2012-07-02T11:40:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-02/u-k-banking-group-cancels-party-this-week-following-libor-probe.html
The British Bankers’ Association, the
U.K. group that oversees the publication of  London  interbank
offered  interest rates , canceled a party scheduled for this week
following the record fine against  Barclays Plc (BARC)  for manipulating
the benchmark.  “We regret the short notice but our industry needs to
think long and hard about its collective behavior,”  Angela Knight , the BBA’s chief executive officer, said in a memo
obtained by Bloomberg News. “We believe that in the current
circumstances it would be wrong to proceed with the reception on
Wednesday evening.”  Barclays, Britain’s second-biggest bank by assets, sparked
a political outcry after it was fined $451 million by the
Financial Services Authority, the U.S. Justice Department and
the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission on June 27 for
manipulating Libor between 2005 and 2009. Marcus Agius, the
chairman of Barclays and the BBA, resigned from both posts
today, saying he was “truly sorry.”  Libor is derived from a survey of banks conducted each day
on behalf of the BBA in London. Lenders are asked how much it
would cost them to borrow from each other for 15 different
periods, from overnight to one year, in currencies including
dollars, euros, yen and Swiss francs. After a set number of
quotes are excluded, those remaining are averaged and published
for each currency by the BBA before noon.  Brian Capon , a spokesman for the BBA, confirmed the event
was canceled. The party was a two-hour summer  reception  at
College Garden near London’s Westminster Abbey.  Several Investigations  The U.K. finance regulator has “a number of investigations
concerning Libor” beyond the case that resulted in a record
fine levied against Barclays Plc last week, the agency’s acting
head of enforcement said.  Barclays put “the interest of the bank and its traders”
ahead of customers, Tracey McDermott said in a speech today.  Knight said in April she would step down as CEO of the BBA.
The lobby group last month named Anthony Browne, a government
relations executive at Morgan Stanley, as her replacement. Agius
said today he would step down as chairman of the BBA with
immediate effect.  Citigroup Inc.,  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc , UBS AG,
ICAP Plc,  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  and Deutsche Bank AG are
among the firms regulators are investigating. A total of 18
banks are surveyed as part of the process of determining Libor
and related rates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Moshinsky in London at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  