-- U.K. Banks Limit Fees on Structured Products Before FSA Rules
-- B y   A l a s t a i r   M a r s h
-- 2012-07-02T14:45:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-02/u-k-banks-limit-fees-on-structured-products-before-fsa-rules.html
U.K. banks are withdrawing commission
payments to independent financial advisers that are typically
included in structured products sales agreements before new
rules forbidding the practice.  Barclays Plc (BARC)  offered four securities tied to the
performance of the  FTSE 100 index  last week that will be
distributed via advisers and investors were given the choice to
pay for the advice via a separate fee or have commission
included in the price of buying the products, according to an
offer document.  The so-called autocall notes come six months before the
Financial Services Authority’s Retail Distribution Review is due
to be implemented, affecting how advisers make and disclose
charges. A degree of uncertainty remains about how fees will be
paid, even though the FSA’s drive for greater transparency on
pricing is not in dispute, said  Jamie Smith , chairman of the
U.K. Structured Products Association.  “I am not surprised product providers are offering both
explicit and implicit pricing options because it is still not
clear which way the market will go on pricing once RDR comes
in,” said London-based Smith.  Clare Murphy-McGreevey, a spokeswoman for the FSA in  London 
said following a consultation with the market earlier this year,
investors can pay adviser charges directly or can agree that an
adviser charge can be deducted from the investment.  Financial advisers, which Smith estimates account for more
than half of structured product sales to individual investors in
the U.K., have historically taken commission from banks when
recommending their products with the cost to the bank in issuing
the notes passed on to the investor. Once RDR is implemented,
advisers will no longer be able to take commission from banks
and will need to be upfront about their fees.   Higher coupons  Barclays’s six-year notes were offered with potential
annual returns ranging from 7.7 percent to 9.5 percent,
depending on how the notes are distributed. The option without
adviser commission has the highest offered returns.  Investec Plc (INVP) , the owner of a bank and money manager in
 South Africa  and the U.K., issued a group of four autocall
securities in May, two with in-built commission and two without,
according to the company’s website. The latter featured higher
coupons.  “RDR should be beneficial for structured products because
it will increase scrutiny on charging, and in many cases will
require distributors and regulators to maintain much more
knowledge of these investments,” said Smith. “Ultimately, that
has to be good for the investor too.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alastair Marsh in London at 
 amarsh25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  