-- U.K. Homebuilders See Olympic Distractions Hurting Summer Sales
-- B y   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e
-- 2012-07-02T07:24:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-02/u-k-homebuilders-see-olympic-distractions-hurting-summer-sales.html
London’s Olympic Games are likely to
stifle home purchases in the next quarter as the competition
disrupts the city and distracts potential buyers, according to
executives at Britain’s biggest homebuilders.  Persimmon Plc (PSN)  and Barratt Developments Plc, Britain’s
largest and third-largest homebuilders by volume, expect sales
to fall below their averages for the season in the run up to and
duration of the event. The Games start July 27 and finishes with
the close of the Paralympics on Sept. 9.  “I wouldn’t be surprised to see our sales rates slow over
the next few weeks as people get engrossed in the Olympics,”
Persimmon Chief Executive Officer Mike Farley said in an
interview.  Homebuilders typically generate the most property
reservations during the spring selling season, which runs from
February to June. Home values fell in June as the U.K.’s slide
back into recession and the expiration of a tax break weighed on
demand.  Barratt is relocating workers from its office in east
 London  to Rainham about 11 miles (18 kilometers) to the east, to
avoid congestion around the Olympic Park in Stratford, east
London, Barratt spokesman Patrick Law said by telephone.  “There may be some short-term disruption,” Law said.
“There’s an argument to say it does affect sales and there’s
also an argument that it just displaces them.”  London 2012 will attract more visitors than any of  Europe ’s
past Olympic Games, according to a study by Oxford Economics. As
many as 320,000 are expected to come to the U.K. capital,
compared with about 250,000 for the 1992 Games in  Barcelona  and
150,000 visitors to  Athens , the research company said. About 8.8
million tickets are available.  City Disruptions  Much of London faces disruptions as the city hosts the
Olympics for the third time after the 1908 and 1948 Games.
Financial-services firms in  Canary Wharf  said they expect as
many as a third of their employees to stay home or travel
outside peak hours when visitors begin piling on to east
London’s transport network.  Berkeley Group Holdings Plc, (BKG)  the U.K.’s largest homebuilder
by market value, has developments near the Olympic Park in east
London’s Bow neighborhood. The company, which reported a 66
percent increase in full-year profit on June 29, also sees a
possible sales disruption during the Games.  “Will people not buy during the events? It could be a
slowdown,” Managing Director Rob Perrins said in an interview.
“If you look at a six-month average we’re very similar year on
year.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Spillane in London at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 