-- U.K. Stocks Climb for Second Day on Chinese Manufacturing
-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 2012-07-02T16:04:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-02/u-k-stocks-climb-for-second-day-on-chinese-manufacturing.html
U.K. stocks  advanced to their highest
level in eight weeks, led by a rally in energy and mining
companies, as measures of manufacturing from China to the U.K.
and the euro area exceeded economists’ forecasts.  Rio Tinto  Group, the world’s third-largest mining company,
and  BP Plc (BP/)  both climbed more than 1 percent.  Barclays Plc (BARC)  jumped
3.4 percent after Chairman Marcus Agius resigned.  Aviva Plc (AV/) 
advanced 3.7 percent amid reports the insurer has considered
selling some of its divisions.  The  FTSE 100 Index (UKX)  increased 69.49 points, or 1.3 percent,
to 5,640.64 at the close in  London , its highest level since May
4. The gauge rallied 1.4 percent on June 29, completing its
biggest monthly gain since October, after euro-area leaders
agreed to ease conditions on bailout loans to Spanish banks and
pledged to spend 120 billion euros ($151 billion) to stimulate
the region’s economy.  “We have seen some promising data today and last week’s
agreement in Europe to provide funding directly to banks rather
than sovereigns is a step in the right direction,” said  Richard Hunter , head of equities at Hargreaves Lansdown Plc in London.
“I am not totally convinced about investors’ conviction in the
long term. The first half of the year was typified by an almost
daily switch between risk on and risk off.”  The broader FTSE All-Share Index rose 1.2 percent today,
while Ireland’s ISEQ Index gained 0.5 percent. The volume of
shares traded on the FTSE 100 was 19 percent lower than the
average of the last 30 days, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Chinese Manufacturing  Stocks advanced today as a measure of China’s manufacturing
industry performed better than economists had predicted. The
 government’s PMI  fell to 50.2 in June from 50.4 in May, the
National Bureau of Statistics and  China  Federation of Logistics
and Purchasing reported in Beijing yesterday. That beat the 49.9
 median estimate  in a survey of 24 economists.  A Markit Economics index of euro-area manufacturing output
held at 45.1 in June, compared with an initial estimate of 44.8
earlier this month. A gauge for the U.K. climbed to 48.6,
exceeding the median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey.
Readings below 50 mean that the industry contracted.  Rio Tinto led mining shares higher, climbing 1.4 percent to
3,060.5 pence. BHP Billiton Ltd., the  world’s largest mining
company , increased 1.3 percent to 1,830 pence and Anglo American
Plc gained 1 percent to 2,109 pence.  BP, Tullow  BP,  Europe’s second-largest oil company , gained 2.5 percent
to 432.5 pence and Tullow Oil rose 1.6 percent to 1,493 pence.
 Petrofac Ltd. (PFC)  added 3.5 percent to 1,437 pence, while  Weir Group
Plc (WEIR)  increased 2.2 percent to 1,563 pence.  Energy-related companies climbed as oil extended its rally
after the close of European trading last week. Crude for August
delivery surged 9.4 percent on June 29 in New York, its biggest
advance in three years. The contract lost 2.6 percent to $82.79
a barrel today as investors took profits.  Barclays rallied 3.4 percent to 168.4 pence, rebounding
from last week’s 19 percent selloff. Agius resigned after the
bank was fined a record 290 million pounds ($455 million) for
trying to rig interest rates, sparking a political outcry.  John Sunderland, a Barclays director and former chairman of
Cadbury Schweppes Plc, will oversee the search for a
replacement. Michael Rake will become deputy chairman. Agius,
65, will remain in his post until his replacement is appointed.  Libor Rigging  He is the most senior executive to step down following
probes by global regulators into whether lenders colluded to
manipulate Libor. Chief Executive Officer  Robert Diamond  remains
under pressure from lawmakers after U.K. and U.S. regulators
found the lender attempted to rig the London and euro interbank-
offered rates for profit.  Diamond wrote in a letter to employees that he had the
support of the bank’s directors and that he would implement the
recommendations of a review into the Libor submissions.  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  climbed 1.7 percent to 219
pence after sliding 11 percent last week. The Press Association
reported that the lender has dismissed 10 traders for their part
in the alleged manipulation of Libor. The  news agency  cited
unidentified sources.  Aviva jumped 3.7 percent to 282.7 pence as the Sunday
Telegraph reported the insurer has considered selling or closing
as many as 15 of its 58 divisions. The newspaper didn’t say
where it got the information.  Separately, the Sunday Times reported that Aviva has fired
dozens of senior managers after carrying out a review of its
business, without citing anyone. The insurer’s incoming chairman
John McFarlane has eliminated four layers of management at its
London headquarters and conducted a month-long review of the
company’s operations, according to the newspaper. The company
may also sell its American division for more than 1 billion
pounds, the report added.  Industry Recommendation  Insurers (SXXP)  also advanced as Morgan Stanley raised its
recommendation for the industry in Europe to overweight, the
equivalent of a buy recommendation, saying the sector looks
“cheap” relative to its history.  Prudential Plc (PRU)  increased 1.8 percent to 751.5 pence,  Legal
& General Group Plc (LGEN)  gained 0.9 percent to 128.5 pence and  Old
Mutual Plc (OML)  added 1.7 percent to 154 pence.  Invensys Plc (ISYS)  climbed 1.4 percent to 225.8 pence after the
the Sunday Times reported that China South Locomotive & Rolling
Stock Corp. is in the early stages of planning a possible 2
billion-pound takeover bid for the company. The newspaper did
not say where it got the information.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  