-- U.S. Judge Blocks Mississippi Law to Stop Abortions
-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 2012-07-02T02:08:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-02/u-s-judge-blocks-mississippi-law-to-stop-abortions.html
Mississippi ’s sole abortion clinic
won a reprieve with a federal judge temporarily blocking the
implementation of a law the facility’s operators said would
“effectively ban abortion” in the state.  The law, which was to take effect yesterday, requires
physicians associated with an abortion facility to have
admitting privileges at a local hospital and be certified or
eligible in obstetrics and gynecology.  The Jackson Women’s Health Organization, the state’s only
 clinic  providing elective abortions, sued in U.S. District Court
in Jackson, Mississippi, to stop the state health department
from enforcing the rules, saying it hasn’t been able to obtain
admitting privileges for two physicians and the legislation is
unconstitutional.  U.S. District Judge Daniel P. Jordan yesterday issued a
temporary restraining order, blocking enforcement of the rules,
until a July 11 hearing to determine whether a preliminary
injunction should be issued.  “The act’s purpose is to eliminate abortions in
Mississippi,” Jordan wrote, citing quotes from legislators
submitted as evidence by the health organization. The judge
noted the 14th  Amendment  of the  U.S. Constitution  protects a
woman’s right to choose to terminate her pregnancy and
government regulation of abortions is allowed as long as it
doesn’t impose an undue burden on the woman’s ability to choose.  ‘Nowhere to Turn’  “The department’s actions jeopardize patient health,
because they will effectively ban abortion in the state of
Mississippi, leaving women with nowhere to turn in
Mississippi,” the clinic said in its complaint.  Mississippi would become the first U.S. state without a
dedicated abortion clinic, should the Jackson facility close.
That would mark the most visible victory for the anti-abortion
movement, which has fought to abolish the procedure in the face
of the U.S. Supreme Court’s 1973 Roe v. Wade decision
guaranteeing a woman’s right to have one.  Mississippi Lieutenant Governor Tate Reeves said on his
website recapping accomplishments from the legislative session
that ended last month that ‘this measure not only protects the
health of the mother but should close the only abortion clinic
in Mississippi.’’  When Republican Governor Phil Bryant announced he would
sign the legislation, he said he would “continue to work to
make Mississippi abortion-free,” according the complaint.  Voters in the state last year rejected a constitutional
amendment that could have banned the procedure even in cases of
rape, incest or life endangerment. The so-called “personhood”
measure stated that life begins at conception.  The case is Jackson Women’s Health Organization v. Currier,
12-00436, U.S. District Court, Southern District of Mississippi
(Jackson).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  