-- U.S. Completes Environmental Review for Largest Wind Farm
-- B y   J u s t i n   D o o m
-- 2012-07-02T19:09:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-02/u-s-completes-environmental-review-for-largest-wind-farm.html
The U.S. completed environmental
reviews for the nation’s largest wind farm, a 3,000-megawatt
project in  Wyoming  that may generate enough power for 1 million
homes.  The Chokecherry and Sierra Madre Wind Farm proposed by
 Power Co. of Wyoming  would contain as many as 1,000 turbines on
public and private land in Carbon County, according to a
 statement  today.  The U.S. Interior Department is promoting wider use of
renewable energy on public land to reduce consumption of foreign
oil and create clean-energy jobs, Interior Secretary  Ken Salazar 
said today on a conference call with reporters. The agency has
approved 31 utility-scale wind, solar and geothermal projects
since 2009 with more than 7,200 megawatts of capacity.  “Renewable energy is very much a part of our energy
future,” Salazar said. “Our expectation is that we’ll have
accomplished placing roots down in the energy portfolio of
America.”  The Interior Department’s Bureau of Land Management
completed its final environmental impact statement, which will
now be available for public comment. Power Co. of Wyoming, a
unit of Anschutz Corp., first submitted an application to BLM
for the wind farm in 2008.  The power company hasn’t selected a turbine supplier and is
seeking a utility to buy the electricity, Kara Choquette, a
spokeswoman, said by e-mail today.  Interior also completed environmental assessments for a
wind energy area with almost 165,000  acres  of water off the
coasts of  Massachusetts  and  Rhode Island . The agency will host
public sessions July 16 and 17 to hear public comments on the
site.  “This environmental assessment is the first of its kind in
the Northeast and is based on thorough scientific and technical
analysis and substantial stakeholder input to identify the most
suitable location for commercial wind energy activities in this
area,” Tommy Beaudreau, director of the angecy’s  Bureau of
Ocean Energy Management , said in the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Justin Doom in  New York  at 
 jdoom1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  