-- Commerce Department Keeps Icann as Web’s Address Manager
-- B y   E r i c   E n g l e m a n
-- 2012-07-03T16:51:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-02/u-s-commerce-department-retains-icann-as-web-s-address-manager.html
The U.S. Commerce Department awarded
a new contract to the nonprofit managing the Internet’s address
system four months after saying the group hadn’t met revised
requirements that include a strong conflict-of-interest policy.  The Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers
received the new contract as it oversees a program that may add
as many as 1,000 Web suffixes to the right of the dot, to
compete with .com. The expansion of so-called top-level domains
is opposed by some trademark owners who say it will increase
their costs, confuse consumers and fuel online scams.  “The U.S. government has very little leverage to extract
change from Icann because there’s no one else that can do these
functions,” Nao Matsukata, senior policy adviser for the
Coalition Against Domain Name Abuse, a Washington-based group
that has criticized aspects of Icann’s expansion program, said
in an interview. “It was very hard to imagine anyone that would
have the infrastructure and know-how to fulfill that contract.”  Icann has managed the Internet’s address system since 1998.
Its new contract runs through Sept. 30, 2015, with an option for
two two-year extensions, the Commerce Department’s National
Telecommunications and Information Administration said in a news
 release  yesterday.  The agreement with Icann coincides with increasing concern
among officials in President  Barack Obama ’s administration that
some countries want the  United Nations ’ International
Telecommunication Union to play a central role in determining
Internet policy, potentially jeopardizing free speech online.  Added Requirements  NTIA Administrator Lawrence Strickling in a June 15  speech 
expressed support for Icann’s decentralized decision-making
model in overseeing the Web’s address system while saying that
the U.S. wouldn’t shy away from offering constructive criticism
to the  Marina del Rey , California-based group.  The NTIA on March 10  canceled  bids on the new contract,
saying that none of the proposals it received -- including
Icann’s -- met revised requirements including a strong conflict-
of-interest policy and measures to increase transparency and
accountability.  Rochelle Cohen, an NTIA spokeswoman, declined to comment
today on what Icann changed to meet the contract’s requirements.
The NTIA advises Obama on telecommunications issues.  Icann, whose board includes members employed by or with
business ties to the domain-name industry, has faced scrutiny of
its ethics policies as it prepares to open up the Internet to
new suffixes.  Ethics Concerns  The group’s previous chairman, Peter Dengate Thrush, joined
a company that plans to invest in the new top-level domains less
than a month after the Icann board approved the expansion
program in June 2011, sparking criticism from public-interest
organizations that cited conflict-of-interest concerns.  U.S. Senator  Ron Wyden , an Oregon Democrat, said in
September the Commerce Department should include ethics and
conflict-of-interest language in a future contract to manage the
Internet’s domain-name system.  “We look forward to continuing our work with the multi-
stakeholder community to ensure that we operate effectively,
transparently and in the global public interest,” Akram Atallah, Icann’s acting chief executive officer, said in an e-
mailed statement yesterday.  Atallah, Icann’s chief operating officer, stepped into the
CEO role following the departure of  Rod Beckstrom , whose term
ended July 1. Atallah will stay in the top post until Icann’s
new chief executive officer, Fadi Chehade, takes the helm on or
before Oct. 1.  ‘Close Oversight’  Icann received 1,930 proposals for new words to the right
of the dot during an application process this year, including
.jpmorgan from  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , .walmart from  Wal-Mart
Stores Inc. (WMT) , and .cialis from  Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY)  Each application
cost $185,000. The first approved extensions may be ready early
next year, the group said.  The Association of National Advertisers, which led industry
opposition to the domain-name expansion, had asked the Commerce
Department to extend Icann’s contract for a shorter period of a
year to better monitor the group’s activity, Dan Jaffe, ANA’s
group executive vice president of government relations, said in
an interview yesterday.  “It’s a key period time when they are rolling out an
extraordinary number of top-level domains and there’s a whole
range of issues to be resolved,” Jaffe said. “We thought the
department should keep close oversight.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Engleman in Washington at 
 eengleman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  