-- U.S. Manufacturing Probably Grew at Slowest Pace in Eight Months
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2012-07-02T04:00:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-02/u-s-manufacturing-probably-grew-at-slowest-pace-in-eight-months.html
Manufacturing probably expanded in
June at the slowest pace in eight months, indicating the
industry may provide less support for the U.S. expansion,
economists said before a report today.  The  Institute for Supply Management ’s factory index fell to
52 from 53.5 the prior month, according to the  median  estimate
of 60 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. Readings greater
than 50 signal growth.  Construction spending  increased in May
for a third month, separate figures may show.  Assembly lines may slow as consumers temper purchases of
vehicles and other goods, while companies limit investments on
new equipment. At the same time, export markets for
manufacturers like  DuPont Co. (DD)  and  Steelcase Inc. (SCS)  may be more
difficult as  Europe  struggles with a debt crisis and some Asian
economies weaken.  “We’ll be moving forward at a more sedate pace,” said
 Nigel Gault , chief U.S. economist at IHS Global Insight in
Lexington,  Massachusetts . “The momentum is fading for exports,
which used to be a big plus for manufacturing. There’s not
enough strength in domestic demand.”  The Tempe, Arizona-based ISM’s figures are due at 10 a.m.
 New York  time. Estimates in the Bloomberg survey ranged from
50.5 to 53.1.  At the same time, the Commerce Department may report
construction spending climbed 0.2 percent in May, according to
the Bloomberg survey  median . Projections ranged from a drop of
0.8 percent to a gain of 1 percent. The data may show that
housing is stabilizing with the help of record-low  mortgage
rates  and cheaper properties.  Bolstered Recovery  Manufacturing accounts for about 12 percent of the economy
and has been at the forefront of the recovery that began in June
2009.  The latest regional reports reinforce a recent slowdown in
the industry. Manufacturing in the Philadelphia area shrank in
June at the fastest pace in almost a year, while New York-region
factories expanded at the slowest rate in seven months.  A Commerce Department report on durables orders last week
showed demand for non-defense capital goods excluding aircraft
climbed 1.6 percent in May after a 1.4 percent decrease, helping
allay concern that business spending will falter.  Slower hiring and an  unemployment rate  exceeding 8 percent
may keep restraining household spending, which accounts for
about 70 percent of the economy. Cars and light trucks sold at a
 13.7 million  annual rate in May, the weakest this year and down
from April’s 14.4 million pace, Ward’s Automotive Group data
showed.  Europe Concern  Europe also remains a concern for manufacturers. An index
of executive and consumer sentiment in the 17-nation euro area
slumped in June to the lowest since October 2009, adding to
signs the economy fell back into a recession, figures showed
last week.  Executives at Wilmington, Delaware-based DuPont said that
while growth in  North America  is holding up, the third-largest
U.S. chemical maker is concerned about a slowdown in  China  and
 Germany ’s dependence on exports.  “My number-one worry is what will happen in Europe over
the next six to nine months,” Diane Gulyas, group vice
president of DuPont’s performance-materials segment, said on a
conference call with analysts on June 14.  Steelcase, a  Grand Rapids , Michigan-based maker of office
furniture, said first-quarter sales fell in most major markets
in the region that includes Europe,  Middle East  and  Africa .  Takes Toll  “Uncertainty in the global economy continues to take its
toll on specific parts of our business,” Chief Financial
Officer David Sylvester said on a conference call on June 21.  The global slowdown helps explain why manufacturing shares
have declined more than the broader market. The Standard &
Poor’s Supercomposite  Machinery Index (S15MACH) , which includes
Caterpillar Inc. and Deere & Co., has fallen 11 percent since
April 30, compared with a 2.6 percent decline in the  S&P 500 (SPX) 
measure.  The economy expanded 1.9 percent in the first quarter
following a 3 percent gain in the prior three months, revised
data showed last week.  To combat flagging growth, Federal Reserve policy makers
said they are ready to take more steps should the U.S. expansion
slacken.  Fed officials said in a policy statement on June 20 that
they expect “economic growth to remain moderate over coming
quarters and then to pick up very gradually.”  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  