-- S&P 500 Erases Drop as M&A Deals Temper Manufacturing
-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h   a n d   J u l i a   L e i t e
-- 2012-07-02T20:44:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-02/u-s-stock-futures-rise-lincare-surges-on-linde-takeover.html
Most U.S. stocks rose, sending the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index to an almost two-month high, as
takeovers helped the market recover from earlier losses
triggered by data showing a contraction in manufacturing.  Financial (S5FINL)  and technology shares in the S&P 500 advanced,
while industrial and commodity companies declined.  Micron
Technology Inc. (MU)  rose 3.8 percent after agreeing to  acquire 
Elpida Memory Inc., an Apple Inc. supplier.  Amylin
Pharmaceuticals Inc. (AMLN)  added 8.9 percent as  Bristol-Myers Squibb
Co. (BMY)  agreed to pay $5.3 billion for the drugmaker.  Best Buy Co. (BBY) 
soared 5.9 percent after a report that founder Richard Schulze
is close to making a bid for the electronics retailer.  The S&P 500 rose 0.3 percent to 1,365.51 at 4 p.m.  New York 
time, after dropping as much as 0.5 percent earlier. The index
gained 4 percent last month, its best June since  1999. (SPX)  The  Dow
Jones Industrial Average  retreated 8.7 points, or 0.1 percent,
to 12,871.39. Volume for exchange-listed stocks in the U.S. was
6.2 billion shares, 9 percent below the three-month average.  “It’s way too early to talk about a recession,” said
 Michael Shaoul , chairman of Marketfield Asset Management in New
York, which oversees more than $2 billion. He spoke in a phone
interview. “Today’s data suggest at least some spillback from
external economies into U.S. manufacturing. I wouldn’t go any
further than that.”  About two stocks rose for each that fell on U.S. exchanges
today. Earlier losses came as the  Institute for Supply
Management ’s manufacturing  index  declined to 49.7 in June, worse
than the most-pessimistic forecast in a Bloomberg News survey.
Figures less than 50 signal contraction. Separate data showed
euro-area manufacturing output contracted for an 11th straight
month, while Chinese manufacturing indexes slipped to seven-
month lows.  Fed Action  The weakness in manufacturing indicates that the slower
economic growth may promote more accommodative policies from the
 Federal Reserve , Princeton University economist  Alan Blinder 
said today in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s “Market
Makers” with  Erik Schatzker  and Scarlet Fu.  “Data like this that keep coming in are encouraging or
strengthening the positions of the doves on the Fed,” said
Blinder, a former Fed vice chairman. “You know there’s a big
civil war going on in the Federal Reserve, and weakening the
position of the hawks.”  Concern about a global slowdown put the S&P 500 last month
on the brink of a so-called correction, or a 10 percent decline
from a recent peak. The index slumped 3.3 percent in the second-
quarter, the  biggest  retreat since period ending in September.  Cyclicals Gain  The Morgan Stanley Cyclical Index of companies most-tied to
the economy dropped 0.5 percent, trimming a decline of as much
as 1.5 percent.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  rallied 1.5 percent to
$36.28.  Caterpillar Inc. (CAT) , the world’s largest maker of
construction equipment, retreated 1.5 percent to $83.68.  Micron Technology jumped 3.8 percent to $6.55. The company
agreed to  buy  bankrupt Japanese chipmaker Elpida in a
transaction valued at 200 billion yen ($2.5 billion), gaining
memory chip-making assets that may help it avert price swings
that fueled four straight quarters of losses.  Amylin Pharmaceuticals climbed 8.9 percent to $30.71. The
agreement is the second announced this year for Bristol, and the
largest for the industry. It comes after the blood-thinner
Plavix, Bristol’s top seller in 2011 at $7.1 billion, faced
generic competition for the first time in May.  M&A  Best Buy added 5.9 percent to $22.20. Schulze is close to
presenting Best Buy’s board with a takeover offer, the
Minneapolis Star-Tribune reported June 30, citing an
unidentified person close to the situation. The plans aren’t
set, the newspaper reported, citing the person. Bruce Hight, a
spokesman for Best Buy, declined to comment to Bloomberg News.
David Reno, a spokesman for Schulze, declined to comment.  Lincare Holdings Inc. (LNCR)  soared 22 percent to $41.34. Linde AG
agreed to acquire Lincare for about $3.8 billion to add U.S.
oxygen and respiratory therapy services delivered to the home,
in the German company’s biggest acquisition since 2006.  For-profit college companies such as  Corinthian Colleges
Inc. (COCO)  and Education Management Corp. rose after a U.S. judge
struck down regulations the day before they were to take effect
that could have cut off their federal money. Corinthian jumped
11 percent to $3.21. Pittsburgh-based Education Management
gained 3.3 percent to $7.18. A Bloomberg index of 13 for-profit
 colleges  rose 1.2 percent.  MEMC Rallies  MEMC Electronic Materials Inc. rallied 22 percent to $2.64.
The second-largest U.S. polysilicon maker gained after
announcing the sale of four solar farms in Europe with a total
capacity of 98 megawatts.  Theravance Inc. (THRX)  rose 11 percent to $24.71 after a
respiratory  drug  being developed with GlaxoSmithKline Plc did
well enough in studies that regulatory approval may be sought
ahead of schedule.  OpenTable Inc. (OPEN)  slumped 9.3 percent to $40.81. The largest
U.S. online restaurant-reservation service fell after Barclays
Plc issued a report that said the company may post its first-
ever sequential decline in  revenue .  THQ Inc. (THQI)  declined 6.5 percent to 58 cents. The video-game
maker said it plans a 1-for-10 reverse stock split to maintain
its Nasdaq Stock Market listing.  Volatility in the  S&P 500  is returning to levels that drove
 valuations  and stock volume down to rates not seen since at
least 2003.  Average daily price changes  in the benchmark gauge
for American equities doubled to 1 percent in June, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. At the same time, U.S. trading has
plunged to an average 6.8 billion shares a day and valuations
are 16 percent below the five-decade mean. Reaching those levels
in tandem is unprecedented in at least nine years, the data
show.  $300 Billion  Investors whipsawed by volatility that reached twice the
50-year average in 2011 have pulled about $300 billion from
mutual funds since the  bull market  began three years ago.  With the third quarter marking the worst S&P 500 returns in
election years since World War II, bears say widening price
swings will keep individuals from returning to the market. Bulls
say their exodus helped pull stocks lower just before growth in
earnings and the economy helped spur the biggest June rally
since 1999.  “We still believe in the bull market,”  Laszlo Birinyi ,
president of Birinyi Associates Inc., said in a June 29 phone
interview from Westport,  Connecticut . “I’m just telling people
to turn the page to the investments, the things that you can
really quantify and put your fingers on. Stick to what truly
matters: the company fundamentals.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net ;
Julia Leite in New York at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  