-- The Right Way to Repeal Jackson-Vanik
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-07-02T22:30:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-02/u-s-should-upgrade-russian-trade-without-rights-sanction.html
By the end of this month,  Russia  will
become the 154th member of the  World Trade Organization . The
ratification vote in the State Duma will conclude 19 years of
arduous negotiations and enshrine promises by Moscow to open its
markets, lower tariffs, enforce transparent laws and resolve
trade disputes according to global rules of commerce.  The  U.S. Congress  should encourage the opening of the
world’s seventh-largest economy by upgrading Russia to the
status of Permanent Normal Trade Relations. That requires the
repeal of the  Jackson-Vanik amendment , a set of trade
restrictions adopted in 1974 that was designed to compel the
 Soviet Union  to allow emigration of its Jewish population, a
goal that has long ceased to be appropriate or useful. Since the
early 1990s, successive U.S. administrations have granted annual
waivers of its terms. Now, keeping the law on the books would
put the U.S. in violation of WTO rules and allow Russia to
penalize American companies.  Some U.S. lawmakers want to combine the repeal of Jackson-
Vanik with a punitive measure aimed at pressuring Russia for
human-rights violations. The Sergei Magnitsky Rule of Law
Accountability Act, which was approved June 26 by the  Senate
Foreign Relations Committee , would name and sanction Russian
officials thought to be responsible for the 2009 death in a
Moscow prison of Sergei Magnitsky, a lawyer who disclosed
evidence that government officials had embezzled $230 million.
The scope of the act has been broadened from its initial focus
on Russia and now requires the U.S. to seize the assets of and
deny visas to any official deemed to be involved in any human-
rights violations.  The Magnitsky case is just one of many reasons for grave
concern over the Russian government’s repeated repression of
democratic freedoms and human-rights violations. Yet combining
the two pieces of legislation would do more harm than good.  WTO membership will further bind Russia and President
 Vladimir Putin  to a global regime of rules and laws and also
open opportunities for U.S. companies. Those are important goals
in their own right. Failure to repeal Jackson-Vanik would just
give Russia free rein to punish U.S. companies.  Congress can, and should, shine a strong spotlight on
Russia’s deplorable human-rights record by putting the Magnitsky
Act before President  Barack Obama  as a separate piece of
legislation. Yet for all the act’s good intentions, we think its
desire to sanction not just people linked to the Magnitsky case
is overbroad. In addition, its positive effects don’t outweigh
the costs of censuring a country whose help the U.S. and the
world needs to curb  Iran’s nuclear program  and to unseat the
murderous regime of Bashar al-Assad in  Syria .  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on why Barclays CEO  Robert
Diamond should resign ;  Noah Feldman  explains why  liberals should
thank John Roberts ;  Jeffrey Goldberg  on  Eric Schmidt’s techno-
optimism ; William Pesek on  shareholder activism in Japan .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 