-- U.S. Judge Strikes Federal Rule on For-Profit Colleges
-- B y   J o h n   H e c h i n g e r   a n d   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 2012-07-02T05:06:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-02/u-s-judge-strikes-federal-rule-on-for-profit-colleges.html
The U.S. Department of Education’s
rule designed to prevent for-profit colleges from leaving
students with debts they struggle to repay was struck down by a
federal judge who said the regulation was arbitrary.  U.S. District Judge Rudolph Contreras in  Washington  ruled
on June 30 the department’s requirement that at least 35 percent
of graduates must be repaying their loans for a college to
qualify for federal grants wasn’t based on any facts.  “No expert study or industry standard suggested that the
rate selected by the department would appropriately measure
whether a particular program adequately prepared its students,”
Contreras wrote in the 38-page ruling. “The entire debt measure
rule must therefore be vacated and remanded to the department.”  The Obama administration is seeking to protect taxpayers
from loan defaults and stop students from taking on debt for
degrees that don’t pay off with higher incomes. The industry
lobbied against the proposed rules and said that it will reduce
access for working adults and military veterans.  More than 190, or 5 percent, of the career-training
programs failed to meet new loan-repayment regulations, the
government said.  Career Education Corp. (CECO)  and  Corinthian Colleges
Inc. (COCO)  ranked among the worst schools on the agency’s list.  Funding Requirements  Career colleges need to prepare students for jobs at a
price they can afford, Education Secretary Arne Duncan had said.
Schools that can’t meet this requirement wouldn’t get state
funding, Duncan said.  Officials from the education department didn’t immediately
respond to a request for comment on the judge’s ruling after
regular business hours in Washington.  Implementation of federal rules would have meant more than
90 percent of programs training security guards and medical
assistants could have become ineligible for funding. So could
have more than 80 percent of criminal justice programs.  Congress and state attorneys general are investigating the
marketing and job-placement claims of for-profit colleges, which
can receive as much as 90 percent of their revenue from federal
grants and loans that students use to pay tuition. For-profit
colleges got almost $32 billion in U.S. student aid in the
2009-2010 school year.  Contreras upheld the government’s disclosure portion of the
regulation, which requires institutions to report to students
their graduation and placement rates and their students’ median
debt load.  The case is: Association of Private Colleges and
Universities v.  Arne Duncan , in his official capacity as the
Secretary of the Department of Education. 11-cv-01314. U.S.
District Court for the  District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Hechinger in Boston at 
 jhechinger@bloomberg.net ;
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  