-- Verizon Says FCC Open-Internet Rule Violates Owner Rights
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g   a n d   T o d d   S h i e l d s
-- 2012-07-02T21:27:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-02/verizon-says-fcc-didn-t-have-authority-for-open-internet-rule.html
Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ)  said a
Federal Communications Commission rule that prevents  Internet
service providers  from blocking or slowing the flow of Web
content to homes and businesses violates the constitutional
rights of broadband network owners.  Verizon, in a filing today in the U.S. Court of Appeals in
 Washington , said the commission relied on a “hodgepodge of
provisions” in the Communications Act to give itself “broad
authority” to create the rule, which the company said infringes
on free speech and property rights.  “It violates the First Amendment by stripping them of
control over the transmission of speech on their networks,”
Verizon argued. “And it takes network owners’ property without
compensation by mandating that they turn over those networks for
the occupation and use of others at a regulated rate of zero,
undermining owners’ multibillion-dollar-backed expectations that
they would be able to decide how best to employ their networks
to serve consumers and deterring network investment.”  The net-neutrality rule, approved in December 2010 by the
FCC on a 3-2 Democrat-led vote, took effect Nov. 20. In October,
Verizon’s challenge to the rule was consolidated with six others
into a single case before the Washington court, which has yet to
schedule a date to hear argument.  Joint Filing  Verizon’s filing today was made jointly with MetroPCS
Communications Inc., based in Richardson,  Texas .  “We look forward to defending our open Internet rules in
court,” Neil Grace, an FCC spokesman, said in an e-mail. “This
strong and balanced framework is helping ensure that the
Internet continues to thrive as an engine for innovation,
investment,  job creation , and free expression.”  It’s the second time New York-based Verizon has asked the
Washington court to overturn the regulations. The court
dismissed the first suit in April 2011, saying it was premature.  The FCC’s Open Internet Order requires Internet service
providers to disclose their network-management practices and
performance, prohibits providers from blocking access to
competitor websites or applications, and bars providers from
“unreasonably discriminating” in the speed of transmissions.  The FCC’s censure of Comcast Corp. in 2010 for interfering
with subscribers’ Internet traffic was vacated by the same
Washington court, which ruled the agency lacked the authority to
do so.  The Verizon case is Verizon v. Federal Communications
Commission, 11-1355,  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the  District of
Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington
at   tschoenberg@bloomberg.net ;
Todd Shields in Washington
at   tshields3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 