-- Vestas Tumbles on Report of Debt Restructuring Talks
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2012-07-02T16:02:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-02/vestas-falls-on-report-of-debt-restructuring-talks.html
Vestas Wind Systems A/S (VWS)  fell the most
in four weeks after a report that the turbine maker is in talks
with two banks about restructuring debts after drawing a 300
million-euro ($379 million)  credit line .  The shares tumbled 8.1 percent in Copenhagen after the
Sunday Times reported that  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  and
 HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  demanded Vestas submit a comprehensive
financial plan from Vestas. The British newspaper said Vestas
hired PwC and the banks appointed Ernst & Young LLP to advise on
the plan.  Vestas along with rivals  General Electric Co. (GE)  and  Siemens
AG (SIE)  is struggling with declining turbine prices and excess
capacity as nations from the U.S. to  Germany  rein in support for
renewable energy. The company detailed restructuring plans in
January after issuing a second profit warning in three months.
It shelved a U.K. offshore-turbine factory venture and closed a
plant in  China  to save cash last month.  “The company is clearly in severe distress,” Martin
Prozesky, an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co., said.  “The restructuring they’ve announced so far is very
insufficient relative to the challenges they are facing. Unless
they restructure much more radically, they could run into a
liquidity problem,” he said today by phone.  Mikkel Friis-Thomsen, a Vestas spokesman, declined to
discuss details of the report, saying by phone today: “We never
comment on speculation.” Vestas shares closed at 29.79 kroner,
the lowest since June 27 and biggest drop in a month.  Cash Need  Vestas has debt of almost 1.2 billion euros, according to
Bloomberg data. The company’s thirst for cash may reflect a need
for working capital required for building more turbines as it
delivers large orders as well as cash for restructuring,
Prozesky said.  “I wouldn’t be surprised if they are making an operating
loss, and therefore if working capital also requires funding
they clearly need financing,” he said. The company could cut
its “disproportionately costly” research and development staff
and shrink its operations in the U.S., where a wind energy tax
credit ends this year, he said.  Bernstein estimates 300 million to 400 million euros is the
likely charge for the necessary restructuring, Prozesky said.  Wind turbine developers are having trouble raising funds to
finance projects from banks that traditionally underwrite the
biggest projects, Heinz Steffen, an analyst at Fairesearch GmbH
& Co, said today by phone from Kronberg.  ‘Doing Badly’  “The whole industry is doing badly,” he said. Banks are
no longer willing to finance large projects constrained by their
own financial issues while delays in grid connection and legal
reasons in promising offshore wind markets inhibit growth, he
said. “Also, the market is in overcapacity and there is price
pressure from China.”  Officials at HSBC, RBS, PwC and Ernst & Young had no
immediate comment on the Sunday Times report. The Bloomberg Wind
Energy Index of 64 companies, which rose 3.3 percent on June 29,
slipped 0.2 percent today.  Bid Speculation  Chinese competitors  Sinovel Wind Group Co. (601558)  and  Xinjiang
Goldwind Science & Technology Co. (2208)  have considered a bid for
Vestas, the Danish newspaper Jyllands-Posten reported in April.
While Vestas CEO Ditlev Engel declined to comment on that report
at the time, analysts said a bid is unlikely.  “If you look at the other turbine producers like Siemens
or GE, I don’t see them buying Vestas,” said Janne Vincent Kjaer, an analyst at  Jyske Bank A/S. (JYSK)  “They have already the
proven technology and they’re also fighting with overcapacity
themselves.”  Prozesky said a potential acquirer was more likely to
include Korean groups such as Hyundai Heavy Industries Co. and
Samsung Heavy Industries Co. Chinese, European and U.S.
companies, facing their own domestic issues, are unlikely to be
buyers, he said.  Vestas small shareholders are forming an association to
attempt to consolidate their votes and increase influence, the
Danish newswire Ritzau Finans said, without saying how it got
the information.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  