-- Vietnam’s Domestic Coffee Price Beats Export Levels on Crop End
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2012-07-02T14:29:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-02/vietnam-s-domestic-coffee-price-beats-export-levels-on-crop-end.html
Farmers in  Vietnam , the world’s
biggest robusta coffee grower, are charging more for their beans
than the current export price as the crop is near the end,
according to trading company NC Group Ltd.  Coffee prices in the local market are about $21 a metric
ton more expensive than what trade houses are charging in the
export market, Nguyen Chi Cuong, chief executive officer at the
company, said by e-mail from Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam today.
Vietnamese coffee was at 44,400 dong ($2.13) a kilogram, while
export prices were at a premium of $20 a ton to the September
contract on NYSE Liffe, he said. Export charges are usually $40
a ton, according to Nguyen.  Domestic prices usually become higher than export levels at
end of crop, when there isn’t much stock left in farmers’ hands
and good stockpiles in traders’ warehouses, he said.  Coffee exports from Vietnam totaled 16.25 million bags from
the start of the season in October to May, according to the
 International Coffee Organization  in  London . That compares with
12.55 million bags in the same period a year earlier. A bag of
coffee weighs 60 kilograms (132 pounds).  Vietnamese exporters will need to buy back coffee from
international trade houses to fulfill their contracts, Nguyen
said. The buyback will be “less severe” than in previous years
as exporters refrained from making forward sales, he said.  NC Group was established in 2004 and trades natural rubber
and coffee. The company has a registered office in  New York  and
bases its trading desk in  Ho Chi Minh City . It sells 80,000 to
150,000 bags of coffee a year. Nguyen was previously a coffee
trader in Vietnam with Noble Group Ltd.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 