-- Wen Eases Off as China’s Cities Seek to Revive Home Sales
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-07-03T09:01:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-02/wen-eases-off-as-china-s-cities-seek-to-revive-home-sales.html
Liu Xuejun, a building-equipment
dealer, couldn’t restock his  Shanghai  showroom fast enough in
2009 as he sold an excavator every three days. Now he might wait
six months between sales.  “Scheduled property construction work just doesn’t kick
off,” said Liu, 41, as he stood amid dozens of yellow
excavators and wheel loaders in the showroom of Shanghai Wo You
Construction Machinery Co. on the eastern outskirts of the city.  Liu’s sales are a casualty of an economic slowdown tied to
 China ’s efforts since 2010 to prevent a housing bubble with
curbs on lending and property ownership. Now, outgoing Premier
 Wen Jiabao  is tolerating some piecemeal measures to support the
market. They include the introduction in May of home subsidies
in the eastern city of Yangzhou, discounts on mortgages for
first-home buyers in Beijing, and raising the tax threshold on
purchases of some homes in Shanghai.  “The easing is happening now and it’s going to keep
happening,” said  Michael Klibaner , Shanghai-based head of China
research at Jones Lang LaSalle Inc. “If you would try to get
prices to drop suddenly, that would be a really scary and
dangerous thing for both the economy and Wen’s legacy.”  About 30 Chinese cities have issued “fine-tuning”
policies since the second half of 2011, according to  Centaline
Property Agency Ltd. , the nation’s biggest real estate brokerage.
China’s  home prices  fell in a record 54 of 70 cities tracked by
the government in May from a year ago as developers cut prices
to boost sales, the government said on June 18.  Land sales made up about 26 percent of local government
revenue last year and in some cities account for more than half,
according to Zurich-based UBS AG.  Buyer Subsidies  While the government has said it won’t waver from its curbs,
it’s being more lenient toward attempts by local municipalities
to increase property sales. That’s a departure from February,
when Wuhu in Anhui province had to reverse measures to kickstart
flagging housing sales within a week of announcing them. In
October, Foshan in the south quickly backtracked on its own
easing steps.  Yangzhou in Jiangsu province will offer new buyers
subsidies of as much as 0.6 percent of the value of a home,
Xinhua Daily reported in May, citing the local finance bureau.  The central city of Wuhan said in April that it would allow
down payments as low as 20 percent for some first-time buyers,
using loans from the public housing fund into which they must
pay a portion of their income each month to qualify for low-
interest mortgages. That was compared with a 30 percent down-
payment requirement for first homes nationwide.  Shares Rise  China’s central government may not introduce new measures
to curb the nation’s  property market  as it continues to place
its priority on stabilizing the market, 21st Century Business
Herald reported today, citing Chen Guoqiang, vice chairman of
the China Real Estate Society.  A  gauge  tracking property shares on the  Shanghai Composite
Index (SHCOMP)  rose 1.7 percent at the local close, the most in three
weeks and the biggest gain among the five industry groups on the
benchmark.  Some developers in cities including Nanjing, Shenzhen,
Guangzhou and Wuhan have been allowing first-home buyers to
delay their down payments to boost sales, the China Business
News reported in February.  The Shanghai city government is taxing sales of properties,
if they are the only ones owned by a family, for less than 3.3
million  yuan  ($519,700) at half the standard rate. That’s up
from a ceiling of 2.45 million yuan.  New Buyers  Lenders in Beijing are giving first-home buyers mortgages
at a 15 percent discount to the 6.8 percent benchmark rate after
the central bank reduced borrowing costs, said Wu Hao, a manager
at the loan brokerage of Bacic & 5i5j Group, Beijing’s second-
biggest real estate broker. In the second half of 2011, they
paid 5 percent to 10 percent more than the benchmark, she said.  “The central government certainly doesn’t want the
property market to fall sharply as it’s concerned about economic
growth,” said Yao Wei, a Hong Kong-based economist at  Societe
Generale  SA. “It is actually tolerating some of the fine-tuning
by local governments. We are likely to see more of that.”  Property, construction and related industries increased to
account for about 20 percent of China’s gross domestic product
on average after 2008, according to estimates from Societe
Generale.  Economic Growth  China is targeting a 7.5 percent expansion in gross
domestic product this year, down from the 8 percent goal in
place since 2005. Credit Suisse Group AG and Deutsche Bank AG
last month cut their 2012 economic growth targets for China to
below 8 percent. Credit Suisse said the property sector remained
the major “swing” factor to its current forecasts.  About 93 percent of construction companies surveyed by
Credit Suisse in May said they experienced payment delays from
property developers, up from 80 percent six months ago.  “This reflects a deteriorating financial situation for the
property industry value chain,”  Du Jinsong , a Hong Kong-based
property analyst at the Swiss bank, said as he released his
twice-yearly survey of China’s construction industry in May.  Anhui Conch Cement Co. (914) , China’s biggest maker of the
building material, reported a 44 percent slump in first-quarter
profit, while  Angang Steel Co. (347) , a steelmaker based in Anshan in
Liaoning province, swung to a first-quarter loss.  Moody’s Investors Service estimates that 29 Chinese
developers on its rating list, including Hopson Development
Holdings Ltd., Greentown China Holdings Ltd. and Shanghai Zendai
Property Ltd., need to repay 159 billion yuan of short-term debt
this year, the most in data going back to 2008, according to a
May 23 report.  New Construction  China’s new property construction fell 4.3 percent in the
first five months from a year ago to 729 million square meters
(7.8 billion square feet), according to the statistics bureau.
That compared with a 23.8 percent increase in the same period a
year ago. Property investment growth from January to May slowed
to 18.5 percent compared with a 34.6 percent rise a year ago.  Meanwhile, the government has been accelerating the
building of low-cost housing in a year when the ruling Communist
Party is preparing for a once-per-decade transition to a younger
generation of leaders from Wen, 69, this year.  China plans to begin construction of 7 million social
housing units this year after 10 million were started in 2011.
It will build 36 million units by 2014, aiming for the homes to
comprise 20 percent of the entire residential market.  Relax Curbs  “If the government is confident in achieving the target of
social housing, then they should gradually relax the housing
curbs,” said Liu Li-Gang, a Hong Kong-based economist at
Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. “With the big
increase of supply, fine-tuning the housing curbs will quickly
boost demand and avoid a big slump for  China’s economy .”  Property prices in the world’s second-biggest economy
surged 32 percent in the two years after the government’s 2008,
4 trillion yuan stimulus package introduced in the midst of the
global financial crisis. To keep housing affordable, the
government increased down-payment requirements and  mortgage
rates  for some apartments, and set a limit on the number of
homes each family was allowed to buy.  The Housing Ministry said last month it won’t flip-flop on
policies, the Shanghai Securities Journal reported, while the
State Council, China’s Cabinet, pledged in April to stick with
its existing property controls.  Key Policy  “The government may fine-tune a bit, but won’t ease
property curbs as home price declines is a key policy
objective,” Dariusz Kowalczyk, a Hong Kong-based senior
economist and strategist at Credit Agricole CIB, said in an e-
mail.  That was evident last week when the central province of
Henan denied a 21st Century Business Herald report that the
local government had asked banks to offer discounts of as much
as 30 percent on mortgages for first-home buyers. The province
had canceled a plan to introduce the measure, the newspaper said.  The People’s Bank of China cut the benchmark one-year
lending rate to 6.31 percent from 6.56 percent on June 7,
accelerating efforts to combat a deepening slowdown. It was the
first rate reduction since 2008.  That is not enough to revive the housing market, said Shen Jianguang, an economist at Mizuho Securities Asia Ltd.  “More decisive easing of the property measures is needed,
otherwise it will have a huge impact on China’s economy,” said
Hong Kong-based Shen. “Easing of monetary policy is not enough
because it’s still difficult for developers or local
government’s financial vehicles to borrow from banks.”  Price Rebound  Still, home prices in June rose for the first time in 10
months, according to a survey of 100 cities by SouFun Holdings
Ltd., the nation’s biggest real estate website owner.  The nation’s home sales rebounded for the first time this
year in May, rising 19 percent to 375.7 billion yuan from the
previous month, according to the statistics bureau.  Evergrande
Real Estate Group Ltd. (3333) , the country’s biggest developer by sales
volume, posted a 33 percent rise in sales to a record 10.4
billion yuan in May from a year earlier.  The housing curbs will remain “tight” this year,
preventing transactions and prices from rebounding significantly,
Freddy Lee, chief executive officer of Shanghai-based Shui On
Land Ltd., said last week in an interview.  For Liu, who has been selling construction machinery for a
decade, is grappling with two of his clients who placed deposits
for excavators several months ago and have delayed the full
payment as they push back housing projects in Shanghai’s
Chongming Island, he said.  “I can’t do much about it,” he said. “I just have to
seek out more non-property-related clients.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bonnie Cao in Shanghai at 
 bcao4@bloomberg.net ;
Jasmine Wang in  Hong Kong  at 
 jwang513@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  