-- White Castle to Gadget Maker See Risks in Health Law
-- B y   L e s l i e   P a t t o n ,   M a t t   T o w n s e n d   a n d   O l g a   K h a r i f
-- 2012-07-02T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-02/white-castle-to-gadget-maker-see-risks-in-health-law.html
White Castle System Inc. began
offering health coverage when  Calvin Coolidge  was president.
That 88-year history didn’t make last week’s U.S. Supreme Court
ruling any more palatable to the seller of hamburger sliders.  In upholding the core of President  Barack Obama ’s health-
care overhaul, justices still left U.S. businesses wondering
what they will have to spend to comply, said Jamie Richardson,
vice president of Columbus, Ohio-based White Castle.  “Just because something is constitutional to us doesn’t
necessarily make it a good idea,” Richardson said in an
interview. “There are so many different rules and regulations
that still need to be finalized. It’s really difficult to
predict what costs are actually going to be.”  Preserving the  health law  may boost employers’ bills, in
the form of higher premiums or penalties if plans don’t meet
standards, said executives of companies where providing
insurance is less common, such as retailers,  restaurant chains 
and small businesses. Companies may have to respond by curbing
hiring or charging more for products, the executives said in 
interviews.  “There’s still a concern that prices are going to go up”
for premiums, said John Nottingham, a co-founder of product-
innovation firm Nottingham Spirk. The increases extended into
2012, he said, with a boost of as much as 15 percent that his
insurer told him was in preparation for Obama’s health plan.  Annual Costs  Health care consumes “hundreds of thousands” of dollars
in annual spending at the Cleveland-based company, Nottingham
said. Its design credits include the disposable SpinBrush
electric toothbrush and the Scotts Snap System, a lawn-care
spreader that takes fertilizer from a bag without pouring.  The Affordable Care Act seeks to provide coverage to 32
million uninsured Americans. It sets minimum benefit rules and,
in new government-run health exchanges, will offer plans with
different costs and benefits. Out-of-pocket costs will be capped
and there will be no limit on lifetime benefits.  While employers aren’t required to offer insurance,
penalties will be imposed starting in 2014 for companies with
more than 50 workers that don’t meet government standards for
affordable coverage. Businesses with fewer than 25 full-time
workers are eligible for tax credits to help pay for insurance.  The  Congressional Budget Office   estimated  in 2009 that the
proposed overhaul would lower costs as much as 59 percent for
the 18 million people who buy their own insurance. For 159
million Americans covered through employers, the law is likely
to have little effect on premiums, the CBO found.  Young Adults  Some provisions have taken effect, such as rules that allow
adult children to remain on their parents’ health insurance
until age 26. Starting in 2014, insurers will be banned from
turning down people with pre-existing medical conditions.  Even with many of the details about the government-run
health exchanges still to be worked out, last week’s decision
adds “another chapter of clarity,” said David Cordani, chief
executive officer of  Cigna Corp. (CI) , a Bloomfield, Connecticut-
based health insurer. “And what I wanted more than anything was
clarity.”  A court decision to junk the law would have created even
more uncertainty, according to Bill Merritt, CEO of InterDigital
Inc., which develops telecommunications technologies, and
licenses and sells patents. The  King of Prussia , Pennsylvania-
based company has 320 employees.  “We have been operating under the health-care law for
several years,” Merritt said. “At least we know what it is,
what it is going to do, and we can prepare.”  Renewed Concern  Lobbyists including the  National Retail Federation  renewed
denunciations of the law as a drag on the economy. In corporate
offices outside  Washington , executives cast doubt on whether the
benefits promised to business, such as curbs on insurance
premiums, would ever be realized.  Foot Locker Inc. (FL) , which offers benefits to all full- and
part-time employees, had assumed the law would be upheld, CEO
Ken Hicks said. There’s still a chance of fallout for the
world’s largest athletic-footwear chain, he said, because the
measure requires individuals to buy insurance, possibly paring
disposable incomes. Most customers of New York-based Foot Locker
are young adults, many lacking insurance coverage, Hicks said.  “It’s money they won’t be spending on shoes, apparel or
food,” he said.  U.S. health spending almost doubled in the last decade, to
$2.6 trillion in 2010,  federal statistics  show. Even so, the
growth in employers’ medical bills has slowed, falling to 3.3
percent in 2010, according to a May  report  from the Health Care
Cost Institute, a Washington group that studies insurance data.  Policy Debate  That has fueled a policy debate about whether the slowdown
is a temporary result of a weak economy or a more permanent
change brought on by pressure from insurers and businesses to
trim spending and shift more costs to employees.  “The more they spend on health care, the less they have
for general  consumer goods ,” said Dennis Hernreich, chief
financial officer of  Casual Male Retail Group Inc. (CMRG) , the largest
U.S. big-and-tall men’s clothier. “The court erasing the law
would have added some clarity. Whatever cloudiness that existed
before the court ruled, it still exists.”  Partisan sparring has obscured the law’s benefits for
business owners, said John Arensmeyer, CEO at the Small Business
Majority, a Washington-based group that supported Obama’s plan.  Cost pressures will ease because of caps on the amount of
premiums insurers can keep for profit, and insurance exchanges
will give small employers more negotiating power and lower
administrative expenses, according to Arensmeyer, who said the
group represents a network of about 8,000 businesses.  Political Noise  “We have a long way to go beyond what is even in this law,
but you take some of these provisions and you’re starting to
chip away at a bloated cost structure,” he said. “A lot of the
political noise around the law is that it’s going to cause costs
to go through the roof and there’s really no evidence of that.”  CEO Tilman J. Fertitta of Landry’s Inc., the Houston-based
operator of more than 400 restaurant, hotel and casino
properties, isn’t so sure.  “It’s just going to be a lot more expensive for people to
eat out,” Fertitta said. “It’s going to be more expensive for
people to buy groceries at the grocery store.”  Fertitta wouldn’t give an estimate for how much the health
law might boost costs at Landry’s, which he took private in 2010
for $1.4 billion.  William Underriner, president of Underriner Motors in
Billings,  Montana , knows what he spent for his 65 employees in
2011 at his group of Buick, Volvo, Honda and Hyundai franchises:
more than $300,000.  Dealer’s View  Notwithstanding the Obama administration’s pledges of cost
containment, bills will keep rising, said Underriner, who
watched news coverage of the court ruling from his glass-walled
office in the showroom, surrounded by Honda Crosstour and Pilot
sport-utility vehicles, an Accord sedan and an Odyssey minivan.  “Each year, it’s getting harder and harder” to continue
paying 100 percent of employees’ premiums, he said. Underriner
wears a second hat as well, as chairman of the National
Automobile Dealers Association, the trade group for about 16,000
new-vehicle retailers in the U.S. NADA said in a statement that
the Obama measure “remains a flawed law.”  Large businesses with expansive human-resources departments
probably were better able to prepare for the Obama law than
small firms, said Micah Weinberg, a senior policy adviser to the
Bay Area Council, which represents business interests near  San
Francisco  that include  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and Dolby Laboratories Inc.  Pay Up  The court’s decision probably will spur smaller businesses
to take a look at available tax credits, and start planning for
a rule that requires them to show on employees’ tax forms how
much the company is paying in health benefits, Weinberg said.  “For those companies that rely heavily on part-time
employees and contractors, costs will go up,” said Luke Kanies,
CEO of  Portland , Oregon-based  Puppet Labs , a seller of server-
management software. “That’s reasonable -- they have been
short-changing people. People who short-changed their employee
compensation, their costs will go up.”  Puppet, which has 78 employees and 12 interns, already
provides health benefits to its workforce, Kanies said.  Cartera Commerce Inc. in Lexington,  Massachusetts , which
has more than 200 employees, also sees little effect from last
week’s decision, because the provider of customer loyalty
technology already had to meet state requirements for health-
care coverage, CEO Tom Beecher said.  Now, he’s waiting to see whether the law delivers as
promised on curbing the “the runaway cost” of care for
employers.  “As a business person, the cost of health insurance we buy
for our employees goes up by double digits every year,” Beecher
said. That’s what can affect our hiring. That’s a bigger
issue.’’  To contact the reporters on this story:
Leslie Patton in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net ;
Matt Townsend in  New York  at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net ;
Olga Kharif in Portland at 
 okharif@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net ;
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  