-- Djokovic Wins as Federer Overcomes Injury, Sharapova Is Upset
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2012-07-02T19:50:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-02/williams-beats-rain-shvedova-to-move-to-wimbledon-quarterfinals.html
Maria Sharapova ’s quest to be the
first woman in a decade to win the French Open and Wimbledon
back-to-back was ended by Sabine Lisicki.  Men’s defending champion Novak Djokovic cruised past  Viktor Troicki  under the Centre Court roof, 6-3, 6-1, 6-3 as former
top-ranked  Kim Clijsters  lost in her final appearance at the
tennis tournament.  Sharapova was outplayed by Lisicki, the 15th-seeded German,
6-4, 6-3 on Court 1. Lisicki produced 18 winners, including six
aces, compared with Sharapova’s 15 winners and five aces.  “Certainly had chances; I didn’t take them,” top seed
Sharapova told reporters. “A lot of the credit goes to my
opponent. She played extremely well today and did many things
better than I did.”  Sharapova will lose the No. 1 ranking after Wimbledon to
second-seeded  Victoria Azarenka  of Belarus or third-seed
Agnieszka Radwanska, depending on their results.  Djokovic, whose run of three Grand Slam championships was
stopped by  Rafael Nadal  of Spain in last month’s French Open
final, struck 31 winners, more than twice as many as Troicki, a
fellow Serb who has been his opponent since he was 8.  “We know each other so well, there are no secrets between
us,” Djokovic said in a televised interview.  Lisicki, who also ousted the then-reigning French Open
champions at Wimbledon last year and in 2009, will next play
another German, Angelique Kerber. The No. 8 seed overpowered
Clijsters of Belgium, 6-1, 6-1. Clijsters, a four-time Grand
Slam singles title holder and a semifinalist at Wimbledon in
2003 and 2006, will retire after the U.S. Open, which starts in
August.  No Regrets  “I won’t be sorry about anything,” Clijsters said at a
news conference. “I know that every time that I’ve played here
I’ve given my best, and that’s the only thing that I can try.”  Serena Williams , who squeezed past Yaroslava Shvedova of
Kazakhstan 6-1, 2-6, 7-5 today, is the last woman to take the
titles at  Roland Garros  and the All England Club in the same
year, in 2002. Sharapova rose to the top spot in women’s tennis
last month after beating Italy’s Sara Errani to win her first
French Open title, completing the career Grand Slam four years
after injuries almost forced her to quit tennis.  On Centre Court in drizzle, six-time champion  Roger Federer 
beat 31-year-old Xavier Malisse of Belgium 7-6 (7-1), 6-1, 4-6,
6-3. The Swiss right-hander struggled with his movement from the
start, taking a medical timeout after the seventh game to get
treatment on his back.  No Worries  “I felt the back going the beginning of the first set,”
Federer told reporters. “Honestly I’m not too worried. I’ve had
bad backs over the years. I’ve been around. They go as quick as
they come. Two good nights’ sleep and I’ll be 100 percent.”  In his 33rd consecutive major quarterfinal, Federer will
play another 30-year-old,  Mikhail Youzhny  of Russia, who beat
 Denis Istomin  of Uzbekistan.  Defending women’s champion Petra Kvitova of the Czech
Republic beat former French Open winner  Francesca Schiavone  of
Italy 4-6, 7-5, 6-1 and will next play Williams.  Azarenka eased past former French Open champion Ana Ivanovic of Serbia, 6-1, 6-0. Azarenka, the reigning Australian
Open champion, plays Austria’s Tamira Paszek next. Paszek, who
won the Eastbourne warm-up event the week before Wimbledon,
moved to her second consecutive All England Club quarterfinal by
beating Italy’s Roberta Vinci 6-2, 6-2.  Radwanska Win  Radwanska of Poland beat Camila Giorgi of Italy in straight
sets. She’ll play Russia’s  Maria Kirilenko , who overcame China’s
Peng Shuai in three sets.  There will be a first-time women’s Grand Slam finalist at
the tournament because Lisicki, Kerber, Radwanska and Kirilenko
play quarter-finals in the same half of the draw, and none have
made it to a title match.  Andy Murray ’s match against Marin Cilic of Croatia resumes
tomorrow at noon after play was suspended on Court 1 because of
rain, with the fourth-seeded player from Britain leading 7-5, 3-
1. Mardy Fish, the No. 10 seed from the U.S., was up a set
against France’s Jo-Wilfried Tsonga and Germany’s  Florian Mayer 
led  Richard Gasquet  of France, 6-3, 2-1 when play was halted for
the day.  David Ferrer ’s match against Juan Martin Del Potro,
which had been scheduled after the Murray-Cilic match, will also
be played tomorrow.  The entire men’s and women’s fourth rounds were scheduled
to be completed today on what is known as “Manic Monday.”  Highest Paid  The 25-year-old Sharapova is the 10th woman to capture all
four of tennis’s major championships. She became a global star
and the world’s highest-paid female athlete by winning Wimbledon
at 17 in 2004, and also took the 2006 U.S. Open and 2008
Australian Open titles.  The 22-year-old Lisicki entered Wimbledon having lost in
the opening round of four consecutive tournaments after
spraining her ankle in Charleston, South Carolina, in March.  “I didn’t play well in my last tournaments, but that’s why
I went to  Florida ,” Lisicki said in a news conference. “I
practiced just before Wimbledon there. I got my confidence and
my shots back. I just had fun on the court again.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh at Wimbledon through the London newsroom
at   drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  