-- Wine Sleuth Sniffs Out Fakes, Takes Hammer to Lafite
-- B y   E l i n   M c C o y
-- 2012-07-02T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-02/wine-sleuth-sniffs-out-fakes-takes-hammer-to-lafite.html
Holding a bottle of 1998 Sassicaia in
her left hand, Maureen Downey squints at the iconic Italian
label through a large silver-rimmed magnifying glass.  It looks authentic, but is it?  We’re in the chilly  Vintage Wine Warehouse  in Queens,  New
York , to find out. Downey, with streaked-blond hair, wearing
jeans and flip flops that show off white polka-dotted red
toenails, is one of the experts you call if you’re worried your
Romanee-Conti, Lafite, or Sassicaia might not be legit.  For more than a decade she’s been on counterfeit high
alert, first at three auction houses and now at  Chai Consulting ,
the San Francisco-based wine collection management firm she
founded in 2005.  The March 8 FBI arrest, and indictment on May 9 by a
federal grand jury in New York, of alleged wine fraudster Rudy
Kurniawan -- a.k.a. Dr. Conti -- who has sold millions of
dollars’ worth of rare wines at auction, have raised fears among
collectors about what’s actually in their cellars.  Two weeks ago, French authorities detained four executives
of Burgundy negociant Laboure-Roi on suspicion of wine fraud.  “There’s a lot of dubious wine out there,” says Downey,
pulling her sleuthing tools from a black bag. “I don’t sugar
coat it if I find fakes.”  Inspector’s Gadget  A New York client recently bought the 1998 Sassicaia and
hired Downey to inspect his collection.  She has zeroed in on 11 boxes of wines, including some
containing Chateau d’Yquem and Chateau Lafite, and pries up
wooden case lids with a special hammer.  As she lines up bottles, she lists the most frequently
faked labels:  Chateau Petrus , 1961 Bordeaux first growths, 1982
Lafite, Chateau Lafleur, Sassicaia, large-format bottles of pre-
1985 Domaine de la Romanee-Conti and Henri Jayer Burgundies.  If any of these comes from a retailer or auction house she
doesn’t trust, another red flag goes up, she says.  As I peer at the magnified Sassicaia label, Downey points
out details that help her determine whether or not a bottle is
probably genuine.  “See the paper grain and the way the print ink is pressed
into the paper? That’s good,” she says. “A fake label usually
looks flat, with the ink resting on top.”  Downey shines a small flashlight on the raised letters and
numbers in the bottom of the bottle, then sketches the markings
in her spiral bound notebook.  Fake Labels  She slits the side of the capsule with a razor blade,
lifting it gently to view cork markings. The 1998 Sassicaia
brand looks okay, but she photographs label, cork, and bottle
for further research.  “I look for consistency,” she says as she turns to some
1978 Lafite with brownish-tinged labels. “Are all the paper
elements on a bottle of a similar age? The combination of a new-
looking label with a battered capsule would be suspicious.”  Since one trick used by fraudsters is salting a case of
mostly real bottles with a few fakes, she scrutinizes every one.  Ironically, Downey credits alleged wine counterfeiter Hardy
Rodenstock, the central character in the bestseller  “The
Billionaire’s Vinegar,”  for first getting her to pay attention
to obscure details.  “In 2000, I’d just begun working at Morrell’s auction
department,” she says. “He kept faxing questions about glue,
tiny numbers on the labels, punt marks on magnums of 1945
 Gruaud-Larose  he wanted to bid on.”  ’Billionaire’s Vinegar’  Billionaire  William Koch  filed a lawsuit against Rodenstock
in 2006, alleging wines he sold once belonged to  Thomas
Jefferson  are fakes.  In 2009, Koch sued Rudy Kurniawan, alleging that he, too,
had sold fraudulent bottles. The Indonesian national is now in
 Brooklyn , New York’s Metropolitan Detention Center awaiting
trial.  The week before we met, Downey had found some suspicious
bottles bought by two clients at sales of Kurniawan’s wines. On
her iPad she scrolls through some of the 1,700 photos she took
in a New Jersey warehouse, and others she stores for comparison,
tapping on an image of a 1945 Mouton Rothschild label.  “The color of the paper, the print, the size of the label,
the cork -- nothing is correct,” she says, admitting she’s
pleased Kurniawan has been indicted.  “When I first met him in 2001, he was drinking  Pahlmeyer’s 
Napa Valley merlot,” she says. Only a year later, when she
joined Zachys auction department, he was offering a consignment
of rare 1940s and 1950s Pomerols bottled by a Belgian negociant.  Duped Collectors  When she asked where he obtained them, he came up with
faxes of faxes of receipts in Chinese, so she refused to take
the wine.  Many collectors who’ve bought fakes don’t want to admit
they’ve been cheated, Downey says.  Not her client James Grandison, a seminary teacher. Right
after snapping up a bottle of 1949 Chateau Lafleur for $3,000 at
auction, he met Downey at a restaurant for lunch and showed it
to her.  She was aghast.  “Before the water was served, she insisted I take it back
immediately and she called the auction house,” he recalls.  “They refunded my money.”  ( Elin McCoy  writes on wine and spirits for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed
are her own.)  Muse highlights include Jaime Widder on  music  and Lance
Esplund on  art .  To contact the writer of this story:
Elin McCoy at  elinmccoy@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 