-- Twitter Must Turn Over Information on Protester’s Posts
-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 2012-07-02T21:21:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-02/twitter-must-turn-over-information-about-protester-posts.html
Twitter Inc. must turn over
information about an  Occupy Wall Street  protester’s posts, a  New
York  judge ruled, comparing the duties of social media sites to
those of witnesses to a street crime.  State Supreme Court Judge Matthew A. Sciarrino Jr.’s June
30 ruling denied Twitter’s request to quash a subpoena from
 Manhattan  District Attorney Cyrus Vance Jr. The company must
turn over tweets posted by Malcolm Harris from Sept. 15, 2011,
to Dec. 30, 2011.  “What you give to the public belongs to the public. What
you keep to yourself belongs only to you,” Sciarrino said in a
ruling that addressed the difficulty of setting law in the
evolving world of social media.  The case will determine whether Twitter faces the burden of
responding to subpoenas for its users, the San Francisco-based
company has said. The outcome is significant throughout the U.S.
as  law enforcement  becomes more aggressive in seeking
information about what people do and say on the Internet, the
 American Civil Liberties Union  said in a May 31 court filing.  Sciarrino said the duties of Twitter and other social media
companies are similar to those of witnesses to street crimes.  ‘Information Superhighway’  “Today the street is an online, information superhighway,
and the witness can be the third party providers like Twitter,
Facebook, Instagram, Pinterest, or the next hot social media
application,” Sciarrino wrote.  Twitter provides real-time messaging and allows users to
make posts that are broadcast to people who sign up to follow
them.  Facebook Inc. (FB) , based in  Menlo Park ,  California , owns the
world’s largest social-networking service.  “We are disappointed in the judge’s decision and are
considering our options,” Carolyn Penner, a Twitter
spokeswoman, said in a statement. “Twitter’s terms of service
have long made it absolutely clear that its users own their
content. We continue to have a steadfast commitment to our users
and their rights.”  Twitter had asked Sciarrino to reverse an April ruling
denying Harris’s request to quash a subpoena from Vance.
Sciarrino ordered Twitter instead to comply with the subpoena,
saying its users don’t have standing to argue the issue, while
the company does.  After the judge’s April 20 decision, Twitter updated its
terms effective May 17 to say that users retain their right to
any content they submit, post or display.  Warrant Required  Sciarrino partly agreed with the company’s motion to quash
his April ruling, by finding that content less than 180 days old
requires a search warrant. As a result, Dec. 31 tweets by Harris
won’t have to be turned over without a warrant.  “We are pleased that the court has ruled for a second time
that the tweets at issue must be turned over,” Chief Assistant
District Attorney Daniel R. Alonso said in an e-mailed
statement. “We look forward to Twitter’s complying and to
moving forward with the trial.”  Samuel Adams,  Benjamin Franklin ,  Alexander Hamilton  and
 Thomas Jefferson  would have loved to post their opinions on
Twitter as much as they loved to write for the newspapers of
their day, Sciarrino wrote in his opinion.  “Those men, and countless soldiers in service to this
nation, have risked their lives for our right to tweet or to
post an article on Facebook; but that is not the same as arguing
that those public tweets are protected,” he said.  Constitutional Rights  The ACLU had said Harris should be able to argue against
the subpoena because his First Amendment right to free speech
and his Fourth Amendment right to privacy are implicated.  Twitter said that if the first court order stood, it would
be “put in the untenable position of either providing user
communications and account information in response to all
subpoenas or attempting to vindicate its users’ rights by moving
to quash these subpoenas itself.” The company said it would
probably know nothing about the underlying facts in such cases
to determine whether the subpoenas were improper.  The company said it had the right to oppose the prior court
order under the federal Stored Communications Act, a law enacted
in 1986 which governs disclosure of electronic communications,
and argued that the finding would place an undue burden on the
company.  Vance’s subpoena seeks past Twitter posts and user
information linked to the “@destructuremal” account of Harris,
who was arrested with about 700 protesters on the Brooklyn
Bridge on Oct. 1, according to court filings.  Location Sought  The information sought covers about 3 1/2 months, including
Harris’s arrest date, as well as  Internet Protocol  addresses
corresponding to each post -- something that would allow
prosecutors to see Harris’s location at the time the posts were
sent.  Twitter had asked that prosecutors be forced to request a
search warrant for the records, calling its prior subpoena
“unlawful” because the posts aren’t readily accessible to the
public. Twitter said prosecutors can’t argue that Harris’s posts
are public because they can’t access his old posts themselves.  “Otherwise the government would have already obtained the
subject’s tweets itself and avoided wasting all the time and
resources it has trying to enforce an unlawful subpoena issued
to Twitter,” the company said in court papers.  Martin Stolar, an attorney with the National Lawyers Guild
who had filed the request to invalidate the subpoena on Feb. 6
on behalf of Harris, called it “unusual” for Twitter to become
involved in such a case.  ‘Neutral Arbiter’  “Most people who host things like this just say, ‘I’m a
neutral arbiter here, the source through which communications
go,’” Stolar said in a phone interview before a hearing before
Sciarrino on the issue last month.  There was no indication Harris had a conspiratorial role or
did anything out of the ordinary, Stolar has said.  Morrison & Foerster LLP  said in a June newsletter on legal
issues in social media that the court’s ruling essentially meant
that Harris’s posts weren’t his. The court further found that
Harris’s Fourth Amendment rights weren’t an issue because the
Internet isn’t a physical “home” -- and a search warrant
wasn’t therefore required, the  law firm  said.  “In short, the court has made it clear that users of
social media who also find themselves charged with a criminal
offense should have no expectation that potentially relevant
information will be considered private or beyond the reach of a
subpoena,”  Morrison & Foerster wrote.  The case is People of the  State of New York  v. Harris,
11-80152,  Supreme Court  of the State of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  