-- Twitter User-Detail Inquiries From Governments Surge
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2012-07-02T23:04:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-02/twitter-gets-80-of-government-requests-for-user-details-in-u-s-.html
Twitter Inc. , the micro-blogging
service, said it received more requests from governments for
user information in this year’s first half than it had for all
of 2011.  Twitter, in its first  Transparency Report , said 80 percent
of the 849 queries it received from governments worldwide came
from within the U.S. The San Francisco-based company fully or
partially complied with 75 percent of the U.S. inquiries, Jeremy
Kessel, its manager of legal policy, said in a blog post today
releasing the study.  The company, which has grown to more than 140 million
users, is trying to shed light on efforts by governments
worldwide and what they want with user data. Twitter was told
last month it must turn over information about an  Occupy Wall
Street  protester’s posts, in an order from a  New York  judge who
compared the duties of social media sites to those of witnesses
to a street crime.  The July 4 Independence Day holiday in the U.S. is “an
important reminder of the need to hold governments accountable,
especially on behalf of those who may not have a chance to do so
themselves,” Kessel said in his post.  Today’s inaugural report is similar to one produced by
 Google Inc. (GOOG) , the world’s largest Internet search company, and
closely held Twitter plans to publish updates twice a year. The
report includes government requests for user information and to
withhold content, as well as requests related to copyright.  In addition to the new report, the company is working with
Herdict, a project of the Berkman Center for Internet & Society
at  Harvard University  that monitors Web access around the world.
The new partnership intends to drive more traffic and attention
to Herdict, the company said.  In the report, Twitter said it fully or partially complied
with 63 percent of user information requests on average around
the world since Jan. 1. The U.S. led with 679 requests for user
information, followed by  Japan  with 98.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  