-- Yuan Touches One-Month High After Manufacturing Data Tops Survey
-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 2012-07-02T09:06:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-02/yuan-touches-one-month-high-after-manufacturing-data-tops-survey.html
The  yuan  rose to a one-month high
after manufacturing data exceeded economists’ forecasts, stoking
speculation the currency may rebound after its worst quarter
since a dollar peg ended in 2005.  The People’s Bank of China set its daily  fixing  0.16
percent stronger at 6.3146 per dollar, the highest level in a
week. The  Purchasing Managers ’ Index fell to 50.2 in June from
50.4 in May, the Beijing-based National Bureau of Statistics and
China Federation of Logistics and Purchasing reported yesterday.
That was ahead of the 49.9 median estimate in a Bloomberg News
survey of economists. The reading of 48.2 reported by HSBC
Holdings Plc and Markit Economics today compared with 48.4 in
May. A number below 50 indicates a contraction.  “People generally think domestic activity bottomed out in
the second quarter,” said Andy Ji, a Singapore-based foreign-
exchange strategist at  Commonwealth Bank of Australia . “The PMI
is a little piece of evidence of that. The yuan may resume its
appreciation trend again.”  The yuan advanced 0.08 percent to 6.3488 per dollar in
 Shanghai , according to the China Foreign Exchange Trade System.
The currency touched 6.3461, its strongest level since May 29,
after sliding 0.88 percent in the second quarter. The yuan is
allowed to move as much as 1 percent either side of the daily
fixing. One-month implied volatility, a measure of exchange-rate
swings used to price options, was unchanged at 1.8 percent today.  Freefall Avoided  The world’s second-largest economy grew 8.1 percent in the
first quarter from a year earlier, compared with 8.9 percent in
the preceding three months. To spur expansion, China announced
its first cut in  interest rates  in more than three years on June
7. The government has also lowered bank reserve requirements,
speeded up approvals for investment projects and announced
incentives to boost home-appliance sales.  China’s manufacturing figures should provide relief to
investors concerned about a “freefall” in the economy,
according to a research note from Barclays Plc dated yesterday.
The data show the government’s efforts to stabilize expansion
are starting to take effect and growth will bottom in the second
quarter and start improving, Hong Kong-based analysts  Jian Chang ,
Yiping Huang and Lingxiu Yang wrote.  In  Hong Kong ’s offshore market, the yuan climbed 0.13
percent to 6.3518 per dollar. Twelve-month non-deliverable
forwards gained 0.01 percent to 6.4101 in Hong Kong, 1 percent
weaker than the onshore spot rate, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net . 