-- ‘Frankenstein’s Cat’ Sees More Amputees, Tiny Spies: Book
-- B y   M a n u e l a   H o e l t e r h o f f
-- 2013-07-24T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-24/-frankenstein-s-cat-sees-more-amputees-tiny-spies-book.html
Here’s a cheery fact: Between acts 
of war and more diabetes, the number of human amputees is 
expected to grow about 40 percent by 2020.  This I learned from “ Frankenstein’s Cat: Cuddling Up to
Biotech’s Brave New Beasts ” by Emily Anthes, a book I picked up
not long after I walked past a chain pharmacy promising free
diabetes tests.  Thanks to an injured dolphin, the day nears when you can
pick up a fake leg on the way out along with your meds and
another bag of Cheese Doodles.  Anthes, a gifted science writer who lives with her cavapoo
Milo, takes us on a journey from “petri dish to pet store” and
beyond.  She meets engineers, biologists, veterinarians, goats,
dogs, seals and lots of humans like me who love their animal
companions so much they dream of a time when that helpful
 Supreme Court  will rule in favor of interspecies marriage.  For starters, there’s a visit to  Shanghai ’s  Fudan
University , where 45,000 mice are being bred to reflect the
almost inconceivable imaginations of their human overlords. They
will, presumably, extract some knowledge applicable to our own
species.  Tusked Monsters  Some have grown tusks. Others feel no pain, just like that
mutant killing machine in Stieg Larsson’s “Millennium”
trilogy. Now imagine him with a sharp set of ivories.  At a convention, researchers thrill to bioengineered sick
creatures, from pigs with cystic fibrosis to rodent varieties
with heart issues and Alzheimer-like symptoms.  “You design the experiment, we’ll design the mice!”
promises a company poster.  As it contemplates the tangled fate of humans and animals,
“Frankenstein’s Cat” provokes unease and melancholy.  At the frivolous end of the spectrum are the fluorescent
GloFish that Anthes purchased despite some aesthetic concerns.  “Don’t you think that ship has sailed?” her boyfriend
asks when she wonders whether colored pebbles would be too tacky
for her new tank.  Another expedition takes her to CC’s mansion, CC being
short for Cloned Cat, the prize exhibit in the whole replication
business devoted to deflecting the infantile rich from pondering
the finality of death. The sullen cat’s attractive quarters
include a library where she can read “Anna Karenina” and stare
out the window at her kingdom.  Teeny Spies  Things have certainly advanced since Dolly the sheep
wobbled into view in 1996.  Anthes visits an electrical engineer who has outfitted
beetles with tiny radio receivers that could prove useful to the
military. (No kidding. Who would be surprised that the U.S.
military is deploying global beetle-bot spies right this minute
-- with Edward Snowden serving as a sanctioned distraction?)  Ultimately, this is a serious book with a light touch.  What’s the limit? Moral and ethical issues are constantly
popping up as technical challenges are overcome. Even if we can
resurrect a dinosaur, should we? Their world is gone. They’d be
confined for life and we have a lot of extremely large animals
in cages. But of course a Russian has already offered to create
a kind of Pleistocene playground.  Some stories are touching, especially the attempt to
extract genetic material from Celia, the luckless last Pyrenean
goat who was crushed by a tree in a storm.  But the most engaging chapter describes how a dolphin made
life easier for human amputees.  Winter the Dolphin  Caught in a crab trap, Winter survived thanks to round-the-clock nursing, but lost her tail. What to do?  A designer of prostheses heard her tale on  National Public
Radio  and drove to the rescue. Winter got a set of tails as she
grew, firmly glued with special gel. This substance is now used
for patients, especially athletes missing a limb. It attaches
nicely to skin and resists water and sweat.  Anthes is supportive of genetic engineering, but
cautiously.  So now we are breeding sheep stuffed with shape-shifting
human cells that produce medically useful organs.  What about the reverse? She wonders.  “What if, instead of making sheep with human cells in
their livers, the scientists at the  University of Nevada  had
made sheep, rats or monkeys with a mass of human cells in their
brains? Would these animals suddenly have a sense of justice?
The ability to count? Would they be self-aware enough to realize
they were spending their lives as experimental subjects?”  Such creatures inhabit a no-man’s land. As they leave the
realm of myth, movies and dreams, they will change our reality.
Imagine actually meeting a sphinx, chimera or satyr.  Which brings me to a footnote I found engaging: A Soviet
scientist’s promising experiments were dashed by the secret
police in 1927, just as he was about to breed a captive Russian
woman with Tarzan, a 26-year-old orangutan.  Such annoying sensitivity from the same folks whose social
experiments murdered millions.  “Frankenstein’s Cat” is published by Scientific
American/Farrar, Straus and Giroux (241 pages, $26). To buy this
book in  North America , click  here .  (Manuela Hoelterhoff is executive editor of Muse,
Bloomberg’s arts and culture section. Any opinions are her own.)  Muse highlights include Patrick Cole on  music  and Frederik
Balfour on  art .  To contact the writer responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New York  at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Billy in New York at 
 dbilly@bloomberg.net . 