-- T. Rowe Price Profit Rises as Market Rally Lifts Assets
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n
-- 2013-07-24T11:45:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-24/t-rowe-price-profit-rises-as-market-rally-lifts-assets.html
  T. Rowe Price Group Inc. (TROW) , the asset
manager that has posted a profit every quarter since going
public in 1986, said second-quarter earnings rose 20 percent as
equity market gains lifted the value of assets and the fees they
generate.  Net income increased to $245.8 million, or 92 cents a
share, from $205.6 million, or 79 cents, a year earlier, the
Baltimore-based company said today in a statement. Earnings
missed the 96-cent average  estimate  of 13 analysts in a
Bloomberg survey.  “Their assets under management are likely going to be
meaningfully higher than a year ago despite what we think will
be outflows from the firm’s mutual funds in the second
quarter,”  Michael Kim , an analyst with Sandler O’Neill &
Partners LP in  New York , said in an interview before results
were announced.  Clients withdrew a net $8 billion from the firm in the
second quarter, as a few large customers changed their
investment allocations. T. Rowe Price has about 75 percent of
client assets invested in stocks, boosting revenue when equity
markets rally. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 18 percent
in the 12 months ended June 28, and the MSCI All Country World
Index rose 14 percent.  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , the world’s largest asset manager, said
July 18 its second-quarter net income rose 32 percent as
investors deposited a net $11.0 billion in BlackRock funds,
driven by multi-asset products and index funds.  T. Rowe Price’s results were announced before the start of
regular U.S. trading. The shares rose 22 percent this year
through yesterday, compared with a 31 percent gain for the
Standard & Poor’s 20-company  index  of asset managers and custody
banks.  After pouring $67 billion in U.S.-registered equity mutual
funds in the first quarter, investors added about $10 billion in
the second quarter, according to the  Investment Company
Institute .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Condon in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  