-- 22 Killed in Western Mexico Shootout in Test for Pena Nieto
-- B y   N a c h a   C a t t a n   a n d   E r i c   M a r t i n
-- 2013-07-24T22:43:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-24/22-killed-in-western-mexico-shootout-in-test-for-pena-nieto.html
Clashes between the army, gunmen and
civilians killed more than 20 people in western  Mexico  in one of
the biggest outbreaks of bloodshed since President Enrique Pena Nieto took office in December.  Attacks against law enforcement officials in Michoacan
state yesterday left 20 gunmen and two members of the federal
police dead, according to the  Interior Ministry . Responding to
rising violence, Pena Nieto in May sent troops to Michoacan,
where his predecessor,  Felipe Calderon , launched Mexico’s war
against cartels in which over 60,000 people have been killed in
the last six years.  The clashes in Michoacan come as both a challenge to Pena
Nieto and counterweight to the decline in drug gang-related
violence under his administration. Killings related to the drug
war fell 14 percent in the first four months of his term from a
year earlier, the Interior Ministry said in April. Yesterday’s
killings force Mexico’s security problem back into the limelight
after the government switched its discourse away from the
violence, said Alejandro Hope, a security analyst.  “It confirms that things haven’t changed as much as was
claimed,” said Hope, a former official of Mexico’s intelligence
agency, known as Cisen. “This seemed like something out of the
past. But no, it’s part of our present.”  In addition to the 22 dead, 15 police officers were wounded
yesterday. The day before, at least four members of a civilian
self-defense group were shot dead in Michoacan while
demonstrating against violence, Reforma newspaper reported.  Napolitano Visit  The fighting took place as U.S. Secretary of Homeland
Security  Janet Napolitano  visits Mexico for meetings with
security officials.  Napolitano met yesterday with Interior Minister Miguel Angel Osorio Chong in Matamoros, Tamaulipas, to discuss
collaboration between the U.S. and Mexico in addressing border
security issues.  Napolitano also met today with Pena Nieto and members of
his security cabinet, Eduardo Sanchez, a deputy interior
minister, said in an interview with Radio Formula.  They were scheduled to discuss efforts to ensure more
secure trade between the two countries.  ‘Very Similar’  The violence also comes a week after Mexican armed forces
captured Miguel Angel Trevino Morales, known as “Z 40,” the
head of the Zetas cartel considered the nation’s most violent
criminal gang.  The arrest marked Pena Nieto’s first major security
achievement since taking office.  Violence in Mexico spiked in the six years of Calderon’s
presidency as he deployed soldiers in areas where cartels
operate, including Michoacan, the Pacific state of Guerrero, and
the states along the U.S. border.  Yesterday’s killings show that “in the case of Michoacan,
there hasn’t been any real game changer,” Maure Meyer, a senior
associate for Mexico and Central America a Washington Office on
 Latin America , said in a telephone interview. “What we’ve seen
with the Pena Nieto government far is very similar to what we
saw with the Calderon administration in terms of using the
military and using the police.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nacha Cattan in Mexico City at 
 ncattan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  