-- Abu Dhabi Boosts Oil Output in $40 Billion Plan
-- B y   A n t h o n y   D i P a o l a
-- 2013-07-24T08:51:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-24/abu-dhabi-boosts-oil-output-in-40-billion-plan.html
Abu Dhabi National Oil Co. is
pumping about 1.5 million barrels of crude a day from its main
onshore fields and is halfway through a planned $40 billion
investment plan, company officials said.  The state-owned energy producer has boosted capacity at its
largest land-based deposits to about 1.6 million barrels daily
from 1.4 million before the expansion, Fareed Abdulla, senior
vice president at  Abu Dhabi Co. for Onshore Oil Operations , the
partnership which operates the fields, said in Abu Dhabi late
yesterday. The ADCO venture will raise overall capacity to 1.8
million barrels a day by the end of 2017, he said.  Abu Dhabi is in the middle of a five-year, $40 billion plan
aimed at boosting oil and natural gas output and expanding
petrochemical and refining facilities, said Mohammed Sahoo Al
Suwaidi, head of the gas directorate at Adnoc, as the state
producer is known. Both spoke at a media reception in Abu Dhabi.  Middle Eastern producers are seeking to meet rising demand
for gas as their economies and populations expand, boosting
power use by industry and in homes. Abu Dhabi is the largest
sheikhdom and capital of the United Arab Emirates, and produces
most of the nation’s oil. The U.A.E. is the fourth-biggest
producer in the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries,
trailing Saudi Arabia, Iraq and  Kuwait .  Gas developments account for $25 billion of the planned
investment and Abu Dhabi is studying “a whole list of potential
reservoirs” in onshore and offshore areas to further increase
supply, Sahoo Al Suwaidi said late yesterday. He declined to say
which fields would be developed next or to give a timeline for
further expansion.  1939 Pact  Adnoc operates the ADCO venture along with partners  Exxon
Mobil Corp. (XOM) ,  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ,  BP Plc (BP/) ,  Total SA (FP)  and Partex
Oil & Gas in the latest version of an oil production agreement
that dates back to 1939. The most-recent four-decade-long oil
production concession is set to expire in January. The partners
and other companies interested in working on the onshore fields
are set to submit bids for the onshore oil rights by October.  Abu Dhabi plans to raise crude production capacity in the
emirate to 3.5 million barrels a day by the end of 2017. The
planned capacity expansion includes the ADCO deposits as well as
offshore fields and areas outside the concession.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anthony DiPaola in Dubai at 
 adipaola@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  