-- AECI Plans Brazil Acquisition to Tap Growth in South America
-- B y   K a m l e s h   B h u c k o r y
-- 2013-07-24T16:20:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-24/aeci-says-first-half-profit-triples-on-chemical-sales-growth.html
AECI Ltd. (AFE) , South Africa’s biggest
explosives and chemicals manufacturer by market value, plans to
expand into  South America  as it seeks to diversify away from
slower growth in its home market.  AECI is seeking to agree an acquisition in  Brazil  by the
end of this year or early next year, Chief Executive Officer
Mark Dytor said in a phone interview from Johannesburg today.
“It’s an emerging market. It has a big population, a
sophisticated population. They consume a lot of products that
take our chemicals.”  AECI is pursuing expansion to increase revenue from outside
South Africa, it’s main market. A presence in Brazil will create
opportunities in surrounding countries such as Argentina and
 Chile , Dytor said.  “Pedestrian” growth in  South Africa  “doesn’t excite
us,” he said. “To get the return for our shareholders, we have
to expand our footprint.”  AECI plans to spend as much as 1 billion rand ($103
million) a year to finance expansion and for the year ending
December it is targeting as many as three deals, Dytor said.  Mining Services  AECI reported today an increase in net income to 398
million rand for the six months ended June 30 compared with 134
million rand a year earlier, led by improved sales at its mining
services unit. Net income a year earlier was affected by a one-time charge of 138 million rand associated with the
establishment of a development trust.  First-half revenue climbed to 7.22 billion rand, compared
with a restated 6.41 billion rand a year earlier.  “We are still apprehensive about labor unrest in the
 mining industry  which will impact on sales,” Dytor said.  AECI is the seventh-best performing stock in the FTSE/JSE
Africa All Shares Index this year, after advancing 48 percent.
The stock fell 1.5 percent to 118 rand at the close in
Johannesburg today, valuing the company at 15.1 billion rand.  The company increased its interim dividend by 35 percent to
105 cents a share.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kamlesh Bhuckory in Johannesburg at 
 kbhuckory@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  