-- Airbus Tanker Jet’s Fuel-Boom Bug Confounds Australian Air Force
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-07-24T16:17:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-24/airbus-tanker-jet-s-fuel-boom-bug-confounds-australian-air-force.html
Airbus SAS (EAD)  has yet to resolve
performance issues with its military refueling plane, more than
two years after the first examples were delivered, according to
the Royal Australian Air Force, the model’s lead customer.  The KC-30A tanker and troop transport has been on the
Australian defense department’s Projects of Concern list since
2010 and is the “biggest priority at the moment,” Air Marshal
Geoff Brown said in an interview in  London .  “We still have got a quite a few issues with the tanker to
work through,” Brown said. “Everybody thought that since we’ve
been building refueling planes for 50-odd years, how hard can it
be? But there are more complications.”  Australia  ordered five tankers based on the A330 passenger
plane in 2004 to act as airborne gas stations for combat and
surveillance planes. Airbus delivered the first in 2011, around
four years behind plan, and problems persist with gear including
an electronically controlled boom that passes fuel far faster
than the standard hose-based system.  “There is still a lot of work to be done on the boom,”
Brown said. “It’s a brand new fly-by-wire system and we
probably should have expected more issues.”  Airbus Military, the unit that’s developing the plane, said
qualification trails with the apparatus are almost done and that
the technology will gain certification around the year’s end,
delivering a “robust boom capability.”  Tests took longer because Australia’s first tanker was due
a maintenance check, and the delays are not directly related to
an incident in January 2011 when a KC-30A boom broke off while
refueling a Portuguese F-16 jet, Brown said. A second Airbus
tanker lost its boom during trials about 20 months later.  Hose Headache  Australia in February approved the KC-30A for initial
refueling operations using the hose-and-drogue system in which
pods under each wing extend flexible tubes with baskets at the
end into which the recipient plane inserts a probe to get fuel.  Introduction of the system made by Wimborne, England-based
 Cobham Plc (COB)  was also slow because of problems with stabilizing
the basket, hose rubbing and a lack of spares, Brown said.  Airbus said the RAAF had suffered a “lack of pod
reliability” due to logistics issues which the company is
addressing with suppliers. A pool of spares has also been set up,
significantly improving availability in recent weeks, it said.  Brown said all refueling issues can resolved in the next
year with “invigorated commitment by both ourselves and Airbus.”  Britain, which is acquiring A330-based refueling planes
under a fee-for-service arrangement, has also had hose-and-drogue issues, suffering excessive fuel flows.  Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates also have the
tanker and  India  is in talks to take the system.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net  