-- Alstom Orders Fall 32% on Less Demand for Trains, Power Gear
-- B y   F r a n c o i s   d e   B e a u p u y
-- 2013-07-24T07:15:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-24/alstom-first-quarter-orders-fall-32-on-lack-of-big-power-deals.html
Alstom SA (ALO) , a French maker of power
equipment and trains, reported a 32 percent drop in fiscal
first-quarter orders as utilities and railways in  Europe ,
Africa and the  Middle East  slashed spending.  Orders in the three months ended June 30 dropped to 4.07
billion euros ($5.38 billion) from 6.03 billion euros a year
earlier, the company, based in the Paris suburb of Levallois-Perret, said today. That exceeded the 3.97 billion-euro average
of six analyst estimates collected by Bloomberg.   “The problem is that trends in its core market such as
thermal power, appear, if anything, to be trending to the
downside,” said  Ben Uglow , an analyst at Morgan Stanley. “We
are hopeful that the first quarter may mark the low point on
orders, but it is too early to tell.”  Chief Executive Officer Patrick Kron in May slashed his
forecast for sales and margins, citing a slowdown in the global
economy. The company, which cut  jobs  in Europe and the U.S. as
utilities’ demand for power equipment slumped after the 2009
recession, is now shutting some plants that make windmills and
power-grid gear. At the same time, it is expanding production
lines for trains and turbines in countries such as China,
 Russia , Brazil and India to tap local demand.  Cut Rating  “In spite of a difficult commercial environment, tendering
remains active, mainly driven by prospects in  emerging markets ,
but the timing of the booking of some large tickets remains, as
usual, uncertain,” Kron said today. He reiterated his forecast
for sales, margins and free  cash flow .  Alstom shares rose 1.5 percent to 26.10 euros as of 9:05
a.m. in Paris trading, valuing the company at 8.1 billion euros.
The stock had dropped 15 percent this year before today.   Moody’s Investors Service cut Alstom’s long-term  credit
rating  by one level in June to Baa3, the lowest investment
grade.  Standard & Poor’s  has said it may make a similar move,
giving Alstom’s BBB rating a negative outlook.  “The market environment remains challenging but solid
activity in the services business, which account for 30 percent
of the group’s sales and half of its profit, should help the
group weather the downturn,” said Gael de Bray, an analyst at
 Societe Generale  in Paris.  Quarterly sales fell 4 percent to 4.58 billion euros. The
drop in first-quarter revenue in Alstom’s transport and thermal
power divisions “reflects the execution profile of the
backlog,” the company said. The total backlog of 51 billion
euros at the end of June represents 31 months of sales, it
added.  Thermal Power  Orders for thermal-power equipment such as turbines fell 38
percent in the first quarter to 1.55 billion euros, with no
large order outside services, Alstom said. Sales contracts for
renewable power equipment more than doubled from a low point.  Grid orders fell 14 percent in the April-June period from a
year earlier, and orders at the transport division amounted to
1.1 billion euros, down 51 percent from a year earlier, when
several big contracts were booked, Alstom said.  The French company ranks behind  General Electric Co. (GE)  and
Munich-based Siemens AG in the power-equipment industry. It also
competes with Siemens and Montreal-based  Bombardier Inc. (BBD/B)  on
train and metro cars, and with Siemens and  ABB Ltd. (ABBN)  in power-transmission markets.  Revenue is still predicted to “grow organically at a low
single-digit” rate, and the operating margin will remain stable
in the 12 months through March 2014 before gradually rising over
the next two to three years to about 8 percent of sales, Alstom
said. Free cash flow should be positive year after year over
this period, Alstom also reiterated.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Francois de Beaupuy in Paris at 
 fdebeaupuy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Noel at 
 anoel@bloomberg.net  