-- Malta Developer Mulls IPO to Finance Libya Projects
-- B y   Z a i n a b   F a t t a h
-- 2013-07-24T08:31:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-24/malta-developer-mulls-ipo-to-finance-libya-projects.html
Mediterranean Investments Holding
Plc, a Malta-based developer, is considering a 100 million-euro
($132 million) share sale in London to fund homebuilding in
 Libya  while holding talks with private investors.  The company, owned by the Corinthia Group and  Kuwait ’s
National Real Estate Co., has purchased land in the northwestern
town of Janzur and plans to build 257 homes, a marina, six
cinemas and a retail and entertainment complex early next year,
managing director Reuben Xuereb said in a phone interview.  Libya, which has Africa’s largest oil reserves, has been
beset by feuds between religious and tribal forces after a
revolt ended the 42-year rule of  Muammar Qaddafi  in 2011. Now,
the interim government in the country of 6.5 million is trying
to attract foreign investors to help rebuild its depleted
infrastructure.  Libya “has tremendous opportunities and huge potential for
growth in various sectors of the economy, be it energy,
infrastructure or real estate development,” said Xuereb, whose
company opened its first residential compound to tenants in
2009. “Needless to say, some people are still worried about
whether this is the right time to go.”  Last year, Libya’s Economic and Social Development Fund
said it would withdraw investments from French banks including
 BNP Paribas SA (BNP)  and Societe Generale SA as to spend more in its
home market, Chairman Mahmoud Badi said in December. The state-held fund, which has $12 billion in assets, had about $10
billion invested abroad, he said.  Staying Ahead  MIH is pressing ahead with projects now to stay ahead of
competitors, Xuereb said. He expects foreign companies to start
entering the Libyan market in the next two or three years.  “We have one completed project and two that are about to
start,” Xuereb said. “Maybe an IPO in three years’ time, when
the projects are near completion, would make more sense” in
terms of value. “However, we want to start today before anybody
else, and the equity that we will bring in will see us ahead of
competition.”  MIH owns an upscale development with 413 homes in Janzur
near the capital Tripoli. Palm City, a serviced compound leased
to employees of international companies, is fully occupied, the
managing director said.  The new project, known as Palm Waterfront, will be sold to
Libyans once it’s completed. The development would be operated
and serviced by MIH and would include amenities such as pools,
gyms, restaurants and shops.  London Sale  MIH may sell a 20 percent to 25 percent stake of the
company in an IPO on the  London  Stock Exchange before the end of
this year to fund construction, he said. MIH has searched for a
single investor for the entire development for the last several
months, according to Xuereb. The company hired Dubai-based H.K.
Advisory Services Ltd. to advise on the fundraising.  MIH was set up in 2006 and converted to a public company
focused on real estate projects in North Africa, according to
its website. The company in 2010 raised 40 million euros in a
bond sale in Malta, most of it to fund the construction of a
project in the center of Tripoli. The 42-story building, 25
percent owned by MIH, is under construction. It’s designed to
include 253 apartments, 22,400 square meters (241,000 square
feet) of  office space , 14,800 square meters of retail space
conference facilities and a spa, Xuereb said.  “We understand what the market needs and that helps us,”
he said. “There is a huge demand for offices and for residences
and our ability to be on the ground is something that gives us
an edge.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zainab Fattah in Dubai on 
 zfattah@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  