-- Anglo Irish Creditors Said to Face More Losses After Liquidation
-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 2013-07-24T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-24/anglo-irish-creditors-said-to-face-more-losses-after-liquidation.html
Anglo Irish  Bank Corp., the lender
that pushed the country to the brink of bankruptcy, will have 3
billion euros ($4 billion) less to repay creditors after the
government sped up its  liquidation , two people with knowledge of
the matter said.  Finance Minister  Michael Noonan ’s February decision to wind
up Anglo Irish in 2013, seven years earlier than planned, will
force the bank to forgo funds the government had pledged in 2010
as part of the lender’s bailout, said the people, who asked not
to be identified because the talks are private.  That will leave Anglo Irish with less cash to pay unsecured
bondholders and litigants unless the government puts more money
into the company, once the country’s top real estate lender.
Among the losers are as many as 120  litigants  suing the bank and
16 customer-owned lenders which bought an equity-linked bond
from Anglo’s private bank. Noonan said last month it’s still too
early to put a value on Anglo Irish’s remaining assets.  “There’s less meat on the carcass of the dead bank for
creditors to share than they might have thought,” Lorcan Roche Kelly, chief Europe strategist at Trend Macolytics LLC, said in
a telephone interview from Sixmilebridge, County Clare. There’s
“no prospect” of the government injecting more funds to make
up the shortfall, he added.  The controversy surrounding Anglo Irish’s bailout was
reignited last month when the Irish Independent published
transcripts purporting to show how executives planned to
understate how much central bank money the lender would need so
that once the authorities had provided aid they would be unable
to refuse bigger infusions in future. In one recording, an Anglo
Irish executive sang “Deutschland Uber Alles” after the bank
used its government guarantee to woo German depositors. The
executives have denied any wrongdoing.  Loan Losses  Paul McSharry, a spokesman for Anglo Irish’s liquidators,
Kieran Wallace and Eamonn Richardson of  KPMG  in Dublin, and
officials at the finance ministry declined to comment.  The Irish government took over Anglo Irish in 2009 after
loan losses soared in the wake of the worst real estate crash in
Western Europe. The cost of saving the country’s banks later
forced the government to seek a rescue from the  International
Monetary Fund  and European Union.  Rather than giving Anglo Irish a direct cash injection,
which would have forced the government to raise money, then-Finance Minister  Brian Lenihan  funded most of Anglo Irish’s 34.7
billion-euro rescue by issuing the bank promissory notes, a form
of IOU. That meant the state didn’t have to borrow money
immediately as it struggled to avoid tapping international aid.  Promissory Notes  Anglo Irish’s bailout was equivalent to about a fifth of
the country’s gross domestic product and more than 50 percent of
the 64 billion euros the country pledged to its banks. The bank,
merged with Irish Nationwide Building Society and re-named Irish
Bank Resolution Corp. in 2011, could use the promissory notes as
collateral to access emergency financing from the Irish central
bank.  The government said earlier this year it will liquidate
IBRC and replace the notes, due to expire in 10 years, with
bonds with maturities of as long as 40 years to cut the near-term cost of Anglo Irish’s bailout. The government had been due
to give Anglo Irish 3.1 billion euros a year for the next decade
to pay down the notes. Now, the first capital repayment is due
in 2038.  On the day of the liquidation, Anglo Irish classed the
promissory notes as a 28 billion-euro asset, while the
government and central bank recorded them as a 25 billion-euro
liability, the people said. The difference arose from how the
bank accounted for the government’s two-year interest holiday,
the people said. The bank will have to write off the 3 billion-euro difference this year, the people said.  Further Losses?  The loss will add to any shortfall found by the liquidators
as they settle the bank’s remaining assets and liabilities.
Noonan said last month IBRC’s remaining assets may be sold to
private investors or, if they don’t fetch a reserve price, to
the government’s National Asset Management Agency by the year-end. The government expects to set that minimum price by the end
of November.  The bank’s loans were valued at 16.6 billion euros in June
2012, excluding 10.9 billion euros of provisions for future
losses, according to its most recent set of public accounts.  The IMF warned last month that the government’s finances
face a  “potential one-off shock”  if the state has to
compensate NAMA, the country’s so-called bad bank, in the event
that the loans fail to sell for more than the reserve price.  Any losses are likely to be mitigated by equity remaining
on the bank’s balance sheet, the people said. That amounted to
2.7 billion euros as of June 30, 2012, according to the lender’s
most recent set of  public accounts .  Credit Unions  Unsecured creditors are at the back of the queue to recover
their money from the liquidation, the  finance ministry  said in
February. Litigants whose lawsuits against the lender succeed
will also rank as unsecured creditors, Noonan has said.  IBRC had 169 million euros of unsecured debt outstanding at
the end of June 2012, according to a company filing. About 33
million euros of it was redeemed at face value last year.  The group of 16  credit unions , or customer-owned lenders,
faces losses of about 15 million euros after buying an equity-linked bond from Anglo Irish in 2005. The group has hired a
lawyer to explore its options, the Irish League of Credit Unions
said in a statement. It declined to identify which members face
losses.  The government, which is already paying out as much as 1.1
billion euros to depositors and some senior bondholders, may
also be unable to recoup that money if unsecured creditors are
facing losses, according to the finance ministry.  Sean Quinn  IBRC was the target of 120 lawsuits at the time of its
liquidation, Noonan said on July 4 in a written response to a
parliamentary question from Pearse Doherty, a lawmaker for the
opposition  Sinn Fein  party. The minister declined to identify
the claimants or how much the lender is setting aside for
potential costs.  The most high-profile  case  is being taken by the family of
 Sean Quinn , Ireland’s former richest man-turned-bankrupt, who
claim Anglo Irish illegally gave them 2.4 billion euros of loans
in 2008 to buy shares in the bank and prop up its value. IBRC
has said it will defend itself in the proceedings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joe Brennan  in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  