-- AngloGold to Buy Back Convertible Bonds as It Offers Dollar Debt
-- B y   A n a   M o n t e i r o   a n d   J o h n   G l o v e r
-- 2013-07-24T17:48:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-24/anglogold-to-buy-back-convertible-bonds-as-it-offers-dollar-debt.html
AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. (ANG)  said it plans
to buy back all $732.5 million of its bonds that can be
converted into stock as the world’s third-biggest producer of
the metal prepares to sell new bonds in the U.S. currency.  The company, based in Johannesburg, is offering $1,015 for
each $1,000 of principal, together with accrued and unpaid
interest on the securities that mature next May, it said in a
statement today. The purchase depends on the completion of the
dollar-debt sale and whether AngloGold raises no less than the
amount needed to buy back the convertibles, it said. The bonds
can be exchanged when the company’s share price reaches $47.61.
 The shares  dropped 3.4 percent to $13.93 at 1:37 p.m. in  New
York , extending their decline this year to 56 percent.  AngloGold plans to write down the value of its assets and
stockpiles by as much as $2.6 billion after the price of the
metal plunged. Gold has climbed 7.7 percent this month after a
record three-month drop in the second quarter. The company,
which is also  South Africa ’s biggest producer of bullion, is
facing demands by some South African unions for wages to be more
than doubled for entry-level employees.  “There doesn’t appear to be an economic reason to buy back
the convertibles,” Haidje Rustau, a credit analyst at
Mitsubishi UFJ Securities International Plc in  London , said by
phone. “It matures next year so they are probably acting ahead
of time. They’re very disciplined.”  Rating Cuts  Citigroup Inc., Deutsche Bank AG and Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. are managing the offering and have meetings with investors
in  Europe  and the U.S., AngloGold said in the prospectus for the
dollar-bond sale last week. The company is offering the debt
after having its rating cut to the highest junk level by
 Standard & Poor’s  on July 17. Moody’s Investors Service reduced
its assessment by one step to the lowest investment grade five
days before S&P’s action.  Yields on the company’s dollar bonds due in April 2020
surged 73 basis points to record 8.07 percent today, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg, while the rate on debt due in
August 2022 climbed 75 basis points, or 0.75 percentage point,
to 8.12 percent, also the highest yet. The securities are the
two most-traded emerging-market bonds by number of trades today,
according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the 
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Glover in London at 
 johnglover@bloomberg.net ;
Ana Monteiro in Johannesburg at 
 amonteiro4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net ;
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net  