-- Areva First-Half Earnings Drop as One-Time Items Aren’t Repeated
-- B y   F r a n c o i s   d e   B e a u p u y
-- 2013-07-24T16:29:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-24/areva-first-half-earnings-drop-as-one-time-items-aren-t-repeated.html
Areva SA (AREVA) , the world’s biggest
supplier of nuclear fuel and services, reported a 42 percent
decline in first-half earnings as one-time items from last year
such as some insurance payments weren’t repeated.  Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization, fell to 473 million euros ($625 million) from 817
million euros a year earlier, Areva, based near Paris, said
today. Excluding one-time items, Ebitda rose 11 percent as sales
climbed. Areva reached breakeven at the net income level, after
a net profit of 80 million euros a year earlier.  “The turnaround in performance continues with significant
Ebitda improvement,” Chief Executive Officer Luc Oursel said in
the statement. “Especially in our nuclear operations, where
profitability levels are clearly outpacing sales revenue.”  Oursel decided in December 2011 to reduce investment and
 cut costs  by 1 billion euros by 2015 to shore up a balance sheet
that had been impaired by construction delays at a nuclear plant
in  Finland , soured investments in African uranium mines and
nuclear plant closures in Japan and  Germany . The company sold
1.2 billion euros of assets last year.  Areva, controlled by the French state, said today it
targets an Ebitda of more than 1.1 billion euros in 2013,
restated for the impact of disposed assets. It repeated its goal
to return to a break-even in operating cash flow before tax this
year, even as it trimmed its target for revenue at its renewable
energy division to 450 million euros from 600 million euros.  “The greater attention paid to cash generation is also
bearing fruit with the group’s return to positive free operating
cash flow in the second quarter and throughout the half-year
period for nuclear operations,” Oursel said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Francois de Beaupuy in Paris at 
 fdebeaupuy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  