-- ARM Sales Beat Estimates on Demand for More Powerful Mobiles
-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2013-07-24T16:29:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-24/arm-sales-beat-estimates-on-demand-for-powerful-mobile-devices.html
ARM Holdings Plc (ARM) , the chip designer
whose products power  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhones and iPads, reported
second-quarter sales that beat estimates as phone and tablet
makers demanded more advanced graphics and processing
technology.  Revenue increased 26 percent to 171.2 million pounds ($263
million) in the second quarter, ARM said in a statement today.
Analysts had predicted 165.1 million pounds, according to the
average of estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Simon Segars, who became chief executive officer of the
Cambridge, England-based company this month, is focused on
increasing its share of the markets for semiconductor designs
for connected appliances and Web-enabled “smart” televisions,
as well as tablets and smartphones. ARM won business in the
quarter for its designs for graphics chips and energy-saving
processors, as well as its technology for servers and mobile
base stations.  “We benefited from the growth of smartphones, tablets and
smart TVs and increased marketshare of embedded products like
cars, industrial automation and consumer white goods,” Chief
Financial Officer Tim Score said in a call with reporters today.  ARM declined 1.1 percent to 888.5 pence in London trading,
erasing earlier gains of as much as 6 percent, after ARM
customer  Broadcom Corp. (BRCM)  forecast slowing smartphone sales.
Broadcom fell about 16 percent in Nasdaq Stock Market trading at
12:13 p.m in  New York .  Interim Dividend  ARM boosted its interim dividend by 26 percent. The company
will pay 2.1 pence per share, up from 1.67 pence a year earlier,
to shareholders on Oct. 4.  ARM said it expects a “small sequential increase” in
industry revenue in the third quarter based on its performance
last quarter. Score said on a conference call today that the
company expects full-year revenues to be in-line with or better
than market expectations of $1.08 billion.  “In part, this outperformance was driven by the growth in
smartphones and mobile computing,” Segars, who took over July 1
after Warren East retired after more than a decade in office,
said in a statement. “We continue to see demand for ARM’s next-generation technology.”  Apple reported smartphone sales yesterday for the third
quarter that beat estimates. The Cupertino, California-based
company sold 31.2 million units of the iPhone, its best-selling
and most profitable product. Analysts had estimated 26.1 million
on average.  Connecting Appliances  ARM pretax profit fell to 15 million pounds in the second
quarter from 54.8 million pounds a year earlier. Excluding
taxes, acquisition costs, investment losses and other charges,
profit was 86.6 million pounds in the second quarter compared to
66.5 million pounds a year earlier, the company said.  The “Internet of things,” which include connected
appliances such as thermostats that can be controlled with
mobile phones and wireless medical-monitoring devices,
represents one of ARM’s fastest-growing markets. The embedded-processing business grew 25 percent last year and ARM got more
than half of its sales from products other than mobile phones
for the first time in the third quarter of last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  