-- Maryland Issues $475 Million of Munis After Outlook Stabilized
-- B y   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 2013-07-24T15:50:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-24/maryland-issues-475-million-of-munis-after-outlook-stabilized.html
Maryland  issued $475 million of
general-obligation bonds today, less than a week after Moody’s
Investors Service revised the outlook on the state’s Aaa rating
to stable, ending a 23-month stretch with a negative view.  The offer included a tax-exempt portion maturing in August
2023 that was priced to yield 2.75 percent, according to three
people familiar with the sale who asked for anonymity because
they weren’t authorized to provide pricing details. The  interest
rate  is about the same as benchmark 10-year AAA munis, Bloomberg
data show.  Maryland general-obligation bonds now have top grades and
stable outlooks from Moody’s, Standard & Poor’s and Fitch
Ratings. Only seven other states have the highest ranks from all
three companies.  Moody’s on July 19 also changed its outlook to stable from
negative on  Missouri ,  New Mexico  and  Virginia , which the company
said have strong economic ties to the federal government. On
Aug. 2, 2011, Moody’s revised the U.S. rating outlook to
negative, and two days later did the same to five states and 303
other issuers in the $3.7 trillion municipal-debt market.  “While Maryland has certain linkages to the federal
government, we are pleased that Moody’s restoration of our
stable outlook refocuses attention to Maryland’s strong
financial management policies and sound economy,” Maryland
Treasurer Nancy Kopp said in a statement last week.  July Decline  Maryland sold the bonds as the muni market is poised to
decline in July for the first time since 2005, according to Bank
of America Merrill Lynch data. Top-rated state and local debt is
outperforming lower-rated securities this month, the data show.  Investors should “strongly favor AA- and AAA-category
credits going forward,” according to a report this week from
Concord, Massachusetts-based Municipal Market Advisors.  Utah , also with three top credit ratings, sold $226 million
of general obligations this month with a 10-year interest rate
0.12 percentage point less than benchmark AAA munis.  J.P. Morgan Securities LLC won the competitive bid for the
$435 million tax-exempt portion of the sale, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The $40 million of taxable bonds was
awarded to Jefferies LLC.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Chappatta in  New York  at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  