-- Las Vegas Sands Misses Estimates as Singapore Falls Short
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2013-07-24T22:59:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-24/las-vegas-sands-second-quarter-results-fall-short-of-estimates.html
Las Vegas Sands Corp. (LVS) , the largest
U.S.-based casino company, posted second-quarter results that
fell short of analysts’ estimates after winnings in  Singapore 
and  Macau  came in lower than projected.  Excluding items, profit of 65 cents a share missed
analysts’ projections of 68 cents, the average of 22  estimates 
compiled by Bloomberg. Net income soared to $529.8 million, or
64 cents a share, from $240.6 million, or 29 cents, the Las
Vegas-based company said today in a  statement .  The company cited a lower win percentage at the Marina Bay
Sands in Singapore and the Sands Cotai Central in the Chinese
gambling enclave of Macau, the largest market for Las Vegas
Sands, as well as competitive pressure on hotel room rates in
the Nevada market.  “We don’t see the miss as significant given the strong
volumes,” John Kempf, an analyst at RBC Capital Markets in New
York, said in a research note. He recommends buying the stock.  Las Vegas Sands was little changed in extended trading
after results were announced. The stock lost 1.4 percent to
$54.95 at the close in New York and is up 19 percent this year.  Second-quarter revenue increased 26 percent to $3.24
billion from $2.58 billion a year earlier, the company said.
Analysts were forecasting $3.3 billion.  The share of bets the casino kept in Singapore was below
expectations, Rob Goldstein, the company’s executive vice
president for global gaming operations, said on a conference
call with analysts.  “We take very large bets there and the swings are
dramatic,” Goldstein said.  Room Rates  In Las Vegas, the company continues to see pressure on
hotel room rates from  MGM Resorts International (MGM)  and  Caesars
Entertainment Corp. (CZR) , two competitors with high indebtedness that
dominate the Strip, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer  Sheldon Adelson  said on the call.  “They need bodies in their beds and the only way to get
them is to buy the business,” Adelson said.  Betting receipts in Macau are expected to show a
“visible” slowdown in the second half of the year as high-stakes gamblers contribute a smaller share of revenue, the
city’s Monetary Authority said on July 17. Visits to Macau grew
10 percent in June and are up 4.2 percent this year, Bill Lerner, an analyst with Union Gaming Group in Las Vegas, wrote
in a note today.  Adelson said he saw no evidence that reports of a slowdown
in  China  were impacting business in Macau.  “Consumer behavior is going in the right direction,”
Adelson said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in Los Angeles at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  