-- Asia-Pacific Bond Risk Jumps as China’s Manufacturing Slumps
-- B y   D a v i d   Y o n g   a n d   P a u l i n a   D u r a n
-- 2013-07-24T05:06:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-24/asia-pacific-bond-risk-rises-credit-default-swap-prices-show.html
Bond risk in the Asia-Pacific region
rose as China’s manufacturing weakened further this month,
according to a preliminary survey of  purchasing managers .  The Markit iTraxx Asia index of 40 investment-grade
borrowers outside  Japan  jumped eight basis points to 134.5 basis
points as of 10:53 a.m. in  Singapore ,  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC) 
prices show. The gauge is poised for its largest rise since July
3, according to data provider CMA. China’s Purchasing Managers’
Index from HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics fell to 47.7
from 48.2 in June. Readings below 50 indicate contraction.  “This is going to damp  market sentiment  in the short
term”, said Raymond Chia, deputy head of credit research in
Singapore at Schroder Investment Management Ltd, referring to
the weaker PMI data. The Asian  bond market  is “still looking
for normalization, before risk appetite or the pipeline can come
back stronger.”  The Chinese manufacturing report, which if confirmed in the
final version Aug. 1 would be the lowest in 11 months, came as
Asian corporates almost tripled dollar bond offerings this month
compared with June. Concern that the world’s second-biggest
economy will slow further has weighed on sentiment in global
markets.  The Markit iTraxx Australia index rose four basis points to
117, Westpac prices show. The cost of protecting  China ’s
sovereign debt rose by five basis points to a one-week high of
102.5 basis points.  Indian Oil  Indian Oil Corp. raised $500 million from the sale of 10-year notes at 5.75 percent yesterday, bringing the Asian tally
so far this month to $1.425 billion from four offerings,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Debt sales amounted to
$500 million in June, the slowest month since December 2008.  Hong Kong-based electricity producer Meiya Power Co.
yesterday hired banks to arrange investor meetings that may be
followed by a dollar bond offering, according to a person
familiar with the matter. China Huaneng Group Corp. was the last
Chinese company to sell dollar notes on June 4.  Credit-default swap indexes are benchmarks for insuring
bonds against default and traders use them to speculate on
 credit quality . A drop signals improving perceptions of
creditworthiness, while an increase suggests the opposite.  The swap contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities if a borrower fails to meet its debt
agreements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paulina Duran in Sydney at 
 pduran10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katrina Nicholas at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net  