-- Atos Reviews Options for Worldline Electronic-Payments Unit
-- B y   M a r i e   M a w a d
-- 2013-07-25T09:06:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-24/atos-reviews-options-for-worldline-electronic-payments-unit.html
Atos (ATO) , a rival of computer-services
giant International Business Machines Corp., confirmed sales
will grow this year and profitability will improve as it seeks
acquisitions to strengthen its payments unit.  Net income rose 14 percent to 116 million euros ($153
million) in the first half as sales fell 0.6 percent from a year
earlier to 4.3 billion euros, the Bezons, France-based company
said yesterday in a statement.  Atos confirmed its yearly group forecast for “slight
revenue growth” and an operating margin around 7.5 percent of
sales, up from 6.6 percent in 2012 and 6.5 percent in the first
half of this year. Shares fell 2.7 percent to 56.43 euros at
11:03 a.m. in Paris.  Atos -- headed by Thierry Breton, a former finance minister
who became chief executive officer in November 2008 -- has
completed carving out its electronic payment activities into a
unit dubbed Worldline. The move is geared at giving Atos more
financial flexibility to expand the payments business, including
through acquisitions.  “Worldline is now ready to seize opportunities in an
industry that is poised to consolidate,” Atos’s Senior
Executive Vice President Gilles Grapinet said yesterday during a
conference call.  A share of Worldline could be sold to one or more partners
should an “industrial opportunity” present itself to
Worldline, he said. An initial public offering is also an
option, he said.  Grapinet declined to say whether Atos is in talks on
acquisitions or Worldline’s financing. The company has been
approached by bankers about the unit’s options, the executive
had said in an interview in April.  Atos shares have risen about 10 percent this year through
yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marie Mawad in Paris at 
 mmawad1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  