-- Australia, N.Z. Dollars Fall as China Manufacturing Gauge Slides
-- B y   M a s a k i   K o n d o   a n d   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a
-- 2013-07-24T06:44:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-24/aussie-snaps-two-day-advance-versus-n-z-dollar-before-cpi-data.html
The Australian and  New Zealand 
dollars slid for the first time in four days, after a private
report showed a contraction in  China ’s manufacturing industry
unexpectedly deepened.  Australia ’s three-year debt yields rose following data that
showed the nation’s underlying inflation accelerated last
quarter, reducing expectations the  Reserve Bank  will cut
borrowing costs next month. The kiwi earlier touched a one-month
high after a report that New Zealand’s trade surplus widened in
June.  “On the day, we seem to be at the low ends of the range
with China-related concerns continuing to weigh on the Aussie,”
said Callum Henderson, the global head of currency research at
Standard Chartered Plc in  Singapore . “On a six- to nine-month
view, we continue to expect the Australian dollar to be lower.”  Australia’s currency dropped 0.4 percent to 92.56 U.S.
cents as of 4:40 p.m. in Sydney. New Zealand’s dollar fell 0.3
percent to 79.73 U.S. cents after touching 80.13, the strongest
since June 19.  HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics said today that
their manufacturing  Purchasing Managers ’ Index for China slid to
47.7 in July on a preliminary basis from 48.2 last month.
Economists had forecast in a Bloomberg News survey that the
gauge would be unchanged. A level below 50 signals contraction.  Australian CPI  The  trimmed mean  gauge of core prices rose 0.5 percent from
the previous quarter, the Bureau of Statistics said in Sydney
today, matching the median forecast of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg. The weighted-median gauge of inflation, a second core
measure that excludes the largest price increases and declines,
advanced 0.7 percent, compared with economists’ estimates for a
0.5 percent gain.  The  yield  on Australia’s benchmark three-year government
note added three basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 2.62
percent. Traders see a 67 percent chance that the RBA will lower
the overnight cash rate by 25 basis points from a record-low
2.75 percent on Aug. 6, down from 73 percent yesterday, data
compiled by Bloomberg on overnight-index swaps show.  Futures traders were the  most bearish  ever on the Aussie,
according to figures from the Washington-based Commodity Futures
Trading Commission. The number of wagers by  hedge funds  and
other large speculators on a decline in the currency exceeded
those on a gain by 70,686 in the week ended July 16, the most
for so-called net shorts on record dating back to 1993.  Aussie Shorts  “Every man and his dog is short Aussie-dollar, and that is
one factor that is going to be supporting Aussie going
forward,” said  Sue Trinh , a senior currency strategist at Royal
Bank of Canada in  Hong Kong . “It’s going to take renewed
concerns on the global growth front to really drive Aussie below
90 U.S. cents. For now, we think the bottom is probably in
place.”  New Zealand’s trade surplus was NZ$414 million ($330
million) in June, up from a revised NZ$39 million a month
earlier, the statistics bureau said today. That compares with
the median economist estimate of NZ$105 million in a Bloomberg
poll.  Reserve Bank of New Zealand Governor Graeme Wheeler, who is
due to announce a policy decision tomorrow, will keep his
country’s borrowing costs at 2.5 percent, a survey of economists
showed. The nation’s two-year  swap rate , a fixed payment made to
receive floating rates that is sensitive to interest-rate
expectations, rose one basis point to 3.2 percent.  “I’m fairly bullish on the New Zealand economy,”  Thomas Averill , a managing director in Sydney at Rochford Capital, a
currency and interest-rate risk-management company, said before
the reports on China’s manufacturing and Australia’s inflation.
If the kiwi can close the week above 80 cents, there may be some
more room for the currency to advance, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Masaki Kondo in Singapore at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net ;
Mariko Ishikawa in Tokyo at 
 mishikawa9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  