-- Australand Plans Warehouse Surge to 70% of Investment Properties
-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 2013-07-24T03:39:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-24/australand-plans-warehouse-surge-to-70-of-investment-properties.html
Australand Property Group (ALZ) , which
today reported a drop in first-half profit, plans to increase
investments in industrial properties, where it’s seeing higher
demand from both tenants and investors.  The company expects warehouses to make up about 70 percent
of its investment properties within five years from half now,
Managing Director Bob Johnston said. The real estate trust plans
to develop most of the warehouses itself, rather than acquire
existing assets, he said.  “As we recycle capital out of developments, that will be
put into industrial,” Johnston said in a telephone interview.
“Unlike most of our competitors, we have a development
platform, so we’re not competing to buy the stuff on the
market.”  Australand reported a 9.1 percent jump in earnings before
interest and taxes in its investment property business for the
six months to June 30 from a year earlier as rents rose. Apart
from warehouses, the business includes offices and a half stake
in a shopping mall.  Net income fell to A$88.4 million ($82 million) from A$89.7
million a year earlier, as earnings from its residential
division slipped 45 percent.  Strong demand from tenants combined with limited supply are
drawing investors to Sydney’s industrial property market, and
leasing activity in  Melbourne  remains strong despite new
developments, Colliers International said in a  report  this
month. Australian property companies, including  Stockland (SGP) ,  GPT
Group (GPT)  and  Charter Hall Group (CHC) , are among those seeking to
increase their exposure to industrial properties.  Offshore Buyers  GPT in December made an offer for the investment property
and development units of Australand in its quest to own more
offices and warehouses. It withdrew the bid in May after failing
to agree on a price.  CapitaLand Ltd. (CAPL) , the Southeast Asian developer that owns 59
percent of Australand, yesterday said it had completed a review
of its stake with a decision to maintain its holding.  Australand’s housing development business, where pre-sales
climbed in Sydney even as total sales across  Australia  fell, is
receiving some help from overseas buyers, particularly from
 China , Rod Fehring, the company’s executive general manager for
residential business, said in a conference call today.  Offshore sales in the first half were the best they’ve been
since 2000, with foreign buyers preferring Sydney over other
cities, Fehring said. Across the country, overseas purchasers
accounted for as much as 10 percent of sales during the half, he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nichola Saminather in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  