-- Australia Core Inflation Accelerates as Currency Restraint Wanes
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2013-07-24T02:40:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-24/australian-core-consumer-prices-increased-0-5-in-second-quarter.html
Australia ’s core  consumer price 
growth accelerated last quarter and the cost of imported goods
increased as the inflation-restraining influence of an elevated
currency waned.  The trimmed mean gauge of core prices rose 0.5 percent from
the previous quarter, the  Bureau of Statistics  said in Sydney
today, matching the median forecast of 22 economists surveyed by
 Bloomberg News . The weighted-median gauge of inflation, a second
core measure that excludes the largest price increases and
declines, advanced 0.7 percent, compared with economists’
estimates for a 0.5 percent gain.  The  Reserve Bank  of Australia reduced borrowing costs seven
times -- for a total of 2 percentage points -- since November
2011 as the local dollar’s strength dragged on growth and a
mining investment boom crests. The currency declined 12 percent
last quarter, sending imported goods prices higher, and the
central bank said last week the inflation outlook is now
“slightly higher” as a result.  “It’s a bit of a mixed bag really,” said  Stephen Walters ,
JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s chief economist in Australia, who expects
the RBA to hold rates steady next month. “A middle of the road
inflation outcome doesn’t really scream ‘rate cut’ to me.”  Rate Bets  Traders priced in a 64 percent chance the RBA will lower
borrowing costs by a quarter percentage point next month to 2.5
percent after today’s release, down from 73 percent yesterday,
according to swaps data compiled by Bloomberg.  The currency, which held above $1 from mid-June last year
to May 10, initially strengthened after the report to 93.19 U.S.
cents, before declining after  China ’s manufacturing weakened
further in July. The Aussie bought 92.58 U.S. cents at 12:23
p.m. in Sydney.  The  consumer price index  gained 0.4 percent from the
previous three months, compared with economists forecast for a
0.5 percent increase.  Non-tradables, or domestic inflation for goods and services
that aren’t imported such as fast food and utilities, climbed
0.5 percent from the first quarter, the report showed.
Tradables, such as imported electrical goods and clothing,
increased 0.3 percent, the first gain in three quarters.  The Aussie retreated 12 percent in the three months through
June, the biggest slide worldwide behind the Syrian pound, after
the RBA cut rates in May and U.S. Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben
S. Bernanke  signaled for the first time on May 22 that a
tapering of bond purchases that have devalued the greenback may
be on the cards as the world’s largest economy strengthens.  Currency Adjustment  “Given the exchange rate adjustment that was occurring,
and with the substantial degree of monetary stimulus already in
place, members assessed the current stance of policy to be
appropriate,” the RBA said July 16 in minutes of its policy
meeting at which it held the cash rate steady. The inflation
outlook was “slightly higher” due to the Aussie’s recent drop,
it said.  Today’s report showed medical and hospital service prices
rose 3.4 percent, while tobacco prices climbed 3 percent and
furniture increased 4.8 percent. Rents increases 1.1 percent.  Domestic holiday travel and accommodation prices declined 4
percent and fuel costs fell 3.1 percent, it showed.  On an annual basis, the trimmed mean gauge advanced 2.2
percent, compared with economists’ forecasts for a 2.1 percent
gain. The weighted median increased 2.6 percent versus an
estimated 2.4 percent rise, today’s report showed.  The central bank aims for inflation of between 2 percent
and 3 percent on average. The CPI increased 2.4 percent in the
second quarter from a year earlier, compared with economists’
forecast a 2.5 percent increase.  Rebalancing Act  The statistics bureau also released a seasonally adjusted
consumer price index that showed an 0.5 percent increase last
quarter, for an annual gain of 2.3 percent.  The RBA is trying to rebalance the economy as investment
wanes, and stimulate growth in manufacturing, residential
construction and retail in the south and east.  “At present inflation is not an issue, meaning that rates
can stay lower over the near term,” said  Savanth Sebastian , an
economist in Sydney at a unit of  Commonwealth Bank of Australia. (CBA) 
“However, the medium-term outlook for inflation has certainly
shifted higher. The lower Australian dollar is likely to result
in a lift in imported inflation over coming quarters.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  