-- Baidu Profit Beats Estimates as Smartphones Lure Ad Buyers
-- B y   L u l u   Y i l u n   C h e n
-- 2013-07-25T05:40:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-24/baidu-net-beats-estimates-as-smartphone-usage-draws-ad-buyers.html
Baidu Inc. (BIDU) , owner of China’s largest
Internet search engine, reported second-quarter profit that beat
analysts’ estimates as advertisers spend more money to reach
customers surfing the Web with their smartphones and tablets.  The Beijing-based company reported net income of 2.64
billion  yuan  ($431 million), compared with the 2.6 billion-yuan
average of eight  analysts’ estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.
Revenue rose 39 percent to 7.56 billion yuan, according to a
statement released today.  New York-listed Baidu this month agreed to buy a third-party store for smartphone apps in its biggest announced
acquisition, and it invested heavily on promoting new products
to challenge nearest rival  Qihoo 360 Technology Co. (QIHU) , Chief
Financial Officer Jennifer Li said in an earnings call today.
Web portals from Google Inc. to Facebook Inc. are introducing
new products and services to grab market share as consumers
shift from PCs to mobile devices.  “Internet companies that used to be very focused on
personal computers all need to invest to set their foothold in
mobile devices,” Jodie Ding, an analyst at Shanghai-based
Internet consulting group IResearch, said by phone. “Mobile
devices are playing an ever important role as users spend more
time and money on it.”  Higher Spending  The higher spending on acquisitions and advertising
contributed to a 4.5 percent decrease in net income from 2.77
billion yuan a year earlier, the  company  said. The costs to
attract more traffic to its platforms rose 94 percent from a
year earlier to 880 million yuan.  “Selling and administration costs were big drivers in
expenses,” said Ricky Lai, an analyst at Guotai Junan
International Holdings Ltd. in  Hong Kong . “In order to increase
traffic volume, Baidu also had to launch different kinds of
promotions.”  More than 10 percent of revenue in the quarter came from
mobile devices, with most of that generated through advertising
sales on its search app for smartphones and tablets, Li said.  “We see very significant growth in mobile traffic and
monetization,” Chief Executive Officer Robin Li said. “We do
expect that kind of growth will continue.”  Seeking Acquisitions  Baidu boosted its workforce by 2,100 people to 24,000 by
the end of June through new hires and the purchase of PPStream
Inc. in the past quarter, Jennifer Li said.  “In the mobile space, we have many M&As the team is
working,” she said. “We will always keep an open mind to look
at what fits for us.”  Qihoo, owner of  China ’s second-biggest search engine, is in
initial talks to tie up with competitor Sohu.com Inc.’s Sogou
unit. The two companies may be joining forces to compete with
Baidu for mobile and desktop users.  Google, owner of the world’s most-popular Internet search
engine, reported second-quarter sales and profit July 18 that
fell short of analysts’ estimates as advertising tied to mobile
devices crimped average prices.  Facebook capitalized on the increasing shift to mobile
devices from PCs, reporting second-quarter sales and profit
yesterday that exceeded estimates. Shares of the world’s most
popular social-networking service rose as much as 21 percent in
extended trading.  Tencent, Alibaba  The number of people who accessed the Internet via mobile
devices rose 10 percent to 464 million in China by the end of
June from the end of December, according to the  China Internet
Network Information Center . That’s greater than the population
of any other country except  India .  “The mobile monetization potential is huge,” Jennifer Li
said.  Baidu competitors  Tencent Holdings Ltd. (700)  and Alibaba Group
Holding Ltd. are investing heavily in apps and shopping services
to tap demand in the world’s largest mobile-phone market.  The American depositary receipts of Baidu gained as much as
 17 percent  in extended trading. They rose 3.2 percent to $113.37
at yesterday’s close in  New York .  Baidu forecast third-quarter revenue of between 8.73
billion yuan and 8.96 billion yuan. That compares with the 8.33
billion-yuan average of 13 analyst estimates compiled by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lulu Yilun Chen in Hong Kong at 
 ychen447@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  