-- Bank of America Adds Rose, de Weck to Board Amid Overhaul
-- B y   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 2013-07-24T22:32:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-24/bank-of-america-adds-rose-de-weck-to-board-amid-overhaul-1-.html
Bank of America Corp. , the second-biggest U.S. lender by assets, expanded its board by naming
former Wall Street bankers Clayton Rose and Pierre de Weck as
directors.  Rose, 54, a former  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  executive, is a
professor of management practice at Harvard Business School,
Bank of America said today in a statement. De Weck, 63, was
chairman and global head of private wealth management at
 Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and held senior posts at UBS AG and a
predecessor of Citigroup Inc., the  Charlotte , North Carolina-based firm said.  Bank of America, led by Chief Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan , has overhauled its board since August as members
retired. Additions included former Deloitte LLP Chairman Sharon Allen. Today’s appointments boost membership on the board to 15.  “The management team and I look forward to working with
these two experienced leaders,” Moynihan said in the statement.  Rose joined Harvard in 2007, Bank of America said. He spent
about 20 years at New York-based JPMorgan, where he headed the
investment banking and equities businesses, according to the
statement.  He created a course at Harvard called “Managing the
Financial Firm” and has lectured in another called “The Moral
Leader,” according to Harvard’s  website . Published case studies
for the university include “JPMorgan Chase & the CIO Losses,”
“Barclays and the Libor Scandal” and “What Happened at
Citigroup.”  Deutsche Bank  Rose sits on the board of  XL Group Plc (XL) , the Dublin-based
insurer and reinsurer and previously lectured at Columbia
University, Bank of America said.  De Weck worked for Frankfurt-based Deutsche Bank until he
retired last year, Bank of America said. He sat on the boards
overseeing chemicals firms Clariant AG and Rhodia SA.  In January, Bank of America named Arnold Donald, the ex-chairman of tabletop sweetener company Merisant Co., and former
PepsiCo Inc. treasurer Lionel Nowell III to the board. In
August, the lender added four directors, including Allen and
executives from the defense, health care and pharmaceutical
industries.  Profit rose 63 percent in Bank of America’s second quarter,
aided by higher investment-banking fees and a surge in equity
trading results. Shareholder equity slipped as the company’s
bond portfolio took the biggest hit from rising interest rates
among top lenders.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donal Griffin in  New York  at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christine Harper  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net  