-- Banks Probably to Face Limits on Warehousing, Hintz Says
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 2013-07-24T13:09:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-24/banks-probably-to-face-limits-on-warehousing-hintz-says.html
Banks probably will face
restrictions on owning companies that deal in physical
commodities after the Federal Reserve reviews the permissions it
has granted, said Brad Hintz, a bank analyst at Sanford C.
Bernstein & Co.  U.S. lenders will see “probably some limitation on the
ability to own warehouses,” Hintz said in a Bloomberg Radio
interview today with  Tom Keene  and  Michael McKee . “It becomes a
regulatory issue. Do you really want a financial institution to
own a refinery?”  The Fed said last week it is reviewing a decade-old
decision to remove barriers between finance and commerce by
letting banks deal in physical assets like metal and oil. U.S.
Senator  Sherrod Brown , an Ohio Democrat, said in an interview
yesterday that he may call Fed officials to testify in September
to explain why the agency lets banks trade raw materials and
control supplies.  “The argument they make is, ‘I should be in the physical
commodities business because if I’m lending against something, I
have to be able to liquidate it,’” Hintz said. “There’s merit
in that. It’s really then the question of how much further you
go down that path.”  Private-equity firms could buy companies that banks are
forced to divest, Hintz said. The 10 largest Wall Street banks
generated about $1 billion last year from dealings in physical
materials, according to data from analytics company Coalition
Ltd.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , Goldman Sachs Group Inc.,  Morgan
Stanley (MS)  and  Barclays Plc (BARC)  have the biggest commodities operations
among large banks, Hintz said.  “Historically these guys were energy traders with a little
gold, and you’re now seeing them move into metals,” Hintz said.
“The trading approach seems to be very similar, which is
looking for bottlenecks in the market and trading around the
bottlenecks.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Moore in New York at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
Christine Harper at 
 charper@bloomberg.net  