-- Belka Says Polish Easing Would Unsettle Zloty, Spur Speculation
-- B y   O t t   U m m e l a s   a n d   M a c i e j   O n o s z k o
-- 2013-07-24T14:08:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-24/belka-says-polish-easing-would-unsettle-zloty-spur-speculation.html
Further easing of  Poland ’s monetary
policy this year would harm its currency, increase speculation
on its debt and bring few benefits to companies and consumers,
central bank Governor Marek Belka said.  Analysts’ expectations of further  rate cuts  from the
record-low 2.5 percent, as suggested by one newspaper survey
showing the benchmark rate at 2.29 percent in December, are
“deeply mistaken,” Belka said today in a speech to parliament
in Warsaw. More monetary easing wouldn’t necessarily stimulate
an economy where  debt levels  are much lower than in western
 Europe , he said.  The European Union’s biggest eastern economy has reduced
borrowing costs by 2.25 percentage points since November to
fight the worst growth slowdown since the 1990s, while the zloty
last quarter endured its biggest loss in almost two years.
Better-than-expected June retail sales published yesterday and
industrial-output data last week add to evidence that Poland is
emerging from the downturn, though progress will be “slow,”
Belka was quoted today as saying in Rzeczpospolita newspaper.  “We look at the level of real  interest rates  as a certain
gauge of normalcy in monetary policy,” Belka said in his speech
to lawmakers. If the central bank were to cut rates as steeply
as possible to provide a stimulus, “we know we’d be
destabilizing the zloty and thus the economy, which is what
we’re trying to avoid.”  Zloty Weakens  The zloty declined 0.5 percent to 4.2223 at 4 p.m. in Warsaw
after having gained in nine previous sessions, its longest
winning streak since April 2008. The Polish currency has
weakened 3.3 percent this year, making it the 10th-best
performer among 24 emerging-market currencies tracked by
Bloomberg. The  yield  on Poland’s five-year bonds rose 6 basis
points, or 0.07 percentage point, to 3.36 percent.  Rate cuts, if “overdone,” could destabilize the zloty,
discourage savings and thus limit commercial banks’ ability to
lend, while reducing the rate disparity that attracts buyers to
Polish  government bonds , Belka said. Concluding rate cuts at 2.5
percent was “the result of a certain compromise” among the
Monetary Policy Council’s 10 members, he added.  “We wanted to send a clear message to investors that
domestic interest rates would stay at their current level for a
long time, until the end of the year,” Belka said in his
speech. “Anybody who wanted to speculate on Polish debt should
have lost interest.”  Broke Deadlock  Belka’s vote broke a 5-5 deadlock on the Monetary Policy
Council in favor of a quarter-point rate cut in June, according
to tallies published today on the central bank’s website. Belka
was joined by policy makers  Andrzej Bratkowski , Elzbieta Chojna-Duch,  Jerzy Hausner  and Anna Zielinska-Glebocka. He voted
against a motion to cut rates by 50 basis points in June, which
won support from only two of the panel’s 10 members.  The Narodowy Bank Polski should keep interest rates stable
and stick to a conventional monetary policy, waiting and
watching economic conditions, Chojna-Duch was reported as saying
today in an interview on Polish Radio’s Third Channel.  Poland’s “accommodative monetary-policy stance is
appropriate in a context of muted inflationary pressures and
narrow fiscal space,” the  International Monetary Fund  said
yesterday in the summary of an Executive Board discussion on
July 17. Some directors advised taking “a cautious approach,”
given risks associated with a low-rate environment, it added.  Polish economic growth may slow to 1.1 percent this year
before recovering to 2.25 percent in 2014 and 2.5 percent in
2015, according to IMF staff projections. The general government
budget deficit will probably widen to 4 percent of gross
domestic product this year before narrowing to 3.3 percent in
2014 and 2.9 percent in 2015, according to the IMF.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ott Ummelas in Tallinn at 
 oummelas@bloomberg.net   Maciej Onoszko in Warsaw at 
 monoszko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  