-- Bevin Ready to Pour Cash Into Tea Party-Backed McConnell Primary
-- B y   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s
-- 2013-07-24T17:43:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-24/bevin-ready-to-pour-cash-into-tea-party-backed-mcconnell-primary.html
Matt Bevin, the Louisville,  Kentucky ,
investor who today began a Tea Party-backed primary challenge to
Senate Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell , said he’s willing to
pour his own cash into an effort to oust “a career politician
who’s been throwing the taxpayers’ money away.”  McConnell “can pretend I’m a nuisance, but the fact is,
I’ll be the biggest nuisance he’s ever had in his political
career,” Bevin said of the Kentucky Republican in a telephone
interview between campaign stops, just after declaring his
upstart  candidacy  in the state capital of Frankfort. “I’m not
going to match him dollar-for-dollar; I’m going to match him on
ideology.”  It’s a bitter start to what could be a divisive contest
between fifth-termer McConnell, 71, renowned for his deal-brokering skills in a divided Congress, and Bevin, 46, a
political novice and partner at a firm that manages assets for
institutional investors and high-net-worth individuals.  The fight is dividing activists in the anti-tax  Tea Party 
with Kentucky’s junior senator,  Rand Paul , a hero to the small-government movement, and Washington-based groups TeaParty.net
and Tea Party Nation allied with McConnell, while those in the
United Kentucky Tea Party support Bevin.  The candidates are already running television
advertisements leveling tough charges against each other. In
McConnell’s spot, he brands his rival “Bailout Bevin,”
referring to $200,000 in grants the state of  Connecticut  awarded
to Bevin’s family manufacturing business after a fire ravaged
its factory.  ‘Mud-Slinging’  Bevin’s camp has labeled McConnell “Mud-Slinging Mitch.”
In his first advertisement, Bevin says McConnell is guilty of
“failed leadership,” citing his support for the 2008
financial-rescue package,  debt -ceiling increases, congressional
pay raises and Democratic-nominated Supreme Court justices.  McConnell, among the most influential Republicans in
 Washington , is known for his strong political operation and
fundraising, making him a formidable target for a little-known
financial executive with no campaign experience.  Bevin said his business skills render him better suited to
making decisions that affect government finances.  “What I bring to the equation that Mitch McConnell does
not is an understanding of how the private sector actually
works,” Bevin said, sounding a theme often cited by 2012
Republican presidential nominee  Mitt Romney , a one-time private-equity executive, as his main qualification for office. “I’ve
been the CEO of a company that makes bells and the CEO of
companies that produce billions of dollars for which people are
fiduciarily responsible.”  ‘Marketing Machines’  Bevin said he isn’t concerned about the lack of national
Tea Party backing for his candidacy, saying that while he
respects Paul, the Washington organizations supporting McConnell
don’t speak for Kentuckians.  “There’s nobody who considers themselves a Tea Party
person who sees these Tea Party groups inside the Beltway as
anything other than marketing machines,” Bevin said. Of Paul,
he said: “I know  Rand  and Rand knows me. Rand has decisions he
needs to make that he feels are in his best interests. He’s one
vote.”  Some fiscally conservative organizations including the
anti-tax Club for Growth and the Senate Conservatives Fund, a
political action committee created by Heritage Foundation
president and former South Carolina Senator  Jim DeMint , are
sitting on the sidelines in the race for now.  Watchful Waiting  “We’d like to hear more about his candidacy,” Club for
Growth President  Chris Chocola  said of Bevin today, adding that
the group’s political action committee would “watch Kentucky’s
Senate race -- as it would with any race -- over the coming
months to determine if our involvement is warranted.”  The  Madison Project , a fundraising group for conservative
candidates led by former Republican congressman Jim Ryun of
 Kansas , criticized McConnell today in a statement that called
Bevin “a legitimate primary opponent.”  “There’s a profound dichotomy between the way Senator
McConnell acts in the Senate and his words on the campaign
trail,” said Drew Ryun, the congressman’s son and the group’s
political director. “In the Senate, he folds like a cheap seat
before the Obama agenda and his radical nominees, yet when he’s
on the campaign trail, he knows nothing but the scorched-earth
politics of personal destruction.”  Iconic Cowbells  McConnell’s bailout charge against Bevin stems from his
role as president of  Bevin Bros. Manufacturing Co . based in  East
Hampton , Connecticut, which has been in his family since 1832.
The company produces a variety of bells, including the iconic
cowbell used by Salvation Army workers clad as  Santa Claus  at
Christmas.  A fire destroyed the Bevin factory last year, and the
company and an affiliate each received $100,000 in small-business matching grants from the state of Connecticut to help
them rebuild.  In the interview, Bevin said it was “farcical” and
“nonsense” for McConnell to compare that help -- which he said
he didn’t seek -- to the hundreds of billions of dollars in
federal funds McConnell supported using to bail out financial
firms and the government-sponsored housing entities  Fannie Mae (FNMA) 
and  Freddie Mac , among others.  “It is unfair, because it’s utterly unrelated to the
absolute squandering of taxpayer money that he has supported in
the bailouts,” Bevin said. “The state of Connecticut, the
people of that town desperately wanted this little company to
continue,” he said of Bevin Bells.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in Washington at 
 jdavis159@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  