-- Biden Urges India to ‘Take Medicine’ by Opening Slowing Economy
-- B y   A n d r e w   M a c A s k i l l   a n d   A n o o p   A g r a w a l
-- 2013-07-24T10:44:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-24/biden-urges-india-to-take-medicine-by-opening-slowing-economy.html
U.S. Vice President Joe Biden called
on India to further open its economy to foreign investment and
improve protection for intellectual property to help drive a
possible fivefold increase in trade between the nations.  The experience of developed economies shows that the best
way to boost growth is to open to the world, Biden said in a
speech to business leaders at the Bombay Stock Exchange today
during the first visit to India by an American vice president in
three decades. Hundreds of millions of Indian consumers deserve
access to the most affordable products, he said, and a graduate
wanting to start the next  Tata Motors Ltd. (TTMT)  should be able to buy
the best parts available wherever they are made.  “It is a little bit like as my mother used to say: ‘You
have to take your medicine in order to be healthy’,” Biden
said. “You have an extraordinary opportunity to unleash the
immense talents of the people of India in the global economy and
power India’s growth for decades to come.”  The U.S. is pushing India, Asia’s third-largest economy, to
remove remaining investment caps in sectors including finance,
retail and insurance. The government of Indian Prime Minister
Manmohan Singh, serving the final year of his second consecutive
term, this month proposed to ease FDI limits as part of efforts
to woo long-term capital after the local currency touched an
unprecedented low against the dollar on July 8. Foreign-direct
investment slid about 21 percent to $36.9 billion last fiscal
year compared with 2011-12.  Efforts to throw open pension and insurance funds have been
opposed by smaller parties within  India ’s parliament that Singh
might need to push the measures through. The economy grew at a
decade-low 5 percent last fiscal year.  Steel Pullout  Pacts meant to boost economic ties have foundered. A
landmark 2005 agreement on cooperation in civil nuclear energy,
for example, has failed to deliver business for U.S. companies
wary of Indian rules on compensation claims in the event of an
atomic accident.  Bilateral trade could rise fivefold from the current $100
billion, Biden said as he nears the end of a four-day trip to
India. His visit, a month after the arrival of U.S Secretary of
State John Kerry, is aimed at improving U.S-India ties and
laying some of the groundwork for a summit between Singh and
President  Barack Obama  later this year.  After delivering today’s speech he will meet with business
leaders at the Taj Palace Hotel in Mumbai. Yesterday, Biden held
talks with Singh, President Pranab Mukherjee and Sushma Swaraj,
a leader of the opposition Bharatiya Janata Party. He leaves for
 Singapore  tomorrow.  Steel companies  ArcelorMittal (MT)  and Posco put more pressure
on Singh last week when they announced they were scrapping steel
projects valued at $12 billion in India because of delays in
getting land and mining permits.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew MacAskill in New Delhi at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net ;
Anoop Agrawal in Mumbai at 
 aagrawal8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  