-- Biggest Shipping Banks See End to Slump as Lending Recovers
-- B y   N i k l a s   M a g n u s s o n
-- 2013-07-25T09:36:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-24/biggest-banks-in-shipping-see-end-to-slump-as-lending-recovers.html
Nordea Bank AB (NDA)  and  DNB ASA (DNB) , two of
the world’s largest shipping lenders, are seeing signs of an end
to the maritime industry’s five-year slump as bets grow on a
recovery in sea-borne trade.  Loan losses at Nordea’s shipping unit slid 15 percent in
the second quarter from the first three months, hitting the
lowest ratio since the third quarter of 2011. Operating profit
grew to a seven-quarter high and loan losses at the largest
Nordic bank’s maritime business will probably drop further,
Nordea Chief Executive Officer  Christian Clausen  said.  “They’re now coming down, they’re not that high,” Clausen
said in a telephone interview from Stockholm. “I don’t think
loan losses in shipping are an issue anymore.”  The shipping industry is seeking a revival from worst
market since the 1970s amid  slumping freight rates  and an
overcapacity of ships. Shipping companies have been struggling
to service debts, triggering loan losses at banks such as Nordea
and DNB, as well as their German competitors HSH Nordbank AG,
 Commerzbank AG (CBK)  and Norddeutsche Landesbank Girozentrale.  DNB, Nordea’s Norwegian rival and the world’s second
biggest shipping bank, saw  loan losses  at its shipping, offshore
and logistics division fall 43 percent to 198 million kroner
($33 million) in the second quarter from the first three months,
the lowest in four quarters, according to its website.  ‘Very Tough’  “2013 will be a very tough year and 2014 will also be
quite tough in some industries, but with a  diversified portfolio 
we should still be able to have a good return,” Kristin Holth,
global head of shipping, offshore and logistics at DNB, said by
phone on July 23.  DNB has forecast loan loss provisions in shipping of 1
billion kroner to 1.5 billion kroner this year, compared with
940 million kroner in 2012, Holth said, declining to give a
forecast for 2014. The unit had provisions of 545 million kroner
in the first six months of this year.  Nordea, the world’s fourth-largest shipping bank, said in
July that for the tanker and dry cargo market, 2013 will be the
last year of “large deliveries of new tonnage, which should
have a stabilizing effect on these market segments in the
future.”  Nordea estimates its shipping portfolio is likely to “go
up slightly” in dollar terms in coming quarters, Clausen said.  Loyalty Rewards  Nordea and DNB now stand to profit after sticking with an
industry that other banks abandoned at the height of the
shipping crisis. Commerzbank, the world’s third-largest maritime
lender, said in June last year it would close its ship finance
unit to focus on “business that is sustainably profitable.”  Other German lenders have also struggled. HSH Nordbank, the
world’s largest shipping lender, said June 7 provisions in the
first quarter  more than tripled .  Nordic banks have fared better because their portfolios are
more diversified than those of their German peers and more
focused on industrial shipping and offshore than on tankers, dry
bulk and container shipping. Their individual exposures to
different segments are also smaller than at their German peers,
helping them absorb individual client losses. The lenders are
also more focused on oil-rich  Norway , where a $750 billion
wealth fund has shielded the economy from the debt crisis raging
further south.  At DNB, container shipping and dry bulk make up  14 percent 
and 12 percent of the portfolio, respectively, while tankers
account for 9 percent. The rest includes offshore, logistics,
chemical and products, cruise and roll-on roll-off vessels.  Diversified Gains  In Nordea’s shipping portfolio last year, drilling rigs,
supply vessels and oil services  accounted for 25 percent , while
container and dry cargo combined for 11 percent. Crude tankers
made up 11 percent of the book and chemical and product tankers
accounted for 13 percent.  Container ships make up more than 33 percent of
Commerzbank’s 18 billion-euro shipping loan portfolio while dry
bulk vessels, which carry freight such as coal, steel or grain,
comprise about 20 percent and tankers 25 percent.  Commerzbank has  slumped 39 percent  in Frankfurt trading
this year, and traded 3.5 percent lower at 6.571 euros as of
11:21 a.m. local time today. Nordea has jumped  34 percent  since
the end of 2012, and lost 0.1 percent to 83 kronor today. DNB’s
shares have advanced 38 percent this year, and traded 0.6
percent lower at 97.05 Norwegian kroner in Oslo trading today.  Not all corners of the shipping market are poised for a
recovery, according to Holth.  DNB is “not very optimistic” about crude tankers, where
it will “take time before we see any upturn as there are no
signs of rates going up shortly,” she said. Though there have
been “positive signs” in dry bulk, it probably “will move
sideways.”  Yet the signs of recovery there are elsewhere in the
industry have started to attract more lenders.  “We welcome that as we need more banks to be able to place
the financing, the refinancing and new financing and thereby be
able to syndicate loans,” Holth said. “We have seen a somewhat
increased appetite.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Niklas Magnusson in  Stockholm  at 
 nmagnusson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  