-- BlackRock Sees Aussie at 80 Cents After Short
-- B y   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s   a n d   B e n j a m i n   P u r v i s
-- 2013-07-24T02:36:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-24/blackrock-sees-aussie-at-80-cents-after-short.html
BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , the world’s biggest
fund manager, said Australia’s dollar may drop as low as 80 U.S.
cents in the coming nine months after bets against the currency
helped give one of its bond funds the nation’s best returns.  The strategy profited as the  Reserve Bank  of Australia cut
 rates  while U.S. yields rose, said  Stephen Miller , a managing
director in Sydney at BlackRock, which oversees $3.9 trillion
globally. Its Australian bond fund returned 3.4 percent in the
first half, beating 80 fixed-income funds  Morningstar Inc. (MORN) 
tracks. The Aussie’s 11 percent drop this year may spur the RBA
to keep borrowing costs unchanged next month, Miller said.  “We prefer to be sellers of the Aussie dollar still,” he
said yesterday in an interview. “Let’s say that China’s a soft
landing, let’s say the U.S. recovers in a manner that I expect,
I would have thought that you’re probably looking at 80 cents at
some stage in the next six to nine months.”  The extra yield Aussie 10-year notes offer over Treasuries
shrank 34 basis points this year as a slowdown in Chinese growth
weighs on Australia’s prospects, while Federal Reserve policy
makers say the  U.S. economy  is strengthening. BlackRock’s Aussie
forecast is more bearish than the median of 49 estimates
compiled by Bloomberg for the currency to trade at 89 cents by
March 2014. Its rate call contrasts with swaps markets pricing a
62 percent chance for an Aug. 6 cut to 2.5 percent.  China Slowdown  “In China, growth is softening, and I think Australia has
some particular challenges, but the good news is that the U.S.
is recovering,” said Miller, who heads a six-person team in
Sydney. “We’re going to see the biggest economy in the world
not only doing better but probably doing better in a much more
sustainable way. That’s the big development.”  The world’s fifth most-traded currency slid 0.4 percent to
92.58 U.S. cents as of 12:30 p.m. in Sydney, after a private
report showed China’s manufacturing weakened further this month.
The preliminary reading of 47.7 for a  Purchasing Managers ’ Index
released today by HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics
compares with the 48.2 median estimate in a Bloomberg News
survey of economists and 48.2 in June. Readings below 50
indicate contraction.  Miller said he currently has a small bet that would benefit
from declines in the Aussie and he is looking to add to it if
data confirm his bias.  The Aussie fell versus all but one of 16 major currencies
since Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  suggested May 22 that policy
makers may taper the amount of money they pump into the economy.
It plunged 2 percent against the dollar on June 19, the day he
said bond buying could end altogether by mid-2014.  Bearish Bets  Futures traders increased bets that the Aussie will decline
against the  U.S. dollar  to a  record  on July 16, figures from the
Washington-based Commodity Futures Trading Commission show.  The divergent outlook for monetary policy in Australia and
the U.S. led to a steepening of the South Pacific nation’s yield
curve, a move that BlackRock bet on in the first half.  Australia’s 10-year benchmark yields have risen since Dec.
31 along with a gain in longer-maturity U.S. yields, while RBA
easing led to declines in those on shorter-maturity bonds. The
rate on  10-year government bonds  climbed to 3.70 percent today
from 3.27 percent on Dec. 31. Three-year yields have fallen
three basis points to 2.64 percent over the same period.  The spread between Australian and U.S. 10-year benchmark
rates has narrowed to 117 basis points from 152 basis points at
the end of 2012.  “We thought Aussie bonds would outperform other developed-market bonds and we were most convinced in the front part of the
curve,” Miller said.  Sole Gain  Australia ’s sovereign bonds gained 0.5 percent this year,
the only nation with a AAA grade from all three main ratings
companies to deliver positive returns, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch data. U.S. Treasuries dropped 2.4 percent.
State debt in Australia, which BlackRock is betting on, rose 1.5
percent while corporate bonds climbed 2.6 percent, according to
the Merrill indexes.  Miller said he is now adding to an overweight position in
corporate debt, having pared it tactically in May and June.  Policy makers will probably cut the cash target by a
quarter point again later this year, with a second cut some time
in the next nine months, Miller said. The RBA may pause next
month, keeping rates unchanged at 2.75 percent, Miller said,
estimating that a 10 percent to 15 percent drop in the Aussie is
equivalent to about a 50 basis point reduction in benchmark
borrowing costs.  RBA Cut  Traders pared bets the key rate will fall in August after
government data today showed second-quarter underlying inflation
accelerated. Wagers on a reduction fell to 64 percent from 73
percent yesterday, according to swaps data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The  consumer price index  gained 2.4 percent in the second
quarter from a year earlier, from a 2.5 percent pace in the
previous three months, the Bureau of Statistics said today. The
 trimmed mean  gauge rose an annual 2.2 percent, compared with the
2.1 percent median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of
economists. The weighted median rose 2.6 percent from a year
ago, compared with estimates for a 2.4 percent climb.  The RBA has cut its rate by 2 percentage points since
November 2011 as the cresting of a mining  investment boom  and
the prospect of weaker commodities demand from  China  mean other
parts of the economy need to expand more to fill the gap.  “The economy’s still growing a bit below trend,” Miller
said. “We know that the RBA and the authorities more broadly
are hopeful that non-mining sectors of the economy can recover.
That remains more of a hope than something you could hang you
hat on.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Candice Zachariahs in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net ;
Benjamin Purvis in Sydney at 
 bpurvis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  