-- Blackstone to Buy Madrid Apartments in First for Spain
-- B y   H u i - y o n g   Y u   a n d   C h a r l e s   P e n t y
-- 2013-07-24T18:45:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-24/blackstone-to-buy-1-860-apartments-in-madrid.html
Blackstone Group LP (BX) , the largest
manager of private-equity real estate funds, agreed to buy a
group of  Madrid  apartments for 125.5 million euros ($166
million) in its first property purchase in  Spain .  Blackstone, based in  New York , is acquiring 18 apartment
blocks with a total of 1,860 units from the city of Madrid. Of
those units, 1,208 are rented to tenants and 652 are leased with
an option to buy, according to an e-mailed statement from
Cristina Garrido, a Blackstone spokeswoman.  Europe’s biggest real estate managers are making their
first investments in southern Europe since the financial crisis
as low prices and diminishing risk make commercial properties
more attractive. Blackstone also is bidding for 3,000 rental
units being sold by the regional government of Madrid.  “We believe strongly in a recovery of the Spanish
 economy ,” Garrido said in the statement. Blackstone said it’s
required to honor the existing terms of all tenant and building
agreements. The firm has invested in similarly regulated housing
in Germany,  San Francisco  and New York, she said.  The apartments in the Spanish capital were the property of
the Municipal Social Housing Co. and are located in the
districts of Carabanchel, Vallecas and Villaverde and the city
center, Blackstone said.  The company in April agreed to sell 6,900 apartments in
Berlin to  Deutsche Wohnen AG (DWNI) , Germany’s second-largest
residential landlord by market value.  Blackstone is increasing purchases of apartments, an area
where it has been less active than in other property types. It’s
the largest U.S. owner of hotel rooms and the second-largest
office landlord, according to National Real Estate Investor.
Blackstone also has extensive industrial holdings and is the
biggest buyer of single-family houses in the U.S., investing
about $5 billion to acquire about 30,000 houses to rent since
the beginning of 2012.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Charles Penty in Madrid  at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net ;
Hui-yong Yu in Seattle at 
 hyu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  