-- BOJ Says Market Is Satisfied With Current Bond-Buying Operations
-- B y   T o r u   F u j i o k a   a n d   S h i g e k i   N o z a w a
-- 2013-07-24T09:28:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-24/boj-says-market-is-satisfied-with-current-bond-buying-operations.html
Participants in  Japan ’s bond market
see no need to change the central bank’s buying operations,
which were increased last month amid a surge in volatility.  Market representatives said the purchases were being
smoothly operated, a  Bank of Japan  official told reporters in
 Tokyo  today, asking not to be named per the bank’s policy. The
BOJ met with 57 people involved in the market for Japanese
 government bonds , the official said.  Today’s gathering marks the fourth between the BOJ and JGB
market makers since Governor Haruhiko Kuroda announced
unprecedented stimulus in April. After its last meeting with
market participants, the BOJ said it would boost the frequency
of JGB purchases from June to about 10 times per month from 8.  That’s helped quell volatility that surged after the BOJ
doubled its monthly buying of  government securities  to more than
7 trillion yen ($70 billion). The benchmark 10-year  JGB yield 
slid to 0.77 percent today, the lowest close since May 10. It
had swung from a record low 0.315 percent to as much as 1
percent since April.  After meetings with market representatives that month, the
BOJ revised its monthly  bond purchases  to “approximately 7+
trillion yen” per month from an earlier estimate of 7.5
trillion yen.  The central bank today carried out its eighth purchase of
JGBs in July, offering to buy 950 billion yen of the securities.  Prime Minister Shinzo Abe has urged the BOJ to take steps
to overcome 15 years of deflation and achieve 2 percent annual
price gains in two years. He appointed Kuroda to replace  Masaaki
Shirakawa , who stepped down in March.  Kuroda has pledged to strengthen the central bank’s
communication with the market. The official speaking today said
the BOJ will hold meetings with market participants as needed.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Toru Fujioka in Tokyo at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net ;
Shigeki Nozawa in Tokyo at 
 snozawa1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  