-- Bombardier Delays CSeries Jet Maiden Flight for Third Time
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   S u r a n e
-- 2013-07-24T20:47:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-24/bombardier-delays-cseries-jet-maiden-flight-for-third-time.html
Bombardier Inc. (BBD/B)  delayed the maiden
flight of its CSeries jet for the third time since November,
saying its largest-ever plane needs more preparation ahead of a
showdown with Boeing Co. and Airbus SAS models.  The first takeoff will “occur in the coming weeks,”
Montreal-based Bombardier said in a statement today, signaling
that it would miss a goal of this month. Having the extra time
will allow for continued reviews of flight systems and
completing software integration, the company said.  Completing flight trials in a timely manner is necessary to
get the CSeries in service by mid-2014, said Chris Murray, a PI
Financial Corp. analyst who rates the shares buy. In November,
Bombardier put off the debut until June, then shifted last month
to a July target for the initial flight of a plane intended to
help the company double revenue in the next decade.  “In the grand scheme of things it’s certainly a
disappointment,” Murray said in a telephone interview. “The
expectation is that the aircraft is going to fly in the near
future. But the focus needs to be that the flight test program
progresses safely.”  Bombardier’s widely traded Class B shares  fell  1.4 percent
to C$5 at the close in Toronto.  Typical Timetable  Marc Duchesne, a Bombardier spokesman, said that while he
couldn’t give a date for when the CSeries would start flying for
airlines, a typical timeline would be about a year after an
aircraft’s first flight.  “We’re planning the entrance to service by mid-2014 but at
the time our focus is on supporting the first flight,” Duchesne
said in a telephone interview.  The CSeries will seat about 110 to 160 people, a step up
from Bombardier’s signature regional jets. Bombardier, which
also builds trains and business jets, has said the CSeries
probably will contribute as much as $8 billion in annual sales
in the next decade. Revenue was $16.8 billion last year.  Bombardier’s challenge to the Boeing-Airbus duopoly, the
CSeries’ reliance on a new engine and materials and the delays
in getting the plane airborne have all attracted scrutiny.  On June 16, the company reaffirmed the target of a debut
flight in June, and Qatar Airways Ltd. Chief Executive Officer
Akbar Al Baker told reporters at the  Paris Air Show  a day later
that he still has “interest in CSeries, but we want it to
fly.” Nine days after that, the timetable slipped to July.  PI Financial’s Murray said that while he was surprised that
Bombardier failed to give a date today for the initial flight,
he wasn’t worried about the delay would affect the planemaker’s
longer-term schedule.  “You approach first flight in the program with a certain
amount of skepticism and maybe perhaps a bit of caution,”
Murray said. “At this particular point, we really have no
indication that the delay is going to be severe or
substantial.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Surane in  New York  at 
 jsurane1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  