-- Bow Tie Renaissance Among Millennial Men Boosting PVH
-- B y   C o t t e n   T i m b e r l a k e
-- 2013-07-24T20:38:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-24/bow-tie-renaissance-among-millennial-men-boosting-pvh.html
When Tyler Ray bought his first bow
tie four years ago, he needed a YouTube tutorial to teach him
how to knot it, since neither his father nor grandfather were
versed in the art. Now he owns 35 bow ties and says he’ll be
wearing them for life.  “You are being noticed because you went the extra mile to
wear that,” said the 24-year-old merchandiser for a denim maker
in  San Francisco . “That makes me feel good.”  Young men like Ray, seeking to display a little more
personality in their style, are fueling a surge in bow tie
sales. The accessories are on pace to almost double their share
of the U.S. neckwear market and retailers including  PVH Corp. (PVH) 
and  Macy’s Inc. (M)  are grabbing the opportunity with new styles.  The ties’ resurgence began in their traditional Southern
enclave, where preppy gentlemen donned them at fraternity
parties and the  Kentucky Derby , before it spread across the
country, said Durand Guion, Cincinnati-based Macy’s men’s
fashion director.  “It was all about newness,” Guion said. “One, two
generations on the West Coast had never worn it.”  Bow ties were helped by the recent “geek chic” trend that
borrowed from the Ivy League styles of the 1960s, such as
shrunken oxford button-down shirts and horn-rimmed glasses, said
Mitchell Lechner, president of PVH’s dress furnishings group.
The look “screamed” for a bow tie, he said.  A relaxation of the old rule of wearing bow ties only with
tailored clothing helped, too, Guion said. Men started using
them to dress up shirts and cardigans, discarding jackets. A bow
tie paired with rolled-up shirt-sleeves evokes a certain kind of
“bartender chic,” Lechner said.  Neckwear Market  Bow ties will represent about 7 percent of the $850 million
U.S. neckwear market this year, up from 4 percent last year, New
York-based PVH projects. In the Southeast, they account for
about double the national share, the company said. PVH, owner of
 Tommy Hilfiger  and  Calvin Klein , commands more than half of the
U.S. neckwear market.  Total menswear sales rose 2.7 percent to $58.1 billion in
the 12 months through May, as tallied by market research firm
NPD Group Inc.’s consumer-tracking service, helping boost
clothing retailers as a whole. The Standard & Poor’s 500
Retailing Index closed at a 62 percent premium to the broader
 S&P 500  on a price-to-earnings basis today. PVH shares rose 0.2
percent to $131.20 in  New York .  Men have worn knotted fabric around their necks since the
17th century, according to the website of New York-based
formalwear maker After Six. Croatian mercenaries wore bow ties
to hold together the openings of their shirts. The practice was
adopted by the French, who called the fabric bows “cravats.”  Fred Astaire  The ties eventually became a distinctive part of formal
attire, with “black tie” referring to the bow tie worn with a
tuxedo.  Winston Churchill  and  Fred Astaire  were among the ranks
of celebrity bow tie aficionados.  Bow tie sales stagnated after the millennium because men’s
fashion designers, more focused on skinny ties, weren’t paying a
lot of attention to a category they viewed as “Southern dandy”
and synonymous with conservative, middle-aged college
professors, Guion said.  “You certainly weren’t wearing one when you were 21,” he
said.  It was in 2010 that “high-profile early adopters” began
wearing them on the red carpet, Lechner said in an e-mail.
Actors Jon Hamm and Max Minghella are among the celebrities
snapped in the ties. Boy band One Direction, rapper DyMe-A-DuZin
and professional basketball player  Dwyane Wade  also have taken
to them.  Enduring Advantages  Recent converts to bow ties have found they have some
enduring advantages. They’re easier to wear than long ties, and
they use less fabric -- 37 inches instead of 57 inches for
neckties -- making them a bit lighter, Macy’s Guion said. They
also sit on the neck, so the wearer is less conscious of them
and they’re less prone to food stains.  With simplicity in mind, more men are taking the shortcut
of buying pre-tied ties, pushing their sales up to 40 percent of
PVH’s total bow tie sales from 30 percent a couple of years ago,
Lechner said.  There are diamond-pointed or bat-wing bow ties in addition
to the traditional butterfly shape. Slim and reversible styles
are readily found, as are gingham, knit and chambray versions.
They come in bright colors, bolder polka dots and in-your-face
variations of camouflage, animal prints and florals.  “Conversationals” include styles with skulls and
crossbones. The French fashion house Lanvin applies its crest
logo to a $140 version.  “I like a unique pattern,” said David Brackenhoff, 33, a
bow tie-loving television producer in  Los Angeles . “If you are
going to wear one, you might as well really wear it, right?”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cotten Timberlake in Washington at 
 ctimberlake@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  