-- Brazil Rues Rousseff Economic Growth Amid Lula Pleas
-- B y   R a y m o n d   C o l i t t
-- 2013-07-24T16:00:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-24/brazil-rues-rousseff-economic-growth-amid-lula-pleas.html
The return to power of Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva, the mentor and predecessor of Brazil President
 Dilma Rousseff , is gaining traction among her supporters as her
party faces a 2014 election having delivered the slowest average
growth in 24 years.  Rousseff’s poll approval ratings have plummeted to the
lowest of her term, and since mid-June she was showered with
boos at a sold-out soccer game and by dozens of mayors at a
public event. More than 1 million Brazilians took to the streets
as the cost of living soars and economic growth forecasts drop.
Protests escalated from anger over bus fare increases to
discontent over corruption, the quality of public services and
government spending priorities.  Annual economic growth during Rousseff’s term is forecast
by analysts to average 2.12 percent, the slowest during a
presidency since that of Fernando Collor, who was forced to
resign over corruption charges in 1992. This contrasts with
Lula’s record, in which growth averaged 4.1 percent over his
eight-year tenure and reached 7.5 percent in his final year,
while 40 million people were lifted from poverty.  That has prompted at least two allies of the ruling
Workers’ Party, or PT, to consider alternate candidates in 2014,
and legislators in the PT and its main coalition partner to
openly criticize Rousseff’s economic policy.  “Lula needs to come back, as a candidate or a leader,”
Devanir Ribeiro, a deputy in the lower house of Congress and co-founder of the Workers’ Party, said in an interview in Brasilia.
“I’m worried about Dilma’s rejection rate. The risk of losing
the election is real.”  Approval Rating  The approval rating of Rousseff’s administration plummeted
to 31.3 percent from 54.2 percent in June and a high of 56.6
percent in July of last year, according to an MDA poll published
by the National Transport Confederation on July 16. It showed
that 44.7 percent of those surveyed would not vote for Rousseff
under any circumstance. MDA interviewed 2,002 people from July 7
to 10 and the poll has a margin of error of plus or minus 2.2
percentage points.  In an Ibope poll published by O Estado de  Sao Paulo 
newspaper July 19, 41 percent favored Lula, the most popular
president in Brazil’s history, in next year’s election, while 30
percent backed Rousseff.  Protesters in a Labor Day parade on May 1 carried a banner
calling for Lula to return, prompting Sao Paulo Mayor Fernando Haddad to reply: “Who knows, maybe one day he’ll come back.
He’s in good health.”  ‘No Use’  Lula, who was treated for throat cancer in 2011, has ruled
out running in 2014. “People know it’s no use knocking on my
door,” Lula told reporters July 18 in Sao Paulo. “Comrade
Dilma Rousseff is an extraordinary president,” he said.  Rousseff declined to comment, according to an e-mailed
response from the president’s press office.  The talk of Lula’s return reflects dwindling confidence in
Rousseff and is likely to continue over the next year, said Joao Augusto de Castro Neves, Latin America analyst at political risk
consulting firm Eurasia Group.  “These calls gained strength because of Dilma’s decline in
the polls and a search for leadership,” Neves said by telephone
from  Washington . “This will be the tightest and most
competitive election in a long time.”  The benchmark Bovespa stocks index has fallen 30 percent
since Rousseff took office in January 2011. It gained 125
percent in the first 2 1/2 years of Lula’s presidency, and 515
percent during his entire eight-year tenure. Brazil’s dollar
bonds have gained 16 percent under Rousseff, versus 103 percent
during Lula’s first 30 months, according to JPMorgan.  Debt Payments  Lula, whose past promises to suspend debt payments unnerved
investors during his 2002 campaign, began to regain their trust
by appointing Wall Street executive Henrique Meirelles to head
the central bank and boosting  interest rates  to combat
inflation.  Under Rousseff, the central bank headed by Alexandre Tombini slashed rates to a record low 7.25 percent, only to see
inflation surge above the 6.5 percent upper ceiling of the
target range, undermining consumer purchasing power. Since
April, policy makers have boosted the rate to 8.50 percent and
indicated that the world’s biggest tightening cycle this year
will continue. The bank targets inflation of 4.5 percent, plus
or minus two percentage points.  Fiscal Discipline  Fiscal discipline has also deteriorated under Rousseff,
with the primary  budget surplus  in 12 months through May falling
to 1.95 percent of GDP from 2.77 percent at the end of Lula’s
last year in office. Investors fear she may further boost
spending to address protester demands,  Tony Volpon , Nomura
Holdings Inc.’s director of emerging-market research, said by
telephone from  New York .  Quicker inflation , increased family indebtedness and a drop
in consumer and business sentiment have led to slower economic
growth. Analysts in the latest central bank survey cut their
2013 GDP growth forecast for the 10th straight week, to 2.28
percent, and predicted 2.6 percent expansion in 2014. That
contrasts with the 7.5 percent growth that helped make Brazil a
Wall Street favorite in 2010, Lula’s last year in office.  Debt servicing costs that have doubled in seven years to 44
percent of  household income , and annual inflation hovering
around the ceiling of the target range, have eroded business
confidence to the lowest in over four years. Consumer prices
rose 6.4 percent in the month through mid-July from the year
before.  Brazil ’s unemployment rate jumped to 6 percent in June, the
highest in more than a year, from 5.8 percent in May. That was
higher than expected by all but one of 27 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg, whose median estimate was 5.8 percent. First-half  job
creation  was the lowest in four years.  Lula’s Shadow  While Rousseff sought to emerge from Lula’s shadow early in
office and accepted the resignations of several holdovers from
Lula’s cabinet in the wake of corruption charges, she still
consults him on a regular basis, including two private meetings
following the street protests last month.  Rousseff supporters such as PT legislator  Jesus Rodrigues
Alves  say she will address protesters’ issues and is still the
favorite in next year’s election, ahead of  Marina Silva , a
former  environment minister  who pledged to cut taxes and social
security benefits in her 2010 presidential campaign in which she
placed third. Silva polled second with 22 percent in the Ibope
survey.  Almost Impossible  A weak economy and the demonstrations make her re-election
almost impossible, said Beto  Albuquerque , lower house leader of
the Brazilian Socialist Party, or PSB, a member of the governing
coalition.  “It’s time for an alternative and we’re working on our own
presidential candidate, Governor Eduardo Campos,” he said.  Campos, governor of the northeastern state of Pernambuco
for the PSB, placed fourth with 5 percent in the Ibope opinion
poll, which interviewed 2,002 people July 11-14 and has a margin
of error of plus or minus two percentage points.  “There’s a certain fatigue with the PT,” said Paulo Rubem
Santiago, a legislator who in 2007 switched from the PT to the
allied Democratic Workers Party, which he says should not
consider Rousseff as the only option in 2014.  Front-Runner  While Silva gained most from Rousseff’s decline in
popularity, no presidential hopeful has so far managed to
sufficiently harness growing discontent to become a clear front-runner, said Cristiano Noronha, a political analyst with
consulting firm Arko Advice in Brasilia.  “The lack of a clear alternative may save Rousseff next
year,” he said.  Rousseff’s tendency to centralize decision-making and a
lack of charisma and political savvy has soured her relations
with her allies in Congress, said Darcisio Paulo Perondi, deputy
leader in the Chamber of Deputies for the PMDB, the largest
coalition partner.  “There’s very strong discontent in the party faction, the
president erred on economic policy, failed in public services
and slighted politics,” Perondi said in an interview in
Brasilia. “If she changes economic policy and builds bridges to
Congress, she can recover but it will be a gigantic task.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Raymond Colitt in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 rcolitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  