-- British Land Raises Dividend as Economy Begins to Recover
-- B y   N e i l   C a l l a n a n
-- 2013-07-24T07:59:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-24/british-land-raises-dividend-as-u-k-economy-begins-to-recover.html
British Land Co., (BLND)  the U.K.’s second-largest real estate investment trust by market value, increased
its dividend for the fiscal first quarter by 2.3 percent and
said it’s confident about future profit growth.  British Land will pay 6.75 pence a share for the three
months through June, the London-based company said in a
statement today. Shareholders received 6.60 pence a year
earlier.  “The economy as a whole is showing some signs of returning
confidence,” Chief Executive Officer Chris Grigg said in the
statement. “London remains strong and while retail is still
challenging, we continue to see encouraging levels of demand for
our space.”  British Land raised 493 million pounds ($758 million) in a
share sale in March. This year, the company has made 512 million
pounds of acquisitions, including the 470 million-pound purchase
of offices, stores and land near Paddington Station earlier this
month.  The developer, whose share price is up about 10 percent
this year, will build 463 homes, a 160-room hotel,  office space 
and stores at Aldgate Place on the eastern fringe of the  City of
London  financial district in a venture with  Barratt Developments
Plc (BDEV) , the Leicestershire, England-based homebuilder said in a
separate statement today. The site was bought from a unit of
Tishman Speyer Properties LP last year, subject to planning
being granted for a residential-focused development.  British Land signed leases with office occupiers at an
average of 5.3 percent above its estimates and signed new deals
with retailers for stores at rents that averaged 3.6 percent
above estimates, according to the company’s statement.  The company may sell some of its shopping malls to take
advantage of increased demand from investors for assets that
aren’t in prime locations, Grigg said in a call with reporters.
It’s also bidding for other retail centers, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Neil Callanan in  London  at 
 ncallanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  