-- Bulgarian Parliament Cancels Budget Debate on Protests
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   K o n s t a n t i n o v a
-- 2013-07-24T13:03:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-24/bulgarian-parliament-cancels-budget-debate-on-protests.html
Bulgarian lawmakers postponed
today’s debate on revising the budget after protesters blocked
parliament and demanded the government’s resignation seven weeks
after Premier Plamen Oresharski’s Cabinet took office.  Dozens of rock-throwing demonstrators and several policemen
were injured as security forces escorted 120 lawmakers,
ministers and journalists out of the Sofia-based assembly at
around 4 a.m. following a 10-hour siege, Interior Minister
Tsvetlin Yovchev told Bulgarian National Television.  Bulgarian political leaders are struggling to maintain
public confidence as voters are increasingly aggressive about
their dissatisfaction with what they see as a corrupt political
system in the European Union’s poorest member. Oresharski came
to power May 29 after anti-austerity protests forced out his
predecessor, Boyko Borissov, and led to snap elections.
President Rossen Plevneliev said a new vote may be needed.  “The budget revision is needed for our social policy, to
pay benefits to the disabled, to the pensioners, to families
with schoolchildren,” Socialist leader Sergei Stanishev told
reporters in Sofia today. “There are serious issues at stake
and they can be resolved only in a dialogue with the government.
Protests are not a solution.”  The administration proposed a budget revision to cover
increased spending on social benefits, reimbursement of value-added tax receipts and payment for public services to companies.
The parliament’s budget and finance committee yesterday approved
the package, with debate initially scheduled to start today.  Two Votes  The revision, which needs two rounds of voting for final
approval, would widen the deficit to 2 percent of economic
output from a previous 1.3 percent and raise the debt sale limit
to 1 billion lev ($676 million).  “I’m fed up of being ruled by semi-criminals, who belong
in prison and not in parliament,” university student Ivan
Stoychev said in an interview with BTV in Sofia today. “We are
against this budget revision because it will go into the pockets
of various government cronies as usual.”  The latest round of protests began with the June 14
appointment of media executive Delyan Peevski as head of the
State Agency for National Security. Nationwide demonstrations
forced Peevski, who also has interests in tobacco, banking and
telecommunications companies, to back off from the appointment.  The protests have since escalated into daily anti-government marches that turned violent for the first time
yesterday.  Street Blockades  Chanting “Mafia out of Parliament” and carrying signs
that said, “I won’t pay taxes to the Mafia,” demonstrators
erected barricades, blocking the streets around the assembly
with paving stones, road signs, trees and trash bins. A white
grand piano was brought into parliament square to entertain
protesters overnight.  The action left lawmakers trapped in the building for 10
hours yesterday. When authorities brought in a bus at 10 p.m. to
help evacuate lawmakers, protesters began throwing stones at the
vehicle, setting off clashes with police, who created a cordon
around legislators and the bus was forced to return. The
lawmakers left the building in a second attempt six hours later
in police vehicles.  This morning, bulldozers worked to clear the barricades,
while about 50 people looked on peacefully. The piano still
stood on the square.  Plevneliev said on July 5 that early elections are the only
democratic solution to the standoff between Oresharski’s cabinet
and the protesters. Plevneliev has no power to call early
elections before the government resigns.  Way Out  “The way out of this situation is for the parliamentary
parties to agree on a date for early elections and make a plan
on what the government needs to do until then,” Daniel Smilov,
an analyst at the Center for Liberal Strategies in Sofia, said
by phone today. “We won’t see a consensus among Bulgarians as
long as the parties in the assembly don’t agree on a future
plan. And they haven’t started talking yet.”  Oresharski, backed by the Socialists and the Movement for
Rights and Freedoms, which represents ethnic Turks, has said he
won’t resign because doing so would further destabilize the
country.  The government parties in the 240-seat assembly are short
one lawmaker to support the parliamentary quorum, which is
usually granted by the radical nationalist Attack party. The
opposition Borissov’s Gerb party is short of the needed majority
to pass a no-confidence vote.  Policy Gridlock  The yield on  Bulgaria ’s euro-denominated bonds maturing in
2017 was 2.272 percent at 3:20 p.m. in Sofia today. The cost of
insuring the country’s debt against non-payment for five years
using credit-default swaps fell two basis points to 111.8.  “The main risk stemming from the protests is policy
gridlock because of a stalled parliament,” Otilia Dhand, an
analyst at Teneo Intelligence in  London , said in an e-mailed
note today. “Last night’s clash is likely to exacerbate the
problem as even government MPs are now keen to stay away from
the parliament until the protests recede.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Konstantinova in Sofia at 
 ekonstantino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  