-- Burgundy Wine Area Hit by Hail Pounding Pommard and Volnay
-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 2013-07-24T16:06:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-24/burgundy-wine-region-hit-by-hail-that-trashes-pommard-and-volnay.html
The Burgundy wine region in eastern
 France  was hit by storms yesterday that damaged as much as 90
percent of vines in growing areas including Pommard and Volnay.  Strong winds, rain and hail around 4 p.m. local time ripped
leaves from vines and destroyed grapes, Cecile Mathiaud,
spokeswoman for the  Burgundy Wine Board , said today by phone.
Some vineyards were hit by flooding, she said, adding that it’s
too soon to predict the effect on the grape harvest.  “It’s just misery,” said Jasper Morris, Burgundy director
at wine merchant Berry Bros. & Rudd, which has operated from the
same London store since 1698. “Some people could go out of
business. These guys are working 365 days a year for one harvest
to produce something magical, and in a space of two hours, they
can lose the lot.”  In Burgundy’s  Cote de Beaune  area, vineyards from Meursault
in the south to Savigny-les-Beaune in the north were damaged,
Mathiaud said. The region has France’s most expensive wine real
estate, with some grand cru properties fetching 3.8 million
euros ($5 million) a hectare (2.47 acres), according to the
 Agriculture Ministry .  “If you see the state of some plots, you can say it was
violent,” Mathiaud said. “If the grapes burst open, you can’t
harvest. If leaves are damaged, it depends how many remained to
protect the grapes.”  Frost, Disease  The ministry this month forecast Burgundy and Beaujolais
appellation wine volume would jump 34 percent to 2.31 million
hectolitres (61 million gallons), recovering from a 30 percent
slump last year caused by late frost, hail, disease and poor
fruit set.  Burgundy production last year fell about 20 percent below
average, according to the wine board. The region hasn’t had a
“full-sized” harvest since 2009, said Morris, who was in the
area yesterday when the storms hit.  “For the really sought-after wines, this is going to
maintain extreme pressure on prices,” he said. “It reinforces
the shortage.”  Pommard and northern neighbor Beaune were the worst-hit
appellations, Mathiaud said. Damage affected 30 percent to 70
percent of vines in southern Pommard and 70 percent to 90
percent in the north. In Beaune, 10 percent to 90 percent of
vines were hurt, with no plot left untouched, she said.  “Toward the side of Beaune, it’s to cry about,” Mathiaud
said of Pommard. The Les Epenots premier crus were among the
hardest hit, she said.  Aloxe-Corton  Volnay was “very, very affected,” with 30 percent to 70
percent of vines battered, according to the spokeswoman.
Monthelie suffered damage to 20 percent to 50 percent of its
vineyards, while hail and wind hurt 30 percent to 50 percent of
vines in Aloxe-Corton.  The road between Pommard and Volnay was flooded yesterday
by torrents of mud running from vineyards, winemaker Jean Yves
Devevey wrote on his  blog  today, describing hailstones the size
of marbles and ping-pong balls. He estimated losses in his
Beaune vineyard at 70 percent to 80 percent.  The weather damage will curb earnings for vintners, after
hail pounded the area last year and drought cut production in
2011, Mathiaud said. The Cote de Nuits growing area north of the
city of Beaune was mostly spared, she said.  Thunderstorms may strike again today around 5 p.m., with a
risk of hail, the spokeswoman said, citing  weather forecasts .
The region, with maximum temperatures of about 29 degrees
Celsius (84.2 degrees Fahrenheit) today, had been spared new
storms as of 4 p.m., Meteo France wrote in a  weather alert .  “With this extreme heat, the storms have been building
up,” said Morris at Berry Bros. & Rudd. “We know what happened
yesterday, but there is a likelihood of further storms over the
next 10 to 14 days.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  