-- Business Executives Call Political Giving ‘Pay to Play’
-- B y   J u l i e   B y k o w i c z
-- 2013-07-24T21:42:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-24/business-executives-call-political-giving-pay-to-play-.html
Top U.S. business executives say
major political contributors such as themselves wield too much
political influence.  A new poll of company leaders shows that 75 percent of them
regard political giving as “pay-to-play,” and even more said
they would like the campaign-finance system vastly improved or
completely rewritten.  Almost 90 percent favor limiting how much money
individuals, corporations and outside groups can spend for
political purposes during an election. The survey also found
wide support for a U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission rule
requiring all publicly traded companies to disclose to
shareholders all of their political expenditures  “There’s an impression that there is money being used to
buy politicians, and that therefore they are not beholden to the
electorate but to donors,” said Steve Odland, president and
chief executive officer of the Committee for Economic
Development and a former CEO of  Office Depot Inc. (ODP)   The committee’s online survey of 302 executives was
conducted May 29 to June 3 jointly by Democratic polling firm
Hart Research and Republican pollster American Viewpoint. The
Committee for Economic Development, a nonprofit business policy
group based in Washington, released the survey today as part of
its  push for more disclosure  in campaign finance.  Chamber Objection  The U.S. Chamber of Commerce objected to the survey’s
findings, sending a lawyer to the Committee for Economic
Development’s event today at the National Press Club in
Washington. The business trade group criticized the poll as
unscientific and agenda-driven, invoking the name of a
billionaire Democratic donor whose nonprofit Open Society
Institute has provided funding for CED programs.  “This survey is not representative of the business
community and given that  George Soros  is contributing to the
organization conducting it, the results should not be
surprising,” said Blair Latoff Holmes, a Chamber spokeswoman,
in an e-mailed statement. “The Chamber and its members
understand that the real goal of the so-called disclosure push
is to limit or remove altogether the business voice from the
political and policymaking process.”  CED’s survey of executives was funded by the Omidyar
Network Fund Inc., a nonprofit established by EBay Inc. co-founder Pierre Omidyar and his wife.  2012 Money  Trade groups such as the Chamber are among those that the
CED says are responsible for obscuring money in politics.
Together with unions and nonprofits, groups that don’t disclose
their donors invested more than $335 million in the 2012 federal
elections, according to the Washington-based Center for
Responsive Politics.  The survey of executives found that 86 percent said
transparency in the campaign-finance system isn’t adequate.
Accompanying the poll is a CED report calling for more donor
disclosure.  “Political donors and spenders are finding it increasingly
easy to avoid public scrutiny, as a growing number of
organizations take advantage of porous rules to finance campaign
activity without revealing the sources of their funding,” wrote
Anthony Corrado, project director of CED’s Money in Politics and
a professor of government specializing in campaign finance at
Colby College in Waterville,  Maine .  Distaste for the campaign-finance system bridges Democrats
and Republicans, according to the survey, with 71 percent of
self-identified Democrats and 68 percent of Republicans saying
that major contributors have too much influence on politicians.  SEC Rule  Almost all of the surveyed Democratic executives, as well
as 79 percent of Republican executives, said they would favor an
SEC rule requiring publicly traded companies to disclose
political spending.  Increasingly, companies are voluntarily making that
information public. A September 2012 study by the Washington-based  Center for Political Accountability  found that 45 of 88
companies provide information about their corporate donations,
up from 36 a year earlier.  The Committee for Economic Development’s survey of
executives’ views comes a month after a Sunlight Foundation
report analyzed “elite” donors. That report found that just
0.01 percent of the U.S. population accounted for 28 percent of
the total $6 billion spent in the 2012 elections.  About 16.5 percent of those 31,385 elite donors listed
their occupation as “CEO” or “chairman” of a company,
according to the foundation, a Washington-based group that
advocates for increased government transparency.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Bykowicz in  Washington  at 
 jbykowicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  