-- Can’t Get in at Best Restaurant? Try Adria’s Tapas Bar
-- B y   R i c h a r d   V i n e s
-- 2013-07-24T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-24/can-t-get-in-at-best-restaurant-try-adria-s-tapas-bar.html
“Where to eat in  Barcelona ?” I ask
Ferran Adria, whose Tickets tapas bar is besieged with diners.  “Try my brother’s new place, Pakta,” the former El Bulli
chef says as we finish a dinner at  Das Stue  hotel in Berlin.  Pakta means together, or union, in the Quechua language of
indigenous Peruvians, according to the website. Albert Adria has
brought together two head chefs: Kyoko Li from  Japan  and Jorge
Munoz from  Peru . This is the first place I’ve been where the
names and nationalities of all the chefs and waiters are listed
on the menu.  The decor is simple, with looms of thread adorning the
walls and ceilings. The clean lines are Japanese, the colors
Latin. It’s like a sushi bar that’s taken a holiday in  Latin
America . Staff members, by contrast, are dressed in Khmer Rouge-chic black.  Getting in can be tricky if you don’t have a connection.
The website suggests Sept. 3 for a booking for two at 7:30 p.m.  The choice is between two menus, the Fujiyama (90 euros)
and the longer Machu-Picchu, which is 120 euros for about 20
courses, depending on which snacks you classify as a course.
Matching sakes add another 48 euros, taking my bill to $224.  The food comes in waves. First is a platter of five dishes:
soy-milk yuba (curd) with caviar and dashi-shoyu (soy sauce);
tiger’s eye pickles with salmon and sumiso (miso) sauce; avocado
tofu with salmon roe and wasabi; charcoal-grilled aubergine with
kimizu (sour) sauce; and ocopa of potato with olluco (a root
vegetable) and mentaiko (pollock roe.)  Nobu Taste  Many diners have had a light taste of Peruvian-Japanese
(Nikkei) cuisine at Nobu, where some of chef Nobu Matsuhisa’s
dishes are born out of years he spent in  Lima . At Pakta, the
menus provide a range of ingredients -- many of them unfamiliar
-- and a balance of flavors. The presentation is Japanese.  Langoustine nigiri comes with grilled head and soy foam,
the shellfish there on your plate contemplating the sushi.  Highlights include sea bass ceviche with kumquats, leche de
tigre. This is a colorful dish of yellow, red, orange and green,
with Peruvian corn and micro herbs. The citrus flavors are sharp
and yet harmonic. There’s a meaty suckling pig gyoza with the
acidity of physalis “golden berry” tempura with yuzu salt.  Other standout dishes include red prawn in pine smoke, the
flavors deep and alluring; grilled black cod marinated with
black garlic; and stir-fried tenderloin.  The restaurant only seats 32, which helps explain the
difficulty in getting a table. The quality of the cooking and
the inventiveness of the dishes keep diners coming back, and the
Adria name does no harm. Anywhere Ferran and Albert open is
likely to draw Spanish and international guests alike.  Wine Meeting  My meeting with Adria is at a daylong event (sponsored by
 Castillo Perelada  wines) on July 15 bringing together German
culinary masters with Spanish chefs, such as Joan Roca of El
Celler de Can Roca and Andoni Luis Aduriz of Mugaritz.  Germany  is home to 10 restaurants with three Michelin
stars, a total that is second only to  France  in  Europe . Yet it’s
 Spain ’s establishments that hog the international limelight.  The Germans say their guests tend to be conservative in
their tastes and price-sensitive, which makes it risky to be
avant garde. Chefs are just happy to fill their restaurants.  My meals at Pakta and El Celler de Can Roca, the world’s
current best restaurant winner, show just how high the bar is
set for any chef wanting to match Spain for creative gastronomy.
I don’t see those lines for tables going away, or migrating to
Germany.  The Bloomberg Questions  Cost? My bill, including drinks, was 170.50 euros.  Sound level? Music plays softly, about 70 decibels.  Inside tip? Try for a seat at the counter.  Special feature? Nikkei cuisine.  Will I be back? Yes.  Date place? A great place for a date.  Rating? ***  Pakta, Calla Lleida 5, Barcelona, 08004. Information:
 http://en.pakta.es/  or +34 936 24 01 77.  Sound-Level Chart (in decibels): 65-70: Office noise. 70-75: Starbucks. 75-80: London street. 80-85: Alarm clock at
closest range. 85-90: Passing bus. 85-95: Tube train.  (Richard Vines is the chief food critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . He is U.K. and Ireland
chairman of the World’s 50 Best Restaurants awards. Opinions
expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Jason Harper  on cars,  Rich
Jaroslovsky  on tech,  James Clash  on adventure and  Jeremy Gerard 
on U.S. theater.  To contact the writer on the story:
Richard Vines in Barcelona, Spain, at 
 rvines@bloomberg.net  or  http://twitter.com/Richardvines .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 