-- CP Rail Profit Trails Estimates After Outages, Derailments
-- B y   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o
-- 2013-07-24T20:24:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-24/canadian-pacific-profit-falls-short-of-estimates-after-floods.html
Canadian Pacific Railway Ltd. (CP) 
reported quarterly profit that trailed analysts’ estimates after
floods and derailments interrupted service and curtailed revenue
growth at the country’s second-largest carrier.  Second-quarter net income more than doubled to C$252
million ($245 million) or C$1.43 a share, from C$103 million, or
60 cents, a year earlier, the company said today in a statement.
That fell short of the C$1.50 average estimate, according to
 data  compiled by Bloomberg. Operating ratio, an industry gauge
of efficiency, improved to 71.9 percent from 82.5 percent.  Chief Executive  Hunter Harrison  has cut jobs, closed yards
and run longer and faster trains in the past year in a bid to
rid the company of its status as the least efficient North
American railroad. As productivity increased, the company’s
safety record has deteriorated, with five derailments in the
second quarter. In the latest incident, a bridge buckled June 27
in Calgary after flooding inundated the city, triggering the
derailment of rail cars loaded with petroleum products.  “To say it was a challenging quarter, given the number of
incidents that affected this network, would be an
understatement,” Chief Operating Officer Keith Creel said today
on a conference call with analysts. There was “no commonality
or systemic issues at the root cause” of the incidents, he
said, stressing that derailments weren’t related to efforts by
the company to cut back on assets.  PE Ratio  Canadian Pacific  fell  2.1 percent to C$127.44  at the close
of trading in Toronto. The  shares  have gained 26 percent this
year, as larger rival  Canadian National (CNR)  Railway Co. has advanced
13 percent.  “Operationally things are going quite well, but the stock
is already discounting a substantial improvement in
efficiency,” David Tyerman, an analyst at Canaccord Genuity,
said in a telephone interview from Toronto. “When you’re richly
valued, you have to do everything right all the time, and maybe
this wasn’t right enough for the investment community.”  Tyerman has a hold rating on the stock.  Canadian Pacific’s price-to-earnings  ratio  of 24 is the
second-highest among North America’s six largest publicly traded
railroads, exceeding the industry average of about 19, Bloomberg
data show. Only  Kansas City Southern (KSU) , with a ratio of 32, is
more expensive.  ‘Negative Trend’  Sales (CP)  rose 9.6 percent to C$1.5 billion. Network
disruptions linked to the floods cut revenue growth by about
C$25 million, or 2 percent, Canadian Pacific said. Revenue for
each ton of freight carried a mile, an industry benchmark,
dropped about 1 percent.  “This is the second consecutive quarter in which CP has
posted lower yields and this negative trend raises questions
about the long-term sustainability of top-line growth,”  Walter Spracklin , a Royal Bank of Canada analyst in Toronto, said in a
note to clients. He rates the shares underperform.  Harrison today reaffirmed a full-year forecast that calls
for “high-single digit” revenue growth in 2013, a jump of more
than 40 percent in diluted per-share earnings and an operating
ratio “in the low 70s.”  Still, Canadian Pacific’s operating ratio remains the worst
among the six Class 1 North American railroads that have
reported second-quarter results. Canadian National fared best,
with a 60.9 ratio. The industry average was 67.7.  Cost Savings  Executives identified more than C$100 million in potential
annual savings through a review of operations during the second
quarter, Creel said.  Earnings in the latest period included more than C$30
million in so-called casualty costs stemming from incidents,
Chief Financial Officer Brian Grassby said. That’s almost double
the recent quarterly average, he said.  Average train speed rose 2 percent in the quarter while
terminal dwell time, the length of time rail cars sit idle in
yards, shrank 11 percent, according to a  filing  on the Canadian
Pacific website. Train accidents jumped 24 percent to an average
of 1.78 per million train-miles, Canadian Pacific said.  The railroad hasn’t reduced the number of employees who
inspect its tracks, or its inspection standards, Creel said.
Canadian Pacific wants to be the safest railway in North
America, he said.  Canadian Pacific had a total workforce of 16,053 at the end
of the quarter, 18 percent fewer than a year earlier. The figure
will probably drop to about 15,500 by the end of 2013, the
company said in a  slide presentation  on its website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frederic Tomesco in Montreal at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  