-- Canadian Dollar Snaps Four-Day Rally as Risk Appetite Wanes
-- B y   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r
-- 2013-07-24T21:17:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-24/canadian-dollar-snaps-four-day-rally-as-risk-appetite-wanes.html
The Canadian dollar fell for the
first time in five days as crude oil, the country’s largest
export, fell along with commodities and equities as sentiment
turned against riskier assets.  The currency weakened from a one-month high as oil and the
 Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Index (SPTSX)  of Canadian stocks had
their biggest loss on a closing basis in a month. It rose
earlier after a report yesterday showed sales in May increased
1.9 percent, almost double the highest forecast in a Bloomberg
survey of 20 economists, which had a median projection of 0.4
percent. The Bank of  Canada  sold two-year debt at a yield of
1.230 percent.  “Some of the real fast money had gotten short dollar/CAD
and short on a couple of other axes too, and with equities
selling off, with bonds selling off, with sovereigns in  Europe 
selling off people just liquidated those short-term positions,”
said  Greg Anderson , head of global foreign-exchange strategy at
Bank of  Montreal . “We just put in the bottom in dollar/CAD and
I’d be long dollars and short CAD here.” A short position is a
bet that an asset will decline in value.  The loonie, as the Canadian dollar is known, fell 0.3
percent to C$1.0316 per U.S. dollar at 5:12 p.m. in Toronto. It
earlier strengthened as much as 0.2 percent to C$1.0263, the
highest since June 19. One loonie buys 96.94 U.S. cents.  The currency briefly traded stronger than its 100-day
moving average of C$1.0268 per U.S. dollar for the first time in
a month.  Bonds Fall  Canada’s benchmark 10-year government  bonds  fell, with
yields rising seven basis points, or 0.07 percentage point, to
2.48 percent. The 1.5 percent security maturing in June 2023
lost 60 cents to C$91.51.  Canada’s auction of C$3.3 billion ($3.2 billion) of debt
due in November 2015 with a coupon of 1 percent had a bid-to-cover ratio of 2.595 times, the lowest ratio since February,
according to  Bank of Canada  data.  Futures on crude oil, Canada’s largest export, fell 1.8
percent to $105.34 per barrel after earlier reaching the biggest
decline in a month. The discount for Canadian heavy oil compared
with U.S. benchmarks was $21.25, almost the lowest since May 10.  The Standard & Poor’s Index of  U.S. stocks  declined 0.4
percent and SP/TSX’s 0.6 percent drop was the most on a closing
basis since June 24.  American Economy  Sales of new U.S. homes rose in June to the highest level
in five years, pointing to gains in residential construction
that will support the economic expansion in the second half of
the year.  Purchases (NHSLTOT)  climbed 8.3 percent to an annualized pace of
497,000 homes, the highest level since May 2008, the Commerce
Department said today in  Washington . The median estimate of 77
economists surveyed by Bloomberg called for a gain to 484,000.  “The market is very much undecided on the strength of the
 U.S. economy  so even when we get these second-tier indicators,
like the numbers we had today, you get this outsized reaction,”
said Adam Button, a currency analyst at forexlive.com, by phone
from Montreal. “It’s very much a U.S. dollar-driven market. For
the last two weeks the  U.S. dollar  has been in the driver’s seat
and every other currency has been along for the ride.  The cost to insure against declines in the Canadian dollar
versus its U.S. peer rose after touching its lowest point in
almost two months yesterday. The three-month so-called 25-delta
risk reversal rate reached 1.1875 percent. It touched 1.1150
yesterday, the lowest since May 5. Risk reversals measure the
premium on options contracts to sell Canadian dollars versus
buying U.S. contracts that do the opposite.  Fund Flows  The loonie, which had rallied since reaching an almost two-year low on July 5, has benefitted from the strongest
international inflows of all developed market currencies into
Canada’s stocks and bonds, Samarjit Shankar, a senior currency
strategist at the Bank of  New York  Mellon Corp. wrote in a note
to clients.  Flow data shows Canadian debt has benefitted from a
recently installed central bank governor who has pushed back
expectations of higher rates as portfolio managers and central
banks search for shelter from volatility in the U.S. Treasury
market, Shankar wrote.  The Canadian dollar has risen 1.2 percent in the past month
against nine other developed nation currencies tracked by the
Bloomberg Correlation Weighted Index. The U.S. dollar has lost 1
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Altstedter in Toronto at 
 aaltstedter@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  