-- Cases Against Steven Cohen, SAC Won’t Be a Slam Dunk
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   W e i l
-- 2013-07-24T20:12:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-24/cases-against-steven-cohen-sac-won-t-be-a-slam-dunk.html
Keep this in mind when it comes to
the latest allegations against  Steven A. Cohen  and his hedge
fund, SAC Capital Advisors LP: There are few easy wins for the
government in high-profile trials of white-collar defendants.  This doesn’t mean that SAC Capital would survive a federal
indictment. History tells us it probably can’t; no major U.S.
financial-services firm has before. Prosecutors are expected to
unveil criminal charges against SAC, but not Cohen, in coming
days, according to  news reports .  Separately, the Securities and Exchange Commission’s
enforcement division last week filed an administrative
proceeding accusing Cohen of failing to supervise properly two
employees now facing criminal insider-trading charges. Both
people, Michael Steinberg and Mathew Martoma, have pleaded not
guilty. If Cohen loses, he could be banned from managing other
investors’ money.  Two old cases immediately come to mind. One is the 2002
 trial  of accounting firm Arthur Andersen LLP over a felony
obstruction-of-justice count related to its audit work for Enron
Corp., the bankrupt energy trader. The other is a 1992
settlement between the SEC and  John Gutfreund , the former
chairman and chief executive officer of the Wall Street
brokerage Salomon Brothers Inc., who, like Cohen, was accused of
supervision failures.  On paper, the Andersen trial should have been a slam dunk.
The government had someone who seemed to be the ultimate
cooperating witness, David Duncan, the lead partner on
Andersen’s audits for Enron. He pleaded guilty to obstruction of
justice before Andersen’s trial began. Because his conduct could
be imputed to the firm, his plea by itself should have been
enough to convict Andersen -- as long as the jury believed him
when he testified that he indeed was guilty.  Witness Stand  On the witness stand, however, Duncan was a dud. He could
remember only one document he had arranged to be destroyed. And
he came across like someone who had cut a deal to avoid
prosecution for more serious crimes such as accounting fraud.
The jury deliberated for 10 days before reaching its verdict.
Some jurors later said they disregarded Duncan’s testimony and
based their conviction on other evidence. Three years later, the
U.S. Supreme Court  overturned  Andersen’s conviction because of
faulty jury instructions (by which point the firm was out of
business) and Duncan was allowed to withdraw his guilty plea.  Similarly, winning a guilty verdict against SAC for  insider
trading  should be simple -- in theory. Consider Jon Horvath, a
former SAC employee who admitted to passing illegal tips from
insiders at Dell Inc. and Nvidia Corp. to his portfolio manager
at SAC. His offenses should be attributable to the firm. Still,
you never know how strong a witness he would make until he takes
the stand, or if defense attorneys might be able to convince a
jury that he is unreliable.  Gutfreund’s SEC  proceedings  over supervision failures make
for an interesting comparison with the SEC’s claims against
Cohen. That case was far stronger and more clear-cut than the
allegations filed last week against Cohen.  In 1991, Gutfreund and two other senior executives were
told by underlings that Salomon’s head of government-bond
trading, Paul Mozer, had submitted a false bid in a U.S.
Treasury auction. Gutfreund agreed to report the matter to the
government. However, he took no action for months, which was a
big mistake, because Mozer did the same thing twice more. In the
end, Mozer got a short prison stay. As for Gutfreund, he paid a
$100,000 fine and was barred from serving as the CEO or chairman
of a broker-dealer.  By comparison, the SEC’s enforcement division didn’t allege
that Cohen knew about insider trading at his firm and stayed
mum. Rather, they accused him of disregarding “red flags.”
Cohen’s lawyers will have plenty of material to work with as
they prepare their defense.  Warning Sign  For example, one of the supposed warning signs was an Aug.
26, 2008, e-mail by Horvath that was forwarded to Cohen by a
different SAC employee. It said he had a “2nd hand read from
someone at the company” who was seeing a gross margins miss by
50-80 basis points. The company was Dell.  In a memo to employees this week, Cohen’s lawyers said
Cohen didn’t read the e-mail, one of about 1,000 he received
daily. Plus, the information was wrong. When Dell released its
quarterly results two days later, its gross margins fell short
of analysts’ estimates by 110 basis points (a fact that I was
able to corroborate from news articles that day). Even if Cohen
had read the e-mail, it was far from obvious that the source had
breached any fiduciary duty to the company.  If the  Justice Department  goes through with an  indictment 
and takes SAC to trial, it will have a lot of explaining to do
as well. At a  conference  last week,  Preet Bharara , the U.S.
attorney for the Southern District of  New York , told CNBC’s  Jim Cramer  that “I don’t think anyone is too big to indict” and that
“no one is too big to jail.”  An indictment of SAC Capital, which has about $15 billion
of assets under management, would do nothing to buttress this
assertion. The Justice Department will need to clearly explain
once and for all how it justifies giving deferred-prosecution or
non-prosecution agreements to large financial institutions such
as  JPMorgan Chase & Co. ,  UBS AG  and  Deutsche Bank AG  -- but not
SAC Capital, especially when it couldn’t find a criminal case to
bring against its owner.  ( Jonathan Weil  is a Bloomberg View columnist.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Jonathan Weil in New York at 
 jweil6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net . 