-- Caterpillar Cuts Forecast as Mining Equipment Demand Drops
-- B y   S h r u t i   D a t e   S i n g h
-- 2013-07-24T20:14:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-24/caterpillar-cuts-forecast-as-profit-misses-estimates-on-mining.html
Caterpillar Inc. (CAT)  cut its earnings
forecast and posted profit that trailed analysts’ estimates for
a third straight quarter as mining-equipment sales declined on
slower commodity demand from  emerging markets .  Earnings in 2013 will be about $6.50 a share on sales of
$56 billion to $58 billion, the Peoria, Illinois-based company
said today in a statement. That’s lower than analysts’ estimates
and down from the company’s April projection of about $7 a share
on revenue of $57 billion to $61 billion.  Second-quarter net income fell to $1.45 a share, missing
the $1.68 average of 19 estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Caterpillar, the largest manufacturer of mining and
construction machinery, saw sales fall the fastest in the Asia-Pacific region during the quarter as mining companies cut
spending in  Australia , the No. 1 exporter of  iron ore  and the
second-biggest shipper of coal. With economic growth slowing in
 China , some of Caterpillar’s commodity-producing customers such
as  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  and Rio Tinto Group are cutting billions of
dollars from their budgets.  “A lot of mining majors live in Australia and produce a
lot of material,”  Matt Arnold , a St. Louis-based analyst for
 Edward Jones  who has a hold rating on Caterpillar, said in an
interview today. “Emerging-market demand slowing weighs on
exports and they are dialing back on spending.”  Currency Moves  Caterpillar dropped 2.4 percent to $83.44 at close in  New
York . The shares have declined 6.9 percent this year.  Second-quarter net income dropped to $960 million from $1.7
billion, or $2.54 a share, a year earlier. Caterpillar said
“unfavorable” foreign currency moves reduced profit by $120
million, offset by a $135 million gain from a settlement with
the previous owners of Zhengzhou Siwei Mechanical & Electrical
Manufacturing Co. in China.  Sales fell 16 percent to $14.6 billion, less than the $14.9
billion average of 16 estimates. Analysts saw 2013 profit of
$6.81 a share on sales of $58.6 billion.  Under Chairman and Chief Executive Officer  Doug Oberhelman ,
Caterpillar expanded in mining through acquisitions over the
past two years, making its resource-industries unit the
company’s largest segment by revenue last year. The company got
37 percent of its sales from  North America  in 2012, 26 percent
from Asia-Pacific and 14 percent from  Latin America .  Power systems, which includes engines, turbines and
locomotives, is the biggest segment by sales and profit this
year.  ‘Wrong Products’  A commodities supercycle, or longer-than-average period of
rising prices, is coming to an end and Caterpillar “is tied to
the wrong products at the wrong time in the cycle,” Jim Chanos
said July 17. Chanos, the founder and president of Kynikos
Associates Ltd. who predicted the collapse of Enron Corp. in
2001, said he’s shorting Caterpillar.  Caterpillar today lowered its outlook for global growth in
2013 to a little over 2 percent, a slower rate than last year.  The company’s machinery retail sales reported by dealers
fell 8 percent globally in the quarter, according to a filing
yesterday. The Asia-Pacific region posted a 21 percent decline.  While sales decreased in all segments, the most significant
drop was in resource industries, with revenue down 34 percent
due to dealer inventory reductions and weaker demand in mining.  Inventory Decline  Sales and profit in the second quarter were hurt by dealers
reducing inventory by $1 billion, more than Caterpillar
previously expected,Oberhelman said in the statement. Dealer
machine inventory is expected to decline about $1.5 billion to
$2 billion in the second half and end the year about $3.5
billion lower than year-end 2012, he said.  “That means that we are underselling end-user demand this
year, and it sets us up for better sales in 2014,” Oberhelman
said.  Caterpillar will take additional steps to cut costs in the
second half of 2013, following the production cuts and temporary
lay offs that were implemented in the past few quarters,
Corporate Controller  Mike DeWalt  said on a call with analysts
today.  The company repurchased $1 billion of stock in the second
quarter and said today it expects to buy back an additional $1
billion of shares in the third quarter.  Caterpillar bet on mining with its acquisition of Bucyrus
International Inc. for $8.8 billion in 2011 and ERA Mining
Machinery Ltd. in China for about HK$5 billion ($640 million)
last year.  Caterpillar took a $580 million goodwill writedown in the
fourth quarter after discovering what it called accounting
“misconduct” at Siwei, which is part of ERA.  Mining capital spending will drop 11 percent this year and
14 percent next year, based on estimates from the 40 largest
global mining companies,  Stephen Volkmann , a New York-based
analyst for Jefferies & Co., said in an interview last week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shruti Date Singh in Chicago at 
 ssingh28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  