-- CFTC Skips Votes, Bitcoin Ponzi, SAC E-Mail: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2013-07-24T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-24/cftc-skips-votes-bitcoin-ponzi-sac-e-mail-compliance.html
Enforcement lawyers at the U.S.
Commodity Futures Trading Commission have circumvented formal
agency votes to begin investigations unilaterally, according to
 Scott O’Malia , a Republican member of the commission.  The lawyers at the top U.S. derivatives regulator are using
a summary process that doesn’t require a vote by the agency’s
members who are confirmed by the Senate, O’Malia said in
testimony at a House Agriculture Committee hearing yesterday.  The agency’s enforcement process “is a clear abrogation of
the commission’s powers and a violation of commission rules
relating to investigations,” O’Malia said in prepared remarks.  The CFTC’s enforcement division has begun using new Dodd-Frank Act authorities to oversee swaps and futures markets,
while bringing a series of recent enforcement cases to ensure
customer funds are adequately protected.  At the Securities and Exchange Commission, attorneys
previously required approval to open formal investigations and
issue subpoenas. When Mary Schapiro took over the agency’s helm
in 2009, she delegated subpoena authority to the enforcement
division, saying the approval process unnecessarily slowed
investigations.  Bart Chilton, one of three Democratic members of the CFTC,
said the enforcement division’s policy is long-standing.
Representative Frank D. Lucas, the Oklahoma Republican who leads
the agriculture panel, said he was concerned by the CFTC’s
enforcement process. “The requirement to vote on key actions
should not be disregarded,” Lucas said at the hearing.  Compliance Policy  Congress Must Rein in Banks’ Commodity Business, Rosner Says  The  U.S. Congress  should rein in banks’ ability to own and
trade raw materials or risk another financial collapse,  Joshua
Rosner  of  Graham Fisher & Co.  said at a Senate subcommittee
hearing yesterday.  The  Federal Reserve  said last week that it’s reviewing a
decade-old ruling that lets banks deal in physical assets like
metal and oil, potentially putting commodity units of  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM) , Morgan Stanley and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  in
jeopardy. A Senate Banking Committee subcommittee yesterday
considered whether laws and regulations that have allowed banks
to own, store and transport raw materials are hurting
competition and endangering the financial system.  The panel is led by U.S. Senator  Sherrod Brown , an Ohio
Democrat, who is among lawmakers and regulators who say banks
can drive up prices when they control both the physical products
and the financing. Senator  Jeff Merkley , an Oregon Democrat,
said the arrangement may allow banks to “put a thumb on the
scale” to influence supply and demand, and bet accordingly.  Banks and regulators probably will be called to testify at
a second hearing on their role in the commodities industry and
the Federal Reserve will need to be “more forthcoming,” said
Brown. A new hearing might occur in September, and he wants
banks, the Fed and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission to
testify, Brown said.  Banks may get an unfair advantage because they can fund
themselves from the Fed and insured deposits, according to some
of  yesterday’s witnesses , and Brown said he’s concerned that
lenders may be put at risk when volatile commodity markets move
against them or disaster strikes one of their operations.  For more, click here, and see Interviews, below.  Compliance Action  SAC Says Cohen Has No Recollection of Dell E-Mail Cited by SEC  Steve Cohen  doesn’t recall reading an e-mail on Dell Inc.
that was cited by the Securities and Exchange Commission as
evidence that that the founder of SAC Capital Advisors LP failed
to supervise his employees, according to a report given to the
firm’s employees July 22.  While Cohen sold his stake in Dell after being forwarded
the e-mail, evidence suggests he did so because a portfolio
manager started selling the stock, SAC said in a 45-page paper
that refutes many of the facts outlined in the SEC’s
administrative order filed last week against the 57-year-old
billionaire. There’s no evidence Cohen ever read the
communication, according to the paper.  The refutation, posted on SAC’s internal website,
illustrates Cohen’s efforts to keep his employees calm while
fighting the SEC’s allegations -- the government’s first against
him personally -- and its efforts to close down his $15 billion
hedge fund. Cohen was accused of ignoring red flags in trades
conducted by two portfolio managers, Mathew Martoma and Michael
Steinberg, who have both been charged with securities fraud. The
report stated that at that time, Cohen only opened about 11
percent of his messages. SAC argues that even if Cohen had read
the e-mail, the SAC report also says there were no “red
flags.”  Martoma, 39, was arrested in November for alleged insider
trading in Elan Corp. and Wyeth. Steinberg was arrested in March
for trading in Dell and Nvidia Corp. Martoma and Steinberg, 41,
have pleaded not guilty.  The SEC said in last week’s order that Cohen received a tip
about Dell that was forwarded to him by Steinberg, and that he
traded immediately afterward.  For more, click here.  Bitcoin Ponzi Scheme Alleged by SEC in Lawsuit Against Texas Man  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission sued a Texas
man over claims he operated a Ponzi scheme involving Bitcoin,
the virtual currency that has recently attracted investors
including Tyler and Cameron Winklevoss.  Trendon T. Shavers raised at least 700,000 Bitcoin starting
no later than September 2011 through his firm Bitcoin Savings &
Trust and improperly used currency from new investors to cover
investor withdrawals, the SEC said in a complaint filed
yesterday in federal court in Texas.  Shavers falsely promised investors as much as 7 percent
interest weekly on purported trades, including selling the
online currency to individuals who wished to buy it “off the
radar,” quickly or in large quantities, the SEC said. Shavers
also misappropriated investors’ funds for his personal use,
according to the complaint.  The SEC said the 700,000 Bitcoin that Shavers raised
amounted to more than $4.5 million, based on the average price
of Bitcoin in 2011 and 2012 when the investments were offered
and sold. Today, the value of 700,000 Bitcoin exceeds $60
million, the SEC said.  Bitcoin is a virtual currency created four years ago that
can be used to buy and sell a broad array of items, both legal
and illegal. The Winkelvoss brothers offered 1 million shares in
a trust that would track the price of Bitcoins, according to a
filing with the SEC.  No attorney was listed by the SEC. A phone call to a number
listed to Shavers wasn’t immediately returned.  Courts  Former ArthroCare Official Pleads Guilty to Securities Fraud  John Raffle, 45, a former  ArthroCare Corp. (ARTC)  senior
executive, pleaded guilty for his role in a $400 million scheme
to defraud investors in the maker of surgical products.  Raffle, who was a senior vice president of Strategic
Business Units at Austin, Texas-based ArthroCare, pleaded guilty
in June to one count of conspiracy to commit securities, mail
and wire fraud and two counts of making false statements. His
plea was unsealed yesterday, the U.S. Justice Department said.  He “admitted that he and other co-conspirators falsely
inflated ArthroCare’s sales and revenue through end-of-quarter
transactions involving ArthroCare’s distributors,” the
department said in a statement. Raffle faces a maximum of five
years in prison for each count, the government said.  Three other company officers were indicted last week on
charges they falsely inflated revenue. A fourth former
executive, David Applegate, pleaded guilty in May to two counts
of fraud.  The case is U.S. v. Raffle, 12-cr-00314, U.S. District
Court, Western District of Texas (Austin).  Interviews  Guynn Says Banking, Commodities Connection Not New  Randall Guynn, head of the financial institutions group at
law firm  Davis Polk & Wardwell LLP , says the connection between
banking and commodities is “not a new development” and has
“very ancient roots.”  Guynn testified before a Senate Banking subcommittee in
Washington yesterday.  For the video, click here and for more, see Compliance
Policy, above.  Robertson Sees ‘Tougher’ Competition Among Hedge Funds  Julian Robertson , founder and chief executive officer of
Tiger Management LLC, and Nehal Chopra, founder of Tiger Ratan
Capital, talked about the hedge-fund industry and investment
strategy.  They spoke with  Tom Keene  and Scarlet Fu on Bloomberg
Television’s “Surveillance.”  For the video, click here.  Douglas Burns, Bloomberg’s Burton Discuss SAC’s Cohen  Douglas Burns, an attorney and former federal prosecutor,
and Bloomberg News reporter Katherine Burton discussed the
Security and Exchange Commission’s administrative action against
 Steven Cohen , the owner of SAC Capital Advisors LP. Burns and
Burton talked with Bloomberg’s Pimm Fox and  Carol Massar  on
 Bloomberg Radio ’s “Taking Stock” on July 22nd.  For the audio, click here.  Comings and Goings  Ex-SEC Enforcement Chief Khuzami Joins Kirkland & Ellis Law Firm  Robert Khuzami , the former head of enforcement at the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission, is joining Kirkland & Ellis
LLP.  Mark Filip, a partner in charge of Kirkland’s government
enforcement defense and internal investigations, said Khuzami
will help immediately in securities enforcement defense,
advising boards and companies and counseling financial
institutions on securities regulations. He will complement the
firm’s general white-collar, internal investigations, and
private class-action securities practices, Filip said July 22 in
an interview.  Khuzami, 56, will be joined by  Kenneth Lench , who served as
one of his lieutenants at the SEC and headed a unit that
scrutinizes financial instruments such as mortgage-backed
securities and collateralized-debt obligations, Filip said.  Khuzami, a former federal prosecutor and top lawyer at
Deutsche Bank AG, took over the SEC’s enforcement division in
2009 under  Mary Schapiro . He carried out the biggest shakeup in
the enforcement unit’s history, eliminating management layers,
expanding investigators’ powers and creating five specialized
units to police  Wall Street .  He held the position for about four years before stepping
down and was replaced in February by his deputy, George
Canellos.  Under Khuzami, the SEC filed more than 150 cases related to
the financial meltdown, including 65 actions against senior
corporate officers, the agency said in January.  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in  New York  at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  