-- China to Punish Hospital Staff as Kickback Crackdown Widens
-- B y   N a t a s h a   K h a n
-- 2013-07-24T07:06:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-24/china-to-punish-hospital-staff-for-kickbacks-as-crackdown-widens.html
China  will punish 39 hospital
employees for taking illegal kickbacks from drugmakers amid a
widening investigation of corruption in the country’s $350
billion health-care market.  The hospital staff received inducements totaling 2.82
million yuan ($460,000) from two pharmaceutical companies
between January 2010 and December 2012, China’s official Xinhua
news agency reported yesterday, citing the  National Health and
Family Planning Commission .  Regulators will “severely crack down” on fake
medications, forged documents and bribery, the China Food and
Drug Administration said last week. China’s efforts to clean up
its health-care market have included an investigation of
 GlaxoSmithKline Plc. (GSK) , the U.K.’s biggest drugmaker.  “This is another step forward as the government progresses
in its medical reform plan,” said Jason Siu, a health-care
analyst with RHB OSK Securities Hong Kong Ltd. “They’ve spent
more than 800 billion  yuan  on health care since 2009 and they’re
trying to streamline their procurement and subsidy costs.”  China’s government budgeted 850 billion yuan in April 2009
for a health-care overhaul to reduce the costs of essential
drugs and provide more than 90 percent of the population with
basic health insurance. Spending in the three years since then
had exceeded 1.1 trillion yuan, Xinhua  reported  in March 2012.  Union Chairman  In the crackdown on the hospital workers, nine doctors who
directly received kickbacks were dismissed, suspended or had
their licenses revoked, according to the report. Cases involving
the vice chairman of the hospital’s trade union, along with two
people in charge of two pharmaceutical companies involved, have
been transferred to the judicial system for handling, Xinhua
reported, without identifying the drugmakers.  Glaxo faces allegations it traded in sexual favors and had
spurious travel and meeting expenses amounting to 3 billion
yuan, the ministry said last week.  Bribery was one of the main reasons drug prices were at a
falsely high level in China, Gao Feng, head of the economic
crimes investigations unit of the Public Security Ministry, said
at a briefing on July 15.  Abbas Hussain, Glaxo’s head of  emerging markets , said after
meeting with government officials in Beijing that some employees
may have broken China’s laws. He pledged to make corporate
changes that will deliver cheaper medicines, according to an e-mailed statement from the company dated July 21.  AstraZeneca Plc (AZN) , the U.K.’s biggest drugmaker after Glaxo,
said July 22 that an employee was the focus of a “local police
matter” in  Shanghai . There’s “no reason” to believe the
individual case is related to any other investigations, the
London-based drugmaker said.  An AstraZeneca employee in Shanghai is under police
investigation on suspicion of hacking into computer systems, the
official People’s Daily reported today. Three messages left
today at the public relations department of the company’s China
offices weren’t returned.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natasha Khan in  Hong Kong  at 
 nkhan51@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net  