-- China’s Stocks Fall on Unexpected Drop by Manufacturing
-- B y   W e i y i   L i m
-- 2013-07-24T07:36:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-24/china-stock-futures-fall-before-preliminary-manufacturing-index.html
China’s stocks  fell, dragging the
benchmark index lower for the first time in three days, as an
unexpected drop in a preliminary manufacturing index boosted
concern the economic slowdown is deepening.  Jiangxi Copper Co. and China Petroleum and Chemical Corp.
led  declines  for metal and energy companies. China  Merchants
Bank  Co. slid 1.5 percent after its rights offering was
approved. Film company  Huayi Brothers Media Corp. (300027)  jumped 10
percent after it announced plans to acquire a mobile gaming
company and Citic Securities Co. boosted its profit estimates.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  fell 0.5 percent to 2,033.33
at the close. The preliminary reading of 47.7 for a  Purchasing
Managers ’ Index released by HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit
Economics compares with the 48.2 median estimate in a Bloomberg
News survey of 19 economists. The report adds to concerns about
the outlook for the economy after money-market rates jumped to
record highs last month.  “The bad PMI data is proving that the economy is declining
further and there are worries that company profits may retreat
too,” Zhang Haidong, an analyst at Tebon Securities Co., said
by phone from  Shanghai . “It seems the government is persistent
in not changing its monetary policy and this will drag the
market lower amid tight liquidity and economic weakness.”  The CSI 300 Index retreated 0.7 percent to 2,249.15. The
 Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of Chinese companies traded in
 Hong Kong  lost 0.3 percent. The ChiNext index of small companies
jumped for a third day, gaining 2.1 percent. The Bloomberg
China-US Equity Index added 1.7 percent yesterday.  Trading volumes on the Shanghai Composite climbed 12
percent from the 30-day average, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The index has fallen 10 percent this year, compared
with an 8 percent drop for the MSCI Emerging-Markets Index.  Flash PMI  China’s manufacturing weakened further in July, signaling
the worst of the nation’s slowdown has yet to be reached,
according to the HSBC report. The reading was less than June’s
48.2 and if confirmed in the final report Aug. 1, would be the
lowest in 11 months. Readings below 50 indicate contraction.  “The key thing now is confidence,”  Qu Hongbin , HSBC’s
chief China economist in Hong Kong, said on Bloomberg
Television. “The confidence now is pretty weak both in the
financial market and the corporate sector.”  A gauge of  material companies  in the CSI 300 dropped 1.1
percent. Jiangxi Copper slid 1.4 percent to 15.76. Tongling
Nonferrous Metals Group Co. plunged 2.4 percent to 10.91 yuan.
Copper for delivery in three months fell as much as 0.8 percent
to $6,986 a metric ton on the London Metal Exchange.  Banks Drop  The financial  sub-index  including banks and developers fell
the most among the industry groups, retreating 1.7 percent.
China Merchants Bank lost 1.5 percent to 10.90 yuan. The bank
received approval from China Securities Regulatory Commission to
sell 3.07 billion A shares in its rights offer.  Ping An Bank Co. slumped 2 percent to 9.76  yuan  after
gaining 5.7 percent yesterday. China Vanke Co., the biggest
developer, slid 2.9 percent after jumping 4.6 percent yesterday.  Chinese lenders may follow China Merchants Bank in rights
offerings, leading to excessive share supply and dragging down
the overall stock market, analyst Ni Jun of Shenyin & Wanguo
Securities Co. wrote in a report today. The government has
halted approvals for IPOs since October to support equities.  The Ministry of Finance sold at least 30 billion yuan ($4.9
billion) of five-year bonds at an average yield of 3.7 percent,
the highest since August 2011, amid speculation demand
waned as the supply of cash tightened.  China Petroleum, known as Sinopec, paced declines for
energy producers, retreating 1.1 percent to 4.43 yuan.  China 
Shenhua Energy Co., the biggest coal producer, slid 1.9 percent
to 15.91 yuan.  Smallcaps Jump  Huayi Brothers rose 2.86 yuan to 21.41 yuan, the biggest
gain since October 2009. Citic Securities boosted Huayi’s 2013
earnings per-share estimate by 19 percent after it announced
plans to buy Yinhan Technology. Aisino Co. led a rally for
technology shares, gaining 9.9 percent to 16.85 yuan.  Chinese technology and consumer stocks will be the top
performers in next 12 months, while financial and material
companies remain the least favored, Morgan Stanley analysts led
by Martin Yule wrote in a report yesterday, citing a survey of
investors.  China banned government and Communist Party agencies from
constructing new buildings for five years and told them to
suspend projects that have already won approval as the country
seeks to cut wasteful spending.  The ban includes construction for purposes of training,
meetings and accommodation, the government said in a statement
on its website yesterday, calling for resources to be spent
instead on developing the economy and improving public welfare.  Zhejiang Yasha Decoration Co., which provides decorating
services for large infrastructure projects, slumped 5.4 percent
to 26.21 yuan in Shenzhen, adding to an 15 percent loss this
month.  -- Editors: Allen Wan, Richard Frost  To contact the reporter on this story:
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Michael Patterson  at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net  