-- Chinese Not Impressed by World’s Future Tallest Building
-- B y   A d a m   M i n t e r
-- 2013-07-24T00:46:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-24/chinese-not-impressed-by-world-s-future-tallest-building.html
As recently  as July 1 , cattle
apparently grazed in the fields intended for the world’s tallest
skyscraper in the rural outskirts of Changsha, in  China ’s Hunan
province. That wasn’t the original plan:  Sky City , as the
concept is known, was  scheduled for completion  earlier this year
after a mere  90 days of construction .  Understandably, few people inside or outside China believed
such a deadline was possible. It wasn’t. Work never even started
on the project, which was  delayed in part  by the government-approval process.  So on Saturday afternoon, when  Zhang Yue  -- chairman of the
Changsha-based  Broad Group , which is developing Sky City and,
for what it’s worth,  owns a pyramid  in the Hunanese countryside
--  touched down  on the alleged construction site in his
helicopter, reporters and microbloggers took notice. The
occasion was the long-delayed Sky City groundbreaking, and Zhang
made up for his own 10 minutes of tardiness with a dash across
the fields to the podium for his big announcement.  The  building , he explained, will be built from
prefabricated steel and concrete modules, and will rise 202
stories. That will make it 838 meters (2,749 feet) high, as
previously planned -- 10 meters higher than Dubai’s  Burj
Khalifa , the world’s current tallest building. It will  come
complete  with malls, residences, schools, a hotel, a hospital
and a vertical garden sufficient to feed 30,000 residents. It
will also be capable of sustaining a magnitude-9 earthquake.
Sky City, July 2013 edition, will apparently require a modest
nine months and 5.25 billion  renminbi  (roughly $850 million) to
complete.  Burj Khalifa   took  five years and $1.5 billion. But if
any developer deserves the benefit of the doubt when it comes to
cost and timetables, it might be Zhang: Last year, his company
built a prefabricated  30-story hotel in 15 days . Sky City will
be built using the same energy-saving methods.  Despite the project’s ambition and its  potential to be a
model  of fast, sustainable development, it has met with quite a
bit of skepticism. This is to be expected: The current  Chinese
economic slowdown , combined with a host of  empty mega shopping
malls  and newly built “ ghost towns ,” has sapped the public’s
taste for ostentation on the part of real-estate developers
(many of whom are widely presumed to have unsavory connections
to local government officials).  On Sina Weibo, China’s most popular microblogging platform,
such skepticism has at times turned in an apocalyptic direction.
On Sunday, Jiang Ruxiang, a Beijing-based  management consultant 
and frequent commentator on economic and business issues for
Chinese television, offered this  over-the-top message : “An
economic crisis is coming! 838 meters tall, 5.25 billion  yuan !
Offices on the 6th to 15th floors, apartments of different sizes
on the 16th to 170th floors. Hotels on the 171st to 202nd
floors. U.S., Japan and Dubai all built ‘tallest’ buildings
before their economic crises. China is not an exception. Take
care, Chinese companies! Economic crisis is coming!”  Jiang may not be an irrefutable scholar of architectural
history, but his general point has been floating around Chinese
newspapers and social media for weeks, as rumors of Sky City’s
resuscitation circulated. On June 10, journalist Chen Zhilong,
more negative than most, went so far as to  post on Sina Weibo 
that Chinese history has been dogged by a “magnificent buildings
curse,” whereby the construction of grand works like the Great
Wall spurred human resentment and divine retribution. “As
offspring, we mourn the collapse of a dynasty, but never learn
from it,” he wrote.  China’s  newspaper commentators  -- many of whom write for
Communist Party-owned venues -- aren’t quite ready to cite Sky
City as evidence that the country is due for divine retribution.
They also don’t exactly share Zhang’s enthusiasm for skyscraper
innovation. This is somewhat new: For years, China’s news media
have been slavish boosters of the country’s pursuit of bigger
and faster (if not better)  infrastructure ,  buildings  and  events ,
uncritically promoting them as symbols of the country’s economic
and diplomatic ascendance. The privately developed Sky City
hasn’t enjoyed such praise.  Rather, the project appears to have become a convenient
symbol of everything wrong with China’s pursuit of  international
recognition  at the expense of more sensible development. On
Sunday, the official Weibo account of People’s Daily, the
mouthpiece of the Communist Party, offered a cautionary voice
when  it posted , “As China urbanizes, blindly opposing
skyscrapers isn’t rational. But neither should we worship these
increasingly high landmarks as if they’re totems.”  Likewise, on Monday, Wang Qi, writing for People’s Daily
Online, distilled these undercurrents into  a piece of social
criticism  that stretches far beyond Zhang’s 202 stories: “The
obsession with being number one is actually a manifestation of a
lack of confidence. For example, in  Europe  and the U.S., no
matter how vigorous their economies, they don’t madly pursue
‘the tallest building.’ The reason is that their strength does
not need to be proved via ‘the tallest building’ and ‘the
largest project,’ because they’ve already won the respect and
admiration of small countries.”  This sensible utilitarianism is laudable. It is also too
late and arguably misguided -- at least in the case of Sky City.
Unlike many of China’s other  super-tall skyscrapers  that are
under construction, Sky City is a vanity project that, if
successful, could  transform high-rise construction  into a more
sustainable enterprise that uses less construction materials to
achieve super-tall results. That’s a big, mostly untested “if,”
with the potential to turn into further delays, a debacle or
something much worse. As one Shanghai-based Weibo user  posted
Monday : “You can read the news in a few years: World’s tallest
building collapsed.”  (Adam Minter, the Shanghai correspondent for the World
View blog, is writing “Junkyard Planet,” a book on the global
recycling industry.)  To contact the author of this article: Adam Minter at
 ShanghaiScrap@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article: Zara Kessler
at  zkessler@bloomberg.net . 