-- Connecticut Outperforms Market With Resident Bulls: Muni Credit
-- B y   E m i l y   F r e e m a n
-- 2013-07-24T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-24/connecticut-outperforms-market-with-resident-bulls-muni-credit.html
Debt of  Connecticut  is on pace to
beat the municipal market for the first time since 2010 even as
the wealthiest U.S. state contends with a struggling economy and
the nation’s second-biggest pension liability.  The state of 3.6 million people, including the hedge-fund
enclave of Greenwich, plans to sell $200 million of general
obligations today, two years after a record tax increase. With
its residents shouldering the country’s third-heaviest burden of
state and local levies, Connecticut can anticipate demand for
the securities, said Bill Ahern at Eaton Vance Management and
Howard Cure at Evercore Wealth Management LLC.  Buffeted by job losses in the finance industry, Connecticut
was the only state to see its economy shrink in 2012, according
to the U.S. Bureau of Economic Analysis. Investors seeking tax-free borrowings are looking past the fiscal challenge, helping
shield the state’s bonds from the biggest losses in almost three
years in the $3.7 trillion market.  “There’s always an appetite for Connecticut debt because
it has the highest per-capita wealth in the country, and as we
know, taxes have gone up,” said Ahern, who oversees the $109
million  Eaton Vance Connecticut Municipal Income Fund (EVCTX)  in  Boston .  Exemption Value  The performance of Connecticut bonds shows how the century-old tax-exemption on municipal debt can lower borrowing costs
for states and cities, even as congressional lawmakers work on
plans to rewrite the U.S. tax code. The legislators’ approach,
which would eliminate some breaks as a means of raising revenue
for the U.S. government, is spurring municipalities to lobby on
the exemption’s behalf.  The extra yield buyers require on Connecticut securities
has diminished this year. Investors demand a yield spread of
about 0.28 percentage point above benchmark debt, down from a
2013 peak of about 0.4 percentage point in January, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Debt from the state has lost 2.6 percent in 2013, less than
the decline of 3.4 percent for the whole market, putting it on
pace to outperform all local securities for the first time in
three years, Barclays Plc data show.  Bonds from nearby  New York  and  New Jersey  have lost 3.5
percent and 3.4 percent, respectively. They are the only states
where residents bear a higher tax burden than in Connecticut,
according to the Washington-based  Tax Foundation .  Marketing Success  “Connecticut bonds have always marketed well because we
have a number of high-income individuals who would like to
receive tax-deductible interest off of federal and state
levels,” said Ben Barnes, head of Governor Dannel Malloy’s
budget office.  Proceeds from the sale will fund building projects,
including energy-saving steps, as well as work at state
universities and community colleges.  The bonds are rated Aa3 by Moody’s Investors Service,
fourth-highest, and AA by  Standard & Poor’s , third-highest. The
companies cited Connecticut’s income levels as a strength. Per-capita personal income of about $58,000 in 2011 was the nation’s
highest, according to S&P.  At the same time, Moody’s said the “slow pace of economic
recovery will continue to challenge the state’s financial
position.”  Economy Strain  As U.S. gross domestic product grew 2.2 percent in 2012,
Connecticut’s economy shrank 0.1 percent, according to the
 Bureau of Economic Analysis . The strain extended to the first
quarter, when Connecticut’s overall economic health was the
fifth-weakest among the 50 states, data compiled by Bloomberg
show.  In June, the state’s unemployment rate was 8.1 percent,
compared with 7.5 percent in neighboring New York and 7.6
percent nationwide.  Finance, including banks and insurers, has been among the
weakest areas, according to the state Labor Department. The
industry has seen 23 straight months of year-over-year job
losses, leaving the employment level close to the lowest since
1997.  “The number of jobs in the finance sector has been reduced
and those are long-term reductions,” Barnes said. “It has
disproportionately impacted Connecticut and our job base.”  UBS Jobs  Malloy, a Democrat, helped stem the losses. In 2011,
Zurich-based UBS AG,  Switzerland ’s largest bank, promised to
keep at least 2,000 jobs in Connecticut under a five-year
agreement in which the company would get a $20 million
“forgivable” loan.  Moody’s also said the state’s pension-funding ratios will
probably remain below average.  Connecticut has the nation’s second-highest pension
liability as a percentage of revenue, at about 190 percent,
according to Moody’s. Illinois ranks first, with 241 percent.  Last month, Connecticut lawmakers approved a two-year,
$37.6 billion spending plan. Republicans criticized the budget
for relying too heavily on one-time income, including a tax
amnesty program.  “There should be demand from Connecticut residents because
it’s a relatively high-tax state,” said Cure, director of muni
research at New York-based Evercore, which oversees $4.7
billion. “I don’t think they will have any problem placing that
paper.”  Maryland Sells  Top-rated  Maryland  joins Connecticut issuing today.
Borrowers are offering $6.6 billion in debt, down from $8.6
billion last week, as sales slowed following  Detroit ’s
bankruptcy filing.  Municipal yields are closest to the lowest in a month. At
 2.75 percent , yields on benchmark 10-year munis compare with  2.5
percent (USGG10YR)  for similar-maturity Treasuries.  The  ratio  of the yields, a gauge of relative value, is
about 110 percent. The figure has averaged about 93 percent
since 2001. The higher it is, the cheaper munis are compared
with federal securities.  The municipal market has lost about 0.8 percent this month,
compared with a 0.2 percent gain for Treasuries, Bank of America
Merrill Lynch data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emily Freeman in New York at 
 efreeman14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  