-- Contractors Protest Hiring Targets for Disabled People
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   M i l l e r
-- 2013-07-25T21:14:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-24/contractors-protest-hiring-targets-for-disabled-people.html
(Corrects 21st paragraph of story published July 24 to
show Olsen was speaking as president of an advocacy group.)  Scott Moore, an economic
statistician who uses a wheelchair, says he’d be more apt to get
work from federal government contractors if the U.S. sets hiring
targets for disabled people.  President  Barack Obama ’s administration is reviving a push
to get contractors to hire more disabled people. Their jobless
rate was 14.2 percent in June, almost twice the  7.6 percent  for
people without disabilities, according to the Labor Department.  Employers “will only choose to hire someone with a
disability if there is a financial gain for them, like getting a
government contract,” said Moore, 54, owner of Moore Data LLC,
a data analysis company in Charleston, South Carolina.  The White House could make a final decision as early as
this month on a Labor Department proposal first made 19 months
ago directing contractors to target having 7 percent of disabled
employees in each job group, an agency agenda said.  The outcome may alter hiring practices for more than
170,000 vendors, and companies that don’t comply with the
potential regulation might lose federal work or have pay
withheld.  Dozens of contractors, including  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  and
Caterpillar Inc., and trade groups representing hundreds of
federal vendors have filed objections with the department,
saying the policy would increase costs and paperwork or make
companies a target of lawsuits.  Contractors Concerns  “The federal contracting community is definitely holding
its breath in anticipation of the release of this because it’s
going to be a sea change,” said Cassandra Hanley Carroll, a
senior associate at law firm Seyfarth Shaw LLP in  San Francisco .
Her work includes defending employers against discrimination
lawsuits.  Contractors will have to do “more than double the work
required” to comply, including revamping many human resources
functions, such as recruiting, recordkeeping, promotions and
training practices, she said in a phone interview.  “I’m hoping they concluded no rule is the right rule,”
said Alan Chvotkin, executive vice president of the Professional
Services Council, an Arlington, Virginia-based trade group that
represents more than 300 contractors including  SAIC Inc. (SAI)  and
 Booz Allen Hamilton Holding Corp. (BAH) , both based in McLean,
Virginia.  Any hiring target set by the government may be impossible
to reach in some industries, Chvotkin said in a phone interview.  “In some job areas, particularly those with highly
specialized skills, you just may never find that kind of capable
workforce,” he said. “I have no concerns about continuing to
do outreach to people with disabilities. It’s just when you
start setting quotas that it presents a significant challenge.”  Final Rule  The Obama administration effort is designed to reduce
unemployment among people with disabilities.  A final draft is under review, Laura McGinnis, a Labor
Department spokeswoman, said in an e-mail. She declined to
discuss the content and said it’s “difficult to predict” when
a rule will be published.  The proposal would ensure that “qualified workers with
disabilities have meaningful opportunities to find, secure and
keep good jobs,” Patricia Shiu, director of the Office of
Federal Contract Compliance Programs, said in an e-mailed
statement.  “We also want to provide clarity for contractors on how to
comply with the law, to level the playing field so that they are
all playing by the same set of rules,” she said.  Compliance Costs  Each contractor’s office would spend about $473 to comply
with the rule in the first year it’s implemented, according to
the government’s  December 2011 proposal .  The U.S. “significantly” underestimated the cost and time
required to meet the proposed obligations, John Lucas, senior
vice president for human resources and communications at
Lockheed Martin, the top federal contractor, said in an e-mailed
statement.  The Bethesda, Maryland-based company spent about $20,000 to
make “minor changes” to its job application website, Lucas
said in a February 2012 letter to the Labor Department. Those
tweaks were “nowhere near the scope of change required by the
proposed rule,” he said.  In addition to the 7 percent target, the Labor Department’s
2011 proposal weighed mandating that vendors set a goal of
having severely disabled people, such as the deaf, blind and
paralyzed, make up 2 percent of their workforce.  Less than 1 percent of federal workers have such “targeted
disabilities,” according to the most recent figures from an
 Equal Employment Opportunity Commission report  published in July
2012.  “They’re setting higher standards for the private sector
than we have in the federal government,” said Jason Olsen,
president of Federal Employees With Disabilities Inc., an
organization he helped start, and a government employee. “It
seems to be another case of do as I say, not as I do.”  Proponents of contractor targets for the disabled point to
the success of another government push: the hiring of veterans.  “Right now, if you are disabled from time in the military
you are good to go because there are government incentives to
hire disabled veterans,” said Moore, the  South Carolina 
businessman who has sought subcontracting work from U.S.
contractors. “As soon as they find out I’m not in the military,
I never hear from them again.”  -- Editors: Stephanie Stoughton, Michael Shepard  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen Miller in Washington at 
 Kmiller01@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Stoughton at 
 sstoughton@bloomberg.net  