-- Copper Declines on Goldman Metals Outlook, Caterpillar Earnings
-- B y   J o e   R i c h t e r
-- 2013-07-24T19:17:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-24/copper-reaches-five-week-high-as-european-manufacturing-expands.html
Copper futures fell, snapping the
longest rally in nine months, after Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
said surpluses will weigh on mined commodities and Caterpillar
Inc. reported disappointing earnings.  Goldman Sachs pared estimates on prices of industrial
metals including nickel, lead and zinc, and said copper’s
surplus may almost double in two years. Caterpillar, the world’s
largest manufacturer of mining and construction equipment, cut
its earnings forecast and posted profit that trailed analysts’
estimates for a third straight quarter. The Standard & Poor’s
500 Index dropped as much as 0.6 percent.  “There’s been a pullback in equity markets as investors
digest earnings news, and the Caterpillar report isn’t helping
copper,”  Adam Klopfenstein , a senior market strategist at
Archer Financial Inc. in  Chicago , said in a telephone interview.
“Copper is on the defensive.”  Copper futures for delivery in September lost 0.6 percent
to settle at $3.179 a pound at 1:15 p.m. on the Comex in New
York. Earlier, the price touched $3.234, the highest since June
17. The metal climbed in the previous four sessions, the longest
rally since early October.  Mining-equipment sales declined on slower commodity demand
from  emerging markets , Peoria, Illinois-based Caterpillar said.  Copper also fell as Treasury yields and the dollar climbed,
reducing the appeal of the metal as an alternative asset. The
yield on 10-year Treasuries jumped eight basis points to 2.59
percent at 3:06 p.m. in New York.  “As 10-year yields went up, commodities came off, and the
Goldman report added to the pressure on industrial metals,”
Carlos Perez-Santalla, a New York-based broker at Marex North
America LLC, said in a telephone interview.  Copper for delivery in three months on the  London  Metal
Exchange rose 0.2 percent to $7,055 a metric ton ($3.20 a
pound). Aluminum, lead, nickel and tin also gained in London,
while zinc was lower.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Richter in New York at 
 jrichter1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  