-- Cricket Australia, Arthur to Resume Settlement Talks Next Week
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-07-24T07:18:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-24/cricket-australia-arthur-to-resume-settlement-talks-next-week.html
Former  Australia  national team coach
Mickey Arthur, who’s suing Cricket Australia after being fired
from the job last month, said he failed to reach a settlement
during conciliation talks today.  Arthur, who filed proceedings with the Fair Work Commission
in Sydney two weeks ago for being “sacked and scapegoated,” is
seeking as much as A$4 million ($3.7 million) in compensation,
claiming discrimination because he was South African and
“didn’t understand the Australian way,” Channel Seven reported
July 16, citing the confidential filings.  Following talks at the commission today, Arthur said the
parties would reconvene in a weeks’ time. He’d earlier told
reporters on arrival that he was hoping for a settlement rather
than having to take Cricket Australia to court.  “Although we didn’t come to an agreement today, I am
pleased that there is enough goodwill in the room for us to
continue talking next week,” Arthur said in a statement. “As
I’ve said, all I want is a fair and reasonable outcome, and
hopefully we will get a solution next week.”  The 45-year-old Arthur, who had two years to run on his
contract, was fired June 24 and replaced with Darren Lehmann 16
days before the start of the Ashes series against  England .  Arthur said three days ago that he was left with little
choice but to take legal action as he’d had no contact or
payments from Cricket Australia since his dismissal.  The Melbourne-based governing body said July 21 that it was
“confident” in its legal position and “comfortable” with the
level of support provided to Arthur, who had been contracted
until the end of the 2015 Cricket  World Cup .  Australia’s Struggles  Arthur was replaced because of Australia’s “struggles both
on and off the field” during this year’s tour of  India  and the
Champions Trophy tournament, Cricket Australia said at the time
of his dismissal. Arthur was ultimately responsible for the
team’s failure to improve its discipline, consistency of
behavior and accountability for performance, it added.  Arthur was hired as Australia’s first overseas-born coach
in November 2011 and led the team to 10 wins, six losses and
three draws in 19 Tests. His tenure was marked by discipline
breaches in the squad, the latest being batsman  David Warner ’s
suspension last month for punching England’s Joe Root in a bar.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  