-- Cruise Lines to Voluntarily Post Shipboard Crime Statistics
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2013-07-24T21:14:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-24/cruise-lines-to-voluntarily-post-more-shipboard-crime-statistics.html
Carnival Corp. (CCL) ,  Royal Caribbean Ltd. (RCL) 
and  Norwegian Cruise Line Holdings Ltd. (NCLH) , the target of proposed
legislation after high profile mishaps at sea, will voluntarily
publish more data about crimes on their cruises.  Adam Goldstein, president and chief executive officer of
the Royal Caribbean’s namesake line, announced the change at a
hearing today on cruise safety by the U.S. Senate Committee on
Commerce, Science and Transportation in  Washington .  The three largest cruise operators are taking the step
after U.S. Senator  Jay Rockefeller , the West Virginia Democrat
who heads the commerce committee, introduced legislation to
require disclosure of the crime data and make the Department of
Transportation responsible for consumer protection on cruises.  “We are proud of this initiative and believe that it
addresses many of the concerns raised with the limited public
reporting required,” by current law, Goldstein said.  Congress in 2010 required the U.S. Coast Guard to maintain
a public website disclosing crime allegations arising on U.S.
cruises. The information was limited to probes completed by the
 Federal Bureau of Investigation , according to Goldstein. The new
policy will disclose all alleged crimes on ships worldwide.  Royal Caribbean will begin posting the expanded data for
all of its cruise divisions starting Aug. 1 and the information
will date back to the fourth quarter of 2010, Goldstein said.  Cruise Disasters  Ross Klein, a professor of social work at Memorial
University of Newfoundland in  Canada , who has written four books
on the industry, told the panel many crimes aren’t reported to
the FBI or made public by the bureau.  “Access to reliable data is important for passengers who
have a right to know the relative risk, including between one
cruise line and another and ideally between one cruise ship and
another,” he said.  A number of high-profile incidents, including the January
2012 wreck of Carnival’s Costa Concordia off the coast of Italy,
which cost 32 lives, brought cruise safety to the attention of
government officials and the public.  “This bill is the only way we’re going to make consumer
awareness and protection a priority, since the cruise industry
seems to refuse to take action on its own,” Rockefeller said in
a statement yesterday.  Last month, the Coast Guard barred the Carnival Triumph, a
cruise ship that was stranded in the  Gulf of Mexico  with
passengers aboard, from returning to service following repairs
after finding “three serious deficiencies” in its first
inspection, Rear Admiral Joseph Servidio said today.  The deficiencies involved the ship’s fire detectors,
sprinklers and lifeboat drills, and were corrected the next day,
Servidio, assistant commandant for prevention policy, testified
at the hearing. The ship will be subject to quarterly
examinations for three years as a result, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in  Los Angeles  at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  