-- Czechs Face Sizeable Disinflationary Risks, Singer Says
-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 2013-07-24T09:30:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-24/czechs-face-sizeable-disinflationary-risks-singer-says.html
Czech monetary conditions may be
more relaxed as “relatively sizable” disinflationary risks
prevail over signs of possible economic revival, central bank
Governor Miroslav Singer said.  He spoke in an interview at the headquarters of Ceska
Narodni Banka in  Prague  yesterday.  On the economy:  “I see some positive signs, which may be hinting at a
potential future turnaround of the economy. But I don’t see any
signs of a pickup in inflation.  ‘‘Economic growth isn’t what we care about, because we are
targeting inflation. Of course we do analyze economic growth a
lot in order to realize what it means for inflation, but as a
matter of fact, we are mainly concerned with inflation. And I
don’t see any signals of inflation picking up.”  On the inflation target:  “I have realized in one of the discussions outside the
bank that we don’t agree among ourselves whether we are trying
to hit the 1 percent target, or the 2 percent target, or whether
we are trying to stay within the tolerance band. I don’t think
we are probably in an agreement on this, and I don’t think it
matters at all in practical policy making.  ‘‘What matters in practical policy making is that there are
seven people on the board with different opinions about what
should be done now. And these people reason differently. But I
think the monetary-policy inflation is actually what we aim for.
I would simply say the monetary-policy inflation is what we
target as policy makers when weighing pros and cons of a
decision on policy.  ‘‘But it doesn’t mean that, from time to time, I wouldn’t
refer to other inflation measures, because I simply derive
partly from them what’s going to happen in the future.”  On inflation:  “What really matters is what I think is going to be
happening with inflation in 18 months. I can’t change what
happened in the past.  ‘‘There are still relatively sizable disinflationary risks
stemming from the situation in the euro zone in general. But
also there is a possibility that commodity prices may not go up
at all, steel prices are under pressure; there are new
developments with energy sources, for instance. So yes, I can
imagine a lot of things going against inflation.’’  On monetary policy:  ‘‘Honestly, I will start thinking about it next week. But
it seems that for me the question is only how strong the
pressures to further relax monetary conditions are. We always
smooth out our decisions.  ‘‘I don’t care too much about the timing. If I think that
something needs to be done, I vote for it.  ‘‘I feel monetary conditions might be easily more relaxed,
relative to the current forecast, and we still wouldn’t be
changing our outlook at all. And yet, that doesn’t necessarily
mean that we must make a move. By saying this, I’m also
reflecting the fact that there are seven board members to make
the decision. This is how it works and how it should work, some
might be more hesitant, some might be less hesitant. The bank is
a mechanism. The actions are voted on by the board, it’s not my
own decision what I want to do.  ‘‘From my point of view, if the monetary conditions were
relatively clearly relaxed, I would still say that we are going
to keep the rates at zero in a long-term future. And I would
still say there would be a very low likelihood of any
inflationary pressures materializing within the monetary-policy
horizon.’’  On easing in Europe:  ‘‘I would carefully discern the discussions from actual
action, even in Europe.  ‘‘There is a lot of talk about the end of easing, but the
last real sizable move was expanding the definition of
collateral, which essentially meant an easing of monetary
conditions. So I would really carefully discern acts from the
vocabulary in Europe.  ‘‘I find it very difficult to believe that we will see such
a situation, in which, firstly, there is the end of easing in
Europe, and, secondly, that it would have a significant impact
on us. But, as soon as we enter that period, we will certainly
pay close attention to it.’’  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Laca in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  