-- Data Sabotage to Moldy Toilets Rerate Wockhardt: Corporate India
-- B y   K e t a k i   G o k h a l e
-- 2013-07-25T10:53:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-24/data-sabotage-to-moldy-toilets-rerate-wockhardt-corporate-india.html
Wockhardt Ltd. (WPL) , India’s worst
performing drug stock this year, is poised to extend its fall
from a 15-month low as analysts cut recommendations following
U.S. allegations that it blocked inspectors and destroyed data.  When U.S. Food and Drug Administration officials inquired
about unlabeled vials at Wockhardt’s Waluj facility in
Maharashtra state, employees immediately dumped the contents
into drains, the regulator said in a  letter  dated July 18. The
FDA also found torn quality control records in the trash. The
note posted on the FDA’s website on July 23 prompted Macquarie
Group Ltd. to cut its  recommendation  on the stock the same day,
while CIMB Securities India Pvt. said it’s reviewing its rating.  The U.S. regulator, which in May blocked sales from the
Waluj plant to the company’s biggest market, warned it may
withhold approvals for all new applications made by Wockhardt
after it concealed information and delayed inspections. Chairman
Habil Khorakiwala’s plan to shift 80 percent of the production
to another plant after the export ban may unravel following the
latest FDA measure and compel analysts to reduce earnings
estimates for the second time in two months.  “The violations are more serious than anticipated, so you
would see more downgrades coming,” said Prakash Agarwal, an
analyst at CIMB Securities in Mumbai, who’s reviewing his
neutral rating on the company’s shares. “It’s clear that there
were data integrity issues.”  Shares Plunge  Wockhardt’s shares declined 3.2 percent to 638.15 rupees in
Mumbai, the lowest since April 17, 2012. They have lost 59
percent this year, making the company the worst performing
drugmaker in the S&P BSE  India  Healthcare Index. Wockhardt rose
fivefold in 2012.  Macquarie analysts Abhishek Singhal and Kumar Saurabh cut
their advice on the stock to neutral from outperform.  Twelve analysts tracking the company rate the stock a buy
and four recommend holding the shares, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The consensus rating, or the average of
recommendations updated by analysts in the past year, fell to
4.5 this month. Five denotes a buy and one a sell.  “Wockhardt has already initiated the process of taking
corrective measures, including appointment of a leading U.S.
based consultant for its Waluj facility,” Managing Director
Murtaza Khorakiwala said in an e-mailed statement yesterday.  The FDA, which also pointed to moldy toilets and lack of
drainage piping about 20 feet from a sterile formulation
manufacturing facility, asked the Mumbai-based drugmaker to
explain what it plans to do to prevent the violations from
recurring. It also asked Wockhardt to hire an auditor to
evaluate the company’s data integrity.  ‘Nasty Allegations’  “It’s pretty nasty, the allegations,” said Bino Pathiparampil, an analyst at IIFL Institutional Equities. “What
surprised me was that they didn’t cooperate with the
investigation. They kind of stopped them from investigating one
unit; they prevented them from spending adequate time there.”  Pathiparampil plans to wait to hear the management’s views
before reviewing his buy recommendation of the stock.  The restrictions on Wockhardt follow  Ranbaxy Laboratories
Ltd. (RBXY) ’s admission that it sold adulterated drugs in the U.S. The
Gurgaon, India-based Ranbaxy on May 14 agreed to a $500 million
settlement.  At Wockhardt, FDA inspectors during a week-long inspection
in March found discarded data records in the garbage area of the
facility, and said Wockhardt’s quality assurance officers had
removed some of the material to a different location.  Sealing Defects  Some of the torn data show that batches of drugs failed to
meet visual inspection specifications and that up to 14 percent
of vials had defects including black particles, fibers, glass
particles, sealing defects and volume variations. This ratio of
defects would mean, according to the company’s procedures, that
an investigation gets initiated. That never happened, according
to the FDA.  “The above examples raise serious concerns regarding the
integrity, reliability and accuracy of the data generated and
available at your facility,” according to the  FDA letter 
addressed to Khorakiwala. “Your firm withheld truthful
information, and delayed and limited the inspection.”  The company had planned to move 80 percent of production
from the troubled  Waluj plant  to two nearby facilities, Chairman
Khorakiwala, 70, said on the analyst call on May 24, a day after
the FDA issued the import alert. The two plants are due for FDA
inspection this month or next, Khorakiwala said.  Estimates Cut  Analysts cut their earnings  estimates  for Wockhardt by 16
percent to an average 13.1 billion rupees in May after the U.S.
drug regulator’s alert that month, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The company’s profit rose fourfold to 15.9 billion
rupees in the year ended March 31.  Wockhardt is the latest in a string of injectables-makers
including India’s  Aurobindo Pharma Ltd. (ARBP)  and  Lake Forest ,
Illinois-based  Hospira Inc. (HSP)  that have come under scrutiny as the
FDA steps up surveillance of quality control for medicines
administered directly into tissue and veins, requiring an
additional level of sterility.  As more drugs lose patent protection, the global market for
generic injectable medicines will swell 42 percent to  $17
billion  by 2020, according to Citigroup Inc.  The FDA’s import alert will cost Wockhardt about $100
million in sales in the year ending March 2014, and will take
approximately a year to resolve,  Khorakiwala told analysts.  The U.S. accounted for  41 percent  of the company’s revenue
in the year ended March 31, 2012. Manufacturing for  Europe  has
also been halted, the U.K.’s drug regulator said on July 10.
Europe accounted for 27 percent of sales the same year.  It will take more than two years for the plant in Waluj to
resume production, CIMB’s Agarwal said. “For the next one to
two years there will be no production from that facility.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ketaki Gokhale in Mumbai at 
 kgokhale@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net  