-- Debt-Trading Clients Widen Business as JPMorgan Leads Survey
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 2013-07-24T18:54:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-24/debt-trading-clients-spread-business-as-jpmorgan-leads-survey.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  had the biggest
U.S. fixed-income market share as trading clients expand the
number of dealers they do business with, Greenwich Associates
said in an annual survey.  JPMorgan, which held the top spot in a similar survey in
2011 before dropping to third last year, has an 11.4 percent
market share, Greenwich Associates said today, citing a study it
conducted based on interviews with 1,027 active institutional
investors in the U.S.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  dropped to fifth
from second last year.  Buy-side clients are spreading their business as Wall
Street banks are scaling back in product areas in which they
aren’t leaders, Greenwich said. Banks including  Morgan Stanley (MS) 
and  UBS AG (UBSN)  are shedding assets in fixed-income trading and
seeking to cut costs amid sluggish revenue growth.  “For many institutional investors, these strategic shifts
have resulted in disruptions in sell-side coverage and a
reduction in market liquidity as dealers pull back capital,
consolidate desks, reduce headcount and replace senior fixed-income professionals with younger, less experienced and cheaper
talent,” Stamford, Connecticut-based Greenwich said in the
report.  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) , Citigroup Inc. and  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) 
had the three largest market shares behind JPMorgan. Greenwich
said the four firms were in a statistical tie for first. The
study focused on activity with clients, rather than trading
revenue.  Revenue Up  The nine largest banks generated about $90 billion in
fixed-income trading revenue globally in 2012, excluding some
accounting charges, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
That was up 14 percent from 2011, and accounted for more than
half of all revenue from trading and investment banking at the
firms, the data show.  Credit Suisse, based in Zurich, has the largest market
share in trading rate products such as government bonds and
interest-rate derivatives, according to Greenwich. Deutsche
Bank, JPMorgan and  Citigroup (C)  joined the Swiss bank in a
statistical tie.  JPMorgan and  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  had the biggest share in
credit products, such as corporate bonds and leveraged loans.
 Barclays Plc (BARC) , Credit Suisse and Bank of America had the largest
share in securitized products, such as commercial mortgage-backed securities.  Citigroup was the share leader in municipal bonds, with New
York-based JPMorgan and Citigroup leading in emerging-market
trading, Greenwich said.  The study took place between February and April, Greenwich
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Moore in New York at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
Christine Harper at 
 charper@bloomberg.net  