-- Dell to Learn Fate as $24.4 Billion Buyout Heads to Vote
-- B y   S e r e n a   S a i t t o ,   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a   a n d   C a l l i e   B o s t
-- 2013-07-24T01:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-24/dell-to-learn-fate-as-24-4-billion-buyout-heads-to-vote.html
Just as political elections are
determined by precisely who comes out to vote, so it may be with
 Michael Dell ’s proposed $24.4 billion buyout of the computer
maker he founded 29 years ago.  The chief executive officer’s bid for  Dell Inc. (DELL)  comes to a
head -- again -- today in a vote whose success may hinge on
prodding hold-out shareholders to cast ballots. A special
committee of Dell’s board postponed the first scheduled vote on
July 18, when the buyout faced likely defeat.  After days of wooing by Dell and his camp, some 18 percent
of eligible shares still hadn’t voted as of two days ago, a
person familiar with the situation said. That works against the
CEO because absentees count as “no” votes. About 20 percent of
shareholders, including billionaire  Carl Icahn , who has an
alternative proposal, have said they oppose Dell’s bid.  No outcome is certain, with investors able to recast votes
until the last minute at the meeting in  Round Rock ,  Texas , which
is scheduled for 6 p.m. New York time. To succeed, the $13.65-per-share bid to take the PC maker private needs the approval of
the majority of the company’s 740 million  shareholders ,
excluding Michael Dell’s 15.6 percent stake.  “When you look at the high investor opposition and you
combine that with a lack of voters showing, that’s a bad recipe
for trying to get the deal approved here,” said Angelo Zino, an
analyst at S&P Capital IQ with a hold rating on the shares.  David Frink , a spokesman for Dell, declined to comment.  Shareholder Posturing  Shareholders’ hard-to-get posture may be a show of
brinkmanship. Some board members are waiting for Dell and
financial partner  Silver Lake  Management LLC to either raise
their bid or publicly declare it their best and final offer,
according to a person who asked not to be named discussing
private matters. The Dell camp has no plans to sweeten the
offer, another person said.  The get-out-the-vote drive by Dell and his buyout group’s
proxy solicitors and advisers is focused on three main types of
investors, another person familiar with the effort said. The
targets are overseas funds that don’t typically vote in U.S.
companies’ elections; banks holding shares as a hedge for swap
trades; and exchange-traded funds that may not typically vote in
proxy matters.  One goal is to at least close the gap by persuading some of
the missing investors to vote in proportion with other
shareholders, rather than letting their abstentions count as
“no” votes by default, this person said.  Personal Campaign  Michael Dell has met personally with key institutional
investors, including  Franklin Resources Inc. (BEN) , the mutual fund
firm that holds a 1.97 percent stake in Dell, people familiar
with the situation said. The founder is using a presentation he
filed on June 21 with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission, in which he said that Icahn’s bid would hamper
efforts to transform the company into a broader provider of
business products and services.  Icahn and partner Southeastern Asset Management Inc., which
together hold about 13 percent of Dell, proposed in June that
the company instead buy back 1.1 billion shares for $14 a share,
keeping the company public. This month they proposed adding a
warrant that would entitle holders to get more Dell shares if
the stock hits $20.  “You can think of it as a bird in the hand versus two in
the bush,” said  Jayson Noland , an analyst at Robert W. Baird
and Co. with a neutral rating on the shares. “Icahn’s proposal
has more upside, but there’s some optionality” while the offer
from Michael Dell and Silver Lake has a more certain benefit.  In an open letter yesterday, Icahn called Dell’s special
committee “unconscionable” for what he said was its actions in
support of the CEO-led buyout, including the delayed vote.  ‘Unconscionable’ Board  “After six months, the time for soliciting is over,”
Icahn and two Southeastern executives wrote. “It’s time to
vote. Do not move election day again. This is not a  banana
republic .”  Dell, in his June 21 regulatory filing, said Icahn’s
proposal would add substantial  debt , decrease financial
flexibility and “hurt the company’s ability to weather an
economic or business downturn.”  This kind of campaigning has won over some institutional
investors, such as  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , Vanguard Group Inc., and
 State Street Corp. (STT) , which flipped their vote in favor of the
deal, people close to the situation said last week.  Dell also gained the surprise support on July 8 of
Institutional Shareholders Services, an advisory firm often
followed by institutional investors.  For Icahn’s proposal to succeed, shareholders have to vote
against the deal today and give the activist investor control of
the company in a proxy fight, for which Michael Dell’s share-votes count.  Dell may trade at $9 a share if the leveraged buyout fails,
Deutsche Bank AG analyst Chris Whitmore, predicted in a July 19
report to investors. The shares have rose 27 percent so far this
year, closing at $12.88 yesterday.  “A prolonged proxy fight may occur and the future of the
company becomes uncertain,” Whitmore said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Serena Saitto in  New York  at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Ricadela in  San Francisco  at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net ;
Callie Bost in New York at 
 cbost2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  