-- Dell Committee Said to Seek at Least $14 a Share for Buyout
-- B y   S e r e n a   S a i t t o ,   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i   a n d   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 2013-07-24T22:49:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-24/dell-committee-said-to-seek-at-least-14-a-share-for-buyout.html
Dell Inc. (DELL) ’s special committee is
said to be seeking at least $14 a share from  Michael Dell  to
cement the computer maker’s takeover, leaving them at an impasse
after the founder said $13.75 was his best and final offer.  At $14, Dell’s special committee is open to a voting rule
change proposed by Michael Dell and Silver Lake Management LLC
that would give them enough shareholder support for a deal,
according to a person familiar with the situation, who asked not
to be identified because the matter is private. Dell’s shares
were little changed in New York trading, closing at $12.92 -- a
sign investors are concerned an agreement won’t be reached.  Michael Dell and Silver Lake bumped the offer for the
personal-computer maker by 10 cents a share, valuing the deal at
$24.6 billion, as the group seeks to end a six-month standoff
with investors such as  Carl Icahn . The sweetened offer is
conditional upon the committee approving new voting terms that
wouldn’t count abstentions as “no” votes. About 27 percent of
shares -- not including Michael Dell’s holdings -- haven’t been
voted, the buyers said today in a statement.  “There appears to be a lot of fence straddlers -- it’s a
real nail-biter right now,” said  Ashok Kumar , an analyst at
Maxim Group LLC. The provision to not count abstaining votes as
ballots against the deal “officially tilts this in favor of the
management buyout team,” he said.  Deadline Looms  Dell’s special committee doesn’t plan to take action on
Michael Dell’s proposal today, the person familiar with the
situation said. After originally saying the latest offer would
expire at 6 p.m. today, Michael Dell and  Silver Lake  extended
the proposal until Aug. 2. If the buyers rescind their sweetened
bid, the original $13.65-a-share price remains valid.  “The will of the majority of the unaffiliated shares
voting on the transaction should not be thwarted by an unfair
standard that counts unaffiliated shares not voting as ‘no’
votes,” Dell and Silver Lake said in a statement. “If this
majority wishes to accept our offer, it is only fair to permit
them to do so.”  In a separate open letter to shareholders, Michael Dell
repeated his stand that taking the company private is the right
thing to do and the current voting rule is “clearly unfair.”  “The decision is now yours,” the CEO wrote. “I am at
peace either way and will honor your decision.”  New Offer  The new offer from Michael Dell and Silver Lake is 26
percent more than the computer maker’s closing share price of
$10.88 on Jan. 11, the last trading day before news of a deal
surfaced. A majority of investors, excluding Dell’s 15.6 percent
stake in the computer maker, will have to approve for the deal
to pass. Dell had originally planned a shareholder vote on the
buyout last week and rescheduled that to today after it was
unable to secure enough support.  The vote was delayed for a second time today, until Aug. 2
at 9 a.m. local time at Dell’s headquarters in  Round Rock ,
 Texas . Investors who held shares as of June 3 were eligible to
vote on the original proposal. Dell and Silver Lake said today
that the record date should be changed to give shareholders time
to consider the new offer.  Their bid is final because of the company’s deteriorating
financial results, increased financing costs and a weak PC
market, according to a person with knowledge of the matter.
Silver Lake also won’t allow Michael Dell to take more of a
discount on his own shares to further raise the offer, the
person said. To reach the original $13.65 a share price for the
buyout, Michael Dell agreed to roll his own stock into the deal
at a discounted value of $13.36.  Icahn Proposals  Icahn and partner Southeastern Asset Management Inc. have
made a series of alternative proposals to derail the bid, most
recently suggesting that the company repurchase most of the
outstanding shares at $14 apiece and offer some warrants.  Icahn said today that changing the rules of the vote would
remove an important shareholder protection. He reiterated that
the offer undervalues the company and called for the CEO and the
board to be replaced.  “We have spent the past six months explaining why we
believe that not only does the Michael Dell/Silver Lake
transaction undervalue the company, but it also freezes out
loyal stockholders who deserve the opportunity to stay with
Dell,” Icahn said in a letter. “Today, Michael Dell and Silver
Lake crossed the Rubicon by trying to take away the one
provision in the merger agreement that actually provided
stockholders with a voice in their company. It is time for
Michael Dell and this board to go.”  Not Enough?  By sweetening the offer by such a small amount, the buyout
team risks offending shareholders, said Jim Kelleher, an analyst
at Argus Research.  “A dime won’t even get you a phone call,” said Kelleher,
who recommends selling Dell shares. “There is a risk that the
institutional investors, who were on the fence at $13.65, will
not be neutral, but insulted by $13.75 and will swing to team
Icahn.”  As of early July, investors opposed to the CEO’s $13.65-a-share transaction owned more than 20 percent of Dell shares,
according to a report from shareholder adviser Glass Lewis &
Co., which backed Dell’s original bid with Silver Lake. In
addition to Yacktman Asset Management Co., opponents may also
include Harris Associates LP and  Pzena Investment Management
Inc. (PZN) , according to the report.  Separately, T. Rowe Price Group Inc., which holds 4.1
percent, reiterated its opposition to the Dell-Silver Lake offer
last week, saying the previous buyout offer didn’t “reflect the
value of Dell.”  Big Investors  BlackRock Inc., Vanguard Group Inc. and State Street Corp.,
three of Dell’s largest shareholders, indicated last week that
they’re voting in favor of the Silver Lake-led deal, according
to a person with knowledge of the matter. BlackRock had
previously been leaning against the buyout, another person said.
Those funds, like any Dell shareholder, can still change their
votes before the final tally.  Representatives for BlackRock and Vanguard didn’t respond
to requests for comment today. Officials for T. Rowe Price and
State Street declined to comment.  By taking the company he founded in 1984 private, Dell is
seeking to transform it into a bigger provider of hardware,
software and services for corporate data centers, after years of
ebbing sales and profit. Dell’s initial offer, which had the
support of the company’s board, won backing from Institutional
Shareholder Services Inc. earlier this month.  Slow Turnaround  Since  announcing  the buyout Feb. 5, the special committee
of Dell’s board has argued that the company’s prospects of a
turnaround are better outside of the public lens.  Once the world’s top supplier of PCs, Dell has spent about
$13 billion on  acquisitions  over the past five years to add
enterprise computing hardware, software and services, though the
deals have yielded little  return  for investors. Meanwhile, the
company has ceded the fast-growing mobile-computing market to
Apple Inc. and devices running Google Inc.’s Android operating
system.  Dell’s board predicted another year of lackluster growth in
fiscal 2014 as demand for PCs wanes, underscoring the urgency
behind the company’s decision to be taken private.  Market conditions have only worsened. PC shipments, which
account for more than half of Dell’s sales, dropped 10.9 percent
in the second quarter, their fifth straight period of decline,
research firm Gartner Inc. said this month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Serena Saitto in  New York  at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net ;
Cristina Alesci in New York at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Ricadela in  San Francisco  at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at   ptam13@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  