-- Delta to US Airways Gain as Profits Top Estimates on Fuel
-- B y   M a r y   J a n e   C r e d e u r
-- 2013-07-24T20:14:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-24/delta-profit-tops-estimates-as-fuel-s-drop-mutes-fare-weakness.html
Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  and  US Airways 
Group Inc. advanced in  New York  trading after reporting second-quarter earnings that exceeded analysts’ estimates, helped by
declining  jet-fuel  prices.  Shares of Delta  rose  1.7 percent to $20.80 at the close
while US Airways added 2.5 percent to $18.50. The Bloomberg U.S.
Airlines Index advanced 0.6 percent.  Delta and US Airways, the first of the major U.S. carriers
being followed by analysts to report second-quarter results, are
benefiting from lower jet-fuel costs. Both carriers today
reported higher domestic revenue on steady demand for travel.  “Because of the very high operating and financial
leverage, a very small percentage change in a variable like the
price of jet fuel can have a magnifying effect on earnings per
share,”  Michael Derchin , an analyst at CRT Capital Group LLC,
said by phone from  Stamford ,  Connecticut .  Derchin has buy ratings on both Delta and US Airways.  Delta’s profit excluding some items increased to $844
million, or 98 cents a share, the Atlanta-based company said
today in a statement That topped the 95-cent average of
 estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. US Airways’ profit of $324
million, or $1.58 a share, beat the $1.52 average of estimates.  Fuel Bill  Revenue at Delta fell less than 1 percent to $9.71 billion.
The carrier’s fuel bill tumbled 21 percent to $2.6 billion in
the quarter. That offset declines in some fares, such as those
in  Japan , where a weaker yen against the dollar reduced revenue
measured in the U.S. currency.  “The improving momentum we’ve seen throughout the quarter
continues into our summer bookings,” Delta President Ed Bastian
said on a conference call with analysts and investors today.  Revenue for each seat flown a mile will rise by about 3
percent for July and August, while September bookings are also
“encouraging,” he said.  Including one-time expenses mostly related to adjusting the
value of its fuel hedges, Delta’s net income was $685 million,
or 80 cents a share, compared with a loss of $168 million, or 20
cents, a year earlier.  Merger  US Airways today reaffirmed plans to complete the merger
with  AMR Corp. (AAMRQ) ’s  American Airlines  during this quarter. Together
they will leapfrog United Continental Holdings Inc. to become
the world’s largest carrier.  Including costs related to the merger and other one-time
financing costs, US Airways’ net income slid 6.3 percent to $287
million, or $1.40 a share, from $306 million, or $1.54, a year
earlier.  Revenue rose 3 percent to $3.87 billion, while fuel
expenses fell 3.8 percent to $872 million, the Tempe, Arizona-based carrier said today in a filing.  Bookings close to the date of flight have been stronger in
recent months as businesses gain confidence in the economic
recovery, President Scott Kirby said today on a conference call
with analysts.  “When the headlines were bad and catastrophe was around
the corner, businesses tended to pull their horns in and that
lasted for a short period of time,” Kirby said. “But for
businesses to be successful, they need to get out on the road
and meet with clients and sell their products. And so we’ve seen
that kick back in.”  Spirit Results  Spirit Airlines Inc. (SAVE) , the low-cost carrier with the highest
fees in the industry, reported a profit of $45.8 million
excluding certain items, or 63 cents a share, which topped the
62-cent average of analysts’ estimates.  Revenue at the Miramar, Florida-based carrier rose 18
percent to $407.3 million, helped by “dynamic” pricing on seat
assignments and rising sales on vacation packages, CEO Ben Baldanza said.  “We’re becoming smarter about the way we’re pricing the
things we already sell,” Baldanza said on conference call.  Last week, American Airlines said its second-quarter profit
was $357 million, excluding $124 million in reorganization costs
and $13 million in other expenses that the company considers
one-time.  “They have more pricing power and an ability to take on
fees,” Derchin said. “It’s been a Darwinian struggle of
survival of the fittest, but we ended up with the fittest, who
are actually going to be pretty profitable.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Jane Credeur in Atlanta  at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  