-- Democratic Labor Board Nominees Advanced by Senate Panel
-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 2013-07-24T14:54:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-24/democratic-labor-board-nominees-advanced-by-senate-panel.html
A Senate panel advanced the
nominations of two Democrats to the U.S. labor board as
lawmakers proceed on a deal that would fill all five seats for
the first time since President  Barack Obama  took office.  The Senate Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee
voted 13-9 to approve National Labor Relations Board nominees
Nancy Schiffer, a former AFL-CIO associate general counsel, and
Kent Hirozawa, chief lawyer for the board’s Democratic chairman.  Senator Lamar Alexander of  Tennessee , the top Republican on
the panel, said he voted against both because he sees them as
having a “pro-union advocacy past.” Their pledges during a
confirmation hearing this week to be unbiased as board members
didn’t change his view, he said.  “My concerns haven’t been lessened,” Alexander said.  Senator Tom Harkin of  Iowa , the panel’s Democratic
chairman, said both nominees are qualified, and he said the
board will have a full complement of members soon.  Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid says he wants to schedule
confirmation votes as early as this week for the Democrats along
with Republicans Phil Miscimarra and Harry Johnson, lawyers who
represent management in labor disputes, and Chairman Mark Pearce, who were approved by the panel in May.  Alexander, who has asked to put the votes off until next
week, said Republicans won’t seek to block confirmation with a
filibuster, allowing both nominees to be approved with a simple
majority of 51 votes. Democrats control 54 seats, including the
two independents who caucus with the party.  Labor Ties  The nominees approved today have close ties to labor.  From 2000 to 2012, Schiffer was general counsel for the
AFL-CIO, the federation led by Richard Trumka that represents 57
labor unions with 12 million members. Schiffer also worked for
the United Auto Workers Union, and worked as a field attorney
for the NLRB’s Detroit regional office.  Hirozawa worked at the labor board from 1984 to 1986 as an
attorney in the region that includes  New York  City. Hirozawa
then was a partner in the New York law firm Gladstein, Reif and
Meginniss LLP, which “is organized around the principal that
workers and their organizations deserve top-quality legal
representation just as much as corporations,” according to its
website. He returned to the board in 2010 a counsel to Pearce.  Both were nominated last week, after Obama agreed to drop
two nominees -- Sharon Block and Richard Griffin -- who he
appointed in 2012 while Congress was taking a break. Senate
Republicans said the chamber wasn’t in a recess at the time, and
the matter has been the subject of a legal battle that the
Supreme Court will consider in its next term.  The swap helped end a stalemate and allowed confirmation of
other stalled nominees, including Labor secretary and head of
the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  