-- Detroit Bankruptcy Protections Affirmed, Snyder Shielded
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h   a n d   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2013-07-24T20:46:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-24/detroit-bankruptcy-filing-is-valid-for-now-federal-judge-rules.html
Detroit  can enjoy the protections of
bankruptcy, including immunity from lawsuits related to the
case, a federal judge ruled, extending that shield to Michigan
Governor Rick Snyder.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Steven Rhodes in Detroit today
blocked lawsuits by public employee groups and pension funds who
alleged the state overreached in seeking court protection from
creditors. Such claims must be heard in bankruptcy court, Rhodes
said. His ruling gives the city the opportunity it said it needs
to address $18 billion in debt without disruptions.  “State court proceedings may well have an impact on the
bankruptcy case here and administration of this case or the
debtor’s assets,” he said.  Detroit filed for bankruptcy protection July 18. Kevyn Orr,
the city’s emergency manager, said that six decades of economic
decline had left Detroit unable to both pay creditors, including
retired city workers, in full and provide residents necessary
services.  Bond prices after the ruling indicated that investors are
still debating the debt’s fate in bankruptcy. Detroit general-obligation bonds maturing April 2028 traded after the ruling at
81.7 cents on the dollar, the lowest this year, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. Other Detroit general-obligation bonds maturing
April 2015 traded as high as 93 cents on the dollar, the highest
since March 18.  Chapter 9  Chapter 9 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code, which covers
municipalities, typically prevents creditors from taking actions
against the debtor that might interfere with reorganization.  As public workers protested outside the courthouse,
Detroit’s attorneys today argued that halting current and future
lawsuits against the city, its officials and the Republican
governor will provide needed breathing room to reorganize
operations and debts.  City unions and pension officials claim Snyder, 54,
violated  Michigan ’s constitution by authorizing Orr to file for
bankruptcy. Pension funds for retired city workers sued in state
court to have the filing declared illegal.  Suing Snyder over his decision is a “backdoor way” to
disrupt the Chapter 9 case, Heather Lennox, a lawyer for the
city, said in court today.  ‘Constitutional Rights’  Barring lawsuits against Snyder related to the bankruptcy
would be unfair to Michigan’s citizens, said Sharon Levine, an
attorney for the American Federation of State, County &
Municipal Employees, part of the AFL-CIO.  “We’re taking away very fundamental constitutional
rights,” Levine said.  Rhodes said that granting the stay on litigation “assists
the court in making the bankruptcy process more efficient and
gives the court control over all of the issues that will have to
be resolved through the course of the bankruptcy.”  Today’s hearing was held in Detroit’s 80-year-old federal
district courthouse rather than the bankruptcy court to
accommodate the crowds of lawyers, spectators and reporters the
case has drawn. Two protesters outside held a yellow banner that
said “Cancel Detroit’s Debt.”  Mary Jo Vorkamp, a 43-year-old librarian, said pensions
should take priority over bondholders.  “The investors knew there was risk involved,” Vorkamp
said while holding her 3-year-old son and a sign that read
“Save my mommy’s pensions.”  26 Years  Vorkamp said she has worked in the library for 26 years.  “Our pensions are a contract that was enshrined in the
constitution -- or at least I thought it was,” she said.  The General Retirement System and the Police and Fire
Retirement System of the City of Detroit sued Snyder and Orr on
July 17, contending that the state constitution bars any
government in the state from reducing pension benefits. The suit
was filed on behalf of the retirement plans and more than 32,000
active and retired Detroit employees.  In Chapter 9, a city gains court protection first and later
must convince a judge that the filing was proper. To be
eligible, a municipality must show that it can’t pay its debts,
wants to implement a plan to adjust its debts and has negotiated
in good faith with creditors when possible.  Eligibility Schedule  Under a schedule proposed by Orr, creditors would have
until the end of August to object to eligibility. The two sides
would exchange information and interview witnesses for the next
couple of months and submit their final written arguments in
early November. The eligibility hearing would happen sometime
after that.  It took Stockton,  California , several months to prove it
was eligible to remain in bankruptcy, while San Bernardino,
California, won’t face a hearing on the issue until next month,
about a year after it sought court protection.  Michael Artz, a lawyer for the American Federation of
State, County & Municipal Employees, said outside court after
the hearing that while the question of the constitutionality of
the Chapter 9 filing should have remained in state court, the
union “will fight whatever court we’re in.”  The bankruptcy came amid negotiations between Orr and
creditors including bondholders, public workers and retirees.
Before the filing, Orr proposed canceling about $2 billion in
bond debt and reducing $3.5 billion in unfunded pension
liabilities. Those debts would be replaced with about $2 billion
in new notes, forcing bondholders and the pension systems to
accept less than what they are owed.  Mediator Proposal  Rhodes may name a fellow jurist to oversee mediation
efforts between the city and creditors. In an agenda posted
yesterday for an Aug. 2 hearing, Rhodes included a proposal to
appoint Gerald Rosen to mediate. As chief judge of the U.S.
District Court in Detroit, Rosen, 61, oversees Rhodes and the
other bankruptcy judges in the district.  Sivad Johnson, a 42-year-old firefighter, said he felt
betrayed when he heard his pension might be at risk after 19
years of service.  Johnson said he will be eligible for a pension of about
$2,000 a month after 20 years on the job, meaning he could soon
retire. He said that while he may have planned to retire at a
younger age than many workers, he was told during his first day
of training that being a firefighter would take 10 years off his
life. He said he feels the effects of the job every day.  “This is about our future,” Johnson, who has a wife and
two children, said outside the courtroom. “I’m banking on
having that pension. I want to be able to retire, not work until
I’m dead.”  The case is City of Detroit, 13-bk-53846, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Eastern District of Michigan (Detroit).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steven Church in federal court in Detroit at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net ;
Erik Larson in federal court in Detroit at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Dunn at   adunn8@bloomberg.net  