-- Detroit Seeks to Shield Snyder From Suits Over Bankruptcy
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h   a n d   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 2013-07-24T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-24/detroit-seeks-to-shield-snyder-from-suits-over-bankruptcy.html
Detroit ’s first court hearing after
filing the biggest U.S. municipal bankruptcy may determine
whether Michigan Governor Rick Snyder can be insulated from
lawsuits related to the case.  Chapter 9 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code, which covers
municipalities, typically prevents creditors from taking actions
against the debtor that might interfere with reorganization.
Kevyn Orr, the Detroit emergency manager, is scheduled to ask
U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Steven Rhodes today to extend that
immunity to Snyder.  Public workers and retirees claim the bankruptcy threatens
their pension benefits with illegal cuts, and a union opposing
immunity said in a court filing that protecting the Republican
governor, who appointed Orr and authorized the July 18
bankruptcy, would be an “improper, unprecedented” move.  Immunity would allow Snyder “to engage in conduct which is
unconstitutional under the  Michigan  Constitution, unauthorized
or, at a minimum, outside the scope of Chapter 9,” the AFL-CIO,
the union for thousands of current and former city workers, said
in court papers.  The $18 billion bankruptcy filing came amid negotiations
between Orr and creditors including bondholders, public workers
and retirees. Orr said that six decades of economic decline had
left Detroit unable to both pay creditors in full and provide
residents necessary services.  Today’s hearing in Detroit is to confirm immunity for the
city, as well as extend it to state entities, employees, and
agents and representatives of the debtor, including the 54-year-old governor.  Retirement Plans  The General Retirement System and the Police and Fire
Retirement System of the City of Detroit sued Snyder and Orr on
July 17, contending that the state constitution bars any
government in the state from reducing pension benefits. The suit
was filed on behalf of the retirement plans and more than 32,000
active and retired Detroit employees.  Two similar cases were filed earlier in the month against
Snyder and Michigan Treasurer Andy Dillon. Just minutes before a
state-court hearing that may have halted the city’s plans,
Detroit filed its bankruptcy petition.  Larry Dubin, a professor at the University of Detroit Mercy
School of Law, said Snyder’s role is probably less important
than it was before the Chapter 9 filing.  ‘Very Important’  “Governor Snyder was very important in setting the
groundwork necessary for this bankruptcy,” he said. Now Orr and
his  advisers  will handle the day-to-day management of the case.
Snyder “will not be the driving force,” Dubin said.  Extending the so-called automatic stay to the governor
would prevent creditors, including the pension plans, from
filing disruptive lawsuits, Orr said in court papers.  Creditors want to sue Snyder “for the sole and
inappropriate purpose of attempting to improve their bargaining
positions with respect to their claims and otherwise denying the
city the protections of the Chapter 9 stay,” he said.  Before the bankruptcy, Orr proposed canceling about
$2 billion in bond debt and reducing $3.5 billion in unfunded
pension liabilities. Those debts would be replaced with about
$2 billion in new notes, forcing bondholders and the pension
systems to accept less than what they are owed.  Worker Concessions  City workers, other than police and firefighters, argue
that their pensions and benefits are being unfairly targeted for
cuts after they have already made concessions. Those employees
saw pension benefit cuts of 40 percent last year, the AFL-CIO
said in its court filing.  The average pension for employees other than police and
firefighters was set at slightly less than $18,000 a year,
according to a June 30, 2012, valuation report cited in the AFL-CIO filing. The average annual pay for such employees is
$41,385, the union said.  The three lawsuits are pending in state court in Ingham
County, Michigan. Circuit Judge Rosemarie Aquilina in Lansing
ruled on the first two, finding Detroit’s Chapter 9 filing
violated the state’s  constitution , which says public pension
benefits are a contractual obligation that can’t be diminished
or impaired.  In asking Rhodes to delay hearings in the bankruptcy,
pension officials cited a July 19 ruling by Aquilina criticizing
Snyder for “overreaching” when he authorized Orr to rush the
city into bankruptcy.  Request Denied  Rhodes on July 22 rejected the request to delay the
bankruptcy case, and Aquilina’s ruling was put on hold yesterday
pending consideration by Michigan’s court of appeals.  Attorney Dale Ginter, who represented retired city workers
in the 2008 bankruptcy of Vallejo,  California , said the immunity
motion may stumble at first on technical grounds -- the city may
need to re-file its request in the form of a lawsuit -- before
finally being granted.  “They may well lose that motion, but ultimately I think
the city will be able to protect the governor,” Ginter said.  The case is City of Detroit, 13-bk-53846, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Eastern District of Michigan (Detroit).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steven Church in Detroit at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net ;
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Detroit at 
 mcfisk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Dunn at   adunn8@bloomberg.net  