-- Detroit Judge May Name Mediator for Bankruptcy Talks
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2013-07-24T18:16:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-24/detroit-judge-may-name-mediator-for-bankruptcy-talks.html
Detroit ’s bankruptcy judge may name
a fellow jurist to oversee mediation efforts between the city
and creditors owed about $18 billion.  In an agenda posted yesterday on the court docket for an
Aug. 2 hearing, U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Steven Rhodes included a
proposed order appointing Gerald Rosen to mediate. As chief
judge of the U.S. District Court in Detroit, Rosen, 61, oversees
Rhodes and the other bankruptcy judges in the district.  The city’s July 18 bankruptcy filing came amid negotiations
between Kevyn Orr, Detroit’s emergency manager, and creditors
including bondholders, public workers and retirees. Orr said
that six decades of  economic  decline had left Detroit unable to
both pay creditors in full and provide residents necessary
services.  Before the bankruptcy, Orr proposed canceling about
$2 billion in bond debt and reducing $3.5 billion in unfunded
pension liabilities. Those debts would be replaced with about
$2 billion in new notes, forcing bondholders and the pension
systems to accept less than what they are owed.  Detroit’s attorneys are in court today seeking to halt
current and future lawsuits against the city, its officials and
Republican Governor  Rick Snyder . They argue that such immunity
is necessary to give the city the breathing room it needs to
reorganize its operations and debts.  At the Aug. 2 status conference, Rhodes will also ask the
parties to consider a proposal to appoint an independent fee
examiner, to give him an update on negotiations and to set
deadlines for rejecting collective bargaining agreements,
according to the agenda.  The case is City of Detroit, 13-bk-53846,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , Eastern District of  Michigan  (Detroit).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in federal court in Detroit at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net  