-- Detroit’s First Bankruptcy Hearing Starts Amid Protests
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h   a n d   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2013-07-24T15:08:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-24/detroit-s-first-bankruptcy-hearing-starts-amid-protests.html
Detroit ’s first court hearing after
filing the biggest U.S. municipal bankruptcy began today as city
workers seeking to protect their pensions protested outside.  Detroit is asking U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Steven Rhodes to
extend the usual immunities granted debtors in bankruptcy to
Republican Governor  Rick Snyder , who authorized the city’s
emergency manager, Kevyn Orr, to file the $18 billion case on
July 18.  The filing came amid negotiations between Orr and creditors
including bondholders, public workers and retirees. Orr said
that six decades of economic decline had left Detroit unable to
both pay creditors in full and provide residents necessary
services.  The proceeding is being held in Detroit’s larger federal
district courthouse rather than the  bankruptcy court  to
accommodate lawyers, spectators and reporters the case has
drawn. About 10 protesters had already gathered outside two
hours before the hearing started. Two held a yellow banner that
said “Cancel Detroit’s Debt.”  Mary Jo Vorkamp, a 43-year-old librarian who was protesting
with her sister, said pensions should take priority over
bondholders.  “The investors knew there was risk involved,” Vorkamp
said while holding her 3-year-old son and a sign that read
“Save my mommy’s pensions.”  26 Years  Vorkamp said she has worked in the library for 26 years.  “Our pensions are a contract that was enshrined in the
constitution -- or at least I thought it was,” she said.  The protesters moved back and forth before the courthouse
because police wouldn’t let them stand in front of the building.  Chapter 9 of the U.S.  Bankruptcy Code , which covers
municipalities, typically prevents creditors from taking actions
against the debtor that might interfere with reorganization.
Today’s hearing is to confirm immunity for the city, as well as
extend it to state entities, employees, and agents and
representatives of the debtor, including the governor.  The General Retirement System and the Police and Fire
Retirement System of the City of Detroit sued Snyder and Orr on
July 17, contending that the state constitution bars any
government in the state from reducing pension benefits. The suit
was filed on behalf of the retirement plans and more than 32,000
active and retired Detroit employees.  More Cases  Two similar cases were filed earlier in the month against
Snyder and  Michigan  Treasurer Andy Dillon. Just minutes before a
state-court hearing that might have halted the city’s plans,
Detroit filed its bankruptcy petition.  Before the bankruptcy, Orr proposed canceling about
$2 billion in bond debt and reducing $3.5 billion in unfunded
pension liabilities. Those debts would be replaced with about
$2 billion in new notes, forcing bondholders and the pension
systems to accept less than what they are owed.  The case is City of Detroit, 13-bk-53846,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , Eastern District of Michigan (Detroit).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steven Church in Detroit at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net ;
Erik Larson in  New York  at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net  