-- ‘Honeymoon Murder’ Suspect Dewani Loses Extradition Fight
-- B y   J e r e m y   H o d g e s
-- 2013-07-24T12:43:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-24/dewani-can-be-extradited-to-south-africa-over-wife-s-murder.html
Shrien Dewani can be sent to South
Africa to face charges he murdered his wife during their
honeymoon in 2010, a  London  judge ruled.  Judge Howard Riddle rejected arguments that Dewani’s mental
health wouldn’t allow him to stand trial and that there was no
guarantee he would recover more quickly in London. If
extradited, the 33-year-old Dewani would be sent to  Valkenberg
Hospital  in Cape Town rather than jail, Riddle said.  “There has been recovery, but it has been slow,” Riddle
said. “It may be a long time until he is fit to plead.”  South Africa wants to try Dewani for the murder of his wife
Anni in Cape Town in November 2010. Anni Dewani was killed after
a taxi she and her husband were traveling in was carjacked in
Gugulethu, near the city. South African prosecutors allege her
husband arranged the murder.  The ruling “shows that the London authorities have
confidence in South Africa’s justice system and judicial process
and in the fact that we can give Mr. Dewani a fair trial,”
Bulelwa Makeke, head of communications at the South African
National Prosecuting Authority, said in a telephone interview
from  Pretoria .  Dewani has been treated at a U.K. hospital for post-traumatic stress disorder and depression since his wife’s death,
Riddle said today.  Dewani’s lawyers had argued at an earlier hearing that a
decision on extradition should be delayed six months to allow
more time for him to recover.  Clinical Toll  “The evidence is that Mr. Dewani will receive the treatment
he needs in South Africa,” Riddle said in his judgment.
“Delaying extradition may make the clinical toll worse, so there
are advantages in moving on.”  About 40 members of Anni Dewani’s family arrived at court
today wearing photographs of her pinned to their chests trimmed
with pink ribbon.  “For us it is all about Anni, it’s all about finding out
what happened,” Ami Denborg, Anni Dewani’s sister, told
reporters outside the court today.  Lawyers at Corker Binning, who represent Shrien Dewani,
declined to comment. They have 14 days to appeal the ruling.  The case is Dewani v. Government of The Republic of South
Africa, CO/9406/2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeremy Hodges in London at 
 jhodges17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lindsay Fortado at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net  