-- Dolce & Gabbana Rule Out IPO as Duo Appeals Tax Evasion Charges
-- B y   F r a n c i n e   L a c q u a   a n d   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s
-- 2013-07-24T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-24/dolce-gabbana-rule-out-ipo-as-duo-appeals-tax-evasion-charges.html
Domenico Dolce and Stefano Gabbana,
the Italian designers convicted of tax evasion, ruled out a
public sale of a stake in their namesake fashion company, while
leaving open the possibility of bringing in private investors.  “No market, no sales. We want to be free,” Gabbana said
in a Bloomberg Television interview in Milan, where the fashion
company is based. Asked about selling a stake privately instead
of an initial public offering, Dolce added: “You never know.”  The designers also repeated their innocence after being
convicted by a Milan court last month over the non-payment of 40
million euros ($52.9 million) of taxes at one of their companies
between 2003 and 2004. Authorities ruled that Gado, a
Luxembourg-based holding company for Dolce & Gabbana Srl, should
have filed tax returns in  Italy . Dolce and Gabbana are appealing
against the conviction.  “Everybody knows we are innocent,” Gabbana said, ruling
out leaving Italy. “We are here. We are strong. We work.”  Luxury buyouts will accelerate as cash-laden companies and
investors seek to tap rising demand in fast-growing economies,
according to Milton Pedraza, chief executive officer of
consultant Luxury Institute LLC. Italian companies are more
willing to explore deals because it’s harder for them to secure
financing amid the economic crisis, said Francois Arpels,
managing director of Bryan Garnier’s luxury-goods practice.  Dolce & Gabbana, which makes  1,450-euro lace shift dresses ,
has an enterprise value of about 2.5 billion euros, or about 2.3
times 2011 sales, estimates Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. analyst
Mario Ortelli. The fashion company would be a good fit for  LVMH
Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA (MC) , which this month agreed to pay 2
billion euros for 80 percent of Italian cashmere clothier Loro
Piana SpA, according to the analyst.  An external spokesman for LVMH declined to comment on
whether D&G would be a good fit for the French company.  Global luxury sales will rise as much as 5 percent this
year as booming demand in Southeast Asia offsets a slowdown in
China and Europe, Bain & Co. estimates  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Roberts in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  