-- Dollar Drops on Bets Fed Won’t Taper Buying Soon; Kiwi Rallies
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2013-07-25T21:14:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-24/dollar-holds-gain-versus-yen-before-jobless-claims-data.html
The dollar fell versus 15 of its 16
most-traded counterparts on speculation the Federal Reserve will
reassure investors that policy makers won’t be quick to raise
interest rates at next week’s meeting.  New Zealand’s dollar jumped the most in more than a year
versus its U.S. peer after central-bank Governor Graeme Wheeler
said a removal of monetary easing “will likely be needed in the
future.” The U.S. currency extended losses after the Wall
Street Journal’s Jon Hilsenrath wrote that the Fed will probably
keep its bond-buying program unchanged next week.  “Hilsenrath today has detailed thoughts that the Fed will
remain with an easing bias, and that taper is talk, and only
talk,” Douglas Borthwick, a managing director and head of
foreign exchange at Chapdelaine FX in New York, wrote today in a
note to clients. “It’s certainly not an actionable event any
time soon.”  The greenback declined 0.6 percent to $1.3277 per euro at
5 p.m. New York time and reached $1.3296, the weakest level
since June 20. It slid 1 percent to 99.29 yen and touched 98.89,
the weakest intraday level since July 12. The euro depreciated
0.4 percent to 131.83 yen.  JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s G-7 Volatility Index, a measure of
price swings among Group of Seven nations’ currencies, rose to
9.57 percent from the 9.11 percent reached yesterday, the lowest
intraday level since May 9. The gauge climbed on June 24 to this
year’s high of 11.96 percent. The 2013 average is 9.55 percent.  Kiwi Climbs  New Zealand’s dollar, nicknamed the kiwi, climbed versus
all of its 16 major peers after the nation’s Reserve Bank said
the pace of future interest-rate increases will depend on the
growing housing market’s impact on prices, while reiterating it
will keep borrowing costs at a record-low 2.5 percent this year.  The “Reserve Bank has told us that they’re going to
tighten explicitly, no ifs or buts,” said  Imre Speizer , a
markets strategist at  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  in Auckland. “The
pressure from the markets would be to the upside for the kiwi.”  The kiwi surged 1.9 percent, the most on a closing basis
since June 6, 2012, to 80.82 U.S. cents. It touched 81.06 cents,
the strongest level since June 14.  The Australian dollar strengthened versus major peers as
its South Pacific counterpart climbed. The Aussie appreciated
0.9 percent to 92.46 U.S. cents after dropping yesterday from a
four-week intraday high of 93.19 cents.  Malaysia’s ringgit sank versus most major counterparts as
forwards on the currency fell by the most in five weeks and
bonds dropped. It lost 0.3 percent to 3.1985 per dollar.  Options Trading  Trading in over-the-counter foreign-exchange options
totaled $27 billion, compared with $23 billion yesterday,
according to data reported by U.S. banks to the Depository Trust
Clearing Corp. and tracked by Bloomberg. Volume in options on
the dollar-yen exchange rate amounted to $9.4 billion, the
largest share of trades at 34 percent. Options on the euro-dollar rate totaled $3.1 billion, or 11 percent.  Dollar-yen options trading was 30 percent more than the
average for the past five Thursdays at a similar time in the
day, according to Bloomberg analysis. Euro-dollar options
trading was 27 percent less than average.  The Wall Street Journal article said Fed policy makers will
probably discuss at their July 30-31 meeting how to describe to
the public plans for stimulus and interest rates. The Fed buys
$85 billion of bonds each month to put downward pressure on
borrowing costs, a strategy that tends to debase the dollar.
Policy makers have kept their key interest rate at virtually
zero since 2008 to support the economy.  Dollar Gauge  The Bloomberg Dollar Index remained lower today after the
Commerce Department said orders for U.S.  durable goods  climbed
4.2 percent last month, led by transportation equipment. A
Bloomberg survey forecast a 1.4 percent gain.  The currency gauge, which tracks the greenback against 10
major peers, declined 0.7 percent to 1,024.10.  The yen climbed against all of its 16 most-traded
counterparts except the kiwi amid increased demand for refuge.  “There was arguably some element of market caution
supporting the yen, and possibly paring back some short
positions,”  Nick Bennenbroek , the head of currency strategy at
 Wells Fargo Securities LLC  in New York, said in a telephone
interview. “Broad U.S. dollar weakness against a range of
currencies is another factor that has continued to support the
yen.” Short positions are bets an asset, in this case the yen,
will decrease in value.  Yen’s Slide  The currency has dropped 8.3 percent this year against the
dollar as Prime Minister Shinzo Abe and Bank of  Japan  Governor
Haruhiko Kuroda have pushed to stem deflation and spur growth.  The yen depreciated 3.5 percent in the past month, the
biggest decline among 10 developed-market peers tracked by
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The euro rose 0.4
percent, while the dollar dropped 1.8 percent.  The euro fell earlier against the greenback amid
speculation that improving data won’t derail European Central
Bank President Mario Draghi’s pledge to keep interest rates low
for an extended period. The ECB next meets Aug. 1.  The Munich-based Ifo institute’s business climate index,
based on a survey of 7,000 German executives, rose to 106.2 this
month from 105.9 in June, data showed today. A Bloomberg survey
predicted a gain to 106.1.  The index “points to a moderate upturn in German growth,
which makes extra stimulus unnecessary,” Christian Schulz, an
economist at Berenberg Bank in  London , wrote in a note to
clients. “At the same time, the moderate pace should not raise
pressure for quick monetary tightening. It thus supports the
ECB’s guidance that interest rates will stay at or below their
current levels for an extended period.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  