-- Durban Municipality’s Water Project Includes Salt Sales
-- B y   N i k i   M o o r e
-- 2013-07-24T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-24/durban-municipality-s-water-project-includes-salt-sales.html
Ilembe, the fastest-growing area on
the east coast of  South Africa , has embarked on a pilot project
to increase water supplies that features selling salt extracted
from a desalination plant and a shrimp-breeding farm.  The municipality of 560,000 residents north of Durban has
approved a desalination plant that will supply as much as a
half-million liters (132,000 gallons) of fresh water a day,
recycling the salt for commercial sale. Wind turbines may be
used to save on power bills.  The $6.1 million project was initiated because South
Africa’s eastern coast has such a low water table that boreholes
are usually unfeasible with short, fast-flowing seasonal rivers
that affect the reliability of water and a dispersed rural
population that makes infrastructure expensive.  Ilembe like much of the nation is looking for a long-term,
self-sustaining water solution. Treasury’s 2012 Budget Review
says South Africa will start running out of water 13 years from
now without better management. On current projections, South
Africa’s water demand will outstrip available supply by 2025 to
2030, according to the document.  “We have a 35-year master plan for water,” Ilembe
Municipal Manager Mike Newton said in an interview. With a rate
of growth of 5.7 percent, a 70 percent rural population,  climate
change  and proximity to the sea, desalination is “an attractive
emergency backup in case we run out.”  Using technology already in place in the Southern Cape, the
project will build a portable desalination plant at Blythedale,
a resort north of Durban.  Desalination Plans  It will combine techniques to create a blueprint for two
larger proposed desalination plants on the north and south
coasts of KwaZulu-Natal to provide water for the province.  The supply will be drawn from the dunes via a borehole
instead of the sea from waters already partly desalinated.  With reverse-osmosis being used in the project, the potable
supply will be remineralized as desalinated water is acidic.  Phase one of the project will cost 11 million South African
rand ($1.1 million) including specialized equipment, with the
second phase commercializing the salt. Part of the brine would
be supplied to aquaculturalists to breed saltwater shrimp, and
the rest would be dried for sale.  A projected output is a ton of salt per day. The saltwater
shrimp project is already linked up with the Ocean Basket chain
of seafood restaurants, which started an aquaculture company,
and it’s envisaged that the salt-drying project will be done in
conjunction with community projects.  Phase three is to find alternative energy supplies for the
plant using vertical-axis  wind-turbines  or hydrogen separation.
The goal is to make each plant self-sustaining.  All three phases will cost 60 million rand, amortized by
selling water over the 30-year lifespan of the plant.  This desalination project is an experimental prototype for
two larger planned desalination plants for KZN, one for the
North Coast and another for the South Coast.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Niki Moore in Johannesburg at 
 nmoore19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  