-- E*Trade Seeking Exit From Market-Making Unit
-- B y   S a m   M a m u d i   a n d   W h i t n e y   K i s l i n g
-- 2013-07-25T20:15:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-24/e-trade-plans-to-exit-market-making-business-by-selling-division.html
E*Trade Financial Corp. (ETFC) , the online
brokerage with six chief executive officers since 2007, wants to
sell a market-making unit that handles orders for its customers.  E*Trade plans to exit the Chicago-based business, G1
Execution Services LLC, according to its second-quarter earnings
release yesterday. Chief Financial Officer Matthew Audette told
analysts during a conference call that New York-based E*Trade is
looking for buyers and expects to announce a divestiture within
six months. The company’s shares surged 7.9 percent today, the
most since August 2011, after E*Trade beat earnings estimates.  Market-making profits are under pressure in the U.S. as
computerized trading squeezes margins and volume stagnates. G1
Execution, also known as G1X, proved a distraction this year
when E*Trade disclosed that it found “shortcomings” in how it
measured whether trades were struck at the best prices.  “It’s a tough business, especially in a declining volume
environment,”  Larry Tabb , CEO of Tabb Group LLC in  New York ,
said in a phone interview. “It takes a lot of investment and
the pricing has gotten so competitive, so for a lot of the
retail brokers it’s tough to justify developing it.”  E*Trade concluded that it should sell G1X due to “the
tightening economics for that business coupled with a potential
associated risk, both operational and regulatory,” Audette said
during yesterday’s call. Most importantly, “it is not core to
our retail customer business,” he added.  Stagnant Trading  Daily U.S. equity trading volume has averaged 6.37 billion
shares in 2013, down from 6.42 billion in 2012 and 9.77 million
in 2009, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  The decision to exit G1X was announced as E*Trade said it
 lost  $54 million in the second quarter, compared with net income
of $40 million a year earlier. The New York-based company booked
a $142 million goodwill writedown tied to G1X.  Excluding the goodwill impairment and restructuring
charges, E*Trade said it earned 21 cents a share last quarter,
topping the average analyst estimate of 12 cents, according to
 data  compiled by Bloomberg.  The company’s “earnings power has taken a step upward,”
said  Richard Repetto , an analyst at Sandler O’Neill & Partners
LP, in an e-mailed note. “It was a broad-based beat aided by
general market conditions and ETFC’s conservative guidance,” he
wrote, referring to E*Trade by its stock symbol. Repetto raised
his 2013 profit estimate for the company by 35 percent to 62
cents a share.  Potential Buyers  Potential buyers of G1X include  KCG Holdings Inc. (KCG) , Citadel
LLC and  UBS AG (UBSN) , according to James Angel, a finance professor at
 Georgetown University ’s business school in  Washington . Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. is another potential suitor, said Javier Paz, a
senior analyst at Aite Group LLC.  Sophie Sohn, a KCG spokeswoman, UBS’s Megan Stinson,
Goldman Sachs’s  Michael DuVally  and Mike Geller, who represents
Citadel at Edelman, declined to comment on whether the firms
would consider buying G1X.  “Market making is a very thin-margin business with a risk
of catastrophic losses like with  Knight Capital  Group,” Angel
wrote in an e-mail.  Knight Capital reached the brink of bankruptcy in August
after a computer malfunction caused it to lose more than $450
million on a single day through erroneous trades. Getco LLC then
bought the company, creating KCG.  E*Trade’s board decided against pursuing a sale of the
entire company in 2011. Earlier this year, it lost Chicago-based
Citadel, the hedge-fund operator that bailed the company out in
2007, as a shareholder. Citadel runs its own market-making unit
called Citadel Execution Services.  “Market making as of late has been doing pretty poorly,”
Paz said in a phone interview from  Salt Lake City . “It is a
tough business all around for market making as markets are
getting a little more wild and up and downs are harder to
predict, and that impacts the results in this unit.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sam Mamudi in New York at 
 smamudi@bloomberg.net ;
Whitney Kisling in New York at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  