-- Hedge-Fund Founder Loses Suit Over $6 Million Gift to Partner
-- B y   K i t   C h e l l e l
-- 2013-07-24T13:52:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-24/hedge-fund-founder-loses-suit-over-6-million-gift-to-partner.html
One of the founders of Gradient
Capital Partners LLP lost a lawsuit seeking to recover a
“gift” of about 3.9 million pounds ($6 million) paid to his
former partner at the  London  hedge fund as losses mounted amid
the financial crisis.  Ivor Farman gave the money to the fund’s co-founder Scott Pagel to help him pay a U.S. tax bill in January 2009, according
to a U.K. court ruling today. Their relationship had soured the
previous year as investors pulled as much as $900 million out of
Gradient funds, Judge David Mackie said.  Gradient lost as much as 34 percent in 2008 because of its
investments in illiquid Norwegian stocks, according to Mackie’s
ruling. Hedge fund assets fell an average of 19 percent that
year, and fund closures tripled to 1,471 as markets tumbled,
according to data compiled by Hedge Fund Research Inc.  Farman was “making a gift recognizing that his trading has
fallen short of his own very high standards and caused very
large losses to his partner as well as himself,” Mackie said.  Pagel had sued Farman first for 5 million pounds over a
loan and Farman’s withdrawals from the company, according to the
ruling. That claim was dropped before the start of the trial and
the case proceeded on Farman’s counter claim.  Farman, who no longer works at Gradient, said in a phone
interview that he wanted to put the matter behind him.  “I was disappointed when he decided to use the proceeds of
the gift to make this claim against me,” Farman said.  Pagel didn’t immediately respond to a phone call to
Gradient in London. His lawyer, Duncan Bryden, declined to
comment on the case. A man who answered the phone at Gradient
declined to comment or give his name.  Mistaken Gift  Farman argued the “gift” had been a mistake, Mackie said.
The attempt to reconcile the relationship with Pagel
“disintegrated almost as soon as it had begun.”  While the judge said Farman had “formidable intellect and
self-confidence,” his evidence to the trial had been
“overconfident and in some respects inaccurate.”  Farman and Pagel founded the fund in 2001, after previously
working at Adelphi Capital LLP and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,
according to the ruling. In 2006, Farman earned 59 million
pounds and Pagel, who focused on marketing and investor
relations, about 35 million pounds.  When the fund began losing money in 2008, Pagel blamed
Farman, Mackie said.  “I have been monumentally wrong in my view for reasons I
don’t understand,” Farman said in an e-mail cited in the
ruling. By then they were working in separate offices and not
speaking to each other, Mackie said.  “Today really is the tipping point for me,” Pagel said in
a July 2008 e-mail to Farman cited in the ruling. “I simply
have no capacity left for personal losses.”  Farman approved the payment in January 2009 after Pagel
made repeated requests for help with his U.S. tax bill.  He resigned the same day, telling a colleague: “I am sick
and tired of the stress and have no further desire to want to
see us make a success of this,” according to the judgment.  The case is: Mr Scott Pagel v. Mr Ivor Farman,  High Court 
of Justice, Queen’s Bench Division, Commercial Court, 11-433  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kit Chellel in London at 
 cchellel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  