-- Egypt Shares Retreat on Bets Army Protest Call to Spur Clashes
-- B y   T a m i m   E l y a n
-- 2013-07-24T14:28:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-24/egypt-shares-retreat-on-bets-army-protest-call-to-spur-clashes.html
Egyptian shares  fell the most in two
weeks as the Arab country’s army chief urged the public to
protest and give the military a mandate to combat violence that
has escalated since President Mohamed Mursi was toppled.  The benchmark EGX 30 Index fell 1.7 percent, the biggest
retreat since July 8, to 5,359.57 at the close in Cairo as all
but two stocks dropped. Some  143 million shares  traded, compared
with a daily average over the past year of 122 million. Orascom
Telecom Holding SAE was the  biggest decliner  on the gauge,
losing 2.6 percent, the most since July 8.  The country’s default risk also rose for a second day after
Defense Minister and Deputy Prime Minister Abdelfatah al-Seesi
called on all “honorable” Egyptians to rally on July 26 and
back the army as it seeks to combat “terrorism.” The Muslim
Brotherhood, which has held daily protests since the army forced
Mursi out of office on July 3, deemed al-Seesi’s call as a
“threat to plunge the country into seas of blood.”  “It is now inevitable that violence will occur, we have
reached the point that everbody was afraid of,” said Ahmed Abutaleb, a vice president at Cairo-based Pharos Securities.
“The escalation is pulling the market down and will do so
tomorrow.”  Egypt ’s credit default swaps increased eight basis points,
or 0.08 percentage point, to 758 at 3:45 p.m. in Cairo, taking
the two-day advance to 33 basis points. About 100 people have
been killed in political violence this month as Mursi’s
supporters demand the former president’s reinstatement and
frequently clash with security forces.  Political Tension  The yield on the government’s $1 billion of benchmark 5.75
percent bonds maturing 2020 has increased seven basis points
this week to 8.53 percent today.  Declines on the EGX 30 today trimmed this month’s advance
to 13 percent, the world’s best performer after gauges in
Argentina and Dubai among 94 benchmarks tracked by Bloomberg.
Egyptians were net sellers of 4.8 million pounds ($685 million)
of stocks today, according to data on the bourse’s website.  “The market went up on optimism,” said Hisham Halaldeen,
head of business development at Naeem Holding in Cairo. “The
fact that political tension hasn’t eased but keeps going up has
caused the pullback.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tamim Elyan in Cairo at 
 telyan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  