-- Lehman Pensions Don’t Get Priority Over Creditors, Court Says
-- B y   K i t   C h e l l e l
-- 2013-07-24T10:36:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-24/lehman-pensions-don-t-get-priority-over-creditors-court-says.html
The U.K. Supreme Court said that
about 43,000 former employees with pensions at Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. and  Nortel Networks Corp. (NRTLQ)  should be treated the
same as other unsecured creditors of the bankrupt firms.  The ruling overturned a lower court verdict that pension
holders should get priority over unsecured creditors in the
insolvency cases. The U.K. pension regulator sought 125 million
pounds ($192 million) from Lehman and 2.1 billion pounds from
Nortel to cover shortfalls in their plans.  “There seems no particular sense” in a pension plan’s
trustees “having any greater or any lesser priority than the
rights of any other unsecured creditor,” Judge David Neuberger
said in a ruling today in London.  Lehman Brothers filed the largest bankruptcy in U.S.
history in September 2008, and its U.K. unit is being liquidated
by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP. Internet provider Nortel and
affiliates filed for bankruptcy in January 2009.  PwC, which has a role in both companies’ administrations,
said in a statement that the ruling was the “fairest result.”  “This is also a great result for members of pension
schemes and in some cases will make a real difference to their
pension in the case of an administration,” Jonathon Land,
partner at PwC and adviser to the trustees of the Nortel
Networks UK Pension Trust Ltd., said in the statement.  The Supreme Court ruling in favor of the Lehman and Nortel
administrators will help companies, lenders and insolvency
experts, said Devi Shah, a lawyer at Mayer Brown LLP in  London .
Previously, restructuring professionals “had to consider
potentially large pension deficits when assessing the prospects
of companies on the verge of insolvency, making rescue of the
enterprise a risky and uncertain business.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kit Chellel in London at 
 cchellel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  