-- Heidelberg Gains as JPMorgan Cites U.S. Market Presence
-- B y   W e i x i n   Z h a
-- 2013-07-24T14:55:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-24/heidelberg-gains-as-jpmorgan-cites-u-s-market-presence.html
HeidelbergCement AG (HEI) , the world’s
third-largest maker of cement, rose the most in more than two
months after  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  said the company’s presence in
Europe and the U.S. may protect it from emerging-market
“headwinds.”  HeidelbergCement  increased  as much as 4 percent to 55.43
euros, the steepest intraday gain since May 7, and was trading
up 2 percent at 4:30 p.m. in Frankfurt, valuing the company at
10.2 billion euros ($13.5 billion). Trading volume exceeded the
three-month daily average by 23 percent.  The cement producer, which is based in Heidelberg, Germany,
 generated  more than half of revenue in 2012 from Western
economies, with 30 percent from northwestern Europe and 25
percent from  North America . The World Bank cut its global
economic-growth forecast for 2013 last month after emerging
markets from China to Brazil slowed more than projected.  “Heidelberg is our preferred play in the cement sector,”
as competitors Holcim Ltd. and Paris-based  Lafarge SA (LG)  are
“largely exposed to emerging markets,” Elodie Rall, Emily Biddulph and Rajesh Patki, London-based analysts at JPMorgan,
wrote in a research report published late yesterday.
HeidelbergCement is “ rightly positioned  through its U.S.
exposure and western Europe to deliver” on estimates.  JPMorgan raised its recommendation on HeidelbergCement to
overweight from neutral and estimate the stock will reach 57.30
euros. The bank rates Holcim and Lafarge as neutral, saying
more-optimistic industry analysts are “relying too much on
cost-saving deliveries to offset the current headwinds from
weakening  emerging markets ” that confront the companies.  Heidelberg’s stock has gained 19 percent this year, beating
gains of 0.7 percent at Lafarge and 3 percent at Jona,
Switzerland-based Holcim.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Weixin Zha in Frankfurt at 
 wzha2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  