-- Eldar Recalls Torture from Bach, Flunking Jazz
-- B y   P a t r i c k   C o l e
-- 2013-07-24T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-24/eldar-recalls-torture-from-bach-flunking-jazz.html
Jazz edged out the classical music
of his boyhood piano lessons, but Eldar Djangirov couldn’t stay
away from Bach.  After releasing his debut CD of jazz standards in 2005,
“Eldar,” the 26-year-old Kyrgyzstan native has blazed a trail
in the musical world with his dual vocabulary: April brought a
jazz trio recording, “Breakthrough,” while the following month
came the solo classical effort “Bach/Brahms/Prokofiev.”  Eldar and his jazz trio mates, drummer Colin Stranahan and
bassist Rick Rosato, will have the backing of a full orchestra
when they take the stage Sunday at the Saratoga Choral Festival.  We spoke over a cup of coffee at French Roast, a cafe on
Manhattan’s Upper West Side near his apartment:  Cole: You had just enrolled at the University of  Southern
California  to study music when I first met you, and then you
dropped out. Why?  Eldar: I was on the road a lot. I actually failed jazz
combo because I was absent so much. That’s not to say that I
didn’t learn anything at USC. There was a great professor there,
Shelly Berg, who is now the dean of the University of Miami’s
music program.  Our lessons were very much about composition and just
sharing classical music together. That’s pretty much my entire
practice routine, composition and improving different sides of
my brain.  Jazz Trio  Cole: Why do you often play in the trio format instead of
in a quartet or quintet?  Eldar: I like the smaller band format because I’m playing
piano in a lot of sections on these songs, so I have to have
space basically.  Cole: It’s unusual to see two albums emerge from one artist
released within months of each other.  Eldar: Sometimes you’re at the mercy of your will. You’re
so inside what you’re doing and it just happens. There were
three different styles that enriched my playing. These two
releases are like three stories but they’re in two records.  Cole: When did you develop a love for music and start
playing?  Eldar: When I was five. I played classical music until
about age 13. Then I played jazz because classical music was
torture for me. My mother was a music instructor. I didn’t enjoy
it.  Cole: But then you returned to classical music?  Classical Redux  Eldar: When I was 18 and going to school, my interest in it
was re-sparked. I realized that classical music gave me a
certain sensibility and command of the instrument. I felt that
it was missing from my life and I revisited a lot of works.  Cole: How does your classical background aid you as a
musician?  Eldar: There is a certain undeniable logic that exists in
in any great music. You see why certain pieces of music are put
together. That particular logic is probably the reason why I
like any music, how good the musician is at building the
architecture of a composition.  Cole: What’s the best piece of advice you’ve gotten about
being a musician?  Eldar: Your level of accomplishment is going to be as high
as the heroes that you choose. Whoever you choose your heroes to
be, that’s what you’ll strive to become.  Cole: You’ve had a lot of success early in your career. How
has that affected your outlook on your career?  Eldar: There are some people who get success, and they
become complacent. I think my success bought me time to do more
rather than just to sit and do nothing.  (The Eldar trio performs Sunday at the Saratoga Performing
Arts Center’s Little Theater at 3 p.m. in Saratoga Springs,  New
York . Information: +1-518-791-0185;
 http://saratogachoralfest.org .)  (Patrick Cole is a reporter for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are his own.
This interview was adapted from a longer conversation.)  Muse highlights include Manuela Hoelterhoff on  books  and
 Amanda Gordon  on  Scene .
.  To contact the writer on this story:
Patrick Cole in New York at 
 pcole3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 