-- Electronic Arts Must Pay $11 Million After Verdict
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2013-07-24T01:52:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-24/electronic-arts-must-pay-11-million-after-verdict.html
Electronic Arts Inc. (EA)  must pay more
than $11 million to a former programmer who wrote code for the
earliest versions of the company’s “Madden NFL” video game,
according to the plaintiff’s lawyer.  A federal court jury in  San Francisco  today found that the
company broke a 1986 contract by failing to pay Robin Antonick
royalties on works derived from his code, Rob Carey, a lawyer
for Antonick, said in an e-mailed statement.  Carey said the verdict is a “good omen” for another phase
of the litigation to determine whether EA must pay Antonick for
games published from 1997 to now, and for which revenue exceeds
$3 billion. The verdict, not the damages, was confirmed by a
court filing.  A jury found June 21 that Antonick proved he didn’t know
before 2005 that EA allegedly used his work on later Madden
games. That allowed the trial to proceed to a second phase over
breach of contract and  damage claims .  EA has sold more than 85 million copies of the software,
resulting in revenue of more than $4 billion. The company, the
second-largest video game publisher, has denied using Antonick’s
code and has said other company programmers developed later
Madden NFL games independent of Antonick’s work.  “‘While we’re disappointed with the jury’s verdict and
will appeal, this has always been a case about games from the
early 1990s, and it has no impact on today’s Madden NFL
franchise,’’ John Reseburg, an spokesman for  Redwood City ,
California-based EA, said in an e-mail.  The case is Antonick v. Electronic Arts Inc., 11-01543,
U.S. District Court, Northern District of California (San
Francisco).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in San Francisco at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at 
 adunn8@bloomberg.net  