-- Telefonica Czech Says Second-Quarter Oibda Fell on Lower Spend
-- B y   L e n k a   P o n i k e l s k a
-- 2013-07-24T09:36:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-24/telefonica-czech-says-second-quarter-oibda-fell-on-lower-spend.html
Telefonica Czech Republic AS, the
country’s largest phone company, said operating income before
depreciation and amortization fell in the second quarter as
mobile termination rates and price pressures hurt revenue.  Oibda for the three months ended June 30 dropped 7 percent
to 4.8 billion koruna ($245 million) from 5.15 billion koruna a
year earlier, Prague-based Telefonica said in a statement.
Revenue declined 5.6 percent to 12 billion koruna. Shares were
down 0.3 percent at 274 koruna as of 9:50 a.m. in Prague.  “Results were roughly in line with market estimates,”
Cyrrus AS analysts Tomas Mencik said by phone today. “Fixed
segment was a positive surprise, while mobile wobbled more than
expected.”  Telefonica Czech slashed charges and introduced bundles for
unlimited calls and some data in April after the regulator
proposed new terms for a radio-spectrum auction. The rules
drafted by the regulator included allocating blocks of 800MHz
bandwidth to a new player. The Czech Telecommunication Office
plans to start the sale this month.  Telefonica plans to file a complaint against the auction
plan in court and at the European Commission if the conditions
are not changed, the company said in the statement. The
allocation of spectrum to a new entrant is “unjustified” as
four financially equivalent competitors participated in the 2012
auction, Telefonica said.  About a third of Telefonica’s residential contracted
clients moved to new unlimited tariffs as of June 30, according
to Telefonica. The operator had a total of 5.1 million mobile
customers at the end of June, up 2.3 percent from a year
earlier, it said.  User Revenue  The total mobile average revenue per user declined 15
percent to 337.4 in the first half from year earlier, hurt by
cuts in mobile termination rates and as high-spending clients
optimized spending with unlimited tariffs, Telefonica said.  Fixed operating revenue declined 4.2 percent to 10.1
billion koruna in the first half, Telefonica said. In the second
quarter, the decline slowed to 2.9 percent due to a
“significant” growth in voice wholesale sales and information
technology services, Telefonica said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lenka Ponikelska in Prague at 
 lponikelska1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  