-- Eli Lilly Raises 2013 Profit Forecast After Cost Cuts
-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2013-07-24T20:08:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-24/eli-lilly-raises-2013-profit-forecast-after-cost-cuts.html
Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY) , the maker of the
antidepressant Cymbalta and diabetes treatment Humalog, raised
its full-year forecast after second-quarter sales grew faster
than expected and cost-cutting programs took effect.  Second-quarter  earnings  excluding one-time items rose to
$1.16 a share, Indianapolis-based Lilly said today in a
statement. Analysts expected $1.01, the average of 16 estimates
compiled by Bloomberg. Lilly raised its guidance for full-year
profit to $4.05 to $4.15 a share, up from $3.82 to $3.97.  “It looks like they were doing some pretty good work while
I was gone,” said Chief Executive Officer  John Lechleiter , who
returned to work this month after having heart surgery in May.  Lilly is counting on experimental drugs for Alzheimer’s and
diabetes to revive growth as it loses patent protection on some
of its top products, including Cymbalta, the osteoporosis
treatment Evista and Zyprexa for schizophrenia. The company has
cut costs to help fund its drive for new drugs, and last week
said it would freeze wages for most of its workers.  “Management appears to be showing prudent cost discipline
in anticipation of the Cymbalta patent cliff,”  Mark Schoenebaum , an analyst with International Strategy & Investment
Group in  New York  said in a note to clients today. “Smart
expense control should increase the Street’s confidence that
Lilly is serious about dramatically improving operating margins
post-2014.”  Losing Revenue  Lilly expects a 20 percent reduction in revenue in 2014
because of the expiration of the Cymbalta and Evista patents in
the U.S., a company spokesman said July 17. Lilly had hoped to
avoid more cost cuts in the medium term, Lechleiter said.  “We’re losing a lot of revenue when at the same time we’ve
got to launch our Phase III products,” he said in a telephone
interview.  “You don’t take these actions lightly. This is the second
such announcement in three years,” Lechleiter said of the wage
freeze.  Lilly rose 3.1 percent to $52.55 at the close in New York.
The stock gained 6.6  percent this year , trailing the 26 percent
gain in the Standard and Poor’s 500 Health Care Index.  Improving Prospects  In 2014, the company’s prospects look better, said  Tim Anderson , an analyst with Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.  “Given the still-skeptical view of Lilly by the majority
of investors, and what still seems to be under-ownership of the
name, we think there is more ‘runway’ left should additional
investors turn positive,” Anderson said in a July 15 note to
clients. Future success “will be a function of Lilly executing
on various fronts, the most important of which is its
pipeline.”  Lilly is pushing ahead with an Alzheimer’s drug, called
solanezumab, in an effort to gain the first medicine approved
that treats the causes of the disease causes rather than just
the symptoms. The drug is in late-stage testing.  Sales in the second quarter rose 6 percent to $5.93
billion. Revenue from Cymbalta rose 22 percent from a year
earlier to $1.5 billion. The cancer drug Alimta, Lilly’s second-biggest product, saw sales rise 2 percent to $669 million.
Humalog rose 2 percent to $629 million.  Net income rose 31 percent to $1.21 billion, or $1.11 a
share, the company said.  Cymbalta, the drugmaker’s biggest product with $5 billion
in revenue last year, loses patent protection in December.
Zyprexa has lost more than half of its sales since peak revenue
of $5.03 billion in 2010, the year before its patent protection
expired.  Sales were hurt by the strong  U.S. dollar . More than half
of Lilly’s 2012 revenue came from  outside the U.S.,  and the
company said that foreign exchange rates cut sales by 2 percent.
The U.S. dollar gained 2 percent in the second quarter, making
U.S.-produced goods more expensive and reducing the value of
sales made overseas.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Drew Armstrong in New York at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  