-- EMC Profit Meets Analyst Estimates as Customers Spend on Storage
-- B y   D i n a   B a s s
-- 2013-07-24T10:59:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-24/emc-profit-meets-analyst-estimates-as-customers-spend-on-storage.html
EMC Corp. (EMC) , the world’s biggest maker
of storage computers, reported second-quarter earnings that met
analysts’ estimates as customers bought new machines to handle
surging volumes of data.  Profit before some costs was 42 cents a share, the
Hopkinton, Massachusetts-based company said today in a
statement. That matched the average analysts’ estimate,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Sales also met analyst
estimates, with $5.61 billion reported.  EMC is benefiting as customers invest in new equipment to
run Web-based applications and store reams of digital content.
It also got a boost from increased contract renewals at VMware
Inc., the software maker that is majority-owned by EMC. Sales
growth is likely to accelerate in the second half of the year,
said  Abhey Lamba , an analyst at Mizuho Securities USA Inc. who
recommends buying the shares.  EMC plans to buy back $3.5 billion in stock this year and
in the first half of next year.  EMC shares rose less than 1 percent to $25.33 at
yesterday’s close in  New York . The shares are little changed
 this year , while the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index has gained 19
percent.  EMC Chief Financial Officer David Goulden said in March
that the company will boost revenue by at least 8 percent a year
and profit will rise 10 percent annually through 2016 as market
share increases. Sales will exceed $30 billion in 2016, Goulden
said at the time.  VMware (VMW) , a  Palo Alto , California-based maker of software
that lets computers runs multiple operating systems, yesterday
reported profit and sales that surpassed analysts’ estimates as
customers began renewing multiyear contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dina Bass in Seattle at 
 dbass2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  