-- Encana Reports Second-Quarter Profit on Higher Oil Output
-- B y   G e r r i t   D e   V y n c k   a n d   R e b e c c a   P e n t y
-- 2013-07-24T20:39:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-24/encana-reports-second-quarter-profit-on-higher-oil-output.html
Encana Corp. (ECA) ,  Canada ’s largest
natural gas producer, reported its first quarterly profit in
more than a year as the company increased oil and petroleum
liquids production.  Second-quarter net income was $730 million, or 99 cents a
share, compared with a loss of $1.48 billion, or $2.01, a year
earlier, the Calgary-based company said in a statement today.
Excluding a hedging gain, tax benefits and a foreign currency
loss, per-share profit was double the 17-cent average of 17
 analysts’ estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. Sales more than
doubled to $1.98 billion from $731 million.  Encana is devoting 80 percent of its 2013  capital budget  to
almost doubling oil and liquids production while keeping gas
output unchanged. Second-quarter gas output fell 1 percent from
a year earlier while Encana’s oil and liquids production rose 69
percent to average 47,600 barrels a day. The company had its
worst year in 2012 after writing down $2.89 billion on the
declining value of its gas assets as prices hit a 10-year low.  Production missed analysts’ expectations by about 2.5
percent and most of the reason the company beat estimates for
 cash flow  per share “is due to a tax recovery, which the market
is unlikely to reward the company for,” Phil Skolnick, an
analyst at Canaccord Genuity Corp. in  New York , wrote in a note
to investors today.  2013 Spending  Spending for 2013 “will be in the lower part” of Encana’s
$3 billion to $3.2 billion guidance while cash flow will be in
the middle to upper end of its $2.3 billion to $2.5 billion
range, the company said today.  Encana reported its last quarterly profit in the first
quarter of 2012.  Former BP Plc executive  Doug Suttles , 53, took over as
chief executive officer last month and has pledged to improve
the company’s capital efficiency. Suttles said he’s preparing
the company for continued “modest”  gas prices .  “I definitely don’t want to build this company around a
bet on gas prices,” Suttles said in a phone interview today.
“A trading range not too different from now is a good place to
play in.”  Gas prices on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  dropped 1.2
percent to settle at $3.698 per million British thermal units.
Prices have climbed 10 percent this year.  Encana declined 1.9 percent to C$17.78 at the close in
Toronto. The shares, which have fallen 9.6 percent this year,
have four buy, 16 hold and six sell  recommendations  from
analysts.  Exiting Mississippian  The company is seeking a buyer for its holdings in Osage
County,  Oklahoma , which represents the last of its position in
the Mississippian Lime, according to today’s statement. The Deep
Panuke gas project offshore  Nova Scotia  missed the previous mid-year target to come online and the company said it’s in final
commissioning.  David O’Brien, one of Encana’s founders, will step down as
chairman and remain on the board, the company also said today.
Former interim CEO Clayton Woitas will replace him as chairman.  Encana also increased the amount of gas it has locked into
forward contracts to about 75 percent of production for the rest
of the year and boosted its 2014 hedging position.  Suttles said he expects to complete work on his new
strategy by the end of the year and begin carrying out the plan
in 2014. “We haven’t actually eliminated any course of action
as part of the strategy, other than we’re not going to get out
of the oil and gas business,” Suttles said on a conference call
with analysts today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gerrit De Vynck in Toronto at 
 gdevynck@bloomberg.net ;
Rebecca Penty in Calgary at 
 rpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  