-- Merkel’s Lead in Poll Solidifies as Social Democrats Lose Ground
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2013-07-24T10:03:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-24/merkel-s-lead-in-poll-solidifies-as-social-democrats-lose-ground.html
Chancellor Angela Merkel  solidified
her  poll lead  as the opposition Social Democrats and  Green Party 
slipped, showing that a week of criticism over the U.S.
surveillance scandal left the German leader unscathed.  Merkel’s Christian Democratic-led bloc held at 41 percent
support, while the  Social Democratic Party  lost a point to 22
percent, according to a weekly Forsa poll published in  Stern
magazine  today. Merkel’s Free Democratic coalition partner
remained at 5 percent, while the SPD-allied Green Party fell two
points to 12 percent.  As Merkel eases into summer vacation less than nine weeks
before the election, the poll shows her likely to have enough to
renew her coalition government. Merkel came under renewed fire
this week after  Der Spiegel  magazine reported on cooperation
between German intelligence and the U.S. National Security
Agency, raising questions about how much her government knew
about mass surveillance.  “Even if  Angela Merkel  isn’t exactly believed on this
issue, many people find the personal attacks on her
exaggerated,” Forsa chief Manfred Guellner was quoted in Stern
as saying. He cited SPD candidate  Peer Steinbrueck ’s statement
this month that Merkel had broken her oath of office by not
better protecting the German people.  The chancellor says she’s pressing U.S. officials for
information on the scale of NSA spying on German communications.
Her chief of staff, Ronald Pofalla, offered to appear this week
in front of the Parliamentary Control Panel of the lower house,
or Bundestag, to answer questions about German cooperation with
U.S. intelligence.  The ruling coalition’s combined 46 percent lead in the
Forsa poll would give it a Bundestag majority. An SPD-Green
combination would fall short even if it had the support of the
anti-capitalist Left Party, which gained a point to 9 percent.
The SPD has ruled out such a scenario.  Forsa surveyed 2,500 voters July 15-19 and has a margin of
error 2.5 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  