-- EU Said to Approve French Aid for Peugeot by Next Week
-- B y   M a t h i e u   R o s e m a i n   a n d   G a s p a r d   S e b a g
-- 2013-07-24T13:03:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-24/eu-said-to-approve-french-guarantees-for-peugeot-by-next-week.html
PSA Peugeot Citroen (UG) , Europe’s
second-largest carmaker, is likely to receive European Union
approval for a French government bond guarantee for its banking
unit, according to three people familiar with the matter.  The decision allowing the state to back 7 billion euros
($9.26 billion) in bonds may be announced before the carmaker
reports  first-half earnings  next week, said one of the people,
who asked not to be identified because the talks are private.  Talks focused on Peugeot’s restructuring plan, which
include shutting a plant in its home country and slashing 11,200
jobs, rather than the amount of aid, another person said.  The French government offered to guarantee the bonds for
Peugeot’s finance arm to help the carmaker keep down borrowing
costs, which is key to offering loans that are competitive with
rivals such as  Volkswagen AG (VOW) , the region’s biggest carmaker.
Peugeot consumed 3 billion euros in cash in its automotive unit
last year and is working to reduce losses amid a sixth straight
annual decline in the European auto market in 2013.  “A decision in favor of PSA would secure access to
refinancing for PSA’s financial services business which is
crucial,” said Sascha Gommel, an automotive analyst with
Commerzbank AG in  Frankfurt .  Shares Advance  The shares  climbed  as much as 35 cents, or 4.2 percent, to
8.76 euros and were up 3.3 percent as of 3:02 p.m. in Paris
trading. The stock has surged 59 percent this year, valuing the
French manufacturer at 3.08 billion euros.  Pierre-Olivier Salmon, a Peugeot spokesman, declined to
comment beyond a statement last week from Chief Financial
Officer Jean-Baptiste de Chatillon that he wasn’t worried about
the EU’s decision.  The regulator in February granted temporary EU approval for
the state to guarantee 1.2 billion euros of bonds at Banque PSA
Finance, which the carmaker’s finance arm successfully sold in
March.  “We are very close to a final decision,” EU Competition
Commissioner Joaquin Almunia said in an  interview  in the French
newspaper Le Figaro. “It is a very good work, on both sides.”  Peugeot is also in talks with banks on options to shore up
its finances including a capital increase and selling assets
such as a stake in Banque PSA, people familiar with the matter
said. The talks are still open and there’s no clear direction
yet, the people said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mathieu Rosemain in Paris at 
 mrosemain@bloomberg.net ;
Gaspard Sebag in Brussels at 
 gsebag@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net ;
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  