-- EU Attacks MasterCard’s ‘Mad Campaign’ to Derail Card-Fee Curbs
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n   a n d   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 2013-07-24T13:00:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-24/eu-seeks-card-fee-caps-to-slash-retailers-costs-by-8-billion.html
MasterCard Inc. (MA)  waged a “mad
campaign” to derail caps on card fees, the European Union’s
financial services commissioner said today as he unveiled plans
to slash charges by 6 billion euros ($8 billion) a year.  Michel Barnier  said MasterCard used misleading information
in its lobbying against proposals to cap interchange fees at 0.2
percent for debit card payments and 0.3 percent for credit
cards. The limits target card systems also operated by  Visa
Europe  Ltd. where banks charge each other interchange fees, or
swipe fees, for handling payments.  MasterCard publicly attacked the EU’s work to rein in the
fees “before even the commission text was published, using
details that weren’t correct, and before even the democratic
process had started,” Barnier said in an interview after
presenting his proposals in Brussels. “Visa had a much more
responsible attitude.”  EU antitrust regulators have targeted swipe fees on credit-and debit-cards for more than a decade, warning that the way the
charges are collectively agreed on is anti-competitive.
Authorities this year started a probe into Purchase, New York-based MasterCard’s charges on foreign card payments such as when
tourists go shopping in the bloc.  “Before we had any idea what our proposal was going to be,
I was bombarded in the papers” by MasterCard, including through
advertisements made to look like news articles and “disputed”
studies, Barnier told reporters in Brussels. “I found this
campaign to be quite counter-productive and unacceptable.”  Cross-Border  MasterCard is appealing the outcome of a probe into rates
on cross-border credit-card payments at the EU’s highest court.  “We have the utmost respect for Commissioner Barnier and
fully support the goal of encouraging electronic payments to
stimulate economic growth while protecting European consumers,”
MasterCard said in an e-mailed statement responding to his
comments.  “Based on the press statements and legislative proposals
released by the commission today, we are concerned about the
harm these proposals will cause to consumers and small merchants
in the EU.” the company said.  The 0.3 percent cap on credit card interchange fees is
below the “levels prevailing in all  member states ” of the EU
according to the commission. The 0.2 cap on fees for debit-card
payments is below current levels in EU nations including Germany
and  Poland , the regulator said.  Danish System  Interchange fees vary widely across the bloc, reaching as
high as 1 percent in Poland and  Hungary  and set at zero in the
case of  Denmark ’s national debit card scheme.  Debit card interchange fees in the U.K. would have to fall
by about a fifth under the EU plans.  The EU plans will complement the bloc’s antitrust probes
and “prevent excessive levels of these fees across the board,”
 Joaquin Almunia , the EU competition chief, told reporters.
“New players will be able to enter the market and offer
innovative services, retailers will make big savings by paying
lower fees to their banks, and consumers will benefit through
lower retail prices.”  The EU plans draw a distinction between so-called four-party systems -- such as those run by Visa and MasterCard, where
payments are made between retailers’ and consumers’ banks -- and
three-party systems run by American Express and PayPal Inc.,
where the payment card provider, rather than banks, stands in
the middle of a transaction.  American Express  While three-party systems apply charges, these aren’t the
same as interchange fees, which are passed between banks. That
means  American Express Co. (AXP) , the biggest credit-card issuer by
purchases, would only be affected when its brand is licensed for
use by other companies in ways that involve  interchange fees .
This applies to about 9 percent of American Express’ business,
according to EU data.  “There is little evidence to support the claims that these
proposals will be beneficial to consumers,” Peter Ayliffe,
chief executive officer of Visa  Europe , said in an e-mail. “We
are concerned that these proposals will be detrimental to the
innovation that will support European economic growth,” he
said.  While EU antitrust regulators have reached agreement with
Visa Europe, probes are open against  Visa Inc. (V)  and Visa
International, Almunia said.  Under the EU plans, fee caps would initially apply to
cross-border transactions, and then be expanded to cover
domestic payments in the bloc after 22 months.  Retailers have campaigned against interchange fees, saying
that they push up the final costs of goods and services, and
amount to a hidden charge on consumers. Card companies insist
that the fees ensure that retailers make a fair contribution to
the underlying costs of electronic payment systems.  Payments Infrastructure  Today’s plans would have “wider benefits for growth
in the European digital single market,” Ian Cheshire, group
chief executive officer of  Kingfisher Plc (KGF) , Europe’s largest
home-improvement retailer, said in an e-mail. “By resolving the
problem of interchange fees, Europe will be better able to
realize the ambition of a single online market for Europe, with
a fair payments infrastructure at its core,” he said.  While interchange fees can be agreed on by  banks , card
companies such as Visa and MasterCard provide default ones that
are used unless lenders comes to their own bilateral
arrangements.  Company Firewalls  Aside from fee caps, the EU plans would also require card
companies to put firewalls between business units that
administer card networks and those providing optional payment
processing services to  banks .  The firewall plan “would hamper innovation and security in
payments and unbalance the marketplace,” Ayliffe said.  The EU also proposed a broader overhaul of its rules
on payments in a bid to boost competition and better protect
consumers.  The plans include capping the losses faced by a victim of
card fraud at 50 euros, compared with 150 euros at present, and
making it easier for non-bank companies that offer payment
services to operate across the 28-nation EU.  Other parts of the proposals would extend EU security and
consumer protection rules for payments to transactions made
using smartphones.  The “Internet offers new possibilities,” Almunia said.
“We are lagging behind and thanks to this new proposal we can
create new opportunities for everybody.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Bodoni in Brussels at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  