-- Europe Manufacturing Expands for First Time in Two Years
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2013-07-24T12:11:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-24/europe-manufacturing-expands-for-first-time-in-two-years.html
Euro-area  manufacturing  unexpectedly
expanded in July for the first time in two years, led by
Germany, adding to signs the currency bloc’s economy is emerging
from a  record-long recession .  A manufacturing index based on a survey of  purchasing
managers  rose to 50.1 from 48.8 in June, London-based Markit
Economics said today. That exceeds the median estimate of 49.1
in a  Bloomberg News survey  of 39 economists. A reading above 50
indicates growth.  The encouraging news from  Europe  contrasted with  China , the
world’s second-largest economy, where manufacturing  weakened
more than estimated  in July, a separate Markit report showed,
casting further doubt on the government’s ability to meet its
annual economic growth target.  The “figures clearly support the notion that the euro-zone
economy as a whole is leaving recession behind,” said Martin van Vliet, an economist at ING Bank NV in Amsterdam. “The
monetary stimulus from the ECB, the earlier pick-up in the world
economy and the overall slower pace of fiscal austerity have
finally managed to stop the economic contraction.”  The euro-area economy, which has contracted for  six
quarters , probably stagnated in the three months through June
and will return to growth this quarter, according to a separate
Bloomberg survey of economists. The  International Monetary Fund 
forecasts the bloc’s economy to shrink 0.6 percent this year.  Draghi’s Pledge  The euro rose for a fourth day against the dollar,
advancing 0.2 percent to $1.3246 as of 12:50 p.m. London time.
The Stoxx Europe 600 Index added 0.9 percent.  European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said earlier
this month that euro-area export growth “should benefit from a
gradual recovery in global demand.” With risks to the outlook
still to the “downside,” Draghi also pledged to keep  interest
rates  low for an “extended period,” his latest bid to
encourage a recovery. The ECB’s  benchmark rate  is at a record
low 0.5 percent.  In Germany, Europe’s largest economy, a  manufacturing gauge
 moved into growth territory for the first time since February.
France’s factory index rose to 49.8 from 48.4 in June, Markit
said in a separate  report .  ‘Gradual Improvement’  Daimler AG (DAI) , the world’s third-largest maker of  luxury
vehicles , forecast significant gains in second-half earnings as
the western European auto market bottoms out and new models spur
demand.  Daimler expects industrywide demand in western Europe to
show “gradual improvement” as sales seem to have “bottomed
out,” it said today in a  statement .  Markit’s services gauge for the euro area rose to 49.6 in
July from 48.3 in June. A  composite index  of manufacturing and
services output increased to 50.4, an 18-month high.  Today’s data “provide a summer fillip to policy makers,
especially in terms of there being light at the end of the
tunnel for austerity-hit periphery countries where political and
social tensions have risen,” said  Chris Williamson , Markit’s
chief economist. “The ECB in particular will be feeling much
more confident in its expectation of the region returning to
growth by the end of the year.”  In China, the reading of 47.7 for a manufacturing index
released by HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit, if confirmed in the
final report Aug. 1, would be the lowest in 11 months. The
median estimate of 19 economists surveyed by  Bloomberg
News  was for 48.2, the same level as in June.  “The key thing now is confidence,”  Qu Hongbin , HSBC’s
chief China economist in  Hong Kong , said on Bloomberg
Television. “The confidence now is pretty weak both in the
financial market and the corporate sector.”  Markit’s  U.S. manufacturing gauge  probably increased to
52.6 from a previously reported 51.9 in June, according to a
Bloomberg survey. The release comes at 2 p.m. London time.  Also today, Commerce Department data will show U.S.
purchases of  new homes  increased to a 484,000 pace last month,
the highest level since June 2008, according to another survey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Fergal O’Brien at 
 fobrien@bloomberg.net  