-- Evercore Profit Doubles as Investment-Banking Fees Climb
-- B y   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k
-- 2013-07-24T20:15:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-24/evercore-profit-doubles-as-investment-banking-revenue-climbs.html
Evercore Partners Inc. (EVR) , the advisory
firm founded by former U.S. Deputy Treasury Secretary  Roger
Altman , said second-quarter profit more than doubled as
 investment-banking  revenue climbed. The shares rose to an all-time high.  Net income rose to $16.4 million, or 44 cents a share, from
$7.93 million, or 25 cents, a year earlier, the New York-based
firm said today in a statement. Excluding some items, profit was
65 cents a share, beating the 55-cent  average estimate  of seven
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Global merger-and-acquisition volume increased 4 percent in
the second quarter from the first three months of 2013 to $501.4
billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Evercore, run
by Chief Executive Officer Ralph Schlosstein, is advising on
some of the biggest announced takeovers this year, including
 Dell Inc. (DELL)  on its proposed buyout by founder  Michael Dell  and
Silver Lake Management LLC.  “Completed M&A assignments and capital-markets advisory
assignments contributed to our strong second-quarter investment-banking results,” Schlosstein said today in the statement.  Evercore rose 2.5 percent to $45.29 at 4:15 p.m. in  New
York , the highest price since the firm went public in August
2006. The company gained 50 percent this year, compared with a
23 percent jump in the  Russell 2000 Index. (RTY)   Investment Management  Adjusted revenue from investment banking rose 19 percent to
$180.3 million, according to the statement. Net revenue from
Evercore’s  investment-management  unit jumped 27 percent to $26.5
million.  Evercore had 62 investment-banking senior managing
directors at the end of the second quarter, compared with 58 at
the same time last year. Average revenue per partner on a 12-month basis was $10.3 million, Altman said today on a conference
call following the results. The figure is calculated based on
the number of senior managing directors that have been with the
firm for at least a year.  “The M&A and overall transaction environment in our view
is fine,” Altman said on the call. “But it’s not white hot.”  Evercore set aside $121.8 million, or 59 percent of
revenue, for compensation on an adjusted basis in the second
quarter. That compares with $102.8 million, or 60 percent, a
year earlier. The firm is “comfortable” adding between four
and seven senior managing directors per year, Schlosstein said
on the call.  Capital Advisory  Evercore is starting a private capital-advisory business,
scheduled for the second half of this year, aimed at secondary
transactions for private funds, the firm said earlier this
month. The company runs a private-funds group that provides
advice on capital raising and private-equity investments for
clients including general partners.  Greenhill & Co., the advisory firm founded by Robert Greenhill, said last week that second-quarter profit surged
sevenfold to $15.5 million. Chief Executive Officer Scott Bok
said advisory revenue will probably fall in the second half of
the year for the industry because of a slowdown in announced
deals.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Marcinek in New York at 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Christine Harper  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  