-- Ex-Leerink Banker Gets 16-Month Term for Insider Trading
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2013-07-24T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-24/ex-leerink-banker-gets-16-month-term-for-insider-trading.html
Jauyo Lee, a former Leerink Swann
LLC investment banker, was sentenced to 16 months in prison for
providing inside information about pending mergers involving
clients to a childhood friend who made $600,000 after trading on
the tips.  Lee, 29, wasn’t ordered to pay a fine by U.S. District
Judge Richard Seeborg in  San Francisco , who also sentenced his
friend Victor Chen to 16 months in prison. Chen forfeited the
profit.  Lee, who worked in the San Francisco office of Leerink
Swann, gave nonpublic information to Chen about the 2009 merger
of  Syneron Medical Ltd. (ELOS)  and Candela Corp., and the 2010
combination of Somanetics Corp. and a  Covidien Plc (COV)  unit,
prosecutors said. He gave Chen $29,000 to invest in the trades,
prosecutors said. The two men pleaded guilty in April.  Lee asked for no jail time, saying his reputation has been
destroyed forever and he’d “lost everything.”  “I have been given a life sentence from the financial
industry,” he told Seeborg. “Some people think that  insider
trading  is a victimless crime. Nothing could be further from the
truth.”  The victims are his family and friends, he said.  Robert Gage, Lee’s attorney, asked Seeborg for leniency,
saying his client, who came to the U.S. from Taiwan with his
parents at age 14 knowing no English, was accepted at  Columbia
University ’s biotech program and wished to pursue his studies so
he could give back to society.  Gage declined to comment after the sentencing.  The government had sought a sentence of as much as 37
months in prison.  The case is U.S. v Lee, 3:13-cr-00180, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of California (San Francisco) .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at 
 adunn8@bloomberg.net  