-- Ex-UBS Muni Derivative Desk Head Ghavami Gets 18 Months
-- B y   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e
-- 2013-07-25T00:10:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-24/ex-ubs-muni-derivative-desk-head-ghavami-gets-18-months.html
Former  UBS AG (UBSN)  managing director
Peter Ghavami was sentenced to 18 months in prison for rigging
what should have been competitive bids for municipal bond
investment deals.  Ghavami, 45, and former UBS colleagues Gary Heinz and
Michael Welty were sentenced today in  Manhattan  by U.S. District
Judge Kimba Wood for their roles in the scheme. Heinz, 40, was
sentenced to 27 months in prison as the judge weighed failed
charges against him of witness tampering. Welty, 49, received a
16-month sentence.  “The offenses for which these three are being sentenced
are very serious,” Wood said today in court. “They were part
of a corrupt corporate culture that spanned years.”  The case stemmed from a five-year federal antitrust probe
into the $3.7 trillion municipal  bond market . Zurich-based UBS,
 Bank of America Corp.  and other banks have paid more than $700
million to settle U.S. claims over the scheme.  Prosecutors alleged that the three men conspired with
competitors and brokers to manipulate bidding for dozens of
deals from about 2001 to 2004, costing municipalities, school
districts and other bond issuers, as well as the  U.S. Treasury ,
millions of dollars in losses.  Community Service  In addition to their prison sentences, Heinz and Welty
were each ordered to serve 500 hours of community service and to
pay fines of $400,000 and $300,000, respectively. Ghavami, who
was accused of leading the scheme, was ordered to pay $1
million.  “They casually violated the regulations expecting that
they would never be caught,” Kalina Tulley, an attorney with
the  Justice Department ’s antitrust division, argued at the
sentencing hearing.  The government sought far stiffer punishments than Wood
imposed, requesting a combined total of at least 48 years for
all three men. Wood found that prosecutors’ financial loss
calculations, which formed much of the basis of their sentencing
requests, were “theoretical.” She opted not to use most of
them in making her decision.  The judge also said she took factors into account such as
the defendants’ charitable efforts and Ghavami’s success
overcoming of an abusive family life.  Ghavami, a Belgian citizen, will probably be deported after
he finishes his sentence.  ‘Constant Cruelty’  The former executive “suffered a childhood marked by
almost unbearable, constant cruelty that would have crushed a
weaker person,” Wood said. His “admirable history and
character argue for some leniency,” she said.  All three were convicted by a jury in August of  wire-fraud 
conspiracy for rigging bids. Ghavami and Heinz were also found
guilty of wire fraud.  Issuers of tax-exempt municipal bonds must use competitive
bidding when selecting firms to handle deals to invest the
proceeds of a bond sale, according to the government. Rather
than submitting competitive offers, Ghavami and co-conspirators
reached out to other financial firms and engineered bids that
were most beneficial to their companies, prosecutors alleged.  “They got to name their price,” Tulley said today.  While working for the bank’s municipal bond reinvestment
and derivatives desk in  New York , the defendants handled as many
as 38 investment deals where they rigged bids, prosecutors
alleged.  Bond Proceeds  The deals involved proceeds of bond offerings by entities
such as  Puerto Rico ,  Massachusetts , the Mississippi Development
Bank and the New Mexico Educational Assistance Foundation,
according to court documents.  Prosecutors had sought a sentence of at least 17 1/2 years
for Ghavami, 19 1/2 years for Heinz and at least 11 1/4 years
for Welty.  “We are thankful that the court forcefully rejected the
government’s over-the-top, draconian sentencing request,”  Marc Mukasey , a lawyer for Heinz, said in an e-mail after the
hearing.  Lawyers for Ghavami,  Charles Stillman  and  James Mitchell ,
said outside the courtroom that their client’s sentence was
fair.  “We are very pleased at the outcome today and we feel that
justice was done,” Stillman said.  The case is U.S. v. Ghavami, 10-cr-1217, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christie Smythe in Manhattan at 
 csmythe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at 
 drovella@bloomberg.net  