-- Mexico Annual Inflation Rate Drops to Lowest Since February
-- B y   N a c h a   C a t t a n
-- 2013-07-24T15:07:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-24/mexico-annual-inflation-rate-drops-to-lowest-since-february-2-.html
Mexico’s annual inflation rate fell
to the lowest since February in mid-July, dropping back within
the central bank’s target range and backing forecasts by some
analysts of an  interest rate  cut this year.  Consumer prices  were unchanged in the first two weeks of
the month, the national statistics agency said today on its
website, surprising economists who had expected prices to rise
0.11 percent. The annual rate fell to 3.53 percent, within the 2
percent to 4 percent target range and compared with 4.09 percent
in June. Core prices, which exclude energy and farm costs,
climbed 0.04 percent in the first two weeks of the month.  Falling fresh food costs have helped inflation undershoot
analyst estimates in the past two months, leading economists to
lower their forecasts for this year. A slowing economy and a
rebound in the peso are also prompting investors to pare bets
the central bank will raise interest rates and begin wagering it
may reduce borrowing costs.  Today’s inflation “supports my call” for a quarter-point
rate cut to 3.75 percent by year end, said  Alonso Cervera , chief
Mexico economist at Credit Suisse Group AG. “It will make more
people contemplate the idea of potential rate cuts.”  Yields on six-month  interest-rate swaps  fell one basis
point to 4.26 percent at 9:56 a.m. in Mexico City, indicating
traders see about a 28 percent chance the bank will lower rates
over that period. They’ve fallen 16 basis points, or 0.16
percentage point, since June 21, when the contracts indicated
about a 36 percent chance of an increase.  The yield on inflation-linked peso bonds due in 2014 rose
six basis points to 0.25 percent.  Inflation Forecast  The peso weakened 0.9 percent to 12.6110 per dollar. The
currency has strengthened 5.4 percent in the past 30 days as the
U.S. Federal Reserve damped speculation that it will start to
curb asset purchases soon. The currency had plunged 5.3 percent
in May on speculation the Fed would dial back its stimulus.  A stronger peso brings down the cost of imports, which may
ease inflation.  Annual inflation will end 2013 at 3.69 percent, according
to the median estimate of economists in a July 22 survey by
Citigroup Inc.’s Banamex unit. Analysts had estimated year-end
inflation at 3.79 percent in the previous bi-weekly poll and at
3.90 percent in the one prior to that.  Economic growth will ease to 2.7 percent this year from 3.9
percent in 2012, the slowest since the 2009 recession, according
to the latest survey. While traders are beginning to bet on a
rate cut, economists in the survey see rates on hold this year
and a quarter-point increase in November 2014.  The central bank kept its overnight rate steady at 4
percent on July 12, saying in its statement the decision was
appropriate as policy makers measure the risks of a prolonged
economic deceleration and new inflationary pressures.  The decision reflects “the recent evolution in inflation
and its outlook, the significant deceleration in the Mexican
economy, the fragility of the external situation and the
volatility in international financial markets,” policy makers
said in the statement. The minutes from the meeting will be
released July 26.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nacha Cattan in  Mexico  City at 
 ncattan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  