-- Farney Daniels, Entrepreneur Media Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2013-07-24T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-24/farney-daniels-entrepreneur-media-intellectual-property.html
Nebraska ’s attorney general  wrote  to
a Texas law firm accusing it of sending patent-infringement
demand letters that could constitute unfair patent enforcement.  In a July 18 letter to Georgetown, Texas-based  Farney
Daniels LLP , Attorney General Jon Bruning said that the firm is
making infringement assertions that “are unsubstantiated and
contain false, misleading or deceptive statements.”  The firm’s actions may violate the Nebraska Consumer
Protection Act, Bruning wrote. He demanded that Farney Daniels
“immediately cease and desist the initiation of any and all new
patent infringement enforcement efforts within the state of
Nebraska.”  Bruning’s letter follows a suit the state of Vermont filed
against a patent licensing company that is a Farney Daniels
client. The suit, brought in state court in May, claims the
patent-infringement demand letters sent to its citizens violate
the state’s consumer protection laws, and accuses the company of
being a patent troll.  Bryan Farney  of Barney Daniels LLP defended the enforcement
attempts in  Vermont  and said that the client was “simply trying
to get people to license to use the technology.”  Farney said in an e-mail that while Nebraska’s attorney
general “may have concerns about the U.S. patent system and how
it works or particular types of patent owners, we are confident
that any fair investigation will conclude our firm has lawfully
and honorably represented our clients in upholding their
rights.”  Bruning’s actions “should be of concern to every firm in
the country that works to protect and enforce the lawful rights
of U.S. patent owners,” Farney said.  The Vermont suit is State of Vermont v. MPHJ Technology
Investments LLC, 282-5-13, State of Vermont, Superior Court,
Washington Unit.  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Entrepreneur Media, Nashville Entrepreneur Center Settle Dispute  Entrepreneur Media Inc., an  Irvine , California-based
magazine publisher, settled a trademark dispute with the
Nashville Entrepreneur Center.  The  California  company sued Nashville Entrepreneur Center
in federal court in Santa Ana, California, in February, claiming
its Entrepreneur trademarks were infringed. It objected to the
 Tennessee  company’s Internet domain name,
www.entrepreneurcenter.com. The website’s look and feel was
confusingly similar to the site belonging to Entrepreneur Media,
according to court papers.  The Tennessee company’s applications to register
“EntrepreneurCenter” as a trademark was also a concern for
Entrepreneur Media, according to the complaint.  Nashville Entrepreneur Center, a Nashville-based non-profit
that provides aid to startup companies, countersued in federal
court in Nashville in May. The Tennessee company said it was
unaware of any consumer confusion caused by its domain name and
said that the publisher has a reputation as a trademark bully
that “attacks small businesses, individuals, and non-profit
organizations that offer services to entrepreneurs after these
entities logically choose to include the term entrepreneur in
their name.”  It asked the court to declare it wasn’t infringing the
publisher’s trademarks.  Both cases were settled, according to court filings. Terms
weren’t disclosed.  The Tennessee case is Nashville Entrepreneur Center v.
Entrepreneur Media Inc., 13-cv-00529, U.S. District Court,
Middle District of Tennessee (Nashville). The California case is
Entrepreneur Media Inc., v. Nashville Entrepreneur Center, 13-cv-00248, U.S. District Court, Central District of California
(Santa Ana).  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Aereo Plans to Expand Online Service to 12 New TV Markets  Aereo Inc., the Barry Diller-backed service that sends
broadcast TV signals online to subscribers, will announce start
dates for 12 new markets in the next several weeks, Chief
Executive Officer Chet Kanojia said.  Aereo’s goal is to reach a quarter of the U.S. population
in five to seven years, Kanojia said July 22 at the Fortune
Brainstorm Tech conference in Aspen,  Colorado . The New York-based company uses tiny antennas to capture broadcast signals
for its customers.  Owners of broadcast networks and TV stations, including  CBS
Corp. (CBS)  and  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) , are battling Aereo in court, saying
the service steals their programming and resells it. Chase
Carey, chief operating officer of  21st Century Fox Inc. (FOXA) , has
said if the courts don’t stop Aereo, Fox may become a cable
channel to block the service. Kanojia said he expects the
federal government would intervene in such a case.  Aereo is available in New York,  Boston  and Atlanta,
according to the company’s  website , with plans to expand to 18
more cities. Aereo doesn’t operate in California,  Arizona ,
 Nevada ,  Oregon ,  Hawaii ,  Alaska , Washington,  Idaho  or  Montana ,
where a U.S. District Court blocked a similar service in
December.  The pace of closely held Aereo’s expansion will fall short
of a company forecast earlier this year that the service would
be available in 22 markets in three months, Kanojia said. Aereo
will be available in about 20 cities, he said.  “We have a very patient investor base,” Kanojia said.  Kanojia said Aereo won’t take sides in a fee dispute that
threatens to cut off CBS and its Showtime network for customers
of  Time Warner Cable Inc. (TWC)  The companies’ contract expires on
July 24, and a spokeswoman for Time Warner Cable,  Maureen Huff ,
told the New York Times the company would recommend Aereo to its
New York customers if CBS goes dark.  Disagreements such as the one between CBS and Time Warner
Cable will become more common as broadcast networks seek higher
fees from pay-TV systems for the right to retransmit local TV
signals to subscribers, Kanojia said.  Finnish Lawmakers to Look at Crowd-Sourced Changes to Copyright  Finland’s parliament will consider a crowd-sourced set of
proposed changes to that nation’s copyright law, PCWorld
 reported .  The “Common Sense in Copyright Act,” received input from
more than 1,100 people who voted, commented on or contributed to
the draft, and was then vetted by volunteer lawyers who checked
for its conformity to European Union copyright directives,
according to PCWorld.  Impetus for the project is Finland’s 2006 legislation that
classified downloading from peer-to-peer networks as a felony,
carrying penalties similar to those imposed for involuntary
manslaughter, PCWorld reported.  The proposed changes would reduce the penalties and permit
teachers to use any copyright protected materials for teaching
purposes, according to PCWorld.  Oracle Sues Computer Service Company for Copyright Infringement  Oracle Corp. (ORCL) ’s Oracle America unit sued a California
computer-service provider for copyright infringement.  Terix Computer Co. is accused of misrepresenting itself as
an authorized provider of support for Oracle hardware and
Oracle’s Solaris operating system, according to the complaint
filed July 19 in federal court in San Jose, California.  Oracle, based in Redwood City, California, said Terix has
falsely claimed to Solaris users that it’s authorized to access
and deliver Solaris updates. Oracle required customers to buy an
annual support agreement to receive that support and hasn’t made
Terix a partner in the venture, the company said.  Support is made available to Oracle customers through a
password-protected website that bars the disclosure and
transmission of Oracle programs to others, according to court
papers. Oracle says that Terix has accessed the support website
to provide software to those who aren’t authorized for its use.  Terix is also accused of telling customers that they don’t
need to buy the annual support agreement Oracle sells in order
to have access to support and updates.  Terix, based in Sunnyvale, California, didn’t immediately
respond to an e-mailed request for comment on the lawsuit.  Oracle asked the court to bar further infringement by
Terix, and to order the return of its property, including its
software and support materials and the destruction of all
infringing materials.  The company also requested money damages, including extra
damages to punish Terix for its actions, as well as awards of
Terix’s profits attributable to the alleged infringement and
attorney fees and litigation costs.  The case is Oracle America Inc. v. Terix Computer Co., 13-cv-03885, U.S. District Court, Northern District of California
(San Jose).  For more copyright news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in San Francisco at 
 vslindflor@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  