-- Fonterra Fund Shares Fall Most Since Listing: Wellington Mover
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r o c k e t t
-- 2013-07-24T23:10:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-24/fonterra-fund-shares-fall-most-since-listing-wellington-mover.html
Fonterra Shareholders’ Fund, backed
by earnings from the world’s largest dairy exporter, fell the
most since listing after the  New Zealand  farmers’ co-operative
lowered its 2013 earnings forecast after widespread drought.  Fonterra Cooperative Group Ltd. said today that earnings
before interest and tax will be about NZ$1 billion ($797
million) in the year ending July 31, less than the NZ$1.08
billion forecast last year. The shares fell 3.7 percent, on
course for the most since they began trading on Nov. 30 last
year.  The Fonterra Shareholders’ Fund gives outside investors the
opportunity to share in the financial performance of the co-operative, which accounts for about 40 percent of the global
trade in dairy products. The shares are backed by the dividend
flows and earnings of the group. They carry no voting rights or
entitlement to the milk payout the company makes to its 10,500
farmer suppliers.  The  shares  fell 28 cents to NZ$7.20 at 10:50 a.m. in
Wellington.  The 2012-13 cash payout to farmers will remain NZ$6.12 per
kilogram of milk solids, and the prospective annual dividend of
32 cents per share is also unaffected, Fonterra said in a
statement today. Earnings are forecast to be at the lower end of
the previously projected range of 45 cents to 50 cents a share,
it said.  “Although the financial year had not yet ended, the impact
on EBIT of unprecedented volatility caused by the extreme
drought in New Zealand earlier this year, and the acceleration
of the reshaping of Fonterra’s Australian business, was
sufficiently clear for the co-operative to provide an update
today,” Chief Executive Officer Theo Spierings said.  The drought contributed to a 64 percent rise in whole milk
powder prices, which had a “temporary, but significant,
negative impact” on margins, Spierings said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Brockett in Wellington at 
 mbrockett1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew Brockett at 
 mbrockett1@bloomberg.net  