-- For Packer, Jay-Z, Walton Heirs Show U.S. Unwinding
-- B y   Z i n t a   L u n d b o r g
-- 2013-07-24T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-24/for-packer-jay-z-walton-heirs-show-u-s-unwinding.html
“You’d better cash in while you can”
is the mantra that defines our times says George Packer.  His new book, “The Unwinding: An Inner History of the New
America,” takes a close look at people trying to cope with
accelerating change as institutions and traditions crumble
around them, interspersed with portraits of the rich and famous.  We spoke at Bloomberg world headquarters in  New York .  Lundborg: You point out that in 1997, lobbying was still
called “selling-out,” but by 2009 it was known as “cashing in.”
What changed?  Packer: Partly what I’m writing about is the way taboos get
toppled. And once they do, everybody rushes through because
you’re a sucker if you don’t.  Before, a senator who had statesman-like aspiration didn’t
then become a lobbyist. One little data point that’s stuck in my
head is that  Al Gore , who used to be the born-to-the-manner
patrician-politician, made $100 million a few months ago, $70
million by selling his TV network to Qatar. That’s an
inconvenient truth, if there ever was one.  Lying Quants  Lundborg: You wrote: “On  Wall Street , to succeed you just
had to be somewhat comfortable with math or else with bullshit.
The former went into trading and the latter into sales. And a
quant who could lie made the big money.”  Packer: This is from the only pseudonymous character in the
book, who goes by the name Kevin Moore because he’s still at a
bank. I thought it was pretty clever.  Lundborg: How did you pick the celebrities?  Packer: Oprah is just this goddess presiding over so much
of American life and her story is really interesting -- the way
she made herself, and the ruthlessness it took, and also the
fantasizing that it took.  There’s a lot of magical thinking in the book among
different people, and Oprah is a real queen of magical thinking.
And there’s a sort of “If you can think it, of course, it will
happen.” It’s a deep American desire to believe that.  Lundborg: Among journalists, why did you pick Andrew
Breitbart?  Packer: He figured out how this flattened landscape could
be turned to his advantage, because there’s no resistance
anywhere and there’s the Internet that allows you to shout as
loud as you can and be heard.  Mogul Jay-Z  Lundborg: You describe Jay-Z as a “mogul, a revolutionary,
an icon and a thug.”  Packer: To me, he’s a figure for our time. There is
something utterly self-honest about him: Take me or leave me. I
know what I’m doing. I’m about the money. “Sometimes I think I’m
getting away with murder,” is a line in his autobiography.  Jay-Z has kind of shown that you can get to the very top
without waiting, without following rules. In fact, it’s better
if you don’t. People will admire you more if you break the
rules.  Lundborg: Playing by the rules makes you a sucker?  Packer: That’s the way a lot of people feel all over the
country. Two things have happened in this generation that I
describe in “The Unwinding.” One, there’s the widening circle of
inclusion, greater tolerance, social equality.  At the same time, there’s more and more rigid
stratification along economic lines and not just in inequality
of wealth. The way people live is more and more defined by how
much money they have and what education they have and that is
handed down. We’re much less socially mobile than we were a
generation ago and less than  Europe  is now.  Walton Heirs  Lundborg: It’s all part of the Walmartization of America
that you describe, where a lot of the middle-class has been
hollowed out.  Packer: Yes, and the six Walton heirs have the same wealth
as the bottom 42 percent of Americans. If you want to get
someone’s attention on economic inequality, just throw that one
at them and it will do the trick.  Lundborg: What about  Robert Rubin , earning millions for bad
advice?  Packer: There’s no crime there. His reputation will never
be the same though. In another time, he would have done fine,
but the institutions were rotting.  Rubin wanted to be a wise man who moves between Wall Street
and  Washington  and gives his advice to presidents. You can’t do
it now because those are directly antithetical. Citigroup’s
interests and America’s interests are not just not harmonious,
they are opposite.  Lundborg: How is Obama doing?  Ebbing Power  Packer: His presidency is ebbing. There are a lot of ways
to blame him, but I think it comes back to all these
institutions not working. He would’ve been a much better
president in a different time.  I was in Washington and as soon as I got out of Union
Station, I physically felt this sort of paralysis settling over
me. You just knew this is a place where nothing happens.  It’s a disaster.  Lundborg: So the general feeling is cynicism?  Packer: The perception is that if you were a big guy, you
got off. If you were a little guy, you got screwed. I heard that
from the  Tea Party  and from  Occupy Wall Street . It’s the
populist cry.  To buy this book in  North America , click  here .  (Zinta Lundborg is an editor for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are her own.
This interview was adapted from a longer conversation.)  Muse highlights include Patrick Cole on  music  and Manuela
Hoelterhoff on  books .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zinta Lundborg at 
 zlundborg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 