-- Fox Loses Second Bid to Halt Dish’s AutoHop Ad-Skip Service
-- B y   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 2013-07-24T17:21:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-24/fox-loses-second-bid-seeking-injunction-against-dish-s-hopper.html
Fox Broadcasting Co. lost a second
bid to halt  Dish Network Corp. (DISH) ’s AutoHop ad-skipping feature, as
a California federal appeals court refused to overturn a lower-court ruling that allowed the service to continue.  U.S. District Judge Dolly Gee in Los Angeles rejected Fox’s
motion last year for a preliminary injunction against Dish and
Fox appealed. Fox argued that its contract with Dish, a pay-TV
provider, doesn’t allow services that skip commercials. Fox also
claimed that its copyrights for TV programming are infringed by
the feature.  “The district court did not abuse its discretion in
holding that the broadcaster failed to demonstrate a likelihood
of success on its copyright infringement and breach of contract
claims,” the appeals court said in its opinion today.  Fox Broadcasting,  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s NBC and  CBS Corp. (CBS)  sued
Dish last year in California, claiming that the ad-skipping
feature would diminish their revenue from advertising. Dish sued
the broadcast networks in New York seeking a declaration that
its ad-skipping service doesn’t infringe copyrights.  Consumer Choice  “We are disappointed in the court’s ruling, even though
the bar to secure a preliminary injunction is very high,”  Scott Grogin , a spokesman for Fox, said in an e-mail. “This is not
about consumer choice or advances in technology. It is about a
company devising an unlicensed, unauthorized service that
clearly infringes our copyrights and violates our contract.”  The decision “is a victory for American consumers, and we
are proud to have stood by their side in this important fight
over the fundamental rights of consumer choice and control,”
Stanton Dodge, Dish’s general counsel, said in a statement.  Fox Broadcasting is a unit of  Twenty-First Century Fox Inc. (FOXA)   The appeal is Fox Broadcasting v. Dish Network, 12-57048,
U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit (Pasadena). The
lower-court case is Fox Broadcasting v.  Dish Network , 12-4529,
U.S. District Court, Central District of California (Los
Angeles).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Don Jeffrey in New York at 
 djeffrey1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net  