-- Rajaratnam Seeks Rehearing Before Full Appeals Court
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2013-07-24T21:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-24/galleon-s-rajaratnam-seeks-rehearing-before-full-appeals-court.html
Galleon Group LLC co-founder Raj Rajaratnam, the  fund manager  convicted of masterminding one of
the biggest  insider trading  schemes in a generation, today asked
a federal appeals court for a rehearing of his case a month
after it  upheld his conviction.  Rajaratnam’s conviction on nine counts of  securities fraud 
and five counts of conspiracy, was upheld by a panel of three
judges on the Second Circuit Court of Appeals in New York on
June 24. The judges, Jose Cabranes, Robert Sack and Susan Carney, rejected the fund manager’s argument that his conviction
should be vacated because prosecutors misled the lower court
judge who authorized the wiretaps in 2008.  The case was the first to focus exclusively on insider
trading in which U.S. investigators wiretapped their targets’
telephone conversations, a tactic used in organized-crime
probes. Rajaratnam, 56, claimed prosecutors and  Federal Bureau 
of Investigation agents omitted key facts from their request for
the secret recordings, including the existence of an insider-trading investigation by the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission.  “Rehearing is warranted because the panel’s decision in
this case, which involves a significant expansion of the use of
wiretaps, squarely conflicts with the decisions of other
circuits,” appeals lawyers  Paul Clement , Samidh Guha and
Patricia Millet argued on behalf of Rajaratnam.  Wiretap Recordings  Jurors listened to more than 45 wiretap recordings, on some
of which Rajaratnam can be heard gathering nonpublic information
from his sources.  Rajaratnam says the entire panel of judges who sit on the
Second Circuit should re-hear his challenge to the case, arguing
that if his conviction is allowed to remain in place, the ruling
“gives investigators carte blanche to wiretap any professional
investor whose business entails discussing publicly traded
companies on the telephone.”  The Rajaratnam appeal is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 11-04416,  U.S.
Court of Appeals  for the Second Circuit (New York); The Gupta
case is U.S. v. Gupta, 11-cr-00907, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story: Michael Hytha
at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  