-- Gamesa Soars to Two-Year High on Return to Profit: Madrid Mover
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   L a y a
-- 2013-07-24T14:05:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-24/gamesa-soars-to-two-year-high-on-return-to-profit-madrid-mover.html
Gamesa Corp. Tecnologica SA (GAM) , the
Spanish wind-turbine maker that’s tripled in value this year,
jumped to a two-year high in Madrid trading as an increase in
sales overseas helped it return to profit.  Gamesa rose as much as 17 percent to 5.679 euros, the
highest intraday price since June 20, 2011, and traded at 5.655
euros as of 4:02 p.m. local time. Trading volumes were more than
double the three-month daily average.  The manufacturer, which supplies turbines to wind-power
developers including  Iberdrola SA (IBE) , has invested in  emerging
markets  such as Brazil and  India  as expansion in Europe and the
U.S. is held back by government subsidy cuts and slowing demand.  “When you diversify markets you dilute risk,” Chief
Executive Officer Ignacio Martin said today in an interview in
 Madrid .  Net income totaled 22 million euros ($29.1 million) in the
first half of the year, compared with a 33 million-euro loss a
year earlier, Zamudio-based Gamesa said yesterday in a
statement. Net debt dropped by 11 percent to 620 million euros.  The company unveiled a program in October to cut expenses,
reduce debt and eliminate about 1,800 jobs, and has already met
a target to reduce fixed costs by 100 million euros this year.
The overhaul put Gamesa back on the path to profitability,
according to Martin. “We are carrying out our strategic plan
even a bit better than we had planned,” he said.  Gamesa delivered a 6.9 percent profit margin in the second
quarter, exceeding its target for the year.  “Gamesa continues to significantly improve its cost
structure,” Ivan San Felix, an analyst at  Renta 4 Banco SA (R4)  in
Madrid, said in a report. “Without a doubt, the company is on
track to achieve its objectives.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Laya in Madrid at 
 playa2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Risser at 
 drisser@bloomberg.net  