-- Gay-Rights Groups Kick Off N.J. Same-Sex Marriage Effort
-- B y   E l i s e   Y o u n g
-- 2013-07-24T16:46:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-24/gay-rights-groups-kick-off-n-j-same-sex-marriage-effort.html
Gay-rights advocates began an effort
to persuade  New Jersey ’s Republican lawmakers to join Democrats
seeking to overturn Governor  Chris Christie ’s veto of a measure
to legalize same-sex marriage.  The groups have had success in New York,  Maryland ,  Rhode
Island  and  Maine . They are turning to New Jersey, where
Christie, a 50-year-old Republican, rejected a gay-marriage bill
passed by the Democratic-controlled legislature last year.  National organizations joining the New Jersey campaign
include American Unity Fund, a group founded by billionaire
hedge-fund manager  Paul Singer , who donated at least $6,800 to
Christie’s 2009 campaign for governor. The group “is the voice
of Republican voters who are committed to equal rights and full
relationship recognition for gay and lesbian Americans,”
according to a press release.  “We’re here because we believe that it’s not government’s
proper role to interfere with someone’s happiness,”  said  Jeff
Cook-McCormac, a senior adviser to American Unity. “Government
must not limit our freedoms, including our freedom to marry the
person we love.”  Funding Campaign  Other national groups include Gill Action Fund, founded in
2005 by Colorado software entrepreneur Tim Gill; the Washington-based Human Rights Campaign; New York-based Lambda Legal and
Freedom to Marry, a New York-based group that said this month it
is  investing  $500,000 in state marriage campaigns.  Advocates are emboldened by two rulings last month by the
U.S. Supreme Court, which struck down a federal law that denied
benefits to same-sex married couples and cleared the way for
weddings to resume in  California .  The decision pointed to shortfalls at the state level, Troy Stevenson, executive director of Garden State Equality, a
Montclair-based civil-rights group, said in an interview. The
groups are seeking an override by January.  “Civil unions aren’t working,” he said. A married same-sex couple boarding a train in Maine and bound for  Washington ,
D.C. is recognized throughout the Northeast “until you get to
the Lincoln Tunnel” on the New Jersey side, he said.  Asbury Park  The organizations kicked off their campaign on the
boardwalk outside Asbury Park’s convention hall in front of
about 100 supporters, some holding signs reading “Standing Up
For Families.” President  Barack Obama  appeared there in May,
alongside Christie to see rebuilding after  Hurricane Sandy 
struck Oct. 29.  New Jersey permits same-sex civil unions under a 2006 law.
Seven gay couples sued in 2011, claiming in New Jersey Superior
Court that the statute made them a separate class whose rights
aren’t fully understood or recognized.  Christie, who is seeking a second term in November and is a
potential 2016 White House candidate, has said marriage should
be between a man and a woman. He has said he’d support putting
the subject before voters and blamed politics for keeping such a
measure off the ballot. Democratic leaders have said the matter
involves a civil right that shouldn’t be subject to a popular
vote.  There will be no referendum question, Stevenson said today.  An override of Christie’s veto would require 27 votes in
the Senate, where Democrats rule 24-16, and 54 in the Assembly,
where they dominate 48-32.  Penny Gnesin, 52, and Sue Fulton, 53, the first same-sex
couple married in the cadet chapel at the U.S. Military Academy
in West Point,  New York , said their 17-year  relationship  has
weathered Gnesin’s diagnoses of multiple sclerosis and breast
cancer.  In New Jersey, the Asbury Park couple’s union was defined
in a commitment ceremony and a domestic-partnership declaration.
Still, they want to marry in their home state.  “None of this makes this relationship equal” to what
opposite-sex couples enjoy in New Jersey, Fulton said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elise Young in Asbury Park at 
 eyoung30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  