-- Gentex Adds First Debt in ‘Very Long Time’ for HomeLink
-- B y   M e g a n   D u r i s i n
-- 2013-07-24T20:04:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-24/gentex-adds-first-debt-in-very-long-time-for-homelink.html
Gentex Corp. (GNTX) , a maker of automotive
mirrors and electronics that currently has  no long-term debt ,
will borrow at least $300 million for its $700 million purchase
of  Johnson Controls Inc. (JCI) ’s HomeLink product line.  The rest will be funded with cash or cash equivalents,
Chief Financial Officer Steve Downing said on the Zeeland,
Michigan-based company’s second-quarter earnings conference
call. Gentex said it has $595 million in cash and short-term
investments.  The HomeLink purchase will be Gentex’s first addition of
debt in a “very, very long time,” said Lisa Richlich, the
company’s coordinator of  investor relations . Gentex will use
both fixed-rate debt and a  credit line  and the debt won’t exceed
$375 million, she said.  Gentex, which had $1.1 billion in revenue last year, is
looking to the acquisition to expand its business. The company
has forecast that HomeLink will increase annual sales by $125
million to $150 million. Buying HomeLink is “a better way of
returning  shareholder value ,” Downing said today. The purchase
was announced last week.  The move “highlights a change that they’re willing to take
this debt on,” said Matthew Stover, an analyst with Guggenheim
Securities in Boston.  “I think their historic aversion to debt
maybe was a little overzealous. They will comfortably pay this
back.”  The HomeLink garage-door opener system has been
incorporated into Gentex’s mirrors for 10 years. The company
expects to close the purchase by the end of September.  Gentex reported second-quarter net income of $52.1 million,
or 36 cents a share, exceeding the 32-cent average of 12
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Quarterly revenue rose 2.4
percent to $287 million.  Shares fell 5.7 percent to $22.03 at the close in  New York .
Gentex has gained 17 percent this year, compared with a 21
percent rise for the Standard & Poor’s MidCap 400 Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Megan Durisin in Southfield, Michigan at 
 mdurisin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  