-- Bund Yields Rise Most in 4 Weeks as Europe Manufacturing Expands
-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n   a n d   D a v i d   G o o d m a n
-- 2013-07-24T15:31:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-24/german-bunds-little-changed-before-services-manufacturing-data.html
German  government bonds  fell,
pushing up 10-year yields by the most in four weeks, as a report
showing manufacturing in the euro area unexpectedly expanded in
July damped demand for the region’s safest assets.  The benchmark bund dropped for a second day as the survey
of  purchasing managers  added to optimism the region is emerging
from a record-long recession. Austrian, Dutch and French bonds
also declined. Greek  10-year securities  fell for a third day
after the German Finance Ministry said yesterday an aid tranche
payment to the nation had been delayed.  “There is classic risk-on, with bunds under pressure and
peripherals rallying,” said  Michael Leister , a rates strategist
at Commerzbank AG in  London , referring to the securities of
 Europe ’s most-indebted nations. Euro-region “PMIs printed the
first above-50 reading since July 2011.”  Germany’s 10-year  yield  rose nine basis points, or 0.09
percentage point, to 1.65 percent at 4:24 p.m. London time, the
biggest one-day increase since June 20. The 1.5 percent bund
maturing in May 2023 fell 0.845, or 8.45 euros per 1,000-euro
($1,323) face amount, to 98.695.  Austria’s  10-year yield  climbed eight basis points to 2.06
percent, similar-maturity Dutch yields increased seven basis
points to 2.04 percent and French rates also rose six basis
points, to 2.27 percent.  London-based Markit Economics said its euro-area
manufacturing index increased to 50.1 this month from 48.8 in
June. The reading was above the level of 50 that separates
growth from contraction for the first time in two years.  Factory Output  Even as European factory output expanded, declining global
trade may weigh on the region’s recovery and the chances of a
higher  interest-rate  environment, Annalisa Piazza, a fixed-income analyst at Newedge Group in London, wrote to clients.  A report from HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics today
showed  China ’s manufacturing shrank more this month than
economists predicted.  The  European Central Bank , which has kept it benchmark
interest rate at a record-low 0.5 percent since May to spur
growth, next meets on Aug. 1  “We rule out that today’s PMIs will lead to any change in
the ECB policy stance at next week’s governing council
meeting,” Piazza wrote. “We expect the ECB to keep policy at
the current accommodative level and reiterate its forward
guidance of keeping rates at current or lower levels for an
extended period.”  Greek Aid  Greek bonds fell after German Deputy Finance Minister
Steffen Kampeter wrote in a letter yesterday that euro-area
finance ministers have made payment of the latest Greek aid
tranche dependent upon the nation’s adherence to “further
concrete measures.”  The Greek 10-year yield climbed three basis points to 10.25
percent, having ranged between 8.10 percent and 13.04 percent
this year.  Volatility on Austrian bonds was the highest in euro-area
markets today followed by those of the Germany and Portugal,
according to measures of 10-year debt, the yield spread between
two- and 10-year securities, and credit-default swaps.  German bunds handed investors a loss of 0.8 percent this
year through yesterday, according to Bloomberg World Bond
Indexes. Dutch bonds also dropped 0.8 percent, while French
securities fell 0.4 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net ;
 David Goodman  in London at 
 dgoodman28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  