-- German Business Confidence Seen Rising on Growth Signs
-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 2013-07-24T23:00:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-24/german-business-confidence-seen-rising-on-economic-growth-signs.html
German business confidence probably
rose for a third month in July, indicating that  Europe ’s largest
economy is recovering as the 17-nation euro region tries to
shake off its longest-ever recession.  The Ifo institute’s  business climate index , based on a
survey of 7,000 executives, climbed to 106.1 from 105.9 in June,
according to the median of 45 forecasts in a  Bloomberg News
survey. (GRIFPBUS)  A measure of current conditions also gained, while a
gauge of expectations was unchanged, the survey shows.  German unemployment unexpectedly declined in June and the
nation led the first expansion in euro-area manufacturing in two
years in July. The Bundesbank said this week that the domestic
economy grew “strongly” in the second quarter, while warning
of signs of a slowdown in coming months.  “There might be the one or more potholes on the road, but
in general the German economy is moving in the right
direction,” said  Mario Gruppe , an economist at NordLB in
Hanover. “For the euro area, there’s hope that the economy
emerged from recession in the second quarter or at least flirted
with stagnation.”  Manufacturing in the euro area, Germany’s biggest trading
partner, unexpectedly expanded this month for the first time
since July 2011, according to a  survey  of purchasing managers
published yesterday by London-based Markit Economics. That lends
support to European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi ’s
prediction of an economic recovery later in 2013.  Growth Return  The region’s economy, which has contracted for six
quarters, probably stagnated in the three months through June
and will return to growth this quarter, according to a separate
Bloomberg survey.  “The hope for the  euro zone  is that current, gradually
rising confidence encourages businesses to increasingly pare
back their job cutting and become more prepared to invest, and
also encourages consumers to spend a little more,” said  Howard Archer , chief European economist at IHS Global Insight in
 London .  Euro-area banks eased their credit standards for loans to
consumers in the second quarter for the first time since the end
of 2007, the ECB said yesterday. Financial institutions
continued to tighten their policies for mortgages and company
loans, it said.  Auto Demand  Daimler AG (DAI) , the world’s third-largest maker of  luxury
vehicles , yesterday forecast “significant improvements” in its
second-half performance amid signs the western European auto
market has bottomed out. Vehicle sales dropped to a two-decade
low in June, according to data from the European Automobile
Manufacturers’ Association.  At the same time, growth is slowing in  China , Germany’s
third-biggest export destination. Manufacturing in the Asian
country weakened more than estimated this month, a preliminary
 purchasing managers  index by Markit Economics and HSBC Holdings
Plc showed yesterday.  The Bundesbank last month cut its forecast for Germany’s
economic growth this year to 0.3 percent from 0.4 percent, and
for 2014 to 1.5 percent from 1.9 percent, citing downside risks
from European and global demand. The ECB in June predicted a 0.6
percent contraction for the euro-area economy in 2013 and an
expansion of 1.1 percent next year.  Draghi on July 4 made an unprecedented commitment to keep
 interest rates  low for an extended period of time and said
domestic demand should be supported by the accommodative stance
in monetary policy.  “Negative impulses from China will increasingly be offset
by a stabilization in the euro area,” said Lothar Hessler, an
economist at HSBC Trinkaus & Burckhardt AG in Dusseldorf. “That
means the German economy should be able to maintain its growth
momentum and move toward more normal growth rates.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Fergal O’Brien at 
 fobrien@bloomberg.net  