-- German SPD Adviser Says Joint Euro Debt Inevitable After Crisis
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2013-07-24T11:38:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-24/german-spd-adviser-says-joint-euro-debt-inevitable-after-crisis.html
German Social Democratic candidate
for chancellor  Peer Steinbrueck ’s top economic policy adviser
said there’s no way around introducing some form of joint
European debt liability to resolve the euro-area crisis.  Jointly issued euro-region debt is a possibility, while
pooling sovereign debt into a redemption fund is inevitable,
Christiane Krajewski, a former finance minister for the city-state of Berlin whom Steinbrueck appointed his chief economic
policy maker last month, told reporters today.  “Sooner or later one won’t be able to avoid some form of a
legacy-debt redemption fund,” Krajewski said at SPD
headquarters in Berlin. Asked about so-called euro bonds, she
said “it depends on how it’s structured, but I wouldn’t rule it
out.”  Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s government has repeatedly
rejected joint debt liability, saying that such a measure would
curtail the incentive for governments to scale back debt. Polls
suggest voters agree with that stance going into Sept. 22
elections, with a Forsa survey published today showing Merkel’s
lead over the SPD consolidating.  The SPD adviser lambasted Merkel’s recipe for debt
consolidation to address the euro area’s woes, repeating the
party’s preference to accompany austerity with stimulus.  “Growth impulses are more necessary than ever, because
we’re seeing that these economies are to some extent collapsing
because of these savings policies,” Krajewski said.  The Steinbrueck aide also dismissed German Finance Minister
 Wolfgang Schaeuble ’s urging of the Greek public to steer away
from a debate on a further debt writedown.  “I’m not saying that I’m calling for a debt writedown, but
I’m of the view that one should start thinking about what
happens after Sept. 22,” Krajewski said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  