-- German Stocks Advance as Manufacturing Gauge Rebounds
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   M o r g a n
-- 2013-07-24T15:59:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-24/german-stocks-advance-as-manufacturing-gauge-rebounds.html
German stocks  climbed, halting a
three-day decline, as reports indicated that manufacturing
rebounded in Europe’s largest economy this month and service
industries expanded at a faster-than-expected pace.  HeidelbergCement AG (HEI)  added 3.2 percent after JPMorgan Chase
& Co. upgraded the shares.  Puma SE (PUM)  slipped 1.6 percent after
Europe’s second-largest sporting-goods maker reported earnings
before interest and taxes for the second quarter that missed
analysts’ estimates.  The  DAX Index (DAX)  added 0.8 percent to 8,379.11 at the close of
trading in Frankfurt, paring an earlier rally of as much 1.2
percent. The equity benchmark has  surged 10 percent  this year
amid speculation central banks will maintain stimulus measures.
The broader HDAX Index gained 0.7 percent today.  “Both German PMIs came out better than expected and above
the 50 mark which indicates growth,” Ion-Marc Valahu, co-founder and  fund manager  at Clairinvest in Geneva, wrote in an
e-mail. “It is an encouraging sign that the euro-zone economies
have hit their low point and that they are now on the mend.”  A report showed that  German manufacturing  expanded for the
first time since February. The index, which is based on a survey
of  purchasing managers  compiled by  Markit Economics , climbed to
50.3 in July, exceeding the 49.2  median estimate  of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg.  A gauge of  German services  rose to 52.5 from 50.4 last
month, beating the median estimate of 50.7. A reading greater
than 50 means that activity increased.  In  China , a preliminary survey indicated that manufacturing
contracted at a faster rate this month. The reading of 47.7 for
an index released by HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics fell
short of estimates.  House Sales  In the U.S., a Commerce Department report showed that sales
of new houses rose in June more than economists had forecast.
 Purchases (NHSLTOT)  climbed 8.3 percent to an annualized pace of 497,000,
their highest level since May 2008. The median economist
estimate compiled by Bloomberg had called for a gain to 484,000.  HeidelbergCement advanced 3.2 percent to 54.99 euros as
JPMorgan upgraded the world’s third-largest maker of cement to
overweight from neutral, meaning that investors should hold more
of the shares than are represented in benchmark indexes. The
brokerage described HeidelbergCement as one of its preferred
companies in the building-materials industry because of its
presence in the U.S. and western Europe.  Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA) , Europe’s  largest airline by sales ,
advanced 3.1 percent to 15.52 euros as a gauge of travel and
leisure companies posted the biggest gain of the 19 industry
groups in the Stoxx Europe 600 Index. EasyJet Plc rallied after
saying its fiscal third-quarter revenue climbed.  Dialog Semiconductor  Dialog Semiconductor Plc (DLG)  surged 6.5 percent to 12.55 euros,
its highest price in two months, after  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , the company’s
biggest customer, reported fiscal third-quarter revenue and
iPhone sales that beat analysts’ estimates.  Puma slipped 1.6 percent to 213.50 euros after posting
quarterly Ebit of 31 million euros ($41 million), less than the
average  analyst projection  of 36.1 million euros. Sales also
missed estimates, dropping 4 percent to 692 million euros. The
company said that revenue declined in all its regions.  The volume of shares changing hands in companies listed on
the DAX was 6.4 percent lower than the average of the past 30
days, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Morgan in  Frankfurt  at 
 jmorgan157@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  