-- Glaxo CEO Commissions Independent Review on China Probe
-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a
-- 2013-07-24T17:02:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-24/glaxo-ceo-says-china-probe-will-probably-hurt-sales.html
GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  Chief Executive
Officer  Andrew Witty  said the U.K. drugmaker commissioned an
independent review to investigate the root cause of alleged
fraudulent behavior among senior executives in China.  Law firm  Ropes & Gray  will conduct the review, which will
begin within days, said Glaxo spokesman Simon Steel.  Allegations this month by the Chinese government that Glaxo
bribed hospitals, doctors and health officials prompted Witty to
dispatch his head of emerging markets to China to oversee the
London-based company’s response. Some senior executives appear
to have acted outside of Glaxo’s processes and controls to both
defraud the company and the Chinese health-care system, Witty
said today.  “To see these allegations made about people working for
Glaxo is shameful,” he told reporters on a second-quarter
earnings conference call in his first public statement since the
investigation was disclosed. “We are absolutely committed to
rooting out corruption and we are also absolutely committed to
getting to the bottom of what’s happened here.”  Asked whether he would consider giving up his bonus this
year, Witty said the company must first uncover the truth.  “Once we have understood that, then obviously those
consequences need to be considered,” he said.  ‘Limiting Damage’  Glaxo’s drug and vaccine sales in China rose 14 percent in
the second quarter to 212 million pounds ($325 million), the
company said in a statement. China accounts for slightly less
than 3.5 percent of the company’s global pharmaceutical  revenue 
and is less profitable than its Western businesses, according to
 Mark Clark , an analyst at Deutsche Bank AG in  London . Glaxo had
sales of about 1 billion pounds in China last year.  “Glaxo’s main focus will be on limiting the damage to its
long-term prospects in China, which is set to be the largest
pharmaceutical market in 2020,” Mick Cooper, an analyst at
Edison Investment Research, said in a note to investors today.  The anti-corruption probe will probably hurt the
drugmaker’s sales in China, Witty said in today’s statement,
adding that it’s too early to say what the impact will be. Glaxo
also will probably adopt a tiered pricing structure for the
market, Witty said on the call.  While a fine and legal damages are expected, Glaxo may also
give further price discounts as a means of goodwill and
reparation, Fabian Wenner, a health-care analyst with Kepler
Capital Markets in Zurich, said in a note.  Price Reductions  Glaxo rose 0.5 percent to close at 1,681 pence in London
trading. The stock has gained about 29 percent this year,
including reinvested dividends.  Glaxo is reviewing how it operates in China, according to
Abbas Hussain, Glaxo’s head of emerging markets. “Savings made
as a result of proposed changes to our operational model will be
passed on in the form of price reductions, ensuring our
medicines are more affordable to Chinese patients,” he said
this week.  The probe “will slow down growth a bit in China, but it
won’t irreparably damage the business there,”  Alistair Campbell , an analyst at Berenberg Bank in London, who has a buy
recommendation on Glaxo shares, said in a telephone interview.
“Glaxo has a healthy portfolio of products. It’s also such a
small percentage” of Glaxo’s total sales.  Detained Executives  China detained four senior Glaxo executives on suspicion of
economic crimes, the Ministry of Public Security said July 15.
Its finance chief in China, Steve Nechelput, has been unable to
leave the country since the end of June because of the
investigation, though he hasn’t been arrested or questioned, the
company said last week. Mark Reilly, the head of Glaxo’s China
pharmaceuticals business, returned to the U.K. on a planned
business trip, according to the company.  Glaxo’s executives “violated  China ’s laws and damaged
markets by engaging in bribery to raise drug prices, expand
sales and reap inappropriate profits,” the Ministry of Public
Security said in a statement posted on its website July 22.  Glaxo today reported second-quarter  earnings  excluding some
items were 26.3 pence a share, compared with 26.1 pence a year
earlier. That compared with average estimate of 26.3 pence from
14 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Sales rose 2 percent to 6.6
billion pounds, meeting the average analyst estimate.  Revenue from consumer health-care products in China
continued to decline, mainly because of new shelving
requirements for the Contac cold and flu treatment and mandatory
price reductions for Fenbid, an over-the-counter pain
medication, Glaxo said.  Sales of Seretide, the company’s top-selling lung medicine,
were 1.36 billion pounds, with “strong growth in China” and
other  emerging markets , Glaxo said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in London at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  