-- Go Daddy CEO Mulls 2014 IPO, Joining Wave of Cloud Deals
-- B y   O l g a   K h a r i f
-- 2013-07-25T19:09:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-24/go-daddy-ceo-mulls-2014-ipo-joining-wave-of-cloud-deals.html
Go Daddy Operating Co., the website
registration and hosting company known for its salacious Super
Bowl commercials, may sell shares to the public as early as next
year, Chief Executive Officer Blake Irving said.  The Scottsdale, Arizona-based company is on track to
generate $1.43 billion in revenue this year, and may reach $5
billion annually within the next two to three years, Irving said
in an interview yesterday.  Sales are surging as more small companies turn to Go Daddy
for Web-hosting as well as online services like bookkeeping and
payments, he said. Go Daddy could ride a wave of successful
initial public offerings from Web-based technology companies,
including human-resources software maker  Workday Inc. (WDAY) , data
visualization company  Tableau Software Inc. (DATA)  and information
technology management software provider  ServiceNow Inc. (NOW)   “There would be strong demand,”  Tom Taulli , founder of
Los Angeles-based IPOPlaybook.com, said in an interview. “Go
Daddy is a known brand, a top player in its market, and cloud
IPOs have been red hot.”  Based on Irving’s projections for sales growth, Go Daddy
could be worth more than $6 billion in an IPO, Taulli said.
Workday, which analysts estimate will record $439.4 million in
 revenue  this fiscal year, is valued at $11.7 billion.  “The growth we are seeing positions us very well to be a
public company,” Irving said. “We could go public today. But I
want to demonstrate that execution against my strategy is
happening.”  Withdrawn IPO  Irving declined to comment on how much money Go Daddy would
seek in an IPO or whether the company has picked banks to lead
the offering. Go Daddy filed to go public in 2006, and withdrew
the plans within months, citing unfavorable market conditions,
such as “escalating hostilities throughout the  Middle East ,
skyrocketing  oil prices  and technology stocks once again taking
a beating on  Wall Street .”  Investment firms KKR & Co., Silver Lake Management LLC and
Technology Crossover Ventures bought a stake in Go Daddy in July
2011, in a deal valuing the company at $2.25 billion, a person
with knowledge of the matter said at the time. Go Daddy
projected revenue that year of $1.1 billion.  While Go Daddy serves mostly small businesses, the brand is
recognized among consumers because of a history of provocative
Super Bowl ads every January featuring celebrities like race-car
driver  Danica Patrick  and Israeli model Bar Refaeli. In an
interview in February on “Bloomberg West,” Irving said the
Super Bowl ads generate enough attention to carry “us all the
way through the middle of the year.”  Global Expansion  Irving  joined  Go Daddy seven months ago and was previously
chief product officer at Yahoo! Inc. He’s focused on expanding
beyond the U.S., which accounts for 80 percent of revenue, and
bolstering his executive team and engineering staff.  Go Daddy is pushing into  Spain , Portugal, France, Germany
and other countries this year and next with the goal of
eventually counting on non-U.S. markets for 70 percent of sales,
Irving said. He’s also planning to make the company’s websites
available in several dozen languages.  Since taking over as CEO, Irving has revamped the senior
staff. His hires include former Yahoo executive Elissa Murphy as
chief technology officer and Microsoft Corp. veteran Arnold Blinn as chief architect. He’s also added about 400 employees,
bringing the total to 3,500, and  opened  offices in Sunnyvale,
 California , and near  Seattle .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Olga Kharif in Portland at 
 okharif@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  