-- Google Challenges Apple TV With $35 Video-Streaming Device
-- B y   P e t e r   B u r r o w s   a n d   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2013-07-24T20:34:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-24/google-unveils-updated-nexus-7-in-push-against-apple-microsoft.html
Google Inc. (GOOG) , owner of the world’s
most popular search engine, introduced a device that sends
YouTube and  Netflix Inc. (NFLX)  videos from phones, tablets and laptops
to televisions, bolstering competition with  Apple Inc. (AAPL)   Chromecast, a small $35 dongle that plugs into a TV’s HDMI
input, lets customers watch and control online videos without
their remote control. The gadget, unveiled at an event today in
San Francisco, works with Android devices as well as Apple’s
iPhone, and enables users to continue using their phone for
other activities while streaming.  “Of course people would want to watch YouTube and Netflix
on the device with the biggest screen, but the user experience
on the TV has been so difficult,” said Rishi Chandra, a
director of  product management  at the  Mountain View , California-based company, in an interview after the event. “If you have to
stop using your phone just to watch something on TV, it’s not a
viable solution.”  The announcement of Chromecast came after Google introduced
an updated Nexus 7 tablet, which has a sharper screen and is
being made in partnership with  Taiwan ’s  Asustek Computer Inc. (2357)  In
tablets, devices running Android software have been gaining
share versus Apple’s iPad. The move into televisions follows
previous unsuccessful efforts for Google, including a media-streaming device called Q that never shipped based on poor
initial feedback, and the Google TV set-top box that has lagged
the competition.  Google Senior Vice President  Sundar Pichai  said in an
interview that the company would continue pushing Google TV,
which turns TV into an Android device capable of playing apps
and other content, “in a big way.”  Content Partners  Chromecast, which looks like a USB stick, wirelessly syncs
video being watched on a customer’s mobile devices and TV.
Pichai said the device will also work with  Pandora Media Inc. (P) ’s
music-streaming service and other content partners in the
future. It goes on sale today through  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) , Best Buy
Co.’s website and the Google Play store. Google said that
through a partnership with Netflix, Chromecast customers will
get three free months of the streaming service.  Apple TV in its current iteration is a $99 set-top box,
though Chief Executive Officer  Tim Cook  has said the company is
considering other television products. Apple also has AirPlay,
which lets consumers stream pictures and videos from iPhones and
iPads to Apple TV.  Tablet Shipments  The upgraded Nexus 7 is Google’s latest effort to parlay
its success in smartphones to larger devices. Tablet shipments,
benefiting from consumer migration away from personal computers,
are expected to grow 68 percent this year, outpacing a 4.3
percent increase for mobile phones,  according  to research firm
Gartner Inc.  “Tablets are going to be part of the next era,” said
 Carolina Milanesi , an analyst with Gartner. “It means eyeballs
and it means accounts and it means knowing what the consumers
are doing.”  Google develops the Android operating system and offers it
for free to makers of phones and tablets, as well as using the
software in its own devices.  The Nexus 7 ranges in price from $229 for a Wi-Fi version
to $349 for a device with more memory that also works over
cellular networks. The new Nexus 7 is 50 grams lighter than its
predecessor with the same screen size and a high resolution
display, said Hugo Barra, vice president of Android product
management.  “It’s a much more comfortable grip and fits easily into
your purse or jacket pocket,” Barra said. For the screen,
“having a crisp and bright display makes all the difference,”
he said.  Upbeat Reviews  The Nexus, which sports a 7-inch screen, received positive
reviews last year for its sleek design and intuitive software.
The gadget offers the best value among its rivals, CNET said in
a review last year.  “With its excellent design, useful software features, and
low starting price, the Nexus 7 is the cheapest way to
experience the best that the Android” operating system has to
offer, CNET  said . “The Nexus 7 is still the overall best small
tablet.”  The Nexus 7 goes up against Apple’s iPad Mini, which is 7.9
inches, and Amazon’s Kindle Fire, which also has a 7-inch screen
and uses a version of Android.  Google also announced today that it’s making textbook
purchases and rentals available on the new tablet. Books from
all five major publishers will be in Google’s store in time for
the coming school year.  Google  fell  0.1 percent to $902.90 at the close in  New
York . The stock has gained 28 percent this year, compared with a
17 percent drop in shares of Cupertino, California-based Apple.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Peter Burrows in  San Francisco  at 
 pburrows@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Womack in San Francisco at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  