-- Google Said to Expand San Francisco Space in Lease Deal
-- B y   D a n   L e v y
-- 2013-07-25T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-24/google-said-to-expand-san-francisco-space-in-lease-deal.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  agreed to expand its San
Francisco  office space  at Morgan Stanley’s Hills Plaza building
in what would be the city’s biggest lease transaction of 2013,
according to a person with direct knowledge of the deal.  The planned 10-year lease for 350,000 square feet (32,500
square meters) will increase Google’s space at the waterfront
location by 25 percent, said the person, who asked not to be
named because the process is private. The  Mountain View ,
California-based company will pay average rent of $65 a square
foot, little changed from the rate in its current agreement,
which expires in 2015, the person said.  Google, owner of the world’s most popular Internet search
engine, is choosing to stay in its current building at a time
when 2.8 million square feet of new office space is coming to
San Francisco in the biggest construction boom since 2001. The
company had been one of the largest tenants in the market for
developers including Tishman Speyer Properties LP,  Boston
Properties Inc. (BXP)  and Shorenstein Properties LLC, which are
building towers without lease commitments.  “If you’re an office developer, you’re racing to get all
these new buildings leased up,” Steve Barker, San Francisco
branch manager for Studley Inc., a tenant brokerage, said in a
telephone interview. “The most important thing is to land the
anchor tenant.”  Foundry Square  Katelin Jabbari, a Google spokeswoman, declined to comment
on the company’s lease plans. Wes Powell, managing director at
Jones Lang LaSalle, the brokerage that represents Morgan
Stanley, declined to comment.  Google was close to signing a letter of intent to occupy
Tishman Speyer’s Foundry Square III, under way in the South of
Market area, before backing out of the deal, three people with
knowledge of the situation said. The 10-story building with
278,000 square feet of luxury offices is set to open this year.  Rick Matthews , a spokesman for Tishman Speyer, and Google’s
Jabbari declined to comment on the technology company’s
involvement with Foundry Square III. The New York-based
developer is negotiating with several potential tenants,
Matthews said.  San Francisco’s office leasing surge began in 2010, fueled
by demand from technology companies. Prime downtown occupancy
costs -- rents plus local taxes and service charges -- jumped 36
percent in the year ended Sept. 30, the biggest increase of any
global market, CBRE Group Inc. said.  Leasing Slowdown  Leasing volume has since slowed, with deals plunging 45
percent this year through June compared with the first half of
2012, according to CBRE.  Google isn’t the only big tenant to forsake tower projects
under way. Health insurer  Kaiser Permanente  chose to lease
264,000 square feet at offices being developed by  Alexandria
Real Estate Equities Inc. (ARE) , a Pasadena, California-based builder
of biotechnology and medical properties, the company said.  Bank of America Corp. and Delta Dental of  California ,
seeking a combined 350,000 square feet as each company nears the
end of current lease terms, may renew those deals rather than
relocate to new high-rise space, according to a person with
knowledge of the assessments made by the tenants.  San Francisco office vacancy fell to 7.2 percent in the
second quarter from 7.5 percent at the end of March, according
to a Cornish & Carey Commercial Newmark Knight Frank report.
Asking rents rose 1.2 percent to an average of $54.59 a square
foot, the smallest increase since 2010, the brokerage said.
 Illumina Inc. (ILMN)  signed a lease for 97,700 square feet in Mission
Bay, near the Kaiser site, in the biggest deal of the period.  Boston Properties  Shorenstein’s 1 Tenth project, with 338,000-square-feet in
the same complex as Twitter Inc.’s headquarters, is set to open
next year and is being marketed to prospective tenants, said
Andrew Neilly, a spokesman. Boston Properties’ 535 Mission, a
South of Market tower with 307,000 square feet, also scheduled
for 2014, will suit a variety of tenants, according to President
Doug Linde.  “We anticipate that it’s really going to be leased to a
broad range of small or medium-sized technology and legal and
financial services and other tenants,” Linde said on a May 1
earnings conference call.  Bob Pester, senior vice president locally for the Boston-based landlord, didn’t respond to a call seeking an update on
lease negotiations in that project.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Levy in  San Francisco  at 
 dlevy13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  