-- Government, Not Globalization, Destroyed Detroit
-- B y   M i c h a e l   T a n n e r
-- 2013-07-24T17:09:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-24/government-not-globalization-destroyed-detroit.html
Free markets and limited government
are to blame for the  largest municipal bankruptcy  in U.S.
history. That is the new meme to explain Detroit’s plight.  Former Michigan Governor Jennifer Granholm  blames  “free
trade” for the decline of Detroit’s auto industry and thus the
city itself.  New York  Times columnist  Paul Krugman   suggests  that “for
the most part the city was just an innocent victim of market
forces.”  MSNBC ’s Melissa Harris-Perry  claims  that “this is what it
looks like when government is small enough to drown in your
bathtub,” referring to conservative  Grover Norquist ’s famous
nostrum about the ideal political system.  Another MSNBC contributor, Michael Eric Dyson,  suggests 
that “racial animus” was the real culprit.  Detroit has indeed had its share of racial problems. A long
history of discrimination exploded in riots in 1967, followed by
white flight to the suburbs. And as an almost-single-industry
town, Detroit was hit hard by the decline of  General Motors Co. (GM) ,
Ford Motor Co. and Chrysler Group LLC.  Yet other cities, such as Pittsburgh and  Cleveland , that
have struggled with the same challenges have managed to bounce
back or at least stay afloat. And auto manufacturing continues
to thrive in states such as Alabama and  Tennessee .  As for “small government” being to blame, one has to go
back 52 years to find Republicans in control of Detroit’s
government. Even then, one would not mistake  Louis Miriani , the
city’s last Republican mayor, for Norquist.  No, one has to look elsewhere for the reasons Detroit
hasn’t been able to recover from its troubles.  Unfunded Obligations  The most obvious candidate is the city’s vast  unfunded
pension programs , which have been running deficits for years.
Fully 99.6 percent of the city’s retiree health-care liabilities
are unfunded, and the program generally pays 80 percent to 100
percent of retirees’ medical costs. From 2007 to 2012, the
city’s two biggest pension programs paid out $3.3 billion more
in benefits than they took in through contributions or
investment income. Unfunded obligations account for $9.2 billion
of  Detroit ’s $18 billion debt: $3.5 billion comes from the
 pension part  and $5.7 billion comes from the retiree health-care
liability.  The individual pensions for public employees are fairly
 modest , averaging some $18,000 a year, but they are spread over
a huge past and present workforce. Detroit’s political
establishment has long been based on patronage. Although the
public workforce has shrunk in recent years, almost 1 in 15
residents still works for the city. Salaries and benefits for
current employees consume 36 percent of the city’s revenue.
Legacy obligations, which include pension contributions and
benefit payments, take an additional 39 percent of revenue. That
leaves little to invest in the failing infrastructure.  Pensions are hardly Detroit’s only hurdle. The city throws
plenty of money at its  schools , which are beholden to the
powerful Detroit Federation of Teachers, spending more than
$14,000 a student annually. Yet little value is received in
return: In 2009, Detroit public-school students turned in the
lowest scores ever recorded in the national math-proficiency
test. More than a third of students fail to graduate.  In many ways, Detroit is a model of tax-and-spend
liberalism. The city’s per-capita tax burden is the highest in
 Michigan . Detroit has the country’s  highest property taxes  on
homes, the top commercial property tax and the second-highest
industrial property tax.  The city’s income tax -- 2.4 percent for residents, 1.2
percent for nonresidents and 2 percent for businesses -- is the
highest in Michigan. The income tax burden on residents is
significantly higher than that for those who live in the
surrounding area, which helps drive more affluent and successful
residents out of the city. And Detroit is the only city in
Michigan that has an  excise tax  on utility users.  Crushing Business  Besides the anti-business taxes, there are the anti-business regulations. The city imposes a “living wage” of
$11.03 an hour ($13.78 an hour if other benefits aren’t
provided) for public employees, as well as on businesses that
contract with the city. This year, Detroit started a campaign
against businesses that don’t meet the city’s voluminous
licensing requirements, promising to shut some 1,500 “illegal”
ventures such as tire shops and secondhand appliance stores
operating out of abandoned warehouses. This sector makes up
almost a 10th of businesses operating in the city and serves
almost 70 percent of residents. The official policy is to crush
these operations.  A few years ago, the nonpartisan Bay Area Center for Voting
Research rated Detroit as the most liberal city in America. The
city’s own choices, not free markets and limited government, are
really responsible for Detroit’s failure.  ( Michael Tanner  is a senior fellow at the  Cato Institute 
and  author  of “Leviathan on the Right: How Big-Government
Conservatism Brought Down the Republican Revolution.”)  To contact the writer of this article:
Michael Tanner at  mtanner@cato.org .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at  kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 