-- Greenberg Says Thirsty Wall Street Drains Reinsurer Pond
-- B y   M e g a n   H i c k e y
-- 2013-07-24T20:26:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-24/greenberg-says-thirsty-wall-street-drains-reinsurer-pond.html
Ace Ltd. (ACE)  Chief Executive Officer
Evan Greenberg said the influx of Wall Street capital into the
reinsurance industry is pressuring rates and that he is prepared
to cut sales of backstop coverage.  Prices for catastrophe reinsurance have declined about 5
percent internationally and as much as 15 percent in the U.S.,
Greenberg said today during a conference  call  to discuss second-quarter results at the Zurich-based company.  “You see alternate capital coming in, capital markets in
addition to traditional players,” said Greenberg, 58. “So
you’ve got that pond, with more drinking out of it.”  Pension funds and other institutional investors have been
pouring money into reinsurance to boost yields on portfolios as
central banks hold  interest rates  low to stimulate the economy.
The use of catastrophe bonds has also increased as more fixed-income investors accept the risk of natural disasters wiping out
their principal in exchange for above-market yields.  Ace’s net policy sales of reinsurance fell 5.5 percent to
$292 million in the quarter from $309 million a year earlier,
the company said yesterday in a  statement .  “If we like the trade we’ll write it,” Greenberg said of
his company’s reinsurance strategy. “If not, you’ve seen what
our track record is. We will shrink businesses and have no
problem doing it.”  Ace slipped 1.5 percent to $91.88 at 4:15 p.m. in New York.
Greenberg’s firm has advanced 15 percent this year, compared
with the 16 percent gain in the 78-company Bloomberg World
Insurance Index.  Greenberg’s Guideposts  “The competition is continuing to increase in the
reinsurance space,” Charles Sebaski, an analyst at BMO  Capital
Markets  who has an  outperform  rating on Ace, said an interview
today. Greenberg and his team may face pressure generating
premium revenue “if the economics of the business do not meet
their guideposts.”  The firm’s biggest segments, North American property-casualty and overseas general insurance, both reported increases
in policy sales. Greenberg said Ace can be selective because it
sells so many types of insurance, including crop protection and
accident-and-health coverage, and has an advantage over
competitors that specialize in reinsurance.  Feeling Compelled  “There is plenty of capital in reinsurance because the
results have been good, so their balance sheets have grown and
reinsurers are hungry,” Greenberg said. “Many will profess
undivided discipline, but they chase market share. For many of
them, their standards are not the same as ours. And for many
it’s all they do for a living so they feel compelled.”  Greenberg joins Franklin “Tad” Montross, CEO of the
General Re unit at  Warren Buffett ’s Berkshire Hathaway Inc., in
highlighting the potential risks tied to new money in
reinsurance.  Montross said last month that demand for catastrophe bonds
makes sense because investors want yield. Sales of dollar-denominated cat bonds have climbed to $4.97 billion this year
from $3.98 billion in the same period in 2012. Still, cat bond
investors may be more fickle than reinsurers, he said.  “What happens after the $150 billion earthquake, when
 Nevada  is basically coastline to the Pacific?” Montross asked
the audience at a June 6 conference hosted by  Standard & Poor’s .  Swiss Re Ltd., the world’s second-largest reinsurer, has
said that April renewal prices were down about 3 percent.  “Without further significant catastrophe losses in the
remainder of 2013, we expect that this downward pricing trend
will likely continue through the remainder of the year,” David Flandro, global head of business intelligence at Marsh &
McLennan Cos.’ Guy Carpenter reinsurance broker, said in a July
9 statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Megan Hickey in  New York  at 
 Mhickey18@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  