-- China’s Li Vows Support Measures From Rail to Tax Breaks
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-07-25T03:41:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-24/li-keqiang-says-china-to-speed-up-railway-construction.html
Chinese Premier  Li Keqiang  said the
nation will speed railway construction, especially in central
and western regions, adding support for an economy that’s set to
expand at the slowest pace in 23 years.  The State Council also yesterday approved tax breaks for
small companies and reduced fees for exporters as it pledged to
keep the yuan’s exchange rate “basically stable at a reasonable
and balanced level,” according to a statement after a meeting
led by Li.  China  plans a railway development fund, the
government said.  Additional spending would help the world’s second-largest
economy, after the government signaled this week it will protect
its 7.5 percent growth target for this year following a second
straight quarterly slowdown. Economists surveyed by  Bloomberg
News  cut expansion forecasts this month, reaching a new median
estimate of 7.5 percent, which would be the lowest since 1990.  “Premier Li’s team has been surely working around the
clock” to arrest the slowdown, said Lu Ting, head of Greater
China economics at Bank of America Corp. in Hong Kong. “It’s a
small stimulus” that may boost confidence while having a
limited effect in boosting demand, Lu said by e-mail today.  The  Shanghai  Composite  Index (SHCOMP)  fell 0.1 percent as of the
11:30 a.m. local-time break. CSR Corp., the nation’s biggest
trainmaker, rose 4.6 percent, while China Railway Construction
Corp. jumped 5.1 percent.  Investment Boost  The State Council is targeting 690 billion  yuan  ($112
billion) of fixed-asset investment in the railway industry this
year, the Beijing News reported today, citing a summary of the
meeting. That compares with a 650 billion yuan figure given in a
rail-bond  prospectus  published July 19.  For the five years through 2015, the cabinet set a goal of
investing 3.3 trillion yuan, or 500 billion yuan more than in
the previous plan, according to the Beijing News. The State
Council Information office didn’t immediately respond to a faxed
question from Bloomberg News on the authenticity of the
newspaper report.  Investors are looking for signs of additional support
measures after exports fell last month by the most since the
global financial crisis. China’s manufacturing weakened more
than estimated in July, according to a preliminary survey of
 purchasing managers  released yesterday.  Yuan Concern  The cabinet’s comment on the yuan may signal concern about
burdens on exporters. The currency has risen 1.5 percent this
year against the  U.S. dollar , the most among 11 major Asian
currencies tracked by Bloomberg, and the yuan is up 17 percent
against the yen as  Japan  implements record monetary easing to
beat deflation. The yuan was little changed today at 6.1380 per
dollar at 11:34 a.m. in Shanghai.  The yuan comment indicates that the central bank won’t
allow the currency to appreciate against the dollar from the
current level, though it may also prevent depreciation, Lu said.  Separately today,  Yin Chengji , spokesman for the Ministry
of Human Resources and  Social Security , said at a briefing in
Beijing that while employment in the nation is stable, China
will face large pressure on jobs and focus on finding jobs for
university graduates.  Resolutions passed at yesterday’s cabinet meeting included
the exemption of companies with monthly sales of less than
20,000 yuan from value-added and business taxes starting Aug. 1,
according to the statement. The move will benefit more than 6
million small businesses and affect jobs and income of tens of
millions of people, the government said.  China will also reduce administrative fees on export
inspections and encourage financing and tax-rebate services for
small firms to promote trade, according to yesterday’s statement.  Private Investors  The government also plans to grant ownership and operating
rights on some city and regional railways to local government
and private investors.  “To get rich, you must build roads first, especially
railroads,” Li was cited by the official Xinhua News Agency as
saying at the meeting. Accelerating railway construction brings
“multiple benefits” by promoting urbanization, stabilizing
growth and improving people’s lives, Li said.  Delegates to the National People’s Congress from central
and western provinces have told Li that the area’s rail system
is “still underdeveloped, and people there are eagerly looking
forward to more railways,” he said, as cited by Xinhua.  Targeted Spending  “I suspect that we will see a lot of announcements of
targeted spending over the next few months,” said  Mark Williams ,
a former U.K. Treasury adviser on China who is now a London-based economist at Capital Economics Ltd. “They may not add up
collectively to much of a stimulus but they reflect efforts to
really stabilize growth at the current level.”  President  Xi Jinping  called on the nation to “enhance
vitality” of the state-run economy and encourage, support and
guide the development of the private sector after meeting
provincial leaders in Wuhan, according to another Xinhua  report .  Separately, government agencies including the National
Development and Reform Commission vowed to improve measures to
cut drug prices this year and push forward public hospital
reform, according to another statement on the central
government’s website.  --Zhou Xin and Jun Luo, with assistance from Jasmine Wang and
Alan Wong in  Hong Kong  and Hu Shen and Nerys Avery in Beijing.
Editors: Scott Lanman, Sunil Jagtiani  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Xin Zhou in Beijing at 
 xzhou68@bloomberg.net ;
Jun Luo in Shanghai at 
 jluo6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  