-- Iberdrola Net Beats Estimates on Gain From Asset Revaluation
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   L a y a   a n d   C h a r l e s   P e n t y
-- 2013-07-24T11:29:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-24/iberdrola-profit-beats-estimates-on-gains-from-asset-revaluation.html
Iberdrola SA (IBE) ,  Spain ’s biggest
utility, reported first-half earnings that exceeded analyst
estimates after booking gains from a revaluation of assets.  Net income  totaled 1.73 billion euros ($2.29 billion)
compared with 1.76 billion euros a year earlier, the Bilbao-based company said in a statement. That beat the 1.47 billion-euro average estimate of 10 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  The utility, which has expanded abroad to lessen the impact
of government levies and weaker power demand at home, booked a
1.46 billion-euro gain from corporate taxes after revaluing
assets, the company said. It revised the value of Spanish assets
higher by 6.3 billion euros.  Iberdrola rose 0.8 percent to 3.99 euros as of 1:25 p.m. in
Madrid trading, having earlier advanced 2.2 percent.  The company reported 1.66 billion euros of writedowns in
its gas-storage and wind-energy units after shale-gas growth in
 North America  led to a decline in gas costs, dragging down power
prices. Iberdrola delivers gas and electricity to about 3
million customers in the U.S.  “The main surprise in results came from the provisions
line that included massive impairments,” Banco BPI SA said
today in a report. “Expectations at operating level and one-offs mostly compensating each other; we do not expect this set
of results to be a trigger for a move in consensus.”  Market Reforms  The  shares  slumped earlier this month after Spain announced
power-market reforms that will cost utilities 2.7 billion euros.  The measures will cost the company an estimated 170 million
euros before tax this year and 90 million euros in 2014,
Iberdrola said today in a presentation. The industry’s debts, a
result of selling power below cost and subsidizing renewable
energy, have discouraged investment in power distribution,
Chairman  Ignacio Galan  said on a call with analysts.  Sales slipped 0.9 percent to 16.8 billion euros, Iberdrola
said in the statement. Earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization fell 0.9 percent to 4.05 billion
euros. Financial costs dropped 7.9 percent as the company cut
net financial debt to 28.8 billion euros from 32 billion euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Laya in Madrid at 
 playa2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Risser at 
 drisser@bloomberg.net  