-- Illinois Stripper Haven Shows States Miss Bankruptcy Mess
-- B y   T i m   J o n e s
-- 2013-07-24T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-24/illinois-stripper-haven-shows-states-miss-bankruptcy-mess.html
Financial accountability has a way
of getting discarded in Washington Park,  Illinois , much like the
clothing slipping off dancers in the eight strip clubs that
dominate the town’s economy.  Village officials haven’t turned in required fiscal
statements to the state in at least seven years. A payroll clerk
was convicted in 2009 of engineering the  embezzlement  of more
than $500,000. Now, state Comptroller Judy Baar Topinka wants
county and federal prosecutors to  investigate .  “Our question to Judy Baar Topinka is, ‘Where have you
been all these years?’” said Eric Evans, a lawyer whom the
village hired in May to sort through stacks of cardboard boxes
jammed with canceled checks and other documents.  This village of 4,200 doesn’t have the notoriety of
 Detroit , which last week declared the largest municipal
bankruptcy in U.S. history. Yet the disarray in Washington Park,
where officials twice filed for Chapter 9 protection in the past
decade, underscores the role states play -- or fail to -- in
monitoring the stability of cities and towns.  Just 19 states, including Illinois, have laws allowing them
to intervene in municipal finances, a report issued yesterday by
the Pew Charitable Trusts found. In most cases, states react to
local crises rather than try to prevent them, according to the
 study , “The State Role in Local Government Financial
Distress.”  Repeated Attempts  When Topinka requested the investigation of Washington Park
on June 20, she said Illinois can’t “afford to take chances
with public money.” Her office made “repeated attempts” to
get an accounting of the village’s records before she called for
the probe, said her spokesman, Brad Hahn. Topinka declined to be
interviewed for this story.  Theft, murder and financial ineptitude define Washington
Park, a weed-choked community across the  Mississippi River  from
St. Louis where the  U.S. Census  says 42.6 percent live in
poverty. This is a town where the behavior of elected officials
has lost its ability to surprise.  “We’re trying to get a handle on everything,” village
trustee Darron Suggs said in an interview July 10 before
attending a finance committee meeting at the village hall. Hours
later, federal prosecutors  announced  his indictment on charges
of Medicaid fraud.  Evans is sifting through more than $4 million in judgments
and IOUs, including to the U.S. Internal Revenue Service, two
pension funds and Illinois itself, which faces its own long line
of creditors.  ‘Huge Mess’  “It’s a huge mess,” he said. “And there’s a host of
lawsuits saying, ‘Pay us.’”  To Andrew Theising, director of the Institute for Urban
Research at Southern Illinois University Edwardsville,
Washington Park is outrageous, though not an outlier.  “There really is no oversight in Illinois,” Theising
said. “There could potentially be a lot of communities out
there like Washington Park.”  One emerged in a big way last year in Dixon, boyhood home
of President  Ronald Reagan . Longtime village controller Rita Crundwell had over the course of 22 years embezzled $53 million,
the FBI said. Investigators said she siphoned money from the
town of 16,000, two hours west of  Chicago , using part of it to
buy 400 race horses and farms to house them. In February a
federal judge sentenced the 60-year-old Crundwell to 19 years
and seven months in prison.  Sleeping Watchdogs  “Dixon may be a wake-up call to make sure that we’re
paying attention to things,” said  James Spiotto , a municipal
bankruptcy lawyer with Chapman & Cutler LLP in Chicago and co-author of “Municipalities in Distress? How States and Investors
Deal with Local Government Financial Emergencies.”  “With some states there really is no oversight,” he said.  Some are more attentive than others. Michigan Governor  Rick Snyder  signed a law in December giving distressed cities and
school districts the choice of entering a recovery agreement or
an evaluation process, entering bankruptcy or accepting an
appointed emergency manager. He named a manager for Detroit four
months before it filed for bankruptcy July 18.  Indiana lawmakers last year allowed local governments and
schools to ask a state board to appoint an emergency manager to
fix their finances.  Jersey Watching  New Jersey’s 565 municipalities must submit budgets to a
state local finance board for review. Since 2012 the state has
required disclosure of any reasons for a structural imbalance,
including revenue at risk, increased debt or restructured
payments and salary increases.  Illinois, which faces its own  backlog  of more than $6
billion in unpaid bills and an unfunded pension liability of
almost $100 billion, oversees the budget of East  St. Louis , a
neighbor of Washington Park, under the state’s  Financially
Distressed City Law , which dates to 1997.  These are problematic solutions, Spiotto said, because many
municipalities resist what they view as interference. At the
same time, most states either prevent local governments from
filing Chapter 9 bankruptcy or discourage it through legal
requirements, which is why courts rejected Washington Park’s
filings in 2004 and 2009.  The village, with a budget of $2.7 million and about 20
employees, has achieved destination status thanks to its strip
clubs. A billboard above Interstate 64 promotes one operated by
Larry Flynt. Just beyond that sign is a rebuttal of sorts, a
larger one that says “Trust Jesus Repent.”  “Mismanagement and corruption equal disaster,” said Ann
Rodgers, 41, the mayor elected in May. She often responds with
“wow” when asked to describe the severity of troubles the town
has faced. They go beyond the financial: Three years ago, then-Mayor  John Thornton  was murdered in his car. Though authorities
convicted a man of the crime, they never determined a motive.  Mismanagement Tales  Rodgers, who said the village doesn’t plan to submit
another bankruptcy filing, recited a litany of mismanagement,
from embezzlement and misuse of tax-increment-financing money to
a lawsuit she and other trustees filed to obtain records.  “Bankruptcy definitely could have been good for us,”
Rodgers said as a $13,977 check from the state lay on her desk,
money she hopes will allow her to make the next payroll.  Missed paydays are common in Washington Park. She recently
laid off all but one paid member of the village fire department.
A rusting engine truck, enveloped by weeds, sat across the
street from the main firehouse. Aubrey Keller, the police chief,
has urged city leaders to shut his department.  The state-requested probe is being greeted here by some as
the long-awaited arrival of good guys on white horses. Rodgers
welcomes the examination, viewing it as an opportunity to set
the town right. Other town leaders urge a different outcome.  “It would be a blessing if this corrupt, ineffective
government that is terrorizing taxpayers were dissolved,” the
Belleville News-Democrat wrote in a July 5 editorial.  The newspaper has a point, said Theising, the Southern
Illinois University professor.  “States have an obligation to monitor what they have
created,” he said. “But the state never considers dissolving a
city, and that, to me, is a problem.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Jones in Chicago at 
 tjones58@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  