-- Time Warner Cable Threatening to Drop CBS From Channel 2
-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 2013-07-24T20:50:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-24/time-warner-cable-threatening-to-drop-cbs-from-channel-2-spot.html
Time Warner Cable Inc. is
threatening to drop CBS from its position as the first broadcast
station on its TV menu unless the entertainment company agrees
to seek a lower fee increase for its programming.  The second-largest U.S. cable provider is talking to
several competitors about taking CBS’s place,  Maureen Huff , a
Time Warner Cable spokeswoman, said in an interview. CBS, the
highest-rated broadcast network, said it won’t give up the real
estate. The slot is one of the first viewers see when they turn
on a cable box and search the menu.  “CBS obviously won’t make any deals that require us to
change our channel position,”  Dana McClintock , a spokesman for
CBS in New York, said in a phone interview.  On the broadcast dial, CBS has occupied channel 2 in New
York since 1941 and in Los Angeles since 1951, according to  Rich Greenfield , an analyst at BTIG LLC in New York. Both WCBS and
KCBS use a CBS2 on-air logo, although  Time Warner Cable (TWC)  would
“auction off the most valuable channel real estate in the
television business in the two largest advertising markets in
the U.S.,” he said.  The 1992 U.S. Cable Television Consumer Protection and
Competition Act set  rules  for broadcast stations, allowing them
to guarantee carriage from cable providers as long as they
didn’t demand compensation. Broadcast networks have negotiated
billions of dollars in  fees  from pay-TV providers in recent
years in exchange for their programming.  “It looks more and more likely that our customers are
going to have to endure another blackout,” Huff said. “Channel
2 is CBS’s must-carry position. But when they elect
retransmission consent, they no longer have any right to any
particular position on our lineup.”  600 Percent  Time Warner Cable was unchanged at $117.29 at the close in
New York, up 21 percent this year. CBS was little changed at
$52.48 and is up 38 percent.  The threat by New York-based Time Warner Cable is an
attempt to put pressure on CBS to lower the amount of money it
wants for giving access to its owned-and-operated affiliate
networks in New York,  Los Angeles  and  Dallas . Time Warner Cable
claims New York-based CBS asked for prices 600 percent higher
than the network’s affiliates in other markets receive for the
same programming.  About 3 million Time Warner Cable subscribers would lose
CBS if a blackout occurs. Time Warner Cable has about 12 million
total video subscribers.  The Wall Street Journal reported Time Warner Cable’s threat
over the Channel 2 slot earlier today.  “Even if we were to go dark with CBS, we would still work
toward an agreement,” Huff said. “But CBS could potentially
appear on a different channel number when we reached an
agreement.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Sherman in  New York  at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  