-- IMF’s Lagarde Drops Proposal to Back Argentina in Debt Case
-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o   a n d   K a t i a   P o r z e c a n s k i
-- 2013-07-24T21:44:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-24/imf-s-lagarde-drops-proposal-to-back-argentina-in-default-case.html
International Monetary Fund Managing
Director  Christine Lagarde  withdrew a proposal to back Argentina
in the country’s legal battle over its defaulted debt, citing
opposition from the U.S., the fund’s largest shareholder.  Argentina bonds tumbled the most in five months after the
announcement, which came three days after Lagarde said she’d
recommend that the IMF board file its first-ever friend-of-the-court brief to the U.S. Supreme Court in support of Argentina’s
request for a review of a lower court ruling. The case involves
holdout creditors from the nation’s $95 billion default in 2001.  “The managing director’s recommendation was premised on
U.S. support, as it would not be appropriate for the IMF to file
this brief without that support,” the IMF said in an e-mailed
statement yesterday. “The fund remains deeply concerned about
the broad systemic implications that the lower court decision
could have for the debt restructuring process in general.”  The South American nation contends that a federal appeals
court in New York was wrong when it ruled in October that
investors who accepted Argentina’s debt restructuring can’t be
paid unless holders of defaulted bonds who rejected the plan are
also paid. The holdouts are led by billionaire  Paul Singer ’s
Elliott Management Corp. and its NML Capital Ltd. unit.  Bonds Fall  The yield on the nation’s restructured dollar bonds due
2033 jumped 51 basis points, or 0.51 percentage point, to 14.12
percent at 4:50 p.m. in New York, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The bond’s price fell 2.26 cents on the dollar to
63.47 cents, the biggest drop on a closing basis since Feb. 28.  “We do not think that the IMF should file a brief with the
Supreme Court at this time,” the U.S. Treasury Department in an
e-mailed statement.  The Treasury said it strongly disagrees with Argentina’s
actions in international financial markets, including failures
to pay creditor nations including the U.S. The IMF earlier this
year also censured the country for not providing accurate data
on inflation and economic growth.  “It is a bit awkward, but it is consistent with the
consensus-based nature of IMF’s decision making,” said Domenico Lombardi, the director of the Global Economy program at the
Centre for International Governance Innovation in Waterloo,
Ontario. “This is a case in point showing the political reality
under which international organizations operate and how such
constraints limit their institutional effectiveness.”  Wider Spread  The extra yield investors demand to own Argentine bonds
instead of Treasuries jumped 37 basis points to 10.62 percentage
points, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s Embi Global index.
Emerging-market debt yields were unchanged from yesterday at an
average 3.19 percentage points more than Treasuries.  In asking the  Supreme Court  to take the case, Argentina
argued that the lower-court ruling “represents an unprecedented
intrusion into the activities of a foreign state within its own
territory that raises significant foreign relations concerns for
the  United States .”  An attorney for NML Capital wrote to Lagarde and members of
the IMF’s executive board on July 19 urging them not to
intervene in the lawsuit, according to a copy of a letter
obtained by  Bloomberg News .  “Any attempt by the IMF to support Argentina’s petition --
an attempt to undo previous court rulings in this litigation --
should be abandoned,” wrote Matthew McGill, an NML attorney at
Gibson Dunn & Crutcher LLP. “If the IMF abandons its long-standing legal duty of neutrality and supports  Argentina ’s
position in its long-running litigation against its creditors,
the consequences for both the Fund and the consensual system for
resolution of sovereign debt could be substantial.”  NML declined to comment in an e-mail.  Treasury Monitors  Last week, the Obama administration said it won’t file a
brief at this stage urging the Supreme Court to hear Argentina’s
appeal. The U.S. backed Argentina at the appeals court. The
Treasury said in yesterday’s statement it “will continue to
consider whether and when to participate in this litigation.”  That includes the possibility of sharing its view with the
justices if they invite the U.S. to do so, according to the
statement.  “Clearly this is a politically sensitive issue and the
politically conservative thing to do is not to file at this
time,” Anna Gelpern, a law professor at  Georgetown University 
in  Washington  and senior fellow at the Peterson Institute for
International Economics, said in a telephone interview.  U.S. Clout  “Unfortunately, this is another blatant reminder of how
the U.S. continues to dominate key decision-making at the IMF,”
said Deborah James, director of international programs at the
Center for Economic and Policy Research, a foundation- and
union-funded group in Washington. “The implications of this
case for restructuring in sovereign debt defaults is not to be
underestimated.”  Part of the case is still pending in the appeals court.
That aspect stems from U.S. District Judge Thomas Griesa’s order
that Argentina must pay defaulted bondholders the entire amount
they’re owed whenever the nation makes a required payment to
holders of the restructured debt.  Griesa also said his earlier order barring third parties
from helping Argentina avoid payment applies to Bank of  New York 
Mellon Corp., indenture trustee for the restructured bonds, and
others. The appeals court decision on Griesa’s orders may come
at any time.  “We understand that the IMF has serious concerns about the
impact of the ruling on its ability to meet some of its core
responsibilities,” the Treasury said. “The litigation,
however, remains pending in the court of appeals.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net ;
Katia Porzecanski in New York at 
 kporzecansk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  