-- Immofinanz Postpones Sale After Deals Faltered, CEO Says
-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 2013-07-24T16:10:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-24/immofinanz-postpones-sale-after-deals-faltered-ceo-says.html
Immofinanz AG (IIA)  postponed the sale of
its residential unit after investor demand for similar deals by
competitors failed to meet expectations, the Austrian
developer’s chief executive officer said.  Immofinanz won’t proceed with an initial public offering of
its Buwog unit this year after share sales by German residential
landlords  Deutsche Annington Immobilien SE (ANN)  and  Gagfah SA (GFJ) 
faltered, CEO Eduard Zehetner said in an interview today. The
Vienna-based company, which is trying to turn into a commercial-property landlord, had been targeting an IPO as early as
November in  Frankfurt .  “We learned from the flops at Annington and Gagfah that
the environment is apparently not one in which we can get this
done this year,” Zehetner said. “We don’t want to sell in an
environment like this and I don’t expect it to improve
dramatically until the end of the year.”  Immofinanz is sticking to its goal of selling Buwog and
will reconsider the plan in the first half of next year, said
Zehetner, 61. The CEO is seeking to list Buwog so Immofinanz can
focus solely on commercial properties to improve yields and
reduce debt.  Immofinanz dropped 0.5 percent to 3.06 euros in Vienna, the
lowest since July 5. The company has a market value of 3.5
billion euros ($4.6 billion), or about 55 percent of its net
asset value.  ‘Trigger Postponed’  “With the postponement of the IPO, a positive share price
trigger has been postponed too,” said Christine Reitsamer, a
Munich-based analyst at Baaderbank AG who recommends holding the
stock. “We expect the share price to be burdened by it for some
time. The Buwog IPO and the potential upside for shareholders
has been the most discussed part of the equity story over the
last months.”  Immofinanz has 10.5 billion euros of properties and
development projects in eastern  Europe ,  Austria  and  Germany .
About 30 percent of that is residential, mostly located in
Austria and Germany. Offices, stores and warehouses make up the
rest. Zehetner said he is still convinced that separating the
two parts of the company is more attractive for investors.  German Homes  Zehetner had planned to add about 10,000 German homes to
Buwog’s holdings before the IPO while selling Austrian
apartments to make the unit’s portfolio more like Deutsche
Annington’s and Gagfah’s. The CEO had expected to raise about
700 million euros from the sale of more than half of the unit.  In March, Zehetner put the likelihood of a deal this year
at more than 50 percent, saying Immofinanz might miss the right
occasion if it hesitated. Since then, Deutsche Annington had to
reduce the size of its IPO this month and banks managing a sale
of Gagfah shares had to pick up stakes in the company to make up
for a lack of buyers.  The share sales were affected when Federal Reserve Chairman
 Ben S. Bernanke ’s signaled that he may curb bond-buying this
year, according to Zehetner.  “Every investor who’s buying into alternatives to the
money market became cautious, and those are the people going
into assets like Annington or Gagfah,” he said.  Immofinanz may also consider alternatives to an IPO,
particularly spinning off Buwog to Immofinanz’s shareholders,
Zehetner said. The company would keep just under 50 percent of
Buwog in a spinoff, just as it would in an IPO, he said.  Issuers in Europe, the Middle East and Africa have raised
about $13 billion in IPOs this year, compared with about $5
billion in the same period in 2012, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  