-- Indian Banks Slump in Mumbai as RBI Tightens Access to Cash
-- B y   A n t o   A n t o n y
-- 2013-07-24T11:11:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-24/indian-banks-slump-in-mumbai-as-rbi-tightens-access-to-cash.html
Indian lenders slumped in Mumbai
trading after the Reserve Bank of  India  tightened access to cash
in an attempt to support the rupee, which fell to a record low
earlier this month.  State Bank of India , the nation’s largest, fell 3.2 percent
to 1,801.25 rupees after the central bank capped banks’ access
to funds under the liquidity adjustment facility to 0.5 percent
of their own net demand and time liabilities starting today. The
 S&P BSE Bankex index , a gauge of 13 local lenders, slid 4.6
percent.  “The measures announced yesterday have the impact of a
hike in reserve ratios,” said Jisha Nair, a Mumbai-based
banking analyst at BOB Capital Markets Ltd. said by phone.
“Lending margins will be under pressure as the lenders are not
in a position to pass on the higher cost of funds due to weak
credit growth.”  The central bank also raised the daily balance requirement
for the cash reserve ratio to 99 percent from 70 percent,
effective July 27 and separately announced an auction of cash
management bills totaling 60 billion rupees ($1 billion) on July
25.  ICICI Bank Ltd. (ICICIBC) , India’s second-largest lender, fell 3.8
percent to 951.8 rupees, while  Yes Bank Ltd. (YES) , the worst
performer on the Bankex index, plunged 12.6 percent to 383.35
rupees. Canara Bank Ltd. dropped 8.5 percent and Punjab National
Bank lost 4.5 percent.  “RBI’s measures to drain liquidity will be reversed as the
rupee stabilizes,” Rana Kapoor, chief executive officer at Yes
Bank Ltd. told reporters in Mumbai. “We expect that the
monetary policy easing will start again after September.”  The central bank on July 15 raised two interest rates,
capped its daily fund infusions through repo contracts and moved
to drain money from the economy through bond sales.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anto Antony in Mumbai at 
 aantony1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  