-- Indian Cabinet Said to Consider 10% Sale of Indian Oil Tomorrow
-- B y   A b h i j i t   R o y   C h o w d h u r y   a n d   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n
-- 2013-07-24T09:15:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-24/indian-cabinet-said-to-consider-10-sale-of-indian-oil-tomorrow.html
India’s cabinet will consider the
sale of 10 percent in  Indian Oil Corp. (IOCL) , the nation’s biggest
company, as it seeks to raise money to narrow a  budget deficit ,
said two officials familiar with the matter.  The Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs will discuss the
sale tomorrow, the people said, asking not to be identified as
they aren’t authorized to speak on the subject. The 10 percent
stake is worth 54.8 billion rupees ($927 million) as of
yesterday’s closing share price.  Finance Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram is seeking to
narrow the  fiscal deficit  to 4.8 percent of gross domestic
product in the year ending March 31, the lowest budget gap in
six years, by raising money from asset sales and reducing
subsidies on commodities such as fuels. The government plans to
collect 400 billion rupees from stake sales this financial year,
67 percent higher than what it received last year.  Indian Oil  shares  have declined 17 percent this year,
compared with a 3.3 percent gain in the benchmark  S&P BSE Sensex (SENSEX) 
index. The stock fell 1.1 percent to 223.30 rupees as of 2:04
p.m. in Mumbai trading.  Indian Oil and its state-run rivals  Bharat Petroleum Corp. (BPCL) 
and  Hindustan Petroleum Corp. (HPCL)  sell diesel, kerosene and cooking
gas below cost to curb inflation. They are partly compensated by
the government and by state-run oil producers including Oil &
Natural Gas Corp. that give them discounts on crude purchases.  The government in January allowed the state-run refiners to
raise prices of diesel, which accounts for more than 50 percent
of all oil products consumed in the country, by half a rupee
every month till the deficit on its sale is wiped out. Rates
have been increased at least six times since then.  The government  owns  79 percent of Indian Oil, while Oil &
 Natural Gas  has 8.8 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The refiner’s sales increased 3.1 percent to 4.5
trillion rupees in the year ended March 31, while profit rose 27
percent to 50.1 billion rupees.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Abhijit Roy Chowdhury in  New Delhi  at 
 achowdhury11@bloomberg.net ;
Bibhudatta Pradhan in New Delhi at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sam Nagarajan at 
 samnagarajan@bloomberg.net  