-- Industrial Alliance Targets C$500 Million Acquisition
-- B y   K a t i a   D m i t r i e v a
-- 2013-07-24T14:01:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-24/industrial-alliance-targets-c-500-million-acquisition.html
Industrial Alliance Insurance and
Financial Services Inc. , the best-performing Canadian insurer in
the past year, plans to acquire a money manager in what would be
the company’s biggest takeover.  Industrial Alliance is looking for an asset-management
purchase outside  Quebec  for as much as C$500 million ($485
million), surpassing the company’s C$200 million takeover of
Clarington Corp. in 2006.  “The half a billion mark is something that we will
consider,” Chief Executive Officer Yvon Charest said in a phone
interview. While finding the right fit might not be easy, “we
have been able to do that for mutual funds and we are confident
we can do the exact same for private-client management.”  The company’s strategy to bulk up its wealth-management
unit comes as foreign banks such as UBS AG exit the Canadian
market, selling assets to domestic insurance companies and
banks. An acquisition would help Industrial Alliance compete
with the country’s five biggest banks and three largest
insurers, Charest said.  Possible Canadian targets for Industrial Alliance include
Cardinal Capital Management Inc., a Winnipeg, Manitoba-based
firm that manages C$1.7 billion, said Michael Simpson, portfolio
manager at Sentry Investments Inc. in Toronto.  Fiercely Independent  Other money managers that may fit the bill based on
potential deal size are Calgary-based Mawer Investment
Management Ltd., a privately-owned company with C$17 billion in
assets, and Greystone Managed Investments Inc., a Regina-based
firm with C$33 billion in assets under management, Simpson said.  “It doesn’t surprise me that someone might look at us-- we
have a good reputation,” David Atkins, vice president of
investments at Cardinal, said in a phone interview yesterday.
“We’re always open to someone who wants to be a new partner,
have a minority interest, or buy the company outright. That’s
between the CEO and the partner.”  He declined to comment on whether the firm is in
discussions for a sale.  “We are fiercely independent and would not want to be
owned by a big bank, or an insurance company, or a big mutual
fund company,” Jamie Hyndman, director of strategic business
development at Mawer, said by telephone yesterday. “We’ve had
people approach us many times and we’ve flat-out said ‘no. No
interest.’”  Sector Consolidation  “We’re not looking to be acquired,” Greystone CEO Robert
Vanderhooft said in a phone interview yesterday. There will be
further consolidation in  Canada ’s  wealth management  industry, he
said.  “It’s a space that’s consolidating,” said Simpson at
Sentry, which manages C$10.5 billion including Industrial
Alliance shares. “In Canada there’s limited opportunity.
There’s a huge amount of risk because the market share taken by
the banks grows each year.”  Any acquisition would spur growth across the country,
Charest, 56, said from the company’s headquarters in  Quebec
City . The company, the second-largest non-bank broker in Canada
by assets under administration, currently has about 3 million
clients.  “We’d like to be increasingly present in Canada,” Charest
said. “We still see more potential outside of Quebec. You
should not underestimate the size of our operations in the
Western provinces.”  Capital flowing into Canadian retail mutual funds jumped
more than 80 percent in June over last year, according to a July
23 note to clients by Doug Young, an analyst at TD Securities.  Daily Flight  “Acquiring wealth management firms makes sense because of
the growth potential,”  Mario Mendonca , an analyst with
Canaccord Genuity, said in a phone interview July 22.  “ Life
insurance  is not a fast-growing industry. A lot of life
insurance products are capital intensive and most wealth
management products are not.”  Mendonca rates the stock a hold with a price target of
C$43. Three analysts rate the shares a buy, eight say it’s a
hold, and one gives it a sell rating, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. The 12-month target price is C$41.30 per share, as
forecast by 10 analysts, or 3 percent  less  than the closing
price yesterday.  “The first time we made an acquisition in the mutual fund
sector, people told us ’too little, too late’ and I will
remember that up until my retirement,” said Charest, who has
been with the company for more than three decades. “The end
goal is just to continue the daily fight with 11 other financial
institutions in Canada to grab as much business as possible.”  U.S. Deals  Industrial Alliance joins U.S. insurers purchasing fund
managers to increase fee income.  MetLife Inc. (MET) , the largest U.S.
life insurer, agreed to buy Chilean pension manager AFP Provida
SA in a $2 billion deal in February.  New York  Life Insurance Co.
took a stake in Cornerstone Capital Management Inc. to add about
$2.7 billion in assets in September 2012.  Wealth managers are also expanding, taking advantage of
operations that are slimming down to stay competitive.  Fiera
Capital Corp. (FSZ) , the Canadian money manager controlled by  National
Bank of Canada (NA) , bought Canadian fixed-income and equity assets
from a unit of UBS for C$52 million in December. Fiera also
bought the Canadian wealth-management arm of Societe Generale SA
and paid C$309 million for National Bank’s Natcan Investment
Management last year.  Stock Gains  Industrial Alliance, the  best-performing  insurance stock in
the past 12 months on the six-member Standard & Poor’s/TSX Life
and Health Insurance Index, more than  doubled  since July 25,
2012, when it hit C$20.74, the lowest since April 2009. The
stock closed at C$42.56 yesterday in Toronto, for a market value
of C$4.16 billion.  During the stock slump, investors were loathe to approve an
acquisition of any size, according to Behrak Shahriari, a
portfolio manager at Montrusco Bolton Investments Inc. who
oversees C$700 million.  Mergers are “back on the radar screen and investors would
now understand the company going out and buying something,” he
said in a phone interview from  Montreal  on July 22. “Investors
would not give them the leash to do that before because of stock
performance. Now they’re back in the game.”  The company, which reports second-quarter results Aug. 1,
is expected to earn 72 cents a share according to a survey of 11
analysts by Bloomberg.  Zero Risk  “With wealth management, you’re taking zero risk relative
to traditional life insurance products,” said Shahriari, who
owns Industrial Alliance stock.  The company has made 20 wealth acquisitions in the past
decade, Charest said. Industrial Alliance, which has more than
C$87.5 billion in assets under management and administration,
announced a deal on July 16 to buy  Jovian Capital Corp. (JOV)  for C$94
million. The deal gave the new owners, pending approval by
regulators, additional assets under management and
administration of about C$7 billion.  The company may need to raise money via debt or equity to
finance a larger acquisition, Simpson said. That may make
investors question whether the deal is worth it or if the
capital can be better spent to benefit shareholders, he said.  “At the end of the day the big question is: what kind of
distribution capabilities do you have?” Charest said. “If you
have an edge there you might win. If you don’t have anything, it
might be tough for you.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katia Dmitrieva in Toronto at 
 edmitrieva1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  