-- Investec Bank Loaned 240 Million Rand to Company in Liquidation
-- B y   R e n e e   B o n o r c h i s
-- 2013-07-24T16:06:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-24/investec-bank-loaned-240-million-rand-to-company-in-liquidation.html
Investec Plc (INVP) , the owner of a bank
and a  money manager  in  South Africa  and the U.K., said it loaned
about 240 million rand ($24.8 million) to Johannesburg-based
First Strut Ltd., which is in liquidation.  The loan is “fully secured on underlying collateral which
is predominantly property,” Ursula Nobrega, head of  investor
relations  at Investec in Johannesburg, said in an e-mailed
response to questions today.  Investec Asset Management, the company’s money management
arm, has invested client funds in First Strut bonds, said
Nobrega. Investec Asset Management declined to disclose details
of client exposure in separate e-mailed statement today.  First Strut, a manufacturer supplying the transport, mining
and power industries, was placed in provisional liquidation on
July 16, said John Louw, who was appointed business rescue
practitioner for the firm that employs more than 5,000 people.
That came after Jeff Wiggill, chairman of the company which also
trades as First Tech Group, was murdered last month.  Wiggill, 59 was found next to his car on Randfontein Road
in Soweto with bullet wounds to his head, the South African
Press Association reported June 20. His wallet and mobile phone
were missing and the motive for the killing was unknown, SAPA
said, citing police captain, Augustinah Selepe.  First Strut Chief Executive Officer Andris Bertulis was
unavailable for comment today, according to an e-mailed response
from Megan Bell at First Tech Group.  First Strut, which sold 450 million rand of senior secured
bonds in 2011, has 925 million rand of floating-rate notes
outstanding, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Global
Credit Ratings withdrew its coverage of First Strut bonds this
month, after initially rating them BBB.  Standard Bank Group Ltd. (SBK) , which was named in bond documents
on First Strut’s  website , can’t comment because of client
confidentiality agreements, said Ross Linstrom, a spokesman for
the Johannesburg-based lender.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Renee Bonorchis in Johannesburg  at 
 rbonorchis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  