-- IRS Code Revision Seen Undermined as U.S. Revenues Rise
-- B y   M a r c   H e l l e r
-- 2013-07-24T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-24/irs-code-revision-seen-undermined-as-u-s-revenues-rise.html
Tax reform could breathe life into
the economy -- if the recovery doesn’t kill  tax reform  first.  A strengthening rebound in the U.S. would accelerate gains
in employment and government tax collections, taking pressure
off Congress to use tax reform to generate more revenue for
 deficit reduction , Bloomberg BNA reported. At the same time,
backers of a tax-code rewrite have seized on its potential to
speed the recovery, and an early economic rejuvenation may
undermine their case.  “A grim economy and large deficits pushes lawmakers toward
tax reform, because the need is obvious,” said  Alex Brill , a
research fellow at the  American Enterprise Institute , a non-profit group that advocates free markets. “But, in that
situation there is added pressure for more revenue and that also
makes things more difficult. If the economy improves and the
near-term  deficit  outlook improves as well, then the reverse is
true: less pressure on raising taxes but less obvious need to
act at all.”  The link between the nation’s economic health and taxes
underlies the debate on revamping the code. Conditions in the
months ahead will determine not only the parameters but the very
prospects for overhaul, which the chairmen of House and Senate
tax-writing committees have vowed to pursue this year,
lobbyists, lawmakers and economists told BNA.  Already, the economy is showing signs of generating more
 tax revenue , even if the recovery is sluggish. Government tax
receipts have climbed 14 percent above the level a year ago and
are greater than initially predicted, Brill said.  Shrinking Deficit  This month, the Obama administration projected that the
federal  budget deficit  would drop to its lowest level in five
years, $759 billion, for the fiscal year ending Sept. 30 as the
economy strengthens and tax collections increase. That would put
the deficit at 4.7 percent of  gross domestic product .  Historically, deficits have averaged 3 percent -- a level
the  Congressional Budget Office  has predicted for 2016 -- Don
Longano, principal of the legislative and regulatory services
practice at PricewaterhouseCoopers, said in a July 11 webcast on
tax reform, sponsored by the firm.  “Things seem to be slipping into gear,” said Longano, who
added that the improving economy “takes a little pressure off
revenues” for tax reform.  Economists credit economic growth, as well as additional
revenue through the tax increase that Congress passed in January
as part of the deal to avoid the so-called fiscal cliff. The CBO
estimated in May that federal tax receipts would climb to $2.81
trillion in 2013 from $2.45 trillion in 2012, and to $3.78
trillion by 2017.  Slow Growth  While the economy is growing, it’s at a relatively sluggish
pace. Gross domestic product grew at a 1.8 percent annualized
rate from January through March, down from a prior reading of
2.4 percent, the Commerce Department reported last month, as an
increase in the U.S. payroll tax took a bigger bite out of
 consumer spending  than previously calculated.  Representative Charles Boustany, a Louisiana Republican and
member of the House Ways and Means Committee, said he’s still
not convinced the economy has picked up enough steam to change
the debate, especially given the GDP numbers.  Boustany and other senior Republicans on the committee are
pushing the idea that the key economic discussion is the effect
of revenue-neutral tax reform, which they say will boost growth
by lowering top tax rates to perhaps 25 percent on the corporate
and individual sides.  “We’re still concerned about the economy,” he said in an
interview. “We don’t think we’re out of the woods yet.”  Jobless Rate  The  jobless rate  has fallen to 7.6 percent, while payrolls
have increased an average of 201,830 jobs per month over the
past six months. U.S. employers expanded payrolls by 195,000 in
June for a second straight month, the Labor Department said July
5, capping 12 months of advances above 100,000 for the longest
such streak since May 2000.  Other economic indicators are improving as well. Corporate
manufacturing surveys released July 15-18 by two  Federal Reserve 
district banks were broadly positive, and the Federal Reserve on
July 8 reported higher-than-expected spending by consumers.  William McBride, chief economist at the  Tax Foundation ,
said that if the economic recovery quickens, that might push
aside the call for revenue from tax reform.  “I think it does make an agreement on tax reform more
likely, because it takes away the argument on revenue
neutrality,” said McBride, who added that he doesn’t expect a
strong U.S. recovery for at least two years.  Tax Revenue  Every increase in gross domestic product of 0.1 percent
generates about $300 billion in  tax revenue  over a decade, the
CBO reported in January 2012.  Even if GDP were to increase by 0.2 percent, the $600
billion in additional revenue over a decade hardly has a big
impact on the tax reform debate, according to  Donald Marron ,
director of economic initiatives at the nonpartisan  Tax Policy
Center .  Marron said he has not seen any numbers from the CBO or the
Obama administration suggesting a recovery strong enough to
generate the amount of revenue necessary to affect the debate on
revenue-neutral tax reform.  While an improving economy in the months ahead could help
generate revenue and perhaps save some  tax deductions , the
outlines of the debate aren’t likely to change, said
Representative Bill Pascrell Jr., a New Jersey Democrat on the
House Ways and Means Committee.  “You’re not going to see an absolute turnaround on any the
issues,” Pascrell said in an interview. “It’ll simply mean
that you will not have to do away with a deduction all the
way.”  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Cesca Antonelli at 
 fantonelli@bloomberg.net  