-- Mitsubishi UFJ Said to Seek Ayudhya Bank Stake for Thai Branch
-- B y   M o n a m i   Y u i ,   S h i g e r u   S a t o   a n d   J o y c e   K o h
-- 2013-07-24T05:57:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-24/mitsubishi-ufj-said-to-seek-ayudhya-bank-stake-for-thai-branch.html
Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc. (8306) 
is seeking to sell its Thai unit to Bank of Ayudhya Pcl in
return for about 8 percent of Thailand’s fifth-largest lender,
said three people with knowledge of the matter.  Bank of Ayudhya  would issue new shares to Mitsubishi UFJ,
helping the Japanese bank’s effort to build a controlling stake
in the lender, the people said, asking not to be identified as
the details are private. The proposed sale would value the
Mitsubishi UFJ  business  at about 18.2 billion baht ($588
million), based on Bank of Ayudhya’s market capitalization of
 227.8 billion baht .  Mitsubishi UFJ this month offered to buy as much as 75
percent of Bank of Ayudhya for $5.6 billion from shareholders
including  General Electric Co. (GE) , which agreed to sell its  25
percent (BAY)  stake to  Japan ’s largest lender. Mitsubishi UFJ is
seeking to purchase as much an additional 50 percent of Bank of
Ayudhya from other investors.  Selling the business would allow Mitsubishi UFJ to comply
with Thai rules that bar lenders from running more than one bank
in the country. When it announced the deal to buy Bank of
Ayudhya, Mitsubishi UFJ said it would hold talks with the Thai
lender about integrating the Bangkok branch.  A deal has not been finalized and the terms may change, two
people said. Kazunobu Takahara, a Tokyo-based spokesman for Bank
of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, declined to comment on details of the
branch sale. Bank of Ayudhya didn’t reply to an e-mailed request
for comment.  Mitsubishi UFJ’s Bangkok-based branch offers services
including commercial lending, issuing letters of credit and
deposit-taking, its website shows. The business, part of Bank of
Tokyo Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd., had 596 billion baht of assets as of
May, according to  Thailand ’s central bank.  The purchase of Bank of Ayudhya will give Mitsubishi UFJ a
bigger foothold to expand retail and corporate banking in
 Southeast Asia ’s second-biggest economy. The Ratanarak family
owns 25 percent of Bank of Ayudhya and Mitsubishi UFJ has no
plans to purchase that stake, two of the people said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Monami Yui in Tokyo at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net ;
Shigeru Sato in Tokyo at 
 ssato10@bloomberg.net ;
Joyce Koh in Singapore at 
 jkoh38@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net ;
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  