-- Jane Austen to Appear on Next 10-Pound U.K. Banknote
-- B y   F e r g a l   O ’ B r i e n
-- 2013-07-24T15:37:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-24/jane-austen-to-appear-on-new-10-pound-u-k-banknote.html
Jane Austen  will appear on the
U.K.’s next 10-pound note, ensuring at least one female
historical figure is represented on the currency in circulation.  The  Bank of England  plans to issue the new note with the
early 19th-century novelist in 2016 or 2017, which is the 200th
anniversary of her death. The central bank said today the note
will include a quote from her book “Pride and Prejudice” --“I
declare after all there is no enjoyment like reading!”  Austen’s appearance follows concerns that the U.K. would
have no female historical figures on the reverse of banknotes.
The BOE plans to replace Elizabeth Fry, a 19th-century social
reformer who features on the current five-pound note, with
former Prime Minister  Winston Churchill  starting in 2016. While
the queen appears on the front of the notes as the sovereign,
the back has included historical figures since 1970.  “Jane Austen certainly merits a place in the select group
of historical figures to appear on our banknotes,” BOE Governor
 Mark Carney  said in the statement. “She is recognized as one of
the greatest writers in English literature.” Her appearance
ensures that “our notes will celebrate a diverse range of
individuals who have contributed in a wide range of fields.”  In the statement, the BOE said the Austen note will be
issued “within a year of the Churchill five-pound note, which
is targeted for issue during 2016.” It noted concerns about
diversity and said “it was never the bank’s intention that none
of the four characters on our notes would be a woman.”  Carney said the BOE will review its selection process for
figures on notes and seek feedback from the public.  The Austen note will feature an illustration of Elizabeth
Bennet, the heroine of “Pride and Prejudice,” and a background
design based on Austen’s writing table.  Carney’s predecessor,  Mervyn King , had hinted at Austen’s
inclusion on a banknote last month, when he said she was a
“clear candidate.” She was a backup figure in case of any
problems with the Churchill design and was “quietly waiting in
the wings” to be on the next note, King said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fergal O’Brien in London at 
 fobrien@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Fergal O’Brien at 
 fobrien@bloomberg.net  