-- Japan Sustains Export Growth on Yen as EU Shipments Increase
-- B y   A l a n   W o n g   a n d   M a y u m i   O t s u m a
-- 2013-07-24T01:55:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-24/japan-sustains-export-growth-on-weak-yen-as-eu-shipments-recover.html
Japan’s  exports (JNTBEXPY)  rose for a fourth
straight month in June as a weak yen made the nation’s products
more competitive and shipments to the European Union rebounded.   Exports gained 7.4 percent from a year earlier, the  Finance
Ministry  said in  Tokyo  today. While the increase was the first
for June shipments since 2010, shipping lines slid after the
number missed the 10 percent median estimate of economists
surveyed by  Bloomberg News .  While the yen’s 22 percent decline against the dollar over
the past year is helping Prime Minister Shinzo Abe to build 
momentum for a sustained Japanese recovery, patchy global 
demand may cap the nation's trade gains. The government 
yesterday raised its assessment of Japan's economy for a third 
straight month, after an upper-house election victory that 
strengthens Abe’s hand for rolling out business deregulation.  “The effect of the yen’s weakness on exports is becoming
very clear,” said  Junko Nishioka , chief economist at Royal Bank
of Scotland Group Plc in Tokyo and a former  Bank of Japan 
official. “The outlook for the Japanese economy is improving
now and there are more factors to back up an optimistic view
than negative factors.”  Import Costs  Imports climbed 11.8 percent, leaving a trade deficit of
180.8 billion yen ($1.8 billion). The yen traded at 99.4 per
dollar as of 10:45 a.m. in Tokyo. While the yen’s decline aids
exports, it also pushes up the nation’s bill for imports,
including the extra energy needed because of nuclear plant
shutdowns.  Japan’s shipments to the EU climbed 8.6 percent from a year
earlier, the first gain in 21 months, after falling 21 percent
in the same month last year. Exports to the U.S. rose 14.6
percent, while those to China gained 4.8 percent.  “Given that the state of the  U.S. economy  influences
Japan’s growth far much more than those of China and Europe, we
can be optimistic about the Japanese economy’s outlook as long
as the U.S. stays in a good shape,” Nishioka said.  The Topix index fell 0.5 percent as of 10:51 a.m. in Tokyo
after a Chinese manufacturing index pointed to a deeper slowdown
in Asia’s biggest economy.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alan Wong in  Hong Kong  at 
 awong478@bloomberg.net ;
Mayumi Otsuma in Tokyo at 
 motsuma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  