-- Japan Seen Needing $50 Billion to Cushion Sales-Tax Rise
-- B y   J a m e s   M a y g e r   a n d   C y n t h i a   L i
-- 2013-07-25T03:21:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-24/japan-seen-needing-50-billion-package-to-cushion-sales-tax-rise.html
Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe,
now sitting on the biggest parliamentary majority in six years,
faces the threat of political dissent within months as a planned
 sales-tax  rise threatens to arrest an economic rebound.  The world’s third-largest economy has 30 percent odds of
tipping into the  fourth recession  since 2008 should Abe bump the
consumption levy to 8 percent in April from 5 percent, according
to the median of 23 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey. He’ll
need a 5 trillion yen ($50 billion) fiscal package to cushion
the impact of the increase, the survey showed.  Deteriorating growth would counter Abe’s promise to revive
 Japan  from two decades of economic malaise, which swept his
 Liberal Democratic Party  to power in December and won it a
majority in the Diet’s upper house this month. At the same time,
failing to implement the tax boost risks undermining confidence
in Japan’s pledges to rein in the world’s largest debt burden.  “The market would raise a question mark about Abenomics if
the economy fell into a recession after raising the sales tax,”
said  Yoshimasa Maruyama , chief economist at trading company
 Itochu Corp. (8001)  in  Tokyo . “Members of Abe’s ruling party will
request extra spending -- especially people who represent
sectors that will be badly affected by deregulation and the TPP
free-trade negotiation.”  The Topix index was down 1 percent in the morning session,
paring its gain since Abe took office to almost 43 percent. The
yen traded at 100.13 per dollar at 12:18 p.m. in Tokyo.  Internal Splits  Abe, 58, has already sown division in the ruling party with
promises of structural reforms that include joining the U.S.-led
Trans Pacific Partnership trade talks, which could open up
Japan’s agriculture to greater competition. Former Health
Minister Hidehisa Otsuji, who won a seat in the July 21 election
for the LDP, already put Abe on notice he’ll oppose TPP, the
Sankei newspaper reported this week.  The prime minister -- who has championed monetary and
fiscal stimulus, along with deregulation, as his three-pronged
strategy to end deflation and lift growth -- was bequeathed the
sales-tax increase. His predecessor as LDP chief negotiated with
the then-governing  Democratic Party  of Japan to pass legislation
for a two-stage boost to the levy, to 10 percent in 2015.  The legislation gave the government an opt out should the
economy not be judged strong enough. Toshifumi Suzuki, chairman
of Tokyo-based retailer  Seven & I Holdings Co. (3382) , said in a
statement this week that “if we misread the timing for raising
the sales tax, it would seriously affect  consumer spending  and
damage the economy, which has just started to improve.”  GDP Outlook  Gross domestic product rose  4.1 percent in the first
quarter  on an annualized basis. Finance Minister Taro Aso said
two days ago that the government will make its final call on
whether to proceed with the tax increase after the second
estimate of second-quarter GDP, which is scheduled for release
Sept. 9. The first calculation comes Aug. 12.  Aso told Japan’s Group of 20 partners on July 20 that his
nation will craft a credible fiscal plan before a G-20 meeting
in September. Japanese officials are trying to contain a
national debt that the International Monetary Fund  projects  will
reach 245 percent of the economy this year.  The government’s coalition partner, the New Komeito party,
has  called  for a lower  tax rate  on daily necessities to ease the
impact. Lawmakers also probably will debate relief for auto and
home purchases, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch.  “The weaker the readings on the state of the economy, the
more the LDP is likely to be amenable to the pleadings of the
Komeito and others,” Naoki Kamiyama, an equity strategist at
Bank of America Merrill Lynch in Tokyo, wrote in a July 22 note.
Individual stocks and sectors may be affected by any relief
measures that are approved, he wrote.  1997 Recession  Last time round, when Japan boosted the sales tax to 5
percent from 3 percent in 1997, the move contributed to pushing
the economy into a 20-month recession, costing then-Prime
Minister Ryutaro Hashimoto his job.  This time, GDP will contract an annualized 4.4 percent in
the April-to-June period, before returning to growth in the
third quarter of 2014, according to the median estimate of
economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News .  Some are pricing in an outright recession of two straight
quarters of decline -- among them Barclays Plc economists led by
Kyohei Morita in Tokyo.  There is a “risk that political stability will be
undermined if there is a setback in relation to the consumption
tax hike,” Barclays analysts wrote in a note this week. “Some
LDP lawmakers have already taken an explicitly cautious stance,
which could lead to internal splits.”  Agenda Distraction  Any tax debate poses a distraction for Abe from the
structural reforms he plans to begin unveiling in coming months,
legislation he has promised will enlarge business opportunities
that have been dulled by a declining population and falling
consumer prices.  Abe may decide to put off any corporate income-tax cut
until after the sales tax has been implemented in full in 2015,
Kamiyama said. The government may limit corporate measures to a
new tax break on  capital spending , according to a research
report this week by economists Hiromichi Shirakawa and Takashi
Shiono at Credit Suisse Group AG.  “Raising the sales tax is a problem that Abe must
overcome,” said Kamiyama. “There will be negative effects next
year but the government will use an extra budget to lessen its
impact.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Mayger in Tokyo at 
 jmayger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  