-- Jones Group Sale Seen as Best Hope for Holders: Real M&A
-- B y   B r o o k e   S u t h e r l a n d
-- 2013-07-24T20:24:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-24/jones-group-sale-seen-as-best-hope-for-holders-real-m-a.html
A sale of  Jones Group Inc. (JNY) , even in
pieces, is the best salvation for shareholders stuck with the
cheapest fashion stock in America.  Shares of Jones Group  climbed  16 percent this month after
reports that the owner of the Jones New York and Nine West
brands is weighing a sale of all or part of the company. Even
after the gains, New York-based Jones Group trades at a lower
valuation relative to net assets, sales and earnings than any
other similar-sized U.S. apparel maker or specialty retailer,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “I truly believe  Wall Street  does not give it the proper
valuation,” Marc Ravitz, executive vice president at New York-based Grace & White Inc., which owns Jones Group shares, said in
a phone interview. “If that can be achieved by either a partial
sale or a complete sale, I think shareholders would benefit.”  Selling businesses such as sportswear would help improve
 profitability , according to Citigroup Inc. The $1.3 billion
company may interest other retailers with brands such as Rachel
Roy and Stuart Weitzman, while private-equity firms could be
lured by the chance to cut costs and divest units, said Ravitz.
Financial buyers would be more likely to bid for the entire
company, which should be valued at as much as a 45 percent
premium, said Royce & Associates LLC.  Jones Group hired Citigroup to evaluate options including a
sale, people with knowledge of the matter said this month. The
retailer is willing to talk to bidders interested in the entire
company or pieces, said the people, who asked not to be named
because the process is confidential.  A representative for Jones Group declined to comment.  Deal Catalyst  The seller of Brian Atwood  thigh-high boots  and Easy Spirit
sneakers is languishing at a cheaper multiple relative to
earnings,  book value  and revenue than any U.S. apparel,
footwear, accessories or specialty retailer valued at more than
$1 billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The median price-earnings ratio for the group is almost 19,
compared with about 12 at Jones Group, whose preliminary
quarterly results missed analysts’  earnings  estimates for the
period ended April 6.  “The weak earnings performance and multiple discount
provide a catalyst to explore strategic alternatives,” Peter Dalena, a credit analyst at Citigroup, wrote in a July 10 note
to clients. “A sale of some businesses makes the most sense.”  Scaling Back  The company is already closing 170 stores and trimming its
workforce to improve results. Jones Group would create a
“cleaner business model” and boost its valuation by further
scaling back or disposing of its weak-margin retail business and
shedding brands from the declining U.S. sportswear division,
Dalena wrote.  Jones group also could divest  Anne Klein , a seller of
women’s business suits and dresses, said Ravitz of Grace &
White, which oversees more than $800 million.  “Anne Klein to me seems incredibly underutilized,” he
said. “There could be tremendous growth potential for Anne
Klein and it’s not being exploited.”  A sale of the entire company offers another route to boost
shareholder returns, Ravitz said, estimating that Jones Group’s
value in a takeover should be “significantly higher” than the
current stock price, which was $15.86 as of yesterday.  Today, the shares rose 1.8 percent to $16.14.  While Jones Group’s brands would fit well within other
retailers, the company also could lure interest from private-equity firms seeking to  split up  the retailer and profit from
asset sales, according to Ravitz.  Margin Improvement  Financial buyers would also be lured by the chance to
improve Jones Group’s margins and increase free  cash flow ,
according to shareholder Calvert Investments Inc.  “Jones is an attractive buyout candidate,” Steven Soranno, a Bethesda, Maryland-based analyst at Calvert, which
oversees more than $12 billion, said in a phone interview. “It
has a strong brand portfolio. It can have some cash flow
leverage.”  Jones Group’s trailing 12-month  operating margin  of 3.1
percent is lower than 91 percent of U.S. peers, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The company had $36 million in free
 cash flow  last year.  Private-equity firms are more likely to purchase all of
Jones Group, while a rival clothing seller would probably favor
buying only a part of the company, according to Boniface “Buzz” Zaino, a  fund manager  at New York-based Royce, which
oversees about $36 billion, including Jones Group shares.  Investors are likely to demand $22 to $23 a share in a
takeover, he said. The stock last traded above $20 in 2010.  Value Question  David Glick, an analyst at New York-based Buckingham
Research Group, wrote in a July 9 note to clients that a sale of
the entire company is unlikely in part because buyers wouldn’t
achieve sufficient returns. At the same time, selling off  brands 
probably won’t create value for shareholders, he wrote.  Given Jones Group’s earnings struggles and faltering
performance at some of its brands, the company may need to weigh
a sale of all or part of itself, according to Royce’s Zaino.  “Management has been under a lot of pressure,” he said.
“There’s a point in time when you turn it over to someone
else.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brooke Sutherland in  New York  at 
 bsutherland7@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net  