-- Kerry Plans Talks in New York With Syrian Opposition
-- B y   T e r r y   A t l a s
-- 2013-07-24T20:24:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-24/kerry-plans-talks-in-new-york-with-syrian-opposition.html
U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry
plans to meet tomorrow in New York with leaders of the Syrian
opposition, according to State Department spokeswoman Jen Psaki.  The group, headed by the new president of the Syrian
National Coalition, Ahmad al-Jarba, is scheduled to hold
informal discussions on July 26 with diplomats representing
United Nations Security Council members.  Kerry is due at the UN tomorrow to preside over Security
Council discussions about peace efforts in eastern Congo.  While in New York, Kerry is scheduled to meet with the
Syrians to convey the U.S. commitment to helping strengthen the
opposition and to discuss “not only the situation on the ground
but the path forward toward a political solution.” Psaki told
reporters at the State Department today.  Al-Jarba’s delegation includes Syrian dissident Michel
Kilo, a Christian who spent six years in jail for opposing the
regime; Burhan Ghalioun, the former leader of the opposition
Syrian National Council; and Najib Ghadbian, the Syrian
Coalition’s special representative to the UN, according to a
statement from the Syrian Coalition’s UN Office.  Jarba is a Sunni Muslim who was imprisoned during the 1990s
for his opposition to then-President Hafez al-Assad, the father
of current President Bashar al-Assad. He was arrested again in
March 2011, at the start of the current uprising, according to
information from the National Coalition.  The informal meeting with Security Council members “is
expected to focus on the dire humanitarian circumstances in
 Syria  and the region, and the urgent need for international
action to bring an end to the conflict and support Syria’s
democratic transition,” according to the statement.  Kerry discussed efforts to convene Syrian peace talks
during a phone call today with Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov, Psaki said. They plan to talk about Syria further within
a few days, she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terry Atlas in Washington at 
 tatlas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  