-- Kingfisher Second-Quarter Sales Rebound as Weather Warms Up
-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 2013-07-24T07:24:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-24/kingfisher-says-second-quarter-sales-rebound-on-warmer-weather.html
Kingfisher Plc (KGF) ,  Europe ’s largest
home-improvement retailer, said sales rebounded in the second
quarter as warmer weather stoked demand for garden furniture,
hoses and barbecues.  Sales at stores open at least a year rose 2.5 percent in
the 10 weeks ended July 13, the London-based company said today
in a statement, following the prior quarter’s 4.2 percent drop.
Same-store revenue gained in both the U.K. and France, where the
retailer owns the market leading B&Q and Castorama chains.  Britain’s longest heat wave in 18 years provided a boost to
business at the retailer, whose first-quarter sales had been
affected by a period of unseasonably cool weather that deterred
shoppers from outdoor projects. Kingfisher said today that
first-half  earnings  should meet its expectations.  “While this beat is encouraging, it shows more the
volatility driven by weather, soft comparisons and calendar
effects, rather than clear evidence of an improvement in
underlying demand,”  Simon Irwin , an analyst at Credit Suisse in
 London , said by e-mail. He has an outperform recommendation.  Kingfisher was little changed at 384.5 pence at 8:08 a.m.
The  shares  have risen 35 percent this year.  “Following a tough first quarter, I am pleased to report
that we have been able to capitalize on the better weather
conditions in the second quarter, particularly in the U.K.,”
Chief Executive Officer Ian Cheshire said in the statement.  Same-store revenue gained 2.5 percent in the U.K. and
Ireland, missing the median of 13 analysts’ estimates for 3
percent growth. Sales on that basis gained 1.2 percent at
Castorama, and by 1 percent at the Brico Depot trade format in
 France , beating analyst estimates of declines for both.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Shannon in London at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  