-- Kiwi Golden Cross Signals Rally to Defy Wheeler: Market Reversal
-- B y   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a   a n d   H i r o k o   K o m i y a
-- 2013-07-24T13:11:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-24/kiwi-golden-cross-signals-rally-to-defy-wheeler-market-reversal.html
New Zealand’s dollar is poised to
extend a rebound from its worst quarter in almost two years as
trading patterns signal that investors are defying a central
bank rooting for a weak currency.  The five-day moving average of the so-called kiwi against
the U.S. dollar rose above the 25-day measure last week, forming
a golden cross pattern that’s a bullish indicator, according to
Gaitame.com Research Institute Ltd. Since sliding 7.6 percent
from April through June, New Zealand’s currency has rallied to a
one-month high of 80.13 U.S. cents, surpassing a key Fibonacci
level that typically precedes further gains.  The Reserve Bank of New Zealand meets today as the kiwi
starts to reverse losses that Governor Graeme Wheeler bought
with currency-market intervention aimed at fostering an export-led recovery. While the central bank has been reluctant to raise
its key interest rate from a record-low in case it strengthens
the currency, swaps prices are signaling that by next year the
nation will have the developed world’s highest borrowing costs.  “The five-day and the 25-day moving averages have crossed,
and both of them are pointing up,” said Takuya Kawabata, an
analyst in Tokyo at Gaitame.com, a unit of  Japan ’s largest
currency-margin company. “The fundamentals for the kiwi dollar
are also looking positive. While the RBNZ is expected to keep
rates unchanged this year, many are expecting them to hike in
the early part of next year.”  Prompting Rally  When the New Zealand dollar’s five- and 25-day moving
averages last formed a golden cross on March 25, the currency
went on to rally 4 percent in less than three weeks to a 20-month high of 86.76 U.S. cents on April 11.  This month’s gains pushed the kiwi above what’s known as
the 23.6 percent Fibonacci retracement level from the April peak
to a one-year low of 76.84 U.S. cents on June 24, data compiled
by Bloomberg show.  The kiwi may rise toward the June 14 high of 81.37 U.S.
cents “in the near term,” Kawabata said. Should it break above
that level it may approach 81.80, the 50 percent Fibonacci
retracement level, he said.  Fibonacci analysis, based on the work of 13th century
mathematician Leonardo of Pisa, is founded on the theory that
prices rise or fall by certain percentages after reaching a new
high or low.  New Zealand’s dollar was at 79.59 U.S. cents at 2:08 p.m.
in  London , after snapping three days of gains. It closed above
its 50-day moving average on July 22 for the first time since
May 8, another bullish sign.  Wheeler Intervenes  Wheeler said on May 8 that he was intervening to weaken the
New Zealand dollar, exacerbating the second quarter’s biggest
plunge since the three months ended Sept. 30, 2011.  The  trade-weighted  kiwi has declined more than 5 percent
since reaching a record in April. The central bank sold a net
NZ$256 million ($204 million) that month.  In a May 30 speech, Wheeler said he was prepared to step up
his efforts. The central bank bought a net NZ$90 million in May,
according to RBNZ data published last month.  The New Zealand dollar was the second-worst performer among
10 developed-nation currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indices in the past three months, tumbling 5.7
percent. The Australian dollar lost the most, with a 10.5
percent slide.  The kiwi is overvalued and the central bank’s limited
ability to weaken it by currency intervention is like having a
“peashooter in a war zone,” New Zealand Finance Minister Bill English said in an interview with Bloomberg Television’s
Francine Lacqua and Guy Johnson on June 25.  Double Bottom  The kiwi has formed a double-bottom pattern with its lows
of 76.84 U.S. cents on June 24 and 76.88 on July 5, creating a
base for it to gain further, said Gaitame.com’s Kawabata.  Swaps data compiled by Bloomberg show that traders see a
more than 50 percent chance that the RBNZ will increase its
benchmark  interest rate  from 2.5 percent by March. That could
push it above  Australia ’s 2.75 percent key rate and make it the
highest among a group of 12 developed economies.  New Zealand’s central bankers will hold borrowing costs
unchanged at their policy meeting today, according to all 11
analysts in a Bloomberg survey.  “You still got attractive yields on offer in New
Zealand,” said Peter Dragicevich, a Sydney-based currency
economist at Commonwealth Bank of Australia, the nation’s
largest lender. “You’ve still got the RBNZ as one of the only
Group of 10-currency central banks with a tightening bias.
That’s quite supportive for the currency.”  Relative Strength  The kiwi’s 14-day relative strength index against the U.S.
dollar was at 56, after falling to 29 in May, below the 30
threshold that traders take as a sign that a currency has fallen
too far, too fast.  “The New Zealand dollar RSI is moving toward the top of
its band, but still not anywhere near overbought,” said Sam Tuck, a senior foreign-exchange manager at ANZ Bank New Zealand
Ltd. in Auckland. “The kiwi is bumping against the
psychological pivot number around 80” U.S. cents, and “should
that level give away, then the next level of interest would be
around 80.80 to 81.20, which are longer-term pivot over the last
couple of years, he said.  Traders are paying the smallest premium in almost three
months for options granting the right to buy the U.S. dollar
against the kiwi compared with those giving the right to sell.
The New Zealand dollar’s three-month risk reversal rate was at
minus 2 percent, about the least negative level since May and up
from a one-year low of minus 3.28 percent on June 24, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  “We could see some rebuilding of New Zealand dollar long
positions as people seek to find yields,” said ANZ’s Tuck. “We
would expect the Reserve Bank to continue in its long-held and
long-stated belief that the New Zealand dollar is overvalued.
That might temper somewhat the move up in the kiwi dollar, but I
wouldn’t imagine that to have much of a long-term impact.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariko Ishikawa in  Tokyo  at 
 mishikawa9@bloomberg.net ;
Hiroko Komiya in Tokyo at 
 hkomiya1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  