-- U.S. Stocks, Treasuries Rise Amid Speculation Over Fed
-- B y   K a t i e   B r e n n a n   a n d   J e f f   S u t h e r l a n d
-- 2013-07-25T20:53:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-24/kiwi-jumps-on-key-rate-outlook-after-u-s-stocks-decline.html
U.S. stocks rose and Treasuries
reversed earlier declines amid speculation over when the  Federal
Reserve  may reduce its stimulus measures. The dollar fell while
gold advanced.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.3 percent at 4 p.m.
in  New York , erasing an earlier drop of as much as 0.4 percent.
The yield on 10-year Treasury notes slipped 1 basis point to
2.58 percent. The Stoxx  Europe  600 Index slumped 0.5 percent
amid disappointing earnings after reaching an almost eight-week
high yesterday. The dollar fell, while the yen climbed versus
most of its 16 most-traded peers. Gold gained for the first time
in three days.  Facebook Inc. posted revenue and profit that beat analysts’
estimates while BASF SE, the world’s biggest chemical maker,
reported earnings that missed forecasts. Newmont Mining Corp.
and Amazon.com Inc. are among companies reporting earnings
today. U.S.  durable goods  orders increased more than forecast in
June, according to Commerce Department data, while jobless
claims rose in the latest week.  “It seems like market participants on a day-to-day basis
want to trade more on the prospect of what that means for the
Fed’s tapering plan,” Jeff Layman, chief investment officer of
BKD Wealth Advisors in Springfield, Missouri, said in a phone
interview. His firm has $2.3 billion under management. “I’d
much rather see the market supported by a positive underlying
economic trend and real activity, rather than supported by the
hope that the Fed will continue to artificially suppress the
rate.”  The  S&P 500 (SPX)  declined the most in a month yesterday, after
climbing to within 3 points of 1,700 for a third straight day,
as housing and manufacturing data fueled speculation the Fed may
reduce its asset-buying this year and investors weighed earnings
reports. Support from central banks and better-than-estimated
earnings have driven the S&P 500 up as much as 151 percent from
its March 2009 low to record highs.  Fed Stimulus  Treasuries erased a decline and equities rose after a Wall
Street Journal article suggested the Fed will reassure investors
that policy makers won’t be quick to raise interest rates at
next week’s meeting of The  Federal Open Market Committee .  The Fed will start trimming purchases in September,
according to a Bloomberg survey of economists. Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said last week it is “way too early to make any
judgment” as to whether policy makers will start tapering
purchases in September. The central bank has said economic data
will determine the timing and pace of any reduction in its $85
billion in monthly bond-buying.  Economy, Earnings  Data today showed bookings for goods meant to last at least
three years rose 4.2 percent, three times the median forecast of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Another report showed claims
for jobless benefits rose by 7,000 to 343,000 in the period
ended July 20. The retooling at carmakers and school
closings typical during this time of year continued to influence
the figures last week, a government spokesman said.  Facebook rallied 30 percent after the world’s most popular
social-networking service posted second-quarter revenue and
profit that beat analysts’ estimates. Visa Inc. advanced 4.2
percent to a record as profit topped forecasts. Homebuilders
sank 4.8 percent as a group after PulteGroup Inc. and D.R.
Horton Inc. reported lower-than-forecast orders.  Of the 244 companies in the  S&P 500  that have posted
 quarterly results  so far, 73 percent have exceeded analysts’
profit  estimates  and 57 percent have topped sales projections,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  ‘Moved Faster’  “Valuations have moved faster than the underlying
earnings,” Kevin Caron, a  Florham Park , New Jersey-based market
strategist at Stifel Nicolaus & Co., which oversees about $130
billion, said by telephone. “You’ve had a willingness by
investors to take on more risk without compensatory more
earnings. In the long run in order to sustain higher prices, you
need higher earnings.”  Equity valuations have climbed 16 percent this year, with
the S&P 500 trading at  16.3 times  reported earnings, close to
the highest level since May 2010, data compiled by Bloomberg
show.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index slipped 0.5 percent. The volume
of shares changing hands in Stoxx 600 companies was 18 percent
less than the 30-day average, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  BASF lost 4.5 percent as it said meeting its targets looked
difficult, while Orange SA,  France ’s former phone monopoly,
dropped 3.2 percent after posting an 8.5 percent drop in
earnings. Michelin & Cie., Europe’s largest tiremaker, sank 1.4
percent after reporting a 13 percent decline in first-half
profit.  Roche Holding AG  advanced 0.6 percent as the maker of
cancer drugs reported earnings that exceeded estimates.  Treasury Auction  The yield on 10-year Treasuries fell 1 basis point to 2.58
percent. Yields touched the highest level in more than a week
earlier as the data on durable goods bolstered bets the economy
is strong enough for the Fed to start trimming bond purchases. A
U.S. auction of $29 billion in seven-year notes were sold at a
what’s known as a high yield of 2.026 percent, the most since
July 2011.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index fell for a second day,
slipping 0.4 percent. The Shanghai Composite Index lost 0.6
percent,  Russia ’s Micex Index slid 0.5 percent and  India ’s
Sensex declined 1.4 percent. Turkish stocks dropped for a sixth
day, the longest losing streak in seven weeks, retreating 0.2
percent.  Kiwi Climbs  The dollar fell versus most major counterparts on
speculation the Fed will reassure investors on  interest rates .
The Japanese yen strengthened for the first time in three days
against the euro, rising 0.5 percent, and increased 1.1 percent
to 99.21 per dollar. The euro advanced 0.6 percent to $1.3279.  New Zealand ’s dollar climbed at least 0.8 percent against
all 16 of its major counterparts. Reserve Bank Governor Graeme
Wheeler said a removal of monetary easing “will likely be
needed in the future.” The kiwi gained 1.9 percent to 80.78
U.S. cents.  The pound increased 0.5 percent to $1.5388 as a report
showed Britain’s economy grew 0.6 percent in the second quarter,
with all main industries showing expansion for the first time in
three years.  German bund yields rose three basis points to 1.67 percent.
Data showed German business confidence rose for a third month in
July. The Ifo institute’s business climate index, based on a
survey of 7,000 executives, increased to 106.2 from 105.9 in
June. Economists predicted an increase to 106.1, according to
the median of 45 forecasts in a Bloomberg News survey.  Europe Bonds  The cost of insuring against losses on corporate bonds
rose, with the Markit iTraxx Europe Index of credit-default
swaps on 125 investment-grade companies increasing 3.2 basis
points to 103.31 basis points.  The average yield investors demand to hold speculative-grade corporate bonds in euros fell to 4.75 percent yesterday,
the lowest since June 4. The rate for investment-grade
securities rose 5 basis points to 2.03 percent, the highest
since July 5, Bloomberg index data show.  Gold futures for December delivery rose 0.7 percent to
settle at $1,329.50 an ounce on the Comex in New York. Oil
settled higher after fluctuating during the trading day. Crude
futures for September delivery gained 10 cents to $105.49 a
barrel, after sliding as much as 1.2 percent earlier.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Katie Brennan in New York at 
 kbrennan23@bloomberg.net ;
 Jeff Sutherland  in New York at 
 jsutherlan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  