-- Kuwait Prepares Election as Opposition Boycott Threatens Turnout
-- B y   F i o n a   M a c D o n a l d
-- 2013-07-24T20:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-24/kuwait-prepares-election-as-opposition-boycott-threatens-turnout.html
Kuwait  is set to hold parliamentary
elections for the third time in 18 months, as a boycott by the
opposition movement undermines public interest in the campaign.  The vote on July 27 will go ahead after the country’s
constitutional court this week rejected an attempt to postpone
it. Kuwait’s opposition won the first of last year’s two
elections in February, then refused to take part in the second
in December, objecting to changes in voting rules that sparked
the country’s most violent street protests.  The movement, a mix of Sunni Islamists, liberals and youth
groups inspired by the Arab Spring uprisings, has called for
Kuwait’s rulers to share more powers with elected politicians.
It says changes to voting rules ordered last year by Emir Sheikh Sabah Al-Ahmed Al-Sabah were aimed at reducing its chances of
winning and making it easier for candidates to buy votes. The
emir said they would bolster the democratic process and
safeguard unity in Kuwait, OPEC’s third-biggest oil producer.  “This is an election without any soul,” Shafeeq Ghabra, a
political science professor at Kuwait University, said by phone.
“People have lost interest in overall results and mechanisms,
and are realizing that not much will come of it.” The result
will be “a fragmented set of individuals with no coherent
political program.”  The election was ordered by the  Constitutional Court  last
month, when it dissolved the assembly and upheld the emir’s
decree on voting procedures. About 440,000 Kuwaitis are eligible
to elect 50 lawmakers. In December, the boycott led to a turnout
of 40 percent, down from as much as 90 percent in 1981.  No Stability  Kuwait’s ruling family appoints cabinets, which must
contain at least one elected lawmaker, and retains the foreign,
defense and interior ministries for its own members. Political
disputes have led to repeated dissolutions of parliament and 11
governments since 2006, and slowed the country’s $110 billion
development plan to diversify its oil-reliant economy.  Kuwait’s gross domestic product is forecast to grow 2.8
percent this year, according to a Bloomberg survey. That
compares with 4.2 percent in  Saudi Arabia  and 3.4 percent in the
 United Arab Emirates .  “We won’t have stability as long as the formation of the
government stays as it is, and as long as ministers aren’t
accepted by the majority or elected by them,” said Ayed Al-Manna, a political analyst at Kuwait’s Public Authority for
Applied Education.  Some candidates have cited concern that the Muslim fasting
month of Ramadan, and summer temperatures of 50 degrees Celsius
(122 degrees Fahrenheit), are undermining voter engagement.  “The heat is terrible, and the repetition of so many
elections makes people bored,” Ghabra said. “It just looks
like we’re in a vacuum.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fiona MacDonald in Kuwait at 
 fmacdonald4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  