-- N.J.’s Dream Mall Loses Christie’s Belief in 2014 Opening
-- B y   E l i s e   Y o u n g
-- 2013-07-24T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-24/n-j-s-dream-mall-loses-christie-s-belief-in-2014-opening.html
Less than seven months before the
 National Football League ’s 2014  Super Bowl  comes to  New Jersey ,
the American Dream Meadowlands entertainment and shopping center
should be preparing for an onslaught of visitors to the region.  Instead, wire fence and weeds surround the unfinished
project, whose facade of multicolored rectangles fronting the
turnpike was once called the “the ugliest damn building in New
Jersey, and maybe America,” by Governor  Chris Christie . Holdups
over financing, property control, lawsuits and labor contracts
have stalled the $3.7 billion, decade-old project.  Plans for the mega-mall about 10 miles west of  Manhattan 
near the Meadowlands Sports Complex include the nation’s first
indoor ski slope and a theme park. Christie, who approved state
grants for the project, had expected it to open before the Super
Bowl, which organizers say may pump $550 million into the area’s
economy. Now he says his hands are tied as the developer and the
NFL’s  New York  Jets and Giants argue in court over traffic.  “I personally can’t do anything more than what’s already
been done,” Christie told reporters on July 17. “We’re within
a window now where I think it would be very difficult to have
anything significant open in time for the Super Bowl.”  Christie, 50, is the fourth governor to deal with the
project that is on its second name and its third developer.
Formerly known as Xanadu, the mall in the shadow of MetLife
Stadium, the Izod Center and the Meadowlands Racetrack in  East
Rutherford  has been plagued by delays and financing difficulties
since Mills Corp. was picked to help build it in 2003.  Repeated Setbacks  Mills, now a unit of Indianapolis-based  Simon Property
Group Inc. (SPG) , ran out of money and Thomas J. Barrack Jr.’s  Santa
Monica , California-based Colony Capital LLC took over in 2006.
Construction foundered again after a Colony backer, Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc., entered bankruptcy in 2008. A group of
five lenders assumed control of the development in August 2010.  Triple Five Group , an Edmonton, Alberta-based developer,
agreed with Christie in December 2010 to take over the project.
It planned to invest $1.76 billion, after $1.9 billion was spent
by previous companies, to create a 7.5 million-square-foot
(697,000-square-meter) retail goliath that would be the world’s
largest mall. After objections from the Jets and Giants, the
project’s size has been cut back to 2.8 million square-feet.  Amusements Added  Triple Five, owned by  Edmonton ’s Ghermezian family,
scrapped the Xanadu name and veered from the retail-heavy plan,
adopting the entertainment component from two of its properties,
the Mall of America in  Minnesota  and the West Edmonton Mall. In
May 2011, it projected American Dream would open in 2013 and
would attract 55 million visitors a year. Since then, the
company has scaled back its forecast to 40 million visitors.  Its plan called for attractions including a skydiving
simulator, an ice-skating rink and domed-over water park, along
with 250 shops and 70 restaurants. In May, it received
permission from the New Jersey Sports and Exposition Authority,
which owns and controls the site’s land, to add a glass-enclosed
theme park inspired by  DreamWorks Animation SKG Inc. (DWA)  movies.  The mall site is near MetLife, an 82,500-seat, open-air
stadium that opened in 2010. The New York Football Giants Inc.
and New York Jets LLC sued Triple Five and the sports authority
on May 30, saying the mall “will clog the complex’s already
congested transportation networks.” Triple Five, as Ameream LLC
and Ameream Developer LLC, countersued, accusing the teams of
obstructing the development.  Financing Woes  The company, meanwhile, continues to negotiate with lenders
that still hold the reins on the project. Alan Marcus, a Triple
Five spokesman, said it plans to resume construction next month.  More than a third of the $1.76 billion in financing would
be in the form of incentives and tax-free borrowing, pending
approvals from state and local governments.  Key to the financing is the Bergen County Improvement
Authority, which hasn’t seen revenue projections and tax
valuations for its biggest-ever deal. Triple Five is urging the
authority to be the conduit issuer of $600 million in bonds tied
to a state development grant and payments in lieu of taxes.  “We really can’t even explain anything to our
commissioners because we haven’t received anything,” Robert
Garrison, the authority’s executive director, said on July 18.  Marcus said Triple Five is working on state approval for
the bonds, and declined to release any revenue projections. The
developer, he said, is looking for “the right-priced money.”  Without a tax-exempt municipal-bond commitment, “we would
not be able to complete, in private markets, the  capital
structure  necessary to complete the project’s financing,” Tony
Armlin, a Triple Five vice president, said at an authority
meeting on Feb. 21.  Joel Brizzi, a councilman of 18 years in East Rutherford, a
borough that’s reviewing its financing role, said he remains
optimistic the project will be finished. If construction begins
next month, Brizzi said by telephone July 18, “you go down with
a weed wacker and spray, and you throw mulch down and next thing
you know, it looks pretty.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elise Young in Trenton at 
 eyoung30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  