-- N.Y. MTA Cuts Deficit Forecast on Rising Real-Estate Tax Revenue
-- B y   E s m é   E .   D e p r e z
-- 2013-07-24T18:52:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-24/n-y-mta-cuts-deficit-forecast-on-rising-real-estate-tax-revenue.html
New York’s  Metropolitan
Transportation Authority , plagued by budget deficits for years,
boosted its surplus forecast this year and lowered estimates for
future gaps due in part to rising real-estate tax revenue.  The biggest U.S. transit system will end 2013 with a cash
balance of $141 million, up from the $48 million projected in
February, according to budget documents presented to the MTA
board today in  Manhattan . The MTA faces $240 million in deficits
next year through 2016, down from the prior estimate of $325
million. Riders will gain $18 million in service restorations
and additions, including to the G and M subway lines.  “It is a favorable plan,” Chief Financial Officer Robert Foran told reporters after addressing the board. “We’re able to
add service, I think we’re addressing those out-year deficits
and I think we’re doing those things that we pledged to do,
which is trying to address these long-term costs and also
preparing for the next capital program.”  The agency has been battling the growth of what it calls
uncontrollable costs, which include retiree pensions, employee
health care and debt service. Those expenses are projected to
rise about 6 percent annually through 2017. By contrast,
controllable costs, such as salaries, wages and materials like
toilet paper are expected to rise 1.6 percent, in line with
inflation.  Real Estate  Officials embarked on an aggressive cost-cutting plan
beginning in 2010 and pared $700 million from the operating
budget last year, Foran said. Those savings are set to increase
by $1.3 billion by 2017.  Rising tax revenue from real estate transactions in  New
York City , of which the MTA receives a portion, drove the
improvement over the previous estimate in February, transit
officials said. This year, the agency is slated to receive $871
million, according to budget documents. That’s up from $379
million in 2009, though still less than the $1.6 billion it got
in 2007, prior to the recession, Foran said.  The agency considers such revenue as nonrecurring because
it fluctuates with the economy, Foran said. Instead of boosting
service by more than $18 million, officials put money toward
some of the agency’s long-term liabilities, including an $80
million contribution to the  pension plan  for Long Island Rail
Road retirees, which is underfunded by $1.2 billion.  ‘Prudent, Sensible’  “Adding service means we’re adding ongoing expenses and
the funding must be sustainable,” Foran told the board. “The
worst thing we could possibly do is have to add service and then
take it back.”  Allen Cappelli, a board member from  Staten Island , called
the $13.7 billion budget for next year a “prudent, sensible
plan” that continued the efforts begun in 2012 to restore $93
million in services cut in 2010.  Higher toll revenue from the MTA’s bridges and tunnels,
reduced debt service and energy costs worked in the agency’s
favor, Foran said. Issues working against the MTA included lower
fare revenue and increased insurance premiums following
 Hurricane Sandy , which hit the region in October and destroyed
transit infrastructure.  Risks to the budget remain, including the assumption that
the agency will achieve the net-zero wage increases it seeks
from unionized employees currently working with expired
contracts and the continuation of biennial fare and toll
increases in 2015 and 2017.  The MTA employs 66,000 workers and carries 8.5 million
riders a day on subways, buses and commuter railroads. Board
members will vote on the final budget in December.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Esmé E. Deprez in  New York  at 
 edeprez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  