-- N.Y. Gasoline Gains as Refinery Runs Sink to 4-Month Low
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r v e y
-- 2013-07-24T19:07:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-24/n-y-gasoline-gains-as-refinery-runs-sink-to-4-month-low.html
New York  gasoline rallied against
futures for a third day as regional  refineries processed  the
least amount of crude oil in four months and motor-fuel
inventories sank.  Conventional, 83.5-octane gasoline , or CBOB, in the New
York Harbor strengthened 1 cent to 18.5 cents a gallon below
futures on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  at 1:50 p.m.  The discount for the fuel narrowed after a government
report showed U.S. East Coast refiners processed  1.1 million 
barrels of crude and other feedstock in the week ended July 19,
the least since March 22. Runs probably declined after
Philadelphia Energy Solutions, Irving Oil Corp. and Korea
National Oil Corp. shut units at Northeastern refineries.  Refinery issues “should keep the Northeast markets firm in
the near term,” according to Tom Finlon, director of Energy
Analytics Group Ltd., who is based in Jupiter Beach,  Florida .  Stockpiles of gasoline in the region also declined last
week, falling 1.41 million barrels to 61.1 million, a seven-week
low, according to Energy Information Administration data.
Refinery activity and  imports  that slumped to a near nine-month
low of 304,000 barrels last week may have contributed to the
retreat in inventories.  The Philadelphia Energy Solutions refinery was said to
return an alkylation unit to normal operations this week. Korean
National subsidiary North Atlantic Refining’s Come by Chance
refinery expected to return a sulfur and isomax unit to service
early this week.  The 3-2-1 crack spread in New York Harbor, a rough measure
of refining margins for gasoline and diesel based on Brent oil
in  Europe , climbed $1.11 to $14.53 a barrel, the first gain in
three days, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Harvey in New York at 
 charvey32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  