-- Nabiullina Plans Steps to Slow Russian Unsecured Consumer Loans
-- B y   S c o t t   R o s e   a n d   O l g a   T a n a s
-- 2013-07-24T15:30:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-24/nabiullina-plans-steps-to-slow-russian-unsecured-consumer-loans.html
Russia ’s central bank is looking for
new ways to slow the “overheated” market for unsecured
consumer loans, Chairman  Elvira Nabiullina  said.  Bank Rossii is preparing proposals to curb the pace of the
lending, Nabiullina told President  Vladimir Putin  today at a
meeting outside Moscow. Changes last year have helped crimp
annual growth to about 45 percent from more than 60 percent in
2012, First Deputy Chairman Alexei Simanovsky said in June.  “The pace has slowed a bit, but it’s still skewed,”
Nabiullina said, according to a Kremlin  transcript . “We can’t
keep amassing these risks from  consumer lending , especially when
it’s unsecured, because people don’t always understand the high
rates they’ll have to pay.”  Russia is trying to curb dangers from risky lending
practices even as the government and central bank seek ways to
reduce borrowing costs to bolster the  economy , which grew 1.7
percent from a year earlier in the first six months, half last
year’s pace. Risks to Russia’s financial stability are rising
from “rapid unsecured consumer credit growth,” the
 International Monetary Fund  said June 18.  While the central bank left its main lending rates
unchanged for a 10th month July 12, it announced plans to offer
500 billion rubles ($15.4 billion) through a new, one-year
instrument backed by non-marketable assets and carrying a
floating rate. The move has sent  interest rates  tumbling.  Swap Costs  The cost to fix borrowing costs in rubles for a year using
 interest-rate swaps  has dropped 55 basis points to 6.65 percent
over the past month, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Bank
Rossii next meets on rates Aug. 9.  Russia must avert a situation like the mortgage defaults
endured by the U.S., according to Putin. “But there also
shouldn’t be artificial restraints,” he said today.  While reducing  inflation  is the “main criterion” to bring
down loan costs, it’s not enough, Nabiullina said. Bank Rossii
plans to make its lending to banks more effective in boosting
the economy, she said.  “Right now the liquidity situation is more or less stable,
but we need there to be predictability for banks,” she said.
“It’s important to provide the money in a way that won’t lead
to higher inflation or to capital outflows.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net ;
Olga Tanas in Moscow at 
 otanas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  