-- Najib Faces Fishermen’s Test in Vote Before Malaysia Party Polls
-- B y   M a n i r a j a n   R a m a s a m y
-- 2013-07-24T03:22:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-24/najib-faces-fishermen-s-test-in-vote-before-malaysia-party-polls.html
Residents of a small coastal
Malaysian fishing town are voting today to help determine
whether a fourth state assembly in the  Southeast Asia ’s third-largest economy falls into opposition hands.  A by-election is being held in Kuala Besut, on the
country’s northern coast, following the death of a Terengganu
state assemblyman. The vote is the first test of public
sentiment after Prime Minister Najib Razak’s coalition was
returned to power in May’s general election by its narrowest
margin since independence in 1957.  The governing Barisan Nasional coalition is going into the
vote with a one-seat majority in the regional government. A loss
would be a setback for Najib as he waits to see whether he’ll be
challenged for leadership of his own party, the United Malays
Nasional Organisation, later this year.  “Should the opposition gain the seat, it will create a
minor crisis,”  Ibrahim Suffian , a political analyst at the
Merdeka Center for Opinion Research, said in an e-mail interview.
“It will divert attention away from the upcoming UMNO party
polls.”  Anwar Ibrahim ’s opposition alliance currently controls
three of Malaysia’s 13 state assemblies, down from four before
the May general election. Najib’s coalition is fielding Tengku
Zaihan Che Ku Abd Rahman, a 37-year-old engineer, against Endot
Azlan Yusof, a 48-year-old businessman from an Islamic party,
according to Bernama, the state news service.  “The special thing about this one is that if the
opposition wins it will be a hung state assembly,” James Chin,
professor of political science at the Malaysian campus of
 Australia ’s  Monash University , said by e-mail.  In such a scenario both coalitions would need to make their
cases to Terengganu’s king to decide which should lead the
state’s government. Both Chin and Ibrahim predicted Barisan
Nasional would retain the seat.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Manirajan Ramasamy in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 rmanirajan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson in Singapore at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  