-- Nasdaq Second-Quarter Profit Declines on Acquisitions
-- B y   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r
-- 2013-07-24T11:45:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-24/nasdaq-second-quarter-profit-declines-on-acquisitions.html
Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ) , operator of
the second-largest U.S. stock exchange, said second-quarter
profit declined amid costs associated with acquisitions.  Earnings excluding some items slipped to 62 cents a share
in the three months ended June 30 from 64 cents in the year-earlier period, the New York-based company said in a statement
today. That compares with the 63-cent average estimate of 15
analysts compiled by Bloomberg.  Chief Executive Officer Robert Greifeld is diversifying the
business to offset a global decline in stock trading. In the
last few months, the exchange has bought the eSpeed platform for
trading U.S. Treasury bonds, the shareholder-relations unit of
Thomson Reuters Corp. and a 25 percent stake in The Order
Machine, a Dutch alternative trading system focused on options.
 Nasdaq  also has a program called GIFT to fund projects such as a
new derivatives market in London.  The exchange had “unique variances in our cost structure,
including financing costs of approximately $2.5 million
associated with pre-funding the eSpeed acquisition nearly a
month prior to closing, and our organic investments,’” Lee Shavel, chief financial officer of Nasdaq, said in the
statement. “Several launches of GIFT initiatives added an
additional $5 million to our expenses versus the prior year. The
earnings impact from GIFT initiatives is expected to moderate
over time.”  Cost Guidance  Operating costs rose to $292 million in the second quarter
from $252 million a year earlier, the exchange said. The company
projected annual core operating expenses, excluding
acquisitions, of $925 million to $940 million. That compares
with a previous forecast of $910 million to $930 million.  In April, Nasdaq said it will buy eSpeed, an electronic
platform for trading U.S. Treasury bonds, in a move that raised
concern about its credit rating. Shares of the second-biggest
operator of U.S. equity exchanges fell 13 percent to $27.91 on
April 2 after Nasdaq agreed to acquire the company from  BGC
Partners Inc. (BGCP)  for as much as $1.23 billion. The stock has since
rebounded 21 percent to $33.84.  “Our strategy is focused on becoming an entrenched
provider of corporate, trading, technology and information
products and services,” Greifeld said in the statement.
“Essential to that strategy has been the expansion of the depth
and breadth of asset classes, products and markets we offer as
well as extending our presence in adjacent businesses that are
relevant.”  NYSE Purchase  Nasdaq OMX’s biggest rival,  NYSE Euronext (NYX) , agreed in
December to be bought by futures bourse IntercontinentalExchange
Inc. for $8 billion in a move that underscored the growing
importance of derivatives in the face of shrinking volume
worldwide.  Sales from Nasdaq’s market-services division fell to $190
million in the second quarter from $199 million a year ago. The
unit includes cash equities, where volume is declining,
derivatives and access and broker services.  The information-services division received $108 million
during the quarter, up from $106 million, the exchange said. The
unit covers market data and index licensing.  The technology-solutions unit generated $95 million of
revenue in the quarter, compared with $67 million a year ago.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nandini Sukumar in  London  at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  