-- Natural Gas Catches Fire on Drilling Rig at Gulf of Mexico Well
-- B y   R a m s e y   A l - R i k a b i   a n d   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y
-- 2013-07-24T08:03:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-24/natural-gas-catches-fire-on-drilling-rig-at-gulf-of-mexico-well.html
Natural gas leaking from a Walter
Oil & Gas Corp. well in the  Gulf of Mexico  caught fire on an
evacuated rig about 55 miles (88 kilometers) offshore  Louisiana .  The fire started about 10:50 p.m. local time yesterday and
the cause of the ignition is unknown,  Eileen Angelico , a New
Orleans-based spokeswoman for the U.S. Bureau of Safety and
Environmental Enforcement, said in an e-mail. No injuries were
reported with nobody on board the Hercules 265 jack-up rig at
the time, Angelico said.  Walter Oil & Gas, which operates the A-3 well in the South
Timbalier 220 lease block, lost control of drilling operations
at about 8:45 a.m. yesterday, according to the BSEE. No oil was
spilled, Walter Oil & Gas said in a  statement  yesterday.  The U.S. suspended drilling in the Gulf of Mexico for five
months after the blowout of  BP Plc (BP/) ’s Macondo well in April 2010,
which killed 11 workers and set off an 87-day  oil spill  that
fouled thousands of square miles and shut much of the Gulf to
fishing for months.  Wild Well Control Inc. was hired to bring the blown-out
well under control,  Associated Press  reported, citing Angelico.
Officials were unable to get close to the well late July 23,
before the fire broke out, because it was unsafe, according to
the report.  Son Vann, a Houston-based spokesman for  Hercules Offshore
Inc. (HERO) , which owns the drilling rig, couldn’t be reached at his
office for comment outside normal working hours. A person who
answered the phone at Walter Oil & Gas’s Houston office said
nobody was available to comment.  The Gulf accounts for 5.8 percent of U.S. gas production,
according to the Energy Information Administration, the
statistical arm of the Energy Department. The incident occurred
while Walter Oil & Gas was doing completion work on the
sidetrack well in preparation for production, according to an
earlier  BSEE statement . Before the fire, the bureau reported a
natural gas cloud above the rig and a light sheen on the water a
half-mile by 50 feet in area.  Natural gas  futures in New York fell 0.6 percent to $3.722
per million British thermal units as of 3:53 p.m. Singapore
time.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ramsey Al-Rikabi in Singapore at 
 ralrikabi@bloomberg.net ;
Rakteem Katakey in  New Delhi  at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  