-- Navy Defends Littoral Ship Against Watchdog’s Criticism
-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 2013-07-25T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-24/navy-rejects-gao-call-to-slow-littoral-ship-construction.html
The Navy is defending its plan for
building Littoral Combat Ships, disputing a pending Government
Accountability Office recommendation to slow construction for
further testing.  The Navy’s newest combat vessel will be under scrutiny at a
U.S. House hearing today, where the GAO is set to present a
report on the LCS. A draft report by Congress’s nonpartisan
investigative arm earlier this year said the Navy is risking as
much as $40 billion by purchasing the ships faster than it can
demonstrate their “militarily useful capability.”  The LCS program has generated a growing list of questions
about the ships’ designs, firepower, defenses and survivability
at a time when the Pentagon faces as much as $500 billion in
additional  budget  cuts over the next nine years.  “We realize that these may be some rough waters,” Rear
Admiral Thomas Rowden, the Navy’s director of surface warfare,
said during a July 23 conference call with reporters. “I’m
confident we’ll be able to address these issues and get this
significant capability to the fleet.”  Rowden said the Navy intends to stick to its current
schedule for building the ships.  The GAO’s draft report said “a pause is needed” until
additional testing can answer “fundamental questions about
whether the program, as envisioned, will meet the Navy’s
needs.”  Virginia Republican Representative Randy Forbes, chairman
of the House Armed Services Committee’s seapower subcommittee,
which holds the hearing today, called the GAO’s findings “very
concerning” and said in an earlier interview that “it is
something we will be monitoring very, very carefully.”  Red Flags  The GAO’s final report represents the latest red flag
that’s been raised inside and outside the Navy about the small
and speedy ship designed for shallow waters close to shore, such
as in the  Persian Gulf .  A confidential Navy report completed last year warned the
ships may not be able to perform their missions because they’re
too lightly manned and armed.  The first Littoral Combat Ship to deploy overseas, the USS
Freedom, lost propulsion on July 20 while heading to a military
exercise and had to return to port in  Singapore  for repairs. The
Navy determined the ship’s diesel generators overheated and shut
down, said Lieutenant Caroline Hutcheson, a Navy spokeswoman.  After repairs that included the replacement of
turbochargers in the generators and clogged fuel injectors, the
Freedom got under way yesterday, she said.  Interchangeable Modules  The ship is designed to be adaptable by using
interchangeable modules for various missions, such as clearing
mines, hunting submarines and waging surface warfare.  The Navy will be under contract for at least 24 of the
planned 52 ships before it completes tests in 2019 to see
whether mission modules can meet minimum performance
requirements, the draft GAO report said.  “This disconnect between requirements and acquisitions
increases the risk that the Navy is not wisely spending its
resources,” the report obtained in May said.  Failure to slow the rate of construction “could lead to
the Navy risking taxpayer investments of up to $40 billion in
systems that may not provide the expected -- albeit not fully
defined -- militarily useful capability,” it said.  Rowden defended the pace of construction, saying the ships
are needed as planned “to deliver key capabilities in the
littorals,” or coastal waters.  Reducing Price  Sustaining the production lines of two shipyards at current
rates is important so the cost per vessel can continue “on a
marked and steady decline,” he said.  The Navy is buying two versions of the ship. One, with a
traditional steel hull, is being made in Marinette,  Wisconsin ,
by a group led by  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) , based in Bethesda,
 Maryland . The second version is an aluminum trimaran, or three-hulled vessel, built by a group led by  Austal Ltd. (ASB) , based in
Henderson,  Australia .  Building two versions comes with higher operating costs
because of the need to maintain and supply two different types
of ships. Rowden said the two-shipyard strategy delivers vessels
to the fleet at a faster pace and allows the Navy to “get a
very, very competitive price for these ships.”  The GAO draft recommended that the Navy buy only “the
minimum quantities” of weapons packages, or “mission
modules,” because “testing to date has shown considerable
limitations in mission capabilities.”  Rowden said the Navy must buy mission modules at the rate
it has planned to support all the needed operational testing.  “I’m not worried about the mission modules,” he said.
“As a matter of fact, I’m very excited about them.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  