-- New Freddie Mac Debt Seen as Imperfect Shift of Housing Risk
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2013-07-24T21:05:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-24/new-freddie-mac-bonds-seen-as-imperfect-shift-of-mortgage-risk.html
Freddie Mac’s $500 million of risk-sharing debt sold yesterday may not give the firm as much
protection against homeowner defaults as policy makers seek,
according to Amherst Securities Group LP and Deutsche Bank AG.  The structure means that the company would be better off
without the securities if refinancing and property sales are
initially fast, and then defaults jump amid a  real-estate  slump,
Amherst analysts led by  Laurie Goodman  wrote today in a report.
In addition, it transfers less risk than needed to shield
Freddie Mac from all but catastrophic levels of losses among
mortgages, according to Deutsche Bank’s Christopher Helwig.  The type of transaction is “an integral part of
introducing more private capital to the mortgage market,” the
New York-based analyst wrote today in a report. “However, some
serious questions still remain.”  The note sale, which was applauded today by the Treasury
Department and  Federal Housing Finance Agency , reflects an
effort to reduce the role of Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae in the
residential-mortgage market, where government-backed loans now
account for more than 85 percent of lending. The transaction is
also similar to the new system of mortgage finance in the U.S.
envisioned under bipartisan legislation introduced this year by
Republican Senator  Bob Corker  of  Tennessee  and Democratic
Senator  Mark Warner  of Virginia.  New System  “We are comfortable with the STACR structure and the
credit protection provided,” Kevin Palmer, vice president of
costing and  portfolio management  at McLean, Virginia-based
Freddie Mac, wrote in an e-mail, referring to the Structured
Agency Credit Risk transaction. “We are still reviewing
Amherst’s report.”  The deal was part of an effort to gain insight into how the
private sector prices mortgage risk and to reduce taxpayers’
exposure to potential losses, said Edward DeMarco, acting
director of the FHFA, which has overseen Freddie Mac and Fannie
Mae since the companies were seized by the U.S. in 2008.  “We expect to learn from this transaction, refine the
approach and maintain steady progress with future transactions
to restore private sector participation in housing finance,”
DeMarco said in a statement released by the regulator.  Through its deal,  Freddie Mac  will initially pay about 12
basis points, or 0.12 percentage point, annually for protection
against losses on almost $23 billion of loans originated last
year, according data compiled by Bloomberg. It collects about 40
basis points for guaranteeing bonds backed by the mortgages,
according to the report by the Amherst team run by Goodman, a
member of the Fixed Income Analysts Society Hall of Fame.  Loss Protection  The transaction was broken into two floating-rate notes of
$250 million each, one of which will pay down before the other
as homeowners retire or refinance their debt, with both maturing
in no later than 10 years.  While repayments will depend on defaults remaining below
certain levels, the more-junior bonds will be initially
protected against losses of 0.3 percent on the original
principal value of the underlying mortgages. The second set will
have protection, known as credit enhancement, equal to 1.65
percent and the entire investment would be wiped out after 3
percent, with  Freddie Mac (FMCC)  bearing additional costs.  In a baseline scenario, defaults on the underlying loans
will probably total 66 basis points and holders of both sets of
bonds won’t take any losses once fixed recovery rates are taken
into account, according to the Amherst analysts. Amid higher
defaults and slow loan prepayments the structure would provide
“very valuable protection,” allowing Freddie Mac to continue
making money on its guarantees, they said.  ‘Negative Return’  With higher prepayments, though, “the addition of the
risk-sharing structure can create a situation where Freddie
earns a negative return on its book of business, rather than a
small positive return,” the New York-based analysts wrote.  While that scenario is unlikely for the low-rate, high-quality loans included when housing is recovering and borrowing
costs rising, “actions to better protect Freddie Mac against
this low-probability event should be contemplated in future
deals,” the analysts said.  Policy makers looking to such transactions to protect
taxpayers and help set the guarantee fees at  Fannie Mae  and
Freddie Mac may also need to wait for ones that expand the share
of losses born by investors, Deutsche Bank’s Helwig wrote.  “To leave Freddie Mac holding only the equivalent of ‘AAA’
risk” the deal would have had to protect the company against
losses on about 8.8 percent of the loan balances, according to
his estimates.  Michael Stegman, the Treasury secretary’s counselor for
housing finance policy, said in an e-mailed statement that the
type of deal “helps protect the interests of the American
taxpayer, with private capital taking the predominant credit
loss -- aligning with the administration’s goal of reducing the
government’s footprint in the mortgage market.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jody Shenn in  New York  at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  