-- Best Home Sales in Five Years Signal Building Gain: Economy
-- B y   J e a n n a   S m i a l e k
-- 2013-07-24T20:49:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-24/new-home-sales-in-u-s-rise-more-than-forecast-to-five-year-high.html
Sales of new U.S. homes rose in June
to the highest level in five years, pointing to gains in
residential construction that will support the economic
expansion in the second half of the year.  Purchases climbed 8.3 percent to an annualized pace of
497,000 homes, the highest level since May 2008, the Commerce
Department said today in  Washington . The median  estimate  of 77
economists surveyed by Bloomberg called for a gain to 484,000.  Growing employment and the desire to take advantage of
historically low borrowing costs before they rise further will
probably keep releasing pent-up demand, driving builder
confidence and sustaining increases in  home construction .
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  last week said policy
makers are prepared to act if the recent jump in borrowing costs
shows signs of hurting demand.  “It’s a builder’s market,” said  Stuart Hoffman , chief
economist at PNC Financial Services Group in Pittsburgh, who
forecast sales would climb to a 500,000 pace. “The housing
market is poised for further gains and is a key component of the
U.S. recovery overall.”  Projections in the Bloomberg survey ranged from 415,000 to
518,000. The Commerce Department revised the May figure to
459,000 from a previously reported 476,000.  Stocks dropped as investors weighed global manufacturing
data and earnings reports from Apple Inc. and Caterpillar Inc.
The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index declined 0.4 percent to 1,685.94
at the close in  New York .  European Factories  In  Europe  today there were signs that factories in the euro
area are making a comeback, signaling the currency bloc’s
economy is emerging from a record-long recession. A
manufacturing index rose more than forecast in July, indicating
that segment of the economy was expanding for the first time in
two years.  The encouraging news from Europe contrasted with  China , the
world’s second-largest economy, where other figures showed
manufacturing weakened more than estimated this month.  Similar data for the U.S. today showed factories expanded
at a faster pace than forecast in July.  The Commerce Department’s report showed sales of new houses
jumped 38.1 percent last month from June 2012, the biggest year-over-year gain since January 1992.  Sales of new properties, which are tallied when purchase
contracts are signed, are considered a more timely measure of
the market than sales of previously owned dwellings, which are
counted when a sale is final. New-home sales accounted for about
7 percent of the residential market in 2012.  Mortgage Rates  The gain in new-home sales is an early signal that the
recent jump in borrowing costs has yet to derail demand.  “It suggests a more uplifting message in terms of how the
market will be able to absorb higher interest rates,” said
 Michelle Meyer , a senior U.S. economist at Bank of America Corp.
in New York.  Another report this week was less positive. Purchases of
existing homes  unexpectedly fell  1.2 percent to a 5.08 million
annualized rate in June, figures from the National Association
of Realtors showed. Tight inventories were constraining sales
and contributed to a 13.5 percent jump in the median price of an
existing home compared with June 2012, the report showed.  A reduction in the number of distressed properties, those
in foreclosure or worth less than the homeowner owes, may be
another reason sales of existing homes are cooling as demand for
new homes keeps rising, said Bank of America’s Meyer.  All Sold  Gretchen Apps, a broker for Weichert Realtors in  Chadds
Ford ,  Pennsylvania , said demand for new homes is outpacing land
supply. Since January, she and her co-worker have sold all of
the new homes she had listed -- one model home and five under-construction or soon-to-be-built in  West Chester , Pennsylvania.  “It’s been really moving: we even sold where we really
didn’t have anything to show,” Apps said. The houses, all
priced at more than $600,000, look traditional even though they
have modern amenities inside, she said. “We’re sold out. We are
just sad we don’t have more land.”  While higher borrowing costs spur demand in the short run
as on-the-fence buyers take the leap to lock in rates, the
current increase in  interest rates  may represent a threat longer
term. The average rate for a 30-year  fixed mortgage  was 4.37
percent last week, according to McLean, Virginia-based  Freddie
Mac . It reached a record low of 3.31 percent in November.  While rates are still historically low, that means the
monthly payment on a $200,000 loan now would be $998 compared
with $877 in November.  Rate Impact  “At least some of the June strength may have reflected
demand pulled forward from future months, and it is possible
that we will see some softer prints going forward,” Guy Berger,
an economist at RBS Securities Inc. in  Stamford ,  Connecticut ,
said in a research note.  In testimony before the House Financial Services Committee
last week, Bernanke said housing activity and prices will
probably continue to recover, notwithstanding the recent
increases in  mortgage rates .  If the jump in borrowing costs were deemed large enough to
hurt the recovery, then “the current pace of  purchases (NHSLTOT)  could be
maintained for longer,” the Fed chairman also said.  The median  selling price  of a new home appreciated 7.4
percent to $249,700 last month from $232,600 in June 2012,
today’s report showed.  Purchases rose in three of four U.S. regions, led by an
18.5 percent surge in the Northeast. They climbed 13.8 percent
in the West and 10.9 percent in the South. Demand dropped 11.8
percent in the Midwest.  More Jobs  An improving job outlook may be creating confidence and
encouraging buyers. Employers in the U.S. added 195,000 jobs in
June for the second straight month.  Improvements in the employment situation and the housing
market could boost business at companies such as  Whirlpool Corp. (WHR) 
The outlook for  North America  is improving, the appliance
makers’ chief executive officer Jeff Fettig said in a July 19
earnings call.  “We’re increasing our industry demand assumption to be up
6 percent to 8 percent for the year,” Fettig said. “We
continue to see very positive trends in U.S. housing as well as
pickup in really all segments of the market.”  Homebuilders have also grown more confident. The National
Association of  Home Builders/Wells Fargo index  of builder
sentiment climbed to this month to a seven-year high, the
Washington-based group reported last week. The gauge has climbed
13 points in the latest two months, the biggest back-to-back
advance since January-February 1992.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanna Smialek in Washington at 
 jsmialek1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  