-- Lockheed to Northrop Rise as Profits Defy Budget Alarms
-- B y   G o p a l   R a t n a m   a n d   N i c k   T a b o r e k
-- 2013-07-24T20:49:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-24/lockheed-to-northrop-rise-as-profits-defy-budget-alarms.html
After warnings that U.S. budget cuts
would devastate the defense industry, three top weapons makers
this week announced second-quarter profits that beat analysts’
estimates.  The automatic spending reductions haven’t hurt the leading
government contractors including  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) , Northrop
Grumman Corp. and  General Dynamics (GD)  Corp. Lockheed and Northrop
raised their profit outlooks for the full year.  The companies, whose shares have outpaced the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index this year, boosted net income by cutting jobs,
divesting poorly performing units and using cash reserves to buy
back shares. The Pentagon has shielded big weapons programs such
as the F-35 jet, the military’s most expensive weapons system,
from the cuts that started taking effect March 1.  “We’ve seen less impact from sequestration, writ large,
than we expected to through this part of the year,”  Bruce Tanner , Lockheed’s chief financial officer, told analysts
yesterday. “The Pentagon has done a fairly masterful job kind
of deflecting” cuts to weapons programs.  The biggest defense companies so far have escaped the full
force of $37 billion in military cuts mandated to occur by Sept.
30. The Pentagon faces another $52 billion in reductions from
planned spending for the next fiscal year, if Congress and
President  Barack Obama  don’t reach agreement on reducing the
 U.S. budget deficit .  F-35 Jet  Even if sequestration remains in effect next year, the
weapons makers are unlikely to be hit with significant
reductions, said Rick Whittington, an New York-based analyst
with Drexel Hamilton LLC.  “I don’t think either party wants to go to the polls next
year reducing the number of ships or airplanes or satellites,”
he said in a phone interview. “The odds of worst-case
sequestration are diminishing.”  Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel has said cuts to next year’s
budget would cause the Pentagon to buy fewer ships, planes and
satellites.  Amid the reductions, spending on large programs such as the
Lockheed F-35 Joint Strike Fighter probably will be preserved,
the Pentagon’s top weapons buyer said in an interview this
month.  ‘Like a Hurricane’  The Defense Department’s commitment to the jet is unlikely
to change “under any of the budgets we are looking at,
including sequestration,” Frank Kendall said in a July 12
interview.  Kendall used a weather metaphor to describe the minimal
damage to defense contractors.  “There were people who thought that when sequestration was
triggered it would arrive like a hurricane or a thunderstorm,”
Kendall said. “It arrived more like a rain that just started to
fall and just keeps falling and the water’s rising.”  The situation in 2014 will probably be similar to this
year, Lockheed’s Tanner told analysts yesterday. The company’s
units that depend on shorter-duration orders are more likely to
be affected, he said.  “The pain probably will not be as bad as the howling,”
George Ferguson, a defense analyst at Bloomberg Industries, said
in an interview. “All of these contractors work on programs the
Pentagon is going to move to protect.”  Defense Armageddon  The Defense Department probably will reduce the size of the
Army and Marine Corps, scale back on operations and seek savings
in health care to protect weapons programs, Ferguson said.  The Aerospace Industries Association, an Arlington,
Virginia-based trade group that represents contractors, was
among those that last year predicted severe outcomes for the
industry as a result of the automatic budget cuts.  Marion Blakey, the group’s president, said the budget cuts
would lead to “an unemployment Armageddon.”  In a phone interview today, Blakey said the job cuts
estimate was made last year when few details were known about
how the budget cuts would be implemented. “And we are only five
months into this, and it could take another 12 to 18 months to
see the kind of job losses we forecast,” she said.  Lockheed said yesterday that the automatic cuts probably
won’t slice revenue by the $825 million anticipated in April.
Its net income jumped 10 percent to $859 million in the quarter
from a year earlier.  Missile Defense  The Bethesda, Maryland-based contractor said it expected to
book about $7.5 billion for the quarter ending Sept. 30,
including orders for another lot of F-35 jets, missile defense
programs and international sales.  Northrop (NOC)  rose 1.7 percent today to close at a record $90.30
in  New York  trading after raising its sales and profit outlook
and reporting second-quarter earnings that exceeded analysts’
predictions.  General Dynamics gained 1.5 percent to close at $85.31, the
highest level since September 2008, after it said the quarter’s
profit was better than what analysts had estimated. It also
maintained its forecast for the year. The company said its
second-quarter orders included $2.8 billion from the Navy for
construction of four DDG-51 destroyers.  Northrop shares have climbed the most of the three defense
contractors this year, advancing 34 percent, compared with a 19
percent rise in the  S&P 500 .  Lockheed Backlog  There are signs of the slowdown in  defense spending . Each
company’s order backlog declined as Pentagon contract awards
slipped. Lockheed’s backlog, for example, fell 8.7 percent to
$75.1 billion, from $82.3 billion at the end of 2012.  In June, the Pentagon said sequestration will affect 2,500
programs, projects and budget activities with each losing some
funds from planned spending.  Boeing Co. (BA) , the No. 2 weapons maker, is looking to blunt
U.S. budget cuts by boosting foreign sales, said W. James McNerney Jr., Boeing’s chairman and chief executive officer,
during the Chicago-based company’s earnings conference call
today. Those sales accounted for 23 percent of the defense
unit’s $8.2 billion second-quarter revenue and 37 percent of its
$71 billion backlog.  “We remain cautious,” he said. “We think there’s more to
come on sequestration.”  Boeing’s defense unit is closely minding operating margins
and preparing “for some pretty draconian scenarios” as it
awaits details on Pentagon spending, McNerney said. “We are not
out of the woods, at all. We are just entering the woods.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gopal Ratnam in Washington at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Taborek in Washington at 
 ntaborek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Stoughton at 
 sstoughton@bloomberg.net  