-- Odebrecht-Run Biocom Seeks Angola Sugar Self-Sufficiency
-- B y   C o l i n   M c C l e l l a n d   a n d   M a n u e l   S o q u e
-- 2013-07-25T07:48:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-24/odebrecht-run-biocom-seeks-angola-sugar-self-sufficiency.html
Angola ,  Africa ’s second-largest
crude oil producer, is targeting sugar self-sufficiency as
 Brazil ’s Odebrecht SA starts harvesting from a plantation the
size of  Manhattan ,  Brooklyn  and The Bronx combined next year.  The 42,000-hectare (101,514 acre) farm, the country’s
biggest, is to begin production by June and ramp up to 260,000
metric tons a year by 2018, Managing Director Carlos Henrique
Mathias said in a July 23 interview at the site 320 kilometers
(200 miles) by road east of  Luanda , the capital. Output is to be
doubled at some point to start exports, depending on prices,
Mathias said.  Angola wants to diversify its economy. It pumped 1.67
million barrels a day of crude oil in June, behind  Nigeria  on
the continent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
southwest African country imports about 225,000 tons of sugar a
year, according to the  U.S. Department of Agriculture , and is
struggling to rebuild a coffee industry that was the world’s
third largest before a 27-year civil war began in 1975 when
former colonial power  Portugal  pulled out of the country.  “Sugar is more important than coffee for domestic
consumption or even exports at this point,” Mathias said.
“Sure, there are costs, but this project is totally
economically feasible.”  Sugar Prices  Farm operator Cia. de Bioenergia de Angola Lda. is 40
percent owned by Odebrecht, 40 percent by Angolan company Damer
Industria SA and 20 percent by state-run petroleum company
Sonangol Holding EP. Biocom, as the $500 million venture is
known, is guided by Odebrecht technicians and is targeting a 10
percent return on investment, Mathias said.  Sugar prices, which have fallen 17 percent to about 16.25
cents a pound this year, will have an impact on future
production levels and potential exports, Mathias said.  Construction began in 2011 on the site, now a flat expanse
of green cane broken by the  Black Rocks of Pungo Andongo , a
spine of tall sedimentary stone south of the Kwanza River in
Malange province.  Output is forecast at 40,000 tons of sugar next year.
according to Mathias. It will be trucked 75 kilometers to the
railway at the city of Malange. Biocom will use 15 percent of
its sugar to produce ethanol and sell it to Sonangol, Mathias
said. It’s the country’s largest renewable-energy project.  Biocom has been criticized by human rights groups, such as
 Maka Angola , for not holding a transparent tendering process to
decide who would be the local partner, the place held by Damer.
Damer is jointly owned by Vice President  Manuel Vicente , General
Manuel Helder Vieira Dias Junior, known as Kopelipa, a top state
security official, and General Leopoldino Fragoso do Nascimento,
known as Dino, a government adviser.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Colin McClelland in Luanda at 
 cmcclelland1@bloomberg.net ;
Manuel Soque in Luanda at 
 msoque@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  