-- Hogan Lovells, Paul Hastings, Latham: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2013-07-24T04:00:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-24/hogan-lovells-paul-hastings-latham-business-of-law.html
Hogan Lovells LLP is opening a
Luxembourg office with two partners and four associates from
NautaDutilh NV.  Pierre Reuter, an investment funds lawyer, and Jean-Michel
Schmit, a corporate lawyer, are the partners who will start the
office on Aug. 1.  “Luxembourg is an increasingly important jurisdiction for
investment funds,”  David Harris , global co-chief executive
officer of Hogan Lovells, said in a statement. “Our new office
will allow us to offer a much fuller funds capability to our
clients.”  The office will be Hogan Lovell’s 45th. The firm opened an
office in  Brazil  earlier this month.  Luxembourg has been a strategic location for structuring
funds and will remain so, Reuter said. European finance
ministers in 2010 approved a law, known as the Alternative
Investment Fund Managers Directive, which gave the European
Securities and Markets Authority power to set rules for  hedge
funds  and private-equity firms. Member states have until this
month to implement the directive.  With the EU directive, “it will be even more attractive
for alternative investment fund managers to expand or set up
their products in Luxembourg and to thrive here,” Reuter said
in a statement.  Hogan Lovells  has more than 2,500 lawyers worldwide.  Moves  Paul Hastings Hires Securities Litigator Lari in New York  Paul Hastings  LLP hired securities and commercial litigator
Shahzeb Lari as a partner in the litigation practice in  New
York . He was previously at Fried, Frank, Harris, Shriver &
Jacobson LLP.  Lari primarily focuses his practice on the litigation of
corporate and commercial disputes, with an emphasis on
securities, shareholder and antitrust class actions, corporate
governance and other complex business disputes. He also has
represented clients in real estate litigation, the firm said.  “Adding Shahzeb to our securities litigation team
represents a further strengthening of our team in this practice
area,” William Sullivan, global chairman of the litigation
practice, said in a statement.  Paul Hastings has lawyers at 20 offices in Asia,  Europe  and
the U.S.  Brussels Antitrust Partner Joins Latham & Watkins  Lars Kjolbye will join Latham & Watkins LLP’s Brussels
office as a partner in the litigation department. He was
previously with Covington & Burling LLP.  Kjolbye focuses on complex cases in competition law,
including abuse of dominance, restrictive practices, merger
control, state aid and energy regulation. Before private
practice, he spent 10 years at the European Commission’s
Competition Directorate General, where his positions included
head of the energy and environment unit.  In that role, he led investigations and inquiries into gas
and electricity markets, the firm said in a statement. He also
worked as deputy head of the coordination and scrutiny unit,
where he reviewed enforcement cases and other matters.  “Lars will bring a broad range of expertise and deep
industry knowledge to the practice,” Jean Paul Poitras,
managing partner of Latham’s Brussels office, said in a
statement. “He has advised on a number of landmark matters in
recent years and his experience offers significant synergies
with our practice,”  Latham & Watkins has more than 2,000 lawyers in 31 offices
in the U.S., Europe,  Middle East  and Asia.  Herschel Hamner Joins Sidley Austin’s Global Finance Practice  Sidley Austin LLP said Herschel T. Hamner III will join the
firm’s Houston office as a partner in the global finance
practice. He was previously a partner at Baker Botts LLP.  Hamner has experience on finance transactions, including
syndicated bank financings, high-yield debt offerings and the
private placement of securities.  “Herschel has emerged as one of the top finance lawyers in
Houston,” Larry Barden, vice chairman of Sidley’s management
committee, said in a statement. He “ will be a great asset to
our clients and provide added depth to our global finance
capabilities, both in Houston and worldwide.”  Sidley has 1,750 lawyers in 18 offices worldwide.  IP Lawyer John Griem Joins Carter Ledyard in New York  Carter Ledyard & Milburn LLP said John M. Griem Jr. joined
the firm as a partner in its intellectual property department in
New York. He previously was in the New York office of Loeb &
Loeb LLP, where he was a partner in the patent litigation and
counseling department.  Griem’s practice concentrates on intellectual-property
litigation, particularly patent litigation, as well as license
and technology agreements, strategic portfolio development and
IP issues arising in corporate and finance transactions. He also
advises clients on trademark matters.  Griem “will add depth to our already strong team,” said
 Tom Davis , chairman of the intellectual property department and
a member of the firm’s executive committee.  Carter Ledyard has about 100 attorneys at two New York
offices.  Sedgwick Adds Real Estate and Finance Partner Laurie Gustafson  Sedgwick LLP said Laurie Gustafson joined its real estate
and finance practice as a partner in  San Francisco . She was most
recently with Stein & Lubin LLP.  Gustafson’s practice focuses on commercial real estate,
including property acquisitions and dispositions, leasing,
financing, construction, development and management.  “Laurie’s extensive transactional real estate experience
will complement our existing real estate and finance, real
estate litigation,  land use  and natural resources, construction,
and other practices,” Anna Shimko, chairman of Sedgwick’s real
estate practice, said in a statement.  Sedgwick has more than 370 lawyers in 16 U.S. offices.  Video  Guynn Says Banking, Commodities Connection Not New  Randall Guynn, head of the financial institutions group at
the law firm Davis Polk & Wardwell LLP, said the connection
between banking and commodities is “not a new development” and
has “very ancient roots.”  Guynn testified before a Senate Banking subcommittee in
 Washington  yesterday. For more, click here.  For Skilling, ‘Enron Was His Life,’ Lawyer Petrocelli Says  Daniel Petrocelli , chairman of the business trial and
litigation practice at  O’Melveny & Myers LLP , talks with
Bloomberg Law’s Spencer Mazyck about his representation of
former Enron Corp. Chief Executive Officer  Jeffrey Skilling .  On June 21, U.S. District Judge Sim Lake III approved a
deal made between prosecutors and Skilling that reduced his
prison term to 14 years from 24, freeing the former CEO as early
as 2017.  Petrocelli, in this “Rainmakers” episode, also explains
why Skilling wouldn’t have faced civil or criminal proceedings
if Enron’s demise occurred during or after the 2008 credit
crisis.  This is a Bloomberg podcast. To download, watch or listen
to this report now, click here.  News  U.K. Prosecutor Who Led Organized Crime Division Gets Top Post  Alison Saunders, who led the organized-crime division at
the U.K. prosecutors’ office, was named the head of the agency.  Saunders, who has worked for the  Crown Prosecution Service 
since 1986, will start as Director of Public Prosecutions after
the current head,  Keir Starmer , steps down at the end of
October, the agency said in a  statement  on its website. Saunders
has been  London ’s Chief Crown Prosecutor since 2010.  Saunders made the decision to charge suspects in the
investigation into the hacking of mobile phone voicemails at
News Corp. newspapers. She has also prosecuted cases involving
bribery, human trafficking, immigration, counterfeiting,  money
laundering , sexual assault and murder, the CPS said.  “Saunders is a first-class lawyer with great experience
and a thorough understanding of the way the CPS works,”  Stephen
Parkinson , head of criminal law at Kingsley Napley LLP in
London, said in an e-mail.  Saunders said she would continue with “reforms, both
within the CPS and more widely in the criminal justice system,”
that Starmer began.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in New York
at   eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net . 