-- Old-Fashioned Regulators Miss What’s New in Finance
-- B y   C l i v e   C r o o k
-- 2013-07-24T13:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-24/old-fashioned-regulators-miss-what-s-new-in-finance.html
Is the financial system any safer
now than in 2008? There’s been some progress but less than you
might think. I  argued  last week that regulators should put in
place much tougher bank capital requirements than planned, for
instance, and step up efforts to segregate different kinds of
financial business to suppress contagion.  Measures such as this, however, don’t directly confront the
biggest gap in the emerging regulatory system: the treatment of
wholesale short-term lending. This is where the meltdown of 2008
started, and probably where the next such catastrophe will
begin.  Traditionally, the role of banks was to convert short-term
deposits into long-term loans. This so-called maturity
transformation is an inherently dangerous business. If a lot of
customers suddenly want their money back, banks can’t keep their
promise to redeem deposits on demand and in full. Depositors
know this, which is why bank runs are apt to happen -- or were,
in the days before  deposit insurance .  Insurance prevents bank runs, but encourages risky lending
because depositors no longer care whether their bank is prudent
or reckless. Once you insure deposits, therefore, you also must
regulate banks more strictly (setting rules for bank capital,
among other things). That’s the old model for systemic safety in
finance: deposit insurance plus bank regulation.  Beyond Regulation  A different kind of run brought the financial system down
in 2008. In a shift that left regulators way behind, modern
finance moved much of the business of maturity transformation
out of retail banks and into the  capital market . Banks relied
less on deposits and more on short-term loans from professional
and institutional investors -- wholesale funding that was beyond
the reach of traditional regulation and unprotected by deposit
insurance. At the same time, savers put more of their money with
money-market mutual funds and other kinds of institutional
investors.  The archetype of the new form of non-deposit bank funding
is “repo.” In a repurchase transaction, a bank or other
borrower sells a security in return for cash, promising to buy
it back later at a higher price. The transfer of cash is akin to
a short-term deposit; the price difference is the repo
equivalent of paying interest. In addition, the loan is
“collateralized,” because the bank or other borrower loses the
security if it breaks its promise to repurchase. There’s an
extra margin of safety because the collateral is typically worth
more than the loan -- this margin, called the “haircut,”
serves a purpose similar to capital for a deposit-taking bank.  So what’s the problem? Essentially, when fear gripped the
capital market, securities deemed safe when they were pledged as
collateral suddenly looked unsafe. The market for collateralized
short-term funding therefore seized up. Borrowers couldn’t
borrow and had to liquidate assets instead. As forced sellers,
many lost money; with too little loss-absorbing capital, some
faced insolvency. Fear spread, further driving down the prices
of securities, adding to the panic. It was a run, but not one
that traditional financial regulation could have stopped.  Legislators and regulators haven’t been idle lately.
They’ve passed a flurry of new laws and rules. Yet  Daniel Tarullo , the Federal Reserve governor responsible for financial
regulation, recently  said  that “relatively little has been done
to change the structure of wholesale funding markets so as to
make them less susceptible to damaging runs.” That’s a pretty
remarkable statement, when you consider that it’s more than five
years since a run of the kind I just described destroyed Bear
Stearns Cos. and started the meltdown.  Possible Fixes  What might be done? Simply turning back the clock won’t
work. Securitization -- the bundling of loans into tradable
assets that can be pledged as collateral -- can’t be uninvented.
Even if that were possible it might not be desirable: The modern
short-term funding market means cheaper and more accessible
finance, which in normal times is a good thing. But, as we’ve
learned, the costs can be colossal when things go wrong. The
risks have to be reduced.  The leading academic analyst of the repo and related
shadow-banking markets is Gary Gorton of  Yale University . In a
2010  paper  with Yale’s Andrew Metrick (which I recommend for its
clear account of the larger problem), he suggested a two-part
strategy that parallels the traditional deposit-taker approach -
- combining elements of insurance on one side and extra
resilience to losses on the other.  For instance, Gorton and Metrick recommend that money-market mutual funds should be told to choose: Either be a
“narrow bank” that promises to redeem investments in full, and
be regulated accordingly, or a conservative investment fund
offering no guaranteed return. The first would be insured by the
government; the second wouldn’t.  Regulating repo is more complicated. Gorton and Metrick
recommend a new system of oversight of haircuts and acceptable
collateral, but working out the details is hard. The  Financial
Stability Board  -- the international coordinating body for
financial regulators -- has discussed some  ideas  but, as Tarullo
noted, there’s no blueprint yet, much less new laws or rules to
put any such blueprint into effect.  “I do not think that the post-crisis program of regulatory
reform can be judged complete until a more comprehensive set of
measures to address this problem is in place,” Tarullo says.
He’s right, but don’t hold your breath. Nobody’s in any hurry,
and the complexity of the issue has shielded it from political
attention.  Calling for stronger consumer protection or for the banks
to be broken into smaller pieces is more thrilling than (yawn)
demanding better regulation of repo and other non-deposit
shadow-banking liabilities. That’s a shame. If regulators keep
moving this slowly on modern short-term finance, the next crash
-- which will be thrilling, but in a bad way -- is just a matter
of time.  (Clive Crook is a Bloomberg View columnist.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Clive Crook at  ccrook5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Gibney at   jgibney5@bloomberg.net . 