-- Honeybee Health Damaged by Common Fungicides, Study Finds
-- B y   N i c o l e   O s t r o w
-- 2013-07-24T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-24/honeybee-health-damaged-by-common-fungicides-study-finds.html
Fungicides used on apples and other
crops lower the honey bees’ ability to defend against a
potentially lethal parasite linked to bee colony deaths, a study
found.  Commercial honey bees exposed to the fungicide
chlorothalonil had a three times greater risk of being infected
by the parasite linked to Colony Collapse Disorder than those
not exposed to the chemical used to fight off fungus, according
to research today in the  journal PLoS ONE .  The findings from the study, one of the first to analyze
real conditions encountered by bees as they pollinate a wide
variety of crops, were surprising because fungicides aren’t
designed to hurt insects, said Dennis vanEngelsdorp, a senior
study author. More research is needed to better understand the
effects all pesticides have on bees and how that works together
to affect colony health, he said.  “This study suggests there may be some lethal effects and
it may hurt the bees in the long term,” said  vanEngelsdorp , a
research scientist at the University of  Maryland  in College
Park, in a July 23 telephone interview. “It may compromise
their ability to fight infection. We may need to rethink how we
label fungicides as safe for bees.”  Honeybees are needed to pollinate 130 different crops,
representing more than $15 billion in revenue each year,
according to the U.S. Department of Agriculture. Fruit-pollinated products are found in items such as Haagen-Dazs ice
cream from Minneapolis-based  General Mills. (GIS)  Lip balm made by
Burt’s Bees Inc., a unit of Oakland, California-based  Clorox
Co. (CLX) , contains wax from the honeycombs of beehives.  Colony Collapse  Since 2006, the honeybee population has fallen partially
because of Colony Collapse Disorder, an unexplained syndrome
that has killed billions of bees.  Colony Collapse Disorder  has
no effective antidote.  Researchers in today’s study collected pollen from bee
hives from  Delaware  to  Maine . They then analyzed the samples to
determine which plants were the bees’ main pollen sources and
which  agricultural chemicals  were found with the pollen.  The pollen samples contained on average about nine
different chemicals, including fungicides, insecticides,
miticides and herbicides. The most frequent pesticides were the
fungicide  chlorothalonil  and the insecticide fluvalinate, used
to control a type of mite that’s a honey bee pest.  The researchers then fed healthy honey bees the pesticide-filled pollen and analyzed their ability to fend off infection
from Nosema ceranae, a parasite. Those fed the pollen containing
the fungicides chlorothalonil and pyraclostrobin were less able
to fend off an infection by Nosema than those not exposed to the
chemicals. The insecticides used to control the mites,
fluvalinate and amitraz, also hurt the bees’ ability to defend
against the parasites, the authors said.  Nosema is suspected as one of the potential causes, in
combination with other factors, of colony collapse disorder.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Ostrow in  New York  at 
 nostrow1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  