-- Hong Kong Stocks Retreat Before Preliminary HSBC China PMI Data
-- B y   K a n a   N i s h i z a w a
-- 2013-07-24T01:37:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-24/hong-kong-stocks-retreat-before-preliminary-hsbc-china-pmi-data.html
Hong Kong   stocks  retreated, with a
gauge of Chinese shares falling after its biggest one-day gain
in six months, before the release of a preliminary survey on
China’s manufacturing.  The  Hang Seng Index (HSI)  fell 0.3 percent to 21,850.86 as of
9:33 a.m. in Hong Kong. The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index of
mainland shares, which surged 3.9 percent yesterday, dropped 0.2
percent to 9,762.05.  A preliminary survey of purchasing managers by HSBC
Holdings Plc and Markit Economics may show a reading of 48.2 in
July, according to the median estimates of 19 economists. That’s
unchanged from the previous month and equal to the weakest since
September. Readings above 50 signal expansion.  The Hang Seng Index is down 3.3 percent this year through
yesterday, the third-worst performance among major developed
markets after Greece and Austria, as shares slid on signs
China’s growth is slowing and amid concern the  Federal Reserve 
will taper its stimulus.  Shares on the city’s benchmark  index  traded at 10.5 times
estimated earnings yesterday, compared with 15.4 times for the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and 13.4 for the Stoxx Europe 600
Index, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  China’s economy may be facing a period of instability and
imbalance as it transitions from high-speed growth, researcher
Yu Bin said in a report by China’s Development Research Center
released yesterday in  London . Market expectations are unstable,
downward pressure has increased, and the economy has become
unstable and uncertain like never before, he said.  Materials and energy companies led  declines  this year on
the Hang Seng Composite on concern demand will weaken amid
slower growth in  China’s economy . Gauges of  information
technology , utilities and services were the only measures that
rose among the index’s 11 industry groups.  The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index, also known as the H-share index, fell as much as 27 percent from a Feb. 1 high,
meeting some investors’ definition of a  bear market . The
 measure , which has since rebounded 10 percent, traded at 1.18
times the value of net assets yesterday, 34 percent lower than
it five-year average of 1.78.  Futures on the  S&P 500  were little changed today. The U.S.
equity index dropped 0.2 percent yesterday in  New York , as
investors weighed corporate earnings amid speculation on when
the Federal Reserve may scale back its asset purchases. The
Richmond Fed’s gauge of manufacturing in the mid-Atlantic region
unexpectedly fell to minus 11 in July.  A report due today is predicted to show gains in new home
sales slowed in June, after data July 22 indicated previously
owned house sales dropped amid rising mortgage rates.  Apple Inc., maker of the iPhone and iPad, reported after
the close of U.S. markets third-quarter profit and sales that
beat analysts’ estimates.  Hang Seng Index  futures fell 0.2 percent to 21,844. The HSI
Volatility Index slid to 18.5, the seventh retreat in eight days
and indicating traders expect a swing of 5.3 percent for the
equity benchmark in the next 30 days.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kana Nishizawa in Hong Kong at 
 knishizawa5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  