-- Hong Kong Appetite for $100 Mangoes Boosts ANA Cargo: Freight
-- B y   C h r i s   C o o p e r   a n d   K i y o t a k a   M a t s u d a
-- 2013-07-25T07:41:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-24/hong-kong-appetite-for-100-mangoes-boosts-ana-cargo-freight.html
ANA Holdings Inc. (9202) , Japan’s largest
airline, is targeting  Hong Kong ’s appetite for next-day delivery
of $100 mangoes and other food to boost its cargo as shipments
of  Panasonic Corp. (6752)  and Sony Corp. televisions slump.  Hong Kong, the biggest destination for food and live
animals exported by air from Japan, is buying more Japanese
beef, oranges, cherries and other premium items as the number of
rich in the city increases. Expanding demand is prompting the
airline to add more cargo flights in the region.  ANA is speeding up the transportation of farm goods by
avoiding  Tokyo  and using its cargo hub in Okinawa in southern
Japan. Rising exports of food and other perishables is helping
the carrier withstand a slump in the shipment of electronics as
 Sony (6758)  and other Japanese companies pare domestic manufacturing.  “Japanese seasonal fruits have a reputation for high
quality in Asian countries,”Akira Okada, ANA’s cargo head,
said in an interview in Tokyo. “In the future we want to be
able to provide next-day delivery to the Chinese mainland as
well. There are a lot of rich people in  China .”  The nation’s exports of  food and live animals  by planes
almost doubled in value in the past decade to 36 billion yen
($360 million) last year, from 19 billion yen in 2002, according
to figures from  Japan Customs . Hong Kong is the biggest
importer, with 20 billion yen in purchases last year.  Hitachi, Toshiba  In comparison, television shipments by air have slumped,
with about 661,000 units sent overseas last year from 2.5
million in 2002, according to Japan Customs. Japanese companies
have reduced or stopped TV production in the country as they
strive to cut costs and stem losses amid increasing competition.  In 2009, Sony closed a factory that made monitors and
projectors in Ichinomiya while Panasonic cut its investment in
two flat-panel factories at home. Hitachi Ltd. ended its
television manufacturing last year and Toshiba Corp. has also
stopped domestic TV production.  Yamato Holdings Co. (9064) , Japan’s largest express delivery
company, in May said it would offer  next-day  deliveries direct
to customers in Hong Kong and  Taiwan  from the Okinawa hub.  Oranges  from Ehime prefecture, western Japan, sell for
HK$338 ($44) for 1.2 kilograms (2.6 pounds) on Yahoo! Hong Kong
Ltd.’s website, while up to 700 grams of grapes from Kagawa
prefecture, western Japan, are priced at HK$458. Customers are
also paying up to 10,000 yen each for mangoes from Kyushu,
southern Japan, Okada said.  Eight Farmers  Miyazaki prefecture, in southern Japan, started growing
mangoes in  1985  when a group of eight farmers got together to
try and grow the fruit outside of Okinawa for the first time,
according to the local government.  They have since expanded production to more than  1,000 tons 
annually, according to the  Bank of Japan . The most expensive
variety called “ Egg of the Sun ” has sugar levels of  15 percent 
or higher and weighs 350 grams or more, according to Miyazaki
City’s website.  “ANA is doing a good job in trying to add value to its
cargo service by using its Okinawa hub,” said  Ryota Himeno , an
analyst at Barclays Securities Japan Ltd. “It’s a tough market
for air freight.”  The Asia Pacific region has had the sharpest decline in air
freight this year, with volumes down 3.2 percent in the year
through May, according to the  International Air Transport
Association . That compares with a 0.5 percent drop globally. In
Japan’s air cargo market, goods worth 16 trillion yen are
shipped overseas annually, according to Japan Customs.  Naha Hub  ANA, based in Tokyo, opened its cargo hub in Naha, Okinawa
in 2009, putting it two hours closer to Hong Kong by plane than
Tokyo. Demand is getting a boost after the number of
millionaires in Hong Kong jumped 36 percent to 114,000 last
year.  “What used to take two or three days, we can now do in
one,” Okada said on July 4. “Professionals are able to spot
the fruits that will ripen the next day and send them straight
to consumer.”  Since ANA’s hub opened, Naha,  Japan ’s fourth-biggest cargo
airport, has experienced a surge in air freight. Cargo passing
through the facility rose 57 percent to almost  360,000 tons  in
the year ended March 2012, from about 230,000 tons three years
earlier, according to the nation’s transport ministry.  The amount of international cargo that ANA handles at the
airport is about equal to the total overseas freight passing
through Naha, said Megumi Tezuka, a spokeswoman at ANA. She
declined to give a breakdown or costs for building the hub.  New Flight  The carrier also serves  Seoul ,  Shanghai , Taipei and Bangkok
with direct cargo flights from the Okinawa hub. It will start
flights to Qingdao, China, in August and may add flights to
 Vietnam ,  Indonesia  or the  Philippines  when it gets its 10th
cargo plane by the end of the March, Okada said.  Eventually, ANA plans to increase its fleet of cargo-only
planes to 13, Okada said, declining to specify a timeframe. The
carrier currently operates Boeing Co. 767 freighters.  Nippon Yusen K.K.’s unit  Nippon Cargo Airlines Co.  also
operates a cargo fleet. The carrier had  eight  Boeing 747-400Fs
and two 747-8Fs as of April 1, according to its website.  Nippon Cargo  flies to  North America and  Europe , as well as
other Asian cities from Tokyo and Osaka and Kitakyushu in
western Japan, according to its website. The carrier doesn’t
have a hub in Okinawa. The main area of sales for the company is
North America, said Kana Tsuchida, a spokeswoman.  Japan Airlines Co. (9201) , the nation’s second-largest airline,
 closed down  its freighter-only cargo business in 2010, when it
was going through bankruptcy restructuring. The carrier now
transports cargo in the bellies of passenger planes.  ANA’s cargo unit had 119 billion yen in sales in the 12
months ended March 2013, compared with 121 billion yen a year
earlier, according to the company. Freight accounted for 8
percent of its sales in the period.  “Japan’s manufacturers have already moved overseas,”
Okada said. “We want to see agriculture become a new
manufacturing industry.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Chris Cooper  in Tokyo at 
 ccooper1@bloomberg.net ;
Kiyotaka Matsuda in Tokyo at 
 kmatsuda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vipin V. Nair at 
 vnair12@bloomberg.net  