-- TOP Oil Market News: U.S. Crude Stockpiles Forecast to Decline
-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   K w i a t k o w s k i
-- 2013-07-24T06:34:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-24/top-oil-market-news-u-s-crude-stockpiles-forecast-to-decline.html
The following is a selection of the
most important news affecting the oil market.  WTI Oil Fluctuates as U.S. Crude, Fuel Stockpiles Seen Declining  West  Texas  Intermediate swung between gains and losses
after data showed crude and fuel stockpiles shrank in the U.S.,
the world’s largest oil consumer, and  China ’s manufacturing
slowed in July.  Glencore Fuel Spree With BP Ends Amid Contango: Energy Markets  Traders in Asia are getting the biggest discount this year
for the earliest deliveries of  fuel oil  following the end of an
unprecedented buying spree by Glencore Xstrata Plc, BP Plc and
PetroChina Co.  Crude Supplies Dropped 1.44 Million Barrels Last Week, API Says  U.S. crude supplies dropped 1.44 million barrels last week,
the  American Petroleum Institute  reported.  Saudi Aramco Oil Push Seen Raising Rig Count to Record This Year  Saudi Arabian Oil Co., the world’s largest crude exporter,
is set to add more drilling rigs than expected this year and
hire more in 2014 as new fields are drilled to counter dwindling
output from aging deposits.  Total Nears Sri Lanka Study Contract for Deepwater Oilfields  Total SA, Europe’s third-largest oil company, may win a
contract from the Sri Lankan government in a month to study the
prospect of oil and natural gas deposits deep off the island’s
fabled white-sand beaches.  Ethanol Drops Against Gasoline as Margins May Boost Production  Ethanol’s discount to gasoline reached the widest level in
three months on speculation higher profit margins to make the
fuel will boost production.  PV Oil Offers Bunga Orkid, Kekwa Crude Cargoes for September  PV Oil Co., Vietnam’s state-owned oil-marketing company, is
offering to sell 300,000 barrels each of Bunga Orkid and Bunga
Kekwa crude for September loading, according to a tender
document obtained by  Bloomberg News .  Asia Gasoil Backwardation Steepest in Three Weeks: Oil Products  Asia gasoil’s front-month backwardation, or premium to
second-month prices, is the steepest in almost three weeks.
Naphtha’s discount to Brent crude falls from the widest level in
two weeks.  OPEC  Iraq Oil Exports Fall for Second Month on Attacks, Weather (1)  Iraq’s crude exports and oil revenue declined in June for
the second month because of bad weather at the country’s ports
and attacks on northern pipelines, the oil ministry said.  REFINERIES Map global refinery outages  Cosmo Oil Restarts No. 2 Crude Unit at Chiba Refinery in Japan  Co. restarts No. 2 crude distillation unit at Chiba
refinery today, Kana Sakata, Cosmo spokeswoman, says by phone.  Irving-Bound Tanker Carrying WTI Returned to Texas, Records Show  A tanker scheduled to ship West Texas Intermediate oil to
 Canada  for Irving Oil Corp. returned to Texas last week,
according to a bill of lading.  Valero Says No Units Shut at Houston Refinery  Refinery in Texas has no maintenance planned or under way,
 Bill Day , Co. spokesman, said by e-mail.  Tesoro Gains Port Approval for  Vancouver  Oil-by-Rail Project (1)  Tesoro Corp.’s proposal to build a 120,000-barrel-a-day
crude-by-rail complex at the Port of Vancouver in Washington
received approval from the port’s board of commissioners today.  Crude Supplies Drop to Six-Month Low in Survey: Energy Markets  U.S. crude supplies probably fell to a six-month low as
refiners used more oil to meet demand for gasoline, a Bloomberg
survey showed.  Los Angeles Gasoline Strengthens Amid Flaring as Contract Rolls  California-blend gasoline on the  spot market  in  Los Angeles 
strengthened against futures as a Southern California refinery
planned to flare gases and the fuel began trading against the
less-expensive September contract.  Valero Houston Refinery Reports Flaring on Community Hotline  A situation at the Valero Houston refinery has made flaring
necessary, according to a message left on a community hotline  Crude Supplies Drop to Six-Month Low in Survey: Energy Markets  U.S. crude supplies probably fell to a six-month low as
refiners used more oil to meet demand for gasoline, a Bloomberg
survey showed.  OTHER OIL MARKET NEWS  Asia to Cut West African Crude Imports to 13-Month Low in August  Asian refiners will reduce imports of West African crude
for loading in August to the lowest in 13 months because of a
wider spread between benchmarks Brent and Dubai grades amid
refinery maintenance.  Oil Product Shipping Costs to Japan Are Unchanged  The cost of shipping a gallon of gasoline,  jet fuel  or
other so-called clean petroleum products from the Middle East to
Japan was unchanged at 6.69 U.S. cents yesterday, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The cost is based on a cargo of
55,000 metric tons.  Morgan Stanley Oil Tankers Raise Market Power Concern at Hearing  Morgan Stanley’s involvement in an oil tanker business,
petroleum transportation service and crude markets raised
concerns at a Senate hearing today that the owner of the world’s
largest brokerage wields too much market power.  TOP ENERGY STORIES  Foster’s Solar-Skinned Buildings Signal Market Tripling: Energy  From stadiums in Brazil to a bank headquarters in Britain,
architects led by  Norman Foster  are integrating solar cells into
the skin of buildings, helping the market for the technology
triple within two years.  Crude Rises on China Pledge to Maintain Growth as Dollar Weakens  West Texas Intermediate crude rose as China’s premier
pledged to defend the country’s growth rate and as the dollar
weakened against the euro.  Suncor Rebounds as Alberta Heavy Oil Doubles: Corporate Canada  Suncor Energy Inc. and other Canadian oil stocks have risen
almost twice as much as global competitors after the country’s
crude rose to a one-year high on optimism that pipeline
bottlenecks are easing.  U.K. Stocks Retreat for Third Day as Tullow Oil, EasyJet Decline  U.K. stocks fell for a third day as declines in Tullow Oil
Plc and EasyJet Plc outweighed comments by China’s Premier  Li
Keqiang  that the world’s second-largest economy will grow by at
least 7 percent.  Peabody Jumps on Surprise Profit, Lower Mining Cost Forecast (1)  Peabody Energy Corp., the largest U.S. coal producer, rose
the most in more than a week after reporting a surprise profit
and forecasting lower mining costs.  Industrial Alliance Targets C$500 Million Deal: Corporate Canada  Industrial Alliance Insurance and Financial Services Inc.,
the best-performing Canadian insurer in the past year, plans to
acquire a  money manager  in what would be the company’s biggest
takeover.  Sweden Caves to European Power Market Rout as Asset Sales Loom  Sweden signaled it may be readying the non-Nordic units of
Vattenfall AB for divestment as the utility writes down $4.6
billion after its expansion into  Germany  and the Netherlands
backfired.  Canadian Natural to Buy Barrick Energy Assets for $217 Million  Canadian Natural Resources Ltd., the nation’s third largest
oil and gas producer by market value, will buy energy assets
from Barrick Gold Corp. for about C$223 million ($217 million)
to acquire production in Alberta.  China Coal-Fired Economy Dying of Thirst as Mines Lack Water (1)  At first glance, Daliuta in northern China appears to have
a river running through it. A closer look reveals the stretch of
water in the center is a pond, dammed at both ends. Beyond the
barriers, the Wulanmulun’s bed is dry.  OTHER MARKETS  Asian Stocks Fall With Aussie After China PMI Data; Copper Drops  Asian stocks fell for the first time in three days, while
Australia’s dollar and copper slid, as a contraction in Chinese
manufacturing worsened. Indian stocks declined and swap rates
surged after the central bank tightened access to cash.  Dollar Near One-Month Low Versus Euro; Aussie, Yen Drop on China  The dollar traded 0.3 percent from a one-month low versus
the euro as weaker U.S. economic indicators bolstered the
argument for the  Federal Reserve  to delay a reduction to its
bond-buying program.  Humans Beating Robots Most Since ’08 as Trends Shift: Currencies  Humans are proving more adept than computers in reacting to
the Federal Reserve’s mixed messages on when policy makers will
reduce their unprecedented stimulus.  Asian Stocks Decline as Preliminary China PMI Misses Estimates  Asian stocks fell, with the regional benchmark index
retreating from a two-month high, after a private survey showed
China’s manufacturing contracting at a faster-than-estimated
pace.  S&P 500 Declines as Investors Weigh Earnings, Fed Stimulus Pace  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell, halting a streak of
four straight gains, as investors weighed corporate earnings
amid speculation on when the Federal Reserve may scale back its
asset purchases.  Fed Draws Fire for Oversight of Bank-Owned Commodity Operations  The Federal Reserve faces new pressure to explain why it
lets banks trade raw materials and control supplies after
congressional witnesses said regulators can’t really grasp what
lenders are doing in industrial businesses.  Gold Swings Near 1-Month High as Investors Assess Fed Stimulus  Gold fluctuated after advancing to the highest level in a
month as investors weighed the U.S. Federal Reserve’s next move
on monetary stimulus against the prospects for demand amid
higher prices.  China Bans New Government Buildings in Five-Year Crackdown (1)  China banned government departments, Communist Party
agencies and state-owned companies from constructing new office
buildings for five years as the country seeks to cut wasteful
spending.  Delhi Assaults on Women Rise as Verdict Due in Fatal Rape Case  The gang rape and subsequent death of a young medical
student seven months ago united India in outrage and brought
promises from the country’s leaders to curb attacks on women.
That hasn’t made  New Delhi  any safer.  SPORTS  Mom of Golf Prodigy Pummeled in a Hazing Death Defied by FratPAC  Harrison Kowiak was 19 years old when he died after
schoolmates pummeled him on a pitch-black field in Hickory,
 North Carolina . It was part of a fraternity hazing.  Juventus Out-Earns Winner Bayern in Soccer’s Champions League  Juventus out-earned European Cup winner Bayern Munich in
last season’s  Champions League  because of the Italian soccer
team’s income from broadcasters.  ENERGY PRICES  Last    Chg  %Chg   Exch  Contract  ----   ----  ----   ----  --------
WTI Crude ($/Bbl)      107.10  -0.13  -0.1  Nymex     Sept.
 Brent Crude  ($/Bbl)    108.20  -0.22  -0.2    Ice September
Gasoil ($/Ton)         919.75  -1.25  -0.1    Ice     Sept.
Gasoline (c/Gal)       307.50  +1.59  +0.5  Nymex      Aug.
Natural gas ($/MMBtu)    3.74     --  -0.1  Nymex      Aug.
Dated Brent ($/Bbl)    109.48  -0.23  -0.2    OTC   21 Days
Heating Oil            306.61  -0.32  -0.1  Nymex      Aug.
Other markets:  Last  %Chg  ----- -----
Dollar Index            82.16  +0.3
Gold ($/Oz)          1,335.20  -0.2
MSCI World Index     1,519.14    --
Prices as of 6 a.m. GMT  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski in Singapore at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  