-- Orange Juice Rises on Possible Weather Threat; Cotton Gains
-- B y   M a r l e y   D e l D u c h e t t o   K a y d e n
-- 2013-07-24T14:01:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-24/orange-juice-rises-on-possible-weather-threat-cotton-gains.html
Orange juice rose the most in a week
on speculation that a storm will threaten crops in  Florida , the
world’s second-biggest citrus grower. Cotton gained.  Tropical depression 4, with 35 mph winds, formed in the
eastern Atlantic at 5 a.m. today, Joel Widenor, a meteorologist
for Bethesda, Maryland-based Commodity Weather Group, said in a
telephone interview. TD-4 is 310 miles (499 kilometers)
southwest of the Cape Verde Islands and moving northwest at a
rate of 20 mph. The system is expected to strengthen into
Tropical Storm Dorian later today. Long-range models have the
storm heading toward Florida and reaching Puerto Rico by July
29.  “It is too early to tell the track and intensity, but this
could really do severe damage to the citrus area,” Sterling Smith, a futures specialist for Citigroup Inc. in  Chicago , said
in a telephone interview. “If it enters the Gulf of Mexico,
that will spike some extra nervousness. If it turns once it
comes around the Florida peninsula, it could become a definite
threat to citrus assets.”  Orange juice for September delivery rose 2.5 percent to
$1.456 a pound at 9:57 a.m. on ICE Futures U.S. in New York,
heading for the biggest increase since July 12. The price jumped
21 percent this year through yesterday on signs of a smaller
crop in Florida due to crop disease, and the risk of damage
during the hurricane season from June through November.  Brazil 
is the biggest orange grower.  Cotton futures for December delivery added 0.4 percent to
86.03 cents a pound on ICE. The fiber climbed 14 percent this
year through yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marley DelDuchetto Kayden in Chicago at 
 mdelduchett2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  