-- Mortgage Re-Defaults Need Treasury’s Focus, Audit Finds
-- B y   C l e a   B e n s o n
-- 2013-07-24T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-24/mortgage-re-defaults-need-treasury-s-focus-audit-finds.html
The U.S. Treasury Department needs
to do more to learn why more than a quarter of the borrowers in
a federal mortgage workout program have re-defaulted, costing
taxpayers at least $815 million, according to an audit  report 
released today.  “You have, right now, a situation where Treasury does not
understand and the servicers do not understand why homeowners
are falling out” of the Home Affordable Mortgage Program,
 Christy Romero , the Special Inspector General for the Troubled
Asset Relief Program, or SIGTARP, said in a telephone interview
yesterday. “That has to change so that action can be taken to
prevent that from happening.”  The report underscores a disagreement between the auditor
and Treasury over the performance of HAMP, which has used TARP
funds to pay lenders incentives to modify loans for nearly 1.2
million delinquent borrowers since February of 2009. More than
300,000 of those homeowners had re-defaulted by the end of April
this year. SIGTARP also said it found an “alarming” number of
HAMP re-defaults in an  April  audit.  Treasury officials said about 11 percent of borrowers who
re-defaulted after receiving a HAMP modification lost their
houses in foreclosure sales. The rest received other types of
loan workouts or gave up their homes before foreclosure.  “It is important to keep in mind that HAMP targets
borrowers in demonstratively difficult financial situations,”
Treasury Assistant Secretary Timothy Massad wrote in a July 5
letter to Romero. “While the program is designed to reduce the
default probability of these loans as much as possible, these
loans present a higher-than-usual risk of default to begin
with.”  Program Improvements  Treasury officials said borrowers are more likely to stay
current on their mortgages the longer they stay in the program
and that the most recent TARP recipients have been more
successful after improvements to the program including larger
average monthly payment reductions.  The audit found that struggling borrowers who entered the
program in 2009 and 2010, who make up more than half of all HAMP
participants, had re-default rates of 46 percent and 38 percent,
respectively.  “Rather than trying to defend this number or that number,
how can you help homeowners who may be at risk of re-defaulting
and take pro-active steps to help them?” Romero said in the
interview.  Mistakes by mortgage servicers may be partially to blame,
Romero said in the report, citing 13 different examples of
complaints from among “thousands” the auditor received from
troubled borrowers between 2010 and July of 2013. Homeowners
said lenders had lost their modification records, miscalculated
payments, failed to credit payments or had foreclosed on them
while a modification was in effect -- a violation of program
rules.  A Treasury official, who asked not to be identified as a
condition for briefing reporters on Tuesday, said servicer
performance had improved over time. Some servicers still have
room for improvement, the official said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clea Benson in Washington at 
 cbenson20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  