-- Emerging Stocks Decline on China Data as Rupiah Hits 4-Year Low
-- B y   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a   a n d   J u l i a   L e i t e
-- 2013-07-24T21:47:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-24/most-emerging-stocks-drop-on-china-data-as-apple-suppliers-gain.html
Emerging-market stocks  fell as an
unexpected decline in Chinese manufacturing and restrictions to
Indian banks’ access to cash outweighed gains for  Apple Inc. (AAPL) 
suppliers. Indonesia’s rupiah fell to a four-year low.  PetroChina Co. (857) , the country’s biggest oil and natural-gas
producer, sank 2 percent in Hong Kong, while iron-ore producer
MMX Mineracao & Metalicos SA led losses in Sao Paulo.  State Bank
of India (SBIN) , the nation’s largest lender by assets, lost 3.2
percent in Mumbai.  Inventec Corp. (2356)  rallied to a six-year high in
Taipei after Apple’s earnings beat estimates. OTP Bank Nyrt.,
Hungary’s biggest lender, rose the most in 11 months.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index slipped 0.3 percent to
966.50 as 434 of the gauge’s 820 member stocks fell. China’s
manufacturing contracted faster than analysts expected in July,
signaling a deepening slowdown in the world’s second-largest
economy, data showed today.  India ’s central bank yesterday
capped banks’ access to cash and raised the daily balance
requirement for the reserve ratio.  “The numbers were a little bit soft,”  Timothy Ghriskey ,
the chief investment officer at Solaris Group LLC in  New York ,
which manages over $1.5 billion, said by phone. “Growth in
China continues to decelerate, and that’s the primary reason
emerging markets are weak today.”  The initial reading of 47.7 for China’s initial purchasing
managers index compiled by HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit
Economics compares with the 48.2 median estimate in a Bloomberg
News survey of 19 economists and 48.2 in June. If confirmed in
the final report Aug. 1, the gauge would be the lowest in 11
months. Readings below 50 indicate contraction.  Vale Drops  The iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index exchange-traded
fund lost 1 percent to $39.69. The Chicago Board Options
Exchange  Emerging Markets  ETF Volatility Index, a measure of
options prices on the fund and expectations of price swings,
increased 1.5 percent to 22.43.  Benchmark gauges in Russia, Thailand and Indonesia lost at
least 0.7 percent. Stocks rose in Hungary and the Czech Republic
after a report showed manufacturing in the euro area
unexpectedly expanded in July for the first time in two years.  Brazil’s Ibovespa fell 0.9 percent as MMX slipped 9.6
percent. Gafisa SA led homebuilders lower after data showed that
the country’s unemployment rate unexpectedly increased in June.  The IPC index rose 0.1 percent in Mexico City, gaining a
third day.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries was unchanged at 304 basis points,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Diversified
Index.  Hungary Banks  The yield on  Hungary ’s three-year notes declined a third
day. The Magyar Nemzeti Bank lowered the two-week rate by 25
basis points to a record 4 percent and may continue with rate
cuts until the main rate falls to between 3 and 3.5 percent,
Governor Gyorgy Matolcsy said yesterday.  OTP climbed 4.7 percent in Budapest. CEO Sandor Csanyi, who
sold shares in the company last week, said the sale was done to
finance agricultural investments while its timing was influenced
by the government’s plan to help foreign-exchange mortgage
borrowers. The company can survive the government plan, Csanyi
said, adding that he’s in good health and doesn’t plan to
retire. The  BUX (BUX)  index gained 1.1 percent.  Hungary wants to “phase out” foreign-currency mortgages,
Economy Minister  Mihaly Varga  said as the cabinet discusses ways
to help homeowners amid concern lenders will be forced to take
losses.  OAO Uralkali slid 2.5 percent in Moscow to the lowest level
since December 2010 as the world’s largest potash producer by
output neared the end of a buyback.  Apple Suppliers  A  gauge  of technology companies in the MSCI Emerging
Markets Index rose 0.8 percent, the main advancer among 10
industry groups. Inventec, a supplier to Apple, jumped 6.8
percent while Hon Hai Precision Industry Co. added 1.4 percent
in Taipei. LG Innotek Co. advanced 3.5 percent to the highest
level since June 19 in  Seoul . Apple, maker of the iPhone and
iPad, posted third-quarter earnings per share of $7.47, beating
the average analyst estimate of $7.30.  The MSCI Emerging Markets gauge has lost 8.4 percent this
year and  trades  at about 10.1 times its 12-month projected
earnings. The MSCI World Index of developed nations has gained
13 percent in 2013 and trades at 13.9 times, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The rupiah dropped 0.6 percent, extending losses after
losing the most in 13 months yesterday as  Bank Indonesia  allowed
a more rapid slide toward levels quoted in the offshore market.
India’s rupee led gains, advancing 1.1 percent against the
dollar, while the Brazilian real fell 1.6 percent even as the
central bank intervened.  China Stocks  The Shanghai Composite Index fell 0.5 percent, dropping for
the first time in three days, while the  Hang Seng China
Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of mainland companies traded in  Hong Kong  was
little changed. PetroChina dropped the most in a month.  The S&P BSE Sensex sank 1 percent after the  Reserve Bank  of
India tightened lenders’ access to cash to support the rupee
after the currency slid to a record earlier this month.  State
Bank  of India dropped to the lowest level since Jan. 13, 2012.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Lyubov Pronina in London at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net ;
Julia Leite in New York at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  