-- Total Nears Sri Lanka Study Contract for Deepwater Oilfields
-- B y   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y   a n d   A n u s h a   O n d a a t j i e
-- 2013-07-24T04:54:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-24/total-nears-sri-lanka-study-contract-for-deepwater-oilfields.html
Total SA (FP) , Europe’s third-largest oil
company, may win a contract from the Sri Lankan government in a
month to study the prospect of oil and natural gas deposits deep
off the island’s fabled white-sand beaches.  Eni SpA (ENI)  of  Italy  has also expressed strong interest in the
blocks located in waters more than two miles deep, said Saliya Wickramasuriya, director general at the Petroleum Resources
Development Secretariat, which will give the contracts. Talks
are on with  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  and  India ’s  Oil & Natural Gas
Corp. (ONGC) , which have yet to evince interest, he said.  “We have six very large blocks, with very sparse data,
that we’re offering on a joint-study basis,” Wickramasuriya
said in a phone interview from Colombo. “Apart from the
hydrocarbon potential, which is the ultimate objective, it’s
also a mechanism for Sri Lankan companies to gain experience.”  Sri Lanka , ravaged by three decades of civil war that ended
in 2009, is seeking international help to discover its own wells
and shrink the $6 billion it spends annually to import all its
fuel needs.  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  and Exxon were among companies
that attended a conference in Colombo this month as the
government started its second and biggest oil auction, offering
13 blocks off the northern and western coasts, besides those for
joint studies.  “With Sri Lanka on a growth bias, an oil find will really
give an additional boost to the economic expansion story,”
Bimanee Meepagala, a Colombo-based analyst at the country’s
largest private fund NDB Aviva Wealth Management Ltd., said July
23. “Commercial viability will also help stabilize Sri Lanka’s
economic fundamentals.”  Deal Option  The winners of the study contracts will have two years to
collect data and an option to negotiate a deal with the
government for the blocks, Wickramasuriya said. Should a deal
fail to be worked out, the government may auction the blocks at
the end of the third year, he said.  Total spokesman Vincent Granier declined to comment. An Eni
spokesman also didn’t comment, asking not to be identified
because of company policy. ONGC Chairman Sudhir Vasudeva and
Exxon spokesman  Alan Jeffers  also declined to comment.  President  Mahinda Rajapaksa ’s government, which pledged to
spend $1 billion annually for at least three years from 2010 on
infrastructure, is unlikely to give the contracts for the study
blocks to a single company, Wickramasuriya said. The government
also reserves the right to nominate a Sri Lankan company as a
partner in the blocks, he said.  Cairn Discovery  Cairn India Ltd. (CAIR)  established the presence of gas deposits
in Sri Lankan waters last year. The company, which is producing
oil at India’s largest onshore block, discovered gas in an
offshore area in Sri Lanka’s Mannar basin, estimated by the
government to hold 1 billion barrels of oil. That’s equal to
about 18 percent of India’s proved oil reserves, according to BP
data.  Cairn India is conducting further exploration and analysis
on the discoveries, Asset Manager Nicholas Whitely said at the
conference in Colombo on July 11. The 13 blocks being auctioned
are located in the Cauvery and Mannar basins. The Cauvery basin
is a geological extension of an area in India off the coast of
 Tamil Nadu , where  Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL)  announced a gas
discovery in July 2007 followed by a second find four years
later.  Spending to extract the gas and pump it to factories
including power stations on land would require as much as $2
billion over the next five years, Wickramasuriya said.  “We don’t expect it to be impossible to meet our entire
national requirement from domestic production,” he said. “The
first stage is offsetting import cost. The second stage is
revenue from exports. We’re already looking at starting to
impinge on imports using the Cairn gas.”  Economic Growth  President Rajapaksa is seeking to expand the economy at 7.5
percent this year after growth cooled to 6.4 percent in 2012 as
demand fell for exports ranging from tea to textiles. The
 Central Bank of Sri Lanka  reduced benchmark borrowing costs in
December and May after raising them in February and April last
year and letting the rupee weaken to tackle a trade deficit that
depleted foreign exchange reserves.  “The big difference between this bid round and the first
one is this comes post the Cairn discoveries, so there’s a
significant de-risking from that,” Wickramasuriya said. “The
economic impact of our own oil and gas will phase in over the
next three to four years.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rakteem Katakey in  New Delhi  at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net ;
Anusha Ondaatjie in Colombo at 
 anushao@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  