-- Motorola Solutions Cutting Costs on Weaker Sales Outlook
-- B y   S c o t t   M o r i t z
-- 2013-07-24T20:06:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-24/motorola-solutions-cutting-costs-on-weaker-sales-outlook.html
Motorola Solutions Inc. (MSI) , the bar-code and two-way radio manufacturer, fell the most in three
months after lowering its sales forecast again on weak orders.  The shares dropped 6.6 percent to $56.04 at the close in
New York after the company forecast full-year sales to be little
changed or up 1 percent from 2012, according to a statement.
Analysts had expected 3 percent sales growth this year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The stock decline was
the biggest one-day slump since April 24.  Sluggish demand from business customers is the primary drag
on sales, said Chief Executive Officer Greg Brown. The company
had previously lowered its forecast for the year in April.  “It’s taking longer than we thought to recover,” Brown
said in an interview. “Our customers are being more
conservative around their spending, and we are feeling that.”  Motorola Solutions, based in Schaumburg,  Illinois , said
third-quarter adjusted earnings will be in the range of 97 cents
to $1.02 a share, compared with the average analyst  estimate  of
$1.25. The company said third-quarter sales may be little
changed or decline as much as 3 percent, below the 5 percent
gain forecast by analysts.  To adjust to the weaker sales outlook, the company is
reducing operating expenses this year and expects to cut $50
million from operating costs next year, said Brown.  “Through more tweaking than anything, we are matching
workforce to workload,” said Brown.  For the second quarter, the company reported adjusted
 earnings  of $1.12 a share on sales of $2.1 billion. The company
raised its quarterly dividend to 31 cents a share from 26 cents
and expanded its share buyback plan by $2 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Moritz in New York at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  