-- OTP Bank Jumps Most in Year as CEO to Stay On: Budapest Mover
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2013-07-24T15:30:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-24/otp-jumps-most-in-three-weeks-as-ceo-stays-on-budapest-mover.html
OTP Bank Nyrt. had its biggest gain
in almost a year as Sandor Csanyi said he would stay on as chief
executive officer of  Hungary ’s biggest lender after selling his
shares in the bank amid government plans to amend mortgage
contracts.  The stock jumped 4.7 percent to 4,445 forint at the close
in Budapest, the biggest gain on a closing basis since Aug. 6.
It plunged 17 percent in the four days through July 19 when the
lender said Csanyi and Bonitas 2000 Zrt., a company he controls,
sold 1.7 million OTP shares. The bank announced a further sale
of 650,000 shares by Bonitas on July 22.  Csanyi, 60, today confirmed he sold the shares to finance
agricultural investments and said he is in good health, with no
plans to retire. The timing of the stock sale was influenced by
the government’s plans to help foreign-exchange mortgage
borrowers, Csanyi told reporters today.  “Csanyi’s comments underscored the message that he is not
fleeing from the shares because a collapse is imminent,” Zsolt Balasy, an equity analyst at MKB Bank Zrt., a unit of  Bayerische
Landesbank , said by phone from Budapest.  Hungary wants to “phase out” foreign-currency mortgages,
Economy Minister  Mihaly Varga  said today as the cabinet
discusses potential plans to retroactively change contracts to
help homeowners. The government will “definitely” consider
“aspects of timing and the burden carried” when drafting
legislation, the state-run MTI news service cited Varga as
saying.  OTP dropped 36 percent and the forint weakened 12 percent
in 2011, when the government forced banks to take losses by
allowing clients to repay foreign-currency loans early at below-market rates. Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  also imposed special
taxes on banks and on financial transactions, such as cash
withdrawals from ATMs, since taking power in 2010.  “So far, it always turned out that OTP survives the bank
levies and in fact it emerges in the best shape within the
banking sector,” MKB’s Balasy said. “We may be returning to
that scenario.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  