-- Louisiana Levee Group Sues Oil Companies Over Wetlands
-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 2013-07-24T17:44:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-24/louisiana-levee-group-sues-oil-companies-over-wetlands-1-.html
About 100  oil companies  including
units of  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ,  ConocoPhillips Co. (COP)  and  BP Plc (BP/)  were
sued by a Louisiana flood protection group seeking the repair of
coastal storm buffers.  The Southeast Louisiana Flood Protection Authority-East
claims the oil companies degraded storm protections by dredging
more than 10,000 miles of canals for pipelines and by conducting
exploration activities in coastal wetlands, according to a
complaint filed today in state court in Orleans Parish.  The authority sued for damages that it said can be used to
repair the environmental buffer zone that helps protect the New
Orleans region from catastrophic  storm surge  during hurricanes.  “The increasing intrusion of saltwater stresses the
vegetation that holds wetlands together, weakening -- and
ultimately killing -- that vegetation,” Gladstone N. Jones III,
a lawyer for the plaintiff, said in court papers.  “Thus weakened, the remaining soil is washed away even by
minor storms,” Jones said. “The product of this network is an
ecosystem so seriously diseased that its complete demise is
inevitable if no action is taken.”  Gas Activities  The  U.S. Geological Survey  cites oil and gas activities
among the primary causes of the loss of an estimated 1,900
square miles of coastal lands Louisiana since the early 1930s,
according to the complaint.  “This is not a new issue because the conversation about
the wetlands we’ve lost and who is responsible has been going on
for years and years,” Chris John, president of the Louisiana
Mid-Continent Oil and Gas Association, said in a telephone
interview. Many of the firms sued by the levee group are members
of his organization.  Louisiana’s wetlands have been degraded by a number of
factors including hurricane storm surges and the diversion of
the Mississippi River, which formerly replenished coastal
wetlands with silt deposits, he said. Oil and pipeline companies
have helped set up a  trust fund  that uses part of the state’s
oil royalties to restore damaged coastal areas, he said.  A similar measure to divert part of the royalties from oil
and gas activities in federal waters is also pending in the  U.S.
Senate .  “We’re going to fight this suit as an industry,” John
said. “Our people live here and work here, and our
infrastructure is here, too, so the wetlands are as important
and precious to us as anyone else.”  Scott Dean , a BP spokesman, and Todd Spitler, ExxonMobil’s
downstream spokesman, declined to comment on the litigation.
Davy Kong, ConocoPhillips’s representative, didn’t immediately
respond to voice or e-mail messages requesting comment.  The case is Board of Commissioners of the Southeast
Louisiana Flood Protection Authority-East v. Tennessee Gas
Pipeline Co. LLC, 2013-6911, Civil District Court for the Parish
of Orleans, Louisiana.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in federal court in Houston at
   laurel@calkins.us.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net  