-- House Rejects Restricting NSA Access to Telephone Records
-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n   a n d   C h r i s   S t r o h m
-- 2013-07-24T23:08:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-24/house-rejects-restricting-nsa-access-to-telephone-records.html
 U.S. lawmakers angry about domestic
telephone record-collection lost an effort to curtail funding for
the intelligence-gathering tools revealed by fugitive U.S. 
security contractor Edward Snowden.  On a vote of 205-217, the House rejected an amendment that
would have limited the National Security Agency’s ability to
collect communications records.  Implementation of the amendment could have created a new
burden on telephone and Internet companies to retain bulk data,
in addition to ending the NSA’s blanket collection of phone
records. Those possibilities led the White House, Republicans
leaders and many congressional Democrats to oppose the
proposals, pitting them against lawmakers from both parties who
champion civil liberties and privacy.  The head of the NSA, General Keith Alexander, gave
lawmakers a hastily scheduled briefing yesterday to make the
case for leaving the program as it is.  The proposal by Representative Justin Amash, a  Michigan 
Republican, would have prohibited intelligence agencies from
collecting phone records unless a Foreign Intelligence
Surveillance Court order stipulates that the records pertain to
an individual under investigation.  That would put an end to the NSA’s blanket collection of
metadata on calls, such as telephone numbers and duration.  The provision would have had the potential to cause
headaches for information technology companies.  Significant Burden  “It could be a significant burden depending on how the
government wants us to keep this data and store it,” Trey
Hodgkins, a senior vice president for TechAmerica, a Washington-based trade group that represents  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ) ,
 AT&T Inc. (T)  and  CenturyLink Inc. (CTL) , said in a phone interview.
“You’re talking about potentially extremely huge data sets.”  The House also adopted an amendment written by Republican
Richard Nugent of  Florida  that sought to prohibit the NSA from
using funds in the almost $600 billion Pentagon spending measure
to “acquire, monitor or store the content” of electronic
communications by “a United States person.”  The Nugent amendment was viewed by some lawmakers as
providing political cover for those who didn’t want to vote for
Amash’s amendment. While lawmakers voting for the Nugent
amendment might appear to be curbing the NSA’s powers, in
actuality the amendment wouldn’t change anything, simply
restates current law and is “a fig leaf”, said Representative
Zoe Lofgren, a  California  Democrat.  Patriot Act  Privacy advocates like Kate Martin, director of the Center
for National Security Studies in  Washington , supported the
amendments.  The Amash amendment would have made the government use its
authority as originally intended by the Patriot Act, under which
records only can be sought for particular investigations, Martin
said in a phone interview.  “The fact that the House leadership allowed debate and
vote on this amendment reflects the deep concern in the Congress
about both the secrecy and the breadth of these authorities,”
she said.  The debate in Washington has produced unusual alliances,
with the White House and Republican leaders on one side. On the
other were the libertarian wing of the Republican base and
Democrats like Colorado’s Jared Polis and  John Conyers  of
Michigan, the top Democrat on the Judiciary Committee.  “It’s a funny issue because it’s not partisan; it’s just
that eternal debate between liberty and security,” said
Representative Tom Cole, an Oklahoma Republican.  Terrorism Investigations  The NSA has said that while it gathers information on all
U.S. phone calls to have it at hand, it accesses the data only
when needed for terrorism investigations. Current law states
that the NSA cannot target a U.S. person without an individual
warrant.  While Alexander’s remarks in the briefing weren’t made
public, Director of National Intelligence James Clapper today
issued a statement in opposition to the NSA amendments.  “As the  House of Representatives  prepares to vote today on
legislation to limit the authority exercised by the National
Security Agency pursuant to the Foreign Intelligence
Surveillance Act and court order, I join others who caution that
acting in haste to defund the FISA Business Records program
risks dismantling an important intelligence tool,” Clapper
said.  White House press secretary  Jay Carney  issued a written
statement yesterday expressing opposition to Amash’s amendment.  Obama Opposition  “We oppose the current effort in the House to hastily
dismantle one of our intelligence community’s counterterrorism
tools,” he wrote. “This blunt approach is not the product of
an informed, open, or deliberative process.”  The chairman of the House Intelligence Committee,
Representative Mike Rogers of Michigan, and the head of the
Armed Services Committee, Representative Buck McKeon of
California, also weighed in, saying concerns about the spy
programs revealed by Snowden are worthy of debate, though
shouldn’t be handled as part of the Pentagon spending bills.  “Any such changes ought to proceed through a regular
legislative process so the effects can be understood and debated
fully,” the chairmen wrote.  Rogers said he’d revisit the issue later this year in a
larger intelligence bill.  Snowden, a former security contractor for  Booz Allen
Hamilton Holding Corp. (BAH) , faces U.S. espionage charges for
disclosing secret phone and Internet surveillance programs. He
fled to  Hong Kong  and then Moscow.  After Alexander’s briefing yesterday, Amash said that while
the general provided good information, “I don’t think it’s
going to change people’s views on the collection of Americans’
phone records.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Strohm in Washington at 
 cstrohm1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katherine Rizzo at 
 krizzo5@bloomberg.net  