-- House Committee Approves Hensarling’s Housing-Finance Bill
-- B y   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s
-- 2013-07-24T15:33:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-24/house-committee-approves-hensarling-s-housing-finance-overhaul.html
The House Financial Services
Committee approved a Republican housing bill that would
liquidate U.S.-owned financiers  Fannie Mae (FNMA)  and Freddie Mac and
limit government mortgage guarantees.  The bill, offered by Representative Jeb Hensarling, the
Texas Republican who leads the committee, was passed on a mostly
party-line vote of 30-27. Representatives Gary Miller of
 California  and Mike Fitzpatrick of Pennsylvania were the only
Republicans opposing the bill, which Hensarling proposed as an
alternative to a bipartisan Senate measure.  “After today, it’s unclear what happens next,” Brian Gardner, senior vice president for Washington research at Keefe,
Bruyette & Woods Inc., said in an interview. “Some think the
House leadership wants to vote on the bill but I think there is
some apprehension within the leadership until it becomes clear
that the Senate will vote on a bill.”  Hensarling’s legislation would eliminate Washington-based
Fannie Mae and  Freddie Mac (FMCC)  of McLean, Virginia, within five
years and replace them with a National Mortgage Market Utility
to securitize mortgages. Unlike the Senate bill, the House
measure wouldn’t include U.S. backing for securitized loans,
though it would let the Federal Housing Administration play an
expanded guarantee role in an economic crisis.  “This legislation is radical, it is unworkable and it was
written in secret without any input from the Democrats on this
committee,” Representative Maxine Waters of California, the
panel’s ranking Democrat, said yesterday. Democrats on the
committee said the Republican bill would mean the end of 30-year
fixed-rate mortgages.  Floor Vote  Hensarling said he is eager to bring his measure to a vote
on the House floor. He said he will meet with House Republican
leaders next week and will hold listening sessions for lawmakers
outside the Financial Services Committee.  “We’ve taken a good step towards protecting homeowners,
protecting taxpayers and creating a sustainable housing
system,” he said today. “It’s an important work and I was very
gratified today to get it passed out of the committee.”  The bill’s emphasis on near-complete privatization of the
mortgage market places Hensarling and his committee at odds with
their colleagues in the Senate. The measure proposed last month
by Senators Bob Corker, a Tennessee Republican, and Mark Warner,
a  Virginia  Democrat, would replace Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac
with a government reinsurer and force banks to hold capital of
10 percent of the principal of the underlying securities to
cover any first loss on the loans.  The two government-sponsored enterprises, which have been
under U.S. conservatorship since 2008, provide liquidity for the
mortgage market by buying and packaging loans into securities on
which they guarantee payment of principal and interest. They
have begun posting record profits this year after being
sustained by $187.5 billion in taxpayer aid since they were
seized amid losses during the credit crisis.  The House bill is H.R. 2767; the Senate measure is S.1217.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cheyenne Hopkins in Washington at 
 chopkins19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  