-- Pakistan’s Lawmakers to Elect New President This Month
-- B y   H a r i s   A n w a r   a n d   A u g u s t i n e   A n t h o n y
-- 2013-07-25T03:34:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-24/pakistan-s-lawmakers-to-pick-new-president-as-zardari-term-ends.html
(Corrects spelling of candidate in second paragraph in
story originally published July 24.)  Pakistan’s leading political parties
nominated candidates to succeed Asif Ali Zardari as president, a
largely ceremonial position since 2010 changes stripped it of
powers to dismiss parliament or appoint the army chief.  The ruling Pakistan Muslim League of Prime Minister  Nawaz Sharif  put forward Mamnoon Hussain, a party loyalist from Sindh
province, for an election to be held July 30. Hussain will
compete with Raza Rabbani, a senator nominated by Zardari’s
Pakistan Peoples Party, and retired judge Wajihuddin Ahmed, who
has been fielded by the third biggest party in parliament,  Imran Khan ’s Tehreek-e-Insaf.  “As far as the numbers game is concerned, Sharif’s
candidate has a very clear advantage,” said Hasan-Askari Rizvi,
a Lahore-based political analyst in a phone interview. “Hussain
does not have any individual clout so Sharif will have a free
hand.”  Pakistani lawmakers in the federal parliament and four
provincial assemblies will elect the next president in a secret
ballot. The PML has 143 members in parliament’s dominant lower
house to 33 for the PPP, according to the legislature’s  website .
Raja Zafar-ul-Haq, a leader of Sharif’s party, told reporters
the  Supreme Court  had ordered the election to be held on July
30. Zardari’s term ends in September.  Constitutional changes in 2010 removed presidential powers
accrued by former military leader  Pervez Musharraf  to dismiss
the prime minister and appoint military leaders. Zardari, the
widower of assassinated Prime Minister  Benazir Bhutto  who became
president after Musharraf was forced to resign in 2008, remained
a key player in Pakistani politics as head of the Peoples Party
which led the last ruling coalition.  Economy Fight  The presidential election comes as Sharif struggles to
overcome crippling energy shortages and a Taliban insurgency.
The $210 billion economy expanded at an annual average of 3
percent since 2008, below the 7 percent pace the  Asian
Development Bank  says is needed to provide jobs for an idle
workforce. The  budget deficit  has surged to a two-decade high as
revenues stalled.  Sharif’s victory in May 11 parliamentary polls kicked off a
year of transition in  Pakistan . General Ashfaq Pervez Kayani’s
three-year term as army chief ends in November while Chief
Justice Iftikhar Chaudhry will complete his period in office in
December.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Haris Anwar in Islamabad at 
 hanwar2@bloomberg.net ;
Augustine Anthony in Islamabad at 
 aanthony9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  