-- Alzheimer’s Risk Gene Tracked in Search for New Therapies
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 2013-07-24T17:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-24/path-of-alzheimer-s-disease-risk-gene-tracked-scientists-say.html
Scientists mapped the step-by-step
actions that lead to late-onset Alzheimer’s disease, research
that may offer new paths to developing treatments for the
ailment.  People who carried the APOE4 gene, known to increase the
risk of acquiring Alzheimer’s later in life, without having the
disease, experienced changes in the expression of genes in their
brains that resembled those of Alzheimer’s patients, according
 to a study  published today in the journal Nature.  The changes in gene expression may point to early markers
of the disease, and may help develop drugs for  Alzheimer’s , for
which there is no treatment or cure. They also bolster the idea
that Alzheimer’s disease alters the brain long before patients
become forgetful, said Dean Hartley, the director of scientific
initiatives for the  Alzheimer’s Association,  an advocacy
organization in  Chicago . He wasn’t involved in the study.  “We do need to understand more about the mechanisms
involved in Alzheimer’s disease’s initiation and progression,”
Hartley said in a telephone interview, noting there haven’t been
any successful clinical trials for drugs that try to alter the
disease’s path. “This paper is important because it’s trying to
look at what’s being affected. It may suggest targets or
pathways to look for new drugs.”  The research also suggests that doctors should look to
treat patients before they become forgetful, Hartley said.
Studies like this one may help identify places to intervene
before symptoms appear, he said.  More than  5 million people  in the U.S. have Alzheimer’s,
the most common form of dementia, and the number may increase to
as many as 16 million by 2050, according to the  Alzheimer’s
Association .  Brain Activity  There has been growing interest among scientists in what
happens in the brain before a patient is diagnosed with clinical
Alzheimer’s. Today’s study is meant to help understand those
changes at the molecular and cellular levels,  Asa Abeliovich , a
study author and neuroscientist at  Columbia University  in  New
York , said in a telephone interview.  The  APOE4 gene  increases the risk of developing late-onset
Alzheimer’s, the most common form of the disease, by 3 times for
those who have one copy of the gene, and 10 times in those who
have two. That gene was  first identified  in 1991.  While APOE4 raises the risk of getting Alzheimer’s, most
people with the mutation don’t develop  dementia , Abeliovich
said. That suggests some other factor may be required for
Alzheimer’s to begin. The most important non-genetic risk factor
for Alzheimer’s is age. Understanding how the cellular changes
from APOE4 interact with other risk factors may explain why some
people develop the disease while others don’t.  Gene Targets  The researchers found 215 genes worked differently in those
who had APOE4. They looked most closely at two, which act on how
the body processes amyloid precursor protein, which creates the
characteristic Alzheimer’s protein, beta amyloid.  “There may be more going on than just amyloid, and that
might be part of the reason why it’s been hard to solve this
problem” of what causes the disease, as well as how to create
therapies for it, Abeliovich said.  One of the two gene targets the researchers examined in
detail in their paper is called SV2A. An existing drug for
epilepsy, levetiracetam , silences the gene’s activity.  Adding
the drug to human cells with APOE4 lowered the rate of beta
amyloid accumulation in lab tests. That suggests SV2A is
required to turn amyloid precursor protein into beta amyloid. It
may be worth examining further as an early intervention,
Abeliovich said.  “This kind of an approach, in this age where we know more
and more about genomes, is going to be increasingly important to
understand how risk factors work, and how we should treat
them,” Abeliovich said. “Particularly with Alzheimer’s.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in  San Francisco  at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  