-- Patriots Coach Belichick Says Aaron Hernandez Charges a Shock
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-07-24T19:11:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-24/patriots-coach-belichick-says-aaron-hernandez-charges-a-shock.html
New England Patriots coach Bill Belichick said he was shocked and disappointed when he learned
that tight end Aaron Hernandez had been charged with murder.  “Overall, I’m proud of the hundreds of players that have
come through this program, but I’m personally disappointed and
hurt in a situation like this,” Belichick said today in his
first public comments since Hernandez was arrested June 26 and
released by the Patriots later the same day.  Belichick met with reporters in Foxboro,  Massachusetts , a
day before veteran players are scheduled to report for the
National Football League team’s training camp.  “This case involves an individual who happened to be a New
England Patriot. This does not in any way represent the way the
New England Patriots want to do things,” Belichick said. “We
worked very hard together over the past 14 years to put together
a winning team that is a pillar in the community.”  Belichick said the organization’s “thoughts and prayers”
are with the family of victim Odin Lloyd, 27, whose body was
found June 17 in an industrial park in North Attleboro, about 30
miles southwest of  Boston . Hernandez, 23, who has pleaded not
guilty, played three seasons with the Patriots.  “I and other members of our organization were shocked and
disappointed,” Belichick said. “After consultation with
ownership, we acted swiftly and decisively.”  A judge in Attleboro today rescheduled a probable cause
hearing for Hernandez until Aug. 22 after prosecutors asked for
more time to present evidence to a grand jury, the Associated
Press reported.  The Patriots selected Hernandez in the fourth round of the
2010 draft out of the University of  Florida . He was an All-American and the 2009 winner of the John Mackey Award as college
football’s top tight end.  In three years with the Patriots, the 6-foot-1, 245-pound
tight end had 175 receptions for 1,956 yards and 18 touchdowns.  “My comments are certainly not in proportion to the
unfortunate and sad situation that we have here, but I’ve been
advised to address the subject once, and it’s time for the New
England Patriots to move forward,” Belichick said. “Moving
forward consists of what it’s always been here: to build a
winning football team, to be a strong pillar in the community,
to be a team that our fans can be proud of.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  