-- Pension Deficits Get Renewed Scrutiny Post-Detroit Filing
-- B y   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y   a n d   D a r r e l l   P r e s t o n
-- 2013-07-24T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-24/pension-deficits-get-renewed-scrutiny-post-detroit-filing.html
The bankruptcy of Detroit, which may
cut retirement benefits of 30,000 current and former city
workers, is causing investors to scrutinize billion-dollar
shortfalls in government pensions in other parts of the country.  Chicago, Philadelphia, New York, Phoenix and Jacksonville,
 Florida , are among large cities that had 60 percent or less of
what they need in their retirement systems to cover promised
benefits, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. At least 29
public plans in 16 states are less than two-thirds funded,
according to Boston College’s Center for Retirement Research.  The Wall Street credit crisis that peaked in 2008 sent
stocks  tumbling  and cut the value of pension assets, while most
plans count on annual investment gains of about 8 percent. The
losses are forcing governments to find ways to cut benefits and
pump more money into their retirement systems, leading to
disputes between unions and political leaders.  Detroit “brings that concern to the forefront again,”
said Matt Dalton, who helps manage $1.6 billion of munis at
Belle Haven Investments Inc. in White Plains, New York. Pension
obligations are among “the most stressful situation for the
state and cities.”  Concern that localities aren’t doing enough to ensure
pensions and related benefits are funded has led munis to weaken
compared with Treasuries, said David Litvack, head of tax-exempt
fixed income research at New York-based U.S. Trust, a unit of
Bank of America Corp. Yields on 10-year AAA munis were 113.6
percent of those on similar-maturity Treasuries yesterday, up
from 97.6 percent a month earlier. The higher the percentage,
the cheaper munis are relative to federal debt.  Growing ‘Stress’  “The market thinks the risk is going up,” Litvack said.
“The incidence of stress is growing.”  Detroit  last week filed the biggest municipal bankruptcy in
U.S. history because of its inability to meet $18 billion in
debt, setting off a court fight with unions seeking to stop the
city from cutting benefits protected by Michigan law.  Emergency Manager Kevyn Orr, appointed by Republican
Governor Rick Snyder, estimates that the city owes $3.5 billion
to its retirement funds, which have been selling assets to pay
benefits. Pension overseers dispute Orr’s figures and say the
deficit is about $700 million, a difference based on competing
assumptions of fund investment earnings.  Population Drop  The bankruptcy stemmed from a decades-long slide that cut
the city’s population by more than half, and years of borrowing
to cover $700 million in bills since 2007, along with retirement
obligations that its pensions don’t have the cash to pay.  Deficits in public retirement plans are drawing attention
from bond analysts. Moody’s Investors Service in April said it
may cut the credit ratings of $12.5 billion of debt sold by 29
municipalities, including Minneapolis and Cincinnati, because of
potential pension costs. This month, Moody’s lowered  Chicago ’s
grade, citing the third-largest U.S. city’s $36 billion gap.  No large American city is facing the same depth of
financial distress as Detroit. Its collapse provides an extreme
example of what’s at risk for investors, workers and taxpayers
if municipalities fail to fix their pensions.  “The underlying issue here is really the health of the
city,” said Dean Baker, an economist with the Center for
Economic and Policy Research in Washington. “You could say they
didn’t put enough into their pension fund, which is certainly
true. But that was really just a desperation measure for a city
that was facing all sorts of really big problems. It was really
symptomatic of a larger city decline.”  Earnings Assumptions  Estimates of public-pension shortfalls vary based on
assumptions about investment earnings. The Center for Retirement
Research in Newton,  Massachusetts ,  estimates  the collective
deficit of state and local pensions is from $1 trillion to more
than $3 trillion, depending on investment-return assumptions.  In the first quarter of this year, the largest 100 state
and local retirement funds held $2.9 trillion in assets, about
the same amount as in 2007, according to the U.S. Census Bureau.
To make up for years when assets didn’t increase as governments
assumed they would, pensions will have to either invest more,
obtain better returns or cut benefits to close the gap.  In 2011, local governments put $57 billion into retirement
funds, a small share of their $1.2 trillion budgets, according
to Census Bureau and U.S. Commerce Department figures.  ‘Troubled’ Pensions  “Pensions are troubled, but not hugely out of line,”
Baker said. “If you put it off long enough, they will face
serious strains trying to meet those burdens.”  Chicago had just 40 percent of what it needed to meet
future pension payments as of 2011, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. Mayor Rahm Emanuel, a Democrat, can’t curb
benefits without approval from the state legislature, which
hasn’t acted. The city’s pension contribution will rise from
$467 million in 2014 to $1.2 billion in 2015, Moody’s said,
calling the increase a “tremendous strain” on the budget.  Kathleen Strand , a spokeswoman for Emanuel, didn’t
immediately respond to a telephone call seeking comment.  Other cities have been more successful in pushing through
changes. Voters in San Diego, where mayoral candidates in 2005
debated seeking bankruptcy protection to escape pension debts,
last year approved a ballot measure steering new public
employees into 401(k)-style retirement plans. They are based on
a worker’s contributions instead of salary and years of service.  Bill Paying  New York Mayor Michael Bloomberg has pushed for changes to
state laws governing public pensions that would let the city
reduce its costs. The amount the nation’s largest city
contributes each year is set by an independent actuary.  “Every year, we pay our full bill,” said  Marc LaVorgna , a
spokesman for the mayor, who is founder and majority owner of
Bloomberg News parent Bloomberg LP.  To shore up its pensions, Philadelphia, the fifth-largest
U.S. city, has altered benefits for new municipal employees,
said Mark McDonald, a spokesman for Mayor Michael Nutter. It may
dedicate part of its sales-tax revenue to pensions.  Phoenix approved changes requiring new workers to
contribute more toward their retirement and letting the city
contribute additional revenue to the pension system. “It will
put us in a significantly better position,” Mayor Greg Stanton
said in an interview. “Phoenix is not Detroit.”  In Jacksonville, Mayor Alvin Brown is pushing a plan to
boost employee pension contributions and pare benefits for new
city workers, said David DeCamp, a spokesman for the mayor.  Limiting Benefits  In April, Providence capped cost-of-living adjustments for
retirees, shaving $170 million from its pension deficit. The
Rhode Island capital is among those cities with the least set
aside for pensions and has less than a third of its projected
need, according to the Retirement Research center.  In New Haven,  Connecticut , where the pensions are
underfunded by about half, budget director Joe Clerkin said the
city negotiated benefit cuts and increased contributions from
some workers. He said municipal leaders have had a “great sense
of urgency” in recent years to try to curb pension liabilities.  “I don’t think the Detroit situation per se stokes that,”
Clerkin said in an interview. “I think it’s a terrible story,
but in terms of our case, we’ve been working really hard to
avoid that situation.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
William Selway in  Washington  at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net ;
Darrell Preston in Dallas at 
 dpreston@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  