-- Pro-Mursi Group Warns Egypt Authorities Plotting Attacks
-- B y   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y
-- 2013-07-24T07:58:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-24/pro-mursi-group-warns-egypt-authorities-plotting-attacks.html
Loyalists of ousted President
Mohamed Mursi said Egyptian authorities were trying to discredit
them by staging violent attacks, and demanded an investigation
into an overnight bombing that wounded 25 people.  The call by the Anti-Coup Pro-Democracy Alliance was the
latest salvo in the faceoff between Mursi’s supporters and the
transitional government the military installed after deposing
the Islamist leader on July 3. The explosion targeted a security
headquarters in Mansoura, northeast of Cairo.  Violence has flared daily between the sides in the three
weeks since Mursi was removed, dimming hopes of reconciliation
and raising fears the fighting will escalate and deepen the
polarization that has grown since Mursi’s election last year.  The pro-Mursi group condemned the overnight bombing, while
warning of “an apparent plan by security and intelligence
agencies to plot violent attacks to terrorize citizens” and
link them to the “peaceful protesters who announced more than
once that their power lies in their peacefulness.”  Mursi’s supporters have accused the government of interim
President Adly Mansour of cracking down on the former leader’s
Islamist allies since his overthrow, with arrests, travel bans
and asset freezes. The Islamists, led by the Muslim Brotherhood
that fielded him for office, have been holding open-ended
protests demanding he be restored to power.  Ahmed El-Meslemani, the presidential spokesman, said in a
statement responding to the blast that “ Egypt  has triumphed
before in the war against terror and will again.”  In another overnight attack, unidentified assailants fired
a rocket-propelled grenade at a police station in the city of
El-Arish in the northern  Sinai peninsula , wounding one officer,
the local security directorate said in an e-mailed statement.  The attack was the latest in a string of assaults on
security forces in the Sinai in recent weeks. The military has
stepped up a crackdown on jihadists and others there in a bid to
restore order to the region, which has become increasingly
lawless since longtime leader  Hosni Mubarak  was ousted in 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tarek El-Tablawy in Cairo at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  