-- Qualcomm Forecasts Sales That May Top Analysts’ Estimates
-- B y   I a n   K i n g
-- 2013-07-25T13:57:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-24/qualcomm-profit-forecast-misses-some-estimates.html
Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM) , the largest seller of
semiconductors for mobile phones, forecast fiscal fourth-quarter
sales that may exceed analysts’ estimates, buoyed by smartphone
demand in  emerging markets .  Sales in the period that ends in September will be $5.9
billion to $6.6 billion, San Diego-based Qualcomm said yesterday
in a statement. Net income will be 86 cents to 94 cents a share.
Analysts on average had projected revenue of $6.3 billion and
earnings of 94 cents, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Qualcomm’s forecast may reflect rising orders from  Apple
Inc. (AAPL)  for parts for a new iPhone and demand from smaller
customers in developing regions such as  China , said Suji De Silva, an analyst at Topeka Capital Markets Inc. The outlook may
help ease concerns that growth in the smartphone market is
slowing after earnings from customers such as  HTC Corp. (2498)  and
Samsung Electronics Co. missed projections.  “Qualcomm’s got a very strong global position,” said De
Silva, who has a  hold  rating on Qualcomm’s stock. “Apple should
be ramping something new and there should be a build for it.”  Analysts project Apple will unveil an updated iPhone later
this year.  Qualcomm shares rose 4.1 percent to $63.89 at 9:51 a.m. in
 New York , and earlier touched $64.45 for the biggest intraday
gain since January. The  stock  was little changed this year
through yesterday.  The company owns the most widely used technology standard
in phones with  Internet access , and its baseband chips are the
key component in phones such as Apple’s iPhone and high-end
models in Samsung’s Galaxy line.  Average Prices  “Overall it’s a little bit better than expectations,”
said Ian Ing, an analyst at Lazard Capital Markets in San
Francisco. He has the equivalent of a hold rating on the stock.
Qualcomm is being helped by consumers in emerging markets
trading up to more expensive and capable phones, lifting average
selling prices, he said.  Net income in the third quarter, which ended on June 30,
rose 31 percent to $1.58 billion, or 90 cents a share, from $1.2
billion, or 69 cents, a year earlier. Revenue increased 35
percent to $6.24 billion. Analysts on average  had  predicted
earnings of 89 cents a share on sales of $6.05 billion.  Average selling prices were stronger than expected, and
sales volumes exceeded projections, Chief Financial Officer
 George Davis  said. Average selling prices of phones in the
quarter that ended in March, the basis of licensing revenue
booked in the June quarter, were $227 to $233, the company said.  ‘Growth Engine’  “There’s still very broad-based demand for smartphones and
for chips,” Davis said yesterday in a telephone interview.
“You’ve got a tremendous growth engine in the developing
markets and you’re still seeing good growth in developed
markets.”  While there has been a lull in growth of higher-priced
“flagship” phones, that may change when customers bring new
models to market ahead of the year-end holiday shopping season,
Chief Operating Officer Steve Mollenkopf said. Qualcomm will
also benefit as Chinese customers look to expand outside their
home market, he said.  For fiscal 2013, Qualcomm said revenue will rise to $24.3
billion to $25 billion, compared with an earlier projection of
$24 billion to $25 billion in sales. Average selling prices of
devices with Qualcomm’s technology for the year will be $223 to
$229, up from an earlier prediction of $216 to $224 and compared
with last year’s $216 to $222, Qualcomm said.  Baseband Chips  The  majority  of Qualcomm’s revenue comes from baseband
chips, which connect phones to cellular networks and are  sold to 
wireless-device makers such as Apple and Samsung. Most of the
company’s profit comes from the licensing of code division
multiple access -- or CDMA -- technology, a radio-communications
standard used in handsets and phone systems. Even phones that
don’t use its chips generate royalties for Qualcomm if they are
compatible with networks that use the CDMA standard.  The company has gained market share in semiconductors by
being the first to sell modem chips that support the long-term
evolution, or LTE, standard, which provides the fastest speeds
for downloading data. Qualcomm has a market share of 86 percent
in LTE, according to researcher Forward Concepts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian King in  San Francisco  at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  