-- Rajoy Grip on Party Leaves Lawmakers Powerless to Protest Graft
-- B y   B e n   S i l l s   a n d   E s t e b a n   D u a r t e
-- 2013-07-24T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-24/rajoy-grip-on-party-leaves-lawmakers-powerless-to-protest-graft.html
Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy ’s
 People’s Party  has 862 elected officials across Spain at
regional, national and European levels. Only one has called out
the premier over allegations that he received illegal cash
payments before winning office in 2011.  Alejo Vidal-Quadras, a PP lawmaker in the European
Parliament, says Rajoy’s denials are failing to persuade voters
and eroding the party’s standing. The dissident, a 68-year-old
nuclear physicist, says others who share that view are too cowed
to join him.  “The party is acting like this was  North Korea ,” Vidal-Quadras said in a telephone interview. “Nobody dares to speak
up because the leadership controls the electoral lists.”  Rajoy’s power rests on his control of which candidates have
first claim to seats under the Spanish form of proportional
voting. Critics who go public put themselves at risk of joining
the ranks of the country’s 6 million jobless come the next
election. For  Spain , the result may be policy stability set
against rising public anger as the prime minister sees out the
remaining two years of his term.  Rajoy, who has denied allegations of impropriety, will
address the Spanish parliament on the issue Aug. 1. A
spokeswoman for the prime minister declined to comment when
contacted by Bloomberg.  Investors are betting the premier will be able to keep his
program of economic reforms on track even as his poll ratings
fall. The yield on the country’s 10-year debt has traded around
4.7 percent throughout July as the prime minister was buffetted.  Slush Fund  El Mundo newspaper triggered a new phase of the scandal on
July 9 when it reported Rajoy received illegal cash payments
from a party slush fund while serving as a government minister
between 1997 and 1999. The daily followed on July 14 by
publishing what it said were  text messages  between Rajoy and the
former People’s Party Treasurer Luis Barcenas, who it said was
in charge of distributing the payments.  Many rank-and-file party members are concerned that Rajoy’s
strategy of ignoring the corruption issue as much as possible --
he famously refuses to utter Barcenas’s name -- may be damaging
the party’s electoral chances, Vidal-Quadras said.  The Catalan scientist served on the PP’s national executive
committee for 20 years before he was dropped from the panel by
Rajoy last year, he said. He also serves on the board of the
FAES research institute which develops much of the party’s more
pro-market policies. It’s headed by former Prime Minister Jose Maria Aznar, who has criticized Rajoy’s decision to raise taxes.  ‘Matter of Conscience’  Vidal-Quadras said he’s speaking out “as a matter of
conscience.”  Rajoy’s party has 185 deputies in the 350-seat parliament
making him difficult to oust so long as he maintains party
discipline. The PP has 128 elected senators and 526 regional
representatives as well as 23 lawmakers in the European
Parliament.  Support for the PP plunged to 31 percent in a Sigma Dos
poll conducted for El Mundo July 16-18. That was 14 percentage
points below Rajoy’s vote in the 2011 general election and
compares with 28 percent for the main opposition Socialists.  Most Spaniards believe the allegations against Rajoy are
true, the survey showed, with 66 percent saying they think he
received illegal payments. The polling firm interviewed 1,000
people; the margin for error is about 3 percent.  Beyond the ranks of elected officials, party members have
been more outspoken.  Esperanza Aguirre , the PP leader in Madrid,
has called the Barcenas case a “national scandal” and urged
Rajoy to clean house.  Competing Claims  “All the members are with me,” she told reporters July
10, when asked if she was isolated.  Rajoy’s No. 2 within the party, Dolores de Cospedal,
disputed that claim in a July 22 speech in Madrid.  “The majority of the members are with me with all that
entails in the defense of the honor of this organization,”
Cospedal said. “There are some who are afraid or ashamed to
defend publicly the organization and they have benefitted from
that personally and politically,” she added.  Cospedal sued Barcenas on July 23 over his allegation the
party’s regional chapter in Castilla La Mancha, where she is
president, accepted a 200,000-euro payment from a local company
to secure a waste-management contract, a party spokeswoman said.  In private, party dissidents talk of replacing Rajoy with a
successor untainted by the corruption allegations to salvage
their chances at the next election, Vidal-Quadras said. The
rules governing party decisions and the Rajoy loyalists
controlling key posts make such plots difficult to execute.  If Rajoy’s strategy fails “we will all be damaged,” the
lawmaker said. “Millions of people are really angry.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sills in  Madrid  at 
 bsills@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  