-- Ranhill Defers Listing as Petronas Suspends Affiliate’s License
-- B y   C h o n g   P o o i   K o o n
-- 2013-07-24T11:31:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-24/ranhill-defers-listing-as-petronas-suspends-affiliate-s-license.html
Ranhill Energy and Resources Bhd. 
postponed its Kuala Lumpur listing slated for next week after an
affiliate got a suspension notice from state-owned Petroliam
Nasional Bhd. following a review of construction work.  The announcement comes a week after it raised 753 million
ringgit ($236 million) in an  initial public offering  lead-managed by Malayan Banking Bhd. and CIMB Group Holdings Bhd.
Proceeds from the share sale are being safeguarded by the two
banks and the Malaysian Issuing House Sdn., Ranhill Energy said
in an e-mailed statement. Its shares were due to debut July 31.  “Ranhill remains committed to ensuring that the interests
of all stakeholders of the Ranhill group of companies, including
investors in the IPO, remain safeguarded at all times,” the
Kuala Lumpur-based firm said in the statement. Ranhill has
submitted an appeal and is awaiting a response, it said.  Petronas, as  Malaysia ’s national energy company is better
known, manages rights to all of the Southeast Asian nation’s oil
and gas reserves and appoints outside contractors for specific
projects. Without a license, companies can’t bid for jobs, the
Edge Financial Daily reported today, without citing its source.
Ranhill Energy relies on such work for a “significant” portion
of its oil and gas revenue, the company said in the statement.  The indefinite suspension applies to Perunding Ranhill
Worley Sdn. following engineering and construction work on a
project in Malaysia’s southern state of Malacca, according to
the statement. It doesn’t apply to any current projects being
undertaken by Ranhill Energy itself or its subsidiaries, the
company said.  WorleyParsons Falls  Perunding Ranhill Worley is 90 percent-owned by Ranhill
Energy Chief Executive Officer Hamdan Mohamad and 10 percent
held by Kamarulzaman Omar, the statement showed. The company has
an exclusive arrangement to appoint Ranhill WorleyParsons Sdn.
for projects it wins in Malaysia, it said.  Ranhill WorleyParsons is 51 percent-owned by Ranhill Energy
with the remainder held by  WorleyParsons Ltd. (WOR) ,  Australia ’s
largest oil and gas engineering company. WorleyParsons, which
picked Malaysia as its second global hub after Houston,  fell  2.2
percent to A$21.97 in Sydney today. The benchmark index rose 0.4
percent.  “Ranhill WorleyParsons is working urgently to resolve
outstanding issues with Petronas in an effort to have the
suspension lifted as soon as possible,” WorleyParsons said in a
separate e-mailed statement. The company “is optimistic that
these discussions will lead to a commercial resolution with
Petronas.”  Ranhill Energy, which also manages water concessions and
power plants, was betting on its decade-long partnership with
WorleyParsons to win more energy deals, Hamdan said in an
interview on July 8 ahead of the share sale.  The allotment of IPO shares to successful applicants has
also been deferred, Ranhill Energy said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chong Pooi Koon in Kuala Lumpur at 
 pchong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  