-- Trayvon Martin’s Dad Says Loss Can Help Stop Gun Violence
-- B y   M i c h a e l   C .   B e n d e r
-- 2013-07-24T21:21:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-24/trayvon-martin-s-dad-says-loss-can-help-stop-gun-violence.html
The father of slain Florida teenager
Trayvon Martin told members of Congress that he wants his son’s
name on a federal law that would make it a crime to profile
minors and kill them in self-defense.  “What can we do as African-American men to instill in our
kids that you don’t have to be afraid to walk outside of the
house, go to the store and get a bag of Skittles and iced tea
and not make it home,” Tracy Martin said today in  Washington .  Martin opened the first meeting of the Congressional Caucus
on Black Men and Boys. The group of lawmakers was created in
March by District of Columbia Delegate Eleanor Holmes Norton and
Illinois Representative Danny Davis, both Democrats, to address
issues facing African-American males.  “The loss of 17-year-old Trayvon has focused attention on
black males as nothing else has in decades,” Norton said.  About 200 people filled the hearing room in the Rayburn
House Office building where Martin spoke, with another 100
watchers in an overflow room. About two dozen people stood in
the hallway outside the meeting room.  Martin’s son, Trayvon, was unarmed when he was shot in
February 2012 in Sanford,  Florida , by George Zimmerman, who
followed him and reported to police that the teenager was acting
suspiciously. Martin was walking home from a convenience store.  Zimmerman, who was legally carrying a firearm, told police
that when he got out of his truck he was confronted and punched
by Martin, and shot him in self defense. The shooting sparked
nationwide protests because it took 44 days for Zimmerman to be
arrested. Martin’s parents, and others, said Zimmerman racially
profiled the black teen.  Trial Acquittal  Zimmerman, who identifies himself as Hispanic, said he
acted in self-defense. He was acquitted of a second-degree
murder charge July 13.  The protests and trial focused attention on Stand Your
Ground laws in Florida and other states that allow deadly force
in self-defense. In Florida, protesters have occupied Governor
 Rick Scott ’s office for two weeks asking the Republican to call
a special session to rewrite the law. Scott has refused.  In reaction to the case, President  Barack Obama  said last
week that “Trayvon Martin could have been me” and that the
nation needs to do some “soul searching” on race and violence.  Obama said the shooting death of Martin by Zimmerman
provoked “a lot of pain” among blacks because it reminded many
that they often are the targets of suspicion and are vulnerable
to violence.  ‘Includes Me’  “The African-American community is looking at this issue
through a set of experiences and a -- and a history that -- that
doesn’t go away,” the president said July 19 at the White
House. “There are very few African-American men in this country
who haven’t had the experience of being followed when they were
shopping in a department store. That includes me.”  Tracy Martin  said today that Obama’s statement was “so
important” because it probably sparked conversations about the
issue at dinner tables around the country.  “The most influential man on the planet is weighing in
from an African American perspective,” Martin said. “It really
touched home.”  Martin started Trayvon Martin Foundation earlier this year
with Sybrina Fulton, the youth’s mother, to highlight the effect
of violent crimes on families of the victims.  “We want Congress to hear that we are the voice for
Trayvon,” he said. “If there’s something we can do as a
foundation to help other families going through this, we are
here.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael C. Bender in Washington at 
 mbender10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  