-- RBNZ Signals End to Record-Low Interest Rate in 2014; Kiwi Gains
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2013-07-24T21:55:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-24/rbnz-extends-interest-rate-pause-as-strong-kiwi-curbs-inflation.html
New Zealand ’s central bank said the
pace of future  interest-rate  increases will depend on the
booming housing market’s impact on prices and reiterated it will
keep borrowing costs at a record low this year.  The New Zealand dollar climbed after the statement as
traders increased bets Governor Graeme Wheeler will raise the
Official Cash Rate as early as January. He kept the level at 2.5
percent today, and said the kiwi “remains high.”  “Although removal of monetary stimulus will likely be
needed in the future, we expect to keep the OCR unchanged
through the end of the year,” Wheeler said in a statement in
Wellington today. “The extent of the monetary policy response
will depend largely on the degree to which the growing momentum
in the housing market and construction sector spills over into
inflation pressures.”  Confronted with a surging housing market that threatens
financial stability and an elevated currency that dents exports,
the  Reserve Bank  of New Zealand has opted to keep interest rates
steady and is turning instead to other policy tools. Officials
are developing plans to limit the amount of home lending that
banks can undertake at deposits of less than 20 percent of a
property’s value.  “You’ve seen a further escalation of housing related
concerns,” said  Nick Tuffley , chief economist at ASB Bank Ltd.
in Auckland, who maintained a forecast of a March increase. “It
does reinforce they could lift interest rates earlier.”  Rates Bets  New Zealand’s dollar climbed after the statement. It bought
79.75 U.S. cents at 9:33 a.m. in Wellington, from 79.30 cents
before the decision. Swaps trades show about a 50 percent chance
of a rate rise in January, compared with 17 percent odds seen
yesterday.  “Despite having fallen on a trade-weighted basis since
May, the New Zealand dollar remains high and continues to be a
headwind for the tradables sector, restricting export earnings
and encouraging demand for imports,” Wheeler said.  The kiwi has slumped the past three months after reaching a
20-month-high of 86.76 cents on April 11. Expectations that U.S.
policy makers may start removing stimulus and concerns that
 China ’s economic growth was slowing hurt the currency, while
Wheeler said May 8 he had intervened to weaken it.  The central bank last month forecast that the three-month
bank bill yield will rise to 3 percent in the third quarter next
year. The outlook, which is seen as a guide to the direction of
the cash rate, suggested no increase in the benchmark until
mid-2014.  Deputy Governor Grant Spencer said June 27 that the housing
market was overheated and a threat to financial stability.
Higher interest rates were “not the right policy response at
this time,” he said.  On Hold  All 11  economists  surveyed by  Bloomberg News  expected
today’s decision. Twelve of 16 economists in a separate survey
on July 17 predicted no change in borrowing costs this year.  “The balance of risks favors lifting the cash rate sooner
rather than later to cool housing demand but the RBNZ remains
determined to experiment with macro-prudential tools first,”
 Annette Beacher , the Singapore-based head of Asia-Pacific
research at TD Securities Inc., wrote in a July 23 note. “This
is expected to delay the tightening cycle.”  Wheeler signed an agreement with Finance Minister  Bill
English  in May about implementation of the prudential tools. The
RBNZ is currently considering submissions on a plan to limit the
amount of new lending when a loan exceeds 80 percent of the
house value.  House prices  rose 7.6 percent in June from a year earlier,
the fastest gain since early 2008, according to Quotable Value
New Zealand.  Housing Boom  “The Reserve Bank does not want to see financial or price
stability compromised by housing demand getting too far ahead of
the supply response,” Wheeler said today. There was no mention
of prudential tools in the statement.  Consumer prices  increased 0.7 percent in the second quarter
from a year earlier, the slowest annual pace since 1999,
according to a government report July 16. Annual inflation was
slower than the central bank’s 1 percent to 3 percent target for
the fourth straight quarter.  “CPI inflation has been very low over the past year,
reflecting the high  New Zealand dollar  and strong international
and domestic competition,” Wheeler said today. “Inflation is
expected to trend upwards toward the midpoint of the target band
as growth accelerates over the coming year.”  The RBNZ last month forecast annual inflation accelerating
to 1.5 percent by mid-2014 and 2.1 percent a year later. It
projected annual economic growth will accelerate to 3.6 percent
in the second half of 2014, from a 2.4 percent pace in the first
quarter this year.  Picking Up  “Growth in the New Zealand economy is picking up and
although uneven is becoming more widespread across sectors,”
Wheeler said. “Consumption is increasing and reconstruction in
Canterbury will be reinforced by a broader national recovery in
construction activity, particularly in Auckland. This will
support aggregate activity and eventually help to ease the
housing shortage.”  The central bank has left the cash rate unchanged since
March 2011 to allow the economy to recover from earthquakes and
to revive confidence after  Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis curbed
global demand. Exporters have also been buffeted by near-zero
interest rates in the U.S. and Europe, which helped boost the
New Zealand dollar.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  