-- Rogers Subscriber Adds Top Estimates on Smartphone Discounts
-- B y   M a d e l i n e   M c M a h o n
-- 2013-07-24T20:04:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-24/rogers-profit-misses-estimates-on-costs-for-device-discounts.html
Rogers Communications Inc. (RCI/B) ,  Canada ’s
largest wireless operator, reported second-quarter subscriber
gains that beat analysts’ estimates by offering more discounts
for smartphones.  The company signed up 98,000 customers to long-term
contracts in the quarter, compared with the 74,000 average
forecast of seven analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Profit was 96
Canadian cents a share, excluding one-time items. Analysts had
predicted 97 cents on average.  Chief Executive Officer Nadir Mohamed, who plans to retire
in January, is trying to stay ahead of rivals  BCE Inc. (BCE)  and  Telus
Corp. (T) , which have expanded their wireless businesses faster than
Rogers in recent quarters. While equipment costs such as
smartphone discounts rose 17 percent, the company reduced other
wireless expenses by 5 percent, helping boost profits.  “Cost-cutting was really good, and I think that offset
some of the negative metrics,” said Jeff Fan, an analyst at
Scotia Capital Inc. in Toronto.  Net income  rose  C$532 million (C$518 million), or 93 cents
a share, from C$413 million, or 77 cents, a year earlier. Sales
climbed 3.4 percent to C$3.21 billion, compared with analysts’
average estimate of C$3.2 billion.  The subscriber gain compared with 32,000 in the period that
ended in March, when BCE added 59,497 and Telus signed up
59,000. Rogers’s top competitors are both scheduled to report
second-quarter results next month.  Growth Rate  Rogers ended the second quarter with 7.98 million contract
subscribers, up 3.5 percent from a year earlier. That compared
with annual growth of 3.4 percent in the prior three-month
period.  Rogers, which owns cable channels SportsNet and CityTV as
well as Major League Baseball’s Toronto Blue Jays, is seeking to
entice customers to pay more to get exclusive video programming.  Average revenue per contract customer -- a key indicator of
how much each subscriber is spending on calls, video and Web
surfing from their mobile device -- dropped C$1.10 to C$67.36,
compared with the average estimate of C$64.90.  Rogers rose 1.7 percent to C$41.95 at the close in Toronto.
The stock has dropped 7.1 percent this year amid concern that
 Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ)  may compete in Canada.  Verizon Threat  Verizon, whose market value of about $144 billion is more
than double that of BCE, Rogers and Telus combined, said last
month that it was considering entering the Canadian wireless
market.  Rogers would support a Verizon entry into Canada as long as
the government ensures a “level playing field” for all
wireless companies, Mohamed said in a conference call today.  The Canadian government must require providers to roll out
networks instead of “cherry-picking,” allow both Canadian and
foreign carriers to buy the same amount of spectrum and give all
providers equal opportunity to acquire smaller companies,
Mohamed said.  (Rogers held a conference call to discuss its results. For
details, click here.)  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net ;
Madeline McMahon in  New York  at 
 mmcmahon26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  