-- Rolls-Royce China Sales Flatline Amid Xi Austerity Drive
-- B y   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g
-- 2013-07-24T16:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-24/rolls-royce-china-sales-flatline-amid-xi-austerity-drive.html
Rolls-Royce, the ultra-luxury car
brand owned by  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) , expects sales growth
to slow in  China  this year as an austerity push by President Xi Jinping damps luxury demand.  Sales volumes in the company’s second-largest market will
be little changed from 2012,  Paul Harris , Asia-Pacific regional
director for the brand, said in Sydney yesterday. By comparison,
Rolls-Royce sales rose 16 percent to 998 vehicles last year,
according to estimates at research firm LMC Automotive.  Slowing growth in China for the maker of the $380,000
Phantom mirrors the slide in demand this year for sorghum
liquor, hand-made tea and Bordeaux wines, as economic expansion
cools and the country’s new administration acts to curb spending
by government officials. More high-end goods such as luxury cars
and yachts may be taxed as part of reform plans this year, the
 China Daily  reported in May, citing an official at the top
economic planning agency.  Slowing growth in China is “caused by a whole range of
things, including rumors about luxury taxation that doesn’t seem
to have transpired,” Harris told reporters at an event to
introduce the Wraith sports coupe. “The government rumored it,
and now they’ve backed off, it appears. But we never know,
because in China we know things do change with a degree of
rapidity.”  He didn’t give numbers for the brand’s sales, adding that
China accounted for about 35 percent to 40 percent of the 3,575
cars Rolls-Royce  sold globally  during 2012 and would make up a
slightly smaller proportion of the total this year.  The company is still pursuing plans to increase the number
of dealerships in the country to 20, he said. Its Beijing and
Shanghai dealers are the best- and third-best performers for the
brand, according to company data.  Slowing Growth  China’s new government is trying to rein in credit growth
while shifting away from infrastructure investment toward
consumption, without slowing growth in the world’s second-largest economy.  A private survey yesterday showed China’s manufacturing
sector weakened by more than estimated in July, and authorities
have lowered growth forecasts to a minimum of 7.5 percent this
year and 7 percent in future, from a previous lower limit of 8
percent.  Government and Communist Party agencies will be banned from
constructing new buildings for five years and existing projects
should be put on hold, the government said in a website
statement July 24.  Rolls-Royce, founded in 1904, expects the U.S. to grow
faster than China and be its largest market this year, Harris
said.  Japan Demand  It’s also seeing stronger growth in  Japan  in the wake of
Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s attempts to use monetary policy to
weaken the yen and kickstart that country’s economy, Dan Balmer,
Rolls-Royce’s Asia-Pacific general manager, said in an interview
at the Wraith event. The carmaker opened a new dealership in
 Osaka  earlier this year, he said.  The company’s latest two-door A$645,000 ($597,000) Wraith
sports coupe is targeted at Western drivers who are more likely
than Asian consumers to favor such models, Harris said.  Average prices of imported cars in China, which are usually
luxury models because of a 25 percent import tax, fell 3.4
percent in April from a year earlier, according to government
data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  