-- Tropical Storm Dorian Heads West After Forming off Africa
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2013-07-24T21:03:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-24/tropical-storm-dorian-heads-west-after-forming-off-africa.html
Tropical Storm Dorian formed in
Atlantic off the coast of  Africa  on a westward path that may
reach the Caribbean Sea late this week, the U.S. National
Hurricane Center said.  Dorian, with top sustained winds of 50 miles (80
kilometers) per hour, was 505 miles west of the Cape Verde
Islands as of 5 p.m. New York time, according to a  center
advisory . It was moving west-northwest at 20 mph.  “Slight weakening is possible on Thursday as Dorian moves
over cooler water,” Stacy Stewart, a senior hurricane
specialist at the center in Miami, said in the advisory.  Dorian is the fourth tropical storm of the Atlantic season,
which runs from June 1 through Nov. 30. It’s ahead of schedule:
from 1966 to 2009, the fourth system typically formed by Aug.
23, according to the hurricane center’s website.  Stewart said weather models are in good agreement that
Dorian will continue to move west. The hurricane center’s
 forecast maps , which project only five days ahead, show it
tracking north of Puerto Rico by July 29. An intensity forecast
has the storm’s strength peaking tomorrow with 60 mph winds.  The storm may encounter wind shear, cooler ocean water and
dry air, which may rob it of strength or tear at its structure.  U.S. Threat  If Dorian can hold together as it crosses the Atlantic,
there’s a possibility it may bring wind and rain to the U.S.
South or the Bahamas early next week, said Michael Schlacter,
founder and president of Weather 2000 Inc. in New York.  “It does have some hoops to fly through,” Schlacter said
by telephone. “If we get past 96 hours and it’s still some sort
of system, then all of a sudden things will start to become
clear to people. There’s a built-in risk of an anticlimax here
because it is off of Africa. We have a long, long time to watch
this.”  Atlantic systems are followed by commodities traders
because they can affect oil and natural gas production as well
as orange crops.  The Gulf of  Mexico  is home to about 6 percent of U.S.
natural gas output and 23 percent of oil production and more
than 40 percent of petroleum refining capacity, according to the
Energy Department. The Bay of Campeche, at the southern end of
the Gulf, is where Petroleos Mexicanos, Mexico’s state-owned oil
company, has most of its production.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Banker at 
 bbanker@bloomberg.net  