-- HRT Joins OGX in Free-Fall as Jungle Bet Sours: Corporate Brazil
-- B y   R o d r i g o   O r i h u e l a
-- 2013-07-24T03:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-24/hrt-joins-ogx-in-free-fall-as-jungle-bet-sours-corporate-brazil.html
HRT Participacoes em Petroleo SA  is
joining energy startup OGX Petroleo & Gas Participacoes SA as
the worst-performing oil stocks in  emerging markets  after its
bet on unexplored fields in the Amazon jungle and  Africa  soured.  HRT’s 65 percent plunge since the start of May makes it the
worst performer among the 111 biggest oil and gas explorers
based in emerging markets after OGX, which has tumbled 74
percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Rio de Janeiro-based
HRT fell to a record low this week after it abandoned two dry
wells in Namibia and another in north  Brazil  since May.  Chief Executive Officer Milton Romeu Franke, who took over
in May, is seeking to undo his predecessor’s strategy of betting
on unproven deposits by focusing on fields that can generate
cash now. While exuberance over Petroleo Brasileiro SA’s 2007
discovery of the Americas’ biggest oil field in three decades
buoyed startups and helped Brazilian  oil companies  raise $77
billion in share sales since 2008, investors are now dumping the
stocks as companies struggle to deliver on output promises.  “What happened here is that Brazil didn’t have any factual
experience with junior companies,” said Lucas Brendler, who
helps manage about 4 billion reais ($1.8 billion) at Geracao
Futuro Corretora in  Porto Alegre , Brazil. “Analysts and
investors were used to big assets with a structured company that
stood on its own feet and had proven reserves. You didn’t have
the experience to price a junior asset.”  Amazon Bet  As Petrobras and companies including Repsol SA, BG Group
Plc and Galp Energia SGPS SA flocked to the deep-water fields
off Brazil’s coast, where the state-run producer discovered
reserves holding at least 50 billion barrels, HRT founder Marcio Mello eschewed the trend and bet on untested deposits in the
Amazon and Namibia instead. In a 2011 interview, he called the
Amazon “one of the last frontiers in the whole world where you
can find giant and super giant oil and gas fields.”  HRT, which declined to comment for this article in an e-mailed statement, said July 19 that its second well in Namibia
was dry, prompting Franke to announce it will sell assets
including drilling rigs and helicopters to strengthen the
company’s cash position.  The setback follows problems at Rio de Janeiro-based OGX,
the  oil company  controlled by billionaire  Eike Batista , which
has been in a free-fall after saying July 1 that it may close
its only producing oilfield next year and won’t start production
at three others.  Lessons Learned  Fellow startup  QGEP Participacoes SA (QGEP3)  has also announced at
least one dry well in Brazil’s so-called pre-salt region. The
stock has declined 9.3 percent this year. Press officials for
OGX didn’t respond to questions sent by e-mail. QGEP declined
to comment.  HRT may be in a good position to survive until it discovers
oil or announces a gas project because it has no debt, Banco
Santander SA analysts Christian Audi and Vicente Falanga Neto
said in a note to client yesterday.  Net debt at OGX at the end of the first quarter was 5.7
billion reais, compared with a market value of 1.8 billion reais
yesterday, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  HRT’s failure means it must decide whether to continue
spending money on  Namibia  or further adjust its strategy,
according to Marcus Sequeira, an analyst at Deutsche Bank AG.  HRT in May said it  bought  60 percent of the offshore Polvo
oil field in Campos, Brazil’s most productive basin, from BP Plc
for $135 million. The field gives HRT cash flow after it posted
a 98 million-real loss before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization in the first quarter.  Investors probably will be reluctant to invest in Brazilian
startups going forward following the under-performances in
recent years, Sequeira said.  “Everybody learned about the risks of juniors,” he said
by telephone from  New York . “There’s been a lesson.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rodrigo Orihuela in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 rorihuela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jessica Brice at 
 jbrice1@bloomberg.net ;
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  