-- Rupee Forwards Jump as Rate Swaps Head for ’08 High on RBI Move
-- B y   K y o u n g w h a   K i m
-- 2013-07-24T01:44:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-24/rupee-forwards-jump-as-rate-swaps-head-for-08-high-on-rbi-move.html
Indian rupee forwards jumped the
most in a week and offshore  interest-rate swaps  headed for the
highest close since 2008 after the central bank tightened access
to cash a week after it raised two interest rates.  The Reserve Bank of  India  capped the amount of funds
lenders can get under the liquidity adjustment facility to 0.5
percent of their net demand, it said in a statement late
yesterday. The RBI also raised the daily balance requirement for
the cash-reserve ratio to 99 percent from 70 percent, effective
July 27, while separately announcing an auction tomorrow of 60
billion rupees ($1 billion) of cash-management bills.  “The rupee should outperform on the back of new RBI policy
announcements,” Dariusz Kowalczyk, a Credit Agricole CIB
strategist in Hong Kong, wrote in a research note today. “The
measures look desperate and are likely to hurt the economy and
the currency in the medium term” as higher borrowing costs
restrict access to credit and hurt growth, he wrote.  One-month non-deliverable forwards strengthened 0.6 percent
to 59.81 per dollar as of 9:20 a.m. in  Singapore , data compiled
by Bloomberg show. The contracts rose as much as 1 percent to
59.57 earlier. The one-year offshore interest-rate swap advanced
two basis points to 8.9 percent, heading for its highest close
since October 2008.  Rupee’s Weakness  India’s current-account deficit widened to an unprecedented
4.8 percent of gross domestic product in the year ended March 31,
official data show. That has contributed to a 9 percent loss in
the rupee in the past three months to 59.765 per dollar
yesterday in Mumbai, the biggest drop among Asia’s 11 most-traded currencies. It touched a record low of 61.2125 on July 8.  The central bank raised two interest rates on July 15,
capped its daily fund injections via repurchase contracts and
moved to drain money from the economy through bond sales,
joining emerging nations from  Brazil  to  Indonesia  in tightening
policy to steady currencies.  The RBI barred banks from proprietary trading in currency
futures and exchange-traded options, according to a July 8
statement on its website. The Securities and Exchange Board of
India raised margin requirements for currency derivatives and
capped open positions in the contracts from July 11.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kyoungwha Kim in Singapore at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  