-- SAC Said to Face U.S. Prosecution in Insider-Trading Probe
-- B y   S h e e l a h   K o l h a t k a r ,   K a t h e r i n e   B u r t o n   a n d   G r e g   F a r r e l l
-- 2013-07-24T19:20:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-24/sac-said-to-face-u-s-prosecution-in-insider-trading-probe-1-.html
U.S. prosecutors plan to charge SAC
Capital Advisors LP, the hedge fund founded by  Steven A. Cohen ,
as soon as this week as part of a wide-ranging probe of insider
trading, according to a person familiar with the matter.  The U.S. attorney’s office in  Manhattan  doesn’t plan to
charge Cohen at this stage, said the person, who asked not to be
identified because the matter is confidential.  Charges against the $15 billion  Stamford , Connecticut-based
hedge fund might spell its demise, a fate it may also face from
an administrative proceeding filed last week by the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission. The SEC claimed Cohen failed
to supervise its employees adequately to prevent insider
trading, and seeks to ban Cohen from the financial industry.  Prosecutors, unable to obtain enough evidence to charge
Cohen, 57, decided their next best option to discourage crime
and punish alleged wrongdoing was to charge his firm, which
carries with it the prospect of shutting it down, a second
person familiar with the matter said.  The Wall Street Journal earlier reported the plan to charge
SAC.  Peter Donald , a spokesman in the FBI’s New York office,
declined to comment yesterday on any planned charges against
SAC. Jonathan Gasthalter, a spokesman for SAC at Sard Verbinnen
& Co., also declined to comment.  Previously, Cohen has denied any wrongdoing in trades his
firm conducted, saying he had acted appropriately. This week his
firm issued a 46-page response to the SEC proceeding, denying
wrongdoing.  Arthur Andersen  An indictment of a company, rather than an individual, is a
rare tactic by prosecutors. It was most famously used in 2002 in
the case of accounting firm Arthur Andersen LLP, which was found
guilty of charges related to its role as Enron Corp.’s auditor.  Following the indictment,  Arthur Andersen , unable to
practice before the SEC, collapsed, costing the jobs of
thousands of people. The  Justice Department  issued guidelines
after that, advising prosecutors what to consider before
indicting another financial firm. The conviction was eventually
overturned.  At a conference last week,  Preet Bharara , the U.S. Attorney
for Manhattan and leader of the SAC probe, gave his view of this
matter: “We have a lot of power to bring cases like that and we
don’t do it a lot in part because of Arthur Andersen, and part
because we care about what the interest of justice requires and
we care about collateral consequences.”  Speaking Hypothetically  Bharara declined to address what his plans were for Cohen
or SAC. Speaking hypothetically, he added, “But there are
circumstances in which it is appropriate to do, particularly
when you have continued malfeasance over time among a large
number of people.”  Less than a year ago, the U.S. Attorney in  New Jersey 
charged Tiger Asia Management LLC, a hedge-fund management
company, with  wire fraud . The SEC filed a parallel lawsuit
accusing the company, the fund owner and portfolio manager, and
the fund’s head trader, of illegal trading.  In the criminal case, the fund owner, Sun Kook “Bill”
Hwang, pleaded guilty on behalf of the company and agreed to
forfeit $16 million in ill-gotten gains. The firm was shut down.  White Paper  Theodore Wells, a lawyer for Cohen, didn’t return a call or
e-mail seeking comment on the planned charges against SAC.  Cohen doesn’t recall reading an e-mail on  Dell Inc. (DELL)  that
was cited by the SEC in its administrative order as evidence he
failed to supervise his employees, according to a report given
to the firm’s employees July 22.  While Cohen sold his stake in  Round Rock , Texas-based Dell
after being forwarded the e-mail, evidence suggests he did so
because one of his portfolio managers started selling the stock,
SAC said in a 45-page paper that seeks to rebut many of the
facts outlined in the SEC’s order. There’s no evidence Cohen
ever read the communication, according to the paper.  Cohen was accused of ignoring red flags in trades conducted
by two portfolio managers, Mathew Martoma and Michael Steinberg,
who have both been charged with  securities fraud  and face
separate trials in November in Manhattan federal court.  “Any claim that Cohen overlooked red flags showing
unlawful conduct by SAC employees is contrary to his and SAC’s
longstanding demonstrated commitment to the firm’s compliance
efforts,” Cohen’s lawyers wrote in the paper.  In the SEC’s July 19 order, the agency presented new
details that it said showed Cohen received “highly suspicious”
information that should have caused any reasonable hedge-fund
manager to investigate the basis for the alleged wrongdoing.  Hearing Scheduled  The SEC has scheduled a hearing in the matter for Aug. 26
in  Washington , with Chief Administrative Law Judge Brenda P. Murray presiding.  Martoma, 39, was arrested in November for alleged  insider
trading  in Elan Corp. and Wyeth. Prosecutors said he received
confidential information from Dr. Sidney Gilman in July 2008
that caused him and Cohen to abruptly sell their holdings. The
trades earned SAC profits and avoided losses of more than $275
million, the government said. Steinberg was arrested in March
for trading in Dell and  Nvidia Corp. (NVDA)  based on illicit tips given
to him by his analyst. Martoma and Steinberg, 41, have pleaded
not guilty.  E-Mail Copy  The SEC said in last week’s order that Cohen received a tip
about Dell that was also sent to Steinberg, and that he traded
afterward. Cohen sold off more than $11 million in Dell stock
within minutes of getting a copy of an e-mail from Jon Horvath,
Steinberg’s analyst, on Aug. 26, 2008, two days before Dell was
scheduled to release earnings.  SAC countered in its report that Cohen sold his shares
because one of his portfolio managers, who had initially
recommended that Cohen buy Dell, and whose trading Cohen relied
on frequently in establishing his own positions, was selling
some of his shares. That portfolio manager is Gabriel Plotkin,
according to people familiar with the matter.  The report stated that at that time, Cohen only opened
about 11 percent of his messages. SAC argued that even if Cohen
had read the e-mail, which mentions a “second-hand read” from
someone inside the company and warned that Dell’s gross margins
would be less than the market expected, there is no evidence
that it contained material nonpublic information.  Compliance Team  SAC defended its compliance team, saying it deploys some of
the most aggressive communications and trading surveillance in
the hedge-fund industry. The firm said it has daily reviews of
e-mails, instant messages and internal write-ups, as well as
weekly reviews of randomly selected portfolio manager teams and
electronic communications between investment professionals and
their former employers.  In a 2011 deposition taken in connection with a lawsuit
against SAC filed by  Fairfax Financial Holdings Ltd. (FFH) , Cohen
said, “I’ve read the compliance manual, but I don’t remember
exactly what it says.”  Cohen also said during the deposition that no employee had
ever been punished for violating the firm’s compliance policy.  Of the $15 billion SAC oversees, about 60 percent of it is
money from Cohen and employees. With his net worth estimated at
about $9 billion by the  Bloomberg Billionaires Index , Cohen has
returned 25 percent a year in his funds since founding his firm
in 1992, after taking half of the profits in fees, a record
unsurpassed by other equity hedge-fund managers.  Planned Charges  The government’s planned charges against the hedge fund
stem from a six-year insider-trading crackdown on fund managers,
analysts and insiders at technology companies. It has resulted
in charges against more than 80 people and convictions of 73.  Prior to last week’s SEC filing, the government’s major
actions against alleged inside traders and their associates have
largely been tandem federal enforcement efforts -- pairing
simultaneous charges by Bharara’s office with SEC lawsuits.  Since Cohen agreed in March to pay $616 million to end
allegations tied to the July 2008 drug company trades, financial
penalties are less of a priority for the regulator in this
matter, said a person familiar with the matter who requested
anonymity because the matter isn’t public. As part of the March
agreement, Cohen’s funds would neither admit nor deny the
allegations of wrongdoing.  In the  white paper , SAC seeks to refute much of the
evidence presented by the SEC in its administrative order
alleging Cohen should have been aware Martoma had obtained
inside information about two drug companies, Elan and Wyeth.  It doesn’t, however, address the question of what Martoma
said to Cohen in a 20-minute telephone call on July 20, 2008,
after which Cohen reversed his long position on the stock.  Gasthalter declined to comment on the call.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sheelah Kolhatkar in  New York 
at   skolhatkar@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Burton in New York at   kburton@bloomberg.net ;
Greg Farrell in New York at   gregfarrell@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Josh Tyrangiel at   jtyrangiel@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at +1-415-617-7137
or  mhytha@bloomberg.net . 