-- SAC Capital May Be Charged by U.S. This Week, WSJ Says
-- B y   P e t e r   B l u m b e r g
-- 2013-07-24T04:06:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-24/sac-capital-may-be-criminally-charged-this-week-wsj-says.html
SAC Capital Advisors LP may be
charged by the U.S. as soon as this week in a criminal insider
trading investigation, while no charges are planned against
founder  Steve Cohen , the Wall Street Journal reported, citing
unidentified people familiar with the matter.  A last-minute settlement that would avert the charges is
unlikely, the newspaper said. SAC said in May that it was no
longer cooperating unconditionally with the government.  Cohen last week was accused in an administrative action by
the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission of failing to
supervise two SAC portfolio managers facing criminal insider
trading charges.  If its proceedings are successful, the SEC could force
Cohen, a billionaire who boasts one of the best long-term track
records in history, out of the hedge-fund business even though
the agency hasn’t accused him of personally trading on inside
information.  SAC, based in Stamford, Connecticut, oversees $15 billion,
about 60 percent of which is money from Cohen and employees.
Cohen, 57, hasn’t been charged criminally despite a multiyear
probe by the U.S. attorney’s office in Manhattan and the Federal
Bureau of Investigation.  Peter Donald , a spokesman in the FBI’s  New York  office,
declined to comment yesterday on any planned criminal charges
against SAC. Jonathan Gasthalter, an SAC spokesman at Sard
Verbinnen, also declined to comment.  Rebuttal Report  Cohen has said he acted appropriately in trading any
shares.  Ted Wells , a lawyer for Cohen, didn’t immediately
respond after regular business hours to a voice-mail message
seeking comment.  In the SEC’s July 19 filing, the agency presented new
details that it said showed Cohen received “highly suspicious”
information that should have caused any reasonable hedge-fund
manager to investigate the basis for the alleged wrongdoing.  SAC on July 22 rebutted many of the facts outlined in the
SEC’s administrative action in a 45-page report issued to the
firm’s employees. There’s no evidence that Cohen ever read an e-mail on  Dell Inc. (DELL)  that the SEC cited as evidence that he failed
to supervise his employees, according to the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Blumberg in  San Francisco  at 
 pblumberg1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at 
 adunn8@bloomberg.net  