-- Saint-Gobain First-Half Profit Falls 28%, Targets Reiterated
-- B y   F r a n c o i s   d e   B e a u p u y
-- 2013-07-24T16:27:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-24/saint-gobain-first-half-profit-falls-28-targets-reiterated.html
Cie. de Saint-Gobain SA ,  Europe ’s
biggest supplier of building materials, said first-half profit
dropped amid a slump in European construction and car
manufacturing.  Net income decreased 28 percent to 332 million euros ($438
million), Saint-Gobain, based in Courbevoie near Paris, said in
a statement today. Operating income fell 16 percent to 1.26
billion euros. Analysts  polled by Bloomberg  had expected 1.21
billion euros, according to the average of seven estimates.  The company reiterated its 2013 target for a recovery in
operating income in the second half as an upturn in U.S.
construction partly counters a slowdown in Europe, made worse by
the extended wintry weather. The company aims to make an 160
million euros in savings in the second half of the year.  “The continued upturn in U.S. construction markets and a
return to growth for our businesses in emerging countries failed
to offset the general slowdown in the European economic
environment, exacerbated by a negative calendar impact and very
poor weather,” Chief Executive Officer Pierre-Andre de Chalendar said. “In this tough market climate, we pressed ahead
with our cost cutting efforts while successfully pursuing our
price-focused policy.”  Chalendar is cutting costs and investments and selling
businesses to adjust to the European car and construction slump
that has hurt demand for flat glass and building materials and
put the company’s  credit rating  under pressure. Moody’s
Investors Service and  Standard & Poor’s , which rate Saint-Gobain
at Baa2 and BBB respectively, have said they may downgrade the
company.  On July 1, the U.S. Federal Trade Commission challenged the
proposed sale of Saint-Gobain’s U.S. container division to
Ardagh Group SA’s for $1.7 billion, saying the deal would reduce
competition in the U.S. market for beer and liquor bottles.
Ardagh and Saint-Gobain said they will defend the deal and work
with the agency to resolve its concerns.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Francois de Beaupuy in Paris at 
 fdebeaupuy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  