-- San Diego Endures ‘Scandals by the Sea’ in Sex Probe
-- B y   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 2013-07-24T03:38:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-24/san-diego-endures-scandals-by-the-sea-in-sex-probe.html
“Scandals by the Sea” is how one
San Diego website has started referring to the eighth-largest
American city as almost every day brings fresh allegations of
sexual harassment against the mayor.  Bob Filner, who took office in December as the first
Democrat to lead the community since 1992, has resisted calls
from members of his own party to leave the office he’s held for
about seven months. Responding to a lawsuit alleging he’d asked
a former aide to work without panties, the 70-year-old issued a
 statement  insisting that he remains committed to his job.  Filner’s  plans  to enhance the city’s port, reinforce
economic ties to  Mexico , reduce homelessness, add solar panels
to city buildings and deal with a projected $40 million deficit
have stalled since July 11, when three former supporters in a
news briefing accused him of “reprehensible” behavior toward
women and urged him to step down.  “He has largely been holed up in his office since this
scandal broke, not meeting with the public or the press,” said
Todd Gloria, 35, the Democratic City Council  president  who would
become acting mayor if Filner quits. “I don’t see how you can
govern effectively under these circumstances.”  Filner’s former communications director, Irene McCormack
Jackson, became the first to  publicly  identify herself as a
victim of the mayor’s sexual harassment on July 22. Before that,
ex-Councilwoman Donna Frye, who worked for Filner earlier this
year, and other backers held briefings to publicize the issue
without naming any alleged victims.  In Headlock  Jackson, 57, accompanied by lawyer  Gloria Allred , said the
divorced Filner had held her in a headlock, suggested that they
wed and “consummate the marriage,” and that she not wear
panties to work. She quit in June.  Filner, a congressman from 1993 to 2012, has sparred with
members of the Democrat-led City Council and the Republican city
attorney on several issues, hindering his effectiveness even
before the scandal broke, the council president said. There’s
been no progress toward Filner’s goal of adding solar panels to
city buildings, and the mayor played almost no role in brokering
labor contracts with the city’s unions in May, Gloria said.  When the sexual-harassment allegations surfaced, Filner
issued statements both apologizing (“I am embarrassed to admit
that I have failed to fully respect the women who work for me
and with me”) and denying them (“I do not believe these claims
are valid”).  Lena Lewis, a Filner spokeswoman, didn’t respond to a
telephone call requesting comment on the allegations yesterday.
In appointing Walt Ekard, the former  San Diego  County chief
administrative officer, to run day-to-day city operations July
15, Filner said city business would not be “negatively
impacted” by the controversy.  ‘Remain Committed’  “I remain committed to the people of San Diego and the
work that needs to be done,” Filner said in the statement
responding to McCormack Jackson’s lawsuit. “My dreams and plans
for moving this city to new heights are continuing. I humbly ask
that through this vicious storm of controversy, people take a
moment and temper their rush to judgment.”  McCormack Jackson’s news briefing, outlining specific
allegations, was a “game changer” that may bring Filner’s
four-year term to an early end, said  Steven Erie , who teaches
political science at the  University of California , San Diego.  “This isn’t a 22-year-old intern,” Erie said of McCormack
Jackson, a former reporter for the San Diego Union-Tribune.
“This is a 57-year-old journalist turned press agent. Even the
diehards, the progressives, now realize that his effectiveness
and ability to govern are incredibly compromised.”  ‘Nanoseconds’ Attention  “The one thing Filner has going for him is that this is
summer in San Diego and you can measure people’s attention spans
in nanoseconds,” Erie said.  Some residents are organizing a campaign to recall Filner
if he doesn’t leave voluntarily, said Elisa Brent, a Republican
and self-described housewife who is co-chair of the  Recall Bob
Filner  effort. The group would need to collect more than 101,000
signatures, or 15 percent of the city electorate, in 39 days to
qualify for the ballot.  “If he fights it, this could go on a year,” Brent said.
“I would love to see this mayor step down. I don’t think it’s
in his nature to step down.”  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  