-- San Francisco Bay Bridge Agency Offers $750 Million of Muni Debt
-- B y   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 2013-07-24T15:54:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-24/san-francisco-bay-bridge-agency-offers-750-million-of-muni-debt.html
The operator of the  San Francisco-Oakland Bay Bridge  and six other spans in the area is selling
$750 million in tax-exempt bonds toward a $9 billion program to
strengthen the structures against earthquakes.  Delays and cost overruns on the Bay Bridge,  California ’s
busiest, have pushed the price of replacing its quake-damaged
eastern stretch to about $6.4 billion from $1.3 billion in 1997.  The bonds being sold by the Bay Area Toll Authority will
help finance that project along with seismic retrofitting at the
other six state-owned bridges in the area, said an authority
spokesman, Randy Rentschler. The authority had about $7.7
billion of  muni debt  rated by Moody’s Investors Service as of
April 12, according to the New York-based company.  Bonds maturing April 2053 were offered with a preliminary
yield of 5.45 percent, according to three people familiar with
the sale who asked not to be identified before prices are final.
That’s 1.11 percentage points above an index of benchmark 30-year munis.  The authority collects  tolls  of as much as $6 per trip to
finance maintenance and construction of bridges linking parts of
the  Bay Area . Rentschler said bonds issued by the authority
aren’t earmarked for specific projects, though he said that the
Bay Bridge replacement is the last incomplete job.  Plan Delayed  After bridge planners said July 8 that the span wouldn’t
open for traffic as planned in early September, Toll Authority
bonds traded at their widest penalty to benchmark munis since
2012. The Oakland-based Metropolitan Transportation Commission
attributed the delay in replacing the 2.2-mile (3.5-kilometer)
eastern section to failure of 32 seismic anchor rods during
testing in March.  Rentschler said news stories detailing challenges with the
work have pushed up yield penalties for authority bonds. He
maintained that authority debt remains a safe investment because
more than 122 million vehicles pay tolls on the bridges each
year.  “The Bay Area Toll Authority has an essential monopoly
over driving across bridges in the Bay Area,” he said. “The
Bay Area’s geography makes it virtually inevitable that you will
pay a toll to cross a bridge.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Nash in  Los Angeles  at 
 Jnash24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  