-- Sands China 2nd-Qtr Profit Triples on Added Gaming Tables
-- B y   V i n i c y   C h a n
-- 2013-07-24T20:54:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-24/sands-china-2nd-qtr-profit-triples-on-added-gaming-tables.html
Sands China Ltd. (1928) , the Macau casino
operator controlled by billionaire  Sheldon Adelson , said second-quarter profit more than tripled as it added gambling tables and
hotel rooms to draw more visitors.  Net income for the Hong Kong-listed unit of Las Vegas Sands
Corp. increased to $487.6 million from $160.5 million a year
earlier, according to its parent’s filing in U.S. GAAP standard
today. Revenue climbed 40 percent to $2.07 billion from $1.48
billion.  Sands China,  Galaxy Entertainment Group Ltd. (27)  and  Melco
Crown Entertainment Ltd. (MPEL)  have been expanding on the Cotai Strip,
a piece of reclaimed land in Macau that’s comparable to the Las
Vegas Strip. Sands China said in January that it has received
government approval to add 200 additional gambling tables this
year.  Adjusted property earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization, or adjusted property Ebitda,
climbed 55 percent to $654.8 million. That compares with a
median estimate of $653 million from a survey of nine analysts
compiled by  Bloomberg News .  Sands Cotai Central, the operator’s latest resort which
opened in April last year in the world’s largest gambling hub,
has been adding more hotel rooms. It has been expanding shopping
malls and shows to attract middle-class gamblers. An improved
high-speed rail connection also helped boost visitor numbers.  Sands China gained 1.4 percent to HK$42.80 at the close of
Hong Kong trading. The stock has climbed 26 percent this year,
compared with the city’s benchmark Hang Seng Index’s 3 percent
decline.  Macau is the only place in China where casinos are legal
and the city raked in gaming revenue of $38 billion last year.
Sands plans to invest another $2.8 billion in the former
Portuguese colony to build its fifth resort, to be named
Parisian, which will have a replica of the Eiffel Tower and
family-oriented facilities to attract middle-class gamblers from
China, who provide wider margins.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vinicy Chan in  Hong Kong  at 
 vchan91@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  