-- Sarepta Falls on Investor Skepticism of Approval Plans
-- B y   S a m u e l   A d a m s
-- 2013-07-24T15:12:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-24/sarepta-falls-on-investor-skepticism-of-approval-plans.html
Sarepta Therapeutics (SRPT)  Inc. plummeted
the most in 14 months on investor concerns that U.S. regulators
won’t consider the company’s treatment for Duchenne muscular
dystrophy on an accelerated basis.  Sarepta, with no products on the market, fell 12 percent to
$40.95 at 11:11 a.m. The shares of the Cambridge, Massachusetts-based company declined as much as 17 percent, their biggest
intraday drop since May 2012, after at least three analysts cut
their ratings on the stock.  The biotechnology company announced today it plans to seek
approval of eteplirsen in the first half of 2013 after the  Food
and Drug Administration  said it was open to a filing based on
data from existing studies. The agency requested information on
methodology and verification that will be incorporated into the
filing, the company said in a statement today. Regulators didn’t
commit to considering approval of the compound on an accelerated
approval basis, Sarepta said.  “If you’re a bear, you believe that the FDA is just saying
’file,’ and the management is filing just because they can, not
because they think they’re going to get approved,” Robyn Karnauskas, a New York-based analyst at Deutsche Bank AG, said
in a telephone interview. She reduced her rating on Sarepta to
hold from buy.  Sarepta’s stock began falling while Chief Executive Officer
Christopher Garabedian talked about the company’s plans on a
conference call this morning.  “If he had just said ’we’re filing,’ it would have been
up,” Karnauskas said. “But he added some color about what the
FDA said, and that color was not enough to encourage the
bulls.”  Duchenne muscular dystrophy is a form of the disease that
affects boys and worsens quickly. It is caused by a defective
gene for a protein in the muscles and occurs in about one of
every 3,600 male infants, according to the  National Institutes
of Health .  Eteplirsen, the developmental drug, manipulates RNA to
repair a gene mutation in about 13 percent of patients. If
successful, the drug helps the patients produce the missing
protein and gain strength.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Samuel Adams in  New York  at 
 sadams69@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  