-- Senate Votes to End Fixed Rates on Federal Student Loans
-- B y   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 2013-07-24T22:32:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-24/senate-votes-to-end-fixed-rates-on-federal-student-loans.html
About 11 million U.S. students who
need to borrow to cover their college costs would pay 3.86
percent on their next loans under legislation now headed for
final passage by Congress.  The Senate voted 81-18 today to replace fixed interest
rates on federal loans with variable rates that will rise or
fall annually according to the yield on 10-year Treasury notes.  “This is a victory for students,” said Tennessee Senator
Lamar Alexander, a former education secretary who was the lead
Republican negotiator. “It makes loans cheaper, simpler,
fairer, more certain.”  Members of both parties have been eager to get legislation
to the White House for President  Barack Obama  to sign before the
Education Department processes the loan requests of students
heading back to college. Negotiating the changes has taken
months, in part because of Democrats who wanted to keep the low
fixed rate of 3.4 percent that expired July 1.  “This is the best deal we could get for students at this
time,” said Senator Tom Harkin of  Iowa , who, like many Senate
Democrats, resisted pegging borrowing costs to market rates --
first proposed by Obama. “It is going to lower interest rates
this year and for undergraduate students for the next four
years.”  Candidate Pressure  Last year, Congress extended the fixed rate of 3.4 percent
for subsidized Stafford loans after Obama made it an issue in
his re-election campaign. Obama’s Republican challenger  Mitt
Romney  also endorsed the extension, forcing the Republican-run
House to go along with the president and Democrats.  Once that temporary rate expired, the interest for
subsidized Stafford loans, which are for lower-income students,
increased to 6.8 percent. Unsubsidized Staffords, available at
all income levels, had already been at a fixed 6.8 percent rate.  If the bill becomes law, the rate for all undergraduate
Stafford borrowers will be 2.05 percentage points more than the
yield on 10-year Treasury note at the last auction before June
1. This year, that yield was 1.81 percent at the  May 15 auction ,
so the Stafford rate for the 2013-2014 academic year would be
3.86 percent.  Graduate Stafford loans would be marked up 3.6 percentage
points from the 10-year Treasury yield, with a maximum rate of
9.5 percent. The rate would be 5.41 percent for the coming
academic year.  PLUS loans for parents and graduate students would carry a
4.6 percentage-point markup from the 10-year Treasury yield and
be capped at 10.5 percent. The rate for the coming year would be
6.41 percent.  Retroactive Rate  The variable rates would be retroactive to July 1.  Next week, Republican leaders will ask the House to accept
changes made by the Democratic-controlled Senate to the House-passed bill, said Republican aides who spoke on condition of
anonymity. The House bill, H.R. 1911, also pegged student loans
to annual changes in the yield on 10-year Treasuries.  “I do see it passing the House,” Representative John Kline, the Minnesota Republican who leads the House Education
and the Workforce panel, said in an interview. “The faster we
do it, the better.”  Opposition of Senate Democrats to variable rates had pitted
them against Obama and House Republicans. At a White House
meeting last week, Obama, who opposed the House legislation,
prodded the bipartisan group of eight senators to reach a
compromise. The administration supports the legislation now
headed for the House.  Last Holdout  Harkin, the last holdout among the negotiators, went along
with the deal after Republicans agreed to cap the interest on
all the loans at 8.25 percent.  Opponents of the measure such as Senator Elizabeth Warren,
a Massachusetts Democrat, argued that it did little to make
college more affordable or reduce the almost $1.2 trillion in
student debt. Eighty-five percent of that debt is made up of
government-backed loans; the rest were made by private lenders
such as  SLM Corp. (SLM) , commonly known as Sallie Mae.  “Our students are drowning in debt; we must find a way to
address this crisis,” Warren said during floor debate. The
measure “asks tomorrow’s students to pay more in order to
finance lower rates today,” she said  Harkin, who chairs the Senate Health, Education, Labor and
Pensions Committee, said the panel will “revisit the issue”
when it drafts legislation to revamp federal higher-education
programs and “address the whole issue of college
affordability.”  Rate Cap  The measure was passed after the Senate rejected an
amendment by Senator Jack Reed, a Rhode Island Democrat, to cap
undergraduate loans at 6.8 percent and another by Vermont
independent Bernie Sanders to end the variable-rate system in
two years. Both failed to get the 60 votes needed to pass under
an agreement between Majority Leader Harry Reid and Republicans.  “We are failing millions of families right now,” said
Sanders, who caucuses with Democrats. “This legislation will
make a bad situation worse.” Sanders cited Congressional Budget
Office projections that undergraduate student loans would carry
interest rates of more than 7 percent in five years.  Louisiana Democratic Senator Mary Landrieu said she was
supporting the measure because the “compromise is much better
than the original Republican House version.”  That measure would have provided a 2.5 percentage-point
markup from the 10-year Treasury yield for undergraduate loans.
It also would have reset the rate each year on the entire amount
that students borrow to finance their education.  Under the Senate legislation, a student would lock in an
interest rate each year they borrow money for college expenses.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Rowley in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katherine Rizzo at 
 krizzo5@bloomberg.net  