-- Sex-Assault Reports Don’t Rise With Prosecutors: Levin
-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 2013-07-24T17:56:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-24/sex-assault-reports-don-t-rise-with-prosecutors-levin.html
The head of the Senate Armed
Services Committee, who opposes efforts to remove military
commanders’ authority over sexual-assault prosecutions, said
there’s no evidence victims are more likely to report attacks in
foreign militaries that use independent prosecutors.  Senator  Carl Levin , a Michigan Democrat, released two
letters today from U.S. military officials that he said
contradict the central premise of those seeking independent
military prosecutions -- that such a move would encourage
victims to report sexual assaults.  “I doubt very much we’re going to hear that argument
again,” Levin said in a conference call with reporters.  Army Brigadier General Richard Gross, legal counsel to the
chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, said a survey he
conducted of military justice systems in the U.K.,  Canada ,
 Australia ,  New Zealand , the Netherlands and  Germany  found no
correlation between the use of independent prosecutors and the
rates of reporting and prosecution of sexual assaults.  “There was no statistical or anecdotal evidence that
removing commanders from the charging decision had any effect on
victims’ willingness to report crimes,” Gross said in a letter
to Levin dated July 19. “Similarly, we found no studies by our
allies that examined the impact of the charges on prosecution
rates, conviction rates, or processing times, although generally
their cases now take longer.”  A second letter, from Admiral James Winnefeld, vice
chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, documented 93 sexual-assault cases over the last two years that military commanders
pursued and local civilian authorities didn’t.  Commanders Willing  “Commanders are willing to send cases to a court-martial
even though the legal professionals are reluctant to do that,”
Levin said.  A reported surge in reports of military sexual assaults
that President  Barack Obama  has called “shameful and
disgraceful” spurred calls for legislation to prohibit
commanding officers from overseeing the prosecution of assaults
within their ranks, and to give the power to independent
military officials.  A sponsor of the legislation in the Senate,  New York 
Democrat Kirsten Gillibrand, said many victims are too afraid to
report assaults to their commanding officers, who may know the
alleged attacker.  Levin’s committee rejected Gillibrand’s proposal in June on
a 17-9 vote. It passed an alternative measure requiring a
higher-level review whenever a commanding officer decides
against pursuing a prosecution.  Gillibrand is seeking to pass her measure on the Senate
floor as an amendment to the annual defense authorization bill.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  