-- Shanghai Economy Posts Faster Growth on Services Expansion
-- B y   A l l e n   W a n   a n d   W e i y i   L i m
-- 2013-07-24T07:03:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-24/shanghai-economy-posts-faster-growth-on-services-expansion-1-.html
Shanghai’s economy expanded 7.7
percent in the first half of the year as expansion for its
 service industries  enabled China’s commercial hub to outpace the
national average.  The city’s gross domestic product growth quickened from 7.2
percent in last year’s comparable period and exceeded the
country’s 7.6 percent rate in the first six months of 2013. The
city’s service sector, which includes property, finance,
telecommunications and tourism, grew 9.6 percent in the January-to-June period, accounting for 61.7 percent of GDP, Shanghai’s
statistics bureau said in a statement posted on its website
yesterday.  Premier  Li Keqiang  is trying to rely more on domestic
demand for growth and less on exports and investment. China’s
manufacturing weakened by more than estimated in July, according
to a preliminary survey of  purchasing managers  released today.  “Shanghai’s GDP was boosted by the services industry,”
said Shen Jianguang, the chief Asia economist for Mizuho
Securities Asia Ltd. in  Hong Kong . “Local governments generally
have higher GDP. They want to show they are doing work.”  Shanghai, the nation’s commercial hub, has made it a
priority for the second half to accelerate the building of a
trial free trade zone, the Shanghai Daily reported July 14,
citing Mayor Yang Xiong. One part of the plan for the zone may
include ending a 13-year-ban on the manufacturing and sale of
video-game consoles in China, on the condition that companies
such as Sony Corp. and Nintendo Co. make their products in the
new Shanghai area, according to the  South China Morning Post .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Allen Wan in Shanghai at 
 awan3@bloomberg.net ;
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gregory Turk at 
 gturk2@bloomberg.net  