-- Softened Mortgage Rule Said to Be Proposed Soon by U.S. Agencies
-- B y   C l e a   B e n s o n   a n d   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n
-- 2013-07-24T20:16:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-24/softened-mortgage-rule-said-to-be-proposed-soon-by-u-s-agencies.html
A panel of six financial regulators
is close to proposing a softened version of a pending rule
requiring lenders to keep a stake in risky mortgages that they
securitize, according to five people with knowledge of the
discussions.  The  Federal Reserve  and the Securities and Exchange
Commission, among others, plan to suggest that lenders must keep
a share in the risk of mortgages issued to borrowers who spend
more than 43 percent of their income on debt, said the people,
who asked to remain anonymous because the discussions are not
yet final.  The move would mark a victory for a coalition that includes
the  National Association of Realtors , the  Mortgage Bankers
Association , and dozens of other housing-industry participants
and consumer groups who protested when the agencies in 2011
released a more stringent draft of the rule, commonly known as
the Qualified Residential Mortgage or QRM rule. That proposal
would have required lenders to keep a share of mortgages with
down payments of less than 20 percent and those issued to
borrowers spending more than 36 percent of their income on debt.  “If what we’ve heard about the proposed QRM rule is true,
then we are very pleased that the agencies are moving towards a
broad definition that will benefit the American people by
ensuring access to safe, affordable options for buying a home,”
Gary Thomas, president of the National Association of Realtors,
said today in an e-mailed statement.  Dodd-Frank Act  The regulation, mandated by the 2010 Dodd-Frank Act, will
reshape who can lend and who can borrow because banks will
probably make only those loans that conform to the new
standards.  The new proposal, which may come in a matter of weeks,
would align the Qualified Residential Mortgage rule with
similarly named guidance governing risky home lending: the
qualified mortgage, or QM, rule. That regulation, issued by the
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau in January, contains no
down payment requirement and offers legal protections to banks
for loans to borrowers spending no more than 43 percent of their
income on debt.  “Having them as similar as is humanly possible will reduce
unnecessary regulatory burden,” said Julia Gordon, director for
housing finance and policy at the Center for American Progress,
an advocacy group with ties to the  Democratic Party .  The agencies will seek public comment before each holds a
vote on the final rule. Agencies involved in the rulemaking also
include the Department of Housing and Urban Development, the
Federal Housing Finance Agency, the Office of the Comptroller of
the Currency, and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.  The regulators also may ask separately whether the
securitization rule should include a down payment requirement of
30 percent, the people said.  Members of the coalition that has been lobbying for a
change in the rule say they are opposed to a down payment
requirement because it could block low-wealth borrowers from the
market.  “What’s the best down payment should be a decision that’s
made by the lenders,” Gordon said in a telephone interview.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Clea Benson in Washington at 
 cbenson20@bloomberg.net ;
Jesse Hamilton in Washington at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  