-- Solar Sales Moving From Sofa to Websites to Speed Orders
-- B y   A n d r e w   H e r n d o n
-- 2013-07-25T17:28:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-24/solar-sales-moving-from-sofa-to-websites-to-speed-orders.html
U.S. solar companies are borrowing
sales techniques from online retailers to make paying for power
as easy as buying an airplane ticket.  The $3.5 billion U.S. residential solar industry is seeking
to automate a sales process that often requires representatives
to visit prospective customers’ homes. Websites now predict how
much power a rooftop system will produce and let homeowners
compare prices from multiple installers.  Simplifying the sales process will boost orders and drive
down the cost of landing new customers, said David Field, chief
executive officer of OneRoof Energy Inc. Prices for solar panels
have plunged 39 percent in the past two years. Other expenses
such as marketing and permitting may now make up more than half
the cost of residential units.  “The market is absolutely huge,” said Field. “The
industry has to get past this idea of canvassing and use
technology and networks in order to sell.”  Solar-system installers including  SolarCity Corp. (SCTY)  and
Sungevity Inc. are enjoying a boom in sales as customers take
advantage of falling panel prices that hurt manufacturers led by
 Yingli Green Energy Holding (YGE)  Co. and Suntech Power Holdings Co.
SolarCity shares have more than tripled this year while
Suntech’s main unit was dragged into bankruptcy in March.  OneRoof owns rooftop solar panels that are leased to
homeowners at little to no upfront cost and says its customers
on average save 5 percent to 25 percent a month on their
electricity bill. The San Diego-based company is backed by
Hanwha Group and Black Coral Capital.  Satellite Imagery  Sungevity uses satellite imagery to design rooftop units
for potential customers who lease panels. It offers free price
quotes through its website. That’s helped drive down site-evaluation costs to about $100 from about $3,000 a few years
ago, a figure that included “truck roll” expenses for on-site
assessments, said CEO Andrew Birch.  “The revolution that’s taking place now is all about
mainstreaming solar in an efficient way,” Birch said in an
interview. Software “takes the whole process online.”  Birch said residential solar companies used to spend about
$8,000 to acquire each customer.  Customer-acquisition costs in the industry are now about
$2,000 to $3,000, said  Lyndon Rive , CEO of SolarCity. He expects
that to eventually reach $50 to $100.  Borrowed Ideas  Developers are “trying to get best practices from other
industries,” said  David Arfin , CEO of First Energy Finance LLC,
who helped pioneer the solar lease concept.  “In a world where panel costs are somewhere between 60 and
70 cents a watt, and customer acquisition costs are somewhere
between 80 cents and $1.20 a watt, it leads you to focus on the
customer acquisition cost,” Arfin said.  Sunrun Inc. acquired startup LightMile, founded by former
 SunPower Corp. (SPWR)  and  Autodesk Inc. (ADSK)  executives, to automate the
sales process. Its software lets San Francisco-based Sunrun
design power systems “in a matter of minutes” instead of after
multiple site visits, according to vice president of marketing
Bill Stewart.  That’s helping “increase close rates” and may reduce
costs by as much as 20 percent by 2015, he said. “The faster we
respond to someone when we find out that they’re interested, the
more likely they are to sign up.”  Rooftop Funds  Solar panel  prices  have plunged to about 84 cents a watt in
July from $2.10 in November 2010, according to Bloomberg New
Energy Finance data.  There are about 270,000 U.S. residential solar
installations. About half are financed by third parties such as
Sungevity and SolarCity, according to the Washington-based Solar
Energy Industries Association. The U.S. Energy Department
estimates that about 25 million of the almost 100 million homes
in the country have rooftops suitable for solar.  Solar leasing providers have raised at least $4.6 billion
for 46 funds since 2008 to finance rooftop projects, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg New Energy Finance.  Fundraising for projects is becoming less of a
“bottleneck” to growth, and the industry’s primary concern is
shifting to whether customers can be acquired quickly and
cheaply, said Zbigniew Barwicz, CEO of Pure Energies Inc., a
Toronto-based residential solar provider.  “Without scale nobody will survive in this market,” said
Barwicz.  ‘One-Stop-Shop’  Pure Energies acquired One Block of the Grid Inc. in July
to help rooftop solar companies find new customers. One Block
introduced an online marketplace in May that compares prices and
services offered by companies such as SolarCity, Sunrun Inc. and
OneRoof. Evaluating rooftop  power plants  through the site is
similar to comparing plane tickets on the Kayak.com website,
Barwicz said. Kayak is owned by  Priceline.com Inc. (PCLN)   “We think that it’s important that somebody can have a
one-stop-shop and compare apples to apples and be able to
explain the details,” Barwicz said. “That was not done in
solar up to now.”  Similar strategies have been used in the automotive, health
insurance and banking industries, said John Gingrich, head of
corporate development for Distributed Energy Research &
Solutions Inc.  The company’s  EnergySage  website lets users select solar
equipment, installers and financing on a platform similar to
 Expedia Inc. (EXPE) ’s system for travel. Providers compete to win their
business, much like the way residential mortgage companies bid
for clients through LendingTree Inc., said Distributed Energy
CEO Vikram Aggarwal.  The site can reduce the cost of finding customers by as
much as 80 percent, Aggarwal said. Cambridge, Massachusetts-based Distributed Energy gets a fee when client leads are
converted into sales.  “That online tool to do research and then to compare your
options side-by-side is something that used to be nice to have,
but now for most successful industries it’s table stakes to get
consumers excited,” Gingrich said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Herndon in  San Francisco  at 
 aherndon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  