-- South Korea Growth Surges to Fastest in More Than Two Years
-- B y   E u n k y u n g   S e o   a n d   C y n t h i a   K i m
-- 2013-07-25T01:05:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-24/south-korea-growth-surges-to-fastest-in-nine-quarters.html
South  Korea ’s economy grew the most
in more than two years, on stronger  government spending  and
private consumption even as a slowdown in  China  clouds the
outlook.  Gross domestic product  rose 1.1 percent in April-to-June
from the previous quarter when it rose 0.8 percent, the  Bank of
Korea  said today in a statement in Seoul. That was above the
median 0.8 percent estimate of 13 economists surveyed by
 Bloomberg News . From a year earlier,  Asia ’s fourth-largest
economy expanded 2.3 percent.  President Park Geun Hye boosted spending and the central
bank cut its key rate in May, buttressing the economy against a
sluggish  property market  and slower growth in China, South
Korea’s biggest trading partner. The central bank is counting on
improving domestic demand and resilient exports to achieve
forecasts for expansions of 2.8 percent this year and 4 percent
next year, the fastest since 2010, when the economy was pulling
out of a global slump.  “The GDP figures are a positive surprise, which will give
investors more confidence about the economic outlook,” said Lee Jae Hyung, a fixed-income analyst at  Tongyang Securities Inc. (003470)  in
Seoul. “Today’s data will reduce calls for further monetary
easing. The next rate move for the BOK will be a hike.”  Exports Slow  The won weakened 0.6 percent to 1,119.50 against the dollar
as of 9:00 a.m. in Seoul after rising to a six-week high
yesterday, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The Kospi
stock index fell 0.3 percent to 1,906.57, roughly in line with a
decline in the MSCI Asia Pacific Index.  Government spending rose 2.4 percent in the second quarter
from the previous three-month period, when it expanded 1.2
percent. Private consumption rebounded, rising 0.6 percent after
a 0.4 percent drop in the first quarter. Construction investment
gained 3.3 percent, while facilities investment declined 0.7
percent.  South Korea ’s exports of goods and services increased 1.5
percent in the second quarter, slowing from a 3 percent rise in
the previous quarter, as the yen’s more than 24 percent fall
against the won over the past 12 months gives rival Japanese
exporters a boost.  Slowing growth in emerging economies and discussion in the
U.S. of a rollback in Federal Reserve stimulus are risks to the
global economy, Finance Minister Hyun Oh Seok said today at a
meeting in Seoul. South Korea and its Group of 20 partners last
week agreed in Moscow that such exit strategies should be
carried out carefully in close communication with the market,
Hyun said.  “I assess that the agreement secured the minimum safety
net we need to ease market uncertainties,” Hyun said.  China Risk  Slower growth in China is “a major risk” to South Korea’s
outlook, given Korea’s manufacturing sector has significant
trade and investment exposure to the world’s second-biggest
economy, said Ma Tieying, an economist at Singapore-based DBS
Group Holdings Ltd. The preliminary China  Purchasing Managers ’
Index fell to 47.7 in July from 48.2 in June, further below the
level of 50 that separates contraction from expansion, HSBC
Holdings Plc and Markit Economics said yesterday.  “A slowdown in China will inevitably cause some adverse
impact on the Korean economy.” said Ma before the GDP data were
released.  Growth Potential  The economy will expand 3 percent in the second half of
2013 and 4 percent next year, “close to our potential” growth
rate, Hyunsaid in an interview in Moscow last week. Governor
Kim Choong Soo, who raised the BOK’s growth forecasts on the
fiscal and monetary stimulus, said on July 11 the economy will
grow 1 percent or so each quarter into next year, reaching its
potential output by 2015.  The government obtained a 17.3 trillion won ($15.5 billion)
extra budget in May from parliament and front-loaded about 60
percent of spending in this year’s main budget to the first half
of the year.  The government will outline a plan by the end of August to
lower taxes on home purchases after introducing tax breaks for
first-time buyers earlier this year to halt a property-market
slump.  Home prices  slipped 0.21 percent in the first six months
of 2013, following a 0.03 percent drop last year on sluggish
demand and oversupply, according to data from Kookmin Bank, the
nation’s largest mortgage lender.  Real-Estate Falls  “This sustained fall in real estate prices bodes ill for
private consumption,” said Juliana Lee, a Hong Kong-based
economist at Deutsche Bank, said in a report on July 19.  SK Hynix Inc. (000660) , the world’s second-largest maker of
computer-memory chips and a supplier for smartphone
manufacturers including Apple Inc., today posted profit that
exceeded analysts’ estimates, buoyed by a rise in prices of
semiconductors used for personal computers and mobile devices.  The economy is growing more strongly than expected, BOK
National Accounts Division Director Jung Yung Taek told
reporters in Seoul today.  “The chances are not big that the second half will be
weaker than the first half, given a recovery in shipbuilding and
sustained strength in semiconductors and smartphones,” said
Jung. “Our growth forecast of 2.8 percent for this year is
achievable.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in  Seoul  at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net ;
Cynthia Kim in Seoul at 
 ckim170@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  