-- South African Unions Declare Deadlock in Gold Mining Wage Talks
-- B y   P a u l   B u r k h a r d t ,   A n d r e   J a n s e   v a n   V u u r e n   a n d   T s h e p i s o   M o k h e m a
-- 2013-07-24T12:41:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-24/south-african-unions-warn-of-strikes-if-gold-wage-talks-stall.html
South African unions representing
gold-mine workers have declared a deadlock in wage negotiations
after producers raised a wage offer by one percentage point.  The dispute will now go to arbitration, Solidarity General
Secretary Gideon du Plessis said in an e-mailed statement. The
Chamber of Mines, representing producers, said mediation at the
country’s Commission for Conciliation, Mediation and Arbitration
will last about 30 days.  “It doesn’t rule out a strike as soon as possible,”
 Lesiba Seshoka , a spokesman for the  National Union of
Mineworkers , said by phone. The union represents 64 percent of
employees in the industry.  The chamber, representing companies including  AngloGold
Ashanti Ltd. (ANG) , the world’s third-largest producer, offered 5
percent increases in wages and housing-related allowances, it
said in a statement today. Unions rejected a 4 percent increase
tabled last week.  About 60 percent of gold-mining operations in  South Africa ,
the sixth-biggest producer, are unprofitable, the chamber said
July 15. Gold has dropped 30 percent from an intraday high of
$1,921.17 an ounce in September 2011, including a record three-month decline in the second quarter.  The producer group said its revised offer will raise entry-level pay for underground workers to 9,000 rand ($934) a month,
including some benefits. The NUM wants base pay, excluding
benefits, for the same employees to be raised 61 percent to
8,000 rand.  Gold Shares  Gold stocks pared gains in Johannesburg after the deadlock
announcement. AngloGold, which had increased as much as 4.1
percent, traded 1.4 percent higher at 140.53 rand by 2:37 p.m.
in Johannesburg.  Harmony Gold Mining Co. (HAR)  rose 0.8 percent to
38.38 rand, compared with an intraday advance of as much as 2.8
percent.  The Association of Mineworkers and Construction Union has
requested additional information from the producers, the chamber
said. The NUM, Solidarity and UASA have declared the dispute.  “We’re in a situation where we cannot move forward,”
Franz Stehring, head of mining for UASA, said by phone.  Wage negotiations in the gold industry will only gain
momentum once a process of facilitation is followed, according
to Solidarity’s Du Plessis. The union “has urged the executives
of the employers in the gold sector to put their negotiators in
a better bargaining position so that an agreement could be
reached,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Paul Burkhardt in Johannesburg at 
 pburkhardt@bloomberg.net ;
Andre Janse van Vuuren in Johannesburg at 
 ajansevanvuu@bloomberg.net ;
Tshepiso Mokhema in Johannesburg at 
 tmokhema@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  