-- South Africa Considers Rhino Farming, Horn-Trading
-- B y   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e   a n d   A n t o n y   S g u a z z i n
-- 2013-07-24T13:50:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-24/south-africa-considers-rhino-farming-horn-trading.html
South Africa  should consider lifting
a domestic ban on trade in rhinoceros horns, authorizing
commercial farming and trading the horn on the Johannesburg
bourse, a Department of Environmental Affairs report showed.  The steps were proposed as part of an effort to halt
poaching that is threatening eventual extinction for the
animals. At least 514 out of a national population, that stood
at 20,711 in 2010, have been poached this year, the department
said in the report, which was released by e-mail today. Most of
rest of the global population is spread across sub-Saharan
Africa with the next biggest concentration being in  Namibia .  “Some viewed the lifting of the ban on trade in rhino horn
as the panacea that would end poaching and save the rhino from
otherwise inevitable extinction,” the department said,
referring to consultation on the measures. “This view was
supported by market theorists who argued that in a market where
rhino horn could be traded freely, market forces would
automatically drive horn prices down, obviating the need for
syndicates to face risks associated with poaching.”  A similar argument has been mounted about elephant ivory
with Southern African nations including South  Africa ,  Zimbabwe 
and  Botswana  advocating legal trade in the product while  Kenya 
and other countries oppose it. While elephants have to be killed
to extract their ivory rhino horns can be removed without
harming the animals.  South Africa should “consider opening a rhino horn trading
bourse possibly linked to the JSE,” the department said,
referring to Africa’s biggest stock and bond markets.  Horn Stockpiles  The surge in poaching comes even after the government
deployed the army in the Kruger National Park, its biggest
protected wildlife area, and has stepped up arrests of poachers.
They target South Africa for the horns, which sell for more than
gold by weight in  Asia  where they are believed to cure cancer
and boost sexual prowess.  The government department also recommends asking for
permission for auctions this year of rhino-horn stockpiles to
help pay for anti-poaching initiatives, and to upgrade South
Africa’s border with  Mozambique  along Kruger National Park.  Other measures to boost and protect rhino populations
include dehorning wild rhino populations and the use of drones
to protect the animals. Globally, in 2011, there were 28,195
rhinos of five different species in Africa and Asia.  Under Threat  South Africa’s rhino population has been under threat
before. In 1895 the white rhino population sunk to 50 in South
Africa after sustained hunting. In 2010 there were 18,796 with
the rest of the population made up of black rhinos, a smaller
species.  Still, the number of black rhinos in Africa fell from
100,000 in the 1960s to 2,400 in 1995 before recovering to 4,800
in 2011.   Czech Republic authorities seized 24 white-rhino horns and
arrested 16 people yesterday in connection with wildlife
trafficking, according to the International Fund for Animal
Welfare. The gang posed as hunters and then applied for export-import trophies that allowed them to export the horns as
personal mementos, the group said in a statement today.  “Illegal trade alone is nudging rhinos to extinction,”
Kelvin Alie, director of IFAW’s Wildlife Crime and Consumer
Aware Programme, said in the statement. “Only international
cooperation between law enforcement authorities will end illegal
wildlife trafficking.”  Porous Border  Most rhinos, which weigh as much as 4.5 metric tons, are
killed in the Kruger National Park, an area nearly as big as
 Israel  that borders Mozambique, with a porous border that is
easily crossed by poachers wielding assault rifles. Mozambique
is the world’s 20th poorest nation, according to the
 International Monetary Fund .  “We remain unconvinced that legal international trade in
rhino horn is a feasible approach for rhino conservation,” Jo
Shaw, WWF South Africa Rhino Programme Coordinator, said in an
e-mailed statement. “Uncertainty about how legal trade may in
turn influence demand adds to the challenging complexity of the
proposition.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Spillane in Johannesburg at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net ;
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  