-- South Africa Road Agency Says Toll Fights Halt Funding
-- B y   K a m l e s h   B h u c k o r y
-- 2013-07-24T08:11:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-24/south-africa-road-agency-says-toll-fights-halt-funding.html
The South African National Roads
Agency SOC Ltd., which is facing resistance to a toll-fee plan
on freeways around Johannesburg and  Pretoria , said investors are
reluctant to provide more funding as it runs out of cash after
delays to the project.  “Sanral has almost totally depleted its available cash,”
Vusi Mona, general manager of communications for the Pretoria-based state-owned company, said in an e-mailed response to
questions yesterday. “We’re not able to fund ourselves any
further, due to investors not feeling comfortable with our risk
profile.”  The electronic tolling system in  South Africa ’s Gauteng
province, the main commercial hub, was due to start this month
and has been repeatedly delayed after opposition from drivers,
opposition parties, labor unions and car-rental agencies. While
the infrastructure is ready and available, Sanral still needs
President  Jacob Zuma  to sign the relevant bill into law,
enabling the company to go ahead with the project, Mona said.  Sanral borrowed 20 billion rand ($2.1 billion) to fund the
Gauteng Freeway Improvement Project, some of which was completed
before the hosting of the 2010  Soccer World Cup . It has debt,
including interest, of 65 billion rand and 1.48 billion rand of
bonds which reach maturity at the end of October, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Yields on the company’s 7.16 billion rand of notes due July
2020 have jumped 95 basis points, or 0.95 percentage point, this
year to 7.82 percent yesterday, compared with an increase of 98
basis points in similar-dated government debt. The government in
May last year said it guaranteed 56 percent of Sanral’s 37.9
billion rand principal debt at the time and is also liable for
unguaranteed debt of 14.1 billion rand.  No Assistance  “We’ve requested further assistance,” Sanral’s Mona said,
adding that the lack of funding is also affecting maintenance on
existing toll roads. The “government is not in a position to
provide any further assistance, other than the guarantee.”  The National Treasury said it hasn’t been asked to provide
more funding.  “Treasury hasn’t been approached for further financial
assistance for Sanral,” it said in an e-mailed response to
questions yesterday. “Such assistance would be hard, if not
impossible, given the difficult economic environment we’re in.”  The 2.2 million-member Congress of South African Trade
Unions, the country’s largest labor grouping, has rejected the
tolls and urged motorists not to pay, organizing protests in
Johannesburg and Pretoria earlier this year where groups of
people intentionally drove slowly to stall traffic. The
government in October lowered the fees after the nation’s
 Constitutional Court  overturned a lower court ruling blocking 
the tariffs.  Project Losses  Finance Minister  Pravin Gordhan  is limiting spending growth
for the next three years to rein in the fiscal deficit as
slowing growth in  Africa ’s biggest  economy  amid mining strikes
and a recession in Europe curbs exports and curtails tax
revenue. The National Treasury last year gave Sanral 5.75
billion rand to help pay for the improvement of 185 kilometers
(115 miles) of highways around Gauteng.  Kapsch TrafficCom AG (KTCG) , an Austrian maker of road-toll
systems that will collect the fees, posted three straight
quarterly losses in the fiscal year ended March 31, partly
because of the Sanral delays. The company said the project 
would boost revenue by more than 50 million euros ($66 million) 
a year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kamlesh Bhuckory in Johannesburg at 
 kbhuckory@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  