-- Korean Won Rises to Six-Week High, Bonds Decline on GDP Optimism
-- B y   Y e w o n   K a n g
-- 2013-07-24T07:16:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-24/south-korean-won-pares-gains-after-china-pmi-data-bonds-decline.html
The won climbed to a six-week high
and government bonds fell before a report tomorrow that is
forecast to show South Korea’s economy grew the most in a year.  Gross domestic product rose 2 percent from a year earlier
in the three months through June, compared with 1.5 percent in
the first quarter, according to the median estimate in a
Bloomberg survey of economists. Overseas investors bought some
515 billion won ($463 million) more Kospi stocks than they sold
this week, exchange data show, and  Korea Gas Corp. (036460)  issued $500
million of dollar-denominated five-year notes yesterday.  “South Korea’s GDP data should be relatively solid and
companies have issued foreign currency-denominated bonds
recently, which may supply dollars to the market,” said Jeon Seung Ji, a currency analyst at Samsung Futures Inc. in Seoul.  The won gained 0.4 percent to close at 1,112.82 per dollar
in Seoul, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It earlier
touched 1,112.76, the strongest level since June 7. One-month
implied volatility, a gauge of expected moves in the exchange
rate used to price options, fell 12 basis points, or 0.12
percentage point, to a two-month low of 7.23 percent.  The won pared gains earlier after a report signaled
manufacturing in  China , South Korea’s biggest export market,
declined more than economists predicted in July.  The Purchasing Managers’ Index for China from HSBC Holdings
Plc and Markit Economics showed a preliminary reading of 47.7,
compared with the 48.2 median estimate in a Bloomberg News
survey of 19 economists. Readings below 50 indicate contraction.  China PMI  “The won had a knee-jerk reaction after China’s worse-than-expected PMI data, reversing the earlier gain,” said Son Eun Jeong, an analyst at Woori Futures Co. in Seoul. “But
investors are more immune to China’s slowing growth than
before.”  The prospect of the Federal Reserve tapering its $85
billion monthly bond purchases may lead to capital outflows from
South Korea, Ronald Man, a Hong Kong-based economist at HSBC,
said in a research note today. The nation’s current-account
surplus and declining imports will help support the balance of
payments, he added.  Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke told Congress last week it is
“too early” to begin slowing bond purchases that have fueled
demand for emerging-market assets.  The yield on South Korea’s 2.75 percent government notes
due June 2016 rose two basis points to a one-week high of 2.89
percent, according to Korea Exchange Inc. prices.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yewon Kang in  Seoul  at 
 ykang51@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  