-- South African Airways Seeks Airbus, Boeing Bids for 23 Planes
-- B y   K a m l e s h   B h u c k o r y
-- 2013-07-24T16:50:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-24/south-african-airways-seeks-airbus-boeing-bids-for-23-planes.html
South African Airways Ltd., the
continent’s biggest carrier, has asked Airbus SAS and Boeing Co.
to bid for orders of 23 wide-body aircraft as it seeks to switch
to more fuel-efficient planes.  “The tender has already gone to both aircraft
manufacturers,” the state-owned airline’s Chief Financial
Officer Wolf Meyer said today in a phone interview. “Obviously
our decision will be driven by how well the aircraft suits our
network requirements.”  SAA is renewing its fleet in a strategy to return to
profitability after a 1.36 billion-rand ($139.5 million) loss
for the year ended March 2012. The government gave the
Johannesburg-based company a 5 billion-rand debt guarantee in
October to ensure it can borrow from financial markets to
support a recovery.  “We currently have 23 wide-body aircraft in our fleet and
we will be looking to replace all of them,” Meyer said. “We
will like to replace them as soon as possible. It will depend on
the slots available from the manufacturers” and leasing
companies and their obligations. Airbus and Boeing have few
deliveries available for their most popular long-range jets
after years of strong order bookings.  The airline has ordered 20 narrow-bodied Airbus A320s to be
delivered over the next five years as part of the fleet renewal.
It has agreed with  Standard Chartered Plc’s (STAN)  Pembroke unit for a
12-year sale and lease-back agreement for 10 of the planes, the
lender said in an e-mailed statement yesterday. The transaction
is worth about $500 million, according to Meyer. “We don’t have
to outlay any big capital amounts,” he said. “It will
certainly have a huge cash-flow benefit for the group.”  Weaker Rand  The airline will start with the process of financing the
remaining 10 Airbus A320s next week, Meyer said.  SAA’s path to profitability hinges on the strength of the
rand against the dollar. About 60 percent of the airline’s bills
are dollar-denominated, according to Meyer, compared with less
than 50 percent of income.  The rand has weakened 13 percent against the dollar this
year, the second-worst performance of 16 major currencies
tracked by Bloomberg. It traded at 9.7519 to the dollar at 6:20
p.m. in Johannesburg.  “The weak rand is not positive for us,” Meyer said. “The
stronger the rand, the better for us.” The airline prefers a
rand below 9 to the dollar, he said, adding that they don’t
target a specific  exchange rate .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kamlesh Bhuckory in Johannesburg at 
 kbhuckory@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  