-- Spain Entrepreneur Saves Birds While Serving Turtles With Chips
-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i
-- 2013-07-24T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-24/spain-entrepreneur-saves-birds-while-serving-turtles-with-chips.html
While every technology entrepreneur
wants to bring new things into the world, Alejandro Fernandez is
just as interested in hatching endangered birds, using his own
cash and help from companies such as  GlaxoSmithKline Plc. (GSK)   Fernandez, co-founder of  Fractalia Remote Systems , which
makes device-management software, has spent about 500,000 euros
($657,000) on a zoological research lab 35 kilometers (21.7
miles) from central  Madrid . The  FIEB Center  for Research in
Ethology and Biodiversity has 21 buildings on a plot about the
size of 18 soccer fields.  The facility already houses mammals, amphibians, reptiles
and birds, and has capacity for 100 to 200 species at risk of
extinction. The lab, scheduled to be fully operational next
summer, will use audio, video and sensor technologies so
biologists worldwide can study the animals remotely at low cost.  “Researchers from, let’s say  Australia , will be able to
monitor and study their animals from their homeland,” said
Fernandez, 38, whose goal is to make it one of the most advanced
facilities of its kind.  Radio frequency identification, or RFID, chips have been
placed on turtles’ shells so the animals’ behavior can be
studied by monitoring their movements in groups and as
individuals. And audio-recognition technology similar to that
used by Shazam Entertainment Ltd., the U.K. maker of song-identification software for mobile devices, is deployed to
detect when species are ready to mate.  Endangered Mink  “This is a terrific opportunity for us because it’s
extremely difficult to find the right infrastructure out there
to carry out our investigations,” said Diego Gil, a biologist
at the National Museum of Natural Science of  Spain , who’s
studying the zebra finch through FIEB.  Other animals being studied include the endangered European
mink, a carnivorous mammal weighing as much as 1 kilogram (2.2
pounds). This species is suffering from competition from the
bigger and more aggressive American mink, which is commonly
farmed for its fur.  European mink at the park are fed with live mice, crabs and
trout, Fernandez said. He uses 3D video to monitor the animals’
level of stress and aggressiveness based on their movements, how
much they sleep, and the time they spend in their nest.  The budget for the mink is about 70,000 euros this year,
and it will rise to about 100,000 euros in 2014 when the
population should grow to between 15 and 20. Part of the funding
comes from the Biodiversity Foundation of Spain’s Ministry of
Agriculture, Food and Environment.  Hormone Analysis  Researchers working remotely will have online access to
information such as biochemical analysis of blood or hormones,
as well as data such as the size of tails or bones measured by
the veterinarians at the park, and the movement or noise of
animals caught by sensors in the cages.  The facility was initially built by a Spanish tycoon to
breed exotic birds for sale. Fernandez bought the property in
2010 after that venture was shut, with an eye toward using his
startup background to transform the site into a research lab.  “I wanted to mix my entrepreneurial spirit with my passion
for animals,” said Fernandez, who declined to say how much he
paid for the facility.  The hundreds of creatures at the center include hawks,
parrots and eagle owls. In the coming weeks, Fernandez expects
about 200 more animals to arrive from about 20 species such as
chameleons, turtles, frogs, and exotic birds.  Corporate Support  The Banco Santander Foundation and  Acciona SA (ANA) , a Spanish
infrastructure company, are providing funds to cover salaries,
food, and other operational costs. Drugmaker GlaxoSmithKline
donated molecular biology equipment, while Groupe Adeo SA helped
with gardening tools. Fernandez is now looking for private
investors to finance projects with animals such as primates and
raccoons.  Fernandez has agreements with  Spain’s National Research
Council , known as CSIC, and Madrid’s  Alfonso X el Sabio
University . He’s also in talks with other research centers and
schools around the world, such as the  George Mason University  in
 Virginia  and  Germany ’s  Max Planck Institutes .  “As soon as I’m done with work every day, I jump into my
car and come here,” Fernandez said. “I can’t help it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid  at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  