-- SPH REIT Rises in IPO Debut on Yield Attraction: Singapore Mover
-- B y   P o o j a   T h a k u r
-- 2013-07-24T09:29:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-24/sph-reit-rises-in-ipo-debut-on-yield-attraction-singapore-mover.html
SPH REIT (SPHREIT) , the owner of the Paragon
mall along  Singapore ’s shopping belt, gained on its first day of
trading as investors were attracted by returns higher than those
of comparable properties.  The shares jumped 9.4 percent to 98.5 Singapore cents at
the close of trading. The stock was offered at 90 Singapore
cents apiece, the top end of its  price range . They started
trading at 2 p.m. Singapore time and were 37 times subscribed.  “It was super oversubscribed as bond yields have
stabilized a bit of late, which helped investor interest pick
up,” Vikrant Pandey, a Singapore-based analyst at UOB Kay Hian
Pte said. “Also retail assets are considered more of a
defensive play so thats helped generate interest too.”  Shares of the real estate investment trust were offered
with a yield of 5.79 percent based on fiscal 2014 projections.
That’s higher than the  measure  tracking REITs in Singapore,
which trades with a yield of 4.76 percent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Singapore Press Holdings Ltd. (SPH) , the city’s biggest
publisher, raised S$554 million ($438 million) in the initial
public offering of its retail assets through the REIT. SPH REIT
sold 615.8 million units, offered at 85 Singapore cents to 90
Singapore cents each.  The REIT was competing for funds with an offering by
property company  Overseas Union Enterprise Ltd.  that includes a
downtown Singapore hotel and mall. Both offerings were
subscribed as investors sought high-yielding assets, where
trusts have been the most active fundraisers in Singapore in the
past year. REITs and business trusts raised $4.16 billion, or 67
percent, of the $6.2 billion of stock priced, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Higher Yield  Overseas Union, which sought as much as S$614 million for
its REIT and business trust, will offer a yield of as much as
7.5 percent based on earnings projections for 2014, it  said  this
month.  OUE Hospitality Trust (OUEHT)  will start trading tomorrow.  SPH REIT sold units to key investors including Great
Eastern Life Assurance Co. and Morgan Stanley Investment
Management Co., it said in its prospectus.  The Paragon mall counts Prada, Gucci and  Jimmy Choo  among
its tenants. The trust also holds the Clementi Mall in a western
Singapore suburb.  Singapore Press said in May it will hold about 70 percent
of SPH REIT after it goes public, and the proceeds will fund the
group’s growth and a special dividend.  Credit Suisse Group AG, DBS Group Holdings Ltd. and
Oversea-Chinese Banking Corp. managed the sale.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pooja Thakur in Singapore at 
 pthakur@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  