-- Stocks in Switzerland Advance as Roche Shares Lead Gains
-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 2013-07-24T08:01:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-24/stocks-in-switzerland-advance-as-roche-shares-lead-gains.html
Stocks in Switzerland  climbed for
the first time in four days, led by pharmaceutical companies, as
German manufacturing and services growth topped forecasts.  Roche (ROG)  Holding AG, the world’s biggest maker of cancer
drugs, gained 1.3 percent.  Syngenta (SYNN)  AG, the largest maker of
crop chemicals, slid 3.8 percent after posting first-half
earnings and revenue that missed analyst estimates. Sulzer AG
fell 3.7 percent as Vontobel Holding AG downgraded its
recommendation for the shares.  The  Swiss Market Index (SMI)  increased 0.4 percent to 7,928.17 at
9:58 a.m. in Zurich. The equity benchmark has  risen 16 percent 
so far this year. The broader Swiss Performance Index advanced
0.3 percent today.  The number of shares trading hands in SMI-listed companies
was 31 percent lower than the average of the past 30 days, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  A gauge of  German manufacturing  increased to 50.3 this
month from 48.6 in June, where a number greater than 50
indicates expansion, according to Markit Economics. Economists
in a Bloomberg survey had predicted a reading of 49.2. Services
growth in  Europe ’s biggest economy also topped projections.  In  China , a preliminary private survey showed manufacturing
contracted more than estimated this month. The reading of 47.7
for an  index  released by HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit was less
than estimated and, if confirmed in the final report Aug. 1,
would be the lowest in 11 months.  Home Sales  U.S. Commerce Department data may show purchases of  new
homes  increased to a 484,000 pace last month, the highest level
since June 2008, according to the median forecast of 77
economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  Roche advanced 1.3 percent to 234.20 Swiss francs,
contributing the most to the SMI’s gain. The company said
obinutuzumab, treatment developed by its Genentech unit, delayed
progression of one of the most common types of blood cancer in a
phase III study, adding it was a better treatment than rituxan
against previously untreated chronic lymphocytic leukemia.  A gauge of health-care companies was the  best performer  of
the 19 industry groups in the Stoxx Europe 600 Index, with
 Novartis AG (NOVN)  gaining 1 percent to 68.50 francs and Lonza Group AG
climbing 1.1 percent to 75.25 francs.  Swatch Group AG, the largest maker of Swiss watches,
advanced 1.9 percent to 548.50 francs, posting the best
performance on the SMI.  Syngenta declined 3.8 percent to 371.90 francs as it
reported a drop in first-half profit after cold weather and late
northern-hemisphere crop planting weighed on demand for
fungicides. Net income fell 5 percent to $1.41 billion, compared
with the average analyst projection of $1.49 billion.  ‘Negative View’  “Syngenta’s first-half results were weak and disappointing
at all levels,” Philipp Gamper, an analyst at Bank Sarasin &
Cie. in Zurich, wrote in a report today. “On the back of this
currently unfavorable situation we keep our distinct negative
view on Syngenta. Moreover, the valuation of Syngenta’s stock is
stretched, and the market expectations remain ambitious.”  Sulzer (SUN)  retreated 3.7 percent to 137.30 francs, for the
largest four-day drop since October 2008, as Vontobel cut the
stock to hold from buy and HSBC Holdings Plc downgraded the
company to underweight from neutral. The shares slumped
yesterday after the pumpmaker cut its full-year forecast.  “The uncertainties regarding more restructuring costs,
impairments and guidance miss stay high in the second half,”
Fabian Haecki, an analyst at Vontobel, wrote in a note to
clients today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  