-- Syngenta Profit Declines on Cold Weather, Late Crop Planting
-- B y   P a t r i c k   W i n t e r s
-- 2013-07-24T05:23:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-24/syngenta-profit-declines-on-cold-weather-late-crop-planting.html
Syngenta AG (SYNN) , the world’s largest
maker of crop chemicals, reported a decline in first-half profit
after cold weather and late Northern hemisphere crop planting
weighed on demand for fungicides.  Net income fell 5 percent to $1.41 billion, compared with
an estimated $1.49 billion, based on the average of six analyst
predictions collected by Bloomberg. Sales rose 2 percent to $8.4
billion. Excluding royalties for its 604 corn rootworm trait
worth $256 million, booked in the year-earlier period, sales
rose 7 percent.  “For the second half of the year we expect an acceleration
of underlying sales growth based on the positive outlook for
Latin America and Asia Pacific,” Chief Executive Officer
Michael Mack said in a  statement  today.  Mack, who became chief of Basel-based Syngenta in 2008,
wants to almost double sales to $25 billion by 2020, buoyed by a
company-wide reorganization along crop lines and purchases of
new technologies. Syngenta has stepped up acquisitions in the
last year, using spare cash to buy listed hybrid-rice seed-maker
Devgen for $523 million, U.S. based Sunfield Seeds Inc., and
most recently announcing the purchase of Zambia-based MRI, a
maker of white corn seed.  Syngenta shares have risen 5.4 percent this year, trailing
gains at competitors  Monsanto Co. (MON)  and  Dupont Co. (DD)  which have
risen 9.8 and 27 percent over the same period.  The maker of the Cruiser seed treatment and Dual II Magnum
herbicide, formed in 2000 by the merger of  Novartis AG (NOVN)  and
 AstraZeneca PLC (AZN) ’s agribusinesses, appointed Michel Demare, the
former finance chief of Swiss engineer  ABB Ltd. (ABBN) , as Chairman
earlier this year. Demare replaces  Martin Taylor .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Winters in Zurich at 
 pwinters3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  