-- U.K.’s Biggest Clean Energy IPO Raises $460 Million
-- B y   L o u i s e   D o w n i n g
-- 2013-07-24T10:34:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-24/u-k-s-biggest-clean-energy-ipo-raises-460-million.html
The Renewables Infrastructure Group
Ltd., raised 300 million pounds ($460 million) in the U.K.’s
biggest initial public offering of a clean-power company, to
invest in solar and onshore wind projects.  The proceeds from the share sale on the London Stock
Exchange will be used to buy 14 onshore wind farms and four
solar photovoltaic plants with a combined capacity of 276
megawatts, the company said today in an e-mailed statement. The
projects are in the U.K.,  France  and Ireland.  “TRIG’s diversified portfolio of high quality operational
onshore wind and solar photovoltaic generation assets will
provide investors with the potential to secure an attractive
long-term, stable, inflation-linked yield,” Helen Mahy, non-executive chairman of the company, said in the statement.  Renewables Infrastructure will be managed by InfraRed
Capital Partners Ltd. and it has the rights to buy projects
built by Renewable Energy Systems Ltd., a power-plant developer
owned by construction company Sir Robert McAlpine Ltd. RES will
hold 5 percent of the issued share capital.  The offering beats the 260 million pounds raised by
Greencoat U.K. Wind Plc and the 130 million pounds raised by
 Bluefield Solar Income Fund Ltd. (BSIF)  on July 12. The IPO market is
“heating up” for renewables, Ben Warren, who works on
environmental finance for Ernst & Young LLP, said when TRIG’s
plans were first made public on June 27.  “As the conventional exit routes of utility purchasers
remain stifled by constrained balance sheets, developers and
infrastructure funds are looking to the deeper pools of capital
in the public markets,” Warren said at the time. Trading will
start on July 29.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Louise Downing in London at 
 ldowning4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  