-- U.K. Banks Slow to Compensate Interest-Swap Victims, Cable Says
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2013-07-24T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-24/u-k-banks-slow-to-compensate-interest-swap-victims-cable-says.html
U.K. Business Secretary Vince Cable
said British banks need to act faster to compensate businesses
that were improperly sold interest-rate derivatives.  Barclays Plc (BARC) ,  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc ,  Lloyds
Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  and  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  agreed last year to
compensate some small and medium-sized businesses that bought
swaps after a probe by the U.K. financial regulator found that
many of the sales didn’t comply with their rules.  The four lenders stopped selling interest-rate collars to
retail customers as part of a settlement with the regulator,
then known as the Financial Services Authority, which found
“serious failings” by the banks dating back to 2001. The FSA
was split into two new regulators earlier this year, with
markets oversight going to the Financial Conduct Authority.  “I am frustrated at the lack of progress on the mis-selling of interest rates swaps,” Cable said in an e-mailed
statement. “I meet many small businesses as I travel around the
country who have been afflicted by this scandal and those who
deserve compensation should not be left waiting any longer.”  Cable, after meeting FCA Chief Executive Officer Martin Wheatley yesterday, said the regulator would publish updates on
the speed with which compensation was being paid. He asked
Wheatley whether it would be possible to get this information
broken down by bank. The first update will be published in
August, Cable said.  Struggling  Cable suggested banks could pay compensation for direct
losses immediately to help companies struggling with cash flow.  Banks offered derivatives to small business and individual
customers on concern that they might not be able to service
loans if interest rates rose.  Products included caps, where customers paid a premium to
keep borrowing costs below a pre-defined maximum; swaps, where
customers locked in a fixed rate; and more complex combinations
of these products, among them collars, which kept payments
within a fixed range. When interest rates fell, the market value
of many swap and collar products plunged, leaving customers out
of pocket. The banks sold 28,000 of the products since 2001,
according to the regulator.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  