-- U.K. Stocks Climb for First Time in Four Days; ARM Gains
-- B y   N a m i t h a   J a g a d e e s h
-- 2013-07-24T08:38:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-24/u-k-stocks-climb-for-first-time-in-four-days-arm-gains.html
U.K. stocks  climbed, halting a
three-day decline, as companies from  ARM Holdings Plc (ARM)  to  EasyJet
Plc (EZJ)  reported increased quarterly sales, while a report indicated
that euro-area manufacturing rebounded.  EasyJet jumped to the highest price since it first sold
shares to the public in 2000 after also saying full-year
earnings may beat analysts’ projections. ARM gained 3.3 percent
on its sales report.  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  rose 1.6 percent as
investors awaited second-quarter results from the U.K.’s biggest
drugmaker.  Renishaw Plc (RSW)  slid 6.8 percent after posting full-year
sales that missed analysts’ forecasts.  The  FTSE 100 Index (UKX)  rallied 36.82 points, or 0.6 percent, to
6,634.26 at 9:36 a.m. in London. The equity benchmark has
 climbed 10 percent  from a low on June 24 as the Bank of England
provided forward guidance on  interest rates  for the first time.
The FTSE All-Share Index added 0.5 percent today, while
Ireland’s ISEQ Index rose 0.8 percent.  “The earnings season is very important, much more so for
individual stocks than overall markets,” Jonathan Stubbs, head
of European and U.K. equity strategy at Citigroup Inc. told
Francine Lacqua on Bloomberg Television. “The macro backdrop
for corporates isn’t consistently strong, so they’re having to
do self-help, restructuring and cost cutting to keep margins and
profitability high. They’re generally succeeding in doing that
pretty well.”  The volume of shares in FTSE 100 companies changing hands
today was 7.7 percent lower than the 30-day average, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Euro Area  In the  euro zone , a  measure of manufacturing  unexpectedly
expanded this month, indicating that activity increased for the
first time since July 2011. Indexes of manufacturing based on
surveys of purchasing managers exceeded estimates in Germany and
France, the 17-nation bloc’s largest economies. The German
 manufacturing PMI  rose to 50.3 this month, signaling expansion
for the first time since February for Europe’s biggest economy.
The French gauge rose to 49.8 from 48.4 in June.  Chinese manufacturing this month contracted more than
forecast, according to a preliminary survey by HSBC Holdings Plc
and Markit Economics. The PMI reading of 47.7 trailed the
 average analyst estimate  of 48.2. Readings below 50 mean that
activity shrank.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Namitha Jagadeesh in  London  at 
 njagadeesh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  