-- U.K. Fee Limit May Hurt Runway Plans, Heathrow Head Says
-- B y   K a r i   L u n d g r e n
-- 2013-07-24T10:56:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-24/u-k-fee-limit-may-hurt-runway-plans-heathrow-head-says.html
The U.K. aviation regulator’s
proposal to cap fees charged by  London ’s biggest airports over
the next five years risks driving away investors, threatening
plans to ramp up runway capacity, Heathrow Airport Ltd. said.  “There is a connection between the reputation that U.K.
regulation has historically had for being predictable and
providing the right signals to capital,” Chief Executive
Officer Colin Matthews said today in an interview. “If that
relationship is broken, then that would have damaging
consequences.”  The U.K.’s  Civil Aviation Authority  sets the maximum amount
that Heathrow, Gatwick and Stansted, London’s three busiest
airports, can charge airlines for using facilities, and it must
approve their business plans. The fees, which drive up
passengers’ ticket prices, underpin investment such as
Heathrow’s 3 billion-pound ($4.6 billion) in proposals intended
to help it keep pace with competitors across  Europe , including
 Charles de Gaulle  in Paris and Fraport AG’s Frankfurt Airport.  Under the CAA’s initial plans published in April, Heathrow
would need to cap airline charges at 1.3 percentage points less
than the U.K.’s retail price index for the five-year period
starting in April 2014.  The proposals “materially underestimate Heathrow’s cost of
capital,” the airport-operating company said today in a
statement. Heathrow, Europe’s biggest airport by passenger
numbers, said it asked the CAA on July 19 to allow yearly
changes in fees at the RPI inflation rate plus 4.6 percent.  Investment Total  Spending of 3 billion pounds over the next five years, as
proposed by Heathrow in February, would bring total investment
at the site since 2003 to 14 billion pounds, according to the
airport operator.  The CAA is taking public comment on its fee plan until
early October, and is scheduled to make a final ruling in
January. The regulator “is studying all submissions to the
consultation,”  Richard Taylor , a spokesman, said today by
telephone.  Heathrow is fighting for survival after London Mayor  Boris Johnson  said earlier this month that he favors replacing the
airport with a four-runway operation either at Stansted or at
newly built facilities in the Thames estuary.  Operator’s Strategy  The airport operator countered Johnson’s proposal a week
ago by submitting three options for expansion to the state-appointed Davies Commission on U.K. airport capacity. Heathrow
said that each of its alternatives would be capable of
delivering extra flights by 2025-29 at a cost of no more than 18
billion pounds.  While the coming investment cycle won’t include
construction of new runways, “we need to get the next five
years right,” Matthews said. “We’ll invest what we need to
make sure the airport operates correctly, but our ability to
drive forward towards where we want to be in 2030 is going to be
slowed down.”  Heathrow today reported a 9.2 percent increase in first-half sales to 1.15 billion pounds. Adjusted earnings before
interest, tax, depreciation and amortization rose to 610 million
pounds from 517 million pounds a year earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kari Lundgren in London at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  