-- U.K. Lawmakers Urge Tax on High-Frequency Trading
-- B y   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 2013-07-24T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-24/u-k-lawmakers-urge-tax-on-high-frequency-trading.html
The U.K. government should consider
introducing a transaction tax on high-frequency trading to deter
very short-term investors, a panel of lawmakers said.  Such a levy could be used to help implement the findings of
economist John Kay’s 2012 review of the U.K. equity market, the
House of Commons Business, Innovation & Skills Committee said in
a report published today. It also called on Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s government to look into ways of giving preferential
 voting rights  to long-term shareholders during takeovers.  “Professor Kay sought to bring about cultural change to
improve long-termism in the equity market,” the committee
chairman, Adrian Bailey from the opposition  Labour Party , said
in an e-mailed statement. “It’s not enough for the government
to simply say it supports Kay’s recommendations and then leave
it to the industry to change of its own volition. The government
must set measurable, accountable targets through which reform
can be driven and measured.”  The cross-party panel endorsed the 17 recommendations in
the report by Kay, a visiting professor at the  London School  of
Economics, who was commissioned by Business Secretary Vince Cable to examine how existing market structures and incentives
are affecting companies’ longer-term investment.  Kay said the pay of asset managers should be tied more
closely to the interests of investors, fewer middlemen should be
involved in buying shares and individual investors should be
encouraged to hold stakes directly. Company executives, asset
managers, the disclosure of investment costs and stock lending
practices are “misaligned,” Kay said.  In 2010, 11.5 percent of U.K. shares were directly owned by
individuals, compared with 54 percent in the 1960s, the panel
said. Regulation has not kept pace with the shift from
“owning” to “trading” and asset managers do not always act
in the best interests of the companies in which they invest,
according to the lawmakers.  The government “must bring forward proposals to enhance
the culture of long-termism, transparency and accountability,”
the committee said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Penny in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  