-- U.S. Company Credit Swaps Increase; American Express Sells Bonds
-- B y   S c o t t   H a r r i s o n
-- 2013-07-24T21:59:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-24/u-s-company-credit-swaps-increase-american-express-sells-bonds.html
A gauge of U.S. corporate credit
risk rose for a second day as better-than-expected housing data
stoked speculation that the  Federal Reserve  may reduce asset
buying this year.  American Express Co. (AXP)  sold $3 billion in bonds.  The Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to protect
against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, increased
1.3 basis points to a mid-price of 76.4 basis points at 5:45
p.m. in New York, according to prices compiled by Bloomberg.  Investors are looking to economic data to determine when
the Fed will pare its $85 billion in monthly bond purchases,
which have bolstered credit markets. Sales of new homes rose
more than forecast in June to the fastest pace in five years.  “Even though the Fed has indicated a more accommodative
approach dependent on data, there still is a degree of fear in
the credit market,”  William Larkin , a fixed-income portfolio
manager at Cabot Money Management in Salem, Massachusetts, said
in a telephone interview. “People are starting to prepare for
the change in  interest rates  and the Fed pulling back from the
market.”  The credit-swaps index typically rises as investor
confidence deteriorates and falls as it improves. The contracts
pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point
equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of
debt.  Trimming Purchases  Fed policy makers will probably trim the monthly asset
purchases to $65 billion in September, according to a July 18-22
survey of economists by  Bloomberg News .  Purchases of new homes climbed 8.3 percent to an annualized
pace of 497,000, the highest level since May 2008, the Commerce
Department said today in  Washington . The median estimate of 77
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg called for a gain to 484,000.  American Express, the biggest credit-card issuer by
purchases, issued $1 billion of 1.3 percent, three-year
securities to yield 68 basis points more than similar-maturity
Treasuries and $800 million of 2.125 percent, five-year notes
that pay a relative yield of 78 basis points, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Its $1.2 billion of three-year, floating-rate debt pays 51 basis points more than the three-month London
interbank offered rate.  Gannett Offering  Gannett Co. (GCI) , the publisher that agreed to buy  Belo Corp. (BLC) 
for about $1.5 billion last month, plans to sell $500 million in
seven-year senior notes, it said in a statement distributed by
PR Newswire.  Proceeds from the offering will be used to repay
outstanding debt in its revolving credit facilities and other
obligations, McLean, Virginia-based Gannett said in the
statement.  The average relative yield on investment-grade debt
widened 0.4 basis point to 126.2 basis points, Bloomberg data
show.  The  risk premium  on the Markit CDX North American High
Yield Index increased 10.6 basis points to 375.8 basis points,
Bloomberg prices show.  The average relative yield on speculative-grade, or junk-rated, debt widened 6.7 basis points to 535.5 basis points,
Bloomberg data show. High-yield, high-risk debt is rated below
Baa3 by Moody’s Investors Service and less than BBB- at  Standard
& Poor’s .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Harrison in New York at 
 sharrison52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  