-- U.S. Military Vows to Put Women in Combat Roles by 2016
-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 2013-07-24T23:05:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-24/u-s-military-vows-to-put-women-in-combat-roles-by-2016.html
Officials from all military service
branches told Congress today they can open combat positions to
women by 2016 without lowering physical or performance
standards.  Six months after the Pentagon announced it was lifting a
ban on women serving in ground-combat units, military officials
charged with implementing the policy said they’ve started the
studies needed to make it work.  “I don’t envy you,” Representative Joe Heck, a Nevada
Republican, said today at a hearing by the House Armed Services
Committee’s military personnel subcommittee. “As you know,
there’s not universal acceptance of this concept.”  Ending the ban will open as many as 237,000 positions to
women by January 2016. The three-year process will require what
officials describe as a methodical review of the physical
standards needed for each combat job to determine how best to
measure fitness and whether some positions will need to remain
restricted to men.  “We’re not going to lower standards,” said Juliet Beyler,
the Defense Department’s director of officer and enlisted
personnel management. “It’s not a matter of lowering or raising
standards. The key is to validate the standard to make sure it’s
the right standard for the occupation.”  While women have been a permanent part of the military
services -- as opposed to separate auxiliaries -- since a 1948
act of Congress, they have long been excluded from infantry,
artillery and other ground-combat jobs. After a decade of
fighting in Iraq and  Afghanistan  that sent more than 280,000
female troops into war zones, Pentagon leaders and women who
served have said gender discrimination no longer makes sense.  ‘Real Excited’  “I’m real excited to get this done,” said Representative
Loretta Sanchez, a California Democrat, who described the task
as providing equal opportunity for women. “Combat performance
is an important issue when people are looking at moving up in
all of these organizations.”  The plan wasn’t embraced as whole-heartedly by all members
of the panel.  Representative Jackie Walorski, an Indiana Republican, said
she was worried that integrating women into small ground-combat
units risked an increase of sexual assaults in the ranks.  “Have you anticipated what’s going to happen?” Walorski
asked. “What’s happening now doesn’t work. Is there research?
Is there a plan?”  Beyler said expanding opportunities for women is part of
the Pentagon’s strategy to combat sexual assaults. “The more we
treat service members equally, the more likely they are to treat
each other with respect,” she said.  Marine Corps  For the Marines, where women are 7 percent of the force,
“it’s going to be a crawl-walk-run process, but we’re looking
at that,” said Marine Corps Lieutenant General Robert Milstead,
deputy commandant for manpower and reserve affairs.  Representative Niki Tsongas, a Massachusetts Democrat,
suggested men and women may need different training to reach the
same standards.  “Yes, you want the standards to be gender-neutral, but you
may need to train for the standards in different ways in order
to have success,” Tsongas said.  Milstead said the Marines already have gender-specific boot
camps. “They need to be nurtured different,” he said. “They
just need different steps as they go. They get to the same
place. They’re Marines.”  The path to the front combat lines may be most complicated
for special-operations forces, such as those that killed al-Qaeda leader Osama bin Laden in  Pakistan .  ‘Unit Cohesion’  “Our concerns about integration generally center upon the
impact on unit cohesion,” Major General Bennet Sacolick,
director of force management and development for the U.S.
Special Operations Command, said in written testimony.  Sacolick said his command has asked RAND Corp. to provide
an independent analysis of qualification standards, with an
assessment to be completed by July 2014 and recommendations to
be submitted by July 2015.  Army Lieutenant General Howard Bromberg, deputy chief of
staff for Army personnel, said he’s prepared to respond to
misperceptions that standards will be lowered.  “We’re going to have to lay the facts out,” he said.  The use of valid, equal standards for men and women should
make clear the fairness of job qualifications, he said.  “We’re going to eliminate males in some cases,” Bromberg
said. “A standard’s a standard.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  