-- Huawei First-Half Sales Gain 11% on Push Into Mobile Devices
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-07-24T05:47:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-24/huawei-first-half-sales-gain-11-on-push-into-mobile-devices-1-.html
Huawei Technologies Co.,  China ’s
biggest maker of phone equipment, posted an 11 percent gain in
first-half sales as a push into mobile devices helped expand its
lead in total revenue over  Ericsson AB. (ERICB)   Revenue in the first six months was 113.8 billion  yuan 
($18.5 billion), Shenzhen-based Huawei said in an e-mailed
statement. The statement didn’t provide prior year figures, or a
profit number. For the full year, the company projects a profit
margin of between 7 percent and 8 percent, Huawei said.  Huawei overtook Ericsson for total revenue last year as
founder Ren Zhengfei diversified from traditional network
equipment products into smartphones, tablets and cloud
computing. That gave the Chinese company a broader  revenue  base
than Ericsson, which faced weaker spending in  Europe  amid the
euro region debt crisis.  The equipment maker has tracked changes in mobile data
usage in China better than local competitors such as  ZTE Corp. (763) ,
according to Ricky Lai, an analyst at Guotai Junan International
Holdings Ltd.  “Huawei realized the network transition from 2G to 3G and
4G networks is happening this year, so they have already focused
on launching those products,” said Lai. “The management of
Huawei was much better in making the right decisions.”  Overtaking Ericsson  Ericsson had total  sales  of about $17 billion in the first
half of this year, the company reported July 18. Huawei overtook
Ericsson last year with total sales of $34.9 billion, compared
with Ericsson’s $33.7 billion, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Legislative committees in the U.K. and the U.S. have
expressed concern over potential links between the closely held
company and China’s government, with Huawei locked out of
government-backed projects in  Australia  and the U.S. Huawei is
fighting concerns over cyber security after intelligence
agencies and security companies traced web attacks to China.  The company denies it poses a security threat.  Huawei ranked fourth in global smartphone shipments in the
first quarter of this year with 10 million units, researcher
 Strategy Analytics  said April 25.  Huawei is benefiting from an accelerating shift to fourth-generation networks in its home market by  China Mobile Ltd. (941) , the
world’s largest phone company by users. China Mobile in March
said it will boost  capital spending  to 190.2 billion yuan this
year from 127.4 billion yuan in 2012 to speed the shift to 4G,
which enables faster downloads and Web surfing on smartphones.  ZTE, China’s second-largest maker of equipment for phone
networks, this week reported a 23 percent jump in first half net
income to 302.3 million yuan.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  