-- Huawei First-Half Sales Gain 11% on Push Into Mobile Devices
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-07-24T02:35:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-24/huawei-first-half-sales-gain-11-on-push-into-mobile-devices.html
Huawei Technologies Co.,  China ’s
biggest maker of phone equipment, posted an 11 percent gain in
first-half sales as a push into mobile devices helped expand its
lead over  Ericsson AB. (ERICB)   Revenue in the first six months was 113.8 billion  yuan 
($18.5 billion), Shenzhen-based Huawei said in an e-mailed
statement. The statement didn’t provide prior year figures, or a
profit number. For the full year, the company projects a profit
of between 7 percent and 8 percent, Huawei said in the statement.  Huawei overtook Ericsson for total revenue last year as
founder Ren Zhengfei pushed the company to diversify from its
traditional network equipment products into smartphones, tablets
and cloud-computing services. That gave the Chinese company a
broader  revenue  base than Ericsson, which faced weaker spending
in  Europe  amid the euro region debt crisis.  Ericsson had total  sales  of about $17 billion in the first
half of this year, the company reported July 18. Huawei overtook
Ericsson last year with total sales of $34.9 billion, compared
with Ericsson’s $33.7 billion, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Legislative committees in the U.K. and U.S. have expressed
concern over potential links between the closely held company
and China’s government, with Huawei locked out of government-backed projects in Australia and the U.S. Huawei is fighting
concerns over cyber security after intelligence agencies and
security companies traced web attacks to China.  The company denies it poses a security threat.  Smartphone Shipments  Huawei ranked fourth in global smartphone shipments in the
first quarter of this year with 10 million units, researcher
 Strategy Analytics  said April 25.  Huawei also is benefiting from an accelerating shift to
fourth-generation networks in its home market by  China Mobile
Ltd. (941) , the world’s largest phone company by users. China Mobile
in March said it will boost capital spending to 190.2 billion
yuan this year from 127.4 billion yuan last year to accelerate
the shift to 4G, which enables faster downloads and Web surfing
on smartphones.  ZTE Corp. (763) , China’s second-largest maker of equipment for
phone networks, this week reported a 23 percent jump in first
half net income to 302.3 million yuan.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  