-- Hungary Loan Plans Among Reasons for OTP Share Sale, Csanyi Says
-- B y   E d i t h   B a l a z s   a n d   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 2013-07-24T12:56:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-24/hungary-loan-plans-among-reasons-for-otp-share-sale-csanyi-says.html
OTP Bank Nyrt. Chief Executive
Officer Sandor Csanyi said a government proposal to help
foreign-currency borrowers, which may hurt banks, prompted him
to speed up plans to sell most of his company shares.  Csanyi, the head of  Hungary ’s largest bank, raised 10.7
billion forint ($48 million) by selling 2.35 million shares in
two days last week. The share price lost as much as 17 percent,
stoking concern the government’s plan may put earnings at risk.
Csanyi said he will use the sale proceeds to finance investments
in his agricultural and food business.  Prime Minister  Viktor Orban , who faces elections next year,
wants to help borrowers saddled with more than $16 billion in
mostly Swiss franc-denominated mortgages, whose payments soared
as the forint dropped during the global credit crisis. Banks
holding the mortgages would carry some of the exchange losses,
according to government proposals the cabinet is debating today,
Nepszabadsag newspaper reported.  “News that the government was considering the foreign-currency debt problem had an impact as I authorized the sale at
a lower share price,” Csanyi said at a press conference in
Budapest today. “I would’ve sold these shares anyway, it was in
my plans for this year.”  The government wants to “phase out” foreign-currency home
mortgages and will consider the time it takes and the burden
that can be imposed as it works on a solution, Economy Minister
 Mihaly Varga  told state news service MTI today.  Family Holdings  “I personally and my family members also hold OTP Opus
bonds, so there’s no question that I have any doubts on whether
OTP is a good investment,” Csanyi said.  The 60-year-old executive rejected a report in daily Magyar
Nemzet that he sold shares because he planned to retire for
health reasons.  “I have entirely recovered” from a February heart
surgery, “my physical condition is better than before the
operation,” he said.  OTP shares  plunged  in the three days through July 19 as
Csanyi sold all but 10,000 of his personal holding of the stock.
It gained 4.6 percent to 4,442 forint by 2:12 p.m. in Budapest
today.  OTP “can survive” any sort of government program to help
foreign-currency borrowers, Csanyi said, adding that a solution
similar to the early repayment of such loans in 2011 would put
planned domestic acquisitions on hold.  OTP dropped 36 percent and the forint weakened 12 percent
in 2011, when the government forced banks to take losses by
allowing borrowers to repay foreign-currency loans early at
below-market rates.  “I can only hope the government will consult with banks on
the foreign-currency loan plan,” which must have burden
sharing, Csanyi said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Edith Balazs in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net ;
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  