-- Hungary Yields Drop Third Day on Rate Outlook: Budapest Mover
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2013-07-24T15:19:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-24/hungary-yields-drop-third-day-on-rates-outlook-budapest-mover.html
Hungary ’s bond yields fell for a
third day as central bank policy makers said they plan to
continue easing after cutting the main  interest rate  for a 12th
consecutive month yesterday.  Yields on the nation’s three-year bonds declined 14 basis
points, or 0.14 percentage point, to 4.59 percent as of 4:14
p.m. in Budapest, bringing the three-day retreat to 33 basis
points. The forint was little changed at 295.8 per euro after
dropping 0.5 percent yesterday. The Magyar Nemzeti Bank lowered
the two-week rate by 25 basis points to a record 4 percent.  Policy makers may continue with rate cuts in increments of
as low as 10 basis points instead of 25 basis points until the
main rate falls to between 3 and 3.5 percent, Governor Gyorgy Matolcsy said yesterday. The Monetary Council plans to proceed
with the easing over the “medium term,” Adam Balog, one of
Matolcsy’s deputies, said in an MR1 radio interview today.  “It’s all pointing toward a looser monetary policy than
the market and analysts expected, which may weigh on the
forint,” Levente Blaho and Adam Keszeg, Budapest-based analysts
at  Raiffeisen Bank International AG (RBI) , wrote in a report today.  The central bank plans more than just “one or two”
additional cuts in the interest rate, Balog told MR1.  Hungary wants to “phase out” foreign-currency mortgages,
Economy Minister  Mihaly Varga  said today, as the cabinet
discusses ways to help homeowners amid concern lenders will be
forced to take losses. The forint plunged 12 percent in 2011,
when the government allowed homeowners to repay loans at below-market exchange rates.  The foreign-currency loan plan has the potential to alter
Hungary’s risk assessment in a way that also influences the
central bank’s rate policy, Pasquale Diana, a London-based
economist at  Morgan Stanley (MS) , wrote in an e-mailed report today.  “Only a major setback in risk could derail the easing
cycle,” Diana said. “We would watch particularly carefully the
unfolding story on relief for foreign-currency mortgage
holders.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  