-- Vietnam Gets Tough on State Firms in Economic Growth Push
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-07-25T06:01:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-24/vietnam-gets-tough-on-state-firms-in-economic-growth-push.html
Vietnam plans tougher rules to
accelerate a revamp of state-owned enterprises, including firing
chief executives, adding to efforts to clean up bad debt in the
banking industry and revive the economy.  The finance ministry is drafting “strong and suitable”
measures to force state companies to sell stakes in non-core
businesses, Dang Quyet Tien, deputy general director of the
ministry’s corporate finance department, said in an interview in
Hanoi yesterday. An asset management company run by the central
bank begins operations tomorrow to help clean up almost $5
billion of bad debt.  Vietnam’s government plans to complete a revamp of state
enterprises by 2015 as it struggles to revive the  economy , which
expanded at the slowest pace since at least 2005 last year.
Delayed structural reforms of banks and state companies could
undermine investors’ confidence and worsen the nation’s growth
prospects, the World Bank said in a report this month.  “SOEs and banks are large parts of the economy, so if you
don’t make them more efficient and stronger, the economy will
not grow as quickly,” said Matt Hildebrandt, Singapore-based
economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co. “Even in a really well-implemented bank recapitalization plan, it would always take
some time. Fixing SOEs or deleveraging them will be a multi-year,
maybe decades-long process.”  The dong traded little changed at 21,233 per dollar as of
12 p.m. in Hanoi, according to prices from banks, compiled by
Bloomberg. The benchmark VN Index rose for the first time in
three days, adding 0.2 percent.  Slowing Growth  Prime Minister Nguyen Tan Dung is under pressure to
rejuvenate economic growth that slowed to 4.9 percent in the
first half, after one of the highest bad-debt levels in
Southeast Asia crimped credit to businesses. The International
Monetary Fund has lowered its projection for the nation’s growth
this year to 5.2 percent from 5.8 percent.  Vietnam  Shipbuilding Industry Group, the state-run firm
known as Vinashin that had planned to build and export $1
billion of ships in 2009, almost collapsed in 2010 because it
over-diversified and failed to manage its cash flow and debt
properly, according to the country’s transport ministry.  After resolving to revamp state-owned companies, Dung
approved a master plan in February to spur them to focus on
their core businesses and accelerate public share sales to raise
competitiveness and efficiency. State companies’ non-core
investments, such as property and stocks, account for as much as
12 percent of their registered capital, Deputy State Auditor Le
Minh Khai estimated last year.  Urgent Tasks  State-owned companies use up about 50 percent of state
investment, tie up 60 percent of bank lending and account for
more than half of the nation’s bad debt, according to Deputy
Finance Minister Truong Chi Trung. Restructuring the state
sector is one of the “most crucial and urgent tasks” to reform
the economy, he said in a February interview.  Progress has been limited, the World Bank said in its
report, citing a target of selling shares in 93 state companies
last year against which “it seems” shares were only sold in 12.
Vietnam Electricity, the national utility known as EVN, will
auction 25.2 million shares in An Binh Joint-Stock Commercial
Bank on Aug. 9, a year after the government ordered the sale.  The government’s strategy for cleaning up bad debt also
“stands little chance of being effective in isolation,” and
needs to be part of a broader financial restructuring such as
reforming state-owned companies, given banks’ exposure to loans
to such companies, the World Bank said.  Tougher Measures  “Stake sales in state companies have dragged on for so
long because of large investment costs made years ago,” Tien
said in the interview. “They don’t want to sell now” because
declines in share prices and property values since then will
result in losses, he said.  The finance ministry’s proposal, which will include the
removal of chief executives should they fail to meet timelines
for share sales, will be submitted to the prime minister for
discussion with the cabinet in August, Tien said.  “We need this kind of strong administrative measure to
force leaders of state-owned companies to actually move ahead,”
he said. “The companies have been way too slow, and now they
must take action or face punishment.”  The asset management company begins operations tomorrow,
and will acquire non-performing loans from lenders. Bad debt
stood at 7.8 percent of outstanding loans at the end of last
year, the central bank estimated.  Lenders with bad-debt ratios of 3 percent and above will be
required to sell their non-performing loans to the asset
management company, according to a May 22 government statement.
The company will initially have registered capital of 500
billion dong ($24 million) and resolve as much as 70 trillion
dong of bad debt this year, according to the central bank.  “The current mandate of the AMC falls short of cleaning
the banks’ balance sheets,” said Eugenia Fabon Victorino, a
Singapore-based economist at Australia & New Zealand Banking
Ltd., which yesterday cut its 2013 growth forecast to 5.1
percent from 5.6 percent. “It would take some time before the
structural challenges are solved. Revamping the SOEs and dealing
with low credit growth are necessary, but not sufficient.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Nguyen Dieu Tu Uyen in Hanoi at 
 uyen1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  