-- Vitol Sells Urals Crude; Asian Refiners Cut West African Imports
-- B y   L a u r a   H u r s t
-- 2013-07-24T16:56:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-24/vitol-sells-urals-crude-asian-refiners-cut-west-african-imports.html
 Vitol Group sold a cargo of Russian
Urals in the Mediterranean and failed to sell a second lot of
the grade in northwest  Europe . Royal Dutch Shell wasn’t able to
buy Forties crude at a lower level than yesterday’s trade.  Asian refiners will reduce imports of West African crude
for loading in August to the lowest in 13 months because of a
wider spread between the benchmark Brent and Dubai grades amid
refinery maintenance.  North Sea  Shell failed to buy Forties for loading from Aug. 15 to
Aug. 18 at 65 cents a barrel more than Dated Brent, according to
a Bloomberg survey of traders and brokers monitoring the Platts
pricing window. The offer was 5 cents lower than a cargo sold
yesterday by Phibro, a unit of  Occidental Petroleum Corp. (OXY) , to  BP
Plc. (BP/)  The trade was the highest in six-months.  There were no bids or offers for Brent, Oseberg or Ekofisk.
Reported crude trading typically occurs during the Platts
window, which ends at 4:30 p.m. London time.  Brent for September settlement traded at $107.42 a barrel
on the ICE Futures Europe exchange at the close of the window,
compared with $108.41 in the previous session. The October
contract was at $106.57, a discount of 85 cents to September.  Mediterranean/Urals  Vitol sold a Urals cargo of 80,000 metric tons for loading
Aug. 14 to Aug. 18 at Novorossiysk in the  Black Sea  to Glencore
Xstrata Plc at a premium of 65 cents a barrel to Dated Brent,
according to the survey.  Vitol didn’t manage to sell a cargo of the Russian crude
for loading Aug. 6 to Aug. 10 at 60 cents a barrel above Dated
Brent on a delivered basis to Rotterdam.  All 11 Urals lots for loading on Aug. 1 to Aug. 6 from
Primorsk and Ust-Luga on the  Baltic Sea  were sold out, said
three traders and brokers involved in the region’s market.  Russia  is scheduled to release the preliminary full-month
loading program for Urals tomorrow.  Libya ’s Zuetina oil terminal is scheduled to resume
operations July 27, Electricity Minister Ali Mhereeg said today
at a press conference in Tripoli. The port has been occupied by
an armed group of protesters since about July 15, he said.  Sudan is seeking to import Libyan crude, National Oil Corp.
said on its website. Its ambassador to Libya Haj Majid Siwar
made the request at a meeting with NOC Chairman Nuri Berruien in
Tripoli yesterday, according to the posting.  Iraq resumed crude exports via the Turkish port of Ceyhan
today at 7:30 a.m. local time, after flows were halted for 30
minutes, according to an e-mailed note from port agent Boutros
Maritime & Transport SA.  Algeria ’s Sonatrach raised the official selling price for
benchmark Saharan Blend for loading in August to a premium of 60
cents a barrel to Dated Brent, the company said in an e-mailed
statement today. The differential compares with a 40-cent
discount for July.  West Africa  Asia  bought 1.52 million barrels a day from  Angola ,
 Nigeria ,  Equatorial Guinea , Republic of Congo and Gabon, the
least since July 2012, according to a survey of nine traders and
an analysis of loading plans obtained by Bloomberg News. That
compares with 1.53 million barrels for July.  Angola’s Cabinda crude for September loading were sold out
with most of the five cargoes to be shipped to  China , said three
traders with knowledge of the matter, asking not to be
identified because the information is confidential. All
consignments are of 950,000 barrels.  Two 650,000-barrel cargoes of Equatorial Guinea’s Aseng
crude are scheduled to load in September, according to a loading
program obtained by  Bloomberg News . Shipping schedules for the
country’s Zafiro and Ceiba crudes have not been released yet.
Republic of Congo will cut N’Kossa exports to one 950,000-barrel
cargo in September, one less than in August, a loading program
shows.  Mangalore Refinery & Petrochemicals Ltd. issued a tender to
buy sweet crude for loading Sept. 16 to Sept. 30, according to a
document obtained by Bloomberg News. The tender closes July 29.  Indian Oil Corp. is scheduled to award its second crude
tender for September loading tomorrow. The company bought 4
million barrels of West African crude via its first tender from
Shell, Chevron Corp. and Total SA.  Taiwan’s CPC Corp. closed its tender for September-loading
crude today, with offers still valid until July 26.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Hurst in London at 
 lhurst3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  