-- WCI Cuts IPO Price as Demand for Homebuilders Slides
-- B y   P r a s h a n t   G o p a l
-- 2013-07-24T17:50:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-24/wci-cuts-ipo-price-as-demand-for-homebuilders-slides.html
WCI Communities Inc. (WCIM) , a housing
company that left bankruptcy four years ago, lowered the price
range of its initial public offering as investor demand for U.S.
homebuilder stocks slips.  The builder plans to sell 6.82 million shares for $15 to
$17, according to a regulatory filing today. That’s reduced from
the $21 to $23 a share the  Bonita Springs , Florida-based company
sought when it set terms for the offering last week.  “WCI has drawn substantially lower initial interest in its
IPO than it expected, coming also at a time when homebuilding
stocks are in a slump since May,”  Vicki Bryan , an analyst at
Gimme Credit LLC in  New York , said in an e-mail. “The company
is moving forward now anyway despite less-favorable market
conditions and knowing it could net nearly 30 percent less than
it thought just a week ago. This rings with desperation.”  Homebuilder stocks, which soared earlier this year, have
 fallen  about 8 percent in the past three months amid investor
concern that rising  mortgage rates  may reduce buyer demand. UCP
Inc., a homebuilder and land developer based in  San Jose ,
 California , sold stock in an IPO last week for $15 a share, the
low end of its projected range. UCP was trading at $14.17 at
1:25 p.m. in New York.  Sales Jump  The market for  new homes  remains solid, with sales rising
more than forecast in June to the highest level in five years,
Commerce Department data showed today. Purchases of new homes
climbed 8.3 percent from the previous month to an annualized
pace of 497,000, the most since May 2008.  The Standard & Poor’s Supercomposite Homebuilding Index
 dropped  as much as 3.7 percent today. The decline is tied to
investor concern that housing affordability will weaken, rather
than a reflection of the current new-home market, said Bob Curran, managing director at  Fitch Ratings  in New York.  “As you move up the cycle, anything that actually hurts or
is perceived to hurt fundamentals going forward can lead to
people exiting the stock, especially those who have built in
some considerable profits,” he said in a telephone interview.  WCI’s filing last week said stockholders planned to sell
another 1.59 million shares. Today’s filing removes that
reference.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Prashant Gopal in Boston at 
 pgopal2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  