-- WellPoint Sees Small-Business Plans Slip as Law Looms
-- B y   A l e x   N u s s b a u m
-- 2013-07-24T20:18:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-24/wellpoint-sees-small-business-plans-slip-as-law-looms.html
WellPoint Inc. (WLP) , the second-biggest
U.S. health insurer, said more small employers are scaling back
benefits this year, a potential hedge against higher costs
expected under the U.S. health-care law.  While small businesses have been cutting back for years,
the pace has quickened in 2013, WellPoint Chief Financial
Officer Wayne DeVeydt said in a phone interview. Fewer
individuals are buying plans outside of work as well, possibly
because they expect a better deal when the law’s insurance
subsidies debut in January, he said.  “We continue to see the pace actually accelerating,”
DeVeydt said in an interview after the Indianapolis-based
company announced quarterly earnings. “Is it accelerating
because people are willing to go naked, so to speak, before the
beginning of the year? There’s really no way to say for sure.”  The number of American workers holding full-time positions
fell in June as part-timers hit a record after rising for three
straight months, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics
household data. Part-time employment has been outpacing full-time job growth since 2008. Economists cite tough economic
conditions as the root cause, with some saying President  Barack
Obama ’s 2010 health-care law exacerbates the trend.  WellPoint reported second-quarter earnings today that beat
analyst estimates and raised its full-year profit forecast. The
company, owner of 14 state Blue Cross plans, credited medical
costs below projections as well as an enrollment boost from last
year’s acquisition of Medicaid insurer Amerigroup Corp.  Net-income soared 24 percent to $800.1 million, or $2.64 a
share.  Expanded Coverage  The health-care law is expected to increase coverage to
about 25 million people by 2016, through subsidies for the
uninsured to buy private plans as well as an expansion of the
Medicaid program for the poor, according to congressional
 estimates . New online insurance marketplaces, or exchanges, are
due to open on Oct. 1, offering policies taking effect Jan. 1.  WellPoint plans to spend about $150 million this year
preparing to sell on the exchanges, much of it on advertising
and outreach, DeVeydt said. While the state and federal
governments are still racing to build the markets, WellPoint
expects them to open on time, the CFO said.  “From our point of view, the states have met all their
deadlines,” he said. “It’s a strong push for both the states
and the federal government and I know it’s a strong push for us,
but right now we have no information to suggest they’re not
going to make it.”  WellPoint shares fell less than 1 percent to $87.44 at the
close in  New York . The stock has  gained  44 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Nussbaum in New York at 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  