-- WTI Oil Retreats as China’s Manufacturing Slowing
-- B y   S h e r r y   S u
-- 2013-07-24T13:05:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-24/wti-rises-a-second-day-as-u-s-crude-stockpiles-seen-dropping.html
West Texas Intermediate fell for the
second day in three after fluctuating amid data showing a
slowdown in  China ’s manufacturing in July and shrinkage in crude
stockpiles in the U.S., the world’s largest oil consumer.  Futures retreated 0.6 percent in New York after rising 0.3
percent yesterday. U.S. crude inventories fell by 1.44 million
barrels last week, the industry-funded American Petroleum
Institute said yesterday. An Energy Information Administration
report today will probably show supplies dropped by 2.8 million,
according to a Bloomberg News survey. Euro-area manufacturing
expanded in July, London-based Markit Economics said today,
while a preliminary gauge of China’s manufacturing trailed
forecasts.  “Crude oil continues to look well-supported on the back of
concerns about declining inventories,” said Michael Hewson, a
London-based market analyst for CMC Markets Plc. “A slightly
more positive bias to European PMIs may also be helping on the
margins, but concerns about Chinese growth remain a concern.”  WTI for September delivery was at $106.58 a barrel, down
65 cents, in electronic trading on the New York Mercantile
Exchange at 1:55 p.m. London time. The volume of all futures
traded was 31 percent less than the 100-day average. The
contract climbed 29 cents to $107.23 yesterday, the highest
close since July 19, after a 0.9 percent decline on July 22.  Brent for September settlement lost $1.01 to $107.41 a
barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. The
European benchmark was at a premium of 80 cents to WTI, from
$1.19 yesterday. Brent slid below the U.S. grade in intraday
trading on July 19 for the first time since August 2010.  Fuel Supplies  U.S. gasoline stockpiles increased by 1.65 million barrels
in the week ended July 19, according to the  median estimate  of
12 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg before the EIA report.
Supplies declined by 889,000 barrels, the API said yesterday.  Distillate inventories, a category that includes heating
oil and diesel,  gained  by 1.85 million barrels, the survey
shows. Stockpiles decreased by 710,000 barrels, according to the
industry data. The API collects information on a voluntary basis
from operators of refineries, bulk terminals and pipelines. The
government requires that reports be filed with the EIA, the
Energy Department’s statistical arm, for its weekly survey.  The China manufacturing gauge released today by HSBC
Holdings Plc and Markit Economics was at 47.7, according to a
preliminary survey of purchasing managers. Readings below 50
indicate contraction.  Europe Manufacturing  China was the second-largest oil user last year, accounting
for about 11 percent of global demand, according to the
International Energy Agency. The U.S. consumed 21 percent.  Euro-area manufacturing rose unexpectedly in July for the
first time in two years, led by  Germany , adding to signs the
currency bloc’s economy is emerging from a record-long
recession. An index based on a survey of purchasing managers
rose to 50.1 from 48.8 in June, Markit Economics said. A reading
above 50 indicates growth.  The euro-area economy, which has contracted for six
quarters, will return to growth this quarter, according to a
separate Bloomberg survey of economists.  WTI’s advance is stalling as a measure of technical
momentum slows. The 14-day moving average convergence-divergence
indicator has pared a premium to its signal line to the
narrowest since July 1, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Investors typically sell contracts when the difference turns
into a discount.  Asian nations are scheduled to reduce imports of West
African crude for August loading to the lowest level in 13
months because of a wider spread between Brent and Dubai grades.  Refiners bought 1.52 million barrels a day from  Angola ,
Nigeria, Equatorial Guinea, Republic of Congo and Gabon, the
least since July 2012, according to a survey of nine traders and
an analysis of loading plans obtained by Bloomberg. That’s down
from an estimated 1.53 million barrels for July.  To contact the reporters on this story:  Sherry Su in London at 
 lsu23@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net ; 