-- Yankee Candle Said to Pursue IPO After Forgoing Private Sale
-- B y   J o d i   X u   a n d   L e e   S p e a r s
-- 2013-07-24T20:07:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-24/yankee-candle-said-to-pursue-ipo-after-forgoing-private-sale.html
Yankee Candle Co., the scented-candle maker owned by Madison Dearborn Partners LLC, is pursuing
an initial public offering after dropping an attempt to sell
itself earlier this year, said people with knowledge of the
situation.  The company enlisted Bank of America Corp. and Morgan
Stanley to lead the offering, said one of the people, who asked
not to be named because the process is private. The IPO may take
place as soon as this year, said two of the people.  Yankee Candle would join Madison Dearborn-backed companies
such as  Boise Cascade Co. (BCC)  and CDW Corp. in going public in 2013,
as the Chicago-based private-equity firm seeks to exit
investments made before the financial crisis. The firm sought as
much as $2 billion for South Deerfield, Massachusetts-based
Yankee Candle before scrapping the process after suitors balked
at that price, people familiar with the matter said in May.  Madison Dearborn acquired Yankee Candle for $1.6 billion
including  debt  in 2007, near the peak of a record buyout boom,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. The company incurred a net loss
of $1.7 million in the three months through March, while sales
increased 5.4 percent during the period to $163.4 million,
according to a company statement.  Madison Dearborn is at least the second buyout firm to own
the candle maker, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Forstmann
Little & Co. bought 90 percent of the company in 1998. The
following year, Yankee Candle completed an IPO, raising $225
million, the data show.  Yankee Candle sells its products through a base of more
than 500 company-owned retail stores, according to its website.
Representatives for Yankee Candle, Madison Dearborn, Bank of
America and Morgan Stanley declined to comment.  Debtwire previously reported Yankee Candle’s IPO plans.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lee Spears in  New York  at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  