-- Yuan Rises to No. 11 Among World Payment Currencies, SWIFT Says
-- B y   F i o n   L i
-- 2013-07-24T09:44:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-24/yuan-rises-to-no-11-among-world-payment-currencies-swift-says.html
China ’s  yuan  climbed two places to
No. 11 for transactions in the global payments system with a
record 0.87 percent market share in June, according to the
Society for Worldwide Interbank Financial Telecommunication.  The yuan overtook Thailand’s baht and the Norwegian Krone,
SWIFT said in a statement today, adding that its usage slipped
1.3 percent compared with a 4.5 percent decline across all
currencies. The yuan has gained 1.5 percent this year, the only
gainer among Asia’s 11 most-traded currencies, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “The continuous growth of  renminbi  payments coming from
key markets, such as the United Kingdom, further supports the
international use of the Chinese currency,” Patrick de Courcy,
head of markets for Asia Pacific at SWIFT, said in a statement,
referring to the yuan by its official name. “Over the past two
years, the yuan’s market share has increased more than threefold
whereas other Asian currencies stayed flat.”  The yuan, which was little changed at 6.1360 per dollar in
Shanghai today, will strengthen to 6.1 per dollar by the end of
2013, according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg News
survey. HSBC Holdings Plc forecast in March that the currency
will be fully convertible within five years.  China is promoting the yuan’s use in international trade
and finance to decrease its dependence on the  U.S. dollar  and
diversify its $3.5 trillion foreign-exchange reserves, the
world’s largest stockpile. The government earlier this month
relaxed rules on cross-border use of the yuan, allowing
companies to give loans in the currency to overseas affiliates.
China signed a three-year swap agreement last month for 200
billion yuan ($33 billion) with the  Bank of England  to foster
trading in London.  “People realize that, as China moves up the value chain,
its imports will start rising and probably exceed exports,”
Simon Constantinides, HSBC’s regional head of global trade and
receivables finance for Asia Pacific, said in a July 16
interview. “That means companies in China will be buying
internationally and they are likely to pay in renminbi.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fion Li in  Hong Kong  at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  