-- Thai Beverage Gets $2.3 Billion Loan to Fund F&N Stake Purchase
-- B y   K y o u n g w h a   K i m
-- 2012-08-04T04:55:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-04/thai-beverage-gets-2-3-billion-loan-to-fund-f-n-stake-purchase.html
Thai Beverage Pcl (THBEV) , the Southeast
Asian nation’s biggest brewer, won a S$2.8 billion ($2.25
billion) loan facility from global banks to finance its proposed
purchase of a 22 percent stake in  Fraser and Neave Ltd. (FNN)   The company known as ThaiBev and wholly owned subsidiary
International Beverage Holdings Ltd. entered into a loan
facility agreement with HSBC Holdings Plc, Standard Chartered
Plc and Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group Inc., according to a
statement posted to the Singapore stock exchange today.  Billionaire Charoen Sirivadhanabhakdi’s ThaiBev last month
agreed to pay Oversea-Chinese Banking Corp. and its partners
S$2.78 billion for their shares in Fraser and Neave, which owns
40 percent of Asia Pacific Breweries, the maker of Tiger beer.
Heineken NV, the world’s third-biggest brewer, is seeking
control of Singapore-based APB to protect its hold over a key
emerging-market asset.  F&N’s board of directors recommended Heineken NV’s offer of
S$50 a share for its 40 percent stake in APB to shareholders,
the Amsterdam-based company said in a statement yesterday.
Heineken already owns 42 percent and said July 20 that it would
offer as much as S$7.5 billion for the rest.  Brewing assets in high-growth economies are in short supply
after a decade of consolidation in the industry. Besides
Singapore’s Tiger, APB has rights to brands including Bintang in
 Indonesia , Anchor in China,  Southeast Asia  and  Sri Lanka , and
Heineken from China to  New Zealand .  Heineken, which accounts for about 8.8 percent of the
global beer market, has the smallest emerging-markets presence
of the world’s big three brewers, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. About 37 percent of its operating income last year
came from western Europe, where competition, economic turmoil
and high per-capita beer consumption hold back growth.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Kyoungwha Kim in Singapore at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  