-- Lance Armstrong Argues Against USADA Arbitration Order
-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 2012-08-04T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-04/lance-armstrong-argues-against-usada-arbitration-order.html
Cyclist  Lance Armstrong  said the U.S.
Anti-Doping Agency has no authority to force him into
arbitration over allegations that that fall under the
jurisdiction of an international cycling federation that hasn’t
brought a case against him.  The seven-time Tour de France winner is seeking a U.S.
court order blocking the USADA, which is threatening to strip
his titles and ban him from competition if he doesn’t meet an
Aug. 13 deadline to accept binding arbitration of allegations he
used illegal performance-enhancing drugs.  “The international cycling federation, the  Union Cycliste
Internationale , or UCI, has exclusive jurisdiction over matters 
in USADA’s charging letters and has specifically directed USADA 
not to proceed,” Armstrong’s attorneys said in a filing 
yesterday in federal court in Austin,  Texas . “USADA has no 
jurisdiction to bring the charges it has asserted.”  Armstrong said in the filing that his contracts don’t
require him to accept USADA arbitration of doping disputes.  The UCI and Armstrong's team have a ``strong incentive to 
cover up what transpired,'' USADA Chief Executive Officer 
Travis T. Tygart said in an e-mailed statement.  ``The participants in the conspiracy have lashed out in 
the press, gone to Congress and filed a lawsuit to avoid a 
public display of the evidence before neutral judges,'' Tygart 
said. ``Efforts to intimidate, scare or pressure us to conceal 
the truth will not stop us from doing the job we are mandated 
to do on behalf of clean athletes and the integrity of all 
sport.''  U.S. District Judge Sam Sparks of Austin has scheduled an
Aug. 10 hearing on Armstrong’s request for a temporary
restraining order barring USADA from forcing him into
arbitration.  The case is Armstrong v. United States Anti-Doping Agency,
1:12-cv-00606, U.S. District Court, Western District of Texas
(Austin).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  