-- Asian Stocks Pare Weekly Gains Amid Lack of Stimulus
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s
-- 2012-08-04T00:08:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-04/asian-stocks-pare-weekly-gains-amid-lack-of-stimulus.html
Asian  stocks  rose, with the  MSCI Asia
Pacific Index (MXAP)  paring the third advance in five weeks after
central banks in China,  Europe  and the U.S. failed to deliver
new stimulus needed to bolster growth.  Canon Inc. climbed 7 percent after the world’s biggest
camera maker announced plans to buy back its shares. Komatsu Ltd.
sank 8.1 after the second-largest maker of construction
equipment cut its sales forecast as measures of manufacturing
showed global production slowing.  China Yurun Food Group Ltd. (1068) 
jumped 29 percent after billionaire  Robert Kuok ’s Kerry group
became a substantial shareholder in the nation’s second-largest
supplier of meat products.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index gained 0.9 percent to 116.99.
The gauge rose as much as 2.4 percent early in the week amid
speculation the U.S. Federal Reserve and  European Central Bank 
would unveil measures to spur economic growth.  Shares declined for three days after the ECB failed to
announce immediate measures to address the debt crisis, the Fed
refrained from adding stimulus to the  U.S. economy  and China’s
manufacturing grew at the slowest pace in eight months.  “Both the Fed and ECB have indicated that they will
provide support,” said  Shane Oliver , Sydney-based head of
investment strategy at AMP Capital Investors Ltd., which has
almost $100 billion under management. “What was delivered was a
commitment to action, but not immediately. It’s a disappointment
and a bit of setback.”  Value Lost  About  $700 billion  has been wiped from the value of the
Asia-Pacific index since its Feb. 29 peak as Europe’s sovereign
debt crisis threatened to upset the global economic recovery.
Through yesterday the benchmark has slid more than 10 percent
from its high this year on Feb. 29.  Shares on the gauge  trade  at 12 times estimated earnings.
That compares with 13.3 for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and
11.1 for the Stoxx Europe 600 Index.  Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 added 0.3 percent. South Korea’s
Kospi Index climbed 1.1 percent.  Hong Kong ’s Hang Seng Index
rose 2 percent. China’s Shanghai Composite Index increased 0.2
percent.  Japan ’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  fell 0.1 percent, dragged
lower by loss-making electronics maker Sharp Corp. which tumbled
28 percent on Aug. 3.  Of the 122 companies on the Nikkei 225 that have reported
first-quarter earnings, and for which Bloomberg had estimates,
 52 percent  have fallen short of projections, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. About 80 percent of technology companies
have missed estimates, the data show.  Biggest Advance  China Yurun surged 29 percent to HK$6.14 in Hong Kong, the
biggest advance on the MSCI Asia Pacific Index this week. Kerry
Group, which raised its stake in the company to 5 percent, is
expected to be a long-term investor, according to an Aug. 2 e-
mail from Wonderful Sky Financial Group, the public relations
company representing China Yurun.  Canon (7751)  jumped 7 percent to 2,694 yen in  Tokyo . The company
is spending 50 billion yen ($639 million) to buy back as many as
21 million shares. The camera maker is among  16 companies  on the
Topix Index to have announced buybacks during the week.  Tokyo Electric Power Co., the operator of the stricken
Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear plant, rallied 23 percent to 154 yen
after Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said the company would return to
profit next fiscal year.  Korea Gas Corp., the world’s biggest liquefied natural gas
importer, climbed 11 percent to 49,400 won in  Seoul  after its
Italian partner reported more gas discoveries in  Mozambique .  Euro Bonds  Companies that do business in Europe declined after ECB
President  Mario Draghi  signaled the central bank intends to join
forces with governments to buy bonds in sufficient quantities to
ease Europe’s debt crisis, while conceding that  Germany ’s
Bundesbank has reservations about the plan.  Mazda Motor Corp., the Japanese automaker that gets about
17 percent of sales from Europe, dropped 4.3 percent to 89 yen.
Nippon Sheet Glass Co., which counts Europe as its biggest
market, tumbled 15 percent to 60 yen after the glassmaker more
than doubled its full-year net loss forecast and announced
global job cuts.  Shares also dropped after separate reports showed China’s
manufacturing and services industries expanded at a slower pace
in July. The government will conduct policy fine-tuning at an
appropriate time and consumer inflation may rebound after August,
the People’s Bank of  China  said in a quarterly monetary-policy
report on its website Aug. 2.  Komatsu, which gets about 14 percent of sales from China,
sank 8.1 percent to 1,621 yen. The company said on July 31 it
expects full-year net income of 157 billion yen, down from its
April forecast of 190 billion yen.  Sharp Corp. plunged 25 percent, the most on the MSCI Asia
Pacific Index, to 192 yen after the maker of Aquos televisions
forecast a full-year loss of 250 billion yen. Sony Corp.,
Japan’s biggest consumer-electronics exporter, fell 5.3 percent
to 897 yen after cutting its full-year profit forecast by a
third to 20 billion yen. Both companies blamed slumping TV
demand and a strengthening yen for their deteriorating earnings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  