-- Boeing Says Air India Taking 787s, Watching Engine Probe
-- B y   S u s a n n a   R a y
-- 2012-08-04T07:28:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-04/boeing-says-air-india-taking-787s-watching-engine-probe.html
Boeing Co. (BA)  said state-owned Air India
Ltd. will start preparing next week to take its first 787
Dreamliners, which are almost four years late, after the jets
won government approval amid the probe of an engine failure.  “They want to know what the issue is, just like anybody
would,” Boeing India President Dinesh Keskar said in an
interview. “We’ve worked with them for 60 years, and they know
we’re not going to give them something that’s not right. But
they certainly want to know what’s going on and told us to let
them know by Monday if we have any insight.”  Keskar said executives at Air India called him yesterday
from India after a Cabinet committee authorized a compensation
agreement between Boeing and the airline for delivery delays.
The executives stayed up all night to prepare for the session,
he said. K. Swaminathan, a spokesman at Mumbai-based  Air India ,
didn’t immediately respond to two calls each to his mobile phone
and work phone today.  Three 787s await Air India at Boeing’s factory in North
Charleston,  South Carolina  -- the first one built there and two
others from its main plant in Everett,  Washington . Air India
eventually is due to get the second South Carolina-made 787, the
one with the  General Electric Co. (GE)  engine that failed before a
test flight last weekend.  “On Monday they’ll start putting logistics in place to
come to Charleston,” Keskar said. “We need to get a delivery
team here that will go check out all the systems, fly the plane,
do all the things they need to do. That takes three or four
days.”  787 Compensation  The engine involved in the July 28 incident has been
removed from that Dreamliner and sent to a GE factory in
Cincinnati as engineers study what went wrong. GE, Boeing and
the U.S. National Transportation Safety Board are investigating.  India ’s government accepted Boeing’s compensation offer for
delays on the 787, which was originally due to start reaching
the airline in September 2008. Air India had asked for $840
million after Chicago-based Boeing’s struggles to adopt new
materials and production techniques for the first jetliner made
chiefly from composite materials.  Keskar, in an interview from his office near Boeing’s
commercial headquarters in Seattle, declined to discuss the
compensation.  Charleston to Delhi  The most recent delivery plan had been for June. Boeing has
trained 64 Air India pilots in the past three months to fly the
787, Keskar said. The carrier plans to fly the first plane non-
stop from Charleston to  New Delhi , he said.  A delivery this month may make Air India the third carrier
to fly the 787. The jet entered service in late 2011 with  All
Nippon Airways Co. (9202)  Japan Airlines Co. received its first 787 in
March, and  United Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL)  plans to pick up its
first in late September.  Air India said in a statement yesterday that it’s going to
seek further compensation later for failure to meet performance
guarantees. Boeing shares dropped 3.6 percent last week to
$72.81 in U.S. trading.  Keskar, who has worked with Air India on Boeing’s behalf
since 1987, sold the carrier 27 Dreamliners in 2005, two years
before the first model rolled out of the factory. Since then,
the planemaker has struggled with the plane’s weight, which
affects fuel consumption, and GE has devised performance
packages to improve the engines’ efficiency starting next year.  “We’ll have that discussion after a reasonable number of
airplanes is delivered so we have the data” on performance,
Keskar said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanna Ray in  Seattle  at 
 sray7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  