-- Canada Dollar Rallies for 4th Week to Parity With U.S. Dollar
-- B y   L i n d s e y   R u p p   a n d   K a t i a   D m i t r i e v a
-- 2012-08-04T04:00:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-04/canada-dollar-rallies-for-4th-week-to-parity-with-u-s-dollar.html
Canada ’s dollar reached parity with
its U.S. counterpart for the first time since May as stocks and
crude oil rallied after July payrolls in America, the nation’s
biggest trading partner, rose more than forecast.  The currency gained for a fourth week versus the greenback,
the longest streak in six months, even as central bankers in the
U.S. and  Europe  refrained from additional addition momentary
stimulus to bolster economic growth. The nation’s employers
added more jobs last month, according to median forecast in a
Bloomberg News survey of economists before an Aug. 10 report
from  Statistics Canada .  “We’ve had this big, big reversal where the Canadian dollar
has come back with a vengeance and plowed its way right through
parity,”  Eric Lascelles , chief economist in Toronto at Royal
Bank of Canada’s RBC Global Asset Management unit, said in a
phone interview. Investors had developed “unbelievable
anticipation of central bank action, and that expectation was
ultimately not fulfilled so the market was disappointed,” he
said.  Canada’s currency, nicknamed the loonie, rose 0.2 percent
this week to C1.0013 per U.S. dollar in Toronto. The currency,
which last gained for four weeks during the period ended Feb. 3,
is up 0.2 percent versus the greenback this month. One Canadian
dollar buys 99.87 U.S. cents.  Price Swings  Implied volatility for one-month options on the Canadian
dollar versus the greenback rose for the second week, reaching
6.54 percent. The five-year average is 12 percent. Implied
volatility, which traders quote and use to set option prices,
signals the expected pace of currency swings.  Decreased volatility makes investments of currencies of
nations with higher benchmark  interest rates  more attractive
because there is less risk of market moves erasing profits.  Futures traders reversed their bets that the Canadian
dollar will decline against the U.S. dollar, figures from the
Washington-based Commodity Futures Trading Commission show.  The difference in the number of wagers by  hedge funds  and
other large speculators on an advance in the Canadian dollar
compared with those on a drop -- so-called  net longs  -- was
12,449 on July 31, compared with net shorts of 2,432 a week
earlier. Futures are agreements to buy or sell assets at a set
price and date.  Moving Averages  The loonie traded stronger than its 50-, 100- and 200-day
moving averages versus the greenback this week. The last time
the two currencies traded on a one-to-one basis was May 15, when
the loonie touched 99.90 cents to the greenback. Canada’s dollar
has traded in 2012 as strong as 98 cents on April 27 and as weak
as C$1.0447 on June 4.  Canadian government 10-year bonds declined for a second
week, pushing yields up two basis points, or 0.02 percentage
point, to 1.77 percent. The 2.75 percent securities maturing in
June 2022 dropped 23 cents to C$108.83.  The loonie extended gains yesterday after a Labor
Department report showed U.S. payrolls added 163,000 jobs
following a revised 64,000 rise in June that was less than
initially reported, Labor Department figures showed in
 Washington . The median estimate of 89 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News called for a gain of 100,000. Unemployment rose
to 8.3 percent, from 8.2 percent.  “What’s good for the  U.S. economy  is generally good for
Canada,”  Shaun Osborne , chief currency strategist at Toronto-
Dominion’s TD Securities unit, said in a telephone interview.  European Policy  The Canadian dollar rose against the euro Aug. 2 after ECB
President  Mario Draghi  said details of a plan to buy enough
sovereign bonds to remove doubts about the shared currency’s
future would be fleshed out in coming weeks.  Investors should buy higher-yielding currencies such as the
Canadian and Australian dollars against the euro, according to
 Greg Anderson  at Citigroup Inc. Canada’s dollar reached a record
high against the euro Thursday, trading as strong as C$1.2197,
before dropping 0.4 percent for the week.  “The one puzzle in the Canadian dollar is that it’s been
holding up better than one might have expected, given all the
concerns about global growth,”  Avery Shenfeld , chief economist
at Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce, said in a phone interview
from Toronto. “Whatever jitters we have on global growth are
now playing two ways on the Canadian dollar: they’re negative on
the prices of resources we export, but a plus for bond inflows
into a safe haven.”  Oil Rally  Oil surged the most in a month yesterday after service
industries expanded at a faster pace, bolstering optimism about
economic strength in the U.S., the world’s biggest crude-
consuming country. Crude oil futures climbed 1.4 percent this
week to $91.40 a barrel in  New York .  Canada added 9,000 jobs in July, up from 7,300 in June,
according to the median estimate of 19 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News before the report next week. The nation’s jobless
rate remained at 7.2 percent, according to a separate survey.  The loonie fell 0.5 percent this week against nine major
counterparts, according to the Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted
Indexes. It has gained 2 percent this year, while the  U.S.
dollar  lost 0.2 percent.  Canada’s dollar will end the year at C$1.01 per U.S.
dollar, according to median estimate of 43 forecasters surveyed
by Bloomberg News.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lindsey Rupp in New York at 
 lrupp2@bloomberg.net 
Katia Dmitrieva in Toronto at 
 edmitrieva1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Robert Burgess  at 
 bburgess@bloomberg.net  