-- Chiefs Secure First Super Rugby Title by Routing Sharks 37-6
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-08-04T16:42:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-04/chiefs-defeat-sharks-37-6-to-secure-first-super-rugby-title.html
The Chiefs routed the Sharks 37-6 to
win their first Super Rugby title and give  New Zealand  its 11th
championship in the 17 editions of the southern hemisphere’s
elite provincial competition.  Tim Nanai-Williams, Kane Thompson, Lelia Masaga and Sonny
Bill Williams scored tries for the Chiefs last night at
Hamilton’s Waikato Stadium. Fly-half Aaron Cruden kicked four
conversions and three penalties for 17 points to finish with a
competition-leading 251 points.  The Chiefs, who lost the 2009 final, become the third New
Zealand champion after record seven-time winner Crusaders and
the Blues, who have three titles. The Chiefs beat the Crusaders
20-17 in the semifinals.  “It’s a little bit surreal,” Chiefs captain Craig Clarke
said in a televised interview. “We were a little bit slow out
of the blocks after a tough game last week. We got into our work
and found our feet.”  Australia’s ACT Brumbies and  Queensland Reds , and  South
Africa ’s Bulls, are the only other teams to win the title.  The Durban-based Sharks, who qualified for the playoffs as
the sixth-placed team and upset the defending champion Reds and
top-ranked Stormers on the road to the final, fell to their
fourth loss in the championship game after failing to score a
try against the Chiefs for the fourth straight match. Fly-half
Frederic Michalak booted the Sharks’ only points.  ‘Suffocated Us’  “The Chiefs were outstanding, they really suffocated us,”
Sharks captain Keegan Daniel said. “It’s been an incredible
journey from where we were. We clawed ourselves back into this
competition and gave ourselves a chance. Unfortunately we just
couldn’t pull it off.”  The visiting team began with more intensity and forced the
Chiefs into errors, taking a seventh-minute lead when Michalak
booted a penalty.  The Chiefs scored the remaining points of the first half as
winger Nanai-Williams finished off a multiphase move for a try
that Cruden converted. The Chiefs playmaker then added two
penalties to take his team into the break up 13-3.  No. 8 Thompson powered over off the back of a scrum six
minutes into the second half to put the Chiefs 15 points ahead
with a try that was awarded by the television match official
after checking the grounding. Cruden made it 20-3.  Michalak converted a 52nd-minute penalty before Cruden
pushed his effort just wide two minutes later.  The Chiefs got their third try with 19 minutes left after
center Williams knocked the ball loose in a tackle. Replacement
winger Masaga picked it up and beat two tacklers before touching
down. Cruden kicked the extra points from out wide to make it
27-6 and added a penalty in the 72nd minute.  Williams, playing his last game for the Chiefs before
leaving for a stint in  Australia ’s National Rugby League, dived
over under the posts for the fourth try with three minutes
remaining before leaping into the crowd to hug the home fans.  “The second half showed out trademark line speed,” Clarke
added. “The boys were up and getting up in their faces. I’m
very chuffed.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  