-- China to Open Trial of Ousted Leader Bo’s Wife to U.K. Officials
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-08-05T05:50:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-04/china-opens-murder-trial-of-politician-bo-s-wife-aug-9-ap-says.html
China  is preparing to put the wife of
ousted Politburo member Bo Xilai on trial on Aug. 9 for the
murder of a U.K. businessman and will allow British diplomats to
attend the proceedings.  Two officials from the U.K. Embassy in Beijing will be
given access to the trial of Gu Kailai, according to an official
of the mission who spoke on condition of anonymity. China
unveiled formal charges against Gu, accusing her of
“intentional homicide” in the death of Briton Neil Heywood,
the official Xinhua News Agency reported on July 26.  Gu’s prosecution pushes forward the Chinese Communist
Party’s case months after the ouster of Bo Xilai, 63, the most
serious upheaval in the country’s top ranks since Party General
Secretary Zhao Ziyang was purged in the wake of the 1989
Tiananmen Square protests. Bo’s downfall has focused attention
on corruption among the Chinese ruling elite and clouded a once-
a-decade leadership transition this year.  Authorities have said the trial will take place on Aug. 9,
the British Embassy official said. Diplomats haven’t been given
an indication of how long the trial will last and the court has
not indicated they wouldn’t be able to attend the entire
proceedings, he said.  The official couldn’t confirm any details about whether
members of Heywood’s family would attend the trial. The presence
of U.K. diplomats was earlier reported by  Agence France-Presse .  ‘Firm’ Evidence  Gu, once a well-known lawyer, will stand trial in Hefei,
the capital of eastern Anhui province, according to Xinhua.  Heywood was found dead in his hotel room in Chongqing in
November. Gu’s alleged involvement in his death was exposed
after Bo’s former police chief in Chongqing, Wang Lijun, went to
the U.S. Consulate in Chengdu in February bearing evidence she
and Zhang had Heywood killed, according to U.S. officials
briefed on the matter.  Chinese investigators had initially told U.K. authorities
that Heywood died of alcohol poisoning.  “The facts are clear and the evidence is firm and
adequate,” Xinhua said in its July 26 report of the charges
against Gu. An orderly in the family home, Zhang Xiaojun, was
also charged, Xinhua said.  Gu and her son had a financial conflict with Heywood, which
led her to believe he was a threat to her son’s safety, Xinhua
said.  Bo was removed as Communist Party secretary of the western
municipality of Chongqing in March. In April he was suspended
from the Politburo and accused of serious violations of
Communist Party discipline after the allegations about his wife
were revealed.  No formal charges have been announced against Bo, who
hasn’t been seen in public since the National People’s Congress
in March.  China’s  Ministry of Foreign Affairs  didn’t immediately
respond to faxed questions from Bloomberg News today about the
trial.  --Nerys Avery. Editors:  Jim McDonald , Nerys Avery  To contact Bloomberg News Staff responsible for this story:
Nerys Avery at 
 navery2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  