-- China Evacuates 867,000 People as Tropical Storms Hit Coast
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-08-04T12:11:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-04/china-evacuates-867-000-people-as-tropical-storms-hit-coast-1-.html
China  evacuated 867,000 people after
tropical storms Saola and Damrey hit coastal regions, bringing
strong winds and rainstorms, Xinhua News Agency reported, citing
the Ministry of Civil Affairs.  The storms caused one death and left five people missing in
the port city of Dalian in northeastern Liaoning province, as
heavy flooding toppled a bridge and disrupted train services,
Xinhua said today, citing local authorities. They also led to
five deaths, with 1 missing in provinces of Fujian, Zhejiang,
Jiangsu and Shandong.  China removed a blue alert for heavy rain as the typhoons
weakened at 6 p.m. local time. Some areas in northern and
southern China, and south of the  Yangtze River  will have heavy
rain until tomorrow, the National Meteorological Center said
today in an e-mailed statement.  Local authorities were on alert after Saola earlier this
week killed 37 people in the  Philippines  before moving to  Taiwan 
where five more died. The storms will miss Beijing, where
officials were criticized being poorly prepared last month after
the biggest rainstorm in 61 years lasted 20 hours, killing more
than 70 people.  Services on a major railway linking Shenyang, the capital
of Liaoning, with Dalian were suspended after a section was
submerged under water at about 2 a.m. local time, Xinhua said.  Flooding also caused the collapse of the railbed on a
section of the Shenyang-Shanhaiguan line, it said.  Heavy Rains  The southeastern part of Liaoning received 100 millimeters
to 220 millimeters of rainfall as of 4 a.m. local time today,
with an area in the city of Anshan receiving 420 millimeters,
Xinhua said.  Saola struck China’s coast early on Aug. 3 in Fujian and
Zhejiang provinces and Damrey arrived later, hitting Jiangsu
province to the north. In advance of Saola and Damrey, local
authorities in Fujian and Zhejiang closed tourist sites along
the coast and called fishing boats back to port. In Fujian,
authorities evacuated 306,000 people ahead of Saola, Xinhua
reported.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story: Aipeng Soo in
Beijing at   asoo4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  