-- China Says U.S. Sending ‘Wrong Signal’ on South China Sea
-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 2012-08-05T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-04/china-says-u-s-sending-wrong-signal-on-south-china-sea.html
China said U.S. criticism of its
attempt to bolster claims to gas- and oil-rich islands in the
 South China Sea  sent “a seriously wrong signal” to nations
embroiled in territorial disputes in the region.  China’s recent actions “run counter to collaborative
diplomatic efforts to resolve differences and risk further
escalating tensions,” a State Department spokesman, Patrick Ventrell, said in an Aug. 3 statement.  Ventrell’s criticism “completely ignored the facts,
deliberately confounded right and wrong” and isn’t conducive to
efforts for peace and stability in the region, Qin Gang, a
Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman, said in an Aug. 4  statement .
China also summoned Robert Wang, the acting representative of
the U.S. embassy in Beijing, to complain about the U.S.
statement and request that he report Chinese concerns “to the
top U.S. leadership immediately,” according to a separate
statement on the ministry’s website.  Tensions have been rising in the region as China has sought
to establish a city and military garrison in the  Paracel Islands 
and to physically block foreign access to a disputed reef off
the coast of the Philippines, according to the U.S. State
Department.  Vietnam ,  Malaysia , the Philippines,  Taiwan  and
Brunei also claim rights to islands in the sea.  “What we’re seeing is a significant ratcheting up of
Chinese pressure on the region to basically acquiesce that the
South China Sea is Chinese territory,” Dean Cheng, a researcher
on Chinese political and security issues at the  Heritage
Foundation  in  Washington , said in a telephone interview.  Chinese Preparations  China’s assertiveness in the region coincides with
preparations for a political and military transition. Communist
party leaders are believed to be meeting to select new members
for the country’s Politburo and Standing Committee, the nation’s
civilian leaders, and its Central Military Commission, which
controls the military, Cheng said. In October or November, the
full party Congress will convene to select a new president to
replace  Hu Jintao  in a once-a-decade leadership handover.  “Nobody wants to look weak,” Cheng said.  The Chinese government is also seeking to stem a six-
quarter slowdown in economic growth and maintain social
stability in advance of the political transition. Chinese
Premier  Wen Jiabao  said last month that economic difficulties
may persist for a while as downward pressure on the economy
remains “relatively large,” and warned of a “severe” labor
outlook.  Without Force  The U.S. has no territorial ambitions of its own in the
South China Sea and doesn’t take a position on disputes over the
islands, Ventrell said. The competing nations should resolve
their claims with diplomacy and “without the use of force,” he
said.  Cheng said the U.S. interest is primarily in free
navigation through the region. The South China Sea sea lanes are
particularly important to the economies of U.S. allies  Japan  and
 South Korea , he said.  The official Chinese  news agency , Xinhua, published a
commentary on Aug. 4 telling the U.S. to “behave itself” in
the dispute.  “When an outsider attempts to make bigger waves, he is
probably already on the beach waiting to pick up what will wash
ashore,” the news agency said. The new city, Sansha, and
garrison in the Paracels is a “normal adjustment of China’s
administrative and military structure,” Xinhua said.  Oil Exploration  In 1974, Chinese forces took the 30 islets and reefs that
comprise the Paracels from Vietnam. Vietnam and China have
recently invited  oil companies  to explore overlapping parts of
the region, criticizing each other in the process.  China  is the
second-largest oil consumer after the U.S.  The dispute over the Paracels is one of several between
China and its neighbors. The country is also quarreling with
Japan over the Senkaku islands, called Diaoyu in China, and
 Russia  detained two Chinese fishing boats that sailed into
waters it claims off its Far East region. China has resisted a
Filipino suggestion that an international body determine
territorial claims over parts of the South China Sea.  China’s establishment of a prefecture government for the
Paracels “represents the next step in China’s strategy to make
the South China Sea the internal waters of China,” said John
McCreary, a retired U.S. Defense Intelligence Agency analyst, in
the July 24 edition of Nightwatch newsletter by Kforce
Government Solutions, Inc. “The phase of diplomatic
interactions and negotiations with the Southeast Asian countries
has ended,” he wrote, predicting “a limited arms race for
patrol ships” among China’s neighbors.  Any military conflict in the South China Sea might draw in
the U.S. The  Philippines  is a U.S. ally, and the two countries
have a mutual protection pact. While the treaty doesn’t cover
disputed territories in the South China Sea, an attack on
Filipino ships or other assets could trigger a U.S. response,
Cheng said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Wayne in Washington at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  