-- TD Bank, Greenberg Traurig Sanctioned Over Documents
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 2012-08-04T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-04/td-bank-greenberg-traurig-sanctioned-over-documents.html
Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD)  was sanctioned
by a federal judge in Miami for “willfully” concealing
evidence relevant to a trial over whether it aided a $1.2
billion  Ponzi scheme  by disbarred attorney Scott Rothstein.  U.S. District Judge Marcia Cooke also sanctioned Greenberg
Traurig LLP, a  law firm  for the bank, for “negligently”
failing to turn over documents to Coquina Investments, which won
a $67 million verdict against the bank on Jan. 18. Coquina
claimed after that verdict that TD Bank,  Canada ’s second-largest
lender, and Greenberg Traurig withheld documents they were
required to disclose.  Cooke said the bank and the law firm abused the exchange of
evidence known as discovery, which was unfair to  Corpus Christi ,
Texas-based Coquina. She ordered TD Bank and  Greenberg Traurig 
to pay Coquina’s attorney’s fees on its sanctions motion, and
made other factual findings against the bank.  “The discovery violations in this case resulted in
Coquina’s diminished ability to prove that TD Bank’s actions
were unreasonable and it had knowledge of fraud,” Cooke said
yesterday in a 30-page ruling. “This sanction serves to
compensate Coquina for the added expense caused by Greenberg
Traurig’s and TD Bank’s discovery violations and abusive
conduct.”  Rothstein, co-founder of the now-defunct Fort Lauderdale-
based firm Rothstein, Rosenfeldt & Adler, is serving a 50-year
sentence for conspiracy to commit fraud. Investigators say his
$1.2 billion Ponzi scheme is the largest in  Florida  history.
Rothstein sold investors stakes in sex- and employment-
discrimination cases that turned out to be non-existent.  Rothstein Fraud  After briefly fleeing the country when the scheme collapsed
in October 2009, Rothstein has been cooperating with
investigators. At least eight associates of Rothstein have been
accused of helping him defraud investors.  Cooke said she found a “pattern of discovery abuses
before, during, and after trial.” She declined to sanction
individual lawyers at Greenberg Traurig whose “handling of this
case left much to be desired.” Their errors in producing
documents were “simply incredible,” yet they didn’t act
willfully or in bad faith and don’t deserve sanctions, Cooke
ruled.  “TD Bank respectfully disagrees with the court’s order and
will appeal it and the underlying jury verdict at the
appropriate time,” Maria Leung, a spokeswoman for Toronto-based
TD Bank, said in an e-mail. “We do not believe that the record
before the court supports the findings that were made regarding
willfulness or the sanctions that were imposed.”  Leung said the bank would continue to defend itself.  Regret ‘Deficiencies’  “We will comply with Judge Cooke’s ruling,” Lourdes Brezo Martinez, a Greenberg Traurig spokeswoman, said in an e-mail.
“We regret the deficiencies that gave rise to this order.”  Cooke, who held several days of hearings on Coquina’s
motion, said Greenberg Traurig had more than 200 attorneys
involved in the case, with separate teams handling banking
issues, document production and pretrial and trial practice. TD
Bank hired another firm as well, “but the firms did not have
any mutual coordination,” the judge said.  “It often times appears that this litigation was conducted
in an Inspector Clouseau-like fashion,” Cooke wrote. “However,
unlike a ‘Pink Panther’ film, there was nothing amusing about
this conduct and it did not conclude neatly.”  The firm, she said, failed to conduct an adequate search to
determine whether a document known as a “Standard Investigative
Protocol” existed so that it could be turned over to Coquina.
The document provided guidance on “reportable and non-
reportable suspicious activity,” according to the judge.  ‘Heavily Contested’  “Whether this particular document existed became a heavily
contested issue at trial after Greenberg Traurig’s late
production of some key documents brought the issue to the
fore,” the judge wrote.  Cooke said “the evidence is clear” that the firm had a
copy of the document before trial and “failed to conduct a
thorough search” for it.  The bank, she wrote, “was so firmly rooted in its belief
that the document did not exist that it failed to conduct a
comprehensive search to find it.”  One bank employee’s failure to open all of the documents
attached to his e-mail “compounded with the bank’s refusal to
even consider the validity of Coquina’s request resulted in
continued denial, deception and delay,” Cooke said.  During the January trial, Donna Evans, a lawyer who then
worked for Greenberg Traurig in  Boston , told Cooke that the bank
didn’t have a “Standard Investigative Protocol,” according to
a transcript of proceedings on Jan. 13.  E-Mail Attachments  In yesterday’s decision, Cooke said Evans had received an
e-mail with four attachments, including the “Standard
Investigative Protocol.”  “It is unclear whether Evans reviewed the printouts or
what she did with those documents,” Cooke said.  Evans couldn’t immediately be reached by telephone
yesterday at a phone number listed in the Boston area.  Cooke also faulted TD Bank’s general counsel’s office,
saying it had access to information that its outside lawyers did
not.  “TD Bank willfully concealed relevant evidence from its
trial counsel,” Cooke wrote. “In doing so, TD Bank prevented
trial counsel on both sides from fully and accurately presenting
the issues in this case, and interfered with the judicial
process.”  She ordered a finding that the bank’s fraud alerts and
monitoring systems were “unreasonable and that TD Bank had
actual knowledge of Rothstein’s fraud.” She said the sanction
“will prevent further prejudice to Coquina in an eventual
appeal on that issue.”  The case is Coquina Investments v. Rothstein, 10-cv-60786,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of Florida (Miami).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Voreacos in Newark,  New Jersey , at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  