-- Hedge-Fund Chief Welch’s Son Charged in Death of Friend
-- B y   A n t h o n y   E f f i n g e r   a n d   S a i j e l   K i s h a n
-- 2012-08-04T21:14:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-04/hedge-fund-chief-s-son-held-in-death-at-yellowtone-club.html
A  New York  teenager out for a late-
night drive in an all-terrain vehicle was charged with negligent
vehicular homicide under the influence of alcohol after a  crash 
that killed his passenger and prep-school roommate at the luxury
 Yellowstone Club  resort in Montana.  James Sinclair Welch, 19, son of Welch Capital Partners LLC
founder Leighton Welch of Bronxville, was arrested about 11:50
p.m. on Aug. 2 by the Montana Highway Patrol, according to state
court documents. The victim, Parker Regan, 19, of Mendham,  New
Jersey , was a son of R. Christopher Regan, co-founder of  the
Chartis Group , a health-care consultancy.  The accident occurred at the Yellowstone Club, a private
ski and golf resort near Big Sky, Montana. Members include
Microsoft Corp. co-founder  Bill Gates , Tour de France cycling
champion  Greg LeMond  and Cliff Asness, co-founder of the hedge
fund AQR Capital Management LLC in Greenwich, Connecticut.  Welch was driving a 2012 Polaris  Ranger Crew , a four-wheel-
drive vehicle, and told police he was making a left turn on
Andesite Ridge Road when Regan “fell out,” according to an
affidavit by Trooper Joshua Brown and a citation he issued.  On April 17, Welch was convicted of driving under the
influence of alcohol in a separate incident, according to the
affidavit. It didn’t say where that conviction occurred.  $50,000 Bail  Welch was held in jail until about 5 p.m. yesterday, when
he appeared in Gallatin County Justice Court in Bozeman,
 Montana , posted $50,000 bail, and was released, according to
Officer Wylie Herrera at the Gallatin County Detention Center.  Welch’s attorney,  William Bartlett  of Angel, Coil &
Bartlett in Bozeman, didn’t return telephone calls seeking
comment. Leighton Welch, reached in Montana, declined to
comment.  Christopher Regan said his son and James Welch were
roommates at  Suffield Academy , a boarding school in Suffield,
Connecticut. He said his son was vacationing with the Welch
family in Montana.  Welch Capital, with offices on Park Avenue in New York, had
$350 million in assets at the end of December, according to a
 filing  with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  “Our thoughts and prayers are with the families involved,
and the club is cooperating fully with local authorities,” said
 Greg Hitt , a spokesman for the Yellowstone Club.  Hitt declined to comment on whether the ATV Welch was
driving was owned by the club.  $300,000 Fee  Membership in the club, acquired by Boston-based
CrossHarbor Capital Partners LLC in 2009, is limited primarily
to those who own property there. Prices range from more than $2
million for a condominium to $18 million for a ranch with 350
acres. Members pay a $300,000 initiation fee that they get back
if they sell their property. Dues are $30,000 a year.  The club is managed by Discovery Land Co., a Scottsdale,
 Arizona , developer of similar luxury projects in  Hawaii ,
 California ,  Mexico  and the Bahamas.  Christopher Regan’s father was John MacVeigh Regan Jr.,
former chairman and chief executive officer of  Marsh & McLennan
Cos. (MMC) , according to a 1991 wedding announcement in the New York
Times.  John Regan  died in 2011, according to an obituary
published in the newspaper.  After the incident, Welch refused to submit to a breath
test and blood test, according to patrolman Brown’s report. He
smelled of alcohol and his eyes were watery and bloodshot, the
report said. His clothes were bloody.  Montana officers were able to obtain a blood sample from
Welch after getting a search warrant by telephone from a Madison
County district judge, the report said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anthony Effinger in Portland at 
 aeffinger@bloomberg.net ;
Saijel Kishan in New York at 
 skishan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
William Glasgall at 
 wglasgall@bloomberg.net  