-- K-V Pharmaceutical Files for Bankruptcy Protection
-- B y   D a v i d   E .   R o v e l l a
-- 2012-08-04T16:20:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-04/k-v-pharmaceutical-files-for-bankruptcy-protection.html
K-V Pharmaceutical Co. (KV/A) , a provider of
women’s health-care products, filed for bankruptcy after it said
lax federal enforcement and state Medicaid restrictions
prevented it from attaining the “full value” of a medicine
intended to help pregnant women avoid premature births.  The  drug company , which sought court protection along with
several subsidiaries, listed debt of $728 million and assets of
$237 million in a Chapter 11 petition filed today in U.S.
 Bankruptcy Court  in  Manhattan . Based in Bridgeton,  Missouri , K-V
said it will keep operating as it seeks to reorganize.  “The company has been unable to realize the full value of
its most important product, Makena, because of a lack of
enforcement of the orphan drug marketing exclusivity granted to
K-V for Makena by the  Food and Drug Administration ,” Greg Divis, chief executive officer of K-V, said in a statement.
“The lack of enforcement has also led certain state Medicaid
agencies to impose barriers to access to Makena on low-income
pregnant women at high risk for recurrent preterm birth, despite
those states’ legal obligation to cover FDA-approved drugs.”  Divis also cited restrictions on reimbursement imposed by
state agencies, and limits on manufacturing and marketing of
other K-V products imposed by a previous FDA consent decree.  Other Units  Curtis Allen, a spokesman for the FDA, didn’t immediately
return an e-mail seeking comment on the claims sent outside
regular business hours.  Other K-V units that sought court protection include
DrugTech Corp., FP1096 Inc., K-V Discovery Solutions Inc., K-V
Generic Pharmaceuticals Inc., K-V Solutions USA Inc., Ther-Rx
Corp. and Zeratech Technologies USA Inc.  K-V listed a unit of Deutsche Bank AG, serving as indenture
trustee, as its largest unsecured creditor with $231 million.
The company said it hired law firms Willkie Farr & Gallagher
LLP, Williams & Connolly LLP and SNR Denton, and financial
adviser Jefferies & Co. All are subject to court approval.  In June, a federal appeals court in  St. Louis  ruled K-V
must face an investor lawsuit claiming the company and its
executives made misleading statements about its compliance with
federal quality-control standards.  Shipments  In an amended complaint filed in 2009 by public employee
pension plans of  Boston  and Norfolk County, Massachusetts, K-V
and its officers were accused of making misleading statements
between June 2004 and January 2009 in reports filed with the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. During that time, FDA
inspectors had observed manufacturing, packing and labeling
without making express findings of violations, according to the
June 4 ruling.  In December 2008, the company issued a statement stating it
was suspending shipments of FDA-approved drugs in tablet form,
after which shares fell from $5.39 on Dec. 22 to 51 cents on
Jan. 26, 2009.  Former CEO Mark Hermelin in March 2011 pleaded guilty to
violating drug labeling laws and was sentenced to 30 days in
prison. A year earlier, KV’s Ethex unit pleaded guilty to
failing to tell the FDA about pill manufacturing problems.  K-V rose 2 cents to 32 cents yesterday in  New York  Stock
Exchange trading.  The bankruptcy case is In re K-V Pharmaceutical Co., 12-
13347,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  for the Southern District of New
York (Manhattan). The investor case is Public Pension Fund Group
v. KV Pharmaceutical Co., 10-3402,  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the
Eighth Circuit (St. Louis).  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella in New York at 
 drovella@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Patrick Oster at   poster@bloomberg.net  