-- Knight’s Founder Pasternak Purchased Shares Before 57% Rebound
-- B y   S t e v e   C h a m b e r s
-- 2012-08-04T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-04/knight-s-founder-pasternak-purchased-shares-before-57-rebound.html
Kenneth Pasternak bought  Knight (KCG) 
Capital Group Inc. shares during the two-day plunge this week on
speculation the company he co-founded in 1995 will survive the
$440 million loss that some analysts say may bankrupt it. The
 stock  soared 57 percent yesterday.  “I seriously doubt they will go out of business,” said
Pasternak in a telephone interview from Ridgefield Park,  New
Jersey , yesterday. “They are a market leader when it comes to
evolving best practices and best functionality.”  Knight’s shares rallied after it secured a funding lifeline
and more customers resumed routing orders to the market maker.
Pasternak, who ran Knight until 2002 when he retired, said
computer breakdowns are part of the electronic trading business
and that the company has “really good technology and a good
track record.”  Knight is fighting to preserve its business amid concern
about its solvency. Analysts at CLSA Credit Agricole Securities
said bankruptcy was a possibility if it failed to get financing.
The trading fault, which caused stocks to swing as much as 151
percent, left the firm with a “large error position,” Knight
Chief Executive Officer Thomas Joyce told Bloomberg Television’s
“Market Makers” program with  Erik Schatzker  and  Stephanie
Ruhle .  TD Ameritrade Holding Corp. and Scottrade Inc., which sent
trades elsewhere for execution after Knight’s software bug on
Aug. 1 roiled markets, said they were routing orders to the firm
again. Knight told brokers it received short-term financing,
according to a person familiar with the matter who requested
anonymity because the conversations were private.  As the company opened its books to potential saviors,
people with knowledge of the matter said KKR & Co., TPG Capital
and  Silver Lake  were among buyout firms that had an initial
interest -- though one said chances of a private-equity deal are
small. Knight shares jumped $1.47 to $4.05 today. They traded as
high as $13.53 this year.  The market maker has until Aug. 6 to complete a transaction
in which Goldman Sachs Group Inc. will take over trades that
saddled Knight with a $440 million loss, a person familiar with
the matter said. U.S. stock trades settle three sessions after
they are made.  The  Jersey City , New Jersey-based company hired Joyce as
chief executive officer in May 2002 after annual revenue plunged
46 percent during the prior year. It had 1,423 employees at the
end of 2011, according to a regulatory filing, growing through
more than 15 mergers and acquisitions since 2000.  Pasternak is now chairman and founder of Kabr Real Estate
Investment, a private equity firm, and heads family office
Chestnut Ridge Capital.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steve Chambers in  New York  at 
 schambers18@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  