-- Korea Teams Eye Best Olympics Since 1992 on North’s Golds
-- B y   J u n   Y a n g
-- 2012-08-06T00:10:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-04/korean-teams-eye-best-olympics-since-1992-on-north-s-gold-haul.html
North  Korea  and  South Korea  are
headed for what may be their best summer Olympics in two decades,
as athletes from the communist north won the most gold medals
since 1992.  North Korea, currently  ranked  11th among more than 200
participating countries, has won four golds, the most since the
Barcelona games, and one bronze in judo and weightlifting. South
Korea is in fourth place with 10 gold medals, four silver and
six bronze. Combined, the countries are two golds short of the
16 they won in 1992.  Technically still at war, North Korea and South Korea have
been participating as separate nations in international sporting
events. Outnumbered by a South Korean squad that is more than
four times bigger, North Korean athletes are competing in 11
events from weightlifting to synchronized swimming under the
watch of Kim Jong Un, their new leader who is solidifying
control over the isolated and impoverished nation after taking
power in December.  “ North Korea  is giving their best performance,” Yang Moo Jin, a Seoul-based professor at University of North Korean
Studies, said by phone. “It’s the first Olympics since the Kim
Jong Un regime took over, so they’re trying to use it to boost
morale for their people and unite them.”  First Week  Both Koreas typically perform better in the first week
because the Olympics schedule is front-loaded with sports the
nations are strong in, such as archery, judo and shooting. South
Korea won three golds in each of archery and shooting and two in
each of fencing and judo. The remaining events for South Korea
include men’s soccer, shooting, weightlifting and boxing, while
North Korean synchronized swimmers and divers are competing for
more medals. The  London  games end Aug. 12.  South Korea added a gold yesterday after Jin Jongoh topped
the men’s 50-meter pistol shooting. He’d already won the 10-
meter gold.  Female weightlifter Rim Jong Sim became North Korea’s
latest gold medalist on Aug. 1. The news “sent another
pleasure” to North Koreans, the state-run Korean  Central News
Agency  reported in an English-language dispatch the next day.  “It was so ridiculous for Western media to guess that the
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea would snatch only one
silver medal” at the London Games, Kim Chang Bom, a North
Korean citizen in Pyongyang, was cited as saying in the report.  North Korea will receive more than 3,000 hours of live and
recorded television coverage of the London Games through a
licensing arrangement between the Asia Pacific Broadcasting
Union and the country’s national broadcaster KRT, ABU cited
 Jacques Rogge , president of the  International Olympic Committee ,
as saying in a  statement  on July 24.  Television Coverage  North Korea is allowing five hours a day of Olympics
coverage on TV, although citizens are having trouble watching
the games because of a power shortage, Daily NK, a Seoul-based
media organization with contributors inside the communist
country, reported on Aug. 2, citing Ri Kwang Chol from KRT and
unidentified people. Video footage aired in North Korea also
unusually has shown South Korean athletes winning golds,
according to the report.  South Korea’s support during the previous administration
under the so-called “Sunshine Policy” of engaging North Korea
helped the communist country to improve its athletes’
performance, Lee Woo Young, a professor at the University of
North Korean Studies in  Seoul , said by phone.  “You need money, information and skills and tips from
others to improve your athletic performance,” he said. “When
isolated and without money, there’s only so much North Korea
could have done.”  Joint Programs  Inter-Korean sports and arts programs received greater
funding following the 2007 implementation of the policy,
resulting in an increase in the number of joint soccer matches,
training sessions and cheerleading opportunities, according to
the South Korean Culture Ministry’s 2010  White Paper .  Such interaction almost came to a halt after North Korea
was found by an international panel to be responsible for
torpedoing the Cheonan, a South Korean warship, in March 2010,
according to the report. South Korean President  Lee Myung Bak 
has rolled back the broader policy of embracing the North.  Under the Western-educated Kim, believed to be not yet 30
years old and a basketball fan, North Korea may expand its
sporting industry and follow international trends more closely,
shifting away from the art and circuses that socialist countries
typically endorse, Yang said. KCNA reported last month that Kim
had assumed the top military rank of marshal, with control over
the country’s 1.2 million-strong army.  London Controversies  While the tally for medals increased, Korean athletes also
became the subject of controversies in London. Two pairs of
South Korean badminton players were disqualified on Aug. 1 for
trying to lose a preliminary match to avoid more difficult
opponents in the next round. A day earlier, Shin A Lam, a fencer
from South Korea, staged a sit-down protest in tears when she
lost a match after the clock was reset to one second from zero.  North Korea refused to start its game on July 25 against
 Colombia , as part of the London Olympic Women’s soccer
tournament, after its lineup was displayed on the scoreboard
along with a picture of the South Korean flag.  Play was delayed by 65 minutes and started after organizers
apologized for the mistake and said steps would be taken to
avoid a repeat. North Korea won 2-0.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jun Yang in Seoul at 
 jyang180@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  