-- Obama and Romney Tax Plans Are Pie-in-the-Sky
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-08-04T14:30:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-04/obama-and-romney-tax-plans-are-pie-in-the-sky.html
U.S. presidential elections often
produce half-baked proposals. The campaign websites of President
 Barack Obama  and Republican rival  Mitt Romney  are loaded with
10-point plans to reform everything from education and Social
Security to  energy policy .  But not their tax plans. Both offer the vaguest of nostrums
for the most important issues of our day: What size government
do we want? How will we pay for it? And how should the burden be
fairly distributed? Rather than engage in serious discussions of
such overarching questions, the candidates offer confection.  Romney says he would reduce or eliminate the taxes most of
us currently pay. The 2001 and 2003 tax cuts adopted under
President  George W. Bush ? Extend them all. Individual income-tax
rates? Reduce them by 20 percent across the board. Dividends and
capital-gains taxes? Eliminate them for most taxpayers, and keep
the current low rates for those with high incomes.  While he’s at it, the former Massachusetts governor would
end the estate tax, repeal the alternative minimum tax and ditch
the higher tax rates enacted with Obama’s health-care-reform
legislation. Here’s the cherry on top: Romney says he would
offset the huge revenue losses dollar-for-dollar, and still keep
the tax code’s progressivity.  Mathematically Impossible  If it sounds too good to be true, that’s because it is.
Romney hasn’t said how he would accomplish all of this and still
not worsen the deficit or make the  tax code  less progressive,
probably because it’s mathematically impossible. A Tax Policy
Center  study  released last week estimates that such a plan --
Romney provides so little detail it isn’t possible to precisely
score it -- would reduce  tax revenue  from individuals by $360
billion in 2015.  To get to revenue neutrality, Romney’s plan must have an
equal amount of reductions in popular tax benefits, including
the mortgage-interest deduction, the exclusion for employer-
provided health insurance, the deduction for charitable
contributions, and benefits for low- and middle-income families
such as the earned income-tax credit and child tax credit. For
Romney’s plan to make sense, taxpayers would have to give up 65
percent of their tax preferences, the study concludes.
Charitably speaking, clawing back that level of tax breaks would
be politically difficult.  The analysis also concludes that Romney’s tax cuts would
predominantly favor upper-income taxpayers. Those earning more
than $1 million would see their after-tax income increased the
most, by 8.3 percent (for an average tax cut of about $175,000).
Taxpayers with incomes between $75,000 and $100,000 would see
somewhat smaller increases of about 2.4 percent (for an average
tax cut of $1,800). The after-tax income of taxpayers earning
less than $30,000 would actually decrease by about 0.9 percent
(for an average tax increase of about $130). It’s no wonder
Romney doesn’t want to detail how he would make his numbers add
up.  Obama also has a  tax plan , and it’s almost as sketchy. It
can be summed up as “soak the rich.” In keeping with his
pledge not to raise taxes on the middle class, Obama would
extend the Bush tax cuts only on income up to $250,000 for
married couples. He would increase the top tax rate to 39.6
percent from 35 percent and end tax breaks for hedge fund and
private equity managers.  Most famously, Obama proposes a Buffett rule, named after
investor  Warren Buffett , which would require Americans earning
more than $1 million to pay an unspecified minimum tax rate.  Millionaire’s Tax  The millionaire’s tax would affect about 0.3 percent of
taxpayers, or fewer than 450,000 people. Based on 2009 figures
from the  Internal Revenue Service , even doubling the tax rate on
the richest of the rich would bring in about $190 billion a
year, or 1.3 percent of gross domestic product -- far short of
the $4 trillion over 10 years that most economists and deficit-
reduction panels conclude is needed to keep the national debt
sustainable.  Obama hasn’t spelled out where he would find most of those
trillions. His 2013 budget plan would raise $206 billion over 10
years by treating dividends, now taxed at 15 percent, as
ordinary income for married couples making more than $250,000 a
year. We applaud this idea, yet Obama has done little to build
support behind it while campaigning, or to advance it in
Congress.  To attack the $15 trillion mountain of publicly held debt,
he’ll have to break his campaign promise and go where the money
is -- the middle class. In 2010, the average federal income-tax
rate for a median-income family was 4.55 percent, according to
the  Tax Policy Center . From 1955 until 2007, that rate hadn’t
been lower than 5.34 percent.  Just as Romney must shed his pie-in-the-sky promises, Obama
needs to come clean with middle-class Americans by telling them
their taxes, now at record-low rates, will need to be raised.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 