-- Payroll Gains Exceeding Forecasts Signal Sustained U.S. Growth
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2012-08-04T04:00:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-04/payroll-gains-exceeding-forecasts-signal-sustained-u-s-growth.html
Employers in the U.S. added more
workers than forecast in July, easing concern the three-year
expansion is faltering. Bigger payroll gains may be necessary to
reduce an  unemployment rate  that climbed to a five-month high.  Employment increased by 163,000 last month, helped by a
pickup at automakers and health-care providers, after a revised
64,000 June advance, Labor Department data showed yesterday in
 Washington . The median estimate of 89 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg called for a rise of 100,000. The jobless rate, based
on a separate survey of households, climbed to 8.3 percent.  Stocks rallied, sending the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index to
the highest level since May, as the jobs data countered recent
reports showing a contraction in manufacturing and cooler
consumer demand. An unemployment rate that has been stuck above
8 percent since February 2009 is one reason why the  Federal
Reserve  this week said it is prepared to take new steps if
needed to boost the economy.  “We’re holding steady,” said  Drew Matus , a U.S. economist
at UBS Securities in  Stamford ,  Connecticut . “This report is
reasonably consistent with moderate growth.”  The  S&P 500  advanced 1.9 percent to 1,390.99 at the close
of trading in  New York . The yield on the 10-year Treasury note
climbed to 1.57 percent from 1.48 percent late the prior day.  Separately, the Institute for Supply Management yesterday
reported that non-manufacturing businesses, which make up about
90 percent of the economy, expanded at a faster pace in July
than a month earlier.  Lost Jobs  The Labor Department data showed private payrolls, which
exclude government agencies, rose 172,000, exceeding the
forecast for a gain of 110,000. Including the July gain, the
U.S. has recovered 4 million of the 8.8 million jobs lost as a
result of the 18-month recession that ended in June 2009.  Among those who have found a job is Clayton Hopkins, 25.
He’s starting work on Monday as a communications specialist at
the San Francisco office of ICF International Inc., a consulting
company. With a salary that will be 30 percent more than in his
previous job, he’s planning to splurge on either an Apple Inc.
iPad or a Google Inc. Nexus 7 tablet, in addition to a laptop.  “I’m ecstatic,” said Hopkins, who gets together with
friends periodically to share job-hunting tips. “It’s pretty
grim out there, so I’m excited to be doing something that both
feeds my soul and my wallet.”  Employment at private service providers increased 148,000,
the most in five months and reflecting more jobs in education
and health services. Construction companies cut payrolls by
1,000 workers, while retailers added 6,700.  Factory Employment  Factory payrolls rose by 25,000, more than twice the survey
forecast of a 10,000 increase and boosted by a 12,800 pickup in
employment at makers of motor vehicles and parts.  The figures may have reflected fewer shutdowns at
automakers for annual retooling related to the new model year,
indicating the jump will be reversed this month. Chrysler Group
LLC and  Ford Motor Co. (F)  are among companies that said they would
idle fewer plants.  Honda Motor Co. (7267)  is looking to expand. The Tokyo-based
automaker, which relies on U.S. vehicle sales for more than half
its profit, said it is investing $40 million at its Greensburg,
Indiana, plant that produces the Civic compact, and will hire
300 workers later this year.  Yesterday’s report showed a decline in long-term
unemployment. The number of people out of work for 27 weeks or
more decreased as a percentage of all jobless, to 40.7 percent,
from 41.9 percent.  Cisco Systems  Some companies are cutting back.  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO) , the
biggest maker of computer-networking equipment, plans to
eliminate about 1,300 jobs, or 2 percent of the workforce, as
Europe’s debt crisis and sluggish corporate spending threaten
sales.  Financial firms are also trimming jobs as revenue softens.
 Morgan Stanley (MS)  said its headcount will drop by about 700 in the
second half, bringing total 2012 reductions to 4,000. Credit
Suisse Group AG will eliminate 138 positions in New York
starting this month. Deutsche Bank AG will cut about 1,900 jobs
by year-end, mostly outside  Germany . The lender is also
shrinking compensation and benefits.  Charlie Jones, a Washington resident, has been out of work
for more than a year. He says he is relying on  food stamps  for
meals while his girlfriend pays the rent. He signed up with a
temporary agency for jobs in office installation and is
searching actively for other openings.  ‘Very Tough’  “It’s a very tough job market,” said Jones, 35. “It’s
discouraging. I keep waiting but they haven’t called me in a
long time. I have a friend like me who recently got work, so I
think hopefully something should turn up for me.”  The unemployment rate was forecast to hold at 8.2 percent,
according to the survey median. Estimates in the Bloomberg
survey ranged from 8.1 percent to 8.3 percent. The report showed
more people left the  labor force .  The jobless rate is derived from a survey of about 60,000
households that is conducted by the Census Bureau. The change in
payroll employment is calculated from a Labor Department survey
of almost 500,000 worksites.  The jobs figures provided Republican presidential candidate
 Mitt Romney  a fresh chance to highlight discontent over the
economy even as President  Barack Obama  sought to pre-empt him
with a swing-state ad campaign attacking the challenger’s tax
plan.  ‘Hammer Blow’  The “increase in the unemployment rate is a hammer blow to
struggling middle-class families,” Romney said in a statement
released by his campaign yesterday.  Alan Krueger, chairman of the White House Council of
Economic Advisers, used the report to renew the administration’s
call for lawmakers to extend tax cuts for Americans earning less
than $250,000 a year and act on Obama’s proposals for spending
on infrastructure.  The economy is “continuing to heal from the very deep
wounds” of the recession, Krueger said yesterday in a Bloomberg
Television interview. Still, “the unemployment rate is too
high.”  The so-called underemployment rate -- which includes part-
time workers who’d prefer a full-time position and people who
want work but have given up looking -- increased to 15 percent
from 14.9 percent.  Federal Reserve  Fed officials, after meeting this week, left unchanged
their statement that economic conditions would likely warrant
holding the benchmark interest rate target near zero at least
through late 2014. They said unemployment “remains elevated.”  Policy makers “will closely monitor incoming information
on economic and financial developments and will provide
additional accommodation as needed to promote a stronger
economic recovery and sustained improvement in labor market
conditions in a context of  price stability ,” the Fed statement
said.  The employment report probably doesn’t change the outlook
for further easing by Fed policy makers at their next meeting on
Sept. 12-13, UBS’ Matus said.  “It’s not good enough to take the Fed off the table, but
it’s not bad enough for anyone to say definitively the Fed is
going to move in September,” he said in a telephone interview.  Fed’s Bernanke  Monthly payroll growth of about 100,000 is needed to keep
the jobless rate stable, while growth of roughly 150,000 to
200,000 is needed to lower unemployment, Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said at a news conference in April, citing a “very
rough estimate.”  Gross domestic product grew at 1.5 percent annual rate in
the second quarter after a 2 percent gain in the first three
months of the year, according to figures from the Commerce
Department. Household purchases, which account for about 70
percent of GDP, grew at the slowest pace in a year.  The so-called fiscal cliff, in which taxes will rise and
government agencies will reduce spending next year if Congress
doesn’t act, raises the risk of more cutbacks.  Lockheed Martin
Corp. (LMT) , the world’s largest defense contractor, may have to
dismiss about 10,000 of its 120,000 employees if lawmakers don’t
act before $1.2 trillion in across-the-board cuts to federal
spending, according to Robert Stevens, the Bethesda, Maryland-
based company’s chief executive officer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  