-- Phelps Ends Record Olympic Swim Career With 18th Gold Medal
-- B y   A l e x   D u f f   a n d   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 2012-08-04T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-04/phelps-ends-olympic-swim-career-with-record-18th-gold-in-relay.html
Although  Michael Phelps  had won a
record 17 Olympic titles going into his last race yesterday, he
still had one more goal: keep the U.S. dominance of the men’s
400-meter medley relay going.  The 27-year-old American helped the U.S. team, which also
included Matthew Grevers, Brendan Hansen and Nathan Adrian, to
win the last race at London’s Aquatics Centre yesterday.  Japan 
took silver and  Australia  took bronze.  An American team has won the 400-meter medley relay every
Olympics since 1980, when the U.S. boycotted the Moscow games.  “Being able to step up with those four guys and do
something like that and continue that streak is something very
important to us,” Phelps said. With the win, the native of
Towson,  Maryland , was ready to hang up his goggles.  Phelps, who hugged his teammates after the victory, had
said before the games he plans to retire after his fourth and
final Olympics. He made his debut as a 15-year-old at the 2000
Sydney games.  On the last day of swimming in London, Phelps swam
butterfly in the next-to-last leg and made up a small deficit on
Japan’s Takeshi Matsuda before Adrian powered ahead to win by a
margin of 1.91 seconds.  The team held out a sign that said “Thank You London”
after collecting their medals.  Earlier, the U.S. women’s team won the 400-meter medley
relay in a world record time of 3 minutes, 52.05 seconds to give
Colorado High School senior Missy Franklin, 17, her fourth gold
of the games.  World Record  China’s Sun Yang, 20, broke his own world record by more
than three seconds to win the men’s 1,500-meter freestyle in
14:31.02. Ranomi Kromowidjojo of the Netherlands won the women’s
50-meter freestyle in an Olympic record 24.05 seconds to add to
her 100-meter title.  Phelps won a record eight titles at the 2008 Beijing games
to pass the nine career gold medals of swimmer Mark Spitz,
sprinter  Carl Lewis , runner Paavo Nurmi and Latynina.  On Aug. 2 in London, he passed the mark of 19 medals set by
former Soviet Union gymnast Larissa Latynina by winning the 200-
meter individual medley.  “I told myself I never want to swim when I’m 30,” said
Phelps, who added he’d achieved everything he wanted in his
career. “I just don’t want to swim for another three years.”  Rookies, Veterans  Franklin, swimming backstroke, led after her first leg of
the women’s medley. Rebecca Soni and Dana Vollmer pulled farther
away before Allison Schmitt clinched victory. Australia finished
second and Japan third.  “It’s been an absolutely incredible team, having the
rookies really step up and have incredible performances, and the
veterans as well,” Vollmer told reporters.  Between them, the U.S. four have won eight individual gold
medals.  China ’s Sun, who false-started, built a lead of more than
three seconds before cruising to a winning margin of more than
eight seconds. He wept and splashed the water as he saw he had
broken his world record by 3.12 seconds.  Canadian Ryan Cochrane took silver and Oussama Mellouli of
 Tunisia  won bronze.  “I didn’t push my body to the limit, there was still a
margin to go,” Sun said. “I cried at the finish because I was
afraid of the false start, I was so scared that I would be
disqualified.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Duff at the London Olympics at
 aduff4@bloomberg.net 
Thomas Penny at the  London  Olympics at
 tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  