-- Pound Weakens Against Dollar on Deteriorating Economic Outlook
-- B y   N e a l   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2012-08-04T06:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-04/pound-weakens-against-dollar-on-deteriorating-economic-outlook.html
The pound fell the most in more than
two months against the euro this week on concern measures aimed
at stimulating growth may not be sufficient to pull the U.K.
economy out of recession.  Two-year gilt yields dropped to a record on Aug. 2 after a
report showed U.K. factory output in July shrank the most in
three years. Sterling slid for the first time in a month against
the dollar as Moody’s Investors Service cut its forecast for
U.K. economic growth and said the government will struggle to
meet its deficit targets, putting pressure on Chancellor  George Osborne  to loosen the government’s fiscal policy.  “Sterling is somewhat softer on the week and it may be
that investors are starting to price in a discount for the U.K.
economy,” said  Geoffrey Yu , a foreign-exchange strategist at
UBS AG in  London . “If stimulus measures aren’t working then you
have to start pricing in disappointing data.”  The pound fell 1.2 percent to 79.19 pence per euro at 5:46
p.m. London time yesterday after touching 79.24 pence, the
weakest since July 10. It lost 0.7 percent to $1.5643 after
declining to $1.5491 two days ago, the lowest since July 26.  The pound fell in the week versus all 16 of its major
currency peers tracked by Bloomberg.  The  Bank of England  left its bond-buying program on hold at
375 billion pounds and kept  interest rates  at a record low 0.5
percent on Aug. 2. The worsening economic outlook prompted banks
including  Morgan Stanley (MS)  and  Barclays Plc (BARC)  to revise forecasts
this week and predict more U.K. stimulus later this year.  BOE Report  The Bank of England’s latest inflation and growth
projections will be revised down at its quarterly inflation
report on Aug. 8, according to the National Institute of
Economic and Social Research. The British economy will shrink
0.5 percent this year, it said.  “U.K. growth is not going to be the right side of zero and
the Bank of England will reflect that in its growth projections
next week,” said  Alan Clarke , an economist at Scotiabank Europe
Plc in London.  Sterling has dropped 1.8 percent in the past three months,
paring its gain for the year to 0.4 percent, according to
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes, which track 10
developed-market peers. The dollar rose 2 percent and the euro
slid 4.6 percent.  Two-year U.K. gilt yields were little changed in the week
at 0.111 percent. They fell to a record 0.033 percent as concern
over the euro-area crisis boosted demand for perceived haven
assets. Benchmark 10-year yields rose two basis points to 1.56
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Neal Armstrong in London at 
 narmstrong8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  