-- Treasuries Fall as Better Job Gains Slow Fed Speculation
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2012-08-04T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-04/treasuries-fall-as-better-job-gains-slow-fed-speculation.html
Treasuries fell for a second week as
a report showed the  U.S. economy  added more jobs than forecast
last month, reducing speculation the  Federal Reserve  will pump
more stimulus into the economy.  Ten-year note yields  touched the highest in five days,
erasing a rally, after European Central Bank President  Mario
Draghi  failed to take immediate steps to support the euro
region’s economy. While the U.S. in July added the most jobs in
five months, the Fed had earlier indicated a sluggish economy
may prompt further steps to boost growth. The government will
sell $72 billion in three-, 10- and 30-year debt next week.  “What Draghi gave us, the payrolls took away,”  Chris Ahrens , an interest-rate strategist in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , at
UBS AG, one of the 21 primary dealers that trade with the Fed.
“We had a nonfarm payroll number that was certainly on the
outside edge of expectations, but it wasn’t a spectacular
number. It was merely a better than expected number.”  The 10-year  yield  rose on the week two basis points, or
0.02 percentage point, to 1.56 percent, according to Bloomberg
Bond Trader prices. The yield touched 1.38 percent on July 25,
the lowest ever.  The  30-year yield  increased two basis points to 2.64
percent after touching an all-time low of 2.44 percent on July
26.  Payrolls, Unemployment  Payrolls rose 163,000 following a revised 64,000 rise in
June that was less than initially reported, Labor Department
figures showed yesterday in  Washington . The median estimate of
89 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News called for a gain of
100,000. Unemployment rose to 8.3 percent.  Central banks, including the Fed, have stepped in to
bolster the economy as global growth has slowed and as hiring in
the U.S. dropped off from a 19-month high of 275,000 in January.  “The breadth of employment gains was encouraging,” Joe LaVorgna, chief U.S. economist at Deutsche Bank AG in  New York ,
wrote in a research note. “That the pace of hiring is
reaccelerating diminishes the likelihood of further aggressive
Fed action in the near term.”  The Fed said Aug. 1 after a policy meeting it “will
provide additional accommodation as needed” to spur growth and
employment, while it refrained from expanding monetary
stimulation this month.  The central bank bought $2.3 trillion of mortgage and
Treasury debt from 2008 to 2011 in two rounds of so-called
quantitative easing, or QE, to cap borrowing costs. It is now in
the process of swapping shorter-term Treasuries in its holdings
with those due in six to 30 years to put downward pressure on
long-term borrowing costs.  ‘Money Printing’  The Labor Department will report Aug. 9 that initial
jobless claims this week rose to 370,000 from 365,000 in the
previous period, according to the median forecast of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg.  “The combined central bank no-moves were the most
significant event in interest-rate trading this week,” Guy LeBas, chief fixed-income strategist at Janney Montgomery Scott
LLC in Philadelphia, which oversees $12 billion in fixed-income
assets, said in a telephone interview. “It’s a realization for
investors that they can’t count on infinite money printing to
support the market.”  Draghi signaled the ECB intends to join forces with
governments to buy bonds in sufficient quantities to ease the
region’s debt crisis, while conceding that  Germany ’s Bundesbank
has reservations about the plan. Officials are working on the
plan and details will be fleshed out in coming weeks, he said.  ‘A Disappointment’  “What the market is looking for is a bond-purchase
scheme,” Anthony Valeri, a market strategist at  LPL Financial 
Corp., which oversees about $350 billion of assets. “The ECB
was most definitely a disappointment. They have a little bit of
a credibility issue going forward if they don’t follow through
with policy.”  The Fed yesterday sold $7.8 billion of Treasuries due from
January 2013 to April 2013 yesterday as part of its plan to
contain borrowing costs by swapping short-term Treasuries in its
holdings for longer maturities. The central bank said June 20
that it would enlarge the program, known as Operation Twist
after a similar tactic used in the 1960s, to $667 billion from
$400 billion.  Ten-year yields will climb to 1.82 percent by year-end,
according to a Bloomberg survey with the most recent forecasts
given the heaviest weightings. The yield has averaged 3.14
percent over the past five years.  Ten-year notes have returned 5.3 percent this year,
compared with a 2.8 percent gain by Treasuries overall,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes. Yields on
10-year Treasuries will likely trade in a range of about 1.4
percent to 1.7 percent in the near term, LPL Financial’s Valeri
said.  “Nothing has really changed materially,” he said. “QE3
is very much on the table.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Robert Burgess  at 
 bburgess@bloomberg.net  