-- Spain 2-Year Yield Drops Most in 2012 on ECB Buying Speculation
-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 2012-08-04T06:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-04/spain-2-year-yield-drops-most-in-2012-on-ecb-buying-speculation.html
Spanish two-year notes rose this
week, pushing down yields the most since December on speculation
the  European Central Bank  will buy shorter-maturity  government
securities  to help quell turmoil in the region’s debt markets.  Spain’s 10-year bond yield slid below 7 percent yesterday,
paring a surge after ECB President  Mario Draghi  initially failed
to persuade investors that policy makers would be able to halt
the rise in borrowing costs. Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  said he would consider asking the euro region’s bailout
funds to buy Spanish debt .  “Draghi came out yesterday and gave the strong impression
that policy makers are going to do something over the next month
or so,” said  Orlando Green , a fixed-income strategist at  Credit
Agricole (ACA)  CIB in London. “This is helping to prevent the
periphery from cheapening. The market is giving policy makers
the benefit of the doubt but the question is, how long can this
last?”  Spanish two-year note yields sank 135 basis points, or 1.35
percentage point, to 3.96 percent at 6:05 p.m.  London  time
yesterday, the most since the five-days ended Dec. 2. The 4.75
percent bond due July 2014 climbed 2.50, or 25 euros per 1,000-
euro face amount ($1,238) to 101.48.  Spanish government debt has handed investors a loss of 6.3
percent this year according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and
the European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies, with
the two-, five- and 10-year rates climbing to record highs on
July 25. German debt has returned 4.5 percent and Italy’s rose
6.5 percent.  Italian Gains  Italian bonds also rose in the week with the two-year yield
sliding 66 basis points to 3.13 percent. The securities were
supported on expectations the ECB will step in to buy them after
Draghi said on July 26 that policy makers would do “whatever it
takes” within the ECB’s mandate to save the currency bloc. At a
news conference in  Frankfurt  after the ECB’s Aug. 2 meeting he
indicated the central bank will buy in sufficient quantities to
remove all doubts about the currency bloc.  The German 10-year bund yield rose three basis points to
1.42 percent. It swung between gains and losses through the week
amid concern about the nation’s opposition to further debt
purchases by the central bank. Members of German Chancellor
Angela Merkel’s coalition parties signaled on Deutschlandfunk
radio yesterday that they won’t stand in the way of Draghi’s
plans  Germany will auction 4 billion euros of 10-year debt on
Aug. 8.  “The assumption is the volatility that we’ve seen this
week is likely to continue,” said  Marc Ostwald , a strategist at
Monument Securities Ltd. in London. “Next week is a bit of a
dead-zone in terms of data. The lessons of the last two years
are to be inordinately careful.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  