-- Williams Overpowers Sharapova to Clinch Elusive Singles Gold
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2012-08-04T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-04/williams-overpowers-sharapova-to-clinch-elusive-singles-gold.html
Serena Williams  completed her tennis
collection yesterday with an Olympic singles gold medal.  The 30-year-old American has won 14-time major titles, but
didn’t have her own Olympic singles victory.  Yesterday at Wimbledon, she screamed and jumped around
Centre Court after beating French Open champion Maria Sharapova
6-0, 6-1. She’s the only player to win singles and doubles at
all four majors as well as in the Olympics.  The victory, which took 63 minutes, was the most lop-sided
women’s final in Olympic history, surpassing the record set by
Suzanne Lenglen. The French player, who is the namesake of a
court at  Roland Garros  in Paris, defeated Dorothy Holman of
Britain 6-3, 6-0 at the 1920 Antwerp Games.  “It’s a different feeling, as long as you can get a medal
at the Olympics, you are going to have it for the rest of your
life, you’re going to be mentioned with all the other great
athletes,” Williams told reporters.  Playing French Open champion and former top-ranked
Sharapova of  Russia  brought out the best in Williams.  “Every time I play her, I know that she’s so good and I
have to play well,” said the right-hander, who leads the
Russian 9-2 and hasn’t lost to the 25-year-old since 2004.  ‘Too Powerful’  “My opponent just played extremely well,” Sharapova said
in a news conference. “There are things that I could have done
different, but she was just too quick and too powerful.”  Williams struck 24 winners, four times more than Sharapova,
who struggled on her ball toss as the wind swirled around Centre
Court.  “She wasn’t making many mistakes, not giving me many
opportunities,” Sharapova said. “She served extremely well,
found the spots all around, and pretty fast, as well.  She
returned well. She stays really low, hits the ball really hard.
She’s an extremely powerful player. So that makes it a little
more difficult.”  Williams won her fifth Wimbledon title a month ago, capping
a comeback from injuries and surgeries that she said were nearly
fatal.  “I was so focused,” Williams said. “I remember I was
serving and I was thinking, Serena, this is your best chance to
win a gold medal. You played Wimbledon on grass. You played
great on grass. Pull it together. I was thinking, I got to do
this.”  Williams has another shot at gold today, when she defends
her doubles title with her sister, Venus, in the final against
Czech pair Andrea Hlavackova and Lucie Hradecka.  Men’s Final  Andy Murray  plays for a gold medal against  Roger Federer  of
 Switzerland , who reduced the British No. 1 to tears a month ago
in the Wimbledon final. Murray and his partner, 18-year-old
Laura Robson, are also going for the mixed doubles title against
women’s world No. 1 Victoria Azarenka and Max Mirnyi of Belarus.  “I did something nobody’s done,” Williams said.  “So I’m
really excited about it. I haven’t even had time to think about
it. I’m hungry. I’ve got a doubles match that I’ve got to get
serious for. We got to do this.”  Although Williams has now amassed 14 major singles titles
as well as Olympic doubles and singles gold medals, she still
has unfinished business.  “I want to win mixed doubles in  Australia  and at the
 French Open ,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh at Wimbledon through the London sports desk at
   drossingh@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at   celser@bloomberg.net  