-- L.A. School District Sued Over Sexual Abuse of Students
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2013-01-31T23:38:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/l-a-school-district-sued-over-sexual-abuse-of-students.html
The  Los Angeles  Unified School
District was sued for failing to prevent the alleged sexual
abuse of students by an elementary school teacher who was
arrested last year.  Students who claim they were abused, along with their
guardians, filed two complaints today in California state court
in Los Angeles. The plaintiffs accuse the school district of
negligence and sexual harassment and seek unspecified damages.  Mark Berndt, who taught at Miramonte Elementary School for
more than 30 years, was arrested a year ago and charged with
sexually molesting 23 boys and girls from 2005 to 2010. All of
the alleged victims were 7 to 10 years old, Los Angeles County
prosecutors said at the time of the arrest.  The school district, the second-largest in the U.S., faces
more than two dozen lawsuits stemming from the alleged abuses at
the school. According to the complaints filed today, two
students reported to a school counselor as far back as 1990 that
Berndt masturbated behind his desk during class time and were
told not to “make up stories.”  Berndt, 62, was arrested after he asked a film processor to
develop photographs he took of students with their eyes
blindfolded and mouths covered by tape. Some of the photographs
showed students with a blue plastic spoon, filled with a “white
murky liquid substance,” near their mouths, according to the
complaints.  No Settlements  The school district hasn’t seen the new complaints and is
working with plaintiffs’ lawyers to resolve previously filed
lawsuits, Sean Rossall, a spokesman for the district, said in a
telephone interview. None of the cases have settled, he said.  On Jan. 24, Los Angeles police arrested a former teacher at
George De La Torre Jr. Elementary School in Wilmington, which is
also part of the  Los Angeles Unified School District . Robert
Pimentel was charged with 15 counts, including sexual abuse and
lewd act on a child, according to a statement by the school
district.  Martha Escutia, a former state senator who is now a lawyer
representing sexual-abuse victims, in a Jan. 28 statement called
for an independent investigation in what she said was “a
pattern of sexual abuse disproportionally perpetrated against
young Latino students” at schools within the Los Angeles
Unified School District.  Sex Abusers  “We need to know why LAUSD is unable to protect children
and why a majority of these sex abusers end up teaching at poor
Latino schools,” Escutia said in the statement.  David Holmquist, the district’s general counsel, said in a
Jan. 28 response to Escutia’s assertions that LAUSD was
committed to the safety of all of its students. The district has
engaged in an “extensive internal and external review of how it
handles and responds to claims of misconduct” in the past year,
he said.  The cases are J.A. v. Los Angeles Unified School District,
BC500172, and V.C. v. Los Angeles Unified School District,
BC500173, California Superior Court, Los Angeles County (Los
Angeles).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in the Los Angeles federal courthouse at
   epettersson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 