-- ‘Useful Idiot’ Google Tops Apple in Creativity
-- B y   W i l l i a m   P e s e k
-- 2013-01-31T22:00:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/-useful-idiot-google-tops-apple-in-creativity.html
North Korea is the last place you
would look for clues to the fortunes of Silicon Valley titans
 Google Inc. (GOOG)  and  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  Maybe it’s worth doing so.  Google Chairman  Eric Schmidt  is squarely in pinata mode
after a widely publicized trip last month to a country that
treats its people as if they were objects to be beaten for fun.
Senator John McCain summed up one view of Schmidt and his
delegation, calling them “useful idiots.” Pundits complain
Schmidt naively played into North Korea’s propaganda machine.  About the same time that Schmidt was in the North Korean
capital of Pyongyang talking up Internet freedom, another high-
flying technology executive was in Asia.  Tim Cook  made the
rounds in  China , checking on Apple’s factory floor and talking
with China Mobile Ltd. about access to its 710 million wireless
subscribers.  The contrast is worth noting. One executive was doing the
obvious and honing a formula, while the other was being brave
and trying something new. The former is Cook, the latter is
Schmidt, whose goodwill tour did put  China (SHCOMP)  on the defensive and,
more importantly, spurred a dialogue about North Korea’s 24
million people.  China Message  Consider the genius of Schmidt joining former New Mexico
Governor Bill Richardson in Pyongyang. The Google chairman was
the highest-profile businessman to visit since Kim Jong Un
succeeded his father in 2011. To Schmidt, it’s up to the public
to make the Internet work. But first, North Korea’s government
needs to get things going, then get out of the way -- or risk
being left even further behind.  Schmidt could easily be speaking of China there, and I
suspect he was. Google pulled out of China in 2010, tired of
doing the Communist Party’s dirty work in censoring cyberspace.
Headlines from Schmidt’s jaunt had to have been seen in Beijing,
and not at all welcomed. The last thing China’s authoritarian
regime wants is some U.S. Internet billionaire telling it, or
its geopolitical satellites, what to do.  It’s also true that Google can’t ignore China’s 564 million
Internet users forever. The Google guys with their mantra of
“don’t be evil” aren’t altruists, and Schmidt’s North Korea
trip, made by way of China, may be the company’s first step
toward getting back into Asia’s biggest economy.  While Cook was looking out for shareholders, Schmidt’s
goodwill mission did something that neither the administration
of  Barack Obama  nor George W. Bush could manage: make the
outrage over North Korea about the pain of its people, not just
nuclear weapons and missiles.  U.S. policy toward North Korea is little more than threats,
sanctions and browbeating other nations into going along. This
is where important U.S. business leaders can play a role. The
news of the past two weeks -- another nuclear test may be afoot
-- shows why Obama is more focused on brinkmanship than
outreach. After decades of failure, new approaches are needed.  American soft power might be just the thing. As Obama’s
diplomats try to rein in the Kim Dynasty, other U.S. executives
could follow Schmidt’s lead and increase interaction. Can’t
goodwill missions and future investment deals go hand-in-hand?  Remember, too, that it wasn’t diplomatic and military
efforts that toppled governments during the Arab Spring, but
information. Getting the Internet into North Korea, or
liberalizing it in China, would do more for reform there than a
U.S. carrier fleet. Isolating the Kims has achieved no more than
sanctions have against the Castros in Cuba, aside from
inflicting privation on the populace. At what point does the
U.S. admit a policy doesn’t work and find a new one?  Cultural Exchanges  No one is seriously advocating appeasement. Nor should
corporate America be rewarding Kim with the opportunity to
appear in propaganda photos with the likes of Facebook Inc.’s
 Mark Zuckerberg  or JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s Jamie Dimon. But
cultural exchanges might play a positive role in wooing the
social-media-age Kim (thought to be 28 or 29), who is said to be
in awe of U.S. basketball greats Michael Jordan and Kobe Bryant.  Schmidt’s 19-year-old daughter accompanied him to North
Korea and demonstrated the soft-power effect by inspiring this
 New York  Daily News headline: “Top Google Executive’s Daughter,
Sophie Schmidt, Recounts Secretive Trip to North Korea With Dad
and Freelance Diplomats.”  Her  blog  made the rounds with unvarnished observations of
the people and things encountered along the way. (One example:
“The best description we could come up with: it’s like ‘The
Truman Show,’ at country scale.”) It gave cyber-legs to the
human element that gets all too little attention.  This week, Google took a step in that direction, revising
its  Maps  formula to add North Korea and offer a rare glimpse of
the nation’s vast prison camps. While cartographers have been
detailing the Hermit Kingdom’s interior for years, Google is
bringing these views to the masses.  It is fine that Apple’s Cook is taking care of his
fiduciary responsibilities in north Asia. It’s even better to
see one of his peers trying to influence a region that needs
something to dream about aside from cool smartphones.  (William Pesek is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
William Pesek in  Seoul  at 
 wpesek@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net . 