-- 3i Says Investments, Asset Sales Fell as Bramson Circles
-- B y   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 2013-01-31T17:10:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/3i-says-it-expects-to-exceed-cost-reduction-target-for-full-year.html
3i Group Plc (III) , Britain’s oldest
private-equity firm, posted a decline in the pace of asset sales
and investments as activist investor  Edward Bramson  starts
buying the stock.  The company reaped about 50 million pounds ($79 million)
from asset sales, so-called realizations, in the final three
months of 2012, the firm said in a statement today. That’s less
than a quarter of the 219 million pounds raised in the year-
earlier period. Investments shrank by more than half to 40
million pounds in the quarter.  3i replaced its chief executive officer last year and began
cutting costs after shareholders urged the company to stop
making deals and return money to investors. The London-based
company, which is seeking to reduce annual costs by 45 million
pounds by April 2014, said today it expects to beat its target
for this fiscal year.  “We have been busy preparing for realizations within
private equity,” the company said in the statement. “We expect
to see the benefits of this coming through over the next 18
months, with a number of key realizations as well as an
increasing level of investment activity.”  The stock fell 3.4 percent to 263.2 pence in London
trading, for a market value of about 2.6 billion pounds. The
shares have climbed 21 percent this year.  Bramson’s Sherborne Investors began trading 3i shares in
this month, 3i said in a Jan. 29 statement. Chief Financial
Officer Julia Wilson told reporters on a conference call today
there have been no communications between the two sides and
declined to comment further.  Net asset value a share climbed 4.8 percent in the period
to 286 pence a share, 3i said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Howard Mustoe in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  