-- Accused Sept. 11 Plotters’ Lawyers Suspect Eavesdropping
-- B y   D a v i d   G l o v i n
-- 2013-02-01T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/accused-sept-11-plotters-lawyers-fear-eavesdropping.html
Lawyers for Khalid Sheikh Mohammed
and four other men accused of orchestrating the Sept. 11, 2001,
terror attacks said they fear they and their clients have been
targeted by a “shadowy” U.S. official for secret eavesdropping  The lawyers’ suspicions were triggered after a courtroom
audio feed was briefly suspended during legal arguments on Jan.
28 without the judge’s permission. Until then, defense lawyers
thought that only the judge could interrupt the sound
transmission to observers outside the courtroom at the U.S.
naval base in Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.  Prosecutors later told defense lawyers that a government
official known as an original classification authority, or OCA,
also controlled courtroom audio.  In court yesterday, Mohammed’s lawyer, David Nevin, made an
emergency request to suspend proceedings at the military
tribunal until the defense learns whether “someone” is
listening to lawyer conversations among themselves and with
their clients. Speaking to reporters after court, the lawyers
said they wanted to know who the OCA was and what agency the
official worked for, where the person was based, and whether
that individual was monitoring communications outside of court.  “I myself was surprised like everyone else that there are
these shadowy parties controlling what is heard,” Nevin told
reporters. “The purpose of this motion is to learn whether and
to what extent they’ve been eavesdropping.”  Yesterday’s disclosure of third-party courtroom monitoring
became the central issue after three days of largely technical
arguments over the scope of protective orders and other legal
concerns. At the press conference, Loreen Seelitto, whose son
Matthew worked at Cantor Fitzgerald LP in the World Trade
Center, said she was frustrated with the pace of proceedings.  ‘Try Your Case’  “Try your case on what the law is, and let’s get justice
moving,” Seelitto, one of eight relatives of victims to make
the trip to Cuba, said to the lawyers.  Mohammed and the four others are accused of plotting the
attacks that used hijacked passenger airplanes to kill almost
3,000 people at the World Trade Center in  Manhattan , the
Pentagon in  Virginia , and in  Pennsylvania . They are charged with
conspiring to finance, train and direct the 19 hijackers who
seized the four planes, terrorism, hijacking aircraft,
conspiracy, murder in violation of the laws of war and attacking
civilians.  A trial is at least a year away. The men face the death
penalty if convicted.  Classified Information  There is a 40-second delay of statements broadcast from the
courtroom to ensure that classified information isn’t disclosed.
When a cutoff of the audio is triggered, listeners outside the
courtroom hear a static-like sound known as white-noise. Defense
lawyers said they had believed only the judge and his chief
security officer had control over the switch.  James Harrington, an attorney for Ramzi bin al Shibh, who
is accused of helping finance the hijackers, said the defense
has been trying to convince its clients to cooperate in the
proceedings. Now, he said, it’s harder to answer their concerns
that the government is “watching, they’re listening, to
everything.”  None of the five chose to appear in court yesterday, which
the judge, Army Colonel James Pohl, has said is within their
rights.  After reviewing Nevin’s motion, Pohl said the issue would
be the first to be addressed at the next round of hearings
beginning Feb. 11.  Pohl said it was improper to interrupt the Jan. 28
transmission as Nevin was speaking about a pending motion
relating to black-sites where detainees claim they were
tortured. He ruled that only he has authority to suspend the
feed.  “The only person who is authorized to close the courtroom
is the judge,” he said.  Courtroom Closing  At yesterday’s press conference, the lead prosecutor, Army
Brigadier General Mark Martins, declined to identify the OCA. An
OCA is typically a senior official appointed through executive
branch order, he said.  “Any closure of proceedings from the public must meet the
same strict criteria demanded in federal civilian criminal
trials,” Martins said in a statement.  Also yesterday, Pohl ordered Bruce MacDonald, the civilian
head of the military tribunal, to testify at the upcoming
hearings on whether he was improperly swayed by presidents
 George W. Bush  and  Barack Obama  and other U.S. officials in
deciding to pursue the case through a military tribunal and to
seek the death penalty, as defense lawyers claim in a dismissal
request.  Lawyer-Client Relationship  As convening authority, MacDonald, a retired U.S. Navy vice
admiral, designates the charges on which the accused are tried,
selects members of the jury that will eventually hear the case
and has other powers.  Throughout the week, the defendants’ lawyers pressed what
has become a recurring theme at Guantanamo Bay: that the
military tribunals undermine their clients’ right to a fair
trial and that the military’s actions interfere in the lawyer-
client relationship.  Loreen Seelitto’s husband, also named Matthew, disagreed.  “If this weren’t a fair system, I don’t think you’d be
standing here now, and your clients would be dead,” he said at
the press conference to one defense lawyer.  The case is U.S. v. Mohammed, Military Commissions Trial
(Guantanamo Bay, Cuba).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Glovin in Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, at 
   dglovin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  