-- Aetna Profit Slips as Insurer Settles Payments Lawsuit
-- B y   A l e x   N u s s b a u m
-- 2013-01-31T21:13:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/aetna-profit-slips-as-insurer-settles-reimbursement-lawsuit.html
Aetna Inc. (AET) , the third-biggest U.S.
health insurer, said fourth-quarter profit fell 49 percent as
the company settled a lawsuit over medical claims while costs
for patient care climbed.  Net income  dropped to $190.1 million, or 56 cents a share,
with the higher costs masking a rise in enrollment, Hartford,
Connecticut-based Aetna said today in a statement. The company
also said Chief Financial Officer Joseph M. Zubretsky will head
a new unit and named Shawn Guertin as his replacement.  Aetna’s profit was hurt by $147 million in charges,
including the  lawsuit  settlement and costs for its $5.6 billion
deal last year for insurer  Coventry Health Care Inc. (CVH)  The company
also saw profit margins drop in some of its health plans,
possibly as a result of a flu outbreak during the quarter, said
Matthew Borsch, a Goldman Sachs Group Inc. analyst in New York.  The higher medical costs were “the incremental pressure
point on otherwise solid fourth-quarter results,” Borsch said
in a note to clients today.  Aetna declined 1.5 percent to $48.23 at the close in New
York. The shares gained 10 percent in the past 12 months.  Aetna said the share of health-care premiums it spends on
patient care rose to 84.1 percent from 80.7 percent a year
earlier. The insurer finished 2012 with  18.2 million  members in
its medical plans, an increase of 64,000 over the third quarter,
Aetna said in its statement.  Excluding the settlement and other one-time items, earnings
were 94 cents, matching the average of 17 analysts’  estimates 
compiled by Bloomberg. Aetna also reaffirmed its 2013 forecast
for at least $5.40 a share in profit.  Revenue rose 4.8 percent to $8.96 billion from a year
earlier, Aetna said.  Lawsuit Settlement  The company said Dec. 7 that it had settled a class-action
suit by patients and providers who said insurers had manipulated
data to lower reimbursements for out-of-network care. Aetna will
pay at least $120 million under the agreement, resulting in
fourth-quarter costs after taxes of $78 million.  Chief Executive Officer Mark Bertolini said at a Jan. 8
conference that the insurer met its 2012 goals for medical costs
and enrollment. Insurers also had a tough comparison with 2011’s
fourth quarter, when costs were lower than expected, said
Michael Manns, a Bloomberg Industries analyst in Princeton, New
Jersey.  “You just didn’t end up getting as much of a benefit
because many of the companies had gone ahead and done better at
anticipating their costs,” Manns said in a phone interview
before today’s announcement.  Management Changes  In a separate statement, Aetna announced management changes
it said would better align the insurer’s businesses with the
“evolving needs” of customers.  Zubretsky, who had been CFO since 2007, will lead a new
National Businesses unit that includes the company’s national
accounts, national network contracting and care management, and
the company’s growing roster of “accountable care”
partnerships with doctors and hospitals.  Guertin, Aetna’s head of business segment finance, will
succeed Zubretsky as CFO as of Feb. 25. Prior to joining Aetna
in 2011, he worked for almost five years at Coventry, including
as CFO.  The Coventry deal is still expected to close by mid-2013,
the company said.  UnitedHealth Group Inc. (UNH) , the top insurer by enrollment, is
based in  Minnetonka ,  Minnesota .  WellPoint (WLP)  Inc., the second
biggest, is based in Indianapolis.  Net income was $372.6 million, or $1.02 a share, in the
fourth quarter of 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Nussbaum in New York at 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  