-- Afghan Military’s Illiteracy Complicating U.S. Departure
-- B y   G o p a l   R a t n a m   a n d   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2013-01-31T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/afghan-military-s-illiteracy-complicating-u-s-departure.html
The U.S. effort to extricate its
forces from Afghanistan is complicated by the challenge of
teaching mostly illiterate Afghan troops how to carry out
independent military operations.  Training Afghan troops to operate on their own and to use
sophisticated weaponry is especially difficult in a country
where almost nine out of ten people can’t read or write,
according to U.S. military officers in Afghanistan and Pentagon
officials.  Illiteracy among Afghans “is a huge challenge and one that
we have confronted for five or six years,” Deputy Defense
Secretary  Ashton Carter  said in an interview this week in his
Pentagon office. Preparing Afghan troops for military roles must
include “basic literacy training -- training people to count
and write basic sentences,” he said.  President  Barack Obama  said after meeting with
Afghanistan’s President Hamid Karzai this month that “coalition
forces will move to a support role this spring” as “Afghans
take the lead.” Obama has pledged to remove most of the 66,000
U.S. forces in Afghanistan by the end of 2014.  As of the end of September, only one Afghan brigade out of
23 was ranked as capable of operating independently even with
the help of advisers, according to a Pentagon report to Congress
in December.  Afghan troops are held back from operating independently by
limits on “their ability to sustain themselves,” U.S. Major
General Robert Abrams, regional commander of the  International
Security Assistance Force  in Kandahar, told reporters in
December, when Defense Secretary Leon Panetta visited the
country.  Planes, Mortars  While Afghans have a system for conducting operations,
“it’s challenging them because as you know 85 percent of the
population of Afghanistan is illiterate,” Abrams said.  At the Pentagon, Carter is overseeing efforts to step up
the U.S. transition by sending the Afghans transport planes,
mortars and armored vehicles.  Carter said the Pentagon is providing Afghans with four
C-130 transport planes built by  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  for
airlift within the country, in place of the C-27A made by Alenia
Aeronautica SpA of  Italy .  The C-27A airplanes were bought “at a time when Afghan
airlift was not much of a priority,” Carter said.  Afghans need the C-130s from Bethesda, Maryland-based
Lockheed because their “commanders need to be able to go around
the battlefield,” Carter said. The planes will be provided from
the current U.S. fleet, he said.  Mortars, Vehicles  The U.S. also is providing the Afghan military with mortars
and armored vehicles, Carter said.  Mortars will help Afghan troops “to do their own indirect
fires” as the U.S. scales back air support, Carter said. The
“Afghan leadership is familiar with mortars from the Soviet
period,” he said.  The Pentagon also is working “through acquisition issues”
in order to provide Afghanistan with a light-attack plane,
Carter said.  The Pentagon is providing some armored vehicles from its
fleet of Mine-Resistant Ambush Protected vehicles, or MRAPs, as
well as a new security vehicle “that we are procuring
especially for their purpose,” Carter said.  The new Mobile Strike Force Vehicle is made by  Textron
Inc. (TXT) , based in Providence,  Rhode Island , according to James
Swartout, a spokesman for Carter.  The U.S. may leave behind some of its MRAPs -- a version of
which was designed especially for the rugged Afghan terrain --
when its forces withdraw from Afghanistan, Carter said.  Mobile Teams  In addition to supplying equipment, the U.S. is sending
mobile teams to train Afghans in using and maintaining the
hardware, Carter said.  To sidestep the illiteracy challenge, the U.S. is working
with “elite units that operate specialized equipment,” Carter
said. Some of these units have “literacy and pre-existing
skills that are helpful.”  Some U.S. trainers are likely to remain in Afghanistan
beyond the 2014 withdrawal date, Navy Commander Bill Speaks, a
Pentagon spokesman, said in an e-mail. That means Afghan troops
won’t have to “absorb all the training for operations and
maintenance of this equipment before 2014,” he said.  The NATO-led coalition force will have invested about $200
million in literacy programs for the Afghan security forces by
2014, Canadian Captain Karina Holder, a spokeswoman for the
North Atlantic Treaty Organization’s training mission in
 Afghanistan , said in an e-mail. The program began in 2009.  Literacy Levels  The goal is to have 50 percent of Afghan security forces
reach Level 3 literacy, Holder said. Level 3, the highest of the
three literacy levels, translates into an ability to read, write
and comprehend short paragraphs, as well as add and subtract
using six digits and to multiply and divide with three-digit
numbers, she said.  As of September, about 168,000 Afghan security forces
personnel had passed a Level 1 literacy program; 64,386 had
completed Level 2; and 42,177 finished Level 3, according to the
Pentagon’s report to Congress in December.  The U.S. Special Inspector General for Afghanistan
Reconstruction yesterday said it was starting an audit of the
literacy program to assess whether it was meeting its goals.  “Illiteracy in the Afghan National Security Force remains
a major obstacle to effectively developing a capable and self-
sustaining force that can operate independently and defend the
Afghan people,” the watchdog agency said in its quarterly
report.  Audit’s Focus  The audit will assess whether the three contractors hired
to operate the program provided “qualified instructors and
services, the extent to which” the U.S. monitored the
contractors’ performance and training results, and whether “the
contracts are meeting the goal of providing basic, sustainable
levels of literacy.”  Getting Afghan commanders to send their troops to
classrooms was an obstacle, the Pentagon said in its report.
“Convincing local commanders to provide forces with sufficient
time to complete literacy training is a primary challenge,”
according to the report.  At ISAF’s Regional Command South, based in Kandahar,
coalition forces are trying to reach the absentees through a
“radio-in-box” literacy program, Army Lieutenant Colonel Ben
Garrett, spokesman for the command, said in an e-mail. Classes
are broadcast over local  radio stations  to help military
officers as well as the local population, he said.  Even with all these efforts, improving literacy “takes
time,” Abrams, the regional commander said. “We have to get
the right people with the right education, the right intellect
and skills to be able to run these systems. It is today one of
the biggest challenges and frustrations.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gopal Ratnam in Washington at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net ;
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  