-- Hainan Markets Dollar Bonds; Debt Risk Climbs to Two-Month High
-- B y   T a n y a   A n g e r e r
-- 2013-01-31T04:51:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/hainan-markets-dollar-bonds-debt-risk-climbs-to-two-month-high.html
Hainan Airlines Co. is marketing
dollar-denominated notes. Debt risk in Asia climbed to a two-
month high as bonds sold by  Petron Corp. (PCOR) , the largest refiner in
the  Philippines , dropped on their first day of trading.  The Chinese carrier is offering as much as $500 million of
seven-year bonds at a premium of about 250 basis points more
than Treasuries, a person familiar with the deal said. Petron’s
perpetual securities slumped to 96 cents on the dollar as of
9:56 a.m. in Hong Kong after pricing at par yesterday, Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc prices show. An index of credit-
default swaps on Asian bonds climbed three basis points to 114,
set for its highest close since Nov. 28, according to Credit
Agricole SA prices and data provider CMA.  Average yields on Asian notes in the U.S. currency rose 6
basis points yesterday to 4.2 percent, the  highest  since
September, according to a JPMorgan Chase & Co. index. U.S.
Treasuries are heading for their steepest monthly loss in two
years, threatening to diminish returns on dollar debt in Asia by
pushing up yields.  “There’s been a bit of a sell-off in the secondary market
for Asian dollar bonds after U.S. Treasuries traded down in the
last 2 days,” said Jeffrey Yap, Hong Kong-based head of Asia
fixed-income trading at Mizuho Securities Asia Ltd. “Investors
believe that spreads will tighten but are worried that absolute
returns are going to be hurt by Treasury yields rising.”  MIE Decline  MIE Holdings Corp. (1555) ’s $200 million of bonds fell to 97.75
cents on the dollar as of 11:34 a.m. in Singapore, driving the
yield up to 7.42 percent, RBS prices show. The oil explorer,
with fields in  China ’s Songliao Basin, sold the debt at 6.875
percent, Bloomberg-compiled data show.  Petron sold $500 million of notes that don’t have a set
maturity with a 7.5 percent coupon yesterday, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The securities recouped some of their
earlier losses to trade at 99 cents as of 12:39 p.m. in
Singapore, according to RBS prices.  The Markit iTraxx Australia index advanced two basis points
to 120 as of 10:57 a.m. in Sydney, according to Westpac Banking
Corp. prices. The benchmark is poised for the highest close
since Jan. 1, according to CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill
Cos. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately
negotiated market.  The Markit iTraxx Japan index climbed three to 137 as of
8:57 a.m. in  Tokyo , according to Deutsche Bank AG prices. The
measure is headed for the highest level in a week, CMA prices
show.  Credit-default swap indexes are benchmarks for insuring
bonds against default and traders use them to speculate on
credit quality. A drop signals improving perceptions of
creditworthiness, while an increase suggests the opposite.  The swap contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities if a borrower fails to meet its debt
agreements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tanya Angerer in  Singapore  at 
 tangerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shelley Smith at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  