-- Malaysia Palm Exports Decline at Slower Pace on Zero Export Tax
-- B y   R a n j e e t h a   P a k i a m
-- 2013-01-31T05:02:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/malaysia-palm-exports-decline-at-slower-pace-on-zero-export-tax.html
Palm oil exports from  Malaysia , the
second-largest producer, fell 7 percent in January from December,
with the pace of decrease slowing as the month progressed amid a
zero duty on shipments, according to data from Intertek today.  Shipments dropped to 1.46 million metric tons from 1.57
million tons in December, Intertek said. The 7 percent full-
month drop compares with a 25 percent fall over 10 days, a 21
percent slide in 15 days, and a 14 percent fall in 25 days. A
Societe Generale de Surveillance estimate is due later today.  Malaysia implemented a zero-tariff policy on crude palm
exports from the start of the year to help clear  record
stockpiles , and said on Jan. 14 that it would be extended to
February.  Indonesia , the largest producer, will raise taxes on
crude palm exports to 9 percent for next month from 7.5 percent
in January, the Trade Ministry said on Jan. 28. Palm surged to
the highest level in more three than months in Kuala Lumpur.  “The zero export duty for crude palm oil should help
Malaysian shipments,” said Alvin Tai, an analyst at OSK
Investment Bank Bhd. “On the China side, the past five days
actually showed some improvement, so that’s a positive thing.”  China’s quality watchdog, the General Administration of
Quality Supervision, Inspection and Quarantine, toughened
inspections on imports from Jan. 1, prompting importers to push
stockpiles at ports to a record before the change took effect.  Over the full month, shipments to  China  totaled 289,200
tons from December’s 355,037 tons, the Intertek data showed.
Still, in the final six days of January, the volume of exports
to China gained 14 percent compared with a 7.2 percent rise in
the corresponding period in December, the data showed.  “We didn’t expect shipments from Malaysia to be an
issue,” said Tai. “Malaysia’s shipments should be of a quality
good enough to pass China’s standards.”  Palm oil for April delivery surged as much as 2.2 percent
to 2,564 ringgit ($826) a ton on the Malaysia Derivatives
Exchange, the highest level for the most-active contract since
Oct. 25. Futures, which ended the morning session at 2,563
ringgit, are set for the biggest monthly gain since February.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ranjeetha Pakiam in Kuala Lumpur at 
 rpakiam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  