-- Malaysia Joins Neighbors in Holding Key Rate as Inflation Eases
-- B y   C h o n g   P o o i   K o o n   a n d   M i c h a e l   M u n o z
-- 2013-01-31T10:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/malaysia-joins-neighbors-in-holding-key-rate-as-inflation-eases.html
Malaysia ’s central bank left
 interest rates  unchanged for a 10th straight meeting, joining
neighbors in keeping borrowing costs unchanged as economic
growth and slowing inflation eased the need for stimulus.  Bank Negara Malaysia  maintained the  benchmark overnight
policy rate  at 3 percent, the central bank said in a statement
in  Kuala Lumpur  today. The decision was predicted by all 22
economists  surveyed  by  Bloomberg News .  Malaysia’s growth has exceeded 5 percent in the five
quarters through September, underscoring the central bank’s
decision to keep rates unchanged since July 2011 as Prime
Minister Najib Razak bolsters spending ahead of elections that
must be held before the end of June. Inflationary pressures may
accelerate in the second half of 2013 fuelled by growth, and the
central bank may raise borrowing costs to prevent financial
imbalances, said HSBC Holdings Plc economist Lim Su Sian.  “They will start to look at upward normalization of the
policy rate at some point later this year, probably in the
second half,” Lim, based in  Singapore , said before the report.
The central bank “will be keeping a close eye on the kind of
imbalances that might be building up if they keep rates too low
for too long,” she said, citing credit growth and  household
debt  as examples of where risks may increase.  Inflation is expected to be higher in 2013 from last year
even as it remains modest, the central bank said today. Consumer
prices in  Southeast Asia ’s third-largest economy rose 1.2
percent in December from a year earlier, the slowest since
February 2010. It averaged 1.6 percent in 2012.  Prices Contained  “Selected global food prices and domestic factors are
expected to increase costs and contribute to higher prices,”
 Bank Negara  said in its statement today. “Nevertheless, given
modest global growth prospects, pressures from global commodity
prices” are expected to be contained, it said.  The ringgit has fallen 1.6 percent this year while the
 benchmark  FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI Index has slumped 3.6 percent
in the same period amid speculation the ruling coalition may
lose seats in the upcoming general election. The ringgit fell
0.8 percent to 3.1065 a dollar as of 5:32 p.m. local time.  Malaysia’s gross domestic product rose 5.2 percent in the
third quarter from a year earlier, after expanding 5.6 percent
in the previous three months. The government forecasts growth of
4.5 percent to 5.5 percent this year.  Economic indicators suggest a “robust expansion” in
Malaysia last quarter, driven by domestic consumption and
investment activity, the central bank said.  “Domestic demand is expected to continue to expand,
underpinned by firm private-sector activity,” it said. “The
external sector is also expected to gradually improve and
provide additional support to the economy.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chong Pooi Koon in Kuala Lumpur at 
 pchong17@bloomberg.net ;
Michael J. Munoz in  Hong Kong  at 
 mjmunoz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  