-- Malaysia Poll Concern May Have Fueled Volatility, Exchange Says
-- B y   G a n   Y e n   K u a n
-- 2013-01-31T11:13:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/malaysia-poll-concern-may-have-fueled-volatility-exchange-says.html
Malaysian election speculation and
investors booking profits may have contributed to volatility in
the  share market , the chief executive officer of the country’s
stock exchange said.  The benchmark  FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI Index (FBMKLCI)  slumped 2.3
percent last week, the most since May, amid concern general
elections as early as March may result in the ruling coalition
losing parliamentary seats. The KLCI’s 30-day historical
 volatility  climbed to 10.4 on Jan. 21, surpassing the MSCI
 Emerging Markets  Index for the first time since May 2008, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. Volatility was at 10 today.  “Based on what we found out, maybe there was some profit
taking, maybe there is a little bit of adjustment of
portfolios,”  Bursa Malaysia Bhd. (BURSA)  CEO Tajuddin Atan told
reporters in Kuala Lumpur today. “Given the scenario, everybody
looked at maybe economic issues, maybe performance issues, maybe
election issues. Those are trading matters.”  A six-week rally drove the KLCI index to a record on Jan.
7, lifting its valuation to a more than nine-month high of 15.5
times reported profit,  data  compiled by Bloomberg show. A 3.6
percent slump this month, the most among Asian benchmark gauge
tracked by Bloomberg, dragging the index’s price-earnings ratio
to 14.4, the lowest level since Dec. 4.  There was speculation elections would be held during school
holidays at the end of March, Fiona Leong, a Kuala Lumpur-based
analyst at Citigroup Inc., wrote in a Jan. 23 note. Equities are
likely to remain volatile until polling day, she wrote.  Approval Rating  Prime Minister Najib Razak’s Barisan Nasional or National
Front coalition, which has ruled the nation for 55 years, is
aiming to restore a two-thirds parliamentary majority it lost in
2008. The KLCI slumped 39 percent that year, the most since
1997, amid concern a stronger opposition would stymie government
investment plans and the global financial crisis deepened.  Najib’s approval rating slid to the lowest level in 16
months, the Merdeka Center for Opinion Research said in a Jan.
10 statement. He must dissolve the nation’s parliament by April
28. At stake are programs he unveiled to boost economic growth,
such as a $444 billion program of private sector-led projects
announced in 2010. This includes a 48 billion-ringgit ($16
billion) mass rail network in the capital.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gan Yen Kuan in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 ykgan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  