-- Alberta to Miss 2014 Balanced Budget Target, Moody’s Says
-- B y   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r   a n d   R e b e c c a   P e n t y
-- 2013-01-31T16:39:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/alberta-to-miss-2014-balanced-budget-target-moody-s-says.html
Alberta’s dependence on revenue from
sales of discounted oil means the Aaa-rated province will miss
its target of a balanced budget in the fiscal year ending March
2014 and could run a C$4 billion ($4 billion) deficit instead,
according to Moody’s Investors Service.  The gap between Western Canada Select, the benchmark for
oil-sands bitumen, and the U.S. West Texas Intermediate price
could cause a C$5 billion shortfall in royalty revenues from
previous estimates, Moody’s said in a report today. Every $1
decline in the WTI price results in $223 million less royalties,
Moody’s said, citing provincial estimates. The oil-price  gap 
widened to a record $42.50 a barrel on Dec. 14, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The revenue shortfall is a credit negative but they’re in
a strong position in that they have significant holdings of
financial assets which provide balance sheet flexibility,” said
Jennifer Wong, an assistant vice president at Moody’s in
Toronto, in a telephone interview. “We’re in continual contact
with the province.”  Alberta Premier Alison Redford said Jan. 24 in a televised
address that rising oil-sands production and pipeline
bottlenecks limiting market access amount to a “bitumen
bubble” that will cut projected revenues for the province by
C$6 billion in 2013-2014. The province, which will present its
fiscal plan on March 7, will hold the line on spending and
change programs and services to cope, Redford said.  Stefan Baranski, Redford’s director of communications, did
not immediately return a phone message seeking comment on the
Moody’s report. Robyn Cochrane, a spokeswoman for Alberta
Treasury Board and Finance, did not immediately return a phone
message and e-mail seeking comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ari Altstedter in Toronto at 
 aaltstedter@bloomberg.net ;
Rebecca Penty in Calgary at 
 rpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  