-- All Nippon Says Boeing 787 Dreamliner Grounding to Cut Sales
-- B y   C h r i s   C o o p e r   a n d   K i y o t a k a   M a t s u d a
-- 2013-01-31T07:24:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/all-nippon-says-boeing-787-dreamliner-grounding-to-cut-sales.html
All Nippon Airways Co. (9202) , the world’s
biggest operator of  Boeing Co. (BA)  787s, said the grounding of the
Dreamliner fleet cut sales by 1.4 billion yen ($15.4 million)
this month.  ANA, which has 17 Dreamliners in its fleet and became the
first operator of the plane in late 2011, isn’t sure when normal
service with the aircraft will resume, according to a statement
the airline released in Tokyo today. All Nippon, which ordered
66 Dreamliners, kept its full-year profit forecast unchanged at
40 billion yen.  All Nippon,  Japan Airlines Co. (9201) , and six other operators
stopped flying 787s after the  Federal Aviation Administration 
ordered the suspension of all flights following a lithium-ion
battery fire, and an emergency landing by an ANA plane Jan. 16.
Chicago-based Boeing yesterday forecast profit that met
estimates, assuming no drag from the grounding of the marquee
jet while investigators examine battery faults.  “I think all the airlines are stuck with what they’ve
ordered,” said Sash Tusa, an analyst at Echelon Research &
Advisory LLP. “We’re talking now about months rather than
weeks” for the problem to be fixed.  The airline hasn’t asked Boeing for compensation on 787 and
will discuss the issue when it knows the total impact, Executive
Vice President Kiyoshi Tonomoto told reporters in  Tokyo  today.  The carrier had to cancel 459 domestic and international
flights in January, according to the statement.  Boeing’s Prediction  Shares of the carrier fell 0.6 percent to 179 yen in Tokyo
trading today. The stock has dropped 1.1 percent this year.  ANA, based in Tokyo, canceled 830 Dreamliner flights from
Jan. 16 through Feb. 18, affecting 81,820 people, the carrier
said last week. The Dreamliners make up about 7 percent of ANA’s
fleet and the carrier had to set up an emergency team to
minimize disruption to a network of more than 1,000 daily
flights and 175 routes.  Aviation regulators in the U.S., Japan and other nations
ordered airlines to park their 787s after an ANA plane made an
emergency landing in Takamatsu,  Japan . Earlier this month, there
was a battery fire on a Japan Airlines 787 in  Boston .  Airlines so far have received 50 of the aircraft, which
entered service 16 months ago and start at a list price of about
$207 million. While deliveries have been halted, 787 production
is continuing, Boeing said yesterday.  Profits  The planemaker predicted shipments of more than 60
Dreamliners this year among a total of 635 to 645 commercial
planes, up from 601 in 2012, as it increases airliner output
more than 60 percent in the four years through 2014.  ANA started its first international service with the plane
in January, when it added an extra flight to  Frankfurt  with the
new plane, and then added a service to  Seattle . Earlier this
month it added flights to  San Jose , which it has since had to
cancel as it only has permission to fly a 787 on that route.  The impact on ANA and JAL’s profits may not be that big
even if they can’t fly the 787s for a year, said Yasuhito Tsuchiya, an analyst at Bank of America-Merrill Lynch. In such
an event, operating profit at ANA would be cut by 5 billion yen,
and JAL’s would be reduced by 4 billion yen.  NTSB  ANA had predicted it will save about 10 billion yen a year
in jet kerosene costs with its fleet of the more fuel-efficient
planes.  The U.S. National Transportation Safety Board is working
with Boeing to study the batteries’ history since the 787
entered service late in 2011, according to the investigative
agency. The probe hasn’t yet found out whether those were causes
or the result of a fire.  GS Yuasa Corp. (6674)  and the batteries it supplied are at the
center of the investigation by U.S. and Japanese authorities.
U.S. investigators are asking for data on the performance of the
devices as ANA said yesterday it had replaced 10 of the battery
and charger systems on its planes.  Earlier this week, Japan’s government said it’s ending on-
site inspections of Kyoto, Japan-based GS Yuasa’s headquarters,
as no reports of problems with quality control that could affect
the battery were made so far, said Shigeru Takano, a director
for air transportation at the ministry’s Civil Aviation Bureau.  The 787 is Boeing’s most advanced jet and uses new
technology such as carbon-fiber materials to save weight and
improve efficiency. ANA and JAL together have signed up for 111
of the Dreamliners, about 13 percent of the  848 orders  for the
plane, according to Boeing’s website.  Japan Airlines will report earnings for the three months
ended Dec. 31 on Feb. 4.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chris Cooper  in Tokyo at 
 ccooper1@bloomberg.net ;
Kiyotaka Matsuda in Tokyo at 
 kmatsuda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  