-- Annaly to Buy Rest of Crexus Investment for $872 Million
-- B y   K a r a   W e t z e l   a n d   O s h r a t   C a r m i e l
-- 2013-01-31T14:11:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/annaly-to-buy-rest-of-crexus-investment-for-872-million.html
Annaly Capital Management Inc. (NLY) , the
largest real estate investment trust that buys mortgage debt,
agreed to purchase the rest of  Crexus Investment Corp. (CXS)  for about
$872 million to expand its commercial-property business.  Annaly, which already owns 12.4 percent of Crexus, plans to
pay $13 a share in cash for the remaining stock, valuing the
company at $996 million, according to a statement from the New
York-based REIT today. In November, Annaly bid $12.50 a share.  The purchase of Crexus, a commercial-mortgage investor, is
part of Annaly’s plan to broaden its business after Federal
Reserve purchases of government-backed residential debt reduced
yields in its main market. New York-based Crexus, which Annaly
started in 2009, has a 45-day period to explore alternatives.  “This transaction represents a significant step toward
Annaly’s commitment to investing directly in commercial real
estate assets,” Wellington Denahan, the REIT’s chairman and
chief executive officer, said in the statement.  The price is 17 percent more than Crexus’s  share  value on
Nov. 9, the day before the first offer.  The terms of the agreement allow Crexus to receive and
negotiate alternatives to the deal though March 16, the company
said in a separate statement. A special committee and
independent advisers will “actively solicit” proposals, Crexus
said.  “There can be no assurance that this process will result
in receipt of a superior offer,” Crexus said.  Annaly in recent years has expanded from investing in
government-backed mortgage bonds to overseeing distressed-debt
buyers and a securities firm. It also started financing middle-
market companies and home lenders, and entered ventures to make
new commercial real estate loans, after the worst financial
crisis since the Great Depression curbed sources of lending.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kara Wetzel in  New York  at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net ;
Oshrat Carmiel in New York at 
 ocarmiel1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  