-- Map Pharmaceuticals Investor Sues to Block Allergan Deal
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 2013-01-31T20:01:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/map-pharmaceuticals-investor-sues-to-block-allergan-deal.html
A  Map Pharmaceuticals Inc. (MAPP) 
shareholder sued the company alleging that Allergan Inc.’s
$958 million takeover offer is too low and deprives investors of
future earnings.  The proposed acquisition comes as Map is poised for
substantial growth from its drug Levadex, an orally inhaled
migraine treatment, the shareholder, Robert Corwin, said in the
complaint filed today in Delaware Chancery Court. Corwin is
seeking to represent all Map shareholders in his bid to bar the
deal.  “Levadex is likely to become a blockbuster drug,” Corwin
said in the complaint. “The proposed  transaction  will cash out
MAPP shareholders for inadequate consideration and will deny
company shareholders the all but certain future success of MAPP
and Levadex.”  Allergan, the  Irvine , California-based maker of the wrinkle
filler Botox, announced Jan. 22 that it will pay Map investors
$25 a share to acquire the company, boosting its sales growth in
specialty pharmaceuticals and skin care.  Lisa Borland, a spokeswoman for Mountain View, California-
based Map, didn’t immediately return a phone call seeking
comment on the complaint.  Migraine Treatment  Allergan’s Botox is approved as a treatment for chronic
migraine patients. Map is seeking U.S. regulatory approval for
Levadex, an inhaled form of a 60-year-old migraine drug. Both
companies agreed in January 2011 to co-promote Levadex should it
gain approval.  Future revenue for Levadex could add $1 in  earnings  per
share for Allergan, based on the company’s current 20 percent
profit margin, Corwin said in court papers. The Map acquisition
is a bargain for  Allergan (AGN) , according to the complaint.  The proposed transaction is “unfair and inadequate” and
there is no evidence Map directors shopped the company prior to
agreeing to Allergan’s offer, Corwin said in the complaint.  The case is Corwin v. Map Pharmaceuticals, CA8267, Delaware
Chancery Court (Wilmington)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  