-- Apple Loses U.S. Court Bid to Block Samsung Galaxy Nexus
-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 2013-02-01T01:34:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/apple-loses-u-s-court-bid-to-block-samsung-galaxy-nexus.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  failed to persuade a U.S.
appeals court to review its decision that allows  Samsung
Electronics Co. (005930)  to continue selling the Galaxy Nexus smartphone
while a patent-infringement case is pending.  An October decision, which said Apple needed to show that
the patented search feature was a key reason consumers bought
the Samsung phone, will stand, the  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the
Federal Circuit said in an order posted yesterday on its
electronic docket.  Apple sought to have the earlier decision by a three-judge
panel considered by all active judges of the appeals court,
which specializes in  patent law . The case is one of dozens
worldwide in which the two biggest makers of smartphones are
using their patents in an effort to curb each other’s growth or
force changes that would create greater differentiation between
their products.  In a separate dispute before the Federal Circuit involving
Samsung, Apple is trying to halt sales of Samsung products that
were the subject of a trial Apple won in August. The judge in
California declined that request, citing legal reasoning in the
Federal Circuit’s October ruling.  The standard would make it “essentially impossible for a
patentee to halt a direct competitor’s deliberate and successful
copying of the patentee’s innovative designs and features for
use in competing products,” Apple told the Washington-based
court in a filing Jan. 16.  ‘Slavishly’ Copied  Kristin Huguet, an Apple spokeswoman, and  Adam Yates  of
Samsung said their companies had no comment on the decision.  Apple, which claims that Samsung “slavishly” copied the
iPhone and iPad tablet computer, said that the October ruling is
hindering its efforts to get court orders to force Samsung to
change its products or remove certain models from the market.
Samsung denies copying Apple’s devices.  In a Jan. 11 filing in the Galaxy Nexus case, Samsung said
the October ruling, requiring a link between the patented
feature and consumer demand, is “an inherent, well-
established” part of legal analysis used to determine whether a
patent owner would be harmed by sales of an infringing product.  A trial in the Galaxy Nexus cases is scheduled for next
year, and the issue before the appeals court was whether to halt
sales before any violation is found.  Jury Verdict  The second case, still before the Federal Circuit, involves
what standard to use after a jury has found infringement. Apple
won a $1 billion verdict against Samsung in August. U.S.
District Judge Lucy Koh, who had declined to block sales of more
than two dozen Samsung products that were the subject of the
August trial in  San Jose , California, on Jan. 29 denied
Samsung’s request to throw out the verdict.  Only three of the 26 products that Apple sought to block
are still being sold, according to Samsung. They are the Galaxy
S II by T-Mobile, Galaxy S II Epic and Galaxy S II Skyrocket.  The companies, which together make about half of the
world’s smartphones, are vying for market share in an industry
that has transformed cultures around the world with a single
device that can make calls, surf the Internet and take
photographs. One in seven people worldwide has a smartphone,
according to market researcher  Strategy Analytics .  Samsung, also a major component supplier to Apple, is the
world’s biggest maker of smartphones while Cupertino,
California-based Apple dominates in the U.S.  Among tablet computers, Suwon, South Korea-based Samsung’s
share of the market more than doubled in the fourth quarter,
gaining on leader Apple as unit shipments jumped 75 percent,
researcher IDC said yesterday. Apple’s iPad has about 44 percent
of the worldwide tablet market, compared with Samsung’s 15
percent.  The Galaxy Nexus case is Apple Inc. v. Samsung Electronics
Co., 12-1507, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit
( Washington ). The lower court case is Apple Inc. v. Samsung
Electronics Co., 12-630, U.S. District Court for the District of
 California  (San Jose).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  