-- Are China’s Hackers Preying on Journalist E-Mail Habits?
-- B y   Z a r a   K e s s l e r
-- 2013-01-31T21:37:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/are-china-s-hackers-preying-on-journalist-e-mail-habits-.html
This afternoon the Wall Street
Journal  said  that Chinese hackers had infiltrated its computer
systems.  This comes after last night’s lengthy  revelation  from the
New York Times that it was attacked by hackers -- seemingly from
 China , possibly from the country’s military -- over the last
four months. The intruders were apparently interested in
uncovering information about reporting done for a story,
 published on Oct. 25 , on the incredible wealth of the relatives
of Chinese Premier Wen Jiabao. But during their espionage, the
hackers accessed the corporate passwords of every Times
employee, according to security experts.  Much of the response to this breach will probably -- and
rightly -- center on the lengths to which the Chinese go to
control the news media. Local censorship,  cutting off  access to
popular sites such as Facebook and Twitter, even blocking  news
websites  such as the  New York  Times and Bloomberg News after
they publish exposes on Chinese leaders’ wealth and power are
not enough. There’s an offensive side to this battle with
transparency, one that requires meddling in the business of
those whom the Chinese fear might be watching them too closely.
(A Bloomberg News representative confirmed for the Times that
hackers attempted to infiltrate Bloomberg as well, though “no
computer systems or computers were compromised.”)  But we must also not forget the initial source of the
breach. As the Times article, written by Nicole Perlroth,
explains: “Investigators still do not know how hackers initially
broke into the Times’s systems. They suspect the hackers used a
so-called spear-phishing attack, in which they send e-mail to
employees that contain malicious links or attachments. All it
takes is one click on the e-mail by an employee for hackers to
install ’remote access tools’ -- or RATs. Those tools can siphon
off oceans of data -- passwords, keystrokes, screen images,
documents and, in some cases, recordings from computers’
microphones and Web cameras -- and send the information back to
the attackers’ Web servers. Michael Higgins, chief security
officer at The Times, said: ’Attackers no longer go after our
firewall. They go after individuals. They send a malicious piece
of code to your e-mail account and you’re opening it and letting
them in.’”  In other words, it seems plausible that this sustained
hacking attack was the result of a single employee clicking on a
phony link in an e-mail.  There’s a precedent for that. Take the case of the South
Carolina Department of Revenue, where  this past fall , records
from 3.8 million individual tax filers, 699,900 businesses, 3.3
million bank accounts and 5,000 credit cards were exposed. How
did the hackers initially get in? According to  a report  by
Mandiant, the same company that the Times hired to investigate
and respond to its breaches, at least one Department of Revenue
employee clicked a link on a malicious e-mail.  This is not to say we should blame the victim. These
attacks did not result from lost laptops or misplaced sets of
documents getting into the wrong hands: They were planned to
trick people and to steal information. So too, at least in the
South Carolina case, sensitive information was not adequately
protected;  for example, social security numbers were not
encrypted, meaning that once the hackers broke down the
necessary doors, the data were right there waiting for them in
readable form.  At the Times, employee passwords were “hashed,” or
scrambled, but as Perlroth says, “While hashes make hackers’
break-ins more difficult, hashed passwords can easily be cracked
using so-called rainbow tables -- readily available databases of
hash values for nearly every alphanumeric character combination,
up to a certain length.”  Yes, it would be great if the bad guys (or bad governments)
didn’t exist and if vulnerable information was kept behind doors
locked more tightly and in forms read less easily. But at the
end of the day, employees are the ones opening the doors for
these attacks.  We think a lot about the accidents we make when sending e-
mail. With one click of a button, we can send permanent messages
without thinking, taking stock of the situation or taking a walk
to the post office to cool our emotions. Nifty Google Gmail add-
ons can allow you to  “undo” sending  an e-mail after pressing the
button (it really just holds your message for five seconds
before sending) and  can ask you math  problems before allowing
you to send a note late on a Friday night in an attempt to bar
an intoxicated you from saying things a sober you might wish to
take back. The notion is clear: “send” and “regret” come hand-
in-hand.  But we need to think more about the regret that comes with
reading e-mail, too. Spam is not just annoying and inbox-
clogging, but can also be dangerous. Filters and anti-virus
software will never catch all the rogue e-mail, and hackers are
getting better at making themselves seem more like friends,
colleagues and the companies with which you do business, who
themselves are more frequently sending you links and articles
and forms to be filled out.  We keep hearing of the cyberwars that will wreak havoc on
our world in the coming years. The Times article alluded to the
cyberattack allegedly used by the U.S. and  Israel  against  Iran ’s
nuclear enrichment plan. U.S. Secretary of Defense Leon Panetta
 has told  us  more than once  to fear the possibility of an
impending cyber-“Pearl Harbor.”  But before it gets to that, it’s probably going to be the
next local robbery and tax-fraud scheme and set of stolen
research. It might be worth doing a bit more mental calculus
before opening your  virtual doors.   (Zara Kessler is an assistant editor and producer for Bloomberg
View.  Follow  her on Twitter.)
 