-- Largent Says Government Shouldn’t Weigh In on NFL Head Injuries
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-01-31T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/largent-says-government-shouldn-t-weigh-in-on-nfl-head-injuries.html
Steve Largent , the Hall of Fame
receiver and former congressman, said it isn’t the government’s
place to get involved in the issue of repeated traumatic head
impacts and their possible link to long-term brain injuries for
National Football League players.  “If studies come out and show that playing football is
detrimental to your health for the long term, even for the short
term, I think that’s up to the players then to make the decision
about whether they’re going to play or not play,” Largent said
in an interview with Bloomberg Television’s  Peter Cook  for
“Capitol Gains,” which airs Feb. 2.  “They should be armed with all of the latest statistics
and information and research,” added Largent, who now
represents the nation’s wireless industry as president of CTIA-
The Wireless Association. “We don’t need the government telling
people what they can and can’t do.”  Largent, 58, played 14 seasons with the  Seattle Seahawks 
and at the time of his retirement in 1990 was the leading
receiver in NFL history with 819 catches for 13,089 yards and
100 touchdowns. He was a first-ballot inductee into the Pro
Football Hall of Fame in 1995 and represented his home state of
 Oklahoma  in Congress from 1994 through 2002.  “They say politics is a contact sport and I have to agree
with that,” said Largent.  Largent’s comments on violence and injuries in football
came days after President  Barack Obama  said he would “think
long and hard” if he had a son before letting him participate
in the sport. Obama, the father of two daughters, said in an
interview with The New Republic magazine that college football
in particular should consider rules changes because of emerging
evidence that the repetitive head blows suffered by players lead
to long-term health consequences.  ‘Well Aware’  “The important point is that he doesn’t have a son, but
it’s just another indication of the issue that’s at hand for the
NFL, and it’s front and center,” Largent said. “The
commissioner’s very well aware of what’s going on and he’s
alerting people and getting the experts to give him the
information as soon as they have it.”  More than 3,000 former players have sued the NFL for
damages resulting from head injuries, accusing the league of
negligence and failing to inform players of the link between
repeated concussions and brain injuries. Brain-tissue samples
recently showed that Junior Seau, a 12-time Pro Bowl linebacker
who shot himself to death in May, had chronic traumatic
encephalopathy, a progressive brain disease.  Evidence of similar traumatic brain injury has been found
in other ex-NFL players who committed suicide.  Multiple Concussions  Largent said he had multiple concussions throughout college
and his NFL career, including one during his next-to-last season
in which he was knocked unconscious before hitting the ground.  Largent said he’s “really curious” about the impact of
concussions on NFL players and is currently participating in a
study at the University of  North Carolina . Largent also had a
stroke at the age of 50 that he says the experts he’s consulted
believe isn’t connected to his NFL career.  Largent considers himself fortunate to still be in
relatively good health, running five or six miles every other
day and playing tennis two to three times a week. Largent also
said he remains the NFL’s “biggest fan,” despite lingering
concerns about the head injuries he suffered as a player.  “The more studies that come out that talk about
concussions and so forth, it makes me wonder,” Largent said.
“I wonder, more importantly than the stroke, the impact that
concussions have had on my life, particularly as I get older.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  