-- Balotelli Completes Move to AC Milan as Transfer Period Ends
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2013-02-01T00:26:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/mario-balotelli-completes-move-to-ac-milan-manchester-city-says.html
Mario Balotelli completed his move to
AC Milan after two years at  Manchester City  that were marked by
a Premier League soccer title and confrontations with opponents
and teammates.  Balotelli, 22, signed a contract until June 30, 2017, after
passing a medical yesterday, AC Milan said on its website.  “Being at City was an important part of my life and
career,” Balotelli said on the English club’s website. “I
needed to grow up like a player and as a person and it has been
a good experience for me.”  In other Premier League moves on the final day of the
January transfer period, Queens Park Rangers signed defender
 Christopher Samba  and striker  Danny Graham  joined Sunderland
from Swansea.  Former England captain  David Beckham  signed a five-month
pact with Paris Saint-Germain after playing out his contract
with the  Los Angeles Galaxy . Arsenal signed Malaga defender
Ignacio Monreal Eraso, known as Nacho, for a fee the British
Broadcast Corp. said was 8.3 million pounds ($13.2 million.)  Milan is paying 19 million pounds for Balotelli, the  BBC 
said. He scored three goals in 20 games for City this season and
his future has been the subject of speculation following
controversies since his transfer from  Inter Milan  in August 2010.  Last month City manager  Roberto Mancini  was photographed
grabbing and pushing Balotelli at practice before the two were
separated. During his stay in England, the striker also threw a
dart at a teammate, brawled with City’s Micah Richards and
collected four red cards.  Title Winner  Balotelli scored 30 goals in 80 appearances for City. He
provided the pass that set up  Sergio Aguero ’s injury-time goal
that won the club’s first Premier League title in 44 years on
the final day of last season.  Samba, 28, joins QPR on a 4 1/2-year contract from Russian
club Anzhi Makhachkala. QPR said the deal was a club record
without disclosing financial terms.  “Chris is just what we need,” QPR manager  Harry Redknapp 
said on the team’s website. “He’s a proper center half.”  Samba played in the Premier League with Blackburn for more
than five seasons before joining Anzhi in February. QPR also
said midfielder Alejandro Faurlin has joined Italian club
Palermo until the end of the season. The west London team also
signed Tottenham’s Andros Townsend on loan and Jermaine Jenas
for an undisclosed fee.  Odemwingie Mix-up  West Brom forward  Peter Odemwingie  was shown on television
at QPR’s facilities, although Albion officials said he didn’t
have permission to open talks.  “It was all a bit of a mix up,” Redknapp said. “I feel
sorry for the lad. He was advised that he should turn up here
but the wires got crossed.”  Beckham, 37, signed a five-month contract with French Ligue
1 co-leader PSG. The midfielder announced in November he was
leaving  Major League Soccer  when his contract with the Galaxy
expired.  Beckham joins a club that’s backed by an investment arm of
the Qatari government and has spent 250 million euros ($338
million) on players as it seeks to become one of the biggest
teams in the world.  Success Coming  “I chose Paris because I can see what the club is trying
to do,” Beckham, who will donate his undetermined salary to a
children’s charity, said at a press conference in the French
capital. “This is a club that’s going to have a lot of success
for the next 10, 15, 20 years and that’s exciting to me.”  Nacho, who played with Arsenal midfielder Santi Cazorla in
Malaga, is a 26-year-old leftback who has played nine times for
world and European champion Spain. He joined Malaga in 2011 and
was in the team that qualified for the  Champions League  for the
first time in its history.  Graham, 27, signed a 3 1/2-year deal with Sunderland, the
club said on its website. Norwich signed Leeds striker Luciano
Becchio and sent striker  Steve Morison  to the Championship club
in return.  Defender Paul Scharner joined Wigan from Hannover for the
rest of the season, after having previously played with the
Latics from 2006 to 2010, and  Aston Villa  signed midfielder
Yacouba Sylla from French club Clermont Foote.  In a pair of loan moves until the end of the season,
goalkeeper Heurelho Gomes joins German club Hoffenheim from
Tottenham and defender Urby Emanuelson goes to Fulham from Milan.  Stoke signed Birmingham goalkeeper Jack Butland for 3.5
million pounds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at   celser@bloomberg.net  