-- AstraZeneca Forecasts Lower Profit Amid Generic Pressure
-- B y   A l l i s o n   C o n n o l l y
-- 2013-02-04T12:19:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/astrazeneca-fourth-quarter-profit-falls-on-generic-competition.html
AstraZeneca Plc (AZN)  forecast profit this
year will decline “significantly more than revenue” as the
U.K.’s second-biggest drugmaker faces increasing competition
from lower-priced generic medicines.  Sales will fall by a “mid- to high-single digit
percentage” at constant exchange rates in 2013, the London-
based company said today in a  statement . Analysts had estimated
a decline of about 3 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The company also said earnings fell for a fourth
straight quarter and left the annual dividend unchanged. The
stock fell the most in nine months.  The profit declines underscore the challenge facing Pascal Soriot, who took over as chief executive officer on Oct. 1.
Drugs that account for more than 40 percent of AstraZeneca’s
sales lose patent protection by the end of next year, and the
company had repeated setbacks in developing new products in
recent years. AstraZeneca said it won’t repurchase any shares
this year so it will have funds to invest in the business.  “The very conservative outlook indicates that AstraZeneca
has not quite turned the corner in terms of patent expiries,”
Elmar Kraus, an analyst with DZ Bank AG in  Frankfurt , said in an
e-mail. “This and the delay in presenting the new strategy will
put pressure on the shares.” He recommends buying the stock.  Soriot will give a strategy update at a meeting with
analysts and investors on March 21.  Earnings Decline  AstraZeneca fell 3.2 percent to 3,053 pence at the close of
trading in  London , the biggest drop since April. That gives the
company a market value of 38.06 billion pounds ($60.3 billion).
Before today, the stock had returned 9.7 percent including
reinvested dividends in the  past year , trailing the 23 percent
return for the  Bloomberg Europe Pharmaceutical Index. (BEPHARM)   AstraZeneca left the annual dividend unchanged at $2.80 a
share, the first time in a decade that the company hasn’t raised
the payout. In the past, the company increased the dividend and
repurchased stock to provide a return for investors while the
company waited for experimental drugs to make it to the market
and boost earnings. David Brennan, who stepped down as CEO last
year after setbacks in drug development, told investors in 2010
not to judge the company by its earnings as it went through
patent expirations.  Dividend Target  The board is targeting a dividend that’s about 50 percent
of core earnings per share, and aims to maintain or increase the
payout while also investing in the business and paying off debt,
AstraZeneca said today. Once those requirements are met, the
board will review opportunities to return excess cash to
shareholders via stock buybacks, the company said.  AstraZeneca suspended its $4.5 billion stock buyback
program for 2012 on Soriot’s first day on the job to allow for
more flexibility as the company looks for licensing and
acquisition deals to replenish its pipeline. On Jan. 15, he
announced the head of research and development and the most
senior executive for worldwide sales and marketing activities
would be leaving the company after he eliminated their jobs.  “What they need to do is buy themselves time and make a
big acquisition,” Fabian Wenner, an analyst with Kepler Capital
Markets SA in Zurich, said in an interview. He has a hold rating
on the shares. “Once they make an acquisition, the shares will
rally.”  Acquisition Strategy  The company is looking for products and small companies to
buy, and a large, “disruptive” acquisition isn’t likely,
Soriot said today in an interview. AstraZeneca would consider
purchases in the range of $3 billion to $4 billion and product
deals valued at about $500 million to $600 million, he said.  “I don’t think we need a large-scale acquisition to
succeed,” he told journalists on a conference call today.  Last year the company announced it would cut 7,300 jobs
worldwide, including 2,200 in R&D, in a bid to save $1.6 billion
a year by the end of 2014. The restructuring will cost the
company $2.1 billion.  Profit excluding some items fell 8 percent to $1.94
billion, or $1.56 a share, in the quarter, compared with $2.1
billion, or $1.61, a year earlier, the company said. Earnings
beat the average analyst  estimate  of $1.33 a share compiled by
Bloomberg.  AstraZeneca’s second-best-selling drug, Seroquel for
schizophrenia, lost U.S. patent protection in March, while the
patent on Nexium for ulcers, the third-biggest seller, expires
in the U.S. in 2014. The two generated $10.3 billion in sales in
2011.  Challenging Market  Sales for the quarter slid 16 percent to $7.28 billion,
beating the $7.16 billion estimate of 20 analysts.  “Challenging market conditions will persist, including
continued government interventions in price,” AstraZeneca said.  Sales of Seroquel IR plunged 92 percent at constant
exchange rates in the quarter to $94 million. Nexium, which
already faces generic competition in Europe and  Canada , fell 1
percent to $1.05 billion.  Sales of the cholesterol drug Crestor, which has faced
increased competition from a copy of  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) ’s Lipitor, were
down 7 percent at constant exchange rates from a year ago at
$1.62 billion. Crestor, the company’s top-selling product, loses
U.S. patent protection in 2016.  Revenue from the blood-thinner Brilique, sold as Brilinta
in the U.S., rose to $38 million during the quarter after the
drugmaker made gains in  Germany  and the U.S. Analysts had
expected $40.9 million.  AstraZeneca has ended nine drug development programs since
June 30, including a study of selumetinib in combination with a
compound called MK-2206 from Merck & Co. Inc. in some solid
tumors, AZD4017 for glaucoma and AZD9773 for severe sepsis.
Selumetinib, which is being tested in other indications, could
enter late-stage trials in non-small cell lung cancer this year,
according to slides Soriot presented to investors. In December,
the company said fostamatinib, its experimental drug for
rheumatoid arthritis, failed to show a benefit against  AbbVie
Inc. (ABBV) ’s Humira in a mid-stage trial.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Connolly in Frankfurt at 
 aconnolly4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  