-- AT&T Gave Obama Inaugural $3 Million, Awaits Airwave Sale
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 2013-01-31T21:38:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/at-t-gave-obama-inaugural-3-million-awaits-airwave-sale.html
AT&T Inc. (T)  contributed $3.1 million
to President Barack Obama’s inaugural committee, according to a
Senate filing.  The largest U.S. telephone company reported a $3 million
donation and $123,061 in communication services. Obama reversed
his position for his 2009 inaugural and allowed the committee to
take unlimited donations and contributions from corporations.  A spokeswoman for AT&T, Claudia Jones, had no comment.
Under a 2007 law, registered lobbyists, companies and trade
associations that hire advocates must disclose to Congress their
political contributions. While the reports generally show
political action committee donations, the AT&T report included
both its PAC activity and two checks to the inaugural committee.  The company also reported giving to three presidential
libraries: $500,000 to George W. Bush’s facility, $275,000 to
the John F. Kennedy library, and $25,000 to that of  Lyndon B. Johnson .  The inaugural donations come as the federal government
prepares to auction airwaves sought by Dallas-based AT&T and
other wireless providers to meet increased demand for
smartphones.  At the same time, Federal Communications Commission
Chairman Julius Genachowski has pushed to set aside some of the
spectrum for wifi services, a position backed by  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) 
and  Google Inc. (GOOG) , whose employees were among the biggest sources
of campaign contributions to Obama’s re-election.  Amounts of other donations from companies such as Microsoft
and  FedEx Corp. (FDX)  haven’t been revealed. They are required to be
reported to the Federal Election Commission later this year.  AT&T’s political action committee contributed $5,000 to
Republican presidential nominee Mitt Romney and its chairman,
 Randall Stephenson , contributed $30,800 to the Republican
National Committee. The donations came after the FCC and the
Obama Justice Department blocked a proposed merger between AT&T
and T-Mobile Inc.  The company earlier donated $3.1 million to the Republican
National Convention and $1.3 million to the Democrats.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan D. Salant in Washington at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at   jcummings21@bloomberg.net . 