-- Atlas Copco Net Misses Estimates on Mining Industry Cuts
-- B y   J a n i n a   P f a l z e r
-- 2013-01-31T17:29:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/atlas-copco-net-income-misses-estimates-as-it-sees-weaker-demand.html
Atlas Copco AB (ATCOA) , the world’s largest
maker of air compressors, posted fourth-quarter net income that
missed analysts’ estimates and gave a more subdued outlook on
the first quarter than Swedish peers, citing  Europe  and  China .  Net income rose to 3.4 billion kronor ($534.6 million) from
3.37 billion kronor a year earlier, the Stockholm-based company
said in a statement today. Analysts predicted profit of 3.43
billion kronor on average, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Atlas Copco stock dropped the most in 7 1/2 months.  The European climate will be tough while sentiment in China
is uncertain and mining companies are unlikely to start placing
orders soon, Chief Executive Officer Ronnie Leten said today in
an interview. Competitor  Sandvik AB (SAND)  forecast two days ago that
business in the first quarter would match the  previous three
months.  SKF AB (SKFB)  said yesterday that quarter-on-quarter demand
will probably remain stable.  “We still believe demand for our products and services
will decrease somewhat,” Leten said, reiterating the outlook
given in the third-quarter report. “Maybe we live in another
cycle. I hope they’re right.”  Euro-region economies entered a recession in the third
quarter with manufacturers such as carmakers and truck producers
posting lower sales. Labor disputes in  South Africa  in the final
months of 2012 have reduced production in that country’s mines.
Companies must also factor in the Chinese New Year holiday. The
new year starts Feb. 10.  Stock Drops  Atlas Copco fell 4 percent to 181.3 kronor in  Stockholm ,
the biggest drop since June 25, giving the company a market
value of 215.5 billion kronor.  Both Sandvik and SKF have announced programs in the past
three months to reduce costs and adjust to demand. Sandvik, the
world’s largest maker of metal-cutting tools, said on Nov. 28
that it will cut almost 1,000 jobs worldwide. SKF, the world’s
largest maker of bearings, will eliminate about 2,500 jobs and
move production from western Europe to faster-growing countries,
it announced Jan. 14.  Atlas Copco may need to further adjust capacity to demand
though it won’t be through big programs, Leten said citing the
company’s agility and resilience.  Orders Decline  Atlas Copco, which targets annual growth of about 8 percent
over a business cycle, said fourth-quarter sales rose 2 percent
to 22.7 billion kronor. New orders fell 4 percent to 21.1
billion kronor. A drop in mining-industry sales contracts
weighed on the total compared with last year while remaining
about the same as in the third quarter, it said.  No “large” orders were received in the quarter from
 Africa  or the  Middle East , Atlas Copco said. Demand “remained
healthy” in North America versus a year earlier, with
increasing orders for industrial compressors, industrial tools
and construction equipment. Orders for mining equipment
decreased in the region, it said.  European orders  fell from a year earlier while rising from
the previous three-month period, supported by the U.K. and
German markets, the manufacturer said.  Atlas Copco said it plans to increase the dividend to 5.50
kronor a share from last year’s 5 kronor.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Janina Pfalzer in Stockholm  at 
 jpfalzer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  