-- Matolcsy Charm Shows Aim for Hungary Central Bank, Standard Says
-- B y   E d i t h   B a l a z s
-- 2013-01-31T11:28:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/matolcsy-charm-shows-aim-for-hungary-central-bank-standard-says.html
Hungarian Economy Minister Gyorgy Matolcsy ruling out “shock therapy” by monetary policy makers
shows his ambition to be the country’s next central bank chief,
said Tim Ash, an economist at Standard Bank Group Ltd.  The Magyar Nemzeti Bank should pursue a “conservative”
policy course, avoid “surprises,” and should “absolutely
not” engage in budget financing, Matolcsy said in an interview
with the Wall Street Journal yesterday. He earlier called for
the “brave” use of “unorthodox” monetary-policy tools, which
helped send the forint to an eight-month low against the euro.  Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  will select someone to succeed
central bank President Andras Simor, whose six-year mandate
expires March 3. Matolcsy, the most likely successor according
to news websites Index and hvg.hu, sought to ease investors
concern over his potential nomination, according to Ash.  “My read is that he wants the job, and this is still part
of that positioning,” London-based Ash wrote in an e-mail
today. Matolcsy is on a “charm offensive” to demonstrate he
can soften market opposition, he said.  The forint advanced to the strongest in more than a week,
paring the depreciation in January to 0.3 percent. The currency
gained as much as 1 percent to 292.18 per euro today, rising a
third day, and traded at 292.62 at 12:26 p.m. in Budapest.  Simor’s successor will be named one day before his mandate
expires, Orban said in Brussels yesterday, adding that he won’t
“bow to market pressure.” The central bank law stipulates that
all Monetary Council candidates, including the central bank
governor, must go through parliamentary hearings before the
prime minister submits their nominations to the president.  Rates Fall  Non-executive rate-setters picked by Orban’s lawmakers in
2011 already hold a majority on the rate-setting panel and have
wrested control from Simor and his deputies to push through rate
cuts to stimulate the recession-bound economy. The central bank
lowered its benchmark rate to 5.5 percent this week, the lowest
since 2010 and still the European Union’s highest, in a sixth
consecutive rate cut.  Matolcsy’s monetary policy suggestions aren’t “far from
how the current central bank leadership approaches its task,”
 Janos Samu , economist at Budapest-based brokerage Concorde Zrt.
said in an e-mailed note today. Matolcsy suggests a policy
course that focuses more on growth without abandoning inflation
targeting and without “turning monetary policy upside down,”
Samu said.  ‘Used Cautiously’  Widening the central bank’s “unconventional” policy
toolkit is only useful in the event of “acute financial-market
turmoil,” the Monetary Council said in a statement after the
Jan. 29 rate decision.  “Unconventional tools must be used cautiously in a small,
open economy such as  Hungary , where inflation has unfortunately
not reached the target level and where the country’s risk
assessment isn’t among the best in the world,” Simor said after
the decision. “It’s very important that the Monetary Council
also mentioned that in its statement.”  Consumer prices  rose 5 percent last month from a year
earlier, the slowest pace in a year and may reach the bank’s 3
percent target next year, Simor said earlier.  Hungary is struggling to exit its second  recession  in four
years as Orban’s “unorthodox” fiscal measures, including
retroactive sectoral taxes and the nationalization of private
pension fund assets, eroded market confidence and sapped
investments.  The country’s talks with the  International Monetary Fund ,
stalled for more than a year, are coming to an “undesired” end
after the Washington-based lender refused Hungary’s request for
a flexible  credit line , Orban said yesterday.  The identity of the new central bank chief is “largely
irrelevant” as the person to succeed Simor “will be there to
do the bidding of the government,” Peter Attard Montalto,
economist at Nomura Plc in  London  said in an e-mailed note
today. “Orban’s strategy is likely to be a softly softly
approach. No big-bang change in policy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edith Balazs in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  