-- Australia Lawmaker Thomson Arrested at Electoral Office
-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 2013-01-31T06:54:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/australia-lawmaker-thomson-arrested-at-electoral-office.html
Craig Thomson , a former
parliamentary member of Australian Prime Minister  Julia Gillard ’s ruling  Labor party , was arrested at his electoral
office north of Sydney over 150 fraud charges, police said.  Officers were executing a warrant issued by Victorian
police in arresting Thomson, Colin Dyson, a detective
superintendent of the New South Wales police, said today in
remarks broadcast by  Sky News . Thomson is scheduled to appear in
the Melbourne Magistrates’ Court next week, Dyson said.  The lawmaker emerged from Wyong Local Court after being
granted bail, telling reporters he was provided with legal
advice not to give a speech even though “every fiber of my
being is screaming out at how wrong this is.” He said he had
done nothing wrong and would appear at the Melbourne court,
before getting into a car and driving off.  Thomson, a former national secretary at the Health Services
Union, has been investigated by police in the past 18 months
over claims he misused a union credit card to pay for
prostitutes,  air travel  and cash advances between 2002 and 2007.
The alleged misuse took place before he entered parliament.  According to Australian law, anyone convicted of a criminal
offense that carries a penalty of one year in jail or more would
be forced to resign from parliament.  If Thomson is proved to have intentionally obtained a gain
dishonestly from, or deliberately caused a loss to, a person or
commonwealth entity, he could be jailed for as long as five
years under the law.  Independent Support  In April last year, Gillard ordered Thomson to step down
from her parliamentary Labor party while the allegations were
investigated. He remained in parliament as an independent, with
Gillard relying on his support to pass laws in the legislature,
where her party has a minority of the seats.  Gillard had also relied on support of former parliamentary
speaker  Peter Slipper , who was ordered to appear in court next
month on three fraud charges over the use of travel vouchers.  “This is a government that relies on the presumption of
innocence for its very existence,” George Brandis, deputy
leader of the opposition in the Senate, said in a Sky Television
interview.  The prime minister, speaking to reporters following a tour
of flood-stricken areas in Bundaberg, Queensland, said she
didn’t know anything about the arrest except for some media
reports. She said it was a matter to be left for the police.  ‘Thomson Matter’  “The Thomson matter isn’t just about what Craig Thomson
may or may not have done,” Australian Opposition Leader  Tony Abbott  told reporters in Canberra today, a day after Gillard
said an election will be held Sept. 14. “It’s always been about
the judgment of the prime minister,” Abbott said.  An investigation by Fair Work  Australia , the nation’s
workplace tribunal, found 181 contraventions of industrial
relations laws and union rules by three former or current
officials of the health union.  Fair Work sued Thomson in a civil case to recover money it
claimed he misused, and is seeking unspecified financial
penalties, the tribunal  said  Oct. 15. A preliminary hearing is
scheduled tomorrow in Melbourne and Sydney via a video link.  Thomson said in a May statement to parliament that he had
enemies in the union who didn’t like his push for increased
transparency.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  