-- Auto Fair ‘Global-Tini,’ Real TV, Dog Bakery: D.C. Scene
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   G r e e n
-- 2013-01-31T16:25:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/auto-fair-global-tini-real-tv-dog-bakery-d-c-scene.html
The Washington Auto Show isn’t just
about cars. It’s a must-attend event for lobbyists and
regulators.  Last night, the Association of Global Automakers held a
reception at its K Street office to celebrate the show. The
“Global-tini,” an icy-blue concoction with white chocolate and
vodka, was served along with a full buffet.  In attendance were Ed Cohen, vice president at Honda North
America’s Washington office, and  John Anderson , director of
government affairs for  Kia Motors (000270)  Corp. Standing at the door to
greet guests was the association’s president and chief
executive,  Michael Stanton .  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380) ’s vice president of global corporate
communications, Frank Ahrens, praised his “everyday” car, the
Hyundai Veloster: “It’s hot.” Anderson is a fan of the Kia
Cadenza, and the new Corvette models.  At tomorrow’s opening of the Washington Auto Show, outgoing
Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood is expected to make an
appearance. President Barack Obama stopped by last year and
checked out a shiny red Chevy.  Realscreen Summit  At the sold-out Realscreen Summit, guests lounged on white
sofas and cyber-surfed. The annual gathering of television and
film producers and editors drew David Royle, an executive vice
president of Smithsonian Networks and Tim Sparke, CEO of Mercury
Media.  The summit’s headquarters in the Renaissance Hotel was the
venue for a hip happy hour hosted by Discovery Networks.  Academy Award-winner  Alex Gibney  spoke about recutting and
adding interviews to his Lance Armstrong documentary. The “What
Men Want” panel focused on “testosterone-oriented”
television, such as History Channel’s “Ice Road Truckers” and
BBC’s “Top Gear.”  British attendees to the summit gathered Sunday at the home
of British Ambassador  Peter Westmacott .  Folger Shakespeare  For a dose of live theater, there was the Folger
Shakespeare Library reception for a new production of Henry V
Monday night.  The after party brought out season sponsor Roger Millay,
chief financial officer at  Towers Watson (TW) , the play’s director,
Robert Richmond, and Zach Appelman, who plays Henry V and showed
up without his crown.  Next week, the Folger will host Irish Ambassador  Michael Collins  for a reception in honor of the library’s new exhibition
“Nobility and Newcomers in Renaissance Ireland.”  Mardi Gras  “Louisiana Live” will celebrate  Mardi Gras  and New
Orleans as the host city of the Super Bowl tonight. The party at
the Washington Hilton kicks off a weekend of Washington Mardi
Gras festivities, which include a ball Saturday night.  Tonight is also the Washington Humane Society’s Sugar &
Champagne Affair. Dogs will get to sample treats from Barkley
Square’s dog bakery, while patrons will sample fare from chef
Todd Gray, executive chef and co-owner of Equinox restaurant and
the proud owner of five pets.  District of Columbia Mayor Vincent Gray talked about his
fondness for buying cat food in bulk at Costco at a lunch
Tuesday with Washingtonian editor-at-large Carol Joynt. Joynt’s
interview with the Mayor, on a wide variety of topics, will air
on local television as part of her “Q & A Cafe” series. In
attendance: AT&T Services Inc. vice president Lyndon Boozer;
Tina Ang, a lobbyist for Manatt, Phelps & Phillips LLP; and  AOL
Inc. (AOL)  founder Jim Kimsey.  ( Stephanie Green  is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include  Jason Harper  on cars,
 Lance Esplund  on art.  To contact the writer on this story:
Stephanie Green in Washington at  sgreen57@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter @stephlgreen.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 