-- AvalonBay Falls After Forecast Below Analysts’ Estimates
-- B y   O s h r a t   C a r m i e l
-- 2013-01-31T21:43:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/avalonbay-falls-after-forecast-below-analysts-estimates.html
AvalonBay Communities Inc. (AVB) , the
second-largest publicly traded U.S. apartment owner, fell the
most in more than a year after forecasting earnings for this
year that are below analysts’ expectations.  Funds from operations for 2013 probably will be $4.17 to
$4.47 a share, down 19 percent from last year based on the
midpoint of the range, the Arlington, Virginia-based real estate
investment trust said in a statement yesterday after the close
of regular U.S. trading. The average  estimate  of 18 analysts in
a Bloomberg survey is for FFO, a cash-flow measure used by
REITs, of $6.20 a share.  “Rental housing has benefited from a unique combination of
historically low supply, modest job and economic growth, a
sluggish for-sale market and fragile  consumer confidence ,”
AvalonBay Chief Executive Officer Timothy Naughton said on a
conference call with analysts. “While we might expect certain
aspects of this pattern to continue into this year, there are
likely to be some important differences that will impact
fundamentals and the longer-term outlook for our business.”  A recovery in U.S. home sales is slowing the increase in
rents across the country and helping drive down shares of
apartment REITs. While rents are likely to keep rising through
2017, the rate of annual growth peaked in July 2011 at 5.3
percent, according to research firm Axiometrics Inc.  Rent Growth  Rents probably will climb 3.6 percent this year, down from
3.8 percent in 2012, Dallas-based Axiometrics said in a report
this month. Rent growth was 4.2 percent in 2011.  AvalonBay shares fell 4.4 percent to $129.78 today at the
close in New York, the biggest decline since November 2011.  About 16 percent of AvalonBay tenants moved out to buy
homes in the fourth quarter, an increase of 80 basis points from
a year earlier, Sean Breslin, AvalonBay’s executive vice
president of investment and asset management, said on the call.
A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  In  Boston , 24 percent of tenants moved out to become
homeowners in the quarter, compared with a long-term average of
20 percent, Breslin said.  The company said yesterday that it expects 2013 net
operating income from apartment buildings open at least a year
to increase 4 percent to 5.5 percent, compared with growth of
7.6 percent last year.  “The deceleration in the same-store guidance could scare
investors,” Rod Petrik, an analyst with Stifel Nicolaus & Co.
in Baltimore, said in a note to investors today. He has a hold
recommendation on AvalonBay shares.  A Bloomberg index of 16 apartment REITs has  fallen  9.4
percent since July 17, when the group hit a post-financial
crisis high. The gauge had more than tripled since a post-crisis
low in March 2009 amid rising rents and falling vacancies caused
by the surge in home foreclosures.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oshrat Carmiel in  New York  at 
 ocarmiel1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  