-- Baltic Dispute Over Russian Power May Delay Joint Market
-- B y   O t t   U m m e l a s   a n d   B r y a n   B r a d l e y
-- 2013-01-31T17:00:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/baltic-dispute-over-russian-power-may-delay-joint-market.html
The final integration of the
European Union’s three Baltic states to the Nordic power
exchange may be delayed past June as Estonia and  Latvia  disagree
over whether  Russia  should be given import preference.  Estonia opposes Latvia’s plan to reserve part of the power
transmission capacity for trade with Russia, Taavi Veskimagi,
head of the grid operator Elering AS, said by e-mail yesterday.
That would worsen summer overloads on the Estonian-Latvian
border and lead to more Russian imports of power by Latvia and
Lithuania, he said. Lithuanian grid operator  Litgrid AB (LGD1L)  agrees,
its chief executive said today in Vilnius.  Latvia is due on June 3 to start day-ahead power trading on
the Nord Pool Spot AS platform already used by Estonia and
Lithuania. Connecting the Baltics to power markets and networks
in neighboring European Union countries is a priority for the
European Commission.  “Creating Latvia’s market area according to this model
that we’ve been informed about would harm the European Union’s
internal electricity market functioning,” Veskimagi said.
“This would violate the aims of the political agreement between
the countries in the  Baltic Energy Market Interconnection
Plan .”  The opening of the Latvian market must be postponed until a
regional agreement has been reached on the set-up for the
Nordpool Spot Latvian area, he said.  Market Integration  The absence of Latvia makes  Lithuania  an isolated area for
power trading as it only has cross-border connections to the
Russian enclave of Kaliningrad and Belarus, and none to the
Nordic or EU power markets.  Integration will ensure efficient power trading and flows
from low-price areas to high-price areas, with cross-border
transmission set to grow as grid operators boost physical
integration of the Baltic and Nordic regions with new
infrastructure, Hando Sutter, Nord Pool sales manager for the
Baltic countries and Russia, said last October.  “Litgrid’s position is that total Latvian-Estonian
capacity - 3 lines - should be given for the Baltic market and
allocated by Nord Pool Spot,” Chief Executive Officer
Virgilijus Poderys said in an e-mailed response to Bloomberg
questions today. “Litgrid also made a proposal on how, in such
a case, to calculate and allocate capacity to third parties.”  Operator Agreement  Grid operators of the three countries plan to reach an
agreement before a meeting in the middle of March, he added.  Nord Pool Spot has 370 member companies from 20 countries
who trade power in the Nordic and Baltic regions, and in the
U.K., with 316 terawatt-hours bought and sold last year.  Transmission capacity between Estonia and Latvia, which
amounts to about 750 megawatts during the summer period, would
be cut to 500 megawatts under the Latvian plan, Veskimagi said.  Last July, 92 percent of the capacity was used, showing
Latvian and Lithuanian demand for Nordic electricity when
Latvian hydroenergy levels are low and Lithuanian gas-fired co-
generation plants can’t offer competitive prices, according to
an  Elering report  published last week.  “This is just a game the Estonians are playing,” Jonas Garbaravicius, a member of the supervisory board of Inter RAO
UES’s Baltic unit,  Inter RAO Lietuva AB (IRL) , said today by phone
from Vilnius. “There is no technical basis for this discussion.
There’s enough capacity for everyone.  Ignalina Shutdown  Inter RAO Lietuva, which sells Russian electricity supplied
by state-controlled OAO Inter RAO UES, has a market share of
about 20 percent in Latvia, which it plans to increase, he
added.  Following the closing of the Soviet-era Ignalina nuclear
plant in late 2009 as part of a deal to join the EU, Lithuania
has increasingly relied on Russian electricity, with imports
meeting 75 percent of local demand in the second quarter of last
year, according to Elering data.  ‘‘A solution would be to use a joint pan-Baltic virtual
bidding area for electricity imports from Russia by distributing
supply between the three markets in a way that would allow using
today’s transmission capacity between  Estonia  and Latvia without
causing overloads,” Veskimagi said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ott Ummelas in Tallinn at 
 oummelas@bloomberg.net ;
Bryan Bradley in Vilnius at 
 bbradley13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  