-- Santander Profit Misses Estimates on Higher Provisions
-- B y   C h a r l e s   P e n t y
-- 2013-01-31T17:05:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/banco-santander-profit-misses-estimates-on-spanish-provisions.html
Banco Santander SA (SAN)  posted a fourth-
quarter profit that missed analyst estimates as Spain’s biggest
lender set aside money for further loan losses in its home
market and earnings slumped in  Brazil  and Britain.  Net income  rose to 401 million euros ($544 million) from 47
million euros in the year-earlier period when it took one-time
charges including 1.8 billion euros to cover real estate losses,
the Santander, Spain-based bank said in a regulatory filing
today. Earnings missed the 801.6 million-euro average  estimate 
of 11 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Santander took provisions of 18.8 billion euros last year,
6.6 billion euros more than in 2011, after the government
ordered banks to recognize losses on real estate and it set
aside charges to cover more defaults. While Santander Chairman
 Emilio Botin  said in a statement that 2013 earnings would see a
“marked recovery,” quarterly earnings at the Brazil and U.K.
subsidiaries, two of its largest, slumped.  “Spain by itself should be enough to make 2012 a  turning
point  for earnings because there were a lot of one-off costs for
real estate,” said Carlos Joaquim Peixoto, an analyst at  Banco
BPI SA (BPI)  in Porto,  Portugal , with a buy rating on the shares.
“The performance of other regions, especially Brazil, still
represents a significant challenge.”  ‘Full Productivity’  Santander shares fell 3.5 percent to 6.18 euros at close of
trading in Madrid. They’ve advanced 1.3 percent this year,
compared with an 8.5 percent gain for the 38-member Bloomberg
 Europe  Banks and Financial Services Index.  Banco Bilbao Vizcaya
Argentaria SA (BBVA) , Spain’s second-biggest bank, which reports
earnings tomorrow, has climbed 5.2 percent.  Botin signaled confidence at a press conference in Madrid
today, saying Spain and Europe were “entering a new phase”
that would yield clearer signs of recovery in 2014.  “We are close to a change in the cycle,” he said. Botin,
who is 78, joked with a journalist who asked about his future
plans, saying he and Chief Executive Officer Alfredo Saenz, 70,
were operating at “full productivity.”  Provisioning costs for covering asset impairments jumped 22
percent from a year ago to 3.13 billion euros, the bank said.
Bad loans as a proportion of total loans climbed to 4.54 percent
at group level from 4.33 percent in September and to 6.74
percent from 6.38 percent at its Spanish business, it said.  ECB Loans  Profit before costs of provisions fell to 5.38 billion
euros compared with 5.68 billion euros in the third quarter and
5.54 billion euros in the same quarter a year ago.  “With the exceptional write-offs behind us, we should see
a marked increase in earnings, based on the group’s recurrent
revenues and cost control,” Botin said.  The bank returned 24 billion euros of emergency three-year
loans from the  European Central Bank  and keeps 11 billion euros
of so-called LTRO funding as “liquidity insurance,” it said.  The lender cut real estate holdings by half to 12.5 billion
euros as it sold 33,500 properties owned by the bank and
property developers. The bank assigned 1 billion euros to its
budget to cover costs of accelerated real estate sales because
of concerns about a so-called “bad bank” set up by the
government to absorb the soured property of nationalized lenders
might affect the market, Saenz said on a webcast today.  Santander’s core capital ratio, a measure of financial
strength, slipped to 10.33 percent from 10.38 percent in
September, it said.  Spanish Lending  Net interest income, the difference between what a bank
earns from lending and what it pays on deposits, slipped 5.1
percent from a year ago to 7.15 billion euros as net lending
fell 3.9 percent. Deposits dropped 0.9 percent from a year ago,
according to the statement.  Profit from  Spain  rose to 236 million euros from 29 million
euros a year ago, while lending in the country fell 8.5 percent,
Santander said.  The bank said last month it would buy out minority
investors in its  Banco Espanol de Credito SA  Spanish consumer
unit and shutter 700 branches to cut costs. Spanish deposits
jumped 22 billion euros in 2012, the bank said. The bad loans
ratio at its Spanish branch network climbed to 9.65 percent in
the fourth quarter from 9.56 percent in the third.  “The results in the two major profit centers -- U.K. and
Brazil -- were disappointing,” Patrick Lee and Adrian Cighi,
London-based analysts at RBC Europe Ltd., said in a e-mailed
note. “All the difficult trends remain for the Spanish
divisions.”  Quarterly earnings from Brazil dropped 18 percent from a
year ago to 524 million as net interest income fell and loan-
loss provisions rose. The bad-loans ratio for Brazil climbed for
a fifth quarter to 6.86 percent from 6.79 percent in September.
Profit from the U.K. slumped 34 percent to 271 million euros as
net interest income declined 21 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Penty in  Madrid   at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  