-- Bangladesh Lowers Rates for First Time Since 2009 to Spur Growth
-- B y   A r u n   D e v n a t h
-- 2013-01-31T09:32:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/bangladesh-lowers-rates-for-first-time-since-2009-to-spur-growth.html
Bangladesh cut  interest rates  for
the first time since 2009 to support economic growth, citing
risks to expansion from an uncertain global outlook.  Bangladesh Bank  lowered its benchmark repurchase rate to
7.25 percent from 7.75 percent, it said in Dhaka today. The
monetary-policy stance for January through June seeks to bolster
investment in productive industries, avert asset bubbles, damp
inflation and minimize excessive currency swings, it said.  The nation follows  India  in reducing borrowing costs this
month as an uneven global recovery clouds the outlook for its
pivotal apparel exports. Bangladesh is under pressure to boost
safety standards in the industry after recent deadly factory
blazes. Central bank Governor Atiur Rahman has said labor
conditions can improve without hurting competitiveness.  “The main challenge of the central bank in future would be
how to control inflation and, at the same time, ensure higher
economic growth,” Fahmida Khatun, the research director at the
Centre for Policy Dialogue in Dhaka, said before the
announcement.  The economy will expand more than 6 percent in the fiscal
year through June 2013, in line with the 10-year average, though
growth will probably fall short of the government’s 7.2 percent
target, the central bank said.  The goal of an average inflation rate of 7.5 percent
“appears achievable, though risks remain,” such as energy and
food prices, it said.  Consumer-price growth  was 7.69 percent in
December, moderating from almost 12 percent in September 2011.  Supporting Lending  The monetary authority said in today’s statement that it’s
made room for increased lending, while remaining “committed to
bringing inflation down further.”  Before today’s cut, the nation had raised the repurchase
rate 325 basis points since August 2010 to damp price rises.  “Declining inflation has created the space for the repo-
rate reduction, which should have an impact on lending rates and
stimulate more growth-enhancing investments,” said Hassan Zaman,
chief economist of  Bangladesh  Bank. “At the same time, BB is
mindful of inflation risks and has calibrated the rate cut
accordingly, keeping in mind this inflation-growth balance.”  More than 75 percent  of Bangladesh’s population lives on
less than $2 per day, World Bank data shows. A legacy of
political instability and corruption are among obstacles to
faster growth in the  $119 billion economy  to reduce poverty.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Arun Devnath in Dhaka at 
 adevnath@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  