-- Banks Sell Most Notes Tied to Serbia Sovereign Debt in 20 Months
-- B y   A l a s t a i r   M a r s h
-- 2013-01-31T13:04:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/banks-sell-most-notes-tied-to-serbia-sovereign-debt-in-20-months.html
Banks sold the most structured notes
tied to Serbian  government bonds  in more than 1 1/2 years this
month as investors seek yields as high as 10 percent while the
country curbs issuance of debt in the local currency.  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and Standard Bank Group Ltd. sold $68.6
million of notes, the most tied to the country’s debt since the
$76.4 million issued in May 2011, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Investors seeking higher yields amid near-zero  interest
rates  in the U.S. and the euro area are turning to the largest
former Yugoslav republic, where the government is focusing on
external debt markets to raise funds, reducing the supply of
local currency debt. The Balkan nation is also seeking a new
loan agreement with the  International Monetary Fund  to increase
economic stability.  “Suggestions that talks with the IMF and EU will be back
on track in 2013, as well as the high yields in comparison to
other countries in the region and the scarcity of local assets
all add up to buying notes linked to Serbian dinar local debt,”
said Aaron Gregory, an  emerging markets  credit trader at
Citigroup in London.  Serbia’s Finance Minister  Mladjan Dinkic  said in September
he wants to cut state borrowing in the home market to avoid
crowding out the private sector and look to foreign funds to
plug budget holes and repay debts. The country will seek as much
as $3 billion in funds from abroad in 2013, Dinkic said on Jan.
15.  Citigroup Sale  Credit-linked notes, which tend to have higher yields and
tailored maturities that may not be available in the  bond
market , could prove attractive given the shortage of local
currency bonds, Citigroup’s Gregory said.  The third-biggest U.S. bank by assets sold 1.65 billion
Serbian dinar ($19.8 million) of five-year notes that pay a 10
percent coupon and were bought at a 9.9 percent discount to par,
Bloomberg data show. The coupon and redemption amounts are paid
in euros.  Standard Bank  issued $34.9 million of notes tied to Serbia.
Africa’s biggest lender raised $21 million via three offerings
on Jan. 18 linked to Serbian treasury bills that mature in
April.  Serbia is seeking a new IMF loan deal to shore up
confidence in government policies after the fiscal deficit
reached a record 7.2 percent of gross domestic product in June.
The government has repeatedly said it won’t seek IMF cash, only
a standby loan program.  Investors in credit-linked notes suffer losses if the bank
issuing the securities or the reference entity defaults.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alastair Marsh in London at 
 amarsh25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  