-- Banks Chided by Basel Group Over Trading-Book Capital Disclosure
-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 2013-01-31T12:04:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/banks-chided-by-basel-group-over-trading-book-capital-disclosure.html
Global regulators criticized the way
banks disclose how they calculate the amount of capital to hold
against trading assets, finding “substantial variations” in
the lenders’ risk assessments.  The quality of public information is “insufficient to
allow investors and other interested parties to assess how much
of the variation reflects differing levels of actual risk and
how much is a result of other factors,” the  Basel Committee on
Banking Supervision  said in a report on its website today.  U.S. bankers, including  Jamie Dimon , chief executive
officer of  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , have said that flexible
implementation of previous rounds of Basel capital rules in the
European Union has allowed European lenders to hold less capital
against some assets than their U.S. counterparts. The U.K.’s
Financial Services Authority is reviewing banks’ so-called risk
weighted assets for a report to be published as early as March.  Banks applied their own risk calculations for between 10
percent and 80 percent of their total trading assets, according
to the Basel review, which cited data from the end of 2011.
Calculations could differ depending on the use of hedging
strategies, decisions by national regulators and the types of
risk models banks use, the Basel group said.  Financial firms with a greater appetite for trading risk
are meant to apply a higher capital ratio, the committee said in
the report.  The Basel committee brings together regulators from 27
nations, including the U.K., U.S. and  China , to set capital
rules for banks. The requirements it sets are measured as a
percentage of lenders’ risk-weighted assets. The latest round,
known as Basel III, states that banks should have core reserves
equivalent to 7 percent of their RWAs.  Regulators could respond with tougher disclosure rules or
“limitations in the modelling choices for banks,”  Stefan Ingves , chairman of the Basel committee, said in a speech in
 Cape Town  last week.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Moshinsky in London at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 