-- Barnier Tells EU Lawmakers in Letter Not to Block Swaps Rules
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2013-02-01T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/barnier-tells-eu-lawmakers-in-letter-not-to-block-swaps-rules.html
Michel Barnier, the European Union’s
financial services chief, told lawmakers to drop a threat to
block derivatives rules, saying the plan may harm the EU’s
credibility and give its global competitors a boost.  Delaying the measures on over-the-counter derivatives
trades “would have serious implications on our credibility vis-
a-vis our international partners, at a time when key discussions
on the cross-border application of rules on OTC derivatives are
taking place,” according to a letter from Barnier, dated Jan.
30, and obtained by Bloomberg News.  Global regulators are seeking to toughen rules for the  $639
trillion market  for OTC derivatives, which became a target for
oversight after the 2008 collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc., and the rescue of  American International Group Inc. (AIG) , two
of the largest traders in credit default swaps.  The Group of 20 nations agreed in 2009 that standard types
of OTC trades should be pushed through clearinghouses, and
logged in repositories. The EU adopted legislation in 2012 to
apply the international agreement and is now in the process of
adopting technical rules to flesh out the law.  Members of the European Parliament have threatened to
reject two technical standards proposed by Barnier’s aides amid
concerns they would be too onerous for non-financial businesses
and aren’t in line with the overall legislation. The
parliament’s economic and monetary affairs committee is
scheduled to vote on the matter on Monday.  Extremely Unsatisfactory  “We have found the procedure extremely unsatisfactory,”
Sharon Bowles, chairwoman of parliament’s economic and monetary
affairs committee, said in an e-mail.  “In particular the timing of the commission’s adoption of
the delegated regulations just before recess meant that under
normal procedure we would have only had one week to scrutinize
the technical standards,” Bowles said.  Lawmakers are  concerned  the rules may force non-financial
companies to begin passing their trades through clearinghouses
even when the value of such transactions are “considerably
below systemic relevance,” according to documents published on
the assembly’s website.  “There continue to be several areas of concern with the
technical standards,” Bowles said.  Stalling adoption of the technical rules “risks creating a
competitive disadvantage for EU firms” and clearinghouses,
according to Barnier’s letter, which is addressed to Werner Langen, the lawmaker in charge of scrutinizing the draft
standards in the parliament.  Central Counterparties  Stefaan De Rynck, a spokesman for Barnier, and Werner
Langen couldn’t be immediately reached for comment.  Clearinghouses such as LCH.Clearnet Group Ltd. and  Deutsche
Boerse AG’s (DB1)  Eurex Clearing operate as central counterparties for
every buy and sell order executed by their members, who post
collateral, reducing the threat from a trader’s default.  Should the committee oppose the rules, the dossier would
then be sent to the full assembly for further review. If it
rejects the draft standards, they couldn’t enter into force. The
commission, with input from the European Securities and Markets
Authority, would then need to re-adopt a version of the measures
for review by lawmakers and national governments.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  