-- Barrick Starts Energy Unit Sale Process
-- B y   L i e z e l   H i l l   a n d   A o y o n   A s h r a f
-- 2013-02-01T21:13:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/barrick-may-sell-energy-unit-as-it-reviews-non-core-assets.html
Barrick Gold Corp. (ABX)  is considering the
sale of the company’s Barrick Energy unit as the world’s largest
gold producer looks to offload underperforming assets.  The company, based in Toronto, has started a sales process
for the oil and gas unit,  Andy Lloyd , a Barrick spokesman, said
yesterday in an e-mail.  Chief Executive Officer Jamie Sokalsky, who took the job in
June, is reviewing Barrick’s operations after a jump in the
estimated cost of Pascua-Lama, a multibillion-dollar gold mine
on the Argentina-Chile border. Assets that don’t meet
requirements for returns and cash flow will be “deferred,
shelved or divested,” he said in Toronto on Jan. 29.  Barrick said Jan. 8 it ended talks on the sale of its
African unit to China National Gold Group Corp. without reaching
an agreement. Sokalsky said at the time Barrick had received
approaches from companies interested in some of its other
assets.  The company may still seek to sell its majority stake in
 African Barrick Gold Plc (ABG)  as well as mines in  Australia , said
 George Topping , an analyst at Stifel Nicolaus & Co. in Toronto.  “They need to slim down and focus on getting the most out
of their best assets,” he said in a phone interview today.
“Getting rid of the energy is just simplifying the business.”.  Energy Hedging  Barrick is reviewing the operating plan for its Lumwana
copper mine in  Zambia , acquired through its C$7.3 billion
takeover of Equinox Minerals Ltd. in 2011. The mine’s
performance has been “unacceptable,” Sokalsky said Jan. 29.  Barrick rose 1.1 percent to C$32.10 in Toronto. The shares
have dropped 35 percent in the past year, compared with a 2
percent gain in the S&P/Toronto Stock Exchange Composite Index.  Barrick Energy had  revenue  of $177 million in 2011 and
assets valued at $1.1 billion, Barrick said in filings in
February 2012. The unit, originally known as Cadence Energy
Inc., was acquired for C$410 million ($410 million) in 2008.  Barrick hedges fuel costs through Barrick Energy’s
production, as well as using financial contracts, Lloyd said.  “The net contribution we receive from Barrick Energy has
been diminished as a result of the spread between the Edmonton
Par price that Barrick Energy receives and WTI,” he said. “The
divestment of Barrick Energy is not expected to have a material
impact on Barrick’s cash costs based on the current spread.”  Valhalla Assets  Benchmark Canadian crude currently trades at a  discount  of
about $31.50 to West Texas Intermediate because of scant
capacity to move oil from  Alberta .  Whitecap Resources Inc. (WCP) , based in Calgary, may be a
potential bidder for Barrick’s Valhalla assets in Alberta, Tim Murray, an analyst at Desjardins Securities Inc., said in an e-
mail. Barrick and Whitecap each own 50 percent of the Valhalla
assets.  Whitecap would be interested in Barrick’s stake in the
assets “for the right price,” CEO Grant Fagerheim said in an
e-mail yesterday.  Barrick Energy’s various assets may have different natural
buyers, said Don Rawson, an analyst at AltaCorp Capital Inc. in
Calgary.  “Barrick may need to weigh finding the best price for the
pieces versus selling it whole,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Liezel Hill in Toronto at 
 lhill30@bloomberg.net ;
Aoyon Ashraf in Toronto at 
 aashraf7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  