-- Bawag Leaves Mediation With Linz in $566 Million Swaps Dispute
-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 2013-01-31T17:25:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/bawag-leaves-mediation-with-linz-in-566-million-swaps-dispute.html
Bawag PSK Bank AG, the Austrian
lender controlled by U.S. private-equity groups, walked away
from mediation talks over 417 million euros ($566 million) it is
seeking from the Austrian city of Linz.  Bawag, controlled by Cerberus Capital Management LP and
GoldenTree Asset Management LP, will focus on the case pending
in the Vienna Commercial Court, it said in an e-mailed statement
today. Bawag sued Linz in November 2011 after Linz had sued the
bank, saying it didn’t inform  Austria ’s third-biggest city about
the risks of a 195 million Swiss franc ($214 million) swap
contract closed in 2007.  “Bawag PSK continues to be interested in settling with the
city of Linz out of court, but if necessary it is ready to fight
the case through all instances,” Bawag said in the statement.  The city of Linz said in an e-mailed statement that the
mediation, which started last year, can’t be terminated
unilaterally, and that it thought the mediation was useful.  Disputes over swap agreements, typically used by municipal
agencies to lower interest payments, have spread through Europe
with lawsuits in  Germany ,  Italy  and the U.K. Deutsche Bank AG,
 Europe ’s biggest lender by assets, in March lost a case over
swaps in the first ruling by Germany’s highest court concerning
sales of the products.  Linz, which also says the contract was entered into without
proper approvals, is seeking 30.6 million francs in the case.  GoldenTree acquired a 39 percent stake in Bawag last year.
New York-based Cerberus holds 52 percent of the bank, which is
Austria’s fourth-biggest lender.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  