-- Be Very Afraid When Fear Disappears From Markets
-- B y   D e a n   C u r n u t t
-- 2013-01-31T23:30:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/be-very-afraid-when-fear-disappears-from-markets.html
These days, many indicators suggest
we are in an extremely low-risk market environment. The Chicago
Board Options Exchange Volatility Index, or VIX, sometimes known
as the fear index, has reached a five-year low. European
sovereign-bond yields, long a source of anxiety, have eased
since their uncomfortable march higher in 2011, and the euro has
risen 13 percent from its 2010 low.  Options on currencies also suggest little fear in that
market. In the U.S., the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  rose 13
percent last year and the average forecast among Wall Street
analysts is for a 9.4 percent gain this year, supported by
growing profits and investor willingness to pay more for each
dollar of earnings. In  Europe , bank balance sheets are still
fragile, but the rally in share prices inspired by European
Central Bank President Mario Draghi’s “whatever it takes”
pledge last summer left financial companies in far better shape
to weather turmoil.  To be sure, meaningful progress has been made in escaping
the abyss of systemic risk that enveloped the U.S. in 2008 and
Europe in 2011. But policy makers should avoid the trap of
reading too much into this stable environment.  In today’s world, the meager level of the VIX and record-
low yields on credit-market instruments are largely linked to
the Federal Reserve’s accommodative monetary policy, which is
artificially damping market risk. In the wonderfully succinct
words of John Burbank, the chief investment officer of Passport
Management LLC in San Francisco, “price is a liar.” Perhaps no
price is more dishonest than that of U.S. Treasuries, whose
yields are being held down by the Fed’s quantitative-easing
program, in which the central bank buys billions of dollars in
government securities each month.  Facing Reality  Recent history is rife with periods when the price of risk
failed to reflect obvious financial realities. In 2000, we
watched technology-stock valuations reach stratospheric highs
where entirely new valuation metrics were invented to justify
prices. By early 2003, tech-stock prices had plunged more than
60 percent.  In January 2007, with the  housing bubble  at absurd
proportions (home price-to-rent ratios reached levels never seen
before) the VIX closed at less than 10, the lowest since
December 1993. It took 18 months, but ultimately stock markets
buckled and the VIX surged to 80 as credit risk and mortgage
securities underwent a wrenching global repricing.  Of course, most recently, the market was forced to
acknowledge that it had badly mispriced the risk in European
sovereign debt, leading to a three-year fire drill of summits,
intervention measures and bailouts.  Policy makers should take caution from these recent periods
of financial history. The important point is that the price of
risk can sometimes stray from fundamentals.  In the U.S., a yield of less than 2 percent on 10-year
Treasuries is entirely disconnected from the fiscal challenges
in plain sight and the poisonous debt-ceiling showdown that
could be in the offing. Treasuries are a bad deal for most
investors, supported only by the easy-money policies of Fed
Chairman Ben Bernanke. Other asset classes look like a less-bad
proposition, and the need to generate returns in such a low-
yield environment could lead to disastrously unsound financial
decision making.  In the old days,  bond-market vigilantes  were around to
enforce fiscal and monetary discipline. If the Fed increased the
money supply too fast, bond traders were there to keep the
central bank in check. When the U.S. ran big deficits, the
vigilantes either sold their holdings, or threatened to sell,
raising the Treasury’s costs to issue debt.  Default Rally  Today, it works differently. Recall that when the U.S. was
near the brink of default in 2011, the bond market rallied as
stocks swooned amid the downgrade of the U.S.’s credit rating.
Previously, buying or selling by the vigilantes had a counter-
cyclical impact, limiting the degree to which money supply and
fiscal balance sheets could expand.  Today, Treasuries rally in  Pavlovian  fashion when
uncertainty rises and investors flee from riskier assets such as
stocks, commodities and other speculative holdings.
Unfortunately, this behavior serves to reinforce the mispricing
of U.S. government-bond risk and further distort investment
choices.  Artificially low Treasury yields also enable the
complacency of policy makers who fail to act with urgency in
tackling the U.S. debt problem. To wit, the various proposals
for deficit reduction all assume that interest rates will remain
exceptionally low well into the future. This is an unwise
assumption to make.  As we experienced so recently with the price and
availability of mortgage credit, market prices can quickly
become complicit in both bubbles and busts. One must wonder if
the Fed’s  campaign  to suppress interest rates is abetting a
similarly dangerous buildup of government debt at prices that
are divorced from the true risk profile. There is nothing safe
about today’s Treasury yields in the context of the frightening
debt dynamics in the U.S. Although the Fed seems determined to
stay the course, one must wonder what might happen to riskier
assets if Treasury yields jump.  Absent a credible approach to dealing with the U.S.’s
fiscal challenges, at some point the bond vigilantes will re-
emerge. Let’s hope our policy makers heed the recent lessons
from financial history and act before the market does.  (Dean Curnutt is the founder and chief executive officer of
Macro Risk Advisors in New York. The opinions expressed are his
own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Dean Curnutt at  dcurnutt@macroriskadvisors.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  