-- Before Beyonce, the Greatest Super Bowl Halftime Show
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   M a h l e r
-- 2013-01-31T23:31:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/before-beyonce-the-greatest-super-bowl-halftime-show.html
We have grown accustomed to seeing
the  Super Bowl  halftime show as a showcase for aging rockers or
mainstream pop stars -- so accustomed, in fact, that it’s easy
to forget that it was once a showcase for a singing quasi-cult
of closeted gay youths.  Yes, I’m talking about Up With People, the unlikely
progenitors of the modern-day Super Bowl halftime show.  Remember  Up With People ?  The group was born in the 1960s, an ensemble of clean-cut
youngsters who sang and danced to upbeat songs written expressly
to counter the cynicism of the counterculture. (Sample titles:
“Freedom Isn’t Free” and “What Color Is God’s Skin?”)  On stage, they were members of a polymorphous shock troop
of cultural ambassadors projecting an image of boundless joy --
cast members were required to smile for the duration of their
performances -- not to mention innocence and purity. Offstage,
they were normal teenagers and twenty-somethings, which is to
say that they experimented with sex and drugs on their tour bus.  Also -- surprise! -- the male cast members were
disproportionately gay. “What kind of guy wants to prance
around in a bodysuit on a stage?” says Eric Roos, a former
Uppie who now runs a cosmetics company in  San Francisco  called
Nancy Boy Products. “It was a huge percentage of gay guys with
the supposition that no one was gay.”  Marching Bands  Roos was part of the human car that rolled across the field
of the Pontiac Silverdome near  Detroit  during halftime of Super
Bowl XVI in January 1982 -- the third of Up With People’s four
halftime pageants.  Before Up With People came along, the Super Bowl halftime
show consisted mostly of university marching bands and high
school drill teams, which made a certain kind of sense:
Professional football was still trying to match the popularity
of the college game. The  National Football League  did offer an
occasional flourish of its own, usually as part of the pregame
ceremonies. For instance, in 1969 -- the year that gave America
Woodstock -- the NFL gave America Anita Bryant, who sang the
national anthem at Super Bowl III.  In the run-up to the 1976 Super Bowl, the NFL decided to
undertake a more ambitious halftime show. Don Weiss, the
executive in charge of game-day operations for the Super Bowl,
was on Up With People’s board; the father of a cast member was
friendly with then-NFL commissioner Pete Rozelle. During this
era of cultural malaise, the combination of the group’s upbeat
message and youthful exuberance proved irresistible to pro
football.  The Uppies performed at the 1976 Super Bowl in Miami (“200
Years and Just a Baby,” the bicentennial tribute show was
called), in 1980 in  Pasadena , and, of course, in 1982 at the
Silverdome.  Roos had joined Up With People after finishing his freshman
year at the  University of California  at Berkeley, taking a break
from college to travel around the world with his cast. General
Motors sponsored the trip to  Michigan  -- Up With People was
heavily dependent on its close ties to corporate America -- so
the group performed at some local GM facilities before their
engagement at the Silverdome.  At the Super Bowl, they sang a Motown medley, building up
to the grand finale: the human car. Roos was part of the hubcap.
“It’s mortifying,” Roos says now. “It felt like we were an
act in a high-school talent show.”  Floating Boats  Watching  the video  on YouTube, it’s hard to disagree.
Although, in fairness, they weren’t much worse than the rest of
the era’s halftime shows. Like, say, the NFL’s awkward stab at
multiculturalism in Miami in 1979 -- the “Caribbean Carnival,”
which featured a boat-shaped float “sailing” over a blue tarp,
with musicians playing regional tunes at each port. The Haitian
band never showed up, the tarp got snagged on the base of a goal
post, ripping the sea, and the float’s motor conked out near
 Puerto Rico . Or the 1989 show in Miami, which featured an Elvis
impersonator and “the world’s largest card trick.” Or the 1992
show in  Minneapolis , with Brian Boitano and Dorothy Hamill
skating on sheets of Teflon spread over the field.  Up With People’s last Super Bowl performance was in 1986 in
 New Orleans . By this point, the group’s cultural moment had
passed; it was morning in America. Rozelle had grown sick of
them, anyway, reportedly telling his staff years earlier that
there were three words he never wanted to hear again: Up, with
and people.  Still, the Uppies left their mark on the game. As campy as
they may look now, they created the concept of the halftime show
as a free-standing cultural event of its own. It took a little
while for the NFL to figure out what sort of acts its viewers
really wanted, but if not for Roos and his fellow Uppies, we
might very well be watching the Southern University marching
band on Sunday night instead of Beyonce.  (Jonathan Mahler is a sports columnist for Bloomberg View
and a contributing writer for the  New York  Times Magazine. He is
the author of the best-selling “Ladies and Gentlemen, the Bronx
Is Burning” and “Death Comes to Happy Valley.” The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Jonathan Mahler at  jmahler11@bloomberg.net  or  @jonathanmahler  on
Twitter.  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
 Michael Newman  at   mnewman43@bloomberg.net . 