-- Beijing Says Air to Improve ‘Noticeably’ as Snow, Rain Forecast
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-01-31T01:56:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/beijing-says-air-to-improve-noticeably-as-snow-rain-forecast.html
Beijing said  air quality  will
“improve noticeably” tomorrow as snow and rain was forecast
for the Chinese capital today and pollution levels moderated.  The concentration of PM2.5, fine air particulates that pose
the greatest human health risk, fell to 139 micrograms per cubic
meter at 8 a.m. near  Tiananmen Square  from a 203 average in the
past 24 hours, according to the city’s environmental monitoring
center. The U.S. Embassy rated today’s air “very unhealthy”
with a PM2.5 reading of 183. The  World Health Organization 
recommends 24-hour exposure of no higher than 25.  A  cold spell  will bring precipitation to China’s northern
and central regions from today through Feb. 2, dissipating fog
in those areas, the  China  Meteorological Administration said on
its website. Haze in those regions will also be reduced, the
weather agency said.  The Beijing Municipal Environmental Monitoring Center gave
today’s air quality the next to lowest rating on the city’s six-
level scale, which includes a recommendation for children, the
elderly and people with heart and lung conditions to stay
indoors. The center forecast improved air quality tomorrow.  The city has shut factories and ordered some vehicles
belonging to the government and state-owned companies off the
roads as an emergency response to the pollution.  Beijing’s traffic management bureau caught more than 800
official cars  breaking the ban , the Beijing Times reported
today, citing Wu Dacang, a deputy director at the Beijing
government’s general office. Relevant government departments
will investigate the agencies that own those vehicles, the
newspaper reported without citing anyone.  Beijing’s PM2.5 concentration have exceeded the WHO’s
“healthy” limit every day this month, based on daily peak
readings from the U.S. Embassy. The pollution levels were
similar to that in an airport smoking lounge, based on
comparisons with data from the U.S. Centers for Disease Control
and Prevention in Atlanta.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Chua Baizhen in Beijing at 
 bchua14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Liu  at 
 jliu42@bloomberg.net  