-- Bertelsmann Plans to Cut $2.7 Billion RTL Stake to Fund M&A
-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n   a n d   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 2013-02-01T08:29:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/bertelsmann-considers-cutting-stake-in-broadcaster-rtl-to-75-.html
Bertelsmann SE plans to sell a 2
billion-euro ($2.7 billion) stake in broadcasting division  RTL
Group SA (RTL)  as Europe’s largest media company looks for takeover
targets to accelerate growth.  Bertelsmann intends to lower its stake in Luxembourg-based
RTL to about 75 percent from 92.3 percent, it said yesterday. A
sale would free funds for a larger acquisition, with potential
targets including  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) ’s online classifieds
business Scout24 Holding GmbH as well as Springer Science &
Business Media, the German academic publisher owned by EQT
Partners AB, according to a person familiar with the matter who
asked not to be identified because the discussions are private.  RTL fell 10 percent to 67.98 euros at 9:14 a.m. in
Brussels, the biggest intraday drop in 1 1/2 years. Chief
Executive Officer Thomas Rabe is looking for acquisitions to
reduce Bertelsmann’s dependence on Europe. Based in Guetersloh,
 Germany , the media group’s assets range from magazine publisher
Gruner + Jahr to outsourcing division Arvato. Its Random House
publishing unit agreed in October to merge with  Pearson Plc (PSON) ’s
Penguin division to create by far the largest book publisher in
the U.K. and the U.S.  “The sale of RTL Group shares would be one element in
financing the long-term corporate strategy,” Rabe said in a
statement. “The goal is to make Bertelsmann a faster growing,
more digital and more international company in the years
ahead.”  Special Dividend  Based on yesterday’s close, before Bertelsmann announced
the disposal plan, RTL had a market value of 11.7 billion euros,
with the stake it intends to cut valued at about 2 billion
euros.  RTL,  Europe ’s largest broadcaster, said the timing will
depend on a “favorable” market environment. No decision has
been made on whether the shares will be sold on the open market
or to a strategic investor, according to the person.  The broadcaster said it will consider a special dividend as
it looks for ways to make its capital structure more efficient.
Bertelsmann’s biggest unit by revenue, RTL generated about 60
percent of the group’s earnings before interest and taxes in
2011.  Bertelsmann has expressed interest in Springer Science &
Business Media, people familiar with the talks said in November.
EQT, the private-equity firm that bought the company in 2009,
had been seeking offers of as much as 4 billion euros, people
familiar with the talks have said.  Music Rights  Rabe also said last year that he wants to expand the BMG
music-rights unit and may acquire assets that Universal Music is
spinning off as a result of its EMI purchase. It could also seek
full control of BMG should its partner KKR & Co. decide to sell
its stake.  Deutsche Telekom, Germany’s former phone monopoly, is
evaluating a sale of Scout24 as an alternative to an initial
public offering of the unit, people familiar with the plans said
last month. The business, which includes real-estate and
automobile classifieds websites, could fetch about 1.5 billion
euros, and has also attracted the interest of  Axel Springer AG. (SPR)   Revenue Rises  A sale of an RTL stake for another takeover would mark a
return to dealmaking by Rabe a year into his role as
Bertelsmann’s CEO. In 2006, as chief financial officer, Rabe
orchestrated the 4.5 billion-euros purchase of a 25 percent
Bertelsmann stake from  Groupe Bruxelles Lambert SA. (GBLB)   The Mohn family owns 19.1 percent of Bertelsmann, which was
founded in 1835 by Carl Bertelsmann. The rest is held by
foundations including the Bertelsmann Foundation and the
Reinhard Mohn Foundation, whose boards count some Mohn family
members.  Bertelsmann said yesterday its 2012 revenue jumped about 4
percent to 16 billion euros, while earnings before interest and
taxes matched the previous year’s 1.7 billion euros. Net debt
fell to 1.2 billion euros from 1.8 billion euros a year earlier.  Still, Europe’s debt crisis has put greater pressure on the
company’s print businesses and operations in southern Europe.  Bertelsmann had previously said it would be open to taking
full control of RTL. In October, Luxembourg put a law into
effect that clarified rules for owners of more than 95 percent
of a publicly traded firm, such as RTL, to force minority
shareholders to sell their stakes, eliminating legal concerns
about a full takeover.  “We have always stressed that we could imagine a change in
ownership interest in either direction, so our plan, if we were
to execute it, is in line with our previous position,” Rabe
said yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net ;
Cornelius Rahn in Berlin at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  