-- Biden Presses Senate Democrats to Support Assault Weapon Ban
-- B y   H e i d i   P r z y b y l a
-- 2013-01-31T21:50:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/biden-presses-senate-democrats-to-support-assault-weapon-ban.html
Vice President  Joe Biden  urged
Democrats to back an assault weapons ban a day after few of the
party’s lawmakers championed the issue during the Senate’s first
hearing on gun violence after the Dec. 14 school shootings in
Connecticut.  Biden told reporters that during a lunch with Democratic
senators at the Capitol, he lobbied for passage of all the Obama
administration’s recent recommendations to cut gun violence,
including a ban on high-capacity ammunition magazines, universal
background checks for gun purchasers and a ban on some military-
style semiautomatic rifles.  Biden is leading President  Barack Obama ’s efforts to usher
new gun laws through Congress after the death of 20 children and
six educators in a mass shooting at Sandy Hook Elementary School
in Newtown,  Connecticut .  “The visual image of those 20 innocent children being
riddled with bullets has absolutely not only traumatized the
nation,” Biden said following the meeting, “it’s like the
straw that broke the camel’s back.”  The American people “will not understand if we don’t
act,” he said.  Advocates for stricter gun laws want to move quickly on new
laws in the aftermath of the Newtown massacre out of concern
that congressional momentum will fade with time.  The toughest challenge they face is moving an assault
weapons ban similar to the one passed in 1994 through the
Republican-led House. It faces a tough path, as well, in the
Senate where Democrats hold the majority.  Senate Skeptics  At least six of the 55 senators in the Democratic caucus
have expressed skepticism or outright opposition to such ban,
which expired in 2004, according to a recent Bloomberg review.
During a Senate hearing yesterday, the debate focused more on
enhancing the nation’s background check system for gun purchases
than it did on the assault weapons ban.  Senator Chuck Schumer, a  New York  Democrat, said it is
“too early to tell where the votes are” for individual gun
control measures, including the assault weapons ban.  “We’re going to work together to come up with the kind of
package that will be strong but passable,” Schumer said. “It’s
a tough job, we know that.”  ‘Sea Change’  Biden said there’s been a “sea change” in public
attitudes about restrictions on firearms since the Newtown
shootings and that has created an opportunity to act. Among
those now committed to new laws are sportsmen as well as  law
enforcement  and evangelical Christian groups, he said.  “There are things that we can do, demonstrably can do,
that have virtually zero impact on your Second Amendment right
to own a weapon for both self-defense and recreation that can
save some lives,” said Biden.  Senator  Frank Lautenberg , a New Jersey Democrat, predicted
“a lot of support” for his proposal to ban high-capacity
magazines, based on comments at today’s closed-door session.  “If murdering six-year-old children doesn’t turn this
country around, shame on us,” he said.  Biden and his allies in Congress face a tough battle with
the  National Rifle Association , the nation’s biggest gun lobby,
which opposes many of their initiatives.  NRA’s View  Earlier today, NRA President  David Keene  said his group
will oppose universal background checks for all gun purchasers.
They are also strongly opposed to an assault weapons ban.  Even as he expressed support for the National Instant
Criminal Background Check System, the federal system used by
licensed gun dealers, Keene said it shouldn’t be applied
universally or to private sales of firearms.  “We are not willing to support measures we feel unduly
burden innocent and law-abiding Americans, and on the other side
do not have any real impact on the problem we’re trying to
solve,” Keene said at a breakfast in  Washington  hosted by the
Christian Science Monitor.  He also said the Newtown massacre hasn’t changed his
group’s position on gun laws, and that gun control advocates are
trying to use the “emotion” surrounding the school shootings
“to achieve an anti-firearms agenda that they haven’t been able
to achieve in the past.,”  “I am convinced that as these things are discussed, that
we’re going to come out about where we’ve come out in the
past,” he said.  -- With assistance from Kathleen Hunter in Washington. Editors:
Don Frederick, Ann Hughey  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heidi Przybyla in Washington at 
 hprzybyla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  