-- Biggest Defense Spending Dive Shows Risk of U.S. Cuts
-- B y   N i c k   T a b o r e k   a n d   B r e n d a n   M c G a r r y
-- 2013-01-31T21:16:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/biggest-defense-spending-dive-since-vietnam-shows-risk-of-cuts.html
The year-end plunge in U.S.  defense 
spending may provide the industry with more ammunition to fight
automatic budget cuts it says will harm the economy.  Defense purchases in the fourth quarter plummeted 22
percent, the Commerce Department said yesterday. It was the
biggest decline since 1972, when military spending slumped as
the  Vietnam War  ebbed, and it contributed to the economy
shrinking at a 0.1 percent annual rate in the quarter.  The drop in defense expenditures may reflect the winding
down of two wars and $487 billion in military reductions already
planned over a decade. The automatic cuts would come on top of
those reductions.  “Those politicians are all on notice now,” Eric DeMarco,
chief executive officer of San Diego-based  Kratos Defense &
Security Solutions Inc. (KTOS) , said in a phone interview. “If they
don’t fix this, the country is going back into recession.”  The recent quarter’s figures “may be a harbinger of what’s
to come” under the automatic cuts, said Dan Stohr, a spokesman
for the Aerospace Industries Association, an Arlington,
Virginia-based organization that represents contractors. The
group has led efforts to prevent the cuts, saying the reductions
would result in more than 1 million jobs lost.  The fourth quarter’s outlays don’t reflect a sharp
contraction in annual defense spending. While defense outlays
plunged 22 percent from the previous quarter on an annualized
basis, spending for the year fell 3.1 percent from 2011,
according to Benjamin Mandel, an economist at the Commerce
Department’s  Bureau of Economic Analysis .  Contracts Rush  Defense expenditures totaled $677.2 billion in inflation-
adjusted dollars in 2012, compared with $699.1 billion in 2011,
according to bureau figures.  If the automatic cuts aren’t averted by March 1, defense
funds would decline 7.3 percent and nondefense federal programs
would fall 5.3 percent, according a Bloomberg Government
estimate.  The reductions would total $45 billion this year, according
to the Pentagon.  The automatic cuts will take place unless the Obama
administration and Congress work to stop them. It’s “more
likely than unlikely” that the reductions will take effect,
Deputy Defense Secretary  Ashton Carter  said on Jan. 29.  The fourth-quarter decline partly reflects a spike in
defense spending in the previous three-month period, Kevin
Brancato, an analyst at Bloomberg Government, said in a phone
interview. The Pentagon traditionally spends the most in the
third quarter, which marks the end of the government’s fiscal
year, as officials rush to use expiring funds.  Automatic Cuts  Third-quarter defense spending rose 13 percent compared
with the previous three months, an increase that may have been
sharper than usual this year because government buyers sought to
award as many contracts as possible before a year-end deadline
for the automatic cuts, he said. In a last-minute deal between
the White House and Congress, the reductions were delayed for
two months.  “These numbers do on a monthly and quarterly basis move
around,”  Byron Callan , a defense industry analyst at Capital
Alpha Partners LLC in Washington, said in a telephone interview.
“It should be viewed more as an aberration as opposed to some
new baseline or trend that people ought to think about in the
balance of this year.”  Iraq War  A spokeswoman for the Defense Department said Pentagon
officials don’t agree that the prospect of automatic cuts, known
as sequestration, played a role in the lower defense spending.  “This is not our data and we cannot comment on the
numbers, but the decline is likely a combination of reduced
Defense spending to support the reduced activity in Iraq and
 Afghanistan  and the limits in contractual activity engendered by
the 6-month continuing resolution,” Pentagon spokeswoman Army
Lieutenant Colonel Elizabeth Robbins said in an e-mailed
statement.  The Obama administration’s top economist had a different
view of the figures.  The 22 percent drop in defense outlays is probably due to
“uncertainty concerning the automatic spending cuts,” Alan Krueger, chairman of the White House Council of Economic
Advisers, wrote in a blog post yesterday after the Commerce
Department released the figures.  Contracting Slowdown  The Commerce Department’s figures echoed a similar decline
in the Pentagon’s announced contracts, which include only awards
of $6.5 million or more.  Military awards dropped 18 percent to $94.8 billion in the
quarter ended Dec. 31 from $115 billion in the previous quarter,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Spending on major Pentagon contracts weakened at the
beginning of 2013. Awards slumped 23 percent to $10.1 billion in
the first three weeks of January compared with $13.1 billion
during the same period in 2012, according to the data.  “There’s a huge bottleneck where things have clearly
slowed down,” said Stan Soloway, chief executive officer of the
Professional Services Council, an Arlington, Virginia-based
group that represents contractors such as  SAIC Inc. (SAI)  and  CACI
International Inc. (CACI)   Top defense contractors haven’t seen decreases in revenue
in line with the Commerce Department’s figures, analyst Callan
said.  ‘Solid Plan’  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) , based in Bethesda,  Maryland , last
week reported sales for the quarter of $12.1 billion, down less
than 1 percent from the year-ago period.  “As we look at our go-forward plan for this year, we have
a very strong portfolio and a solid plan in place,” Lockheed
Chief Executive Officer Marillyn Hewson said during a conference
call with reporters. “And even as we look at sequestration and
potential budget reductions, we’re not looking at planned job
reductions.”  Jennifer Allen, a Lockheed spokeswoman, said in an e-mail
that until the full effects of sequestration are known, “there
will be an overhang on our industry that stifles investment in
plants, equipment, people, and future research and development
essential to the future health of our industry.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nick Taborek in  Washington  at 
 ntaborek@bloomberg.net ;
Brendan McGarry in Washington at 
 bmcgarry2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Stoughton at 
 sstoughton@bloomberg.net  