-- BJ’s Board Gets Investor Suits Over 2011 Buyout Dismissed
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 2013-02-01T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/bj-s-board-gets-investor-suits-over-2011-buyout-dismissed.html
BJ’s Wholesale Club Inc.’s directors
won dismissal of investor claims that the board didn’t get
enough for the third-largest U.S. warehouse-club chain in a $2.8
billion buyout by two private-equity firms.  Officials of Westborough, Massachusetts-based BJ’s acted
properly in deciding to accept a $51.25-a-share buyout bid last
year from  Leonard Green  & Partners LP and  CVC Capital Partners 
instead of offers from two other unidentified bidders, Delaware
Chancery Court Judge John Noble concluded yesterday.  “The board’s conduct, as alleged in the complaint, seems
entirely reasonable,” Noble said in 41-page ruling throwing out
investors’ claims that directors accepted too low a price for
the company and negotiated the offer in bad faith.  Moody’s Investors Service downgraded BJ’s last year after
finding executives adopted a “highly aggressive” financial
strategy in the wake of the acquisition. The chain made two debt
offerings totaling more than $1.6 billion to refinance loans
tied to the buyout, which was completed in September 2011.  BJ’s is the No. 3 warehouse-club chain after  Costco
Wholesale Corp. (COST)  and  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) ’s Sam’s Club. The  New
York  Post newspaper  reported  last year that BJ’s executives
turned down a $55-a-share buyout offer from Wal-Mart, citing
antitrust concerns.  Michael Gennaro, a spokesman for Los Angeles-based Leonard
Green, didn’t immediately return a call seeking comment on
yesterday’s ruling.  Proper Process  Lawyers for a Virgin Islands-based  pension fund , the asset-
management division of a German bank and individual investors
who hold BJ’s shares sued over the buyout, arguing the chain’s
directors improperly favored Leonard Green’s bid to help protect
senior managers’ jobs.  Laura Sen, BJ’s chief executive officer, won assurances
that the funds would “retain BJ’s senior management following
consummation of the buyout” in return for backing the bid,
lawyers for investors argued in a court filing last year.  After hearing arguments in October, Noble found yesterday
that BJ’s directors properly set up a yearlong process for
reviewing bids for the chain and weren’t motivated by senior
executives’ concerns about their futures with the company.  “Allegations that the defendants manipulated the sales
process are largely unsubstantiated by the facts” presented in
investors’ suits, the judge said.  Shareholders also couldn’t show that a majority of BJ’s
board was “beholden to management” and would taint the sales
process to protect executives’ jobs, Noble added.  The case is In re BJ’s Wholesale Club Inc. Shareholders
Litigation, CA6623, Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  