-- Blackstone Fourth-Quarter Profit Rises on Market Gains
-- B y   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e
-- 2013-01-31T21:26:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/blackstone-fourth-quarter-profit-rises-on-market-gains.html
Blackstone Group LP (BX) , the world’s
largest manager of alternative assets such as private equity and
real estate, said fourth-quarter profit rose 43 percent as the
carrying value of its holdings gained.  Economic net income, a measure of earnings excluding some
costs tied to the firm’s 2007 initial public offering, increased
to $670 million, or 59 cents a share, from $468 million, or 42
cents, a year earlier, New York-based Blackstone  said  today. The
results beat the 47-cents average estimate of 15  analysts ,
sending the shares higher by the most in more than a year.  A 13 percent gain in global stocks last year and a
rebounding U.S. real estate market have lifted the value of fund
holdings, boosting fees for managing them. Chief Executive
Officer Stephen Schwarzman, who is leading a push among the
largest private-equity firms to expand beyond traditional
leveraged buyouts, said in an interview this month that the
global economy is “starting to turn the corner.”  “The pace of realizations picked up appreciably during the
fourth quarter, which drove better-than-expected results,” said
Steven Fu, a San Francisco-based analyst at JMP Securities LLC.
“In addition, the fundraising machine continues to deliver with
solid gross inflows across all segments.”  Shares Surge  Blackstone  rose  6.1 percent to close at $18.50 in New York,
its biggest one-day advance since November 2011. Earlier in the
day, the stock surged 8.7 percent. The shares have gained 19
percent this year.  Blackstone is seen as a bellwether for the buyout industry
given its size and reach across markets.  KKR & Co. (KKR) , the firm run
by cousins Henry Kravis and  George Roberts , and  Apollo Global
Management LLC (APO) , run by Leon Black, are scheduled to report
results next week. Both companies are based in New York.  Blackstone’s economic net income, or ENI, differs from U.S.
generally accepted accounting principles. Under those standards,
known as GAAP, Blackstone had net income of $106.4 million, or
19 cents per share, compared with a loss of $22.7 million, or 5
cents, a year earlier.  Private-equity firms pool money from investors including
pension plans and endowments with a mandate to buy companies
within about five to six years, then sell them and return the
funds with a profit after about 10 years. The firms, which use
debt to finance the deals and amplify returns, typically charge
an annual management fee equal to 1.5 percent to 2 percent of
committed funds and keep 20 percent of profit from investments.  Assets Rise  Blackstone’s assets under management rose to a record $210
billion, the most among peers, from $205 billion at the end of
the third quarter. Committed capital yet to be invested, known
as dry powder, was $35 billion.  Worldwide, the value of private-equity deals announced in
the fourth quarter rose 0.7 percent to $91.2 billion from a year
earlier, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Deals during
the year declined 20 percent to $413 billion, the data show.  Schwarzman, on a conference call today with investors and
analysts, said he expects deal volume to increase this year by
10 percent to 20 percent even as fiscal uncertainty caused by
the “dysfunctional political system” persists.  Blackstone said the value of its private-equity holdings
and of its real estate portfolio gained 14 percent in 2012. The
real estate business is the largest at the company by assets and
contributed 36 percent of economic income, or $246 million.
Private equity added 29 percent, or $198 million.  Real Estate  Blackstone plans to sell properties that it has held since
2007, and this year “will be bigger than 2012” for such
realizations, Tony James, Blackstone’s president, said today on
the conference call.  “Real estate is where I think you’ll see the big activity
in terms of dollar scale,” said James. “Commercial real estate
results are much stronger than the economy, so we’re seeing
stronger operating results in real estate than we are in our
companies.”  Blackstone’s real estate business, led by Jonathan Gray,
closed its seventh fund with $13.3 billion in October and
deployed capital throughout the quarter. The fund invested about
$85 million into a 4.5 million-square-foot portfolio of Southern
California offices, paid $165 million to buy a 25-story office
building in downtown San Francisco, and agreed to buy Apple REIT
Six Inc., a real estate investment trust focused on hotels, in a
$1.2 billion deal.  Asia Fund  The company is seeking to raise more than $2 billion for
its first property pool focused on Asia, according to a person
with knowledge of the effort. James said at a Dec. 5 conference
that Asian real estate assets are “unique products in an asset
class that investors increasingly want.”  Blackstone said it invested $15.6 billion in 2012, the
second-highest yearly amount since the firm was founded by
Schwarzman and Peter G. Peterson in 1985. The company
distributed $18.5 billion to investors during the year.  Blackstone said it will pay a dividend of 42 cents per
common share on Feb. 19 and intends to increase its base
quarterly dividend for 2013 to 12 cents a share from 10 cents.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Devin Banerjee in New York at 
 dbanerjee2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  