-- BlackRock Cautious as Sales End Dollar Bond Rally: China Credit
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-02-01T06:40:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/blackrock-cautious-as-sales-end-dollar-bond-rally-china-credit.html
Chinese dollar-denominated bonds lost
money for the first month since May as record issuance by
developers prompted caution at funds including  BlackRock Inc. (BLK)   The securities lost 0.7 percent as of Jan. 31, according to
JPMorgan Chase & Co.  indexes . The yield on 2020 notes sold by
 Shimao Property Holdings Ltd. (813) , whose projects include the five-
star Le Royal Meridien  Shanghai  hotel, has jumped 56 basis
points to 7.18 percent since being issued earlier last month.
Real estate bonds globally yield 2.95 percent, according to Bank
of America Merrill Lynch indexes.  “There has been an avalanche of new deals so there is
definitely some investor fatigue,” said Suanjin Tan, a
Singapore-based fixed-income portfolio manager at BlackRock,
which had $3.79 trillion of assets under management as of Dec.
31. “People are a little bit more bullish than I would be
because the home-price restrictions continue to be in effect in
 China  and  China’s economy  is slowing, so you have to be very
careful where you pick your spots.”  China’s government is easing curbs on the industry to spur
economic growth without fueling real-estate speculation. The
record $6.95 billion of sales by property companies last month
included only one investment-grade issuer.  Hopson Development
Holdings Ltd. (754) , a Beijing-based developer, sold five-year bonds
rated CCC+ by  Standard & Poor’s , seven steps below investment
rank.  Rising Yields  Yields on $750 million of 2023 bonds sold by Country Garden
Holdings Co., a developer based in Guangdong, rose 17 basis
points to 7.26 percent from Jan. 8, according to Trace, the
bond-price reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority.  Yields on the $500 million of debt sold Jan. 3 by  Kaisa
Group Holdings Ltd. (1638) , which is based in Shenzhen, have risen 72
basis points to 9.95 percent since Jan. 8, according to Trace.  Borrowing costs rose after companies increased offerings to
take advantage of the lowest Asian yield premiums in 20 months.
The extra yield on securities in the U.S. currency in the region
over Treasuries slid to  245 basis points  on Jan. 7, the lowest
level since May 2011, and was at 255 basis points as of Jan. 30,
according to JPMorgan indexes.  Central China Real Estate Ltd. (832)  was among businesses seeking
to lock in the cheaper funds, even as the surge in sales
triggered yield rises in the secondary market. The developer of
residential property in  Henan province  sold $200 million of
notes last month at 8 percent, down from the 12.3 percent it
paid when it last sold dollar debt in 2010, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The bond was rated B+ by Standard &
Poor’s, four steps below investment-grade status.  ‘Great Opportunity’  “The issuer understands that these yields are a great
opportunity for them,” Owen Gallimore, a Singapore-based credit
analyst at  Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ) , said in
reference to Chinese borrowers.  Companies are trying to secure the cheaper funding costs
before any further rises in U.S. Treasury yields push up the
rates they pay to sell dollar debt in  Asia . The U.S. government
securities were headed for their steepest monthly loss in two
years.  “If U.S. Treasuries are going to start offering more
decent yields again you are going to really question why you own
a Chinese high-yield property bond,” Gallimore said.  Economic Pickup  The world’s second-biggest economy accelerated for the
first time in two years last quarter, fueling speculation for a
further rebound in the property market, and buoying appetite for
riskier assets and the country’s currency. Gross domestic
product expanded 7.9 percent in the three months through
December, up from 7.4 percent in the previous period. December
data showed prices for new residences rose in 54 of the 70
cities the government tracks, the most in 20 months.  “I think there has been a big mindset shift from this
point last year to now where the fear of a huge  property market 
collapse in China has pretty much gone away,” BlackRock’s Tan
said. “The risks are still there in my opinion but very few
people believe a potential doomsday or catastrophic scenario
caused by ‘ghost cities’ will happen in the near future.”  China’s benchmark 10-year government  bond  yield climbed to
3.61 percent on Jan. 30 from as low as 3.24 percent on July 11.  The  yuan  fell 0.08 percent today to 6.2240 per dollar as of
2:34 p.m. in Shanghai, prices from the China Foreign Exchange
Trade System show. The currency rose 0.19 percent last month and
touched a 19-year high at 6.2124 on Jan. 14.  ‘More Rational’  The cost of insuring China’s debt against non-payment with
credit-default swaps has risen six basis points this week to 69,
according to data provider CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill
Cos. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately
negotiated market. It is down from as high as 146 in June last
year. The indexes typically fall as investor confidence improves
and rise as it deteriorates.  The volume of residential property sales in China will rise
this year driven by improved funding availability to developers,
 Fitch Ratings  said in a Jan. 29 research report. The country’s
new government may introduce fresh curbs on the property market
when it takes power in March, David Cui, equity strategist at
Bank of America Corp., said last month.  In its almost three-year effort to tighten the property
market, the government has raised down-payment and mortgage
requirements, imposed a property tax for the first time in
Shanghai and Chongqing, and enacted home-purchase restrictions
in about 40 cities.  Hopson Development’s five-year bonds were priced to yield
9.875 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
yield on the notes has leapt 52 basis since being issued to 10.4
percent, according to Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc prices.  “Demand is getting a little bit more rational and because
there’s so much supply, investors are thinking maybe they can
afford to wait for the next one and not invest in every single
issue,” BlackRock’s Tan said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Henry Sanderson in Beijing at 
 hsanderson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  