-- BMW to Sell Husqvarna Brand Ending Off-Road Motorbike Effort
-- B y   D o r o t h e e   T s c h a m p a
-- 2013-01-31T16:54:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/bmw-to-sell-husqvarna-motorbike-brand-to-focus-on-city-transport.html
Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) , the
world’s largest maker of  luxury vehicles , agreed to sell its
struggling Husqvarna off-road motorcycle unit to focus its two-
wheeler efforts on its namesake brand.  Pierer Industrie AG, the holding company of Austrian
investor Stefan Pierer, which also owns a 51 percent stake of
motorcycle maker KTM AG, signed an agreement to buy the brand
for an undisclosed sum, the Munich-based manufacturer said today
in a statement.  “Husqvarna didn’t fit to BMW’s long-term strategy,”
Pierer said today in a telephone interview. He aims to end
losses at the brand, which will remain independent, by 2014.  BMW, seeking to defend its lead in luxury-car sales from
 Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s Audi and Daimler AG’s Mercedes-Benz, is parting
ways with Husqvarna after buying the brand in 2007 to appeal to
younger riders. The manufacturer plans to scale back ambitions
in the off-road motorcycle segment with the sale.  “In the context of changing motorcycle markets,
demographic trends and increasing environmental demands, BMW
Motorrad will expand its product offering to exploit future
growth potential,” the company said in the statement. “The
focus of the realignment will be on urban mobility and e-
mobility.”  Pierer plans to retain Husqvarna’s focus on off-road bikes
and will use KTM’s international marketing experience to
facilitate expansion, he said.  Limited Synergies  KTM, originally an off-road brand, has successfully
expanded its model lineup to street bikes over the past decade.
The Mattighofen, Austria-based company’s motorbike sales rose 32
percent to 107,142 vehicles last year with strong growth in
 India , the home country of KTM’s partner Bajaj, which holds 47
percent of the manufacturer.  Husqvarna sold 10,751 motorcycles last year, an increase of
16 percent. Deliveries of BMW-brand motorbikes increased 2
percent in 2012 to 106,358 vehicles globally, marking a record
for the 90-year-old marque.  “The synergies between BMW and Husqvarna motorcycles were
probably limited,” said Frank Biller, an analyst with LBBW in
Stuttgart. “The brands address two very distinct customer
groups and completely different motorcycle segments.”  Husqvarna, which started making motorbikes in Sweden 110
years ago, was previously owned by  Italy ’s Cagiva MV Agusta
group. The vehicles are now developed and produced in Cassinetta
di Biandronno, Italy.  BMW started rolling out two scooter models in July to
attract urban commuters. The company plans to introduce an
electric scooter next year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dorothee Tschampa in Frankfurt at 
 dtschampa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  