-- Boehringer Ohio Drug Plant Shut by U.S. on Quality Issues
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 2013-01-31T19:49:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/boehringer-ohio-drug-plant-shut-by-u-s-on-quality-issues.html
Boehringer Ingelheim GmbH, the
world’s largest family-owned drugmaker, agreed to stop
production at an  Ohio  plant until it fixes manufacturing
practices that led to about 40 product recalls in a decade.  U.S. District Judge Lesley Wells in Cleveland today
approved a consent decree against Boehringer’s Ben Venue
Laboratories plant in Bedford, Ohio, and three company officers
after quality assurance rules were violated, leading to
particles found in injectable drugs, the Food and Drug
Administration said in a statement. Marjorie Moeling, a
spokeswoman for the Ingelheim, Germany-based drugmaker, didn’t
immediately return a call or an e-mail requesting comment.  Drugs produced by Ben Venue have been withdrawn about 40
times since 2002, reflecting “a continuing pattern of
significant deviations from current good manufacturing
practices,” the U.S. Justice Department said in a statement.
Among the medicines was  Sanofi’s Fludara  leukemia therapy,
pulled in February 2012 because it may not have been sterile.  “The company’s failure to promptly address these problems
put patients at risk of receiving poor quality drugs and
compromises the availability of medically necessary products,”
Melinda K. Plaisier, acting associate commissioner for
regulatory affairs at the FDA, said in the statement. “This
company continued to violate the law, and the FDA took action to
help ensure that medicines that consumers rely on are safe,
effective, and of high quality.”  Supplies of the cancer drug methotrexate ran low in 2011
when the Ohio factory closed because of the manufacturing flaws.  The FDA will help the company to make sure that medically
necessary treatments will be produced soon to drug shortages,
the agency said in the statement.  Ben Venue makes drugs for a variety of companies as well as
under its own label, Bedford Laboratories, the FDA said.  The case is U.S. v. Ben Venue Laboratories Inc., 1:13-cv-
00154, U.S. District Court, Northern District of Ohio
( Cleveland ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in San Francisco at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  