-- Bond Sales Globally Reach Busiest January After Record Year
-- B y   S a r i k a   G a n g a r
-- 2013-01-31T20:47:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/bond-sales-globally-reach-busiest-january-following-record-year.html
Sales of corporate bonds from the
U.S. to  Europe  and  Asia  are accelerating, marking their busiest
January ever following record issuance in 2012, as borrowers
seek to lock in yields at about record lows.  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) , the investment firm run by  Warren Buffett , and Fairfield, Connecticut-based  General Electric Co. (GE) 
led issuers selling $412.3 billion of bonds this month, up from
 $226 billion  in December and surpassing the $407.2 billion sold
in January 2009, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Sales
last year soared 20.5 percent to  $3.96 trillion .  Treasurers are tapping the company bond market as Bank of
America Corp. says a “disorderly rotation” from debt into
equities may cause borrowing costs to rise. Yields for the most
creditworthy to the riskiest borrowers are climbing this month
for the first time since May.  “The market has been obviously red hot, so that brings
every issuer out of the woodwork,” Marc Gross, a  money manager 
at RS Investments in New York who oversees $3 billion in fixed-
income funds, said in a telephone interview. “The market is
receptive to issuers so they’ll keep coming until the market
gets fatigued.”  Sales climbed even as corporate bonds are poised for their
first loss in 14 months. Global debt has lost 0.4 percent
through Jan. 30, its first decline since a 1.98 percent loss in
November 2011, according to the Bank of America Merrill Lynch
Global Corporate & High Yield index.  Bond Yields  Yields rose to 3.36 percent yesterday from 3.28 percent on
Dec. 31, the first monthly increase since a 9 basis-point
advance to 4.23 percent in May, according to the Bank of America
Merrill Lynch Global Corporate & High Yield index. The extra
yield investors demand to own company debentures rather than
government debt has fallen to 209 basis points, or 2.09
percentage points, from 221 at year-end.  Global sales slowed in the first week of the year to about
one-third of 2011’s pace, with issuers sidelined by legislative
wrangling in  Washington , before soaring to  $130.5 billion  in the
five days ended Jan. 11, the busiest week ever, Bloomberg data
show.  In the U.S., companies  sold  at least $166.2 billion of debt
this month, the most ever for January, with investment-grade
companies issuing $126.4 billion and junk-rated borrowers
raising $39.8 billion, Bloomberg data show.  Yield Appetite  “I don’t foresee an end to the voracious appetite for
yield; there’s a lot of money to be put to work,” said Ronald Quigley, head of fixed-income syndicate and primary sales at
Mischler Financial Group, adding that he expects robust issuance
to continue into next month.  Berkshire, which its 82-year-old chairman built into a $241
billion  company  in market value with takeovers and stock picks,
raised $2.6 billion in a four-part offering, Bloomberg data
show. The sale from the Omaha, Nebraska-based company included
$1 billion of 4.5 percent, 30-year debt that yields 140 basis
points more than similar-maturity Treasuries.  GE, the largest maker of engines for jet planes, raised $4
billion in a three-part sale, Bloomberg data show. The offering
included $2 billion of 3.1 percent, 10-year notes at a spread of
122 basis points. Those bonds have fallen 1 cent from the issue
price on Jan. 3 to 98.8 cents on the dollar to yield 3.24
percent as of 3:05 p.m. in  New York , according to Trace, the
bond-price reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority.  Economic Growth  The economy in the U.S. unexpectedly came to a standstill
in the fourth quarter, as gross domestic product dropped at a
0.1 percent annual rate, as the biggest plunge in defense
spending in 40 years swamped gains for consumers and businesses.
The results were the worst performance since the second quarter
of 2009, when the world’s largest economy was still in the
recession, Commerce Department figures showed yesterday in
Washington.  Federal Reserve policy makers said on Jan 3 they will
probably end their $85 billion monthly bond purchases sometime
in 2013, with members divided between a mid- or end-of-year
finish. The agency has used bond-buying alongside other
measures, including holding its benchmark  interest rate  at zero
to 0.25 percent since December 2008, in an effort to boost
economic growth and cut the  jobless rate , now at 7.8 percent.  Investment-grade bondholders may see “massive outflows”
this year as investors shift their allocations toward stocks as
the risk of higher interest rates rises, analysts led by Hans Mikkelsen wrote in a Jan. 28 report.  The potential rotation is “the biggest risk to investment
grade this year and the one we are getting increasingly
concerned about,” they wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarika Gangar in New York at 
 sgangar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  