-- Brazil’s Selic Futures Seen Replacing Swap Rates, Ativa Says
-- B y   B l a k e   S c h m i d t   a n d   P a t r i c i a   L a r a
-- 2013-01-31T17:29:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/brazil-s-selic-futures-seen-replacing-swap-rates-ativa-says.html
BM&FBovespa SA (BVMF3) , the operator of
Latin America’s biggest exchange, will start in March the
trading of futures on the target lending rate that Ativa SA and
Banco Plural said may replace overnight rate contracts.  The trading of the new contracts coincides with the
overnight rate’s decoupling from the benchmark known as the
Selic, eroding traders’ ability to bet on monetary policy. The
rate that banks charge each other for overnight loans, known as
the DI, has been more than a quarter-percentage point below the
central bank’s 7.25 percent  target  for over a month.  “Today, the entire industry thinks of DI, but it makes
more sense to have arbitrage with Selic, especially with the
detachment of the overnight rate,” Arnaldo Curvello, Ativa
managing partner and treasurer in Sao Paulo, said in a telephone
interview. “Banks have assets in Selic as they invest in
government securities, and liabilities in DI as they raise funds
with instruments linked to DI. Contracts linked to Selic make
more sense”  BM&FBovespa will begin trading on March 1 futures contracts
on one-day repos backed by government bonds that traders will
use to bet on the central bank’s benchmark. Traders will receive
a 65 percent discount on registration and exchange fees when
they exchange DI futures, also known as swap rates, for the
Selic futures contracts over the next year, BM&FBovespa said in
a Jan. 21 statement.  The speed of the market’s transition from the DI futures to
the new contracts will depend on banks’ interest in the new
instruments, Curvello said.  “Attention and liquidity could migrate toward those new
contracts,” Mario Mesquita, a former central bank head of
economic policy and partner at Banco Plural, said in an
interview today in Sao Paulo. “DI futures and Selic futures
tend to compete with each other.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Blake Schmidt in Sao Paulo at 
 bschmidt16@bloomberg.net ;
Patricia Lara in Sao Paulo at 
 plara6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  