-- Brazil Real Trades Stronger Than 2 Per Dollar as Inflow Tax Cut
-- B y   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a   a n d   M a r i s a   C a s t e l l a n i
-- 2013-01-31T21:04:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/brazil-real-rises-on-real-estate-fund-tax-cut-swap-rates-fall.html
Brazil ’s real traded stronger than 2
per dollar for a fourth day as the government cut a tax on
foreign investment in real estate funds, prompting speculation
inflows will sustain the currency’s rally.  The real slid 0.1 percent to 1.9915 per  U.S. dollar  at
close in Sao Paulo after advancing beyond 2 on Jan. 28 for the
first time in almost seven months. Its 3 percent rally in
January is the biggest among the 16 major currencies tracked by
Bloomberg. Swap rates on the contract due in January 2017 rose
two basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 8.85 percent.  Brazil exempted foreigners from a 6 percent tax known as
the IOF when they buy shares in real estate funds traded on the
stock exchange, Dyogo Oliveira, deputy executive secretary at
the  Finance Ministry , told reporters in Brasilia today. The move
came after the central bank intervened in the  currency market 
twice this week to support the real.  “When you loosen the IOF, it shows that you want more
inflows,” Paulo Nepomuceno, the chief economist at Coinvalores
CCVM in Sao Paulo, said in a telephone interview. “If the
Finance Ministry is doing this, it shows they don’t want the
dollar to appreciate.”  Foreigners will still pay the IOF when investing in other
real estate funds, Oliveira said. The impact of the measure on
the currency market won’t be significant, he said.  The real pared its drop yesterday as the central bank
offered greenbacks to support the currency, overshadowing
Finance Minister  Guido Mantega ’s comment that the government is
ready to stem exaggerated gains.  Bank Intervention  There was no demand yesterday when the central bank offered
$1.27 billion of foreign-exchange credit lines with a repurchase
date of April 1 and a maximum rate of 2.005795 per dollar, said
an official with knowledge of the matter who asked not to be
identified because he wasn’t authorized to speak publicly.  The credit line auction shows the central bank is genuinely
concerned that “volatility” is drying up liquidity in the
currency market and hurting the economy by restricting
companies’ access to dollars, Flavia Cattan-Naslausky, a local
markets strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in
 Stamford ,  Connecticut , said in an e-mailed report.  Today’s removal of the IOF tax on real estate funds “still
comes short of what we would consider the game changing effect
of removing the IOF on foreign investments in fixed income and
currency derivatives,” she wrote. “That said, with this
measure and if you cut through what wasn’t said by the Finance
Minister in yesterday’s speech, we conclude that the real is
firmly on its way to 1.95.”  Currency Swaps  The real rallied beyond 2 per dollar on Jan. 28 after the
central bank intervened to boost the currency by selling $1.85
billion of foreign-exchange swap contracts as inflation
accelerated. A stronger real curbs consumer prices by making
imports less expensive.  The government reduced the IOF tax for exporters on Dec. 4
after the real dropped to a three-year low and the economy
expanded in the third quarter less than expected.  Annual inflation  has exceeded the 4.5 percent midpoint of
the central bank’s target range for 28 consecutive months. The
IPCA index of consumer prices rose 5.84 percent last year,
quickening from the 5.53 percent annual pace in November.  The outlook for inflation is getting worse in the “short
term” while the economic recovery was less intense than
expected, the central bank said in minutes of its Jan. 15-16
policy meeting published last week.  The best way to curb consumer price increases is to keep
the target rate at a record low for a “sufficiently prolonged
period,” policy makers said. The board held its benchmark at
7.25 percent for a second straight meeting.  Brazil’s unemployment rate fell to a record low 4.6 percent
in December from 4.9 percent in the prior month, the statistics
agency reported today. The median forecast of 29 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg was 4.4 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gabrielle Coppola in  Sao Paulo  at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net ;
Marisa Castellani in Sao Paulo at 
 mcastellani7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  