-- BSkyB First-Half Operating Profit Beats Analysts’ Estimates
-- B y   K r i s t e n   S c h w e i z e r   a n d   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2013-01-31T17:52:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/bskyb-first-half-operating-profit-beats-analysts-estimates.html
British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY) ’s
first-half operating profit rose 7.7 percent, beating analysts’
estimates, as the U.K.’s biggest pay-TV broadcaster raised
prices and added high-speed Internet customers.  Operating profit, excluding interest, taxes and a gain from
a regulatory settlement, was 647 million pounds ($1 billion) in
the six months ended Dec. 31, compared with 601 million pounds a
year earlier, BSkyB said today. Sales rose 5 percent to 3.53
billion pounds. Analysts had projected profit of 636 million
pounds on sales of 3.51 billion pounds,  data  compiled by
Bloomberg show.  BSkyB, with almost 11 million subscribers, won customers by
airing exclusive sports broadcasts, making content available on
mobile phones and showing movies immediately after their DVD
release. The Isleworth, England-based company, which is about 39
percent owned by  Rupert Murdoch ’s News Corp., added 88,000 new
customers in the first half by gaining subscribers for packages
that combine T.V., Internet and phone services.  “Retail subscription revenue growth was greater than
expectations,” Citigroup Inc. analyst Thomas Singlehurst, who
has a buy rating on the stock, said in a note. “This, combined
with moderating programming cost growth, suggests the pace of
operating profit growth should sustain across the second half.”  Dividend Boost  The higher profit let BSkyB, which has pledged to pay out
half of its full-year adjusted earnings, increase its dividend
to 11 pence per share from 9.2 pence a year ago.  Shares rose 0.9 percent to 817.5 pence today in  London . The
stock has gained 18 percent in the last 12 months. Mike Darcey,
BSkyB’s former chief operating officer, took the top job at
Murdoch’s U.K. newspaper unit this month.  News Corp. (NWSA)  also owns
pay-TV businesses in Germany,  Austria  and  Italy .  Subscribers’ bills rose 24 pounds from a year earlier to an
average of 568 pounds annually. Customer turnover rose to 10.3
percent from 9.6 percent as “people’s household incomes are
being squeezed,” Chief Executive Officer Jeremy Darroch said in
a conference call today.  U.S. streaming service  Netflix Inc. (NFLX)  and  Amazon Inc. (AMZN) ’s
Lovefilm are increasingly competing with BSkyB to show movies
and TV shows in the U.K. In response, BSkyB brought out its own
Web-TV service, Now TV, which added 25,000 subscribers in the
last quarter. The service will stream sports on later this year.  To supplement this growth, BSkyB expanded Now TV with a 24-
hour pass for non-subscribers for 9.99 pounds. Users will be
able to watch Sky’s sports content, such as the Monaco Grand
Prix or Premier League soccer matches on a pay-as-you-go basis.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristen Schweizer in London at 
 kschweizer1@bloomberg.net .
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at   kwong11@bloomberg.net . 