-- Business Activity in U.S. Grew More Than Forecast in January
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2013-01-31T15:50:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/business-activity-in-u-s-expanded-more-than-forecast-in-january.html
Business activity in the U.S.
expanded more than forecast in January, a sign manufacturing
picked up at the start of the year.  The MNI Chicago Report’s business  barometer  rose to 55.6
this month, the highest since April, after 50 in December. A
reading of 50 is the dividing line between expansion and
contraction. The median forecast of 48 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg was 50.5.  A fourth-quarter acceleration in  consumer spending  may
encourage firms to boost orders and production in early 2013, a
sign manufacturing will keep adding to growth in the world’s
largest economy. The report contrasts with data showing factory
activity in the Philadelphia and  New York  area shrank this month
as the risk of automatic government-spending cuts looms.  “The forward-looking indicators in the index were
especially strong, which is encouraging,” said  Millan Mulraine ,
a New York-based economist at TD Securities LLC, who projected
an increase in the Chicago measure. “There’s some upside
momentum in manufacturing.”  Bloomberg survey estimates ranged from 48.5 to 53.  Stocks fluctuated after the report. The Standard & Poor’s
500 Index decreased 0.1 percent to 1,501.23 at 10:45 a.m. in New
York.  Orders Jump  The MNI Chicago Report’s gauge of  new orders  jumped to a
10-month high of 58.2 in January from 50.4 a month earlier. A
measure of employment climbed to 58, the highest level since
June, from 46.8. Production accelerated, with the index rising
to 60.9, also a 10-month high, from 52.4, today’s report showed.  The Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia’s general  economic
index  dropped to minus 5.8 in January from 4.6 in December,
according to a report earlier this month. Readings lower than
zero signal contraction in the area covering eastern
 Pennsylvania , southern  New Jersey  and  Delaware .  A similar report earlier this month from the New York Fed
showed manufacturing contracted in January for the sixth
straight month. The bank’s general economic index fell to minus
7.8 from minus 7.3 in December. The region encompasses New York,
northern New Jersey and southern  Connecticut .  The Chicago report “is a stark contrast to other regional
reports,” said Mulraine. “We have to give some credence to the
other regional reports as well.”  Business investment in equipment and software climbed at a
12.4 percent annual rate in the fourth quarter, the best
performance in more than a year, Commerce Department data showed
yesterday.  Growth in the world’s largest economy unexpectedly stalled
in the last three months of 2012 as military outlays plunged by
the most in 40 years and inventories grew at a slower pace.
Gross domestic product shrank at a 0.1 percent annual rate from
October through December.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  