-- California Workers Rush Calpers Ahead of ‘Air Time’ Ban
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 2013-01-31T01:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/california-workers-rush-calpers-ahead-of-air-time-ban.html
The  California Public Employees’
Retirement System  was flooded last month with applications by
government workers seeking to buy additional years of  service 
that can be counted toward their pension when they retire.  The practice, known as buying “air time,” was barred Jan.
1 under legislation sought by Democratic Governor  Jerry Brown  to
curb costs. The largest U.S. public pension said it received
12,000 applications in December, up from an average of 1,100 a
month in fiscal 2012, and 400 a month the prior year.  California public employees were allowed to add as much as
five years of credit for time they didn’t actually work to the
formula used to calculate their pensions. The $254 billion fund
said there’s no cost to taxpayers as long as the system meets
its target investment return of 7.5 percent over the long term.  “Ultimately, we don’t truly know until everybody who has
purchased dies,” said Amy Norris, a Calpers spokeswoman,
referring to the size of the payouts. “Our actuaries say that
it is safe to say it is cost-neutral at this point.”  The pension has earned more than 9 percent over 30 years
and 7.7 percent over 20. It suffered its biggest one-year
decline in 2009, putting its  five-year return  at just 0.1
percent as of Sept. 30.  Norris said there was no additional cost because some who
purchased the service credit die earlier than expected, while
some live longer, canceling each other out.  50,000 Buyers  Since the practice began in 2003 under former Democratic
Governor  Gray Davis , at least 50,000 public employees purchased
air time, according to Calpers. The fund covers 1.6 million
workers and retirees.  Public pensions are calculated by multiplying the number of
years an employee worked times a percentage of his or her final
pay. By purchasing more years, they increase their monthly
pension amount. The practice is similar to buying an annuity, in
that the worker puts money away toward retirement.  When an application for air time is filed, Calpers
calculates the cost and reports that to the employee, who then
has the option of making the purchase.  The cost of the service credit depends on the employee’s
pay rate, age,  life expectancy , the discount rate and related
factors, according to Calpers. The fund allows lump-sum payments
or installment plans, which charge interest.  Calpers and other public pensions been criticized for
assuming unrealistically high rates of return on invested
assets. The rate can mask how much is really needed to cover
benefits promised to government workers.  Brown and lawmakers last year enacted a package of bills
that caps pension benefits for public workers and requires new
employees to pay for half of their pension costs. It also banned
the purchase of airtime and other types of inflating pensions,
known as spiking.  Savings will be sought from current employees through
bargaining with their unions to lower projected obligations as
much as $55 billion over 30 years, the governor’s office has
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael B. Marois in Sacramento, California at   mmarois@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  