-- Cameron Rouses Latvia Euro Foes Ignored in Currency Push
-- B y   A a r o n   E g l i t i s
-- 2013-02-01T13:09:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/cameron-rouses-latvia-euro-foes-ignored-in-currency-push.html
U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s
vow to put Britain’s European Union status to a public vote is
reinforcing Latvian hostility toward adopting the euro.  “That’s a serious signal for us,” said Andrejs Elksnins,
a lawmaker from the opposition Harmony Center party who also
cites Czech resistance to the currency. “There are too many
unknowns for the government to unilaterally take a decision
today about our country’s future. It’s not the right time.”  Latvian lawmakers flew in the face of public opinion
yesterday by clearing a path for the Baltic nation to apply for
euro-area membership starting Jan. 1, 2014. Two-thirds of the
country opposes the move, according to a December poll. Parties
such as Harmony may try to sink the plan with a referendum.  After years of debt-fueled turmoil, confidence toward the
euro area is returning, with Latvian, Lithuanian and Polish
officials all pledging last month to seek membership. Still, as
the region struggles to shake off its second recession since
2009 and the bailout costs for countries such as Greece mount,
the currency switch is proving a harder sell to the public.  “If the EU collapses, it will be easier to recover”
without the euro, Juris Lusis, a farmer, said yesterday at a
rally in the capital, Riga, to protest the planned move.  Latvia 
“certainly shouldn’t have to” provide aid for ailing euro-area
nations.  Negative Feelings  About 66 percent of Latvians had either a very or somewhat
negative attitude toward euro adoption in December, compared
with 71 percent in October, pollster TNS said Jan. 7. The survey
of 1,024 people gave no margin of error. People fear the
currency will stoke inflation and curb incomes, TNS said.  Latvia’s lats has been fixed to the euro since 2005,
maintaining the peg even as gross domestic product plunged by
about a fifth in the wake of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s
2008 collapse, which prompted a bailout.  Since then, the economy has resumed growth, expanding about
5 percent last year, the EU’s fastest clip, according to Finance
Minister Andris Vilks. The cost to insure its debt against
default for five years has plunged to 111 basis points from
1,193 points in 2009 as austerity wrested public finances back
within the 27-member bloc’s limits and the government repaid the
 International Monetary Fund  almost three years early.  ‘Logical’ Step  With the budget deficit at 1.5 percent of GDP last year and
state debt at 42 percent of economic output, Prime Minister
Valdis Dombrovskis says now is the right time for the currency
switch his Cabinet has championed since re-election in 2011.  “Euro adoption is the logical next step in implementing
our macroeconomic policy framework,” he told lawmakers
yesterday. “We’re already importing  euro-zone  monetary policy,
while not being in the euro zone and not sitting at the
decision-making table, and we pay for converting the lats to
euros and back.”  The euro will boost investment in a country where more than
80 percent of loans and more than 40 percent of deposits are
denominated in the currency, according to the prime minister.
The Cabinet will submit its euro-adoption bid to the European
Commission in February or March for a decision this year, he
said last week in an interview in Davos,  Switzerland .  Rate ‘Formality’  After abandoning a plan to join the euro area in 2008 as
inflation accelerated, Latvia is very close to meeting the entry
requirements, according to Violeta Klyviene, a senior analyst at
 Danske Bank A/S. (DANSKE)   The nation’s price growth, debt and  budget deficit  already
meet the membership criteria, leaving only rules on long-term
 interest rates  that are “more a formality than a real
obstacle,” she wrote Dec. 17 in a note from Vilnius,  Lithuania .  The yield on state debt due 2018 plummeted to a record-low
1.7 percent in December from a high of 12 percent on March 18,
2009. It was 2.065 percent at 2:50 p.m. in Riga, compared with
2.84 percent for five-year Lithuanian debt, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Other potential euro-region members may also run into
public opposition. While Lithuania has vowed to pursue entry in
2015, a Jan. 3-11 poll by Baltijos Tyrimai for the ELTA news
service showed 57 percent oppose the move while 32 percent are
in favor. No margin of error was given.  ‘Reputation Problem’  “The euro currently has a clear reputation problem -- not
only in Latvia but also in many European countries,”  Carsten Brzeski , a senior economist at ING Group in Brussels, said Jan.
14 by e-mail. “Right now, most people associate the euro with
austerity and forced structural reforms and not any longer with
increased prosperity due to trade, the single market and the
absence of exchange risks.”  It’s up to Latvia’s authorities to to explain the economic
logic of the euro switch to skeptical citizens, according to
Dombrovskis, whose government has initiated a television and
leaflet campaign describing potential advantages such as price
transparency with the rest of  Europe .  “For the last three years or so, people have heard that
the euro zone is in crisis, crisis and crisis,” he said in
Davos. “People are asking the question: why join?”  At about 35 percent, Latvian backing for euro adoption is
the second-lowest in an EU state a year away from making the
switch, according to Lars Jonung, a senior professor at Lund
University in  Sweden , and Felix Roth, a research fellow at the
Centre for European Policy Studies in Brussels, who cite
Eurobarometer data. Finland had 33 percent support in 1997, they
said by e-mail.  Vote Rejection  While Latvia’s central election commission  rejected 
yesterday an attempt to call a referendum on euro adoption,
Iveta Grigule, a lawmaker from the opposition Greens and
Farmers, said she’ll try together with Harmony Center, the Leta
newswire reported.  With the government opposing efforts to put the currency
switch to a public vote, there’s little chance of Latvia’s bid
not making it to the European Commission, according to Daunis Auers, a political science lecturer at the University of Latvia.  “A referendum in Latvia is highly unlikely,” he said Jan.
21 by e-mail. “The political and economic elite is united in
support of euro accession and this level of single-minded unity,
as with austerity or joining the EU in 2004, should lead to
Latvia joining the euro in 2014, even if public opinion is less
than enthusiastic.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Eglitis in Riga at 
 aeglitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  