-- Cameron Bond-Market Backing Founders as BOE Halts Purchases
-- B y   D a v i d   G o o d m a n
-- 2013-01-31T11:51:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/cameron-bond-market-backing-founders-as-boe-stops-buying-gilts.html
The U.K. government bond market is
undermining Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s own test of economic
credibility, with yields climbing relative to global peers ever
since the Bank of England halted its debt-purchase program.  Gilts have lost 2.3 percent since the central bank said it
would stop buying them in November. Only Sweden gave a worse
return among 26 sovereign markets tracked by Bloomberg and the
European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. At 2.06
percent, the 10-year yield is close to a nine-month high, and up
from the record-low 1.407 percent set on July 23. The average
over the past decade is 3.96 percent.  Britain’s borrowing costs relative to global averages rose
this month to the highest since October 2011, thwarting Cameron
after he said on Jan. 6 that the “real test” of his economic
policy is the  interest rate  investors demand to own U.K. debt.
As the government cuts spending to reduce the deficit, the
nation is on the brink of a triple-dip recession and the
premier’s  Conservative Party  trails the opposition  Labour Party 
in opinion polls.  “Putting your credibility in the hands of the market is
risky, if yields go higher then you’ve lost your main trump
card,” said  Alan Clarke , an economist in  London  at Scotiabank
 Europe  Plc, one of 21 financial institutions that trade directly
with the U.K’s Debt Management Office. “The government is
playing a dangerous game.”  ‘Daily Verdict’  Gilts are headed for their worst month in three years as
signs Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis is easing sap demand for
British securities as a refuge. They lost 2.1 percent through
Jan. 30, set for the biggest drop since December 2009, according
to the Bloomberg/EFFAS indexes. The pound has weakened 3.4
percent this year, the second-worst performer among 10
developed-market currencies after the yen, according to
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes.  U.K. 10-year yields will increase to 2.6 percent by the end
of March 2014, according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg
survey of 11 analysts. That would result in a loss of more than
1 percent for investors who hold these securities during the
period, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  With Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  pushing
back his deficit-reduction plan by a year to 2018, credit-rating
companies say the U.K. may lose its AAA grade. Osborne told
parliament on Dec. 5 that his government gets “a daily verdict
on the credibility of our economic policy from bond investors.”  Yield Difference  U.K. 10-year bond yields rose as high as 2.14 percent on
Jan. 4, the most since April 30. Bank of America Merrill Lynch
data show the average yield on U.K. securities is 1.96 percent,
43 basis points more than the average in its Global Broad Market
Sovereign Plus Index of 1,417 bonds. The difference reached 49
basis points on Jan. 4, the widest since October 2011.  Tumbling bonds mark a turnaround from the first years of
Cameron’s Conservative-Liberal Democrat coalition, which was
formed after elections in May 2010. Gilts had the world’s best
returns in 2011 as rising borrowing costs across the 17-nation
euro area increased the prospect of a breakup of the monetary
union. Britain pushed ahead with spending cuts and tax increases
to avoid being sucked into the debt turmoil.  Yields Dropping  With yields from  Italy  to Ireland now dropping as policy
makers rebuild investor trust, Cameron’s government said last
month the U.K.’s debt-to-gross-domestic-product ratio was
expected to peak at 79.9 percent in the financial year ended
March 2016, 12 months later than planned.  “Gilts, along with a lot of other high-quality assets, are
losing their safe-haven status,” said Alan Higgins, the chief
investment officer at Coutts & Co. in London, who helps oversee
about $49 billion of assets. “The fundamentals of the U.K. look
poor. What’s needed is growth.”  U.K. GDP dropped 0.3 percent in the last three months of
2012, the  National Statistics Office  said Jan. 25, more than
analysts estimated. The economy also contracted in the first two
quarters of last year.  Gilts have lost the backstop of central-bank purchases.
After buying 375 billion pounds ($592 billion) of government
debt under their so-called  quantitative-easing  plan,  Bank of
England  policy makers led by Governor  Mervyn King  announced Nov.
8 they were pausing the program. The central bank held about 26
percent of outstanding gilts as of Jan. 30, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Dominant Factors’  King’s successor,  Mark Carney , who will become governor in
July, said this week that central banks have room to ease
monetary policy further if needed. U.K. interest rates have been
kept at a record-low 0.5 percent since March 2009. In July 2007,
when the 10-year gilt yield reached 5.56 percent, the highest
level in the past 10 years, the central-bank interest rate was
at 5.75 percent.  “BOE buying, near-zero short-term rates, and extreme  risk
aversion  were dominant factors in low yields,” said  Patrick Armstrong , a managing partner at Armstrong Investment Managers
LLP in London, which oversees $350 million. “Fiscal austerity
is insignificant,” he said.  The yield on 10-year gilts is 10 basis points more than
similar-maturity U.S. notes. The rate was 17 basis points below
Treasuries as recently as August. The  spread  over bunds is 41
basis points, up from 10 basis points on Aug. 6, while the cost
of insuring against default on British debt has climbed to its
highest relative to  Germany  since August 2011.  Labour Lead  A  poll  by YouGov Plc based on interviews with 1,971 adults
on Jan. 28 and Jan. 29 showed the Conservatives would attract 33
percent of the vote if an election was held immediately,
compared with 42 percent for Labour. The poll didn’t specify a
margin of error.  Labour says Cameron is damaging the economy by trying to
cut the deficit too quickly, with the party’s Treasury spokesman
 Ed Balls  saying last week that the government’s austerity
measures had “choked off the recovery.”  Overseas investors increased their holdings of U.K.
government bonds by 32 billion pounds last year, according to
Bank of England data. That compares with an increase of 41
billion pounds in 2011. In December, foreign ownership rose by
15.4 billion pounds, the Bank of England said yesterday.  “Weaker economic growth has put the government’s debt
target out of reach,” Armstrong Investment Manager’s Armstrong
said. “The 10-year yield is only going to move higher, and the
government will at a minimum look inconsistent if they do not
acknowledge their policy may be part of the problem.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Goodman  in London at 
 dgoodman28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  