-- Cameron Urged to Cut Students From Migration Target
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2013-01-31T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/cameron-urged-to-cut-students-from-migration-target.html
Lawmakers who head five U.K.
parliamentary committees called on Prime Minister  David Cameron 
to exclude overseas students from immigration targets to help
boost the economy.  Cameron has said he wants the number of immigrants into
Britain reduced to the “tens of thousands.” In September, Home
Secretary Theresa May ruled out a move to stop counting overseas
students as migrants, saying international protocols on data
collection forbid it.  The premier is set in the coming weeks to visit  India ,
among countries that are sending fewer students to the U.K.
after a clampdown on visa issuance. Writing to Cameron today,
the lawmakers said relaxing the rules would “support economic
growth in the immediate and longer term, supporting jobs in
university towns and increasing export earnings.”  The letter was signed by three opposition Labour House of
Commons lawmakers -- Adrian Bailey, the chairman of the Business
Committee;  Margaret Hodge , who heads the Public Accounts
Committee; and Keith Vaz, the chairman of the Home Affairs
Committee -- and two non-party members of the House of Lords --
John Krebs, the head of the Science and Technology Committee;
and David Hannay, chairman of the European Union Sub-Committee
for Home Affairs, Health and Education.  More than 34,000 students from outside the European Union
were accepted at British universities in 2011, making it
difficult for the government to hit its target for cutting the
number of migrants unless they’re excluded.  May introduced a crackdown in 2011 on “bogus” foreign
students who she said use educational visas in order to work
illegally in the U.K. She said last month that with annual net
migration still at 183,000, there was still some way to go to
achieve her goal of reducing that to less than 100,000 by 2015.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  