-- Canada's Economy Expanded 0.3% in November on Factory Rebound
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2013-01-31T13:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/canada-s-economy-expanded-0-3-in-november-on-factory-rebound.html
Canada’s  gross domestic product 
expanded at the fastest pace in seven months in November on
gains in manufacturing, mining and energy.  Output grew 0.3 percent to an annualized C$1.56 trillion
($1.56 trillion),  Statistics Canada  said today in Ottawa. The
median forecast in a Bloomberg economist  survey  was for a 0.2
percent expansion in the month.  The report suggests growth rebounded in the fourth quarter
from the 0.6 percent annual pace seen from July through
September. The expansion has been supported by the job market,
with the  unemployment rate  falling to a four-year low in
December.  Manufacturing grew 0.7 percent in November, rebounding from
a 0.9 percent decline the prior month. The mining, oil and gas
category grew 0.8 percent.  Exxon Mobil Corp. and four partners said Jan. 4 they will
spend about $14 billion to develop the Hebron oil field off
Newfoundland, to produce more than 700 million barrels of crude
during its lifespan.  Most other industries made little contribution to economic
growth in November. Construction was little changed, Statistics
Canada said, while retailing recorded a 0.6 percent gain as
automobile receipts rose.  Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney  said Jan. 23 an
increase to his 1 percent benchmark interest rate is “less
imminent” and cut his fourth-quarter growth prediction to 1
percent from 2.5 percent.  Prime Minister  Stephen Harper  said yesterday his
Conservative government will make the economy and families his
main focus in the session of parliament that opened this week.
Speaking to party members, he said taxes “must remain low” and
the expansion has benefited from strong gains in full-time
private-sector employment.  Factory Prices  In a separate report, Statistics Canada said today its
index of raw-materials prices paid by manufacturers dropped 2
percent in December from November. Economists in a Bloomberg
survey had a median prediction of a 0.3 percent increase.  The industrial product price index, which measures what
manufacturers receive for their goods, was unchanged in
December, matching the median of economist forecasts.  Industrial prices rose 0.5 percent on average last year
while raw materials costs fell an average 6.3 percent,
Statistics Canada said, suggesting factory profit margins
widened.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa  at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kevin Costelloe at 
 kcostelloe@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  