-- Canadian Stocks Slump Most in Three Months on Materials
-- B y   L e s l i e   P i c k e r
-- 2013-01-31T22:01:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/canadian-stocks-slump-most-in-three-months-on-materials.html
Canadian  stocks  slumped the most in
three months as raw-material producers fell amid disappointing
earnings and a drop in commodity prices, overshadowing faster-
than-estimated expansion in the nation’s economy.  Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc ., the world’s largest
fertilizer producer, fell 1.9 percent after forecasting first-
quarter profit that trailed analysts’ estimates. BlackBerry,
formerly known as Research in Motion Ltd., dropped 6.8 percent
after Credit Suisse downgraded it to underperform.  Goldcorp Inc. (G) 
and Barrick Gold Corp. fell at least 2.2 percent after the metal
slid the most in almost four weeks.  The Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Index retreated 109.20
points, or 0.9 percent, to 12,685.24 at 4 p.m. in Toronto. The
S&P/TSX has risen 2 percent this year, the fourth-worst
performance among the world’s 24 developed markets, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The main equity benchmark for stocks
in  Israel  has fallen 0.7 percent,  Belgium ’s equities rose 1.8
percent and Austrian shares added 1.9 percent.  “Everyone’s focused on earnings,” Anil Tahiliani,  fund
manager  at Calgary-based McLean & Partners Wealth Management
Ltd., which has C$900 million in assets, said in a phone
interview. “We’re getting mixed signals from companies
regarding forward guidance. Having a pullback is not
surprising.”  About  81 percent  of the 16 companies in the S&P/TSX that
have released results so far in this reporting season have
exceeded profit projections. Forty percent have surpassed sales
estimates, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Canada’s GDP  Canada’s gross domestic product grew at the fastest pace in
seven months in November on gains in manufacturing, mining and
energy. Output grew 0.3 percent to an annualized C$1.56 trillion
($1.56 trillion), following a prior gain of 0.1 percent,
 Statistics Canada  said today in Ottawa. The median forecast in a
Bloomberg economist survey was for a 0.2 percent expansion in
the month.  Potash fell 1.9 percent to C$42.37. First-quarter earnings
will be 50 cents to 65 cents a share, the Saskatoon,
Saskatchewan-based company said today in a statement. The
average of 17 estimates compiled by Bloomberg was for 69 cents.
The company said taxes will be higher in 2013 because of reduced
 capital spending . Fourth-quarter earnings and revenue also
trailed analyst projections.  Gildan Activewear Inc., the top-performing company in the
S&P/TSX last year, fell 3.1 percent to C$36.71. Tal Woolley, an
analyst with  RBC Capital Markets , lowered his recommendation for
the clothing supplier to sector perform, or hold, from
outperform.  Gold Slips  “Strong price appreciation is the primary reason for our
downgrade,” Woolley said in a note to clients today. Gildan now
trades more expensively than its peers based on his 2014
earnings forecast of $3 a share, he said.  Barrick Gold fell 2.2 percent to C$31.76 and  Goldcorp (C) 
dropped 2.5 percent to C$35.13. After the close of trading,
Barrick Gold confirmed in an e-mail that it was considering the
sale of its Barrick Energy unit and other non-core assets.  Gold futures  for April delivery dropped 1.2 percent to
settle at $1,662 an ounce on the Comex in New York. Raw-
materials producers in the S&P/TSX slipped 1.5 percent to the
lowest closing level in five months.  BlackBerry lost 6.8 percent to C$12.92, extending its
decline for the week to 27 percent. BlackBerry stumbled in its
introduction of the BlackBerry 10 lineup yesterday,
disappointing shareholders with the lack of a firm U.S. release
date and setting a price that may be too high to lure away
customers from Apple Inc. and Google Inc.’s Android.  Kulbinder Garcha, of Credit Suisse, is the latest analyst
to downgrade the smartphone maker. In all, five analysts
recommend buying the stock, 20 have a hold rating, and 20 advise
selling, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leslie Picker in  New York  at 
 lpicker2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  