-- Canada Nov. Gross Domestic Product Report (Text)
-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 2013-01-31T13:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/canada-nov-gross-domestic-product-report-text-.html
The following is the text of
the Nov. GDP report released by  Statistics Canada .  Real gross domestic product grew 0.3% in November,
following a 0.1% rise in October. Most major industrial sectors
increased production in November. Goods production increased
0.6% while the output of  service industries  rose 0.1%.  Manufacturing and mining, quarrying and oil and gas
extraction were the main contributors to the November increase.
Wholesale and retail trade, utilities as well as transportation
and warehousing services also rose. Construction and the public
sector (education, health and public administration combined)
were unchanged. In contrast, accommodation and food services and
the finance and insurance sector decreased.  Manufacturing output expands  Manufacturing output expanded 0.7% in November following a
0.9% decrease in October.  Durable goods production rose 0.9% in November, on the
strength of primary metal and transportation equipment
manufacturing. Conversely, machinery manufacturing declined in
November.  Non-durable goods manufacturing increased 0.5%. Growth in
chemical, petroleum and coal products, as well as food
manufacturing outweighed declines recorded by manufacturers of
plastic and rubber products, beverage and tobacco products, and
textile, clothing and leather products.  Mining, quarrying and oil and gas extraction increases  Mining, quarrying and oil and gas extraction increased 0.8%
in November. Oil and gas extraction grew 0.8%, on the strength
of crude petroleum extraction. Natural gas production decreased.  Mining excluding oil and gas extraction rose 1.6% in
November. An increase in non-metallic and, to a lesser extent,
metallic mineral production outweighed the decline in coal
mining.  Support activities for mining and oil and gas extraction
fell 0.5% in November, mainly because of a decline in drilling
services.  Wholesale and retail trade rise  Wholesale trade rose 0.7% in November, mainly on the
strength of the wholesaling of machinery, equipment and supplies,
and petroleum products. On the other hand, the wholesaling of
food, beverage and tobacco products declined.  Retail trade (+0.6%) increased for a third consecutive
month in November. Motor vehicles and parts dealers were the
main contributors to the growth. Retailing at electronics and
appliances stores and furniture and home furnishings stores also
increased. In contrast, declines were recorded at miscellaneous
store retailers, and clothing and clothing accessories stores.  Construction is unchanged  Construction was unchanged in November. A decline in
residential building construction was offset by increases in
non-residential building and engineering construction as well as
repair works.  The output of real estate agents and brokers decreased 1.1%,
as activity in the home resale market declined.  Other industries  Utilities increased 1.4% in November, owing to higher
demand for electricity.  Transportation and warehousing services increased 0.4%,
mainly as a result of increases in rail and truck transportation,
which benefitted from the strength in overall production in
November. Support activities for transportation also increased,
while pipeline transportation declined.  Accommodation and food services declined 0.9% in November,
in parallel with a decrease in the number of overnight
travellers to  Canada .  Chart: Main industrial sectors’ contribution to the percent
change in gross domestic product, November 2012
( http://www.statcan.gc.ca/daily-quotidien/130131/cg130131a003 -
eng.gif)  Note to readers  Revisions  Revised monthly national gross domestic product (GDP) by
industry data covering the period January 2007 to October 2012
are released today. These changes are part of a comprehensive
revision to the Canadian System of National Economic Accounts.  Periodically, monthly national GDP by industry data undergo
historical revisions broader in scope than the regular revisions
undertaken on an annual basis. These historical revisions are
reserved for incorporating updated international national
accounting concepts as well as classification updates and
methodological and statistical improvements.  This release incorporates such changes back to January 2007.
This release also incorporates the new input-output account
benchmarks for reference year 2009, released on November 19,
2012. Revisions covering the period January 1997 to December
2006 are planned for release in September 2013.  Volume measures  The monthly GDP by industry data at basic prices are
chained volume estimates with 2007 as the reference year. This
means that the data for each industry and each aggregate are
obtained from a chained volume index multiplied by the
industry’s value added in 2007. The monthly data are benchmarked
to annually chained Fisher volume indexes of GDP obtained from
the constant-price input-output tables up to the latest input-
output tables year (2009).  For the period starting with January 2010, the data are
derived by chaining a fixed-weight Laspeyres volume index to the
prior period. The fixed weights are 2009 industry prices.  This approach makes the monthly GDP by industry data more
comparable with the expenditure-based GDP data, chained
quarterly.  All data in this release are seasonally adjusted. For more
information on seasonal adjustment, see Seasonal adjustment and
identifying economic trends
( http://www5.statcan.gc.ca/bsolc/olc-cel/colc-cel?catno=11-010 -
X201000311141&amp;lang=fra) .  For more information about monthly national GDP by industry,
see the National economic accounts
( http://www.statcan.gc.ca/nea-cen/index-eng.htm ) module on our
website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at   ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  