-- Canada Dollar Breaks Parity as Growth Beats Expectations
-- B y   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r
-- 2013-01-31T22:09:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/canada-dollar-breaks-parity-as-growth-beats-expectations.html
The Canadian dollar was worth more
than its U.S. counterpart for the first time in a week after a
government report showed the economy grew faster than forecast
in November.  The currency rose against the majority of its most traded
peers after the Canadian economy grew 0.3 percent to an
annualized C$1.56 trillion ($1.56 trillion), following a prior
gain of 0.1 percent, Statistics  Canada  said today in Ottawa. The
median forecast in a Bloomberg economist survey was for a 0.2
percent expansion in the month. Canada’s currency has weakened
0.8 percent this month, the most since October.  “Slightly better-than-expected Canadian GDP data is
assisting the Canadian dollar,” said John Curran, senior vice
president at USForex Ltd., an online foreign exchange dealer,
said by phone from Toronto. “We’re running into support levels
for U.S., resistance for Canadian, right here, which would be
right around the 200-day moving average.”  The loonie, as the Canadian dollar is known for the image
of the aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, rose 0.4 percent to 99.72
cents per U.S. dollar at 5:02 p.m. in Toronto. The last time it
closed stronger than parity was Jan. 23. One loonie buys
$1.0028.  The U.S. dollar’s 200-day moving average versus the
Canadian dollar is 99.87 Canadian cents.  Bond Prices  The country’s benchmark 10-year bonds were little changed
with yields at 1.99 percent. The 2.75 percent security due in
June 2022 gained five cents to C$106.46.  Crude oil, the country’s largest export, fell 0.5 percent
to $97.43 per barrel and the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index of U.S.
stocks dropped 0.3 percent.  Business in the U.S., Canada’s largest trading partner,
expanded more than forecast in January, a sign manufacturing
picked up at the start of the year.  The MNI Chicago Report’s business barometer rose to 55.6
this month, the highest since April, after 50 in December. A
reading of 50 is the dividing line between expansion and
contraction. The median forecast of 48 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg was 50.5.  “The Canadian dollar today is back down before parity, and
parity is that massive magnet that seems to govern dollar/CAD
trading,” said Adam Button, a currency analyst at
Forexlive.com, by phone from Toronto. “The catalyst was the
Chicago PMI was really strong. Canada is exporting raw materials
to American factories and if they’re ramping up production
that’s a continued sign of output from Canada and it’s a great
reason to buy the Canadian dollar.”  Economic Conditions  Canada’s latest GDP report suggests growth accelerated in
the fourth quarter from the 0.6 percent annual pace seen from
July through September, in contrast to the U.S., where output
shrank at a 0.1 percent pace at the end of last year. Canada’s
expansion has been supported by the job market, with the
unemployment rate falling to a four-year low in December.  Bank of Canada Governor Mark Carney said Jan. 23 an
increase to his 1 percent benchmark interest rate is “less
imminent” and cut his fourth-quarter growth prediction to 1
percent from 2.5 percent.  Investors increased the chances the Bank of Canada will
raise interest rates by the end of the year after the GDP
figures came out. Investors are pricing in 15.1 basis points of
tightening by the bank’s Dec. 4 meeting, compared with 6.7 basis
points the day Carney lowered his forecasts, Bloomberg
calculations based on overnight index swaps showed.  In a separate report, Statistics Canada said today its
index of raw-materials prices paid by manufacturers dropped 2
percent in December from November. Economists in a Bloomberg
survey had a median prediction of a 0.3 percent increase.  The loonie has declined 3.2 percent during the past six
months among the 10 developed-nation currencies monitored by the
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The greenback fell 4.1
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Altstedter in Toronto at 
 aaltstedter@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  