-- Canellos Named Acting SEC Enforcement Chief as Khuzami Departs
-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u   a n d   D a v e   M i c h a e l s
-- 2013-01-31T21:22:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/canellos-named-acting-sec-enforcement-chief-as-khuzami-departs.html
George Canellos, deputy director of
the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission’s enforcement
division, has been named acting head of the unit that polices
 Wall Street , the agency said today.  Canellos, 48, will serve on an interim basis in the job
that will be left vacant by  Robert Khuzami , who is leaving the
SEC after four years as enforcement chief. Canellos begins the
role on Feb. 8, the SEC said in a statement.  He became Khuzami’s deputy in April after three years
overseeing the SEC’s regional office in New York, where he was
responsible for about 400 staff, including investigators,
accountants and examiners.  “George’s proven intellectual abilities and creative
approach to problem-solving have made him an extremely effective
advocate for investors and make him ideally suited to serve as
acting director,” SEC Chairman Elisse B. Walter said in a
statement.  Canellos, who holds degrees from  Harvard College  and
Columbia Law School, became a U.S. prosecutor in the Southern
District of  New York  in 1994, where he worked for Mary Jo White,
the former U.S. attorney who was nominated Jan. 24 to become the
next SEC Chairman.  After eight years as a prosecutor, Canellos joined law firm
Milbank, Tweed, Hadley & McCloy LLP, where he was a partner
until 2009 when he left for the SEC.  “It is an honor and inspiration to serve with such
talented and dedicated colleagues throughout the SEC,” Canellos
said in a statement.  “I look forward to continuing to work
with them as we emerge from a historic restructuring and
confront new challenges.”  David P. Bergers, director of the SEC’s Boston regional
office, was named acting deputy director of enforcement.
Bergers, 45, has directed the Boston office since 2006.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Gallu in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  