-- Cascades, Apple, Megaupload, Hexbug:Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2013-01-31T12:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/cascades-apple-megaupload-hexbug-intellectual-property.html
Cascades Computer Innovation, an
Illinois company with the right to own 38 patents, lost its
antitrust suit against a group of companies that refused to take
a license to the patents.  In a Jan. 24 ruling, U.S. District Judge Yvonne Gonzalez
Rogers granted the defendants’ motions to dismiss the case.
Among the defendant companies are Samsung Electronics Co.,  HTC
Corp. (2498)  and  Dell Inc. (DELL)   Cascades filed suit in federal court in Oakland,
California, in March 2012, alleging that the companies and  RPX
Corp. (RPXC) , a patent risk-management company, had conspired to oppose
licensing and enforcement of its patents, with the ultimate aim
of forcing Cascades to go out of business or accept a below-
market offer for the licenses.  Rogers said the suit may have been “nothing more than a
tactical ploy to regain economic advantage” that Cascades lost
in licensing negotiations. She also said that Cascades failed to
provide sufficient facts to demonstrate the harm it claims to
have suffered is the result of a conspiracy.  The judge gave the Illinois-based company an opportunity to
amend its claims and re-file its complaint.  The case is Cascades Computer Innovation LLC v. RPX Corp.,
4:12-cv-01143-YGR, U.S. District Court, Northern District of
California (Oakland).  Delaware Needs a Fifth Federal Judge, U.S. Judicial Panel Says  Delaware, home to courts that specialize in business cases
and a popular venue for patent cases, needs a fifth federal
judge to help the district court keep up with increasing
corporate litigation, a panel of judges concluded.  If the recommendation by a subcommittee of the Judicial
Conference of the U.S. is accepted in March, Congress will be
asked to create a position as the number of U.S. patent suits is
rising.  “It makes sense to add capacity for dealing with this
situation, which most of us expect to persist,” Frank
Scherkenbach, a patent attorney whose clients included  Microsoft
Corp. (MSFT) , said in an e-mail. “It makes sense to add that capacity
in one of the courts most affected by these recent trends.”  Delaware handles more patent cases per judge than any of
the other 93 federal districts, with 179 cases filed for each of
the four judges from September 2011 to June 2012, according to
the Judicial Conference. During the same period, all types of
cases climbed in the state, putting the load at 1,077 cases per
judge, second-highest in the U.S.  The subcommittee met in December and issued a memorandum
outlining its recommendation earlier this month.  Business costs rose more than fourfold since 2005 over
royalty demands filed by patent owners seeking quick profits,
according to a study by Boston University School of Law.  Companies face $29 billion in expenses from 5,842 claims of
infringement filed in 2011 by so-called non-practicing entities,
patent owners collecting license fees instead of making
products. That’s up from 1,401 claims and $6.6 billion in costs
in 2005, according to the study, published in June.  The court in Delaware was considered the second-most
favorable to patent owners from 1995 to 2011, based on a 42
percent success rate and a median damage award of $20.6 million,
according to an October 2011 report by PricewaterhouseCoopers
LLP. The Eastern District of  Virginia , which also is considered
the fastest for getting cases to trial, ranked first.  Delaware is tied with New Jersey courts for the busiest
when it comes to litigation over generic drugs, according to
PriceWaterHouseCoopers.  It also vies with the Eastern District of  Texas  as the
busiest courthouse when it comes to new patent-infringement
filings, according to an April 2012 study by James Pistorino, a
lawyer with Seattle-based Perkins Coie LLP.  Congress  last created  a federal judgeship in Delaware in
1984. Senate confirmation is required to fill a post, and there
are currently 85 judicial vacancies and 33 nominees awaiting
approval.  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Apple Loses New Trial Bid Against Samsung on Trade Dress  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  lost its bid for a new trial over trade-dress
claims against  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  for its iPad and iPad 2
in a ruling stemming from the patent-infringement case it won in
San Jose, California, last year.  U.S. District Judge Lucy Koh, who oversaw the infringement
trial, yesterday denied Apple’s argument that jurors erred by
finding Apple’s trade dress, or how a product looks, for the
iPad and iPad 2 wasn’t protectable. Trade dress is protected by
U.S. trademark law.  The judge also denied Apple’s request that she overrule
jurors’ conclusion that Samsung’s Galaxy Tab 10.1 didn’t
infringe one patent covering the design of Apple’s iPad tablet
computer.  Apple’s bid to increase the $1.05 billion in damages it won
against Samsung was rejected by Koh. The judge denied all of
Apple’s post-trial requests in her ruling except one. She found
that two claims, or elements, of Samsung’s patent covering data
transmission over wireless systems are invalid.  The jury didn’t find Apple infringed any of Samsung’s
patents, and Koh didn’t say yesterday in her ruling how Apple
might benefit from her decision invalidating the claims. Koh
ruled that Samsung’s acts of patent infringement weren’t
willful.  Jurors decided Aug. 24 at the end of a trial that Samsung
should pay the $1.05 billion for infringing six  Apple patents .
Apple, which lost its bid to block U.S. sales on 26 of the
Galaxy maker’s devices, failed to establish that consumer demand
for Samsung products was driven by technology it stole, Koh
ruled earlier.  Adam Yates , a spokesman for Suwon, South Korea-based
Samsung, declined to comment on Koh’s rulings. Kristin Huguet, a
spokeswoman for Cupertino, California-based Apple, also declined
to comment on the rulings.  The San Jose case is Apple Inc. v. Samsung Electronics Co.
Ltd., 11-cv-01846, U.S. District Court, Northern District of
California (San Jose).  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Megaupload Urges U.S. Judge to Dismiss ‘Mega-Conspiracy’ Charges  Megaupload.com, the file-sharing website that was shut down
last year on copyright infringement charges, urged a U.S. judge
to throw out the indictment to make up for what it called a lack
of “due process” in the case.  The U.S.  Justice Department  failed to give the company
legal notice that it was charged, froze its assets and left
servers containing content owned by customers “gathering dust
and in danger of deteriorating,” Megaupload’s lawyer Ira
Rothken wrote in a filing in federal court in Alexandria,
Virginia.  “More than a year has now passed since Megaupload was
branded a criminal, with no opportunity to date to clear its
name or challenge the charges against it,” Rothken wrote. The
government’s conduct in the case raises “grave questions about
whether the government is intent on being judge, jury,
executioner and asset collector,” he wrote.  Kim Dotcom, the founder of Megaupload, was indicted in what
was dubbed a “mega conspiracy” by U.S. prosecutors, who
accused his website of generating more than $175 million in
criminal proceeds from the exchange of pirated film, music, book
and software files. On Jan. 20, Dotcom began running a successor
website called  Mega  from his home in New Zealand.  The U.S. is seeking Dotcom’s extradition, with a hearing
scheduled for August in Auckland.  Peter Carr , a spokesman for U.S. Attorney Neil H. MacBride,
referred questions about the seizures of the websites and
Dotcom’s assets to the government’s court filings.  In a Jan. 13 affidavit, referred to by Carr, an
investigator whose name is blacked out in the document cited a
U.S. law that allows seizure of property when an injunction
wouldn’t guarantee the property would be available for seizure
upon conviction.  The domain names had to be seized to prevent Megaupload’s
supporters, or others, from redirecting content to servers
elsewhere in the world, the investigator said. Injunctions
wouldn’t prevent that, according to the investigator.  The U.S. won the court order and shut down Megaupload.com
without notice after the charges against seven individuals,
including Dotcom, were unsealed in federal court in Alexandria
on Jan. 19, 2012. Dotcom spent a month in jail before winning
his release on bail.  The New Zealand case is Between Kim Dotcom and Attorney
General. CIV2012-404-001928.  High Court  of New Zealand
(Auckland). The U.S. case is USA v. Dotcom. 12-cr-00003. U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of Virginia (Alexandria).  Google’s Lobbying Boost Belies Decline in Total Spending  Google Inc. (GOOG) , the subject of a U.S. antitrust investigation,
increased its lobbying costs by 88 percent to move into the top
10 of spenders seeking to influence the federal government on a
wide range of IP and other issues even as the total price of
persuasion declined for the second straight year.  “Technology issues are a large part of the policy
discussion in Washington these days,” said  Samantha Smith , a
Google spokeswoman. “It is important to help people understand
our business and the work we do to keep the Internet open and
encourage economic opportunity.”  The company helped scuttle anti-piracy legislation in the
last Congress, and is organizing an effort to limit government
access to digital communications. Early last year, Google hired
as its chief lobbyist former Representative Susan Molinari of
New York, the keynote speaker at the 1996  Republican National
Convention .  Mountain View , California-based Google spent $18.2 million
last year, including $1.7 million by its Motorola Mobility
subsidiary acquired in May. That was up from $9.7 million in
2011, according to the Center for Responsive Politics, a
Washington-based group that tracks lobbying expenditures aimed
at lawmakers, the White House and federal agencies.  The Federal Trade Commission voted Jan. 3 to close a 20-
month investigation into whether Google favored its own services
in results provided by its search engine, the world’s largest.
Google also settled FTC allegations it misused patents owned by
Motorola Mobility to thwart competitors in smartphone
technology.  Google bought Motorola Mobility Holdings for $12.4 billion.
The company is embroiled in patent-infringement litigation with
iPhone maker Apple Inc. over features in smartphones.  For more copyright news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  Hexbug Wants to Hook Chinese Robo Fish at U.S. Trade Agency  At the Dallas Toy Fair in October 2011, the makers of
 Hexbug  robotic toys spotted a swimming mechanized fish they say
incorporates their company’s research on making waterproof
battery-operated gadgets.  Innovation First International Inc.  sued, claiming a former
employee stole its  trade secrets  and went to work for the fish’s
Chinese manufacturer. A federal judge told the company to take
its complaint to China, where much of the evidence and most
principal witnesses are located.  “For fairly obvious reasons, we’re not excited about going
to China to sue a Chinese engineer,” Vince Mouer, general
counsel for Greenville, Texas-based Innovation First, whose
Hexbug Nano Hive Habitat Set was named specialty toy of the year
by the Toy Industry Association in 2011 and 2012, said in an
interview.  Innovation First instead decided if it couldn’t stop the
products from being made, it would try to stop them from being
sold. The company took its complaint to the U.S. International
Trade Commission in Washington which, because it can block
imports of products that violate U.S.  intellectual-property 
rights, is becoming an attractive forum for companies alleging
trade-secret theft overseas.  Innovation First filed its case Jan. 4, naming  CVS Caremark
Inc. (CVS) ’s CVS Pharmacy unit as a retailer selling  Zuru Robo Fish .
Zuru Inc., the Guangzhou-based manufacturer, denied stealing
trade secrets and said the engineer’s idea for the fish predated
his time at Innovation First.  Mouer said Zuru wasn’t named in the ITC complaint for
strategic reasons he declined to explain.  Carolyn Castel , a
spokeswoman for CVS, didn’t return messages seeking comment.  Innovation First initially persuaded a Texas state judge to
temporarily halt sales of Zuru Robo Fish at the Dallas Toy Fair.
The case was then transferred to federal court, where District
Judge Jane Boyle in Dallas ruled China was the more convenient
forum.  Innovation First is appealing. Arguments are scheduled for
Feb. 5 in New Orleans.  Hexbug  is a line of robotic inchworms, scarabs and spiders
that move realistically and sell for less than $20 each.  Zuru sells its fish for about $15. Zuru President Nick
Mowbray, who started the toy company with his brother in New
Zealand eight years ago, said the engineer worked on the
technology in his home for 13 years and left Innovation First
after being rebuffed three times over two years in efforts to
build a robotic fish.  “They realize they made the wrong move by not licensing
this technology,” Mowbray said. “They can’t make it work, so
put out press releases saying that we copied them.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 