-- Cheaper Syndicated Loans to Lure Borrowers From Bonds in Asia
-- B y   K a t r i n a   N i c h o l a s
-- 2013-01-31T02:21:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/cheaper-syndicated-loans-to-lure-borrowers-from-bonds-in-asia.html
Narrowing interest margins will spur
demand for syndicated lending in  Asia  this year and reduce
bonds’ biggest share of debt  capital markets  in three years.  The proportion of loans to total debt arranged in the Asia-
Pacific region outside  Japan  shrank to 66 percent last year, the
least since 2009, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Corporate bond sales surged 78 percent to a record $199.2
billion in 2012 while syndicated bank debt volumes slid 18
percent to $378.5 billion, the data show.  Rates at which lenders raise capital are falling as bond-
buying by central banks to stimulate the world economy boosts
the supply of dollars in the financial system. That’s translated
into cheaper loans for companies, with average interest margins
for U.S. dollar-denominated loans signed this year falling to
319 basis points more than the London interbank offered rate
from 358 basis points in the last six months of 2012, Bloomberg
data show.  “There’s been a huge decrease in bank funding costs over
the second half and I think that will result in a 10 percent to
15 percent drop on average in loan pricing across Asia in
2013,” said Boey Yin Chong, the Singapore-based managing
director of syndicated finance at  DBS Bank Ltd. (DBS)  “That stability
in funding costs will help support Asia syndicated loan volumes
this year, although bonds will still provide some competition.”  ‘Fantastic Run’  Syndicated bank debt volumes fell from $460.3 billion in
2011, when the facilities represented 80 percent of total bond
sales and loans. The proportion was 75 percent in 2010 with
$370.2 billion of signed agreements, the data show.  “Bond markets have had a fantastic run in the last few
months thanks to great market and liquidity conditions,” said
Atul Sodhi, the Hong Kong-based head of global loan syndication
at Credit Agricole SA. “In the recent weeks we have seen a
strong improvement in liquidity and market conditions in the
loan market. As the year progresses, my feeling is the balance
will shift back towards loans.”  Bond sales surged as the cost of borrowing in the U.S.
currency plunged to record lows. Average yields on dollar notes
in Asia fell to 3.77 percent Jan. 15, the least in data going
back to 1996, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s Asian
Dollar Corporate Index.  About $8.4 billion of loan facilities have been signed
since Dec. 31, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Noble, Citic Telecom  Noble Group Ltd. (NOBL) , Asia’s biggest publicly listed commodity
trader, earlier this month approached its relationship banks for
a $2 billion two-part loan and expects to price the facility at
a lower rate than its $2.36 billion borrowing which closed in
2012, a person familiar with the matter said Jan. 15.  Citic Telecom International Holdings Ltd. is raising $1.25
billion via a two-part financing from about eight banks for its
proposed 79 percent stake purchase of Companhia de
Telecomunicacoes de Macau from Cable & Wireless Communications
Plc and Portugal Telecom SGPS SA, Chief Financial Officer David
Chan said in an e-mailed response to questions from  Bloomberg
News  on Jan. 17.  “Pricing levels are fantastic,” said Sodhi, who is also
the chairman of the  Asia Pacific Loan Market Association , before
the organization’s annual global summit in  Hong Kong  today. “In
addition to M&A financing, we’ll see a number of regular
corporate borrowers coming back in a big way.”  Kingboard Chemical  Kingboard Chemical Holdings Ltd. (148) , which last took a
syndicated loan in April 2011, is marketing a HK$4 billion-
equivalent ($516 million) facility and offering a margin of 215
basis points, a person familiar with the matter said Jan. 23.
The average margin for loans signed in Hong Kong last year was
257 basis points, Bloomberg data show.  “We’re seeing a normalization in capital markets and both
liquidity and availability of long-term funding to financial
institutions is progressively coming back to pre-crisis
levels,” said Didier LeBlanc, the head of loan syndication,
acquisition and leveraged finance for Asia-Pacific at  BNP
Paribas SA. (BNP)  “Loan pricing may not continue to fall as fast if
we see more new money transactions.”  As banks’ wholesale borrowing costs fall, the rate at which
they can lend typically reduces. The yield premium for bank
bonds globally has fallen to 153 basis points as of Jan. 29 from
307 basis points 12 months ago, Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s
Global Banking index shows. Bank note yields touched 2.33
percent Dec. 28, the least in data going back to 1996, according
to the index.  Mergers & Acquisitions  China will also “remain a very interesting market for
banks in 2013, considering the government support for economic
activity and the fact Chinese companies seem very keen on cross-
border activity,”  Credit Agricole ’s Sodhi said.  Mergers and acquisitions by Chinese companies rose 7.6
percent to $85 billion in the second half of 2012 from the first
six months of the year, Bloomberg-compiled data show.  CT Corp., a Jakarta-based media, retail and entertainment
group, is marketing a $750 million loan, the proceeds of which
were used to help acquire the 60 percent of Carrefour SA in
 Indonesia  it didn’t already own, a person familiar with the
matter said Jan. 14. Focus Media Holding Ltd. arranged to meet
banks in Hong Kong and Taipei last week as bidders led by
Carlyle Group LP syndicate a $1.075 billion buyout facility,
other people familiar with that matter said.  “Last year we saw a few event-driven deals whether because
of privatizations or buyouts and that’s going to continue in
2013 because valuations have come down a fair bit,” DBS Bank’s
Boey said. “Syndicated loan volumes in 2013 won’t reach the
peak they did in 2011, but 5 percent to 10 percent higher than
2012? Sure.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katrina Nicholas in Singapore at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  