-- Chinese Companies See EU Climate Less Friendly, Survey Shows
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-01-31T02:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/chinese-companies-see-eu-climate-less-friendly-survey-shows.html
Chinese companies seeking to invest
in Europe find its business environment less welcoming than in
 Africa , the  Middle East  and  Latin America  and face obstacles
relating to bureaucracy and high costs, a survey showed.  At the same time, the 27-nation bloc is seen as relatively
open with few market-access barriers and little history of
opposition to Chinese investment on national-security grounds,
according to a survey on the country’s overseas direct
investment, or ODI, in the European Union released in Beijing
today by the  EU Chamber of Commerce in China , KPMG and Roland
Berger Strategy Consultants.  China ’s outbound investment surged 29 percent to a record
$77.2 billion last year, Ministry of Commerce data show,
underscoring government efforts to encourage overseas expansion
to gain access to technology and resources. Chinese companies
will invest as much as $2 trillion overseas in the decade
through 2020, a report by New York-based Rhodium Group estimated
last year.  “Increasing ODI is a key goal of the Chinese government
and is seen as a key tool in advancing its economic
development,” according to today’s EU Chamber report.  Europe  is
becoming “a more frequent destination as China moves beyond
making investments focused on securing resources and on to
acquiring advanced technologies, expertise and brands,” it said.  Enterprises invest overseas mainly to gain market share
because of increased competition at home and to differentiate
themselves from competitors to help avoid forced industry
consolidations by the government, the survey found.  Bureaucratic Barriers  From 2004 to 2010, 72 percent of Chinese outbound
investment went to  Asia  and 5 percent to Europe, the report
found, citing Chinese  government  data.  “The EU is not regarded as a particularly easy market to
operate in and is reported to suffer from bureaucratic barriers
and high costs,” according to the report. Among key obstacles
to investing in the EU are difficulties obtaining visas and work
permits for Chinese employees, dealing with European  labor laws ,
human resources costs, cultural differences in management style,
and understanding complex tax laws across  member states , the
survey found.  Eighty-five percent of 74 respondents to the survey said
the EU’s business environment is less favorable than in Africa,
69 percent found it worse than the Middle East and 56 percent
thought Latin America more favorable.  Even so, 97 percent said they will increase investment in
the EU, the survey found.  Desirable Brands  “Europe is viewed by Chinese investors as a safe, stable
destination” with a “large consumer market for sales of goods
and services, as well as advanced technologies, an educated
workforce and desirable brands that could be acquired to help
their competitiveness both domestically and internationally,”
according to the report. “Indicators are that Chinese
enterprises will be looking to expand existing investments and
invest more and at larger amounts in the future.”  The survey was conducted between August and November last
year with questionnaires completed by Chinese enterprises that
had made at least one investment in an EU country.  -- Kevin Hamlin . Editors: Nerys Avery, Scott Lanman  To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Kevin Hamlin in Beijing on 
 khamlin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst   ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  