-- China Studies Proposal on U.S. Auditing, Securities Times Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-01-31T02:35:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/china-studies-proposal-on-u-s-auditing-securities-times-says.html
China ’s  Finance Ministry  and
securities regulator last year submitted recommendations to the
State Council on how to work with the U.S. on cross-border
auditing supervision, the Securities Times  reported  today.  The State Council, China’s cabinet, attaches great
importance to the matter, the newspaper reported, citing Wu
Qixiu, head of the ministry’s supervision and inspection bureau.
The newspaper didn’t give any details on the recommendations.  Last year U.S. regulators accused affiliates of the world’s
top four auditing firms of withholding documents from
investigators as regulators probed potential fraud by China-
based companies. Auditors that don’t comply with Securities and
Exchange Commission demands face temporary or permanent
deregistration in the U.S., according to the  rule  under which
the proceedings were brought.  Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu CPA Ltd., Ernst & Young Hua Ming
LLP, KPMG Huazhen and PricewaterhouseCoopers Zhong Tian CPAs
Ltd. refused to cooperate with accounting investigations into
nine companies whose securities are publicly traded in the U.S.,
the SEC said in an administrative order in December.  BDO China
Dahua Co.  was also named by the SEC in the action.  The auditors claim Chinese law prevents them from assenting
to the SEC’s demands.  China may send delegates to the U.S. this year to study the
inspection work on auditing firms by the U.S. regulators, the
 Securities Times  reported, without saying where it got the
information.  China’s Finance Ministry will also work with regulators in
 Hong Kong  to inspect audit reports of some mainland companies
listed on the city’s stock exchange, according to the newspaper.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Aipeng Soo in Beijing at 
 asoo4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  