-- China Surplus Labor to Disappear by 2025, IMF Researchers Say
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-01-31T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/china-surplus-labor-to-disappear-by-2025-imf-researchers-say.html
China’s economy  will probably cross a
threshold between 2020 and 2025 when the supply of low-cost
workers runs out, necessitating a shift in the nation’s  growth 
model, International Monetary Fund researchers said.  The world’s second-largest economy will reach the so-called
Lewis Turning Point in that period, IMF economists Mitali Das
and Papa N’Diaye wrote in a working paper released this week.
The concept, named after the late economist and 1979 Nobel
laureate W. Arthur Lewis, is associated with rapid losses of
competitiveness for sweatshop industries in  South Korea  and
 Taiwan  in the 1980s.  A “precipitous” drop in the working-age population will
push  China  toward the turning point, and the nation can delay or
accelerate its onset through changes such as relaxing the one-
child policy or allowing  deposit rates  to rise, the IMF
researchers wrote. Ma Jiantang, head of the National Bureau of
Statistics, said Jan. 18 that a decline in the workforce last
year was of “great importance.”  “China is on the eve of a demographic shift that will have
profound consequences on its economic and social landscape,”
Das and N’Diaye wrote. “China would need to invest less, but in
better, capital. This would imply switching to a more
‘intensive’ growth model with a greater reliance on improving
total factor productivity.”  That involves speeding up the government’s efforts to rely
more on private consumption for economic growth and less on
investment, the researchers said.  The IMF economists’ finding differs from that of a 2010
paper titled “China Has Reached the Lewis Turning Point” from
the  International Food Policy Research Institute  which said that
“dramatic” increases in inflation-adjusted wages since 2004
indicate the “era of surplus labor is over.”  The IMF gave an initial summary of its researchers’
findings on the Lewis Turning Point in its last annual report on
China in July.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Scott Lanman in Beijing at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  