-- China’s Gas Mask Future Is Worry for Us All
-- B y   W i l l i a m   P e s e k
-- 2013-01-31T17:26:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/china-s-gas-mask-future-is-worry-for-us-all.html
Is it already too late for China to
clean up its fast-blackening skies?  For all the lip service about green growth, investments in
renewable energy and sprawling windmill farms, China’s pollution
woes are spiraling out of control. The nation’s capital is a
case in point. Beijing’s air, which has exceeded the  World
Health Organization ’s healthy limit every day this year, is
similar to that in an airport smoking lounge,  Bloomberg News 
 reported  today.  The city’s leaders closed factories, ordered some cars off
the roads and recommended that its 20 million residents stay
indoors as much as possible as pollution levels stayed in the
range of hazardous for a fifth straight day. Mind you, this
isn’t a script from some apocalyptic movie churned out by
Hollywood. It’s the political center of an economy that’s poised
to surpass the U.S.’s within a couple of decades.  Yet China is literally choking on its economic success. It
has reached its environmental limits, and the blind pursuit of
gross domestic product just isn’t possible anymore. If you think
Beijing’s air is bad now, consider how  China ’s skies will look
when 500 million people own one or more cars. That’s on top of
factories maximizing profits amid rising labor costs by burning
more and more coal. All this will lead to increasing health
risks, slower growth, less foreign investment, increased
government debt and higher bond yields.  It will lead to deaths, too. The issue is high
concentrations of PM2.5, the airborne particulate matter that
raises  risks  for lung and heart diseases. According to estimates
by Greenpeace and Peking University’s School of  Public Health ,
PM2.5 exposure contributed to 8,572 premature deaths in Beijing,
 Shanghai , Guangzhou and Xi’an in 2012.  The problem is political will. China’s next president,  Xi Jinping , will have his hands plenty full consolidating power,
maintaining social stability, improving relations with
neighboring governments and dealing with the U.S.’s pivot toward
 Asia . Amid so many challenges, China’s dual needs to reduce
emissions and boost domestic demand are in direct conflict as
never before. Unless China acts immediately and boldly, it’s
main growth industry will be gasmasks.  ( William Pesek  is a Bloomberg View columnist.  Follow  him on
Twitter.)
 