-- Clinton Lays Out Vision of U.S. Power in Farewell Speech
-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2013-01-31T21:02:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/clinton-lays-out-vision-of-u-s-power-in-farewell-speech.html
Hillary Clinton outlined her vision
for bolstering U.S. influence in her final address as secretary
of state, offering a defense to critics who say her tenure has
been scatter-shot or inconsequential.  Clinton compared the “new architecture” necessary for “a
new world” to the fluid and quirky work of architect Frank Gehry. “Some of his work at first might appear haphazard,”
Clinton said, “but in fact it’s highly intentional and
sophisticated.”  U.S. foreign policy under Clinton combined traditional
elements such as military power and decades-long alliances with
newer components such as the use of social media, an increased
focus on economic matters, encouragement for female empowerment
and an increase in regional cooperation.  “America today is stronger at home and respected in the
world, and our global leadership is on stronger footing than
many predicted,” Clinton said today at the Council on Foreign
Relations, a Washington policy group.  Describing the U.S. as “the world’s indispensable
nation,” Clinton declared that “the declinists are wrong.”  Asked about a “Clinton doctrine,” she described building
networks to draw in other countries and then “expect them to
play their role in a rules-based global order.”  “As the world has changed, so too have the levers of power
that can most effectively shape international affairs,” Clinton
said. “We have to be strategic about all the levers of global
power” and be open to new ones, “even ones that haven’t been
invented yet,” Clinton said.  Broader Engagement  The new demands also require broader engagement, said
Clinton, who set records for the position by traveling to 112
countries in her four-year term.  While critics such as scholar Fouad Ajami have derided her
globe-hopping travel schedule as “foreign policy trivialized,”
Clinton said secretaries of state can no longer limit themselves
to a few major capitals.  She offered her January 2012 trip to Togo as an example,
citing people who asked why she would bother going to the tiny
west African country. “Why Togo?” she said. “Well, Togo
happens to hold a rotating seat on the UN Security Council,”
Clinton said. “Going there -- making the personal investment --
has a strategic purpose.”  Clinton said criticism that her emphasis on technology,
human rights, women and development is “a bit soft,” misses
the point. It’s a “false choice” to see traditional tools of
power and so-called soft power as mutually exclusive, she said.  Instead, she calls the mix of the two “smart power” and
offered examples of how that has worked in Asia and the Middle
East.  Rising China  Though military shifts in the so-called pivot to Asia have
garnered a lot of attention, U.S. foreign policy in the region
involves energy politics, trade and economic diplomacy, and the
promotion of democracy and universal norms, Clinton said.  She described the U.S. relationship with  China  as
“uniquely consequential” adding that, “the Pacific is big
enough for all of us, and we will continue to welcome China’s
rise -- if it chooses to play a constructive role.”  The Middle East is another complex region, Clinton said,
and she said it has seen some progress. Nascent democracies are
taking root in  Egypt , Libya and Tunisia, she said, and U.S.
troops have come home from  Iraq .  She acknowledged the region’s challenges, including the
continuing “slaughter” in  Syria ,  Iran ’s alleged pursuit of a
nuclear weapon and the terrorist threat in North Africa.  The Middle East needs good governance, a vibrant private
sector, respect for women and minorities, and “you can’t have
true stability and security unless leaders start leading,”
Clinton said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  