-- Consumer Spending in U.S. Rose in December as Incomes Surged
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2013-01-31T14:54:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/consumer-spending-in-u-s-climbed-in-december-as-incomes-surged.html
Consumer spending in the U.S.
climbed in December as  incomes  grew by the most in eight years,
a sign the biggest part of the economy was contributing to the
expansion as the year drew to a close.  Household purchases, which account for about 70 percent of
the economy, rose 0.2 percent after a 0.4 percent gain the prior
month, a Commerce Department report showed today in  Washington .
The median estimate in a Bloomberg survey of 72 economists
called for a 0.3 percent rise. Incomes rose 2.6 percent, pushing
the saving rate up to a more than three-year high.  Lower fuel costs, job gains, holiday-season discounts and
early dividend payouts helped to accelerate Americans’ spending
last quarter, even as a plunge in defense outlays and slower
stockpiling led the economy to contract at a 0.1 percent annual
pace. An increase in taxes that began to shrink paychecks this
month will pose a hurdle to sustaining gains in purchases.  “Consumers closed out the year on a relatively strong
note,” said Guy Berger, an economist at RBS Securities Inc. in
 Stamford ,  Connecticut , who correctly projected the gain in
spending. “We have a fair amount of resilience in demand. But,
this quarter doesn’t look great for spending as there will be
some intense headwinds.”  Claims for  unemployment benefits  increased more than
forecast last week, partially erasing a slide in the prior two
weeks and reflecting the difficulty of adjusting the figures for
swings at the start of a year, another report showed today.
Initial jobless claims rose 38,000 to 368,000 in the week ended
Jan. 26, the Labor Department reported.  Spending Outlook  Consumer comfort declined for a fourth straight week as
Americans’ outlook on spending soured, a sign the  payroll tax 
increase that kicked in at the start of the year is starting to
ripple through the economy.  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index dropped to minus 37.5
in the period ended Jan. 27, the lowest reading since October,
from minus 36.4 in the prior week. The measure’s buying-climate
gauge decreased to a four-month low.  Stocks rose after the MNI Chicago Report’s  business
barometer  climbed more than projected, reaching a nine-month
high. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index increased 0.1 percent to
1,503.03 at 9:48 a.m. in  New York .  Projections for  consumer spending  in the Bloomberg survey
ranged from little changed to a 0.7 percent gain.  Incomes Jump  The Bloomberg survey median called for incomes to rise 0.8
percent. The December gain was the biggest since December 2004,
the month Microsoft Corp. paid a special dividend. The November
reading was revised up to show a 1 percent increase from a
previously reported 0.6 percent advance.  The saving rate increased to 6.5 percent, the highest since
May 2009, from 4.1 percent. Wages and salaries increased 0.6
percent.  Disposable income, or the money left over after taxes,
climbed 2.8 percent after adjusting for inflation, the biggest
gains since May 2008.  After-tax income rose at a 6.8 percent annual rate from
October through December, the biggest increase since the second
quarter of 2008, a report showed yesterday.  In addition to improving wages and salaries, some companies
paid dividends and employee bonuses earlier than usual before
tax rates went up this year. The Commerce Department estimated
about $26.4 billion of the increase in incomes last quarter was
attributable to early dividend payments and another $15 billion
reflected bonuses and other types of irregular pay.  First Quarter  That signals the surge in incomes last quarter will be
reversed in the first three months of 2013, when those payments
took place in prior years.  Adjusting consumer spending for inflation, which renders
the figures used to calculate gross domestic product, purchases
rose 0.2 percent after a 0.6 percent increase in the previous
month, today’s report showed.  Spending on durable goods, including automobiles, increased
1.3 percent after a 2.9 percent advance.  The figures provide a monthly breakdown of the quarterly
data released yesterday, shedding more light on the trajectory
of household spending entering 2013.  Consumer purchases grew at a  2.2 percent  pace in the fourth
quarter, up from 1.6 percent in the previous three months, as
Americans bought more durable goods including automobiles.  Government Spending  The fourth-quarter drop in GDP was largely due to a decline
in government outlays and a smaller gain in inventories that
subtracted a combined 2.6 percentage points from growth,
Commerce Department data showed yesterday.  Today’s report showed a price gauge tied to consumer
spending, which are the figures tracked by Federal Reserve
policy makers, rose 1.3 percent in 2012 after advancing 2.4
percent the prior year. It was the smallest annual increase
since 2008 and compares with the central bank’s goal of 2
percent.  Excluding food and energy costs, prices climbed 1.4 percent
in 2012, down from a 1.9 percent increase the prior year.  The need to spur growth and end a four-year long period of
joblessness above 7.5 percent, combined with little inflation,
help explain why Federal Reserve policy makers yesterday
repeated they’ll keep pumping money into the economy.  FOMC Statement  “With appropriate policy accommodation, economic growth
will proceed at a moderate pace and the  unemployment rate  will
gradually decline,” the central bank said in a statement.
Household spending “advanced,” though “the unemployment rate
remains elevated,” it said.  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) , the world’s largest Internet retailer,
this week reported a 22 percent jump in fourth-quarter in sales
as more shoppers turned to its broad product selection and
speedy shipping for holiday gifts.  Recent reports signal  consumer confidence  and spending may
cool this quarter, in part due to changes in fiscal policy.
Congress on Jan. 1 let the payroll tax revert to 6.2 percent
from 4.2 percent while avoiding broad-based income tax
increases. Lawmakers are now wrangling over spending reductions
scheduled for March 1 that threaten to further slow the economy.  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index declined to minus 36.4
in the week ended Jan. 20, the weakest since early October, from
minus 35.5 the prior period. The measure has fallen for three
straight weeks, the longest slump since August.  More Hiring  At the same time, hiring is improving. Labor Department
data may show tomorrow that payrolls grew by 165,000 in January
after rising 155,000 the prior month, according to the Bloomberg
survey median. Unemployment may have held at 7.8 percent,
economists predicted.  Automobile purchases are leading the pickup in demand as
Americans replace older vehicles and automakers offer new
models. Cars and light trucks sales in November and December
posted the best  back-to-back  showing since early 2008, according
to Ward’s Automotive Group.  Ford Motor Co. (F) , which has introduced five new electric-
powered models in the past year, expects its sales of hybrid
vehicles to surge by fivefold in January to start a record year
for the company.  Today’s figures also showed price pressures are contained.
An index of inflation tied to spending patterns was unchanged in
December from the prior month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  