-- Consumer Stocks Lead Jump as Youku Gains: China Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2013-01-31T21:55:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/consumer-stocks-lead-jump-as-youku-gains-china-overnight.html
Chinese equities  rose a second month
in  New York , led by  Youku Tudou Inc. (YOKU)  and  Melco Crown
Entertainment Ltd. (6883) , as a rebound in  Asia ’s largest economy
fueled gains in consumer stocks.  The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded
Chinese shares in the U.S. was little changed at 100.19
yesterday, advancing 1 percent for January. Youku Tudou, owner
of  China ’s most-used video websites, rallied 25 percent on
outlook for online advertising. Casino company Melco Crown
climbed for a sixth month after Macau gaming revenue reached a
record in December. Rising Chinese home prices lifted property
agent  E-House China Holdings Ltd. (EJ)  22 percent in January.  The  Shanghai  Composite Index of domestic shares entered a
 bull market  last month as government data showed the economy
expanded in the last four months of 2012, ending a seven-quarter
slowdown. The Shanghai gauge rallied 5.1 percent in January, the
best performance among the biggest  emerging markets . Russian
stocks gained 4.9 percent, Indian equities added 2.4 percent,
while Brazil’s Bovespa index is down 2 percent.  “Chinese equities are among the best-performing emerging
markets,” John-Paul Smith, an emerging-markets strategist at
Deutsche Bank AG, said by phone from  London . “Most people are
very optimistic about China’s economic growth. There isn’t any
pessimism out there at all.”  The iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund, the largest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., retreated 0.3 percent to
$41.47 in New York, trimming its January advance to 2.5 percent,
a fifth monthly gain. The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  slipped
0.3 percent to 1,498.11, rising 5 percent in the month.  Ad Revenue  The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of Hong Kong-traded
shares dropped 0.3 percent to 12,130.59 yesterday, reducing its
fifth straight monthly advance to 6.1 percent.  Beijing-based Youku Tudou, formed out of a merger of
China’s two biggest video websites, retreated 4.5 percent to
$22.76 yesterday, after reaching a seven-month high of $24.39 on
Jan. 28.  Deutsche Bank AG analyst Alex Yao rated the company buy in
an initial coverage on Jan. 27, with a price target of $29.56.  Tudou is seeing advertising revenue returning to its
website after a “painful” transition period following its
August merger with Youku, Hong Kong-based 86Research Ltd.
analysts led by Ming Zhao wrote in a note dated Jan. 16. “As 60
percent of Tudou’s advertisers overlapped with Youku’s, the
integrated ad system is working now,” according to the report.  Melco Crown, which runs casinos in Macau, added 3.9 percent
to a six-year high of $20.96 yesterday in New York. Its 24
percent surge in January was the steepest monthly advance since
October 2011.  Improved Outlook  Gambling revenue in Macau, the only Chinese territory where
casinos are legal, will grow 11 percent in 2013, Jeremy Tan, a
Hong Kong-based analyst at Kim Eng Securities, wrote in a Jan.
30 note. He lifted his forecast by 3.5 percentage points, citing
a recovery in  China’s economy .  Macau’s casino revenue jumped to 28.2 billion patacas ($3.5
billion) in December, surpassing a record 27.7 billion patacas
in October. Full-year revenue increased 14 percent to 304
billion patacas, also a record, according to data from Macau’s
Gaming Inspection and Coordination Bureau Jan. 2.  Melco Crown has completed a deal of $1.4 billion syndicated
loan with 24 lenders, a person familiar with the matter said
Jan. 30, asking not to be identified because the details are
private. Proceeds will be used to fund Melco Crown’s Studio City
resort project in Macau.  E-House, a real estate broker based in Shanghai, slipped
0.2 percent to $4.99 yesterday for a 22 percent gain in January.
It reached a four-month high of $5.33 on Jan. 23.  Home Prices  China’s new  home prices  rose in 54 cities out of the 70
tracked by the government in December, the most in 20 months,
the nation’s statistics bureau said on Jan. 18.  LDK Solar Co., the world’s second-biggest maker of wafers
for solar panels, jumped 9.1 percent to $1.68 in New York
yesterday, the first gain in seven days. Its shares have rallied
17 percent this year after losing 66 percent in 2012.  The company, based in Xinyu of Jiangxi province in China,
received approval for a 440 million  yuan  ($71 million) loan from
the state-owned China Development Bank Corp. to upgrade a
polysilicon plant in Mahong, it said in a statement yesterday.
LDK said it has invested more than 12 billion yuan in the
facility, swelling its debt burden.  SouFun Holdings Ltd. (SFUN) , China’s largest real-estate
information website, said the New York Stock Exchange has
contacted the company regarding “unusual market activity” in
its stock in a statement yesterday. There’s nothing unusual
“other than the tax rumor about Beijing city property tax which
was later denied by the government,” SouFun said.  The Beijing-based company added 0.2 percent yesterday to
$25.82, after a five-day slump in which it lost 9.2 percent. Its
stock reached a record high of $28.5 on Jan. 9.  Ambow’s Slide  Ambow Education Holding Ltd. (AMBO) , a private tutoring service
provider based in Beijing, lost 18 percent last month to a
record low of $1.84, sliding the most among companies on the
China-US gauge.  China’s finance ministry and securities regulator have
submitted recommendations to the State Council, the nation’s
cabinet, on cooperating with the U.S. over auditing
supervisions,  Securities Times  reported yesterday, citing Wu
Qixiu, head of the ministry’s supervision and inspection bureau.  The Securities & Exchange Commission accused units of the
Big Four accounting firms of not cooperating with an
investigation into fraud by China-based companies in a Dec. 3
administrative order. The U.S. and China disagree over whether
auditors can share financial documents with regulators, and the
firms, which include Ernst & Young Hua Ming LLP and KPMG
Huazhen, say Chinese law prevents them from complying with the
SEC’s demands.  The  Bloomberg Chinese Reverse Mergers Index (CHINARTO) , which tracks a
basket of companies that gained U.S. listings after buying firms
that already trade, climbed 5.1 percent in January, the biggest
rally in three months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  