-- Copper Falls as Jobless Claims, UPS Earnings Cloud Outlook
-- B y   J o e   R i c h t e r
-- 2013-01-31T18:33:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/copper-reaches-three-month-high-as-fed-maintains-asset-purchases.html
Copper fell for the first time this
week as a jump in U.S. jobless claims and a disappointing
earnings forecast by  United Parcel Service Inc. (UPS)  signaled the
recovery is making uneven progress.  Filings for  unemployment benefits  rose 38,000 last week,
the most since Nov. 10, government data showed today. Atlanta-
based UPS, the world’s largest package-delivery company, said
earnings this year will be $4.80 to $5.06 a share, below the
$5.13 estimate of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Copper rose
2.7 percent the previous three days on signs of economic growth
in the U.S. and  China .  “We’ve seen some good economic numbers lately, but the
market is torn because it looks like things may be slower than
it had believed,”  Bart Melek , the Toronto-based head of
commodity strategy at TD Securities, said in a telephone
interview. “Copper may have moved up a bit too fast, and now
people are paring down expectations.”  Copper futures for delivery in March slipped 0.5 percent to
settle at $3.732 a pound at 1:08 p.m. on the Comex in  New York ,
paring the monthly gain to 2.2 percent.  Investors use UPS as a gauge of the economy because it
handles goods as varied as auto parts and pharmaceuticals.  Copper also fell as industrial production in Japan, the
world’s fourth-biggest consumer, rose less in December than
economists forecast. China is the largest buyer of the metal,
followed by the U.S. and  Germany .  On the London Metal Exchange, copper for delivery in three
months was 0.7 percent lower at $8,165 a metric ton ($3.70 a
pound). Nickel, tin, aluminum, zinc and lead also declined on
the LME.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Richter in New York at 
 jrichter1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  