-- Craig Moffett, Top-Rated Analyst, Is Leaving Bernstein
-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 2013-01-31T21:11:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/craig-moffett-top-rated-analyst-is-leaving-bernstein.html
Craig Moffett , a top-ranked
telecommunications analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co., is
resigning from his job after a decade at the investment bank,
according to a person familiar with the situation.  Moffett is considering starting his own firm, said the
person, who asked not to be identified because the resignation
hasn’t been announced publicly.  The 50-year-old has been ranked No. 1 among U.S. cable and
satellite analysts for seven consecutive years by Institutional
Investor magazine. He joined Bernstein, a division of New York-
based  AllianceBernstein LP (AB) , a decade ago. Prior to that, he
spent 11 years at the Boston Consulting Group, where he led the
firm’s global practice in telecommunications.  He graduated magna cum laude from Brown University in 1984
and earned his master’s degree in business administration from
Harvard Business School in 1989.  Moffett has long championed cable companies such as  Comcast
Corp. (CMCSA)  and  Time Warner Cable Inc. (TWC)  for owning the networks that
carry digital information. Moffett has said “distribution is
king,” rather than content, because network owners will always
find a way to get paid.  Comcast and Time Warner Cable each rose more than 50
percent last year, and investors value both at a  premium  to the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, based on price-to-earnings ratios.
Moffett has advised buying Comcast since at least 2003 and Time
Warner Cable since at least 2007, except for a brief period in
2010, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  Jonathan Freedman, a spokesman for AllianceBernstein,
didn’t immediately return a voice message seeking comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Sherman in  New York  at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  