-- Cyprus Bank Rescue Won’t Hurt Senior Creditors, Shiarly Says
-- B y   C o r i n a   R u h e
-- 2013-02-01T12:57:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/cypriot-bank-rescue-won-t-hurt-senior-creditors-shiarly-says.html
Cypriot Finance Minister Vassos Shiarly said senior creditors won’t be forced to take losses in
a proposed rescue of the country’s banks.  Only junior bondholders will face losses in the bailout of
Cyprus’s lenders, which may need about 10 billion euros ($13.7
billion) of fresh capital, Shiarly said in an interview in The
Hague late yesterday. Senior creditors and depositors won’t be
touched, he said after meeting with Dutch lawmakers.  “The recapitalization of the banks includes the bailing-in
of bondholders,” Shiarly said. The terms of the bank rescue are
under consideration as authorities await a final report from
Pacific Investment Management Co. on Cypriot lenders’ capital
needs. “But I think it concluded as a matter of principle the
bailing-in of junior bondholders,” he said.  Cyprus is negotiating with the European Commission,
 European Central Bank  and  International Monetary Fund  over the
size and terms of a rescue for the government and lenders
weakened by their exposure to the  Greek economy . Cypriot
financial institutions such as  Bank of Cyprus Plc  and  Cyprus
Popular Bank Pcl (CPB)  lost more than 4 billion euros in a debt
restructuring that was part of a second rescue of  Greece .  Most junior bondholders are individuals in Cyprus, Shiarly
said. “There’s been a lot of discussion and an association has
been formed to lobby against the bail-in,” he said.
“Unfortunately it’s a necessity.” There has been no talk of
imposing losses on depositors, he added.  Pimco Report  The Pimco report may be ready as soon as today and an
agreement on an aid package may be concluded in March, Shiarly
said. Cyprus’s bailout may amount to 17.5 billion euros, of
which the government would get as much as 7 billion euros to pay
its bills and refinance debt, he said.  “We borrow the money to recapitalize the banks, this means
a nationalization,” Shiarly said. He said the banks will later
be sold, with the proceeds used to reduce the national debt.  Shiarly reiterated Cyprus’s hope that its banks will
eventually qualify retroactively for direct aid from the
European Stability Mechanism, the euro area’s permanent rescue
fund, allowing the loans to be moved from the sovereign balance
sheet to the banks.  “Our banks will be recapitalized outside this process,
through government lending, but we would very much like to have
it,” he said. “Whether it’s going to be available or not will
depend on a political decision taken at that particular point in
time.”  Letter to Barroso  Cypriot President Demetris Christofias appealed for
retroactive direct bank aid in a Jan. 11 letter to European
Commission President  Jose Barroso .  “We’ve done everything that was requested,” Shiarly told
lawmakers in The Hague of his country’s efforts to obtain a
bailout. “We are very understanding of sensitivities in certain
areas. We will leave it to them. We don’t put pressure on our
partners.”  Shiarly said so-called private-sector involvement has been
ruled out on Cypriot government debt in bailout talks with the
euro area and IMF.  “Government debt is primarily held by local  credit
institutions , and therefore if you’re going to do PSI, you’ll
have to pay for it at the same time by asking for more money to
cover recapitalization,” he said.  Shiarly also said that he’s confident a 2.5 billion-euro
loan from  Russia  due in 2016 will be extended soon.  ‘In Everyone’s Interest’  “We have every reason to believe Russia will respond
favorably,” Shiarly told reporters. “I believe soon, but it is
not up to us. It should be extended; it’s in everyone’s
interest.”  After the Cypriot economy’s exposure to Greece hampered the
eastern Mediterranean island’s ability to get funding, “Russia
was the only country willing to lend to us,” Shiarly said.  Christofias said Jan. 30 that Russia was prepared to
contribute to a bailout of Cyprus in cooperation with the
European Union. He said Russian President  Vladimir Putin  assured
him in a telephone conversation that Russia was prepared to
participate in loans to Cyprus.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corina Ruhe in The Hague at 
 cruhe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Ludden at 
 jludden@bloomberg.net  