-- Cyprus Presents Systemic Threat to Euro Area, Merkel Ally Says
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2013-01-31T13:20:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/cyprus-presents-systemic-threat-to-euro-area-merkel-ally-says.html
German lawmakers recognize that a
collapse in Cyprus’s banking industry would pose a threat to
euro-area stability, an ally of Chancellor  Angela Merkel  said,
suggesting that  Germany  won’t block a bailout package.  The comments by  Norbert Barthle , a lawmaker and budget
spokesman for Merkel’s Christian Democratic Union-led bloc, are
the first by a senior German government official to acknowledge
the systemic risk to the 17-nation euro region posed by Cyprus.
Germany’s  Finance Ministry  has said rescue-fund rules stipulate
that a country must pose a risk to the stability of the entire
region before it can be eligible for bailout loans.  “From everything that I know, I would expect that one will
come to the conclusion that it’s relevant,” Barthle told
reporters today in Berlin. “One has to take a very close look
at the issue of contagion, especially since the Cypriot banks
are very closely tied to the Greek banks.”  German and European officials have been squabbling over
whether the Mediterranean island nation represents a critical
risk to the euro area in its fourth year of a debt crisis. Euro
finance ministers have yet to reach an agreement on the bloc’s
latest bailout package since negotiations began in July.  The question of Cyprus’s relevance “must be asked,”
Finance Ministry spokesman Martin Kotthaus said this week, after
 Der Spiegel  reported that European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  had pressed German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble 
into recognizing that the country posed a risk.  Barthle said the issue of Cyprus’s threat to the euro will
be resolved when legislators see that the country is
systemically relevant to the currency. Open questions remain on
Cyprus’s debt sustainability, Russia’s involvement, harmonizing
its tax system, privatizing state assets and accusations of
 money laundering , he said.  On the laundering allegations, “Cyprus has to make
substantial progress in countering these accusations,” Barthle
said. “This will have to be assessed very closely, otherwise I
can’t imagine that there will be an approval of any package.”  An extension of Russian loans to Cyprus will offer European
officials “a bit of time” to agree on a bailout package,
though that timetable won’t stretch until German parliamentary
elections in September, Barthle said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  