-- Danish Housing Slump Is Over, Central Bank’s Callesen Says
-- B y   K a s p e r   V i i t a
-- 2013-01-31T08:58:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/danish-housing-slump-is-over-central-bank-s-callesen-says-1-.html
Denmark ’s housing market is past the
deepest point in its slump and the key triggers for a recovery
are now in place, central bank Deputy Governor Per Callesen
said.  “Denmark is a healthy economy, a surplus economy” so
“there are no rational economic reasons why it shouldn’t pick
up,” Callesen said in an interview in Copenhagen yesterday. The
housing market has now “bottomed out,” he said.  The comments follow a more-than 20 percent plunge in
Denmark’s house prices since a 2007 peak. The nation’s  gross
domestic product  probably contracted 0.4 percent last year,
matching a decline in the 17-member euro area, as households
stopped spending and businesses shelved investments, the
government estimates. Denmark’s burst housing bubble also
brought with it a regional banking crisis that has wiped out
more than 20 lenders since 2008.  The nation’s economic plight has prompted lawmakers to pass
legislation that encourages bank mergers in an effort to support
the industry and underpin lending. At the same time, home-loan
rates sank to record lows last quarter as Denmark’s mortgage
bond market, the world’s third-largest, attracted investors
eager to escape the debt crisis inside the euro area.  An increase in Denmark’s house prices “could happen” this
year, Callesen said.  Record Stocks  Denmark’s  benchmark share index  is already signaling the
economy is in recovery mode, and traded at a record high today
after gaining as much as 1 percent. That follows a 9.2 percent
increase this year, beating a 3 percent rise in the STOXX Europe
600 Index. Denmark’s all-share index is up 8.2 percent this
year.  It costs less to insure against non-payment of Danish
 government bonds  than it does on debt sold by the German state.
Five-year credit default swaps on Denmark traded at 30 basis
points today, compared with 43 basis points on  Germany  and the
U.S., according to data available on Bloomberg.  Though Danish households carry the world’s highest personal
debt burdens relative to their disposable incomes, that’s backed
by pension savings of about 150 percent of gross domestic
product, the central bank estimates. Government debt is less
than half the euro-area average, and will decline to 44.7
percent of GDP this year, according to the European Commission.  Foreclosed Homes  The number of foreclosed homes fell for a second
consecutive quarter at the end of last year, the Danish Mortgage
Bankers’ Federation estimates, while seasonally adjusted house
prices have been stable over the seven months through November,
according to Nordea Kredit.  Prices for single-family homes slipped 1.1 percent in
November from a year earlier and fell 0.6 percent from October,
 Statistics Denmark  said yesterday. Apartment prices rose 3.2
percent on the year, it said.  Danes now face higher  interest rates  as demand for haven
assets wanes amid signs the euro area’s debt crisis is abating.
The central bank last week raised its main rates for the first
time since July 2011 to defend the krone’s peg to the euro.  Even after the rate increase, Denmark’s  certificate of
deposit rate  remains below zero at minus 0.1 percent. Its
lending rate is 0.3 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kasper Viita in Helsinki at 
 kviita1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net  