-- David Beckham to Continue Career at Paris Saint-Germain
-- B y   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i   a n d   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2013-02-01T11:04:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/david-beckham-said-to-sign-with-paris-saint-germain-soccer-team.html
English midfielder David Beckham
signed a five-month contract with Paris Saint-Germain, the
French league co-leader that has spent more on players than any
other European soccer club since 2011.  Beckham was introduced to the media and fans in Paris
yesterday after passing a medical exam. The former England
national team captain said he had offers from all over the
world, including clubs in the English Premier League before
choosing PSG, which is tied with Lyon at the top of Ligue 1.  The club, backed by an investment arm of the Qatari
government, has spent 250 million euros ($338 million) on
players including Zlatan Ibrahimovic and Thiago Silva from AC
Milan and Argentine attacker Ezequiel Lavezzi from Napoli as it
seeks to join the world’s elite.  “I chose Paris because I can see what the club is trying
to do,” Beckham said. “I can see the club they are trying to
bring in. I may only be signed until the end of the season, but
I’m part of the plan to help this club grow, to help the French
league to grow.”  The 37-year-old Beckham, who started his career at the
Premier League’s Manchester United, had played for Major League
Soccer’s Los Angeles Galaxy since July 2007 and has been a free
agent since his contract expired in December. He said he didn’t
consider any other English teams because of his ties to
Manchester.  Experienced Manager  PSG is managed by Carlo Ancelotti, who was in charge of AC
Milan when Beckham played on loan with the Italian club. PSG is
also still in Europe’s elite Champions League, where it will
play Valencia in the round of 16 starting Feb. 12.  “For me, Carlo is one of the best managers I’ve played
for,” Beckham said. “ It’s a bonus they’re in the Champions
League. I haven’t played in the Champions League for quite a few
years.”  Beckham is married to the former Spice Girls singer
Victoria Beckham, who was known as Posh Spice. She’s a clothing
designer and performed with the re-formed group for the London
Olympics’ closing ceremony.  Beckham said his family will remain in London, where it
moved after leaving Los Angeles. His salary, which wasn’t
disclosed, will go to a yet-determined children’s charity in
Paris.  “It’s a very good figure,” he said. “It’s one of the
things we’re excited about, to give a huge sum to a children’s
charity.”  England Record  Beckham, whose 115 appearances for England’s national team
are a record for a non-goalkeeper, attracted attention from
clubs worldwide after announcing in November he was leaving the
Galaxy.  Beckham signed in July 1991 with Manchester United, and
went on to win six Premier League titles, two F.A. Cups and the
Champions League. He made his debut at age 17 in September 1992
against Brighton.  He joined Real Madrid in 2003 and helped that club to the
Spanish League title before leaving four years later for Los
Angeles, where he won two MLS titles. He spent time on loan at
AC Milan in 2009 and 2010 during the MLS offseason.  “I’m not sure it’s my last contract,” Beckham said.
“People have always speculated it’s my last contract and I’ve
kept playing. I want to keep playing as long as possible.
Football is my passion, it’s never been about the biggest
contract. I’ve always wanted to play for the best teams and with
the best players.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gregory Viscusi in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Bensch in London at   bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  