-- Delaware Democrat Takes Over Senate Bankruptcy Panel
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2013-01-31T22:16:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/delaware-senator-coons-to-take-over-panel-on-bankruptcy.html
A U.S. Senator from  Delaware , home
to courts that specialize in business cases, took over the panel
overseeing the bankruptcy system, making it harder for critics
to weaken the state’s influence on corporate reorganizations.  Chris Coons today became chairman of the Senate Judiciary
Subcommittee on Bankruptcy and the Courts after a vote by the
Judiciary Committee, replacing fellow Democrat  Amy Klobuchar  of
Minnesota. The subcommittee also oversees new judgeships, court
administration and legal reform.  “For those who like Delaware as a bankruptcy venue, this
is a good development,” said Samuel J. Gerdano, executive
director of the  American Bankruptcy Institute , a professional
organization representing lawyers and others in the
restructuring field.  Delaware and New York dominate large corporate
bankruptcies, according to a database compiled by  University of
California ,  Los Angeles , Professor Lynn M. LoPucki. The latest
effort to loosen their influence came in 2011, when lawmakers
from Texas and Michigan tried to change the rules about where
companies can file bankruptcy.  Coons defended Delaware’s position, saying the judges and
attorneys in his state have expertise that can speed
corporations through bankruptcy and “preserve jobs where
possible.”  “In jurisdictions that don’t have the same capacity, in
terms of experience on the bench and the strength of bankruptcy
bar, it can, at times, be difficult,” Coons said in an
interview today.  Fifth Judge  A subcommittee of the  Judicial Conference of the U.S.  this
month recommended adding a fifth judge to  Delaware ’s federal
district court to handle an increase in the number of patent
cases filed in the state. The  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in Delaware
has six judges.  Coons said it will be difficult to get the additional judge
approved by Congress.  “There are strong opponents to adding any new judges
anywhere in the country,” he said.  The Senate should concentrate on approving nominations for
vacant federal judgeships that are funded, Coons said. Senate
confirmation is required to fill a post, and there are 85
judicial vacancies and 33 nominees awaiting approval.  Any company incorporated in Delaware can file for
bankruptcy there, or wherever it has its headquarters or
operations. Representative  Lamar Smith , the Texas Republican who
chairs the House judiciary panel, and Michigan’s  John Conyers ,
its ranking Democrat, have proposed forcing companies to file in
their home states.  Many lawyers outside of Delaware and New York support
efforts to curb filings in the states, Gerdano said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  