-- Dells Pledge $50 Million to Build Austin Medical School
-- B y   D a v i d   M i l d e n b e r g
-- 2013-01-31T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/dells-pledge-50-million-to-build-austin-medical-school.html
Michael Dell ’s family foundation
will provide $50 million for a medical school to be built in
Austin,  Texas , plus $10 million for health care in the city.  The new Dell Medical School will be a partnership that
includes the  University of Texas , hospital group Seton
Healthcare Family and Travis County, which encompasses Austin.
The university, whose flagship campus is in the state’s capital
city, runs medical schools in  Dallas , Galveston, Houston, San
Antonio and Tyler.  Dell, who dropped out of the state school in 1984 to start
computer maker  Dell Inc. (DELL) , gave $38 million to help build a
pediatric research center on the Austin campus in 2007, said
Gary Susswein, a university spokesman. The Dell family
foundation also provided $32 million for a children’s hospital
in the city.  “It is the right investment for our family, our university
and our community,” Dell said yesterday at a briefing to
announce the latest gift. “The effects of the medical school
will be felt well beyond the campus.”  The university plans to start building the facility this
year and enroll students by 2016, said Austin campus President
Bill Powers. Voters in the county approved raising taxes by 5
cents per $100 of assessed property value in November, partly to
fund the new medical school’s operations.  Dell Buyout  Dell Inc., where Michael Dell is chairman and chief
executive officer, is the focus of a plan by the entrepreneur to
take it private and regain majority control. The deal would
combine Michael Dell’s almost 16 percent stake with as much as
$1 billion of his personal funds in a buyout led by Silver Lake
Management LLC and  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , said people familiar with
the matter. The company is based in suburban Round Rock and
employs 14,000 in the Austin area, spokesman  David Frink  said.  Dell had a net worth estimated at more than $14 billion
this week, according to the  Bloomberg Billionaires Index , a
daily ranking of the world’s richest people.  The Michael and Susan Dell Foundation pledged $5 million a
year for a decade to support the medical school, officials said
during the briefing at the charitable organization’s Austin
headquarters.  The foundation’s additional commitment of $10 million over
a decade will go to support health quality and access programs
in Travis County and Austin, according to a statement from the
charitable organization.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Mildenberg in Austin at 
 dmildenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  