-- Deutsche Bank Considers Selling CoCos to Meet U.S. Rules
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t   a n d   A n n e t t e   W e i s b a c h
-- 2013-01-31T09:39:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/deutsche-bank-considers-selling-cocos-to-meet-u-s-rules.html
Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ,  Europe ’s biggest
bank by assets, is considering selling contingent convertible
bonds to bolster capital at its U.S. unit should the  Federal
Reserve  implement stricter rules for foreign banks.  The sale of so-called CoCos “is certainly one of the
options that is under discussion,”  Stefan Krause , the
Frankfurt-based lender’s chief financial officer, said today on
a conference call with analysts. “That could be a solution, but
again the rules are not final.”  The Fed last month proposed subjecting two dozen foreign
banks with at least $50 billion of global assets to stricter
capital rules to lower risks to the financial system. That could
erode the ability of the banks to compete and may prompt
“retribution” from European regulators seeking tighter rules
for U.S. firms, Krause said. CoCos convert into shares when a
bank’s capital ratio falls below a predefined level.  “We don’t need any further capital at this point,” Krause
said. “We have to wait until the final rules come out and then
obviously understand what the capitalization requirements are”
for 2015, he said.  Deutsche Bank said it expects to take a charge of 2 billion
euros ($2.7 billion) to 2.5 billion euros in the fourth quarter
related to its U.S. Taunus unit under German HGB accounting
rules, Krause said. That won’t stop the bank from paying a
dividend for 2012 and has no bearing on its capital levels or
profit under IFRS rules, he said.  The “conservative” German accounting rules require
valuations to reflect the performance of a business as far as
five years in advance, said Krause.  “After the impairment we took in our local books, we are
prepared,” Krause said. The rules are “not very helpful in
getting the global financial market working. That’s why we’re
quite hopeful and confident that there’s some revision to the
framework.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nicholas Comfort in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net ;
Annette Weisbach in Frankfurt at 
 aweisbach1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  