-- Diageo Maintains Profit Growth With Move Away From Europe
-- B y   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 2013-01-31T15:06:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/diageo-first-half-profit-advances-on-premium-alcohol-sales.html
Diageo Plc (DGE) , the world’s largest
distiller, maintained its pace of profit growth in the first
half as it shifted away from the depressed economies of  Europe 
and toward faster-growing  emerging markets .  So-called organic operating profit rose 9 percent to 2.03
billion pounds ($3.2 billion) in the six months ended Dec. 31,
the London-based company said today, the same pace of growth as
in the previous financial year. Earnings exceeded the 2.02
billion-pound median  estimate  of 11 analysts.  The maker of Johnnie Walker whisky said it now gets 42
percent of sales from faster-growing markets that include Brazil
and  China . Europe, which in 2007 represented 38 percent of
revenue, saw its slice of the total fall to 26 percent. First-
half profit increased 23 percent in  Latin America  and 17 percent
in  Africa , while declining 3 percent in Europe, hurt by a 19
percent sales decline in the southern part of the region.  “This bipolarity and chronic weakness in Southern Europe
is striking and endorses Diageo’s strategy of diversification
into emerging markets,” said  Martin Deboo , an analyst at
Investec Securities in  London .  Diageo rose as much as 2.5 percent in London trading, the
steepest intraday gain since Sept. 18. The shares were up 2
percent at 1,889.5 pence as of 2:42 p.m., the  third-biggest gain 
in the U.K. benchmark  FTSE 100 Index. (UKX)   Profit growth was led by a 23 percent increase in the Latin
America and Caribbean region, where sales gained 18 percent. The
distiller’s African earnings rose 17 percent.  North America  “Our expanding reach to emerging middle-class consumers in
faster-growing markets was the key driver of our volume growth,
while net sales growth was driven by our pricing strategy and
premiumization, especially in the U.S.,” Diageo Chief Executive
Officer  Paul Walsh  said in the statement.  The distiller gets the  majority  of profit from  North
America , where operating profit advanced 9 percent.  Europe was “a major disappointment,” according to  Melissa Earlam , an  analyst  at UBS AG in London, who had expected
earnings in the region to advance 2 percent. In addition to
weakness in southern Europe, U.K. sales were little changed.  The region’s declining revenue was the main reason that
total organic sales growth missed analysts’ predictions, gaining
5 percent, compared with the median estimate of 5.6 percent.  Sales Goal  Underlying consumer trends should remain the same in the
second half, Chief Financial Officer Deirdre Mahlan said today
on a conference call, adding that she doesn’t see “any real
improvement” in difficult markets. Sales in  France  declined
compared with a year earlier, when consumers and customers
stocked up ahead of a tax increase in spirits on Jan. 1, 2012.
French consumers still haven’t recovered, she said.  Diageo is seeking to increase profitability over the next
three years and expand organic sales, which exclude the effect
of currency fluctuations and acquisitions, by an average of 6
percent annually as it sells higher-priced products globally.  “The guidance was a compound annual growth rate, and not
meant to be linear,” Mahlan said. “I still feel comfortable in
the guidance we gave over the medium term.”  The target is “too challenging” for 2013, Earlam at UBS
wrote. She cut her estimate for the year to 5.8 percent from 6.1
percent. “This still implies a second-half acceleration to 6.6
percent, which remains quite ambitious,” she said.  Jose Cuervo  Diageo said today that acquisitions made in the past two
years added 300 million pounds to net sales in the first half.
The company agreed to buy a majority stake in Indian tycoon
Vijay Mallya’s  United Spirits Ltd. (UNSP)  in November. Local stock-
market regulator, the  Securities and Exchange Board of India ,
has raised objections to a clause in the deal, a person involved
in the discussions said this month.  There is “nothing happening in terms of the transaction
that would suggest to us there were any issues,” and Diageo
expects a response from SEBI before the end of the first
quarter, Mahlan said on the call.  CEO Walsh declined to comment on the United Spirits deal or
whether the company would have to divest some of the Whyte and
Mackay whisky brands because of antitrust concerns.  Diageo said in December that talks to buy the  Jose Cuervo 
tequila brand had failed and that it won’t renew an agreement to
distribute the spirit in 2013. Walsh said today in an interview
on Bloomberg Television that the deal did not “fulfil
objectives” for Diageo, and that it will focus on “organic”
development of the tequila category.  The first priority in mergers & acquisitions “is always
building what you own,” Walsh said at a press conference.
“Once you’ve done that, you’re afforded the ability to broaden
your credentials via acquisitions.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clementine Fletcher in London at 
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  