-- Dissident Cuban Blogger Gets Passport After Castro Eases Rules
-- B y   B i l l   F a r i e s
-- 2013-01-31T05:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/dissident-cuban-blogger-gets-passport-after-castro-eases-rules.html
Cuban dissident Yoani Sanchez, who
was last arrested in October, received a passport as part of a
easing of travel restrictions on the Communist island.  “Incredible! They called my house to say my passport is
ready,” Sanchez wrote on her Twitter page yesterday. “They
just delivered it to me!”  Sanchez, 37, has drawn tens of thousands of followers
worldwide through her “Generation Y” blog, which she uses to
document the government’s shortcomings and life in Cuba. U.S.
President  Barack Obama  responded to Sanchez’s questions in an
interview posted on the Huffington Post website in 2009.  Sanchez applied for her passport after President  Raul Castro ’s new rules on travel went into effect Jan. 14. Under the
regulations, Cuba no longer requires residents to apply for exit
visas to travel abroad, easing restrictions that have prevented
most citizens from leaving the island for decades.  In a bid to prevent an exodus of the nation’s best and
brightest, certain professionals still aren’t eligible to leave
the country.  The government said last year it needs to restrict some
travel “to defend itself from the interventionist and
subversive plans of the U.S. government and its allies. Measures
will remain to preserve the human capital created by the
revolution.”  On her Twitter account, Sanchez lamented that another
dissident, Angel Moya, wasn’t given documents needed to leave.
Yet she also expressed excitement at the chance of travel
following a conversation with her sister, who lives abroad.  “My sister called me and we spoke at length,” she wrote.
“This passport means the possibility of a reunion.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bill Faries in Miami at 
 wfaries@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  