-- Dominican Congress Said to Seek Review of Barrick Mine Contract
-- B y   A d a m   W i l l i a m s   a n d   L i e z e l   H i l l
-- 2013-01-31T02:23:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/dominican-congress-said-to-seek-review-of-barrick-mine-contract.html
The Dominican Republic’s Congress
will review and possibly seek to change a contract with  Barrick
Gold Corp. (ABX)  over the development of a $4 billion mine in the
Caribbean’s biggest economy.  Congress will review the contract with the Toronto-based
company in a bid to make the terms “more favorable” for the
country, according to statement posted on the legislature’s
Twitter page. The statement linked to a story published today in
Santo Domingo-based newspaper  Diario Libre  saying Congress will
seek to change the contract for the Pueblo Viejo gold and silver
mine. A congressional official, who asked not to be identified,
confirmed the statement.  The Dominican Republic’s move comes after Barrick in
November delayed the expected start of production at its Pascua-
Lama project on the border of Argentina and  Chile  to the second
half of next year from mid-2013 and raised the cost estimate for
the mine to as much as $8.5 billion. Yesterday the company said
performance at its Lumwana copper mine in Zambia was
“unacceptable” because of production costs, according to Chief
Executive Officer Jamie Sokalsky.  ‘Willing to Discuss’  Production at Barrick’s Pueblo Viejo mine will represent as
much as 20 percent of the Dominican Republic’s exports this
year, Industry and Commerce Minister Jose Del Castillo Savinon
said in a Dec. 3 interview. The Pueblo Viejo mine, which is a
joint venture with  Goldcorp Inc. (G) , is forecast to produce as much
as 1 million ounces of gold this year with commercial sales that
may reach $2 billion, Del Castillo said.  “We are very confident in the integrity of the agreement
we have in place,”  Andy Lloyd , a Barrick spokesman, said in an
e-mailed statement. “It is legally binding on both the company
and the state and cannot be changed unilaterally by either
party. However, Barrick views the government of the Dominican
Republic as a partner and is always willing to discuss in good
faith the circumstances of the company’s operations in the
country.”  Barrick’s shares closed falling 1.3 percent in  New York 
trading to $32.39.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Adam Williams in  San Jose ,  Costa Rica  at 
 awilliams111@bloomberg.net ;
Liezel Hill in Toronto at 
 lhill30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Bill Faries at 
 wfaries@bloomberg.net ;
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  