-- Dow Chemical Profit Trails Estimates as Europe Sales Drop
-- B y   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 2013-01-31T21:56:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/dow-chemical-earnings-trail-estimates-as-european-sales-drop.html
Dow Chemical Co. (DOW) , the largest U.S.
chemical maker by sales, reported fourth-quarter earnings that
missed analysts’ estimates as sales fell in Europe and Chinese
growth slowed.  Profit excluding restructuring costs and other one-time
items was 33 cents a share, trailing the 34-cent average of 16
 estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. The company’s  net loss  widened
to $716 million, or 61 cents a share, from $20 million, or 2
cents, a year earlier, Midland, Michigan-based Dow said today in
a statement.  Dow fell the most since September 2011.  Sales volumes in Western Europe fell 5 percent amid an
economic slowdown in the 17-nation euro region. That eroded the
benefit of lower raw-material costs in the U.S., where Chairman
and Chief Executive Officer  Andrew Liveris  is investing $4
billion in extra capacity to take advantage of increasing
supplies of natural gas liquids.  “Even with an excellent feedstock advantage, this is a
tough environment to grow earnings,” Jason Miner, a senior
chemicals analyst with Bloomberg Industries in Skillman,  New
Jersey , said today by phone. “Europe is the worst point, and
weak demand for chemicals in  China  is troubling.”  Sales fell 1.3 percent to $13.9 billion, exceeding the
$13.7 billion average estimate of 12 analysts. Average product
prices declined 1 percent in the quarter and sales volumes were
unchanged from a year earlier, Dow said.  ‘Significant Deterioration’  “The second half of 2012 saw significant deterioration in
the markets we serve, particularly in China,” Liveris said in
the statement.  Dow fell 7 percent to $32.20 at the close in  New York , the
biggest decline since Sept. 28, 2011. The shares are little
changed this year.  The global  chemical industry  has had no sales volume growth
for six quarters and Dow saw its volumes gain just 1 percent in
2012, Miner said. While demand is weakest in Europe, ethylene
production in China, the world’s largest chemicals market, fell
in November and December, he said. Ethylene is the most used
petrochemical.  Dow isn’t relying on global economic growth to help its
performance this year, Liveris said on a conference call with
analysts. Cheap U.S. raw materials in the plastics unit and new
technologies in agriculture, combined with cost-saving efforts
will boost earnings, he said.  U.S.  ethane prices , which tumbled  66 percent  in the quarter
and hit a multiyear low of 21.5 cents a gallon on Jan. 9, will
probably remain below 30 cents for several years, Liveris said
on the call. U.S. ethane and propane supplies will exceed demand
through 2017, according to a slide  presentation .  Segment Performance  Liveris announced plans in October to eliminate 2,400 jobs,
or 5 percent of employees, and close 20 factories because of
slowing economic growth in  Europe  and elsewhere. Cost savings
totaling $2.5 billion and divesting businesses generating $1
billion in sales will help adjusted earnings before interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortization rise to $10 billion
starting in 2014 or 2015, Liveris said last month.  Adjusted Ebitda last year was $7.5 billion as sales
declined 5.3 percent to $56.8 billion, Dow said. Net income for
the full year dropped 65 percent to $842 million, or 70 cents a
share.  Fourth-quarter earnings fell in the electronics, coatings
and performance-materials units, while the agriculture and
plastics businesses gained. The coatings unit, which makes paint
ingredients, and performance materials, which makes polyurethane
foams and epoxy resins, trailed expectations, Jeffrey J. Zekauskas, a New York-based analyst at JP Morgan Chase & Co.,
said in a note.  Ethylene  Ethylene margins will expand globally as rising demand for
plastics and other ethylene derivatives boosts industry
operating rates to 90 percent of capacity in 2014, from 88
percent last year, Dow said in the presentation. Plastics Ebitda
will climb to $5 billion a year at the peak of the cycle,
Liveris said.  A pending long-term ethylene supply agreement would reduce
 capital spending  on Dow’s new Texas plant, scheduled to start in
2017, Liveris said.  Dow is awaiting payment of $2.16 billion in damages from
 Kuwait ’s Petrochemical Industries Co. for canceling a 2008
agreement to buy a stake in Dow’s plastics business. A final
award increasing the payment to $2.5 billion with interest and
costs should be released next month, Liveris said today. The
cash will be used to improve the balance sheet, he said.  Dow, founded in 1897 as a bleach maker, is the world’s
largest producer of chlorine, paint ingredients and polyethylene
plastic.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jack Kaskey in Houston at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  