-- Dubai Group $6 Billion Deal Near Final Terms, Emirates NBD Says
-- B y   A r i f   S h a r i f   a n d   S t e f a n i a   B i a n c h i
-- 2013-01-31T12:47:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/dubai-group-6-billion-deal-near-final-terms-emirates-nbd-says.html
Dubai Group LLC’s $6 billion debt
restructuring with banks should be agreed in the “next few
months,” according to  Emirates NBD PJSC (EMIRATES) , one of the biggest
lenders to the investment company owned by Dubai’s ruler.  “During the fourth quarter, a new set of terms has been
proposed,” Ben Franz-Marwick, head of investor relations for
the bank, said today on an earnings conference call. “We
believe that these are near final terms. We are hopeful that an
agreement can be reached in the next few months.”  The bank is owed 4.6 billion dirhams ($1.3 billion) by
Dubai Group and took a 950 million-dirham writedown on the debt
in the fourth quarter, Franz-Marwick said. This brings Emirates
NBD’s total provisions for Dubai Group to 2.51 billion dirhams,
or 54 percent of total loans to the company, the bank said in an
earnings presentation sent by email today.  Dubai Group, controlled by Dubai Holding LLC, is one of
several companies in the state seeking to restructure loans that
were arranged before property prices slumped and credit markets
froze with the 2008 global credit crisis.  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS) , Standard Bank Group Ltd.,
 Commerzbank AG (CBK)  and  Commercial International Bank Egypt SAE (COMI)  will
be paid 18.5 cents to the dollar for their loans by Dubai Group
to end litigation in the restructuring, two people with
knowledge of the matter said on Jan 11. The company proposed
last year to repay the loans in full over 12 years in the
restructuring.  About 18 banks that were part of the same $1.5 billion
syndicated loan have also been offered the deal or agree to the
original 12-year restructuring plan, the people said. The
lenders had until the end of the month to accept and litigation
may begin again if the deal is blocked, one of the people said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Arif Sharif in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net ;
Stefania Bianchi in Dubai at 
 sbianchi10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net ;
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  