-- The Horrific Accident That Created the Regulatory State
-- B y   R o b e r t   G u d m e s t a d
-- 2013-01-31T16:40:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/the-horrific-accident-that-created-the-regulatory-state.html
The Moselle isn’t remembered for
being one of the fastest steamboats on the Ohio and Mississippi
rivers, even though it was. Instead, it is usually remembered
for its cataclysmic demise, a product of speed and shoddy
construction, and especially for what followed.  The sudden and violent end of the Moselle, combined with
other highly publicized riverboat explosions, prompted the
creation of the first federal agency responsible for regulating
American private industry.  On April 25, 1838, the Moselle shot upstream from the
Cincinnati wharf to pick up two families of German immigrants.
While the new passengers ambled aboard the craft, the engineer
kept the steam pressure high so that the boat could dart away
from the shore with great speed. This was a common, but
dangerous, practice: When the engineer engaged the paddlewheels,
a sudden influx of steam pushed against the boiler walls and
could be so intense that if it exploited a crack, weak spot or
seam in the boiler wall, the boiler could detonate.  Macabre Scene  The Moselle’s paddlewheels turned twice before an explosion
shredded the boat. All four boilers burst simultaneously in a
deafening roar that one witness thought sounded like a “mine of
gunpowder.” Chunks of flesh, splintered wood and twisted metal
shot into the air, then splashed into the river. One of the
boilers instantly decapitated the engineer while the explosion’s
force threw the captain against the prow of another steamer, his
body a bloody pulp that slid into the water.  The macabre scene almost defied description. One man had a
huge splinter shoved through his head, from ear to ear. Another
flew 100 yards in the air and crashed into the roof of a house.
When one of the immigrants tried to remove his clothes, he
peeled the skin off his body. At least 80 people perished that
day and an additional 35 went missing, probably blown to bits.  Although exceptionally gruesome, the Moselle’s demise was
hardly the only such tragedy. From 1816 to 1848, a total of
1,433 people died in steamboat accidents along the western
rivers, then defined as any waterway in the Mississippi Valley.
The fatality rate on these boats has been estimated at 155
deaths per 1 million passengers, a figure 1,000 times higher
than travel on modern jet aircraft. While many of these could be
blamed on ordinary collisions and fires, exploding boilers
claimed many victims and soon became notorious in the public
imagination.  The rash of explosions lay partly in the era’s emphasis on
speed and winning races. Captains knew that fast boats made
headlines in newspapers and generated talk in taverns, stores,
levees and parlors. The editor of the Louisville Daily Democrat
even speculated that a vessel called the A.L. Shotwell started
racing “with the view of proving her speed and capacity as a
matter of business reputation.” Speed became an obsession and
the boat with the fastest time between two towns held the horns:
Trophies, usually deer antlers, were coveted items on the
Mississippi and Ohio rivers. The A.L. Shotwell proudly displayed
a silver plate hanging from a set of gilded deer horns. Its
inscription dared competitors to “Take us if you can.”  Steamboat races were usually impromptu contests that tested
the crew to their limits and excited the passengers. One
participant thought the sensation produced by a steamboat race
was “the most powerful that can be conceived.” Passengers
cheered on the firemen (who threw wood into the furnaces and
tended the flames) and taunted their counterparts on the other
boat. Crewmembers broke open barrels of oil, turpentine or tar
and threw the contents into the roaring infernos. The boats
seemed to almost come to life during a race. The pounding of the
piston rod caused the vessels to throb up and down, popping
nails loose and cracking seams. The boats roared and snorted
“like angry hippopotami,” wrote one observer.  The prospect of danger in such races, at least in the early
days, only added to the thrill.  No Oversight  Steamboats of the era might sound like a personal-injury
lawyer’s dream, but the government was slow to regulate either
their construction or operation. Sporadic calls for federal
oversight in the early 19th century were met with stiff
opposition from owners. In 1824, the captain of the Rob Roy
argued that so few people were killed in steamboat explosions
that there was no need for safety valves on boilers. Laissez-
faire assumptions about  government regulation , social inertia
and ignorance further forestalled oversight.  But after the Moselle and other notable explosions,
Congress felt compelled to act.  The result was the 1838 Steamboat Act, the first federal
regulation of a private industry. Under the new law, all
steamboats had to be licensed and agree to regular inspections
of their hulls, boilers and machinery. When boats were stopped,
engineers had to open the safety valve and keep the steam
pressure low. Tiller ropes were replaced with chains or rods.
Captains and crew could be fined or imprisoned for disobeying
the law while owners could be sued for negligence.  Other legislation went even further. Most notable was the
creation of the Steamboat Inspection Service, the first federal
regulatory agency. It granted and revoked boat licenses;
required that all boilers be checked regularly; and licensed
pilots and engineers. When combined with industry self-
correction, such as the “doctor” (a small pump that brought
water into boilers when the paddlewheels weren’t turning),
nighttime running lights, life preservers and fire hoses,
steamboat travel became reasonably safe by the mid-1850s.  The explosion of the Moselle and other steamboats forced
Americans to consider the degree to which unregulated private
industry could endanger lives and property. Although many people
were wary of government interference in a private industry, the
Steamboat Inspection Service became the model for later
regulatory agencies, such as the Interstate Commerce Commission,
the  Food and Drug Administration , and the  Consumer Product
Safety Commission . Such was the enduring power of a single
steamboat explosion in 1838.  (Robert Gudmestad teaches history at  Colorado State
University  and is the author of “Steamboats and the Rise of the
Cotton Kingdom.” The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more from Echoes  online .  To contact the writer of this post: Robert Gudmestad at
 Robert.Gudmestad@colostate.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this post: Timothy Lavin
at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net  