-- ECB Bond Pledge May Get Court Criticism, Merkel Adviser Says
-- B y   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k
-- 2013-01-31T14:10:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/ecb-bond-pledge-may-get-court-criticism-merkel-adviser-says.html
The  European Central Bank ’s pledge
to buy unlimited quantities of  government bonds  if necessary to
save the euro is economically dangerous and may come under
scrutiny at the nation’s top court, a German government adviser
said.  Germany ’s Federal Constitutional Court backed a sensible
approach to tackling the euro-area debt crisis in a ruling last
year on the European Stability Mechanism, Lars Feld, a member of
the panel of economic advisers to  Chancellor Angela Merkel , said
at a conference in Berlin today. The ECB’s bond-buying pledge
comes close to financing governments, which the court called
unlawful in its judgment, he said.  “Central banks need to be able to buy bonds if there are
short-term malfunctions of the markets,” Feld said. “But
buying bonds without differentiation and without limits would be
very problematic.”  Germany’s top constitutional court in September rejected
efforts to block the 500 billion-euro ($678 billion) permanent
euro-area rescue fund, while ruling the country’s 190 billion-
euro contribution can’t be increased without legislative
approval. That ruling is technically preliminary and the judges
are continuing the review -- to which challenges against the
ECB’s bond-buying activities were added. The court hasn’t
scheduled the next hearing.  The court will have to decide whether it can review the
ECB’s action itself or whether it must ask the  European Court  of
Justice for guidance, Hanno Kube, a law professor at Mainz
University, said at the conference, hosted by the foundation
 Konrad-Adenauer-Stiftung .  Draghi Pledge  If the German court finds the bond-buying program violates
European Union treaties, the judges may need to find a way to
state that in a ruling even if the ECJ clears it, Kube said.  Shortly before the September ruling, ECB President  Mario Draghi  said the central bank was ready to buy unlimited
quantities of short-dated government bonds of nations that
signed up for rescues. While rejecting a last-minute request for
an emergency injunction over the Draghi announcement, the court
said at the time it would review the challenge to the ECB bond-
buying programs in the remainder of the cases.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karin Matussek in Berlin at 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  