-- LEG Said to Raise 1.3 Billion Euros in Germany IPO
-- B y   D a l i a   F a h m y   a n d   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d
-- 2013-01-31T17:43:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/leg-said-to-raise-1-3-billion-euros-in-germany-ipo.html
LEG Immobilien AG, the German
apartment landlord poised to become  Germany ’s largest publicly
traded property company by market value, raised about 1.3
billion euros ($1.8 billion) in an initial public offering,
according to a person with knowledge of the matter.  LEG, controlled by  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , finished
marketing its IPO today for 30.5 million shares priced at 44
euros apiece, said the person, who asked not to be identified
because the sale has not yet been completed. That amount
includes the so-called over-allotment option to cover extra
demand.  An official at LEG declined to comment on the sale.  That puts LEG’s market value at 2.33 billion euros, higher
than  Deutsche Wohnen AG (DWNI) ’s 2.28 billion euros. The IPO, Germany’s
first of the year, is also the largest in the country’s property
industry.  Spokespeople at Goldman Sachs and LEG declined to comment.  Goldman Sachs, which bought the company for about 3.5
billion euros including debt in 2008, is seeking to  profit from
a boom in German residential real estate. The FTSE EPRA/Nareit
index of  German property stocks  has gained 35 percent in the
past 12 months.  The stock will begin trading in Frankfurt tomorrow under
the ticker LEG. The company originally said it would price its
shares at between 41 euros and 47 euros.  LEG owns 91,000 apartments in North Rhine-Westphalia,
Germany’s most populous state. Goldman Sachs’s Whitehall Street
Real Estate fund holds about 95 percent of the company. Perry
Capital owns the rest.  Goldman Sachs and Deutsche Bank AG managed the sale.  Hot Market  Deutsche Annington Immobilien AG, Germany’s largest owner
of apartments, also plans an IPO this year. Annington,
controlled by  Guy Hands ’s Terra Firma Capital Partners Ltd., has
about 186,000 homes.  Gagfah SA (GFJ) , which is controlled by  Fortress Investment Group
LLC (FIG)  and has about 145,000 apartments, is the largest publicly
traded residential landlord by properties.  LEG’s profit from its main business of renting apartments
was 243 million euros in 2011 and its funds from operations were
111.8 million euros, according to its last annual report. FFO
measures a property company’s ability to generate cash.  By comparison, Gagfah generated rental income of 419.6
million euros in 2011 and its FFO was 159.5 million euros,
according to its annual report.  Active Investor  Goldman Sachs is one of the most active foreign investors
in the German real estate market. In April 2011, Whitehall
Street and Cerberus Capital Management LP raised 468 million
euros in an IPO of Berlin-based residential landlord  GSW
Immobilien AG. (GIB)   Whitehall Street also made an unsuccessful bid to buy
Baubecon, the residential property portfolio that  Barclays Plc (BARC) 
agreed to sell to Deutsche Wohnen AG in May in a deal valued at
1.24 billion euros. Whitehall Street agreed to sell its stake in
17 German department stores, including Kaufhaus des Westens, the
country’s largest, in December.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Kirchfeld in London at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net ;
Dalia Fahmy in Berlin at 
 dfahmy1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  