-- Egypt Upheaval on Streets, Market Blocks Rate Move: Arab Credit
-- B y   M a r i a m   F a m
-- 2013-01-31T16:47:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/egypt-upheaval-on-streets-markets-blocks-rate-move-arab-credit.html
Egypt ’s central bank kept  interest
rates  on hold today, as political tensions and a sliding
currency block an increase to prop up the pound or a cut to
boost a barely growing economy.  The bank kept its overnight deposit rate at 9.25 percent, a
decision forecast by all six economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg,
and the lending rate at 10.25 percent. It was the first rate
meeting since the bank started auctioning dollars to local
lenders on Dec. 30. The pound has weakened more than 7 percent,
the most among emerging-market currencies, since the sales
began. One-year government yields are about three times
Lebanon’s and higher than similarly rated  Pakistan .  The rate decision came after a wave of deadly clashes that
erupted on the eve of the second anniversary of the uprising
that ousted  Hosni Mubarak , imposing a new obstacle to Egypt’s
efforts to revive the economy. The unrest, cited by  Fitch
Ratings  for a downgrade of Egypt’s debt yesterday, has left more
than 50 people dead and led President Mohamed Mursi to declare a
state of emergency and impose curfews in three provinces.  “Growth is too weak to hike, but political risk and the
pressures on the currency are too strong to cut,” Liz Martins,
Dubai-based senior economist at HSBC Bank Middle East Ltd., said
by e-mail. “If they do have a bias, it will be to the upside,
to support the currency.”  Slowest Growth  Since the start of the uprising in January 2011, the
central bank has changed the key deposit rate only once, raising
it by a percentage point in November of that year. While it
cited inflationary pressures for the move, most economists said
it was intended to prevent a run on the Egyptian pound.  Egypt paid 14 percent on average to sell one-year treasury
bills at an auction last week. That compares with the 5.35
percent Lebanon paid this month to sell similar-maturity debt.
Pakistan, which like Egypt is rated B- at  Standard & Poor’s ,
paid 9.24 percent.  The government has sold 38 percent of the 10.4 billion
pounds ($1.6 billion) it sought to raise so far this quarter at
auctions of securities that mature in more than one year.  Egypt’s “fiscal position has worsened” and “serious
divisions have opened within society, contributing to sporadic
outbursts of violence,” Fitch said yesterday. It lowered the
rating by one step to B, five below investment grade. Egypt’s
5.75 percent dollar bonds due in April 2020 extended losses
today, after falling the most since Mursi’s June election
yesterday. It traded at 6.43 percent at 6:30 p.m. in Cairo.  Hotel Looted  Moody’s Investors Service also said civil unrest adds
credit-negative pressures on the economy and increases
uncertainty about nation’s ability to negotiate a support
program with the  International Monetary Fund .  Egypt’s economy is still struggling to recover from the
turmoil that followed the revolt. It has grown at about 2
percent a year in the last two years, the  slowest pace  since the
early 1990s and barely above the rate of  population growth .
Tourism and investment have plunged.  An episode during the Jan. 29 demonstrations in Cairo
highlighted the difficulty of reviving tourism, one of Egypt’s
main sources of foreign currency. Masked men who “infiltrated
the ranks of protesters” stormed a five-star hotel downtown and
looted it, the state-run Middle East  News Agency  reported.  ‘Extremely Worrying’  Talks on a $4.8 billion loan from the IMF, which the
government says is necessary to boost investor confidence and
unlock other funds, have repeatedly stalled amid political
bickering.  “The lack of consensus-building, reform implementation and
clarity over the timetable of discussions with the IMF is
extremely worrying,” said Alia Moubayed, London-based senior
economist at Barclays Plc. “Without progress on these fronts,
piecemeal bilateral financial backstopping will not be
sufficient to contain growing threats to macroeconomic
stability.”  Qatar,  Saudi Arabia  and  Turkey  are among countries that
have delivered or pledged financial support to Egypt.  The latest delay in the IMF loan talks came last month
after Mursi suspended tax increases amid political tensions.  If unrest “is sustained for long then there’s no
guarantee” that any IMF-linked reforms that the government
commits to can be implemented, Jean-Michel Saliba, London-based
economist at BofA Merrill Lynch, said by phone. “Energy subsidy
reform could prove problematic, in particular.”  ‘Orderly’ Devaluation  Egypt’s five-year credit-default swaps have jumped 61 basis
points since Jan. 25 to 503 yesterday, according to data
provider CMA, making Egyptian debt more expensive to insure than
 Iraq ’s.  Egypt’s  foreign-exchange reserves  have declined about 60
percent since the end of 2010. The outlook for the currency,
which extended losses today to 6.715 a dollar, “hinges
crucially” on the outcome of negotiations with the IMF,  Capital
Economics  said in a research note on Jan. 29.  “If talks go as planned and a deal is secured, we see the
pound undergoing an ‘orderly’ devaluation” to about 7.50 per
dollar, while further delays could see a slump of as much as 50
percent, it said.  The currency may drop to 7.07 per dollar this quarter,
according to the average estimate of nine economists surveyed by
Bloomberg this week.  A weaker pound may trigger  inflation , currently near a
seven-year low at 4.7 percent. That is set to rise, according to
Cairo-based investment bank EFG-Hermes Holding SAE, which
forecasts an average rate of 7.7 percent this year.  Also, the country is “very poorly placed” to benefit from
a currency decline, said Oliver Coleman, an analyst at U.K.-
based risk adviser Maplecroft. “Egypt’s industrial base is
struggling to maintain output amid factory closures and strikes,
reducing the country’s ability to increase  exports  with the
weaker currency.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  