-- Egypt Is Burning and U.S. Should Do Little, Very Quietly
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-01-31T23:30:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/egypt-is-burning-and-u-s-should-do-little-very-quietly-view.html
With violence threatening to destroy
Egypt’s fledgling democracy, a growing number of  voices  there
and abroad are calling on the U.S. to take a stronger, more
public stand in favor of the secular opposition and against
President Mohamed Mursi and his supporters in the Muslim
Brotherhood.  For now, the U.S. would be wise to resist these calls. It
would probably be pilloried for any position it took, whether
backing an Islamist government with authoritarian reflexes or a
secular minority that wants to unseat a party that beat it in
free elections. As the military theorist  Anthony Cordesman  wrote
this week in  a paper  about upheavals in the Muslim world, the
U.S. can’t hope to control the outcome of what is at root a
contest within Islam.  For now, there should be a single goal: to stabilize Egypt
enough that elections this spring can give the country a shot at
its first truly representative government. The U.S. and its
allies in  Europe  and the region should do no more than quietly
push a message of compromise, building on the Jan. 31  agreement 
by Egypt’s leading political figures to renounce violence “in
all its shapes and forms” and to bridge the gulf that has opened
between parts of society.  Egypt ’s Islamist government has tried to use election
victories to shape the constitution and society so that they
conform with the party’s religious beliefs. In doing so, Mursi
has polarized the nation and forgotten that the uprising against
former President  Hosni Mubarak  was at root a cry for jobs and
human dignity, not for Shariah law. Since he took over, the
economy has deteriorated, sparking riots and violence, which in
turn have deterred the investors and tourists that Egypt needs
to grow.  Mursi and the Muslim Brotherhood’s Freedom and Justice
Party have until now failed to grasp that winners can’t take all
in divided, transitional democracies such as Egypt -- they are
too fragile.  Nelson Mandela  understood this in  South Africa .
Mursi appears not to.  This is why Defense Minister Abdelfatah Al-Seesi took to
the armed forces’ Facebook page this week, warning that the
disagreement between Egypt’s Islamist government and secular
opposition on how to run the country “may lead to the collapse
of the state.”  Al-Seesi was on the money. Democracy is doomed unless
Egypt’s ruling and opposition parties start acting as if they
are living in one. A good place to start would be with Mursi
giving all parties a role in some process to reopen the new
constitution for changes. Opposition leaders would be wise to
drop their laundry list of conditions before agreeing to
negotiate with the government.  The alternatives are depressing. Egypt’s generals may not
want to take over the business of government again, but they see
themselves as guardians of the state and will intervene if they
think it’s necessary. The possibility that the Arab world’s most
populous country might revert to a long period of de facto
military rule, glossed by a series of unstable civilian
governments -- a la  Pakistan , or until recently  Turkey  -- is a
real one.  The bottom line for Egypt’s leaders is that only when the
streets are calm will tourists return and the  International
Monetary Fund  release a much delayed $4.8 billion infusion. Both
are critical to restarting the economy and drawing the
investment needed to create jobs. That’s the one goal all of
Egypt’s revolutionaries had in common. It’s also one the U.S.
and other friends can help with.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 