-- Rival Egypt Political Camps Agree Framework to End Violence
-- B y   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y   a n d   S a l m a   E l   W a r d a n y
-- 2013-01-31T14:44:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/egypt-s-rival-political-camps-agree-on-dialogue-ending-violence.html
Egypt ’s rival political camps united
in a bid to end a weeklong spasm of violence that has undermined
the nation’s hopes for stability and economic revival.  An agreement signed at the meeting at Cairo’s al-Azhar, the
Sunni Muslim world’s pre-eminent religious body, committed all
sides to renouncing violence “in all its shapes and forms,”
and a “serious dialogue” to overcome rifts. The groups agreed
to form a committee to lay out the agenda of the talks,
according to a statement issued after the meeting.  The deal was signed by President Mohamed Mursi’s Muslim
Brotherhood backers and the secularist, youth activist and
Coptic Christian rivals who say he sold out the goals of the
2011 uprising that ousted  Hosni Mubarak . It marks the most
broad-based push to end street clashes that have left more than
50 dead and presented the Islamist leader with one of the worst
crises he’s faced since his election in June.  There is “no solution to the problems of the path of
democratic transition except through dialogue,” Saad el-
Katatni, head of the Brotherhood’s Freedom and Justice Party,
said in a news conference.  Rebuilding Trust  The tensions, which mushroomed following the revolution’s
Jan. 25 anniversary, have eroded prospects of recovery in an
economy  growing at the slowest pace  in two decades. Egypt’s
defense chief warned the current chaos could lead to the
“collapse of the state.”  Mursi cut short a trip to  Germany  yesterday, where he
sought to downplay the unrest fuelled by his Jan. 27 emergency
declaration in three Suez Canal provinces. Curfews in those
areas went unheeded, and the provinces governors, empowered by
Mursi, shortened them last night.  Flanking El-Katatni were longtime secular rivals including
Nobel Laureate Mohamed ElBaradei, former presidential hopefuls
Amre Moussa and Hamdeen Sabahi who like ElBaradei are leaders of
the National Salvation Front, as well as the head of the
Islamist Salafi Nour Party and other top clerics.  “We came out of this meeting with a sort of optimism,”
ElBaradei said. “Everyone is aware that Egypt’s fate is at
stake and will exert the utmost effort to rebuild trust between
different segments of the Egyptian people.”  Debt Downgrade  The meeting built on a flurry of efforts over the past few
days that saw the Nour Party, which had won the second-largest
bloc of seats in the now-dissolved parliament, joining ranks
with the National Salvation Front to call for a unity government
and a committee to review proposed constitutional amendments.  The document signed today made no mention of a new
government -- a condition that Mursi has dismissed before
parliamentary elections expected in a few months. Instead, it
addressed broad talking points on which many had already agreed,
including the sanctity of life and property, and adherence to
peaceful means of voicing dissent.  The Salvation Front said today it will go ahead with
protests tomorrow, which it said will be an “expression of the
growing popular dissent from the president’s policies,” and
reiterated the call for a national unity government.  The push comes at a critical time for Egypt, which is
making a third bid for a $4.8 billion International Monetary
Fund loan. The IMF says the funds are contingent on broad
political consensus in the country, while the government says
they are key to securing other donor and investor funds to help
plug a ballooning budget deficit.  ‘Torn Apart’  Fitch yesterday pushed Egypt’s debt rating deeper into junk
status, while Moody’s Investors Service said the unrest adds to
credit-negative pressures on the economy. Egypt’s benchmark
dollar bonds extended losses today, after yields yesterday rose
the most since Mursi took office. The pound has slid more than 7
percent in a month.  Many poorer Egyptians blame leaders on both the Brotherhood
and the opposition for their troubles, arguing the bickering was
self-serving and had driven the country into the ground at the
expense of the people.  “We’re being torn apart by two sets of groups, neither of
which really represent Egypt,” Tamer Hassan, a 29-year-old who
has yet to find full-time work, said in Cairo.  Yesterday, ElBaradei called for an urgent meeting with
Mursi, the army and security chiefs and other groups, saying
ending the violence was a priority. It marked a reversal for the
former UN nuclear agency chief who had previously rejected
invitations by the president.  ‘Dangerous Game’  His inclusion of the military came after Defense Minister
Abdelfatah Al-Seesi said the bickering was pushing the country
to the brink and had left the army in a “serious predicament,”
with dual responsibilities not to interfere in peaceful protests
while also protecting state property.  The army, Egypt’s traditional power-broker, ran the country
between Mubarak’s fall and Mursi’s election. Troops have been
deployed in Suez and Port Said to secure installations including
Suez Canal facilities from attack.  Omar Ashour, a senior lecturer in Middle East studies at
the U.K.’s University of Exeter, said ElBaradei and others are
playing a “very, very dangerous game” by seeking to bring the
military into the discussion.  “The ultimate test for democracy is whether elected
civilians are in control of the armed forces and the police or
not,” he said. “If not, then it never becomes a democracy.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tarek El-Tablawy in Cairo at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net ;
Salma El Wardany in Cairo at 
 selwardany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  