-- Egyptian Democrats May Pave the Way for Army’s Coup
-- B y   N o a h   F e l d m a n
-- 2013-01-31T23:30:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/egyptian-democrats-may-pave-the-way-for-army-s-coup.html
I hate to agree with an Egyptian
general about anything, but Abdelfatah Al-Seesi, who’s also
 Egypt ’s defense minister, had a point when he  warned  his
countrymen on Facebook that continued violent protest in the
streets might lead to collapse.  Ordinary Egyptians have plenty of reasons to be frustrated
with the government of President Mohamed Mursi, which has by
turns overclaimed its authority and underdelivered in
establishing order. Still, it’s one thing to engage in mass
protest when your target is a dictatorship -- then you are a
democratic revolutionary. It’s quite another to use mass
protests to try and bring down a democratically elected
government that you don’t like. Then you’re running the risk of
becoming an unwitting agent of counterrevolution.  The protests that have raged for days now in three cities
along the  Suez Canal  and spilled over into  Tahrir Square  in
Cairo aren’t especially well-focused. In Port Said, at least,
they were touched off by death sentences announced for soccer
fans convicted of causing the deaths of other soccer fans. In
essence, the protests seem to be focused on dissatisfaction with
the Mursi government and his supporters in the Muslim
Brotherhood.  Little Accomplished  Mursi hasn’t accomplished much since taking office last
June. To be fair, he hasn’t been given much chance to govern.
When he took the oath, the military was still trying to deny the
presidency any real power. Mursi outwitted the army, but then,
faced with the threat that the Egyptian  Constitutional Court 
would disband the constitutional assembly, he briefly declared
himself above the law. He renounced that position once the
constitution had been hastily finalized and democratically
approved. But before things could settle into normalcy, the
soccer-verdict riots began.  There’s every reason to believe that most protesters are
sincerely motivated and truly fear Mursi might become an
Islamist dictator and subvert the most important democratic
revolution of the Arab Spring. As if to substantiate these
fears, Mursi’s response to the growing protests has been to
assume emergency powers -- a ploy that so far hasn’t worked.  Yet sincere democrats are making a potentially disastrous
tactical error in pushing protests to the point of weakening the
legitimacy of democratic government itself. Peaceful protest
should always be legitimate in a democracy. But these protests
haven’t been wholly peaceful. There have been  attacks  on hotels,
and the protesters near the Suez Canal threaten the traffic
through it.  More disturbing is the sense that the protesters’ goal is
to create disorder that would force Mursi to resign, a repeat of
the Tahrir Square protests that forced the dictator  Hosni Mubarak  from office. Whatever one thinks of Mursi, he was
elected in a relatively free and fair election. The
Brotherhood’s political party also won a plurality of seats in
the legislative election. Taken together with the popular
ratification of the constitution, there have been three national
votes with roughly the same results. That amounts to as clear a
message of democratic legitimacy for Mursi and his party as
anyone ever gets in our complicated world.  When protesters try to bring down an elected government
that they dislike and distrust, they are challenging democracy
itself -- whether they admit it or not. One opposition leader,
the Nobel Peace Prize laureate Mohammed ElBaradei, tried to
mitigate this interpretation by calling on Mursi to form a
national salvation government rather than resign. That was
reasonable. But strictly speaking, the democratically elected
president shouldn’t have to share power just because several
hundred thousand protesters don’t like him. Constitutional
democracy is built through respect for democratic procedures,
not by conceding to the demands of the mob.  Democratic Weakness  Worse, well-meaning protesters are opening to the door to
military intervention -- the ultimate form of counterrevolution.
No better excuse for a countercoup could be imagined than the
democratic government’s failure to control the streets. A well-
known weakness of liberal democracy is the difficulty in
standing up to persistent, mass challenges without violating
rights. Al-Seesi’s warning can be read as a signal that the
military would once more consider stepping in as the “savior” of
democracy and the nation. Last time, it proved difficult to
wrest power from them once they took it. This time they would be
much smarter, and instead of trying to manipulate electoral
outcomes, they probably wouldn’t allow elections to happen at
all.  Mursi’s Brotherhood didn’t start the revolution, and one
can sympathize with the protesters’ desire to take it away from
them. The original Tahrir rebels were in a certain sense more
democratic than the Brotherhood, and prepared to risk everything
for their cause. But the meaning of democracy is that you don’t
always get what you want. Elections are an imperfect translation
of the popular will, but they are all we have.  If Egypt’s democrats want to avoid becoming another
 Pakistan , in which democracy is never more than a few shots from
military dictatorship, they have just one path available to
them: take a deep breath, go home, and let the democratically
elected government try to do its job. Mursi and his government
may do well or badly. But as long as they are up for re-election
in a few years, they will have laid the groundwork for
democratic transition.  Patriots of Tahrir, ask yourselves: You may not like Mursi.
But would you really rather have the army?  (Noah Feldman, a law professor at  Harvard University  and
the author of “Scorpions: The Battles and Triumphs of FDR’s
Great Supreme Court Justices,” is a Bloomberg View columnist.
The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
 Noah Feldman  at  noah_feldman@harvard.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Tobin Harshaw at   tharshaw@bloomberg.net . 