-- Lehman Bankruptcy Advisers’ Fees Top $2 Billion
-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 2013-01-31T23:04:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/lehman-bankruptcy-fees-expenses-top-2-billion.html
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., which
is still liquidating after exiting court protection last year,
paid advisers and managers $153.8 million in December, putting
total fees over the $2 billion mark in the more than four years
since it filed for bankruptcy.  December’s outlays included $84 million in incentives for a
plan that will pay creditors an average of 18 cents on the
dollar, according to today’s  filing  in  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in
 Manhattan . Restructuring firm Alvarez & Marsal LLC, which runs
the defunct investment bank, has made almost $583 million so
far, including incentive payments. Lead bankruptcy law firm
Weil, Gotshal & Manges LLP has earned $454 million.  Lehman creditors will receive a third payment in the period
from March 25 to April 30, according to a separate filing. U.S.
Bankruptcy Judge James Peck, in a signed order, today approved
Lehman’s request for a flexible schedule to pay creditors. The
defunct firm has so far paid creditors about 9 cents on the
dollar, or half of the amount it expects to pay by about 2016.  Lehman became the most expensive bankruptcy in U.S. history
in April 2010, when it topped the record $757 million tab for
energy trader Enron Corp.’s three-year liquidation, according to
the database of  Lynn LoPucki , a bankruptcy-law professor at the
 University of California ,  Los Angeles . Fees surpassed $1 billion
after 24 1/2 months in bankruptcy in October 2010.  Enron’s payback to general unsecured creditors was about
53 percent, albeit with a long wait after it came out of
bankruptcy court in 2004.  Court Competition  The high fees result from competition among bankruptcy
courts for big cases, LoPucki, author of “Courting Failure: How
Competition for Big Cases Is Corrupting the Bankruptcy Courts”
(University of Michigan Press, 2005), said at the time. Judges
don’t often challenge payments to lawyers who bring in big
cases, because under current laws those lawyers are free to take
future cases to competing courts that won’t question the fees,
he said.  For post-bankruptcy work, Lehman last month paid
$34.8 million in fees, including $5.3 million for Alvarez &
Marsal and $3.8 million for Gleacher & Co. Fees through the
March 6 exit from bankruptcy court reached about $1.9 billion,
while fees paid since March 7 totaled $160.8 million.  Lehman, once the world’s fourth-biggest  investment bank ,
filed the biggest bankruptcy in U.S. history in September 2008
with  assets  of $639 billion. Creditors included  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS) ,  UBS AG (UBSN) , the  New York  Giants professional football
team and Abu Dhabi Investment Authority.  The case is In re Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., 08-13555,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  