-- Emerging-Market Stocks Post Longest Rally Since 2010
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S t i l w e l l   a n d   M a r i a   L e v i t o v
-- 2013-01-31T22:47:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/emerging-stocks-fall-on-earnings-outlook-u-s-growth-slowdown.html
Emerging-market equities rallied a
third month in the longest stretch of gains since 2010 as
 China ’s rebounding economy and signs of an improving global
outlook bolstered financial and industrial stocks.  Developing-nation financial shares  led gains  on the MSCI
Emerging Markets Index in January, as property developer China
Vanke Co. surged 35 percent.  Brazil ’s  Centrais Eletricas
Brasileiras SA (ELET6)  drove an index of emerging utility stocks 2.7
percent higher. Russia’s benchmark gauge climbed for a second
month, while Romania’s leu strengthened the most among
developing-nation currencies. The Shanghai Composite Index
entered a  bull market  on signs  China’s economy  is rebounding.  The MSCI gauge climbed 1.3 percent in January, capping the
most consecutive monthly gains since April 2010. The measure
rose 0.1 percent to 1,069.01 in  New York  as 396 stocks fell and
386 shares advanced. China’s economy ended its seven-quarter
slowdown in the last three months of 2012, data this month
showed, while a report today indicated  consumer spending  in the
U.S. climbed in December on higher incomes.  “Across the board you’ve had a pretty good run in emerging
markets,”  Ed Kuczma , an emerging-markets analyst at Van Eck
Associates Corp., said by phone in New York. “We continue to
heavily favor names related to the consumer because with
increasing incomes we get strong growth in a low-growth world.”  Merval Soars  The  iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index  exchange-traded
fund, the ETF tracking developing-nation shares, rose 0.2
percent to $44.22 in New York, while the gauge lost 0.3 percent
in the month. The Chicago Board Options Exchange Emerging
Markets ETF Volatility Index, a measure of options prices on the
fund and expectations of price swings, advanced 3 percent to
19.24.  Brazil’s  Bovespa (IBOV)  rose 0.7, paring a monthly drop of 2
percent.  Vale SA (VALE3) , the world’s largest iron-ore producer, rose
3.8 percent, the most four weeks, after Bank of America corp.
recommended investors buy the stock. Centrais Eletricas
Brasileiras, known as Eletrobras, rose 3.6 percent today to
boost its gain for the month to 21 percent.  Argentina’s  Merval (MERVAL)  Index soared 21 percent in January, the
most among global equity indexes. The benchmark was boosted by a
75 percent surge by country’s largest power distributor, Empresa
Distribuidora y Comercializadora Norte SA.  U.S. Sues  The Mexican  IPC (MEXBOL)  index declined 1 percent in the biggest
daily slump since Nov. 7, paring its monthly gain to 3.6
percent. Grupo Modelo SAB,  Mexico ’s largest brewer, was the
second-biggest decliner on the  MSCI EM Latin America Index (MXLA)  with
a 6.8 percent drop. The U.S. sued to block Anheuser-Busch InBev
NV’s proposed $20.1 billion purchase of the half of Modelo it
doesn’t already own, saying the deal would hurt competition and
raise prices.  Russia’s Micex added 0.2 percent, boosting January’s
advance to 4.9 percent.  India ’s  Sensex (SENSEX)  fell 0.5 percent, paring
a third monthly gain in the longest rising streak since
September 2010.  The  ISE National 100 Index (XU100)  reversed earlier gains to slip
0.3 percent in Istanbul, trimming the monthly advance to 0.7
percent. The lira climbed 0.5 percent against the dollar, the
most since Jan. 17. The Turkish currency has appreciated 1.4
percent this month, the biggest jump since June.  The Romanian leu advanced 4.4 percent against the dollar
for the month, the most among emerging market currencies,
followed by the  Indian rupee . The South African rand tumbled 5.4
percent as the worst performing emerging market currency.  Financials Lead  In  Asia , the Hang Seng China Enterprises Index declined 0.3
percent. The Shanghai Composite Index climbed 0.1 percent to the
highest close since May 29. Vietnam’s  VN Index (VNINDEX)  slid 1.6 percent
after reaching an eight-month high yesterday.  South Korea’s won declined 0.3 percent versus the dollar
after Deputy Finance Minister Choi Jong Ku proposed taxing
trading in currency and bonds to limit “speculative” capital
inflows.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets /Financials Index led monthly
gains among industry groups in the MSCI Emerging Markets Index
with a 4.3 percent advance, followed by a 2.7 percent jump by
utilities companies. This month’s 1.3 percent gain in the
developing-nations measure trailed a 5 percent increase in the
 MSCI World Index. (MXWO)  The emerging-markets index trades at 11 times
estimated 12-month profit, compared with the MSCI World’s 13.6
times, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  China Vanke, the country’s biggest developer by market
value, added 1 percent to a record, boosting its monthly gain to
35 percent.  Sberbank Jumps  OAO Sberbank jumped 1.5 percent to the highest price in two
years in Moscow, contributing to an 18 percent monthly advance.
Russia’s biggest lender said its depositary receipts program is
close to the limit, according to a website statement. The
receipts can only account for 25 percent of a company’s shares
and 50 percent of its listed shares, according to Russian
regulations. Sberbank’s depositary receipts are equivalent to
four ordinary shares.  African Bank Investments Ltd. (ABL) ,  South Africa ’s largest
provider of unsecured loans, lost 3 percent in its biggest slump
in two weeks. Lending slowed for the first time since a 2009
recession, as the bank tightened standards amid rising consumer
debt, African Bank said in a statement yesterday.  Bumi Resources Tbk PT (BUMI) , an Indonesian coal producer, surged
9.7 percent, the most since Sept. 14, to lead daily gains among
emerging-market stocks.  Datang Soars  Datang International Power Generation Co. (991)  climbed 6.9
percent in  Hong Kong  to the highest close since October 2010.
Full-year net income in 2012 probably rose as much as 115
percent, the company said, citing preliminary calculations. The
stock was the second-biggest gainer in the developing-nations
gauge.  San Miguel Corp. (SMC)  jumped 5.8 percent in  Manila  after a six-
day trading halt requested by the company to allow shareholders
to evaluate an offer to repurchase $600 million in bonds. Globe
Telecom Inc. led declines on the emerging-market gauge, sinking
7.4 percent in Manila.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries rose four basis points, or 0.04
percentage point, to 268 basis points, according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Victoria Stilwell in New York at 
 vstilwell1@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Levitov in London at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  