-- Ericsson Soars After Sales, Profit Margin Beat Estimates
-- B y   A d a m   E w i n g
-- 2013-01-31T16:43:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/ericsson-sales-beat-estimates-as-carriers-spend-more.html
Ericsson AB (ERICB) , the world’s largest
maker of wireless networks, jumped the most in almost two years
in Stockholm trading after sales beat estimates amid rising
spending by North American wireless operators.  Revenue rose 5 percent to 66.9 billion kronor ($10.5
billion), Stockholm-based Ericsson said today in a statement.
Analysts  predicted  65.8 billion kronor, the average of 23
estimates compiled by Bloomberg. The net loss was the biggest in
a decade because of one-time costs.  Sales expanded at the fastest pace in more than a year, led
by a 51 percent jump in North America as the popularity of data-
hungry tablets and smartphones prompts wireless operators to
invest in networks. Ericsson’s gross-profit margin also beat
estimates and the company said more lucrative projects to boost
network capacity will account for more of its business starting
in the second half.  “The report was very good,” said Erik Paulsson, an
analyst at Pareto Securities ASA in  Stockholm . “The big
positive is the improving underlying business mix later this
year. This will help lift gross margins further.”  Ericsson  jumped  7.6 percent to 74 kronor in Stockholm, the
biggest advance since April 2011. The stock has climbed 14
percent this year after falling 7.5 percent in 2012.  U.S. Market  Operators are adding capacity and expanding coverage as
consumers increasingly use mobile devices to browse the Web and
watch video clips. AT&T Inc., the largest U.S. phone company,
had capital expenditures of $19.7 billion last year and said on
Nov. 7 that it would invest $14 billion to build more high-speed
Internet connections over wires and wireless systems.  Ericsson’s  sales  in North America jumped to 17 billion
kronor last quarter. Revenue in Latin America, northern  Europe 
and central Asia, the Mediterranean region as well as  China  and
northeast Asia declined. Sales in western and central Europe
advanced 3 percent.  North America is a haven for Ericsson because faster-
growing rival Huawei Technologies Co. is facing political
headwinds in the region. The U.S. House Intelligence Committee
in October recommended that local companies avoid equipment made
by Huawei, whose founder served in the Chinese military, citing
concerns the communist nation could install malicious hardware
or software in U.S. networks.  The Chinese company’s revenue topped Ericsson’s for the
first time last year, and it projects that sales will grow as
much as 12 percent this year after an 8 percent gain in 2012.  Margin Boost  Ericsson said its gross margin in the quarter, or sales
minus production costs, widened to 31.1 percent, beating the
30.7 percent analysts estimated.  Network-modernization deals in Europe, which demand more
labor hours and are often less profitable, led to Ericsson’s
fourth-quarter gross margin plunging to 30.2 percent in 2011,
the lowest level since at least 1989. Ericsson said today
business will probably “gradually shift towards more capacity
projects” in the second half of 2013.  “Improving profitability, reducing costs and working
capital remain high on the agenda also for 2013,” Chief
Executive Officer  Hans Vestberg  said in the statement. “While
the macroeconomic and political uncertainty continues in certain
regions, the long-term fundamentals in the industry remain
attractive.”  Ericsson said in November that it will cut 1,550 positions
in  Sweden  to boost profit. Nokia Siemens Networks and  France ’s
Alcatel-Lucent SA have also cut jobs to reduce expenses.  Ericsson is also trying to sell more services such as
network management and maintenance to increase profitability.  Venture’s Future  The net loss was 6.46 billion kronor after Ericsson
recorded an expense of 8 billion kronor for writing off the
value of its wireless-chip alliance with  STMicroelectronics NV (STM) 
as it considers all options including shutting the venture down.
ST-Ericsson said yesterday its fourth-quarter operating loss
narrowed to $169 million as sales dropped 12 percent, and
STMicroelectronics said it will need as much as $500 million in
funding this year to restructure and divest its stake.  “We are now pursuing all other options on how to take this
joint venture forward,” Ericsson’s Vestberg said today in an
interview. “It’s a shareholders’ agreement where we need to
mutually agree to any decisions. We are in those discussions,
but have not concluded anything.”  Ericsson is recommending an increase in the  dividend  this
year to 2.75 kronor a share from 2.5 kronor a year earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Ewing in Stockholm at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  