-- Merkel’s FDP Ally Faces Existential Crisis as Voters Turn Off
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2013-01-31T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/merkel-s-fdp-ally-faces-existential-crisis-as-voters-turn-off.html
The decline of German Chancellor
 Angela Merkel ’s  Free Democratic Party  coalition partner began
the day after it won a record election result in 2009.  At his first briefing since ending his party’s 11 years in
opposition,  Guido Westerwelle , the FDP leader and designated
foreign minister, rebuffed a  BBC  reporter’s question in English,
saying “this is  Germany .” Der Spiegel magazine said he seemed
“caught off-guard and helpless.” He went from the hero who
helped Merkel win a second term to an object of scorn.  Three years on, his party has suffered the same fate. Polls
suggest the FDP risks being shut out of Parliament in federal
elections in September, a result that could force Merkel into a
coalition with traditional antagonists or deprive her of a third
term.  “Mrs. Merkel would still rather work with the FDP after
the next election,” Oskar Niedermayer, a political scientist
with the  Otto-Suhr-Institute  at Berlin’s Free University, said
by telephone. “But not at any price.” Merkel has other
options, meaning “the FDP will have to haul itself out of the
mire.”  A toxic cocktail of misjudgments, party infighting and
tension with Merkel has driven the FDP from its post-World War
II electoral high of 14.6 percent. Within four months, his party
had dropped to single digits; by June 2010, FDP support had
collapsed to 5 percent, the threshold to win parliamentary
seats, according to a weekly Forsa poll for Stern magazine. It
has hovered around there ever since and is now at 4 percent.  The FDP’s policy missteps have tracked its decline in
support. In October 2009, Merkel’s Christian Democratic bloc
negotiated a coalition agreement with the FDP just as a Greek
budget blowout kindled the financial crisis. As Merkel stepped
up her calls for deficit reduction, Westerwelle’s team
maintained its demand for tax cuts.  Tax Cut  A coalition package that included a tax break for hoteliers
was denounced by the opposition and some in Merkel’s faction as
a sop to lobbyists. “It just didn’t come across very well at
all,” said Niedermayer.  In the face of public rebuke, Westerwelle tended toward
doubling down. Just three months into office, he responded to a
court ruling that certain welfare payments were insufficient
with the accusation that too many Germans had a “late Roman
decadence” mentality, living off state coffers. Merkel issued a
rebuke, saying that she wouldn’t use such a turn of phrase.  Voters were less tolerant: A Feb. 24, 2010, poll showed 60
percent saying they didn’t think the foreign minister was up to
the job, a humbling assessment for the party once led by Hans- Dietrich Genscher, foreign minister in Chancellor Helmut Kohl’s
Cabinet and his partner in German reunification.  ‘New Beginning’  In April 2011, the month after his party crashed out of two
regional assemblies at state elections, Westerwelle announced he
would step down as party chairman and vice chancellor to let a
new generation “work on a new beginning.”  His decision came seven days after the FDP scraped 5.3
percent for its worst-ever result in Baden-Wuerttemberg, a
setback that cost its CDU coalition partner its 58-year hold on
power and allowed the  Green Party  to install its first state
premier. Philipp Roesler, then health minister, was elected in
Westerwelle’s place the next month.  As Merkel dominated  Europe ’s response to the euro-area
crisis, the Free Democrats under Roesler flirted with an anti-
bailout stance at odds with her policy. In September 2011,
Merkel won Bundestag approval for an expansion of a rescue fund
that raised German guarantees to 211 billion euros ($286
billion) from 123 billion euros. FDP support dropped to 2
percent in a poll with a 2.5 percentage point margin of error.  Setbacks  The Free Democratic Party helped govern postwar Germany for
all but three years from the republic’s founding in 1949 until
1998. In 2011 and 2012, it was ejected from the state assemblies
in six of the 10 regional elections it contested. FDP lawmakers
including Wolfgang Kubicki openly called for Roesler, the 39-
year-old Vietnamese-born economy minister, to be replaced by
 Rainer Bruederle , his predecessor at the economy ministry who is
now the party’s floor leader in the lower house in Berlin.  Roesler ranked least popular on a list of 15 German
politicians with national exposure, according to a Jan. 7-8
Infratest Dimap poll for ARD television and Die Welt newspaper.
Roesler’s approval rating of 17 percent compared with 65 percent
for top-ranked Merkel and 36 percent for  Peer Steinbrueck ,
Merkel’s Social Democrat challenger. Westerwelle, who is still
foreign minister, had 40 percent. The poll of 1,001 voters had a
margin of error of 3.1 percentage points.  Mittelstand Base  Back in 2009, when Westerwelle snubbed the BBC, he did so
even though his English is nearly fluent -- he just refused to
use it. Similarly, the Free Democrats have a ready constituency
of voters in the Mittelstand, small- and medium-sized business
owners that are the backbone of the German economy; it has just
neglected to look after them, Manfred Guellner, Forsa’s Berlin-
based director, said in a Jan. 10 interview.  “The FDP isn’t lost as long as they get rid of Roesler,”
Guellner said. “There’s a good chance the FDP can win back
their classic Mittelstand vote of skilled workers and small
company owners. With Roesler, these people felt they couldn’t
vote FDP and migrated to the CDU.”  An unexpectedly strong result in a state election in  Lower
Saxony  on Jan. 20, when the FDP took almost 10 percent, bought
Roesler some respite, even though his party’s coalition with the
CDU lost the state to the opposition by a single seat.  “The question is: what’s changed?” Peter Matuschek, chief
political analyst at the Forsa polling institute, said in a
telephone interview on Jan. 23. “We’ll have to see if Bruederle
now becomes the public face of the FDP -- he’s popular with FDP
core voters like the Mittelstand -- and Roesler withdraws to
dealing with internal party matters. If the party infighting
continues then it was all for nothing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  