-- Merrill Sees Foreigner Buyers Extending Nikkei 225 Rally
-- B y   A n n a   K i t a n a k a   a n d   T o s h i r o   H a s e g a w a
-- 2013-02-01T01:24:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/merrill-sees-foreigner-buyers-extending-nikkei-225-rally.html
The  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY) , heading
for a 12-week winning streak, will rise a further 12 percent by
June as foreign investors add to their Japanese holdings,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch.  Overseas investors were net buyers of the shares for 11
weeks to Jan. 25, according to  Japan  Exchange Group Inc. That’s
pushed stocks to a 2 1/2-year high as a slide in the yen
improves the profit outlook for exporters. The rally will pause
before accelerating again in May when the benefit of a weaker
currency shows itself in corporate earnings reports, according
to Naoki Kamiyama, the brokerage’s chief Japan equity
strategist.  “The rally will take another step up once overseas
investors gain confidence in earnings,” Kamiyama said yesterday
in an interview in Tokyo after returning from a sales trip to
 Europe . “Investors are still of two minds about the recent
gains, and they need to see changes in the fundamentals in order
to buy in whole-heartedly.”  Kamiyama’s bullish forecast comes after Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. raised its target price for Japanese equities twice last
month, saying growth in earnings per share will exceed all other
developed markets next fiscal year. JFE Holdings Inc. and
 Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group Inc. (8316)  are among the 63 percent of
Nikkei 225 companies that reported better-than-estimated net
income so far this quarter, according to  data  compiled by
Bloomberg.  Japan’s market has a history of disappointing investors.
The Nikkei 225 has fallen in four of the previous five years and
the benchmark is still 71 percent below its 1989 peak.  Abe’s Boost  The index has risen about 29 percent from Nov. 14, when
elections were announced, on optimism the  Liberal Democratic
Party  would press the central bank to buy more bonds and raise
its inflation target. The yen weakened 12 percent over the past
three months and touched 91.79 today, the weakest level since
June 2010.  The world’s third-largest economy is forecast to emerge
from three quarters of shrinking growth in the current three-
month period, according to estimates compiled by  Bloomberg News .
The economy will grow 1.6 percent on an annualized basis in the
three months through March after shrinking 0.6 percent the
previous quarter, the estimates show.  “Investors are worried about whether there will be a
second run of gains,” said Kamiyama said, who joined Merrill
Lynch from Deutsche Bank AG in September. “Even if the yen
stays at current levels, the effects of it will start to show in
earnings and the market will shift to growth-led momentum.”  Kamiyama said he met with 26 clients, including multi-asset
funds and  hedge funds , during a trip to England and  France  this
month. He had to extend his stay, originally planned for three
days, to 7 days as investors asked for more meetings, he said.  “It used to be that clients really had no interest in
hearing about Japanese stocks,” said Kamiyama. “Now even the
skeptics wanted to hear the presentation. They’re fearful of
missing out on the rally.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna Kitanaka in  Tokyo  at 
 akitanaka@bloomberg.net ;
Toshiro Hasegawa in 東京 at 
 thasegawa6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  