-- Etihad, Jet Meet India Ministers Ahead of Stake Sale Deal
-- B y   K a r t h i k e y a n   S u n d a r a m
-- 2013-01-31T10:47:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/etihad-s-hogan-says-talks-on-jet-airways-deal-very-good-.html
Etihad Airways PJSC and  Jet (JETIN)  Airways
(India) Ltd. moved closer to an investment deal that will make
the Gulf carrier the first foreign operator to buy into a local
airline after ownership rules were eased in September.  “The discussions were very good,” Etihad Chief Executive
Officer James Hogan told reporters in New Delhi after meeting
India’s Aviation Minister Ajit Singh along with Jet Chairman
Naresh Goyal. A stake sale to Etihad may conclude within a week,
a Jet official said, asking not to be identified citing company
policy.  The executives later told trade minister  Anand Sharma  that
the airlines will soon seek government approval for the deal, a
ministry official said, asking not to be identified as the talks
were private. Abu Dhabi-based Etihad’s stake purchase comes as
airlines in Asia’s third-largest economy seek global equity
alliances to raise funds needed to pay for expansion.  Jet  rose  4.5 percent in Mumbai, the most in more than a
week, to 621.30 rupees. The stock more than tripled last year.
 Kingfisher Airlines Ltd. (KAIR) , the grounded carrier that was also  in
talks with Etihad for funds, rose 1.2 percent while discount
carrier  SpiceJet Ltd. (SJET)  gained 2.7 percent.  Etihad, the Middle East’s third-largest airline, is in
talks to buy 24 percent of Jet for about 16 billion rupees ($300
million), an Indian government official said in December. Jet
Chairman Goyal today declined to say when the deal will conclude
or how much stake the carrier is selling to Etihad.  49 percent  A stake in Jet will help Etihad tap into one of the
fastest-growing aviation markets in the world where air travel
is forecast to triple by 2021. Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s
government in September allowed foreign carriers to buy as much
as 49 percent of local airlines.  State-owned Etihad has invested in smaller operators to
help feed long-haul flights and turn its home emirate into a hub
for intercontinental travel. It has a 29 percent holding in  Air
Berlin Plc (AB1)  and also owns stakes in Air Seychelles Ltd., Virgin
Australia Holdings Ltd. and  Aer Lingus (AERL)  Group Plc.  Jet, which had 116 aircraft, including  Boeing Co. (BA)  and
Airbus SAS planes as of Sept. 30, is selling and leasing back
planes to free up cash and repay $600 million of its $2.3
billion  debt  by March 31.  The carrier posted losses for six of the last seven
quarters because of high fuel and airport charges. It will
report earnings for the quarter ended Dec. 31 tomorrow.  “It’s a very good move that Jet and Etihad are talking,”
aviation minister Singh said after meeting with the airline
executives. “The aviation sector should grow and competition
should also grow.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karthikeyan Sundaram in  New Delhi  at 
 kmeenakshisu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  