-- Eton Sponsors School With Tuition Paid by U.K. Government
-- B y   O l i v e r   S t a l e y
-- 2013-01-31T17:57:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/eton-sponsors-school-with-tuition-paid-by-u-k-government.html
Eton College, the English private
school that educated 19 U.K. prime ministers, is founding a
tuition-free school that will include spots for disadvantaged
children.  Holyport College will open in September 2014 and grow to
500 boarding and day students on a campus about eight miles from
Eton, based in Windsor, according to a statement on Eton’s
 website . Eton will be “the sole educational sponsor” and its
administrators and teachers will fill six of the 10 seats on the
interim governing board, according to the Holyport  website .
While Eton only admits boys, Holyport will be co-educational.  Holyport is a  free school , a U.K. educational category
created in 2010 that lets private institutions found schools
that receive public funding. Day students at Holyport won’t pay
tuition, while boarders will pay a fee. The average cost for
boarders at U.K. free schools is about 11,000 pounds ($17,393) a
year, according to Oliver Lane, a spokesman for the Department
of Education. The cost to attend Eton is about  32,000 pounds  a
year.  “It’s the right thing to do,” said Tony Little,
headmaster of Eton, in a phone interview. “As a school, we have
taken the view that the educational benefits of Eton should be
available outside the walls of the school where it’s practical
and sustainable to do so.”  49 Scholarships  Eton has run summers schools on its campus for 25 years and
is one of the founders of the  London Academy of Excellence , a
free school in east  London , with seven other private schools. At
Holyport, Eton will be a long-term partner, Little said.  “We take responsibility for the curriculum, we take
responsibility for the quality of the provisions of boarding,
and we will take responsibility for appointing the head,”
Little said.  There will be 49 scholarships for low-income students and
for children in foster care or otherwise not looked after by
their parents, Lane said.  Eton College was founded in 1440 by King Henry VI. Former
students have included the Duke of Wellington, John  Maynard
Keynes  and Prime Minister  David Cameron . Over a three-year
period ended in 2009, 211 Eton graduates were accepted at the
University of Oxford or the University of Cambridge, the second-
highest total of any U.K. school, according to a study by the
Sutton Trust, a nonprofit organization.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oliver Staley in London at 
 ostaley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lisa Wolfson at 
 lwolfson@bloomberg.net  