-- EU Carbon Has Record Monthly Drop as Nations May Block Glut Fix
-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r   a n d   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 2013-01-31T18:17:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/eu-carbon-has-record-monthly-drop-as-nations-may-block-glut-fix.html
European Union carbon permits had
their biggest ever monthly drop as nations in the bloc may
object to a regulatory plan to temporarily cut the volume of
supply sold at auctions through 2015.  Carbon permits for December declined 10 percent today to
close at a record 3.42 euros ($4.65) a metric ton on the ICE
Futures Europe exchange in  London . The contract fell 49 percent
this month, the biggest drop since it was first offered in April
2008. Certified Emission Reduction credits for December dropped
1 cent to 34 euro cents a ton and fell 13 percent for the month.  While the European Commission’s proposal to help emission
prices rebound from all-time lows has more prospective
supporters than opponents among the EU’s 27 governments, it
still needs support from at least some of seven nations to win
approval in a qualified-majority system, three EU officials with
knowledge of the matter said. Votes are weighted by each
country’s size.  Among the seven countries,  Germany ,  Portugal ,  Hungary  and
Malta are undecided, while Greece, Cyprus and the Czech Republic
have voiced concerns about the draft measure, said the
officials, who asked not to be named, citing policy.  “It’s not that difficult to get a blocking minority”
because two big nations voting against so-called backloading
would probably be enough to reject the plan,  Trevor Sikorski ,
analyst in London for Barclays Plc, said today by phone.  Opposition by the Czech Republic and Hungary, for instance,
would be enough to block the plan, assuming Germany abstains and
 Poland  stays against, Sikorski said.  Should Hungary and the Czechs support the plan, buying
carbon permits would make more sense, he said.  The political signs in favor of backloading are not strong
enough to overcome the impact of supply being sold almost daily
into the market, Kathrin Goretzki, an analyst at  UniCredit SpA (UCG) 
in Munich, said today by e-mail in response to questions.  “Germany is only expected to give a formal opinion in
spring, and, together with other nations that remain undecided,
this clearly represents a risk that lack of support might end up
stopping the proposal,” she said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net ;
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  