-- EU Proposes 2-Year Ban on Some Neonicotinoid-Pesticide Uses
-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 2013-01-31T17:43:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/eu-proposes-2-year-ban-on-some-uses-of-neonicotinoid-pesticides.html
European regulators proposed a two-
year ban on some uses of neonicotinoid insecticides produced by
 Bayer AG (BAYN)  and  Syngenta AG (SYNN)  because of risks to honey-bee health.  The European Commission, the EU’s executive arm, proposed a
suspension on the use of three neonicotinoids on sunflowers,
rapeseed, corn and cotton, spokesman Frederic Vincent said at a
press conference in Brussels today.  “This is for the crops that most attract bees,” Vincent
said. “This doesn’t concern crops that don’t attract bees, and
also not crops that are planted in autumn.”  The class of pesticides, which works on the central
nervous-system of insects, pose a “high acute risk” to bees
through the nectar and pollen of some treated crops and through
drifting dust, the European Food Safety Authority wrote in a
Jan. 16 report.  Slovenia already banned use of all neonicotinoids,  France 
has suspended the use on rapeseed and Italy and  Germany  banned
the use of the pesticides on corn, according to Vincent. The
proposal is now open for discussion by EU members, he said.  “The next step will be the preparation by the European
Commission of regulation,” Vincent said. “We hope that this
regulation could be accepted by the end of winter, maybe before
March, which would mean that the ban in question would become
effective as of July 1.”  The commission is proposing to exclude planting material
for corn from the ban for this year, according to the spokesman.  Bayer urged EU countries to weigh whether the proposed
measures will put the competitiveness of European agriculture at
risk. The proposal is “draconian” and “overly conservative,”
the company wrote in an e-mailed statement today.  Declining bee populations have “nothing to do with
chemicals,” Syngenta’s Chief Operating Officer John Atkin said
in an interview yesterday. The parasitic mite varroa destructor
is the most important factor behind the drop because it
transmits diseases such as the deformed-wing virus, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  