-- Europe’s Junk Bonanza Helps LBO Firms Cut Loans: Credit Markets
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   K u o
-- 2013-01-31T09:56:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/europe-s-junk-bonanza-helps-lbo-firms-cut-loans-credit-markets.html
European junk-bond sales are off to
the busiest start on record as companies owned by  private-equity 
firms such as Permira Advisers LLP and Doughty Hanson & Co. take
advantage of plummeting yields to repay loans.  The region’s neediest borrowers have issued $17 billion of
speculative-grade bonds this month, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. That’s 38 percent more than the previous high of
$12.3 billion in January 2011. Odigeo Group, an online travel
company co-owned by Permira, repaid 315 million euros ($427.3
million) of loans by selling notes, the data show.  Investors are snapping up European  junk bonds  as the
region’s debt crisis subsides and central banks globally keep
 interest rates  at unprecedented lows, helping speculative-grade
borrowers tackle the more than $352 billion of loans due from
2014 as banks pare lending,  Fitch Ratings  said. Demand for junk
bonds also may trigger a rebound in European leveraged buyouts,
which fell more than 30 percent last quarter to $15.7 billion.  “PE firms’ switch to high-yield bonds from loans is a
reaction to the relative attractiveness of debt instruments in
today’s market,” Max Biagosch, the London-based head of
Permira’s financing group wrote in an e-mail. Borrowers are also
looking to alternative funding sources because bank loans are
likely to decrease in the next few years, he said.  Banks Retreat  European lenders are selling assets and reducing lending,
needing to more than triple the core capital they hold under new
standards from the  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision .
Companies in the region owned by buyout firms raised $70.9
billion of loans last year, less than the $73.7 billion in 2011,
Bloomberg data show. That’s the fifth straight year that the
amount of such loans decreased.  “The deleveraging of the European banking system is the
fundamental factor raising doubt over the ability of many legacy
leveraged borrowers to meet their refinancing requirements,”
Edward Eyerman, head of Fitch’s London-based European leveraged
finance team, wrote in a December report.  Elsewhere in credit markets, a gauge of U.S. corporate
credit risk increased the most in a month after the economy
unexpectedly shrank in the fourth quarter. Credit-default swaps
on Chesapeake Energy Corp. fell to the lowest level in more than
13 months after the company said Chief Executive Officer  Aubrey McClendon  would retire. KKR & Co.’s  First Data  Corp. sold $785
million in bonds and raised $258 million in loans to refinance
debt.  Swap Spreads  The U.S. two-year interest-rate swap spread, a measure of
debt-market stress, increased 0.03 basis point to 15.91 basis
points. The gauge widens when investors seek the perceived
safety of  government securities  and narrows when they favor
assets such as corporate bonds.  The Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index,
which investors use to hedge against losses or to speculate on
creditworthiness, increased 3.9 basis points to 90.2 basis
points, according to prices compiled by Bloomberg.  Gross domestic product dropped at a 0.1 percent annual
rate, weaker than any economist forecast in a Bloomberg survey
and the worst performance since the second quarter of 2009, when
the world’s largest economy was still in the recession, Commerce
Department figures showed yesterday in  Washington . A decline in
government outlays and a smaller gain in stockpiles subtracted a
combined 2.6 percentage points from growth.  Chesapeake Bonds  The  Markit iTraxx Europe Index  of 125 companies with
investment-grade ratings added 2.5 to 113.5 at 9:50 a.m. in
 London . The Markit iTraxx Asia index of 40 investment-grade
borrowers outside  Japan  climbed three to 114.  The indexes typically rise as investor confidence
deteriorates and fall as it improves. Credit-default swaps pay
the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point
equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of
debt.  Five-year contracts on Oklahoma City-based Chesapeake’s
debt dropped 67.8 basis points to 389.2 basis points, the lowest
since December 2011, Bloomberg prices show. Chesapeake lost as
much as 43 percent of its market value in 2012 as scrutiny of
McClendon’s financial transactions destroyed investor confidence
in management and cratering gas prices drained the company of
cash.  Bonds of  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  were the most active
dollar-denominated corporate securities yesterday, accounting
for 3.6 percent of the volume of dealer trades of $1 million or
more, according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  First Data  First Data, the credit-card processor acquired by KKR in
September 2007 that’s lost money every quarter since the buyout,
sold 11.25 percent, eight-year notes that yield 987 basis points
more than Treasuries of similar maturity, Bloomberg data show.  The term loan, due 2018, will pay interest at 5 percentage
points more than the London interbank offered rate with no
floor, according to a person with knowledge of the transaction.
First Data sold the loan at par, said the person who asked not
to be identified because the information is private.  In  emerging markets , relative yields widened 4 basis points
to 261 basis points, or 2.61 percentage points, according to
 JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global index . The index ended last
month at 265.8.  Exiting CLOs  Junk-rated borrowers in Europe also face a shrinking market
for collateralized loan obligations. Only two new CLOs have been
issued in the last four years, down from a 2007 peak of 35
billion euros, Bloomberg and Fitch data show.  Existing CLOs will also see their role reduced with
JPMorgan estimating that $53 billion of the funds will exit
their reinvestment periods in the next two years. This means the
funds must start using interest payments received on loans they
hold to pay off investors rather than buy debt.  CLOs pool high-yield, high-risk loans and slice them into
securities of various risk and return. The funds account for the
largest group of non-bank buyers of the debt in the region,
according to JPMorgan.  Junk bonds in Europe have been rallying as confidence in
the region’s ability to tame its debt crisis increases. European
Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said in July that the bank
will do what it takes to preserve the euro, sparking a jump in
speculative-grade bonds that reduced their yields to a record of
5.3 percent on Jan. 11, Bank of America Merrill Lynch data show.
The debt yielded 9.6 percent at the start of 2012.  ‘Bullish Sentiment’  Leveraged loans and high-yield, high-risk bonds are rated
below Baa3 by Moody’s Investors Service and lower than BBB- at
 Standard & Poor’s .  For companies owned by buyout firms, the average interest
paid above benchmark rates for loans has increased to 475 basis
points in 2012 from 422 basis points in 2011, Bloomberg data
show. With loans remaining relatively more costly than notes,
more borrowers may turn to the  bond market  for financing.  “We expect a large amount of leveraged corporates to
become bond issuers in 2013, making Europe more like the U.S.
market,” said Henrik Johnsson, head of European High Yield
 Capital Markets  at Deutsche Bank AG in London. “The bullish
sentiment on mid-term European growth and low financing costs
will allow more M&A activity. We are currently working on a
record number of large LBO transactions.”  CVC Capital Partners Ltd., a private equity firm, raised
780 million euros of high-yield bonds earlier this month to back
its buyout of Cerved Group SpA, an Italian business credit
information provider.  Repaying Loans  Odigeo, owned by Axa Private Equity and Permira Advisers
LLP, sold 325 million euros of 7.5 percent notes on Jan. 23 to
repay 315 million euros of term loans, according to bond
documents obtained by Bloomberg.  Doughty Hanson , the London-based buyout firm, has tapped
the junk-bond market three times since November to refinance the
loans of its companies, Bloomberg data show. In the latest debt
sale, Zobele Holding SpA, an air care and insecticide devices
supplier which counts  Procter & Gamble Co . as its client, issued
180 million euros of 7.875 percent bonds on Jan. 24 to repay 166
million euros of loans.  “The driver behind sponsors switching into bonds is the
strength of the demand, with market appetite for high-quality
paper, both fixed and floating rate,” Nick Bastin, a London-
based spokesman for Doughty Hanson, said in an e-mailed
statement.  ‘Future Impairment’  Using high-yield bonds to repay loans may provide private-
equity firms with more time to reduce debt at companies they own
and turnaround their businesses while equity financing remains
weak. Initial public offerings in 2012 raised $112 billion
globally, the least since 2008, Bloomberg data show.  “Ideally, LBOs created equity value both by growing the
company and by debt reduction from free  cash flow ,” said Peter Aspbury, a high-yield investor at JPMorgan Asset Management,
which oversees $1.4 trillion. “High-yield bond refinancings
often highlight the inability of the company to pay down debt or
of the sponsor to achieve a profitable exit. If the sponsors
can’t create equity value, then the risk of future impairment
for creditors grows.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Kuo in London at 
 pkuo2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  