-- Teva Ends Collaboration on CureTech’s Cancer Medicine
-- B y   D a v i d   W a i n e r
-- 2013-01-31T11:54:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/teva-ends-collaboration-on-curetech-s-cancer-medicine.html
Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA) 
ended an alliance with an Israeli biotechnology company for the
development of an experimental cancer drug as Chief Executive
Officer Jeremy Levin narrows the company’s research focus.  Teva will book a non-cash charge of $109 million to write
down the value of its investment in  CureTech Ltd. , the closely
held company that’s developing the CT-011 medicine, Petach
Tikva, Israel-based Teva said in a statement today. The company
dropped the project after analyzing clinical and biochemical
data, said  Michael Hayden , Teva’s head of research.  The decision sparked a decline in shares of  Clal
Biotechnology Industries Ltd. (CBI) , the  Ramat Gan , Israel-based
 investment company  that owns a stake in CureTech. Teva, the
world’s largest maker of generic drugs, said in presenting its
strategy to analysts in December that it would end several
collaborations.  “Teva had been keeping expectations low for this product
since the strategy day and now it’s official,” Sabina Podval,
an analyst at Leader & Co. Investment House Ltd. said today by
phone. “The company has said in the past that it thinks the
market is overcrowded.”  Levin, who joined as CEO last year, has pledged to invest
Teva’s resources in areas such as multiple sclerosis treatments,
where the company is already strong. Other alliances Teva ended
include development of StemEx, a technology from Gamida Cell
Ltd. that expands umbilical  stem cells . Clal also owns a stake
in Gamida.  Immune System  CT-011 is a so-called monoclonal antibody that’s designed
to unleash the body’s immune-system defenses against cancer by
interacting with a protein called PD-1.  It will be “very hard to be successful in this area” as
competitors like  Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. (BMY)  have strong
candidates, Levin said in a Bloomberg interview in January.  Results for mid-stage studies for colorectal cancer are
expected this quarter and melanoma cancer results may be
announced in the three months through June, according to Teva.
The partners in CureTech are weighing the implications of Teva’s
decision, Clal said in a statement today.  Clal Biotech fell 3.3 percent to 10 shekels at 1:40 p.m. in
 Tel Aviv .  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Wainer in Tel Aviv at 
 dwainer3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  