-- Ex-Jefferies Arrest Shows Market Lacking Transparency
-- B y   Z e k e   F a u x   a n d   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2013-01-31T13:10:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/ex-jefferies-arrest-shows-market-lacking-transparency.html
Jesse Litvak, a former Jefferies &
Co. mortgage-bond trader, is accused of cheating customers by
using unscrupulous sales tactics that the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission’s deputy director of enforcement called
“unfit for a used car lot.” Such practices are widespread in a
market lacking transparency, investors and regulators say.  Litvak was arrested Jan. 28 and charged by the U.S.
Attorney’s Office in Connecticut with defrauding firms,
including  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) ,  AllianceBernstein Holding LP (AB)  and
Magnetar Capital LLC, out of more than $2 million by allegedly
lying about the origins and prices of securities. Some of the
trades involved a federally subsidized program to revive the
mortgage-bond market after it froze in 2008. Litvak, 38, pleaded
not guilty.  The case shows how even Wall Street’s most sophisticated
mortgage investors remain largely at the mercy of middlemen a
decade after regulators forced brokers of other types of bonds
to publish data electronically on a system called Trace.
Managers who depend on dealers to find securities and quote
prices over the phone are often misled, said Marilyn Cohen,
founder of Envision Capital Management Inc. in Los Angeles.  “I suspect they all do it,” said Cohen, who oversees $325
million. “If the mortgage-backed securities market ever
required prices to post on Trace, as do the corporate and muni
markets, this wouldn’t happen.”  Denies Cheating  Litvak’s lawyer at DLA Piper LLP, Patrick Smith, said in a
statement that his customers agreed to the prices and that
Litvak didn’t “cheat anyone out of a dime.” He declined to say
more.  The tactics Litvak allegedly used are probably “fairly
commonplace, fairly widespread,” Reid Muoio, deputy head of the
SEC’s structured and new products unit, said during a Jan. 29
panel discussion at the American Securitization Forum’s annual
conference in Las Vegas. “I’ve been told that today by actually
a number of different industry participants,” Muoio said.  According to the indictment, Litvak would misrepresent a
seller’s asking price for a mortgage-backed security to a buyer,
or vice versa, and keep the difference for New York-based
Jefferies. Or he would invent a third-party seller for bonds in
the firm’s inventory, allowing him to charge an extra
commission, prosecutors said.  16 Counts  Litvak is charged with 16 counts, including securities
fraud, which carries a maximum 20-year prison sentence, and
defrauding the Troubled Asset Relief Program. He pleaded not
guilty Jan. 28 in federal court in Bridgeport,  Connecticut , and
was released on $1 million bond, according to U.S. Attorney
David Fein. He is due to appear in court in New Haven May 6.  The SEC sued Litvak in Connecticut federal court, accusing
him of “misrepresentations and misleading conduct.”  “The kind of false claims made by Mr. Litvak repeatedly
were unfit for a used car lot, let alone the marketplace for
mortgage-backed securities,” George Canellos, deputy director
of the SEC’s enforcement division, said on a Jan. 28 conference
call.  Six of the funds Litvak allegedly defrauded were part of
the program to use TARP to help buoy the market for home-loan
bonds after it froze during the global credit crisis. More than
100 firms applied to manage one of the nine funds established
under the program, and each received $1.4 billion to $3.7
billion of bailout money to invest along with private capital,
according to Fein.  Government Connection  The connection to the government program probably
influenced the decision to bring charges, according to Thomas Gorman, a former SEC attorney.  “Based on those facts, it seems like a fairly egregious
situation,” said Gorman, now a partner at Dorsey & Whitney LLP.
“You have someone not only ripping off the government but
ripping off the government while it’s trying to help the very
market the man’s working in.”  Regulators started investigating Litvak after Jefferies
paid $2.2 million to settle a dispute with a customer in March,
Litvak said in an October Delaware Chancery court filing in a
lawsuit he lodged against the bank to cover his legal fees after
he was fired. Jefferies says the matter should be resolved
through arbitration, according to Litvak’s filing.  The client that complained was AllianceBernstein, according
to a person familiar with the matter who asked not to be
identified in discussing a private dispute.  Tick Commissions  In June 2011, Litvak told an AllianceBernstein trader that
he had bought some bonds for “67-21,” meaning 67 cents and 21
ticks, or 21/32 of a cent, according to the SEC’s civil
complaint. He agreed to sell the bonds to AllianceBernstein for
a 4-tick commission, Litvak sent a message to a person at
another firm about the trade.  “im def gonna be working for something. . . . f this 4-
8/32s sht.”  Litvak had actually bought the bonds for 67-15 and earned
an extra $10,000 in undisclosed commission, the SEC said.  Jonathan Freedman, a spokesman for AllianceBernstein,
declined to comment on the allegations.  In the corporate bond market, trades are generally posted
on Trace, making deception more difficult, according to Lawrence Post, chief executive officer of Beverly Hills, California-based
money manager Post Advisory Group LLC.  “When it Traces you can see the price and when it doesn’t
Trace you have to be very careful,” Post said. “You have to do
your homework and check around and see what the market is.”  Trace Origins  Trace, started in 2002 by the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority, now provides pricing data on corporate
bond trading to anyone with Internet access. While the group is
starting to provide trade data on government-backed mortgage
bonds, it’s still analyzing how to roll out the system in the $1
trillion market for so-called private label debt, according to
Steve Joachim, Finra’s executive vice president of transparency
services.  “We want to be sure we understand the full impact of
transparency,” Joachim said in a phone interview. “This is a
much more complex marketplace.”  The importance of bringing disclosure to that market was
heightened in 2008 as soaring defaults on mortgage debt such as
subprime bonds triggered the global credit crisis. Those
securities rebounded last year as the U.S. housing recovery
strengthened, drawing investors including hedge funds, retail
funds and pension managers.  “In every other market we’ve seen since they’ve started
bringing transparency, it has improved trading,” said Joseph Fichera, chief executive officer of New York-based financial
advisory firm Saber Partners LLC, who’s advocated expanding
Trace since 2007. “It has increased investor confidence and
broadened the market.”  Defraud Government  Litvak is the first person charged under a 2009 law that
makes it illegal to defraud the government in relation to TARP,
 Christy Romero , the program’s special inspector general, said in
a conference call with reporters Jan. 28.  “He’s the first but he won’t be the last,” said Barry Boss, a partner with Cozen O’Connor in  Washington  and a former
assistant federal public defender. “We’ll be seeing a lot of
law enforcement focus on the bailout funds and on TARP,” Boss
said in a phone interview.  The size of Litvak’s alleged fraud is dwarfed by the
returns of some of the TARP funds. The U.S. Treasury invested
$528 million in the BlackRock fund, for example, and received
that money back as well as $389 million in profit, the company
said in December.  Certain Misdirection  Money managers expect a certain amount of misdirection from
the salespeople they work with in all markets, according to
Turney Duff, a former trader at Galleon Group LLC and other
hedge funds. Traders cut off salesmen who take advantage of
their trust, said Duff, whose memoir, “The Buy Side,” is
scheduled to be published in June by Crown Business.  “My feeling is there are plenty of guys out there looking
to rip me off, but it’s part of my job to develop and cultivate
relationships I can trust,” Duff said.  The criminal case is U.S. v. Litvak, 3:13-cr-00019-JCH-1, U.S. District
Court, District of Connecticut (New Haven). The civil case is SEC v.
Litvak, 13-132, U.S. District Court, District of Connecticut
(New Haven).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zeke Faux in  New York  at   zfaux@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
Rob Urban at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net  