-- Texas Leads U.S. in Executions, Payments to Exonerated Inmates
-- B y   T i m   S t e l l o h
-- 2013-01-31T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/texas-leads-u-s-in-executions-payments-to-exonerated-inmates.html
In 2006, after serving 19 years and
11 months in a Texas prison for a rape he didn’t commit, Billy
Smith was exonerated of all charges and set free. He was 54.
Despite clearing his name, he’s never been able to find a job.  “Who wants to hire someone who’s 61 years old and who’s an
ex-convict?” Smith said. “Even though I’m exonerated, people
don’t consider that, because I was in prison for 20 years.”  Texas is well known for its prodigious use of the death
penalty: On Halloween, it carried out its 250th execution under
Republican Governor  Rick Perry ’s 12-year tenure. It’s also the
most generous state in the nation when it comes to showing
remorse for locking up the wrong man, Bloomberg Businessweek
reports in its Feb. 4 issue. Under a law Perry signed in 2009,
Texas will pay Smith about $80,000 a year for the rest of his
life. He’s also eligible for the same health-care insurance as
employees of the Texas Department of Criminal Justice. Money
can’t replace his lost years, Smith says, but he’s now married
and owns a home. The activists who persuaded Perry to support
the cash settlements are lobbying Texas lawmakers to expand the
law to include health coverage for ex-prisoners’ families.  Twenty-seven states and Washington, D.C., provide some form
of compensation to the wrongfully convicted. Vermont gives them
a one-time payment of between $30,000 and $60,000 for each year
they were locked up. Wisconsin pays $25,000 total, regardless of
how long a person was incarcerated. So far Texas has paid 88
former prisoners, including two released from death row, a total
of nearly $60 million, according to R.J. DeSilva, spokesman for
the Texas Comptroller of Public Accounts. A dozen former inmates
were added to the rolls in 2012.  Wrongly Convicted  Perry endorsed the reparations under pressure from falsely
convicted men and their families. In 1986, Timothy Cole, an Army
veteran, was found guilty of raping a classmate at Texas Tech
University. He died of a heart attack in prison in 1999. On
Mother’s Day nine years later, Cole’s mother, Ruby Cole Session,
received a letter from the real rapist, who confessed. As Cole
Session and her family lobbied the governor to clear Timothy
Cole’s name, several other men who’d been wrongfully convicted
in Dallas, including Smith, were suing the city for tens of
millions of dollars.  Freedom Money  They agreed to drop their lawsuits if the legislature
increased the small payments that Texas then provided. At one
meeting, Cole Session grabbed the governor’s hand and said, “I
need this bill passed for these gentlemen,” recalls her son,
Cory Session, who was there. Session says Perry told his mother,
“If it gets to my desk, I’ll sign it.” (A Perry spokesman
could not confirm the anecdote.) Perry called the Tim Cole Act a
“significant step for justice,” and the men withdrew their
lawsuits.  The law provides exonerees with a lump sum based on how
many years they spent behind bars, plus the $80,000 annuity. The
state also agreed to pay for 120 hours of college credit and
$10,000 for job training. Cory Session, who’s now policy
director of the Innocence Project of Texas, which helps identify
and free falsely convicted prisoners, says even the application
process was made simple: Freed prisoners submit a few documents,
and about six to eight weeks later the first check arrives. “In
most states,” he says, “you need a lawyer.”  Prison State  The Innocence Project, which is funded by private donations
and is currently reviewing 14 more claims of false conviction,
has become a savvy lobbying force in Austin, in part because
Texas courts have locked up so many innocent people and their
stories are hard for politicians to ignore. (Texas ranks No. 3
nationally in wrongful convictions over the last 24 years,
behind Illinois and New York, according to a 2012 study by the
University of Michigan and Northwestern University law schools.)  On Jan. 10, Session led a group of exonerated men to the
Capitol in Austin, where they were greeted warmly. Afterward,
they pressed a list of new demands in meetings with lawmakers.
The legislature is now considering at least six of their
proposals, including a change to the state’s habeas corpus rules
that would allow challenges to convictions based on shoddy
science; a requirement that police record all interrogations of
people charged with serious felonies; and funding to help the
state’s four public law schools investigate claims of false
convictions.  The key to winning over legislators, Session says, is
letting the innocent men who lost years in prison do the
talking. “I was able to get all the attention just on them.”  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Josh Tyrangiel at   jtyrangiel@bloomberg.net  