-- Mexico Economy Probably Grew 3.6% in 4th Quarter
-- B y   N a c h a   C a t t a n
-- 2013-01-31T06:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/mexico-economy-probably-grew-3-6-in-4th-quarter.html
The Mexican economy probably grew
3.6 percent in the final quarter of 2012 from a year earlier,
the  Finance Ministry  said yesterday in an e-mailed statement.  Gross domestic product probably expanded about 4 percent
last year as domestic consumption continued advancing to an
“elevated rate” and higher private investment created more
formal jobs, according to the  statement.
      Mexico had a budget deficit of 403.6 billion pesos ($31.6
billion) from January through December last year, the ministry
 said . Excluding investment by Pemex, as the state oil company
 Petroleos Mexicanos  is known, Mexico posted a deficit of 92.1
billion pesos.  The ministry publishes an economic expansion estimate to
inform the public about the nation’s outlook and not as a
preliminary growth figure. The national statistics institute, or
 Inegi , will publish the official fourth-quarter gross domestic
product figure on Feb. 18.  Mexico ’s economic expansion is showing signs of slowing as
growth unexpectedly came to a standstill last quarter in the
U.S., the destination of 80 percent of the nation’s exports.
Industrial production grew 0.9 percent in November from a year
earlier, lower than economists expected and auto exports fell
9.7 percent on fewer shipments to other Latin American countries
and the U.S.  Mexico’s economy probably grew 3.1 percent in the final
quarter of 2012 from 3.3 percent in the previous three months,
according to the median forecast of analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. Economists polled by Bloomberg forecast GDP will rise
3.55 percent in this year, surpassing  Brazil ’s growth rate for a
third year.  Budget  The administration of President Enrique Pena Nieto approved
a 3.96 trillion-peso budget for 2013 with no deficit when
investment in Pemex is excluded. Last year’s approved deficit
was 0.4 percent of gross domestic product.  The nation’s debt is estimated to have reached 37.5 percent
of gross domestic product in 2012 and is expected to decline to
37 percent this year,  Miguel Messmacher , the deputy finance
minister for revenue, said in a Dec. 7 interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nacha Cattan in Mexico City at 
 ncattan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  