-- Explosion at Pemex Headquarters Kills Six, Radio Red Says
-- B y   C a r l o s   M a n u e l   R o d r i g u e z   a n d   B r e n d a n   C a s e
-- 2013-01-31T23:52:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/explosion-at-pemex-headquarters-causes-injuries-and-damage.html
An explosion at the headquarters of
 Petroleos Mexicanos  in Mexico City left 6 people dead, according
to radio station Radio Red.  The blast at the so-called B2 building, adjacent to the
main tower, injured more than 70 people, Mexico City newspaper
El Universal reported on its website.  Milenio TV said people remained trapped under the debris of
the damaged building. Hector Serrano, a Mexico City government
official, said on his Twitter page that rescue dogs were
searching for survivors.  The state oil company said on its Twitter page that the
explosion damaged the first and second floors. The incident
occurred between 3:30 p.m. and 3:45 p.m. local time and may have
been caused by an overheated air conditioning unit, El Universal
reported.  At least a dozen ambulances were standing by outside the
headquarters as rescue teams searched the damaged building.  Shattered Windows  Pemex said earlier on its Twitter account that an
electrical failure had caused a preventive evacuation of the
headquarters complex.  The company hasn’t said how many people were injured or
commented on the extent of the damage. A press official for the
oil producer confirmed the comments made on Twitter.  According to images shown by Milenio TV, the building’s
windows were shattered on several stories of one side while
dazed people streamed into the street. Security personnel
surrounded the headquarters and roped off the area outside.  Pemex’s headquarters is located in  Mexico  City’s Miguel
Hidalgo borough, a downtown district that includes Chapultepec
Park and the National Museum of Anthropology. The main tower, on
Marina Nacional Avenue, is the second-tallest building in
Mexico.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Carlos Manuel Rodriguez in Mexico City at 
 carlosmr@bloomberg.net ;
Brendan Case in Mexico City at 
 bcase4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  