-- MF Global Judge Approves Settlement With U.K. Affiliate
-- B y   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e
-- 2013-01-31T23:30:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/mf-global-judge-to-approve-settlement-with-u-k-affiliate.html
MF Global Inc.’s settlement with a
U.K. affiliate was approved by a U.S. judge, bringing the failed
brokerage’s estate as much as $600 million.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Martin Glenn said today at a court
hearing in  Manhattan  that he was pleased with the deal, which
will help boost recoveries for the former brokerage’s customers.  “The settlement is beneficial for the estate and fully
satisfies the standards for approving settlements,” Glenn wrote
in an opinion filed after the hearing. Glenn said he will
authorize MF Global’s liquidation trustee, James W. Giddens, to
make distributions to customers.  The settlement resolves numerous claims stemming from
extensive dealings between MF Global and affiliate MF Global
U.K. Ltd., avoiding potentially lengthy and costly litigation,
according to lawyers representing Giddens.  “It took substantial good-faith efforts, hard bargaining
and a practical approach for all the parties to get to where
they are today,” James B. Kobak, a lawyer for Giddens, said
during the hearing.  The settlement’s conditions include a requirement that some
claims be channeled to the U.S. case and that JPMorgan Chase &
Co. consent to releases involving the U.K. affiliate, according
to Kobak. No objections were filed, Glenn said.  The brokerage and parent company  MF Global Holdings Ltd. (MFGLQ) 
went into separate bankruptcies on Oct. 31, 2011. The parent is
under control of a Chapter 11 trustee. Giddens was named as
brokerage trustee by the Securities Investor Protection Corp.  The holding company’s Chapter 11 case is In re MF Global
Holdings Ltd., 11-15059,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern
District of  New York  (Manhattan). The liquidation of the broker
is In re MF Global Inc., 11-02790, in the same court.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christie Smythe in New York at 
 csmythe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  