-- FAA 787 Inspections Reveal Checks Were Left to Boeing
-- B y   A l a n   L e v i n
-- 2013-01-31T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/faa-787-inspections-reveal-checks-were-left-to-boeing.html
When it came time for U.S.
regulators to certify the safety of  Boeing Co. (BA) ’s 787 Dreamliner
and its new technologies, they relied on the planemaker’s
engineers to oversee final tests and vouch for their company’s
work.  The  Federal Aviation Administration  has operated that way
for many years, even as government audits have found those
efforts were sometimes poorly overseen and led to errors. The
agency in 2005 began allowing Boeing and other manufacturers to
pick the engineers, who previously were chosen by the FAA.  “I think everyone recognizes there is an inherent conflict
there,”  Jim Hall , former chairman of the U.S. National
Transportation Safety Board, said in an interview.  The FAA and NTSB are reviewing the Dreamliner’s
certification process, including tests used to approve Boeing’s
use of  lithium-ion batteries , after two incidents nine days
apart involving the power packs forced the worldwide grounding
of the 787 two weeks ago. It was the first grounding of an
entire plane model by the U.S. in 34 years.  The FAA doesn’t have the budget to hire enough engineers to
do all testing and certification itself, Hall said. Also, the
agency in some cases doesn’t have the necessary expertise to
assess the latest designs, a former FAA manager and aviation
engineers said in interviews.  “It allows the FAA workforce to focus on the most critical
systems and the new technology,” said John McGraw, a former FAA
deputy safety director who now operates a consulting firm in
Stafford, Virginia.  Safety Enhanced  “It’s hard for the public to accept the concept for
someone else to make a finding for the government,” he said.
“But this has been done since the start of the FAA. This is
really just an extension of that, with better oversight than
they had back then.”  The agency can overturn decisions by outside engineers and
must sign off on all decisions, according to an e-mailed
statement it provided. Engineers in the program must agree to
act on behalf of the government.  “We provide rigorous oversight,” the agency said. “If
the FAA sees any evidence that a delegation system is
compromised, the agency will revoke the authority.”  Most countries follow the FAA’s lead in regulatory matters,
though they do their own certifications of new planes and can
order additional tests or data.  Designated Engineers  The FAA’s statement didn’t address how the Dreamliner’s
 lithium batteries  were approved in 2007, four years before the
plane entered commercial service, and the NTSB hasn’t released
any information on that process from its investigation. The 787
was the first all-new Boeing model since the 777 debuted in
1995.  Clues to how the FAA certified the batteries can be found
in the steps it took to be sure that the 787’s carbon-fiber
structure was as strong and durable as the aluminum-based
aircraft that preceded it.  Boeing employees known as designated engineering
representatives oversaw tests to demonstrate the design’s
strength, according to a U.S. Government Accountability Office
 report  in 2011.  FAA’s engineering staff was responsible for overseeing the
“more significant tests and documents” and took steps beyond
what was required to oversee the new design, the GAO said.  An 11-page directory of companies allowed by the FAA to
choose engineers to certify designs and components lists Boeing
and other companies that worked on the 787 program. Those
include  Thales SA (HO) , based in Neuilly-Sur-Seine,  France . Thales
makes the Dreamliner’s power packs that include batteries made
by  GS Yuasa Corp. (6674) , based in Kyoto.  45 Violations  Engineers designated by the FAA, including Boeing
employees, have done an equivalent job to what the agency’s own
engineers would have done, Bret Jensen, a spokesman for the
Chicago-based company, said in an interview.  “The 787 was certified following the most rigorous test
program in Boeing’s history and the most robust certification
program ever conducted by the FAA,” Jensen said.  “We are confident in the regulatory process that has been
applied to the 787 since its design inception.”  The U.S. Transportation Department’s inspector general, in
a 2011 review of all FAA’s aircraft certifications, found 45
instances in which non-agency engineers hadn’t complied with the
rules. The inspector general didn’t name the companies involved.  Swissair Crash  One unidentified manufacturer couldn’t show it had
conducted “critical tests” on a new engine component, the
inspector general found. Another manufacturer didn’t follow
rules for emergency oxygen supplies for passengers and crew,
according to the report.  The FAA agreed to make changes, including keeping a
database of approved outside engineers to ensure that anyone
with a history of performance issues would be barred from the
program, according to the report.  Neither the GAO nor inspector general cited evidence that
the program has led to a safety lapse on a Boeing plane.  The Transportation Safety Board of Canada pointed to
engineering certification as a possible factor in the crash of
Swissair Flight 111 off  Nova Scotia  on Sept. 2, 1998, that
killed all 229 aboard.  Engineers at an aircraft maintenance company who were
acting on the FAA’s behalf signed off on an entertainment system
that may have started a fire that brought down the plane, the
Canadian safety board  found . The engineers lacked sufficient
knowledge of the Boeing MD-11’s power grid to provide that
certification, the board found.  The FAA in response reviewed the entertainment system’s
approval and found it was done correctly, according to an
inspector general  report  in 2004.  Checks, Balances  Hall, who led the NTSB from 1994 through 2000, said the
safety board investigated several accidents in which the
certification of an airliner was questioned.  He stopped short of calling for the FAA to stop using
outside engineers, while saying he would recommend a public
hearing on the battery certification if he was still chairman.  The system has adequate checks and balances to ensure
safety, Larry Timmons, president of Aircraft Engineering
Specialists Inc. in Bellevue,  Washington , said in an interview.
Timmons has been approved by the FAA to certify aircraft wing
designs since 1969.  From 1998 to 2004, the FAA removed 770 designated engineers
for poor performance, according to the 2004 GAO report. Some FAA
employees felt that the agency should have acted in more cases,
according to the report.  The 2011 inspector general’s report didn’t say how many
removals have occurred since the program was changed, though it
refers to one engineer whose authority was rescinded.  The threat of the FAA discovering an error keeps the vast
majority of outside engineers honest, Timmons said.  “You build this reputation up,” he said. “It’s
relatively easy to destroy. You don’t get many chances to make a
mistake.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Levin in Washington at 
 alevin24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  