-- Facebook Profit Drops as Spending Rises on New Features
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2013-01-31T21:54:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/facebook-profit-drops-as-spending-rises-on-new-features.html
Facebook Inc. (FB)  reported a plunge in
fourth-quarter profit on higher spending, even while it made
long-awaited progress luring advertisers eager to reach mobile-
device users.  Net income fell 79 percent to $64 million last quarter as
operating expenses jumped 82 percent, Facebook said yesterday.
That outpaced a 40 percent revenue gain to $1.59 billion and
raised concerns that margins will come under pressure. The stock
fell less than 1 percent to $30.98 after earlier sliding as much
as 8 percent as investors weighed near-term lower profit against
the prospect of future growth.  Chief Executive Officer  Mark Zuckerberg  plans to increase
expenses, excluding certain costs, 50 percent this year to hire
staff and roll out new tools for advertisers. That’s more than
the 33 percent increase projected by Pacific Crest Securities
LLC, and it underscores the urgency of capturing a bigger slice
of the  $6.97 billion  U.S. mobile-ad market. Done right, the
added investment will translate to profit growth, said Adam
Schneiberg, a portfolio manager at BTR Capital Management.  “Wall Street tends to be forgiving of higher spending
during high-growth periods when new products are being built,”
Schneiberg said. “As long as eyeballs tune in and revenue keeps
growing, the Street will believe that at some point the company
can flip the switch on profitability.”  Facebook, based in Menlo Park,  California , earlier touched
$28.74 for the biggest intraday decline since Sept. 24. The
stock has climbed 75 percent from a  record  low close on Sept. 4.  Mobile-Ad Push  Facebook’s increased investment is designed to help the
company grapple with rising competition from larger rivals in
the U.S. market for mobile advertising, predicted by EMarketer
Inc. to surge 82 percent this year.  Google Inc. (GOOG)  is projected to
grab 57 percent of that market, and Facebook will remain a
distant No. 2 with 12 percent, EMarketer  estimates .  “More mobile revenue means way more spending on the
operations of selling ads,” said  Brian Wieser , an analyst at
Pivotal Research Group LLC, who today upgraded his rating on the
stock to buy from hold and raised his prise estimate to $36 from
$30. “This is an expensive company to run.”  Mobile contributed 23 percent of total advertising revenue,
or about $306 million, according to Facebook. That compares with
14 percent in the third quarter. Analysts at JPMorgan Chase &
Co. predicted mobile would contribute $384.2 million, or 27
percent of ad revenue, in the latest quarter.  ‘Big Transition’  Facebook’s engineers are making improvements to mobile
applications, including those for Google’s Android software,
Zuckerberg said on a conference call. Better mobile services can
boost user engagement, he said.  “We made this big transition, where now there are more
people using Facebook on mobile every day than on desktop,”
Zuckerberg said. “More people are starting to understand that
mobile is a great opportunity for us.”  Profit excluding some items was 17 cents a share. That
compares with analysts’ prediction for 15 cents. Analysts had
projected $45.8 million in profit on sales of $1.52 billion,
according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  Facebook is investing in new products to attract users and
keep them on the site longer. Earlier this month, the company
announced a revamp of its search service that lets members find
information on people, places, photos and interests. The company
also has upgraded its mobile applications with new versions for
phones running Google’s Android software and  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s
iPhone.  ‘Investing Heavily’  “We’re investing heavily because we see big opportunities
ahead for the company,”  David Ebersman , Facebook’s chief
financial officer, said in an interview. “So, we’re trying to
invest to build the most valuable company we can for the long
term and to really invest in areas that can drive engagement.”  Zuckerberg also said that he expects to hire aggressively,
causing expenses to grow at a faster rate than sales in 2013.
The company had 4,619 employees at the end of last year,
according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  Facebook’s fourth-quarter operating margin declined to 33
percent from 48 percent a year earlier, while costs rose to
$1.06 billion from $583 million.  “Facebook will continue investing in technology and
engineering resources to drive growth, tempering margin
expectations,” said  Colin Sebastian , an analyst at Robert W.
Baird, wrote in a research report today. He rates the shares the
equivalent of buy with a target price of $34.  User Growth  Facebook reached 1.06 billion users during the fourth
quarter, up from 1.01 billion in the third quarter. The number
of mobile users was 680 million, up from 604 million in the
third quarter.  Analysts had been pushing up ratings amid growing optimism
for accelerated revenue growth. Through yesterday, the
proportion of analysts  covering  Facebook with a buy rating had
risen to 65 percent from 52 percent on Oct. 23, when Facebook
posted third-quarter sales that beat estimates, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  “A lot of these products are pretty new,” said Scott Kessler, an analyst at S&P Capital IQ, who rates the stock a
hold. “It’s just going to take some time.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in San Francisco at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  