-- Fetus Would Be Rape Evidence as Republicans Push Abortion Bills
-- B y   E s m é   E .   D e p r e z   a n d   J e n n i f e r   O l d h a m
-- 2013-01-31T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/fetus-would-be-rape-evidence-as-republicans-push-abortion-bills.html
When pregnancy results from rape or
incest, destroying the evidence -- the fetus -- would become a
felony in New Mexico. Women might need to wait six days before
undergoing an abortion in South Dakota. And  Mississippi  would
redefine the word “person” to apply to a fertilized egg.  Those proposals are among dozens of abortion-related bills
that state lawmakers are set to consider in 2013. The November
elections left Republicans in control of both legislative
chambers in 26 states and with new majorities in  Wisconsin ,
Arkansas and  Alaska . That’s emboldened abortion opponents to
continue the momentum of the past two years, when a record 135
restrictions on the procedure were passed.  “We actually have states competing with each other to be
the most protective in the country,” said Dan McConchie, who
oversees state lobbying efforts at Americans United for Life, a
Washington-based anti-abortion group that helps lawmakers write
bills. “No state has yet done all that’s possible to do.”  Lawmakers often look to other states to see what
restrictions are most effective. In Mississippi, the state’s
only clinic has yet to comply with a requirement passed last
year that abortion doctors have hospital admitting privileges,
and may shut because of it. A Tennessee facility blamed its
closing on a similar law. Legislators in North Dakota, South
Carolina and  Alabama  aim to follow.  Public Funding  Bans on abortion coverage in health-exchange insurance
plans and on the procedure after 20 weeks are in effect in 20
and seven states, respectively, according to Guttmacher
Institute, a New York-based reproductive-health research group.
Expect their popularity to spread, McConchie said. At least nine
states plan to take up one or the other this year.  Iowa , Indiana and  Texas  may follow the lead of eight states
that already restrict how abortion-inducing drugs are
administered.  All but 17 states bar public funding for abortion through
Medicaid, except in limited circumstances. Republican
Representative Matt Windschitl of Iowa is backing a bid to ban
such funding for all abortions. Last fiscal year, 22 abortions
cost the state about $20,000 combined, according to the
Associated Press. Fifteen were for severe fatal anomalies such
as separation of the brain from the fetus, two for rape and five
to save the woman’s life.  “We try to mainstream new ideas quickly,” McConchie said.  In New Mexico, Republican Representative Cathrynn Brown
introduced  House Bill 206 , which would have criminalized victims
of rape and incest for tampering with evidence if they procured
an abortion. Brown withdrew the bill amid a firestorm of
protest, and filed a modified version clarifying that the
impregnated woman wouldn’t be charged with a crime.  Felony Charge  “Her ‘fix’ is nothing of the kind,” Matt Ross, a
spokesman for the state’s Democrats, who control both
legislative chambers, said in a  statement . “The bill still
makes it a crime to ‘facilitate’ an abortion for a woman who
wants one, bottom line. That means doctors, nurses or anyone
else who works at a health-care clinic where this is one of the
services provided would still be guilty of a felony.”  Brown, through Jamie Dickerman, a spokeswoman for the New
Mexico House Minority Office, declined multiple requests for
clarification and an interview.  In South Dakota, 15 representatives and five senators
introduced  House Bill 1237  to extend to 72 hours the current 24-
hour waiting period before a woman first meets with a physician
and obtains an abortion. Yet, no Saturday, Sunday, federal or
state holiday would count toward the calculation, extending to
as long as six days the actual time a woman would have to wait.  Waiting Period  “The idea of a waiting period was to set aside time to
think about having the abortion,” said Elizabeth Nash, states
issues manager at Guttmacher. “Women are unable to think on
weekends and holidays?”  Lawmakers in nine states seek to pass laws that could
outlaw most, if not all, abortions, in-vitro fertilization and
some contraceptives. They would do so by declaring that life
begins at conception in Mississippi -- where voters rejected
doing so in in a referendum less than two years ago --  Oklahoma 
and South Carolina. In Kentucky and  Wyoming , it would be by
banning abortions after as early as six weeks, prior to the
formation of many major organs and before many women realize
they’re pregnant.  A push to ban abortions based on gender has been
introduced this year in at least nine states, including Texas
and  Virginia . Representative Bette Grande’s version in North
Dakota’s would also outlaw abortions based on genetic
abnormalities, including those that are fatal.  McConchie’s prediction for another banner year of abortion
restrictions is based on political developments he said may ease
the advancement of anti-abortion legislation.  More Bills  Democrats lost a governor supportive of abortion-rights in
North Carolina and legislative control in  Arkansas , Wisconsin
and Alaska. Also, historical precedent shows more bills are
enacted in nonelection years, which 2013 is in all but four
states. Texas and North Dakota legislatures meet every other
year and are doing so in 2013.  While reproductive health legislation will again spark
battles in statehouses across the country, that doesn’t mean
abortion foes will continue their recent success, said Jordan
Goldberg, state advocacy counsel at the New York-based Center
for Reproductive Rights, which fights abortion laws in court.  “Every year anti-choice legislators introduce waves of
these bills,” she said. “Most don’t pass; all are bad ideas.
Early in the session you can take a snapshot of what are the
nuttiest, most harmful things out there, but you can’t make a
prediction about what’s going to happen.”  Last year, when more than 500 abortion restrictions were
introduced and 43 passed, no state moved to expand abortion
rights.  New York’s Democratic Governor Andrew Cuomo is trying to
make 2013 different. His Reproductive Health Act would
decriminalize abortions after 24 weeks when a woman’s health --
not just life, as the law currently stands -- is at risk.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Esmé E. Deprez in New York at 
 edeprez@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer Oldham in Denver at 
 Joldham1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  