-- Fiat Industrial Sets Third Quarter for U.S. Stock Listing
-- B y   T o m m a s o   E b h a r d t
-- 2013-01-31T16:19:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/fiat-industrial-profit-misses-estimates-on-iveco-trucks.html
Fiat Industrial SpA (FI) , the truck and
tractor maker spun off from car manufacturer  Fiat SpA (F)  in 2011,
plans a U.S. stock listing before October for the company it’s
forming with the  CNH Global NV (CNH)  farm-equipment division.  Fiat Industrial’s shareholders will probably vote in April
on completing the merger with CNH, Chairman  Sergio Marchionne 
said today on a conference call. The new company will maintain
Fiat Industrial’s dividend policy, and it will take steps to
reduce cash by 50 percent because of an “excess,” he said.  CNH, the maker of Case and New Holland bulldozers and
tractors, is 88 percent-owned by Turin, Italy-based Fiat
Industrial, which made an offer in November for full control.
Plans for  New York  Stock Exchange trading of the manufacturer’s
shares, and setting up its headquarters in the Netherlands, are
part of Marchionne’s strategy to shift the company away from its
roots in  Italy , which is in its fourth recession since 2001.  “Hopefully we should be listed in the U.S. sometime in the
third quarter,” probably in the first half of that period,
Marchionne told analysts on the call.  Fiat Industrial  rose  as much as 1.6 percent to 9.63 euros
and was trading up 0.7 percent at 5:14 p.m. in Milan. The gain
reversed a drop earlier in the day, when the company announced
fourth-quarter profit that missed analysts’ estimates.  Profit Gain  Net income in the period jumped 20 percent to 148 million
euros ($201 million), even as an economic contraction in Europe
and declining industry demand in Latin America hurt sales at the
Iveco truck brand, Fiat Industrial  said . Profit was less than
the 222.7 million-euro average of seven analyst  estimates 
compiled by Bloomberg. Group revenue rose 2.8 percent to 7.01
billion euros.  There’s “no bad news” in Fiat Industrial’s results,
Marchionne said.  The European market for commercial vehicles in December
fell to the lowest level since October 2009 as the economy of
the countries using the euro contracted, according to industry
association ACEA. Daimler AG said yesterday that its truck
business, the world’s biggest, may cut as many as 1,300 factory
jobs in  North America  and 800 non-production posts in Germany.  The western Europe truck market is likely to be “steady”
this year, while Latin American demand will rebound, Fiat
Industrial said today in a  presentation .  Ram Ties  Iveco should make efforts to expand into the U.S., and has
a “great opportunity to leverage” marketing through Fiat SpA’s
ties to Chrysler Group LLC, maker of the Ram pickup truck,
Marchionne said. The CEO reiterated that Iveco isn’t for sale.  Both Fiat Industrial and Turin-based carmaker Fiat are
controlled by  Exor SpA (EXO) , the investment company of Italy’s
Agnelli family. Exor has said it plans to keep its  voting rights 
above 30 percent to maintain control of the manufacturer that’s
set up in the CNH merger. Marchionne has said the new entity
will have a name that doesn’t refer to Fiat.  Net debt from Fiat Industrial’s manufacturing operations
widened to 1.64 billion euros on Dec. 31 from 1.24 billion euros
a year earlier amid an expansion program at CNH and a special
dividend offered to the unit’s shareholders as part of its
raised bid for the unit, the company said. Fiat Industrial plans
a dividend of 23 cents a share.  “The only meaningful deviation against consensus is the
higher net debt level,” said  David Arnold , an automotive
specialist at Credit Suisse in  London . At the same time,
investors can “take some comfort from a higher than expected
dividend.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tommaso Ebhardt in Milan at 
 tebhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  