-- Flacco’s Deal About Risk, Not Cash, as Ravens Follow Wall Street
-- B y   C u r t i s   E i c h e l b e r g e r
-- 2013-02-01T05:01:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/flacco-s-deal-about-risk-not-cash-as-ravens-follow-wall-street.html
Joe Flacco  could lead the Baltimore
Ravens to their second Super Bowl title, never miss a throw and
win the Most Valuable Player award, and it won’t change his
contract negotiations one bit, team executives and analysts
said.  Flacco’s contract expires after the Ravens play the San
Francisco 49ers on Feb. 3 in New Orleans for the National
Football League championship. He and the team are at odds over
the value of an extension, which would be worth $16 million to
$20 million annually based on other deals, and the Ravens’ top
officials say his title-game performance won’t alter their
approach.  If the quarterback doesn’t take the Ravens’ offer, the team
will require Flacco to sign a one-year deal for $14.5 million to
$15 million and assume all the risk of injury or poor
performance that may lead to his dismissal, under a part of the
collective bargaining agreement known as the franchise tag. It’s
a pattern that Wall Street traders and corporate executives deal
with in pricing an asset to mitigate risk.  “If they don’t get a deal done, he’s on a one-year
tender,” said Andrew Brandt, a former Green Bay Packers
executive and current ESPN analyst. “It’s leverage for the
team, a powerful tool for management.”  Flacco, 28, wants to sign a long-term deal that includes a
guaranteed signing bonus. If he gets hurt or plays poorly and is
fired, he wouldn’t make another penny in base salary and would
keep the bonus.  That solution also would benefit the Ravens by locking in
Flacco at today’s market price and giving them a happier team
captain, which matters in the locker room. The downside is that
it would shift the risk of injury or poor performance back to
the franchise.  ‘Tag Him’  “He’s probably looking at the (Peyton) Manning, (Drew)
Brees, (Tom) Brady level of $50 million or $60 million
guaranteed and that’s versus $15 million guaranteed if they tag
him,” Brandt said in a telephone interview. “The franchise tag
has been part of this negotiation from the very beginning, and
the team knows it, and the agent knows it.”  Joe Linta, Flacco’s agent, didn’t return calls seeking
comment on the negotiations. Dick Cass, the Ravens’ president,
declined in an interview to discuss the status of the talks.  Flacco has led the Ravens to the playoffs every year since
being drafted from the University of  Delaware  in 2008, reaching
three American Football Conference championship games and now a
Super Bowl. He made $6.7 million this year, according to the NFL
players’ union.  Postseason Streak  He is the first quarterback since the NFL merged with the
American Football League in 1970 to make the playoffs and win a
postseason game in each of his first five years. His six career
postseason road victories are an NFL record, and in the last
seven playoff games Flacco has completed 128 of 220 passes for
1,725 yards with 15 touchdowns and only two interceptions.  “Joe’s been playing at a very high level for a couple of
years now,” Cass said.  Linta was quoted by NFL.com as saying Flacco should be
ranked at least among the league’s top five passers. That would
put him in a group including Manning, who signed a five-year,
 $96 million  free-agent contract with $58 million in guarantees
with the Denver Broncos, and Brees, with a five-year, $100
million contract extension including $60 million in guaranteed
money with the New Orleans Saints.  Both those quarterbacks have Super Bowl rings. Flacco now
gets the chance to join them.  “I’m just going to let my play speak for itself,” Flacco
said at a news conference on Jan. 29. “If we come out here and
play the game the way we should and the way we can, then we’re
going to be feeling pretty good about ourselves and what we
accomplished.”  Management Praise  Cass and General Manager Ozzie Newsome have consistently
praised Flacco and said they want him with the franchise for the
rest of his career. They also have said the Super Bowl won’t
change that view.  “Some people will look at what he does on Sunday
afternoon, but I have an entire body of work to look at,”
Newsome said last week, according to the  Baltimore Sun . “Joe
sits right behind me on the plane rides home. I also know how he
practices, how he works out during the offseason. I look to see
how he interacts with players, how he reacts to losing, what
type of leader he is.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Curtis Eichelberger in Wilmington, Delaware at   ceichelberge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  