-- Florida Foreclosure Cities Poised for 2013 Home Bargains
-- B y   D a n   L e v y
-- 2013-01-31T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/florida-foreclosure-cities-poised-for-2013-home-bargains.html
Five  Florida  cities and four in New
York are among the top 10 U.S. locations for buying foreclosed
homes at a discount as both states work through a backlog of
properties with distressed debt,  RealtyTrac Inc . said today.  Florida’s Palm Bay metropolitan area, with a 34-month
foreclosure supply and 28 percent average discount to homes
without debt problems, is the most likely place for bargains in
2013, the data firm said in a statement. Lakeland, Tampa,
Jacksonville and  Orlando , Florida, are also primed for deals
following a year in which a quarter of all sales involved
distressed homes, the  Irvine , California-based company said.  “The underlying fundamentals in many of those markets are
slowly improving, making it an opportune time to absorb
additional foreclosure inventory this year -- and that is
particularly good news for buyers and investors,”  Daren Blomquist , vice president at RealtyTrac, said in the statement.
The number of default, auction and repossession filings last
year surged more than fourfold in Palm Bay, almost doubled in
Lakeland and rose 80 percent in Tampa, according to the company.  One in every 32 Florida households received at least one
notice last year, more than double the average U.S. rate of one
in 72, RealtyTrac said on Jan. 17. Statewide, home repossessions
increased by 16,276 over the 12-month period to 84,456, the
biggest gain in the U.S. The state’s foreclosure crisis is
exacerbated by a required court review of each case.  The Rochester area in New York, with a 133 percent jump
last year in foreclosure filings, ranked second on the
RealtyTrac list of bargain locations, followed by the Albany,
Schenectady and Troy region, where filings more than doubled,
and New York City, with a 28 percent increase. While the state
also has a judicial process, foreclosure sales made up less than
8 percent of total purchases in those cities, data from the
company show.  RealtyTrac summed up cities’ foreclosure supply, share of
distressed sales, average discount and percentage increase in
foreclosure filings to rank all U.S. metro areas with
populations of at least 500,000, the company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Levy in San Francisco at 
 dlevy13@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  