-- Flour Mills Nigeria Rises Most in 3 Years on Buy Recommendation
-- B y   V i n c e n t   N w a n m a
-- 2013-01-31T14:11:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/flour-mills-nigeria-rises-most-in-3-years-on-buy-recommendation.html
Flour Mills of Nigeria Plc (FLOURMIL) , the
country’s biggest miller by market value, climbed the most in
more than three years after Exotix Ltd. recommended buying the
stock.  The  stock rose a fifth day , advancing 5.7 percent to close
at 89.90 naira in Lagos,  Nigeria ’s commercial capital, the
biggest gain since July 2009. About 136 percent of the three-
month daily average number of shares traded, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Investors should buy Flour Mill on its “strong earnings
outlook,” analyst Binta Drave said on a conference call on Jan.
29. Flour Mills will benefit from share price growth in the
first quarter and its investment in sugar business, Drave said.  “The stock is likely to hit 100 naira per share before its
year-end in March, as investors take positions on it,” Raheem
Mohammed, chief executive officer of Kundila Finance Ltd., said
by phone from Lagos.  Flour Mills is building a sugar refinery with a capacity of
750,000 metric tons in Lagos, Chief Financial Officer Jacques
Vauthier said on Nov. 15. The plant was expected to begin trial
production in December, he said. A call to the company wasn’t
answered today.  Nigeria,  Africa ’s most populous nation of more than 160
million, wants to cut food imports by raising domestic
production. The country, which grew enough food to feed itself
in the 1960s, is now the world’s largest importer of rice and
sub-Saharan Africa’s biggest importer of wheat and sugar.  Flour Mills has risen 38 percent this month, compared with
a 13 percent rise in the  Nigerian Stock Exchange All-Share
Index. (NGSEINDX)  The stock slid 0.7 percent last year, while the benchmark
gauge rallied 35 percent.  Exotix prefers Nigerian stocks that underperformed the
market or peers in 2012, Ronak Gadhia, another analyst at the
brokerage, said on the conference call.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vincent Nwanma in Lagos at 
 vnwanma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dulue Mbachu at 
 dmbachu@bloomberg.net  