-- Forint Advances to Week-High on Matolcsy, Pares Monthly Decline
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2013-01-31T16:07:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/forint-advances-to-week-high-paring-monthly-decline-on-matolcsy.html
The forint appreciated to the
highest level in more than a week after Economy Minister  Gyorgy
Matolcsy  alleviated concern the  Hungary ’s government will press
the new central bank chief to use new “unconventional” policy
tools.  The currency strengthened 0.9 percent to 292.42 per euro by
4:39 p.m. in Budapest, a third day of gains that pared the
depreciation in January to 0.4 percent. The country sold 65
billion forint ($302 million) in 12-month T-bills at an auction
today, 15 billion forint more than planned. The average yield
fell to 5.23 percent, the  lowest  since May 2010, according to
data from the Debt Management Agency on Bloomberg.  The central bank should avoid “shock therapy” as it must
be “more conservative than the government,” the Wall Street
Journal reported Matolcsy saying in an interview published late
yesterday. The minister has been named as the most likely
successor to central bank President Andras Simor, who leaves
office in March, by media including the Index news website. The
forint tumbled as much as 3 percent after Matolcsy said last
month the bank should “bravely” use unorthodox methods to
boost the economy.  “Matolcsy was trying to calm forint investors,” Gergely Gabler, a Budapest-based analyst at broker Equilor Befektetesi
Zrt., said in a research report today. “The forint’s recent
underperformance was mainly due to the change of leadership at
the central bank and the expected loose monetary policy.”  The forint has gained 1.9 percent since the central bank’s
Monetary Council said on Jan. 29 the bank’s toolkit of
unconventional methods should only be widened in “acute
turmoil.” Policy makers cut the benchmark  interest rate  by 25
basis points to 5.5 percent on Jan. 29 in a sixth consecutive
month of easing.  Budget Deficit  The forint benefited from European Commission President
Jose Manuel Barroso statement yesterday that he welcomed
Hungary’s steps to cut its budget deficit, Gabler said. Prime
Minister  Viktor Orban ’s talks with Barroso increased the
likelihood of the country exiting the European Union’s so-called
Excessive Deficit Procedure for the first time since 2004, the
analyst said.  The cost of insuring against default on Hungary’s debt with
credit-default swaps fell seven basis points to 292 after
hitting a two-month high yesterday. Yields on the government’s
10-year forint bonds fell 16 basis points, or 0.16 percentage
point, to 6.35 percent.  Hungary will return to international debt markets by next
month for the first time since May 2011 as efforts to obtain aid
from the  International Monetary Fund  are ending, Orban said
yesterday.  Matolcsy’s comments may boost the success of a Eurobond
sale as well as support the forint, Imre Kerekgyarto and Karoly
Bamli, Budapest-based traders at Commerzbank AG, wrote in an e-
mailed note.  “Let’s hope the investor-friendly message wasn’t solely
aimed at the purpose” of promoting the bond issuance, the
Commerzbank traders wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  