-- France’s Says Mali Should Accept Some Touareg Autonomy
-- B y   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i
-- 2013-01-31T16:45:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/france-s-says-mali-should-accept-some-touareg-autonomy.html
French Defense Minister Jean-Yves Le Drian suggested that ethnic Touaregs in  Mali ’s northern regions
should have some autonomy, while saying France doesn’t want to
“dictate” the nation’s constitutional settlement.  While French military forces hold the airport of Kidal in
the northeast, sandstorms delayed their operations to take
control of the last major rebel-held city, Le Drian said today.
Kidal is under the control of Touareg forces who have broken
with their former Islamist militant allies and have made peace
overtures to the French and Malian government.  “Mali must enter a period of national conciliation open to
all political forces that reject terrorism and outright
separatism,” Le Drian said on France Inter radio. Touaregs must
play “a full role on the recomposition of Mali” while at the
same time “Touareg specificity must be recognized,” he said.  Mali’s interim President Dioncounda Traore said in an
interview with Radio France Internationale that he’d negotiate
with the National Movement for the Liberation of Azawad, the
main Touareg rebel group known as the MNLA, provided it drops
any claims for a separate homeland.  “Today, the only group I think we can imagine negotiations
with is the MNLA, of course under the condition that they
renounce any territorial claims,” Traore said. He rejected
talks with Islamist groups such as Ansar ud-Din and al-Qaeda in
the Islamic Maghreb.  Paratroop Drops  French forces intervened Jan. 11 when the militants went on
the offensive toward the capital, Bamako. In a 48-hour operation
starting Jan. 26, they took control of the “bend” in the Niger
River from Gao to Mopti through a combination of armored unit
drives, paratroop drops and helicopter raids. It was part of a
campaign to regain state control of two-thirds of a nation that
vies with Tanzania as  Africa ’s third-biggest gold producer.  “It was high time to stop terrorist groups in Mali,”
North Atlantic Treaty Organization Secretary-General Anders Fogh Rasmussen told reporters today in Brussels.  They took the historic city of Timbuktu this week,
following the capture of Gao. The militants who held those towns
have “gone home or are trying to cross borders, which is
increasingly difficult because  Algeria  and the others have
closed their borders,” Le Drian said.  Helicopter-borne French special forces seized Kidal airport
on the night of Jan. 29, with reinforcements arriving yesterday,
military spokesman  Thierry Burkhard  told reporters today in
Paris. Weather conditions are preventing them from entering
Kidal, and there has been no fighting in the area, he said.  Mountain Raids  French forces carried out air raids yesterday in mountains
north of Kidal against militant “command centers” and training
camps, Burkhard said.  The airport at Timbuktu is back in service, after French
engineers cleared the area of obstacles left by the militants,
he said.  Four Malian soldiers died and five were wounded yesterday
when their vehicle hit a landmine near the town of Gossi, about
160 kilometers (100 miles) southwest of Gao, army spokesman
Modibo Traore said today by phone.  United Nations officials yesterday said that peacekeepers
may be deployed after French troops leave to ensure that
Islamist militants don’t seek to reclaim the regions they lost.  The UN Security Council in New York will discuss in the
coming days whether to send as many as 5,000 troops to protect
civilians and keep the land-locked West African country stable
before peace talks and an election, according to two officials
familiar with the discussions of the operations. They asked to
not be named as the plans are preliminary.  Economic Crisis  Mali’s year of crisis led to a 1.5 percent contraction of
its $10.6 billion economy in 2012, according to the
International Monetary Fund. Growth is forecast at 4.5 percent
in 2013, partly because gold mining hasn’t been affected by the
conflict, the IMF said on Jan. 28. Companies including  AngloGold
Ashanti Ltd. (ANG)  and  Randgold Resources Ltd. (RRS)  are among the companies
operating in the government-controlled south.  An alliance of Touareg and Islamist groups seized northern
Mali after a coup in Bamako last March. The Islamists then
forced out the secular MNLA.  While Le Drian said French operational troops won’t stay
long in Mali, he gave no date and wouldn’t discuss military
plans. The country isn’t fully secure, he said. The operations
have cost France 50 million euros ($67 million) so far, mostly
through logistics and transportation costs, he said.  Full Control  In his interview, Traore said he thought it would take
another month to be in full control of the country.  About 2,900 African troops are already in Mali as part of
an African mission to secure the north of the country. What
remains to be decided is whether African soldiers on the ground
will fold into the UN peacekeeping force, as they did previously
in Ivory Coast and  Sudan ’s western region of  Darfur , or if the
operation will take a different form, the UN officials said.  An estimated 380,000 people have fled northern Mali since
the start of the conflict last year, according to a Jan. 29
statement from the  UN High Commissioner for Refugees . That
includes refugees into neighboring countries including Algeria,
Niger, Burkina Faso and Mauritania, as well as people displaced
inside Mali, the UNHCR said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gregory Viscusi in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  