-- More Electric Car Loans ‘Remains to Be Seen,’ Chu Says
-- B y   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e
-- 2013-01-31T20:21:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/future-of-u-s-electric-car-loans-remains-to-be-seen-chu-says.html
Energy Secretary Steven Chu said it
“remains to be seen in the future” whether about $16 billion
in available U.S. government loans to develop alternative-
technology vehicles will be disbursed.  Providing money for electric-vehicle development was a
component of President  Barack Obama ’s goal of having 1 million
plug-in vehicles on U.S. roads by 2015, a number well above
current forecasts.  The goal is “ambitious, but we’ll see what happens,” Chu
said after touring displays at the Washington Auto Show, where
he looked almost exclusively at alternative-fuel vehicles
including Nissan Motor Co.’s Leaf and  General Motors Co. (GM) ’s
Cadillac ELR.  Obama’s administration hasn’t made a loan under the
alternative-technology program, created in 2008, since March
2011. Since then, it’s rejected or not acted on applications
from companies including Chrysler Group LLC.  “We’re always open to great ideas,” Chu said.  Last January, the U.S. rescinded a $730 million commitment
to  OAO Severstal (CHMF) ,  Russia ’s second-largest steelmaker by output.
The department in May 2011 froze most of the $529 million loan
it made to Fisker Automotive Inc., one of five loan recipients,
for not meeting production milestones. During last year’s
presidential campaign, Republicans  Mitt Romney  and  Paul Ryan 
referred to Fisker and other green-energy assistance recipients
as “losers.”  Chu said he wants to bring the cost of buying a plug-in
five-passenger vehicle down to $20,000 to $25,000. Reducing the
weight of electric cars will be part of the way to reduce costs,
he said.  “The thrill of driving by a gas station and smiling is one
everybody should experience,” Chu said.  Chu declined to say whether he will stay in office as Obama
begins his second term.  Chu, 64, was a career scientist and co-winner of the  Nobel
Prize  for Physics when he joined the Cabinet in January 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angela Greiling Keane in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  