-- MMG Seeks Stakes in South America Copper, Sees Price Gains
-- B y   S o r a y a   P e r m a t a s a r i
-- 2013-02-01T03:16:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/mmg-seeks-south-american-partners-as-it-forecasts-copper-advance.html
MMG Ltd. (1208) , the Chinese miner that’s
set aside $4 billion for acquisitions, is seeking stakes in
South American copper producers as it forecasts the commodity’s
price to climb this year.  The listed unit of China’s biggest metals trader is also
looking to provide technical support or offer financing to
producers, Chief Executive Officer Andrew Michelmore said
yesterday, without disclosing any target. The Hong Kong-based
company completed the acquisition of African copper producer
Anvil Mining Ltd. for $1.3 billion in March last year.  “You’ve got to go where the minerals are and the minerals
are there in  Africa  and South America,” he said in a phone
interview from Melbourne. “One of the things we have to look at
is what we can afford to do with our  cash flow  and how big a
bite we can take.”  Copper is an attractive investment amid strong demand and
supply constraints, which will ensure prices stay in a range of
$7,500 to $8,500 a metric ton this year, Michelmore said.  Inmet
Mining Corp. (IMN)  said Jan. 23 the sale of a stake in the Cobre
Panama copper mine is among “many” options being considered by
the Toronto-based company as it fends off a C$5.1 billion ($5.1
billion) hostile bid from  First Quantum Minerals Ltd. (FM)   Michelmore declined to say if Cobre Panama is on his list.
Finding a project with the right value is a challenge in  South
America  because most mines have lower grades of ore, making it
more costly to produce the metal, he said.  The company isn’t interested in projects with less than
50,000 tons of annual output, he said.  Shares Climb  MMG shares rose 2.9 percent in Hong Kong to HK$3.23 as of
10:47 a.m. local time. That compares with the 0.4 percent
decline in the benchmark  Hang Seng  index.  Copper, which rose 4.4 percent in 2012, has climbed 3.3
percent this year. It traded at $8,192.25 a metric ton on the
London Metal Exchange as of 10:59 a.m. in Hong Kong. Traders are
the most bullish on the metal in 15 months, according to 30
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  “I’m still quite positive about copper,” Michelmore said.
“Demand for copper is still quite solid and supply has been the
issue.”  MMG, a unit of  China  Minmetals Corp., is also looking to
invest more in nickel sulphide and has exploration plans in
Africa, Canada and the U.S., Michelmore said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Soraya Permatasari in Melbourne at 
 soraya@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  