-- GE Sees U.S. Wind Credit Muting Slump in Turbine Demand
-- B y   T i m   C a t t s   a n d   S t e f a n   N i c o l a
-- 2013-01-31T16:41:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/ge-sees-u-s-wind-credit-muting-slump-in-turbine-demand.html
The extension of a U.S. wind-power
tax credit will temper a plunge in demand for turbines over the
next two years, according to the chief of  General Electric Co. (GE) ’s
renewable energy unit.  Installations in 2013 and 2014 may match the average annual
levels that preceded a rush to finish projects by the end of
2012, when the credit was set to expire, GE Vice President Vic Abate said today. U.S. demand had been about 5,000 megawatts to
6,000 megawatts a year before that surge, he said.  “You could see that kind of average holding, with ’13
being a little under the average and ’14 being a little over,”
Abate said in a telephone interview. Turbine installations
totaled more than 13,000 megawatts last year, and “I don’t
think we get there again,” he said.  Questions about the fate of the tax credit stalled wind-
power projects for 2013 and beyond before its extension as part
of the fiscal compromise between President  Barack Obama  and his
opponents in Congress. Declining U.S. turbine orders this year
will still damp profit, Fairfield, Connecticut-based GE said.  The production tax credit is 2.2 cents for every kilowatt-
hour generated by wind-farm operators. Without an extension,
installations were projected to decline to 1,500 megawatts this
year, according to a Bloomberg New Energy Finance forecast.  GE is introducing new products designed to expand its
business in markets from  Germany  to  Australia , Abate said. The
company unveiled a 2.5-megawatt turbine today for low wind
speeds that uses battery storage to help smooth the flow of
power to the electrical grid and relies on software that can
help forecast wind conditions.  The machine will help GE benefit from surging installations
in southern Germany, Stephan Reimelt, chief executive officer of
the Energy Germany division, said last week in an interview in
Berlin.  Abate said he expects demand for the new turbine, which has
a 120-meter (394-foot) rotor and a tower as tall as 139 meters,
will also be strong among Canadian and Scandinavian customers.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tim Catts in  New York  at 
 tcatts1@bloomberg.net ;
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net ;
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  