-- Gecamines May Seek Partner to Develop Congo Copper Sites
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   K a v a n a g h
-- 2013-02-01T06:21:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/gecamines-may-seek-partner-to-develop-congo-copper-sites.html
Gecamines ,  Democratic Republic  of
Congo’s state-owned mining company, is considering seeking a
partner to develop two copper sites that may contain 5 million
metric tons, Chief Executive Officer Ahmed Kalej said.  The Lubumbashi-based company completed its takeover of the
Deziwa and Ecaille C copper-cobalt projects in the southern
Katanga province on Jan. 11 after buying out Copperbelt Minerals
Ltd.’s indirect 68 percent stakes. The sites may eventually
produce a combined 200,000 tons of copper a year, making them
one of Congo’s biggest, Kalej said yesterday in an interview in
Lubumbashi.  “It’s a very big project, it’s magnificent,” Kalej said.
“The reserves are there and that constitutes a great guarantee,
which will allow us to get financing on the international
market, or we can enter into a partnership.”  Gecamines is trying to increase production after decades of
dictatorship and war left its infrastructure destroyed and cash
reserves depleted. The company produced 35,150 tons of copper
last year, according to Chairman Albert Yuma, compared with peak
output of almost 500,000 tons in the 1980s.  Deziwa and Ecaille C are situated in nearby mines operated
by  Glencore International Plc (GLEN)  and  Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold
Inc. (FCX)  Building a copper plant at the sites may require as much as
$1 billion of investment, Yuma said on Jan. 16.  Copper for delivery in three months climbed as much as 0.7
percent to $8,223 a metric ton on the London Metal Exchange
before easing to $8,215.75 at 8:19 a.m. in Johannesburg.  Big Hill  Gecamines and closely held George Forrest Group are also
near to wrapping up talks with Cleveland-based  OM Group Inc. (OMG)  to
take over its stake in the so-called Big Hill project, an
operation which refines cobalt tailings in Lubumbashi, the
capital of Katanga province, Kalej said.  Gecamines, Freeport-McMoRan and  Lundin Mining Corp. (LUN)  agreed
to buy OM Group’s cobalt chemical refinery and sales business in
Kokkola,  Finland  for as much as $435 million, Lundin said on
Jan. 21. Freeport will own 56 percent and Lundin 24 percent of
the joint venture, while Gecamines will own the remainder.  That’s Gecamines first investment outside Congo, Kalej
said. Freeport and Lundin will finance the purchase of its
stake, he said. The three companies are already partners in the
Tenke Fungurume copper-cobalt project in Katanga, the biggest
single mining investment in Congo.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Kavanagh in Lubumbashi, Congo at 
 mkavanagh9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  