-- General Electric Plans $1 Billion Investment in Nigerian Power
-- B y   M a r a m   M a z e n
-- 2013-01-31T14:37:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/general-electric-plans-1-billion-investment-in-nigerian-power.html
General Electric Co. (GE)  Chairman
 Jeffrey Immelt  said the company will invest $1 billion in
 Nigeria  over the next five years by building a manufacturing
plant to support power generation and oil production.  “We are committed to playing our part in the sustainable
growth of the country and the positive impact this will have on
Nigeria and the continent of Africa as a whole,” Immelt said in
a statement handed to reporters today in Abuja during the
signing of the agreement with Trade and Investment Minister
Olusegun Aganga.  GE will invest $250 in capital expenditure “that will make
Nigeria a regional hub” in manufacturing and services. The
company will make products that would support power generation
and oil and gas exploration and production.  Africa ’s top oil producer and most populous country of more
than 160 million people is seeking increased investments in
power to meet demand that’s more than double the current output
of about 4,000 megawatts. The government has ended state
monopoly of power utilities and sold generation and distribution
companies to private investors.  The manufacturing plant will be based in the southeastern
city of Calabar in Cross River state, and additional investments
will be made in the company’s service workshops in the southern
oil hub of Port Harcourt and Onne port nearby.  More than $800 million of investments will go to sourcing of
goods, services and staff over the next five years. The investment 
is expected to create 2,300 jobs, “300 of which will be direct GE
hires and the remaining 2,000 indirect jobs created through GE
suppliers,” the company said in the statement.  GE will produce power turbines for domestic use and export,
Aganga told reporters after the signing ceremony.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maram Mazen in Abuja at 
 mmazen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  