-- German Unemployment Unexpectedly Declined in January
-- B y   S t e f a n   R i e c h e r
-- 2013-01-31T11:50:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/german-unemployment-unexpectedly-declined-in-january.html
German unemployment  unexpectedly
declined in January, adding to signs that a pick-up in  Europe ’s
largest economy is gathering pace.  The number of people out of work fell a seasonally adjusted
16,000 to 2.92 million, the Nuremberg-based Federal Labor Agency
said today. Economists predicted an increase of 8,000, the
median of 31 estimates in a  Bloomberg News survey  shows.
Joblessness declined by 2,000 in December instead of a
previously reported gain. The  adjusted jobless rate  dropped to
6.8 percent this month, matching a two-decade low.  The Bundesbank said last week that the economy appears to
be recovering from its fourth-quarter slump, when gross domestic
product may have dropped as much as 0.5 percent. Confidence
among entrepreneurs and investors rose more than economists
forecast in January and a gauge of activity in service
industries climbed to a 19-month high.  “The German labor market convinced with a distinct
robustness in the second half of last year and the beginning of
this year,” said Heinrich Bayer, an economist at Postbank
Research in Bonn. “No debt crisis, no economic weakness can
hurt it. But it’s too early to sound the all clear because the
labor market reacts with delay to economic developments.
Unemployment could still rise.”  European Markets  The euro traded at $1.3550 at 12:18 p.m. in  Frankfurt , down
0.1 percent today. European stocks fell for a second day, paring
their biggest monthly advance since July, as companies from
AstraZeneca Plc to Banco Santander SA reported earnings.  In the U.K., house prices rose in January as the Bank of
England’s credit-easing program helped loosen the mortgage
market, Nationwide Building Society said. The Swiss National
Bank’s holdings in AA grade bonds increased in the fourth
quarter, which may reflect downgrades to once top-rated nations
such as France.  In Spain, inflation slowed faster than economists predicted
in January, while the current-account surplus grew in November,
with foreign investment almost tripling as the euro region’s
debt crisis eased.  The Philippine and Taiwan economies grew more than forecast
last quarter, and  Singapore ’s jobless rate fell to a five-year
low, signaling an upswing at the end of 2012 that underscores
Asia’s role leading a global recovery. U.S. consumer spending
probably rose at a slower pace in December than in November,
according to a Bloomberg survey ahead of a report due today.  Adding Jobs  In  Germany , small- and medium-sized companies plan to add
employees this year even as most of them expect the economy to
stagnate, a poll of more than 3,000 businesses by the BVMW lobby
of medium-sized firms showed last month.  “The German labor market is in a good position,” said
Anatoli Annenkov, an economist at Societe Generale in  London .
“Wages are fairly robust and inflation is coming down. Real
income is growing and domestic demand may help the economy to
expand again in the first quarter of this year.”  SAP AG (SAP) , the biggest maker of business-management software,
forecast a gain in full-year earnings of as much as 12 percent
on Jan. 23 as the company adds Internet-based programs to
attract users.  While policy makers are still cautious to call an end to
the debt crisis that’s pushed the euro-area economy into
recession and forced five of its 17 members to seek bailouts,
they are starting to become more optimistic.  Under Control  “The fire is under control,” German Deputy Finance
Minister Steffen Kampeter told the  BBC  in a  radio interview 
broadcast this week. “But we have to take care it will not
start again.”  RWE AG (RWE) , Germany’s second-biggest utility, plans to counter
a “challenging” year by cutting investments by as much as 50
percent to offset losses from the phasing-out of nuclear power
in the country, Chief Executive Officer Peter Terium said on
Jan. 27.  German economic growth  slowed  to 0.7 percent in 2012 from 3
percent in 2011 and the Bundesbank predicts economic expansion
will decelerate further to 0.4 percent this year. That compares
to a contraction of 0.3 percent in the euro area, the country’s
biggest export market.  Foreign sales  dropped  2.5 percent in November amid weaker
demand from the currency bloc, where services and factory output
contracted for a 12th month in January.  France , the region’s second-largest economy, may succumb to
recession in the first quarter and the slump in Spain, where one
in four people is without a job, is deepening.  “The German labor market has lost a bit of its strength in
the past months,” said David Milleker, chief economist at Union
Investment GmbH in Frankfurt. “But it is now on its way to
recovery and I expect a further gain in employment later this
year.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Riecher in Frankfurt at 
 sriecher@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  