-- Germany, 6 More EU Nations Said to Hold Key to Carbon Fix
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 2013-01-31T12:07:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/germany-6-more-eu-nations-said-to-hold-key-to-carbon-glut-fix.html
Germany  and six other EU nations
hold the key to the decision on a rescue plan for the world’s
biggest carbon market after prices slumped due to record
oversupply, three EU officials with knowledge of the matter
said.  The EU proposal to help emission prices rebound from all-
time lows has more prospective supporters than opponents among
the EU’s 27 governments, according to the officials. It still
needs support from at least some of the seven nations to win
approval in a qualified-majority system with votes weighted by
each country’s size, they said.  Among the seven countries, Germany,  Portugal ,  Hungary  and
Malta are undecided, while  Greece , Cyprus and the Czech Republic
have voiced concerns about the draft measure, said the
officials, who asked not to be named, citing policy.  At stake is the fate of the 54 billion-euro ($73 billion)
EU emissions trading system after an excess of allowances caused
by the economic crisis pushed prices to a record low of 2.81
euros last week, down as much as 91 percent from an all-time
high in April 2006. The EU cap-and-trade program doesn’t allow
price floors or ceilings.  EU permits for delivery in December dropped as much as 7.1
percent today to 3.53 euros a metric ton and were trading at
3.56 euros as of 11:45 a.m. on  London ’s ICE Futures Europe
exchange.  Record Glut  The strategy to curb the record glut of permits also
depends on the European Parliament, whose approval is needed for
the first phase of the EU plan. In that stage, the assembly and
EU member states are due to vote on a change to the bloc’s
emissions trading law to enable postponing auctions of some
carbon permits. In the second step, governments would consider a
measure setting out the details of the delay, also known as
backloading.  “I remain quite skeptical about backloading,” said Matteo Mazzoni, a NE Nomisma Energia Srl analyst in Bologna,  Italy . “I
won’t be surprised to see another decline in prices when
traders’ and operators’ suspicions that the measure won’t get
the green light become reality.”  Germany,  Europe ’s biggest economy, doesn’t have an official
position whether to back the EU emergency plan, which pitted the
country’s environment and economy ministers against each other.
Portugal, Hungary and Malta also remain undecided whether to
support the European Commission’s proposal to postpone sales of
900 million allowances from 2013-2015 to 2019-2020, the
officials said.  Market Manipulation  Cyprus, the Czech Republic and Greece voiced concerns about
the measure, according to the officials. Should they decide to
vote against or abstain, they will join forces with  Poland ,
which already declared it will object to the  backloading . The
measure amounts to market manipulation, Poland’s Environment
Minister Marcin Korolec said last year.  To be enacted, the commission’s proposal needs a qualified
majority of 255 out of 345 votes from governments. A blocking
minority requires 91 votes.  Poland has 27 votes in the EU system, Cyprus four and the
 Czech Republic  and Greece 12 apiece, giving those nations a
total of 55. Germany has 29 votes and Malta three, while
Portugal and Hungary each have 12.  A majority of EU nations, including the U.K. and  Denmark ,
are more likely to eventually vote in favor of backloading,
according to the officials. Some of those governments signaled
conditional support or indicated they would prefer more
ambitious measures to strengthen the market, the officials said.  Finland and Slovakia, with seven votes each, said this week
that they will support the commission’s plan.  Spain , Italy,
 France  and  Belgium , which signaled last year that they are in
favor of backloading, have 97 votes together. The Netherlands,
whose parliament called on the nation’s government to back the
commission’s proposal, has 13 votes. Lithuania, which said last
month that in principle it has nothing against the plan, has
seven votes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at   lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  