-- Germany’s Harmonized Inflation Rate Unexpectedly Fell in January
-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 2013-01-31T13:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/germany-s-harmonized-inflation-rate-unexpectedly-fell-in-january.html
German inflation unexpectedly slowed
in January.  The inflation rate in  Europe ’s largest economy, calculated
using a harmonized European Union method, fell to 1.9 percent
from 2 percent in December, the Federal Statistics Office in
Wiesbaden said today. Economists had predicted inflation to
remain unchanged, according to the median of 20 forecasts in a
Bloomberg News  survey . Price dropped 0.7 percent on the month.  The government scrapped a 10-euro ($13.56) co-payment for
doctors’ visits, reducing consumers’ health-care costs at the
beginning of the year. At the same time,  oil prices  rose 6
percent this month and electricity prices surged after Germany’s
power grid operators boosted the surcharge consumers pay for
funding renewable energy to a record.  “German inflation will hover around 2 percent in the
coming month before climbing again in the second half of the
year as broad-based price increases loom,” said Ulrike Rondorf,
an economist at Commerzbank AG in Frankfurt. “While signs are
increasing that Germany could use higher  interest rates  in the
course of 2013,” the  European Central Bank  “won’t be able to
react.”  The 17-nation euro area is fighting its second recession in
four years as governments from  Greece  to Spain cut spending to
rein in excessive deficits. The ECB predicts the region’s
economy will contract 0.3 percent this year, with inflation
averaging 1.6 percent. That’s below the ECB’s 2 percent limit.  Euro-area inflation probably remained unchanged in January
at 2.2 percent, according to separate survey. Eurostat, the EU’s
statistics office, will publish that report tomorrow.  In Germany, non-harmonized inflation slowed to 1.7 percent
from 2.1 percent, with prices declining 0.5 percent from
December.  German states, which usually report inflation data before
national figures are published, didn’t release numbers today
because of a base-year change in the data series.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jana Randow in  Frankfurt  at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  