-- MGM Studio Secures $650 Million for Films, Web Projects
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e
-- 2013-02-01T00:07:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/mgm-studio-said-to-raise-650-million-in-loans-for-production.html
Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer Inc. (MGMB) , maker of
the “James Bond” pictures, is close to securing $650 million
in loans to fund movie production and digital ventures, three
people with knowledge of the arrangements said.  The refinancing, led by  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , may close by
tomorrow and replaces a $500 million facility lined up in
February 2012, according to the people, who requested anonymity
because details haven’t been made public.  Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer, which emerged from bankruptcy in late
2010, is moving ahead with productions, including sequels to the
“The Hobbit” with  Time Warner Inc. (TWX) ’s New Line Cinema, and new
Bond films. The new financing lowers the studio’s interest cost
and increases the cash available for new projects.  “The fact that they’ve increased their funding is a solid
vote of confidence in MGM’s management and their business plan
and execution,” said Lindsay Conner, a media attorney at
Manatt, Phelps & Phillips, who had no role in the MGM deal.
“They’ve come a long way from a couple of years ago.”  The revolving credit facility includes $600 million
syndicated to eight to 10 banks and $50 million from about a
half-dozen institutions that invested smaller sums, the people
said. The publication Variety reported on the loan arrangements
earlier today.  IPO Filing  MGM said in July that it filed a confidential registration
for an initial public offering. The company, led by Chief
Executive Officer Gary Barber, is owned by private-equity
investors including Anchorage Capital Group LLC, the largest
holder, Highland Capital Management LP and Solus Alternative
Asset Management LP.  MGM found box-office success last year with the new Bond
adventure “Skyfall,” which has generated $1.08 billion in
global box-office sales, according to Box Office Mojo, an
industry researcher.  “The Hobbit: An Unexpected Journey,” based on the novel
by J.R.R. Tolkien, has taken in $940 million, according to Box
Office Mojo. The studio also had the surprise hit “21 Jump
Street,” a comedy made for $42 million that took in $201.6
million worldwide, according to the film researcher.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael White in Los Angeles at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  