-- Gold Falls Most in Four Weeks on Signs of Tame Inflation
-- B y   J o e   R i c h t e r
-- 2013-01-31T20:15:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/gold-erases-gains-in-london-as-metal-seen-subject-to-selling.html
Gold futures posted the biggest drop
in almost four weeks as U.S. inflation concerns waned, eroding
demand for the metal as a hedge against rising consumer prices.  A government report today showed an index of inflation tied
to spending patterns was unchanged in December from November.
Excluding food and energy costs, prices climbed 1.4 percent in
2012, compared with a 1.9 percent increase in the previous year.
Inflation “has been running somewhat below the committee’s
longer-run objective, apart from temporary variations that
largely reflect fluctuations in energy prices,” the  Federal
Open Market Committee  said yesterday.  “Deflation is probably a greater risk now than inflation,
and the concern is that the deflationary forces may be more than
central banks can handle,”  Frank McGhee , the head dealer at
Integrated Brokerage Services LLC in  Chicago , said in a
telephone interview. “Every time gold rallies, those
deflationary forces keep batting it down.”  Gold futures for April delivery dropped 1.2 percent to
settle at $1,662 an ounce at 1:43 p.m. on the Comex in  New York ,
the biggest decline for a most-active contract since Jan. 4.
This month, the price dropped 0.8 percent, the fourth straight
decline and the longest slump since May.  The  Federal Reserve  said yesterday that it will keep buying
securities at a rate of $85 billion a month.  Silver futures for March delivery dropped 2.6 percent to
$31.351 an ounce on the Comex, the biggest loss since Dec. 20.
The price climbed 3.7 percent this month.  On the  New York Mercantile Exchange , platinum futures for
April delivery declined 0.8 percent to $1,675.40 an ounce on the
Nymex. This month, the price gained 8.6 percent, the most in a
year.  Palladium futures for March delivery fell 0.8 percent to
$745.70 an ounce on the Nymex. The price climbed 6 percent this
month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Richter in New York at 
 jrichter1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  