-- Goodyear to Cut 39% of French Workforce in Plant Closing
-- B y   M a t h i e u   R o s e m a i n
-- 2013-01-31T11:38:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/goodyear-to-cut-39-of-french-workforce-in-plant-closing.html
Goodyear Tire & Rubber Co. (GT) , the
largest U.S. tiremaker, will close its main French plant and cut
its workforce in the country by 39 percent amid labor disputes
and plunging auto demand in  Europe .  The factory in Amiens in the north of  France  will be
shuttered, with the loss of 1,173 jobs, the company said in a
statement today. Goodyear currently employs about 3,000 people
across the country, Mathilde Davadant, a spokeswoman, said by
phone. There’s no set date for the plant closing, she said.  “We are deeply disappointed that the five past years of
negotiations haven’t allowed us to reach a compromise with the
employees’ representatives,” Henry Dumortier, head of
Goodyear’s French unit, said in a written statement. “Today’s
announcement is the only remaining option that we have.”  The economic contraction in Europe stemming from the
sovereign-debt crisis has caused car and truck sales to plummet
to nearly a 20-year low.  Ford Motor Co. (F)  has widened its estimate
for losses in the region, and Italian carmaker  Fiat SpA (F)  scrapped
its 2012 dividend yesterday to preserve cash after forecasting
the auto-market slump will continue this year.  Strategy changes that Akron, Ohio-based Goodyear has sought
to carry out at the Amiens-Nord plant in response to the global
recession in 2008 have been stymied by disagreements with labor
leaders.  Titan International Inc. (TWI)  decided in December 2011 to
drop a two-year-old plan to buy the factory’s farm-tire
operations, citing union opposition.  Closing Costs  The French plant cost Goodyear 61 million euros ($83
million) last year in losses, according to the statement.  The tiremaker will record a fourth-quarter charge of $74
million for the closing, which will cost in total at least $230
million, the company said in a U.S. filing today. The shutdown
will improve operating profit by $75 million in Europe following
its completion, Goodyear said.  Europe’s car market is forecast to drop to 12.3 million
vehicles this year, 23 percent below the pre-crisis peak, IHS
Automotive estimates. Carmakers across the region have announced
30,000 job cuts since the beginning of July in response to the
prolonged slump.  General Motors Co. (GM) , seeing  Germany  at risk of slipping into
recession, said last week that its Opel brand may shutter a
factory in that country two years earlier than planned as the
European auto market sinks for a sixth straight year. The
factory employs 3,100 workers. Ford is slashing 6,200 positions
and closing three plants in the region.  Peugeot plans to shrink its French automotive operations by
11,200 positions over the next two years. The automaker is also
closing a factory in Aulnay on the outskirts of Paris, selling
assets and building a strategic alliance with GM.  Renault SA (RNO) , the automaker whose sales in Europe dropped the
most in 2012, said on Jan. 15 it would cut 17 percent of its
French workforce, or 7,500 positions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathieu Rosemain in Paris at 
 mrosemain@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  