-- Google Faces Midnight Deadline for EU Antitrust Settlement Offer
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 2013-01-31T18:32:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/google-faces-midnight-deadline-for-eu-antitrust-settlement-offer.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  faces an informal
midnight deadline to submit a settlement offer to European Union
regulators in Brussels in a bid to avert possible fines for
discriminating against rivals.  The world’s biggest search engine company and the European
Commission both declined to confirm a report by regulatory  news
agency  MLex that said earlier today an offer was made, without
citing any sources or giving any details.  EU Competition Commissioner  Joaquin Almunia  has asked
Google to submit concessions in January. He first told the
company in May that he wanted it to settle the case. He said
yesterday that Google hadn’t yet made a final offer and he could
“imagine that the proposals are flying” to the antitrust
agency’s offices before the end of the month.  Antoine Colombani, a spokesman for the EU, declined to
comment on the matter earlier today, beyond saying that that
there is no legally binding deadline for the commission to
conclude its case. He didn’t respond to further calls and e-
mails seeking comment on a possible offer.  Almunia has urged the company to address four points,
including allegations that the company promotes its own
specialist search services, copies rivals’ travel and restaurant
reviews, and has agreements with websites and software
developers that stifle competition in the advertising industry.  Al Verney, a spokesman for Google, declined to comment on
whether an offer had been filed. He said the company continues
to work cooperatively with EU regulators.  While Almunia has said settlement talks can’t last
indefinitely, he hasn’t said what would happen if Google missed
the January target for making a settlement offer.  Google, based in  Mountain View ,  California , is “pursuing a
potential resolution that would avoid a finding of infringement
and a fine,” the company said in a regulatory filing earlier
this week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 