-- Great Portland Property Values Rise on Scarce Developments
-- B y   D a l i a   F a h m y   a n d   N e i l   C a l l a n a n
-- 2013-01-31T09:49:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/great-portland-property-values-rise-on-scarcity-of-developments.html
Great Portland Estates Plc (GPOR) , the
developer focused on London’s West End, said the value of its
real estate rose 1.4 percent excluding acquisitions and
disposals in the third quarter as demand increased for retail
assets and the company added developments.  The value climbed to 2.19 billion pounds ($3.46 billion) at
the end of last year, a gain of 26.5 million pounds from Sept.
30, the London-based company said today in a statement. Net
asset value rose 1.4 percent to 430 pence a share.  Overseas buyers including Asian pension funds are driving
increased demand for assets in London, supporting prices, broker
 Jones Lang LaSalle Inc. (JLL)  said last month. The value of Great
Portland’s development sites is being boosted by a lack of
competing projects as finance for new building remains scarce in
the U.K., the company said.  “Conditions in  London ’s commercial property markets remain
supportive,” Chief Executive Officer Toby Courtauld said in the
statement. “The demand for well laid out retail and office
space in good locations is attracting healthy levels of tenant
demand.”  Great Portland shares  rose 1 percent to 478 pence at 10:30
a.m. in London trading. The stock has gained 33 percent in the
past 12 months, compared to a 15 percent increase on the  FTSE
EPRA/NAREIT Developed Europe Index. (EPRA)   The value of Great Portland’s developments increased by 2.6
percent during the quarter. They include Hanover Square, an
office and retail project in the Mayfair neighborhood.  Crescent Sale  The company is in talks to sell Park Crescent West, an
office and residential property jointly owned by  Capital &
Counties Plc. (CAPC)  If a sale doesn’t take place within six months,
Great Portland may consider partially converting it into homes,
Courtauld said in a telephone interview.  In October, a person with knowledge of the matter said the
owners will seek more than 100 million pounds for the property.  Interest in residential conversions is accelerating in
London’s West End, Courtauld said. To better deal with the
demand for housing, the government may have to review its
conversion policies in the medium term, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Neil Callanan in London at 
 ncallanan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 