-- Gross Says Credit-Based Markets Running Out of Energy
-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2013-01-31T13:14:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/gross-says-credit-based-financial-markets-running-out-of-energy.html
Bill Gross , manager of the world’s
biggest bond fund, said investors are increasingly at risk as
global financial markets run out of energy and time.  “The countdown begins when investable assets pose too much
risk for too little return,” Gross wrote in his monthly
investment outlook posted on Newport Beach, California-based
Pacific Investment Management Co.’s website today.  The record monetary  stimulus  of the  Federal Reserve ,
triggering near-zero interest rates, has crippled savers and
prior business models that were based on a positive real return,
he said. Real growth of the economy has suffered in the process
as net interest margins at banks fall, insurance companies
struggle to make returns and pension funds are increasingly
underfunded.  Investors should position for eventual inflation as the
“end stage of a supernova credit explosion” is likely to
produce more inflation than growth by holding Treasury Inflation
Protected Securities, Gross wrote. “Get used to slower real
growth; QE and zero-based  interest rates  have negative
consequences. Move money to currencies and asset markets in
countries with less debt and less hyperbolic credit systems”
such as Australia, Brazil,  Mexico  and  Canada .  Following the end of it two-day rate-setting meeting
yesterday, the  Federal Open Market Committee  kept its debt
purchasing, in its latest quantitative easing program, at the
rate of $85 billion a month. The Fed is purchasing $40 billion a
month of mortgage bonds and $45 billion a month of Treasuries.
The Fed has held its target rate in a range of zero to 0.25
percent since December 2008.  Inflation Expectations  Inflation for the 12 months ending in November was 1.4
percent, according to the Fed’s preferred gauge. That’s below
the central bank’s longer-run target of 2 percent. Investors
expect inflation of 2.3 percent over the next five years, as
measured by the  spread  between yields of five-year TIPS and
nominal notes.  Gross recommended five-year  Treasury securities  after
minutes of the Fed’s Dec. 11-12 meeting showed several members
of the FOMC said it would probably be appropriate to slow or
stop purchases well before the end of 2013. The Fed is in its
third round of bond purchases under the quantitative-easing
stimulus strategy.  Gross raised the percentage of Treasuries held in his
flagship $285 billion  Total Return Fund (PTTRX)  to 26 percent in
December, the highest level since July, according to the latest
available fund data on Pimco’s  website .  Fund Performance  “Transition from financial to real assets if possible at
the margin,” Gross wrote in the note today. “Buy something you
can sink your teeth into - gold, other commodities, anything
that can’t be reproduced as fast as credit.”  The Total Return Fund kept its holdings of non-U.S. 
developed nations’ debt at 12 percent last month. Gross cut
the fund’s emerging-market debt to 7 percent, from 8 percent.  The fund gained 10.4 percent in 2012, beating 95 percent of
its peers, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The fund is
down 0.28 percent in January.  Pimco, a unit of the Munich-based insurer  Allianz SE ,
managed $1.92 trillion in  assets  as of Sept. 30.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liz Capo McCormick in  New York  at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  