-- IBM Lands McDonald’s as Customer for Its Social Software
-- B y   S a r a h   F r i e r
-- 2013-01-31T21:47:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/ibm-lands-mcdonald-s-as-customer-for-its-social-software.html
International Business Machines
Corp. (IBM)  signed on  McDonald’s Corp. (MCD) ’s South Africa division as a
customer for its business-focused social-networking software,
landing the highest-profile client yet for the product.  McDonald’s will have 8,000 employees in South Africa using
the Connections software, IBM said today in a statement. The
product is part of an effort to create internal networks for
companies, letting employees use Facebook-style tools to
communicate, sign off on documents and report expenses.  IBM aims to build on the McDonald’s contract by winning
deals with other retail and food-services business. After years
of sluggish revenue, the world’s biggest computer-services
provider sees social-networking software as a source of growth.
The company declined to give financial terms for the contract
with McDonald’s, the largest fast-food chain by sales.  “It’s really going to attract more companies,” said Sandy
Carter, vice president of social-business strategy for Armonk,
New York-based IBM. “McDonald’s South Africa also demonstrates
that the power of social has moved beyond major markets into the
emerging opportunity.”  After a $1.3 billion acquisition of Kenexa Corp.’s human-
resources software last year -- along with several data-analysis
companies -- IBM is betting its social software can compete with
offerings from  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , Salesforce.com Inc. and Jive
Software Inc. By making it easier for employees to access and
share data, social-networking services will help IBM make $16
billion from business analytics by 2015, the company has said.  IBM shares fell less than 1 percent to $203.07 at the close
today in New York. The stock gained 4.2 percent last year,
compared with a 13 percent gain for the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Frier in New York at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  