-- Libor Banks Should Consider Global Deal With Victims
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-01-31T16:12:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/libor-banks-should-consider-global-deal-with-victims.html
The more we learn about the
manipulation of the  London  interbank offered rate, the more
expensive the scandal becomes for the financial institutions
involved. If banks want to control the damage, they would do
well to come clean sooner rather than later about the full
extent and effect of their misbehavior.  Recent revelations about misdeeds at Barclays Plc, Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc and UBS AG -- only three of more than
a dozen banks under investigation -- are enough to keep lawyers
and courts busy for years. In thousands of incidents throughout
much of the 2000s, traders sought to manipulate Libor and other
benchmark  interest rates  that influenced the value of hundreds
of trillions of dollars in loans, bonds and derivatives. Judging
from the traders’ communications, they often succeeded and
profited handsomely. What’s more, the culture of deception was
sometimes institutional. During the 2008 financial crisis, banks
misrepresented their borrowing costs to make themselves look
healthier than they were -- behavior that would have skewed
payments on Libor-linked financial contracts worldwide.  While we can expect government settlements with the banks
to be costly, it’s safe to assume that the ensuing civil
litigation will be more expensive still. If, for example,
payments on $300 trillion in financial contracts were off by
only 0.1 percentage point for a year, plaintiffs could
potentially demand compensation for $300 billion in losses.
That’s the equivalent of more than four years’ net income for
the 16 banks involved in setting Libor in 2008.  Triple Damages  As Bloomberg Markets reports in its latest issue, the
lawsuits are piling up. At least 30 cases are pending in federal
court in  New York , many claiming triple damages under antitrust
and other statutes. In London, lawyers are suggesting that the
level of manipulation was so great that contracts tied to Libor
should be considered null and void, forcing banks to return any
related payments. Such a “nuclear option” could severely damage
the legal foundation required for the broader financial markets
to function.  How bad it gets depends largely on the banks. Intransigence
and obfuscation would serve mainly to delay the reckoning and
increase everyone’s legal bills. Alternatively, the banks could
try to head off the litigation before it gets out of hand,
taking an approach similar to that of oil giant BP Plc after the
2010 Deepwater Horizon disaster. This would entail releasing all
available information on the banks’ actual borrowing
transactions and making a best-possible estimate of how much
Libor was off. It would also require all the banks involved to
contribute to a joint fund and set up a mechanism to compensate
victims willing to settle out of court.  Deutsche Bank AG co-Chief Executive Anshu Jain said Jan. 31
that CEOs of the institutions involved in the Libor scandal had
discussed the possibility of a global settlement at the  World
Economic Forum  in Davos. Although it wasn’t clear exactly what
he had in mind, the talks suggest that the banks are capable of
the necessary level of coordination.  A well-executed compensation fund would have the added
advantage of demonstrating that the banks want to make a clean
break with the sordid past and that they care how their behavior
affects their customers. The question, then, is whether they
really do.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 