-- Iceland Still Sees Limited Refinancing Options After Icesave Win
-- B y   O m a r   R .   V a l d i m a r s s o n
-- 2013-01-31T12:12:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/iceland-still-sees-limited-refinancing-options-after-icesave-win.html
Iceland’s access to refinancing its
bonds remains limited even after the island won a legal victory
defending its treatment of foreign depositors, said Gudmundur
Arnason, the permanent secretary at the  Finance Ministry .  “At the moment we haven’t scheduled to refinance any
debt,” Arnason said today in a telephone interview from
Reykjavik. “The possibilities we have in regards to refinancing
our current debts are limited.”  The European Free Trade Association Court in Luxembourg on
Monday dismissed a case brought by its Surveillance Authority
alleging that Iceland breached European Economic Area laws by
refusing to cover U.K. and Dutch deposits in failed Landsbanki
Islands hf. Losing the case could have exposed the north
Atlantic island to damages as high as 335 billion kronur ($2.6
billion), or 20 percent of gross domestic product.  “This will improve our credit rating and judging by our
conversations with the  credit rating  companies, there’s no doubt
that this strengthens our position,” Arnason said. “However,
the Treasury doesn’t have any immediate financing needs, quite
the contrary. This puts us in a comfortable position to evaluate
when we should re-enter the markets.”  Iceland has tapped international investors twice since
2008, when its economy collapsed following the failure of three
of its largest lenders. The country also completed a 33-month
 International Monetary Fund  program in 2011.  The island sold a $1 billion 10-year bond in May 2011 and a
$1 billion five-year note in June 2011.  Iceland imposed  capital controls  in 2008 after the currency
plunged 80 percent against the euro offshore.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Omar R. Valdimarsson in Reykjavik 
 valdimarsson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net . 