-- ICICI Third-Quarter Profit Jumps to Record, Beats Estimates
-- B y   A n t o   A n t o n y
-- 2013-01-31T11:16:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/icici-bank-third-quarter-profit-jumps-to-record-beats-estimates.html
ICICI Bank Ltd. (ICICIBC) ,  India ’s second-
largest lender by assets, posted a record profit for the third
quarter, beating analysts’ estimates, as its bad-debt ratio
narrowed and lending margins widened.  Net income  climbed 30 percent to 22.5 billion rupees ($422
million), or 19.42 rupees a share, for the three months ended
Dec. 31, from 17.3 billion rupees, or 14.96 rupees, a year
earlier, the Mumbai-based lender said in an exchange filing
today. That surpassed the 20.8 billion rupee median of analysts’
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  The higher-than-estimated earnings may fuel Chief Executive
Officer  Chanda Kochhar ’s efforts to boost retail lending as
India’s central bank eases  reserve requirements  to spur demand
for credit and bolster economic growth. ICICI is targeting a 20
percent expansion of its loan book for the year.  “ICICI is back on the growth track,” Vishal Narnolia, a
Mumbai-based banking analyst at SMC  Global Securities Ltd. (GLBS) , said
by phone. “ The improvement in margins and fall in bad loans
will give more confidence to investors.”  Shares of ICICI  dropped 1.8 percent to 1,191.15 rupees by
the close of trading in Mumbai, while the BSE India Sensitive
Index slid 0.6 percent.  Net interest margin, a measure of lending profitability,
widened 37 basis points to 3.07 percent from a year earlier, the
bank said. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  Wider Margins  The bank plans to increase foreign-currency loans using
funds raised from bond sales during the quarter to improve the
net interest margins, Kochhar told reporters on a conference
call after the earnings were announced.  The bank’s statutory liquidity holding is also
“significantly higher” than the 23 percent required by the
central bank, which gives the bank room to lend more and boost
margins, she said.  ICICI’s net soured debt narrowed to 0.76 percent of the
bank’s outstanding loans by the end of December, from 0.83
percent a year earlier, the  filing  shows.  The bank’s total outstanding loans increased by 16 percent
from a year earlier to 2.87 trillion rupees at the end of
December. Bank loans in India, excluding advances made to state
agencies for food procurement, expanded 15.1 percent in the 12
months to Dec. 28, central bank  data  show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anto Antony in Mumbai at 
 aantony1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  