-- IEA Says Too Early to Revise Iranian Crude Oil Export Estimate
-- B y   S t e p h e n   V o s s   a n d   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2013-01-31T16:11:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/iea-says-too-early-to-revise-iranian-crude-oil-export-estimate.html
The  International Energy Agency  said
it was too early to revise its estimate for Iranian oil exports
amid speculation that the Persian Gulf nation boosted shipments
in December.  Iran’s crude shipments were 1.2 million barrels a day, the
Paris-based agency said in a Jan. 18 report, an estimate it
won’t be revising until next month, Diane Munro, a supply
analyst at the IEA, said in a phone interview today. That’s down
from 1.45 million in November. Reuters reported earlier today
that Iranian exports rose to 1.4 million barrels a day last
month, the highest level since European sanctions began, citing
data it compiled from analysts and shipping and customs data.  “With exports close to 1.5 million barrels a day and  Brent
crude  above $110 a barrel Iran does not really care anymore
about the sanctions,”  Olivier Jakob , managing director of
consultants Petromatrix GmbH in Zug,  Switzerland , said in a
report today. “The export revenues from Iran are now equivalent
to exporting at full capacity in a market at $81 and that is far
from pushing Iran in a corner.”  Oil sales from OPEC-member Iran tumbled last year as many
nations halted or reduced imports because of sanctions imposed
by the European Union. The embargo, which took full effect in
July, punishes the Islamic republic for its alleged efforts to
develop nuclear weapons, a charge Iran denies.  The Paris-based IEA measures imports from Iran, rather than
exports leaving the country. It estimated in August that imports
of Iranian crude tumbled to about 1 million barrels a day in
July, from 1.74 million in June.  June Levels  Even if shipments recover to levels reached in June, they’d
still fall short of the country’s all time record, considering
that  Iran ’s production rate ran as high as about 6 million
barrels a day in 1974, compared with 2.66 million barrels a day
in December, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. In the 10
years ended 2010 output averaged 3.8 million.  Iran shipped 1.88 million barrels of crude a day in May,
which was the lowest since April 2002, according to the Joint
Organizations Data Initiative. The country hasn’t submitted
export data to the Riyadh-based organization since then.  Shipments probably averaged 1.4 million barrels a day in
December, according to Jakob at Petromatrix.  A new phase of U.S. sanctions on Iran take effect on Feb. 6
which threaten to exclude importing countries from the U.S.
banking system should they send hard currency to Iran in payment
for oil. Instead, they must hold payment in local currency
escrow accounts, for Iran to purchase goods from within that
nation. Iran will become more concerned about repatriation of
revenue once the restrictions take effect, Jakob said.  The IEA publishes its next monthly report on Feb. 13.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Voss in London at 
 sev@bloomberg.net ;
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  