-- High Winds Delay New York-Bound Flights
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2013-01-31T15:28:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/high-winds-delay-new-york-bound-flights.html
High winds that delayed flights to
 LaGuardia Airport  by more than an hour will persist in  New York 
City today.  Wind gusts as intense as 50 miles (80 kilometers) per hour
are possible throughout the day as a cold front approaches and
then crosses the city, said Joey Picca, a  National Weather
Service  meteorologist in Upton, New York.  “Especially as we get later in the day and the cold front
passes through, we will see those winds go back up,” Picca said
by telephone. “In the next few hours, by mid- to late morning,
it should be pushing through the city.”  The front touched off tornadoes yesterday that killed at
least one man and injured 22 others in  Georgia , and downed
trees, damaged buildings and knocked out power from  Alabama  to
Pennsylvania, according to the U.S.  Storm Prediction Center  in
Norman,  Oklahoma .  A high wind warning has been posted for much of New York,
as well as the six-state New England region, according to the
weather service. Temperatures are expected to fall throughout
the day in the Northeast.  There probably won’t be a repeat of severe weather today,
according to the storm center.  The system also contributed to the cancellation of 869
flights around the U.S. yesterday, according to FlightAware, a
Houston-based airline tracking company. Airports in
Philadelphia, New York and Chicago had the most problems.  Flight Delays  Today’s winds have caused delays of 1 hour and 9 minutes
for flights arriving at LaGuardia as of 9:30 a.m., down from 3
hours and 19 minutes earlier, according to the  Federal Aviation
Administration  website. In addition, 257 U.S. flights have been
canceled, with LaGuardia and Newark’s Liberty International
Airport topping the list.  The system’s high winds have also caused power outages to
more than 336,000 homes and businesses from  South Carolina  to
 Maine  as of about 9:15 a.m., according to data compiled by
Bloomberg from electric utility websites and spokesmen.  Connecticut , with 81,341 customers, about 5 percent,
appeared worst hit, according to utilities Connecticut Light &
Power and United Illuminating.  Temperatures will fall along the East Coast as the front
passes, Picca said. It was 54 degrees Fahrenheit (12 Celsius) in
Central Park earlier today and tomorrow’s high should be 34.  Boston’s high was 58 today and lows will reach 26 tonight.
Philadelphia’s temperature peaked at 50 earlier today and is
expected to reach 29 tonight.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  