-- High Winds Spread Air Travel Delays Throughout the Northeast
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2013-01-31T21:37:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/high-winds-spread-air-travel-delays-throughout-the-northeast.html
Air travel woes have spread
throughout the U.S. Northeast as gusting winds have delayed
travelers from Baltimore to  New York .  Winds have been gusting at 40 to 45 miles (64 to 72
kilometers) per hour this afternoon in New York, where a wind
advisory is in effect until 6 p.m., according to the  National
Weather Service  in Upton, New York.  “It is going to remain breezy right on through the
overnight period,” said  David Stark , a weather service
meteorologist.  Air traffic delays of more than two and a half hours have
been reported at Newark’s Liberty International Airport and more
than 90 minutes at LaGuardia and John F. Kennedy airports in New
York, according to the  Federal Aviation Administration’s 
website. At least 408 flights in the U.S. have been canceled
today, LaGuardia and Newark topping the list, according to
FlightAware, an airline tracking company in Houston. Additional
delays have been reported in Baltimore.  Stark said wind intensity will drop into the 30-to-35-mph
range this evening and possibly persist through the day
tomorrow. By tomorrow night, they will probably have died down.  The gusts are part of a passing cold front that touched off
tornadoes yesterday, killing at least one man and injuring 22
others in Georgia, and downing trees, damaging buildings and
knocking out power from  Alabama  to Pennsylvania, according to
the U.S.  Storm Prediction Center  in Norman,  Oklahoma .  Flight Cancellations  The system also contributed to the cancellation of 869
flights around the U.S. yesterday, according to FlightAware.
Airports in Philadelphia, New York and  Chicago  had the most
problems.  The system also caused power outages earlier today to more
than 336,000 homes and businesses from  South Carolina  to  Maine ,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg from electric utility
websites and spokesmen.  Connecticut , with 81,341 customers, about 5 percent,
appeared worst hit, according to utilities Connecticut Light &
Power and United Illuminating.  The front will also cause temperatures to drop along the
East Coast, Stark said.  In New York, temperatures will fall to the mid-30s tomorrow
and “struggle to get to freezing” the day after, he said.  Boston’s high was 58 today and lows will reach 26 tonight.
Philadelphia’s temperature peaked at 50 earlier today and is
expected to reach 29 tonight.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  