-- IMF Board Says GDP Should Remain Key Variable in Quota Formula
-- B y   S h a r o n   C h e n
-- 2013-01-31T08:58:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/imf-board-says-gdp-should-remain-key-variable-in-quota-formula.html
The Executive Board of the
International Monetary Fund agreed gross domestic product should
remain the most important variable in calculating quota shares,
which determine a nation’s strength within the lender.  “Considerable support” was given to increasing the weight
relative to GDP, while others preferred to keep the current
allocation or maintain it comparative to a nation’s openness, it
said in a  report  submitted to the lender’s board of governors
yesterday. The quotas determine how much member countries may
borrow and their voting power.  The IMF failed to agree at its annual meeting in  Tokyo  in
October on changes to voting that would give emerging nations
greater clout at the institution. Countries such as  China  and
South Korea want the voting formula to better reflect the size
of their economies and contributions to the fund’s resources.  “GDP is generally seen as the most comprehensive measure
of economic size,” the Executive Board said. “It was agreed
that openness should continue to play an important role in the
formula, and concerns regarding this variable need to be
thoroughly examined and addressed. Openness seeks to capture
members’ integration into the world economy.”  Members agreed in 2010 to grant more voting rights to
developing economies, setting up China to become third-strongest
member, from sixth place currently. Countries such as South
Korea and  Turkey  would also gain power under the deal, while
nations such as Belgium and  Germany  lose clout. The U.S. voting
share, while decreasing, will remain the largest. The agreement
is still pending approval by the U.S. Congress and others.  The aggregate calculated quota share of  emerging markets 
and developing countries increased by 7.7 percentage points in
the five-year period since 2005, the data used for its reform in
2008, the report said.  “Some saw this shift as providing evidence that the current
formula adequately captures dynamic developments in the world
economy and is not in need of radical reform,” according to the
report. “Others considered that the formula remains seriously
flawed, producing results that do not adequately reflect members’
relative positions in the global economy, including the
increased importance of emerging market and developing
countries.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sharon Chen in Singapore at 
 schen462@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  