-- Obama Allowing Immelt-Led Advisory Council on Jobs to Expire
-- B y   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n
-- 2013-01-31T19:00:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/immelt-led-advisory-council-on-jobs-allowed-by-obama-to-expire.html
President  Barack Obama  won’t renew
the charter of an advisory council on jobs that he formed two
years ago with  General Electric Co. (GE)  Chief Executive Officer
Jeffrey Immelt as its chairman.  The 27-member President’s Council on Jobs and
Competitiveness was part of the administration’s business
outreach at a time when the country was dealing with the longest
stretch of  unemployment rates  above 9 percent since monthly
records began in 1948.  The panel “was always intended to have a two-year
charter,” White House press secretary Jay Carney said. No
replacement has been announced.  Obama is planning to follow up by working with businesses
and groups outside the White House to make progress on some of
the council’s specific recommendations, including setting
priorities for infrastructure projects, reducing government debt
and reworking the U.S. tax code, Carney said.  The president also is consulting with company executives on
specific issues, including a call yesterday with “over a
dozen” business leaders about revamping U.S. immigration law,
Carney said.  The call included the chief executives of Deloitte LLP,
General Motors Co., and Motorola Solutions Inc., along with
representatives from  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ,  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) , and
the banking and financial services industry, according to a
participant.  Regaining Jobs  The U.S. is struggling to replace the jobs lost during the
recession. The unemployment rate was 7.8 percent last month,
unchanged from the rate in September. Claims for unemployment
benefits increased more than forecast last week, to 368,000, the
Labor Department reported today.  Obama’s Republican critics said the president hasn’t heeded
advice on what’s needed to bring down the jobless rate.  “Whether ignoring the group or rejecting its
recommendations, the president treated his Jobs Council as more
of a nuisance than a vehicle to spur job creation,”  Brendan
Buck , a spokesman for House Speaker John Boehner of  Ohio , said
in an e-mail.  Obama named the council in February 2011. Along with
Immelt, the council included: Steve Case, Revolution LLC CEO and
AOL Inc. co-founder; Ursula Burns, chairman and CEO of  Xerox
Corp. (XRX) ; Sheryl Sandberg, chief operating officer of Facebook
Inc.; Jim McNerney, CEO of  Boeing Co. (BA) ; and Richard Parsons,
former chairman of Citigroup Inc.  Council Mission  Its mission was to offer “non-partisan advice” on how to
strengthen the U.S. economy and ensure competitiveness while
creating “jobs, opportunity and prosperity for the American
people,” according to the executive order that created the
panel.  In a statement today, Immelt said the panel was unified by
the mission of fostering job creation and economic growth.  “Progress has been made on 90 percent of our
recommendations -- infrastructure projects have been fast-
tracked, regulations are being reviewed and evaluated, and the
process time at the Patent and Trademark Office has been
accelerated,” Immelt said. “I am proud of what has been
accomplished and hopeful for America’s future.”  The council replaced the President’s Economic Recovery
Advisory Board, headed by former Federal Reserve Chairman Paul Volcker.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Julianna Goldman  in Washington at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  