-- In Davos or in Combat, Give Women What They Earn
-- B y   A m i t y   S h l a e s
-- 2013-01-31T01:45:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/in-davos-or-in-combat-give-women-what-they-earn.html
Get them up front, yesterday. That
will be the policy of the U.S. Defense Department in coming
months after Secretary  Leon Panetta  reversed a ban on women in
combat.  It’s also the position of those impatient with the pace at
which women have been gaining top positions in the corporate
field or government. At the  World Economic Forum ’s annual
 meeting  in Davos,  Switzerland , a big  theme  was that the
appearance by women there has never exceeded 20 percent.  Discrimination against women is the  explanation  often
offered, whether we are discussing formal rules, such as the ban
on  women in combat , or informal decisions, as in cases of
corporate promotion or the allocation of Cabinet-level posts.
Perhaps there is another reason women have sometimes been absent
up to now in such places. That reason has to do with the
difference between opportunity and entitlement.  Start with the frontline jobs, and what an army in a war
can handle. The  truth  is that a general at war doesn’t have much
time to think about these sensitive personnel policies. His mind
is on victory. He, and for that matter his soldier, will accept
just about anyone, man or woman, who can yield that military
result.  An anecdote from the early 1990s, a time when the U.S. was
not at war, reminds us of this. Then, the debate was about gays
in the military. President  Bill Clinton  was being roasted for
his “don’t ask, don’t tell” rule.  Combat Questions  It happened during a U.S. visit by a leader with greater
security concerns than ours: Ariel Sharon of  Israel . A reporter
asked Sharon, the legendary general, what the Israeli army’s
position was on gays, expecting a tough “yes” or “no.”
Instead, Sharon turned to a subordinate and asked: What exactly
is our policy? It turned out that the great military commander
had his mind on other topics.  A recent Pew Research Center poll  suggests  that Americans,
civilian and military, accept the idea of women up front more
than they used to. Credit for that goes in part to the women who
have served in Iraq or  Afghanistan  and ended up in combat
despite an official ban on their presence there. In fact, those
surveyed couldn’t decide whether the lifting of the old ban was
a major or a minor change.  As for those who resist the idea of women on battle lines,
even they  may not oppose  the idea of all women up front. They
probably resist because they are concerned they will be forced
to accept as colleagues even those women who aren’t ready for
the combat zone, and who may reduce the likelihood of U.S.
victory.  When they turn down a man, they can say it’s because that
man isn’t qualified. They will hesitate to turn down an
unqualified woman for fear of being labeled discriminatory,
bigoted or worse. What they oppose, therefore, isn’t the
 opportunity  but the entitlement. If broadening women’s presence
in battles systematically hurts the outcome, everyone,
presumably, will want to reduce the number of female front
fighters. But we won’t be able to, because fighting up front
will have been enshrined as a women’s right.  The same concern holds for work in the civilian sector. One
argument of those observing the ratio of women at Davos or on
corporate boards is that women fail because they are relegated
to jobs that are “staff,” rather than “line.” In this
distinction, staff means just what it sounds like -- waiting on
somebody. Line work, by contrast, is accepting a certain
responsibility and being accountable only for producing results
at pre-established, periodic points. Women say they want line
jobs and should be able to try them.  Line Jobs  In some cases, women are right. The great fallacy of
executive life is that line jobs are always harder than staff
jobs. Line jobs give more freedom, and many women are efficient
enough to use that freedom to raise their children while
commanding troops or sales divisions.  But one thing about line jobs is they don’t always feature
solid vacations, family leave or time for evening pickups. Women
can want all those things, as men do, but the reality is that a
burden of “line” service is not complaining when giving up
hours is necessary to complete the line assignment. It isn’t
that corporate boards or chief executives don’t want women as
leaders. What they want are line leaders who won’t allow their
private lives to intrude on company projects when necessary.  This can be good news for many women who want line jobs and
autonomy. This is the kind of woman whose job is externally
oriented, measured by external criteria. Other women, especially
those who work best internally, have trouble with a line job.
And, of course, line jobs are  risky jobs . They can even be
called a “glass cliff,” a job preprogrammed to fail, as
International Monetary Fund Managing Director  Christine Lagarde 
half-complained when she talked about the posts women get.  In any case, employers of both sexes don’t want to be
required to employ women in these posts. And yes, sexism, male
and female, is part of the mix. Women who don’t like conflict
often don’t like to promote women who perform best in conflict
situations. Who is to blame there?  Still, the best step for men or women who seek to be out
there in a top job, even one on a glass cliff, is to be wanted
for the job because of skill and not gender. The relief that
those in the personnel field will feel at not being required to
promote women or any other group can yield surprises.  Women can’t have it both ways, blaming others for giving
them rough, glass-cliff assignments even as they demand them.
It’s possible that women may get more opportunities when they
claim fewer entitlements.  ( Amity Shlaes  is a Bloomberg View columnist and the
director of the Four Percent Growth Project at the Bush
Institute. Her biography, “Coolidge,” will be published in
February 2013. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Amity Shlaes at  amityshlaes@hotmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 