-- India May Consider Ending Four-Decade Old Curbs on Sugar Mills
-- B y   P r a t i k   P a r i j a   a n d   P r a b h u d a t t a   M i s h r a
-- 2013-01-31T12:07:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/india-may-consider-ending-four-decade-old-curbs-on-sugar-mills.html
India , the world’s biggest sugar
producer after  Brazil , will consider scrapping state curbs on
sale of the sweetener by mills in the local market for the first
time in four decades, Food Minister K.V. Thomas said.  The food ministry will soon send the proposal to the
cabinet that may also end the practice of the government buying
sugar from mills at below market rate to supply to the poor,
Thomas said in an interview in New Delhi today. The move to end
government curbs, introduced in 1972, is based on a report by a
panel headed by Chakravarthy Rangarajan, chief of the Prime
Minister’s Economic Advisory council, he said.  Bajaj Hindusthan Ltd. (BJH)  and  Balrampur Chini Mills Ltd. (BRCM) , the
nation’s biggest mills, and other producers, will earn about 27
billion rupees ($508 million) annually should the government
stop buying the commodity at subsidized rates, said Abinash
Verma, director general of the  Indian Sugar Mills Association .
Producers are riled by a government policy that sets limits on
sales by each mill for every four-month period to cap sugar
prices, while states fix cane rates to help 50 million farmers,
a powerful voting block, earn more.  “Scrapping of levy sugar and freeing sugar sales will
alleviate arrears and farmers will be paid on time,” said Vivek Saraogi, managing director of Balrampur Chini Mills Ltd. “There
will be sustainable production.”  Mills in the northern state of  Uttar Pradesh  owe as much as
29.87 billion rupees to farmers after cane prices were raised by
as much as 17 percent to a record for the 2012-2013 crop,
according to the mills association. Producers will lose about 60
billion rupees as they sell sugar below production cost because
of a surge in imports, Verma said this month.  Shares Rally  Shares of sugar producers rallied in Mumbai today. Bajaj
Hindusthan rose 2.4 percent to 23.40 rupees, Balrampur climbed
4.2 percent to 45.70 rupees, while  Shree Renuka Sugars Ltd. (SHRS) , the
top refiner, rose 3 percent to 29.30 rupees.  The Rangarajan panel asked the government to link the cane
price paid to farmers to returns from the sale of sweetener,
molasses and fuels to sustain output. Mills should pay 70
percent of all revenue to farmers, it said on Oct. 12.  Production in India, also the largest consumer, will fall
next season from 24.3 million tons in 2012-2013, according to
the mills association. Drought in the states of Maharashtra and
Karnataka, which together account for 45 percent of output, will
encourage farmers to cut plantings, M. Srinivaasan, president of
the association said.  The cabinet today raised the benchmark sugar cane price by
24 percent to 210 rupees for the 2013-2014 crop season, Thomas
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Pratik Parija in  New Delhi  at 
 pparija@bloomberg.net ;
Prabhudatta Mishra in New Delhi at 
 pmishra8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at   jpoole4@bloomberg.net  