-- Indonesian Coal Swaps Snap Four-Day Gain; China Prices Unchanged
-- B y   F i t r i   W u l a n d a r i
-- 2013-01-31T08:36:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/indonesian-coal-swaps-snap-four-day-gain-china-prices-unchanged.html
Swaps prices fell for thermal coal
from  Indonesia , the world’s largest exporter of the fuel, ending
four days of gain, according to Ginga Petroleum Singapore Pte.  The swap for Indonesian sub-bituminous coal with a
calorific value of 4,900 kilocalories a kilogram in the second
quarter dropped 5 cents to $66.10 a metric ton on a net-as-
received basis yesterday, Ginga said in an e-mail today. The
contract for February declined 25 cents to $64.60 a ton.  Contracts for coal with a heating value of 5,500
kilocalories a kilogram for shipment to South  China  in the
second quarter were unchanged at $87.25 a ton on a net-as-
received basis, the energy broker said. The February contract
fell 10 cents to $85.50 a ton.  Rio Tinto Group, the world’s second-biggest mining company,
declared force majeure on contracts to sell coal from its
Kestrel mine in  Australia  after flooding from ex-tropical
cyclone Oswald damaged a rail system.  The deluge from Oswald left six people dead, swamped rail
lines and disrupted mining operations in Queensland. Xstrata,
the world’s largest exporter of thermal coal, declared force
majeure on Jan. 29 because of damage on the rail line.  A commodity swap is a financial agreement whereby a
floating price is exchanged for a fixed rate over a specified
contract period. About 60 percent of Indonesia’s coal is
classified as sub-bituminous. Higher moisture levels and a lower
carbon content reduce the heating value compared with better-
quality stock. Sub-bit coal has fewer than 6,100 kilocalories
per kilogram, according to the Indonesian energy ministry.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fitri Wulandari in Jakarta at 
 fwulandari@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  