-- Indonesia’s Coffee Exports Seen Matching 2012 Level on Weather
-- B y   Y o g a   R u s m a n a
-- 2013-01-31T02:51:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/indonesia-s-coffee-exports-seen-matching-2012-level-on-weather.html
Coffee exports from  Indonesia ’s
southern Sumatra, the main growing region in the third-largest
robusta grower, may be little changed this year amid threats to
production from stormy weather, an industry group said.  Shipments from Lampung, Bengkulu and South Sumatra gained
24 percent to 243,807 metric tons last year, according to
Mochtar Luthfie, head of research and development at the Lampung
chapter of the Association of Indonesian Coffee Exporters and
Industry. Everything this year will depend on the weather,
Luthfie said in an interview from Bandar Lampung yesterday.  A lack of export growth may help extend the 7.2 percent
gain in robusta in the past year. The three provinces account
for about 75 percent of the country’s output. This year’s main
harvest may start in May, one month earlier than last year, with
some trees in higher-lying areas already producing cherries,
said Sumita, head of the association’s Lampung chapter.  “It’s still too early to see output prospects,” Luthfie
said. To produce good-quality beans, coffee needs sufficient
water during flowering and blossoming and enough sunlight for
drying after the harvest, he said.  Stormy weather may occur in most part of Indonesia during
the peak rainy season, which may run until mid-February, the
Meteorology, Geophysics and Climatology Agency said Jan. 16.
Some areas of Lampung and Bengkulu will receive as much as 50
millimeters (1.97 inches) to 100 millimeters per day of rain,
with strong winds and thunder, in the week to Feb. 4, according
to a  forecast  from the meteorology agency on its website.  The association’s figures for 2012 exports are higher than
those from the Lampung trade office, which put shipments at
202,532 tons, Luthfie said. The office may not have fully
recorded trade from Bengkulu and South Sumatra, he said.  Robusta for March delivery climbed 1.7 percent to $1,968 a
ton on NYSE Liffe yesterday. The beans are used in instant
drinks and espressos.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yoga Rusmana in Jakarta at 
 yrusmana@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  