-- Infineon Forecasts Earnings Will Advance on Automotive Demand
-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 2013-01-31T08:04:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/infineon-misses-revenue-estimate-predicts-operating-profit-gain.html
Infineon Technologies AG (IFX) ,  Europe ’s
second-biggest chipmaker, forecast that earnings will improve in
the current quarter as demand picks up in the car industry.  Operating profit will improve “slightly” in the fiscal
second quarter ending March 31 from the 44 million euros ($60
million) in the previous three months, while sales will probably
increase by a “mid-single-digit” percentage from 851 million
euros. Analysts  estimate  second-quarter operating profit of 50
million euros and a sales increase of 1.9 percent to 867 million
euros, according to averages compiled by Bloomberg.  Infineon, based in Neubiberg near Munich, said its business
will be bolstered by sales of semiconductors used in cars after
revenue fell short of analyst estimates in the three months
ended Dec. 31. European peer  STMicroelectronics NV (STM)  today said
it’s seeing “initial signs of a mild recovery” in the chip
market after it also reported a drop in sales.  “Almost everybody is expecting an upturn toward the second
half of the year, but the question is how strong it will be,”
said Karsten Iltgen, an analyst at Bankhaus Lampe in Dusseldorf,
 Germany , who recommends investors sell their Infineon shares.
“The results were along the lines predicted by the company.”  Infineon rose 1 percent to 6.46 euros at 9:03 a.m. in
Frankfurt trading.  Infineon has postponed or canceled some development
projects and curbed hiring to reduce costs amid slowing demand
for semiconductors used in industrial machines and  wind
turbines . The measures are having an effect, which will continue
to show in coming quarters, it said today.  Cash Declines  Still, the company, whose biggest  customers  include car-
component maker  Robert Bosch GmbH  and Apple Inc. supplier Hon
Hai Precision Industry Co., said its net cash position declined
to 1.77 billion euros from 1.94 billion euros in the last
quarter after it repurchased shares and profit slumped.  Global semiconductor revenue probably fell 3 percent to
$298 billion last year amid uncertainty about the economy,
researcher Gartner Inc.  said in December .  Infineon reiterated that sales will drop by a “mid- to
high- single-digit percentage” in the fiscal year ending Sept.
30. Operating profit will probably amount to a “mid- to high-
single-digit percentage” of revenue, according to the forecast.
Infineon assumes an exchange rate of $1.30 to the euro for the
remainder of the fiscal year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cornelius Rahn in Berlin at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  