-- Iran Tells UN Monitors Uranium Enrichment Work Upgraded
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   T i r o n e
-- 2013-01-31T17:59:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/iran-tells-un-nuclear-monitors-it-s-boosting-capacity-document.html
Iran told  United Nations  monitors
it’s installing new centrifuges at its Natanz facility that can
enrich more uranium in less time, according to a restricted IAEA
document circulated to members yesterday.  The  International Atomic Energy Agency  asked Iran in a Jan.
29 letter how the new IR-2m machines will be used. The Persian
Gulf nation was previously testing the centrifuges, according to
the one-page document that was obtained by  Bloomberg News . The
Vienna-based IAEA declined to comment.  “If the machine works, and Iran now is rolling it out, it
could mean a dramatic increase in capacity,” Andreas Persbo,
executive director of the London-based Verification Research,
Training and Information Center, a non-governmental observer to
the IAEA, said in an e-mailed reply to questions. Iran could
“quite possibly” double its production capacity.  Enriched uranium is the heavy metal used to fuel nuclear
reactors and form the core of atomic bombs.  Iran , under IAEA
investigation for a decade over alleged nuclear-weapons
research, says it only wants atomic technology for peaceful
purposes. UN monitors are negotiating with the Islamic Republic
to broaden access to suspected nuclear installations, including
sites where the country produces its centrifuges.  ‘Cause for Concern’  The IAEA said last February that Iran had been
“intermittently feeding” material into next-generation
centrifuges at its research and development facility, which is
also in Natanz. Iran uses first-generation IR-1 machines at the
plant, located about 150 miles (240 kilometers) south of Tehran.  “This is a cause for concern,” the U.K.’s Foreign Office
said in an e-mailed statement today. “Installation of advanced
centrifuges would be a further breach of UN Security Council and
IAEA board resolutions.”  Russian Foreign Minister  Sergei Lavrov  reiterated demands
that Iran freeze  uranium enrichment  in line with Security
Council orders. Iran is under dozens of international sanctions
because it’s repeatedly violated council resolutions compelling
a suspension of the work.  The sanctions include trade prohibitions on high-quality
steel and fiber products from carbon and glass. The possibility
that Iran has become self-sufficient in producing carbon fiber,
which is used to make centrifuges, “would be very worrying,”
according to Persbo, who said negotiators should concentrate
more on winning wider inspections of Iran than focusing on a
full cessation of its atomic activities.  Breakout Time  IAEA inspectors reported on Nov. 16 that the country had
increased the number of installed centrifuges at Natanz to
10,000 from about 9,150. The facility, built underground and
beneath a thick layer of concrete, can hold 25,000 machines in
the hall being used. Centrifuges are loaded with milled uranium
hexafluoride and spin up to 1,000 meters (3,281 feet) per second
to separate the Uranium-235 isotope used to generate nuclear
power and bombs.  “The introduction of this machine will not affect
safeguards at the plant,” Persbo said. “It will reduce
breakout time” if Iran were to choose to enrich uranium to
weapons-grade quality at Natanz.  Negotiations will resume shortly between Iran and world
powers over the nation’s atomic program, European Union foreign
policy chief  Catherine Ashton  told reporters in Brussels today.  “I’m confident there will be a meeting soon,” she said.
“We’ve been saying to the Iranians that we want to propose
dates and venues in order that we can get the discussions moving
as quickly as possible.”  ‘Rapidly Advancing’  Israel  expressed dissatisfaction with that stance.  “While the world is discussing where and when the next
meeting with Iran will be, Iran is rapidly advancing towards
obtaining a nuclear bomb,” Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu ’s
office said in a statement. “The international community cannot
allow Iran to arm itself with a nuclear weapon.”  The Natanz Fuel Enrichment Plant was the facility detected
in 2002 that triggered the IAEA’s investigation because Iran
didn’t declare its construction to the agency. The country
subsequently hid construction of a second facility, in Fordo,
that was made public in 2009.  Fordo, built into the side of a mountain, produces most of
Iran’s medium-grade enriched uranium. The facility has drawn
particular attention from Israel because it would be difficult
to destroy in an air strike.  “Iran’s technical capabilities will continue to develop in
the uranium-enrichment field,”  Paul Ingram , executive director
of the British American Security Information Council, a policy-
advisory group, wrote in reply to questions. “This underlines
the need for the West to be more flexible in the negotiations
with Iran in order to focus agreement on bringing the tighter
inspections and verification regime.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Tirone in Vienna at 
 jtirone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  