-- Israel Chemicals Drops on Quarter Profit Outlook: Tel Aviv Mover
-- B y   S h o s h a n n a   S o l o m o n
-- 2013-01-31T15:34:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/israel-chemicals-drops-on-quarter-profit-outlook-tel-aviv-mover.html
Israel Chemicals Ltd. (ICL)  dropped to the
lowest level in a week on bets fourth quarter results will be
weak as  Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc.  reported a quarterly
profit that missed estimates.  The shares of the company that extracts minerals from the
Dead Sea to make potash and fertilizers declined 1.4 percent to
49.14 shekels, the lowest level since Jan. 21, at the close in
Tel Aviv. The benchmark TA-25 Index declined 0.1 percent while
 Israel Corp. (ILCO) , which holds a 52.3 percent stake in Israel
Chemicals, fell 2.2 percent to 2,532 shekels.  Potash Corp.,the world’s largest fertilizer producer, said
fourth-quarter profit excluding a provision for legal costs was
52 cents a share, missing the 57-cent average of 27 estimates.
Fertilizer producers have seen export volumes slump in the past
year after China and India held off from signing new sales
contracts.  “ICL is down because of a knock-on effect of Potash
Corp.,” Gilad Alper, a senior analyst at Excellence Nessuah
said today by phone. “The company is expected to report very
poor fourth quarter numbers because of the delay in the China
and India contracts.”  Israel Chemicals is expected to report  sales  of $1.43
billion in the fourth quarter and income of $227.5 million,
according to a mean estimate of three analysts in data compiled
by Bloomberg. This compares to sales of $1.7 billion and net
income of $369.6 million in the  fourth quarter of 2011 .  Potash Corp. and its two biggest North American
competitors,  Agrium Inc. (AGU)  and  Mosaic Co. (MOS) , said last month they
agreed to sell 1 million tons of potash to China for $70 a ton
less than the previous accord, which expired at the end of June.
Israel Chemicals said earlier this month it signed an agreement
with China to supply 660,000 metric tons of potash in first half
of this year as part of a 3.3 million ton multi year contract.
No deal has been reached with Indian buyers.  Potash Corp. held talks in October with the Israeli
government about increasing its stake in Israel Chemicals from
13.84 percent. Nine analysts recommend investors buy Israel
Chemicals shares, eight say hold, according to data  compiled by
Bloomberg.   To contact the reporter on this story:
Shoshanna Solomon in Tel Aviv at 
 ssolomon22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  