-- Berlusconi Closes Gap in Italy as Bersani Faces Defections
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e   a n d   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i
-- 2013-02-01T18:58:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/italian-front-runner-turns-to-defeated-rival-as-support-wanes.html
Former Italian Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  continued his surge in opinion polls, closing the gap
with Pier Luigi Bersani to 5 percentage points as the front-
runner struggled to prevent defections.  Support for the center-left coalition led by Bersani, head
of the Democratic Party, fell by 1.6 percentage point in a week
to 32.8 percent, while Berlusconi’s center-right bloc is now at
27.8 percent, up almost 1.3 points in the week, according to a
SWG poll today. The difference between the two is the narrowest
of the campaign for elections on Feb. 24-25 vote.  “We’re not shrinking violets,” Bersani said yesterday at
a campaign event. The 61-year-old former communist appeared at a
rally today with Florence Mayor Matteo Renzi, the losing
candidate in his party’s primary, in the pair’s first public
appearance together since the Dec. 2 competition.  Berlusconi, a billionaire media magnate, used his wealth
this week to build campaign momentum. He signed  Mario Balotelli 
to his AC Milan soccer club, bringing the 22-year-old Italian
hero in last year’s European Championships back to his home
country after two years at  Manchester City . Even if Bersani
manages to hold on to his advantage in polls, he may fall short
of a majority in Parliament due to an electoral law that doles
out Senate seats on a regional basis.  Media Blitz  Bersani’s support has suffered amid a media blitz by
Berlusconi and an accounting scandal at lender  Banca Monte dei
Paschi di Siena SpA . Berlusconi, 76, has stepped up his anti-
austerity rhetoric and has promised to abolish an unpopular
property tax known as IMU as Italians fight against unemployment
at a 13-year high.  “Austerity in  Europe  has been imposed by  Germany  and led
to 50 million unemployed or under-employed,” Berlusconi said at
a press conference today. “We must have this showdown with
Germany. Otherwise the reality will force many countries, one
after another, to exit the euro.”  The Democratic Party’s support dropped to 28 percent, SWG
said today, down 1.4 points in the week, while Berlusconi’s
party gained 2.1 percentage points to 19.3 percent, according to
SWG.  “We can’t underestimate Berlusconi,” Renzi said today in
a speech in Florence standing on a stage next to Bersani.
“Whoever underestimates him is making a mistake.”  Renzi thanked voters who supported him in the primary and
urged them to back Bersani in the elections. Bersani drew cheers
on stage by taking off his jacket and rolling up his sleeves in
homage to the preferred style of Renzi.  Monte Paschi  Bersani’s  Democratic Party  has been hurt by its ties to
Monte Paschi, according to SWG. The Democratic Party controls
the bank’s  biggest shareholder  through its dominance of local
politics in Siena, where Monte Paschi is based. Half of voters
assign blame to the Democratic Party for Monte Paschi’s
accounting irregularities, SWG said.  “On the one hand it’s galvanizing the disappointed and
uncertain voters of the center-right,” SWG said of Monte Paschi
in a statement. “On the other, it is slowing and cooling down
the center-left electorate.”  Bersani’s biggest challenge is to secure the Senate, where
polls indicate his bloc may lose the key regions of Lombardy,
Veneto and Sicily, leaving him short of the 158-seat majority.
In that case, he may be forced to strike a post-vote alliance,
with caretaker Prime Minister  Mario Monti  as the most likely
candidate.  Renzi is scheduled to appear next week at an event in
Campania, the southern region where Naples is located, and make
at least four stops in northern  Italy , according to his staff.  Most Popular  “It might be too late to be bringing Renzi in,” said
Riccardo Fagioli, who coordinated Renzi’s primary bid in the
province of Pistoia. “Bersani was late because he was convinced
he had already won the election.” Fagioli said he will vote for
Bersani.  While Renzi, 38, was identified by pollster EMG in November
as the most popular candidate among the electorate at large, his
policies clashed with those of Bersani. Renzi stressed budget
rigor, while Bersani said he planned to ease Monti’s austerity.  Renzi also referred to himself as “the scrap-heap
operator” because he said Italian politics needed a
generational change and older lawmakers, like Bersani, should be
forced into retirement.  “Renzi enjoys a significant following even outside the
center-left electorate,” said Renato Mannheimer, head of
polling company Ispo Ltd. “He could mobilize a considerable
quantity of votes, especially among the undecided.”  The Florence mayor has said he won’t accept a position in a
Bersani government, while urging his supporters to vote for him.
Some, like Tommaso Nannicini of  Bocconi University  in Milan,
will do so. Others will take their votes elsewhere because
Bersani hasn’t done enough to incorporate Renzi’s ideas,
Nannicini said.  “You don’t move voters like playing cards,” said
Nannicini, an economics professor. “I know a lot of friends who
are going to vote for Monti.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Frye in Rome at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net ;
Chiara Vasarri in Rome at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  