-- HIV Testing and Treatment Fail to Curb U.K. Gay Infections
-- B y   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2013-02-01T16:28:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/hiv-testing-and-treatment-fail-to-curb-u-k-gay-infection-rate.html
Efforts to reduce HIV transmission
among gay and bisexual men in the U.K. over the past decade have
failed, according to a study that shows infection rates have
remained stable even as testing and treatment increased.  New infections in England and  Wales  have flat-lined at
2,300 to 2,500 a year, defying an almost four-fold increase in
the testing rate and an advance in treatment uptake from 69
percent to 80 percent between 2001 and 2010, researchers  wrote 
in The Lancet Infectious Diseases medical journal today.  The trend may be caused by a rise in unsafe sex because men
no longer view HIV infection as a death sentence, and social
media that make it easier for men to find partners, the team led
by Daniela de Angelis at the U.K.’s Medical Research Council
wrote. More targeted testing and earlier treatment may be needed
to bring infections down, they said.  The findings are “sobering,” Reuben Granich, a researcher
at the Joint United Nations Programme on HIV/AIDS, or UNAIDS,
wrote in an editorial accompanying the study. “Given the
complexity of the epidemic, a comprehensive response including
the full range of societal and public health interventions will
be necessary to reduce incidence,” Granich wrote.  While the number of new HIV infections globally dropped to
2.5 million in 2011 from 3.2 million in 2001, there’s evidence
that the proportion of gay and bisexual men infected with HIV
has increased, UNAIDS said in a  report  last year.  The U.K. and the  World Health Organization  recommend that
people infected with HIV start treatment when their immune
systems deteriorate below a certain level. Still, research has
shown that starting treatment as soon as a person is diagnosed
makes them less contagious, reducing transmission to sex
partners by 96 percent.  The study was funded by the Medical Research Council and
the U.K. Health Protection Agency.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simeon Bennett in Geneva at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  