-- Mizuho’s Quarterly Profit Climbs on Lending, Trading Income
-- B y   S h i g e r u   S a t o   a n d   S h i n g o   K a w a m o t o
-- 2013-02-01T04:15:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/mizuho-quarterly-profit-jumps-on-lending-trading-income-gains.html
Mizuho Financial Group Inc. (8411) , Japan’s
third-biggest bank by market value, posted an increase in third-
quarter profit as the country’s rebounding economy helped boost
lending and trading income.  Net income  climbed to 207.5 billion yen ($2.3 billion) in
the three months ended Dec. 31 from 16.3 billion yen a year
earlier, when its brokerage unit posted a loss of 36.7 billion
yen. Quarterly earnings were calculated by subtracting first-
half profit from nine-month figures reported in a statement
yesterday.  Mizuho joins Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group Inc. in
posting higher quarterly profit as signs of a domestic lending
recovery emerge. A stock market rally on the back of Prime
Minister Shinzo Abe’s pledge to stimulate the economy helped
narrow losses tied to the bank’s equity holdings.  “The notion that the Japanese megabanks can’t make decent
profit from lending is a thing of the past,” Yoshinobu Yamada,
a Tokyo-based analyst at Deutsche Bank AG, said. “Expansion in
the banks’ business abroad will further bolster income from
lending -- the pillar of Japanese banks’ businesses.”  Net income for the nine months ended Dec. 31 rose 45
percent to 391.8 billion yen, the company said yesterday in a
filing to the  Tokyo  Stock Exchange. Mizuho maintained its profit
forecast for the year ending March 31 at 500 billion yen.  Lending Demand  Lending profit  rose 5.9 percent last quarter from a year
earlier to 269.5 billion yen, according to calculations based on
Mizuho’s statement.  The world’s third-largest economy is showing signs of a
recovery from two quarters of contraction.  Industrial production 
rose the most in 18 months in December, government figures
showed yesterday.  Loans outstanding at Japan’s city banks rose 0.3 percent in
December, the first increase since October 2009, according to
central bank data. Overall lending including regional banks
increased 1.4 percent.  Mizuho’s income from fees and commissions surged 19 percent
to 123.2 billion yen, while profit from trading  government bonds 
and other securities gained 13 percent to 92 billion yen.  The bank’s third-quarter profit gain was in line with the
209 billion yen average estimate of eight analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. In the year-ago quarter, Mizuho had a one-time
expense of 24.4 billion yen related to corporate tax rate
changes.  Market Rally  Shares of Mizuho rose 0.6 percent to 184 yen as of 1:09
p.m. in Tokyo. The stock climbed 26 percent last quarter,
outpacing the benchmark Nikkei 225 Stock Average’s 18 percent
jump as Abe’s  Liberal Democratic Party  campaigned on promises to
revive the economy with fiscal and monetary stimulus. The LDP
won the Dec. 16 election in a landslide victory.  Japan ’s stock market helped Mizuho’s brokerage unit rebound
to profit in the quarter. Mizuho Securities Co. posted a profit
of 1.1 billion yen, compared with a year-earlier loss, it said
in a statement on its Website.  “Abe’s monetary and economic measures are spurring the
equity market and helping to cut banks’ stock impairment
losses,” Shinichiro Nakamura, a Tokyo-based analyst at SMBC
Nikko Securities Inc., said yesterday. “The market rally will
also bolster banks’ mutual fund sales in the coming months.”  Losses from Mizuho’s shareholdings totaled 107.5 billion
yen in the nine months ended Dec. 31, easing from 227.6 billion
yen booked in the six months through Sept. 30. The losses were 1
percent lower than 108.6 billion yen a year earlier, according
to the statement.  Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group Inc. (8316) , Japan’s second-
largest bank by market value, on Jan. 30 posted third-quarter
net income of 219.4 billion yen, more than doubling from a year
earlier and putting it on pace to post a record annual profit.
The bank’s SMBC Nikko Securities Inc. unit also rebounded to a
profit in the period.  Mitsubishi UFJ, the largest, is scheduled to release
earnings today after the close of Tokyo trading.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shigeru Sato in Tokyo at 
 ssato10@bloomberg.net ;
Shingo Kawamoto in Tokyo at 
 skawamoto2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  