-- Jackie Chan Becomes China CPPCC Committee Member, Phoenix Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-01-31T16:38:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/jackie-chan-becomes-china-cppcc-committee-member-phoenix-says.html
Hong Kong movie star  Jackie Chan  has
become a member of the National Committee of the  Chinese
People’s Political Consultative Conference , Phoenix New Media
said on its website yesterday, citing an unidentified person.  The 58-year-old action star will attend the Chinese
People’s Political Consultative Conference, which serves as the
top advisory body to the Chinese government, according to the
 Phoenix article . A call after business hours to the office of
Peco Ng, Jackie Chan’s spokeswoman, wasn’t answered.  Chan, whose movies include “Rush Hour” and “Kung Fu
Panda,” called the U.S. the world’s “most corrupt” country in
an interview with Phoenix TV, the  South China Morning Post 
reported on Jan. 12. China has been bullied by international
powers for a long time and only began making progress in recent
years, Chan was cited as saying.  Chan’s latest film, “CZ12,” was China’s fifth-highest
grossing movie last year, with domestic box-office receipts of
$96 million, according to data from the State Administration of
Radio, Film and Television. The nation’s total box office gained
30 percent in 2012 to $2.74 billion.  Former Hong Kong Chief Executive  Donald Tsang  said
yesterday it would be inappropriate for him to join the new
session of the National Committee of the CPPCC, as Hong Kong’s
Independent Commission Against Corruption conducts an
investigation into some activities while he was in office.  China approached him about participating in the body and he
rejected the offer, Tsang said in an e-mailed statement.  China
appointed  Henry Tang , a former Hong Kong chief secretary, to the
CPPCC, the South China Morning Post reported yesterday.  New delegates also include Hospital Authority Chairman
Anthony Wu and Henderson Land Development Co. Vice Chairman
Peter Lee, the Hong Kong-based newspaper said, citing the list.
 Pearl Oriental Oil Ltd. (632)  Vice Chairman Lew Mon-hung will lose his
seat, the newspaper reported.  The CPPCC meets annually in parallel to lawmakers who are
delegates to the National People’s Congress, which begins its
annual session on March 5.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Michael Wei in Shanghai at 
 mwei13@bloomberg.net ;
Sandi Liu in  Hong Kong  at 
 sliu60@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shiyin Chen at 
 schen37@bloomberg.net  