-- Japan Atomic Safety Rules May Keep Reactors Closed for Years
-- B y   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a   a n d   Y u j i   O k a d a
-- 2013-01-31T10:34:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/japan-atomic-safety-standards-may-keep-reactors-closed-for-years.html
Japan ’s  Nuclear Regulation Authority 
approved safety standards for atomic power plants that may
require years of reinforcement work for some reactors idled
after the Fukushima disaster.  Nuclear power plants will need to build secondary control
centers at least 100 meters from reactor buildings to manage
emergency cooling systems and radiation filter vents, according
to the rules. They also stipulate tougher tsunami defenses.  All but two of Japan’s 50 reactors are idled for safety
assessments after a record earthquake and subsequent tsunami on
March 11, 2011, caused meltdowns and radiation leaks at Tokyo
Electric Power Co.’s Fukushima plant. The NRA was set up after
Fukushima to provide reviews independent of the trade and
industry ministry that oversees nuclear power.  “Some plants may have to undergo large reconstruction” to
meet NRA requirements, Tomoko Murakami, a nuclear analyst at the
Institute of Energy Economics Japan, said by phone today. For
those sites, “it may take several years before they can
restart.”  A group of scientists led by Toyoshi Fuketa, the regulatory
agency’s commissioner, approved the requirements today in  Tokyo ,
said Tatsuya Taguchi, an NRA official who attended the meeting.
The rules will be implemented in July after inviting public
comment, according to the NRA.  Quake and Tsunami  Earlier this week, another NRA panel led by Kunihiko
Shimazaki, a seismologist and agency commissioner, approved
rules for assessing earthquake and tsunami risk.  Currently, power companies are required to assess
geological faults using rock and earth samples from the last
120,000 to 130,000 years, or the Late Pleistocene era. The new
rules require investigation of faults going back 400,000 years
if study of Late Pleistocene geology is inconclusive.  The NRA is investigating quake faults under nuclear plants
owned by Kansai Electric Power Co., Tohoku Electric Power Co.,
Japan Atomic Power Co.,  Hokuriku Electric Power Co. (9505) , and Japan
Atomic Energy Agency. The widened definition may prompt the
regulator to investigate faults under other nuclear power
plants, Murakami said.  Geological faults under Tokyo Electric Power Co.’s
Kashiwazaki Kariwa plant, the world’s biggest, could be judged
active, Kyodo News reported last week, citing the NRA’s earlier
draft of the safety rules.  Tepco Future  Restarting the Kashiwazaki Kariwa reactors is key to
reviving Tokyo Electric, which was taken over by the government
because costs stemming from the Fukushima disaster threatened it
with bankruptcy.  On tsunami defenses, utilities must estimate tsunami risk
based on the latest scientific assessments, according to rules
approved by the Shimazaki panel. Tsunami defenses such as
seawalls and watertight doors must be able to withstand the
largest estimated tsunami, under the rules.  After Fukushima, it was revealed Tokyo Electric’s own
research showed the plant could be hit by a tsunami more than 10
meters (33 feet) high, while its defensive seawall was only 5.6
meters high. The March 11 tsunami that wrecked the plant reached
13 meters.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tsuyoshi Inajima in Tokyo at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net ;
Yuji Okada in Tokyo at 
 yokada6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Langan at 
 plangan@bloomberg.net  