-- Japan Industrial Output Rose Less Than Forecast in December
-- B y   K e i k o   U j i k a n e   a n d   A n d y   S h a r p
-- 2013-01-31T02:47:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/japan-december-industrial-output-rises-less-than-forecast-2-5-.html
Japan ’s industrial production rose
less than economists forecast, suggesting that a recovery in the
nation’s manufacturing sector is lagging a weakening yen.  Output rose 2.5 percent from November, when it declined 1.4
percent, the Trade Ministry said in Tokyo today. The median
estimate of 25 economists was for a 4.1 percent gain. Production
fell 7.8 percent from the previous year.  The outlook for the economy may improve this year as the
depreciating yen and Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s fiscal stimulus
measures help to support corporate profits and stoke growth.
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. last week raised its growth forecast
for the year starting in April to 2 percent from 1.2 percent.  “We don’t need to be too pessimistic about the outlook,”
said Naoki Iizuka, an economist at Citigroup Inc. in  Tokyo .
“Production will probably return to a clear recovery track in
the coming months.”  The yen has depreciated more than 12 percent against the
dollar in the past three months, the most among 16 major
currencies tracked by Bloomberg. It was 0.2 percent higher at
90.94 per dollar as of 11:23 a.m. in Tokyo. The  Nikkei 225 Stock
Average (NKY)  was down 0.6 percent at the lunch break today after
gaining for the last 11 weeks.  While the data showed that production of transport
equipment rose 6.9 percent on a seasonally adjusted basis,
Japan’s three largest automakers --  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) , Honda
Motor Co. and Nissan Motor Co. -- reported falling domestic
production in December from the previous month.  Smartphone Shipments  A drop in production of electronic parts and devices
limited the overall increase, the data showed. Output of parts
for smartphones fell as shipments to  Asia  weakened, according to
the ministry.  “There are clouds on the horizon for global demand in
smartphones,” said Citigroup’s Iizuka. “We need to be cautious
about the possibility that inventory adjustments may be
prolonged.”  Production of semiconductor and flat-panel manufacturing
equipment surged nearly 60 percent in the month, the data
showed.  A weaker yen makes products relatively cheaper in export
markets and boosts overseas earnings for Japanese companies such
as Toyota and  Canon Inc. (7751)  when repatriated. Manufacturers expect
production to rise 2.6 percent in January and 2.3 percent in
February, today’s data showed.  Canon, the world’s largest camera-maker, said yesterday it
may increase net income 14 percent to 255 billion yen this year.  Time Lag  “There will be a time lag until the weakening yen
increases export volume,” said  Masamichi Adachi , senior
economist at  JPMorgan Securities  in Tokyo and a former BOJ
official. Exports fell for a seventh month in December, while
 wages  dropped and  consumer demand  stayed weak.  Twelve analysts covering Toyota, Japan’s biggest car
manufacturer, have raised their earnings estimates for the next
fiscal year. The stock has the highest proportion of  buy
recommendations  in nearly five years, according to analyst
ratings tracked by Bloomberg.  Economy Minister Akira Amari said this week that the
effects of Abe’s 10.3 trillion yen ($113 billion) stimulus
package announced this month would begin to appear in April.  Japan’s gross domestic product shrank in the second and
third quarters last year and was forecast to fall in the three
months through December, according to the median estimate of
economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News , with a return to growth
forecast this quarter.  Manufacturing in  China , Japan’s biggest export market, is
expanding at the fastest rate in two years, bolstering prospects
that economic growth there will accelerate for a second straight
quarter.  Goldman last week raised its six- and 12-month targets on
the Topix Index of stocks, saying the effects of Abe’s stimulus
measures are not yet priced in.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Keiko Ujikane in Tokyo at 
 kujikane@bloomberg.net ;
Andy Sharp in Tokyo at 
 asharp5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  