-- Jiangsu Sunshine Unit Files for Bankruptcy on Silicon Price Fall
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-01-31T07:10:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/jiangsu-sunshine-unit-files-for-bankruptcy-on-silicon-price-fall.html
Jiangsu Sunshine Co. (600220) , a Chinese
maker of textile products and raw material for solar panels,
filed for bankruptcy at its polysilicon unit after failing to
cope with a decline in prices.  Ningxia Sunshine Silicon Co., of which Jiangsu Sunshine
owns 65 percent, is unable to operate because production costs
are far higher than selling prices, the parent said yesterday in
a statement to the  Shanghai  stock exchange. The insolvency
petition, the nation’s first by listed solar company, was filed
through the Shizuishan Intermediate People’s Court.  A supply glut dragged down the average spot price of
polysilicon by 43 percent in the past year and gutted gross
margins, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The tumble led
companies including Ningxia Sunshine and units of  Baoding
Tianwei Baobian Electric Co. (600550)  to halt production and prompt  GCL-
Poly Energy Holdings Ltd. (3800) , the world’s biggest maker of
polysilicon, to halt expansion last year.  “Many small Chinese polysilicon makers don’t have the
research and development capability to upgrade the process and
lower the cost,” said Wang Xiaoting, a Beijing-based analyst at
Bloomberg New Energy Finance. “Even if extra tariffs were
imposed on imported polysilicon and spot prices rose, these
companies won’t be saved as the prices would still be much lower
than their costs.”  Jiangsu Sunshine gained as much as 3.2 percent to 2.95 yuan
in Shanghai and traded at 2.87 yuan as of 2:18 p.m. local time.
The shares have risen 2.1 percent this year, compared with a 5.2
percent increase in the key index.  Debt, Loss  Ningxia Sunshine is unable to repay debt, which includes
1.3 billion  yuan  ($209 million) owed to Jiangsu Sunshine. The
unit had a 247.4 million yuan loss last year, leading the parent
to forecast a deficit for 2012, compared with an 8.7 million
yuan profit a year earlier.  “Small companies with uncompetitive costs will leave the
market sooner or later,” Lian Rui, a Beijing-based analyst at
research company NPD Solarbuzz, said by phone today. “Listed
companies will either write off or sell their polysilicon assets
to avoid an impact on profits.”  Baoding Tianwei, which makes solar-cell parts, expects a
loss of 1.4 billion yuan, partly because some new-energy units
including Tianwei Sichuan Silicon Co. suspended production
following losses, it said in a  statement  yesterday.  Shanghai
Aerospace Automobile Electromechanical Co. (600151)  today forecast a  loss 
for 2012, saying its photovotaic manufacturing business is
grappling with weaker demand and a supply glut.  Ningxia Sunshine has an annual capacity to produce 1,500
metric tons of polysilicon, its parent said on its website. GCL-
Poly had a capacity of 65,000 metric tons a year in 2011,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg Industries.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Feifei Shen in Beijing at 
 fshen11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  