-- J&J Gets EU Complaint With Novartis on Pay-for-Delay Deal
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 2013-01-31T15:12:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/johnson-johnson-and-novartis-get-eu-antitrust-complaints.html
Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  and  Novartis AG (NOVN) 
were sent antitrust objections by European Union regulators over
a pay-for-delay deal that may have hampered the sale of generic
versions of pain killer fentanyl in the Netherlands.  The European Commission said the Dutch units of both
companies struck a so-called co-promotion agreement in July 2005
to avoid rivaling each other. This deprived Dutch fentanyl
customers of access to a cheaper pain killer for 17 months, it
said in an e-mailed statement today.  “The commission is determined to fight undue delays in the
market entry of generic medicines so that European citizens have
access to affordable health care,” EU Competition Commissioner
 Joaquin Almunia  said in the statement.  Antitrust regulators on both sides of the Atlantic are
focusing on how settlements between companies that make branded
medicines and generics producers might harm consumers. Les
Laboratoires Servier,  H. Lundbeck A/S (LUN)  and  Teva Pharmaceutical
Industries Ltd. (TEVA) , the world’s largest generic drugmaker, were
last year sent statements of objections in probes over possible
delays for generic drugs.  Johnson & Johnson and its unit Janssen-Cilag “will
carefully examine the statement of objections and want to stress
that it does not represent the commission’s final decision,”
said Stefan Gijssels, a spokesman for Janssen in Beerse, Belgium
in an e-mailed statement. Johnson & Johnson is based in  New
Brunswick ,  New Jersey .  Defense Rights  “Janssen continues to believe that these arrangements were
legitimate,” Gijssels said. “We are cooperating fully” with
the commission.  Novartis, based in Basel, Switzerland, said it and its
Sandoz unit would examine the EU complaint and “avail
themselves of their rights of defense,” spokesman  Eric Althoff ,
said by e-mail. The EU statement allows the company “the
opportunity to comment on the factual and legal issues that led
the commission to believe that an infringement of the EU
competition rules may have occurred.”  Regulators said the deal foresaw monthly payments between
Janssen-Cilag and Sandoz as long as Novartis avoided marketing a
generic version of the drug. This delayed Novartis’s sale of
generic fentanyl patches until December 2006, the EU said.  Almunia said it’s important to ensure drug companies don’t
“free ride our welfare state and insurance systems” as EU
governments face constraints on public spending.  An EU statement of objections lays out the antitrust
agency’s case before it takes a final decision on whether the
companies violated the law. While the EU can impose fines of as
much as 10 percent of yearly sales, fines are usually based on
sales of the product involved.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 