-- Junk Bond Returns Slump on Europe Sales Glut as High-Grade Loses
-- B y   H a n n a h   B e n j a m i n
-- 2013-01-31T18:02:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/junk-bond-risk-climbs-in-europe-as-january-issues-reach-record.html
Junk bonds in Europe headed for the
lowest monthly gains since May, and high-grade debt was poised
for its first loss in seven months, amid signs the market is
getting indigestion after a surge in sales.  Speculative-grade bonds in euros handed investors 0.66
percent this month, the lowest return since losing 2.3 percent
in May, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s Euro High
Yield Constrained Index. Investment-grade notes shed 1.2
percent, the first losses since June and the biggest decline
since November 2011, the U.S. bank’s Euro Corporate Index shows.  Junk-rated, non-financial companies sold 6.8 billion euros
($9.2 billion) of bonds in January, the most ever for the month,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. The cost of insuring against
default on this debt jumped to the highest all year as
bondholders seeking higher-yielding investments hedged against
losses on their purchases.  “We’ve seen signs of indiscriminate risk appetite where
some people will buy anything because it’s the only yield game
in town,” said Simon Ballard, a senior credit strategist at
National Australia Bank in London. “The market’s balked a
little bit at some of the weaker, tightly priced opportunistic
transactions and the risk now is when everyone wakes up to this
we could see a risk-averse panic reaction in the market.”  Debt Risk  The  Markit iTraxx Crossover Index  of credit-default swaps
on 50 companies with mostly speculative-grade ratings rose to
443 basis points as of 5:15 p.m. in London, from 439 yesterday.
That’s also up from 419 basis points at the end of last week and
438 on Jan. 2, according to prices compiled by Bloomberg.  Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange
for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
borrower fail to adhere to its debt agreements. A basis point on
a contract protecting 10 million euros of debt for five years is
equivalent to 1,000 euros a year.  Unitymedia Hessen GmbH & Co. KG’s 500 million euros of
5.125 percent bonds dropped 2.1 percent since they were sold on
Jan. 16, Bloomberg data show. The price of the German medical
equipment maker Fresenius SE & Co’s 2.875 percent bonds fell 1.1
percent since Jan. 10. That deal offered the lowest coupon among
high-yield issues this year.  Swedish security company Securitas Direct AB added 100
million euros to its existing junk floating-rate notes due
September 2018, Bloomberg data show. High-yield debt is graded
below Baa3 by Moody’s Investors Service and BBB- by Standard &
Poor’s and Fitch Ratings.  Investment-grade debt sales totaled 22.5 billion euros this
month, the most since January 2009, Bloomberg data show. The
biggest deal was  Telefonica SA (TEF) ’s 1.5 billion-euro issue of 10-
year notes on Jan. 8 and that’s now the worst-performing among
corporate notes sold this year, dropping 4.59 euro cents to
95.41, Bloomberg prices show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hannah Benjamin in London at 
 hbenjamin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  