-- Kasich Wants $300 Million School Grants Similar to Obama’s
-- B y   M a r k   N i q u e t t e
-- 2013-01-31T20:31:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/kasich-wants-300-million-school-grants-reminiscent-of-obama-s.html
Ohio  Governor  John Kasich  is
proposing a $300 million program that resembles President  Barack Obama ’s Race to the Top plan by allowing schools to apply for
grants to fund innovative ideas.  The initiative, which the first-term Republican calls the
“Straight-A Fund,” is part of an education plan that he
described today in Columbus. It’s part of the two-year state
budget proposal he is to release Feb. 1.  “It’s going to allow you to take chances to be able to
innovate, to be able to remake your schools,” Kasich said in a
presentation to Ohio administrators today.  Schools would apply for one-time grants evaluated by an
independent entity to pay for ideas to increase achievement,
modernize operations and reduce costs,  Richard Ross , Kasich’s
lead education adviser, said in a conference call with reporters
today.  Kasich’s plan is different than the federal $5 billion Race
to the Top, which lets states that implement specific policy
changes compete for money, Ross said. Ohio’s plan would require
that changes be sustainable and doesn’t dictate other actions,
he said.  “We want the best ideas to bubble up from our districts,
not be forced down from the top,” said Barbara Mattei-Smith,
Kasich’s assistant policy director for education.  On Hold  New York ,  New Jersey  and other states have offered similar
competitive grant programs for schools in the past, though not
in recent years because of the economic downturn, said Dan
Domenech, executive director of the  American Association  of
School Administrators in  Washington .  Still, superintendents would rather have education dollars
distributed according to a formula, Domenech said in a telephone
interview.  “When you do competitive grants, only a few get the
dollars and the majority of the districts don’t,” Domenech
said.  Besides creating the grant fund, Kasich said his plan would
address disparities in wealth across districts, as well as
provide additional money for poor areas and for disabled and
gifted students.  The governor’s proposal also calls for offering vouchers
for students in kindergarten or first grade to attend private
school if their family’s income falls below 200 percent of the
federal poverty line, or $46,100 a year for a family of four.  The plan would guarantee that each district receives at
least as much state funding in the coming two-year budget as in
the previous two years, Kasich said.  Kasich reduced funding in the current budget, prompting
schools to seek $1.1 billion in local tax levies since May 2011
to keep staff and programs, according to a Jan. 29 report by
Innovation Ohio, a nonprofit led by Janetta King, a former aide
to ex-Governor  Ted Strickland , a Democrat.  The legislature must pass a spending plan by June 30.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Niquette in Columbus  at 
 mniquette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  