-- Kate Moss Sulks, Shard Views, Trey Songz: London Weekend
-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 2013-02-01T15:06:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/kate-moss-sulks-shard-views-trey-songz-croons-london-weekend.html
Trey Songz is on a mission to woo
Londoners with his R&B tenor voice.  The 28-year-old R&B singer, born Tremaine Aldon Neverson,
will showcase singles such as “Heart Attack,” which has earned
him a third Grammy nomination, this time for best R&B song. He’s
promoting his album “Chapter V,” which includes “Simply
Amazing,” a hit single in the U.K.  HMV Hammersmith Apollo, 45 Queen Caroline Street, W6 9QH:
 http://venues.meanfiddler.com/apollo/home  or +44-844-844-4748,
 http://www.treysongz.com/ .  Saturday  Shoot up to the top of the  Shard  starting this weekend --if
you can spare 24.95 pounds ($40) per pre-booked adult ticket.  The European Union’s tallest building, designed by Renzo Piano, is finally open to visitors. On a clear day, you can see
all the way to Windsor Castle. This being London, you’re
likelier to get a high, hazy view of the river and landmarks
near London Bridge. What strikes you most is the capital city’s
haphazard development: Victorian smokestacks spouting off
archaically beside state-of-the-art office towers.  Sneak into the top-floor bathrooms (reserved for the
elderly or less mobile) for some plunging views. And in the
shop, look for furry replicas of Romeo, a fox cub that climbed
to the top of the Shard in 2011 and lived for two weeks on
workers’ leftovers until he was gently escorted out.  Information:  http://www.theviewfromtheshard.com  or +44-844-
999-7111.  Magdalen is a low-key restaurant near the Shard serving
seasonal dishes using British ingredients. It belongs to
husband-and-wife team James and Emma Faulks. He previously
worked at the Fat Duck; she was a pastry chef at the Mandarin
Oriental. Chef David Abbott is from Le Manoir Aux Quat’Saisons.
It’s informal and inexpensive. Information:
 http://www.magdalenrestaurant.co.uk/  or +44-20-7403-1342.  Saturday Night  Robin is a poor little rich kid -- an upper-class crackhead
hanging out at the family manor.  In Polly Stenham’s “No Quarter,” he helps his dementia-
afflicted mother commit suicide, and then finds out she’s sold
the home he was hoping to move into. So he throws a wild party.  The  play  gives Stenham a chance to expose the privileged
classes’ propensity to produce ill-adjusted children. It ends
Feb. 9 at the  Royal Court Theatre . Information:
 http://www.royalcourttheatre.com  or +44-20-7565-5000.  Olivo, a short walk from the Royal Court, serves Sardinian
cuisine including pasta, meat and fish dishes. The cooking is
authentic, and you’d be lucky to find a restaurant this good in
Sardinia:  http://olivorestaurants.com  or +44-20-7730-2505.  If you’d rather hear Hollywood royalty perform great
American songs, see Lorna Luft, Judy Garland’s daughter.  She’ll urge you to fall in love -- “birds do it, bees do
it, even educated fleas do it” -- then sing a medley of tunes
that were never nominated for an Oscar, including one by “this
relative of mine” (“ New York  New York”).  If you’re lucky, she’ll look back to a childhood stay with
Mom at the Savoy in London, where, at Garland’s suggestion, they
went around switching all the pairs of shoes that guests had
left outside their door for shining.  At the new Crazy Coqs cabaret, Sherwood Street W1, Friday
and Saturday nights:  http://www.brasseriezedel.com/crazy-coqs .  Crazy Coqs is at Brasserie Zedel, owned by the same people
as the Wolseley. It’s a beautiful space, and the prices are
rock-bottom, including a two-course meal for 8.75 pounds.
Information: +44-20-7734-4888 or  http://www.brasseriezedel.com/ .  Sunday  Vivienne Westwood bares all at the  Institute of
Contemporary Arts .  The flamboyant fashion designer, 71, wears nothing but red
lipstick in a series of recent photographs by Juergen Teller.
Her giant, gold-framed likenesses are shocking at first -- until
you realize a younger woman in similar photos would barely raise
an eyebrow.  The Westwood shots, along with a black-and-white portrait
of the late Kurt Cobain, are the best things in Teller’s show.
The rest is glorified fashion photography: grainy, overexposed
images of celebrities such as Kate Moss, who mopes in a
wheelbarrow. As for Teller’s own nude self-portraits, they
shock, but unlike Westwood’s, add nothing to the conversation.  At the ICA (The Mall, SW1Y 5AH), which is drawing far more
visitors than usual. Information:  http://www.ica.org.uk  or call
+44-20-7930-3647.  (Farah Nayeri writes for Muse, the arts and leisure section
of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include  Jason Harper  on cars,  Rich
Jaroslovsky  on tech,  Lance Esplund  on U.S. art shows and  Jorg
von Uthmann  on Paris arts.  To contact the writer on this story:
Farah Nayeri in London  at
 farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 