-- Kenya Shilling Gains Most in 5 Months as Bank Receive Fewer Bids
-- B y   J o h n s t o n e   O l e   T u r a n a
-- 2013-01-31T16:08:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/kenya-shilling-gains-most-in-5-months-as-bank-receive-fewer-bids.html
  Kenya ’s shilling gained for the
second day, strengthening the most in almost five months, as the
central bank received fewer bids for repurchase agreements than
the amount it offered.  The currency of East Africa’s biggest economy appreciated
0.5 percent to close at 87.10 per dollar, gaining the most since
Sept 5., according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The Central Bank of Kenya accepted all 200 million
shillings ($2.3 million) of seven-day repurchase agreements
today, having offered 4 billion shillings, an official who asked
not to be identified in line with policy, said by phone. The
bank uses the sales to withdraw money supply from the market and
support the shilling.  “The shilling reprieve is due to the prevailing tight
liquidity in the market occasioned by continuous removal of
money by the central bank and businesses paying their bills,”
Jeremiah Kendagor, head of trading at Nairobi-based Kenya
Commercial Bank Ltd., said today. “Businesses are paying wages
and utility bills, slowing down demand for the dollar.”  The central bank also sold 1.7 billion shillings of three-
month treasury bills today, having offered 4 billion shillings.  The bank, which sold dollars to support the shilling from
Jan. 22 through Jan 29., didn’t sell international currency for
a second day today, an official in the bank’s foreign-exchange
department, who also asked not to be identified in line with
policy, said by phone.  The shilling has fallen 1.2 percent this month, a third
month of losses, ahead of elections in March, the first since a
disputed 2007 poll sparked two months of violence in which more
than 1,100 people died. The shilling may fall 1.8 percent to 89
per dollar, according to a Bloomberg News survey of eight
analysts and traders on Jan. 23.  Tanzania’s shilling depreciated for a third day, weakening
less than 0.1 percent to close at 1,618 per dollar, the lowest
since Dec 13, 2011, while the Ugandan shilling closed unchanged
at 2,660 per dollar.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johnstone Ole Turana in Nairobi at 
 jturana@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  