-- Kingfisher’s Irish Unit Gets Court Protection as Sales Slump
-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n   a n d   D a r a   D o y l e
-- 2013-01-31T16:23:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/kingfisher-s-irish-unit-gets-court-protection-as-sales-slump-1-.html
Kingfisher Plc (KGF) ,  Europe ’s largest
home-improvement chain, obtained court protection for the Irish
unit of its B&Q chain as it seeks to save the business.  The retailer, which entered Ireland 11 years ago, appointed
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as interim examiner for the chain,
giving it protection from creditors, Kingfisher said today.  Nine of Kingfisher’s more than 1,000 stores are located in
Ireland, where sales have slumped amid rising unemployment and
falling house prices. The chain generated sales of 80 million
pounds ($126 million) last year, compared with group revenue of
10.8 billion pounds, Kingfisher said.  “The management team is hopeful that a sustainable
business can emerge from the examinership process, based on a
restructuring of the company,” B&Q Ireland Chairman Brian
Mooney said in an e-mailed statement.  The chain will continue to trade, and all pre-paid goods
and services will be honoured along with gift vouchers and
credit notes, the company said. At least two stores will close
and another two may shut as it renegotiates leases.  Irish retail sales have fallen by about 20 percent since
2008, according to the  Central Statistics Office , as  home prices 
plunged, unemployment almost tripled and the government raised
taxes and cut spending to narrow the largest deficit in western
Europe. Last year, consumer sentiment fell the most in the 17-
year history of an index compiled by KBC Bank Ireland and the
Economic and Social Research Institute.  Irish landlords will force more retailers “over the edge”
with a policy of upward-only rent reviews, trade organization
Retail Excellence Ireland said in an e-mailed statement today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Shannon in  London  at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dara Doyle at 
 ddoyle1@bloomberg.net  