-- KKR, Apax Said to Team Up for Vivendi’s GVT Against DirecTV
-- B y   C r i s t i a n e   L u c c h e s i ,   S e r e n a   S a i t t o   a n d   D a v i d   C a r e y
-- 2013-01-31T19:49:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/kkr-apax-said-to-team-up-for-vivendi-s-gvt-against-directv.html
Private-equity firms including  KKR &
Co. (KKR)  and Apax Partners LLP are teaming up to bid against  DirecTV (DTV) 
to acquire Vivendi SA’s GVT phone unit in Brazil, people with
knowledge of the matter said.  The group, which would also include Gavea Investimentos
Ltda, owned by  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , and Cambuhy Investimentos
Ltda is willing to pay as much as 5 billion euros ($6.8 billion)
for the company, compared with  Vivendi’s (VIV)  asking price of about 8
billion euros, said one of the people, who asked not to be named
because the talks are private. Grupo BTG Pactual is still
considering whether to join the bid, the people said.  The private-equity group will obtain a loan of 6 billion
reais ($3 billion) from Sao Paulo-based  Banco Bradesco SA (BBDC4)  to
finance the acquisition, another person said. A representative
for  Banco Bradesco  declined to comment.  DirecTV, the largest U.S. satellite-television provider,
remains interested in buying GVT and may be able to come closer
to Vivendi’s asking price because of the efficiencies the deal
would create, according to another person familiar with the
situation. DirecTV is counting on surging demand for pay-TV and
Internet service in Latin America as growth subsides in its home
market. The company lost clients for the first time in the U.S.
in the second quarter of last year.  “I see it as a nice-to-have, not a must-have,” DirecTV
Chief Executive Officer Mike White, 61, said at a Jan. 8
investor conference. “There are synergies, but it’s still a
work in process, and I can’t yet tell you whether the synergies
are big enough for me to get comfortable that they can more than
offset the premium. All that depends on the price.”  Second Round  Potential buyers are preparing for the second round of bids
in the auction, which may be concluded by the end of February,
said one of the people familiar with the situation.  Representatives for Vivendi, Apax, KKR and BTG Pactual
declined to comment. A representative for DirecTV didn’t respond
to a message seeking comment. A spokesman for JPMorgan declined
to comment on Gavea Investimentos’s plans, while calls made to
Cambuhy Investimentos weren’t answered.  GVT, which Vivendi acquired for $4.18 billion in 2009 after
trumping a bid from Spain’s  Telefonica SA (TEF) , has helped drive
revenue growth at the Paris-based media company and may be worth
5.2 billion euros, according to estimates in April by Morgan
Stanley.  Vivendi, which hired Deutsche Bank AG, Rothschild and
Credit Suisse Group AG as financial advisers in August, might
also consider an initial public offering for GVT, one person
with knowledge of the situation said at the time.  Vivendi is also selling its 53 percent stake in Maroc
Telecom, which  Emirates Telecommunications Corp. (ETISALAT) , the Middle
East’s second-biggest phone company by market value, said
earlier this month it’s interested in.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cristiane Lucchesi in  Sao Paulo  at 
 clucchesi5@bloomberg.net ;
Serena Saitto in  New York  at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net ;
David Carey in New York at 
 dcarey13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Baumgaertel at +1-617-210-4624 or
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  