-- Kohl’s J-Lo Connection Invites LBO on Discount: Real M&A
-- B y   L i n d s e y   R u p p
-- 2013-01-31T21:18:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/kohl-s-j-lo-connection-invites-lbo-on-discount-real-m-a.html
After slashing prices over the
holidays,  Kohl’s Corp. (KSS)  itself could be picked up at a 42 percent
discount to its revenue.  Kohl’s fell this month to its lowest valuation relative to
revenue in more than four years after the retailer cut its
profit forecasts because of disappointing holiday sales and
steeper-than-planned price reductions. The  Menomonee Falls ,
Wisconsin-based company now trades at only 0.58 times sales and
at a cheaper multiple to profit than any other North American
department-store chain, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  With exclusive brands from  Jennifer Lopez  and  Vera Wang 
that help build customer loyalty and a free  cash flow  yield
that’s higher than the median of its peers, Kohl’s could be an
attractive buyout candidate for a private equity firm, Edward
Jones & Co. said. The company’s real estate also adds to its
appeal, Morningstar Inc. said. A takeover for Kohl’s, which has
an enterprise value of $14.5 billion, would be the biggest U.S.
retail deal since 2005, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “It’s a good, sound retailer,” Brian Yarbrough, an
analyst for Edward Jones in  St. Louis , said in a telephone
interview. “There’s been more talk of it being a private equity
play because it’s cheap and it’s not like the model’s broken or
it’s a bad business. The earnings power is there.”  Jen Johnson, a spokeswoman for Kohl’s, didn’t respond to a
phone call or e-mail seeking comment on whether the company
would be open to a sale.  Market Niche  Kohl’s runs more than 1,100 stores across the U.S., with
 annual sales  of about $19 billion and a focus on a slice of the
retail market that lies between high-end chains and discounters.  Shares of Kohl’s had their biggest-ever drop on Nov. 29,
tumbling 12 percent after the company said sales at stores open
more than a year declined in November, instead of rising as
analysts had forecast.  On Jan. 8, the  stock  touched its lowest level since July
2009 after Kohl’s cut its profit forecast for its fiscal fourth
quarter because of steeper-than-planned discounts during the
holiday season. The decline left Kohl’s valued at 0.53 times its
12-month trailing sales, the lowest since November 2008,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  At yesterday’s closing price of $45.73, Kohl’s enterprise
value was 5.2 times its earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization, the lowest among North American
department stores, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Today, Kohl’s shares rose 1.2 percent to $46.29, the fifth-
biggest gain among 33 stocks in the Standard & Poor’s 500
Retailing Index.  Renewing Excitement  The recent stock drop could attract buyout firms seeking to
improve operations, said Jeff Burchell, a Toronto-based  money
manager  at Aston Hill Financial Inc., which oversees about C$6
billion ($6 billion). He said he sold his Kohl’s shares in
October.  “You’re not paying a lot for the stock, so it does fit the
bill for someone coming in and saying, ‘OK, Kohl’s used to be a
great spot and it was exciting to go there,” Burchell said in a
phone interview. For a buyer who believes Kohl’s hasn’t become
irrelevant, then “with a new management team or an invigorated
management team with a new private equity sponsor, you could get
some excitement back.”  Buyers could also be drawn in by Kohl’s ability to generate
cash, as well as the company’s exclusive brand lines and private
apparel labels,  Edward Jones ’s Yarbrough said.  Private equity firms could utilize the  cash  that Kohl’s
throws off to help repay any borrowings used to finance a deal.  Cash Flow  The company had more than $900 million of  free cash flow 
in the last 12 months, the second highest of any North American
department store, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Its
free cash flow yield -- a measure of how much cash from
operations are generated relative to a company’s share price --
of 8.1 percent topped the median for the group of 6.4 percent,
the data show.  “That’s the number-one thing: the ability of cash flows to
support any new debt,”  Paul Swinand , a Chicago-based analyst
for Morningstar, said in a phone interview.  Morningstar, which said this week that Kohl’s is among its
top takeover candidates, also cited the company’s real estate
holdings. Kohl’s owned more than 400 of its stores as of last
year, according to its most recent annual earnings filing.  While Kohl’s could attract private equity firms, a buyout
could be a stretch given the company’s $4.6 billion in total
 debt  and other liabilities, said  Richard Jaffe , an analyst at
Stifel Nicolaus & Co. Paying a 30 percent premium, for instance,
and putting 20 percent cash down, a buyer might have to borrow
$10 billion to buy the retailer, he said, leaving little room
for error.  Big Deal  “You’ve got to get this business really working fast,
because you don’t have time for a down year,” said Jaffe, who
recommends buying the shares. Kohl’s has a good business that
can improve, Jaffe said, although growth is limited because it
already has more than 1,000 stores.  Even before accounting for a premium, Kohl’s $10.5 billion
in market value plus $4 billion in  net debt  would already rank
as the biggest deal for a U.S. retailer in eight years,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. In 2005, Federated
Department Stores Inc., now Macy’s Inc., bought May Department
Stores Co. for about $17 billion, the data show.  Still, buyout firms might have the wherewithal to tackle
even a deal of Kohl’s size, said Barry Arnold, a  fund manager  at
Delafield, Wisconsin-based Arnold Investment Counsel, which owns
Kohl’s shares.  Cash Hoards  “There’s plenty of cash sloshing around, so that’s not a
big problem,” Arnold said. Private equity funds have $360
billion of committed unspent capital dedicated to buyout funds
in the global market, according to data from research firm
Preqin Ltd.  Record-low borrowing costs in the market for  junk bonds ,
where LBOs are financed, and rising confidence in the financial
system are boosting bets that there will be more buyouts.  Dell
Inc. (DELL)  is in talks to be taken private in what would be the first
leveraged buyout to exceed $20 billion since 2007, according to
people with knowledge of the matter.  Arnold, who said he bought Kohl’s  shares  based on the
company’s merits and not its potential as a takeover target,
still sees the possibility of a deal.  “It’s an attractive company,” Arnold said. “Never say
never. But that would be icing on the cake.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lindsey Rupp in  New York  at 
 lrupp2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net  