-- Korean Won Drops as Government Considers Trading Tax; Bonds Gain
-- B y   S e y o o n   K i m
-- 2013-01-31T08:00:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/korean-won-drops-as-government-considers-trading-tax-bonds-gain.html
South Korea’s won fell for a second
day after Deputy Finance Minister Choi Jong Ku proposed taxes on
currency trading and bonds to limit “speculative” capital
inflows. Government debt advanced.  The currency had its first monthly drop since August
following pledges by officials to curb appreciation. It rose 8.3
percent in 2012, the most among 16 major currencies tracked by
Bloomberg, as global funds pumped $15.1 billion into local
stocks. The government wants to cut the “vicious cycle” in
which fast money inflows increase won volatility, Choi said
yesterday in  Seoul , adding that he sometimes questions whether a
flexible exchange rate is “appropriate” for South Korea.  “Authorities have made it clear they want to reduce the
volatility of the won,” said Yoo Hyen Jo, an analyst at Shinhan
Investment Corp. in Seoul. “Exporters are looking to sell
dollars to convert their proceeds, which will limit declines.”  The won fell 0.3 percent to 1,088.59 per dollar in Seoul,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The currency has
declined 2.2 percent this month. One-month implied volatility in
the won, a gauge of expected moves in the exchange rate used to
price options, rose 13 basis points, or 0.13 percentage point,
today to 7.91 percent and has climbed 305 basis points this
month, the most since May, the data show.  The government will soon decide on “tax measures that are
suitable for our market conditions,” Choi said. “South Korea
opposes a Tobin tax in its traditional form, as it could cause
unintended consequences in the market,” he said, referring to
the concept of a charge on international money flows and named
after James Tobin, the Nobel Prize-winning U.S. economist who
first suggested the idea in 1971.  The yield on South Korea’s 2.75 percent bonds due September
2017 dropped two basis points to 2.89 percent, Korea Exchange
prices show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Seyoon Kim in Seoul at 
 skim7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  