-- Kremlin Power Struggles, Palace Murders Thrill in Paris
-- B y   J o r g   v o n   U t h m a n n
-- 2013-01-31T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/kremlin-power-struggles-palace-murders-thrill-in-paris.html
Nobody knows why Franz Schubert left
his 8th symphony unfinished. Why Modest Mussorgsky didn’t
complete most of his operas is, by contrast, all too clear --
heavy drinking and slovenly work habits.  “Khovanshchina” is a case in point.  Most connoisseurs agree that this opera is, after “Boris
Godunov,” Mussorgsky’s masterpiece. Yet because of its glaring
gaps and incoherent libretto, written by the composer himself,
the work is rarely performed.  The production at the Bastille Opera was first seen in 2001
and then mothballed for 12 years. The revival is very much worth
seeing.  Like “Boris,” Khovanshchina deals with a dark chapter of
Russian history. The title could be translated as “The
Khovansky Plot.”  In 1682, Ivan Khovansky, the commander of the Streltsy, the
Czar’s elite units, tried to seize power, failed and was
murdered. Boris Golitsyn, the westernized lover of the regent
Sophia, became the new power broker at the Kremlin.  He too was eventually removed from office and Sophia’s
half-brother Peter, later known as Peter the Great, ascended the
throne.  Religious Bickering  Mussorgsky mixes the political intrigues with a more or
less simultaneous quarrel within the Orthodox Church, turning
reformers against the Raskolniki, or Old Believers.  For Westerners unfamiliar with the twists and turns of
Russian history, this is confusing stuff, and Mussorgsky does
little to assist them. Instead of telling a straightforward
story, he presents a succession of loosely connected tableaux.  The musical side is no less confusing. After Mussorgsky’s
early death, his friend Nikolai Rimsky-Korsakov stepped in and
completed the score for the 1886 premiere, recomposing and axing
large amounts of music that he found sub-par.  Parisians saw the opera for the first time in 1913 in a new
version reworked by Maurice Ravel and Igor Stravinsky,
commissioned by Sergei Diaghilev.  The production at the Bastille Opera is based on yet
another revision by Dmitri Shostakovich, the one now generally
used by opera houses. (The best among the more recent
recordings, conducted by Claudio Abbado, uses the Shostakovich
score with Stravinsky’s finale.)  No Putin  Mercifully, Andrei Serban, the director, hasn’t fallen into
the trap of updating the story to present-day  Russia  with its
tug-of-war between the authoritarian Putin clan and the more
liberal Medvedev faction.  Nor does he draw a parallel between the religious struggle
in the 17th century and the fight of modern iconoclasts against
an increasingly reactionary Orthodox Church.  What you see is a semi-abstract, disarmingly conventional
set (Richard Hudson) with fairy-tale costumes in vivid colors,
with icons, onion domes and perpetual crossings of forehead and
chest.  Serban is no Eisenstein who, in his movie “Ivan the
Terrible,” portrayed the sinister power struggles in Moscow
with an almost demonic theatricality. At the Bastille Opera, we
never get beyond picturesque cliches.  Heroic Chorus  Unlike Boris Godunov, Khovanshchina has no hero, unless you
bestow that honor on the ubiquitous, and excellent, chorus.  All the soloists have been imported from Eastern Europe.
The best of the lot are Orlin Anastassov’s imposing Dosifei, the
leader of the Old Believers, Vsevolod Grivnov’s suitably
neurotic Golitsyn and Sergei Murzaev’s vigorous Shaklovity,
Khovansky’s rival and eventual successor.  Khovansky himself (Gleb Nikolsky) sounds a bit strained.
The two holdovers from the 2001 premiere, Vladimir Galusin as
Khovansky’s lecherous son Andrei, and Larissa Diadkova as Marfa,
Andrei’s discarded lover who leads the Old Believers to their
final self-immolation, may have sounded fresher 12 years ago,
yet they’re still pretty impressive.  Michail Jurowski, a 67-year-old Shostakovich specialist,
making a belated debut at the Paris Opera, provides a firm,
atmospheric reading of the score.  Rating: ***.  “Khovanshchina” is in repertory through Feb. 9.
Information:  http://www.operadeparis.fr .  (Jorg von Uthmann is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Muse highlights include  Jason Harper  on cars,  Rich
Jaroslovsky  on tech,  Lance Esplund  on U.S. art shows and  Farah
Nayeri’s  London weekend.  To contact the writer of this review:
Jorg von Uthmann in Paris at  uthmann@wanadoo.fr .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at  mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 