-- Nasdaq Reports Profit Exceeding Forecasts After Cost Cuts
-- B y   I n y o u n g   H w a n g   a n d   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r
-- 2013-01-31T21:28:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/nasdaq-earnings-beat-forecasts-amid-cost-cutting.html
Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ) , the second-
largest U.S. equity exchange, reported fourth-quarter earnings
that beat analysts’ estimates after the company cut costs amid a
decline in stock-market trading.  Profit in the three months ended Dec. 31 jumped to $85
million, or 50 cents a share, from $82 million, or 45 cents, in
the fourth quarter of 2011. Excluding some costs, New York-based
 Nasdaq  OMX said it earned 64 cents a share, more than the 61-
cent average estimate of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. The
stock gained 1.3 percent to $28.32 in New York today, the
highest level since April 2011.  Chief Executive Officer  Robert Greifeld  is re-organizing
business units and cutting costs as revenue from trading shrinks
around the world. The exchange is expanding into derivatives,
setting up a new London-based market and buying a 25 percent
stake in a Dutch alternative trading system focused on stocks
and equity derivatives.  “For 2013, we are looking at relatively flat costs for the
underlying business,” Greifeld said in a telephone interview
today. “We have a reputation for under-promising and over-
delivering.”  NYSE Takeover  Nasdaq OMX’s biggest rival,  NYSE Euronext (NYX) , agreed last
month to be acquired by futures bourse IntercontinentalExchange
Inc. in a move that underscored the growing importance of
derivatives. Greifeld said on a conference call today that he
doesn’t see competition changing as a result of the deal.  “We compete aggressively with NYSE today, we expect that
to continue post the acquisition,” he said. “We don’t compete
with ICE today, and we don’t see that changing either.”  For the fourth quarter, operating  expenses  fell to $244
million from $259 million in the quarter a year ago. Nasdaq said
total operating expenses for 2013 will be in the range of $960
million to $990 million, including $50 million to $60 million in
spending on new initiatives.  “Both higher revenue and lower expenses combined to drive
the beat” of analysts’ forecasts, Chris Ross, an analyst at JMP
Securities in  New York , said in a note today. He has a  market
outperform  recommendation on Nasdaq. “We expect shares to
outperform today.”  Net  revenue  for the quarter excluding rebates, clearing and
other fees was $419 million, the company said. That compares
with $420 million the same time a year ago.  Fund Flows  About $22 billion flowed into stock funds around the world
in the week ended Jan. 9, the second-highest rate on record,
according to data compiled by research firm EPFR Global going
back to 1996. Funds took in money after the FTSE World index
rose more than 3 percent in the first week of 2013, while the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index reached a five-year high.  Average daily volume  for equities listed on all U.S.
exchanges was 6.07 billion shares in the fourth quarter, 18
percent down from a year earlier, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Nasdaq OMX received 40 cents per 1,000 shares changing
hands in U.S. equities during the fourth quarter, up 2 cents
from the prior three months, for the highest level since the
first quarter of 2011, the company said in a  statement  on Jan.
10. Its so-called revenue capture for each U.S. options contract
traded was 17 cents, a decline from 18 cents in the third
quarter.  The company announced plans last year to start an interest-
rate derivatives trading platform in London as it seeks to
expand in the region and diversify its business. The platform,
known as NLX, is seeking to grab more than 10 percent of
transactions in the U.K. during its first year of operation.  “We are making progress with NLX,” Greifeld said. “We
are keenly aware that it’s not an easy task, but we are
receiving wide encouragement from customers.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Inyoung Hwang in New York at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net ;
Nandini Sukumar in  London  at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  