-- Nestle Fined as Court Rules Food Company Spied on Activist Group
-- B y   D e r m o t   D o h e r t y
-- 2013-01-31T11:19:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/nestle-fined-as-court-rules-food-company-spied-on-activist-group.html
Nestle SA (NESN)  and Securitas AG must pay
about $29,000 to Attac in Switzerland after a court found that
the companies illegally infiltrated and spied on the anti-free-
market group 10 years ago.  The civil lawsuit was filed by Attac, which claimed Vevey,
Switzerland-based Nestle and Securitas AG, a Swiss security
company unrelated to Securitas AB, infiltrated the activist
group in 2003, according to a statement on  Attac’s Swiss
website .  “We have taken note of the judge’s decision regarding
Attac’s civil complaint with disappointment,” Robin Tickle, a
spokesman for Nestle, said in an e-mailed statement.
“Incitement to infiltration is against Nestle’s business
principles,” and the Swiss company will take “appropriate
action” if a Nestle employee has acted “negligently.”  Attac  said it filed both criminal and civil cases after a
Swiss television report in 2008 said the group had been
infiltrated by a Securitas employee on behalf of Nestle as it
was preparing a book on the food company. The court on Jan. 25
ruled that Nestle and the security company should pay 3,000
Swiss francs ($3,300) to each of the claimants involved. The
criminal case was dropped in 2009, Attac said.  “It’s not very positive for Nestle’s reputation overall,
but it has been several years and nothing new, so overall not a
big issue for the company,” said Jean-Philippe Bertschy, an
analyst at Bank Vontobel in Zurich. “The reported fine puts
things in perspective as well.”  Attac, the Association for the Taxation of Financial
Transactions and Aid to Citizens, was founded in Paris in 1998
and now has branches in about 40 countries. The network aims to
develop social, ecological and democratic alternatives to “neo-
liberal globalization,” according to its website.  Securitas AG is not part of Securitas AB, which owns
Protectas in  Switzerland , according to a Securitas AB  website .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dermot Doherty in Geneva at 
 ddoherty9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  