-- New Zealand Dollar Gains as Central Bank Expects Economic Growth
-- B y   T a y l o r   T e p p e r
-- 2013-01-31T22:02:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/new-zealand-dollar-gains-as-central-bank-expects-economic-growth.html
The  New Zealand dollar  gained against
all but one of its 16 most-traded partners after the nation’s
central bank said that it expects economic recovery.  The Australian dollar strengthened versus a majority of its
major peers as economists predict that a report will show
China’s manufacturing expanded this month. China is Australia’s
largest trading partner.  “Although the current outlook for the Aussie is generally
fraught with bearishness, China could prove a positive wild card
for the resource-linked unit, if the recovery under way in the
world’s second-largest economy were to show signs of
acceleration, boding a better outlook for demand of Australian
exports,”  Joe Manimbo , a market analyst for Western Union
Business Solutions, wrote in a note to clients.  The New Zealand dollar, nicknamed the kiwi, advanced 1
percent to 76.93 yen yesterday, after reaching the highest level
since August 2008. The kiwi gained 0.4 percent to 83.88 cents.  Australia’s dollar added 0.8 percent to 95.61 yen and rose
0.1 percent to $1.0425.  Reserve Bank  of New Zealand Governor Graeme Wheeler said in
a statement that global growth is set to recover in 2013, after
leaving the benchmark  interest rate  unchanged at 2.5 percent.
The central bank “does not want to see financial stability or
inflation risks accentuated by housing demand getting too far
ahead of supply,” he said.  The Purchasing Managers’ Index for China’s manufacturing
may rise to 51 in January, the highest since April, from 50.6
last month, according to the median estimate of economists
surveyed by  Bloomberg News .  The kiwi rose 1.1 percent during the past month among the
10 developed-nation currencies monitored by the Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The Aussie fell 0.1 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Taylor Tepper in  New York  at 
 ttepper2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  