-- Newell Rubbermaid Goes After $127 Billion Health Market: Retail
-- B y   L a u r e n   C o l e m a n - L o c h n e r
-- 2013-01-31T15:24:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/newell-rubbermaid-goes-after-127-billion-health-market-retail.html
With sales of medical equipment and
services projected to grow 36 percent in the next five years,
companies best known for detergent and diapers are cashing in.  Newell Rubbermaid Inc. (NWL)  is making a push into telemedicine.
Clorox Co. and  Kimberly-Clark (KMB)  Corp. are both angling to become
go-to suppliers of disinfectants for hospitals. Procter & Gamble
Co. operates a concierge medicine service for patients willing
to pay as much as $1,800 a year.  Consumer-product companies have poured billions of dollars
into innovation and are struggling to find growth in their
traditional businesses so it makes sense to “bleed into
something that’s scientific or health-and-wellness related”
said  Ali Dibadj , a Sanford C. Bernstein analyst.  The “medicalization” of P&G, Newell and Clorox will
accelerate as they try to move beyond such easy-to-replicate
products as detergent, said Dibadj, who’s based in New York.  As the U.S. population ages, spending for “other medical
products,” a category that includes some medical equipment and
professional services, will expand 36 percent to $127.2 billion
in the next five years, according to projections from the
Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services.  The new Patient Protection and Affordable Health Care Act,
with its mandates to reduce hospital stays and readmissions,
coordinate care and boost efficiency and access, will accelerate
demand, too.  Portable Systems  When Inova Health Care Services was looking for
telemedicine equipment for its chain of hospitals in  Virginia 
recently, it bought it from Newell, a company best known for
storage containers, Sharpie pens and Aprica strollers. Newell
has built a thriving business selling portable systems that
allow doctors to treat patients hundreds of miles away.  Ten of the 12 analysts covering Newell rate the company
buy, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The  shares  have
gained 25 percent in the 12 months through Jan. 29, compared
with 15 percent for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Consumer Staples
Index. Newell fell 0.9 percent to $23.44 at 10:22 a.m in New
York today.  Newell Rubbermaid’s move into telemedicine evolved out of a
decade long business of supplying medical record carts to
hospitals. With the technology, several doctors in various
locations can communicate at once. The telemedicine carts sell
for $8,000 to more than $30,000 apiece.  Newell Priority  When Mike Polk became chief executive officer in 2011, he
identified health care as a priority and late last year
appointed a strategist and a team to steer growth in the area.
Telemedicine will be a “much bigger” and faster-growing market
than medical records, Dave Pirkle, head of the healthcare
division, said in a telephone interview. The company’s medical
unit is “rapidly approaching” annual sales of $100 million,
the company says.  Clorox (CLX)  has been acquiring companies that make infection-
control products. The company’s health-care business is now
generating $100 million in sales a year, according to Chief
Executive Officer Don Knauss.  In an interview last year, Knauss called health-care “the
No. 1 priority” for acquisitions and said he expects the sector
to become a $300 million business. Kimberly-Clark has its own
hospital disinfection unit and says health-care sales grew to
$1.6 billion, or 7.7 percent of total revenue, last year,
compared with $1.2 billion, or 6.3 percent, in 2008.  Kimberly-Clark shares have gained 24 percent in the 12
months through Jan. 29, compared with 15 percent for Clorox.  Radical Departure  Compared with its peers,  P&G (PG)  has taken the most radical
departure with its move into upscale concierge medicine. MDVIP,
as the service is called, charges patients an annual fee of
$1,500 to $1,800 for access to primary care doctors with limited
caseloads, sophisticated screening tests for such conditions as
cardiac disease, and affiliations with leading hospitals,
including the  Mayo Clinic . Within the next decade, P&G plans to
turn MDVIP into a $1 billion brand to rival such franchises as
Tide and Gillette.  MDVIP is still small for a company that had $84 billion in
sales last year. To put the medical services in perspective, P&G
has 26 brands that each pull in $1 billion in sales a year, or
more. Pampers alone accounts for $10 billion in annual sales.
Still, finding higher-growth businesses could be key longer term
and medical services holds particular promise as affluent baby
boomers age.  Mr. Clean  P&G bought a stake in MDVIP in 2007 and full ownership in
late 2009 for an undisclosed amount, part of its push into
services that include Tide Dry Cleaners and Mr. Clean Car
Washes. While executives won’t disclose revenues, MDVIP has
200,000 patients paying a minimum of $1,500 and is already
tallying sales in the hundreds of millions.  Unit president Mark Murrison says the business has a 92
percent renewal rate -- higher than Costco’s U.S. rate of 90
percent --  and is adding about 100 doctors a year. MDVIP is a
natural extension of P&G’s push in health-care, Murrison says.
With fourth-fifths of medical spending on the non-product side,
“if you’re going to be a strong player, playing in services is
a critical piece.”  “These household-products companies are in categories that
aren’t growing that much,” said Jack Russo, an analyst at
Edward Jones & Co.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lauren Coleman-Lochner in  New York  at 
 llochner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  