-- News Corp. Said to Face New Phone-Hacking Suits After Deadline
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2013-01-31T16:41:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/news-corp-said-to-face-new-phone-hacking-suits-after-deadline.html
News Corp. (NWSA) ’s U.K. publishing unit
faces at least six new lawsuits by victims of tabloid phone
hacking even after a court-issued deadline passed for filing
such cases, according to two people familiar with the matter.  The new victims will seek permission at a Feb. 8 hearing in
London to join a group civil trial scheduled for June, said the
people, who asked not to be identified or disclose the names of
the victims because the lawsuits aren’t yet public.  If Judge Geoffrey Vos approves the request, the victims
will join about two dozen others who haven’t reached settlements
with the News Corp. unit that published the News of the World
tabloid at the center of the phone-hacking scandal.  News Corp. Chairman  Rupert Murdoch  closed the newspaper in
July 2011 in response to public anger over revelations it
intercepted the mobile-phone voice mail of murdered schoolgirl
Milly Dowler a decade ago. Prosecutors overseeing criminal cases
against some of the tabloid’s ex-employees have said the title
victimized more than 600 people between 2000 and 2006.  While the deadline for suing expired in September, causing
a rush of last-minute filings, the Metropolitan Police Service
is still contacting potential victims based on searches of
thousands of pages of evidence seized from  Glenn Mulcaire , the
tabloid’s former private detective who hacked phones.  The Met, which is probing phone hacking and bribery at News
Corp.’s U.K. titles, has previously said there were nearly 4,800
potential victims to contact, more than half of which had been
reached by July 2012.  The police force’s press office didn’t immediately return a
call to comment on updated figures. A spokeswoman for News
International, News Corp.’s U.K. unit, also didn’t immediately
respond to a call seeking comment.  In the past two months, at least 133 victims settled,
including  Cherie Blair , the wife of former Prime Minister  Tony Blair , and Ted Beckham, the father of soccer player  David Beckham . British actor  Hugh Grant , one of the most vocal critics
of the scandal, also settled his case instead of going to trial.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  