-- Nickel Jumps to 3-Month High as Steelmakers Stock Up on Growth
-- B y   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z
-- 2013-01-31T15:30:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/nickel-jumps-to-3-month-high-as-steelmakers-stock-up-on-growth.html
Nickel rose to a three-month high in
London as stainless steelmakers, the biggest users, stocked up
on metal amid signs of recovering economic growth. Copper fell.  U.S. and European stainless steel producers may restock in
the first quarter, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said in a Jan. 24
report. Canceled warrants, or orders to remove metal from
warehouses, almost doubled this month, an indication that
inventories will start to decline. U.S. consumer spending
climbed in December as incomes grew the most in eight year, a
Commerce Department report showed today in  Washington .  “We might be seeing some restocking by stainless steel
mills and consumers,” said  David Wilson , an analyst at
Citigroup Inc. in London. “It usually happens at this time of
year but there hasn’t been much sign of it until now.”  Nickel for delivery in three months jumped as much as 1.1
percent to $18,575 a metric ton on the London Metal Exchange,
the highest since Oct. 5, and was at $18,563 a ton by 10:22 a.m.
in  New York . Nickel rose 8.3 percent this month, leading gains
for the six main metals on the LME after being the only one to
drop last year.  Copper futures dropped 0.1 percent to $3.7475 a pound on
the Comex in New York, trimming this year’s gain to 2.6 percent.  Nickel has climbed an average of 4.4 percent in January for
the past 10 years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “You see that in a number of the LME traded metals markets
that prices can be stronger in the first months of the year and
the  standard example is nickel,” said Duncan Hobbs, an analyst
at Macquarie Group Ltd. in  London . “You tend to see higher
output on average in the first and second quarters of the year
so people need to buy their materials in preparation for that.”  Aluminum, lead, zinc and tin rose.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  