-- Nigerian Banks May Shun Retail Bonds Amid Push for Transparency
-- B y   C h r i s   K a y
-- 2013-01-31T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/nigerian-banks-may-shun-retail-bonds-amid-push-for-transparency.html
Nigeria’s plan to expand bond trading
to retail investors in  Africa ’s most populous nation is likely
to be shunned by the banks that control 80 percent of a debt
market that has grown almost fourfold since 2007.  Trading, which was previously restricted to institutional
investors through the over-the-counter market, where banks and
brokers set prices with typical minimum trades of 100 million
naira ($636,000), begins today on the  Nigerian Stock Exchange. (NGSEINDX) 
Live prices will be provided on securities for retail investors.
 Access Bank Plc (ACCESS) , Nigeria’s fourth-largest lender, and  Fidelity
Bank Plc (FIDELITY)  aren’t participating and said retail bonds will be more
expensive than the OTC market.  The regulator of sub-Saharan Africa’s second-largest bourse
wants to bring bond trading under its control and improve
transparency, Securities & Exchange Commission Director General
Arunma Oteh said in a Dec. 21 interview. The introduction of
retail trading follows a “long drawn-out battle” between the
bourse and banks, which helped start bond trading, said Kunle Ezun, a Lagos-based fixed income and currencies analyst at
 Ecobank Transnational Inc. (ETI)   “The market operators who have acted as primary market
dealers or as market makers in the secondary market would want
to hold on strongly to the bond market,” Ezun said in e-mailed
comments on Jan. 29. “The banks have come a long way, building
the bond market from nothing, assuming market and operational
risks on behalf of the government.”  Low Demand  Nigeria’s bond market has rallied since JPMorgan Chase &
Co., the world’s biggest underwriter of emerging-market debt,
said in August it would add the country’s securities to its
benchmark GBI-EM index. Barclays Plc will add Nigeria to its
local-currency government bond index in March.  “There is isn’t much demand for bonds at the retail
level,” Dapo Olagunju, the Lagos-based group treasurer at
Access Bank, said in an e-mailed reply to questions on Jan. 28.
The appointed market makers “will have to draw pricing from the
OTC market, which essentially will make the trades on the
exchange more expensive relative to the OTC market.”  Yields on the Nigerian government’s 16.39 percent naira
debt due January 2022 have dropped 490 basis points since the
start of August to 11.26 percent, according to yesterday’s
prices compiled by Bloomberg. That compares with a 13 basis-
point decline in South African government bond yields due in
March 2021 to 6.53 percent over the period and 9 basis points
for 10-year notes to 6.86 percent.  Deepen Market  The exchange of Africa’s biggest oil producer is aiming for
a market value of $1 trillion by 2016 from $64.2 billion,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The volume and value of
stocks on the Nigerian bourse plunged following a debt crisis in
2008 and 2009 that threatened the country’s banking industry
with collapse.  Nigeria’s outstanding government bonds totalled 6.5
trillion naira at the end of last year, while the face value of
government bonds trading on the OTC market for the  week through
Jan. 11  was 285 billion naira, according to the Debt Management
Office in Abuja.  The retail market “does not replace the OTC trading,
rather it complements it and is there to deepen the bond
market,” Dipo Omotoso, assistant general manager of product
management at the exchange, said Jan. 30 in a phone interview
from Lagos, the commercial capital. “Awareness of fixed-income
securities is growing among the retail investors now and they’re
looking beyond traditional equities to other asset classes,
because of what happened in the aftermath of the 2008 crash.”  Collect Data  The bourse will wait three months after retail trading has
started to collect data on the size of the exchange driven
market, said Omotoso, declining to estimate potential
capitalization and average size of trades. An increase in
volumes will help reduce trading costs over time, the bourse’s
Omotoso said.  “For now banks would not be using the platform, the
platform would be mostly for stock brokers,” Uche Onwubuya, a
bond trader at Fidelity Bank, said in an e-mailed reply to
questions on Jan. 28. “Smaller chunks of bonds would be sold to
retail investors. Currently because of the huge volumes traded
in the normal OTC market, this market is dominated by banks and
pension fund administrators.”  The exchange appointed six market makers for fixed-income
securities on Jan. 15 in preparation for trading of the assets
on the local bourse. The market makers, who have to have 500
million naira in cash and easily traded assets, are Capital
Bancorp Plc and Cordros Capital Ltd., ESS/Dunn Loren Merrifield,
FSDH Securities Ltd., Greenwich Securities Ltd. and GTB
Securities Ltd. Traders and treasurers at banks including Skye
Bank Plc, First City Monument Bank Ltd. and Diamond Bank Plc,
didn’t immediately respond to e-mailed requests for comment.  “The banks haven’t done that much marketing at the retail
end,” said Olagunju. “The retail platform may be what is
needed to unlock the market.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Kay in Abuja at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  