-- Nintendo Falls After Cutting Outlook on Wii U Sales: Osaka Mover
-- B y   N a o k o   F u j i m u r a
-- 2013-01-31T10:37:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/nintendo-falls-after-cutting-outlook-on-wii-u-sales-osaka-mover.html
Nintendo Co., the world’s largest
maker of video-game machines, plunged the most in seven weeks in
Osaka trading after  forecasting  a second straight operating loss
on lower-than-expected sales of its consoles and players.  Nintendo fell 4.6 percent, the most since Dec. 11, to 8,920
yen. The Kyoto, Japan-based company yesterday said it will
probably make an operating  loss  of 20 billion yen ($220 million)
in the year ending March 31, compared with an earlier forecast
for a profit of 20 billion yen.  The company cut its full-year forecast for Wii U sales to 4
million units from 5.5 million as it struggles to compete with
tablet computers made by Apple Inc. and Samsung Electronics Co.
Sales of the device, the industry’s first major new console
since 2006, have also been hit by delays in software
development, President Satoru Iwata told reporters today in
 Tokyo .  “Nintendo isn’t offering something that makes consumers
want to buy,” said Ichiro Takamatsu, a Tokyo-based  fund manager 
at Bayview Asset Management, which oversees 150 billion yen.
“Nintendo should beef up measures to reward shareholders if the
company can’t expect sales to recover.”  Nintendo also lowered its full-year forecast for 3DS
handheld player sales to 15 million units from 17.5 million. The
full-year sales estimate for Wii U software was cut to 16
million units from 24 million, and the 3DS software sales target
was pared to 50 million from 70 million.  Wii U, 3DS  “We haven’t been able to convey the product value of the
Wii U,” said Iwata, adding that the company “struggled the
most in the U.S.” The company sold 12.7 million units of the
3DS and 3.06 million Wii Us in the nine months ended Dec. 31.  Nintendo has no plans to cut the price of the new console
and will “aggressively” release new games in the second half
of the year, Iwata said. He also said he is “committed” to
targeting  operating profit  of at least 100 billion yen in the
fiscal year starting April 1, subject to currency fluctuations.  The company raised its net income forecast for the year
ending March 31 to 14 billion yen from 6 billion yen, citing the
weaker yen. The forecast compares with the 6.6 billion-yen
average of 16 analysts’  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg before
the announcement.  Mario, Zelda  The Japanese currency has depreciated about 5 percent
against the  U.S. dollar  in the past month, boosting the
repatriated value of Japanese exporters’ overseas earnings.  Nintendo plans to add flagship titles including the Mario
Kart and Zelda franchises, to the Wii U, it said Jan. 24. The
machine’s Miiverse social network will be available through
smartphone browsers starting this spring, and Nintendo plans to
offer an app, it said at the time.  U.S. retail sales of video-game software, hardware and
accessories declined 22 percent from a year earlier to $3.21
billion in December, according to NPD Group Inc. Software sales
fell 26 percent to $1.54 billion, leading the total decline, the
 Port Washington , New York-based company said Jan. 10.  Console sales fell 20 percent to $1.07 billion, and retail
sales for the year fell 22 percent to $13.3 billion, NPD said.
Nintendo’s Wii machines compete with  Sony Corp. (6758) ’s PlayStation
and  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s Xbox 360.  The Wii U machine features a 6.2-inch touchscreen
controller that lets users wirelessly connect to the console and
shift the display between the device and a television screen.
Within days of its U.S. release, the company warned buyers not
to turn off the console while downloading a mandatory firmware
update after some customers complained their machines were
damaged during the process.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naoko Fujimura in Tokyo at 
 nfujimura@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  