-- Nissan, NRG Plan U.S. Fast-Charger Network
-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 2013-02-01T00:47:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/nissan-nrg-plan-u-s-fast-charger-network.html
Nissan Motor Co. (7201) , the biggest seller
of electric cars, and  NRG Energy Inc. (NRG)  said they’ll install 500
rapid-charge stations across the U.S. to help boost the appeal
of rechargeable vehicles.  Nissan and NRG, the largest independent power producer,
said yesterday at the Washington Auto Show that the stations
will be put in place in major U.S. cities, including Washington,
over the next 18 months. The project triples the number of such
devices, able to recharge Nissan’s Leaf hatchback to 80 percent
in less than 30 minutes, they said in an e-mailed statement.  “Having a robust charging infrastructure helps build range
confidence, which boosts interest in and use of electric
vehicles,” Brendan Jones, Nissan’s director of electric vehicle
marketing and sales strategy, said in the statement.  Nissan wants to increase sales of the Leaf after two years
of lower demand than the Yokohama, Japan-based automaker
predicted. The company sold 9,819 Leafs last year, less than
half of Nissan’s 20,000-unit goal.  Combined U.S. sales of models including Leaf and plug-in
models including  General Motors Co. (GM) ’s Volt and  Toyota Motor
Corp. (7203) ’s Prius jumped 181 percent in 2012 to 50,188, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Carlos Ghosn , Nissan’s chief
executive officer, has predicted that electric cars will account
for 10 percent of global auto sales by 2020.  There are currently about 160 U.S. rapid chargers, the
companies said. Princeton, New Jersey-based NRG is spending
about $150 million to set up chargers in the U.S., through its
eVgo subsidiary.  Tesla Motors Inc. (TSLA) , the electric-car maker led by  Elon Musk ,
last year began building its own network of fast-chargers to
allow owners of the company’s Model S to eventually drive across
the U.S. on electricity.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in Los Angeles at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  