-- Nok Air Plans Share Sale in August to Fund Aircraft
-- B y   K y u n g h e e   P a r k
-- 2013-01-31T07:09:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/nok-air-plans-share-sale-in-august-to-fund-aircraft.html
Nok Airlines Co. , a budget carrier
controlled by  Thai Airways International Pcl (THAI) , plans to sell
shares in an initial public offering in August as it seeks funds
to expand its fleet.  Nok Air, based in Bangkok, plans to sell a 30 percent stake
in the company and use the money to buy  Boeing Co. (BA)  737-8 or 737
Max planes, Chief Executive Officer Patee Sarasin said in an
interview today. The airline has been profitable for the past
five years, he said in Singapore. He didn’t disclose the amount
the carrier aims to raise.  The carrier also plans to resume international flights this
year with services to China, Vietnam and Myanmar, Patee said.
Nok Air seeks to expand operations with the funds raised as
surging budget travel demand prompted  Singapore Airlines Ltd. (SIA) 
and All Nippon Airways Co to start low-cost units last year.  “It’s a good opportunity for Nok Air to raise funds for
expansion,” said Raenoo Bhandasukdi, a Bangkok-based analyst at
KT Zmico Securities Co. “Low-cost airline business has high
growth prospects as attractive fares and booming tourism in  Asia 
will continue to boost passenger numbers.”  Nok Air aims to have 13 planes in its fleet by the year-
end. The carrier will decide on ordering 27 more aircraft in the
next two to three years, Patee said. The company is considering
Boeing 737 jets as it operates three-to-five hour-long services.  “The other reason is that we run one type of aircraft,”
Patee said. “It saves in terms of costs.”  Thai IPOs  The discount carrier is planning the share sale as the
 Stock Exchange (SET)  of  Thailand  expects at least 30 companies with a
combined market value of $4 billion to join its main and second-
tier boards this year. Initial public offerings raised about
$1.91 billion in Thailand last year, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Newly listed shares on the Stock Exchange of Thailand and
Market for Alternative Investment returned an average 64 percent
from their initial public offering prices last year, according
to data on 23 stocks tracked by Bloomberg.  Nok Air, which is filling more than 90 percent of seats,
posted a profit of $16 million last year, Patee said. The
airline hedges 30 percent of its annual requirements for fuel,
which accounts for 40 percent of total costs.  Thai Air holds 49 percent stake of Nok Air, which was set
up in 2004, according to the budget carrier’s  website .  The airline, which ended overseas flights in 2007, is
aiming to revive the services this year as International Air
Transport Association forecasts that Asia-Pacific will account
for 33 percent of global passengers in 2016. The number of
aircraft in the region’s fleet will almost triple to 13,670 in
2031 from 4,710 in 2011, according to Boeing.  New discount carriers and demand for short-haul flights
have spurred a “substantial increase” in single-aisle planes,
Boeing said. Single-aisle capacity, which doubled in the past
eight years, may double again in the coming decade, according to
the Chicago-based planemaker.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kyunghee Park in  Singapore  at 
 kpark3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  