-- Nomura Targets Investment Banking Recovery on Japan Marke
-- B y   T a k a h i k o   H y u g a
-- 2013-02-01T01:10:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/nomura-s-profit-misses-estimates-as-investment-banking-fees-drop.html
Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604) , Japan’s biggest
brokerage, said it expects its investment banking operations to
recover this year as the country’s stock rally prompts companies
to tap  capital markets .  “We have a very positive view on our pipeline as the stock
market and Japan as a whole are doing well,” Chief Financial
Officer Junko Nakagawa said in  Tokyo  yesterday after the company
posted third-quarter profit that missed estimates as investment
banking fees fell. “We want to help Japanese corporates as
their business opportunities improve.”  Investment banking has been a weak link amid a revival in
profit growth at Nomura after it lost some business managing
bond and equity sales following last year’s insider-trading
scandal. The stock rebound, fueled by Prime Minister Shinzo
Abe’s efforts to stimulate the world’s third-largest economy,
may encourage companies to sell shares and make acquisitions.  “Business opportunities for Nomura will grow as it has a
competitive sales force and branch franchise,” said  Takehito Yamanaka , an analyst at Credit Suisse Group AG in Tokyo. “We’ll
see more IPOs and share sales and individual investors will take
more risks and buy mutual funds.”  Nomura’s  shares  fell as much as 3.6 percent to 507 yen and
traded at 518 yen as of 9:54 a.m. on the Tokyo Stock Exchange.
The benchmark Topix Index gained 0.4 percent.  Estimates Missed  Net income rose 13 percent to 20.1 billion yen ($221
million) for the three months ended Dec. 31 from 17.8 billion
yen a year earlier, led by brokerage commissions and trading,
Tokyo-based Nomura said in a statement yesterday. The result
missed the average 31 billion yen profit estimate of eight
 analysts  surveyed by Bloomberg.  Revenue fell 4.7 percent from a year earlier to 459 billion
yen.  Investment banking  fees dropped 24 percent to 13 billion
yen, while brokerage commissions climbed 13 percent to 83.7
billion yen. Trading profit rose 10 percent to 88.2 billion yen.  Shares of Nomura have surged 85 percent since mid-November,
when Abe began an election campaign by promising fiscal stimulus
and urging the central bank to pursue more aggressive monetary
easing to end  deflation .  Investors are the most bullish on Japan in more than three
years, a survey of Bloomberg users showed Jan. 22. The  Nikkei
225 Stock Average (NKY)  jumped 17 percent last quarter and closed
yesterday at the highest since April 2010.  Chief Executive Officer Koji Nagai, 54, took the post in
August after his predecessor Kenichi Watanabe resigned following
revelations that staff gave tips on share sales the firm
managed. The impact of the scandal will soon fade, said asset
manager  Mitsushige Akino .  Hottest Market  “Japan is the hottest market in the world now, and
corporates are getting more profitable,” said Akino, Tokyo-
based chief fund officer at Ichiyoshi Asset Management Co.,
which oversees about 30 billion yen. “The brokerage may be able
to get more mandates in M&A, debt and equity businesses.”  Japanese companies shunned the stock market over the past
two years as a record earthquake and  Europe ’s sovereign debt
crisis damped investor sentiment. Share sales in 2011 and 2012
totaled 3.9 trillion yen, less than 2010’s 5 trillion yen,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Nomura expects initial public offerings in Japan will reach
the highest in six years in 2013. About 60 Japanese companies
will announce debut share sales, Masaharu Kambe, head of the IPO
department in  Japan , said in an interview in January.  Annington Sale  Last quarter’s earnings were aided by a 16 billion yen gain
from the sale of Annington Homes Ltd., a U.K. housing estate
company. The sale helped the company post a 4.3 billion yen
pretax profit abroad, snapping 10 straight quarters of losses
from overseas operations.  CEO Nagai has pledged to cut $1 billion of costs that
swelled after the firm bought Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.
operations in 2008. The investment bank trimmed payrolls last
quarter as part of its cost cutting. The company had 34,098
employees as of Dec. 31, down 717 from three months earlier.  To boost fixed-income and equity businesses, Nomura formed
a 26-member global markets executive committee headed by
division chief  Steve Ashley , an internal memo showed on Jan. 29.  Equity underwriting fees fell 19 percent to 3.4 billion yen
last quarter, yesterday’s report showed. Income from managing
bond sales dropped 67 percent to 1.5 billion yen. Merger
advisory fees slid 16 percent to 6.3 billion yen.  Not all analysts see a turnaround at the Japanese firm.  “Nomura is still facing a tough time expanding its
investment banking business globally,” said Futoshi Sasaki, an
analyst at Mitsubishi UFJ  Morgan Stanley (MS)  Securities Co. in
Tokyo. “Japanese companies have ample cash, so it’s hard to
believe they’ll come back to the capital markets for
fundraising.”  Nomura was the No. 1 manager of share sales by Japanese
companies last quarter, up from second a year earlier, and was
also the top-ranked underwriter for 2012, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. The bank’s rank for advice on Japanese mergers
and acquisitions fell to ninth in the quarter from the top spot
a year earlier. It slipped to second for the full year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Takahiko Hyuga in Tokyo at 
 thyuga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  