-- Norway’s Labor Party Moves to Open Lofoten to Oil Exploration
-- B y   M i k a e l   H o l t e r
-- 2013-01-31T15:38:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/norway-s-labor-party-moves-to-open-lofoten-to-oil-exploration.html
Norway ’s ruling  Labor Party  took a
first step to open environmentally sensitive waters off the
Lofoten islands to oil and gas exploration, exposing a rift in
the government coalition eight months before general elections.  A committee drawing up Labor’s program for the September
elections is in favor of allowing a so-called impact study of
petroleum activity in the restricted areas in the next
legislative period from 2013 to 2017, group leader Helga Pedersen said today. Such an assessment is a formal step needed
to open an area for full-scale exploration and production.  “We’re very happy about this,” Gro Braekken, leader of
industry lobby group Norwegian Oil and Gas, said in a phone
interview. “A small minority of government parties have
hindered an impact study. I hope this doesn’t happen again.”  The government is divided on opening the restricted blocks
in the  Norwegian Sea . The smaller partners, the Center Party and
the Socialist Left, in 2011 were able to postpone a decision on
an impact study until after this year’s election even as state-
controlled  Statoil ASA (STL) , which operates about 80 percent of
Norway’s oil and gas production, and other companies have
lobbied to open the area. It may hold as much as 3.4 billion
barrels of oil equivalent, according to industry group KonKraft.  Socialist ‘No’  Opening up the areas to the oil industry “is one possible
outcome of an impact study, but it’s not automatic,” Pedersen
said by phone. The party, whose biggest backer is LO, Norway’s
biggest union and a supporter of opening Lofoten, will formally
adopt its electoral program in April.  Yesterday’s move was rebuked by the Socialist Left, which
said it wouldn’t back down in its fight to protect the areas off
Lofoten and Vesteraalen islands. The surrounding waters are home
to unique cold-water coral reefs, provide breeding grounds for
wildlife ranging from fish to whales and is a place where some
of  Europe ’s largest seabird colonies gather.  “No one should doubt how serious we are about this,”
party leader Audun Lysbakken said in a phone interview. “For
the sake of nature, climate and future business, our crystal-
clear answer in the debate about drilling for oil is ‘no.’”  The Center Party’s Petroleum Minister Ola Borten Moe has
said that while oil activity off Lofoten was “fully
defendable” from an environmental point of view, he favored
upholding restrictions until after 2017 to protect fisheries.
His party remains divided on the issue.  Falling Production  The governing coalition is trailing in opinion polls before
the election. The opposition  Conservative Party  and Progress
Party both back opening up the areas as soon as possible.  Statoil and the Norwegian Oil and Gas lobby have said
opening up these areas is necessary in order to compensate for
falling production in Norway. Oil output has been more than
halved since it peaked in 2000, according to figures from the
 Norwegian Petroleum Directorate .  “This is a very exciting area for the industry,” said
Braekken. “It’s important and urgent to get new areas in order
to keep  oil companies  on the Norwegian shelf and continue to
develop it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mikael Holter in Oslo at 
 mholter2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman in Oslo on  at
 jbergman@bloomberg.ne  