-- Novozymes M&A Chief Videbaek Makes Mark With Bio-Products Deal
-- B y   A n d r e w   N o e l
-- 2013-01-31T13:33:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/novozymes-m-a-chief-videbaek-makes-mark-with-bio-products-deal.html
Thomas Videbaek made his mark on
strategy as chief dealmaker at  Novozymes A/S (NZYMB)  with an $80 million
purchase of a Canadian supplier of paper and textile enzymes.  Videbaek, 52, a trained chemist who joined Novozymes from
Novo Nordisk in 1998, led a successful bid by the world’s
largest enzyme maker in an auction of Bio-Products by biofuel
company Iogen Corp. His new role, which includes heading up
mergers and acquisitions, marks a period of change at Novozymes
after the departure of Steen Riisgaard after 12 years as CEO.  The purchase from Ottawa, Canada-based Iogen brings enzymes
that cut the need for chlorine and other harsh chemicals when
processing natural fibers into clothes and paper. Videbaek, who
constructed Novozymes’ BioBusiness from a series of startup
takeovers, said the Danish company will use its global network
to bolster sales, and there’s potential to improve efficiency.  “We’re very happy that this came along, it’s a good
addition,” said BioBusiness head Videbaek in a phone interview.  Novozymes is paying an initial C$67.5 million for Bio-
Products and potential payments of as much as C$12.5 million
depending on performance. The deal will add about 0.5 percentage
points to sales growth this year, with a “slightly” negative
impact on earnings and margins, it said, adding that full-year
goals remain intact.  DuPont, BASF  Sales of biotechnology companies have been hotly contested,
with  DuPont Co. (DD)  and  BASF SE (BAS)  among the chemical businesses
seeking to reinvent themselves by shifting away from commodity
chemicals, increasingly the domain of low-cost manufacturers in
 Asia  and the  Middle East .  Monsanto Co. (MON)  yesterday announced the
acquisition of microbe technology of Agradis as it pursues
biological solutions to crop control.  Bio-Products will bolster Novozymes’ offering of products
to the paper and animal-feed industries.  Videbaek, who will switch roles to group business
development chief on April 1, is being given greater management
scope following Riisgaard’s exit and the appointment of Peder Holk Nielsen as his replacement. Mergers and acquisitions will
get a more prominent role after previously being included in
BioBusiness. Novozymes’ bacteria-based cultures unit will now be
merged into the main enzymes operation after Videbaek
consolidated acquired startup firms into a cohesive division.  BioBusiness’ margins still have a “little way to go” to
reach Novozymes’ 58 percent, though the unit has enough
“critical mass” and research and development ties for it now
to be combined, said Videbaek.  Bagsvaerd, Denmark-based Novozymes increased 0.2 percent to
180.90 kroner in Copenhagen today. The stock has gained 5.2
percent since the management reshuffle was announced on Jan. 21.
The benchmark KFX index is up 1 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Noel in London at 
 anoel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  