-- Novo Sticks to Target for First-Half Tresiba Approval in U.S.
-- B y   A l b e r t i n a   T o r s o l i
-- 2013-01-31T09:05:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/novo-sticks-to-target-for-first-half-tresiba-approval-in-u-s-.html
Novo Nordisk A/S (NOVOB) , the world’s
largest insulin maker, stuck to its target of getting U.S.
approval for the diabetes treatment Tresiba in the first half as
it’s counting on the product to reach higher 2013 forecasts.  The Danish company is making progress on talks with the
U.S.  Food and Drug Administration  on Tresiba and will need to do
a study about cardiovascular effects once the medicine is on the
market, Chief Executive Officer Lars Sorensen said on a
conference call with reporters today. Novo has no indications it
would be required to do another study before approval, he added.
That would have meant a delay for the diabetes treatment.  Novo aims for the product to eventually become the world’s
top-selling long-acting insulin, overtaking  Sanofi (SAN) ’s Lantus,
which garnered 3.92 billion euros ($5.3 billion) in sales in
2011. Bagsvaerd, Denmark-based Novo lifted its 2013 revenue and
profit forecasts today on higher demand for its existing
diabetes treatment Victoza and the introduction of Tresiba.  The required study will begin “imminently, as we start
marketing” the medicine, Sorensen said. The FDA hasn’t told
Novo when its review will end. Novo will be able to start
selling Tresiba in the U.S. “almost immediately” after FDA
approval, he said.  Tresiba Label  Heart risks with Tresiba, also known as insulin degludec,
probably aren’t enough of a concern to block its approval, an
advisory committee with the FDA ruled in November. Sorensen
declined to comment on negotiations over the drug’s label with
the FDA. A medicine’s label highlights its risks and a warning
on a label can impact its sales.  U.S. approval of Tresiba is “critical,” Brian Bourdot and
other analysts at Barclays Plc’s investment-banking unit in
 London , wrote in a Jan. 25 note to clients.  The  stock  traded 0.2 percent higher at 1,023 kroner at 9:43
a.m. in Copenhagen. The shares gave returned 55 percent in the
past 12 months, compared to a 23 percent gain in the Bloomberg
 Europe  Pharmaceutical Index.  “We got a phenomenal label in Europe,” where Tresiba
received approval earlier this month, Sorensen said. “That is
influencing our ability to market it in many other local markets
in Asia.”  Novo said the medicine will be introduced in Europe in
about the same timeframe as in the U.S. Tresiba is already
approved in Europe, though Novo will need to go through
“lengthy” price negotiations with national regulators,
Sorensen said. Such talks aren’t necessary in the U.S., he
added.  Price negotiations with Japanese authorities for the same
medicine are expected to be completed in the first quarter this
year, Sorensen said.  Revenue will probably rise 8 percent to 11 percent
excluding currency shifts as operating profit on that level
gains about 10 percent, Novo said today. The drugmaker
previously forecast growth of those two measures at a “high
single-digit” percentage pace.  Fourth-quarter net income rose 23 percent to 5.76 billion
kroner ($1.1 billion), Novo said. That beat the 5.34 billion-
kroner average of analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Albertina Torsoli in Paris at 
 atorsoli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  