-- Novo Bets on Lantus Rival U.S. Nod to Help Lift 2013 Sales
-- B y   A l b e r t i n a   T o r s o l i
-- 2013-01-31T16:09:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/novo-raises-full-year-forecasts-as-fourth-quarter-profit-rises.html
Novo Nordisk A/S (NOVOB) , the world’s
largest insulin maker, said it’s counting on the new diabetes
medicine Tresiba to get U.S. approval during the first half,
helping buoy sales growth this year.  The Danish company is making progress on talks with the
U.S.  Food and Drug Administration  on the medicine and will need
to study cardiovascular effects once Tresiba is on the market,
Chief Executive Officer Lars Sorensen said on a conference call
with reporters today. Novo has no indications it will be
required to do another study before approval, he said. That
would have meant a delay for the diabetes treatment.  Novo is “a train on the rails and moving steadily
forward,” Chief Financial Officer Jesper Brandgaard said in a
telephone interview. U.S. approval for Tresiba will be the “key
swing factor” in 2013, he said.  Novo is betting the product will eventually become the
world’s top-selling long-acting insulin, overtaking  Sanofi (SAN) ’s
Lantus, which garnered 3.92 billion euros ($5.3 billion) in
sales in 2011, Sorensen said. Novo also raised its 2013 revenue
and profit forecasts, amid higher demand for Victoza, another
diabetes drug, and optimism for Tresiba.  In the U.S., the required study will begin as soon as Novo
starts selling the medicine, Sorensen said. The FDA hasn’t told
Novo when its review will end. The Bagsvaerd, Denmark-based
company will introduce Tresiba “almost immediately” after FDA
approval, he said.  Tresiba Label  Heart risks with Tresiba, also known as insulin degludec,
probably aren’t enough of a concern to block its approval, an
advisory committee for the FDA ruled in November. Sorensen
declined to comment on negotiations over the drug’s label with
the FDA. Medicine labels highlight their risks and a warning on
them can affect sales.  The  stock  fell 1 percent to 1,011 kroner in Copenhagen. The
shares have  returned  53 percent in the past 12 months, compared
with a 23 percent gain in the Bloomberg  Europe  Pharmaceutical
Index.  The medicine will be introduced in Europe in about the same
time frame as in the U.S., starting by countries such as
 Denmark , the U.K, Ireland, Switzerland and the rest of
Scandinavia, Brandgaard said during today’s interview.  “We got a phenomenal label in Europe,” where Tresiba
received approval earlier this month, Sorensen said. “That is
influencing our ability to market it in many other local markets
in Asia.”  Price Premium  In Europe, Novo is aiming for a price premium for Tresiba
over Lantus that is “higher” than 5 percent or 10 percent, and
could be in the range of 30 percent to 40 percent, Brandgaard
said.  “We will be seeking a significant price premium over the
current products,” he said. “The EU price setting is not final
yet.”  The pricing of Tresiba in Europe is a “hot topic,” Peter Sehested, an analyst at Handelsbanken Capital Markets in
Copenhagen, wrote in a Jan. 28 note. Novo needs to sell Tresiba
at a price that “includes a premium for innovation.”  “A fully reimbursed premium of 20 percent or above would
imply upside to expectations” and be a “strong” signal that
regulators consider Tresiba a “genuine improvement,” he wrote.  Sales Forecast  Novo’s revenue will probably rise 8 percent to 11 percent
excluding currency shifts as operating profit on that level
gains about 10 percent, the company said today. The drugmaker
previously forecast growth at a percentage in the high single-
digits for the two measures.  Fourth-quarter net income rose 23 percent to 5.76 billion
kroner ($1.1 billion), Novo said. That beat the 5.34 billion-
kroner average of analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  The Danish company also said today it’s developing a new
experimental insulin, dubbed LAI287, which would be administered
once a week.  “It’s in the early stages,” Philippe Lanone, an analyst
at Natixis Securities in Paris, said in a telephone interview
today. “A once-weekly insulin shot would be great.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Albertina Torsoli in Paris at 
 atorsoli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  