-- NRA’s Keene Says Group Supports Some Background Checks
-- B y   H e i d i   P r z y b y l a
-- 2013-01-31T18:08:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/nra-s-keene-says-group-supports-some-background-checks.html
The  National Rifle Association ’s
opposition to new U.S. laws to enhance background checks of gun
purchasers isn’t absolute.  The largest gun lobby in the U.S. is a strong supporter of
the National Instant Criminal Background Check System, the
federal system used by licensed gun dealers, NRA President  David Keene  said today.  In response to questions from reporters, he was critical of
expanding the system to sales at gun shows without opposing the
expansion outright, saying the NRA rejects background checks
that apply to private transfers of guns such as those between
family members and neighbors.  “The NICS system, as it exists and if it were cleaned up,
is not much of a burden to people,” Keene said in a breakfast
in Washington sponsored by the Christian Science Monitor. The
NRA wants to improve the system, a network of databases run by
the  Federal Bureau  of Investigation, by adding the records of
individuals adjudicated to be potentially mentally ill, he said.  Even as he expressed support for NICS, Keene said the
system shouldn’t be applied universally or to private sales of
firearms. “We are not willing to support measures we feel
unduly burden innocent and law-abiding Americans, and on the
other side do not have any real impact on the problem we’re
trying to solve,” Keene said.  Enhanced background checks for gun buyers are among the
proposals for curbing gun violence that President  Barack Obama 
and his allies in Congress are supporting. Lawmakers are
debating such measures after the Dec. 14 shootings at Sandy Hook
Elementary School in Newtown,  Connecticut , that killed 20
children and six school employees.  New Laws  In an interview, Representative Carolyn McCarthy, a  New
York  Democrat serving on a House panel making recommendations
this month, expressed optimism that there could be consensus
with the NRA on new background check laws.  While Keene was dismissive of suggestions that the NICS
system be applied to sales of guns at gun shows, his chief
concern was about creating a federal registry of weapons owners
and mandated background checks of weapons transfers between
family members and neighbors.  “Most people in this country, even today, get their
firearms from their father or their grandfather, they inherit
them,” he said. If background checks were made universal, they
would apply to these types of transactions, he said.  ‘Confiscation’ Precursor  The Fairfax, Virginia-based NRA “will continue to be very
opposed to any kind of national gun registry system,” he said.
“That is a precursor in many cases to confiscation” and forced
government buybacks of guns, Keene said.  He also disputed claims by anti-gun violence advocates that
40 percent of firearms in the U.S. are sold without a background
check because they take place privately, over the Internet or at
gun shows. Keene said the percentage is based on a flawed 1997
survey.  Even so, when repeatedly asked by reporters whether the NRA
could support expanded background checks at gun shows, Keene
said it would be unnecessary or ineffective because of the
imperfect nature of the NICS system and the government’s
inability to enforce laws already on the books.  “I have not seen the specific proposals that have been
made,” he said at one point.  -- Editors: Jodi Schneider, Justin Blum  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heidi Przybyla in  Washington  at 
 hprzybyla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  