-- Obama Replants Goal Posts in Political Midfield
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   A l t e r
-- 2013-01-31T23:30:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/obama-replants-goal-posts-in-political-midfield.html
In the summer of 2011, when the
“Grand Bargain” on deficit reduction failed, U.S. House Speaker
John Boehner accused President  Barack Obama  of “moving the goal
posts” -- shifting his demands to the left.  After Boehner objected, Obama quickly moved the goal posts
back and said he wanted to keep talking. But the speaker thought
it was too late and the deal collapsed.  Goal-post shifting is back in style. Behind the soaring
rhetoric of the inaugural address and his announcement of a bold
immigration plan, the president is engaged in a carefully
calibrated effort to move the debate away from the right side of
the field.  In their interactions over the last two years, a chastened
Obama started in the center and the Republicans started on the
right, and the never-found compromise lay on the center-right.  Since winning re-election, Obama is starting on the center-
left and the Republicans are moving toward the center-right.
With any luck, they will find compromise in the center. The real
center.  Of course, they won’t get there until they move beyond the
bad blood of their end-of-the-year failure to do anything
significant about the budget.  The House leadership says Obama delivered boring “I won”
lectures to the speaker and doesn’t have a clue about how to
negotiate; the White House says the speaker can’t deliver his
own caucus.  Blown Chances  Both sides have blown chances to strike a  deal  on favorable
terms. Republicans should have done so in July 2011 instead of
holding out for a big 2012 electoral victory that never came.
Democrats should have accepted Boehner’s December 2012 offer of
a 1-to-1 ratio of  spending cuts  to tax increases instead of
taking the risk of allowing fights over budget deadlines to
overshadow priorities such as immigration and gun safety.  Even as they lick their wounds after the election,
Republicans should take comfort in how far they have shifted the
center of gravity in U.S. politics over the last two years.  Consider the coverage of Obama’s second inaugural address.
Pundits outdid each other in describing how liberal it was.  It wasn’t. With the exception of its first-ever mention of
gay rights, the speech was essentially an eloquent rear-guard
action defending the 20th-century consensus on the role of
government.  The president celebrated achievements such as Social
Security, Medicare, infrastructure, science, education and
openness to immigrants that were backed by presidents of both
parties for decades. They aren’t liberal ideas but ones right
down the median strip of U.S. politics.  Obama wrapped them in progressive rhetoric to be true to
himself and his liberal values and -- more pragmatically -- to
give himself cover with the left for the painful  budget 
compromises to come.  In 2011, he had no such cover. Had he followed through with
his plans to bargain away the chained consumer-price index (a
different way of calculating inflation that could reduce Social
Security benefits) and means-testing for  entitlements , his
support on the left would have cratered.  Now he has the strong backing he needs from his liberal
base for serious compromise on immigration, guns and even
entitlements.  Even that expression -- liberal base -- had been missing
from U.S. politics for a long time. Get used to it.  Obama is getting set to pursue the same “base-out” strategy
that worked for Ronald Reagan when he compromised on taxes,
spending and immigration in the 1980s. The Republican president
made concessions that would have been savaged by his party had
they come from someone with less-stellar conservative
credentials. Look at what happened to President George H.W. Bush
when he raised taxes in 1991.  Liberals and moderates need to keep their expectations in
check. There will be no progressive nirvana for the left and no
Grand Bargain that satisfies the  Simpson-Bowles  crowd.  With the dip in the economy, long passes downfield aren’t
likely. But field goals through some newly positioned goal posts
should help the president -- and the country -- put a few points
on the board this year.  (Jonathan Alter is a Bloomberg View columnist and the
author of “The Promise: President Obama, Year One.” The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Jonathan Alter at  alterjonathan@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net  