-- Obama Emulating Washington Wary of Foreign Entanglements
-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e ,   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n   a n d   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 2013-01-31T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/obama-emulating-washington-wary-of-foreign-entanglements.html
President  Barack Obama ’s
inauguration speech signaled a desire to avoid foreign
entanglements that could endanger his domestic agenda.  George Washington  wasn’t able to do that, and Obama may not be either.  Days before Obama spoke, Algerian militants killed three
Americans, Japan said it might fire warning shots at Chinese
aircraft that enter the airspace of contested islands, and Iran
refused the United Nations access to a nuclear site. Then North
Korea announced plans to conduct another nuclear test, making
clear that it wants the capability to hit U.S. shores.  Obama’s focus on home -- he devoted two paragraphs of his
address to foreign affairs -- reflects his priorities, as well
as waning American support for playing global cop after a decade
of war and budget  deficits  that limit U.S. flexibility. Even so,
the churning  Middle East , tensions in Asia and the weakness of
allies may thwart his plans to concentrate on a domestic legacy.  “Nobody saw the Arab Spring coming, and something equally
momentous and unexpected overseas could easily derail Obama’s
desire to focus primarily on domestic issues,” said Stephen Walt, an international affairs professor at  Harvard University ,
referring to the protests that have redrawn the Mideast’s
political map. “A president can try to keep the world at bay,
but the world has a way of knocking on his door even when it’s
not welcome.”  In his 1796 farewell  address ,  Washington  counseled his
countrymen to have “as little political connection as
possible” to other nations, a warning that came amid calls by
some Americans to form alliances with either Britain or France.  More Entangled  Presidents have struggled to heed his advice.  Woodrow Wilson  campaigned for re-election in 1916 by reminding voters
that he had kept the U.S. out of World War I for two years.
Halfway through his second term, some 117,000 Americans had died
in the mud and trenches in the “war to end all wars.”  Today, the U.S.’s fortunes and security are entangled not
only with overseas military and political commitments, but also
by environmental issues and technological changes that are
making oceans and borders irrelevant.  China and Russia are pushing agendas that clash with U.S.
priorities in the Middle East, Asia and Africa. Tensions between
Sunni and Shiite Muslims are rising in Iraq and beyond,
threatening the stability of Bahrain, home to the Navy’s Fifth
Fleet. Even with the killing of  Osama bin Laden , Islamic
militants built a stronghold in North Africa, and technology is
creating ways that nations, militant groups and criminal gangs
can strike with drones or computers -- and be struck.  Wary Approach  The president made clear at his Jan. 21 inauguration that
in dealing with such challenges, the U.S. will rely on alliances
and institutions that “extend our capacity to manage crisis
abroad.” His nominee for defense secretary, former Nebraska
Republican Senator Chuck Hagel, is known for his wary approach
to using military power. That pick, along with a shrinking
military budget, also signals Obama’s intent to engage the world
cautiously and selectively as he has in  Syria  and now Mali.  Neera Tanden, a former Obama adviser, said the emphasis on
domestic issues reflects the president’s recognition that he has
limited time to get his agenda through Congress before attention
turns to midterm elections and the next presidential race.  “In his second, third and fourth year it makes more sense
to me to focus on international issues,” said Tanden, who now
heads the Center for American Progress in Washington. “This
isn’t an opportunity to avoid something; he rightly thinks he
has an ability to do things now that he may not have as much of
an availability one or two or three years from now.”  At the same time, she said, “the history of foreign policy
is that things come from nowhere and can dominate your agenda.”  Debt Crisis  If that happens, Europe, a pillar of the U.S. alliance
system, may not be able to give Obama the space he needs to
preoccupy himself with internal affairs.  The European Union’s sovereign debt crisis distracts EU
leaders from acting on foreign policy issues and gives them
fewer resources to do so, said Erik Jones, the director of
European Studies at Johns Hopkins University’s School of
Advanced International Studies.  The U.K. and the EU are helping the U.S. wind down the war
in  Afghanistan , confront North Korea’s nuclear provocations and
deal with Iran.  In contrast, Russia has been an obstructionist to the U.S.
side on Syria, backing the regime on UN resolutions meant to
punish President Bashar al-Assad. Russia will likely continue to
buck the U.S. on this and other issues, said Lilit Gevorgyan, an
analyst at IHS Global Insight in London.  Alternate Power  “Russia is positioning itself as an alternate global
power,” said Gevorgyan, who attributed the country’s
“confrontational foreign policy choices” to “this syndrome of
being a former superpower that gets ignored.”  Syria’s disintegration would likely lead to louder
bipartisan calls for intervention in Obama’s second term, said
 Andrew Tabler  of the Washington Institute for Near East Policy,
possibly forcing the president to reconsider his policy of
offering only nonmilitary aid.  Egypt also poses a major concern. The country’s new
Islamic-oriented government is party to a peace treaty with
 Israel  and responsible for stability in the Sinai Peninsula,
which has become a conduit for weapon and drug smuggling, and
human trafficking. Two years after Egyptian protests began,
though, economic woes and corruption still bring people into the
streets. And some officials now doubt whether President Mohamed Mursi will live up to Egypt’s treaty obligations with Israel.  Military Cuts  While the U.S. had wanted the EU to help steady countries
such as Egypt, Tunisia and Yemen through economic development
and aid, Europe’s financial struggles may make that impossible.  Britain and other European countries have cut military
spending. France’s request for U.S. help in transporting troops
in Mali, where they are trying to rout Islamic militants,
highlights the French weakness in deployment, Jones said.  Strong European support in the Middle East would help the
Obama administration on its major foreign policy goal: reducing
its obligations in the area and shifting attention to Asia.  “The objective over a 10-year period is to have the U.S.
benefit fully from Asia’s dynamic economic growth and to reduce
the chances of costly and debilitating security problems in the
region,” said  Kenneth Lieberthal , director of the John L.
Thornton China Center at the  Brookings Institution  in
Washington.  Asia Key  Asia is key to Obama’s goal of doubling U.S. exports by the
end of 2014 to stimulate the  U.S. economy  and create jobs.  Obama may have to contend with disruptions to the region’s
economic and strategic security because North Korea’s
provocative behavior could affect stability there, particularly
in Japan.  Heightening the possibility the U.S. could be pulled into
growing regional security tensions, Lieberthal said, is
“China’s greater willingness to pressure other countries” and
Obama’s pledge to be more involved in the region.  That means the U.S. may get drawn into skirmishes over
competing maritime claims in the resource-rich South and East
China Seas between China and Japan, or a conflict on the Korean
Peninsula.  Harvard University Professor Joseph Nye said he is
“particularly concerned that the China-Japan dispute” over
maritime claims must “not escalate by accident.”  Pakistan Quandary  In Afghanistan, Obama’s preoccupation isn’t with preventing
conflict so much as ending it with the withdrawal of U.S. and
NATO forces by the end of 2014. He has yet to decide how quickly
to remove the 66,000 U.S. troops there.  That decision will affect the U.S. relationship with
nuclear-armed Pakistan, a partnership strained by disagreements
over counterterrorism cooperation and the use of drones to kill
insurgents.  Possibly the biggest threat to Obama’s dreams of a domestic
focus is Iran. Israeli leaders have made clear they may take
military action within months to wipe out the Persian nation’s
nuclear facilities if talks to persuade the Islamic republic to
abandon illicit aspects of its program fail. Right now,
negotiators can’t even decide on a date or venue for the next
round of meetings.  In a  report  released Jan. 14, a group of nonproliferation
specialists calculated that by mid-2014, based on the current
trajectory of its nuclear program, Iran would be able to
secretly produce enough weapons-grade uranium for a bomb.  Little Control  Even so, some analysts consider military action against
Iran unlikely, although Obama has vowed to use it if necessary.  “The ruling factions” in both the U.S. and Iran “don’t
want to force the issue,” said  Kenneth Katzman , a Mideast
specialist at the nonpartisan  Congressional Research Service  and
the author of a book about Iran’s Islamic Revolutionary Guard
Corps.  White House spokeswoman  Jamie Smith  declined to comment for
this story.  “While it may seem we’ve taken a little bit of a break on
our focus on foreign affairs, the rest of the world has not
slowed down, unfortunately, on moving from crisis to crisis,”
said Gordon Johndroe, who was White House National Security
Council spokesman in President  George W. Bush ’s second term.
“And I’m afraid a lot of that is going to come home to
President Obama in the coming months.”  Presidents have little control over world events or the
shape of their legacy, said Evan Thomas, a presidential
historian and professor at  Princeton University  in New Jersey.  He pointed to Bush, who stressed restraint in world affairs
during his 2000 election campaign, then started wars in Iraq 
and in Afghanistan, now the longest conflict in U.S. history.  “Presidents get caught by surprise all the time,” Thomas
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net ;
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in Washington at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net ;
 Margaret Talev  in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  