-- Modelo Tumbles Most in 4 Years as U.S. Sues Buyer InBev
-- B y   B r e n d a n   C a s e
-- 2013-01-31T21:47:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/modelo-tumbles-most-in-4-years-as-u-s-sues-buyer-inbev.html
Grupo Modelo SAB (GMODELOC)  fell the most since
August 2011 after the U.S. sued to block the proposed $20.1
billion purchase of the Corona beer maker by  Anheuser-Busch
InBev NV. (ABI)   The shares of  Mexico ’s largest brewer slid as much as 10
percent, the biggest intraday drop since October 2008, and were
down 6.8 percent to 108.19 pesos at the close in Mexico City.
The U.S. Department of Justice said in a lawsuit that the
proposed sale would hurt competition and raise U.S. beer prices.  “In Mexico, we all took for granted that the deal would go
through,”  Gerardo Copca , an analyst with Metanalisis SA, said
in a telephone interview from Mexico City. “It’s very
surprising.”  AB InBev agreed in June to buy the half of Modelo it didn’t
already own, which would give the world’s biggest brewer control
of the top-selling U.S. beer brand, Bud Light, as well as No. 1
import Corona. While Leuven, Belgium-based AB InBev said it
would “vigorously contest” the lawsuit, it said it no longer
expected the transaction to close this quarter.  Modelo’s decline was the  most  among the 35 stocks on
Mexico’s benchmark IPC index. The company’s shares traded at
97.95 pesos on June 22, the last business day before news broke
that AB InBev and Modelo were in talks.  “We believe there will be high volatility” for Modelo
until the issue is resolved, according to a report from two
analysts at Corporativo GBM SAB, Karla Miranda and Marlene
Finny. “However, it seems that this drop could open interesting
entry points” for investors to buy the stock, they wrote.  Neither GBM nor Metanalisis rates Modelo shares.  The case is U.S. v. Anheuser-Busch InBev SA/NV, 13-
cv-00127, U.S. District Court, District of Columbia
( Washington ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brendan Case in Mexico City at 
 bcase4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  