-- Oil Options Lure Banks on Calmest WTI Since 1996
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2013-01-31T00:01:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/oil-options-lure-banks-on-calmest-wti-since-1996.html
The lowest oil volatility in 17
years is pushing down options costs, setting up trades that  BNP
Paribas SA (BNP)  and  Commerzbank AG (CBK)  say will profit when Mideast
supply disruptions send prices swinging again.  BNP in Paris recommends buying contracts that pay should
crude advance and financing them by selling bearish puts. New
York-based  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  said the drop in oil
volatility is “too much too soon.” Commerzbank sees value in
bets on Brent climbing toward $130 a barrel.  “It’s a very good time to buy options,” said Hakan Kocayusufpasaoglu, chief investment officer at hedge fund
Archbridge Capital AG in Zug,  Switzerland . “Risks like
geopolitical dangers and potential for supply disruptions
remain, and have to be priced in again over time.”  Volatility has subsided as the threat to oil demand from
economic collapse in Europe recedes and as booming output in the
U.S. provides a safeguard against disruptions to Middle East
exports.  Algeria ’s energy sector suffered its deadliest attack
in five years this month, igniting concerns about the
vulnerability of North African supplies almost two years after
Libyan exports were halted by a national rebellion.  Implied volatility, a measure of expectations for price
changes derived from options for the rolling second-month West
Texas Intermediate crude, fell to 20.5 percent on Jan. 25, the
lowest since a level of 20.4 on Jan. 4, 1996, according to data
from the  New York  Mercantile Exchange compiled by Bloomberg. The
second-month options contract can often be a more reliable guide
to volatility than the first, which fluctuates as investors roll
their positions into the subsequent future at expiration.  BNP Recommendation  WTI  oil prices  moved on average 1.2 percent per day, up or
down, last year, compared with 0.6 percent so far this month,
exchange data compiled by Bloomberg show. Spreading those
changes over an average of 10 days for a smoother measure of
volatility, the level sank to 0.41 percent on Jan. 10, the
smallest in at least a decade.  “We forecast a steep increase in price over a short period
of time,” said  Harry Tchilinguirian , head of commodity markets
strategy at BNP Paribas in  London , who predicts an average of
$105 for WTI this quarter and $120 for Brent. “If we are proven
correct in this price assessment and time, then we can see a
simultaneous rise in volatility and price.”  Fahd Death  The two advanced simultaneously when implied volatility was
last at such low readings in Jan. 4, 1996, three days after
Saudi Arabia’s  King Fahd  handed over power to his half-brother,
Abdullah. WTI oil futures were then at $19.91 a barrel. Six
weeks later, on March 19, 1996, volatility had rebounded to 30.8
percent from around 20 and WTI leapt 22 percent to $24.34.  BNP Paribas advises buying calls that give the right to
purchase April WTI contracts at $100 a barrel and selling puts
that allow the sale of these futures at $95. The strike prices
are on either side of the current futures level of about $98 and
the strategy makes money should crude rally, not fall. The bank
recommends gathering additional funding for the trade by selling
$110 April calls.  The position cost about 10 cents a barrel as of 11 a.m.
London time yesterday, and would appreciate to $1.25 a barrel if
April WTI advanced to $100, according to BNP. As each options
contract is for 1,000 barrels, that would equate to a profit of
$1,150 per contract.  Political Turmoil  The fall in volatility has been excessive because oil
remains prone to unprecedented geopolitical turmoil from Iran
and  Iraq  to Sudan and Venezuela, Jeff Currie, New York-based
head of commodities research at Goldman Sachs, wrote in a Jan.
13 report. Fluctuations may diminish over longer periods as U.S.
shale output caps rallies, while the cost of those new projects
prevents prices collapsing, he said.  “While we have sympathy for the view of a structural
decline in long-term commodity price volatility, we believe the
recent decline is too much too soon,” Currie said. “Risks to
both the downside and upside have not completely gone away. In
other words, we are not out of the woods yet.”  Investors can profit from trading options even if futures
don’t reach the level at which the contracts can be exercised,
known as its strike. BNP Paribas advised June 22 buying $90
calls for December WTI, trading at that time for $3.40, and
selling $70 puts, then at $3.03. Two months later, the calls
were worth $10.59 and the puts 28 cents.  Equities Volatility  Volatility has dropped in equities and other commodities
because stimulus by the U.S. Federal Reserve has improved
sentiment, according to Tchilinguirian at BNP Paribas. The
Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility Index, which tracks
oscillations in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and is known as
the  VIX (VIX) , fell to 12.43 on Jan. 22, the lowest since April 2007.  Stability in prices has been sought for years by energy
companies such as Total SA and Exxon Mobil Corp. seeking to plan
long-term investments, and members of the  Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries  as they determine social spending
programs. Nigerian oil minister Diezani Alison-Madueke said in
an interview in Davos, Switzerland, on Jan. 25 that she welcomed
the calm.  “We are very pleased at OPEC that it has managed to hold
stability for now,” she said. “It is very difficult to say
what is going to happen over the next few months.”  Depressed volatility, combined with rising trading volume
and levels of open interest, may signal that prices are on the
brink of a decline rather than a rally, said  Stephen Schork ,
president of the Schork Group Inc. in Villanova,  Pennsylvania .  One Direction  “The market is moving in one direction with a lack of
price variance,” said Schork. “But what happens when the
buying stops? If momentum stalls, due to a lack of buying
interest, then given that the market is already leaning in one
direction, you risk a stampede as bulls look to exit their
positions.”  Crude is unlikely to plunge as the nuclear dispute with
Iran, attacks in Algeria and conflict in  Syria  support prices,
said Torbjorn Tornqvist, chief executive officer and founder of
Gunvor Group Ltd, an energy trading company.  The “geopolitical situation and particularly in the  Middle
East , Iran, Iraq, Syria, North Africa, is extremely worrisome,”
Tornqvist said in an interview in Davos on Jan. 24. “All these
factors will create volatility. Given the situation I don’t see
a significantly lower oil price. The Iranian situation is the
key.”  Iran will meet with officials from the  International Atomic
Energy Agency  in Tehran on Feb. 13 to discuss access to its
nuclear facilities, which western governments said are engaged
in building an atomic weapon. The Islamic republic denies the
charge, saying its nuclear program is for civilian use and that
international sanctions on its oil exports are unfair.  Upside Risk  “The risks for oil prices are to the upside,” said  Eugen Weinberg , head of commodities research at Commerzbank in
 Frankfurt . “There may be value in options on  Brent crude 
climbing toward $130 a barrel in case of conflict escalation in
the Middle East.”  Algeria’s In Amenas gas-processing plant was attacked by
militants linked to al-Qaeda on Jan. 16 in a four-day stand-off
that left at least 38 workers dead. Several European governments
urged their citizens to leave the Libyan city of Benghazi on
Jan. 24, citing a threat to westerners.  “Major risks have been priced out but the market has
overshot,” Archbridge’s Kocayusufpasaoglu said of the drop in
implied volatility.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  