-- Hollande Government Faces Public-Sector Protest on Wages
-- B y   V i d y a   R o o t
-- 2013-01-31T14:02:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/hollande-government-faces-first-public-sector-protest-on-wages.html
French President  Francois Hollande 
faced the first protest by public-sector workers after three of
the country’s unions called for the nation’s 5.2 million
government employees to take to the streets.  Unions are seeking a show of force ahead of wage
negotiations with the Socialist government on Feb. 7. About 120
demonstrations today across  France  disrupted schools, hospitals
and other public services, unions said.  “From the previous government to now, not much has
changed,”  Thierry Lepaon , the head of the CGT union, said in an
interview on RTL radio today. “A protest of this scale has been
called for the first time to focus the government’s attention on
employment, wages and purchasing power.”  The move by Hollande’s political power base show the
challenges he faces in addressing spiraling unemployment as
France teeters on the brink of recession. Earlier this week
unions representing workers at companies including  Arcelor
Mittal (MT) ,  Credit Agricole SA (ACA) , Faurecia SA,  PSA Peugeot Citroen (UG) ,
Sanofi,  Valeo SA (FR)  and others demonstrated in front of the labor
ministry against thousands of job cuts, leaving the country with
jobless claims at the highest in 15 years.  “Not a week passes when there isn’t a massive firing by a
company that is making enormous profits,” the unions said in
their statement to Labor Minister Michel Sapin.  They called on Hollande to keep his campaign promise to
block job cuts, reminding him that their support helped him win
the presidency.  Belt Tightening  Today’s demonstrations are aimed at getting the government
to rework the index used as a base to determine salaries of
public servants. The unions are also seeking a reiteration of
Hollande’s goals to add jobs in the areas of education, security
and justice.  “I understand their concerns after salaries were frozen for
a third year,” Public Service Minister Marylise Lebranchu said
in an interview on BFM TV. “At least we’ve stopped cutting
public-service jobs as  Nicolas Sarkozy  did. Still, we have to be
aware of the extremely difficult budgetary context we face.”  Hollande is working on shrinking the country’s budget
deficit, bringing it down to 3 percent of gross domestic product
this year from 4.5 percent last year. He has called on
government departments to tighten their belts after pledging in
November to cut public spending by 60 billion euros ($81
billion) over five years.  France’s economy is expected to have contracted in the
fourth quarter of 2012 and the first three months of this year
and is set to post no growth in 2013, according to Bloomberg
surveys.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vidya Root in Paris at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at 
 tquinson@bloomberg.net  