-- Honda Shrugs Off Windfall as Japan Inc. Unsure About Yen
-- B y   A n n a   M u k a i ,   M a s a t s u g u   H o r i e   a n d   M a   J i e
-- 2013-02-01T08:53:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/honda-motor-cuts-profit-forecast-after-china-japan-sales-drop.html
Don’t count  Honda Motor Co. (7267)  among
Japanese exporters preparing for a financial bonanza from the
tumbling yen.  Unlike Nintendo Co. and  Japan  Tobacco Inc., which raised
their profit forecasts this week, Tokyo-based Honda yesterday
cut its net income expectations for the year ending March,
assuming the yen will trade at levels that have been outdated
since November. Chief Financial Officer Fumihiko Ike said Honda
is being “extra careful” with its yen forecasts because it
doesn’t know what to expect in February and March.  The carmaker is not alone.  Chubu Steel Plate Co. (5461)  and NGK
Insulators Ltd. are among dozens of companies this week that cut
their profit projections by focusing on aspects such as sales in
China and Europe rather than the benefits of a weakening yen.
While conservative assumptions may give corporations extra room
to beat their earnings forecasts, they may also undermine
investor confidence.  “I can understand that they’re being conservative, but it
would’ve been better if they’d maintained their forecast based
on the current level of the currency,” Takashi Aoki, a Tokyo-
based fund manager at Mizuho Asset Management Co., said about
Honda’s earnings. “This new figure makes me wonder if they have
other issues too.”  Outdated Rates  Honda shares rose 0.3 percent to close at 3,515 yen in
 Tokyo , while the Nikkei 225 Stock Average climbed 0.5 percent.  The maker of the Civic sedan yesterday said it revised its
full-year outlook for the yen against the dollar to 81 from 80,
and 105 from 103 versus the euro. The yen, which has weakened
more than any currency since mid-November, is now trading at
about 92 against the dollar and 125 versus the euro.  According to Honda, its operating income gains by 16
billion yen annually for every one-yen drop in the dollar rate,
and 1 billion yen for each one-yen drop in euro rate.  Instead of reflecting the weaker yen’s added earnings,
Honda lowered its full-year net income  forecast  by 1.3 percent
to 370 billion yen ($4 billion), citing a slower-than-expected
recovery in sales in  China  and weakness in European demand.  Though Honda is projecting the yen to be at 85 against the
dollar and 110 versus the euro during the current quarter, the
Japanese currency has never been that strong in 2013.  ‘Sudden Move’  “The recent moves in the currency came all very suddenly,
so our forecast may seem rather conservative,” Ike said in a
briefing in Tokyo yesterday. “We don’t know what the trend will
be in February through March, so we want to be extra careful.”  The yen will weaken by the middle of this year to about 100
to the dollar, while the Nikkei 225 Stock Average will reach
about 13,000, according to Shun Maruyama, chief equity
strategist at BNP Paribas SA. The Japanese currency will end
2013 at 92 to the dollar, according to the average estimate
compiled by Bloomberg.  Nintendo Co., Panasonic Corp. and  Japan Tobacco Inc. (2914)  are
among companies that have acknowledged their earnings will get a
boost from Japan’s weakening currency.  Nintendo, creator of the Mario and Zelda game franchises,
more than doubled its annual net income forecast this week to 14
billion yen. Japan Tobacco, Asia’s largest listed tobacco maker,
raised its profit forecast to 330 billion yen from its previous
forecast of 318 billion yen and Panasonic today reported an
unexpected profit during the third quarter.  Turning Point  The currency began tumbling in mid-November, when Prime
Minister Shinzo Abe -- then running for office -- was calling
for “bold monetary policy” to beat deflation and drive down
the value of the yen.  Prior to that, the yen had gained about 40 percent over
five years, eroding the competitiveness of plants across Japan.
A report by the statistics bureau today showed manufacturing
jobs in the country fell to 9.98 million in December, falling
below 10 million for the first time since 1961.  At Honda, the maker of the Accord sedan maintained its
projections for operating profit and revenue, while cutting its
forecast for global deliveries to 4.06 million from 4.12
million. From January to December, it expects to sell a record
4.4 million vehicles.  While Honda recovered from disruptions caused by natural
disasters in 2011, the company reported lower sales in China
last quarter as a territorial dispute over a group of islands in
the East China Sea fueled a consumer backlash in the world’s
biggest auto market.  ‘Tough’ China  Deliveries in China declined a record 32 percent in the
October-to-December period, based on Honda statements stretching
back to 2006, to cap a 3 percent drop in full-year sales,
according to the company.  The sales slump in China was more than expected and the
market situation in  Europe  is “very tough,” Ike said.  Honda has said production at all five factories in China
has resumed to double shifts as anti-Japan sentiment in country
faded.  The automaker cut its full-year Europe sales forecast to
185,000 units from the previous estimate of 205,000, according
to the company.  In the U.S., where Honda gets more than 30 percent of its
global sales, deliveries surged 24 percent, according to
industry researcher Autodata Corp. The automaker’s market share
in the U.S. increased 1.1 percentage points to 9.93 percent in
the October-to-December period, according to industry researcher
Autodata Corp.  Industry First  Honda was the first among Japan’s biggest carmaker to
report financial results this earnings season.  Toyota Motor
Corp. (7203) , which regained its global sales lead from  General Motors
Co. (GM)  last year, will report on Feb. 5. The maker of Corollas and
Camry sedans will probably say third-quarter net income climbed
71 percent to 138.4 billion yen, according to the average of
eight analysts’  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  Nissan Motor Co. (7201) , which relies on China more than Toyota or
Honda, is expected to report profit last quarter fell 44 percent
to 46.4 billion yen as Chinese consumers shunned Japanese
brands, according to the average  estimate . The Yokohama, Japan-
based company will report Feb. 8.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna Mukai in Tokyo at 
 amukai1@bloomberg.net ;
Masatsugu Horie in Tokyo at 
 mhorie3@bloomberg.net ;
Ma Jie in Tokyo at 
 jma124@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  