-- London Diplomatic Cop Arrested in Probe of Lawmaker Resignation
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2013-01-31T17:40:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/london-diplomatic-cop-arrested-in-probe-of-lawmaker-resignation.html
A London police officer tasked with
protecting diplomats was arrested in a probe into allegations of
verbal abuse that led to the resignation of Chief Whip  Andrew Mitchell  from Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s Cabinet.  The 46-year-old male officer was arrested at his workplace
on suspicion of unauthorized disclosure of information to the
media and is still in custody, the  Metropolitan Police Service 
said today in a statement that didn’t identify him. It’s the
third arrest in the case.  Police are investigating an officer’s allegation that
Mitchell, who was in charge of discipline in Cameron’s Tory
party, called officers “plebs” outside the prime minister’s
Downing Street residence after they refused to let him cycle
through the main gate. He stepped down a month later.  A report by Channel 4 News televised Dec. 18 said a police
officer had posed as a member of the public and falsely claimed
to have witnessed the events in an e-mail to a lawmaker.  “The allegations in relation to this matter are extremely
serious and it is therefore vital that a thorough and
proportionate investigation is carried out,” the Met said in
the statement. “The investigation continues to be progressed
with urgency, determination and an open mind.”  The man arrested today was not one of the officers present
during the incident at Downing Street in September 2012, the Met
said. The earlier arrests, involving at least one police
officer, were made on suspicion of misconduct in public office
and on suspicion of “intentionally encouraging or assisting the
commission of an indictable offense,” police said.  Cameron may restore Mitchell to office if the new evidence
exonerates him, a person familiar with the premier’s thinking
said at the time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  