-- Monte Paschi Rating Cut as Probe Digs Deeper Into Losses
-- B y   D a v i d   S c h e e r
-- 2013-02-01T09:58:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/monte-paschi-rating-cut-by-s-p-on-concern-losses-may-increase.html
Banca Monte dei Paschi di Siena SpA ,
the Italian lender facing a criminal probe into money-losing
structured deals, had its  credit rating  cut by  Standard & Poor’s 
on concern the investigation may lead to bigger losses.  The losses “may be higher than initially anticipated” and
demonstrate “a risk of management weaknesses,” S&P said in a
statement late yesterday. The Siena-based lender had its long-
term grade cut to BB from BB+ and remains on watch negative,
which means the company may be downgraded again. Shares fell as
much as 2.9 percent in Milan trading today.  Monte Paschi said last month it may be forced to restate
 results  after  Bloomberg News  reported that it used derivatives
to obscure losses. Accounting irregularities led to the criminal
investigation targeting previous management. The bank is seeking
state help to bolster its balance sheet after failing to meet
 capital requirements  set by the European Banking Authority.  The Italian lender is also selling assets and reducing risk
and costs to restore liquidity. Chief Executive Officer Fabrizio Viola said Jan. 28 the board will complete the bank’s bailout
request by early February and the Italian Treasury will conclude
the transaction by the end of that month.  S&P said the likelihood that the Italian government will
give financial support to Monte Paschi if needed is “moderately
high” because the bank holds “high systemic importance” to
the country’s banking sector, according to the statement.  Bonds Fall  Monte Paschi fell 1.8 percent to 24.22 cents as of 10:05
a.m., valuing the bank at 2.8 billion euros ($3.8 billion).  Monte Paschi’s 4.875 percent bonds due 2014 dropped 0.14
cents on the euro to 98.38 euro cents at 8:58 a.m. in  London ,
the fifth straight day of declines, Bloomberg Bond Trader prices
show. That’s pushed the yield up to 516 basis points more than
the benchmark midswap rate, the highest since the bonds were
sold in September.  Moody’s Investors Service also placed Monte Paschi debt on
review for a  downgrade  on Jan. 30 because of “considerable
uncertainty” over the impact of the structured finance deals.  Documents revealed last month show that Monte Paschi’s
former management used structured-finance deals to hide losses
from previous operations. The bank has said it was investigating
three transactions and will release a report on their  financial
impact .  Prosecutors in Siena are probing Monte Paschi’s past
management for alleged market manipulation, false accounting,
obstructing regulators and fraud related to structured-finance
deals. Prosecutors in  Rome  have opened an investigation into
market manipulation, news agency Ansa reported yesterday,
without saying where it got the information.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Scheer in  New York  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rick Green at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net  