-- TOP Oil Market News: Crude Stable; EU, Singapore in Trade Accord
-- B y   R o b   V e r d o n c k
-- 2013-01-31T12:29:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/top-oil-market-news-crude-stable-eu-singapore-in-trade-accord.html
The following is a selection of the
most important news affecting the oil market.  Oil Trades Near Four-Month High as Fed Maintains Asset Buying  Oil traded near the highest price in more than four months
in New York as the Federal Reserve maintained an asset-purchase
program to boost the economy of the world’s largest crude-
consuming nation.  TOP OIL MARKET NEWS  EU, Singapore Trade Deal for Tax-Free Oil May Start in 2014 (1)  A free-trade agreement between the European Union and
Singapore that removes taxes on  jet fuel  and diesel imports to
the continent will come into force as early as 2014, potentially
boosting petroleum shipments to the EU.  Asia to Reduce February West African Crude Imports as India Cuts  Refiners in Asia will trim imports of West African crude
for loading next month to the least in three months after  India 
reduced its purchases to the lowest since July. China and Taiwan
also pared purchases.  Oil Options Lure Banks on Calmest WTI Since ’95: Energy Markets  The lowest oil volatility in 17 years is pushing down
options costs, setting up trades that BNP Paribas SA and
Commerzbank AG say will profit when Mideast supply disruptions
send prices swinging again.  Europe Naphtha Cargoes to Asia Rise to Four for February Loading  European naphtha shipments loading in February for
transport to Asia rose to four cargoes from one a week earlier,
shipping data showed.  Dubai Timespreads Down 37%; West  Africa  Imports Drop: Asia Crude  Dubai crude’s backwardation, when near-term shipments are
more expensive than future supplies, averaged 53 cents/bbl in
the last five days of January, down 37 percent from 84 cents/bbl
at the end of December.  Oman Crude Selling Price for March Rises 1.5% to $107.78/Barrel  The official selling price for Oman sold during March will
be $107.78 a barrel, based on the average of daily futures
settlement prices this month on the Dubai Mercantile Exchange.
That sets the medium-sulfur crude 1.5 percent higher than
February’s price of $106.16.  Asia Gasoil Crack Gains in January; Hin Leong Buys: Oil Products  Asian gasoil’s premium to Dubai caps biggest monthly gain
since July. Hin Leong Trading buys  fuel oil  from Vitol in
Singapore.  Ethanol Discount to Gasoline Gains a Seventh Day on Drawdown  Ethanol’s discount to gasoline widened for a seventh day
after a government report showed record low production and
rising stockpiles while inventories of the motor fuel dropped to
a one-month low.  U.S. Oil Supply: Comparison of Weekly API, DOE Figures (Table)  The following table provides a  comparison between the U.S.
Department of Energy’s crude-oil statistics for the week ended
Jan. 25 and the data from the  American Petroleum Institute , an
industry-funded group.  REFINERIES
Map global refinery outages  MORE: PBF’s Toledo Refinery Has Fire in Gasoline-Making Unit  Fluid catalytic cracking unit has capacity of 75,000 b/d,
company spokeswoman Olivia Summons says in e-mailed statement.  PBF’s Toledo Refinery Has Fire in Fluid Catalytic Cracking Unit  Fire occurred in Oregon, Ohio, refinery gasoline-making
unit at 11:50 p.m. local time Jan. 30, company spokeswoman
Olivia Summons says in e-mailed statement  Exxon Torrance Refinery Output Unaffected by Mechanical Issue  Exxon Mobil Corp.’s Torrance refinery in  California 
continued to operate normally after a mechanical issue in a unit
at the plant, according to Gesuina Paras, a company spokeswoman.  Imperial Sarnia Refinery Working to Return to Normal Operations  Imperial Oil Ltd.’s Sarnia refinery in Ontario, Canada,
“continuing to respond” to operational upset yesterday, Pius
Rolheiser, Co. spokesman, said by e-mail.  Chevron Ignored Decade of Warnings Before Oil Refinery Fire (2)  Chevron Corp. ignored the advice of its own staff for 10
years and failed to replace an aging pipe at the Richmond
refinery that ruptured Aug. 6, igniting one of California’s
worst plant fires in 13 years, state records show.  OTHER OIL MARKET NEWS  STO Maldives Said to Buy Indian Oil’s Fuel Oil for $14 Discount  State Trading Organization Plc (Maldives) bought as much as
35,000 metric tons of fuel oil for loading in February from
Indian Oil Corp., the nation’s largest refiner, said three
traders who asked not to be identified because the information
is confidential.  Singapore Middle-Distillate Fuel Supplies Rise to 15-Month High  Middle-distillate inventories in Singapore, Asia’s largest
oil-trading and storage center, rose 1.5 percent to the highest
in more than 15 months, according to a unit of the Ministry of
Trade and Industry.  Vitol Said to Buy Bharat Petroleum’s Fuel Oil for $20 Discount  Vitol Group bought a total of 30,000 metric tons of fuel
oil for loading in February from Bharat Petroleum Corp., India’s
second-biggest state refiner, said two traders who asked not to
be identified because the information is confidential.  Crude Official Selling Prices and Formulas by Country (Table)  The following table shows official prices, formulas and
relative values for crudes from the  Middle East , Asia, Africa
and the Americas. Figures represent outright prices in dollars a
barrel, or premiums and discounts to regional benchmarks where
plus and minus symbols appear.  Brunei Shell Lifts December Prices for Seria Light, Champion Oil  Brunei Shell Petroleum Co. increased its retroactive
official selling prices for Seria Light and Champion crude
purchased in December by $1.14 each to $114.35 and $114.20 a
barrel, respectively, said two people familiar with the change.
They asked not to be identified because they aren’t authorized
to speak to the media.  TOP ENERGY STORIES  Shell Misses Profit Estimates, Says Investment Costs to Rise (1)  Royal Dutch Shell Plc, Europe’s biggest energy company,
said investment will increase after fourth-quarter profit missed
analyst estimates on weaker North American fuel prices.  Natural Gas Rises on Outlook for Above-Average Stockpile Drop  Natural gas futures climbed in New York for the first time
in seven days before a government report tomorrow that may show
this winter’s biggest stockpile drop.  Natural Gas Supply Drop Was Biggest in Two Years, Forecasts Show  Natural gas inventories fell last week by the most in two
years as frigid weather swept across the Eastern U.S., analyst
forecasts compiled by Bloomberg show.  Violent Winter Storm Kills One as It Moves to U.S. Northeast (3)  At least one person was killed and eight injured as a
winter storm raked the eastern U.S., knocking out power, tying
up air traffic from Atlanta to New York and sending temperatures
soaring in much of the Northeast.  Saipem Plunges on Profit Outlook as Regulator Probes Trading (2)  Saipem SpA plunged a record 34 percent in Milan trading
after Europe’s largest oil-service provider cut profit forecasts
and an Italian regulator investigated a share sale made before
yesterday’s statement.  CEO Leaves Chesapeake Cash-Starved After Icahn-Led Revolt (3)  Chesapeake Energy Corp.’s departing chief executive officer
will leave to his successor a shrunken, cash-starved version of
what was once the preeminent natural gas producer in the world’s
biggest market for the fuel.  Occidental Ripe for Icahn-Like Treatment as Stock Slides: Energy  Activist investors from  Carl Icahn  to  Daniel Loeb  are
amassing stakes in energy companies to replace directors and
spin off assets dragging down valuations amid record oil prices.  Sinochem Will Buy Stake in Texas Oil Shale for $500 Million (1)  Sinochem Group , China’s biggest supplier of chemical
products, agreed to buy a 40 percent stake in Texas oil-shale
acreage from Pioneer Natural Resources Co. for $500 million.  Ambani Lowers Capital Cost With Reliance Perpetual: India Credit  Billionaire  Mukesh Ambani ’s Reliance Industries Ltd. is
cutting its cost of capital after selling dollar-denominated
bonds with no maturity, the second such issuance by an Indian
non-bank entity.  Petronas Makes $2.8 Billion Buyout Offer for LNG Shipper MISC  Petroliam Nasional Bhd., Malaysia’s state-owned energy
company, offered to buy out shipping unit MISC Bhd. in a deal
worth 8.7 billion ringgit ($2.8 billion).  Hess CEO Wants to Keep Assets, Despite Shareholders’ Calls (2)  Hess Corp. Chairman and Chief Executive Officer John Hess
said he wants to keep Bakken shale and offshore  oil fields ,
despite calls from Paul Singer’s Elliott Management Corp. and
Relational Investors LLC for the company to pursue asset sales.  Kinder Morgan Buys Copano for $3.2 Billion, Adds Shale (4)  Kinder Morgan Energy Partners LP, the biggest U.S. pipeline
company, agreed to acquire Copano Energy LLC for about $3.2
billion in stock to capitalize on rising natural gas output from
shale basins in Texas, Oklahoma and Wyoming.  OTHER MARKETS  European Stocks Decline as German Bonds Gain; Metals Advance  European stocks fell for a second day and bonds rose as
companies from AstraZeneca Plc to Royal Dutch Shell Plc reported
results that disappointed investors and German retail sales
dropped more than estimated. Nickel led gains in industrial
metals, climbing to a three-month high.  Euro Retreats From 13-Month High as German Retail Sales Slide  The euro dropped from a 13-month high versus the dollar as
a report showed German retail sales fell more than economists
predicted last month, damping demand for the 17-nation common
currency.  Dollar Debasement Denied in Record Demand for Debt: Currencies  Even after the worst financial crisis since the Great
Depression, 10 percent unemployment and the  Federal Reserve ’s
flooding the world with an extra $3 trillion, the dollar is as
strong now as five years ago.  Rubber Extending  Bull Market  With Record Car Sales: Commodities  Diminishing rubber supplies and record car sales are
extending a five-month bull market that’s poised to raise costs
for tiremakers.  Soybeans Drop as Brazil’s Harvest Seen Proceeding Amid Rainfall  Soybeans fell in Chicago, paring the first monthly gain
since August, on speculation rain in leading global exporter
Brazil will be too light to disrupt the harvest.  Iran Tells UN Monitors Uranium Enrichment Production Upgraded  Iran told  United Nations  monitors it’s installing new
centrifuges at its Natanz facility that could enrich more
uranium in less time, according to a restricted IAEA document
circulated to members yesterday.  Israel Strike in Syria Said to Hit Hezbollah Missile Convoy (2)  Israeli jets hit Syrian trucks carrying anti-aircraft
missiles for the Islamic militant group Hezbollah across the
border into Lebanon, according to a Western official who asked
not to be named citing regulations.  SPORTS  Harvard Business-Bound NFL Union President Uses Brain Over Brawn  Domonique Foxworth was sitting across the table from
billionaire team owners during labor negotiations as president
of the National Football League Players Association when he came
to a stark realization.  Largent Says Government Shouldn’t Weigh In on NFL Head Injuries  Steve Largent , the Hall of Fame receiver and former
congressman, said it isn’t the government’s place to get
involved in the issue of repeated traumatic head impacts and
their possible link to long-term brain injuries for National
Football League players.  Anthony Has 30th Straight 20-Point Game in Knicks Win Over Magic  Tyson Chandler  scored 21 points and  Carmelo Anthony  set a
team record with his 30th straight game of at least 20 points as
the  New York Knicks  handed the Orlando Magic their seventh
consecutive loss.  Raptors Get Gay, Haddadi in Three-Team, Six-Player NBA Trade  The Toronto Raptors acquired forward Rudy Gay and center
Hamed Haddadi from the  Memphis Grizzlies  in exchange for guard
Jose Calderon, forward Ed Davis, a second- round draft choice in
2013 and cash.  ENERGY PRICES  Last    Chg  %Chg   Exch Contract  ----   ----  ----   ---- --------
WTI Crude ($/Bbl)       97.73  -0.21  -0.2  Nymex    March
Brent Crude ($/Bbl)    114.77  -0.13  -0.1    ICE    March
Gasoil ($/Ton)         980.25  -0.25   0.0    ICE    March
Gasoline (c/Gal)       303.11  -0.76  -0.3  Nymex     Feb.
Natural gas ($/MMBtu)    3.36  +0.02  +0.6  Nymex    March
Dated Brent ($/Bbl)    115.71  -0.23  -0.2    OTC  21 Days
Heating Oil            311.25  -0.48  -0.2  Nymex     Feb.
Other markets:  Last  %Chg  ----- -----
Dollar Index            79.33  +0.1
Gold ($/Oz)          1,681.60  +1.1
MSCI World Index     1,407.34  -0.2
Prices as of 12 p.m. London time  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Voss in London at   sev@bloomberg.net  