-- Morgan Stanley Buys Argentine Stocks as YPF Deal Lures BlackRock
-- B y   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n
-- 2013-01-31T14:39:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/morgan-stanley-buys-argentine-stocks-as-ypf-deal-lures-blackrock.html
The tumble in Argentine stocks that
sent valuations to an almost four-year low has spurred Morgan
Stanley  Investment Management  and  BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  to buy.  Timothy Drinkall, whose Morgan Stanley  Frontier Emerging
Markets Portfolio (MFMIX)  rose 26 percent in the past 12 months, said he
bought Argentine shares last year after avoiding the country
altogether earlier in 2012. By Dec. 31, the nation’s  equities 
accounted for a larger percentage of holdings than were in the
fund’s benchmark index, he said in a Jan. 23 phone interview.  The MSCI  Argentina  Index of five companies with operations
in the South American country has rebounded 16 percent this year
following a 39 percent rout in 2012 that was sparked by
President Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner’s seizure of the
nation’s largest oil  company  and restriction of imports and
capital flows. Fernandez may ease import curbs this year as she
seeks to boost economic growth before mid-term congressional
elections in October, according to Drinkall.  “Valuations are at extreme low levels,” said Drinkall,
whose frontier fund beat 98 percent of peers tracked by
Bloomberg during the past 12 months. “Sometimes for a market to
adjust upwards, things just have to be less bad.”  The  MSCI Argentina (MXAR)   gauge , which tracks the U.S.-listed
shares of two banks, two oil producers and the nation’s largest
telecommunications company, was valued at 1.1 times net assets
on Jan. 30, about 30 percent below its four-year average and
less than the multiple of 1.5 for the  MSCI Frontier Markets
Index (MXFM) , according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The Argentina
measure sank to 0.67 times on Nov. 16, the lowest since March
2009.  Currency Controls  Argentine shares had a 3.5 percent weighting in the MSCI
frontier index as of Jan. 30, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The MSCI Argentina Index was little changed today at 9:37
a.m. in  New York  trading.  The  BlackRock Frontiers Investment Trust Plc (BRFI) , which had
about $132 million of assets as of Dec. 31, increased its
position in Argentine stocks to 3.9 percent of total holdings
from 2.4 percent in July, the fund said in a Jan. 16 statement.
Sam Vecht, who manages the trust, said by phone on Jan. 18 he’s
turning “more positive” on Argentina after valuations fell.  Government controls on imports and  currency markets  have
weakened Argentina’s economy and may be contributing to
Fernandez’s declining popularity, said Drinkall, who helps
oversee about $300 million in New York. The president has banned
the purchase of dollars for savings or real estate investments
and forced insurers to repatriate their money held abroad. The
peso plunged about 40 percent in the past 12 months in an
unregulated foreign-exchange market that Argentines use to
acquire dollars.  Approval Rating  Fernandez’s approval rating plummeted to 29.8 percent in
December from 64.1 percent when she was re-elected in October
2011, according to a poll by Buenos Aires-based Management &
Fit. About 2 million demonstrators protested against inflation,
crime and currency controls in cities across the country on Nov.
8.  “Her ability to implement some of the negative policies
has been curtailed” by her waning popularity, said Drinkall,
who traveled to Argentina in December.  The economy may expand between 2 percent to 3 percent this
year, up from an estimated rate of less than 1 percent in 2012,
helping to boost corporate  profits , Drinkall said. He declined
to disclose which stocks he bought.  The odds of government meddling in listed companies are
still too high to invest in Argentine equities, Thomas Vester Nielsen, who helps oversee more than $250 million in frontier
markets as a senior  money manager  at Lloyd George Management in
 London , said in a Jan. 14 phone interview.  YPF Rout  The U.S.-listed  shares  of  YPF SA (YPFD)  have lost about 50 percent
of their value during the past 12 months as Fernandez seized
control in April, ousting Spanish owner Repsol SA amid a dispute
over slumping output and investments.  The cost to protect Argentine government debt against
default for five years using credit-default swaps has almost
tripled during the past year to about 2,100 basis points,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s the highest
among countries tracked by Bloomberg after  Greece .  In 2001, Argentina’s $95 billion default sent the stock
market tumbling. The  MSCI Argentina index  fell 22 percent that
year and another 51 percent in 2002. It returned 288 percent
since then including dividends, compared with a 136 percent
rally in the MSCI frontier gauge.  Argentina is “moving in the wrong direction,” Hans-Henrik Skov, who manages the BankInvest New  Emerging Markets  Equities
Fund from Copenhagen, said in a Jan. 15 phone interview. “It
will definitely have its rallies from time to time, but I’m
comfortable missing out on those.”  Chevron, Bridas  Foreign companies’ increased interest in Argentina’s shale
fuel deposits may signal easing concern about the risk of doing
business in the country, according to Vecht, who manages
developing-nation funds at BlackRock, the world’s largest asset
manager.  YPF (YPF)  struck agreements with  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  and Bridas
International in December to develop shale reserves.  “We had been very negative but we’re looking to move in a
more positive direction because markets have come off so much,”
said Vecht, who’s based in London. “There are obviously severe
challenges. But if things were to change, markets could move up
quite significantly.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Patterson  in  Hong Kong  at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  