-- Toshiba Turns to Profit on Flash-Memory Chip Demand, Weaker Yen
-- B y   N a o k o   F u j i m u r a
-- 2013-01-31T06:18:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/toshiba-turns-to-profit-on-flash-memory-chip-demand-weaker-yen.html
Toshiba Corp. (6502) , the Japanese maker of
 flash-memory  chips, elevators and steam turbines, posted a
larger-than-expected profit because of higher semiconductor
prices, a weaker yen and rising sales of power equipment.  Net income totaled 29.3 billion yen ($322 million) in the
three months ended Dec. 31, compared with a loss of 11.5 billion
yen a year earlier, the Tokyo-based company said in a statement
today. Profit was expected to be 12 billion yen, based on the
average of four  analyst estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. Sales
fell 6 percent to 1.36 trillion yen.  Toshiba, the world’s second-biggest maker of flash memory,
benefited from rising chips prices caused by production cuts and
rising sales of mobile devices such as Apple Inc. iPads. The
company also gained from the yen’s slump, which boosted the
value of overseas sales and assets, and demand for gas-fired
power stations following the 2011 Fukushima nuclear accident.  The company reiterated that it expects full-year net income
of 110 billion yen, operating profit of 260 billion yen and 6.1
trillion yen of sales.  Quarterly operating profit at Toshiba’s social
infrastructure business, its biggest unit by sales, rose 38
percent to 15.5 billion yen. The division makes thermal and
hydropower systems, elevators and medical devices. Separately,
the company is in talks with  General Electric Co. (GE)  to set up a
venture to develop and sell thermal-power systems.  Chips Profit  Toshiba’s electronics devices unit, which makes flash
memory for Apple products, more than tripled operating profit
28 billion yen. The price of 32-gigabit  NAND flash memory  rose
9.6 percent to $2.86 in the three months ended Dec. 31,
according to DRAMeXchange,  Asia ’s biggest spot market for the
chips. The price began rising after Toshiba, the biggest
supplier after Samsung Electronics Co., cut production in July.  The home-appliances unit made a 1.3 billion yen loss,
compared with a year-earlier profit, on slumping demand for
televisions. The digital-products unit narrowed its loss to 12.4
billion yen.  Toshiba climbed 1.2 percent to 406 yen in Tokyo trading
before the earnings release. It has risen 26 percent in the past
12 months, about in line the benchmark Topix Index.  The company is in talks to sell as much as 36 percent of
its Westinghouse Electric atomic-power business after being
forced to increase its stake in the unit to 87 percent. Toshiba
was compelled to buy 20 percent of Westinghouse this month after
Shaw Group Inc. used a push option to sell its stake.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naoko Fujimura in Tokyo at 
 nfujimura@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  