-- Hostess CEO Says Stalking-Horse Bids Total $858 Million
-- B y   P h i l   M i l f o r d   a n d   D a w n   M c C a r t y
-- 2013-01-31T19:19:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/hostess-ceo-says-stalking-horse-bids-total-858-million.html
Hostess Brands Inc. Chief Executive
Officer Greg Rayburn said initial or stalking-horse bids for
assets of the bankrupt maker of Twinkies and Wonder bread now
total $858 million, with about $100 million more for sale.  In an interview today with  Betty Liu  on Bloomberg
Television’s “In the Loop,” Rayburn said he probably will
leave the company after the auction process is completed.  “I would think I can step away” after April, he said.
“The bulk of what you need to do is almost done, essentially. I
expect to see a pretty active and robust process” starting with
the minimum auction price, he said.  Hostess, based in Irving,  Texas , yesterday announced that
it had chosen a joint offer from  Apollo Global Management LLC (APO) 
and C. Dean Metropoulos & Co. as the lead bid for Twinkies and
other cake brands in a March auction.  Apollo and Metropoulos offered as much as $410 million for
the Hostess snack-cake business, which also includes Dolly
Madison brands, five bakeries and equipment.  Leon Black ’s
Apollo, based in  New York , managed $109.7 billion in assets as
of Sept. 30. Metropoulos, based in Greenwich, Connecticut, is
the private-equity firm that owns Pabst Brewing Co.  The $858 million amount is almost double officials’ 2011
estimated value of $450 million mentioned at a Nov. 29 court
hearing. It’s lower than an estimate of about $1 billion given
by a financial adviser, Joshua Scherer of Perella Weinberg
Partners LP, at another November hearing.  ‘Furious’ Interest  Scherer said interest from 110 potential buyers was “fast
and furious” and with so many possible buyers was “like
drinking from a fire hose.” Hostess previously announced lead
bidders for the majority of its bread brands as well as its
Drake’s brand.  Flowers Foods Inc. (FLO) , McKee Foods Corp. and United
States Bakery Inc. are the so-called stalking-horse bidders,
setting the standards others will have to beat.  Flowers, based in Thomasville,  Georgia , made the lead bid
for Hostess’s Wonder, Butternut, Home Pride, Merita and Nature’s
Pride brands, 20 bread plants, 38 depots and other assets.
Flowers offered $360 million, plus $30 million for the Beefsteak
brand. An auction is set for Feb. 28.  Flowers, established in 1919, produces and markets packaged
baked goods for retail and food-service customers. The company’s
top brands are Nature’s Own and Tastykake.  Auction Sought  McKee, maker of Little Debbie snacks, agreed to pay
$27.5 million for Drake’s. United States Bakery offered to buy
the Sweetheart, Eddy’s, Standish Farms and Grandma Emilie’s
bread brands, four bakeries and 14 depots, plus certain
equipment, for $28.9 million, according to court papers. Hostess
has requested a March 15 auction date for Drake’s and the four
bread brands.  Hostess, founded in 1930, is liquidating its brands,
recipes, plants and other assets after failing to reach an
agreement with striking bakers on concessions to help the
company emerge from its second bankruptcy.  The Bakery, Confectionery, Tobacco Workers and Grain
Millers International Union, which represented more than 5,000
Hostess workers, went on strike in November after the company
imposed contract concessions approved by U.S. Bankruptcy Judge
Robert Drain in  White Plains , New York.  Management Blamed  The union blamed management for failing to modernize and
said it accepted big wage and benefit cuts as part of Hostess’s
first bankruptcy, which ended in 2009. Hostess entered
bankruptcy again in January 2012 after changes in American diets
curbed sales while ingredient costs and labor expenses climbed.  The fates of the 18,000 people who lost their jobs are up
in the air.  “Some bidders are union shops and they rehire people and
that would be great,” Rayburn said in an interview on CNBC
today. “I would love for everyone to get their job back,”
Rayburn added.  The bakers’ union “looks forward to the opportunity to
work together productively; and is now engaging with bidders who
recognize the value that we can bring to an ongoing business,”
David Durkee, the union president, said in an e-mailed
statement.  The case is In re Hostess Brands Inc., 12-22052,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York (White Plains).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net ;
Dawn McCarty in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 dmccarty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  