-- How Markets Could Shift to ‘Risk Off’
-- B y   A .   G a r y   S h i l l i n g
-- 2013-01-31T23:30:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/how-markets-could-shift-to-risk-off-.html
The huge deleveraging in private
sectors in the U.S. and elsewhere, the unresolved frictions
between northern and southern nations in the euro area and the
needed shift in  China  to a domestically driven economy suggest
that the current “risk-on” investment environment may collapse.  Bullish investors will probably be forced into an agonizing
reappraisal by a shock, as was the case in limited ways with the
euphoria over the  Federal Reserve ’s first two rounds of
quantitative easing and its Operation Twist, which involved
swapping short-term debt for long-term securities.  The first outbreak of the Greek debt crisis in early 2010
ended the QE1-driven stock rally. The QE2-spawned  bull market 
ended in early 2011 with the second round of Greek turmoil and
the widening European financial and economic woes. Operation
Twist optimism concluded with the realization that  Europe ’s
problems may not be amenable to a ready solution, and with
investors’ worries about the U.S. political deadlock over the
automatic spending cuts and tax increases scheduled to take
effect Jan. 1.  This time, a hard landing in China might do the job. A
slowdown to growth of 5 percent to 6 percent would have dire
consequences for world trade, commodities demand and prices, as
well as commodity producers and their currencies. A hard landing
will be a big shock to analysts who interpreted recent data,
such as the pop above 50 in the HSBC Purchasing Managers Index,
as insurance that a soft landing has been achieved and that a
return to 8 percent real gross-domestic-product growth rates is
imminent.  Chinese Consumers  The trend in all-important  export growth  is still down, and
China is far from a domestic-led economy with only 38 percent of
GDP accounted for by  consumer spending .  Investor euphoria could also be shattered by a leap in the
price of oil, triggered by an Iran-related incident. That is
what unfolded in 1973, when the Arab oil embargo deepened the
recession, and with the Iranian revolution in 1979. A
significant energy-cost surge would be a debilitating tax on
consumers.  Another cause for a shift in sentiment would be the failure
of a major European bank, which -- despite the  European Central
Bank ’s commitment to bailouts -- would probably generate a
global financial crisis, much like the one in 2008.  Banks are so intertwined through assets such as loans,
leases and derivatives that a shock in Europe would be felt
around the world. Twenty-three percent of U.S. banks’ total
foreign exposure is in the euro area. That figure rises to
almost 41 percent if the U.K. is included. European banks are in
greater danger still because of their heavy ownership of the
sovereign debt of troubled euro-area countries.  Of course, a U.S.  recession  would be a major shock to
bullish investors, especially because so many believe the
economy is on the mend. Yet if the basic economy is as weak as I
believe, it won’t take much to push it into recessionary
territory.  Newly enacted  tax increases  are estimated to reduce real
GDP by 1.5 percentage points in 2013. That’s less than the 2.9
percentage-point reduction the bipartisan Congressional Budget
office estimates would have occurred if Congress hadn’t reached
a compromise and taxes had gone up for everyone as spending cuts
took effect Jan. 1. Still, the cut in growth is substantial,
especially in a fragile economy.  Moderate Recession  A U.S. recession, though it would probably be moderate,
would be a sufficient shock to close the grand disconnect
between the reality of weak global economies and the false
security created by immense central-bank liquidity. The U.S.
would then join  Japan , the U.K. and the euro area in a
recession. If this were coupled with a hard landing in China, we
would face a global recession. In that event, my investment
themes for 2013 would shift to a “risk-off” stance.  In such an environment, Treasury bonds would soar because
of sparse global demand for credit; their appeal as a haven; and
growing fears of deflation. High-quality fixed-income
instruments would also benefit as investors sought safety. The
dollar would also appreciate against the euro and commodity
currencies and would continue to strengthen against the yen.  My list of investments for a “risk off” climate eliminates
most of my long-stock suggestions for the current “risk-on”
world. That includes dividend-heavy stocks. I still favor
natural gas in commodity form.  Medical office buildings should also remain attractive,
though as direct investments and not as part of real-estate
investment trusts, which appear vulnerable. The same applies to
direct ownership of rental apartments. The only long-equity
theme I retain is certain types of  luxury goods , which may have
appeal even in tough times.  The “risk off” environment would be detrimental to stocks,
in general, as well as low-quality bonds. With global economic
weakness and especially a hard landing in China, most commodity
prices would continue to fall.  Once the grand disconnect has been bridged, equities
related to big-ticket discretionary consumer spending would be
unattractive. This includes automobiles, appliances -- which are
hurt by weak housing -- cruise lines, resorts and hotel
operators. Consumer lenders are also likely to be unattractive
investments as borrowers retrench and repay debt while
delinquencies increase.  Some recent upbeat data have been interpreted as a sign
that the long housing bust is over. Yet similar optimism
prevailed in 2010 when prices rose in response to the tax
credits for new homeowners, and that bright spot was short-
lived. Until delinquencies are cleaned up and the houses sold,
and until excess inventories are liquidated, I will remain
skeptical about U.S. housing.  Rental Apartments  With a further substantial drop in  house prices  and a
related leap in “underwater” mortgages to 40 percent from 24
percent, the equities of homebuilders and related companies
would be unattractive, and  home prices  would be
vulnerable. However, this enhances the appeal of direct
ownership of rental apartments. And single-family rentals may
also be attractive if maintenance costs can be controlled.  If a significant shock occurs later this year, investors
will learn the hard way that their neglect of risk in pursuing
yield was a big mistake. Junk bonds may be a prime example, even
though they rose 16 percent in price last year as their yields
dropped and their spreads against Treasuries narrowed.  Investor zeal made refinancing sub-investment-grade
securities easy, and defaults were also near record lows. The
stampede into  junk bonds  has pushed the spread between the yield
on junk bonds and the earnings yield on stocks close to zero.
Earlier refinancings have provided some cushion for low-rated
companies in the event of a global recession. Nevertheless, I
believe default rates will rise from unsustainably low levels
and the prices of junk bonds, leveraged loans and other low-
rated securities will retreat.  As with junk bonds, investors rushed into emerging-country
debt last year. Both assets are risky, so the similarity of
their performance isn’t surprising. They also are similarly
vulnerable this year.  Substantial weakness in emerging-market stocks is likely to
develop for two reasons. First, a hard landing in China would
spread to other developing economies. Second, the deepening
recession in Europe and economic decline in the U.S. would be
extremely detrimental to export-dependent developing economies.  Falling stock markets in major economies would be the
logical consequence of global economic stagnation. I estimate
that average operating earnings per share for Standard & Poor’s
500 Index companies would be $80 at annual rates and the price-
equity ratio would drop to 13 in the global recessionary
climate, about the average for past bear markets. The  S&P 500 
would then fall more than 30 percent from its recent
levels. Other major stock markets should show similar weakness.  My estimate for operating earnings is based on three
negative forces. First, a global recession will depress
corporate revenue. Second, a strengthening dollar will mean
export revenue and foreign earnings of U.S.-based multinationals
will be worth less. Third, profit-margin expansion may be over.  Profits’ share of national income recently hit a post-World
War II high because of robust cost-cutting. This was needed in
the sluggish recovery to boost profits because raising prices
was almost impossible and volume increases were limited. Cost-
cutting opportunities may be fully exploited, at least for now,
and profit margins appear vulnerable.  (A. Gary Shilling is president of A. Gary Shilling & Co.
and the author of “The Age of Deleveraging: Investment
Strategies for a Decade of Slow Growth and Deflation.” The
opinions expressed are his own. This is the last in a five-part
series. Read  Part 1 ,  Part 2 ,  Part 3  and  Part 4 .)  To contact the writer of this article:
A. Gary Shilling at  insight@agaryshilling.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net  