-- Peru Raises Dollar Reserve Requirements to Damp Sol Rally
-- B y   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 2013-01-31T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/peru-central-bank-raises-reserve-requirements-for-dollars-1-.html
Peru ’s central bank increased
 reserve requirements  for a second straight month to stem a rally
in the sol.  The monetary authority increased the average reserve
requirement for dollars by 1 percentage point effective Feb. 1,
it said in an e-mailed statement yesterday. The increase is the
steepest of six increases in the ratio since May.  Peru’s policy makers are expanding efforts to combat
appreciation in  Latin America ’s best performing currency in the
past year. Companies seeking dollar financing abroad, demand for
the government’s bonds and record foreign direct investment have
spurred inflows, leading the central bank to step up dollar
purchases in the  spot market . The  Finance Ministry  said this
week it will buy $4 billion to offset inflows as investors from
developed markets plow money into higher-yielding assets.  The latest measure aims to “soften the impact of capital
inflows from abroad on the expansion of credit and appreciation
in the local currency,” the statement said.  The amount of dollar reserves that lenders hold at the
central bank rose to 41.2 percent last month from 39.2 percent
in April, the central bank said.  The central bank increased to 25 percent from 20 percent
the reserve ratio for banks’ foreign long-term loans and bonds
that exceed 2.2 times effective equity, compared with a previous
limit of 2.5 times, according to the statement.  The bank said it will lower reserve ratios for banks that
increase lending and investment overseas to slow the expansion
in dollar credit.  The sol has appreciated 0.6 percent this year and closed at
2.5375 on Jan. 14., the strongest level since October 1996.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Quigley in Lima at +511-614-6811 or
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  