-- Peru Sol Falls Most Since October on Reserve Rules: Lima Mover
-- B y   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 2013-01-31T16:40:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/peru-sol-falls-most-since-october-on-reserve-rules-lima-mover.html
Peru’s sol fell the most in three
months after the central bank increased reserve requirements to
stem a four-year rally in the currency.  The sol dropped 0.5 percent to 2.5795 per U.S. dollar at
11:06 a.m. in  Lima , according to prices compiled by Bloomberg.
That’s the steepest intraday decline since Oct. 26.  Policy makers increased the average reserve requirement for
dollars by 1 percentage point effective tomorrow, the steepest
of six increases in the ratio since May, the monetary authority
said in an e-mailed statement.  “The central bank has made explicit its concern about the
forces pressuring the currency to appreciate,” Hedmond Rios, an
economist at Celfin Capital SA, said in a phone interview from
Santiago. “The sol has suffered a strong speculative attack.”  The sol has advanced 4.3 percent in the past year, the
strongest gain among the six most-traded Latin American dollar
peers after  Chile ’s peso, according to prices compiled by
Bloomberg. Peru’s currency closed at 2.5390 on Jan. 14, the
strongest level since October 1996, data from the country’s
financial regulator show.  Companies seeking dollar financing abroad, demand for the
government’s bonds and record foreign direct investment have
spurred inflows, leading the central bank to step up dollar
purchases in the spot market.  The Finance Ministry said this week it will buy $4 billion
to offset inflows as investors from developed markets plow money
into higher-yielding assets.  The sol, which has advanced 19 percent in the past four
years, has depreciated 1.8 percent since Jan. 14 after the
central bank boosted daily dollar purchases.  The latest measure is designed to “soften the impact of
capital inflows from abroad on the expansion of credit and
appreciation in the local currency,” the central bank said in
its statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Quigley in Lima at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  