-- Petronas Makes $2.8 Billion Buyout Offer for MISC
-- B y   E l f f i e   C h e w
-- 2013-02-04T02:44:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/petronas-makes-2-8-billion-buyout-offer-for-lng-shipper-misc.html
(Corrects deal value in first paragraph in story first
published Jan. 31)  Petroliam Nasional Bhd.,  Malaysia ’s
state-owned energy company, offered to buy out shipping unit
 MISC Bhd. (MISC)  in a deal worth 8.8 billion ringgit ($2.8 billion).  Kuala Lumpur-based Petronas, as the company is known, said
it would pay 5.30 ringgit per share in cash for the remaining 37
percent stake it doesn’t already own in the world’s second-
largest liquefied natural gas shipper, according to a stock
exchange filing today. That’s a 19 percent premium over its last
price of 4.45 ringgit, a level last seen in April 2012.  “The offer represents a significant step by Petronas to
take MISC private and obtain full control of the company,” the
state energy company said in a separate  statement  on its website.
“That will provide Petronas with greater flexibility in
deciding MISC’s strategic direction.”  Petronas is making the offer after seeing MISC’s share
price  slide  46 percent over the past two years as it booked
losses and exited the liner industry. It shuttered its
container-ship business last year to focus on LNG tankers after
the cargo-box unit made $789 million of losses over three years
due to global overcapacity and falling rates.  MISC’s Kuala Lumpur listing status won’t be maintained if
the buyout is successful, Petronas said. A separate offer won’t
be made for MISC’s 67-percent subsidiary  Malaysia Marine and
Heavy Engineering Holdings Bhd. , it said.  MISC operates the world’s second biggest fleet of LNG ships
after Qatar Gas Transport Co., according to Clarkson Plc, the
world’s largest shipbroker.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elffie Chew in Kuala Lumpur at 
 echew16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Barry Porter in Kuala Lumpur at 
 bporter10@bloomberg.net ;
James Regan in Hong Kong at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  