-- Peugeot Unions Bicker Over Plan to Eliminate 17% of Posts
-- B y   M a t h i e u   R o s e m a i n
-- 2013-01-31T16:38:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/peugeot-unions-battle-over-plan-to-eliminate-17-of-posts.html
PSA Peugeot Citroen (UG)  labor leaders
squared off against one another over a plan to eliminate 17
percent of the automaker’s French workforce, with three of the
five main unions urging immediate action to stem losses.  “I am extremely worried by the company’s current
situation,” Christian Lafaye, the FO union leader, told
reporters today in Paris. “If it files for bankruptcy tomorrow,
I wouldn’t be surprised. The more we are waiting for the
restructuring plan, the worse it will be.”  Lafaye said Peugeot is losing 7 million euros ($9.5
million) per day and can’t afford to delay a restructuring being
blocked by a Paris court following challenges to those efforts
by the CGT union. The CGT is also striking at a Peugeot plant on
the outskirts of the French capital that’s being closed.  The unions are clashing over both the shutdown and plans by
 Europe ’s second-largest carmaker to shrink its French operations
by  11,200 posts  over the next two years. Automakers have
announced 30,000 job cuts in Europe since the beginning of July
in response to the region’s prolonged slump. Europe’s car market
is forecast to drop to 12.3 million vehicles this year, 23
percent below the pre-crisis peak, IHS Automotive estimates.  About 120 Peugeot workers went on strike in Aulnay earlier
this week, slowing production to about 100 cars from a normal
daily output of about 500.  Renault SA (RNO)  employees also have walked
off the job as the French carmaker works toward eliminating
7,500 positions,  “I strongly condemn these defamatory accusations that try
to tarnish the current strikes,” said Jean-Pierre Mercier,
deputy head of the CGT union at Peugeot.  Shares Plunge  Peugeot  dropped  22 cents, or 3.6 percent, to 5.74 euros in
Paris trading today. The stock has plummeted 53 percent in the
last 12 months, valuing the automaker at 2.04 billion euros.  The Paris court said this week that Peugeot can’t eliminate
jobs until  Faurecia (EO)  SA, 57 percent-owned by Peugeot, informs its
workers about the impact of the carmaker’s restructuring.
Faurecia is itself aiming to cut about 3,000 jobs in its home
region by the end of 2013.  French workers are shielded by labor laws requiring
employers to take extensive steps to ensure employees are
regularly and fully informed about job-cut proposals.  European auto sales plunged 16 percent in December,
bringing the decline for the year in the region to 7.8 percent,
according to the Brussels-based European Automobile
Manufacturers’ Association, or ACEA. Peugeot deliveries in the
region in 2012 dropped 13 percent.  Peugeot “welcomes the responsible attitude” of the three
unions supporting the restructuring “in a context of an
environment of sustained recession in the European markets and
the difficult situation this creates for the group,” the Paris-
based automaker said in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathieu Rosemain in Paris at 
 mrosemain@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  