-- Philippine Fourth-Quarter GDP Growth Holds Above 6% on Spending
-- B y   C e c i l i a   Y a p   a n d   K a r l   L e s t e r   M .   Y a p
-- 2013-01-31T02:11:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/philippine-fourth-quarter-gdp-growth-holds-above-6-on-spending.html
Philippine growth increased more
than economists estimated last quarter as  government spending ,
consumption and investment rose.  Gross domestic product  increased 6.8 percent in the three
months through December from a year earlier, compared with a 7.2
percent gain in the previous quarter, the National Statistical
Coordination Board said in Manila today. The median estimate of
19 economists  surveyed  by  Bloomberg News  was 6.3 percent. The
economy grew 6.6 percent in 2012.  President  Benigno Aquino ’s efforts in transforming the
Philippines into one of the region’s fastest-growing economies
have led to Google Inc. opening an office this month and Ayala
Land Inc. unveiling plans to build more hotels. Bangko Sentral
ng Pilipinas last week refrained from cutting its benchmark rate
after four cuts in 2012 and as capital inflows boost the peso.  “While the economy’s been very reliant on private
consumption before, growth is now starting to generate
investment from the private sector,”  Euben Paracuelles , a
Singapore-based economist at Nomura Holdings Inc., said before
the report. “It’s going to improve the mix of growth drivers,
and if the reform momentum continues, there will still be room
for peso-denominated assets to do quite well this year.”  The Philippine peso has risen about 6 percent in the past
12 months, the best performer among 25 emerging-market
currencies tracked by Bloomberg. The  Philippine Stock Exchange
Index (PCOMP)  climbed to a record this month.  Inflation Target  Bangko Sentral last week cut  interest rates  on its special
deposit accounts to 3 percent and kept borrowing costs at a
record-low 3.5 percent. The monetary authority targets  inflation 
to average 3 percent to 5 percent until 2014.  Export growth eased to 5.5 percent in November from a 6.1
percent pace the previous month as an uneven global recovery
hurt demand. Shipments made up about 20 percent of GDP in 2011.  Since he took office in 2010, Aquino has increased spending,
curbed the  budget deficit  and reduced corruption in an effort to
boost economic growth to as much as 8.5 percent by 2016. A peace
agreement with Muslim guerrillas in the mineral-rich Mindanao
island in October is forecast to bring about $1 billion in
investment commitments.  Standard & Poor’s  last month raised the country’s sovereign
rating outlook to positive, citing improved governance and
public finances, and taking it closer to an investment grade.
The Philippines is forecast to be among the 10 fastest-growing
economies in 2013 and 2014, according to a Bloomberg survey.  Indonesia will report GDP data on Feb. 5, with the central
bank estimating last month the  economy  grew 6.2 percent in the
fourth quarter, matching the pace of the previous three months.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Karl Lester M. Yap in  Manila  at 
 kyap5@bloomberg.net ;
Cecilia Yap at 
 cyap19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  