-- Pollen Zings MoMA, Surreal Corpses Visit Morgan: Review
-- B y   L a n c e   E s p l u n d
-- 2013-01-31T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/pollen-zings-moma-surreal-corpses-visit-morgan-review.html
Every spring through summer since
1977,  Wolfgang Laib  collects hazelnut pollen in forests and
meadows near his German home.  The artist manually brushes the coarse, bright yellow
powder from pine branches into a ceramic coffee cup and saves it
in glass jars. Now he has brought it to  New York .  At the  Museum of Modern Art , 18 jars of his recycled dust
have been methodically sifted into a rectangle of about 20 foot
(6 meters) square. A video shows Laib painting the floor yellow
by tap-tap-tapping a spoon against a pollen-filled sieve.  Titled “Pollen from Hazelnut,” the velvety, softly
vibrating, deckled field sits on a raised slab in the museum’s
cathedral-like Marron Atrium -- which Laib refers to as MoMA’s
“inner sanctum.”  He also works with milk, rice and beeswax. On March 2,
 Washington ’s  Phillips Collection  will open Laib’s first
permanent site-specific beeswax room, a gallery hand-coated from
floor to ceiling with 882 melted pounds of the golden goo.  Also at the Phillips Collection, for the 2011 work
“Milkstone,” Laib persuaded Klaus Ottmann, Phillips curator at
large, to perform the daily ritual of filling a white marble
slab with fresh milk.  While Laib, 62, has a Western medical degree, journeys to
 India  shifted his interests toward quasi-religious, Eastern-
inspired conceptual art.  His minimalist works refer to Tibetan sand painting,
Egyptian tombs, Buddhist mandalas and  Mark Rothko ’s effervescent
lozenges. The laborious processes and vague ceremonialism can
trump the finished products.  “Pollen from Hazelnut” is best seen from high above,
where it zings MoMA’s white inner sanctum like a squirt of lemon
juice in the third eye.  Surreal Populism  “Drawing Surrealism” at the  Morgan Library & Museum  is a
perfectly fine and solidly scholarly exhibition that will
undoubtedly appeal.  The chronological and thematic show of more than 160 works
includes the usual headliners  Salvador Dali ,  Max Ernst  and  Rene Magritte . It also gives ample space to the under-appreciated
Surrealist works of Jean Arp,  Ellsworth Kelly  and Andre Masson.  It covers dream imagery, automatism and exquisite corpse
drawings -- the Surrealists’ collaborative, blind game of chance
in which a poem or drawing evolves through accretion.  I can’t help but feel that a show about Surrealism is too
surreal for the Morgan and shows again how far it has moved from
its former front door.  On my approach down East 36th Street I noticed that McKim,
Mead & White’s former grand entrance steps, now gated, were
littered with garbage. Stacks of building materials were stored
in the yard outside Morgan’s library and study. The only things
missing were a rusted pickup truck and an old washing machine.  “Wolfgang Laib” runs through Mar. 11 at the Museum of
 Modern Art , 11 W. 53rd St. Information: +1-212-708-9400;
 http://www.moma.org .  “Drawing Surrealism” runs through Apr. 21 at the Morgan
Library & Museum, 225 Madison Ave. Information: +1-212-685-0008
or  http://www.themorgan.org .  (Lance Esplund is U.S. art critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Muse highlights include  Jason Harper  on cars,  Rich
Jaroslovsky  on tech,  Farah Nayeri’s  London weekend and  Jorg von
Uthmann  on Paris arts.  To contact the writer on the story:
Lance Esplund in New York at  lesplund@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 