-- Polysilicon Seen Rebounding as China Plans Import Duties: Energy
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-01-31T07:29:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/polysilicon-seen-rebounding-as-china-plans-import-duties-energy.html
Polysilicon used in solar panels has
begun rebounding from a decade low as China moves to impose
duties on importers such as Germany’s  Wacker Chemie AG .  Spot prices will jump as much as 39 percent this year to
$22 a kilogram ($9.98 a pound), according to the median estimate
in a Bloomberg survey of seven analysts. The commodity hit a low
$15.83 in December, the cheapest price since at least 2000,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  China, the biggest buyer in the $5.5 billion market, plans
to issue a draft ruling in February on dumping and unfair
subsidy allegations made against foreign suppliers such as South
Korea’s  OCI Ltd. , Hemlock Semiconductor Corp. of the U.S. and
Wacker. The country’s first import tax would boost prices from
unprofitable levels, the world’s largest polysilicon maker said.  “The industry is abnormal, with all the major producers
suffering losses at previous prices ranging from $15 to $16 a
kilogram,” said Lv Jinbiao, deputy manager of  Jiangsu Zhongneng
Polysilicon Technology Development Co. , a unit of China’s  GCL-
Poly Energy Holdings Ltd. , the world’s biggest polysilicon
manufacturer. GCL-Poly’s shares have leaped 38 percent in one
month in Hong Kong.  Lv, whose spoke in a phone interview, forecast the spot
price to recover to as high as $25 a kilo if import duties are
set this year. That’s up from $16.16 recorded on Jan. 21.  Solar-grade silicon, which plunged from a record $475 in
2008, led Hong Kong-based GCL-Poly and OCI in 2012 to stop
expanding production capacity as a supply glut crushed margins.
GCL-Poly had a 65,000 metric ton (143 million pounds) a year
capacity in 2011, data compiled by Bloomberg Industries show.  Share Performance  Many small Chinese makers suspended lines altogether last
year. The 12-member  BI Global Leaders Solar Polysilicon
Competitive  index that includes both companies skidded 68
percent in the two years through 2012.  Duties, if they are imposed, would be paid by importers in
China who then would try to pass the extra cost on to buyers.
Higher costs for the most expensive ingredient in photovoltaic
panels could in turn push up their price.  That would raise Chinese prices of polysilicon, while
forcing overseas producers to “cut selling prices to compensate
at least to some extent,” said  Stefan Freudenreich , an analyst
at Equinet Bank AG in Frankfurt.  The foreign polysilicon makers most affected could be  OCI ,
Wacker, Hemlock and Norway’s  Renewable Energy Corp. , according
to data compiled by New Energy Finance data, a unit of Bloomberg
LP. They’re the top producers after GCL-Poly.  Price Power  Chinese manufacturers including Lv’s company increasingly
are setting the global price for polysilicon, the most costly
ingredient in solar-power devices. They’ve undercut prices of
many Western manufacturers for years typically by selling at
prices more aligned to the fluid spot market. That has forced
more expensive competitors to break their multiyear fixed-price
contracts to supply makers of solar cells and wafers.  Western polysilicon producers will start another round of
price renegotiations for long-term contracts with “spot price-
linked price clauses, with frequent adjustment periods,”
Freudenreich said.  Jiangsu Zhongneng’s Lv expects long-term contracts with
fixed prices to vanish in 2013 in China.  “Buyers may use high import duties as the force majeure to
terminate old contracts,” provided that situation wasn’t
specifically ruled out in their agreements with buyers, Lv said.
“Otherwise they will choose compensation to end the orders and
then purchase at spot prices.”  Share Rebound  A price increase would help rescue unprofitable Chinese
producers including GCL-Poly and  Daqo New Energy Corp.  Shares of
GCL-Poly, the parent of Jiangsu Zhongneng, fell 28 percent last
year, and Daqo fell 5 percent. They have rebounded 38 percent
and 63 percent, respectively, in 2013.  The anti-dumping penalties proposed by Chinese polysilicon
makers amount to about 54 percent for imports from the U.S., 49
percent for those from South Korea and about 11 percent for
polysilicon from the European Union, according to New Energy
Finance.  China opened the investigation last year to determine
whether foreign suppliers of polysilicon are selling below cost
in the nation, acting on complaints filed by four companies
including GCL-Poly’s Jiangsu Zhongneng and Daqo. The move
followed a decision by the U.S. government to impose duties on
Chinese suppliers of solar cells to the American market, and
moves by the European Union to follow suit against Chinese solar
imports.  February Decision  China plans to issue preliminary findings on Feb. 20 and a
final determination on June 20, Lv said.  “The preliminary announcement should also be interpreted
as a ‘warning’ signal to the EU, which is currently
investigating the possible dumping of Chinese photovoltaic
products,” Freudenreich said.  If China set a “reasonable” duty in February, that would
ease the EU’s potential duties against Chinese solar products,
Bryan Li, chief financial officer of Chinese solar-panel maker
Yingli Green Energy Holding Co., said in an interview in
Baoding, China. Li said a reasonable duty is “about 10
percent,” otherwise buyers would find it hard to afford
purchases.  China is also investigating whether the U.S. and European
Union are subsidizing makers of the silicon-based commodity.  “The Chinese government has to find the right balance
between giving local polysilicon manufacturers some support and
securing supply of high purity polysilicon at an acceptable
price for its leading module producers,” said Freudenreich.
“Taiwanese buyers should profit from lower prices as more
material is likely to be redirect away from China.”  Increase Prices  Solarworld AG , which led a group of manufacturers in a
complaint against Chinese competition, expects the EU to
announce anti-dumping duties as early as May, Chief Executive
Officer  Frank Asbeck  said earlier this month in an interview.  “Duties will at least partially increase prices, therefore
they create a lose-lose situation” for producers and buyers,
 Daniel Seidenspinner , an analyst at B. Metzler Seel Sohn & Co.
KGaA in Frankfurt, said by e-mail.  Seidenspinner said he expects the polysilicon price will
rebound this year, assuming a 12 percent increase in 2013.  The 2.2 percent rebound in 2013 in spot prices is because
of “cessation of year-end inventory liquidation and a bit of
advance buying by Chinese customers ahead of what could be a
nasty import tariff decision” after major polysilicon makers
around the world decreased output since September,  Robert Schramm-Fuchs , a London-based analyst at Macquarie Group Ltd.,
said in a Jan. 23 e-mail.  Idled Plants  Schramm-Fuchs said if idled plants don’t return to
production, then the biggest manufacturers have the potential to
cover their full costs, including depreciation.  “If the polysilicon producers maintain production
discipline, the spot price has upside potential to recover to
the fully-loaded cost of the majors of $22 a kilogram during the
course of the year,” Schramm-Fuchs said. “After that the risk
for spot prices is skewed to the downside again as idled
capacity will return to the market and expansion projects could
be re-accelerated given the price signal.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Feifei Shen in Beijing at 
 fshen11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  