-- Porsche Says Funds Decide Against Appealing N.Y. VW Case
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2013-02-01T08:32:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/porsche-says-funds-agree-to-end-new-york-court-suit.html
Porsche SE (PAH3)  said hedge funds that
accused the German carmaker of concealing a plan to corner the
market in  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  shares agreed not to appeal a New York
court ruling dismissing the case.  A New York state appeals court threw out the 2011 lawsuit
in December, saying events at issue in the case had an
“inadequate connection” to the state. Stuttgart-based Porsche
had asked the appeals court in November to reverse a lower
court’s rejection of its motion to dismiss the suit, brought by
26 hedge funds including David Einhorn’s Greenlight Capital Inc.  The hedge funds agreed to waive any appeal of the December
ruling, while Porsche won’t raise any statute-of-limitations
defense against claims the funds file before a court in Germany
within 90 days, the carmaker said in a statement yesterday.
Porsche said it still believes the claims are without merit.  “Every dismissal of a case is positive,” Frank Schwope, a
Hanover-based analyst with Norddeutsche Landesbank Girozentrale,
said by phone. “But there are other suits, also in Germany,
which will probably go on for months, even years, and a
settlement is one of the options to end the cases.”  Porsche rose as much as 3.4 percent, the biggest intraday
jump since Jan. 11, and was trading up 2.5 percent at 65.71
euros at 9:30 a.m. in Frankfurt, valuing the company 20.1
billion euros ($27.4 billion).  Investors are probably reducing Porsche’s value by a
“single-digit billion-euro” amount because of the risk they
see of a court ruling against Porsche, Schwope said.  Funds’ Claims  The hedge funds, which had bet that Volkswagen stock would
fall, claimed Porsche misled investors by denying through much
of 2008 that it intended to acquire the Wolfsburg, Germany-based
carmaker and by using manipulative trades to hide its stock
positions. The plaintiffs sought more than $1.4 billion in
damages.  U.S. District Judge Harold Baer in New York in December
2010 dismissed a similar lawsuit by two hedge funds,  Black
Diamond Offshore (BDE)  and Elliott Associates LP, representing a total
of 39 U.S. and foreign-based funds.  In his opinion, Baer said he relied on a U.S. Supreme Court
ruling that fraud claims such as those in the lawsuits against
Porsche apply only to securities listed on domestic exchanges
and domestic transactions in other securities. Baer said his
ruling applied to similar complaints against Porsche.  The hedge funds appealed that ruling in January 2011, and
subsequently filed the New York state court suit over the same
allegations.  Stake Announcement  Porsche said on Oct. 26, 2008, that it controlled 74.1
percent of Volkswagen, partly through options, and was seeking
an eventual takeover. The disclosures caused the shares to surge
as short-sellers raced to cover their positions.  The failed bid led Porsche to agree to sell its sports-car
business to Volkswagen as debt soared. That transaction was
completed on Aug. 1, when VW bought the remaining shares in the
maker of the 911 sports car for 4.5 billion euros.  The case is Viking Global Equities LP v. Porsche Automobil
Holdings SE, 650435/2011, New York State Supreme Court, New York
County (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  