-- Potash Falls as Forecast Trails Analysts’ Estimates
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e
-- 2013-01-31T21:13:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/potash-forecast-trails-estimates-amid-plan-for-more-shutdowns.html
Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc. ,
the world’s largest fertilizer producer by market value, fell
the most in two months after a profit forecast trailed analysts’
estimates and it announced additional output cuts.  Potash Corp. declined 1.9 percent to C$42.37 at the close
in Toronto, the most since Nov. 13.  First-quarter earnings will be 50 cents to 65 cents a
share, the Saskatoon, Saskatchewan-based company said today in a
statement. The average of 17 estimates compiled by Bloomberg was
for 69 cents. The company said taxes will be higher in 2013
because of reduced capital spending. Fourth-quarter earnings and
revenue also disappointed.  Potash Corp. announced in October and November the
temporary idling of four mines amid faltering export volumes as
 China  and  India  continued to hold off from signing new sales
contracts. While China agreed to a new accord at the end of
December, India has yet to agree on terms.  Potash Corp.’s “role as the key global swing producer
often results in the company bearing a disproportionate amount
of the burden when reduced global demand necessitates supply
curtailments,” Don Carson, an analyst at Susquehanna
International Group LLP in New York, said in a Jan. 28 note.  Fourth-quarter net income dropped to $421 million, or 48
cents a share, from $683 million, or 78 cents, a year earlier.
Profit excluding a provision for legal costs was 52 cents a
share, missing the 57-cent average of 27  estimates .  Price Decline  Revenue fell to $1.64 billion from $1.87 billion, less than
the $1.79 billion average of 18 estimates.  The fourth-quarter results and 2013 guidance are “fairly
negative,” Adam Schatzker, a Toronto-based analyst at RBC
Capital Markets, said in a note. “We expect global potash
production will have to remain in check in order to maintain
current prices.”  Potash helps strengthen plant roots and improve resistance
to drought. Potash Corp. sold 1.3 million metric tons of the
commodity in the last quarter, matching the average of three
estimates. The average realized sales price of $387 a metric ton
was lower than the $439 average of three estimates.  Potash sales volumes outside North America fell 37 percent
while onshore sales rose 39 percent.  “Offshore volumes were worse than feared and North
American sales were positive, but not as good as expected,”
Spencer Churchill, a Toronto-based analyst at Paradigm Capital
Inc., said today by telephone.  Global Forecast  Potash Corp. and its two biggest North American
competitors,  Mosaic Co. (MOS)  and  Agrium Inc. (AGU) , said last month they
agreed to sell 1 million tons of potash to China. They will sell
the commodity for $70 a ton less than their previous accord with
China, which ended June 30. Their last contract with India
expired at the end of the first quarter of 2012.  Potash Corp. said today it expects global potash shipments
of between 55 million and 57 million tons, up from 51 million
tons in 2012.  While the commodity accounts for most of Potash Corp.’s
earnings, the company also produces phosphate- and nitrogen-
based fertilizers. Fourth-quarter earnings were hurt by weak
export demand for phosphates, especially in India, which
undermined prices. “Challenging mining conditions” at the
company’s open-pit phosphate mine in Aurora, North Carolina,
reduced output, Potash Corp. said.  “In phosphates, the expectation of strong demand for
fertilizer products in the North American market is likely to be
offset by the continued depression in Indian requirements and
result in weaker fertilizer margins,” Potash Corp. said in the
statement. Animal “feed and industrial demand is forecast to
remain relatively strong.”  The company said yesterday it increased its quarterly
dividend by 33 percent to 28 cents a share from 21 cents.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Donville in Vancouver at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  