-- LPS Reaches $120 Million Deal in ‘Robosigning’ Probe
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2013-01-31T19:05:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/lps-reaches-120-million-deal-with-states-in-foreclosure-probe.html
Lender Processing Services Inc. (LPS) 
reached a multistate settlement to resolve claims of improper
foreclosure practices, including the “robosigning” of
documents used to repossess homes.  The $127 million settlement involves 46 states and the
 District of Columbia , LPS said today in a statement. The
settlement also will require LPS to reform practices and correct
faulty foreclosure paperwork, Illinois Attorney General Lisa Madigan said in a separate statement.  “LPS and its subsidiaries became a sort of document
factory, literally rubber stamping thousands of foreclosures
with no regard to fairness and accuracy in the process,”
Madigan said.  State attorneys general came together in 2010 to
investigate claims of improper foreclosure practices by mortgage
servicers, including robosigning, in which people rapidly signed
documents without verifying facts. Five mortgage servicers,
including  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Bank of America Corp. , last
year reached a $25 billion settlement with 49 states and the
federal government.  “This settlement reflects the efforts of the states to
work together to remedy the widespread abuses occurring in the
residential mortgage industry in the past few years,”  Florida 
Attorney General Pam Bondi said in a statement.  Previous Agreements  LPS, based in Jacksonville, Florida, said the agreement
resolves a probe into document preparation, verification,
signing and notarization practices. The company’s shares rose
7.5 percent to $24.08 at 2:04 p.m. in  New York .  LPS said it reached previous agreements with Missouri,
Delaware and Colorado, leaving a complaint filed by Nevada as
the only unresolved attorney general inquiry. LPS Chief
Executive Officer Hugh Harris said the settlement is “another
major step toward putting issues related to past business
practices behind us.”  The states’ investigation found an LPS subsidiary engaged
in “surrogate signing,” which is the signing of documents by
an unauthorized person in the name of another and notarizing
those documents as if they had been signed by the proper person,
Madigan said.  New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman said in a
statement that the settlement will prohibit signatures by
unauthorized people or those without first-hand knowledge of the
facts attested to in foreclosure documents.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David McLaughlin  in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  