-- PulteGroup Falls After Home-Order Growth Disappoints
-- B y   P r a s h a n t   G o p a l
-- 2013-01-31T21:48:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/pultegroup-reports-higher-quarterly-profit-as-home-sales-climb.html
PulteGroup Inc. (PHM) , the largest U.S.
homebuilder by market value, dropped after reporting order
growth that fell short of some competitors.  Orders rose 27 percent in the fourth quarter, the
 Bloomfield Hills , Michigan-based company said today in a
statement.  Lennar Corp. (LEN) , the second-biggest builder by market
value, earlier this month reported a 32 percent increase for its
most recent quarter, while D.R. Horton Inc., the third-largest,
said two days ago it had a 39 percent jump.  Investors were disappointed that order growth trailed other
builders and that PulteGroup projected a 10 percent to 15
percent decline in community count this year, said Joel Locker,
an analyst with FBN Securities Inc. in New York. The company has
been the best performer among U.S.  homebuilders  in the past
year, with shares almost tripling.  “Pulte couldn’t meet lofty expectations,” Locker said in
a telephone interview. “I don’t think sentiment could be higher
in homebuilders. Investors expect significant earnings growth in
the next few years to justify these stock prices.”  PulteGroup fell 1.5 percent to $20.74 at the close in  New
York , compared with a 0.2 percent decline in the 11-member S&P
Supercomposite Homebuilding Index.  Net income  for the fourth quarter was $58.7 million, or 15
cents a share, compared with $13.8 million, or 4 cents, a year
earlier. The results included costs of $49 million, or 13 cents
a share, for potential future loan-repurchase obligations, and
$32 million, or 8 cents, tied to the repurchase of senior notes,
PulteGroup said. These were partially offset by an income-tax
benefit of $8 million, or 2 cents a share.  Revenue Growth  The average  estimate  of 19 analysts in a Bloomberg survey
was for net income of 31 cents a share. Earnings per share were
34 cents excluding one-time expenses, Stephen East, an analyst
at International Strategy & Investment Group in Saint Charles,
Missouri, said in a note to clients.  Revenue rose to $1.57 billion from $1.26 billion. Backlog,
an indication of future revenue, jumped 82 percent to $1.9
billion.  While the order growth trailed that of some peers, it
reflected a 4 percent decline in communities,  David Goldberg , an
analyst with UBS AG in New York, wrote in a note to clients.  Demand for new houses is rising as  inventories  of existing
properties tighten and  mortgage rates  hover near record lows.
U.S. new-home  sales  jumped 20 percent last year to the highest
since 2009. U.S. housing starts climbed last year to the fastest
rate since 2008, according to Commerce Department data.  “We have every reason to expect that housing has indeed
turned the corner and that industry sales in 2013 can continue
to move higher as pent-up demand is released,” PulteGroup
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer  Richard Dugas  said on a
conference call with analysts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Prashant Gopal in  Boston  at 
 pgopal2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net . 