-- QGOG Betting Investors See Oil IPO Flop Ending: Corporate Brazil
-- B y   R o d r i g o   O r i h u e l a   a n d   N e y   H a y a s h i
-- 2013-01-31T14:13:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/qgog-betting-investors-see-oil-ipo-flop-ending-corporate-brazil.html
QGOG Constellation SA (QGOG) , whose initial
public offering will end a two-year energy IPO drought in
Brazil, is betting it can buck the trend of oil industry flops
as it raises new capital.  The rig operator, one of the world’s 10 largest drilling
companies and a supplier to state-run  Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4) 
since 1981, on Jan. 7 filed to raise more than $500 million in
an offering. It will be the industry’s first IPO since  QGEP
Participacoes SA (QGEP3)  raised $787 million in February 2011.
Industrial group Queiroz Galvao SA controls QGOG and QGEP.  QGOG will try to lure investors to take another chance on
Brazilian oil after the industry posted the biggest loss among
companies selling new shares in the past five years. Startups
 HRT Participacoes em Petroleo SA (HRTP3) , QGEP and  OSX Brasil SA (OSXB3)  have
plunged by more than 60 percent since their IPOs, while
Petrobras dropped 32 percent since its $70 billion secondary
offering in 2010.  “When those other oil companies came to the market,
expectations around them were too optimistic, so in the years
that followed the IPOs, shares plunged even with companies
improving their operations,” said Roberto Altenhofen, an oil
and gas analyst at Sao Paulo-based consulting firm Empiricus
Research. “QGOG is not a startup. It has a track record that
can be checked by everyone, and may have better chances in doing
a successful IPO.”  HRT fell 1.2 percent to 4.22 reais at 12:06 p.m. in  Sao
Paulo . QGEP fell 1 percent to 13.37 reais, and OSX slumped 5.4
percent to 9.31 reais. The benchmark index was little changed.  Deepwater Rigs  QGOG, based in  Rio de Janeiro , has been operating for
decades. QGOG has nine ultra-deepwater rigs in operation or
under construction, according to its IPO prospectus. Its
operations generated $575.9 million in the nine months through
Sept. 30, up 39 percent from the year-earlier period.  QGOG’s press office declined to comment on the outlook for
the IPO, citing a mandatory “quiet period” before the
offering. Queiroz Galvao is 80 percent owned by Queiroz Galvao
and the rest by private equity firm The Capital Group.  The offering is being coordinated by JPMorgan Chase & Co.,
Bank of America Corp., Itau Unibanco Holding SA, Credit Suisse
Group AG and Banco Bradesco SA, according to a U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission filing.  Energy Versus Consumer  Brazilian energy share sales since the start of 2008 have
lost 35 percent, the worst performance among nine industry
groups tracked by Bloomberg. Consumer non-cyclical stocks,
including credit-card processor Cielo SA and BRF - Brasil Foods
SA, performed the best with a 66 percent gain in the period.  “These guys are always likely to have a slightly tougher
time in terms of their finding capital or coming to the
market,”  Nick Robinson , a portfolio manager at Aberdeen Asset
Management Plc, which has $15 billion in Latin American shares,
said in a phone interview from Sao Paulo. “There’s just not a
lot of natural demand for these types of companies at the
moment. Investors are much more focused on non-commodity type,
domestically driven sectors.”  Local units of French oil producer Perenco SA and Norway-
based rig supplier  Seadrill Ltd. (SDRL)  canceled offerings in Brazil
the past two years as the international financial crisis reduced
investor interest in  emerging markets .  For oilfield service companies, such as QGOG, appealing to
investors is especially difficult because of the track record of
peers including equipment maker  Lupatech SA (LUPA3)  and shipbuilder OSX,
said Saulo Sabba, a director at Banco Maxima SA. Lupatech, which
also depends on Petrobras as its biggest client and missed local
debt payments three times last year, plunged 56 percent in 2012.  A Lupatech press official, who can’t be named under
corporate policy, didn’t immediately respond to questions by e-
mail and telephone.  Lack of Success  Investors in Brazil “don’t know of an oil-service success
story,” Sabba, who helps manage 500 million reais ($250
million) at Maxima, said in a telephone interview from Rio de
Janeiro. “That’s the problem.”  Five years after Petrobras made the largest crude discovery
in the Americas in more than three decades,  oil companies  in
Brazil are struggling to boost output amid delays in getting
drilling rigs and bringing projects online. Petrobras, Brazil’s
biggest producer, pared long-term output forecasts last year,
while OGX Petroleo & Gas Participacoes SA’s June announcement
that its first two wells would miss targets sent shares plunging
40 percent in two days.  Proceeds from QGOG’s listing will be used to pay for two
ultra-deep water drill-ships as part of a plan to invest $5.1
billion through 2015, the company said in its Jan. 7 filing.
Investments may include takeovers or the acquisition of stakes
in other companies.  ‘Under a Cloud’  Petrobras’s delays in ramping up offshore output have hurt
rival rig operators of QGOG. Ocean Rig UDW Inc. is struggling to
do business in  Brazil  after Petrobras in November canceled plans
to charter five drill-ships from the Nicosia, Cyprus-based
supplier because of higher-than-expected production costs. Ocean
Rig and Pacific Drilling SA are the two largest global suppliers
of ultra-deep water rigs, according to James Crandell, an
analyst at Dahlman Rose & Co.  “Brazil is under a cloud right now,” Crandell said in a
phone interview from  New York . “There already are two pure-play
ultra-deep water rig companies -- Ocean Rig and Pacific Drilling
-- that already fulfill the investor requirement. I’m not aware
that Queiroz Galvao has anything unique to Pacific Drilling and
Ocean Rig, so it would be another company, similar size.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rodrigo Orihuela in Rio de Janeiro at 
 rorihuela@bloomberg.net ;
Ney Hayashi in Sao Paulo at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jessica Brice at 
 jbrice1@bloomberg.net ;
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  