-- QPR’s Redknapp Chasing Three Tottenham Players: Roundup
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2013-01-31T10:51:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/qpr-s-redknapp-chasing-three-tottenham-players-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  Harry to Land Bentley?  Queens Park Rangers manager Harry Redknapp has set his
sights on three Tottenham Hotspur players including David Bentley, the  Sun  reported.  Redknapp is also trying to sign Jermaine Jenas and Andros
Townsend. All three agreements would be loans until the end of
the season, the paper said.  While in charge at Tottenham, Redknapp loaned Bentley to
West Ham, and later on to Russia side FC Rostov after the player
came back with an injury.  QPR has already signed South Korean defender Yun Suk-Young
from Chunman Dragons, and is also targeting Christopher Samba
from Russia club Anzhi Makhachkala and Stoke striker Peter Couch
before the January transfer deadline expires, the paper said.  Tottenham Chasing Gomis  Tottenham Hotspur is weighing up making a bid for Lyon
forward Bafetimbi Gomis, the  Daily Telegraph  reported.  The London club is still on the lookout for a striker now
that it looks unlikely it will sign up Internacional player
Leandro Damiao in a 15 million pound ($24 million) deal.  Gomis, a France international who has scored at least ten
goals or more in the French league since 2006, would cost close
to 7 million pounds.  Fulham Signings  Tottenham player Tom Huddlestone may move to Fulham in a
five million pound deal, the  Daily Express  reported.  Fulham also completed a loan deal until the end of the
season for AC Milan midfielder Urby Emanuelson.  Bergkamp’s Arsenal Return?  Former Arsenal and Holland star Dennis Bergkamp may return
to the Gunners as head of its youth academy, the  Guardian 
reported.  The Dutchman, currently assistant to Ajax manager Frank de Boer in Amsterdam, is the lead candidate to succeed Liam Brady,
who will leave the academy before May 2014.  Three Offers for Simpson  Newcastle United player Danny Simpson has been offered a
place at Wigan Athletic, Fulham and West Bromwich Albion after
the full-back failed to get a long-term deal at St James’s Park,
the  Daily Mail  reported.  Simpson, a former Manchester United player who has six
months left on his contract, recently lost his place to new five
million-pound signing Mathieu Debuchy from  France .  Simpson would cost close to 500,000 pounds, the paper said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh in London at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  