-- Rand Best Performer as PPI Beats Expectations; Yields Fall
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 2013-01-31T14:07:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/rand-weakens-second-day-before-data-on-trade-gap-yields-fall.html
The rand led gains for major
currencies after South African producer inflation data beat
economists’ estimates and the nation’s monthly trade deficit
narrowed. Bond yields fell the most in three weeks.  The currency of Africa’s largest economy advanced 1.1
percent to 8.9374 a dollar as of 3:39 p.m. in Johannesburg, the
best performance out of 16 major currencies monitored by
Bloomberg. That trimmed its decline this month to 5.2 percent,
still the most since May. Yields on 10.5 percent bonds due
December 2026 fell nine basis points, or 0.09 percentage point,
to 7.38 percent, the biggest one-day decline since Jan. 9.  Producer-price  inflation  in Africa’s biggest economy was
unchanged at 5.2 percent, less than the 5.5 percent estimate of
economists in a Bloomberg survey. That may stem pressure on
consumer prices and give the central bank room to leave
borrowing costs at a 30-year low to stimulate growth. The
nation’s trade gap narrowed to 2.7 billion rand ($302 million)
in December, from 7.9 billion rand the previous month.  “The producer inflation number has pared back some of the
negativity about inflation,” Mohammed Nalla, head of strategic
research at Nedbank Group Ltd. in Johannesburg, said by phone.
“Market participants are probably a bit less worried about
inflation now. The narrower trade deficit has also helped,
although that’s a very volatile number.”  The Reserve Bank, which targets consumer inflation of
between 3 percent and 6 percent, has held the benchmark
repurchase rate at 5 percent since July to bolster growth in
 Africa ’s largest economy. Consumer-price  inflation  accelerated
to a seven-month high of 5.7 percent in December and is set to
peak at 6.1 percent in the third quarter, Reserve Bank Governor
Gill Marcus said on Jan. 24.  Trade Gap  South Africa’s trade shortfall for 2012 was 117.7 billion
rand, more than six-fold larger than the previous year. That put
pressure on the current account, the broadest measure of trade
in goods and services, contributing to the rand’s slump.  The rand also benefited as investors bet the decline, which
reached a four-year low on Jan. 29, had gone too far, Michael Keenan, a currency strategist at Absa Group Ltd. in
Johannesburg, said by phone.  “The currency has weakened considerably, and at these
levels you would expect to see some short-covering,” Keenan
said, referring to traders who sold rand they didn’t own,
anticipating that it would weaken, and have to buy the currency
to deliver on the transactions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in Cape Town at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  