-- Range Rover $115,000 Supercharged Takes on Dirt Roads
-- B y   J a s o n   H .   H a r p e r
-- 2013-01-31T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/range-rover-115-000-supercharged-takes-on-dirt-roads.html
The Range Rover and the  Porsche 911 
are pretty much the same car. Or so I’m thinking as I take a
brand new, totally redesigned Range Rover HSE up a cracked rock
ledge, scrambling atop a high desert mesa.  A 911 Carrera would only have gotten here if it were air
dropped. Still, pretty much the same vehicle.  One’s provenance is British, the other German, and they
look utterly unalike. Yet I can think of no other two modern
vehicles that have gone beyond their histories and
eccentricities to define contemporary luxury.  You don’t need a Range Rover or 911. But both are
incredibly easy to want.  Like the Porsche, the Range Rover has a long history behind
it. The company Land Rover got its start after World War II, and
the first Range Rover model was released in 1970. (The Range
Rover came to the U.S. in the late 1980s.)  The 2013 model year is its fourth major redesign. And like
the 911, those redesigns have brought deep wells of technology,
cushy seats and fancy navigation screens, but the overall shape
of the exterior is roughly the same.  Desert Drive  Both the Range Rover and the Carrera have a breadth of
capability that far exceeds what most owners will ever
experience. A typical excursion may only take you to dinner,
theater and back, but part of that deep desirability springs
from the knowledge that you could run the Range Rover across the
Sahara or the 911 on the famous Nurburgring racetrack.  The subtext: I’m not just some suburban soccer dad. I’m
ready to rumble, and I’ve got the car keys to prove it.  The new Range Rover starts as a base model ($83,500), a
better equipped HSE model ($88,500), and the Supercharged
version ($99,950).  China  has become the company’s biggest
market, and the $130,950 Autobiography is aimed at those
customers, with an extra fancy interior and an emphasis on rear-
seat comfort.  I’m torn over the new design. This generation has undergone
significant changes, not all for the better. The edges on the
front and rear have been significantly softened, the cant of the
windshield less upright. Its quasi-military stance has been de-
boxed.  Body Contours  Those changes are doubtlessly smart, improving aerodynamics
and speaking to a consumer more interested in luxury than
utility. But I absolutely hate the new headlights and
taillights, which now wrap around to the sides. It looks like
the  Ford (F)  Flex crossover. The roof is also lower, affecting the
overall proportions.  Once inside, however, I forget those quibbles. The interior
is just too good. It’s masculine and simple, with a bare minimum
of fussy buttons. Changing most settings, like turning up the
air, is dead simple. It’s the opposite approach to the Porsche
Cayenne SUV, which has so many controls it looks like a jet
cockpit.  The Range Rover’s leather is super supple and the headrests
are so cushy I’d like to take them to bed.  Like the 911, the Range Rover has long called out to me
despite its obvious impracticalities. The last one weighed some
5,700 pounds, with an around-town gas mileage of 12 miles per
gallon.  Shedding Pounds  Those inefficiencies speak to the greatest trick of the new
model: It’s made of aluminum. Everything from the suspension to
the body panels is made of the light stuff, which is a first for
a SUV. This saves 700 pounds, enabling the Range Rover to drive
better on every surface, whether it’s the highway, a byway or
off-road.  The 5.0-liter V-8 engine is a carryover from the previous
model, with 375 horsepower and 375 pound-feet of torque. The
acceleration on the outgoing HSE was languorous. It certainly
made the Supercharged version (510 hp; 461 lb-ft) a lot more
attractive.  This time the HSE’s power feels totally appropriate. The
new eight-speed ZF transmission snaps through gears in the
background, providing the right oomph at the right time. Gas
mileage, always an Achilles’ heel, is slightly more virtuous on
the new HSE model, getting 14 mpg city and 20 highway.  I’m one of the few maniacs who believe that Range Rovers
should be taken off-road, and was worried that the emphasis on
greater luxury would translate to lesser 4X4 performance. A good
sign: It has better underbody clearance than previously.  Dirt Roads  The Range’s continued off-road prowess was proven in the
broken landscape of southern  Utah  -- the kind of country which
looks like  Wile E. Coyote (TWX)  might drop from a cliff at any moment.
Over a half day driving off piste, the terrain varied from snow-
slicked dirt roads, to boulder screes and undulations of naked,
slick rock.  Using the 4X4’s low range and a light throttle, I drove a
Supercharged model through truly hellacious territory with
absolutely no drama. The over-sized tires crabbed easily over
boulders and the air suspension ably soaked up the uneven
ground.  The worst thing that happened to the vehicle? I rolled down
the windows and splashed headlong into a few mud puddles,
splattering the white leather with goop. I almost felt guilty.
Almost.  After all, the Range Rover remains the quintessential, go-
anywhere SUV.  The 2013 Range Rover HSE and Supercharged at a Glance  Engines: 5.0-liter V-8 with 375 horsepower and 375 pound-  feet of torque; 510 hp and 461 lb-ft of torque.  Transmissions: eight-speed ZF automatic.  Speed: 0 to 60 mph in 6.5 seconds; 5.1 seconds.  Gas mileage per gallon: 14 city, 20 highway; 13, 19.  Price as tested: $91,100, $114,885.  Best features: Better interior, better drivability.  Worst features: Overly light steering; questionable  exterior details.  Target buyer: The suburban soccer dad with a yen to cross  the Sahara.  (Jason H. Harper writes about autos for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Muse highlights include Lance Esplund on  art .  To contact the writer of this column:
Jason H. Harper at  Jason@JasonHharper.com  or follow on
Twitter @JasonHarperSpin.  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New York  at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 