-- RBA Succession Should Await Election, Opposition’s Robb Says
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t   a n d   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2013-01-31T02:26:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/rba-succession-should-await-election-opposition-s-robb-signals.html
Australian Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  should hold off on announcing the next head of the
central bank until after the election, opposition finance
spokesman Andrew Robb said.  Reserve Bank  of  Australia  Governor  Glenn Stevens ’ term
expires Sept. 17, with the government having the power to either
reappoint him or name a successor in the three months before his
time is up. Gillard yesterday announced the election will be
held Sept. 14, effectively creating an almost eight-month
campaign compared with the usual time period of about a month.  “We’re in uncharted waters,” Robb said in an interview
with Bloomberg Television from Canberra today. “We should work
through some of these issues because normally these things in an
election campaign would be put off until there is clarity about
who is going to form the next government. That should apply in
this case as well.”  At stake is control of monetary policy in a nation where
about 90 percent of homeowners have adjustable-rate mortgages.
Earning almost A$1 million ($1.04 million) a year as governor,
Stevens helped Australia avoid a recession during the global
slump of 2009, and a succession debate in a political campaign
risks creating uncertainty for investors.  ‘Not Ideal’  “The timing is not ideal, clearly,” said  Stephen Walters ,
JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s chief economist in Australia. “We need
some certainty around that. I’d hope we don’t get to the
election and in caretaker mode and we don’t know whether
 Governor Stevens  is continuing or someone’s replacing him. We
need to get that sorted because markets do care about that.”  Robb’s Liberal-National coalition, led by  Tony Abbott , is
leading Gillard’s minority Labor government in polls ahead of
the election. Under government conventions, the government will
officially go into caretaker mode starting Aug. 12, making an
RBA appointment after that date unlikely.  Stevens himself hasn’t said publicly whether he wants to
extend his tenure. Since taking the helm in September 2006, he
has presided over  annual inflation  that’s averaged 2.8 percent -
- within the RBA’s target range of 2 percent to 3 percent -- and
unemployment at 5 percent as the world’s 12th-largest economy
extended a recession-free era to 21 years.  Swan’s ‘Regard’  Treasurer  Wayne Swan , responding to a question on whether
he will take the opposition into his confidence when it comes to
reappointing or naming a successor, said Stevens is held in
“high regard” both in Australia and abroad.  “I will talk to him about his future and what he desires
to do,” Swan told Australian Broadcasting Corp. television late
yesterday, according to a transcript released by the treasurer’s
office. “When it comes to such an important appointment of
course I’ll take other matters into account. But I don’t want to
start speculation about the future of the governor of the
Reserve Bank, that’s got a long time to come.”  Stevens, 55, was one of six central bankers given a top
grade in a 2012 ranking by Global Finance magazine based on
their ability to control inflation, achieve growth goals,
maintain a stable currency and manage  interest rates . It was the
fourth straight year he received an ‘A’ in the evaluation.  Even so, he was drawn into a controversy last year as
corruption allegations at the central bank’s note-printing units
prompted a day of testimony to a parliamentary panel on the
biggest scandal at the RBA since it gained independence in 1996.  Securency Scandal  Eight former managers and employees at the central bank’s
Note Printing Australia Ltd. unit and Securency International
Pty face charges in relation to the alleged bribing of officials
in  Malaysia , Indonesia and  Vietnam  from 1999 to 2004 to win
bank-note printing contracts.  Stevens said in the Oct. 8 testimony that while he believed
officials who reported to him acted appropriately, there should
have been more questioning and “skepticism” of both companies.  Gillard and Swan expressed support for the RBA governor
during the controversy.  They also spent much of last year encouraging the central
bank to lower rates and stimulate the economy as they budgeted
for a A$44 billion swing back to the black in time for the
election.  The RBA lowered the cash rate to 3 percent on Dec. 4,
matching a half-century low and brining to 1.75 percentage
points the total cuts since Nov. 1, 2011. On Dec. 20, Swan
announced that the government was unlikely to meet its pledge to
deliver the surplus this fiscal year as weaker growth and a
strong local currency curb tax receipts.  ‘Nasty’ Election  JPMorgan’s Walters said speculation about the next governor
of the  Bank of Japan  and before that, the  Bank of England , show
markets do care about who’s running the central bank.  “I’d hate to see the RBA governorship tied up in the
to’ing and fro’ing of what’s going to be an extended and
potentially nasty election campaign,” he said.  Australian policy makers are aiming to rebalance
Australia’s two-speed economy, where mining regions in the north
and west thrive off of Chinese demand while manufacturers and
retailers in the south and east struggle under the strength of
the local currency.  Stevens and his central bank colleagues have been “very
adroit” in their role shaping monetary policy, Robb said today.
He said Stevens has done his job “quite admirably.”  “It would normally be a situation which is dealt with by
the government of the day,” Robb said regarding the decision on
reappointing Stevens or naming a successor. “Because there’s
already been an announcement about an election day, so much
about what happens between now and then really means the
government is almost in a caretaker mode.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  