-- Treasuries a Buy as Debt Load Buries Growth, Seix’s Keegan Says
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 2013-01-31T18:18:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/treasuries-a-buy-as-debt-load-buries-growth-seix-s-keegan-says.html
U.S government debt, off to its
worst start since 2009, is poised to turn around as global
central-bank action fails to spur economic growth, according to
James Keegan of Seix Investment Advisors LLC.  Even as central banks from the  Federal Reserve  to the
 European Central Bank  have kept  interest rates  at record lows
and added monetary stimulus since the start of the financial
crisis, the moves have failed to filter into the global economy,
said Keegan, chief investment officer at the  Upper Saddle River ,
New Jersey-firm that manages about $30 billion. This has given
politicians cover to not deal with unprecedented debt loads that
will further hamper growth, he said.  “Central-bank action is just papering over problems that
no one seems to really want to address,” Keegan said in an Jan.
30 interview at Bloomberg LP headquarters. Central banks have
“impacted asset prices, but their effect on the economy has
been much less. As long as these problems are still here, yields
have no reason to rise significantly.”  The benchmark 10-year yield rose one basis point, or 0.01
percentage point, to 2 percent at 12:13 p.m. New York time,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. It touched 2.03
percent yesterday, the highest since April 25.  Treasuries have lost 1.1 percent this year, according to
Bank of America Merrill Lynch Indexes, the worst start since
they lost 3.4 percent in 2009. The  Standard & Poor’s  500 index
has risen 5.3 percent this year.  Weak Growth  Investors should buy Treasuries and de-risk their holdings
as the economy worsens and demand for high-quality assets
increases, with central banks creating scarcity by soaking up
large amounts of the debt, Keegan said.  U.S. gross domestic product, the volume of all goods and
services produced, dropped at a 0.1 percent annual rate during
the fourth quarter, the Commerce Department said yesterday,
weaker than any economist forecast in a Bloomberg survey.  Consumer comfort declined for a fourth straight week as
Americans’ outlook on spending soured, a sign the payroll tax
increase that kicked in at the start of the year is starting to
ripple through the economy. The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index
dropped to minus 37.5 in the period ended Jan. 27, the lowest
reading since October, from minus 36.4 in the prior week.  The  International Monetary Fund  cut its global growth
forecast Jan. 23 to 3.5 percent for this year, from 3.6 percent
in October.  “We are still in the midst of an extended period of
slowing growth and in the fifth inning of the deleveraging
cycle,” said Keegan. “Until we are done, there will be no
reason for rates to rise and less impetus for the Fed to change
its course of action.”  Keegan’s Ridgeworth Total Return  Bond Fund (SAMFX)  has gained 3.1
percent over the past year, beating 16 percent of its peers. It
has returned 6.8 percent over the last five years beating, 73
percent of its peers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cordell Eddings in  New York  at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  