-- Treasury Yields Almost at 9-Month High Before Payrolls
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2013-01-31T22:27:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/treasuries-head-for-monthly-loss-on-economic-growth-signs.html
Treasury 10-year note yields traded
close to nine-month highs before a government report tomorrow
forecast to show the U.S. added the most jobs in five months.  The  benchmark yield  declined after the Senate passed a
measure to suspend the U.S. debt limit for three months,
temporarily removing the risk of a government default. The yield
fluctuated earlier as manufacturing in the U.S. expanded more
than forecast even as claims for  unemployment benefits 
unexpectedly increased. The  Federal Reserve  purchased $1.57
billion in securities after policy makers said yesterday they
plan to keep buying $85 billion of bonds a month to boost
growth.  “A 2 percent 10-year note is an equilibrium point given
the current theme of active Fed, slow-growth scenario,”  Adrian Miller , director of fixed-income strategies at GMP Securities
LLC in  New York , said in a telephone interview. “The direction
from here will be a function of growth expectations, especially
job-growth numbers, and tomorrow’s number will shed some light
on what to expect.”  The benchmark 10-year  yield  fell one basis point to 1.98
percent at 5 p.m. New York time, according to Bloomberg Bond
Trader prices. It touched 2.03 percent yesterday, the highest
since April 25. The price of the 1.625 percent security due in
November 2022 rose 2/32, or 63 cents per $1,000 face value, to
96 26/32.  The debt-ceiling measure, crafted by  House Republicans ,
will lift the government’s $16.4 trillion borrowing limit until
May 19. The Senate cleared it 64-34 in Washington and will send
the legislation to President  Barack Obama .  Selloff Slows  Treasuries handed investors a 1.1 percent loss this month
as of yesterday, set for the biggest decline since December
2010, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes. The
 MSCI All-Country World Index (MXWD)  of shares gained 4.9 percent in the
period including reinvested dividends.  The selloff slowed yesterday as the 10-year yield surpassed
a technical level, with 2.03 percent above the so-called upper
 Bollinger band  level of 1.99 percent, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Bollinger bands gauge volatility by plotting standard
deviations above and below a moving average. Analysts use them
to determine a probable range for a rate or security. Ten-year
yields slid below the Bollinger level today.  Cheapest Level  The 10-year term premium, a model that includes
expectations for  interest rates , growth and inflation, was at
the cheapest level since April. It touched minus 0.59 percent,
the least expensive level since April 12, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The measure dropped to a record minus
1.02 percent in July.  A negative reading indicates investors are willing to
accept yields below what’s considered fair value.  Employers added 165,000 jobs in January after a gain of
155,000 last month, according to the median forecast in a
Bloomberg survey, the most since August. Another survey projects
the  unemployment rate  to remain at 7.8 percent.  The MNI Chicago Report’s  business barometer  rose to 55.6
this month, the highest since April, after 50 in December. A
reading of 50 is the dividing line between expansion and
contraction. The median forecast of 48 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg was 50.5.  The number “was a surprise to the upside -- it was worth a
little down trade,” said Justin Lederer, an interest-rate
strategist in New York at Cantor Fitzgerald LP, one of 21
primary dealers that trade directly with the Fed. “We’re
looking forward to tomorrow’s payrolls report.”  ‘Downside Risks’  Initial jobless claims rose 38,000 in the week ended Jan.
26, the most since Nov. 10, to 368,000, the Labor Department
reported in  Washington . Economists forecast 350,000 filings,
according to the Bloomberg survey median. The increase followed
a combined 45,000 drop in the prior two weeks.  U.S. government debt  gained yesterday after the Commerce
Department said the  U.S. economy  unexpectedly shrank in the
fourth quarter and the Fed reiterated its commitment to asset
purchases. It purchased notes maturing from February 2036 to
November 2042 today.  The  Federal Open Market Committee  said in a statement
yesterday that growth, while slowed by “transitory factors,”
faces “downside risks” even after strains in global financial
markets have eased. The expansion will pick up and unemployment
will fall in response to “appropriate policy accommodation,”
Fed officials said in a statement after a two-day meeting.  “The FOMC made it pretty clear the Fed would continue to
buy through 2013,” said  Ray Remy , head of fixed income in New
York at Daiwa Capital Markets America Inc. “I wouldn’t be
surprised to see us go through 1.90 percent on the 10-year over
the next three or four trading sessions.”  The yield will fall to 1.83 percent by the end of the first
quarter, according to the weighted average forecast of 79
economists in a Bloomberg survey.  .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  