-- Tri Pointe Homes Climbs After Raising $233 Million in IPO
-- B y   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n
-- 2013-01-31T21:44:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/tri-pointe-homes-raises-233-million-in-initial-public-offering.html
Tri Pointe Homes Inc. (TPH) , a housing
company financed by investor  Barry Sternlicht , jumped 12 percent
after raising $233 million in the first initial public offering
by a U.S. homebuilder since 2004.  The  Irvine , California-based company and shareholders sold
13.7 million shares for $17 each, above the marketed range of
$14 to $16, Tri Pointe said in a statement today. The stock
closed at $19.05 in  New York  trading today.  Homebuilders are turning to debt and public-equity markets
to raise cash as buyer demand for new construction rises amid
low  mortgage rates  and a shrinking supply of existing residences
 for sale . Builders are expected to  break ground  on 650,000
single-family homes this year, up 22 percent from 2012 and about
half the “normal” pace of 1.3 million annual starts, the
 National Association of Home Builders  said in a Jan. 22 report.  “The housing market’s red hot,” Robert Wetenhall, an
analyst with RBC Capital Markets LLC, said in a telephone
interview from New York before the IPO. Publicly traded
companies including  KB Home (KBH) ,  Lennar Corp. (LEN)  and D.R. Horton Inc.
“all reported exceptionally strong order trends that came in
ahead of most expectations. This provides a bullish backdrop for
homebuilders in the context of the new-issue market.”  The 11-member Standard & Poor’s Supercomposite Homebuilding
 index  rose 91 percent in the 12 months through today, compared
with a 14 percent gain in the S&P 500  index . The broader
measure’s best performer was  PulteGroup Inc. (PHM) , a Bloomfield
Hills, Michigan-based homebuilder, whose shares almost tripled.  Other Builders  Taylor Morrison Home Corp. (TMHC) , a builder based in Scottsdale,
Arizona, filed plans last month to raise $250 million in an IPO.
Lennar, based in Miami, and Fort Worth, Texas-based D.R. Horton
this week sold notes.  Tri Pointe will have net proceeds of about $156.3 million
from the IPO, the company said in today’s statement.  Tri Pointe, which currently builds homes in California and
Colorado, said in regulatory filings it will use proceeds from
the IPO to acquire land. Some of the land will come from
Sternlicht’s Starwood Land Ventures LLC. The company owns 9,600
lots in California, Arizona and Colorado, according to Tri
Pointe’s IPO prospectus.  “The neat thing about what we’re doing is it’s immediately
accretive to the value of the company,” Tri Pointe Chief
Executive Officer Doug Bauer said in an interview on CNBC today.
“It’s not for general working capital of the company, but for
real assets. That’s really critical for our growth.”  Sternlicht Investment  Sternlicht’s Starwood Capital Group LLC has invested $150
million in Tri Pointe since 2010, owning about 84 percent of the
company before the IPO. Sternlicht, who will be Tri Pointe’s
chairman, will own about 45 percent of the shares after the
offering, the prospectus shows.  Sternlicht sold 3.7 million shares for $62.7 million in the
IPO, while retaining 14.3 million shares, according to the
prospectus. After his $150 million in costs, he has a total
paper profit of $185.8 million based on today’s closing price.  Citigroup Inc. (C) , Deutsche Bank AG and FBR & Co. led the
offering.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Gittelsohn in  Los Angeles  at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  