-- Rising Helium Fuels GE’s Drive to Extend U.S. Reserve
-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 2013-01-31T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/rising-helium-fuels-ge-s-drive-to-extend-u-s-reserve.html
The pending closure of an
underground U.S. helium depot in the Texas Panhandle is raising
concerns that a gas used in everything from party balloons to
medical imaging equipment could be in short supply.  High-tech companies and manufacturers including  General
Electric Co. (GE)  are pushing Congress to act quickly to extend the
life of the reserve, which could shut down as early as October,
years before supplies are depleted.  “There is still a considerable reserve left, and to just
shut it off and leave it in the ground wouldn’t make sense for
any end-user,” Tom Rauch, a global sourcing manager for GE
Healthcare, said in an interview.  The U.S. first sought to protect its helium supplies in the
1920s to keep a steady supply for military dirigibles. While the
blimp business didn’t take off as expected, by the 1960s helium
had become critical to the space program and in other
applications leading the U.S. to begin storing the gas in an
underground reservoir 20 northwest of Amarillo,  Texas . Congress
mandated its phaseout in 1996, concluding it was an unnecessary
relic.  However, GE, headquartered in Fairfield,  Connecticut , and
others say the facility should remain open until all the
reserves are sold off. Shutting it down could take the air out
of U.S. helium sales, about a third of the global supply,
raising costs and making supplies more scarce, Rauch said.  MRI Machines  GE uses helium to cool magnets on its magnetic resonance
imaging, or MRI, machines that provide internal images of the
human body. Maintaining the equipment could be harder if
Congress doesn’t act, Rauch told a House panel in July.  Other companies that rely on helium include Munich-based
 Siemens AG (SIE) , which also makes medical imaging equipment, and
 Santa Clara , California-based  Intel Corp. (INTC) , which uses it to make
computer processors.  The Bureau of Land Management, the division of the U.S.
Interior Department that operates the reserve, estimates it
holds five year’s worth of supply, Joe Peterson, assistant field
manager for helium resources, said in an interview. In fiscal
year 2012, the U.S. raised about $200 million in revenue through
its helium reserve program, he said.  One issue facing lawmakers is whether to scrap the current
system in which BLM sets the price, or to allow more companies
to bid in an open auction, which supporters say may bring higher
prices and more government revenue.  Rauch said GE worries such a change could lead to
disruptions in the helium market.  1996 Law  The 1996  law , called the Helium Privatization Act, required
the U.S. to sell its helium stores to pay the $1.3 billion in
debt that had accumulated over a 10-year period during which the
reserve had been buying helium for storage. Opponents of the
program described it as a boondoggle and said federal agencies
could procure helium more cheaply from private suppliers, such
as the company now known as  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)   The books could be clear by October, Peterson said, and the
law doesn’t allow for continued sales outside of contracts BLM
already has with companies to refine the unpurified helium it
sells.  Fixing the problem will be an early test to energy
committees in Congress also grappling with issues such as
natural gas exports and offshore oil drilling. The looming
deadline may elevate helium ahead of those other high-profile
issues this year, congressional aides said.  Manufacturers Chaos  “This is not something where you can kick the can down the
road,” said Richard Goodstein, who lobbies for Allentown,
Pennsylvania-based  Air Products & Chemicals Inc. (APD) , one of four
companies that refine helium for customers. “If this doesn’t
get done essentially by the end of the fiscal year there is
going to be chaos among all these high-tech manufacturers.” The
federal fiscal year ends Sept. 30.  Lawmakers say they’ll try to move quickly to ensure U.S.
helium sales continue unabated after the operating debt is paid.  So far, the Republican-led House Natural Resources
Committee and the Senate Energy and Natural Resources panel, run
by Democrats, have offered different solutions, which could
delay action on the issue.  GE prefers Senate legislation offered last year that would
allow the U.S. reserve to keep operating until the helium was
depleted, Rauch said. That measure was not voted on.  Draft legislation from the House Natural Resources
Committee released in December would require BLM to set up
quarterly auctions and sell the gas to the highest bidder and
shut down the facility when the reserves are sold.  Helium Auctions  By expanding the pool of potential buyers, the U.S. could
get a higher price for its helium, Representative Doc Hastings,
a Washington Republican, said in a statement in December when
the “discussion draft” was released. He called the current
helium program outdated.  “A helium auction ensures taxpayers receive a fair return
on federal helium sales while promoting greater participation
and free market competition,” said Spencer Pederson, a
spokesman for the committee. Hastings plans to introduce a bill
in “the near future,” Pederson said.  Under the current system, more than 90 percent of the
helium sold by the U.S. goes to four refiners along pipelines in
Texas,  Oklahoma  and  Kansas : Air Products & Chemicals,  Linde GR (LIN) ,
 Praxair Inc. (PX) , and Keyes Helium Co., a private company based in
Keyes, Oklahoma. They take out impurities and sell the helium to
customers like GE or Siemens.  BLM sets the price, currently at $84 per thousand cubic
feet.  Wyden Bill  About 6 percent is available to companies including  Air
Liquide SA (AI)  that distribute helium but don’t refine it. These
companies have to contract with refiners linked to the U.S.
reserve to purify the helium for sale.  Passing helium legislation is a priority for Senator  Ron Wyden , an Oregon Democrat and the new chairman of the Senate
Energy and Natural Resources Committee, said Samantha Offerdahl,
a spokeswoman for the panel.  “Any legislation will need to address supply stability as
to not disrupt the operations of our health care providers,
high-tech manufacturers, basic science researchers, and space
missions,” Offerdahl said in an e-mailed response to questions.  The debate comes as helium prices are already on the rise.
BLM’s Peterson said a cylinder of helium to blow up party
balloons used to sell for as much as $125 and now costs up to
$195.  While GE is paying more for helium, Rauch said the
company’s  biggest concern was access to supplies.  Helium from Qatar, which is building the world’s largest
processing facility, will alleviate some supply concerns. Even
so, a closure of the U.S. reserve “would ripple through the
world,” Rauch said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  