-- Roche’s GA101 Met Goals in Stage One of Trial to Replace Rituxan
-- B y   N a o m i   K r e s g e
-- 2013-01-31T06:42:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/roche-s-ga101-met-goals-in-stage-one-of-trial-to-replace-rituxan.html
Roche Holding AG (ROG)  said a next-
generation blood cancer drug met its target in the first stage
of a trial that could help the treatment replace top-seller
Rituxan in patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia.  GA101 combined with chemotherapy helped CLL patients live
longer without their disease progressing than chemotherapy
alone, the Basel, Switzerland-based drugmaker said in an e-
mailed statement today. The medicine is a partnership with U.S.
biotechnology company  Biogen Idec Inc. (BIIB)   Still to come is data comparing GA101 directly with
Rituxan. Roche has said it aims to make the new drug the
successor to the older medicine in a bid to defend sales from
biosimilar competitors after its patent expires. Roche faces a
challenge, as there may be a gap between when Roche’s patents
start to expire next year and the date that the drugmaker can
start selling GA101 to the bigger potential patient groups,
Bloomberg Industries analysts wrote in a note in December.  An analysis after the first stage of the CLL trial showed
there is a possibility that GA101 will be better than Rituxan,
Roche said today.  Like Rituxan, GA101 targets CD20, a type of immune cell
that plays a role in non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma and chronic
lymphocytic leukemia. People with non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma are the
larger group of potential patients for GA101, and Roche is also
testing the drug in that patient group.  Full Results  Full results from the trial in CLL patients will be
presented at a medical conference, the company said.  Also known by its generic name rituximab, Rituxan generated
6.7 billion Swiss francs ($7.4 billion) in sales last year.
Roche’s patents on the medicine expire in 2018 in the U.S. and
earlier in  Europe . Biogen Idec also helps market the drug in the
U.S.  Roche also asked European regulators in December to approve
a subcutaneously administered version of Rituxan, which would be
a faster way to give patients the drug and thus muster another
potential defense against biosimilar copies.  Companies working on copies of Rituxan include Boehringer
Ingelheim GmbH,  Novartis AG (NOVN) ,  Celltrion Inc. (068270) , partners  Samsung
Electronics Co. (005930)  and Quintiles Transnational Corp., and  Teva
Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA)  with  Lonza Group AG. (LONN)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Naomi Kresge in Berlin at 
 nkresge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  