-- Rodriguez Drug Case May Blunt Potential Yankees Insurance Claim
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-02-01T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/rodriguez-drug-case-may-blunt-potential-yankees-insurance-claim.html
The New York Yankees’ chances of
recouping any of the remaining $114 million owed to Alex Rodriguez through an insurance claim may be scuttled by a
typical policy clause prohibiting the use of banned drugs.  Rodriguez, 37, could miss the Major League Baseball season
after undergoing hip surgery and his future with the Yankees is
in question after a Florida newspaper report that the three-time
American League Most Valuable Player was doping as recently as
last season. Rodriguez, who acknowledged in 2009 using
performance-enhancing drugs from 2001 to 2003 while playing for
the Texas Rangers, said the Jan. 29 report in the Miami New
Times isn’t true.  The New York Daily News and the New York Post said this
week that the Yankees are looking for a way out of the record
$275 million, 10-year contract Rodriguez signed after the 2007
season. That might be impossible through an insurance claim,
according to an industry official who’s worked on sports
policies for Lance Armstrong, Michael Jordan and Pete Sampras.  “We’ve all heard the rumors about potential use of drugs
and typically that is an exclusion that you see most every time
in a policy,” Mike Price, the founder of Atlanta-based
 Entertainment & Sports Insurance eXperts , said in a telephone
interview today. “If it’s proven the individual took illegal
drugs during that time, it voids the insurance.”  Rodriguez acknowledged doping while with the Rangers 14
months after signing his current contract with the Yankees. He
said he stopped using a banned substance in 2003 and hasn’t
taken it since.  MLB is probing the New Times report that links Rodriguez to
Biogenesis, an anti-aging clinic in Miami that closed last
month. The weekly newspaper acquired company records that it
said showed Rodriguez paid for banned products, including human
growth hormone, and mentions his name on a patient list through
last season.  Next Step  The Yankees said in a statement this week that they
supported baseball’s antidrug policies and would refrain from
comment related to the New Times report until MLB completes its
investigation.  If the hip injury prevents Rodriguez from playing
professional baseball again and forces his retirement, possible
options for the team include a settlement with the 14-time All-
Star or the filing of an insurance claim.  Yankees President Randy Levine said in an e-mail that the
team doesn’t disclose which company insures the team’s
contracts.  When Rodriguez had his $252 million contract with the
Rangers,  Warren Buffett  said in  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) ’s  2000
annual report  that his company’s policy protecting the ballclub
from the possibility of a career-ending injury probably would
set a record for disability insurance.  Multilayer Protection  Price, the insurance executive, said there may be multiple
carriers for a contract the size of Rodriguez’s, with many
layers of coverage in place. Such an insurance policy would
typically reimburse up to 66.6 percent of the amount of a star
athlete’s contract. In 2001, the Baltimore Orioles got money
back after a degenerative hip injury forced outfielder Albert Belle to retire two years into a five-year, $65 million
contract.  Terry Michelitch, executive vice president at  Willis Group
Holdings Plc , the third-largest insurance broker, said teams
usually take out a temporary total disability policy or a
permanent total disability policy on an athlete’s contract.  “My hunch is that they have a PTD policy,” Michelitch
said of the Yankees. “Just because a lot of folks end up going
that direction, and with somebody at his age as well. That’s the
other compounding factor. With a lot of pre-existing conditions,
that’s going to push them more toward a PTD.”  Injury Proof  To get back any of the salary Rodriguez is owed, there
would have to be proof of a career-ending injury with a
permanent total disability policy.  In Rodriguez’s situation, the claim could be put into
motion if team doctors determine he’s not going to be able to
play again following the Jan. 16 hip surgery, Price said.  Those findings would then be given to the insurance
carrier, who would appoint a doctor to review the information
and possibly call for new tests. If the carrier’s doctor agrees
with the original findings, the claim would go forward. If
there’s a disagreement, it would go to arbitration with an
independent third doctor.  “The definition says the player must be injured past the
hope or the expectation of ever again engaging in their
occupation,” Price said. “He has to be permanently disabled
and, in the eyes of the insurance carrier, be injured beyond
returning to playing professional baseball again.”  No Connection  Rodriguez’s recent decline in production wouldn’t be a
factor in any insurance outcome.  After 13 consecutive years with at least 30 home runs and
100 runs batted in, Rodriguez’s numbers have tailed off in New
York amid injuries the past two seasons. He batted .272 with 18
home runs and 57 RBIs over 122 games in 2012, when he became the
overpaid symbol of the Yankees’ postseason shortcomings.  Rodriguez, who ranks  fifth in MLB history  with 647 homers,
went 3-for-25 in the playoffs with 12 strikeouts. He was 0-
for-19 against right-handed pitchers and was benched for the
final two games of the Yankees’ playoff series loss against
 Detroit .  “The insurance contract doesn’t cover loss of skill,”
Price said.  It may all be rendered moot if MLB’s investigation turns up
evidence that Rodriguez continued to use performance-enhancing
drugs during his current contract.  “I don’t know the terms of the contract, I can just tell
you that working with many athletes for 20 years, typically the
contract will include an exclusion for illegal use of drugs,”
Price said. “In that case, they’re not getting anything back.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  