-- Khan Gets One Year in Prison in Insider Trading Case
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o   a n d   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2013-02-01T18:57:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/roomy-khan-gets-one-year-in-prison-in-insider-trading-case-1-.html
Roomy Khan, the former  Intel Corp. (INTC) 
executive twice convicted of passing illegal tips to Raj Rajaratnam, was ordered to serve one year in prison for
obstructing justice after she agreed to help the U.S.  “The message from this court is that you cannot have it
both ways. This is too serious,” U.S. District Judge Jed S. Rakoff in Manhattan said yesterday as he imposed the sentence.
“You cannot have it both ways -- to cooperate and then obstruct
justice.”  Defense lawyers and prosecutors sought leniency for Khan,
54, saying she helped the government win convictions against
hedge fund managers Rajaratnam, Doug Whitman and others. Khan
was convicted in 2001 and again in 2009 of passing illegal tips
to Galleon Group LLC co-founder Rajaratnam.  Manhattan  U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara’s prosecutors cited
Khan’s cooperation in a letter to the judge, despite her having
lied, destroyed evidence and tipped off co-conspirators to the
government’s investigation when she was working with federal
agents.  Another cooperator in the governor’s insider-trading
crackdown, Jason Pflaum, a former Barai Capital Management LP
analyst who testified against an expert networking consultant
convicted by a jury in 2011, yesterday was spared a prison
sentence.  Probation, Forfeiture  Pflaum, a key government witness at the trial of former
Primary Global Research LLC consultant Winifred Jiau, was
ordered by Rakoff to serve two years’ probation and forfeit
$500,000.  Pflaum’s lawyer, Michael Grudberg, said in an e-mail that
the forfeiture amount is based on the illegal profit made by
Barai Capital, not by Pflaum personally. The forfeiture is to be
paid by Pflaum and his co-conspirators in the case, Grudberg
said.  In Khan’s case, Rakoff said he couldn’t ignore the fact
that, after pleading guilty and agreeing to cooperate with a
federal investigation of Rajaratnam in  California , she returned
to insider trading and passed the fund manager illegal tips. He
said that Khan obstructed justice after she agreed to cooperate
with federal investigators in New York in 2007.  “The obstruction cannot be ignored, not only what it says
about her duplicitous state during that period but also about
the very important message that any court needs to send when
that cooperation is tainted by obstruction,” the judge said.  ‘Whole Series’  “It wasn’t misconduct over a day or two. It wasn’t one
mistake. It was a whole series of lies.”  Khan, whose information helped the U.S. get a court-
authorized tap on Rajaratnam’s phone, asked for five years’
probation. She offered to speak at colleges and business schools
about her experiences to warn students against insider trading,
her lawyer, Stanislao German, told Rakoff yesterday.  The judge ordered Khan to surrender to a federal prison by
April 30 and said he would recommend a federal prison in
Southern Florida. Rakoff also directed Khan to forfeit more than
$1.5 million she earned as a result of the scheme.  “I would like to say sorry to the court,” said Khan, her
voice breaking. “I have lost all my money and my education is
rendered useless. I have been ostracized by most of my family
and friends and lead my life as a pariah in isolation.”  Khan, who has a degree in physics from Delhi University, a
master’s in electrical engineering from Columbia University and
a master’s in business administration from the University of
California at Berkeley, said she earned $50 million while
trading stocks. Trading losses wiped out her portfolio, her
lawyer said.  Khan’s Lies  Khan said she lied to agents with the Federal Bureau of
Investigation after pledging to help them in order to shield her
friends from government scrutiny.  “I, and I alone, am responsible,” she said. “I lied to
the government to protect myself, my friends, and my family from
getting in trouble. To protect my life and status, I engaged in
insider trading. There is no excuse for the decisions I took.
They were wrong and I broke the law. I should have known better
as I had just gotten a break. As a look back, I am horrified at
the choices I made.”  Khan pleaded guilty in October 2009 to one count of
conspiracy to commit securities fraud and one count of
securities fraud. Rakoff said Khan had faced a term of eight to
10 years in prison under federal sentencing guidelines, which
aren’t binding upon the court.  $250 Million  German argued that Khan’s work with prosecutors, in
addition to helping the government win convictions that sent
others to prison, enabled the U.S. to secure $250 million in
fines, forfeitures and SEC settlements.  Dozens of people have been convicted of insider trading as
part of overlapping investigations tied to Rajaratnam’s hedge
fund and related cases, German said. Rajaratnam, convicted in
2011, is serving an 11-year prison sentence. German said that
other cooperators in the Galleon probe were spared prison terms
and given probation.  “I understand the court’s reasoning and logic in giving a
sentence, but considering individuals who went to trial and got
two years, and a one-year sentence for Ms. Khan is a lot under
the circumstances,” German said in an interview after court
yesterday.  German said Khan wouldn’t appeal her sentence.  Second Round  The case was Khan’s second round of insider-trading
charges. She pleaded guilty in 2001 to wire fraud and was
sentenced in 2002 to home detention after agreeing to cooperate
with a federal probe of Rajaratnam in California.  Two years later, Khan said “untenable” financial
pressures caused her to return to passing insider tips to
Rajaratnam to give him an “edge.”  “As I reflect upon the choices I made, it makes me feel
aghast at these decisions,” Khan said in a Jan. 22 letter to
Rakoff. “No circumstances justify breaking the law. Because
everyone is doing it provides no excuse to engage in this
behavior. Especially I should have conducted myself better
because I had gotten a break in the past!”  Khan said the strain of maintaining an extravagant
lifestyle was the “albatross” around her neck that led her
back to insider trading.  Prosecutors said Khan’s cooperation was flawed, noting that
she alerted Deep Shah, a former analyst at Moody’s Investors
Service who the government says was one of her sources of
illicit tips, to the federal probe. As a result, Shah, who was
in  India  at the time, hasn’t returned to the U.S., the
government said.  Intel Complaint  The U.S. has said Khan first came to the attention of
federal investigators in Northern California in 1998 after a
complaint from her then-employer, Intel Corp.  Intel suspected Khan of passing information to Rajaratnam,
then a lead semiconductor analyst at Needham & Co., according to
testimony from a hearing in Rajaratnam’s case. A video camera
installed by Intel over a fax machine captured images of her as
well as the number she dialed, which the FBI later identified as
Rajaratnam’s. The Santa Clara, California-based company fired
Khan after conducting an internal probe, the U.S. said.  After pleading guilty to wire fraud and agreeing to
cooperate with the U.S. in 2001, Khan was sentenced in July 2002
to six months’ home detention and ordered to pay a $30,000 fine
and $120,000 in restitution, according to court records.  No charges were filed against Rajaratnam and prosecutors
closed that case in August 2002, FBI agent B.J. Kang testified.
The U.S. said in Khan’s 2002 sentencing memo that Rajaratnam
couldn’t be tied to illegal insider trading.  SEC Probe  The government started looking at Khan a second time after
the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission opened a probe of
Rajaratnam in 2006. A parallel probe started in March 2007 by
the FBI in New York and the Manhattan U.S. Attorney’s office
stalled until Kang approached Khan in late 2007 and asked her to
become a cooperator, U.S. officials said.  Khan agreed to begin working with the government in
November 2007 and helped investigators win authorization to
wiretap Rajaratnam’s mobile phone in March 2008, prosecutors
said. Rajaratnam was ultimately convicted of directing one of
the largest hedge fund insider-trading cases in U.S. history.  At the trial, the government introduced 45 wiretap
recordings, along with documents and testimony derived from the
wiretaps.  Pflaum’s Plea  Pflaum, who worked for Barai from March 2008 to January
2011, pleaded guilty in February 2011 to conspiracy and
securities fraud charges.  His testimony helped convict Jiau of illegally passing tips
about Nvidia Corp. and Marvell Technology Group Ltd. to hedge
fund managers, including Pflaum’s former boss, Samir Barai.  Pflaum also provided help to the government on numerous
other investigations and led the U.S. to Noah Freeman, a former
SAC Capital Advisors LP portfolio manager who was a friend of
Barai’s, prosecutors said.  During Jiau’s trial in New York in June 2011, Pflaum
testified that he listened to and recorded phone calls between
Jiau and Barai, who is hearing-impaired. Pflaum also said he
wrote contemporaneous electronic instant messages to Barai to
help him keep up the conversation with Jiau, as she passed tips
about publicly traded technology companies.  Pflaum also testified that at least eight people provided
Barai with nonpublic information about technology companies.
Pflaum said he destroyed the files related to those tippers
without deleting files related to Jiau.  The cases are U.S. v. Khan, 09-cr-00991, and U.S. v. Jiau,
11-cr-00161, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York
 at   pathurtado@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Van Voris in New York
at   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 