-- Troubled Companies Winning Lifelines in ‘Fragile’ Market
-- B y   B e t h   J i n k s   a n d   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n
-- 2013-01-31T18:13:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/troubled-companies-seen-winning-lifelines-in-fragile-market.html
While U.S. icons from Hostess Brands
Inc. to  Eastman Kodak Co. (EKDKQ)  succumb to bankruptcy, credit markets
awash with cash are allowing many of the riskiest companies to
stay afloat, pushing off restructurings and raising the stakes
for investors pursuing higher returns.  Junk-bond sales soared to a record last year and
speculative-grade borrowers raised the most in loans since the
2007 peak, while business bankruptcies fell 22.4 percent to
57,500 compared with 2011. Chapter 11 cases, where companies
reorganize or sell assets, dropped by 12.4 percent, according to
data compiled from court records by Epiq Systems Inc. At the
same time, storied U.S. brands struggling with legacy
liabilities and outdated products proved vulnerable.  The pursuit of yield is creating a “fragile” market
position that may unravel should investors get spooked by an
unexpected shock such as political upheaval or natural disaster,
said Flip Huffard, a senior managing director at  Blackstone
Group LP (BX) ’s restructuring unit.  “That can dramatically change the market overnight,”
Huffard said at a Turnaround Management Association event held
in New York on Jan. 24. Eventually troubled companies that
refinance multiple times will reach “the end of the line and
they actually need to fix their capital structures.”  Sectors likely to pursue restructuring in 2013 include
energy, shipping, media and mid-market companies dependent on
U.S. government contracts, such as defense and health care,
according to turnaround experts on the TMA panel.  Search for Yield  Investors seeking better returns sent sales of high-yield
bonds soaring 45 percent  last year  to a record $354.2 billion,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Junk bonds returned
15.583 percent last year -- up from 4.383 percent in 2011 --
according to the Bank of America Merrill Lynch U.S. High Yield
Index. Bonds of distressed companies have returned 231 percent
since the end of 2008, compared with 122 percent from high-yield
corporate bonds, the data show.  “Extend and pretend -- both in the leveraged loan market
and the high yield bond market -- is bailing out just about
anybody,” Edward Altman, a finance professor at New York
University’s Stern School of Business, who created the Z-Score
measure for bankruptcy risk, told TMA. “We shouldn’t have this
situation where money is so easy, and have cheap rates for
questionable companies.”  Record Sales  Companies last year sold a record $58 billion of bonds in
the U.S. ranked between the equivalent of CCC+ and C by Moody’s
Investors Service, Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That exceeds the $55
billion of such debt issued in 2007 and is triple the $19
billion sold in 2009. About $6 billion has been sold in January.  Loans made to the neediest U.S. companies rose in 2012 to
the most in five years, with speculative-grade borrowers raising
more than $315 billion of the debt from collateralized loan
obligations and hedge funds, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg and JPMorgan Chase & Co. That is the most since $388.3
billion was issued in 2007.  Energy Future  Energy Future Holdings Corp., the power company formerly
known as TXU Corp. taken private in a record $43.2 billion
leveraged buyout, persuaded creditors to exchange bonds and
extend a revolving credit facility in the past month, even as
Moody’s Investors Service warned the company faces a “material
restructuring” in the next six to 12 months.  While such companies are finding credit to stay afloat,
some of America’s oldest corporations including Kodak, Hostess,
and American Airlines turned to bankruptcy. Saddled with so-
called legacy liabilities including union contracts and
underfunded pension obligations, they were unable to overcome
the sluggish economy and management failure to keep pace with
changing consumer tastes.  “Companies that have legacy obligations are saying it just
can’t be cured unless they have a formal restructuring,” Harvey Miller, the Weil Gotshal & Manges LLP restructuring partner who
handled the bankruptcies for Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. and
General Motors Corp., said in an interview. “The pigeons have
come home to roost as the economy slowed down.”  Kodak Bankruptcy  The 132-year-old Kodak filed for bankruptcy in January 2012
after years of burning through cash while the rise of digital
photography ruined its film business. Chief Executive Officer
Antonio Perez has been selling businesses to shrink Kodak and
fund its shift into commercial printing and packaging.  The Hostess bankruptcy, also filed in January 2012, turned
into a liquidation of the 82-year-old maker of Twinkies, Ho Hos
and Ding Dongs in November, after the company failed to reach
agreement with its striking bakers’ union on concessions. The
union blamed management for failing to modernize and said it had
accepted big wage and benefit reductions after Hostess’s first
bankruptcy, from which it emerged in 2009. Changes in American
diets led to years of declining sales at Hostess, which is now
selling off brands, recipes, plants and other assets.  AMR, parent of American Airlines, filed for bankruptcy in
November 2011, the final large U.S. full-fare airline to seek
court protection from creditors. It has won $1.06 billion a year
in concessions from workers and now nears a decision on merging
with US Airways Group Inc. or exiting bankruptcy on its own.  Pension Problems  “When you see these older names face financial problems,
they often have liabilities that can’t be easily addressed with
typical refinancing markets that Wall Street can provide,”
David Ying, senior managing director and head of restructuring
at Evercore Partners Inc., said in an interview. For companies
without such legacy liabilities, “there’s plenty of liquidity
in the markets,” he said.  Low interest rates tend to hurt companies with large
pension liabilities because of how future retirement obligations
are accounted for, according to bankruptcy experts. Companies
can’t as easily discount future pension liabilities, resulting
in larger near-term funding obligations, said Damian Schaible, a
partner in Davis Polk & Wardwell LLP’s insolvency and
restructuring group.  The weak economy over the past couple of years meant the
companies were “not making as much money to fill those pension
and legacy liability holes,” Schaible said in an interview.  “The suppression of interest rates by the Federal Reserve
allowed many companies which otherwise might have restructured
to push out their problems by several years,” Ken Buckfire,
head of New York-based restructuring firm Miller Buckfire & Co.,
now a unit of Stifel Financial Corp., said in an interview.
“The companies that were forced to do a real restructuring,
especially in bankruptcy, were generally companies that because
of failing business models or other unique challenges, had no
other option.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Beth Jinks in New York at 
 bjinks1@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  