-- Ruble, Bonds Pare Month Gain as Putin Ponders Bank Rossii Chief
-- B y   V l a d i m i r   K u z n e t s o v
-- 2013-01-31T15:58:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/ruble-bonds-pare-month-gain-as-putin-ponders-bank-rossii-chief.html
The ruble pared its third monthly
gain as oil slid and  Russia ’s economy grew at a slower pace than
forecast. A rally in local-currency debt waned as bondholders
awaited President  Vladimir Putin ’s pick for the central bank
chief’s successor.  The ruble dropped less than 0.1 percent to 30.0325 against
the dollar by 7 p.m. in Moscow, giving it a 1.2 percent advance
this month. The currency dropped for a second day to the euro,
losing 0.1 percent to 40.7525. Those movements left it 0.1
percent weaker against the central bank’s target basket at
34.8576 and little changed in the month.  Crude oil, Russia’s main export, lost as much as 1.1
percent to $95.84 and headed for its first decline in four days
in  New York . The economy of the world’s biggest energy exporter
expanded last year at the weakest pace since a 2009 contraction
after record oil prices failed to offset $56.8 billion of net
capital outflows and investment sagged.  February will be a “tense” month on the local foreign
exchange market with debt ceiling negotiations in the U.S.
determining demand for riskier assets, including the ruble,
Ruslan Tongiev, head of financial markets operations at OAO
Promsvyazbank, said by phone from Moscow.  The yield on government ruble debt due March 2018 rose
three basis points to 6.20 percent, paring its drop in the month
to 33 basis points. First Deputy Prime Minister  Igor Shuvalov 
said the shortlist for Bank Rossii chief Sergey Ignatiev’s
replacement has been compiled and submitted to Putin.  Putin Picks  “We are waiting for the successor,” Dmitry Igumnov, head
of fixed income trading at BCS Financial Group, said by e-mail.  Putin is selecting the next central bank’s chief from three
main candidates: former finance minister  Alexei Kudrin , the
central bank’s First Deputy Chairman  Alexei Ulyukayev , and
Mikhail Zadornov, the head of VTB Group’s retail-lending unit,
according to three officials with knowledge of the talks who
declined to be identified because the matter isn’t public.  Russia will see lower  interest rates  as inflation
decelerates, Ignatiev told a government meeting today in
response to Putin’s concern that borrowing costs may slow the
recovery.  Bank of America Merrill Lynch analysts recommended buying
Russian government ruble debt “as monetary policy eases and
inflation structurally shifts lower,” singling out notes due
March 2018.  Yields on longer maturity ruble debt will fall to 6 percent
to 6.5 percent by the end of the year amid “fresh” demand for
the so-called OFZ bonds from foreigners when international banks
are given access to settle deals, according to Sberbank CIB
analysts.  Direct settlement through Euroclear Bank SA may come in
early February, bringing inflows of $10 billion to $15 billion
in 2013, they wrote in an e-mailed note.  “The anticipation of Euroclear and export revenue sales
speak in favor of a strengthening ruble,” Promsvyazbank’s
Tongiev said. He forecasts the ruble will trade within a band of
29.70-30.70 rubles per dollar next month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vladimir Kuznetsov in Moscow at 
 vkuznetsov2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  