-- Ruble Heads for Third Monthly Gain to Dollar; BofA Says Buy OFZs
-- B y   V l a d i m i r   K u z n e t s o v
-- 2013-01-31T08:58:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/ruble-heads-for-third-monthly-gain-to-dollar-bofa-says-buy-ofzs.html
The ruble headed for a third monthly
gain as oil traded close to the highest level in more than four
months. Bank of America Merrill Lynch analysts recommended
buying Russian government ruble debt.  The currency was little changed against Bank Rossii’s
target dollar-euro basket at 34.83, by 11.40 a.m. in Moscow. The
ruble was steady at 30.0385 against the dollar, poised for a 1.2
percent advance this month and a 4.3 percent appreciation in the
last three. The yield on government ruble debt due 2018 rose
three basis points to 6.20 percent, paring its drop in the month
to 33 basis points.  “The paradigm of the Russian  currency market  remains the
same: export sales are counterbalanced by non-aggressive, but
persistent demand on foreign currency at 30 rubles per dollar,”
 ING Groep NV (INGA)  analyst Dmitry Polevoy wrote in an e-mailed note.  February will be a “tense” month on the local foreign
exchange market with debt ceiling negotiations in the U.S.
determining demand for riskier assets, including the ruble,
according to Ruslan Tongiev, head of financial markets
operations at Promsvyazbank OJSC.  “The anticipation of Euroclear and export revenue sales
speak in favor of a strengthening ruble,” he said from Moscow
by phone, referring to foreign investor access to the local  bond
market  through Euroclear Bank SA. He forecasts the ruble will
trade within a band of 29.70-30.70 rubles per dollar next month.  “Investors are growing increasingly optimistic as the
global recovery continues to gain traction and perceived tail
risks decline,” Bank of America  emerging markets  analysts wrote
in an e-mailed note.  The analysts recommended ruble debt maturing March 2018
“as monetary policy eases and inflation structurally shifts
lower.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vladimir Kuznetsov in Moscow at 
 vkuznetsov2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  