-- Russia Seen Beating Emerging Stock Gauge 3rd Month by Verno
-- B y   K s e n i a   G a l o u c h k o
-- 2013-01-31T16:21:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/russia-seen-beating-emerging-stock-gauge-third-month-by-verno.html
Russia’s benchmark  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  will
grow at a faster pace than other  emerging markets  for a third
 month  as high dividends and low volatility lure investors.  The Micex has risen 4.9 percent this month, beating the
 MSCI Inc.’s Emerging Market Index (MXEF) ’s 1.2 percent advance. The
Micex’s  50-day volatility  fell to 12.2311 today, the lowest in
at least 10 years. Russian equities trade at 5.7 times estimated
earnings, the  smallest multiple  among 21 emerging markets
tracked by Bloomberg.  President  Vladimir Putin ’s government is seeking to boost
the appeal of the local market before targeting a record $10
billion in state asset sales this year. Russia approved
regulations in November requiring state companies to pay no less
than 25 percent of their net income in dividends. The Micex’s
3.6 percent  estimated dividend yield  compares with 2.7 percent
for the MSCI EM Index. The gap hit a nine-year high of 1.2
percentage points this month.  “Russia has underperformed many of its peers last year,
people are starting to see that it’s too cheap,”  Bruce Bower , a
partner at Verno Capital in Moscow, which manages about $200
million, said by phone. “Dividend yields are in line with the
global markets, investors see that Russia is actually not that
bad to its minority shareholders. Low volatility means the
market is in a steady up-trend, it’ll continue performing.”  Brazil’s  Bovespa Index (IBOV)  has lost 2.5 percent this month,
while India’s  Sensex Index (SENSEX)  has added 2.4 percent. The Shanghai
Composite Index has rallied 5.1 percent this month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ksenia Galouchko in Moscow at 
 kgalouchko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  