-- Russian GDP Growth Slowest Since 2009 as Investment Wanes
-- B y   S c o t t   R o s e   a n d   O l g a   T a n a s
-- 2013-01-31T15:07:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/russian-economy-expanded-3-4-last-year-slower-than-estimated.html
Russia ’s economy grew slower than
analysts forecast last year, expanding at the weakest pace since
a 2009 contraction after record  oil prices  failed to offset
$56.8 billion of net capital  outflows  and investment sagged.  Gross domestic product  expanded 3.4 percent in 2012, down
from 4.3 percent a year earlier, the Federal Statistics Service
in Moscow said in an e-mailed statement today. That missed the
3.6 percent median forecast of 18 analysts in a Bloomberg  survey 
and the  Economy Ministry ’s estimate of 3.5 percent.  The slowdown sets the stage for an escalation in rhetoric
between the central bank and the government as President
 Vladimir Putin  and top Cabinet members press policy makers to
deploy monetary stimulus to spur corporate investment, the main
drag on growth. Barring a 7.8 percent slump in 2009, last year’s
growth was the  slowest  since the economy shrank in 1998 after
the government defaulted on $40 billion of debt.  “There’s a lot of pressure from the government to push the
central bank to decrease interest rates,” said Dmitry
Savchenko, a senior analyst at Nordea Bank in Moscow. “We
expect that inflation will drop in the next few months and the
central bank will understand that it has to support the economy.
Companies are waiting for this step.”  Lagging Behind  Russian stocks lagged behind other  emerging markets , with
the MSCI Russia Index advancing 9.6 percent in 2012, trailing a
15 percent jump in the MSCI Emerging Markets Index. The ruble-
denominated  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  of 50 stocks climbed 0.2 percent to
1,546.76 at the close in Moscow. The gauge trades at 5.7 times
 projected earnings , making it the cheapest of 21 emerging
markets tracked by Bloomberg.  Russian investment unexpectedly contracted in December from
a year earlier, dropping for the second time in four months.
Sluggish spending by companies to boost output has become the
“Achilles heel” of the economy, Deputy Economy Minister  Andrei Klepach  told reporters Jan. 29. Companies have held back on
investment plans as they anticipated oil prices will stagnate
and interest rates will remain high, according to Nordea’s
Savchenko.  The central bank raised borrowing costs in September,
becoming the largest emerging market to do so last year. First
Deputy Chairman  Alexei Ulyukayev  said this month he doesn’t see
any potential gains from reducing interest rates.  Government Campaign  The government began an open campaign this month to push
the central bank to lower rates, a step the regulator is
resisting because of concerns the economy is already growing
near its potential. Capital flight restrained economic output
even as oil prices rose, with Brent crude futures posting a
record annual average of $111.68 a barrel last year, buoyed by
international sanctions on  Iran  and the risk that the conflict
in  Syria  would spread throughout the region.  “We expect more political pressure on the central bank and
more loud calls from the markets and the government for monetary
easing,”  Julia Tsepliaeva , head of research for BNP Paribas in
Moscow, said by e-mail. “We particularly attribute this
slowdown to poor investment demand. Although the government
plans for more aggressive stimulation of investment demand in
2013, we see some resource constraints which could affect
implementation of this idea.”  Stuttering growth highlights the challenges facing the
world’s largest energy exporter as prices for oil, its main
export, are forecast to stagnate this year and  Europe ’s
recession undercuts demand for commodities.  ‘Exhausted’ Model  “The potential of development in the framework of a
traditional export-oriented model has practically been
exhausted,” Prime Minister  Dmitry Medvedev   said  at a government
meeting in Moscow today. “The main risks aren’t external, but
domestic.”  Putin, 60, elected for a third term in the Kremlin last
March, ordered the government in May to boost investment to 25
percent of annual economic output by 2015, up from 21 percent in
2011.  While “policy was very loose in the run-up to presidential
elections last March, it has subsequently been tightened,” Tim Ash, an economist at Standard Bank Group Ltd., said by e-mail.
“And this, combined with the weak global backdrop, is now
acting as a significant drag on the economy.”  Agricultural output shrank 3.8 percent last year from a
16.9 percent surge in 2011 after a drought ravaged crops.
Natural resources production advanced 0.9 percent, down from 2.9
percent in 2011, while construction rose 2 percent in 2012,
compared with a 4.5 percent gain the previous year.  ‘Critically Important’  Russia faces a “critically important” period over the
next five years as the government targets “steady economic
growth” of at least 5 percent a year, Medvedev said today.
Speaking at the same event, Putin pointed to the economy’s
“slowdown” over the last two quarters and said high  interest
rates  are affecting bank lending.  GDP probably expanded 2.4 percent in the final three months
of last year compared with the same period a year earlier,
according to the median of 17 estimates in a Bloomberg survey.
Growth reached an estimated 2.2 percent, Klepach said.  The government is looking to investment as a source for
growth amid signs that household consumption, which accounts for
about half the economy, is stumbling. The government has taken
steps including hiring Goldman Sachs Group Inc. to deliver that
message to foreign investors.  Russia’s growth is falling behind emerging-market peers
including  China , whose GDP rose 7.9 percent in the fourth
quarter from a year earlier, accelerating for the first time in
two years. Russia’s economy will grow a little more than 2
percent in the first six months of this year and just over 4
percent in the second half, Klepach said Jan. 29.  Easing Help  Potential growth is between 4 percent and 5 percent, and
the central bank may help by easing monetary policy, according
to Klepach.  Even so, Russia’s economy had a “very respectable”
showing last year, said  Ivan Tchakarov , chief economist for
Russia at  Renaissance Capital  in Moscow.  “We are of the view that this is a solid and respectable
performance given the significant headwinds that Russia faced
last year,” he said by e-mail. “Domestically, the fraught
political cycle blunted investment spending, while, externally,
continuous periphery Europe fears, softening China growth and
U.S. fiscal cliff concerns led to heightened volatility that bit
high-beta Russia.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net ;
Olga Tanas in Moscow at 
 otanas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  