-- Ryanair Ordered to Reimburse Travelers in Volcano Delay
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 2013-01-31T14:24:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/ryanair-must-pay-traveler-costs-in-volcano-delay-court-says-1-.html
Ryanair Holdings Plc (RYA)  must pay
passengers for expenses such as food and lodging after a flight
cancellation due to a volcano eruption in 2010, the European
Union’s top court said in a ruling the Irish carrier claimed
would trigger higher fares.  Ryanair and other airlines are obliged to “provide care”
to passengers whose flight was canceled, the EU Court of Justice
in Luxembourg ruled today. While airlines must pay for
passengers’ reasonable expenses, they don’t have to pay
statutory compensation of as much as 600 euros ($813) in such
“extraordinary circumstances,” the court said.  The eruption of the Eyjafjallajokull volcano in Iceland
almost three years ago caused airlines to cancel more than
100,000 flights on concern that glass-like particles spewed into
the atmosphere might have clogged  aircraft engines . The shutdown
of airspace cost carriers at least $1.7 billion, while European
transport ministers took five days to agree that airports could
open with the dust still in the air.  Ryanair “regrets the decision of the  European Court , which
now allows passengers to claim for flight cancellations which
are clearly and unambiguously outside of an airline’s control,”
the company said in an e-mailed statement.  The ruling “will materially increase the cost of flying
across  Europe  and consumer airfares will increase as airlines
will be obliged to recover the cost of these claims from their
customers,” Ryanair said.  Hotel Accommodation  A Ryanair passenger appealed after the airline refused to
reimburse her costs for meals, refreshments and hotel
accommodation. Ryanair argued the extended closure of the
European airspace went beyond even the “extraordinary
circumstances” such as a strike or bad weather conditions for
which airlines are exempt from compensation under EU law.  After flight cancellations, EU rules oblige airlines to pay
passengers compensation of 250 euros to 600 euros, depending on
the distance of the flight.  The court today said that while airlines are exempt from
their obligation to pay compensation if they can prove a flight
was canceled due to extraordinary circumstances, they remain
obliged to take care of passengers who find themselves stranded
in an airport.  Airlines “must provide care to passengers whose flight has
been canceled due to extraordinary circumstances such as the
closure of airspace,” the court said in a statement on today’s
ruling. “EU law does not recognize a separate category of
‘particularly extraordinary’ events” that would exempt the
airline.  ‘Test Case’  The decision in today’s “test case has no retrospective
impact” for the company because “all other ‘ash’ related
claims have been settled with passengers,” Ryanair said today.  Ryanair canceled about 9,400 flights during the eruption.
It refunded all of the passengers’ tickets and settled all
“reasonable expense claims” at a cost of about 32 million
euros, according to a November 2010 regulatory filing.  Denise McDonagh sued Ryanair in Ireland after the airline
refused to pay her back about 1,130 euros in costs for meals,
accommodation and transport when her flight from Faro,  Portugal ,
to Dublin was canceled. She was stranded for a week, without any
care provided by Ryanair, the court said. The Irish tribunal
handling the case sought guidance from the EU court in 2011 and
will have to give a final decision on McDonagh’s case in line
with today’s ruling.  The EU court said that “when an air carrier has failed to
comply with its obligation to provide care to an air passenger”
the person can be reimbursed only “of the amounts which proved
necessary, appropriate and reasonable” and that the national
court will have to define what this would be.  The case is: C-12/11, Denise McDonagh v. Ryanair Ltd.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Bodoni in Luxembourg at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  