-- S. Korea Satellite Sends Signal as North Warns of Nuclear Test
-- B y   R o s e   K i m   a n d   S a n g w o n   Y o o n
-- 2013-01-31T02:16:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/s-korea-satellite-sends-signal-as-north-warns-of-nuclear-test.html
South Korea  made contact with its
first satellite, launched by a civilian space rocket seven weeks
after  North Korea  sent its own satellite into orbit and amid
signs the North’s regime is preparing a nuclear test.  The satellite transmitted information to the Satellite
Technology Research Center for about 15 minutes from 3:28 a.m.,
Professor Lee In, head of the research center, said in a
televised briefing today. Yesterday’s launch of the 33-meter
(108-feet) KSLV-I Naro rocket, built using domestic and Russian
technology, came after two failed attempts since 2009.  South Korea has spent about $500 million on the project,
chasing a toehold in the space services market estimated to
provide a 5.5 trillion won ($5 billion) boost to the economy.
North Korea is threatening to conduct its third nuclear test in
response to tighter United Nations sanctions imposed after its
own long-range rocket launch last month.  “South Korea’s Naro rocket launch won’t be a threat to the
North but will give it an opportunity to criticize the  United
Nations Security Council  for what it sees as double standards,
pointing out that the South is permitted to launch satellites
when the North is banned,” Yang Moo Jin, a professor at the
University of North Korean Studies in Seoul, said before the
launch.  North Korean leader Kim Jong Un has maintained the
military-first policy he inherited from his father  Kim Jong Il 
over a year ago. On Jan. 24 his regime threatened to detonate an
atomic device after the  Security Council  passed the resolution,
and two days later he vowed “high-profile” retaliation against
the U.S. and its allies.  Nuclear Preparation  The Punggye-ri nuclear site about 370 kilometers northeast
of Pyongyang, where North Korea conducted its previous nuclear
tests in 2006 and 2009, may be in a continued state of
readiness, according to the 38 North  website  of the U.S.-Korea
Institute at Johns Hopkins School of Advanced International
Studies, where recent satellite photos were analyzed. Analysis
of the area was based upon imagery taken Jan. 23 and compared
with previous images, it said.  “Snowfall and subsequent clearing operations as well as
tracks in the snow reveal ongoing activity at buildings and on
roadways near the possible test tunnel,” 38 North said.  North Korea is ready to conduct a nuclear test “at any
time,” South Korea’s Defense Ministry spokesman Kim Min Seok
told reporters in  Seoul  earlier this week. The totalitarian
state may also seek other ways to provoke the international
community even without a nuclear test, he said.  Economic Benefit  Kim’s regime has enough weaponized plutonium for as many as
eight basic nuclear weapons, according to estimates by Stanford
University nuclear  scientist  Siegfried Hecker, who visited North
Korea’s atomic uranium-enrichment and other facilities in 2010.  A successful Naro launch would bring South Korea economic
benefits of as much as 5.5 trillion won by 2020 from higher
value-added exports and a share of the global space-services
market, Hyundai Research Institute said in a report on Jan. 28.  “The success is proof that South Korea has the technology
and the resources to launch a space rocket, which will lead to
invigorating the space industry,” Kim Gwang-Suk, senior
researcher at Hyundai Research Institute said by phone today.
“Specifically, we can expect growth in manufacturing of rocket
related parts and materials, and in technologies related to
satellite development.”  During Naro’s previous launch in June 2010, contact with
the rocket, which is presumed to have blown up, was lost within
minutes of liftoff. On the first attempt in August 2009, a
protective cover failed to properly separate from the satellite,
causing it to overshoot its planned altitude. The third attempt
to launch the Naro was canceled twice last year because of
technical issues.  Collaboration  The Korea Aerospace Research Institute is leading the
project, in collaboration with over 150 South Korean companies,
including  Korean Air Lines Co. (003490) , Hyundai Heavy Industries Co. and
Doosan Infracore Co., the agency said on its website.  Mitsubishi Heavy Industries (7011)  and  Japan ’s space agency
successfully launched two information-gathering satellites on
Jan. 27, the  Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency  said in a
statement. The U.S. on the same day tested a three-stage ground-
based missile interceptor, the  Missile Defense Agency  said in an
e-mailed statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rose Kim in Seoul at 
 rkim76@bloomberg.net ;
Sangwon Yoon in Seoul at 
 syoon32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stuart Biggs at 
 sbiggs3@bloomberg.net  