-- San Francisco Mayor Asks Bars to Curb Super Bowl Drinking
-- B y   A l i s o n   V e k s h i n
-- 2013-01-31T03:37:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/san-francisco-mayor-asks-bars-to-curb-super-bowl-drinking.html
With his city’s National Football
League team favored to win the Super Bowl and celebrations
primed, San Francisco Mayor Edwin Lee is urging bartenders to
voluntarily curb alcohol service and calling for revelers to
drink in moderation on game day.  People should know their limits as they cheer the San
Francisco 49ers when they face the Baltimore Ravens in New
Orleans on Feb. 3, Lee told reporters.  “They ought to just be cognizant that an overindulgence in
a celebratory way could be very hurtful to communities and to
themselves,” said Lee, 60, following a speech Jan. 28. “It
goes both ways -- people who serve as well as people who drink.
While we may have that great opportunity to celebrate, let’s
keep it within bounds.”  A San Francisco Municipal Transportation Agency bus was set
on fire as people celebrated in the streets after the San
Francisco Giants won Major League Baseball’s World Series in
October. The bus was destroyed, costing the city almost $1
million, said Paul Rose, a spokesman for the service.  “We expect a peaceful Sunday, but will be ready for
anything,” Rose said by e-mail. “On an as-needed basis, we
will reroute service to avoid any upcoming problem areas to keep
employees and passengers as safe as possible.”  The city police department isn’t allowing officers to take
that day off, said Officer Carlos Manfredi, a spokesman. He
declined to say how many will be on duty.  Celebration ‘Outbreaks’  “We’ll be fully staffed on Sunday in preparation for any
outbreaks of celebration,” Manfredi said. “We will have units
ready to respond to any hotspots and we’ll address those issues
appropriately.”  Yesterday, the mayor encouraged 49ers fans “to frequent
their neighborhood establishments to watch the Super Bowl game,
and no matter what the outcome, to treat our city with dignity
and respect.”  In Baltimore, home of the Ravens, the city isn’t asking for
any restriction on alcohol sales, said Ian Brennan, a spokesman
for Mayor Stephanie Rawlings-Blake.  “We’re asking people to be responsible and courteous
whatever the outcome is,” Brennan said.  “We don’t have a recent history of very unruly activity,”
he said. “In the last two rounds of the NFL playoffs, we had
people pouring out of bars and restaurants into the streets and
it was mostly so strangers can hug and high-five.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alison Vekshin in San Francisco at 
 avekshin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman in New York at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net . 