-- Scientific Games Agrees to Buy WMS for $1.5 Billion
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2013-01-31T17:28:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/scientific-games-agrees-to-buy-wms-for-1-5-billion.html
     Jan. 31 (Bloomberg) -- Scientific Games Corp. agreed to buy
 WMS Industries Inc. (WMS)  for $1.5 billion, the biggest deal in
leisure and recreational products in almost two years, to create
a global supplier of lottery equipment and  slot machines .  The offer of $26 a share is 59 percent higher than WMS’s
closing price yesterday. The transaction was approved by both
boards unanimously, the companies said today in a statement.  With the deal, Scientific Games, which is 38 percent  owned 
by billionaire Ron Perelman, a director since 2003, expands  its
offerings for casinos. The New York-based supplier of lottery
systems and instant tickets plans to share production, software
and customer services with WMS to save money.  The deal creates “a huge opportunity for revenue synergy
and to market and sell each others products and to create new
products,” Scientific Games Chairman and Chief Executive
Officer Lorne Weil said today on a conference call. “We are
very complementary.”  Scientific Games  surged  13 percent to $10.06 at 12:24 p.m.
in  New York . WMS, based in Waukegan,  Illinois , jumped 52 percent
to $24.86, the biggest intraday day gain since at least 1982.
Competitors  International Game Technology (IGT)  and  Bally Technologies
Inc. (BYI)  also advanced, gaining almost 7 percent.  The slot machine industry is recovering from the global
economic slump that saw casinos defer purchases of new machines,
WMS CEO Brian Gamache said in an interview in October. The
company unveiled over 100 new games at the industry’s annual
trade show in  Las Vegas  that month, including ones based on the
movie “Willy Wonka and the Chocolate Factory” and another
featuring the  rock band  Kiss.  Casino Suppliers  The WMS purchase demonstrates that casino suppliers have
been undervalued by investors,  David Bain , an analyst at Sterne,
Agee & Leach Inc. wrote in a note today.  The transaction is the largest in leisure and recreational
products since at least February 2011, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Scientific Games is paying about 7 times
WMS’s earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization. That compares with the median of about 8.6 times
for 26 similar deals, the data show.  The companies generated combined revenue of about $1.6
billion and $579 million in earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization, according to the statement.  The deal is expected to be completed by the end of this
year and produce annual savings of about $90 million, Weil said
on the call.  Rivals’ Multiples  Rivals IGT and Bally trade at multiples of 5.3 and 6.6
times their projected earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization, below their historical trading
ranges, Bain said.  IGT is the target of a proxy battle led by investor Jason Ader, who is trying to install three board members at the
world’s largest slot machine maker.  Ader said in a statement that today’s merger “demonstrates
the value that smart strategic investors place on the core
casino gaming equipment business” and reaffirms his company’s
thesis that “the slot machine industry is alive and poised for
growth.”  Bank of America Corp. and Credit Suisse Group AG provided
financial advice to Scientific Games. The two also committed
financing for the transaction alongside UBS AG. Macquarie Group
Ltd. served as exclusive financial adviser to WMS.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in  Los Angeles  at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  