-- Barclyas’s Chiwata Is Swapping His Spreadsheets for Scuba
-- B y   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a   a n d   E i j i r o   U e n o
-- 2013-01-31T15:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/scuba-trumps-stocks-for-barclays-japan-equities-chief.html
Koichiro Chiwata, head of Japan
equity research at Barclays Plc, is trading in his spreadsheets
for the blue waters of Okinawa, ending a career that spanned the
country’s 1980s asset bubble and the 23-year slump that followed.  Chiwata, 54, left Barclays in Tokyo yesterday to start a
diving center with friends on Ishigaki Island, in the Pacific
Ocean east of  Taiwan . He was inspired by a previous visit to
Ishigaki on a trip with his 85-year-old father and two sons to
see Okinawa’s brilliant corals and tropical fish, he said in a
telephone interview.  “I will have about 20 years to go if I live until 75,”
Chiwata said. “That’s how much time I have left to do something
with my life. I want to show my kids I’m pouring my energy into
what I believe in and want to do, no matter how small it is.”  Housing-sector analyst Takashi Hashimoto will take over
Chiwata’s role, according to Barclays’s spokesman Kyota
Narimatsu, who also confirmed the resignation. Chiwata joined
Barclays after the 2008 collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc., where he was Tokyo-based head of Japan equity research.  Chiwata started his career at Nomura Holdings Inc. in 1984
five years before Japan’s stock market  peaked  and began a 23-
year, more-than-70 percent slide. He is switching careers just
as the market rallies on optimism Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s
new government will end the country’s long bout of deflation.  His departure comes as Barclays, Britain’s second-largest
bank, plans to eliminate about 70 jobs across  Asia , two people
with knowledge of the matter said this month. Investment banks
are cutting jobs in equities faster than any other division as
revenue recovers at a slower pace than the rest of their
businesses and more trading is automated. Employees on stocks
desks fell by 8.5 percent globally in the first nine months of
last year, according to a survey by industry-analytics firm
Coalition Ltd.  A New Life  While his new business is in Okinawa, Chiwata will continue
to live in Tokyo. He said he’s preparing for the opening, with
the first guests coming on March 16. Divers are drawn to the
waters of Ishigaki Island to see manta rays, clownfish and the
double-lined fusilier as well as an abundance of blue coral.  Two events in particular convinced Chiwata to change his
life. The January 2011 death of a friend in his 50s from cancer
reminded Chiwata how short life could be. The other was taking
the diving trip to Okinawa with his father, who has since
suffered a stroke and now lives in a nursing home near  Tokyo .  “Back then, I was just a son doing good for his dad but
now I’m so glad we did it,” he said. “I’ve shown him the
video. He can’t speak. He can’t walk any longer, but he can
recognize it and smile.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yoshiaki Nohara in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net ;
Eijiro Ueno in Tokyo at 
 e.ueno@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  