-- Seaway Terminal Constraints to Last Until Pipeline Built in 3Q
-- B y   D a n   M u r t a u g h   a n d   M i k e   L e e
-- 2013-01-31T17:18:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/seaway-terminal-constraints-to-last-until-pipeline-built-in-3q.html
The Seaway pipeline, which was
reversed last summer to relieve a historic oil glut in the
Midwest, will have limitations at its terminus in  Texas  until a
new pipeline lateral is finished in late 2013.  Restrictions at the Jones Creek terminal, which was limited
on Jan. 23 to 175,000 barrels a day, will be alleviated when
Enterprise finishes a new pipeline lateral to its Echo terminal
in Houston, Bill Ordemann,  Enterprise Product Partners LP (EPD)  vice
president, said on a conference call. The pipeline is operating
normally out of Cushing,  Oklahoma , Ordemann said.  Enterprise and  Enbridge Inc. (ENB)  expanded Seaway to 400,000
barrels a day on Jan. 11 in an effort to help relieve the glut
of crude oil stored at Cushing, the delivery point for futures
traded on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange. The U.S. benchmark’s
discount to Brent widened as much as 3.7 percent in 50 minutes
after the statement on the earnings call.  “When we get the lateral from Jones Creek to Echo finished
for Seaway, which I believe will be sometime in the third or
early fourth quarter this year, I think we will have the ability
to alleviate most of the bottlenecks we’re seeing right now,”
Ordemann said.  Jones Creek’s limitations came about because of
“unforeseen constraints in outbound takeaway,” Enterprise said
in a bulletin to shippers. Oil at Jones Creek can go to  Phillips
66 (PSX) ’s Sweeny refinery, which is undergoing maintenance right now,
or be loaded onto an Energy Department-owned pipeline to Texas
City refineries.  The reduced delivery rates at Jones Creek were a result of
electrical power issues at the terminal, the Energy Department
said in an e-mailed statement Jan. 28.  WTI Discount  A reduction in flows along the Seaway pipeline can weaken
the price of West Texas Intermediate relative to North Sea Brent
because it limits the amount of oil that can leave Cushing,
America’s biggest storage hub. A glut at Cushing pushed WTI to
an average discount of $17.47 a barrel below Brent last year
compared with a premium of about 95 cents in the 10 years
through 2010.  The  WTI-Brent discount  widened 99 cents to $17.95 a barrel
at 11:46 a.m. New York time.  Seaway has reached rates of up to 380,000 barrels a day
since the expansion, Ordemann said. He declined to identify
current rates.  “Seaway as we look at it today is operating as per design
on injections at Cushing,” he said.  Shippers can take oil off Seaway at a terminal in Katy,
Texas, and put it on the Enterprise-operated Rancho pipeline
into Houston-area refineries,  Rick Rainey , a spokesman for
Houston-based Enterprise, said Jan. 25. There is enough capacity
on Rancho to make up for Jones Creek limitations.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dan Murtaugh in Houston at 
 dmurtaugh@bloomberg.net ;
Mike Lee in Dallas at 
 mlee326@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  