-- Senate’s Warren Seeks Regulator Records on Foreclosure Deal
-- B y   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n
-- 2013-01-31T18:24:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/senate-s-warren-seeks-regulator-documents-on-foreclosure-accord.html
U.S. Senator  Elizabeth Warren  and
Representative  Elijah Cummings  want bank regulators to produce
documents to show what led them to reach settlements this month
with 13 mortgage servicers for faulty foreclosures.  “It is critical that the OCC and the  Federal Reserve 
disclose additional information about the scope of the harms
found to establish confidence in the sufficiency and integrity
of the settlement,” the lawmakers, both Democrats, wrote in a
letter dated today to Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and  Thomas Curry , head of the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency.  Warren and Cummings asked the regulators to turn over
documents outlining how borrowers were harmed by foreclosure
missteps of 2009 and 2010, as well as demographic details on the
borrowers, who will get compensation from more than $9 billion
in settlements with servicers including  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  They are also asking for information on
the performance and pay of independent consultants hired by the
firms under a 2011 accord replaced by this month’s settlement.  Warren was elected in November to the Massachusetts seat
once held by the late Edward M. Kennedy after setting up the
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau as a former special adviser
to President  Barack Obama .  Cummings has served in the House since 1996 and is the top
Democrat on the Oversight and Government Reform Committee. The
Maryland lawmaker, who criticized the agreement before it was
announced, said it could allow “banks to skirt what they owe
and sweep past abuses under the rug.”  Warren and Cummings asked that the documents be delivered
by Feb. 22. Eric Kollig, a Fed spokesman, and  Bryan Hubbard , an
OCC spokesman, both declined to comment on the correspondence.  Waters Letter  Representative Maxine Waters of California, the ranking
Democrat on the House Financial Services Committee, sent a
similar letter to the OCC and Fed that said “many questions
remain” about the regulators’ settlement ending the case-by-
case review of foreclosure missteps. She requested that
documents about the review process be made public and that an
independent monitor be appointed for the new settlement.  The bulk of the settlement with 13 of the largest mortgage
servicers will go toward mortgage assistance for current
borrowers, and the remainder will provide direct cash to
borrowers foreclosed on in 2009 and 2010, with as much as
$125,000 paid to those hurt the worst.  Among firms ordered in 2011 to have their foreclosures
reviewed, three haven’t yet settled with regulators:  Ally
Financial Inc. (ALLY) , IndyMac Bancorp’s successor OneWest Bank FSB and
 EverBank Financial Corp. (EVER)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Hamilton in Washington at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at   mreynolds34@bloomberg.net . 