-- Congress Completes Three-Month Suspension of Debt Limit
-- B y   R o x a n a   T i r o n   a n d   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r
-- 2013-02-01T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/senate-passes-three-month-suspension-of-u-s-debt-limit.html
Congress voted to send legislation
suspending the U.S.  debt limit  for three months to President
 Barack Obama , temporarily removing the risk of a government
default from fiscal negotiations.  The measure, crafted by  House Republicans , will lift the
government’s $16.4 trillion borrowing limit until May 19. The
Senate cleared it 64-34 yesterday, eight days after the
Republican-led House passed the legislation.  “Raising the possibility that the  United States  could
default on its obligations every few months is not an ideal way
to run a government,” Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  said
yesterday before the vote. “But a short-term solution is better
than another imminent, manufactured crisis.”  The measure eliminates the risk of a default in the short
term. Lawmakers fought for months over raising the ceiling in
2011. Obama signed the increase into law on Aug. 2, 2011, the
day the Treasury Department warned that U.S. borrowing authority
would expire.  West Virginia Senator  Joe Manchin  was the only Democrat to
oppose the measure, which had the backing of 12 Republicans.
Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell , who is seeking a sixth term in
Republican-leaning Kentucky next year, voted against the bill.  The debt-limit measure includes a prod to lawmakers, saying
the House and the Senate each must adopt a budget for the next
fiscal year by April 15. If not, pay for members of the chamber
that doesn’t act will be withheld until they adopt one -- or
until the end of the 113th Congress at the latest.  Boehner Statement  House Speaker  John Boehner , an Ohio Republican, said in a
statement following the vote that  Senate Democrats  should
“present a plan that balances the budget and responsibly
addresses the government’s spending problem.”  Reid, a Nevada Democrat, said the Senate plans to adopt a
budget this year. He told reporters Jan. 29 the debt-limit
increase will not “resort to hostage-taking tactics” that he
said Republicans used in the past.  McConnell said the debate over the debt limit should prompt
Democrats to consider spending cuts and revamping government
programs as part of a budget blueprint instead of coming up with
another increase in revenue.  “Hopefully this will be a serious exercise, and not simply
an excuse for them to try to raise taxes -- which, as we know,
is just another way to avoid solving core problems,” McConnell
said in a statement Jan. 29.  Amendments Rejected  McConnell voted against the measure yesterday because the
Democratic-led Senate rejected several Republican amendments to
cut spending, his spokesman John Ashbrook said in a statement.
One such amendment, sponsored by Senator  Rob Portman , an Ohio
Republican, would have required any future debt-limit increase
to be offset by equal spending cuts over the next decade.  The short-term bill continues the congressional trend of
“governing from crisis to crisis; from cliff to cliff,”
Senator  Dan Coats , an Indiana Republican, said during floor
debate as he called for spending cuts to reduce the  deficit .  The debt limit has been raised periodically since its
creation in 1917. Before yesterday’s vote, Congress increased or
revised it 79 times, including 49 times under Republican
presidents, since 1960.  Under the legislation, the nation’s borrowing authority
will automatically rise on May 19 to accommodate the amount the
U.S. Treasury borrowed during the period that the limit is
suspended.  The Treasury Department had said it expected to run out of
emergency measures to prevent a breach of the current debt limit
between mid-February and early March.  Treasury Bonds  Investors in  U.S. Treasury  bonds, who most directly bear
the risk of a government default, haven’t shown alarm. The 10-
year  yield  fell one basis point to 1.98 percent at 5 p.m.  New
York  time, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. It touched
2.03 percent Jan. 30, the highest since April 25.  Republicans plan to use two other deadlines to try to
extract spending cuts from Obama and congressional Democrats. On
March 1, $1.2 trillion in automatic spending cuts are scheduled
to take effect, half from defense programs.  Congress also must enact legislation to finance the
government by March 27, when the current stopgap funding measure
is scheduled to expire.  House Budget Committee Chairman  Paul Ryan  of  Wisconsin  said
Republicans want to force “a big down payment on the debt
crisis” during the debate on spending cuts and extending the
government’s borrowing authority.  “We have to set our expectations accordingly” and
advocate Republicans’ goals “in a realistic way,” Ryan, the
Republican vice presidential nominee last year, said at a
breakfast sponsored by the Wall Street Journal on Jan. 23.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Roxana Tiron in Washington at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net ;
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  