-- Sept. 11 Hearings End as Judge Summons Ex-Vice Admiral
-- B y   D a v i d   G l o v i n
-- 2013-01-31T17:23:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/sept-11-hearings-end-as-judge-summons-ex-vice-admiral.html
The second round of pretrial
hearings in the capital case against five men accused of
orchestrating the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks ended with a
judge ordering testimony from an ex-vice admiral into a claim
that U.S. lawmakers “unlawfully influenced” the proceedings.  Lawyers for the five men, including accused mastermind
Khalid Sheikh Mohammed, have asked the military judge, Army
Colonel James Pohl, to dismiss the case because public comments
by top officials including Presidents George W. Bush and  Barack Obama  have made it impossible for the men to get a fair trial.  Pohl today ordered Bruce MacDonald, the civilian head of
the military tribunal and a former U.S. Navy vice admiral, to
testify at hearings beginning Feb. 11 on whether he was
improperly swayed by politicians’ comments in deciding to pursue
the case through a military commission and to seek the death
penalty.  The question of unlawful influence is a “critical issue,”
Pohl said today at the last of three days of hearings at the
U.S. naval base in Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, where the defendants
are held. “What did the convening authority do and why did he
do it?” Pohl asked.  As convening authority, MacDonald designates the charges on
which the accused are tried, selects members of the jury that
will eventually hear the case and has other powers.  ‘Outside Influence’  “If there is this potential of outside influence, it’s
best to litigate it full and open and on-the-record,” Pohl
said.  Mohammed and the four other defendants are accused of
plotting the attacks that used hijacked passenger airplanes to
kill almost 3,000 people at the World Trade Center in Manhattan,
the Pentagon in Virginia, and in Pennsylvania. They are charged
with conspiring to finance, train and direct the 19 hijackers
who seized the planes; terrorism; hijacking aircraft;
conspiracy; murder in violation of the laws of war; and
attacking civilians.  “The guilt of these men has been predetermined,” defense
lawyers said in a motion seeking the hearing.  “There be no greater prejudicial and inflammatory impact
in any case than the extraordinary facts presented here -- the
president of the United States and other leadership, over a
period of years, all across the United States, and in the full
view and hearing of the global media, calling these co-accused
names such as ‘terrorists,’ ‘killers,’ ‘extremists,’ ‘radicals,’
and the ‘enemy,’ announcing they are guilty of the crimes
charged, announcing they have confessed to the crimes charged,
and repeatedly stating they will be brought to trial in the
forum most likely to exact swift justice,” the defense lawyers
wrote.  None of the defendants was in court today, the second day
this week they skipped the proceedings, which the judge has
given them the right to do.  The case is U.S. v. Mohammed, Military Commissions Trial
(Guantanamo Bay, Cuba).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Glovin in Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, at 
 dglovin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  