-- Serb Support for EU Entry at All-Time Low, Poll Shows
-- B y   M i s h a   S a v i c
-- 2013-01-31T10:18:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/serb-support-for-eu-entry-at-all-time-low-poll-shows.html
Serbian support for joining the
European Union fell to the lowest level in a decade as the 27-
nation bloc pressures the Balkan nation to mend ties with the
breakaway province of  Kosovo .  In a referendum on EU membership, 41 percent said they
would vote in favor, compared with 49 percent six months ago,
according to a poll presented by  Serbia ’s  Office for European
Integrations  in Belgrade today. Thirty-one percent would vote
against entry, up from 25 percent in the previous survey, while
the percentage of undecided and those not planning to vote
remained at 8 percent and 19 percent respectively, according to
the poll conducted Dec. 14-21 among 1,006 adult citizens.  The government seeks to start EU entry talks after securing
candidate status for Serbia last March. Improving relations with
Kosovo, which unilaterally declared independence in 2008, is
seen by 47 percent of respondents as the biggest obstacle for
Serbia’s further progress toward EU membership.  Prime Minister  Ivica Dacic ’s Cabinet, in office since July,
is Serbia’s fifth government since the 2000 ouster of  Slobodan
Milosevic  to declare EU accession as its top policy goal. Its
former Yugoslav federation partner, Slovenia, joined the EU in
2004 and  Croatia  is set to become a member this year.  Serbia has engaged in EU-mediated talks with Kosovo so it
can start entry negotiations with the bloc. A key condition is
to reduce Serbia’s influence in northern Kosovo with the largest
Serbian community, which does not recognize Kosovo’s mostly
ethnic Albanian government.  Several thousand Serbs held a protest rally yesterday in
the northern Kosovar town of Mitrovica demanding that the
government in Belgrade not give in to EU demands.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Misha Savic in Belgrade at 
 msavic2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  