-- Silver Wheaton Streams Luring Largest Miners
-- B y   L i e z e l   H i l l
-- 2013-01-31T21:07:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/silver-wheaton-streams-luring-largest-miners.html
Silver Wheaton Corp. (SLW) , the world’s
largest precious-metals finance firm, said the biggest miners
have joined the queue of capital-hungry companies requesting
funding as they seek to improve returns.  Silver Wheaton, which helps miners pay for projects in
exchange for a discount on their silver and gold output, has
traditionally talked to smaller miners unable to tap debt and
equity markets, said Chief Executive Officer Randy Smallwood.
The Vancouver-based firm has seen increased interest recently
from metal producers with market values “up into the tens and
hundreds of billions,” he said.  “What we’ve seen over the last four months is that even
the large companies are all of a sudden receptive” to Silver
Wheaton’s funding model, known as streaming, Smallwood said
yesterday in an interview at Bloomberg’s Toronto office. “Doors
that we’ve been knocking on for a long time, they are all of a
sudden knocking on our door.” He declined to name any projects
or companies.  Deals with larger miners can benefit Silver Wheaton because
they tend to have lower risk, and there are more opportunities
for sizable transactions, said  David West , an analyst at Salman
Partners Inc. in  Vancouver .  “Companies more and more are looking to companies like
Silver Wheaton to access funds to build their mines,” West, who
rates Silver Wheaton a “top pick,” said yesterday in a
telephone interview. “They have a great model.”  Outperforming Peers  Silver Wheaton, with a market value of C$12.3 billion
($12.3 billion), has outperformed both silver prices and
producers of the metal. The company rose 22 percent in 2012,
compared with an 8.3 percent increase in silver futures in  New
York . A 22-member Bloomberg  index  of silver companies including
Silver Wheaton rose 0.6 percent last year.  Silver Wheaton  fell  1 percent to C$34.71 at the close today
in Toronto. Twelve analysts have a buy rating on the shares, two
have holds and one has a sell, according to  data  compiled by
Bloomberg.  Under pressure to employ capital more efficiently,
producers are increasingly looking to sell so-called streams of
silver produced as a byproduct at their base-metal or gold mines
in the same way they’d dispose of a non-core asset, Smallwood
said.  ‘Step Up’  “The quality, the tenor of the projects that are being
presented are definitely a step up from even what we’ve seen in
the past,” the CEO said. “When I look at the opportunities
that we have out there right now, I think for the first time
ever I might not be able to pay for them all, there’s that many
good opportunities out there.”  Smallwood, 48, who was trained as a geological engineer,
said the streaming model is becoming more attractive to mining
companies as it becomes better understood and accepted as a
source of mining finance.  Silver Wheaton and competitors including Toronto-based
 Franco-Nevada Corp. (FNV)  and Denver-based  Royal Gold Inc. (RGLD)  will
probably “continue to do well” in 2013, said Cosmos Chiu, an
analyst at  CIBC World Markets  in Toronto.  “There will still be a certain segment of investors that
want a less risky way of investing in the gold and precious-
metals markets” than in the miners themselves, Chiu said in a
phone interview last week.  The company has capacity of “well over $1 billion” for
potential deals, Smallwood said. Silver Wheaton has a $400
million revolving debt facility, he said, and had $555.1 million
in  cash  at the end of the third quarter.  Debt, Equity  “We have a lot of capacity,” Smallwood said. The company
could raise additional funds through debt or equity, he said.
Silver Wheaton isn’t interested in buying streams of base-metals
or energy production, he said.  Silver Wheaton was started after its precursor company,
Chap Mercantile Inc., bought silver production in 2004 from
Wheaton River Minerals Ltd., a Canadian gold producer that
subsequently was acquired by  Goldcorp Inc. (G)  Smallwood was a
founding member of Silver Wheaton and became CEO in April 2011.  Silver Wheaton’s only transaction last year was a streaming
deal with Toronto-based  HudBay Minerals Inc. (HBM)  to help it fund
construction of its Constancia copper mine in  Peru . Silver
Wheaton agreed to pay $750 million for the right to buy all the
gold and silver produced at HudBay’s 777 mine until Constancia
is completed or until the end of 2016, and 50 percent of the
gold and all of the silver in future years. Silver Wheaton will
buy all of the silver produced at Constancia once it starts up.  Pascua-Lama  One of the company’s biggest transactions to date was a
September 2009 deal to buy silver from four  Barrick Gold Corp. (ABX) 
mines, including 25 percent of the silver from the Pascua-Lama
project on the Chile-Argentina border. Silver Wheaton agreed to
pay Barrick $625 million over three years and will get silver at
a maximum price of the inflation-adjusted equivalent of $3.90 an
ounce.  Silver futures for March delivery fell 2.6 percent to
settle at $31.351 an ounce in New York.  Barrick raised the cost estimate for Pascua-Lama twice last
year, to as much as $8.5 billion, and said it expects to start
output at the mine in the second half of 2014 instead of
mid-2013. Under the streaming deal, Silver Wheaton is entitled
to silver output from three of Barrick’s other mines until
Pascua-Lama reaches 75 percent of design capacity.  Smallwood said he prefers deals like the Barrick and HudBay
transactions that include existing production so that the risk
of new-mine startup delays doesn’t affect revenue projections.  Linked Dividend  Silver Wheaton reported third-quarter earnings Nov. 5 that
missed analysts’ estimates after the number of ounces sold
lagged behind production because of the timing of shipments.  The fourth quarter is “going to be a lot better,”
Smallwood said. That will also result in an improved dividend,
because the company has linked the payments to  cash flow .  Silver Wheaton is scheduled to report its fourth-quarter
 results  on March 21. The company is projected to report profit
excluding one-time items of 48 cents a share, the average of 12
 analysts’ estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  While Smallwood sees future deals involving gold, he is
more optimistic about silver.  “We like precious metals as a whole,” Smallwood said.
“We do feel a little bit more bullish about silver.”  Silver prices will probably average $34.16 per ounce this
year, according to 19 analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg,
compared with $31.19 in 2012. Higher precious-metals prices
should benefit streaming and royalty companies, CIBC’s Chiu
said.  Cash Flow  “There’s a very direct relationship between the commodity
price and the free cash flow of these companies,” Chiu said.  Doing deals with big companies doesn’t eliminate all risk.
Goldcorp, the second-largest gold producer after Barrick,
lowered annual forecasts last year at its Penasquito mine, in
which Silver Wheaton owns a silver stream, because of water
shortages at the Mexican operation.  Silver Wheaton “is a buy, but it’s not a glaring buy right
now” partly because of concerns about operational issues at
Penasquito, said  John Goldsmith , deputy head of equities with
Montrusco Bolton Investments Inc. in Toronto.  Still, interest in silver streams from large miners is
“great” for the company because it creates more opportunities
for bigger deals, Goldsmith, who helps manage C$5.2 billion,
including Silver Wheaton shares, said yesterday in a telephone
interview.  Smallwood says the industry is “really suffering” from a
lack of funding options.  “The  mining industry  is very, very hungry for capital
right now and there are not a lot of sources out there,”
Smallwood said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liezel Hill in Toronto at 
 lhill30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  