-- Sleepy Chuck Hagel Has Some Bigger Questions to Answer
-- B y   J e f f r e y   G o l d b e r g
-- 2013-01-31T22:03:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/sleepy-chuck-hagel-has-some-bigger-questions-to-answer.html
During the 2008 U.S. presidential
campaign, I interviewed then-Senator  Barack Obama  on the subject
of the Middle East. Much of our discussion was pro forma -- he
was trying to convince certain hawkish elements of the American
Jewish community that he wasn’t Yasser Arafat in mufti -- and so
he expressed, at some length, his appreciation for  Israel  as a
haven for Jews and as a friend of the U.S.  When I asked him whether he thought Israel is a drag on
America’s reputation overseas, however, he gave an  interesting
answer . He said no, Israel wasn’t a drag, but then he added:
“What I think is that this constant wound, that this constant
sore, does infect all of our foreign policy. The lack of a
resolution to this problem provides an excuse for anti-American
militant jihadists to engage in inexcusable actions, and so we
have a national-security interest in solving this, and I also
believe that Israel has a security interest in solving this
because I believe that the status quo is unsustainable.”  Almost immediately after this interview was published, the
 Republican Party ’s Center for the Exploitation of Misplaced
Pronouns rushed to the ramparts. Representatives  John Boehner 
and  Eric Cantor  denounced Obama. Cantor issued a  statement 
saying, “It is truly disappointing that Senator Obama called
Israel ‘a constant wound,’ ‘a constant sore,’ and that it
‘infect(s) all of our foreign policy.’”  Obama’s “this” wasn’t referring to Israel, of course, but
to the Middle East conflict. We were in the middle of a
campaign, so the truth didn’t matter, and the “this” became the
subject of an enervating, days-long dust-up. The squabbling kept
me from recognizing that Obama had, in fact, argued for
something that even at the time seemed empirically
insupportable.  ‘Linkage’ View  It is an article of faith among so-called foreign-policy
realists -- and Obama definitely is one -- that the key to
American happiness in the Middle East is a resolution to the
Israeli-Arab conflict. “Linkage” is the shorthand for this view.  That statement of Obama’s came to mind recently as I read a
convincing article by the Middle East scholar Martin Kramer
about the views of Obama’s nominee for secretary of defense,
Senator Chuck Hagel, whose Senate confirmation hearing began
this morning. The hearing didn’t go well for Hagel (he could’ve
used a dose of whatever it was  Alex Rodriguez  may or may not
have been taking). In it, members of the Armed Services
Committee questioned him sharply on Israel, Hezbollah and  Iran ,
but didn’t ask him to expand on his long-standing theory of
Middle East interconnectedness.  “The core of all challenges in the Middle East remains the
underlying Arab-Israeli conflict,” Hagel said in 2006. “The
failure to address this root cause will allow Hezbollah, Hamas,
and other terrorists to continue to sustain popular Muslim and
Arab support -- a dynamic that continues to undermine America’s
standing in the region and the Governments of  Egypt ,  Jordan ,
 Saudi Arabia , and others, whose support is critical for any
Middle East resolution.”  As  Kramer wrote : “The vocabulary here -- ‘core,’ ‘root
cause,’ ‘underlying’ -- is taken from the standard linkage
lexicon, which elevates the Arab-Israeli or Palestinian-Israeli
conflict to a preeminent status.” He continued: “It is this
conflict, practically alone, that prompts the rise of
terrorists, weakens friendly governments, and makes it
impossible for the  United States  to win Arabs and Muslims over
to the good cause.”  ‘Placid Lake’  In his 2008 book, “America: Our Next Chapter,”  Hagel wrote 
that the Israeli-Palestinian conflict “cannot be looked at in
isolation. Like a stone dropped into a placid lake, its ripples
extend out farther and farther. Egypt,  Syria , Jordan, and
Lebanon feel the effects most noticeably. Farther still,
Afghanistan and Pakistan; anything that impacts their political
stability also affects the two emerging economic superpowers,
India and  China .”  I would love to hear Hagel’s views on this subject today,
because his theory of linkage -- and his belief that a  Middle
East  freed from the Israeli-Palestinian dispute would be a
“placid lake” -- has been utterly discredited by events. It is,
of course, vital to find a solution to the Israeli-Palestinian
conflict. And it is true that some Islamist terrorist groups
exploit the conflict as a recruiting tool. But these same
terrorists are unalterably opposed to a compromise that would
allow two states, Israel and Palestine, to live side by side,
because they are opposed to the very existence of Israel. They
try to subvert the  peace process  because they fear it will
legitimize the existence of a country they hate.  Never mind this technical detail. The past two years have
proved the theory of linkage to be comprehensively false anyway.  Come with me on a quick tour of the greater Middle East.
The Syrian civil war? Unrelated to the Palestinian-Israeli peace
process. The slow disintegration of Yemen? Unrelated. Chaos and
violence in  Libya ? Unrelated. Chaos and fundamentalism in Egypt?
The creation of a Palestinian state on the West Bank would not
have stopped the overthrow of  Hosni Mubarak , nor would it have
stopped the rise of the Muslim Brotherhood. Terrorism in
 Algeria ? Unrelated. The Iranian nuclear program? How would the
creation of a Palestinian state have persuaded the Iranian
regime to cease its pursuit of nuclear weapons? Someone please
explain. Sunni-Shiite civil war in  Iraq ? The unrest in Bahrain?
Pakistani havens for al-Qaeda affiliates? All unrelated.  Why does this matter? Because our leaders should have a
realistic -- as opposed to a “realist” -- understanding of the
root causes of Middle East strife. How can they protect us from
threats if they don’t understand the causes of these threats?
Decades of dictatorship (with the acquiescence, in many cases,
of the U.S. government and the realists who guided its foreign
policy) brought the Middle East to its current condition, along
with misogyny, poor education, corruption, the politicizing of
Islam and sectarian hatred.  Hagel wants to lead the U.S. Defense Department. I would
like to know if he still believes in linkage. More important, I
would like to know if Obama is still captive to this same,
flawed concept.  ( Jeffrey Goldberg  is a Bloomberg View columnist and a
national correspondent for the Atlantic. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the author of this column:
Jeffrey Goldberg at  goldberg.atlantic@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 