-- SNB’s AA Bond Holdings Rise as France’s Downgrade Shows
-- B y   Z o e   S c h n e e w e i s s
-- 2013-01-31T10:17:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/snb-s-aa-bond-holdings-rise-as-france-s-downgrade-shows.html
The  Swiss National Bank ’s holdings
in AA-grade bonds increased in the fourth quarter, which may
reflect downgrades to once top-rated nations such as  France .  The share of AAA-rated debt fell to 78 percent of the SNB’s
bond holdings in the fourth quarter from 86 percent three months
earlier, while AA-grade assets surged to 17 percent from 10
percent, the Zurich-based  central bank  said today. Government
bonds in their own currencies accounted for 82 percent of total
SNB assets at the end of December.  France lost its top rating at Moody’s Investors Service in
November after it was downgraded by  Standard & Poor’s  in January
2012, which means its bonds are no longer eligible for the SNB’s
triple-A basket. Nomura International Plc estimates that the
Swiss central bank holds at least 28 billion francs ($30.7
billion) of French sovereign debt.  “As the SNB uses the ‘average of three’ ratings agency
rule for holdings of government debt, Moody’s move meant that as
far as it is concerned France moved down from AAA to AA,”
Geoffrey Kendrick, a currency strategist at Nomura in  London ,
said in a note today.  Adjusting for currency movements, Kendrick estimates the
drop in the share of AAA assets equates to about 28 billion
francs. “If we assume the only change was the Moody’s
downgrade, this implies that the SNB” held that amount of
French debt at the end of the third quarter, he said.  SNB internal guidelines require the central bank to have a
“substantial part” of its holdings in  government bonds  to meet
“secure investment” standards. It declined to comment on its
debt holdings today.  Currency Reserves  The franc was little changed 1.2358 against the euro at
11:04 a.m. Zurich time. It depreciated to 1.2569 per euro on
Jan. 18, the weakest level since May 2011. Against the dollar,
the franc was at 91.05 centimes today.  The SNB data also showed that other bonds such as covered
bonds and corporate debt account for 6 percent of its assets,
while equities accounted for 12 percent.  The share of euro reserves rose to 49 percent of overall
currency holdings at the end of December from 48 percent at the
end of the third quarter. Dollar holdings were unchanged at 28
percent. Reserves of pounds, Canadian dollars and other
currencies such as the Australian dollar also held steady in the
period, while the share of yen declined to 8 percent from 9
percent previously.  The central bank has amassed  record foreign-currency
reserves  as it defends its cap of 1.20 francs versus the euro,
which was introduced in September 2011 to ward off investors
seeking a haven from  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis. The SNB had
a consolidated loss in the fourth quarter, spokesman Walter Meier said on Jan. 17, without providing details. For 2012, the
central bank expects a profit of about 6 billion francs ($6.6
billion).  The SNB’s foreign-exchange holdings rose to 432.2 billion
francs in the fourth quarter from 429.5 billion francs at the
end of September, according to today’s data from the central
bank.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoe Schneeweiss in Zurich at 
 zschneeweiss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  