-- Snowmobile Rider Caleb Moore Dies of Injuries From X Games Crash
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-02-01T05:01:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/snowmobile-rider-caleb-moore-dies-of-injuries-from-x-games-crash.html
Snowmobile rider Caleb Moore died
seven days after crashing at the  Winter X Games  in Aspen,
 Colorado , the first fatality in the action sports event’s
history. He was 25.  Moore, a four-time X Games medalist from Krum, Texas, was
critically injured Jan. 24 when he was struck by the 450-pound
machine while attempting a backflip in the finals of the
snowmobile freestyle competition.  The X Games, which have winter and summer versions, are
owned and televised by  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s ESPN networks.  “As a result of this accident, we will conduct a thorough
review of this discipline and adopt any appropriate changes to
future X Games,” ESPN said yesterday in a statement.  The skis on Moore’s snowmobile clipped the ground upon
hitting the landing ramp, throwing him headfirst over the
handlebars. The machine then struck Moore, who was knocked
unconscious.  Moore was diagnosed with a concussion at a local hospital,
where doctors later discovered internal bleeding around his
heart, according to the Denver Post. He was taken by helicopter
to St. Mary’s Hospital in Grand Junction, Colorado, for
emergency surgery. A family spokesman told ESPN on Jan. 28 that
the cardiac injury led to a “secondary complication” involving
his brain.  “We are deeply saddened by Caleb Moore’s passing and our
thoughts and prayers go out to his parents, Wade and Michelle,
his brother, Colten, and the entire Moore family,” ESPN said in
its statement. “He will be remembered for his natural passion
for life and his deep love for his family and friends, and he
will always be an inspiration to everyone he touched in the
action sports community.”  Brother’s Injury  Colten Moore, 23, separated his pelvis the same night in a
snowmobile crash at the X Games. The brothers took up
snowmobiling in 2010 after years of racing and jumping all-
terrain vehicles in  Texas , the Post said.  “We’ve worked closely on safety issues with athletes,
course designers and other experts for each of the 18 years of X
Games,” ESPN said in a Jan. 29 statement. “Still, when the
world’s best compete at the highest level in any sport, risks
remain.”  Caleb Moore won a freestyle bronze medal in his X Games
debut in 2010, taking third in the event after 30 days of
practice, according to the Denver Post. He received a silver
medal for best trick in 2012, when he broke his pelvis and
tailbone in a crash during practice.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  