-- SNS Says Outcome of Private Investor Talks Is Uncertain
-- B y   M a u d   v a n   G a a l
-- 2013-01-31T15:40:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/sns-says-outcome-of-talks-with-private-investors-is-uncertain.html
SNS Reaal NV (SR) , a Dutch bank and
insurer burdened with souring real estate loans, said it’s still
in talks with private investors to bolster capital and that
there’s no certainty a deal will be reached.  While the “scenario has been intensively discussed,” the
Utrecht, Netherlands-based firm said in a statement today,
“there is no certainty whatsoever that these talks will yield
results.”  SNS Reaal is in discussions with a group led by CVC Capital
Partners Ltd. on a 1.8 billion-euro ($2.4 billion) investment,
Dutch newspaper Het Financieele Dagblad reported today. SNS
Reaal, which acquired ABN Amro Holding NV’s property-finance
unit in 2006, has been hurt by losses on real estate loans that
left it struggling to repay a government bailout and depleted
its capital buffers.  “It’s positive private investors may be willing to
participate in a solution,” said Tom Muller, an Amsterdam-based
analyst at Theodoor Gilissen Bankiers NV. “Still, shareholders
seem to be heading for a massive dilution in all scenarios and
there are a lot of hurdles left to take, including approval from
Dutch and European authorities.”  The Dutch government will have to be involved in any
solution as SNS Reaal hasn’t repaid a bailout received in 2008,
he said. Muller has a hold recommendation on SNS.  SNS shares  swung  from gains of as much as 5.2 percent to
losses of as much as 9.1 percent in Amsterdam trading today. The
stock was down 3.2 percent to 84 cents as of 3:59 p.m., for a
market value of 242 million euros.  Systemically Important  CVC is leading the consortium that includes Dutch asset
manager PGGM NV, Het Financieele Dagblad reported. Officials for
London-based CVC and PGGM declined to comment. A SNS Reaal
spokesman, Roland Kroes, referred to today’s statement.  SNS Reaal is the smallest of four Dutch banks designated as
“systemically important,” or too big to fail, by the Dutch
central bank. It had 32.5 billion euros in savings at the end of
the third quarter, according to a Nov. 15 presentation.  Its three larger competitors,  ING Groep NV (INGA) , Rabobank Groep
and ABN Amro, would be willing to give SNS a subordinated loan
for 400 million euros if talks with the investors succeed, Het
Financieele Dagblad reported. Officials for ING, ABN Amro and
Rabobank and the Dutch Finance Ministry declined to comment.  Loan Losses  SNS started withdrawing from commercial real estate lending
in 2009, when its property-finance unit reported a loss of 219
million euros. With loan losses spreading from the U.S. to its
home market, it has remained unprofitable every year since. From
August 2009 until the end of September, SNS Reaal has cut back
its commitments by 48 percent to 8.3 billion euros, according to
a presentation on Nov. 15. Loan losses rose when property values
decreased and refinancing became more difficult, it said.  The company received 750 million euros from the Netherlands
in 2008 and 500 million euros from Foundation Beheer SNS Reaal,
its largest shareholder. SNS sold shares in 2009 to help repay
250 million euros of aid, of which 185 million euros was
returned to the government. The aid, granted in the form of core
Tier 1 securities issued to the state, may be converted into
ordinary shares, it said in November.  SNS repeated today that there will be a “significant share
issue” and “transactions with regard to outstanding
subordinated instruments,” if the negotiations succeed. The
securities issued to the Netherlands are unsecured, subordinated
liabilities, according to  terms  published on the firm’s website.  Exchange Proposed  “We consider this as just one of the many scenarios which
are being discussed,” Cor Kluis, an Utrecht-based analyst at
Rabobank International, said in a report to clients today. He
added there’s only a small likelihood it will succeed. Other
outcomes could include a sale of SNS Reaal’s insurance
operations or nationalization, he said.  NL Financial Investments , an independent agency managing
the government’s stakes in ABN Amro and insurer ASR Nederland
NV, proposed to sell the latter to SNS in exchange for new
shares valued at 2 billion euros to 2.5 billion euros, Het
Financieele Dagblad reported separately today. That would
effectively give the Netherlands a majority stake in SNS, the
paper said.  Officials for ASR, NL Financial Investments and the Finance
Ministry declined to comment.  The Dutch government bought Fortis’s Dutch banking and
insurance units and its stake in ABN Amro Holding NV for 16.8
billion euros in October 2008 after the company ran out of
short-term funding as customers withdrew deposits and investors
lost confidence. The banking businesses, now ABN Amro Group NV,
were merged and separated from the insurance unit, ASR.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maud van Gaal in Amsterdam at 
 mvangaal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  