-- Softbank Profit Doubles as IPhones, IPads Lure Users
-- B y   N a o k o   F u j i m u r a
-- 2013-02-07T03:37:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/softbank-profit-doubles-after-new-iphone-ipad-lure-customers.html
(Corrects to remove erroneous reference to reason for
review in eighth paragraph of story published Jan. 31.)  Softbank Corp. , controlled by
billionaire  Masayoshi Son , doubled third-quarter profit as the
Japanese mobile-phone operator lured new customers with  Apple
Inc.  smartphones and tablet computers.  Net income rose to 65.9 billion yen ($724 million) in the
three months ended December from 32.8 billion yen a year
earlier, the Tokyo-based company said in a statement today.
Sales gained 7.1 percent to 923.7 billion yen.  Softbank agreed in October to buy a $20 billion stake in
 Sprint Nextel Corp.  to expand into the U.S., and it has acquired
eAccess Ltd. in Japan to meet bandwidth demand from iPhone
users. Sales of the Apple devices have helped Softbank boost
earnings more than sevenfold during the past four years.  “Everything’s going well for Softbank, unlike DoCoMo,”
said  Hitoshi Hayakawa , an analyst at Credit Suisse Group AG. NTT
DoCoMo Inc. is Japan’s largest wireless carrier.  DoCoMo said yesterday operating profit for the nine months
ended Dec. 31 fell 5.6 percent from a year earlier to 702.2
billion yen, while net income increased 5.5 percent to 416.5
billion yen. The Tokyo-based company, which doesn’t offer the
iPhone, had a net loss of subscribers in November, the first
decline in more than five years.  Softbank’s operating profit, or sales minus the cost of
goods sold and administrative expenses, will probably exceed 700
billion yen in the year ending March 31, the company said in
October. That compares with the 739 billion-yen average of 18
analysts’  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  The figure may surpass 800 billion yen in the year starting
April 2014, Son told reporters in Tokyo today.  Sprint Probe  Softbank will also cooperate with regulators looking into
its planned purchase of a 70 percent stake in Sprint, Son said.
The U.S. Department of Justice has asked the Federal
Communications Commissions to delay a review. The Softbank
founder said in October he expected the deal to be scrutinized
on national-security grounds.  The acquisition of the Overland Park, Kansas-based Sprint’s
56.4 million mobile subscribers would increase Softbank’s
customer base to 96 million in the U.S. and Japan, the Japanese
company said in October. DoCoMo has 60.8 million.  Softbank is getting a bridge loan of as much as 1.65
trillion yen to finance the Sprint purchase, it said last month.  iPhone 5 Sales  In Japan, Softbank has narrowed the gap in subscribers with
DoCoMo and KDDI Corp. by cutting basic fees and being the first
in the country to offer the iPhone, adding the most net new
users every year since 2007. By increasing smartphone
subscribers that require more data, Softbank also raised average
revenue per user.  “Sales of the iPhone 5 have been strong, contributing
positively to our earnings,” Son said.  The company rose 2.7 percent to close at 3,260 yen before
the earnings announcement.  DoCoMo  gained 3 percent and KDDI
climbed 1 percent.  Softbank  has also offered new shares of eAccess to
companies including a  Samsung Electronics Co.  subsidiary
following its takeover of the carrier.  Son is pursuing an acquisition strategy that counts on
smartphone users migrating to faster wireless networks to surf
the web and download or stream videos and music.  Softbank  is
looking to ride the fastest growth in mobile communications
since third-generation services started rolling out a decade ago
with the emergence of Long-Term Evolution technology.  LTE subscriptions are projected to more than double this
year to 198.1 million globally, according to  projections  from
IHS Inc.’s iSuppli. Some of the world’s largest handset makers -
- including Apple, Samsung and  HTC Corp.  -- support the
technology.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naoko Fujimura in Tokyo at 
 nfujimura@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  