-- Soybeans, Corn Drop as Rain May Boost South America Crops
-- B y   J e f f   W i l s o n
-- 2013-01-31T16:54:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/soybeans-corn-drop-as-rain-may-boost-south-america-crops.html
Soybeans and corn fell from six-week
highs after rain overnight in  Argentina  eased concern that dry
weather was dimming prospects for bigger harvests in South
America.  Parts of Argentina received as much as 1 inch (2.5
centimeters) of rain in the past day, and more than half the
farms will get additional showers during the next two nights,
the  Commodity Weather Group LLC  said in a report. Rains will
move to southern  Brazil  the next six to 10 days, the forecaster
said. Combined soybean output by the two countries will rise 28
percent to a record, the U.S. Department of Agriculture said
Jan. 11.  “Better-than-expected rains in Argentina and more in the
forecast have taken the edge off worries about crop losses,”
Brian Grete, the senior market analyst for Professional Farmers
of America newsletter in Cedar Falls,  Iowa , said in a telephone
interview. “Rains will slow any crop deterioration and keep the
focus on the potential for record soybean production in South
America.”  Soybean futures for March delivery dropped 1.1 percent to
$14.6225 a bushel at 10:52 a.m. on the Chicago Board of Trade.
Prices earlier touched $14.8425, the highest since Dec. 18.
Through yesterday, the oilseed was up 4.9 percent in January,
heading for the first monthly increase since August.  Corn futures for March delivery slipped 0.3 percent to
$7.3775 a bushel in Chicago, after touching $7.445, the highest
since Dec. 7. The grain climbed 6 percent in January as of
yesterday, on pace for the first advance since July.  Farmers sold more corn yesterday than at any time since the
end of the harvest in October and also increased sales of
soybeans held in storage, Kent Jessen, the director of
merchandising for Heartland Cooperative in West Des Moines,
Iowa, said in a telephone interview. Growers may be locking in
profits after shrinking U.S. inventories spurred January
rallies.  Corn is the biggest U.S. crop, valued at $76.5 billion in
2011, followed by soybeans at $35.8 billion, government figures
show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Wilson in  Chicago  at 
 jwilson29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  