-- Spain Current-Account Surplus Grows on Investment Inflows
-- B y   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t
-- 2013-01-31T17:49:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/spanish-current-account-surplus-grows-on-investment-inflows.html
(Corrects to distinguish surplus growth from investment
increase in headline and first paragraph. See TOP CRIS for more
on  Europe ’s debt crisis.)  Spain ’s current- account  surplus grew
in November, and foreign investment almost tripled as the euro
region’s debt crisis eased.  The November surplus amounted to 1.8 billion euros ($2.44
billion), compared with 865 million euros in October and a
deficit of 3.9 billion euros the same month a year earlier, the
Bank of Spain said. That narrowed the shortfall for the first 11
months of 2012 to 13.1 billion euros from 33.6 billion euros in
2011.  Spain is trying to rebalance its economy by reducing labor
costs after running the world’s second-biggest current-account
deficit during a debt-fueled housing boom that ended in 2008.
Exports and tourist visits are the only drivers of growth left
as a 26 percent jobless rate and five austerity rounds in less
than a year undermine domestic spending.  “Non-domestic investors are returning to the Spanish bond
markets and probably to equity markets as well,” said  Ricardo Santos , euro-area economist at BNP Paribas SA in  London . “It’s
not only hot money reflecting a more positive mood, there is
also real direct investment as it would seem that structural
reforms are starting to convince investors.”  In November, Spain registered the biggest foreign
portfolio-investment inflow since March 2007 at 19.1 billion
euros while direct investment was 1.8 billion euros, the Bank of
Spain said.  As Spanish bonds and stocks have rallied since July, when
the  European Central Bank  pledged to do whatever was needed to
hold the euro together, foreign investors increased their
sovereign debt holdings. The yield on Spain’s 10-year benchmark
bond rose two basis points at 11 a.m. in  Madrid  to 5.25 percent.
That compares to a euro-era high of 7.75 percent in July. The
spread with similar German maturities was at 357 basis points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angeline Benoit in Madrid at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  