-- Syria on Agenda at Every Stop as Biden Embarks on Europe Tour
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 2013-01-31T17:49:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/syria-on-agenda-at-every-stop-as-biden-embarks-on-europe-tour.html
Vice President  Joe Biden  will meet
with Syrian opposition leaders and make the international
response to the rebellion against the regime of Bashar al-Assad
a focus of talks during a three-nation European visit that
begins tomorrow, advisers said.  Syria will be discussed with “all of the leaders” Biden
will meet over the next several days, including German
Chancellor  Angela Merkel , French President  Francois Hollande ,
British Prime Minister  David Cameron  and Russian Foreign
Minister Sergei Lavrov, said Biden national security adviser
Tony Blinken. Biden will press Russia “to put their full weight
into a political transition in Syria,” he said.  Biden also will meet on Feb. 2 with Syrian opposition
leaders including Moaz al-Khatib and the UN envoy to  Syria ,
Lakhdar Brahimi, Blinken said. That meeting will take place
while Biden attends the Munich Security Conference, the focal
point of the trip. He’ll also visit France and the U.K. on the
first foreign journey of his second term.  While the future of the European Union and concerns about
global economic growth will also be on the agenda for the vice
president’s talks, Biden’s trip comes as the U.S. is increasing
humanitarian funding for Syrians while resisting calls for
lethal assistance for rebels or military intervention.  Fighting between the Assad regime and rebels has displaced
millions and led to the deaths of more than 60,000 people.  Unrest in Egypt and U.S. assistance for the French
intervention in  Mali  also will be topics for talks.  “We see increasingly a recognition that we have a common
problem that we need to contend with together” Blinken said of
discussions among the U.S. and allies about porous borders,
ungoverned territory, loose weapons and unstable governments in
North Africa and the Middle East and the potential for the
spread of extremism and violence.  “This requires a comprehensive approach,” Blinken said.
“It also requires a common approach” and Biden wants “to
confer with leaders about that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Talev in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  