-- U.K. Gas Stations Fairly Reflect Crude Prices: Chart of the Day
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2013-01-31T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/u-k-gas-stations-fairly-reflect-crude-prices-chart-of-the-day.html
U.K. gasoline sellers aren’t
overcharging motorists by failing to pass on declines in crude-
oil prices, according to the country’s competition watchdog.  The CHART OF THE DAY shows the link between oil costs and
the prices consumers pay for fuel has become closer in recent
years. It shows monthly U.K. forecourt prices and Brent crude
prices, in dollars per U.S. gallon, since 1992. The lower chart
shows how the ratio between the two has fallen from above 18 in
1998 to 2.9 this month.  Questioning the behavior of  oil companies  and fuel
suppliers has been common among British politicians in recent
years. In 2011, Prime Minister  David Cameron  called for a “good
competitive sector,” while last October opposition Labour
leader  Ed Miliband  said “cozy cartels and powerful interests”
were failing to pass on falls in oil prices to consumers.  “We recognize that there has been widespread mistrust in
how this market is operating,” Clive Maxwell, chief executive
officer of the  Office of Fair Trading , said in a statement
yesterday. “However, our analysis suggests that competition is
working well, and rises in pump prices over the past decade or
so have largely been down to increases in tax and the cost of
crude oil.”  According to the OFT, out of the 136 pence ($2.15) a
British motorist paid in 2012 for a liter of gasoline, 81 pence
went in tax, 44 pence represented the crude oil price, and 11
pence was the retailer’s margin. The AA, Britain’s largest
motoring organization, said the report did nothing to address a
lack of price transparency and called for wholesale prices to be
made publicly available alongside consumer prices.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  