-- Cameron Refuses to Rule Out U.K. Military Cuts After 2015
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n   a n d   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2013-01-31T17:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/u-k-defense-spending-to-rise-after-2015-election-official-says.html
Prime Minister David Cameron refused
to rule out further cuts to the British military if his
Conservative Party wins power in 2015.  He said he stands by his commitment to increase spending on
defense equipment by 1 percent a year more than the inflation
rate, leaving open the possibility of further reductions to
troop numbers when Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne
announces post-2015 departmental spending plans by June.  “We have the fourth-largest defense budget in the world
and that isn’t going to change,” Cameron told  BBC  News today in
Tripoli, Libya. “We have protected the defense-equipment budget
post, up to and after 2015.”  Cameron made the pledge to protect equipment programs in
2010, when the government announced that defense spending would
fall by 8 percent over the following five years to help tackle a
record budget deficit. The Treasury estimated at the time that
the deficit would be eliminated by 2015. With the economy
proving weaker than forecast, it now says government spending
cuts will have to continue until 2018.  Cameron’s office was earlier forced to clarify the
government position after an official briefed reporters last
night that defense spending overall would rise from 2015.
Equipment programs account for half of the total defense budget.
The opposition Labour Party called the confusion a “shambles.”  Cameron is under pressure to show he is not overstretching
Britain’s military after announcing plans to cut the regular
army to 82,000 personnel from 102,000 by 2020.  Military Needs  “What matters most of all is that we make sure the budget
is being spent on the things that our military need,” Cameron
told the BBC. “Intelligence assets, transport assets, making
sure we have special forces that are the best equipped in the
world.”  The jousting over the defense budget stems from the open
conflict in 2010 among the defense ministry, the military and
Osborne’s Treasury and may continue ahead of the next spending
round. Separately, the government spending watchdog warned today
against cost overruns.  The National Audit Office said there is “systemic over-
optimism” around the “costing of risk and uncertainty” that
risks “capability gaps” in defense programs in future years.  Defense Secretary Philip Hammond today published a detailed
equipment plan for the next decade. It includes 35.8 billion
pounds for a new generation of nuclear-powered submarines, 18.5
billion pounds for combat aircraft for the Royal Air Force and
17.4 billion pounds for Royal Navy warships, including the Queen Elizabeth class of aircraft carriers.  U.K. special forces may train the Algerian army in counter-
terrorism as part of a security partnership between Cameron and
Algerian President Abdelaziz Bouteflika.  Cameron yesterday became the first U.K. premier to visit
 Algeria  since it gained independence in 1962. He is looking to
deepen ties with the north African nation in the wake of the
hostage crisis there this month and an escalating battle against
Islamists in neighboring  Mali .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  