-- U.K. House Prices Rise on Lending Boost From BOE Credit Plan
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2013-01-31T08:36:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/u-k-house-prices-rise-on-lending-boost-from-boe-credit-program.html
U.K.  house prices  rose in January as
the  Bank of England ’s credit-easing program helped loosen the
mortgage market,  Nationwide Building Society  said.  The average cost of a home increased 0.5 percent from
December to 162,245 pounds ($256,100), the Swindon, England-
based customer-owned lender said today. Prices were unchanged
from a year earlier. Separately, GfK NOP Ltd. said its index of
 consumer confidence  rose in January.  Data yesterday showed  mortgage approvals  rose to an 11-
month high in December as the central bank’s Funding for Lending
Scheme eased conditions in the home-loan market. The BOE is
counting on the program to encourage lending and provide a boost
to an economy that’s close to slipping back into a recession.  “The FLS has achieved some success in bringing down
 mortgage rates , with some signs of a pickup in lending
activity,” said  Robert Gardner , chief economist at Nationwide.
“Hopefully, the momentum will continue to build in the months
ahead, though much will depend on whether the wider economic
environment improves.”  Consumer Confidence  GfK’s consumer sentiment gauge rose to minus 26 from minus
29 in December. However, the survey was conducted before data
were published last week showing the economy shrank 0.3 percent
in the fourth quarter, putting it on the brink of a triple-dip
recession.  Barclays Plc (BARC)  economists Chris Crowe and Blerina Uruci also
noted that the increase in was partly due to an increase in the
major purchases component, “which has a significant positive
seasonal factor in January driven by price discounting.”  “We do not expect a strong improvement in consumers’
financial situation in the near term as slow earnings growth and
persistent inflation will likely continue to depress real
earnings,” they said in a note today. “With economic and
labor-market uncertainty driving precautionary savings to
elevated levels in recent quarters, we think consumers will have
little room to increase spending.”  In its report, Nationwide said that U.K. house-price growth
slowed to 0.4 percent in the three months to January from 0.7
percent in the fourth quarter. A drop in first-time buyers to an
average 20,000 a month from 32,000 before the financial crisis
is a “cause for concern” on the outlook for residential
property, it said.  While mortgage approvals are rising, they are still less
than half the level in the decade through 2007. Bank of England
Governor  Mervyn King  said last week credit conditions have eased
and should improve further as the impact of the bank lending
plan “kicks in.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  