-- U.K. Officials Lied Over Bias in West Coast Bid, Lawmakers Say
-- B y   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 2013-01-31T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/u-k-officials-lied-over-bias-in-west-coast-bid-lawmakers-say.html
U.K. transport ministers were lied
to and must take their share of the blame for the botched
franchising process for the West Coast mainline rail route,
lawmakers said.  The award of the contract to FirstGroup Plc and its
subsequent withdrawal after a complaint by Virgin Trains, which
has already cost more than 50 million pounds ($79 million) in
compensation and fees, was the result of poor management, lies
by officials and an attempt to change the system while the bids
were being evaluated, Parliament’s Transport Committee said in a
report published in London today.  “Embarking on an ambitious, perhaps unachievable, reform
of franchising, in haste, on the U.K.’s most complex piece of
railway was an irresponsible decision for which ministers were
ultimately responsible,”  Louise Ellman , the opposition  Labour
Party  lawmaker who heads the committee, said in a statement.
“This was compounded by major failures by civil servants, some
of whom misled ministers.”  Department for Transport officials deliberately gave
ministers inaccurate information about the way the requirements
for subordinated-loan facilities were adjusted to favor
FirstGroup over Virgin, the cross-party panel said. A report by
Sam Laidlaw, chief executive officer of  Centrica Plc (CNA) , used what
the report described as “careful” language to say that
“inaccurate statements” had been made.  “A more direct description of what happened is that
ministers and senior officials were lied to about how the
outcome of the franchise competition had been reached,” the
committee said. “We recommend that the department explain why
this happened, if necessary after decisions have been reached on
whether or not to take disciplinary action against particular
members of staff.”  E-Mail Capture  There should be a capture of all e-mail traffic from the
officials involved to establish what had happened, the committee
said. It was unable to see the e-mails in preparing its report.  “We cannot categorically rule out the possibility that
officials manipulated the outcome of the competition, not only
to keep FirstGroup in the running as long as possible, as Mr.
Laidlaw suggested, but to ensure that First got the contract,”
the panel said. A further investigation is needed “to help get
to the bottom of why DfT staff discriminated against Virgin.”  Ministers should learn to make policy that is within the
capability of their departments and officials should be clearer
in drawing their attention to risks, the panel said.  “We strongly suspect there are lessons for ministers in
terms of more realistically matching policy ambition to
departmental capacity and resources,” it said.  After the failure of the bidding process, Virgin Trains,
the existing operator of services on the West Coast Mainline,
was awarded a franchise to provide services until November 2014,
by which time a long-term franchise will have been awarded.  ``The examination of e-mails from key officials found no 
evidence that this was anything other than simple human error,'' 
the DfT said in an e-mailed statement. ``We are putting in place 
measures that will prevent this embarrassing episode from 
happening again.''  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Penny in  London  at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  