-- Corporate Credit Swaps in U.S. Decline; Constellation Risk Rises
-- B y   M a d h u r a   K a r n i k
-- 2013-01-31T22:15:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/u-s-corporate-credit-swaps-decline-as-consumer-spending-rises.html
A gauge of U.S. corporate credit
risk decreased for the first time this week after  consumer
spending  in the U.S. climbed in December as incomes grew by the
most in eight years.  The Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, fell 1.4
basis points to a mid-price of 88.9 basis points at 4:17 p.m. in
 New York , according to prices compiled by Bloomberg. The measure
declined from the highest level since Dec. 31 after ending last
week at 84.9, a four-month low.  Signs that the economy is strengthening may ease investor
concern that companies’ will struggle to repay debt. Household
purchases, which account for about 70 percent of the economy,
rose 0.2 percent after a 0.4 percent gain the prior month, a
Commerce Department report showed today in  Washington .
Disposable income, or the money left over after taxes, climbed
2.8 percent after adjusting for inflation, the biggest gains
since May 2008.  “The tightening is almost entirely due to today’s economic
data,”  Michael Kraft , senior portfolio manager at the New York-
based Vanderbilt Avenue Asset Management, said in a telephone
interview. “Demand for corporate credit continues as this
economy improves.”  The Labor Department reported in Washington today that
initial jobless claims rose 38,000 in the week ended Jan. 26,
the most since Nov. 10, to 368,000. A release of payrolls data
tomorrow may report a 165,000 increase in January employment
after a 155,000 rise a month earlier, according to the Bloomberg
survey median.  Constellation Swaps  The cost of protecting  Constellation Brands Inc.’s (STZ)  debt
from losses increased after the U.S. sued to block Anheuser-
Busch InBev NV’s proposed purchase of the half of Grupo Modelo
SAB it doesn’t already own. Constellation, the world’s largest
wine seller, agreed to buy Crown Imports in a joint venture with
 Grupo Modelo . The company said it was “disappointed” by the
suit and it’s looking forward to a expeditious resolution.  Five-year default swaps on the company’s debt increased
13.5 basis points to 202.5 basis points at 2:52 p.m. in New
York, according to data provider CMA, which is owned by McGraw-
Hill Cos. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately
negotiated market.  The credit-swaps index typically falls as investor
confidence improves and rises as it deteriorates. The contracts
pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point
equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of
debt.  Bond Sales  Sales of corporate bonds from the U.S. to  Europe  and  Asia 
are accelerating, marking their busiest January ever following
unprecedented issuance in 2012. Companies raised $412.3 billion
of bonds this month, surpassing the $407.2 billion sold in
January 2009.  The  risk premium  on the Markit CDX North American High
Yield Index decreased 4 basis points to 446.1 basis points,
Bloomberg prices show.  The average relative yield on junk-rated debt rose 7.9
basis points to 471.8 basis points, Bloomberg data show.  High-yield, high-risk debt is rated below Baa3 by Moody’s
Investors Service and lower than BBB- at  Standard & Poor’s . A
basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Madhura Karnik in New York at 
 mkarnik@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  