-- U.S. Asks Judge to Toss Case Defending Pot Superstore
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2013-01-31T22:07:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/u-s-asks-judge-to-toss-case-defending-pot-superstore-.html
The Obama administration asked a
judge in  San Francisco  to dismiss a lawsuit by the city of
Oakland defending its ability to issue permits for medical
marijuana dispensaries.  Oakland sued the federal government after U.S. prosecutors
filed a forfeiture case to seize property housing the city’s
Harborside Health Center. Prosecutors called the center a
“superstore” serving 100,000 customers in violation of federal
drug law.  Oakland says it permits pot sales after relying on repeated
statements by the government in recent years that it wouldn’t go
after those who comply with medical-marijuana laws. Closing
Harborside would send patients into the streets to buy from
dealers, harming public safety, the city argues.  The city sued under a 1946 law that lets courts review
federal actions. Using the law to stop a forfeiture is improper,
said Kathryn Wyer, a Justice Department lawyer. Oakland’s only
remedy is to file a claim in an existing U.S. forfeiture case
against the property owner leasing space to the dispensary, she
told a judge.  U.S. Arguments  “The only thing at issue is that the city is trying to
halt the forfeiture,” which is under way in a separate case,
Wyer told U.S. Magistrate Judge Maria-Elena James. Allowing
Oakland’s case to proceed would open the floodgates to similar
suits, Wyer said.  Cedric Chao, Oakland’s lawyer, said Oakland is facing “the
perfect storm” if Harborside closes: increased crime, illegal
pot sales and an understaffed police force. Forfeiture laws
don’t address these problems, while the 1946 Administrative
Procedures Act is for parties facing U.S. Government actions for
which the only remedy is judicial review, he said.  “What the government is asking the court to do is take an
unprecedented and extreme view of the APA,” Chao told James.
“They want a party, a city of 400,000 people, to stand down.
You have grievances, you have harm? Too bad.”  Store Products  The six-year-old dispensary, which has annual gross revenue
of $20 million and offers more than 70 types of marijuana and
cannabis concentrate such as hashish, home delivery and product
promotions, is one of hundreds of such stores in  California  that
have operated since voters approved the state’s Compassionate
Use Act in 1996. The law legalized marijuana as a medical
treatment for pain and ailments.  Medical use of marijuana is permitted in 17 states and the
 District of Columbia . Voters in Colorado and  Washington  approved
ballot measures in November legalizing the possession of up to
one ounce (18 grams) of marijuana. The drug remains illegal
under federal law.  President  Barack Obama  said Dec. 14 that federal law
enforcement authorities have “bigger fish to fry” than
prosecution of marijuana users in Colorado and Washington.  U.S. Attorney Melinda Haag in San Francisco said in July
that she was targeting superstores like Harborside because “the
larger the operation, the greater the likelihood that there will
be abuse of the state’s medical-marijuana laws, and marijuana in
the hand of individuals who have a demonstrated medical need.”  James didn’t say when she would decide whether to dismiss
Oakland’s lawsuit, filed in October.  The case is City of Oakland v. Holder, 12-05245, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of California (San Francisco).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco
at   kgullo@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 