-- U.S. Rules Are Scrutinized as Energy Futures Swapped for Swaps
-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 2013-02-01T00:11:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/u-s-rules-get-scrutiny-as-energy-futures-are-swapped-for-swaps.html
Derivatives-trading rules are facing
scrutiny at the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission after
the country’s largest exchanges began replacing energy swaps
with futures last year.  The five-member commission held a roundtable  meeting  in
 Washington  yesterday with representatives of exchanges and
trading firms including  CME Group Inc. (CME) , Intercontinental
Exchange Inc. and  Deutsche Bank AG. (DBK)  The agency is reviewing if
the new futures contracts have enough transparency and
competition or if too many transactions are being allowed off
exchange by setting low levels for so-called block trades.  “I think it’s a natural thing for some realignment to take
place,” CFTC Chairman  Gary Gensler  said at the meeting. “It is
also critical that we preserve the pre-trade transparency that
has been at the core of the futures market.”  Scott O’Malia , a Republican commissioner, and Bart Chilton,
a Democrat commissioner, have said the agency must watch changes
to the thresholds for block trades.  “The transition to futures in the energy market has been
facilitated by the exchanges establishing extremely low
threshold sizes for block trades in the futures contracts,”
O’Malia said in a speech Jan. 30 at a TabbForum conference in
 New York . “This is a significant issue that needs to be
sufficiently thought through by both the commission and market
participants.”  Improving Transparency  As part of the 2010 Dodd-Frank Act, the commission has
sought to increase the ability to see bids and offers for
derivatives before they are traded to improve transparency,
competition and liquidity in markets. The switch in energy
trades, and the potential for a similar conversion in interest-
rate and credit derivatives, has prompted the agency to consider
if its rules are strong enough.  Futures are agreements to buy or sell an asset or commodity
at a specific price and time. They have standard sizes and
maturities, are traded on exchanges and guaranteed at
clearinghouses that take collateral from buyers and sellers.
Swaps are traditionally traded directly between buyers and
sellers, sometimes with customized maturities and sizes, and
often aren’t guaranteed at clearinghouses.  The CFTC, which has regulated futures contracts since its
creation in 1974, won authority under the act to oversee swaps,
which had been largely unregulated since their development in
the early 1980s.  Swaps Movement  As the new CFTC rules took shape, ICE and CME in October
began moving swap contracts to the futures market. During the
first half of January, ICE said, 52 percent of its energy
futures volumes came from contracts that prior to Oct. 15 were
traded as swaps. CME said about 90 percent of energy trades on
its ClearPort system are executed as futures, compared with 10
percent before the switch.  Firms setting up swap execution facilities that would
compete with CME and ICE have raised concerns about the futures
conversions, saying they could move beyond energy swaps and
increase risk to the financial system by requiring inadequate
collateral. CME has introduced a so-called swap future contract
tied to  interest rates , while ICE announced a plan to tie
futures to indexes of credit defaults.  A group, Companies Supporting Competitive Derivatives
Markets, told a House Financial Services Committee hearing in
December that the shift to futures was a consequence of the
CFTC’s regulations. The agency should re-examine its rules
because conversions could reduce transparency and competition in
swaps, the group said in its testimony.  Coalition Members  The coalition included interdealer brokers and companies
with trading platforms, such as  GFI Group Inc. (GFIG) ,  Icap Plc (IAP) ,
 Thomson Reuters Corp. (TRI)  and Bloomberg LP, the parent of  Bloomberg
News .  The CFTC should revise rules governing collateral for swaps
guaranteed at clearinghouses, George Harrington, global head of
fixed income trading at Bloomberg LP, told the CFTC in a Feb. 1
letter. Final CFTC rules require five-day margin for financial
swaps, while financial futures typically require one or two days
depending on the contract.  The CFTC should adopt an order requiring clearinghouses
impose the same margin requirements for financial swaps as
financial futures, Harrington said. “We believe that the
disparity in the margin rule on its face will be the strongest
driver of the forced ’futurization’ of economically equivalent
financial swaps,” he said in the letter.  Terrence Duffy , executive chairman of CME, said in written
testimony to the congressional committee that the exchanges are
focused on promoting choices for their customers. Critics of the
futures conversion are speaking out of self-interest rather than
concern for all risks in the market, Duffy said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  