-- U.S. Auto Sales Seen Rising on Post-Crisis Lease Renewals
-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 2013-01-31T05:01:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/u-s-auto-sales-seen-rising-on-post-crisis-lease-renewals.html
Wolff Martin’s three-year lease on
his Toyota RAV4 sport-utility vehicle expires in March, and he’s
already shopping for a car -- part of an army of 500,000 that
will help boost U.S. sales this year.  It’s a loop of recent auto history. In 2009, with the
economy in trouble, leases -- which usually last for three years
-- dropped dramatically. They bounced back strongly the next
year, and those leases are about to expire.  Automakers in 2012 managed to sell the most cars and light
trucks in the U.S. in five years even with few customers like
Martin heading to showrooms. This year, dealerships will see
about a half-million more new-car customers who are replacing a
vehicle because of an expiring lease, according to auto-market
researcher Edmunds.com. In all, about 2 million leases expire
this year.  Martin has already visited  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) ,  Ford Motor
Co. (F)  and  Nissan Motor Co. (7201)  showrooms.  “I wouldn’t mind having a car that gets decent gas mileage,
but also has some power,” said Martin, 36, who works for a
foam-cup manufacturer in Mason, Michigan. “I’m probably going
to stick with the Toyota family again.”  The phenomenon shows how the recession that ended in 2009
continues to have effects on corners of the auto market, a
bright spot in the U.S. economy the past several years.
Americans entered into about half as many new-vehicle leases in
2009 compared with two years earlier.  2010 Rebound  “You had a real dip of the people coming back into the
market” in 2012, Lacey Plache, chief economist for Santa Monica,
California-based Edmunds, said by telephone. “Starting in 2010,
we really saw an increase in lease originations. We’re expecting
to see them come back this year.”  More lease returners will boost automakers, including
 General Motors Co. (GM) , Ford and Toyota, which analysts estimate
will lead a U.S. auto market that expands for a fourth
consecutive year. The average estimate of 18 analysts surveyed
by Bloomberg is for 15.1 million vehicle sales this year, from
14.5 million in 2012.  GM shares have gained  44 percent  over the past six months,
as vehicle demand has returned, far outpacing the S&P 500’s 8.4
percent increase. Over the same period, Ford rose 42 percent and
Toyota added 48 percent.  U.S. light-vehicle sales may begin the year with a 14
percent increase in January to 1.04 million, the average of nine
analysts’ estimates. The annualized industry sales  rate , which
is adjusted for seasonal trends, may have been 15.2 million, the
average of 17 analysts’ estimates.  Leasing Returns  Leasing returned to pre-recession conditions faster than
the broader U.S. auto market’s rebound from a 27-year low in
2009, according to data from researchers Experian Automotive and
Edmunds.  Leasing’s share of the new-vehicle sales that were financed
in 2010 rebounded to 24 percent from 18 percent a year earlier,
according to Experian. That share is higher than in any year
since before 2006. Edmunds’s data shows lease originations
surged almost 46 percent in 2010 from a year earlier.  “Not only did we have the big collapse of new-vehicle
sales, but the lease-penetration rate also fell substantially,”
Thomas Webb, chief economist for Manheim Consulting in Warrenton,
 Virginia , said in a telephone interview. “The lease penetration
has actually gone up in the current sales cycle. The lease
originations have picked up more than new-vehicle sales.”  Toyota, Honda  Toyota and  Honda Motor Co. (7267) , whose captive finance units
lead the new-vehicle leasing market, may post the biggest
increases in U.S. sales for January. Deliveries probably rose 22
percent for Toyota City, Japan-based Toyota and 21 percent for
Honda, the average of eight analysts’ estimates.  “We do anticipate a substantial number of current Toyota
lease customers returning to the market in 2013, resulting in
increased showroom traffic,” said Bill Fay, Toyota group vice
president for U.S. sales.  Toyota and Tokyo-based Honda notched the biggest sales
gains among top carmakers in 2012, recapturing much of the
market share they gave up after  Japan ’s tsunami a year earlier.
Toyota boosted its market share by 1.5 percentage points to 14.4
percent, while Honda’s rose 0.8 points to 9.8 percent.  GM, which ceded global auto sales leadership to Toyota last
year, likely sold 13 percent more light vehicles in January than
a year earlier, the average of 11 analysts’ estimates. Dearborn,
Michigan-based Ford and Chrysler Group LLC probably boosted
deliveries by 17 percent and 15 percent, also the averages of 11
estimates.  Growth Forecasts  Ford and Detroit-based GM, the two largest automakers by
U.S. sales, both have issued 2013 forecasts calling for the
industry to exceed 15 million deliveries.  Ford Motor Credit Co., the automaker’s finance unit, had
just 17,000 returns from 36-month lease customers last year,
according to a Jan. 29 investor  presentation . Ford Credit had
more than four times as many in 2010.  Chrysler, which was projected by analysts to lose market
share in 2012, increased annual sales more than any major
automaker other than Toyota and Honda during the year. The
Auburn Hills, Michigan-based automaker’s market share rose to
11.4 percent from 10.7 percent a year earlier.  GM and Ford both lost market share in 2012, with GM’s
dropping 1.7 percentage points to 17.9 percent, an 88-year low,
and Ford’s declining 1.3 points to 15.5 percent.  Nissan, which owns a finance unit that closely follows
Toyota and Honda in originating leases, probably sold 3.5
percent more vehicles in January than a year earlier. The
automakers’ respective finance units are American Honda Finance
Corp., Toyota Financial Services Americas Corp. and Nissan
Financial Services Co.  Targeted Offers  Analysts estimate that Seoul-based  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380)  and
 Kia Motors Corp. (000270)  may combine to sell 7.4 percent more vehicles
in January compared with a year earlier, the average of six
estimates.  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  likely boosted deliveries of VW and
Audi brand vehicles in January by 20 percent, the average of
four estimates.  Automakers and their finance units probably will boost
their use of marketing promotions that are intended to lure
owners with deals such as  lease pull-ahead offers , Manheim’s
Webb said. Vehicle owners are offered early lease expirations in
an effort to entice them to buy a new car.  “The automakers and the captives work those end-of-term
programs very hard to maintain their customers,” he said.
“There are a lot of early-termination programs, which are very
beneficial to the customer, the dealer and the lessor. The
dealer is able to keep the customer within the same brand.”  Toyota Financial’s promotions may be enough to convince
Martin, the RAV4 owner, to stick with the same brand. He’s
leaning toward replacing his SUV with a new Prius v wagon after
receiving offers for as much as $1,000 off his next purchase,
plus the option to turn in his current vehicle early by as many
as six months.  “They definitely want us to come back in and try to keep
us in the family,” Martin said. “Any money off is a good thing.
If I can get closer to what I want and there’s some money on the
table, that makes it all the more enticing.”  The following table shows estimates for car and light-truck
sales in the U.S. Estimates for companies are a percentage
change from January 2012. Forecasts for the seasonally adjusted
annualized rate, or SAAR, are in millions of light vehicles.  January had 25 selling days, one more than in 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Craig Trudell in Southfield,  Michigan , at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net  