-- Peregrine’s Wasendorf Gets 50 Years for Theft of Millions
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o   a n d   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2013-01-31T20:21:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/u-s-wants-peregrine-s-wasendorf-imprisoned-for-50-years.html
Russell Wasendorf Sr., the founder
of the bankrupt commodities firm Peregrine Financial Group Inc.,
was sentenced to 50 years in prison for what prosecutors said
was a theft of more than $215 million from customers.  Wasendorf, 64, was sentenced today in federal court in
 Cedar Rapids ,  Iowa , Acting U.S. Attorney Sean Berry said in a
statement. The financier used a printer, software and a post
office box to create false bank statements and other documents
and hide his 20-year embezzlement starting in the early 1990s,
prosecutors said.  “By lying to investors and regulators, Wasendorf defrauded
thousands of innocent investors out of a staggering
$215,000,000,” Berry said in the statement. “The lengthy
prison sentence imposed today is just punishment for a con man
who built a business on smoke and mirrors.”  Assistant U.S. Attorney Peter Deegan told U.S. District
Judge Linda Reade in court filings that Wasendorf deserved the
maximum 50-year penalty because of the amount customers lost and
the sophisticated nature of the crime. Wasendorf started
stealing customer funds within two years of Peregrine’s original
financing, using a copying machine to conceal his theft of
$250,000 to keep his company afloat, the government said.  “Defendant’s entire business was used as a mechanism to
gather and purloin investor funds,” Deegan said. “From that
point on, as defendant well knew, PFG was never profitable.”  Peregrine’s Start  Wasendorf, a former trader, started Peregrine as a one-man
firm in his basement. It eventually had 241 employees.  He pleaded guilty in September to mail fraud and two counts
of lying to federal prosecutors. Reade ordered Wasendorf to make
$215 million in restitution to more than 13,000 victims,
according to the U.S. attorney’s statement.  Peregrine was a futures and options commodities firm that
used customer money and securities to secure their trades.
Wasendorf used the stolen money to bolster Peregrine’s financial
position, fund outside businesses and for personal use,
including a lavish headquarters, a corporate jet and business
interests in  Romania , prosecutors said in court filings.  Wasendorf fabricated large deposits and eliminated
deductions he made from the account, prosecutors said in court
filings. He established company rules mandating that he be the
only one to examine company bank statements, they said.  Suicide Attempt  Wasendorf’s crimes came to light on July 9 after he tried
to kill himself by piping auto exhaust into the passenger
compartment of his car outside the firm’s  Cedar Falls , Iowa,
headquarters.  Wasendorf, who was also Peregrine’s chairman and chief
executive officer, admitted his crime in a written statement.  The  National Futures Association , an industry self-
regulator, announced the same day as the suicide attempt that
about $200 million in customer funds the firm reported was on
deposit at its bank were unaccounted for. Peregrine filed for
bankruptcy court liquidation in July.  Wasendorf told federal agents that “he always knew that it
would catch up to him,” Jane Kelly, an attorney with the
federal defender’s office in Cedar Rapids who represents
Wasendorf, said in a court filing.  “I know the question remains, what did I do with the
money?” Wasendorf told agents, according to Kelly’s filing.
“Most of the misappropriated funds went to maintain the
increasing levels of regulatory capital to keep PFG in business
and to pay business” losses.  Kelly’s sentencing recommendation for her client was filed
under seal and she couldn’t be reached for comment.  The case is U.S. v. Wasendorf, 12-cr-2021, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of Iowa (Cedar Rapids).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Karen Gullo in  San Francisco 
at   kgullo@bloomberg.net ;
Edvard Pettersson in  Los Angeles 
at   epettersson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 