-- U.S. Mortgage Refinancing Push Said to Advance in Congress
-- B y   C l e a   B e n s o n   a n d   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s
-- 2013-01-31T23:29:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/u-s-mortgage-refinancing-push-said-to-move-forward-in-congress.html
The U.S. Treasury Department and
members of Congress are preparing to move forward with plans to
expand government-backed refinancing programs to underwater
homeowners whose loans are packaged in private-label securities.  Senator  Jeff Merkley , an  Oregon  Democrat, is drafting a
bill modeled on a proposal he outlined last year to set up a
federal trust to purchase or guarantee refinanced mortgages,
according to two people familiar with the discussions who asked
not to be identified because the bill hasn’t been introduced.  The trust, as described in Merkley’s earlier proposal,
would provide relief to borrowers with privately owned loans and
probably would be set up under the oversight of an existing
housing agency. If Congress doesn’t pass such a measure, the
Treasury is drafting a plan to step in to pay for rate
modifications for those homeowners, according to two other
people, who asked not to be identified because the initiative is
not final.  “We must continue helping as many responsible borrowers as
possible refinance into affordable mortgages by taking advantage
of today’s historically low  interest rates ,” Michael Stegman,
counselor to the  Treasury secretary  on housing policy, said Jan.
29 in a Las Vegas speech. “We must expand streamline
refinancing to families whose loans are not guaranteed by the
government.”  Pilot Program  Treasury also is poised to approve a pilot program in
Oregon that would use federal housing aid to purchase mortgages
from private securities and modify the interest rates, a model
that could be used in other states, according to two people
familiar with the plan, who asked not to be identified because
it hasn’t been announced.  The efforts come a year after President  Barack Obama  called
for a universal refinancing program in his  State of the Union 
address. They could prolong a refinancing boom that may be
stalling by creating new opportunities for some of the nearly 11
million so-called underwater homeowners who owe more than their
properties are worth but are current on their payments.  Underwater borrowers who purchased homes when rates were
above the current historic lows can often save hundreds of
dollars a month if they refinance, adding to their disposable
income and potentially stimulating the economy.  Nearly 1.8 million borrowers have taken advantage of the
Home Affordable Refinancing Program for mortgages backed by
government-owned  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac  since it began in
2009. The Merkley plan would create a similar avenue for an
estimated 930,000 borrowers whose loans are in private-label
securities and who are current on their payments, according to
the proposal  outlined  last year.  Federal Trust  The proposal called for creating a federal trust to buy or
guarantee mortgages, enabling borrowers otherwise ineligible for
refinancing to obtain new loans with terms of either 15 or 30
years at lower rates.  Legislative efforts to expand refinancing programs failed
to gain traction last year, largely because of disagreements
between Democrats and Republicans over whether those bills would
include broader proposals for housing finance reform.  “It feels as though we’re finally at a point at which we
could put one of these plans into motion, but I don’t think that
it’s going to be legislative,” Isaac Boltansky, a policy
analyst with Compass Point Research and Trading LLC said in an
interview. “I just don’t see Republicans in the Senate moving
on a refinancing bill unless there’s the ability to put
amendments on the bill relating to housing.”  Treasury believes legislation creating a refinancing
program would be the most effective way to help borrowers,
Stegman said in his speech. Nonetheless, officials are preparing
a backup plan, he said.  Investor Objections  Under that option, the government would pay the difference
between the new and original interest rates to the owners of the
loans for five years. Investors in private-label securities have
sometimes objected to mortgage modifications because of concerns
their income could be reduced.  Borrowers who are current on their mortgage payments and
who owe at least 25 percent more than the value of their
properties would be eligible for the program, which would reset
their loans to the average fixed rate as determined by a weekly
survey by Freddie Mac.  The extent of either the Treasury plan or a congressional
solution would be limited,  Laurie Goodman , senior managing
director for research at Amherst Securities Group LP, said in a
Jan. 22 note to clients. Goodman estimated that the proposal
Merkley outlined in his paper last year would reach only 575,000
borrowers, while a Treasury rate modification plan would reach
far fewer, about 150,000.  Tapping TARP  Another avenue for aiding borrowers would be through the
use of a $7.6 billion Treasury fund to fight foreclosures in 18
states with the worst home-price declines. The Hardest Hit Fund,
paid for with dollars from the Troubled Asset Relief Program,
will be tapped by Oregon for its pilot program.  Oregon will start with about 50 borrowers in one county.
Other states may try similar efforts, according to the people
familiar with the project. To date, states receiving Hardest Hit
Fund money have been spending it slowly, with only $1.8 billion
drawn so far. Refinancing programs could help ensure that all
the money is disbursed by the time the program expires in 2017.  New efforts to expand refinancing won’t be limited to aid
for homeowners with privately owned loans. Senators  Robert Menendez  of  New Jersey  and  Barbara Boxer  of  California , both
Democrats, plan to introduce as soon as this week a new version
of a bill that didn’t advance last year. It would expand HARP by
promising lenders they won’t be forced to absorb the loss on
refinanced loans that default.  ‘Painful Lessons’  The bill is expected to extend the deadline for HARP
through the end of 2014. Currently, the program is set to expire
at the end of this year.  “We’ve come five plus years since the onset of the crisis,
and we have learned a number of painful lessons about how the
modification and refinancing processes work,” Boltansky said.
“Now, we’re in a better position to take advantage of some of
these refinancing programs.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Clea Benson in Washington at 
 cbenson20@bloomberg.net 
Cheyenne Hopkins at 
 Chopkins19@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  