-- UBS Cuts 20 Jobs at Canadian Bank Unit
-- B y   K a t i a   D m i t r i e v a   a n d   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2013-01-31T21:53:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/ubs-cuts-20-jobs-at-canadian-bank-unit.html
UBS AG (UBSN) , Switzerland’s largest bank,
cut 20 jobs at its Canadian investment-banking unit as part of
cost cuts by the Zurich-based bank.  UBS fired Rick Meslin, head of Canadian equities, and Chief
Economist and Strategist George Vasic as part of the cuts, said
Karina Byrne, a spokeswoman. The firm cut 10 jobs in equity
research and the rest in cash sales and trading. The banking
unit had about 48 staff before the cuts, mostly in Toronto, she
said.  “Canada is an important investor market for us and these
changes are aligned with our larger investment bank strategy
which is to be more focused, less capital intensive, and more
efficient,” Byrne said in a phone interview from New York.  UBS said in October it will eliminate 10,000 jobs over
three years and dismantle portions of the investment bank to
increase profitability. Chief Executive Officer Sergio Ermotti
is overhauling the bank as Swiss regulators pressure UBS to
boost capital and scale back trading and investment-banking
operations.  Meslin was replaced by Lisa Petrelli, who is currently co-
head of Canadian equity trading, while Vasic’s role was filled
by Brian MacArthur, who becomes director of research for Canada,
Byrne said. Meslin and Vasic didn’t return calls seeking
comment.  UBS has about 230 people in Canada after these cuts, across
investment banking, wealth management and global asset
management divisions, Byrne said.  UBS joins other Canadian financial firms paring their
ranks.  GMP Capital Inc. (GMP) , the country’s second-biggest non-bank
brokerage, cut 15 jobs on Jan. 8 as part of its plan to save
more than C$5 million ($5 million) in annual costs. The firm has
cut 52 jobs during the past year.  In November, Montreal-based  National Bank of Canada (NA) , the
country’s sixth-biggest bank, said it planned to cut about 300
jobs, or almost 2 percent of its workforce.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Katia Dmitrieva in Toronto at 
 edmitrieva1@bloomberg.net ;
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  