-- UN Probe Calls Israeli Settlements ‘Creeping Annexation’
-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n
-- 2013-01-31T18:28:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/un-probe-calls-israeli-settlements-creeping-annexation-.html
A  United Nations  human-rights
 investigation  of Israeli settlements said the construction is
leading to “creeping annexation” of the occupied Palestinian
territory on the  West Bank  that must stop.  The report, conducted by a fact-finding mission for the UN
Human Rights Council, says Israel is in violation of the Geneva
Conventions, which prohibit an “occupying power” from
transferring its own civilian population into territory it
occupies. Israel must “cease all settlement activities without
preconditions” and “immediately initiate a process of
withdrawal of all settlers,” the report says.  The findings, rejected by Israel, may give Palestinians
ammunition to take their complaints to the  International
Criminal Court  in The Hague. The report shows practices that
make Israel “liable to prosecution” for  war crimes , said  Hanan Ashrawi , a member of the Palestine Liberation Organization’s
executive committee.  About 250 settlements in the West Bank, including east
 Jerusalem , have been set up since 1967 either with or without
authorization by the Israeli government, according to the UN
report. The number of settlers is estimated at 520,000, it said.  Successive Israeli governments’ support for construction of
Jewish housing in the West Bank and east Jerusalem, which were
captured in the 1967 Six Day War, has been criticized by the
U.S., European Union and UN. The report also cites what it says
are human-rights violations by Israeli authorities and Jewish
settlers against Palestinians in east Jerusalem and the West
Bank.  Israel’s Rebuttal  The 47-nation  Human Rights Council  has repeatedly condemned
Israel’s actions over the years, drawing criticism from the U.S.
and also UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon for overlooking the
record of other nations to focus almost exclusively on Israel.  “The Human Rights Council has sadly distinguished itself
by its systematically one-sided and biased approach towards
Israel,” according to a statement by Israel’s foreign ministry
today. “The only way to resolve all pending issues between
Israel and the Palestinians, including the settlements issue, is
through direct negotiations without pre-conditions.”  The Palestinians, emboldened by a UN vote last year
granting them non-member-state status in the General Assembly,
have threatened to bring Israel to the war crimes court in The
Hague if Israel carries out plans to build settlements in a
particularly sensitive area east of Jerusalem known as E1.  Israel -- along with the U.S., Israel, China and  Russia  --
hasn’t signed the 2002 founding treaty that created the court.  Still, should  Palestine  use its enhanced status to ratify
the treaty it “may lead to accountability for gross violations
of human rights law and serious violations of international
humanitarian law,” the report said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson in United Nations at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  