-- UN Said to Weigh Sending Peacekeeping Force to Mali
-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n
-- 2013-01-31T02:31:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/un-said-to-weigh-sending-peacekeeping-force-to-mali.html
United Nations peacekeepers may be
deployed to  Mali  after French troops leave to ensure that
Islamist militants don’t seek to reclaim the northern part of
the country, according to UN officials.  The UN Security Council in New York will discuss in coming
days whether to send as many as 5,000 troops to protect
civilians and keep the land-locked West African country stable
before peace talks and an election, according to two officials
familiar with the discussions of the operations. They asked to
not be named as the plans are preliminary.  After retaking the airport in Kidal, the last major city
outside the control of the Malian government, the French
military is now keen to end its three-week old offensive and
hand over responsibility for its former colony to other forces.  What remains to be decided is whether African soldiers on
the ground will fold into the UN peacekeeping force or if the
operation will take a different form, the officials said.  Any decision will be subject to a vote by the UN’s
decision-making body, which last month approved a plan for an
African force to retake northern Mali from extremists. That plan
was jettisoned when the rebels moved south to capture the
central town of Konna, a trigger for  France  to intervene.  An estimated 380,000 people have fled northern Mali since
the start of the conflict last year, according to a Jan. 29
statement from the UN High Commissioner for Refugees. That
includes refugees into neighboring countries including  Algeria ,
Niger, Burkina Faso and Mauritania, as well as people displaced
inside Mali, the UNHCR said.  -- Editors: Michael Shepard, Don Frederick  To contact the reporters on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson in New York at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  