-- UPS 2013 Forecast Trails Estimates Amid Sluggish Economy
-- B y   M a r y   J a n e   C r e d e u r
-- 2013-01-31T21:14:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/ups-2013-forecast-trails-analysts-estimates-on-sluggish-economy.html
United Parcel Service Inc. (UPS) , the
world’s largest package-delivery company, forecast profit for
this year that trailed analysts’ estimates as a weak global
economy weighs on shipping.  Earnings per share will be $4.80 to $5.06, the Atlanta-
based company said today in a statement. Analysts projected
$5.13, the average of 25 estimates in a  Bloomberg survey .  UPS’s growth is constrained by a sluggish worldwide economy
and disputes over the U.S. debt ceiling that erode shipping
demand and confidence, Chief Executive Officer Scott Davis said.
Investors and analysts use the company as an economic gauge
because it handles goods as varied as auto parts and
pharmaceuticals.  “This guidance is obviously going to be seen as a
negative,” Kevin Sterling, a BB&T Corp. analyst in Richmond,
 Virginia , with a buy rating on the shares, said in a telephone
interview. “A lot of people look to UPS as a bellwether of the
economy and what are they saying? Well, maybe things aren’t as
good as we initially thought.”  UPS  fell  2.4 percent to $79.29 at the close in New York,
the biggest decline since Sept. 5. The shares have climbed 7.5
percent this year, outpacing a 5 percent gain by the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index.  TNT Deal  Profit excluding certain items  for the three months ended
in December was $1.32 a share, compared with a $1.38 average
estimate. The results were curbed by 6 cents for costs from
superstorm Sandy and expenses from the company’s pursuit of  TNT
Express NV. (TNTE)   UPS is focusing on its own operations after terminating an
agreement to buy TNT for 5.16 billion euros ($6.9 billion). The
European Commission blocked the accord, which would have doubled
UPS’s footprint in Europe and been the largest acquisition since
the company was founded as a bicycle messenger service in 1907.  UPS must pay TNT a 200 million-euro breakup fee. The deal
was the biggest to fail in Europe since BAE Systems Plc and
European Aeronautic, Defence & Space Co. called off a merger in
October.  “It would be an understatement to say we’re
disappointed,” Davis said on a conference call with analysts
and investors. “We are moving on.”  UPS will look for new ways to grow in  Europe  with
priorities being international packages and forwarding and
distribution, particularly in health care, Davis said.  Small Deals  “Our typical approach is to have organic growth
supplemented with small and medium-sized acquisitions, so we’ll
get right back on track with that,” Chief Financial Officer
Kurt Kuehn said in a telephone interview.  “Clearly there are a number of potential ways to grow that
we’ve looked at through acquisition or internal development, and
those are now back into active gear,” he said. “I wouldn’t be
surprised to see us once again do acquisitions that bring new
capabilities to us.”  Fourth-quarter revenue rose 2.9 percent to $14.6 billion,
topping the $14.4 billion estimated by analysts.  Including a $3 billion after-tax charge for pension and
retirement benefits, UPS posted a quarterly net loss of $1.75
billion, or $1.83 a share, compared with a year-earlier profit
of $725 million, or 74 cents.  UPS also said it would increase 2013 share repurchases to
as much as $4 billion, from a projection of $1.5 billion
previously.  Free cash flow of $5.4 billion in 2012 allowed for
“significant distributions to shareholders,” Kuehn said.  UPS’s board will review the dividend policy when it meets
in a few weeks, Davis said on the call.  The company  may increase its dividend  8.8 percent to 62
cents a share in February, from 57 cents previously, according
to a Bloomberg forecast.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Jane Credeur in Atlanta at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  