-- Validity of Consumer Bureau at Stake in Legal Challenge
-- B y   C a r t e r   D o u g h e r t y
-- 2013-01-31T20:04:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/validity-of-consumer-bureau-at-stake-in-legal-challenge.html
A law firm sued by the U.S. Consumer
Financial Protection Bureau over its treatment of struggling
homeowners may be the first to contest the validity of Richard Cordray’s status as the agency’s director after a federal
court’s ruling on presidential appointees.  Gary Kurtz, a lawyer representing the Gordon Law Firm of
Los Angeles, said he sent a letter to the bureau Jan. 29 asking
for a negotiated settlement of the six-month-old case in light
of a federal court ruling that invalidated so-called recess
appointments similar to Cordray’s.  “I want to give them an opportunity to resolve this
without court intervention,” Kurtz said in a telephone
interview. “Resolving this informally would preferable.”  Absent a settlement with Gordon, the bureau risks a court
challenge that could become a test case for its authority in the
wake of recess-appointment ruling. In its July 17 complaint, the
CFPB said Gordon took up-front fees to help homeowners facing
foreclosure, then did “little or nothing” for them.  Moira Vahey,a CFPB spokeswoman, said the agency “is moving
forward with the case as planned.”  The CFPB, created by the 2010 Dodd-Frank Act that
overhauled U.S. oversight of financial services, is intended to
protect consumers from abusive practices. Covering banks like
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and non-bank firms such as payday lenders
and debt collectors, the agency has also created a system for
resolving consumer complaints.  Dodd-Frank Timeline  Dodd-Frank created a timeline for the bureau to assume its
powers, giving it authority over banks with assets of more than
$10 billion on July 21, 2011. The law permitted its other
powers, such as supervision of non-banks, upon the confirmation
of its director by the Senate.  Gordon’s demand for a settlement stems from a Jan. 25
decision by the U.S. Court of Appeals in Washington that
President  Barack Obama ’s use of a procedure known as a recess
appointment to install three officials at the National Labor
Relations Board on Jan. 4, 2012, was unconstitutional.  Since Cordray was made head of CFPB on that same day by the
same process, a company affected by the CFPB could use the legal
principle in that case to try to upend Cordray’s appointment and
roll back his actions. On Jan. 24, Obama renominated Cordray for
the full five-year term as head of CFPB.  Careful Consultation  Since the Jan. 25 court decision lawyers for companies in
the financial services industry have pondered how to handle
inquiries from CFPB supervisors, who examine books of banks and
non-bank firms on a daily basis. For now, many lawyers are
advising companies to treat CFPB examiners as though nothing has
changed, said Richard Gottlieb, an attorney with Dykema Gosset
PLLC in  Chicago .  “Nobody should try to simply ignore the CFPB when they
come in,” Gottlieb said in an interview. “The issue is going
to get resolved before too long, and it won’t take a year to
resolve it.”  Senator Tim Johnson, the South Dakota Democrat who heads
the Banking Committee, said the case would be appealed. A better
approach, he said, would be to confirm Cordray.  “The courts are going to have to decide this matter, and I
expect that the administration will appeal the D.C. Circuit
decision,” Johnson said in an e-mail. “However, it shouldn’t
have had to come to this. The Senate should confirm Richard
Cordray without delay.”  GAO Request  Senator Mike Johanns, a Nebraska Republican, called on
Cordray to resign in a Jan. 25 letter in the wake of the court
decision. Johanns also asked the Government Accountability
Office in a letter the same day to determine how the decision
would affect CFPB.  Johanns and Senator Lamar Alexander, a Tennessee
Republican, said they have introduced legislation that would bar
the use of any money to carry out consumer bureau actions
requiring approval by a confirmed director.  “If they won’t take down their ‘Open for Business’ sign
and put up one that says ‘Help Wanted,’ then the Senate will,”
Alexander said today in a written statement.  The legislation, which would also affect the NLRB, may face
a difficult road to passage by the Democratic-controlled Senate
or be enacted by Obama, who signed the bill that created the
bureau and appointed Cordray as director.  Antagonizing Regulators  Gottlieb said the court ruling hasn’t changed the
relationship of supervised companies with the CFPB. They don’t
want to antagonize their regulator, and CFPB doesn’t want to
force the issue. CFPB supervisors have informally declared
“business as usual,” Gottlieb said.  “No one wants to be in court,” he said. “The CFPB
doesn’t want to force anyone into court.”  Chance Gordon, owner of the Gordon Law Firm, is willing to
go to court if necessary, his lawyer Kurtz said. Gordon wants
the court to unfreeze his assets and obtain compensation for the
fact that a court-appointed receiver effectively shut down his
business, according to Kurtz.  “We’re not looking for a lot,” Kurtz said.  Ronald Rubin, a former enforcement lawyer with the consumer
bureau, said that settling the case on unfavorable terms “would
send a very harmful message of weakness” to defendants in other
CFPB cases. Also, the delay created by such a settlement may not
achieve much.  “The only way a delaying strategy makes sense for the CFPB
is if they expect the NLRB decision to be reversed, or they
expect a director to be confirmed before the courts can rule on
the validity of Richard Cordray’s recess appointment,” Rubin, a
partner with Hunton & Williams LLP in  Washington , said in an e-
mail. “Otherwise, it’s only a matter of time before another
CFPB defendant has their day in court.”  FTC Rule  The CFPB charged Gordon’s firm violated the Mortgage
Assistance Relief Services rule, which was issued by the Federal
Trade Commission in 2010 and subsequently taken over by the
CFPB. The rule bans businesses from collecting fees until
homeowners have acceptable written offers of a loan modification
from their lenders.  Gordon’s firm, according to the CFPB’s July 17 complaint,
sought to evade this prohibition since at least early 2010 by
selling documents that aim to detail a lender’s misdeeds, and
then offering free legal services to obtain a loan modification.  Up-Front Fees  In this case, the CFPB alleges that Gordon violated federal
regulations against collecting up-front fees in exchange for
promises to obtain mortgage modification for homeowners who
couldn’t afford their payments. His firm encouraged people to
stop paying their loans in order to hire his firm, leading some
customers to lose their homes.  On Jan. 25, the CFPB filed with the court in the Gordon
case a proposed settlement with Abraham Michael Pessar, who is
also a defendant in the case, and two of Pessar’s companies.  In his own court filings, Gordon has defended his business,
arguing that he achieved mortgage modifications for about 80
percent of the clients. He argues that he created “custom legal
products as the CEO of a legal publishing company,” while
providing free legal services.  “I have not been violating any law as it relates to
collecting an upfront fee from distressed homeowners,” Gordon
wrote in a July 27 court filing.  The alleged crime belongs to a category that the FTC has
called “last dollar frauds” because they hit people who have
little ready cash, and are desperate. These kinds of scams
“take dollars out of people’s pockets when they are most
vulnerable,” Cordray said on July 26, without mentioning the
case by name.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carter Dougherty in Washington at 
 cdougherty6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Maura Reynolds
at   mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  