-- Viacom Beats Profit Estimates on Higher Fees for TV Networks
-- B y   E d m u n d   L e e
-- 2013-01-31T21:18:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/viacom-beats-profit-estimates-on-higher-fees-for-pay-tv-networks.html
Viacom Inc. (VIAB) , owner of the Paramount
film studios and cable networks such as Nickelodeon and  MTV ,
narrowly topped analysts’ profit estimates on higher fees from
the cable companies that carry its programming.  Excluding some items, earnings were 91 cents a share, the
New York-based company said today in a statement. Analysts had
predicted 90 cents, according to data  compiled by Bloomberg .  Growth in payments from television distributors such as
Comcast Corp. helped Viacom compensate for lower ad sales. Those
fees increased 3 percent in the quarter, while ad revenue fell 6
percent. Total sales declined 16 percent to $3.31 billion,
missing analysts’ estimates of $3.48 billion.  Viacom, controlled by Chairman  Sumner Redstone , rose 1.7
percent to $60.35 at the close in  New York . The stock has
climbed 14.4 percent this year, outpacing the Standard & Poor’s
500 Index’s 5 percent gain.  Viacom relies on its television business for more than 90
percent of annual operating income. Ratings at its Nickelodeon
network continue to be soft, Chief Executive Officer  Philippe Dauman  said on a conference call with analysts. He plans to
improve the channel by more directly targeting the preschool
audience.  “We want them to grow with us,” he said. “At the same
time, we want to increase the amount and range of programming we
have to appeal to all age groups.”  ‘Mission Impossible’  The company said the advertising market this quarter is
seeing percentage growth in the mid-single digits. Fees from
pay-TV companies are expected to rise as much as 10 percent this
year, Dauman said.  The company, which also owns Paramount film studios, saw
revenue decline 37 percent to $975 million because of weaker
box-office performance.  Paramount took in  $283.6 million  in theatrical receipts for
the last two months of the year, according to research firm  Box
Office Mojo . That was a 27 percent drop from the same period a
year earlier, when the latest “ Mission Impossible ” film
bolstered results.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edmund Lee in New York at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  