-- LVMH to Adjust Vuitton Strategy Amid Stable Leather Sales Growth
-- B y   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s
-- 2013-02-01T10:41:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/lvmh-full-year-profit-increases-13-on-gains-in-u-s-and-asia.html
LVMH Moet Hennessy  Louis Vuitton  SA
said it will adjust its strategy at Louis Vuitton, its biggest
brand, after reporting no improvement in the pace of sales
growth at its fashion and leather-goods unit.  Organic sales at the business rose 5 percent in the fourth
quarter, the company said, the same pace as the previous three
months when a weaker performance at the unit caused LVMH to
report the slowest quarterly revenue advance since 2009.
Operating  profit  from recurring businesses climbed to 5.92
billion euros ($8.04 billion), LVMH said yesterday, in line with
analysts’  estimates .  Vuitton, which generates the bulk of the fashion unit’s
sales, won’t seek revenue growth “at all costs,” LVMH Chief
Executive Officer  Bernard Arnault  said. The brand will improve
existing stores and open “far fewer” new ones as it seeks to
control its growth. The bagmaker will also focus on service and
increase the penetration of leather goods and non-logoed
products.  “We continue to question the longer-term growth outlook
for Louis Vuitton and see better value elsewhere,” said Allegra Perry, an analyst at  Cantor Fitzgerald  who recommends holding
the shares. She prefers Gucci-owner  PPR SA. (PP)   Arnault said he remains confident for the overall business
climate in 2013 “because the world is growing,” while
cautioning that currency trends are the “only shadow” to that
outlook. LVMH will raise prices, starting in  Japan , if the
euro’s appreciation against the dollar and the yen hurts
exports, he said.  ‘Pretty Reassuring’  The fashion and  leather goods  “division is definitely the
main source of disappointment,” said Thomas Mesmin, an analyst
at CA Cheuvreux. Still, “Mr. Arnault was pretty reassuring
regarding the outlook for 2013.”  The shares  gained  0.5 percent to 139.50 euros at 11:27 in
Paris after earlier falling as much as 2.1 percent. The stock is
littled changed this year, giving the company a market value of
70.8 billion euros.  “Of course it would be easier for Louis Vuitton to boost
its revenue, all it would take would be to launch 10 new
products with the monogram product, but down the road it’s not a
good strategy,” Arnault said. “There is no real change, just
an adjustment to the strategy, but Louis Vuitton wishes to focus
on the long term.”  Hennessy Cognac  All divisions boosted earnings as wealthy consumers
continued to increase spending on items such as Hennessy cognac,
Tag Heuer watches and Christian Dior perfumes. Organic sales
growth improved to 8 percent in the fourth quarter from 6
percent in the third quarter.  “It’s reassuring for the sector to see organic growth
picked up a bit,” Rahul Sharma, founder and managing director
of Neev Capital in  London , said by phone. “Every division other
than fashion & leather goods has done well.”  Growth in fourth-quarter organic sales was led by a 13
percent increase at the selective-retailing unit, which includes
DFS duty-free stores and the Sephora cosmetics chain.  The wine & spirits and perfume & cosmetics divisions both
showed 9 percent increases, the company said, beating a 6
percent gain at the watches & jewelry unit.  The U.S. was the best performing region in the quarter,
boosting organic sales 11 percent. That exceeded gains of 8
percent in  Asia , 5 percent in  Europe  and 3 percent in Japan.  The luxury-goods maker expects continued growth this year.  “Despite an uncertain economic environment in Europe, LVMH
is well-equipped to continue its growth momentum across all
business groups in 2013,” the company said. “The group will
maintain a strategy focused on developing its brands by
continuing to build up its savoir-faire, as well as through
strong innovation and expansion in fast growing markets.”  Full-year sales climbed 19 percent to 28.1 billion euros,
or 9 percent excluding acquisitions and currency shifts.  The company said it plans to raise its  dividend  12 percent
to 2.9 euros a share.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Roberts  in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  