-- Wal-Mart’s Union Complaint Shelved by U.S. Labor Board
-- B y   J i m   E f s t a t h i o u   J r .
-- 2013-02-01T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/wal-mart-complaint-against-union-put-on-hold-by-u-s-labor-board.html
Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  won a 60-day
hiatus from picketing at its U.S. stores in a settlement between
a labor union and the world’s largest retailer arranged through
the  National Labor Relations Board .  The commitments offered by United Food and Commercial
Workers International Union and the labor-backed OUR Walmart
made it unnecessary to act on a complaint the company filed two
months ago, the board’s general counsel said yesterday in a
statement. The agency will drop the case in six months if the
union keeps its commitments, according to the statement.  “It sounds as if it’s a win for Wal-Mart,”  Gary Chaison ,
a labor professor at  Clark University  in Worcester,
 Massachusetts , said in an interview. “Wal-Mart represents that
huge trough of unorganized workers. It’s such a ripe organizing
target.”  Wal-Mart filed an unfair labor complaint against the union
in early November, saying the UFCW was illegally picketing at
its stores ahead of “Black Friday” after Thanksgiving, one of
the busiest shopping days of the year. The protests organized by
OUR Walmart were the latest challenge against the retailer that
has succeeded in thwarting efforts to organize its 1.4 million
U.S. employees.  The NLRB accord “allows the UFCW to continue its support
for the brave leaders of OUR Walmart and the tens of thousands
of supporters who stand with them,” according to an e-mailed
statement from the union. “Wal-Mart workers and their
supporters will continue their call for change at Walmart and an
end to its attempts to silence workers who speak out for better
jobs.”  Improve Conditions  The union, representing more than 1.3 million workers in
grocery and retail stores and the meatpacking industry, said the
protests at Wal-Mart were simply meant to help employees improve
working conditions.  The retailer, based in Bentonville, Arkansas, praised the
deal working out with the board.  “This is good news for our associates, who have asked us
to stand up to this conduct because they understand better than
anyone the opportunities Wal-Mart offers,”  David Tovar , a
company spokesman, said in a statement. “Our associates can now
move forward knowing that the UFCW must stop its illegal and
disruptive activities.”  As part of an agreement, the union and OUR Walmart must
post a notice on a website for Wal-Mart employees saying it is
not seeking to organize workers and and refrain from picketing
for 60 days, according to a Jan. 30 memorandum from the board’s
Office of General Counsel released with the statement.  ‘Few Restrictions’  “The settlement from OUR Walmart provides very few
restrictions to their ability to protest,” John Logan,
professor and director of labor and employment studies at San
Francisco State University, said in a statement. “The company-
workers can continue to speak out and take action, from protests
to strikes, to improve working conditions at Wal-Mart.”  The union said Wal-Mart workers began walking off the job
Nov. 14 at stores and warehouses in  California . The strikes were
the first of 1,000 planned protests in  Chicago ,  Dallas , Miami,
 Oklahoma ,  Louisiana ,  Milwaukee ,  Los Angeles ,  Minnesota  and
Washington ahead of Nov. 23, the day after the U.S. Thanksgiving
holiday and traditionally a major shopping day.  In a Nov. 23 statement, Wal-Mart said it knew of protests
at only 26 stores.  ‘Protest, Demonstrate’  The union has tried to force Wal-Mart to bargain even
though it doesn’t officially represent employees, according to
Wal-Mart’s filing. The retailer asked the NLRB to determine the
picketing violated labor rules. The board put the case in
abeyance after the union and OUR Walmart offered commitments.  “This does not affect or limit OUR Walmart members’ and
supporter’s ability to otherwise protest, demonstrate against or
strike because of Wal-Mart’s unfair practices and poor record on
labor rights,” OUR Walmart said in an e-mailed statement.  Workers were protesting what the union said was Wal-Mart’s
manipulation of hours and benefits, efforts to keep people from
working full time and discrimination against women and
minorities.  OUR Walmart said the retailer’s managers use threats to
deter workers from participating in the demonstrations.  The food workers’ union “contended that the actions at the
stores were not intended to gain union recognition, but to help
employees in their efforts to have the employer commit to
certain labor rights and standards,” the labor board said in a
statement. Wal-Mart’s case “will be held in abeyance and
dismissed in six months as long as the union complies with the
commitments it has made.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Efstathiou Jr. in  New York  at 
 jefstathiou@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  