-- WANdisco Rises on Success in Cracking ‘Big Data’: London Mover
-- B y   P e t e r   W o o d i f i e l d
-- 2013-01-31T16:49:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/wandisco-rises-on-success-in-cracking-big-data-london-mover.html
WANdisco Plc (WAND) , a U.K. software
provider to companies including Apple Inc. and  Intel Corp ., rose
to a record as it won a U.S. patent award and joined a platform
for storing and processing large volumes of data.  The  stock advanced  9.4 percent to 640 pence, extending its
gain this year to 45 percent. The stock has more than tripled
since its initial public offering on June 1, giving the company
a market value of 136.5 million pounds ($216.4 million). The
volume of shares traded was almost 30 times the three-month
daily average.  The products of Sheffield, England-based WANdisco allow
software developers working anywhere in the world to have local
access to the same data at all times. In November, the company
moved into the so-called Big Data market used by social
networking sites with the $5.1 million acquisition of AltoStor.  The stock is now above the 12-month price  predictions  of
the two analysts tracked by Bloomberg. Panmure Gordon’s  George O’Connor  has a 565 pence target, while Emanuil Manos Halicioglu
at Growth Equities & Co. has a 593 pence target.  In the last 10 days the company established a wholly-owned
foreign enterprise in the Chinese city of  Chengdu , was issued a
patent for wide-area network technology it can use with Big
Data, and joined the Hortonworks Technology Partner Program.  The Big Data market is forecast to increase at least 10-
fold by 2017 to more than $50 billion, the company said in a
statement about the patent award. Hortonworks, based in
 California , delivers services for Apache Hadoop, an open-source
framework for running applications.  WANdisco had subscription bookings of $2.5 million during
the three months through December, bringing its full-year total
to $7.9 million, up 71 percent from the previous year, it said
in a statement Jan. 15.  WANdisco was named Jan. 3 as one of Panmure Gordon’s top
2013 picks for small and mid-cap companies. O’Connor cut his
recommendation to hold on Jan. 15, citing the fact that the
share price was above his 12-month target.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Woodifield in Edinburgh at   pwoodifield@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Risser at 
 drisser@bloomberg.net  