-- Wanxiang Interested in Aiding Fisker After A123 Purchase
-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 2013-01-31T05:53:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/wanxiang-interested-in-aiding-carmaker-fisker-after-123-purchase.html
Wanxiang Group Co. said it wants to
support struggling luxury plug-in hybrid manufacturer Fisker
Automotive Inc. that’s the main customer of a bankrupt battery
supplier  China ’s biggest auto-parts maker is acquiring.  “It’s in our interest if we can help Fisker, in any way we
could,” Wanxiang America Corp. President Pin Ni said in a phone
interview late yesterday. He declined to say whether Wanxiang
would invest in Fisker. Roger Ormisher, a Fisker spokesman,
declined to comment on discussions with the Chinese company.  Wanxiang’s unit this week got approval from the Committee
on Foreign Investment in the U.S. to buy most of the assets of
 A123 Systems Inc. (AONEQ) , the battery maker backed with U.S. government
funds that filed for bankruptcy in October. A123’s failure cut
supplies to Fisker, also a recipient of U.S. funds, as the
startup was replacing flawed A123 lithium-ion packs.  “They’re a customer so it will be in our best interest to
support them, as a vendor or possibly in a strategic alliance,”
Ni said.  Fisker, maker of the $103,000 rechargeable Karma sedan,
late last year hired  Evercore Partners Inc. (EVR)  to find potential
investors or partners as the Anaheim, California-based carmaker
looks to raise more money and resume production. That came after
Fisker suspended work in a Delaware plant last year when the
Energy Department halted access to portion of a federal loan
because of failure to meet initial sales and production goals
for Karma.  ‘On-going Negotiations’  “We have had interest in Fisker from a number of different
potential partners or strategic alliances spanning three
continents,” Ormisher said. “Given the ongoing negotiations,
we cannot add any further specifics at this time.”  Closely held Fisker was initially awarded $529 million in
federal loans by the Obama administration in 2009 for U.S.
development and production of plug-in hybrids. The company has
said it’s raised more than $1.2 billion from private investors
and delivered at least 1,500 Karmas.  Fisker has hired  Huron Consulting Group Inc. (HURN)  to help manage
day-to-day operations during negotiations. The company said Jan.
29 Huron’s Hugh Sawyer is serving as chief administrative
officer.  Tony Posawatz , Fisker’s chief executive, has said the
company still seeks to produce a second model, the lower-priced
Atlantic plug-in, at the Wilmington, Delaware, plant, and needs
additional funds to do so.  The Karma is built under contract by Valmet Automotive Oy
in  Finland , and goes as far as 40 miles (64 kilometers) on
electricity before a gasoline engine kicks in.  Approval from CFIUS, as it is known, was the final hurdle
that Wanxiang’s U.S. unit needed to overcome to complete the
A123 deal. The federal interagency group led by the Treasury
Department was reviewing the sale after members of Congress
expressed national-security concerns over allowing a foreign
competitor to obtain the technology developed with government
backing.  Wanxiang’s U.S. unit is based in Elgin,  Illinois .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in  Los Angeles  at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  