-- Two-Thirds of Americans Would Let Sons Play Football, Poll Finds
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2013-01-31T18:56:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/two-thirds-of-americans-would-let-sons-play-football-poll-finds.html
Two-thirds of Americans disagreed
with U.S. President  Barack Obama , saying they would let their
sons play football, according to the Seton Hall Sports Poll.  After Obama said in an interview with the New Republic
published Jan. 27 that he would have to think “long and hard”
about letting his son, if he had one, play football because of
its violence, 21 percent of people who responded agreed with
Obama’s stance, 67 percent said they’d allow their sons to play,
9 percent said they would not and 3 percent declined to answer,
according to the poll.  More than 2,000 National Football League players have filed
more than 80 lawsuits against the league seeking damages for
head injuries sustained on the field. Ex-NFL players Junior Seau, Andre Waters and Dave Duerson, who all committed suicide,
all were found to be suffering from the brain disease chronic
traumatic encephalopathy, which is caused by repeated head
injuries.  “I’m a big football fan, but I have to tell you if I had a
son, I’d have to think long and hard before I let him play
football,” Obama told the magazine. “And I think that those of
us who love the sport are going to have to wrestle with the fact
that it will probably change gradually to try to reduce some of
the violence.”  The NFL Players Association two days ago gave a $100
million medical study grant to  Harvard Medical School  to find
new ways to diagnose, treat and prevent injuries and illness
related to the sport.  Asked if it was appropriate for Obama to comment on the
violence in college and pro football, 60 percent said yes, 33
percent said no and 7 percent didn’t answer.  American Tradition  “Despite the president’s position and despite the almost
daily coverage of the concussion dangers presented by the sport,
football is America’s favorite sport and parents want to
continue the tradition,” said  Rick Gentile , director of the
poll, which is conducted by the Sharkey Institute.  John Harbaugh , who will coach the  Baltimore Ravens  against
his brother Jim’s San Francisco 49ers in the Feb. 3 Super Bowl,
said football allowed him “an opportunity to grow as a
person.”  “It’s the type of sport that brings out the best in you,
it kind of shows you who you are,” Harbaugh said this week,
according to an NFL “Health and Safety” news release. “I
think it’s a huge part of our educational system in this country
and it’s going to be around for a long time.”  It’s the first time two brothers coached against each other
in the NFL championship. Asked if they knew which brother
coached which team, 6 percent of those polled incorrectly named
the wrong Harbaugh.  The telephone poll was conducted among 894 randomly
selected people in the U.S., the New Jersey-based college said.
The poll has a margin of error of plus or minus 3.3 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in  New York  at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  