-- Two-Time Insider Trader Roomy Khan Seeks to Avoid Prison
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2013-01-31T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/two-time-insider-trader-roomy-khan-seeks-to-avoid-prison.html
Roomy Khan , the former  Intel Corp. (INTC) 
executive twice convicted of passing illegal tips to Raj Rajaratnam, is asking a judge to let her stay out of prison so
she can help young people in finance “not fall to the
temptation of easy money with insider trading.”  Khan, who provided information that helped the U.S. get a
court-authorized wiretap on Rajaratnam’s phone, seeks a term of
five years’ probation at her sentencing hearing scheduled today
in federal court in Manhattan. Her lawyer, Stanislao German,
argues that her cooperation with prosecutors eventually led to
the conviction of the Galleon Group LLC co-founder and at least
a dozen other insider traders.  “I am waiting for absolution,” Khan wrote in a letter to
U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff without providing any details on
how she would help young people stay out of trouble. “The
career/glamour driven woman that I used to be has been
completely decimated at this point.”  Prosecutors credit Khan with having provided “very
substantial assistance” to the U.S. and said she’s still
helping them, while having lied, destroyed evidence and tipped
off co-conspirators to the federal investigation after agreeing
to assist the government in November 2007 and pleading guilty in
2009 to conspiracy, securities fraud and obstruction of justice.  Federal prosecutors aren’t allowed to recommend a specific
sentence for cooperating witnesses. The most serious of her
crimes carries a maximum sentence of 20 years.  Rajaratnam’s ‘Edge’  This is Khan’s second round of insider-trading charges. She
pleaded guilty in 2001 to wire fraud and was sentenced in 2002
to home detention after agreeing to cooperate with a federal
probe of Rajaratnam in  California . Two years later, Khan said
“untenable” financial pressures caused her to return to
passing insider tips to Rajaratnam to give him an “edge.”  “As I reflect upon the choices I made, it makes me feel
aghast at these decisions,” Khan said in her Jan. 22 letter to
Rakoff. “No circumstances justify breaking the law. Because
everyone is doing it provides no excuse to engage in this
behavior. Especially I should have conducted myself better
because I had gotten a break in the past!”  Khan said the strain of maintaining an extravagant
lifestyle was the “albatross” around her neck that led her
back to insider trading.  Mounting Bills  “Slowly, the immorality and unlawfulness of insider
trading was replaced by the desperate need to make money and pay
my mounting bills,” she wrote. “Over time, the shame and
ignominy of losing my house and status in this society became
more important than the unlawfulness of insider trading and the
fear of getting caught.”  Khan, who has a degree in physics from Delhi University and
a master’s in electrical engineering from Columbia University,
said she lied to agents with the Federal Bureau of Investigation
after pledging to help them so she could shield her friends.  “The many lies I told the government were an effort to
protect other people,” Khan said. “However, there is no excuse
for the choices I made during that time. Nothing can defend my
decisions through that time. All I can say is that I was in the
middle of this massive storm that completely destroyed my
life.”  Her lawyer argues that Khan’s work, in addition to helping
the government win convictions that sent others to prison, has
enabled the U.S. to secure $250 million in fines, forfeitures
and SEC settlements.  Probation  Dozens of people have been convicted of insider trading as
part of overlapping investigations tied to Rajaratnam’s hedge
fund and related cases, German said. Rajaratnam, convicted in
2011, is serving an 11-year prison sentence. German noted that
other cooperators in the Galleon probe were spared prison terms
and given probation.  “Notwithstanding these tremendous gains for the
government, Roomy’s assistance has come at a dear price,”
German said in his sentencing memo to Rakoff. The lawyer said
his client has been “demonized” by the press.  “She has lost all of her money, her home, her friends and
acquaintances,” German said. “In sum, while the government has
enjoyed huge success based on her cooperation, Roomy’s life has
been eviscerated.”  Khan said she’s surprised her husband of 25 years hasn’t
left her, “but takes every opportunity to attack me for my
past.”  Life Dues  “I treat my life now as part of my dues,” she wrote to
the judge.  Prosecutors said Khan’s cooperation was flawed, noting that
she alerted Deep Shah, a former analyst at Moody’s Investors
Service who the government says was one of her sources of
illicit tips, to the federal probe. As a result, Shah, who was
in  India  at the time, hasn’t returned to the U.S., the
government said.  “Given Khan’s serious misconduct during the time she was
cooperating with the FBI, the defense had abundant material with
which to cross-examine Khan,” assistant U.S. attorneys
Christopher LaVigne and Jillian Berman said in a letter to
Rakoff. “Khan repeatedly and without hesitation acknowledged
engaging in serious misconduct, before, during and after the
time she was proffering.”  Prosecutors have said Khan’s cooperation is “ongoing” and
that she has “substantially assisted the government’s efforts
in detecting insider trading.” They also noted that she also
testified as a government witness in the trial of Doug Whitman,
the founder of Whitman Capital Inc., who was convicted in August
of conspiracy and securities fraud.  Continued Cooperation  The government asked Rakoff that her continued cooperation
with the U.S. be a condition of any sentence he imposes.  The U.S. has said Khan first came to the attention of
federal investigators in Northern California in 1998 after a
complaint from her then-employer, Intel.  Intel suspected Khan of passing information to Rajaratnam,
then a lead semiconductor analyst at Needham & Co., according to
court records. A video camera installed by Intel over a fax
machine captured images of her as well as the number she dialed,
which the FBI later identified as Rajaratnam’s.  The Santa Clara, California-based company fired Khan after
conducting an internal probe, according to court records. After
pleading guilty to wire fraud and agreeing to cooperate with the
U.S. in 2001, Khan was sentenced in July 2002 to six months’
home detention and ordered to pay a $30,000 fine and $120,000 in
restitution, according to court records.  No charges were filed against Rajaratnam and prosecutors
closed that case in August 2002, FBI agent B.J. Kang has said.
The U.S. said in Khan’s 2002 sentencing memo that Rajaratnam
couldn’t be tied to illegal insider trading.  Second Probe  The government started looking at Khan a second time after
the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission opened a probe of
Rajaratnam in 2006. A parallel probe by the FBI in New York and
the  Manhattan  U.S. Attorney’s office, which started in March
2007, was stalled until Kang approached Khan in late 2007 and
asked her to become a cooperator, U.S. officials have said.  Khan agreed to begin working with the government in
November 2007 and helped investigators win authorization to
wiretap Rajaratnam’s mobile phone in March 2008, prosecutors
said.  The case is U.S. v. Khan, 09-cr-00991, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in Manhattan federal court
at   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 