-- Wynn Resorts’ Profit Trails View on Macau Dip; Dividend Doubled
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2013-02-01T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/wynn-resorts-profit-trails-estimates-dividend-is-doubled-1-.html
Wynn Resorts Ltd. (WYNN) , the casino company
controlled by billionaire  Steve Wynn , posted fourth-quarter
profit that fell short of analysts’ estimates as business in
Macau declined. The company doubled its dividend.  Profit excluding some items totaled $1.17 a share in the
quarter, the Las Vegas-based company said yesterday in a
 statement . Analysts were projecting $1.27, the average of 22
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  The casino operator is struggling to adjust to a decline in
high-roller business at its Macau properties and a small
increase in mass-market play. So-called VIPs spent 6.6 percent
less at the tables, the company said, while other customers
boosted theirs by 1 percent. Competition from rivals such as  Las
Vegas Sands Corp. (LVS)  and  Galaxy Entertainment Group Ltd. (27)  was
fierce, according to Wynn, the company’s chief executive.  “Murder tough,” Wynn said on a conference call following
the release. “Those guys have blood in their eye.”  Wynn Resorts said it will double the quarterly  dividend  to
$1 a share, payable Feb. 28 to investors of record on Feb. 14.
The company also paid a special dividend of $7.50 a share in
November ahead of an increase in U.S. tax rates.  Wynn Resorts was little changed in extended trading. The
stock rose 1.4 percent to $125.22 yesterday in  New York  and
returned 11 percent in 2012, including dividends.  Fourth-quarter net income fell 41 percent to $111.4
million, or $1.10 a share, from $190.5 million, or $1.52 a
share, a year ago, when Macau was growing faster and  Las Vegas 
was bouncing back from a two-year slump. The company gets about
70 percent of its revenue from Macau, with the rest from  Nevada .  Rival Results  Fourth-quarter sales declined 4.1 percent to $1.29 billion,
the company said, beating the $1.27 billion average of analysts’
 estimates .  Las Vegas Sands this week reported better-than-expected
fourth-quarter sales on faster growth in gambling in Macau
following the opening of a new resort.  Wynn outlined steps he’s taking to combat the competition
in Macau, including a high-limit slots area to be completed
later this year and a $4 billion resort under construction on
the Cotai Strip. That property, which opens in 2016, will greet
visitors with air-conditioned gondola rides across a lake with
fountains, he said.  The 71-year-old billionaire also explained his vision for
“Urban Wynn” properties with high-end hotels and restaurants,
as well as casinos. The company is seeking licenses in
Philadelphia and  Boston . Wynn said he would like to build in
other cities, from  London  to Houston, should opportunities
become available.  The company is locked in a legal fight with Japanese
billionaire Kazuo Okada over its seizure of his 20 percent stake
in the company for a $1.9 billion promissory note payable in 10
years. Wynn Resorts said Okada made improper payments to
Philippine gaming regulators.  Okada, who is fighting the redemption in court, questioned
a donation the company made to a Macau university.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in  Los Angeles  at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  