-- Mystery Bank Heist Is Flashback to Berlin’s Murky Underworld
-- B y   J o s e p h   d e   W e c k
-- 2013-01-31T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/mystery-bank-heist-is-flashback-to-berlin-s-murky-underworld.html
A hidden tunnel, a fake Dutch
passport, and strewn contents of smashed up safe-deposit boxes
are among the clues confounding police in Berlin trying to solve
a bank heist that recalls the German capital’s past as a hotbed
of crime and espionage.  Police in the city, the scene of the infamous Sass
brothers’ bank raid in 1929 and a robbery at a Commerzbank AG
branch in 1995, said a group of criminals toiled in secret for
months from an adjacent underground garage. They dug a 45-meter
(147.6 feet) tunnel before breaking into the vault at a Berliner
Volksbank eG outlet in the Steglitz-Zehlendorf area last month.
The bank’s insurance arm is offering a maximum 25,000 euros
($33,710) for information leading to the recovery of the loot.  Adding to Berlin’s folklore of underground escapades, the
perpetrators probably used picks and shovels to dig out 120 tons
of earth and build the cavity, stabilized with props and
sidewalls three meters below the ground, and penetrated the
vault’s 80 centimeter-thick reinforced concrete back wall with a
water-cooled core drill, police said. They made off without a
trace after raiding more than 300 deposit boxes on the weekend
of Jan. 12.  “My first reaction when I saw the pictures of the tunnel
was hats off, good job,” said Fabian Remspecher, a construction
engineering specialist at Berlin’s Technical University. “It
must have taken them months and very good planning. My
colleagues and I can’t stop speculating about how they did it.”  ‘Professional Work’  Police are unable to assess the value of the stolen
property as the bank has no knowledge of the contents of the
raided deposit boxes.  The 1.5 meter-high and 1 meter-wide tunnel is “highly
professional work,” Berlin police spokesman Thomas Neuendorf
said in an interview.  Although made for professional use, core drilling machines
with a similar diameter to the one used in the robbery can be
bought for as little as  1,699 euros  on  EBay Inc. (EBAY) ’s website.  Three weeks after the robbery, police are no closer to
apprehending the culprits, whom the authorities believe to have
worked in a team of three or more. They have assigned seven
officers to a task-force working on the case full-time.  Members of the public have helped them produce a photo-fit
picture of one of the alleged robbers, garnering more than 150
leads.  While some of the information is “very promising,” the
“really hot lead” is still missing, Neuendorf said. “Most of
the victims are not billionaires, but ordinary savers who lost
cash and personal objects.”  Gain Intelligence  The vault, fitted with a steel door, bolts and a star
handle, was built to the “latest technological standards,”
Nancy Moench, a spokeswoman for Berliner Volksbank, said by
telephone.  Police are investigating whether one of the robbers may
have rented one of the boxes to gain intelligence. It’s possible
they had plans of the building, they said.  The annual rent for a safe-deposit box ranges from 45 to
175 euros per year, the Berliner Volksbank spokeswoman said.  The burglars lit fire to the tunnel’s entrance and the
vault to destroy evidence. Police also found cash and medals in
opened safe-deposit boxes, indicating the burglars didn’t have
the time or space to take everything.  “Berlin has a long tradition when it comes to the
underworld and the underground,” said Dietmar Arnold, the
chairman of Berliner Unterwelt, a group that uncovers
subterranean structures in the city.  Tunnel Tales  “That they managed to dig this tunnel without anyone
noticing really is quite an achievement,” Arnold said. “It
must have taken them months to do it. Just to dump the earth
alone must have taken at least 260 trips. I think the chances
that someone saw something are very big.”  Berlin, a favored location in Cold War spy novels, is
steeped in tunnel tales dating back to the  Weimar Republic .  On the eve of the Great Depression in 1929, brothers Franz
and Erich Sass built a tunnel to a Berlin bank safe-room and
took off with booty of  more than two million Reichsmark . While
police failed to collect enough evidence to arrest them, the
brothers were celebrated by the press as master thieves and
Robin Hood figures who allegedly slipped cash into poor people’s
hands.  Documented in at least three feature films, the Sass
brothers’ escapade was copied in 1995 by a group of gangsters
who took hostages in a Commerzbank branch. The burglars fled
through a 50-meter tunnel after stealing at least 5.3 million
deutsche Marks ($3.67 million) in ransom and raided about 200
safe-deposit boxes, according to a 2008 report in  Tagesspiegel .  Nazi Camp  While most of the Commerzbank burglars were arrested within
weeks of the robbery, the Sass brothers paraded their wealth and
invited reporters to champagne press conferences until Danish
police arrested them in 1934. After being handed over to German
authorities, they were shot dead in 1940 on their arrival at a
Nazi death camp,  according  to  Der Spiegel .  The  Berlin Wall , erected in 1961 to separate West Berlin
from the communist German  Democratic Republic , also sparked a
wave of amateur tunnel building. Of 74 shafts dug deep into the
ground, 14 became escape routes for about 300 refugees fleeing
communist rule and the Stasi secret police, according to
 Berliner Unterwelten .  It wasn’t long before border police put a stop to the
subterranean activities.  Spy Network  “The Stasi had a very good spy-network and found out about
most tunnels,” said Dietmar Arnold, Berliner Unterwelt’s
chairman. “About 600 people were arrested and once they started
using tunnel location sensors in the 1970s, there was no way
out.”  The Nazis also built a vast underground transport network
to revamp Berlin into “Germania,”  Adolf Hitler ’s vision for
the would-be capital of the  Third Reich .  At the end of World War II, Hitler used an underground
stairway tunnel to reach the Berlin bunker where he lived and
worked before committing suicide in 1945, as the Red Army closed
in on the Nazi German capital’s center. Parts of the Hitler
bunker complex remain but have been sealed off and aren’t
accessible to the public.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph de Weck in Berlin at 
 jdeweck@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  