-- Zimbabwe Reaches Rates Accord With Barclays, Standard
-- B y   G o d f r e y   M a r a w a n y i k a   a n d   B r i a n   L a t h a m
-- 2013-01-31T15:45:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-31/zimbabwe-reaches-rates-accord-with-barclays-standard.html
The  Reserve Bank  of Zimbabwe and the
Bankers’ Association of Zimbabwe, whose members include the
local units of  Barclays Plc (BARC)  and  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN) , have
reached an agreement to cap  interest rates  in the country,
Governor Gideon Gono said.  The maximum lending rate that can be charged by banks will
be 12.5 percentage points above the banks’ average cost of
financing, Gono said in a monetary policy statement in Harare,
the capital, today. The cost of financing their own borrowings
is between 1 percent and 7 percent for Zimbabwean banks and they
currently charge rates of as much as 25 percent.  “After 75 days of negotiating between the central bank and
the banking sector we finally have an agreement that will
substantially reduce banking charges,” he said.  Earlier this month the central bank and 23 banks drew up a
draft agreement that lending rates could not be more than 10
percentage points above the companies’ funding costs with
further talks planned.  “I did not want to regulate, but there’s been an agreement
between the central bank and the Bankers’ Association,” Finance
Minister  Tendai Biti  told a Confederation of Zimbabwe Industries
meeting today in Harare.  Further reforms, currently before Zimbabwe’s Justice
Ministry, will include a banking ombudsman to monitor interest
rates charged by banks in the southern African nation. Banks
have been earning as much as 75 percent of their income from
non-interest income, Biti said.  Inflation Dependence  Calls to Barclays Plc and  Standard Chartered ’s units in
Harare weren’t answered today outside normal banking hours.
George Guvamatanga, president of the association, didn’t answer
a call made to his mobile phone.  Biti promised “comprehensive reforms” to compel banks to
play a “developmental role” in Zimbabwe.  “It’s taken months and years for businesses to wean
themselves from the breast of hyperinflation,” he said.“They
have continued with the mindset that you can have returns of
1,000 percent in a U.S. dollar environment.”  Zimbabwe abandoned its currency in Feb. 2009 after
inflation accelerated to an estimated 500 billion percent in
2008, according to the  International Monetary Fund . The country
uses a “multi-currency regime” using dollars, the British
pound, South African rand, the euro and the Botswana pula.  The pressure to lower interest rates comes after Biti said
in November that the country could amend its banking laws after
central bank attempts to restart the country’s capital markets
by selling Treasury bills for the first time since 2008 were
shunned by financial institutions.  A decade-long recession ended in 2009 when neighboring
countries forced President  Robert Mugabe  and Prime Minister
 Morgan Tsvangirai  to end a political dispute by forming a
coalition government.  South Africa’s  Standard Bank Group Ltd. (SBK)  also has a unit in
in Zimbabwe. Locally-based banks include  CBZ Holdings Ltd. (CBZ) ,
Kingdom Ltd. and ZB Bank (Pvt) Ltd.  Other African countries have sought to reduce lending rates
by banks in recent months. On Dec. 21 Zambia capped lending
rates at 18.25 percent for banks including a unit of London-
based Barclays.  NI AFRICA
NI AFRICAX
NI AME
NI BNK
NI BUSINESS
NI CONS
NI COS
NI EM
NI EUROPE
NI FIN
NI FND
NI FRONTIER
NI GOV
NI INSURANCE
NI LAW
NI MARKETS
NI SADC
NI SAFRI
NI UK
NI ZIMB  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Latham in Johannesburg at 
 blatham@bloomberg.net ;
Godfrey Marawanyika in Harare at 
 gmarawanyika@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net ;
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  