-- 
Manchester City Beats Norwich 5-1 to Keep Five-Point Premier League Lead

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r
-- 
2011-12-03T19:58:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-03/manchester-city-beats-norwich-5-1-to-keep-five-point-premier-league-lead.html
Manchester City defeated Norwich 5-1
to preserve its perfect home record and its five-point lead at
the top of English soccer’s Premier League.  Manchester United ,
Tottenham, Chelsea and Arsenal also won.  Sergio Aguero ’s 13th goal of the season opened the scoring
for City in the 32nd minute followed by second-half goals for
Samir Nasri,  Yaya Toure ,  Mario Balotelli  and Adam Johnson. Steve
Morison’s header gave the visitors a consolation goal.  City has 38 points, while Manchester United, which won 1-0
at Aston Villa, is five points back. Spurs, which beat Bolton 3-
0 at home, has 31, with Chelsea in fourth on 28 points after a
3-0 win at Newcastle. Arsenal leapfrogged Newcastle into fifth
with a 4-0 win at Wigan.  “It was not easy, because it was only 1-0 in the first
half,” City manager  Roberto Mancini  told the British Broadcast
Corp. “Norwich defended with all their players behind the
ball.”  While Morison had several Norwich chances in the first
half, Aguero could have scored several for City, which has won
all seven of its home games this season. Nasri’s free kick
eluded Canary’s goalkeeper John Ruddy. Toure scored with a low
shot before Balotelli knocked the ball in with his shoulder.
Johnson closed out City’s scoring from 15 yards out.  Blackburn beat Swansea 4-2 at home to move off the bottom
of the table, and Queens Park Rangers drew 1-1 with West Brom in
the day’s other matches.  Injuries  United’s Phil Jones scored his first goal for the club
since joining earlier this year. The 20th-minute strike held up
against Villa in a match that saw injuries to United striker
 Javier Hernandez  as well as the home side’s goalkeeper Shay Given and winger Jermaine Jenas.  Hernandez has torn ankle ligaments and will mess three to
four weeks, United manager Alex Ferguson told the BBC.  In north  London , Spurs took the lead in the seventh minute
on a Gareth Bale goal. Shortly after, Bolton was reduced to 10
men when Gary Cahill was sent off for taking down Scott Parker.
 Aaron Lennon  and Jermain Defoe scored in the second half.  “We played some great football although I think the
sending off was harsh,” Spurs manager Harry Redknapp said. “I
couldn’t believe it when the red card came out.”  Chelsea got goals from Didier Drogba,  Salomon Kalou  and
 Daniel Sturridge  to defeat Newcastle. Newcastle’s Tim Krul saved
a Frank Lampard penalty before Drogba’s header put the visitors
ahead. Kalou scored in the 88th minute and Sturridge netted in
injury time. Newcastle complained that  David Luiz  should have
been sent off by referee Mike Dean in the fourth minute for a
foul on Demba Ba, but the official gave the Chelsea defender a
yellow card.  Four Goals  Arsenal won by its largest margin this season as Mikel Arteta scored his third goal since he transferred from Everton.
Wigan keeper Ali Al-Habsi was unable to keep his long shot out
in the 28th minute, and then Thomas Vermaelen’s goal a minute
later broke the game open. Gervinho and Robin van Persie scored
in the second half.  “We controlled the game and could have scored more,”
Arsenal manager Arsene Wenger told the  BBC . “There is a
difference between the team at the start of the season and now
and we can still improve. Robin van Persie was exceptional.”  Blackburn got its second league win of the season as
Ayegbeni Yakubu accounted for all four goals. He scored in the
20th, 45th, and 57th minutes and then got an 82nd minute
penalty. The victory pushes Blackburn up to 18th, a point behind
Wolverhampton and Sunderland.  In west London, QPR took the first half lead on Heidar Helguson’s header, but missed a chance for its second league
home win of the season when  Shane Long  evened the score in the
81st minute.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  