-- 
Apple Loses Bid for Order in Effort to Block Samsung Galaxy

-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t   a n d   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 
2011-12-03T18:03:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-03/apple-loses-bid-for-court-order-in-effort-to-block-samsung-galaxy-sales.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  lost a request for a court
order in its bid to block sales of Samsung Electronics Co.’s 4G
smartphone and Galaxy Tab 10.1 tablet computer, according to a
ruling that was posted on a court docket and then removed.  The iPad maker, in its lawsuit filed in federal court in
San Jose,  California , sought an order blocking Samsung from
selling its Galaxy line of mobile devices products in the U.S.
based on claims they violate Apple patents. The lawsuit is part
of a legal battle between the companies being fought in 10
countries.  Samsung said in an e-mailed statement that the ruling
confirms its long-held view that Apple’s arguments lack merit.  “In particular, the court has recognized that Samsung has
raised substantial questions about the validity of certain of
Apple’s design patents,” according to the statement. “We are
confident that we can demonstrate the distinctiveness of
Samsung’s mobile devices when the case goes to trial next
year.”  The two companies have filed at least 30 lawsuits against
each other, according to Samsung. The conflict began in April,
when Apple filed the  San Jose  lawsuit claiming the Suwon, South
Korean company’s Galaxy devices copied the iPhone and iPad.  ‘Blatant Copying’  “It’s no coincidence that Samsung’s latest products look a
lot like the iPhone and iPad, from the shape of the hardware to
the user interface and even the packaging,”  Kristin Huguet , a
spokeswoman for for Cupertino, California-based Apple, said
today in an e-mail. “This kind of blatant copying is wrong and,
as we’ve said many times before, we need to protect Apple’s
intellectual property when companies steal our ideas.”  According to the court docket in San Jose, the ruling,
which was posted temporarily in error late yesterday, was later
filed under seal.  The suits between the companies are made more complex by
the their relationship: Samsung is the second-largest component
supplier for Apple and gets about 7.6 percent of its total
revenue from selling memory chips, displays and other components
for the iPhone and iPad, according to Bloomberg data.  The case is Apple Inc. v.  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) ,
11-01846, U.S. District Court, Northern District of California
(San Jose).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net ;
Edvard Pettersson in  Los Angeles  at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  