-- 
Arab League Bans Travel for 19 Syria Officials Amid Violence

-- B y   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r
-- 
2011-12-04T15:33:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-03/arab-league-bans-travel-for-19-officials-from-syria-where-two-dozen-die.html
The  Arab League  ordered a freeze on
the assets of 19 Syrian officials, a ban on their travel and a
reduction in flights to the nation as security forces loyal to
President Bashar al-Assad battled protesters and army defectors.  Seventeen people were killed in fighting today, Al-Arabiya
television reported, citing anti-government activists. Some of
the 25 people killed yesterday died in fighting between security
forces and rebels that began in a city near the Turkish border,
 Al Jazeera  said, also citing activists.  Assad faces growing economic and political pressure to end
a crackdown against protests that began in mid-March, inspired
by movements that toppled leaders in Tunisia,  Egypt  and  Libya .
The violence risks moving  Syria  closer to civil war as military
personnel defect and take up arms against the government.  “As Arabs we’re concerned that if this situation persists
events will escape our control,” Qatari Prime Minister  Sheikh
Hamad  bin Jasim Al Thani told reporters yesterday.  The travel ban and flight reduction will go ahead if Syria
doesn’t comply today with an Arab League plan for releasing
political prisoners and admitting international monitors.
“We’re waiting for a response,” Sheikh Hamad said.  Syrian officials are negotiating with the Arab League on
allowing the observers in, Foreign Ministry spokesman Jihad
Makdissi told reporters today in Damascus. He said messages were
being exchanged over a deal that would also preserve Syrian
interests and sovereignty.  Travel Ban  Maher al-Assad, the president’s brother, and businessman
 Rami Makhlouf , a cousin of Assad, are among those who won’t be
allowed to travel in Arab League states and whose financial
assets in those nations will be frozen, the league said in a
statement in the Qatari capital yesterday after a meeting of the
group’s foreign ministers.  Half of  air travel  to and from Syria and Arab League states
will be cut starting Dec. 15, the statement said.  Syrian Interior Minister Mohamad Ibrahim al-Shaar called
the Arab League decisions “unfair” and said at a police
graduation ceremony yesterday that the measures serve U.S. and
Israeli interests, state-run SANA news agency reported.  He said Syria’s campaign to arrest “armed terrorist
groups” continues, according to SANA. Syrian officials have
said their crackdown is targeting foreign-backed Muslim radicals
bent on destabilizing the country.  ‘Economic War’  Syria’s Foreign Minister Walid Al-Muallem on Nov. 29 called
Arab League sanctions against his country, which were adopted on
Nov. 27, a declaration of “economic war.” They included a halt
to dealings with the central bank.  The UN Human Rights Council’s independent commission of
inquiry last week said its probe found that Syrian military and
security forces had committed “gross violations of human
rights.” The commission, which interviewed 223 “victims and
witnesses,” said it is “gravely concerned that crimes against
humanity have been committed” throughout Syria.  The UN estimates that at least 4,000 people have been
killed since the start of the protests, while human-rights
activists put the figure at more than 4,500.  Arab League measures follow U.S. and European sanctions.  Syria’s $60 billion economy, which grew 5.5 percent in
2010, may shrink 2 percent this year, according to the
 International Monetary Fund , or at least 5 percent, according to
the  Institute of International Finance . The government expects
growth of 1 percent, Finance Minister Mohammad Al-Jleilati said
in September.  Economic Sanctions  The economic sanctions are the first the Arab League has
imposed on a member state since its formation in 1945. In 1979,
the league suspended Egypt’s membership after President  Anwar Sadat  signed a peace agreement with  Israel . It reinstated the
North African nation in 1989.  Assad, who inherited power from his father in 2000, has
moved to ease Syria’s economic isolation and encourage foreign
investment. He had encouraged private industry in Syria’s state-
dominated economy to provide long-term financing for development
and economic reforms.  Banque Saudi Fransi (BSFR) , a Saudi lender part-owned by  Credit
Agricole SA (ACA) , said on Nov. 26 that it will sell its 27 percent
stake in the Bemo Saudi Fransi Syria bank, citing “the
financial risks” in the country.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donna Abu-Nasr in Manama at 
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  