-- 
Asia Currencies Advance on Central Bank Action to End Europe’s Debt Crisis

-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 
2011-12-03T01:09:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-03/asia-currencies-advance-on-central-bank-action-to-end-europe-s-debt-crisis.html
Asian currencies completed their
first weekly advance since October after joint efforts by
monetary authorities to tackle  Europe ’s debt crisis bolstered
sentiment toward higher-yielding assets.  The Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia Dollar  Index  reached the
highest level in more than two weeks yesterday after six central
banks led by the  Federal Reserve  agreed on Nov. 30 to reduce
emergency borrowing costs for dollars. The yuan gained for a
second day yesterday after the People’s Bank of China cut
lenders’ reserve-requirement ratios for the first time since
2008.  The won strengthened 2.9 percent this week to 1,131.30 per
dollar, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Malaysia’s
ringgit climbed 2.6 percent to 3.1205, while  Thailand ’s baht and
 India ’s rupee jumped 2 percent to 30.80 and 51.2063,
respectively. Global funds bought $2.4 billion more South Korean,
Taiwanese and Thai equities than they sold this week, exchange
data show.  “Market players have welcomed moves by the central banks,
which is improving sentiment,” said Kozo Hasegawa, a trader at
Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corp. in Bangkok. “We are seeing some
fund inflows into the region, supporting the currencies.”  The premium banks pay to borrow dollars overnight from
central banks will fall by half a percentage point to 50 basis
points, the Fed said. The Fed coordinated the move with the
 European Central Bank  and monetary authorities in Canada,
Switzerland, Japan and the U.K.  Boosting Growth  The won posted its first weekly gain since October after
euro-area finance ministers agreed to expand the capacity of a
regional bailout fund on Nov. 29. The same day,  South Korea 
reported its biggest current-account  surplus  in a year.  “Global coordinated actions, combined with favorable
economic data, triggered some risk-taking this week,” said
Byeon Ji Young, a currency analyst at Woori Futures Co. in  Seoul .  The baht had its biggest weekly advance since July after
the Thai central bank signaled it will boost economic growth by
easing monetary policy as needed. The Bank of Thailand cut its
benchmark one-day bond repurchase rate by 25 basis points to
3.25 percent on Nov. 30.  China ’s yuan strengthened 0.24 percent this week to 6.3597
per dollar, according to the China Foreign Exchange Trade System.
The People’s Bank of China raised its daily reference rate by
0.07 percent to 6.3310 per dollar yesterday, the strongest level
since Nov. 14.  Elsewhere, the Philippine peso appreciated 1.5 percent this
week to 43.27 per dollar, Taiwan’s dollar advanced 1 percent to
NT$30.16 and Indonesia’s rupiah was unchanged at 9,055.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  