-- 
AT&T, Sprint Sued by Customers Over Carrier IQ Tracking Software

-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 
2011-12-03T05:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-03/at-t-sprint-mobile-phone-users-sue-over-carrier-iq-tracking-software.html
AT&T Inc. (T) ,  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S) ,  Apple
Inc. (AAPL)  and  T-Mobile USA  were sued by mobile phone customers who
claim that Carrier IQ Inc. tracking software installed on their
phones violates U.S. wiretapping and computer fraud laws.  The lawsuit cites a YouTube report by a technology blogger
that purported to show that Carrier IQ software collects
information on phone users’ locations, applications and Web
browsing and even the keys they press. Four consumers filed a
complaint yesterday in federal court in Wilmington, Delaware,
seeking to block the carriers and phone makers from using the
software.  Carrier IQ software logs user activity and runs in the
background of mobile devices. After the YouTube report, the U.S.
Senate Judiciary Committee contacted the company seeking
information and alleging that the software may violate federal
privacy laws, according to a copy of the complaint supplied by
David Straite, an attorney for the plaintiffs. The filing of the
lawsuit couldn’t be confirmed yesterday through electronic court
records.  AT&T and Sprint, the second- and third-largest U.S.
wireless providers, said in e-mailed statements on Dec. 1 that
the software data is used to improve service performance. Apple
stopped supporting Carrier IQ in most products and will remove
it completely in a future software update,  Natalie Harrison , an
Apple spokeswoman, said in a Dec. 1 e-mail.  Punitive Damages  The customers who sued seek compensatory and punitive
damages on behalf of all others whose devices contain the so-
called rootkit software from  Mountain View , California-based
Carrier IQ, which is also named as a defendant in the suit. The
software is currently installed on 150 million phones worldwide,
according to the complaint.  Violations of the federal wiretap laws, which prohibit
willful interception of wire or electronic communication, can
result in damages of $100 a day per violation, according to the
complaint.  Carol Roos, a spokeswoman for Dallas-based AT&T, declined
to comment on the lawsuit.  Tom Neumayr, a spokesman for Cupertino, California-based
Apple; Leigh Horner, a spokeswoman for Overland Park, Kansas-
based Sprint Nextel; and  T-Mobile USA (DTE)  representatives didn’t
immediately return calls seeking comment after regular business
hours yesterday. Carrier IQ spokeswoman Mira Woods didn’t
immediately respond to an e-mailed request for comment.  In a statement Nov. 16, Carrier IQ said its software is
designed to improve user experience and is embedded in devices
by manufacturers along with other diagnostic tools. The company
also says it doesn’t sell personal subscriber information to
third parties.  The case is Pacilli v. Carrier IQ, U.S. District Court,
District of Delaware (Wilmington).  Related News and Information:  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in  San Francisco  at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  