-- 
Latin America Forms Bloc Without U.S., Canada

-- B y   D a n i e l   C a n c e l   a n d   C h a r l i e   D e v e r e u x
-- 
2011-12-04T03:33:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-03/latin-america-forms-bloc-without-u-s-canada.html
(Corrects to include full name, title of Chavez in third
paragraph.)  Latin American and Caribbean
countries signed the “declaration of Caracas” today in
 Venezuela  to formalize the creation of the Community of Latin
American and Caribbean States, an economic and political bloc
that excludes the U.S. and Canada.  Leaders and officials from 33 countries approved the
declaration that pledges to improve ties in the region.  The Celac, as it is known, which Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez says fulfills the dreams of  Simon Bolivar  and other
liberators in the hemisphere, will seek to boost regional trade
and integration and may create an international reserve fund to
protect its members against the global economic crisis.  “We’re laying the foundation stone for integration,” said
Chavez, who postponed the same summit in Venezuela by five
months after undergoing surgery to remove a cancerous tumor.
“Only unity will make us free.”  While leaders from countries critical of the U.S.’s foreign
policy, including Cuba, Nicaragua and Venezuela, have said they
expect the  Celac  to replace the Washington-based  Organization of
American States , other members from Mexico to Chile see it as a
complementary organization.  Caribbean,  Latin America   “This is in our interest, not against the OAS or
Iberoamerican Summit, this is integration between Latin America
and the Caribbean,” said  Juan Manuel Santos , the president of
Colombia. “I laud the meeting as a step in the right direction
for Latin America.”  While the U.S. refrained from commenting, Chinese President
Hu Jintao sent Chavez a letter congratulating the region for the
creation of the group.  “I’d like to send my warmest congratulations,” the letter
said, according to an e-mail from Venezuela’s Foreign Ministry.
“China is always looking to approach its ties with Latin
America and the Caribbean from a strategic perspective and is
willing to deepen dialogue, exchanges and cooperation.”  Chile  will assume the presidency of the group during its
first year and the next summit will be held in Santiago at the
end of 2012.  Presidents from  Costa Rica , El Salvador, Guayana and Peru
were unable to attend the Celac meetings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Cancel in Caracas at 
 dcancel@bloomberg.net 
Charlie Devereux in Caracas at 
 cdevereux3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  