-- 
Biden Says Mideast Revolutions Seek Political, Economic Freedom

-- B y   E m r e   P e k e r
-- 
2011-12-03T12:52:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-03/biden-says-mideast-revolutions-seek-political-economic-freedom.html
U.S. Vice President  Joe Biden  said
protesters that toppled leaders in the  Middle East  and North
Africa this year seek to bring political and economic freedom to
their countries.  Popular uprisings that succeeded in Tunisia, Egypt and
 Libya , as well as the dissent against President Bashar al-Assad
in Syria, require risk, initiative, determination and “a
unifying ideal,” Biden said today at the Global Entrepreneurship
Summit in Istanbul.  The world is at a historic “inflection point” and to
prevent the sectarian violence that marred it for centuries,
political systems are needed based on the rule of law as well as
the protection of basic rights, including freedom of speech and
religion, Biden said.  “They aim to do more than merely change the government,”
Biden said. “They also want to end practices like
authoritarianism, corruption and stifling of freedom of
expression -- practices that make political and economic freedom
impossible,” he said. The protesters “are seeking to build
something far larger than just something for themselves.”  Countries should provide an environment of freedom to
nurture creative minds and improve their nation’s wealth, Biden
said.  The U.S. isn’t immune to the global financial crisis, Biden
said, adding that he still is “optimistic” even amid the
“difficult” economic times.  Turkish Deputy Prime Minister Ali Babacan, who leads the
government’s economy team and spoke at the summit before the
vice president, said the world lacks political-decision
mechanisms to resolve economic problems, and blamed “some”
European countries for leadership shortcomings.  Biden said during his visit to  Turkey  he discussed a range
of issues that are of mutual concern to both countries,
including the Obama administration’s support of Turkey’s
relations with  Israel , its stance against Syria, operations in
Iraq and  Afghanistan , and combating the Kurdistan Workers’
Party, or PKK.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emre Peker in Ankara at 
 epeker2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  