-- 
Canadian Dollar Rallies Most in Six Weeks After Central-Bank Swaps Move

-- B y   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o
-- 
2011-12-03T05:00:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-03/canadian-dollar-rallies-most-in-six-weeks-after-central-bank-swaps-move.html
Canada ’s dollar staged its biggest
five-day rally since October after central banks including the
Bank of Canada took steps this week to make it cheaper for
lenders to borrow dollars during emergencies.  The Canadian dollar touched a two-week high yesterday as
speculation about a possible European lending plan involving the
 International Monetary Fund  buoyed demand for higher-yielding
assets. Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney  is forecast to keep
his key  interest rate  at 1 percent on Dec. 6, three days before
European Union leaders meet in Brussels to discuss proposals
aimed at progressing toward fiscal union.  “What is going on in Canada is pretty much irrelevant in
the context of what will go on in  Europe  next week,”  Shaun Osborne , chief foreign-exchange strategist at Toronto-Dominion
Bank in Toronto, said in a telephone interview yesterday. “No
one expects rates to budge for quite some time. People will move
on pretty quickly and refocus on Europe. The big day is Friday,
when everyone is waiting for a rabbit to be pulled out of the
hat.”  The loonie, as the currency is also known for the image of
the aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, gained 2.6 percent this week
to C$1.0195 per U.S. dollar in Toronto, its biggest weekly climb
since Oct 14. Canada’s dollar, the world’s seventh-most-traded
currency, declined 1.6 percent in November. One Canadian dollar
buys 98.09 U.S. cents.  Riskier Assets Soar  Stocks and riskier assets such as commodities soared Dec. 1
after central banks led by the  Federal Reserve  agreed to cut the
premium banks pay to borrow dollars overnight from central banks
by half a percentage point to 50 basis points. A basis point is
equal to 0.01 percentage point. The so-called dollar swap lines
will be extended by six months to Feb. 1, 2013. The  European
Central Bank  and its counterparts from Switzerland,  Japan  and
the U.K. were also part of the coordinated response.  “Broad European market concerns are still there; they have
just been sidelined for now by the intervention,” Abdullah Karatash, head of U.S. fixed-income credit trading at Natixis SA
in  New York , said yesterday in a note to clients.  Canadian  government bonds  fell this week, pushing the
benchmark 10-year yield up two basis points to 2.12 percent. It
decreased to a record low 1.99 percent on Oct. 4. The price of
the 3.25 percent securities maturing in June 2021 declined 21
cents to C$109.73.  Carney will probably leave the overnight policy rate at 1
percent on Dec. 6, according to a Bloomberg  survey  of 21
economists. Carney said in Montreal Nov. 23 that he can be
flexible in curbing inflation back to the bank’s 2 percent
target.  Interest Rates  Economists predicted no changes to Canadian interest rates
until October 2012 at the earliest, even with inflation having
exceeded 2 percent for 11 straight months. The Fed has pledged
to hold rates steady until at least mid-2013, while the ECB cut
borrowing costs this month.  Canadian employment unexpectedly fell for a second month in
November, the first time since the 2009 recession that the
economy registered back-to-back job losses.  Payrolls fell by a net 18,600 last month, following
October’s 54,000 drop that was the largest since February 2009,
 Statistics Canada  said yesterday in Ottawa. The  unemployment
rate  also rose for a second month, to 7.4 percent from 7.3
percent. None of the 23 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
predicted a job loss, and the median estimate was for the
unemployment rate to be unchanged.  European Meeting  European leaders will meet in Brussels on Dec. 9 in an
attempt to contain a debt crisis that drove yields on Spanish
and Italian debt to euro-era records last month. A European
proposal to channel central-bank loans through the IMF may
deliver as much as 200 billion euros ($270 billion) to fight the
debt crisis, two people familiar with the negotiations said
yesterday.  “A lot has been dropped on the shoulders of EU policy
makers in terms of expectations,”  Stewart Hall , senior currency
strategist at Royal  Bank of Canada , said in a telephone
interview yesterday from Toronto. “The problem is that the
markets are very much focused on the quick fix when European
problems don’t lend themselves to that quick fix.”  French President Nicolas Sarkozy said Nov. 30 the euro area
must converge economically, and German  Chancellor Angela Merkel 
said yesterday the bloc needs a fiscal union, boosting optimism
the two are nearing an agreement.  “The market wants to see euro bonds and the European
Central Bank positioning itself as the funder of last resort,
and anything that doesn’t involve those two components is going
to fall pretty flat in terms of market response,” Hall said.
“Unfortunately, this is a multi-decade process.”  The loonie has strengthened 1.4 percent in the past month,
according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes, a
gauge of 10 developed-nation currencies. The greenback and yen
each has gained 2.1 percent.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Frederic Tomesco in Montreal at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  