-- 
China Non-Manufacturing Contracts as Curbs on Loans, Property Damp Demand

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-12-03T02:15:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-03/china-non-manufacturing-contracts-as-curbs-on-loans-property-damp-demand.html
China ’s  non-manufacturing  industries
contracted in November after the government’s curbs on property
and lending damped demand.  A purchasing managers’ index for November fell to 49.7 from
57.7 the previous month, the China Federation of Logistics and
Purchasing said on its  website  today. A reading above 50
indicates expansion. The gauge covers industries including
construction, retail, and property.  China’s central bank reduced lenders’ reserve requirements
on Nov. 30 for the first time since 2008, ahead of a report that
showed manufacturing contracted for the first time in almost
three years. Premier  Wen Jiabao  has pledged to “fine-tune”
economic policies to sustain growth amid a deepening debt crisis
in  Europe  that threatens to trigger a global recession.  “Investment in infrastructure and real estate is playing a
smaller role in driving the economy,” Cai Jin, vice chairman of
the logistics federation, said in today’s statement.  Lu Ting, a Hong Kong-based economist with Bank of America       
Corp., describes the services PMI as low-quality data, subject  
to seasonal distortions and with much less ``predictive power'' 
than equivalent gauges for manufacturing. The services PMI has  
a pattern of dropping ``sharply'' each November, according to   
Lu.  A manufacturing  index  released this week by the federation
fell to 49.0 in November from 50.4 in October, the first
contraction since February 2009. A separate PMI released by HSBC
Holdings Plc and Markit Economics declined to 47.7, the lowest
level since March 2009.  The People’s Bank of China said Nov. 30 it will reduce
lenders’ reserve requirements by 50 basis points effective Dec.
5, a move that may add 350 billion yuan ($55 billion) to the
financial system, according to UBS AG.   To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Victoria Ruan in Beijing at 
 vruan1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  