-- 
China Softens Opposition to Adopting Legal Goal on Reducing Pollution

-- B y   K i m   C h i p m a n   a n d   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 
2011-12-03T15:05:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-03/china-softens-opposition-to-adopting-goal-on-reducing-pollution.html
China this week softened its
opposition to making a legally binding pledge to reduce its
greenhouse gas emissions, opening the possibility for a broader
international effort to fight  climate change .  The nation may be willing to accept a target on carbon-
dioxide emissions after 2020,  Su Wei , China’s lead climate
negotiator, said in an interview with Bloomberg on Nov. 29. He
told Reuters yesterday adopting a goal was a “possibility.”
China Daily on Dec. 2 quoted an analyst close to the government
saying preparations for a pledge on carbon were being
considered.  The comments suggest the government in Beijing is preparing
to break a deadlock with the U.S. over which country moves first
in cutting fossil fuel emissions blamed for damaging the
atmosphere. Previously, China has resisted any talk of taking on
a target of its own. The U.S. says it won’t make a binding
promise without action from  developing countries .  “We are definitely seeing some hints of softening from
China on this question of whether or not they’d be willing to
accept a binding commitment at some point in the future,” Jake Schmidt, international climate policy director for the New York-
based  Natural Resources Defense Council , said today in an
interview in Durban,  South Africa . “In the past they’ve never
been willing to say the words ‘binding commitment.’”  Durban Talks  Envoys from 190 countries at United Nations global warming
talks this week in Durban are working to develop further action
on climate after the Kyoto Protocol’s limits on emissions expire
next year. Kyoto imposed targets on industrial nations, leaving
developing ones, including China, with voluntary measures.  The U.S. never ratified Kyoto. Japan, Russia and  Canada  are
refusing to sign up to further commitments under Kyoto. The
European Union says it will only extend the pact if all other
nations agree to a “road map” pointing toward a new treaty
that would regulate emissions from both industrial and
developing countries.  China and other developing nations made non-binding pledges
to reduce emissions at the UN talks in Cancun last year, where
developed nations also made pledges that are voluntary. Su said
it’s too early to say whether China would accept legally binding
commitments after 2020.  In a meeting with environmental groups in Durban on Dec. 1,
the Chinese envoy said his nation may cap  carbon emissions  as
early as 2020, according to  Alden Meyer , a Washington-based
director of policy at the Union of Concerned Scientists who
attended the meeting.  ‘Constructive Signal’  “It’s a constructive signal from China,” Meyer said in an
interview. Meyer notes that China’s decision will depend on
progress made in the UN climate talks and Chinese economic
development.  Mandatory emissions targets would be required under the
EU’s proposal. The 27-nation bloc wants a deal by 2015 for all
nations that would be implemented by 2020 at the latest. Without
it, the EU said it won’t allow an extension of Kyoto. China said
that suggestion goes back on a plan set out in 2007, where the
EU said it would work on extending Kyoto.  China Daily  reported that Xu Huaqing, a researcher from the
Energy Research Institute, said that “it is more reasonable for
China to set a post-2020 target” on emissions.  Meyer said Su confirmed that remark in the meeting in
Durban. Officials from the Chinese delegation weren’t
immediately available to comment.  Xu’s organization is affiliated with the National
Development and Reform Commission, the government body that
oversees climate change issues in China.  Obama’s Position  President  Barack Obama  supported legislation to cap U.S.
emissions. That effort failed following opposition from
lawmakers from both parties and company executives who said
carbon limits would wreck the economy. The  U.S. Senate  has
rejected the Kyoto agreement on the grounds that it doesn’t
require cuts from  China  and other dveloping countries.  At the UN climate talks last year, China promised to lower
so-called carbon intensity 40 percent to 45 percent by 2020 from
2005 levels.  The measure, the amount of CO2 produced for every unit of
economic growth, has been praised as by environmentalists as an
important first step. Carbon intensity targets, which were also
pushed in the U.S. by former President  George W. Bush , aren’t as
stringent as capping emissions.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kim Chipman in Washington at 
 kchipman@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  