-- 
Equity Residential Agrees to Buy 26.5% Stake in Rival Archstone

-- B y   H u i - y o n g   Y u   a n d   B r i a n   L o u i s
-- 
2011-12-03T06:08:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-03/equity-residential-agrees-to-buy-26-5-stake-in-archstone-for-1-3-billion.html
Equity Residential (EQR) , the largest
publicly traded U.S. apartment landlord, agreed to buy 26.5
percent of closely held Archstone for $1.33 billion in cash to
gain a piece of a major rival as rental demand climbs.  The purchase would represent half of the stake held by  Bank
of America Corp. (BAC)  and  Barclays Plc (BARC) , Chicago-based Equity
Residential said in a statement late yesterday. The deal is
contingent on Archstone’s remaining significant owner, Lehman 
Brothers Holdings Inc., not exercising a right of first offer to 
buy the interest at the same price.  Bank of America and Barclays are selling the stake after
failing to reach an agreement with Lehman on a plan to unload
the entire business. The deal positions Equity Residential,
founded by billionaire  Sam Zell , to buy an interest in a
competitor with more than 400 apartment complexes across the
U.S., and potentially to influence its final ownership.  “The Archstone and Equity Residential portfolios are
highly complementary,” David Neithercut, Equity Residential’s
president and chief executive officer, said in the statement.
“In addition, since we believe that none of the current owners
of Archstone is likely to be a long-term owner, acquiring this
position allows us a role in determining, and perhaps even
expediting, the ultimate outcome regarding Archstone.”  The real estate investment trust would like to own the
entire company, Zell, Equity Residential’s chairman, said in an
interview with the Wall Street Journal.  $22 Billion Deal  Bank of America, Barclays and Lehman couldn’t agree on a
complete sale of Archstone because Lehman preferred to hold the
assets until a public offering, two people with knowledge of the
situation said in October. The now-defunct investment firm
acquired Englewood, Colorado-based Archstone with Tishman Speyer
Properties LP for about $22 billion in 2007. The debt taken on
in the purchase contributed to Lehman’s collapse in 2008 as
credit markets froze and property values tumbled.  Equity Residential wouldn’t be able to “cause any
decisions or actions” with respect to Archstone if its purchase
is completed, the company said. It would have approval rights
over decisions such as certain budgeting, financing, asset
purchase or sale moves.  Apartment owners are benefiting from increased demand for
home rentals as foreclosures mount and lenders tighten standards
for mortgages. U.S. vacancies fell to a five-year low in the
third quarter, enabling landlords to boost lease rates,
according to property-research company  Reis Inc. (REIS)  The rent gains
were led by San Jose,  California ;  San Francisco ; and  New York .  Equity Residential owns or has investments in 417
properties in 15 states and the District of Columbia. The REIT
is targeting Boston, New York,  Washington , south Florida,
southern California, San Francisco and Seattle for acquisitions
and development, according to its most recent quarterly report.
Archstone, which had 434 apartment complexes as of June 30,
operates in all of those areas.  Equity Residential expects the deal to close late in the
first quarter of 2012 if the right of first offer is declined
and closing conditions are met.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hui-yong Yu in  Seattle  at 
 hyu@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Louis in Chicago at 
 blouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  