-- 
Herman Cain Ends Bid for GOP Nomination

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   N e w k i r k   a n d   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s
-- 
2011-12-04T05:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-03/herman-cain-abandons-his-bid-for-2012-republican-presidential-nomination.html
Herman Cain  ended his campaign for
the Republican nomination for president in 2012, blaming media
attention to allegations of improper sexual conduct.  “I am suspending my presidential campaign,” the 65-year-
old former chief executive of Godfather’s Pizza Inc. said
yesterday at campaign headquarters in Atlanta. While maintaining
innocence, Cain said he made “mistakes in my life.”  “As false accusations continued, they have sidetracked and
distracted my ability to present solutions to the American
people,” said Cain.  Cain led some surveys in October, slipping to third place
in a Nov. 22 national poll released by Hamden, Connecticut-based
 Quinnipiac University  as former House Speaker  Newt Gingrich  rose
to take the lead. Cain returned home to Atlanta Dec. 2 for his
first face-to-face talk with his wife since the accusation of an
extramarital affair surfaced Nov. 28.  “I am at peace with my God,” he said. “I am at peace
with my wife, and she is at peace with me. And I am at peace
with my family and I am at peace with myself.”  Gingrich Boost  Cain’s exit narrows a Republican nominating contest that
has seen various contenders rise in national polls and, in most
cases, quickly fade. Gingrich, of  Georgia , has had the most
recent surge of support. Bloomberg News polls show he attracts
more support from Cain’s backers in the early voting states of
 Iowa  and  New Hampshire  than any other candidate.  Cain’s departure may hinder former Massachusetts Governor
Mitt Romney by eliminating a competitor for the backing of
social conservatives who regard him as too moderate on issues
such as abortion.  “The main beneficiary is the individual looking like the
conservative challenger to Romney, and that’s Gingrich,” said
Republican strategist  Greg Mueller , who is unaffiliated in the
nomination race. “What Romney wants is as many people in the
field as possible to diminish any kind of conservative
challenger surge, which is what we’re seeing now. The more
conservatives go as a majority to a candidate, the more of a
problem it is for Romney.”  Cain said he planned to endorse another candidate, and
vowed to remain a part of public life.  Cain’s Plan B  “I am not going to be silenced and I’m not going away.”
Running for president had been “Plan A,” he said. “Plan B”
will be to “continue to be a voice for the people.”  Gingrich  issued a statement  yesterday saying Cain “will
continue to be a powerful voice in the conservative movement for
years to come.” Former Utah Governor  Jon Huntsman , who is also
seeking the Republican nomination, said Cain “offered a unique
and valuable voice to the debate over how to reform our
country’s uncompetitive tax code and turn around the economy.”  Cain, with roots as a minister, radio host and food-company
executive, built his bid around his personality -- he
trademarked the phrase “The Hermanator Experience” -- and policy
proposals such as his “9-9-9” tax plan. The initiative would
have scrapped the current system and replace it with 9 percent
business and income taxes and a 9 percent national sales tax.  Republican rivals focused on voters and activists in the
early voting states of Iowa, New Hampshire and  South Carolina .
Cain traveled, promoting his book “This Is Herman Cain!,” in
states that have little initial influence on the nominating race
because their contests are later in the process. These included
his native Tennessee, Ohio, Texas and  Wisconsin .  Accusations against Cain started to surface in late October
from four women who said he harassed them sexually in the 1990s
when he was head of the National Restaurant Association. Ginger
White, an Atlanta woman, later announced she had had an
extramarital affair with Cain for more than 13 years.  White, who acknowledged having financial difficulties, said
she had accepted gifts of money from Cain, adding, “This was
not sex for cash.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Newkirk in Atlanta at 
 mnewkirk@bloomberg.net 
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in Washington at 
 jdavis159@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  