-- 
Geithner to Press Europe on Crisis Solution Ahead of EU Brussels Summit

-- B y   I a n   K a t z   a n d   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 
2011-12-03T05:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-03/geithner-to-press-europe-on-crisis-solution-ahead-of-eu-brussels-summit.html
U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  travels to Europe next week to press political leaders
and central bankers to stem the region’s worsening debt crisis.  Geithner will continue to push the Europeans for quicker
and more decisive action, a Treasury official said yesterday.
The U.S. has no plans to make bilateral loans to the
 International Monetary Fund  to help stem the crisis, said the
official, who declined to be identified as a condition for
holding a briefing with reporters in Washington.  Geithner will meet with French President Nicolas Sarkozy,
Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti  and European Central Bank
President  Mario Draghi  during his Dec. 6-8 trip, the Treasury
Department said in a statement yesterday. He will return to
 Washington  before European leaders hold a Dec. 9 summit in
Brussels.  The U.S. has been pressing European leaders to take
stronger action in the crisis, which has seen bailouts of
Greece, Ireland and Portugal and now threatens to engulf Italy
and Spain. Officials from the Treasury and the  Federal Reserve 
have said Europe also poses a risk to the U.S. recovery.  The IMF has ample resources of about $400 billion, the
Treasury official said. European finance ministers said this
week they would seek a greater role for the IMF alongside their
own bailout fund. Several countries including Brazil and Mexico
have said they are ready to help boost IMF resources.  Europe , IMF  Though Europe has been looking at providing bilateral loans
to the IMF, the main emphasis must be strengthening the so-
called firewall in the region, the Treasury official said. If
other countries make bilateral contributions it doesn’t have any
implications for the U.S., the official said.  “My sense is that the U.S. would not block it” if Europe
and emerging-market nations decide to increase IMF
contributions, said  Eswar Prasad , a senior fellow at the
Brookings Institution in Washington and a former IMF economist.  Christine Lagarde , the IMF’s managing director, has
indicated that the funds the IMF currently has available for
lending may not suffice should the global outlook worsen.  Geithner will meet Dec. 6 in Frankfurt with Draghi and
Bundesbank President Jens Weidmann. Later that day, he will talk
with German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  in Berlin.  The next day, he will meet in Paris with Sarkozy and French
Finance Minister  Francois Baroin  before traveling to Marseille
for discussions with  Spain ’s prime minister-elect, Mariano Rajoy, “who will be in France for other meetings,” the
Treasury said. Geithner will meet with Monti on Dec. 8 in Milan.
The Treasury official said President  Barack Obama  asked Geithner
to take the trip to Europe.  ‘Useful’  “It seems useful for the secretary to continue to press
European policy makers to take decisive action, though it’s not
clear they are ready to listen to his advice,” said  Phillip Swagel , who was an assistant secretary for economic policy in
the George W. Bush administration.  Geithner’s objective “is to reinforce the vital need for
European policy makers to come through with some substantive
policy steps” at the Dec. 9 summit, said  Mark Zandi , chief
economist of Moody’s Analytics Inc. “Financial markets will
rebel if policy makers appear to be punting again.”  A European proposal to channel central bank loans through
the IMF may deliver as much as 200 billion euros ($268 billion),
two people familiar with the negotiations said.  At a Nov. 29 meeting attended by Draghi, euro-area finance
ministers gave the go-ahead for work on the plan, said the
people, who declined to be named because the talks are at an
early stage. The need for a new crisis-containment tool emerged
as an effort to boost the 440 billion-euro rescue fund to 1
trillion euros fell short.  Recycle Funds  Under the proposal, national central banks would recycle
funds through the IMF, potentially to underwrite precautionary
lending programs for Italy or Spain, the two countries judged to
be the most vulnerable now, the people said.  The euro area’s 17 national central banks operate under the
ECB’s umbrella. Draghi on Dec. 1 hinted at a stepped-up crisis-
fighting role as long as governments move toward a “fiscal
compact” that ensures healthy public finances.  German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  laid out elements of that
strategy yesterday, calling for European treaty amendments to
create automatic, court-enforced sanctions on countries that
overstep limits of 3 percent of gross domestic product on
deficits and 60 percent of gross domestic product on debt.  “It’s Europe’s crisis,” Geithner said Nov. 15.
“Fundamentally, the resolution of this is going to depend on
the choices they make going forward. And we hope they make some
progress more quickly.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net ;
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  