-- 
Gillard’s Gay Marriage Conscience Vote Plan Backed by Ruling Labor party

-- B y   A n g u s   W h i t l e y   a n d   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 
2011-12-03T05:40:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-03/gillard-s-gay-marriage-conscience-vote-plan-wins-over-her-australian-party.html
Australian Prime Minister  Julia
Gillard ’s ruling Labor party supported her plan to allow
lawmakers to vote personally on whether to support gay marriage,
securing a political victory after months of slumping ratings.  Delegates attending the party’s conference in Sydney today
backed the proposal by Gillard, who opposes same-sex marriage,
to hold a conscience vote. In a separate vote, the Labor party
approved changing its official policy to support gay marriage.  “This is a deeply personal debate,” Gillard told
delegates. Many people “have been driven by religious and
philosophical views across the span of their lifetime, holding
those views very deeply and sincerely.”  The move is a boost to Gillard,  Australia ’s first female
prime minister, who overtook opposition leader  Tony Abbott  as
the nation’s preferred leader for the first time in six months
in an opinion poll last month. Kevin Rudd, whom Gillard replaced
as leader as leader in a late-night party coup in June 2010,
said Nov. 27 that Labor risks becoming a minority third party
unless it adopts organizational change at the conference.  “It’s an issue which tends to be divisive,” said Michael
McKinley, a lecturer in international relations at the
 Australian National University  in Canberra. “Gillard might
attract some support from those people who think she has at
least put it to a vote.”  Parliamentary Vote  Greens lawmaker  Adam Bandt  said today he will move
amendments to the Marriage Act in the  House of Representatives 
as soon as Parliament resumes, following the conference’s
decision to back a conscience vote on marriage equality. The
Greens hold the balance of power in the upper-house Senate.  The 184 delegates who opposed Gillard’s motion at the
conference were defeated by 208 supporters, according to the
televised results. The motion was seconded by Stephen Smith,
Australia’s defense minister.  The issue split her party and spurred entertainer  Elton John  to say at a Dec. 1 event in Sydney: “It’s about time
Australians got same-sex marriage together.”  Countries including  Spain , Argentina,  Canada ,  South Africa 
and Sweden, allow same-sex couples to marry, while others such
as the U.K. and some U.S. and Australian states allow civil
unions and registered partnerships.  The push within Labor to legalize gay marriage is being led
by gay Finance Minister  Penny Wong , who announced in August her
long-term partner was expected to give birth this month through
in vitro fertilization.  Personal Opposition  A motion proposed by Wong and Andrew Barr, deputy chief
minister of the Australian Capital Territory, for the  Labor
party  to change its policy, or so-called party platform, to
support gay marriage was passed by delegates on a vote by
voices. While that leaves Gillard’s personal opposition to such
unions at odds with her party’s official stance, it means the
party’s lawmakers won’t be forced to vote the proposal into law.  “It is this Labor government that removed discrimination
against same-sex couples in more than 80 areas of the law,”
Wong told delegates. “It is time to fully reflect this heritage
and these values in our platform.”  About 62 percent of Australians support same-sex marriage,
lobby group Australian Marriage Equality says, citing  Galaxy
Research  polling conducted 2009-11. The opposition Liberal-
National coalition opposes gay marriage.  Rising Support  Gillard’s support rose to 40 percent from 39 percent two
weeks earlier, her highest level since July, according to a
Newspoll survey of 1,143 people conducted Nov. 18-20. Support
for Abbott as preferred leader slipped 5 points to 35 percent,
his lowest standing in nine months, according to the poll
published by the Australian newspaper.  Labor trailed the Liberal-National coalition, with support
falling two points from a seven-month high to 30 percent,
according to the Newspoll.  The poll had a margin of error of plus or minus 3
percentage points. Support for the opposition rose 4 points to
48 percent, it said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Perth at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net ;
Angus Whitley in Sydney at o
 awhitley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  