-- 
Gilts Decline as Central-Bank Funding Move Damps Safety Demand

-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 
2011-12-03T07:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-03/gilts-decline-as-central-bank-funding-move-damps-safety-demand.html
U.K. gilts declined, pushing 30-year
yields higher for the first time in five weeks, as central banks
provided cheaper funding to ease strains in the financial
markets, and as the U.S. jobless rate unexpectedly fell.  Ten-year yields rose as investors unwound haven bids after
European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  signaled the
central bank could do more to fight the debt crisis if
governments pushed the euro area toward a fiscal union. The six
central banks, led by the  Federal Reserve , agreed on Nov. 30 to
cut the cost of providing dollar funding via swap agreements.
The pound rose against the dollar and the yen.  “The coordinated action by the central banks is the most
important development this week and it’s negative for safe
assets such as gilts,” said  Nick Stamenkovic , a fixed-income
strategist at RIA Capital Markets Ltd. in Edinburgh. “That,
together with the U.S. jobs data and gilt supply pressure, may
keep gilts on a back foot next week.”  The yield on 30-year gilts rose 13 basis points from Nov.
25, the biggest weekly gain since the period ended Oct. 14. Ten-
year gilt yields were little changed at 2.29 percent while the
rate on two-year notes declined eight basis points to 0.38
percent. It dropped to a record low of 0.36 percent on Dec. 1.  The Debt Management Office increased the amount of gilts it
planned to sell in the fiscal year ending in March by 6.8
percent to 178.9 billion pounds ($279 billion) as economic
growth slows. The adjustment came after Chancellor of the
Exchequer  George Osborne  said the  Office for Budget
Responsibility  had revised down its growth forecasts.  Sterling rose against the dollar for the first time in
three weeks, gaining 1 percent to $1.5587. It advanced 1.2
percent to 121.47 yen.  The pound has declined 3.5 percent in the past 12 months,
making it the third-worst performer after the Canadian and U.S.
dollars among 10 developed-market peers measured by Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Indexes.  European leaders will meet on Dec. 9 to discuss further
measures to stop the crisis from spreading as Germany and  France 
lead a push for closer economic ties among euro nations.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net ;
 David Goodman  in London at 
 dgoodman28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  