-- 
Gokarn Says RBI Can Defend Rupee With Capital Controls

-- B y   A n o o p   A g r a w a l
-- 
2011-12-03T09:57:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-03/gokarn-says-rbi-can-still-defend-rupee-with-capital-controls.html
(Corrects job title and company of Y.M. Deosthalee in final
paragraph.)  The  Reserve Bank  of  India  still has
tools such as strategic capital controls to arrest the rupee’s
slide, Deputy Governor Subir Gokarn said in Mumbai today.  The currency weakened 6.7 percent last month, the biggest
decline in almost two decades, touching a record low of 52.4550
per dollar on Nov. 25. It has lost almost 13 percent this year,
the worst performance among Asia’s 10 most-traded currencies,
even after strengthening 2 percent in the last two days.  “While the recent sharp rupee deprecation has in certain
quarters led to an assessment of helplessness in dealing with
the kind of global turbulence we are seeing, our strategic
behavior should not be misconstrued as an inability to deal with
it,” Gokarn said in a pre-recorded televised speech. “We do
have the instruments to do this in the form of strategic  capital
controls  which can be used to enhance the supply of foreign
exchange.”  The rupee’s decline is adding to concern Indian policy
makers will be unable to cool inflation which has stayed above
the central bank’s 9 percent target all year. Foreign-currency
 reserves  dropped $14 billion last month to $270 billion,
official data show, a sign the central bank sold dollars to stem
losses. Intervention isn’t “an easy judgment” and the RBI has
no target  exchange rate  for the rupee, Gokarn said on Nov. 22.  “Our broad objective is to find a balance between the
short-term risk of the rupee spiraling downwards and the medium-
term risk of a loss of confidence in our ability to meet our
external obligations,” Gokarn said today.  ‘Lack of Liquidity’  On Nov. 23, the central bank raised the limit on  interest
rates  paid by the nation’s companies on some maturing overseas
borrowings and also relaxed rules for currency swaps in an
attempt to stem the rupee’s slide. The currency rose 0.6 percent
the following day.  “The central bank is assuring people that it will act
proactively which should put an end to a lot of speculation,”
said  Roy Paul , a deputy general manager at Federal Bank Ltd. in
Mumbai. “I think the volatility will ease off even though it is
difficult to make a judgment about the weakness in the exchange
rate.”  Overseas  investors  have sold  $325 million  of Indian stocks
more than they bought this year through Dec. 1, according to
exchange data.  Asia ’s third-largest economy  grew  6.9 percent in
the third quarter from a year earlier, the slowest pace in more
than two years. The central bank has raised its repurchase rate
13 times since the start of last year to 8.50 percent. The
benchmark wholesale-price  index  jumped 9.73 percent in October
from a year earlier, after rising 9.72 percent in September.  “Lack of liquidity in  currency markets  is affecting the
growth plans of many industries, particularly the capital-
intensive ones,” Y.M. Deosthalee, chairman and managing
director at L&T Finance Holdings Ltd., a subsidiary of India’s
biggest builder of power networks and airports, said in an
interview in Mumbai.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anoop Agrawal in Mumbai at 
 aagrawal8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jim McDonald at 
 jmcdonald8@bloomberg.net  