-- 
Goldman’s Forst Resigns; Eric Lane Promoted to Run Fund Unit With O’Neill

-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 
2011-12-03T17:36:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-03/goldman-s-forst-resigns-eric-lane-promoted-to-run-fund-unit-with-o-neill.html
Edward C. Forst, co-head of the
investment management division at  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , will
leave at the end of the year and cede his role to Eric S. Lane,
according to internal memos obtained by Bloomberg News.  Forst, 50, who first joined Goldman Sachs in 1994, is the
third member of the New York-based bank’s management committee
to resign since the beginning of November, after Kevin W. Kennedy, who ran the business in  Latin America , and Yusuf A. Alireza, co-head of the Asia-Pacific business outside  Japan .  Goldman Sachs Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Lloyd C. Blankfein has said that building the investment management
division, which oversees private equity and hedge funds and also
handles money for wealthy individuals, is a priority for the
firm. Timothy O’Neill, who has served as a co-head of the unit
since 2008, will remain in the role alongside Lane, the memos
said.  Lane, who joined Goldman Sachs in 1996 and was promoted to
partner in 2002, is a longtime employee of the  investment
management  division, known as IMD. In that sense he represents a
change from recent leaders of the business, including Forst,
O’Neill and former managers such as Marc A. Spilker and Peter S. Kraus, who were transferred from positions in trading or
 investment banking .  Leader, Clients  “As a long-tenured leader in IMD, Eric has demonstrated
dedication to our clients and a deep understanding of markets,”
Blankfein and Gary D. Cohn, Goldman Sachs’s president and chief
operating officer, said in one of the memos to staff yesterday.
“His extensive experience in the division positions him
well to lead IMD with Tim.”  Andrea Raphael, a spokeswoman for Goldman Sachs in New
York, confirmed the memos’ contents and declined to comment
further. The  New York  Times wrote about the changes yesterday.  Forst, who worked at Bankers Trust before joining Goldman
Sachs, started his Goldman Sachs career in  capital markets  and
later held senior roles in the equities and fixed-income,
currencies and commodities, or FICC, trading divisions.  He became co-head of investment management in 2007 and then
left the firm in 2008 for a role at  Harvard University . A year
later, he returned to Goldman Sachs as the firm’s senior
strategy officer and in 2010 returned to his current role at the
investment management division.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christine Harper in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sylvia Wier at 
 swier@bloomberg.net  