-- 
India May Put Foreign Retail Opening on Hold, Mamata Says

-- B y   K a r t h i k e y a n   S u n d a r a m
-- 
2011-12-03T15:35:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-03/india-may-put-foreign-investment-in-retail-on-hold-pti-says.html
India  may put on hold a Nov. 24
decision to allow foreign ownership in multibrand retail chains
until there is a political consensus on the issue, the Press
Trust of India reported today, citing West Bengal Chief Minister
Mamata Banerjee.  Banerjee spoke to reporters in Kolkata after meeting with
Indian Finance Minister Pranab Mukherjee today, PTI said. Her
party, Trinamul Congress, is an ally of Prime Minister Manmohan Singh’s government in  New Delhi .  India’s decision to allow as much as 51 percent foreign
ownership in multibrand retail chains is likely to benefit local
merchants’ credit profiles as they gain access to equity and
improved liquidity. Shops and markets across India were shut on
Dec. 1 as traders supported a daylong strike demanding the
government not allow overseas retailers like  Wal-Mart Stores
Inc. (WMT)  from opening outlets.  Owners of family-run stores, the backbone of an Indian
retail market that London-based Business Monitor International
expects to double in size to $785 billion by 2015, fear they
will be forced out of business by foreign companies.  D.S. Malik, a spokesman for the finance ministry in New
Delhi, didn’t respond to three calls to his work phone and three
to his mobile phone after office hours. Harish Khare, media
adviser to Prime Minister Singh, didn’t respond to three calls
to his mobile phone.  India’s retail industry will get investments of $8 billion
to $10 billion over the next five to 10 years as overseas
competitors enter and local companies spend to keep pace,
according to billionaire  Kishore Biyani , founder and managing
director of Pantaloon Retail India Ltd, the country’s largest
chain by market value.  Wal-Mart currently has 14 wholesale outlets through a joint
venture with Bharti Enterprises,  Germany ’s  Metro AG  owns six and
France’s  Carrefour SA (CA)  announced the opening of its second
wholesale store on Nov. 28.  Allowing foreign investments will create up to 10 million
jobs and give farmers better prices, India’s Commerce Minister
 Anand Sharma  said on Nov. 25.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karthikeyan Sundaram in New Delhi at 
 kmeenakshisu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dick Schumacher at 
 dschumacher@bloomberg.net  