-- 
Biggest Polluters Join in Opposing European Road Map for New Climate Pact

-- B y   K i m   C h i p m a n   a n d   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 
2011-12-04T00:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-03/india-backs-u-s-china-against-eu-plan-for-climate-road-map-.html
The world’s three biggest polluters
joined in opposing a European Union proposal for talks aimed at
drawing up a new climate treaty, dimming the chances of
extending the  Kyoto Protocol  limiting greenhouse gases.  J.M. Mauskar, the Indian government official leading his
nation’s delegation at United Nations climate talks, rejected
the EU plan as a “quid-pro-quo.” The EU said it would agree to
extend Kyoto’s restrictions only if all nations made promises to
cut fossil fuel burning.  “Our objective in these negotiations is not to launch a
process for a new climate treaty,” Mauskar told reporters at
the talks yesterday in Durban,  South Africa . “This is not what
these current negotiations are about.”  India, along with the U.S. and China are united in opposing
the EU’s timeline to a new deal. The 27-nation bloc that’s done
the most to limit carbon dioxide fumes since Kyoto was signed in
1997, said it wouldn’t agree to more limits unless a treaty is
signed by 2015 and in force by 2020.  The opposing positions may torpedo the chance of a deal on
Dec. 9 when two weeks of talks in Durban finish. The EU has
called its “road map” proposal a “red line” issue.  As hundreds of protesters demanding action on global
warming marched down to Durban’s beach-front promenade, the UN
released two documents spanning 143 pages that chart possible
measures nations will take to boost flows of climate aid, step
up efforts to cut greenhouse gases, share emissions-cutting
technology and protect forests.  Cancun to Durban  The text is almost five times as long as the agreements
from last year’s meeting in Cancun,  Mexico . It must be
streamlined by the senior ministers, 10 heads of state and two
princes who join the discussions on Dec. 6.  “It’s a hundred and something pages,” Selwin Hart, an
envoy from Barbados, said in an interview in Durban. “We know
what the areas of disagreement are, and quite frankly we need a
much shorter text that will allow for clear decision-making.”  The document includes paragraphs calling for the end of war
and weapons production, the start of an international climate
court of justice to hold developed countries to account for
their pledges and a respect for the rights of “mother Earth.”
One clause calls for climate aid equivalent to “the budget that
developed countries spend on defense, security and warfare.”  The text includes four short options spanning half a page
that address one of the thorniest topics: the legal nature of
any future agreement.  ‘Incomplete’  “It’s an incomplete text,” said  Alden Meyer , a
Washington-based director of policy at the Union of Concerned
Scientists. “In some areas it has everyone’s ideas in there. In
others there’s not enough detail, like on the legal form where
there’s four bullets.”  Heads of state will attend from 10 countries including
 Ethiopia ,  Gabon , and Nauru. EU Climate Commissioner  Connie Hedegaard  and Todd Stern from the U.S. State Department will
lead their delegations.  The document includes proposed conclusions from the Long
Term Cooperative Action track of the UN climate talks, a process
that envisions a treaty outside the Kyoto structure. Many
provisions in the text depend on the future of the Kyoto
Protocol, the subject of a separate track of discussions.  ‘Deeply Concerned’  “We are deeply concerned that there has been hardly any
progress on achieving the key objective of our negotiations,
that is to announce the second commitment period and its
targets,” said Mauskar from  India , referring to post-2012 Kyoto
targets.  Chinese lead negotiator  Su Wei , Brazilian chief envoy Andre
Correa do Lago, and Grenadian envoy Dessima Williams, who speaks
for 42 island and low-lying nations, have all said new Kyoto
targets are the key ingredients of any outcome in Durban.  Japan, Russia and Canada all reject new commitments under
Kyoto because it covers less than a third of global emissions.
The U.S. never ratified the deal, and  developing countries 
including India and China don’t have binding targets.  Those three countries are now the “biggest barriers” to
the road map proposal, EU lead negotiator Artur Runge-Metzger
said in a Dec. 1 interview. The 27-nation bloc has done the most
to limit carbon-dioxide fumes under Kyoto and previously has
been among the most flexible at the talks.  U.S. Position  Stern says the U.S. isn’t willing to begin dialogue on a
new legally binding treaty until major developing countries such
as  China  and India agree first to take on actions equivalent to
those of the industrialized nations. U.S. negotiator  Jonathan
Pershing  said on Dec. 2 there is “strong resistance” from some
“major emerging economies” on the EU’s proposal, and “in that
context, the U.S. also would not be prepared to undertake
legally-binding obligations.”  Chinese envoy Su Wei earlier this week said the EU proposal
was “shifting the goal posts” away from an agreement in 2007
where the UN talks set out plans to extend Kyoto.  Su told environmentalists on Dec. 1 that China may agree to
cap its greenhouse-gas emissions after 2020, confirming an
earlier China Daily report, according to Meyer at the UCS.
Earlier in the week Su brushed aside a report from an Indian
news service suggesting the same thing.  “There’s this large picture effort to try to shift the
focus from post-2012 to post 2020,” Meyer said. “There’s no
sweet spot in the middle at this point.”  22 Chapters  The paper spans 22 chapters and includes a pledge made two
years ago by developed countries to raise climate aid to $100
billion a year by 2020. Envoys are debating the makeup of a fund
that will channel an unspecified portion of the aid. A 40-member
committee spent nine months drafting rules to govern the pool of
money, and negotiators are now consulting about the document
after  Saudi Arabia , the U.S. and  Venezuela  objected.  “It’s clear that there’s a lot of work left over the next
week,” Jake Schmidt, international climate policy director at
the New York-based Natural Resources Defense Council, said in an
interview in Durban. “The really big decisions are still in the
hands of ministers.”  Other chapters identify measures to protect forests, and a
system to enhance the transparency of the measurement and
reporting of greenhouse gas emissions by developing countries.  The document, described by its author, U.S. delegate Dan
Reifsnyder as a “work in progress,” includes options that need
to be narrowed down. In the section on a “shared vision” for
future efforts to cut  greenhouse gases , there are various
options that would require developed countries to cut emissions
by 30 percent, 40 percent, 45 percent, 50 percent or more than
50 percent by 2020.  “We don’t like it,” Venezuelan negotiator Claudia Salerno
said in an interview. “That’s how it’s supposed to be. He also
requested us to take the weekend to read it slowly, reflect on
it and make the balance and not make the same mistakes we make
all the time which is to react quickly and to create a fuss.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kim  Chipman  in Durban, South Africa at
 kchipman@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Morales in Durban, South Africa via 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg via   landberg@bloomberg.net . 