-- 
N.Y. Assembly Democrats Gird for Cuomo to Call Special Session

-- B y   F r e e m a n   K l o p o t t
-- 
2011-12-03T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-03/n-y-assembly-democrats-gird-for-cuomo-to-call-special-session.html
New York  Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver is calling his chamber’s fellow Democrats to a Dec. 6
meeting in anticipation of a special legislative session on the
deficit that may start the following day, according to spokesman
Michael Whyland.  The special session isn’t guaranteed, since it’s up to
Governor  Andrew Cuomo  to decide to convene it, Whyland said
yesterday in a telephone interview. A mid-year financial update
showed the state facing a $350 million budget gap in the current
fiscal year.  “The Democratic Conference will meet and go over issues
and discuss any specific proposals that may be sent to us by the
governor,” Whyland said.  Cuomo, a 53-year-old Democrat, said this week he’d only
call lawmakers back to Albany if they had agreed on an agenda.
 Josh Vlasto , a Cuomo spokesman, didn’t respond to an e-mail and
telephone call requesting comment. Senate Republicans aren’t
scheduling anything for next week, said Mark Hansen, a spokesman
for Majority Leader  Dean Skelos .  The first-term governor is considering an overhaul of the
 tax code  to stimulate the economy, Cuomo said Nov. 30 on WGDJ in
Albany. The plan, which may include tax increases on the wealthy
and cuts for middle-income earners, is part of negotiations
between lawmakers and the Cuomo administration, three
legislative aides with knowledge of the discussions said
yesterday.  Specific Proposal  A specific proposal hadn’t been sent by the governor, said
the aides, who asked to remain anonymous because they weren’t
cleared to speak publicly about the negotiations.  The two sides have also discussed including a bill on the
agenda that would create a taxi medallion system for livery cabs
in  New York City , the aides said.  Senate Democrats, who are in the minority, cheered the idea
of a special session.  “The time for action is now,” Senate Minority Leader John Sampson said yesterday in an e-mailed statement. “The state’s
deficit has gotten worse.”  A tax increase on top earners may find support in the
Democrat-led Assembly, where Silver introduced a bill in May
that would raise levies on those who earn $1 million or more.
That may run into trouble with Senate Republicans.  Cutting, Not Raising  “We support cutting taxes, not raising taxes,” said Scott
Reif, a Skelos spokesman.  The Republicans have a one-vote majority in the Senate.
There are signs Cuomo might engineer a split as he did when four
Republicans joined Democrats in approving same-sex marriage in
June.  In October, Deputy Senate Majority Leader Thomas Libous, a
Binghamton Republican, suggested he could be swayed to extend an
income-tax surcharge if his flood-ravaged city needs extra cash.  Senator John Bonacic, a Republican representing much of the
Catskill region, introduced a bill in March that would raise
taxes on those who earn $1 million or more and dedicate the
revenue to education and local governments. Bonacic still
supports that move, said Jillian Deuel, a spokeswoman.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Freeman Klopott in  Albany  at 
 fklopott@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  