-- 
Nice Rises to Two-Week High on $150 Million Merced Acquisition

-- B y   T a l   B a r a k   H a r i f   a n d   G w e n   A c k e r m a n
-- 
2011-12-04T15:45:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-03/nice-gains-on-acquisitions-as-ceragon-climbs-israel-overnight.html
Nice Systems Ltd. (NICE) ’s $150 million
purchase of Merced Systems Inc. boosted the Israeli technology
company’s annual spending on acquisitions to the biggest on
record and its shares to the highest in more than two weeks.  The Israeli maker of digital surveillance and monitoring
systems climbed 1.5 percent to 128.50 shekels, or the equivalent
of $34.27, at the 4:30 p.m. close in  Tel Aviv , the highest since
Nov. 16. The shares rose 6.8 percent to $34.20 in New York last
week. The Tel Aviv’s  TA-25 Index (TA-25)  dropped less than 0.1 percent
today.  The acquisition of Merced last week gives Ra’anana, Israel-
based Nice access to the U.S. companies’ customer list, which
includes  Coca-Cola Co. (KO) , Bell  Canada  and  Dell Inc. (DELL) , Chief
Financial Officer Dafna Gruber said by phone last week. Nice
completed the purchase of voice-over software maker Fizzback for
about $80 million in October after buying CyberTech
International for $60 million in February.  Nice has “a positive dynamic that should keep top-line and
bookings growth at healthy levels despite macro headwinds,”
said  Daniel Ives , an analyst at FBR Capital Markets in New York
who rates the shares “outperform.” The company has “a strong
track record of successfully integrating acquisitions into the
fold,” he said.  Concern among investors that  Europe ’s debt crisis will curb
demand for Israeli exports has pushed the Tel Aviv’s TA-25 Index
18 percent lower this year. The  Bloomberg Israel-US 25 Index 
rose less than 0.1 percent to 84.28 on Dec. 2, paring its annual
drop to 19 percent.  Acquisition Spending  Nice climbed 0.7 percent on Dec. 2 in  New York , adding to
its biggest weekly rise since the five-day period ending Oct.
28. The company spent $290 million on acquisitions this year,
the most since at least 1996 when it listed the shares on the
Nasdaq Stock Market, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Merced’s performance management product will be merged into
Nice’s enterprise business, which includes tools for fraud
detection, the company said in a statement distributed by
PRNewswire statement on Dec. 2. The unit accounted for about 60
percent of Ra’anana, Israel-based Nice’s revenue in 2010.  The acquisition will add about $55 million to revenue and
10 cents to earnings per share in 2012 under non-GAAP reporting
standards, Nice said.  “This was a relatively small company selling at $60
million a year with a very impressive list of customers and this
was an opportunity for us,” Gruber said. “This was an
aggregation move.”  Online Fraud  Nice is benefiting from rising demand for its technology
used to record customer interactions and to provide fraud
detection following an increase in data breaches at companies
including  Sony Corp.  and  Citigroup Inc. (C)   In 2010, companies lost about $37 billion to online fraud
or theft, and 8.1 million U.S. adults had their identities
stolen, according to a February report prepared by Javelin
Strategy & Research, a Pleasanton, California-based research
group.  “Nice retains significant capacity for acquisitions even
after this deal, and the company has stated that acquisitions
remain its primary cash deployment strategy,” said Shaul Eyal,
an analyst at Oppenheimer & Co. in New York, who has an
“outperform” rating on the shares.  The company reported last month third-quarter earnings of
54 cents a share, above the 53 cents average estimate of four
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Revenue in the three months
ending September rose 14 percent to $199 million, according to a
statement yesterday.  Nice raised its outlook for 2011 adjusted earnings to a
range of $2.05 to $2.09 a share from $2 to $2.08 per share.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tal Barak Harif in New York at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net ;
Gwen Ackerman in Jerusalem at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  