-- 
Obama Says Congress Should Pass Tax Break Before Holidays Begin

-- B y   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r
-- 
2011-12-03T11:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-03/obama-says-congress-should-pass-tax-break-before-holidays-begin.html
President  Barack Obama  said members
of Congress “shouldn’t go home for the holidays” until they
extend a payroll tax cut that is needed to maintain and
strengthen U.S. economic growth.  The Labor Department yesterday said the jobless rate fell
to  8.6 percent  in November from 9 percent the month before after
employers added 120,000 jobs and 315,000 Americans left the
 labor force . The  unemployment rate  was the lowest since March
2009.  “Now is the time to step on the gas, not slam on the
brakes,” Obama said today in his weekly  radio and Internet
address . “Unfortunately, too many Republicans in Congress don’t
seem to share that same sense of urgency.”  Unless Congress acts, the  tax cut  -- which lowered the
employee portion of the Social Security payroll tax from 6.2
percent to 4.2 percent for 2011 -- will expire Dec. 31. Obama
said in his address that the tax cut saves the typical middle
class family $1,000 a year.  On a Nov. 30 trip to Scranton,  Pennsylvania , Obama said
letting the payroll tax cut expire “would be a massive blow to
the economy.”  This year’s tax break cost the government $111.7 billion in
forgone revenue, according to the congressional Joint Committee
on Taxation. The U.S. transferred money from the general fund to
cover the reduced funding for Social Security.  Millionaire’s Tax  On Dec. 1, the Democrat-controlled  U.S. Senate  rejected a
Democratic proposal that would have imposed a 3.25 percent
surtax on annual income exceeding $1 million to pay for
extending the payroll tax cut and expanding it to employers.  The Senate also rejected a separate Republican measure that
would have extended the payroll tax cut for employees for one
year and offset the cost by reducing the federal work force by
10 percent, freezing federal pay through 2015 and requiring high
earners to pay more for Medicare premiums.  “This week, they actually said ‘no’ to cutting taxes for
middle-class families,” Democrat Obama said in the address.  The Republican-controlled House hasn’t scheduled a vote on
an extension.  Senator  Olympia Snowe  of  Maine , in the weekly  Republican
address , urged supporters of the balanced-budget amendment,
which she said will help curb the $15 trillion national debt, to
call their lawmakers and tell them to vote for the measure when
it comes before the Senate this month.  Cost of Status Quo  “The impending vote to amend the Constitution represents a
choice between changing business as usual in Washington, or
embracing the status quo that we can no longer afford,” Snowe
said. “The status quo that has led to an inexcusable 950
straight days without passing a federal budget, the status quo
that has brought us the first ever downgrade of America’s
sterling triple-A credit rating.”  Under the debt ceiling agreement reached in August the
House and the Senate must vote on the balanced-budget amendment
before the end of the year. An effort to pass the measure in the
House failed on Nov. 18.  To get through Congress, a constitutional amendment
requires a two-thirds vote rather than a simple majority; it
then must be ratified by three-fourths of the states.  In the Republican address, Snowe said that Congress’s
intransigence is “exemplified” by the failure of the
supercommittee to reach an agreement by Nov. 23 to reduce the
deficit by $1.2 trillion over the next 10 years.  “Even the automatic cuts resulting from the
supercommittee’s failure to reach an agreement could all be
undone by this or any future Congress -- unless we pass a
balanced budget amendment like those already adopted by 49 other
states,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kate Andersen Brower in  Washington  at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  