-- 
Monti Holds Talks With Political Parties on Italian Measures

-- B y   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i
-- 
2011-12-03T17:17:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-03/monti-holds-talks-with-political-parties-on-italian-measures.html
Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti 
met with representatives of the main political parties to build
support for budget measures the Cabinet plans to approve by Dec.
5 to pull the country out of the debt crisis.  “Medicine is always bitter, but sometimes it’s necessary
to prevent the patient from dying,” Pierferdinando Casini, head
of the Union of Centrists party, said in a press conference
after meeting with Monti today.  The measures Monti’s government plans to take are
“severe” but necessary to “to make  Italy  better,” the leader
of Silvio Berlusconi’s People of Liberty party,  Angelino Alfano ,
said after the talks. “Monti has been called in precisely to
take decisions which are far from easy, and we are aware of
this,” Alfano said.  A selloff of Italian bonds sent borrowing costs surging
last month past the 7 percent threshold that led  Greece , Ireland
and  Portugal  to seek aid. Monti, whose government took office
after Berlusconi resigned amid the deepening crisis, plans to
adopt a 25 billion-euro ($33.5 billion) budget plan that
includes higher income and property taxes and changes in
pensions, daily Il Sole 24 Ore reported today.  The government, which will present the package to both
chambers on Dec. 5, is counting on cross-party support to get
the measures approved by Christmas.  The government’s proposals are “indigestible,” and “we
are ready to counter the wrong decisions” that will be made,
Susanna Camusso, head of Italy’s biggest union, CGIL, said today
in a speech in  Rome .  Monti will hold talks with the unions tomorrow, in a second
round of consultations that will include employers and local
administrations. He was also scheduled to meet Democratic party
leader Pier Luigi Bersani later today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chiara Vasarri in Milan at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  