-- 
Oracle Accuses HP of False Advertising in Revised Itanium Suit

-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 
2011-12-03T05:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-03/oracle-adds-false-advertising-claims-to-hp-suit-over-itanium.html
Oracle Corp., accussing  Hewlett-
Packard Co. (HPQ)  of false advertising in a revised countersuit, said
HP secretly paid  Intel Corp. (INTC)  to continue producing the Itanium
computer chip.  OrSacle claims HP “made false and deceptive statements”
to Oracle and the public regarding the future of the chip to
induce Oracle to continue to build software that runs on HP
servers that use the Itanium chip, according to an amended
complaint provided by  Deborah Hellinger , an Oracle spokeswoman.
Filing of the document couldn’t be immediately confirmed through
electronic state court records yesterday.  HP and Intel had an Itanium collaboration agreement under
which Intel would prolong Itanium instead of discontinuing the
chip, according to the complaint.  The agreement was kept secret until Oracle uncovered it in
a lawsuit first filed by HP against Oracle in June. HP alleged
then that Oracle used “strong arm tactics” to force customers
to shift away from HP’s Itanium server hardware to Oracle’s own
server hardware.  Details of the Itanium agreement, such as the date it was
signed and how much HP paid Intel, are blacked out of the
document. Oracle, based in Redwood City,  California , seeks to
rescind an agreement that settled litigation over Oracle’s
hiring of former HP chief executive officer Mark Hurd as well as
unspecified damages.  “Oracle is in breach of its contractual commitments to HP,
and it has failed to honor its promises to customers,” Michael Thacker, a spokesman for Palo Alto, California-based HP, said
yesterday in an e-mailed statement responding to Oracle’s new
claims. “Oracle should be addressing and rectifying this
conduct rather than making up claims against HP.”  The case is Hewlett-Packard Co. v.  Oracle Corp. (ORCL) , 111-
cv-0203163, California Superior Court (Santa Clara County).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in  San Francisco  at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  