-- 
Pan Pacific Said to Win 13% Rise in Fees From Freeport

-- B y   J a e   H u r   a n d   I c h i r o   S u z u k i
-- 
2011-12-03T02:19:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-03/pan-pacific-copper-wins-13-rise-in-treatment-fees-from-freeport.html
Pan Pacific Copper Co. , Japan’s
largest producer, won a 13 percent increase in 2012 copper ore
processing fees from  Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. (FCX) ,
according to two industry executives familiar with the matter.  The fees for turning concentrate into refined metal were
set at $63.50 a metric ton and 6.35 cents a pound, the
executives said, asking not to be identified as the agreement is
private. The fees are known as treatment and refining charges,
or TC/RCs.  Copper, used in pipes and wires, fell more than 20 percent
into a  bear market  after reaching a record $10,190 a ton in
February amid concern  Europe ’s debt crisis will curb demand in
the region that accounts for about 19 percent of global
consumption. Increasing fees boost smelters’ revenue.  “With top smelters in  China  and Japan settling at the same
level, other smelters as well as other mining companies, such as
 BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , will follow suit,” said Takashi Murata, an
analyst at Daiwa Securities Capital Markets Co. in Tokyo. “The
increase may help alleviate Japanese smelters’ difficult
business situation under the strong yen.”  Treatment fees are expressed in dollars per ton of
concentrate received and refining fees in cents per pound of
copper in the ore. The fees are deducted from the price paid by
smelters to mining companies for the raw material.  Calls to Kouichi Shirai, Pan Pacific Copper’s spokesman and
 Eric Kinneberg , spokesman for Phoenix-based Freeport, weren’t
answered outside of business hours.  Easing Tightness  Pan Pacific’s deal comes after an agreement between Jiangxi
Copper Co. and Freeport at the same level. Pan Pacific is a
joint venture between JX Nippon Mining & Metals Corp., a unit of
 JX Holdings Inc. , and  Mitsui Mining & Smelting Co. (5706)   The increase in processing fees reflects that the current
tightness in supplies may not last long and labor disputes may
be resolved soon, Murata said.  Workers at Freeport’s Grasberg mine in Indonesia extended
their strike for a third month until Dec. 15, a labor union said
Nov. 9. About 8,000 workers at Grasberg have been on strike
since Sept. 15 demanding higher wages. In October, Freeport
declared force majeure on some shipments, a legal clause
allowing companies to miss deliveries because of circumstances
beyond their control.  Imports  The metal for three-month delivery on the London Metal
Exchange rose 1.3 percent to $7,890 a ton yesterday.  Freeport runs the Grasberg mine, which has the world’s
largest recoverable reserves of copper.  Japan  imported 1.3
million tons of copper in concentrate in 2010, 20 percent of
which it bought from Indonesia, according to data from the Japan
Mining Industry Association.  Pan Pacific Copper Co. said on May 19 that it agreed with
BHP Billiton Ltd. to $90 and 9 cents for July 1 to December 31,
up from $70 and 7 cents in the first half.  The fees are typically negotiated twice a year, with most
of the volume handled through the year-end accords. In June,
fees were set $85 and 8.5 cents for the so-called mid-year
contracts that began July 1, up from $39 and 3.9 cents a year
earlier.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jae Hur in  Tokyo  at 
 jhur1@bloomberg.net ;
 Ichiro Suzuki  in Tokyo at 
 isuzuki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Richard Dobson  at 
 rdobson4@bloomberg.net  