-- 
Papandreou Says EU Regulators Share in Greek Debt Crisis

-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 
2011-12-04T05:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-03/papandreou-says-eu-regulators-share-in-greek-debt-crisis.html
Former Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  said European Union regulators and credit rating
agencies bear some blame for his nation’s debt crisis.  Papandreou, who resigned last month, said of the debt
crisis that his predecessors “didn’t really see it coming,”
according to the transcript of an interview scheduled for
broadcast today on “ CNN ’s Fareed Zakaria GPS.”  “Had there been a stronger monitoring of the European
Union from the European Union, and even the  ratings agencies , on
the member states, I would not have, as a prime minister,
inherited a situation where the deficit was close to 16 percent
and the debt almost doubled in the previous government,” he
said.  “That’s why I think monitoring is important,” Papandreou
said. “We’re paying for it right now, and many of the Greeks
are unjustly paying for this, for things that they weren’t
responsible for,” said Papandreou, whose government collapsed
on Nov. 10. He was replaced by  Lucas Papademos , a former
European Central Bank vice president.  Greece  needs a sixth disbursement of loans under last
year’s 110 billion-euro ($148 billion) rescue and a planned
second package of 130 billion euros to avoid economic collapse.  The euro area and the  International Monetary Fund , which
are funding the two packages, including the next payment of 8
billion euros, have said they want Greece’s main political
leaders to commit to spending cuts beyond the life of the
Papademos-led unity government.  Greek debt will reach 163 percent of gross domestic product
this year and jump to 198 percent in 2012, the EU’s Brussels-
based executive arm said in its autumn economic forecast. That
compares with debt of 173 percent of GDP predicted by the Greek
government in its 2012 draft budget.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  