-- 
Payroll Gains Improve as U.S. Unemployment Rate Drops: Economy

-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 
2011-12-03T05:00:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-03/payroll-gains-improve-as-u-s-unemployment-rate-drops-economy.html
Payroll gains in the U.S. improved
last month, while an increase in the number of Americans leaving
the workforce helped push the jobless rate down to 8.6 percent,
the lowest level since March 2009.  Employment climbed by 120,000 workers in November, with
more than half the hiring coming from retailers and temporary
help agencies, after a 100,000 gain the prior month, Labor
Department figures showed yesterday in  Washington . Revisions to
prior figures added a total of 72,000 jobs to payrolls in
September and October.  “This is a good report that holds out hope for better
things to come,” said  Joel Naroff , president of Naroff Economic
Advisors Inc. in Holland, Pennsylvania. It’s still “not so
great that anyone should think the labor market is healthy and
all is well with the world,” he said.  President  Barack Obama  used the data to push for an
extension of a  payroll-tax  cut he says is needed to maintain the
expansion and reduce the jobless rate further. The report also
damped speculation that Federal Reserve policy makers meeting on
Dec. 13 will embark on another round of large-scale asset
purchases.  Most stocks rose, capping the biggest weekly rally since
March 2009 in the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index. (SPX)  The  S&P 500 
gained 7.4 percent this week. The yield on the benchmark 10-year
Treasury note fell to 2.04 percent yesterday from 2.09 percent
late the previous day.  Europe Crisis  There were also signs Europe’s troubles may be starting to
ease. A European proposal to channel central bank loans through
the  International Monetary Fund  may deliver as much as 200
billion euros ($270 billion) to fight the debt crisis, two
people familiar with the negotiations said.  At a Nov. 29 meeting attended by European Central Bank
President  Mario Draghi , euro-area finance ministers gave the go-
ahead for work on the plan, said the people, who declined to be
named because the talks are at an early stage.  Europe’s debt crisis has been a source of uncertainty on
the outlook for the  U.S. economy , prompting companies such as
 DirecTV (DTV)  to keep a tight rein on spending and employment.  “We’re tightening our belts in terms of spending,”
 Michael White , chief executive officer of the largest U.S.
satellite-TV provider, said in an interview last week. “We’ll
cut back on overhead, hiring and programming.”  Among companies expanding payrolls is  Boeing Co. (BA) , the
largest U.S. aircraft maker. The Chicago-based company is hiring
about 100 machinists a week as it boosts production by about 60
percent over three years to whittle down a backlog that now
stretches to nearly 4,000 aircraft.  Household Survey  The unemployment rate, derived from a separate survey of
households, was forecast to hold at 9 percent. The decrease in
the jobless rate reflected a 278,000 gain in employment at the
same time 315,000 Americans left the  labor force .  “While the rate is certainly a very favorable rate, I
would highlight that a lot of it is because people pulled out of
the workforce,”  Eric Rosengren , president of the Federal
Reserve Bank of Boston, said in a speech yesterday. Rosengren
said in a Nov. 16 speech that the central bank still has power
to boost the economy through lower  interest rates .  Obama said the drop in the jobless rate is a sign the
recovery is getting stronger, and extending a cut in the payroll
tax will provide more fuel for the economy.  Energy Efficiency  “We need to keep that growth going,” Obama said after he
and former President Bill Clinton toured a building in
Washington yesterday to promote a government and private
industry initiative to upgrade the energy efficiency of public
and commercial buildings that the administration says will help
create construction jobs.  Employment at service-providers increased 126,000 in
November, including a 50,000 gain in retail trade as companies
began hiring for the holiday shopping season. The number of
temporary workers increased 22,300.  Macy’s Inc. (M) , the second-biggest U.S. department-store
chain, increased mostly part-time staff by 4 percent for the
November-December shopping season. See’s Candies Inc., a
chocolate maker owned by Berkshire Hathaway Inc., said it would
add 5,500 mostly temporary workers.  Private hiring, which excludes government agencies, rose
140,000 after a revised gain of 117,000. Still, factory payroll
growth slowed and construction employment dropped.  Government payrolls decreased by 20,000 in November,
including a 16,000 decline on the state and local levels.  Limited Wage Gains  Even as payrolls grow, limited wage gains are restraining
consumers’ ability to boost spending, which accounts for about
70 percent of the economy. Average hourly earnings fell 0.1
percent to $23.18, yesterday’s report showed. The average work
week for all workers held at 34.3 hours.  The so-called underemployment rate -- which includes part-
time workers who’d prefer a full-time position and people who
want work but have given up looking -- decreased to 15.6 percent
from 16.2 percent.  The report also showed an increase in long-term unemployed
Americans. The number of people unemployed for 27 weeks or more
climbed as a share of all jobless to 43 percent from 42.4
percent.  “Whether the swoon in the  unemployment rate  is legitimate
or not, the doves on the Fed have just been sidelined from
advocating QE3, at least for the next few months,” said  Stephen Stanley , chief economist at Pierpont Securities LLC in Stamford,
Connecticut, referring to a third round of asset purchases.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  