-- 
Treasury Yields Climb to Month High as Fed Swaps Ease Contagion Concern

-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   D a n i e l   K r u g e r
-- 
2011-12-03T05:00:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-03/treasury-yields-at-month-high-as-fed-eases-contagion-concern.html
Treasuries fell, pushing 10-year
yields to the highest level in more than a month, as emergency
dollar funding for European banks arranged by the  Federal
Reserve  reduced concern the region’s debt crisis will worsen.  Ten-year note yields  rose  for the first time in three weeks
as a report yesterday showed job gains in the U.S. picked up
last month and the unemployment rate unexpectedly fell to the
lowest level since March 2009. Treasuries retained their claim
as the world’s favored refuge from turmoil, with U.S. bond
yields  dropping  below those on German debt for the first time
since May 2009 before a summit of European leaders on Dec. 9.  “The momentum in the market has gotten better because we
haven’t seen the end of the world and central banks are
signaling they get it,” said  George Goncalves , head of interest
rate strategy at Nomura Holdings Inc., one of 21 primary dealers
that trade directly with the Fed. “Still, we are at the mercy
of a lack of conviction in the market as there is a large sense
of skepticism about policy makers coming through in the weeks
ahead.”  The benchmark 10-year note  yield  rose seven basis points,
or 0.07 percentage point, to 2.03 percent from 1.96 percent Nov.
25, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 2 percent
note due November 2021 dropped 20/32, or $6.25 per $1,000 face
amount, to 99 22/32. The yield reached as high as 2.16 percent,
the most since Oct. 31.  Bond Yields  The yield on the 30-year bond rose 11 basis points to 3.02
percent.  The yield traded as low as 2.92 percent on Nov. 29
while German 30-year yield reached as high as 2.96 percent.  Treasuries have returned 8.5 percent in 2011, set for the
best annual return since a 14 percent gain in 2008, Bank of
America Merrill Lynch index data show.  The U.S. 10-year yield traded in a 28-basis-point range
during November, with a high of 2.15 percent and a low of 1.87
percent. That compares with a 70-basis-point range the month
before.  “The European sovereign-debt issue is still the biggest
issue and that will continue to give Treasuries support,” Larry Milstein, managing director in  New York  of government and agency
debt trading at R.W. Pressprich & Co., a fixed-income broker and
dealer for institutional investors, said on Nov. 29.  Bet Swings  Hedge-fund managers and other large speculators reversed
from a net-short position to a net-long position in 10-year note
futures in the week ending Nov. 29, according to U.S. Commodity
Futures Trading Commission data.  Speculative long positions, or bets prices will increase,
outnumbered short positions by 17,301 contracts on the Chicago
Board of Trade. Last week, traders were net-short 15,291
contracts.  The Fed said it was joined in the swap-rate cut by the  Bank
of Canada ,  Bank of England ,  Bank of Japan ,  European Central Bank 
and the  Swiss National Bank . The dollar funding rate interest
rate has been reduced to the dollar overnight index swap rate
plus 50 basis points, or half a percentage point, from 100 basis
points, and the program was extended to Feb. 1, 2013, the Fed
said in a statement in  Washington .  The central banks acted after the cost for European banks
to fund in dollars rose to the highest levels in three years as
concern about a possible breakup of the euro area increased
after leaders said they’d failed to boost the region’s bailout
fund as much as planned.  Stress Measures  The two-year swap spread, an indicator of risk in the
financial system, rose two basis points to 45 basis points
yesterday. The spread, which equals the difference between two-
year swap rates and comparable maturity Treasury yields,  fell as
low as 39  basis points on Nov. 30.  The U.S.  unemployment rate , derived from a survey of
households, was forecast to hold at 9 percent in November. The
decrease in the jobless rate reflected a 278,000 gain in
employment at the same time 315,000 Americans left the  labor
force . Labor Department figures showed yesterday in Washington.  Payrolls climbed 120,000, after a revised 100,000 increase
in October, with more than half the hiring coming from retailers
and temporary-help agencies, The median estimate in a Bloomberg
News survey called for a 125,000 gain.  Economic Direction  “It’s a step in the right direction,” said Richard Schlanger, who helps invest $20 billion in fixed-income
securities as vice president at Pioneer Investments in  Boston .
“However,  Europe  is dominating the headlines right now, and
we’re going to have to wait and see how that plays out.”  Pacific Investment Management Co.’s  Bill Gross  said U.S.
employment growth won’t prevent the Fed from signaling that
borrowing rates will remain lower longer than policy makers have
already indicated.  The central bank will keep the target rate for overnight
loans at current levels for as long as four years, up from the
through the middle of 2013 period outlined, Gross, manager of
the world’s biggest bond fund, said in a radio interview
yesterday on “Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom Keene  and Ken
Prewitt.  German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  likened solving the debt
crisis to a marathon in a speech yesterday as she rejected joint
euro-area bonds and central-bank action while pushing for closer
economic ties among euro nations allied to tougher enforcement
of budget rules to counter the debt crisis now in its third
year. Merkel said she will consult with French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  on Dec. 5 to coordinate their approach to next week’s
summit.  IMF Plan  A European proposal to channel central-bank loans through
the  International Monetary Fund  may deliver as much as 200
billion euros ($270 billion) to fight the debt crisis, two
people familiar with the negotiations said.  “Europe is too important for anything else to have a huge
impact as the events there are still driving the market,” said
Gary Pollack, head of fixed-income trading at Deutsche Bank AG’s
Private Wealth Management unit in New York, which manages $12
billion in bonds. “Until we see something closer to resolution
from Europe the market will be transfixed by events over
there.”  The 10-year yield will rise to 2.20 percent by year-end,
according to a Bloomberg News survey of financial companies,
with the most recent forecasts given the heaviest weightings.
The yield will reach 2.25 percent by the end of March 2012, the
surveys show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  