-- 
Rio Expects Price Swings on Global Prospects

-- B y   A n g u s   W h i t l e y
-- 
2011-12-04T13:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-03/rio-expects-commodity-price-swings-as-markets-consider-economic-prospects.html
Rio Tinto Group (RIO) , the world’s third-
largest mining company, said metal prices will fluctuate further
as markets weigh economic prospects for next year amid concern
 Europe ’s debt crisis will derail a global recovery.  “We should expect more of these gyrations of all of our
prices as we move forward to 2012,” Tom Albanese, chief
executive officer of the London-based company, said yesterday on
the Australian Broadcasting Corp.’s “Inside Business” program.
“The markets are trying to react and anticipate to what they
think the economy is going to look like next year.”  Commodities are set for a “difficult environment” in
2012, according to UBS AG, citing a possible dissolution of the
European Union and a “hard landing” in  China , the biggest raw-
materials consumer. The worsening debt crisis in Europe has
prompted a slump in equities and commodities, including iron ore
and copper prices, and cuts to global growth forecasts.  “The entire market is very skittish and that’s reflected
in equities and commodities,” said Colin Whitehead, a Sydney-
based analyst at equity researcher Fat Prophets. “We’re in a
volatile world and the main one for Rio is iron ore. How things
play out in the U.S. and Europe is a large part of it.”  Rio has dropped 25 percent this year in  London  trading,
cutting the company’s market value to 67 billion pounds ($105
billion). The benchmark FTSE 100 index has lost 5.9 percent in
the same period.  Metal Slump  Metal prices in London have slumped 17 percent this half,
while  iron ore  prices have rebounded after tumbling 31 percent
in October to below $120 a metric ton, the biggest loss since at
least 2008. A slowing global economy and stronger dollar will
limit potential for gains by commodities next year, Morgan
Stanley said last month.  “I don’t think this volatility is going to go away,”
Albanese told “Inside Business.” The company will have to run
a business with large capital projects in an “environment,
which is realistically going to have higher levels of volatility
than we would have assumed a couple of years ago,” he said.  The  International Monetary Fund  will probably lower its
global growth forecasts next month as the European debt crisis
rocks financial markets and slows output, a spokesman said last
week. The IMF in September cut its forecast for global growth to
4 percent this year and the same amount for 2012. Still, the  S&P
500  has rebounded more than 13 percent from its 2011 low on Oct.
3 after improving U.S. economic data.  Iron Ore Expansion  Rio last week said it expects to increase  capital spending 
17 percent next year and raised its iron ore expansion target,
bolstered by the company’s confidence in long-term demand. Iron-
ore usage in China, the biggest buyer of the steelmaking
ingredient, will double by 2020 from 2008, according to Rio.  Increased costs of building and expanding iron ore mines
made it harder for rivals to enter the industry, Albanese said
in the interview. Iron ore prices won’t drop below $120 a ton
next year, Vale SA, the world’s largest exporter said last
month.  Rio’s iron ore operations in  Australia ’s Pilbara region are
“designed to operate well and stay profitable in the $120
range,” Albanese said. “The floor price will be progressively
dropping” as large expansions are developed in the next several
years, he said.  “The one thing I am concerned about is that our cost
pressures in the Pilbara, our cost pressures in Australia, are
quite a bit higher than anywhere else in the world,” he said.  More Output  The company boosted its production expansion capacity
target for its Australian operations by 20 million tons a year
to 353 million tons and set a longer-term target of 450 million
tons.  “We would like that business to go to 450 or more, but all
the other pieces have to be in place,” he said.  Rio is set to win a bidding war for Canadian uranium
producer Hathor Exploration Ltd. after Cameco Corp. said last
week it won’t raise its hostile bid a second time to surpass a
C$654 million ($647 million) friendly offer from Rio.  Concern that demand for nuclear power will slow has
increased since March 11, when an earthquake and tsunami wrecked
Tokyo Electric Power Co.’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi power station.
That triggered the worst atomic disaster since Chernobyl in 1986
and prompted some nations to put nuclear plans on hold.  Hathor, which controls the Roughrider uranium deposit, will
become a “significant” producer in coming years, Albanese
said, though he ruled out such a contribution in the “near
term.”  “In the post-2020 period there will be a strong need for
uranium for that nuclear sector,” Albanese said. “What we’re
going to see increasingly in the next several years is that the
Chinese will continue to take a bigger and bigger part of the
global nuclear picture and they’re going to need the uranium.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angus Whitley in Sydney at 
 awhitley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  