-- 
RTS Futures Decline on Prospect Oil Prices Have Peaked: Russia Overnight

-- B y   L e o n   L a z a r o f f   a n d   H a l i a   P a v l i v a
-- 
2011-12-03T00:08:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-03/rts-futures-decline-on-prospect-oil-has-peaked-russia-overnight.html
RTS stock  futures  dropped and OAO
Gazprom slid the most in a week on speculation oil,  Russia ’s
biggest export earner, has hit a peak.  Crude, which along with gas makes up about 17 percent of
Russia’s economy, climbed to a two-week high yesterday and had
its first weekly gain in three on concern tensions between  Iran 
and the West will threaten shipments from the Organization of
Petroleum Producing Countries’ second-largest producer. Bank of
America Corp. trimmed its price forecast for Brent, the oil type
that underpins Russia’s Urals crude blend, by $6 barrel on Dec.
2 on expectations a global slowdown will cut energy demand.  “We’re finally seeing the loss of some momentum following
a giant $21 move in the price of crude since the end of the
quarter, which more than any factor, created the momentum for
Russian stocks,” Geoffrey Dennis, a global emerging-markets
strategist at Citigroup Inc. in New York, said in a phone
interview yesterday. “As oil has hit $100 a barrel, investors
are likely thinking that crude has run its course for the
moment.”  Futures on the dollar-denominated RTS index expiring in
December fell 0.8 percent to 153,065 by 2:50 p.m. yesterday as
the  Bloomberg Russia-US 14 Index  of Russian companies traded in
the U.S. lost 0.6 percent to 99.88, paring last week’s advance
to 10 percent. Gazprom, the world’s biggest natural gas
producer, declined for the first time in five days and mobile-
phone operator  OAO Mobile TeleSystems (MBT)  slipped the most in three
weeks after taking on debt of a company that it acquired.  $100.96 Oil  Crude for January delivery climbed 0.8 percent to settle at
$100.96 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , the
highest settlement price since Nov. 16 and bringing its advance
in the week to 4.3 percent.  Oil prices  in New York have jumped
27 percent this quarter, bound for the best quarter since the
three months to June 30, 2009. The Bloomberg Russia-US 14 index
has gained 16 percent in the fourth quarter.  Brent oil for January settlement increased 0.9 percent to
$109.94 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange
yesterday, while Urals crude, Russia’s chief export blend,
gained 1 percent to $110.59. Brent added 3.6 percent in the week
and Urals 4.1 percent.  Gazprom (OGZPY) , Russia’s gas export monopoly and the largest
company on the nation’s 30-stock Micex index, fell 0.4 percent
yesterday to $11.76, the biggest drop since Nov. 25. The
American depositary receipts climbed 14 percent in the week,
snapping two weeks of declines. Gazprom’s  shares  in Moscow
gained 1.1 percent to 183.32 rubles, or the equivalent of $5.93.
One Gazprom ADR represents two ordinary shares. Shares in New
York have jumped 23 percent this quarter.  Duma Elections  Russian voters may inflict the biggest electoral setback
for Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  since 2003 in a parliamentary
vote this weekend, spurring the former KGB officer to ramp up
spending ahead of a presidential poll in March. Putin, who
relinquished the presidency in 2008 because of a limit on more
than two consecutive terms, said in September he would stand
again, switching jobs with President  Dmitry Medvedev .  Putin’s disapproval rating is the highest since he took
office in 2000 and opinion polls signal a 65-seat reduction in
his  United Russia  party’s representation to 250 of the 450-seat
Duma, according to surveys by Russia’s Levada Center last month.
The party is hemorrhaging support as voters recoil at stalling
 wage  growth and the government’s failure to curb corruption.  “The fear is that if the results for United Russia are
poor, that the government decides to embark on a more
nationalist approach and increase expenditures, then the oil
price dependency rises,”  Kingsmill Bond , chief strategist at
Citigroup Inc. in Moscow, said by phone yesterday.  MTS Debt Deal  Russia gets about 40 percent of its budget revenue from
energy sales. Retail stocks would benefit most from increased
government expenditure, Bond said.  ADRs of Mobile TeleSystems, known as MTS, lost 3.8 percent
to $16 yesterday, the largest one-day drop since Nov. 9. The
company’s  shares  on the Micex declined 1.9 percent to close at
209.02 rubles, or the equivalent of $6.76. One MTS ADR is equal
to two ordinary shares. The ADRs climbed 3.4 percent in the
week.  MTS acquired CJSC Sistema-Inventure, which owns 29 percent
of Moscow City Telephone Network, for 10.6 billion rubles ($342
million), the Moscow-based company said in a Dec. 1  statement  on
its website. As part of the deal, MTS also agreed to repay 10.4
billion rubles of CJSC Sistema debt by the end of the year owed
to AFK Sistema, CJSC Sistema’s former owner and the controlling
 shareholder  in MTS, the statement said.  “While the price of the acquisition seems adequate, MTS
had to take on a debt load equal to the purchase price, and this
is concerning the investors,” said Kirill Bakhtin, an analyst
at Moscow brokerage TKB Capital.  Lukoil Recommendations  OAO Lukoil (LUKOY) , Russia’s second-largest oil producer, rose for
the fourth day in five after Deutsche Bank AG and VTB Capital,
the investment banking arm of the nation’s second-largest lender
VTB Group, reiterated “buy” recommendations on the stock and
Moscow brokerage  Renaissance Capital  maintained a “hold”
recommendation.  Lukoil forecasted an average 3.5 percent increase in
production during the next 10 years in a spending and strategy
plan released on Dec. 1.  ADRs of Lukoil rose 1.2 percent yesterday to $55.46,
posting a 7.5 percent weekly gain after four weeks of declines.
On the Micex, Lukoil gained 0.1 percent to 1,705.50 rubles, or
the equivalent of $55.11. Each of Lukoil’s ADRs is equal to one
ordinary share.  VTB Capital set Lukoil’s 12-month target price at $136.30.
more than three times its current level.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Leon Lazaroff in  New York  at 
 llazaroff@bloomberg.net ;
Halia Pavliva in New York at 
 hpavliva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  