-- 
Putin’s Party Fails to Get Majority: Exit Poll

-- B y   I l y a   A r k h i p o v   a n d   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 
2011-12-04T19:31:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-03/russians-may-hand-putin-election-setback.html
Premier  Vladimir Putin ’s party failed
to win a majority in parliamentary elections, according to exit
polls and early results, dealing the Russian leader his first
electoral setback since he came to power a decade ago.  United Russia’s backing fell to about 47 percent from 64
percent in 2007, the Central Election Commission said on state
television after about 26 percent of votes were counted. The
party, whose results were estimated at 45.5 percent and 48.5
percent by two exit polls, expects to retain a majority in the
State Duma. Official results are due tomorrow.  “This is a personal defeat for Putin,” saidDmitry Oreshkin, an independent political analyst based in Moscow. “He
understands that his popularity is falling and it’s falling
increasingly fast.”  Putin, 59, who plans to return as president next year to
give him potentially almost a quarter-century in power if he
runs again in 2018, lost support as stalling wage growth and the
government’s shortcomings in curbing corruption repel voters.  The loss of  United Russia ’s two-thirds majority, which
allowed it to change the Constitution singlehandedly, is the
first time the party’s support fell from one nationwide election
to the next since it was set up 10 years ago. Putin next year
may be forced to make unpopular cuts in social spending and
raise the pension age to balance the budget.  ‘Coalition Bloc Agreements’  “Given the new composition of the Duma, on individual
issues and on certain questions, we will have to enter into
coalition bloc agreements,” Medvedev told supporters at the
party’s campaign headquarters today. “The party performed
honorably. And the breakdown we get in the Duma reflects the
real balance of political forces in the country. This is
democracy in action.”  Speaking after the president, Putin said voters
“maintained” United  Russia ’s “role as the leading political
party.  ‘‘It’s the optimal result,’’ he said. ‘‘With this result,
we can guarantee the stable development of our state.’’  United Russia may still keep more than half of seats in the
450-member State Duma, the lower house of parliament,  Boris Gryzlov , the party’s leader in the legislature, said at the
group’s campaign headquarters today.  The party got 45.5 percent, according to an exit poll of
80,000 people by the Public Opinion Foundation and 48.5 percent
according to an exit poll of 250,994 people by the state-run
All-Russian Center for the Study of Public Opinion.  ‘Slightly Negative’  United Russia’s ‘‘results are obviously lower than
expected, so the market could potentially interpret this as
slightly negative,”  Ivan Tchakarov , chief economist at
 Renaissance Capital  in Moscow, said in a telephone interview
today. “But not massively so.”  The ruble advanced 2.1 percent to 30.851 per dollar last
week, its biggest weekly gain since Oct. 30. The Russian
currency has fallen 0.9 percent against the greenback overall
this year, heading for a fourth consecutive yearly loss.  The yield on Russia’s only ruble-denominated Eurobond, due
in 2018, has fallen 55 basis points, or 0.55 percentage point,
since it first traded March 1. The debt yielded four basis
points less Dec. 2, at 7.192 percent.  ‘Smashing’ Parliament’s Unity  The premier, who will run in March presidential elections,
warned last week against “smashing” the parliament’s unity and
suffering the political paralysis afflicting  Europe  and the U.S.
as Russia seeks to avoid contagion from the euro region’s debt
crisis.  “If United Russia fails to get a majority then the
government will have to rely on support from the LDPR to get
legislation through,”  Chris Weafer , Moscow-based based chief
strategist at Troika Dialog, Russia’s oldest investment bank,
said by e-mail. “This would slow, if not prevent, any unpopular
legislation including cuts to social spending or changes to the
 retirement age .”  In the Russian capital, Europe’s largest city, United
Russia got 27.5 percent, just ahead of the Communists’ 25.5
percent, according to the Public Opinion Foundation exit poll.  “This represents a growing defiance,” said  Masha Lipman ,
an analyst at the Carnegie Moscow Center. “People just wouldn’t
vote for United Russia because the government wanted them to.”  Above the Threshold  Three other parties scored above the 7 percent threshold
for proportional representation in the legislative body. The
Communists are set to garner between 20 percent and 21 percent,
with between 13 percent and 14 percent for the Just Russia
party, which campaigns for increased social spending, and
between 11.5 percent and 14.5 percent for the nationalist
 Liberal Democratic Party , or LDPR, according to the exit polls
and provisional results.  Opposition parties complained of violations during the
election, including ballot stuffing and misuse of absentee
voting. Before the poll, the opposition also accused authorities
of detaining their candidates and activists and seizing campaign
material.  “Some violations were registered but according to
observers, there weren’t any abuses that could have influenced
the outcome of the vote,” Gryzlov said.  Putin would get 31 percent in a presidential election,
compared with 8 percent for Communist leader  Gennady Zyuganov 
and 7 percent for President  Dmitry Medvedev , according to a Nov.
18-21 Levada poll. A third were undecided.  ‘Venal and Detached’  “Dissatisfaction with the level of wages and a distrust of
power as venal and detached from people are directly reflected
on United Russia’s approval rating,” Grigoriy Kertman, the
chief analyst for the  Public Opinion  Foundation, said before the
election.  Real wages increased an average of 15 percent a year
between 2000 and 2008, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Including declines for much of 2009, growth has averaged 1.5
percent since.  Russia placed 143rd of 182 surveyed countries in
Transparency International’s 2011 Corruption Perceptions Index.
Russia is the world’s most corrupt major economy, with higher
levels of graft than in Pakistan, Cameroon and Niger.  During Putin’s first two terms as president, he worked to
centralize power and increase state ownership of the country’s
biggest companies. Buffeted by a booming global economy,
Russia’s economic growth averaged 7 percent a year during his
2000-2008 tenure.  Gross domestic product of the world’s biggest energy
exporter will increase 4.1 percent this year after 4 percent
last year, the government estimates.  “Of course popular discontent is boiling over but Putin
will continue to keep power in his hands,” said  Mikhail Kasyanov , a former prime minister under Putin who is now an
opposition figure.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ilya Arkhipov in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net ;
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  