-- 
Sandusky: Paterno Never Spoke of Abuse

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r   a n d   D a n   H a r t
-- 
2011-12-03T20:29:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-03/sandusky-paterno-didn-t-speak-of-misconduct.html
Former Pennsylvania State University
football assistant Jerry Sandusky denied that he sexually abused
young boys, and said  Joe Paterno , the school’s ex-head coach,
never spoke to him about any suspected misconduct, the New York
Times reported.  The 67-year-old Sandusky told the newspaper that his
decades of work with children have been distorted by
prosecutors, who accuse him of using his Second Mile charity for
troubled youths to gain access to vulnerable boys.  Sandusky was charged with 40 criminal counts tied to
alleged sexual molestation of eight boys from 1994 to 2009. This
came after a probe by a state grand jury, which also suggested
charges of perjury against Athletic Director Timothy Curley, 57,
and  Gary Schultz , 62, a senior vice president who oversaw
university police. The allegations lead to the firings of
Paterno, 84, and university president Graham B. Spanier, 63.  Even though he was regularly at the university, Paterno
never confronted him about any alleged incidents involving
underage boys, Sandusky told the newspaper. The former defensive
coordinator denied any sexual abuse of children in four hours of
interviews over two days with the Times.  “They’ve taken everything that I ever did for any young
person and twisted it to say that my motives were sexual or
whatever,” Sandusky is quoted by the newspaper as saying.  Joseph Amendola, an attorney for Sandusky, didn’t return
phone calls by Bloomberg News seeking comment.  Sandusky said he regularly gave money to boys at his
charity, opened bank accounts for them and gave them gifts, the
newspaper said. He was charged by state prosecutors Nov. 5.  Hugged Children  Sandusky said he wrestled and hugged the children because
“a lot of the kids really reached out for that.”  Les Zuke , director of communications for the law firm of
King & Spalding LLP, which represents former coach Paterno,
didn’t immediately respond to a voice mail left by Bloomberg
News seeking comment. Paterno, who is being treated for cancer,
has denied through his son knowing of an incident in 1998, the
Times said.  Last week, the university formed a committee to find a
successor to Paterno, who had headed the program for 46 years.  Acting Athletic Director David Joyner is chairman of the
six-member group.  Penn State , which ranks fifth in wins at college football’s
top level, has had two head coaches since 1950: Paterno and Rip Engle. Assistant  Tom Bradley , who has been with the Nittany
Lions’ program for 33 years, was promoted to interim coach when
Paterno was fired and said last month that he “certainly would
want the permanent job.”  New Coach  The school hasn’t given a time frame for hiring a coach.  Last month, the governing body for U.S. college athletics
said it will investigate Penn State over the scandal. Mark Emmert, president of the  National Collegiate Athletic
Association , sent a letter to school President Rodney Erickson
detailing the agency’s plans to look into the college’s
“exercise of institutional control” and the “actions, and
inactions, of relevant responsible personnel.”  The NCAA gave Penn State until Dec. 16 to provide
information related to how the school has complied with its
bylaws before continuing its investigation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dan Hart  in Washington at 
 dahart@bloomberg.net ; Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sylvia Wier at   swier@bloomberg.net  