-- 
SAP Challenges Oracle With $3.4 Billion SuccessFactors Purchase

-- B y   R a g n h i l d   K j e t l a n d
-- 
2011-12-04T03:45:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-03/sap-to-buy-successfactors-for-cloud-offerings.html
SAP AG (SAP) , the largest maker of
business-management software, agreed to buy SuccessFactors Inc.
for $3.4 billion in cash, stepping up competition with archrival
Oracle Corp. in the cloud-computing market.  SAP will pay $40 a share for San Mateo, California-based
SuccessFactors, which makes software used to manage employee
performance. That’s 52 percent more than the closing price on
Dec. 2, the most recent trading day, Walldorf, Germany-based SAP
said yesterday in a statement.  The deal extends SAP’s reach in the market for cloud
computing, which lets customers rent software delivered over the
Web rather than install it on their own machines. The company is
promoting the idea as a safe way to outsource data centers and
reduce the need for hardware. The  SuccessFactors (SFSF)  acquisition
comes six weeks after Oracle agreed to buy another cloud
competitor, RightNow Technologies Inc., for $1.5 billion.  “This is a much-needed move by SAP,”  Ray Wang , head of
San Francisco-based  Constellation Research , a research and
advisory firm focused on technology. “What SAP had in human
resources -- basic transactional software such as payroll -- was
good enough for the old era. In the new era, performance reviews
and talent management will be important.”  SuccessFactors has more than 3,500 customers, with more
than 15 million subscribers in 168 countries. The company is
predicted to have $502 million in revenue in 2013, up from $332
million this year, according to analyst estimates compiled by a
Bloomberg.  ‘Marvelous Addition’  “We saw Oracle buy RightNow Technologies just a couple of
weeks ago at 5.5 times that company’s next year revenue, and SAP
is going to pay almost 8 times 2012 revenue,” said Brendan Barnicle, an analyst at Pacific Crest Securities in  Portland ,
 Oregon . “But these guys are growing much faster than other
people in software on demand, this is a marvelous addition for
SAP.”  SAP co-Chief Executive Officer  Bill McDermott  said on a
conference call yesterday that the SuccessFactors deal will help
SAP achieve its goal of exceeding 20 billion euros ($27 billion)
in sales in 2015. SuccessFactors founder Lars Dalgaard will
join SAP’s board and head up the company’s cloud business.  The deal will “slightly” dilute earnings per share in
2012 before adding to profit in subsequent years, the company
said. SAP will still be able to reach a 35 percent profit margin
by 2015 -- even though companies that sell software that is
accessed over the Internet have a lower margin than other
software, Chief Financial Officer Werner Brandt said.  Getting Bolder  McDermott said the scale SuccessFactors brings to SAP’s
cloud offering will help it maintain the 2015 margin target. The
German company expects to complete the transaction in the first
quarter of next year.  The SuccessFactors deal shows that SAP co-CEOs McDermott
and Jim Hagemann Snabe, who took the helm in February last year,
don’t have the same reluctance as the company’s last two CEOs,
 Leo Apotheker  and  Henning Kagermann , to expand through
acquisitions.  While  Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  has spent more than $42 billion on
takeovers since the beginning of 2005, SAP had only made only
two large  acquisitions  in its 39-year history before
SuccessFactors: Sybase, a maker of mobile-device applications,
for $5.8 billion in May of last year, and business-intelligence
company  Business Objects  for 4.8 billion euros in 2007.  Software Prices  SAP paid a premium of 56 percent for Sybase and 20 percent
for Business Objects, based on a 20-day average share price of
the target before the purchase was announced, Bloomberg data
show. Over the past five years, the average premium paid for 56
North American software targets valued at more than $500 million
was 24 percent, according to the data.  “The price is high,” said Frank Niemann, a consultant at
Pierre Audoin Consultants in Munich. “On the other hand, SAP
would not be able to build such a solution with such a success
in a reasonable period of time.”  The global market for cloud services may surge to $148.8
billion in 2014 from $68.3 billion in 2010, according to
research firm Gartner Inc.  SAP shares have  gained  17 percent this year in Frankfurt
trading, valuing the company at 54.9 billion euros.
SuccessFactors has lost 9.4 percent, giving the company a market
capitalization of $2.2 billion.  For SuccessFactors, yesterday’s deal was the culmination of
a 10-year run for the company and its founder, Dalgaard. A
veteran of Unilever NV and Novartis AG, he started
SuccessFactors in 2001 and took it public in November 2007.  ‘No Jerks’  Sometimes  compared  to a Danish version of Salesforce.com
Inc. CEO  Marc Benioff  for his outsized personality and
salesmanship, Dalgaard also instituted  a “no jerks” policy  at
the company, discouraging behavior that can increase turnover
and tie up management.  SuccessFactors is located near a nondescript shopping mall
in  San Mateo , yet its customer list boasts some of the  largest
companies , including Hilton Worldwide Inc., Siemens AG and
Comcast Corp.  The deal was completed during a weekend board meeting at a
conference center near Frankfurt airport, said Saswato Das, a
spokesman for SAP.  SAP co-founder Hasso Plattner recommended that Dalgaard join
SAP’s executive board, Snabe told analysts during a conference
call. Giving SAP broader reach in cloud computing could make its
efforts there more profitable, Snabe said.  New Areas  SAP has added three categories since May 2010: mobile-
computing software; Hana real-time analytics technology; and
Business ByDesign, software that can be accessed over the
Internet. The three made up 10 percent of  third-quarter sales ,
Snabe said last month. SAP aims to expand into more product
categories to accelerate sales growth, he said.  “We need to make sure we are the leaders in the categories
in which we play, and we need to, once every one and a half
years or so, add a new category,” Snabe said at the time. “We
bet a lot of SAP on one category for many years.”  The purchase of SuccessFactors will be funded from SAP’s
existing cash and a 1 billion-euro  credit line , the company
said. The SuccessFactors board of directors has unanimously
approved the transaction.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. is advising SAP, while Morgan Stanley
is advising SuccessFactors.  Other big makers of cloud technology include Salesforce.com
and  International Business Machines Corp. (IBM) , along with companies
such as  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  and  Dell Inc. (DELL)  that operate the servers
for cloud services.  “This is a direct message to Oracle and Salesforce that
SAP is clearly not going to be left behind in the cloud,” said
Donald Feinberg, an analyst at Stamford, Connecticut-based
Gartner. “Organic growth is becoming increasingly difficult for
companies like SAP, Oracle, IBM and this is definitely a major
push in that direction.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ragnhild Kjetland in Frankfurt at 
 rkjetland@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at   sthiel1@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  