-- 
Spain, Italy Bonds Rally on Crisis Optimism; German Notes Rise

-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n   a n d   P a u l   D o b s o n
-- 
2011-12-03T07:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-03/spain-italy-bonds-rally-on-crisis-optimism-german-notes-rise.html
Spanish and Italian 10-year bonds
rallied for the first week in eight as optimism that  France  and
 Germany  are aligned on measures to stem the euro-area debt
crisis boosted demand for the region’s higher-yielding assets.  Spain’s  10-year yields  dropped the most since the period
ended Aug. 12 after demand rose at its bond sale on Dec. 1.
German two-year note yields  dropped to a record  on Nov. 30 after
the  European Central Bank  and five other central banks made it
cheaper for banks to borrow dollars in a coordinated action to
stem the global turmoil. French bonds rose over the week,
narrowing the yield difference over German bunds for a second
week.  “There’s been a significant improvement in the market mood
based on expectations of political commitment to a crisis
solution,” said  Luca Cazzulani , a senior fixed-income
strategist at UniCredit Global Research in Milan. “The
announcement by central banks with respect to dollar funding
boosted confidence and supported Spanish and Italian bonds. It’s
a big show of commitment to finding a solution to the debt
crisis.”  The yield on  Spanish 10-year bonds  fell 102 basis points,
or 1.02 percentage points over the week, to 5.68 percent at 5:24
p.m. in London yesterday. Two-year  Spanish yields  slid 152 basis
points to 4.57 percent.  Italian Spread  Italian 10-year yields fell 58 basis points over the week
to 6.68 percent, narrowing the yield difference over similar-
maturity German bunds by 45 basis points to 4.55 percentage
points.  French 10-year yields fell the most in one day since 1991
on Dec. 1 as the nation sold 4.3 billion euros of bonds due
between 2017 and 2041.  Spain  auctioned 3.75 billion euros of
securities on the same day, the maximum target, and  Italy  sold
7.5 billion euros of debt at yields above 7 percent level on
Nov. 29.  Germany is leading a push with France for closer economic
ties among euro nations allied to tougher budget rules to
counter the sovereign debt crisis that is now in its third year.
German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said yesterday she will consult
with French President Nicolas Sarkozy on Dec. 5 to coordinate
their approach to a summit of European leaders on Dec. 9.  German two-year notes rose in the week, pushing yields down
16 basis points to 0.31 percent. They fell to a record low 0.277
percent on Nov. 30.  The ECB will lower  interest rates  by a quarter-point to 1
percent on Dec. 8, according to all but four of 52 economists in
a Bloomberg News survey.  “We have two very important events next week, the European
Central Bank meeting and the European leaders summit,”
Cazzulani said. “There’s confidence in the market that more
will be done to contain the crisis.”  Spanish  government bonds  have handed investors a gain of
2.6 percent this year, according to indexes compiled by the
European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies and
Bloomberg, while German bunds have returned 7.2 percent.
France’s debt has added 3.6 percent and Italy’s has lost 8.4
percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emma Charlton in  London  at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Dobson in London at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net . 