-- 
Sunderland Names Martin O’Neill as New Manager to Replace Bruce

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r
-- 
2011-12-03T15:17:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-03/sunderland-names-martin-o-neill-as-new-manager-to-replace-bruce.html
Sunderland hired former Aston Villa
manager  Martin O’Neill  after firing  Steve Bruce  when the English
Premier League soccer club went four matches without a win.  O’Neill will join on a three-year contract, Sunderland said
today in a  statement  on its website. He is expected to be in the
stands at Molineux for tomorrow’s game with Wolverhampton, while
assistant manager Eric Black oversees the team.  Black has run the team since Bruce left on Nov. 30 after
the team slipped to 16th in the league. The 50-year-old, who
spent 2 1/2 years in charge, led the Black Cats to three home
victories in 2011 and was subjected to chants of “Bruce out”
during a 2-1 loss to Wigan at the Stadium of Light on Nov. 26.  “I hope I can help Sunderland to very successful period,”
O’Neill said in the statement. “That’s what I’ve come for and
that’s my driving ambition.”  O’Neill quit Villa in August 2010, five days before the
start of the season. He had run Villa since 2006. He joined from
Celtic, where his team won the Scottish Premier League three
times and was runner up in the 2003 UEFA Cup. He’s also managed
Leicester City, Norwich and Wycombe.  As a player, O’Neill won two European Cups under Brian Clough at Nottingham Forest. He was captain of Northern Ireland
in the 1982  World Cup .  Bruce left Sunderland with 11 points from 13 matches, two
points above the three relegation positions. The Black Cats
finished 13th in his first full season, then 10th last season.  Backed by funding from Chairman Ellis Short, who completed
a takeover of Sunderland in 2009, Bruce made a number of high
profile signings including Wes Brown,  John O’Shea ,  Craig Gardner 
and Connor Wickham. Short is a former vice chairman of American
real-estate investment firm  Lone Star Funds .  The club has struggled to score goals in the absence of
last season’s top-scorers Asamoah Gyan and Darren Bent. Gyan,
signed for a club record 13 million pounds ($20.4 million) by
Bruce, is on loan at Al-Ain in the United Arab Emirates, while
Bent joined  Aston Villa  in January.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Elser in London at 
 celser@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser in London at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  