-- 
UN Climate Envoys Weigh Measures on $100 Billion Aid, Adaptation, Forests

-- B y   K i m   C h i p m a n   a n d   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 
2011-12-03T09:46:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-03/un-climate-envoys-weigh-measures-on-aid-extreme-weather-saving-forests.html
Envoys at United Nations climate
talks are working on measures including aid to developing
nations, funds to help adapt to more extreme weather patterns
and forest protection, according to a text released today.  The programs are detailed in documents spanning 143
pages, distributed by the UN outlining possible outcomes from a
meeting in Durban,  South Africa . The text is almost five times
as long as the agreements from last year’s meeting in Cancun,
and will be streamlined next week when ministers and envoys from
more than 190 nations and heads of state from 10 of those gather
to debate the plan.  “It gives them a very good sense what the package is going
to look like next week,”  Christiana Figueres , the UN diplomat
organizing the talks, said at a briefing yesterday. “We see
very good progress on a package of measures to do with
adaptation. Durban will move forward with adaptation.”  The text doesn’t deal with how envoys may defuse the most
controversial issue, which almost derailed last year’s talks.
Developing nations including China and India want industrial
countries to accept further greenhouse-gas targets after current
ones in the Kyoto Protocol expire next year. Japan, Russia and
 Canada  reject that.  Options for Debate  The document includes many options that will need to be
narrowed down. In the section on a “shared vision” for future
efforts to cut  greenhouse gases , there are various options that
would require developed countries to cut emissions by 30
percent, 40 percent, 45 percent, 50 percent or more than 50
percent by 2020.  Under one option, the industrialized world would have to
reduce CO2 “by more than 100 percent” from 1990 levels, before
2040. Developing countries are asked to reduce emissions 15
percent to 30 percent below business-as-usual levels in 2020.  The document is a “work in progress, a Saturday snapshot
of where we are at the end of the first week” of the two-week
talks, Dan Reifsnyder, the U.S. delegate who drafted the
document, said in its introduction. “It is clear that more work
to further focus and streamline the texts is necessary.”  Delegates this weekend will scour the document to determine
how to approach the negotiations once ministers from more than
130 nations arrive to join the debate on Dec. 6. Heads of state
will attend from 10 countries including  Ethiopia ,  Gabon ,  Nauru ,
 Senegal  and Fiji. EU Climate Commissioner  Connie Hedegaard  and
Todd Stern from the U.S. State Department will lead their
delegations. The meeting is scheduled to finish on Dec. 9.  ‘Key’ Document  “It is absolutely key,”  Brazil ’s ambassador at the talks,
Andre Correa do Lago, said of the text before it was released.
“We have to see how constructive this can be. We have to see
how much the priorities of the parties are going to be upheld.”  The document today includes proposed conclusions from the
Long Term Cooperative Action track of the UN climate talks, a
process that envisions a treaty outside the Kyoto structure. It
spans 22 chapters covering measures that help nations adapt to
 climate change  and the financial mechanisms aimed at channeling
aid to developing nations.  A separate track of talks is dealing with discussions about
the future of the  Kyoto Protocol . If delegates can’t reach
agreement on that, it may torpedo efforts to advance on the
other issues outlined in today’s document.  Options in Text  Options being explored include agreeing to a new legally-
binding protocol to fight climate change.  The document also includes paragraphs calling for the end
of war and weapons production, the establishment of an
international climate court of justice to hold developed
countries to account for their commitments, and a respect for
the rights of “mother Earth.” One clause calls for climate aid
equivalent to “the budget that developed countries spend on
defense, security and warfare.”  It also has a provision saying countries shouldn’t use
greenhouse gas reduction as a justification for trade barriers
and tariffs, a reference to the inclusion by the European Union
of international aviation in its emissions trading system.  The text repeats a goal to limit the temperature rise since
pre-industrial times to 2 degrees Celsius (3.6 degrees
Fahrenheit) and to analyze the feasibility of a 1.5-degree goal
by 2015. At the same time, the draft acknowledges current
emissions reduction pledges aren’t enough to reach those goals.  Financing Plan  Today’s paper also includes a pledge made two years ago by
developed countries to ramp up climate aid to $100 billion a
year by 2020, and seeks to identify sources of money after
current “fast-start” funding of $10 billion a year ends in
2012. The document calls for greater transparency in delivering
aid pledges.  Other chapters identify measures to protect forests, and a
system to enhance the transparency of the measurement and
reporting of greenhouse gas emissions by  developing countries .  Countries are also debating the makeup of a fund that will
channel as much as $100 billion in climate aid to developing
nations. A 40-member committee spent nine months of the year
drafting rules to govern the pool of money, and envoys are now
holding informal consultations about the document after  Saudi
Arabia , the U.S. and  Venezuela  raised objections.  Selwin Hart, an envoy from Barbados who negotiates on
finance for the 42-member  Alliance of Small Island States , said
in an interview that the draft rules “represent what the
politics can deliver” given the variety of different interests.  ‘Optimistic’  “I’m optimistic that the fund will be launched in
Durban,” Hart said. “I don’t know how we could justify to the
public that we were unable to operationalize a fund that assists
the most vulnerable and the poorest when we have done most of
the work already.”  On the Kyoto issue, the EU said it would only sign up to
more cuts if all polluters back a “road map” in Durban leading
to a new legally binding treaty by 2015 that would come into
force by 2020. The 27-nation bloc has done the most to limit
carbon-dioxide fumes under Kyoto and previously has been among
the most flexible at the talks in terms of reaching agreements.  China Position  Chinese envoy  Su Wei  earlier this week said the EU proposal
was “shifting the goal posts” away from an agreement in 2007
where the UN talks set out plans to extend Kyoto. Brazil’s
Correa do Lago said he couldn’t see any conclusion from Durban
that didn’t include an extension of Kyoto.  Su told environmentalists on Dec. 1 that China may agree to
cap its greenhouse-gas emissions after 2020, confirming an
earlier China Daily report, according to  Alden Meyer , a
Washington-based director of policy at the Union of Concerned
Scientists who attended the meeting. Earlier in the week Su
brushed aside a report from an Indian news service suggesting
the same thing.  Artur Runge-Metzger, the EU’s chief negotiator said
yesterday the EU’s “road map” idea was “advancing” because
delegates are anxious to contain world temperature increases to
2 degrees Celsius (3.6 degrees Fahrenheit) this century.  “Many countries see the goal of keeping the warming to 2
degrees requires a good action,” he said. “Many parties can
see that waiting until 2015 or longer to start discussing the
next steps will simply be too late. This process takes time.”  U.S. View  Jonathan Pershing , the U.S. deputy envoy on climate, said
the measure is meeting “strong resistance” with some
developing countries. The U.S. won’t adopt new targets without
the involvement of developing nations. China and  India  have
become two of the three biggest polluters since Kyoto was
negotiated in 1997 and have no restrictions under the pact.  “My own sense from what I’m hearing from the major parties
is that while some want it, others do not, and I have not
observed a sense in my discussions that they’re prepared to
change their minds; and by that I mean the major economies, the
major emerging economies, which have indicated strong resistance
to having to undertake at this stage a commitment to a legally-
binding obligation,” Pershing said at a press conference. “In
that context, the U.S. also would not be prepared to undertake
legally-binding obligations.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kim Chipman in Washington at 
 kchipman@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  