-- 
Zuma Says Clean Energy Plans Require Aid From Industrial Nations

-- B y   N i k i   M o o r e
-- 
2011-12-03T13:18:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-03/zuma-says-clean-energy-plans-require-aid-from-industrial-nations.html
South African President  Jacob Zuma 
said industrial nations must step up aid programs to support
clean energy projects and achieve reductions in greenhouse gas
emissions.  Speaking at the World Climate Business conference in
Durban, where United Nations envoys are drawing up a global
warming agreement, Zuma said one of the biggest points for
debate in the talks is on finance.  Industrial nations have pledged to work on creating a fund
channeling as much as $100 billion a year in climate aid to
developing nations by 2020. Concerns about the structure of that
fund raised by the U.S., Venezuela and  Saudi Arabia  earlier this
week set back efforts to win agreement on the measure.  “The biggest stumbling block is financial,” Zuma said.
“Renewable energy costs more than non-renewable energy, which
in South Africa is supplied by coal. Renewable energy targets
would add an average incremental cost of $660 million to our
annual energy bill.”  The measures being discussed at the UN talks include
strengthening a market for  carbon emissions . Zuma said there
would be incentives for business, possibly in the form of
labeling systems that show consumers what products are best for
the environment.  Zuma brushed aside concerns the economic slump in the U.S.
and  Europe  may derail an agreement, noting that it’s the poorest
countries that are expected to feel the most impact from  climate
change .  “This impact will be felt in the developing world where we
are already facing rising food prices, youth unemployment,
poverty and extreme weather patterns,” he said. “New models
for driving investment are urgently needed. ‘‘Without the
participation of the private sector, these discussions would not
bear significant fruit.’’  To contact the reporter on this story:
Niki Moore in Durban,  South Africa  at 
 nmoore19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  