-- 
Taxpayers Rank Behind Solyndra Investors Under Obama’s Refinancing Deal

-- B y   W i l l i a m   M c Q u i l l e n
-- 
2011-09-03T17:09:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-03/taxypayers-rank-behind-solyndra-s-investors-under-obama-refinancing-deal.html
The Obama administration let $385
million in taxpayer support for Solyndra Inc. take a back seat
to funds from new investors in an unsuccessful effort to keep
the solar-panel manufacturer operating.  The Energy Department decided the January refinancing
represented the “highest probable net benefit” for the
government, according to a government document obtained by
Bloomberg News. Investors provided the company $75 million that
became senior debt, ahead of all but $150 million of the federal
government’s stake.  Solyndra said on Aug. 31 that it will file for bankruptcy
reorganization next week in Wilmington,  Delaware . The
administration’s agreement to subordinate the  government aid  to
new investment may add fuel to criticism by Republicans who have
said President  Barack Obama  spent too much money pushing a
favored company in the name of green energy.  “Solyndra is just the latest casualty of the Obama
administration’s failed stimulus,” Republican Representatives
Fred Upton of  Michigan , chairman of the House Energy and
Commerce Committee, and Cliff Stearns of  Florida  said in an Aug.
31 statement. “We smelled a rat from the onset,” they said of
the backing for Solyndra.  The company is evaluating options including selling itself
or licensing its technology,  David Miller , a spokesman for the
closely held company, said this week. The company suspended
operations, and about 1,100 full-time and temporary employees
have been dismissed.  Mounting Troubles  Should the company be liquidated, $385 million owed to the
U.S. will be subordinated to the $75 million invested this year,
according to the document dated Jan. 3.  Miller didn’t return a call and e-mail sent outside
business hours seeking comment on the refinancing agreement.  At the time of the January refinancing, the government had
already advanced $460 million in loan guarantees and decided to
continue investing in an effort to fend off threatened
bankruptcy.  The document traces Solyndra’s mounting financial troubles
and the Obama administration’s decision to maintain its bet on
the future of the Fremont, California-based company.  By December 2010, “Solyndra had only about a month of cash
on hand and faced bankruptcy absent continued funding” from the
department, according to the papers.  After “a due-diligence effort” to “determine if the
company still had a viable business,” the Energy Department
concluded it “believes that the restructuring plan represents
the best possible course of action to achieve the highest return
on its invested capital.”  Liquidation Value  The company’s liquidation value of its collateral was $91
million to $99 million in December, before the refinancing,
which would have provided less than a 22 percent return to the
government, the document shows.  By subordinating $385 million of the government loan to $75
million from investors, the government calculated that
Solyndra’s conservative enterprise value this year would be $240
million to $360 million. At what it considered a more
traditional valuation multiple, the government saw the value as
$480 million.  The company had tapped into the loan guarantees offered by
the Energy Department to build a photovoltaic panel facility and
help add 1,000 jobs, according to the papers.  More Collateral  Under the reorganization in January, the company put up
more collateral to the government, including intellectual
property, according to the U.S. document.  In a liquidation, $385 million of the U.S. investment would
be returned at the same time as $175 million in private
investments from before the January refinancing, according to
the papers. If the company avoids liquidation, the $385 million
would remain senior debt.  Solyndra is the third U.S. solar manufacturer to fail in a
month as falling panel prices and weak global demand are driving
a wave of industry consolidation. The company produces
cylindrical panels that convert sunlight into electricity using
copper-indium-gallium-diselenide thin-film technology. Standard
solar panels are flat.  Five U.S. companies have been awarded $1.56 billion in
guarantees through a program championed by Obama, who visited
Solyndra’s factory in May 2010.  The House Energy and Commerce Committee has been probing
Solyndra’s loan guarantee and in July issued a subpoena to the
White House Office of Management and Budget for documents
relating to all Energy Department loan guarantees.  Obama Contributor  In a Sept. 1 letter requesting all documents on White House
House communications with Solyndra, its board and investors, the
lawmakers said “a major investor in Solyndra, George Kaiser,
was a bundler for President Obama’s 2008 campaign.”  The  George Kaiser Family Foundation , a charitable
organization based in Tulsa, Oklahoma, and backed by donations
from Kaiser, holds about 35.7 percent of the company, according
to a Solyndra filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission  Kaiser raised, or bundled, $50,000 to $100,000 for Obama’s
2008 campaign, according to a list that had been posted on
Obama’s 2008 campaign website. He gave $2,300 personally,
according to the  Federal Election Commission .  “George Kaiser is not an investor in Solyndra and did not
participate in any discussions with the U.S. government
regarding the loan,” the foundation said in an e-mailed
statement. The foundation said it “invests in a globally
diversified portfolio across many different asset classes.”  Selection of companies to receive U.S. backing are “merit-
based decisions made by career staffers at the  Department of
Energy , and the process for this particular loan guarantee began
under President  George W. Bush ,” Eric Schultz, a White House
spokesman, said in an e-mailed statement Sept. 1.  “Every project that receives financing through the Energy
Departments goes through a rigorous financial, legal and
technical review process,” Schultz said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
William McQuillen in Washington at 
 bmcquillen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  