-- 
Chile Plane Crash Killed All 21 Onboard

-- B y   A l e x   E m e r y
-- 
2011-09-04T01:48:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-03/chilean-plane-crashes-in-south-pacific-killing-at-least-four-of-21-aboard.html
A military plane carrying
businessmen, troops and journalists crashed off a Chilean island
in the South  Pacific Ocean , killing all 21 on board, the Andean
country’s government said.  All the passengers and crew died instantly, Defense
Minister Andres Allamand said after touring the crash site. The
twin-propeller Casa C-212 plane crashed last night off the Juan
Fernandez Archipelagos, 600 kilometers (375 miles) west of Chile.  “After the search we took part in with the commander-in-
chief of the armed forces, we reached the conclusion that the
impact was so great that it must have caused the immediate death
of all those aboard the plane,” Allamand told television
station TVN.  An air force plane flew the recovered bodies of two
journalists, a soldier and a Culture Ministry employee back to
Santiago today, presidential spokesman Andres Chadwick said.  The plane was attempting to land on one of the islands to
bring humanitarian aid, a Defense Ministry  statement  said. The
three volcanic islands, believed to have inspired Daniel Defoe’s
novel “Robinson Crusoe,” were devastated by a tsunami
following a February 2010 earthquake in  Chile .  Passengers  included businessman Felipe Cubillos and five
TVN journalists, including anchorman Felipe Camiroaga. Cubillos,
49, who has interests in the fisheries and shipping industries,
began a humanitarian aid program called  Rise Up Chile Challenge 
after the quake left 486 dead and caused $30 billion in damage.  The plane apparently ran out of fuel as strong crosswinds
prevented it from landing on the island’s 1 kilometer-long
airstrip, air force chief Gen. Jorge Rojas said.  Singing Hymns  Chilean President Sebastian Pinera said the government will
do everything it can to recover the bodies. The search will
continue day and night, armed forces Chief Inspector Ricardo
Gutierrez told reporters.  Chile has one of the best air-safety records in  Latin
America . Its last major disaster occurred in 1991, when a  Lan
Airlines SA (LAN)  crash on the south coast killed 20. An air force
crash left 14 dead on the south coast in 2000.  In Santiago, hundreds of Chileans holding banners and lit
candles and singing hymns gathered outside TVN’s studios in a
show of solidarity.  Pope Benedict XVI and the presidents of  Mexico ,  Argentina 
and Peru sent condolences to the Chilean government, according
to  CNN .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alex Emery  in Lima at 
 aemery1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  