-- 
China Auto Sales Growth to Slow to About 5% in 2011, NDRC Researcher Says

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-09-03T01:42:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-03/china-s-auto-sales-to-grow-5-in-2011-ndrc-researcher-says-1-.html
China ’s auto sales growth will slow
to about 3 percent to 5 percent this year after government
incentives that boosted deliveries in 2010 were removed,
according to State Information Center Research Director Xu
Changming.  Deliveries will likely be about 19 million units this year,
according to Xu, whose center is a unit of the National
Development and Reform Commission, China’s top economic planning
agency.  “The third quarter may be better than the second as
September and October are traditionally hot seasons for auto
sales but I don’t expect a big improvement,” Xu said in an
interview in Tianjin, where he was attending an auto industry
forum. “I don’t expect any more stimulus policies from the
government in the near future.”  China’s auto sales have slowed this year after surging 32
percent in 2010 to a record, as the government phased out sales-
tax breaks and rebates for rural purchases. Total vehicle
deliveries expanded 3.2 percent in the first seven months,
according to the  China Association of Automobile Manufacturers .  Xu’s forecast is in line with the auto association, which
lowered its previous estimated 10 percent to 15 percent growth
this year to about 5 percent in July.  The State Information Center is conducting research on
consumer acceptance of electric vehicles to see whether and
under what circumstances buyers will opt for the alternative-
energy cars, he said.  The country’s Cabinet is reviewing a 10-year development
plan for energy-saving and alternative energy vehicles, the
 Securities Times  reported on Aug. 30.  China aims to have 1 million units of electricity-powered
vehicles running on roads by 2015, according to the  Ministry of
Science .  There are currently 10,000 alternative energy and energy-
saving vehicles in use in 25 designated trial cities, of which
1,000 are privately owned, according to the Ministry of Industry
and  Information Technology .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kae Inoue at 
 kinoue@bloomberg.net  