-- 
China’s Non-Manufacturing Industries Index Declines Showing Growth Slowing

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-09-03T01:30:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-03/china-non-manufacturing-industries-drops-showing-economic-growth-slowing.html
A Chinese non-manufacturing index
dropped in August, adding to evidence that growth is moderating
in the world’s second-largest economy after the government
raised  interest rates , curbed lending and imposed limits on home
purchases.  A purchasing managers’ index dipped to 57.6 from 59.6 in
July, the  China Federation of Logistics and Purchasing  said on
its website today. A reading above 50 indicates expansion.  Today’s data adds to evidence that growth in Asia’s biggest
economy is slowing. Premier  Wen Jiabao ’s campaign to curb
inflation and housing prices is damping demand at home, while a
widening sovereign debt crisis in  Europe  and faltering expansion
in developed economies threatens to crimp overseas sales.  “Railway investment started to decline and the impact of
slowdown in some infrastructure investment growth on the
construction market has emerged; and the significant drop in new
order and construction business activity indices is the main
factors behind the slowdown in non-manufacturing economy in
August,” Cai Jin, the Federation’s vice president, said in the
statement.  The federation’s non-manufacturing PMI is based on a survey
of about 1,200 companies in 20 industries including transport,
real estate, retailing, catering and software.  The gauge of new orders declined to 54.1 from 55.6. The
measure of construction business activity dipped to 57.3 from
59.9 according to the statement.  ‘Stabilizing’  The input price index dropped to 60.2 in August, the lowest
level this year, from July’s 63.1, indicating that “the prices
level is stabilizing”, Cai said in the statement.  Gross domestic product expanded 9.5 percent from a year
earlier in the second quarter, slowing from the 9.7 percent gain
in the first three months as government tightening policies
kicked in.  Citigroup Inc. economists estimate the pace of expansion
will moderate to 8.9 percent in the third quarter and 8.4
percent in the fourth quarter as export growth to developed
economies slides, adding to the domestic slowdown.  A manufacturing index released by the federation on Sept. 1
stayed near a 29-month low in August and a separate measure
published by HSBC Holdings Plc contracted for the second month.
The gauge of export orders in the federation’s index contracted
for the first time in more than two years while the same measure
in the HSBC index showed a reading below 50 for the fourth month.  ‘Reasonable’  The slowdown in the economy is “reasonable” and within
expectations, Wen wrote in an article in Qiushi, the magazine of
the ruling Communist Party this week. He reiterated that
stabilizing consumer prices remains the top economic priority.  The government is implementing policies to help low-income
households cope with inflation.  A total of 13 provinces raised minimum wages in the first
quarter of the year by an average 21 percent, according to the
Ministry of Human Resources and Social Security. The personal
income tax threshold was raised to 3,500 yuan ($549) a month
from 2,000 yuan from Sept. 1, a change which will see about 60
million fewer people liable to pay the tax, according to the
Ministry of Finance.  Wages Rise  Higher wages are boosting profits at retailers including
Suning Appliance Co., the nation’s biggest electronics retailer.
The company last month reported a 25 percent increase in first-
half profit as sales climbed 23 percent.  China  has raised interest rates five times since mid-
October, introduced home purchase limits in some cities and
tightened lending to help rein in consumer-price gains that have
topped Wen’s 2011 target of about 4 percent every month this
year.  Inflation accelerated to 6.5 percent in July from a year
earlier, the highest in three years. Global liquidity, imported
inflation and higher costs will add to government’s difficulty
in meeting its full-year inflation target, the National
Development and Reform Commission said on Aug. 29.  In the latest tightening move, the central bank will start
to include margin deposits in calculations of banks’ reserve
requirements from Sept. 5.  “With the combined pressure of an economic slowdown and
persistent inflationary pressure, we think macro policymakers
still face a tough balancing act between growth and inflation,”
Shen Jianguang, chief economist for Greater China at Mizuho
Securities  Asia  Ltd, said in a Sept. 1 note.  --Zheng Lifei. Editors: Nerys Avery,  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zheng Lifei in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7560
or  lzheng32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  