-- 
Elbit Drops After Turkey Halts Military Ties

-- B y   T a l   B a r a k   H a r i f
-- 
2011-09-04T16:00:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-03/elbit-drops-after-turkey-halts-military-ties.html
Elbit Systems Ltd. (ESLT) , Israel’s largest
non-government defense contractor, fell to a two-week low on
concern deteriorating diplomatic relations with Turkey and a
lower  defense budget  in the U.S. will cut revenue.  Elbit retreated 1.8 percent to $39.09 on the Nasdaq Stock
Market on Sept. 2, the lowest since Aug. 19. The Tel Aviv shares
fell 5 percent to 137.70 shekels, or the equivalent of $38.20 at
the 4:30 p.m. close in Tel Aviv today. The $1.14 discount
between the two based on the Sept. 1 close of 145 shekels, was
the second-biggest among the largest Israeli companies traded in
 New York , according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The Bloomberg
Israel-US 25 Index dropped 2.2 percent to 84.18 on Sept. 2,
trimming its weekly gain to 1.2 percent.  Haifa, Israel-based Elbit is lagging the  Nasdaq Composite
Index (CCMP)  and the Bloomberg Israel-US 25 Index over the last 12
months on growing concern a downgrade in Israel’s military and
diplomatic relationship with Turkey and U.S. defense-budget cuts
will reduce revenue.  “Turkey is more of a sentiment issue than a fundamental
issue,” said Richard Gussow, an analyst at Deutsche Bank AG
from New York, who has a “hold” recommendation on Elbit.
“Their bigger issue is the defense budget cuts.”  Calls and e-mail messages sent to Hanna Yonai, Elbit’s
spokeswoman, weren’t immediately returned.  Turkey will keep military accords on hold with Israel and
cut diplomatic ties to second-secretary levels barring an
apology for the killing of Turkish activists on a flotilla to
Gaza last year, Foreign Minister  Ahmet Davutoglu  told reporters
in Ankara on Sept. 2.  UN Report  Turkey is severing ties with its once-closest ally in the
 Middle East  before the presentation of a United Nations report
on  Israel ’s raid in May last year on vessels attempting to
breach the blockade of the Hamas-controlled  Gaza Strip .  The UN said Israel’s naval blockade is legal and the
country is entitled to enforce it while adding that the
country’s effort to stop the flotilla was “excessive and
unreasonable,” according to the 105-page report obtained by the
New York Times and posted on its website.  Shares of Elbit dropped 5.2 percent in the two days after
the flotilla raid to 189.20 shekels.  Revenue in 2010 fell 5.7 percent to $2.7 billion from the
year before mainly because of a drop in sales of land systems
activities following the end of the M-60 project in  Turkey , as
well as a drop in income for the Bradley project in the U.S.,
the company said in a statement distributed by PR Newswire on
March 15.  ‘Deteriorating Relationship’  “The deteriorating relationship between Israel and Turkey
has had an impact for quite some time now on Elbit,” said Gilad Alper, an analyst at Excellence Nessuah Investment House in
 Ramat Gan , Israel. “Over the last couple of years some of their
contracts have been put on hold.”  Elbit gets about 5 percent of its revenue from Turkey,
according to Alper. The U.S. accounted for 32 percent of second-
quarter revenue, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  U.S. defense spending plans will decrease at least $330
billion over the next decade under the debt-reduction bill that
President Barack Obama signed into law on Aug. 2, according to
the Office of Management and Budget.  An additional $500 billion would be cut if a congressional
supercommittee fails to find additional savings in other federal
spending or if Congress rejects its recommendations.  Asian Contracts  Elbit won contracts worth about $20 million from several
Asian customers to supply observation systems for maritime
patrol aircraft, vessels and towers, the company said in a
statement to the  Tel Aviv  Stock Exchange on Aug. 17. It reported
the previous day that second-quarter sales rose to $691.6
million from $603.3 million in the same period last year.  The decline in Elbit’s shares in the U.S. pushed valuations
down to 10.7 times trailing earnings, below the average level
for companies on the S&P 500 Aerospace and Defense Index.  “The defense stocks are trading at very low valuations due
to the fear of cuts in  government spending ,” said Jamia Jasper,
president of AmerIsrael Capital Management LLC in New York.
“Turkey is a very insignificant part of Elbit’s customer base.
The fundamentals of the company are strong.”  Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  has said his
country’s response to the flotilla was justified. Israel won’t
apologize for the deaths as its soldiers acted in self defense,
said a government official in  Jerusalem  who declined to be
identified because he wasn’t authorized to speak publicly on the
matter. Israel regrets the loss of life and hopes to find a way
to resolve clashes with Turkey, he said.  Boycotts  Israeli products, especially those from companies based in
or with facilities in the  West Bank , have been the target of
boycotts. Norway announced in 2009 it would exclude Elbit from
its sovereign-wealth fund,  Europe ’s largest, because of the
defense company’s involvement in the construction of a West Bank
security barrier.  The shekel weakened the most in two weeks, retreating 0.8
percent to 3.6051 per dollar on Sept. 2. Israel’s benchmark
TA-25 Index slid 4.4 percent to 1,082.47 today, bringing the
decline this year to 18 percent.  Israel, whose population of 7.7 million is similar to
Switzerland’s, has 57 companies traded on the Nasdaq, the most
of any country outside the U.S. after  China . The country is also
home to the largest number of startup companies per capita in
the world.  Israeli technology companies raised $569 million in capital
during the second quarter of 2011, the most in two years and up
from $343 million in the same period last year, according to the
Israel Venture Capital-KPMG Quarterly Survey released July 13.  Market Upgrade  The nation’s stock market was upgraded to developed market
status by MSCI Inc. in May 2010, the same month the 63-year-old
country was accepted into the Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development.  Retalix Ltd. (RTLX) ’s U.S.-traded shares climbed for a third day
on Sept. 2, rising 1.6 percent to $13.60. The Israeli shares
dropped 1.8 percent to 48.12 shekels, or the equivalent of
$13.35, today.  Fundtech Ltd. (FNDT) , the Israeli provider of banking software for
Bank of America Corp. and HSBC Holdings Plc, dropped 3.5 percent
to $16.19. The Tel Aviv shares retreated 4 percent to 59.48
shekels, or the equivalent of $16.50, today.  EZchip Semiconductor Ltd. (EZCH) , the Israeli maker of network
processors that counts Cisco Systems Inc. as a customer, sank
3.6 percent to $29.90. The Israeli stock tumbled 6.7 percent to
108 shekels, or the equivalent of $29.96, today. The $2.21
discount on Sept. 2 was the largest among the biggest Israeli
companies traded in the U.S.  -- With assistance from Gwen Ackerman and Calev Ben-David in
Jerusalem. Editors: James Kraus, Peter Torday  To contact the reporters on this story: Tal Barak Harif in New
York at   tbarak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  