-- 
Ex-News Corp. Executives May Seek to Shift Blame in Parliament Testimony

-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 
2011-09-04T23:01:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-03/ex-news-corp-executives-will-seek-to-shift-blame-in-testimony.html
Four former  News Corp. (NWSA)  executives
testify in the U.K. Parliament tomorrow after questioning the
veracity of parts of News International Deputy Chief Operating
Officer James Murdoch’s testimony over a phone-hacking scandal
two months ago.  Colin Myler , editor of the News of the World tabloid until
News Corp. shut it down in July, and Tom Crone, a former company
lawyer, will be among those questioned by the House of Commons
Culture Committee in London. James Murdoch told the panel July
19 that underlings were responsible for ethical lapses. Within
days, Myler and Crone issued a statement casting doubt on his
version of events.  James and his father, News Corp. Chief Executive Officer
Rupert Murdoch, shouldn’t have given so much information during
their evidence session, according to Niri Shan, the head of
media law at Taylor Wessing LLP in London, who isn’t involved in
the matter.  “The problem with saying too much is that you then have a
version of events on the record that can be scrutinized and
picked apart, and that’s what happened,” Shan said in a
telephone interview.  Revelations that the News of the World intercepted the
voicemail of a murdered schoolgirl prompted the closure of
Britain’s biggest-selling newspaper and forced News Corp. to
withdraw a takeover bid for  British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc. (BSY) 
Fifteen people have been arrested. Prime Minister  David Cameron ,
facing questions about his judgment for hiring another former
News of the World editor,  Andy Coulson , as his communications
chief, has set up a judge-led inquiry into media standards.  Bonus Declined  James Murdoch, 38, said Sept. 2 he will forgo a $6 million
bonus because “it was the right thing to do” in light of the
phone-hacking scandal. He was paid a $3 million salary and $8.3
million in stock awards, according to a proxy filing.  Separately, News Corp. said that it couldn’t confirm a
report in the Independent newspaper Sept. 3 that officials at
its U.K. unit used investigators to gather information on
lawyers who represented victims of phone hacking. No current
executives at the U.K. unit approved such conduct, News Corp.
said in an e-mailed statement.  James Murdoch told the Parliamentary panel in July that
News International, the U.K. publishing unit of News Corp., had
acted in good faith in previous assertions that phone-hacking
had been limited to a single reporter,  Clive Goodman , and a
private investigator,  Glenn Mulcaire , both jailed in 2007.  Harbottle Rebuttal  Myler and Crone will be questioned about a meeting on June
10, 2008, at which they say they told James Murdoch about an e-
mail that suggested at least two more reporters on the paper had
been involved in phone-hacking. Murdoch denied in July that they
had done so.  Murdoch said the company’s stance rested on three
“pillars”: an initial police probe that stopped at Goodman and
Mulcaire, an examination of some of Goodman’s e-mails by law
firm Harbottle & Lewis LLP, and an investigation by the  Press
Complaints Commission .  In written evidence to the committee published last month,
the  PCC said  its probe consisted solely of writing to the
newspaper’s editor. Harbottle said in  a 24-page reply  that its
work had been limited to defending an unfair dismissal claim
from Goodman and “was simply not one which was designed to bear
the weight News International now seeks to place upon it.” The
police have said the company obstructed their work.  Cloke, Crone  During tomorrow’s hearings, Daniel Cloke, a former News
International human-resources director for News International
who’s now in the same role at Vodafone Group Plc, and Jon Chapman, once head of legal affairs at News International, will
also be questioned about how they handled Goodman’s dismissal
and his subsequent allegation that others at the paper had been
involved.  In written evidence to the panel after the Murdoch
hearings,  Crone said  he and Myler met James for “no more than
15 minutes” in 2008, to discuss settling a privacy lawsuit from
 Gordon Taylor , chief executive of the Professional Footballers’
Association, whose phone had been hacked by Mulcaire.  ‘For Neville’  Crone said the company decided to settle after Taylor’s
lawyer found a transcript of Taylor’s voicemails typed up by a
reporter and marked “for Neville,” an apparent reference to
Neville Thurlbeck, the paper’s chief reporter.  “My invariable practice when seeking authority for
settlements would be to take a file of the relevant documents
with me to such meetings,” Crone wrote. “Since the ‘for
Neville’ document was the sole reason for settling and,
therefore, for the meeting, I have no doubt that I informed Mr.
Murdoch of its existence. I do not recall if I produced it.”  Myler confirmed Crone’s account in  his own submission .  Asked by the committee to respond,  James Murdoch  wrote that
both were wrong.  “Neither Mr. Myler nor Mr. Crone told me that wrongdoing
extended beyond Mr. Goodman or Mr. Mulcaire,” he wrote. “There
was nothing discussed in the meeting that led me to believe that
a further investigation was necessary.”  ‘Illegal Procedures’  Crone will also face questions about his dealings with
Goodman. Among the documents published by the committee last
month were two copies of a letter Goodman sent Cloke in 2007,
after his dismissal, one submitted by News Corp. and the other
by Harbottle & Lewis.  The letter stated that “other members of staff were
carrying out the same illegal procedures” as those for which he
had been jailed. While both copies obscured the names of
individuals at the request of police, the Harbottle & Lewis
version contained two paragraphs missing in that submitted by
News Corp.  In those paragraphs, Goodman wrote that Crone had been
present at “virtually every meeting of my legal team” and that
he and Coulson “promised on many occasions that I could come
back to a job at the newspaper if I did not implicate that paper
or any of its staff.”  Cloke may be asked about a decision to have Myler hear
Goodman’s appeal against dismissal in private, rather than using
the company’s usual practice of a panel with staff and
management representatives. In a 2007 letter to Goodman, Cloke
said the more public option would be “clearly inappropriate”
given the reporter’s allegations.  ‘Good News’  Chapman and Cloke responded to Goodman’s appeal by going
through e-mails between him and executives on the newspaper and
then asking Harbottle & Lewis to certify that they contained
nothing that proved his allegations.  Myler said in his written evidence that Cloke told him at
the end of the review there was “good news; there is no smoking
gun or silver bullet in the e-mails.”  Ken Macdonald, a former director of public prosecutions
appointed by News Corp. earlier this year to help deal with the
renewed police probe into hacking, told Parliament’s Home
Affairs Committee in July that it took him less than 10 minutes
to conclude that the e-mails showed evidence of illegal payments
to police officers, a crime Goodman was never accused of.  Chapman and Cloke may also be asked whether they took other
actions to investigate Goodman’s claim that phone-hacking was
“widely discussed in the daily editorial conference, until
explicit reference to it was banned” by Coulson.  For Myler the question is whether he was made aware of the
full extent of Goodman’s allegations. It’s not clear whether the
dismissal hearing ever took place.  The company settled Goodman’s unfair-dismissal claim in
July 2007, paying him 153,000 pounds ($248,000) on top of 90,500
pounds he’d already received when he was fired. James Murdoch
said in his evidence the decision to settle had been made by
Chapman and Cloke.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
News Corp. units  in providing financial news and information.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Hutton in  London  at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 