-- 
Serena Williams Is Lone American Woman in U.S. Open 4th Round

-- B y   R o b   G l o s t e r   a n d   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 
2011-09-04T04:19:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-03/federer-women-s-no-1-seed-wozniacki-advance-to-fourth-round-of-u-s-open.html
Now that the last of the surprising
teenagers has lost,  Serena Williams  is back in her accustomed
spot as the final American woman at the U.S. Open.  Williams, a three-time champion, defeated No. 4 seed
Victoria Azarenka 6-1, 7-6 (7-5) yesterday and became the only
U.S. woman to reach the fourth round at the National Tennis
Center in New York.  The 29-year-old Williams earned that distinction when
Sloane Stephens, the last of six American teenage women in the
tournament, battled her nerves while losing in straight sets
last night to No. 16 Ana Ivanovic of  Serbia .  Stephens, daughter of the late New England Patriots running
back John Stephens, entered her first U.S. Open this week ranked
106th on the WTA Tour and beat Israeli Shahar Peer, the No. 23
seed, in the second round. She had two aces and six double
faults against Ivanovic.  “I was so caught up in being tight and nervous and not
really handling the situation well to just freaking out,”
Stephens said in a news conference. “Honestly, I was thinking
like a 10-year-old, things that my brother would think, just
weird stuff.”  Five-time men’s winner  Roger Federer  advanced yesterday
with a four-set win against Marin Cilic. Top women’s seed
 Caroline Wozniacki  of Denmark defeated American Vania King in
straight sets. The top men’s seed, Novak Djokovic of Serbia,
defeated Nikolay Davydenko of  Russia  6-3, 6-4, 6-2.  Mardy Fish ,
the highest-seeded American man at No. 8, also advanced in three
sets.  Williams Defeats Azarenka  Williams, an American seeded 28th following two injury-
marred years, survived an 82-minute second set and needed five
match points to beat Azarenka of Belarus 6-1, 7-6 (7-5) in
Arthur Ashe Stadium.  “I definitely wasn’t happy with the way I played overall
today,” Williams said in a news conference. “You know, I was a
wee bit disappointed. But I can build on it.”  Williams also was the final American woman in the
tournament in 2009 and 2008. She did not play last year because
of injury.  Williams won the first five games of the 28-minute first
set and had three match points at 5-3 in the second set before
Azarenka saved a service game. Azarenka fought off another match
point at 5-4 before forcing the tiebreaker, in which Williams
had her 12th ace of the match.  Williams’s next opponent is Ivanovic, who won 6-3, 6-4
against Stephens, 18, who joined fellow American teen Christina
McHale as a third-round loser. Madison Keys and Coco Vandeweghe
lost in the second round and two other U.S. teens, Lauren Davis
and  Melanie Oudin , were first-round losers.  Williams Betting Favorite  Williams entered the tournament as the betting favorite,
with 9-to-5 odds of winning her fourth title, according to Las
Vegas Sports Consultants, which advises Nevada sports books on
setting their gambling lines.  Federer, the No. 3 seed from  Switzerland , beat Cilic, the
No. 27 seed from Croatia, 6-3, 4-6, 6-4, 6-2 on the Ashe Stadium
court. Federer holds the record with 16 Grand Slam titles and is
trying to extend his streak of winning at least one major title
in every year since 2003.  He’ll next play Juan Monaco of Argentina for a chance to
reach his 30th straight Grand Slam quarterfinal.  Wozniacki, a finalist at the 2009  U.S. Open  and a
semifinalist last year, beat King 6-2, 6-4. King, a 22-year-old
American who was looking to reach her first Grand Slam fourth
round, lost six of her nine service games. Wozniacki lost her
serve three times.  ‘It was very windy today out there and it wasn’t just going
one way, it was shifting, so I found it very difficult to place
the ball,” Wozniacki said in a news conference.  Wozniacki’s Next Match  Wozniacki, who has held the No. 1 ranking on the WTA Tour
for 46 weeks, moved on to face Svetlana Kuznetsova, the No. 15
seed from Russia and the 2004 U.S. Open winner, for a spot in
the quarterfinals.  Fish beat Kevin Anderson of  South Africa  6-4, 7-6 (7-4), 7-
6 (7-3) in Louis Armstrong Stadium to reach the fourth round.
Tomas Berdych, the No. 9 seed from the Czech Republic, retired
from his match with Janko Tipsarevic because of a shoulder
injury while trailing 6-4, 5-0.  Francesca Schiavone, the women’s No. 7 seed from  Italy ,
came back to beat South African Chanelle Scheepers 5-7, 7-6 (7-
5), 6-3 on the Grandstand court.  Andrea Petkovic , the No. 10
seed from  Germany , beat  Roberta Vinci , the No. 18 seed from
Italy, 6-4, 6-0.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in  New York  at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  