-- 
LG Electronics Targets Fivefold Gain in 3-D TV Market Share

-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n   a n d   J u n   Y a n g
-- 
2011-09-04T04:11:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-03/lg-electronics-aims-for-fivefold-increase-in-3-d-tv-market-share.html
LG Electronics Inc. (066570) , the world’s
second-biggest maker of televisions, aims to raise its market
share for 3-D TVs fivefold this year by pushing its technology
for lightweight, battery-free glasses.  The company will probably reach 20 percent of the market
for the devices by the end of 2011, up from 4 percent at the
beginning of the year, said Lee Kwan Sup, head of marketing for
LG’s home entertainment unit. Seoul-based LG aims to pass
Samsung Electronics Co. and become the world’s top seller of 3-D
televisions next year, it said in a statement today.  LG and competitors including Samsung and  Toshiba Corp. (6502)  are
pushing 3-D to revive falling demand in major markets. TV
shipments will decline through 2015 in Western Europe and  Japan 
and stagnate in the U.S., market researcher IMS Research said.
The market will total about 200 million TVs this year, with 3-D
accounting for some 10 percent, from 1 percent last year, Lee
estimated.  “If we make a strong push into this newly developing
premium segment, we can set a trend and establish an image as an
innovator,” Lee said in an interview at the IFA consumer
electronics fair in Berlin. “This is a fortuitous cycle for us,
and that’s why we’re really focusing on this 3-D technology.”  TVs capable of showing 3-D images normally command a 20
percent premium over regular sets, he said.  Sony Corp. (6758)  on July 28 cut the sales forecast for its Bravia
televisions by 19 percent to 22 million units worldwide this
year. Royal Philips Electronics NV said in April it would divest
its 80-year-old TV unit to a Hong Kong contract manufacturer.  Cinema 3D  While LG’s previously announced target of 40 million units
for this year is “a stretch,” the company is set to increase
market share to more than 15 percent from 12 percent, Lee said.
LG lowered its TV-sales goal to 32 million units, Edaily
reported Aug. 18, citing an unidentified company official.  LG is betting on “Cinema 3D TVs” incorporating Film
Patterned Retarder technology and using glasses that it says are
lighter, more comfortable and less eye-straining. Philips and
Toshiba are among other makers adopting the technology,
developed by LG Display Co., while Sony is considering it, Lee
said.  LG aims to equip 70 percent of its TVs with 3-D features
and develop glasses-free models, according to the statement. The
company also said it plans to start next year selling large-
screen TVs using so-called OLED, or organic light-emitting
diode, technology.  A boost to TV revenue may help LG make up for its shrinking
stature in mobile-phone sales, where global market share by unit
fell to 5.7 percent in the  second quarter  from 8 percent a year
earlier, according to researcher Gartner Inc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cornelius Rahn in Frankfurt at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net 
Jun Yang in Seoul at 
 jyang180@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  in Berlin at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  