-- 
German Bunds Rise, Italy, Spain Bonds Slide, on Recession Signs

-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n   a n d   K e i t h   J e n k i n s
-- 
2011-09-03T06:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-03/german-bunds-rise-italy-spain-bonds-slide-on-recession-signs.html
German bunds surged this week,
pushing 10-year yields to a record low below 2 percent, as signs
the  U.S. economy  may be headed toward recession boosted demand
for the safest securities.  Italian bonds dropped for a 10th day, and Spain’s benchmark
rates climbed to the highest level in three weeks on concern
debt purchases by the  European Central Bank  won’t be enough to
cap the two nations’ borrowing costs. A U.S. payrolls report
yesterday showed no jobs were added in August, stoking
speculation the  Federal Reserve  will consider additional
stimulus measures to boost the economy. Greek two-year yields
soared above 47 percent.  “The reaction to the payrolls data shows that the market
is pricing in a fairly gloomy scenario,” said  Christoph Rieger ,
head of fixed-income strategy at Commerzbank AG in  Frankfurt .
“There was a sharp reaction in bunds, risky assets are
plunging. It’s a confluence of factors with the euro-region debt
crisis also clearly responsible for the underlying bid in the
bund market.”  German 10-year bund yields fell 15 basis points this week
to 2.01 percent, reaching a record low 1.996 percent yesterday.
The 2.25 percent security, maturing in 2021 rose 1.345, or 13.45
euros per 1,000-euro ($1,421) face amount, to 102.170. Two-year
note yields fell 13 basis points to 0.52 percent, the least
since June 2010.  Ten-year bunds have risen in five of the past six weeks as
disappointing economic data and concern the sovereign debt
crisis is intensifying fueled demand for the perceived safety of
government debt.  Manufacturing Shrinks  Europe ’s manufacturing industry shrank more than initially
estimated in August, data released on Sept. 1 showed, adding to
signs the euro region’s recovery is faltering. Economists
forecast a report next week will show German factory orders
declined in July.  Italian 10-year yields climbed 21 basis points over the
week to 5.28 percent. Yields reached 5.29 percent yesterday, the
most since Aug. 8, the day the European Central Bank began
buying the bonds. Two-year yields added 16 basis points to 3.52
percent.  The difference in yield, or spread, between 10-year Italian
and German bonds reached 328 basis points, the widest since Aug.
8. Costs to insure Italian debt using credit-default swaps
climbed to a record.  The ECB began buying Spanish and Italian government debt
last month to curtail a surge in bond yields as contagion from
the debt crisis that engulfed Greece, Ireland and  Portugal 
infected the euro-region’s third and fourth largest countries.  Austerity Plan  Berlusconi on Aug. 29 bowed to demands from his party’s
alliance partner to overhaul the 45 billion-euro austerity plan
of Aug. 5, that had originally helped persuade the ECB to
support  Italy ’s bonds. The changes create a 7 billion-euro hole
in a package that aims to balance the budget in 2013, analysts
at Societe Generale SA estimate.  “The Italian austerity plan is being chopped and changed
and that’s undermined the ECB’s support of Italian bonds,” said
 Orlando Green , a fixed-income strategist at Credit Agricole SA
in  London . “There’s been a buildup of concern about the
economic outlook, fresh doubts about the unity of the European
Union, and the Greek rescue package that still needs to be
approved. All this is supporting bunds.”  Spain ’s 10-year yields climbed 12 basis points this week to
5.12 percent. The extra yield investors demand to hold the 10-
year debt instead of their German counterparts reached 312 basis
points, the most since the ECB started buying the bonds.  ECB Meeting  ECB policy makers convene on Sept. 8 to review  interest
rates  and are forecast to leave their benchmark at 1.50 percent,
according to a Bloomberg survey of 57 economists. ECB President
 Jean-Claude Trichet  will hold a press conference the same day.  “The key thing next week is the bond-buying program,”
Green said. “Whether they keep it going, what Trichet says
about it, and it will be interesting to see the degree of buying
that goes on in the secondary market.”  Greek two-year notes slumped for a sixth week, sending the
yields on the securities up to a euro-era record 47.29 percent.
The nation’s deepening recession will probably scuttle its 2011
deficit targets and mean no growth next year, the country’s
finance minister said, as European Union and International
Monetary Fund officials suspended their fifth quarterly review.  German  government bonds  have handed investors a gain of 5.7
percent this year through yesterday, according to indexes
compiled by the European Federation of Financial Analysts
Societies and Bloomberg.  Greece ’s have declined 22 percent,
Italy’s have dropped 0.4 percent and Spain’s have increased 4.8
percent, the indexes show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net ;
Keith Jenkins in London at 
 kjenkins3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Keith Campbell at 
 k.campbell@bloomberg.net . 