-- 
Like Dog Days of Summer, Palin Is Fading Away: Margaret Carlson

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C a r l s o n
-- 
2011-09-03T23:00:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-03/like-dog-days-of-summer-palin-is-fading-away-margaret-carlson.html
Sarah Palin is learning that
attention is a depreciating asset. Her latest melodrama revolved
around whether she would show up at a  Tea Party  event in  Iowa  on
Saturday. In the end, she did. Yet that only begged a question:
Does anyone, including Republican primary voters, still care?  In 2009, Palin similarly backed in and out of appearances
including a keynote address before the annual joint fundraiser
of the Republican Senate and House campaign committees. The
dysfunction of her brand of politics as performance art was laid
embarrassingly bare. The best her defenders could do was blame a
staff that Politico  characterized  as “the gang that couldn’t
shoot straight.”  In advance of Saturday’s Tea Party rally in Indianola,
Iowa, Palin reverted to form. Yes, she’s coming. No, she’s not.
Yes, she will come if organizers provide her with a bucolic
setting, bomb-sniffing dogs and two exits. No, on second
thought, make that a bale of hay, a bullhorn and a very public
dismissal of Christine O’Donnell, the former Republican Senate
candidate from  Delaware  whom Palin had endorsed but now doesn’t
want to be seen with.  In the end, the Delaware non-witch got the boot and Palin
got her way. What’s left of Palin’s core constituency -- the
media -- showed up on a slow news weekend to chronicle her soap
opera histrionics, operational anarchy and rock-ribbed
narcissism. But it’s hard to keep running on the fumes of old
celebrity. Having failed to finish a single term as governor,
master any policy issues, or build a competent organization, she
is noted largely for the fun stuff -- looking good and appearing
on television, both on her travelogue show and within the safe
ideological cocoon of  Fox News . She cheered her daughter Bristol
on “Dancing with the Stars.” She gives lucrative speeches to
friendly audiences. She got rich in a Paris Hilton kind of way,
and now finds herself ridiculous in much the same vein.  The Palin Factor  That doesn’t mean Palin wouldn’t be a factor in the
Republican presidential primary in the unlikely event she
entered it. Former Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney would like
nothing better than for Palin to create a Tea Party brawl on his
right. While she wouldn’t win more than a toy in a Cracker Jack
box, she could still destabilize the field, creating problems
for Texas Governor  Rick Perry  and veritable conniptions for
Minnesota Representative  Michele Bachmann  -- all just as a new
poll shows most Republicans have finally grown satisfied with
their candidate options.  The Republican candidates will take the stage Sept. 7 for a
debate at the  Ronald Reagan Presidential Library and Museum  in
Simi Valley,  California . It’s the kind of klieg-lighted scene
that could tempt a Mama Grizzly to come roaring back to center
stage. Like big patriotic holidays, the mere mention of  Ronald Reagan  is bound to make Palin itch for attention.  Yet her travails as a celebrity are nothing compared with
what she would face as a candidate. She relies on volunteers,
under an umbrella group called Organize4Palin, to organize. She
has no paid staff on the ground in the early primary states, and
leaned on Tea Party groups to produce her Labor Day weekend
events.  Short Half-Life  During Memorial Day weekend, Palin captivated the cameras
by mounting the back of a Harley-Davidson at  Rolling Thunder ,
the annual gathering of bikers in  Washington . Her subsequent bus
trip up Interstate 95 was remembered mostly for her curious
observation that Paul Revere’s midnight ride was a warning to
the British, not the American colonists. Yet even her gaffes
have a shorter and shorter half-life.  Palin has lost her mojo. She is no longer the singular
fixation of the Tea Party, and no longer a candidate who
registers high enough in national polls to be taken seriously.
She has learned how to run toward a camera, but not how to run
for office, and she will be left behind if she tries.  If there is anyone left who wants to wager that Palin will
become president, I’ll bet an all-expense-paid trip to  Alaska .
If she loses, I’ll take a trip to someplace warm.  ( Margaret Carlson  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Margaret Carlson in Washington at 
 mcarlson3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Francis Wilkinson at 
 fwilkinson1@bloomberg.net . 