-- 
Job Growth Stagnates in U.S. in August as Unemployment Rate Holds at 9.1%

-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 
2011-09-03T04:01:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-03/job-growth-stagnates-in-u-s-as-unemployment-holds-at-9-1-.html
Job growth in the U.S. unexpectedly
stagnated in August, adding to pressure on Federal Reserve
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and President Barack Obama to rouse an
economy that’s at risk of stalling two years after the last
recession ended.  Payrolls were unchanged, the weakest reading since
September 2010, the Labor Department said yesterday in
Washington. The median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey
called for a gain of 68,000. The jobless rate held at 9.1
percent.  “It’s a very, very difficult labor market,” said  John Silvia , chief economist at Wells Fargo Securities LLC in
Charlotte,  North Carolina . “We have an economy that’s just
muddling through.”  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 2.5 percent to close
at 1,173.97 in  New York  yesterday. Ten-year Treasury yields sank
to 1.99 percent at 4:34 p.m. in New York from 2.13 percent late
on Sept. 1. The dollar extended its longest rally since January.  “We’re calling for a mild recession at this point,” said
 Julia Coronado , chief economist for  North America  at BNP Paribas
in New York. “We’ll see QE3 definitely,” she said, referring
to a third round of large-scale asset purchases by the Fed. “It
helps put a floor under the economy and stabilize things.”  The report raised the political stakes for Obama as he
prepares to address a joint session of Congress next week. An
 unemployment rate  stuck above 9 percent has helped push Obama’s
disapproval rating to an all-time high, according to a
Quinnipiac University Aug. 16-27 poll of 2,730 registered
voters. Some 52 percent disapprove of Obama’s job performance,
up from 46 percent in July.  Options Limited  Still, Obama’s options will be limited by opposition to
increased spending from Republicans in Congress.  “Even if the president announces a bold  job creation  plan
next Thursday, the chances of it getting through Congress are
not very large,”  Christina Romer , a professor of economics at
the University of California-Berkley and a former chief of
Obama’s Council of Economic Advisors, said in an interview on
Bloomberg Television.  Political infighting over the budget and mounting fear of a
default in  Europe  caused the  S&P 500  to plummet 17 percent from
July 22 to Aug. 8, prompting companies and consumers to cut
back. The lack of hiring is one reason Bernanke last week said
the central bank still has tools available to stimulate growth.  Fed Choices  Options for the Fed include extending the maturity of
Treasury securities in its $1.65 trillion portfolio to push down
long-term  interest rates , purchasing more Treasuries, or
expanding the range of securities it buys, Mohamed El-Erian,
chief executive officer of Pacific Investment Management Co.,
said in an interview yesterday on Bloomberg Television’s “In
the Loop” with Betty Liu.  The economy expanded at a 1 percent pace in the second
quarter following a 0.4 percent gain in the first three months
of the year, the Commerce Department reported last month.
 Consumer spending  grew 0.4 percent, the smallest increase since
the last three months of 2009.  “The macroeconomic environment has remained difficult for
consumers who continue to face high unemployment rates, high
gasoline and high food costs,” Rick Dreiling, chairman and
chief executive officer at Dollar General Corp., said on an Aug.
30 teleconference with analysts. The Goodlettsville, Tennessee-
based company is the biggest dollar discount chain in the U.S.  Sustained payroll increases of around 150,000 a month are
needed to bring unemployment down about half a percentage point
over a year, according to  Chris Rupkey , chief financial
economist at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. in New York.  ‘One-Month Event’  Still, the jobs report could be “a one-off event tied to
the financial-market turbulence in early August,” Rupkey said.
He said it would take three months of job losses to signal a
recession.  The payroll figures last month included a 48,000 drop in
the information industry, mostly reflecting a strike at  Verizon
Communications Inc. (VZ)  Conversely, the end of a partial shutdown of
the Minnesota government returned about 23,000 workers to their
jobs in August.  Even with the rebound in Minnesota, government payrolls
decreased by 17,000 in August. Employment at state governments
rose by 5,000. Local government employment slumped 20,000.  Private hiring, which excludes government agencies, climbed
17,000 last month, the smallest increase since a decline in
February 2010.  Fares Abderrahmane said he’s been looking for work for
three months after losing his job as manager at a clothing
warehouse in New York that paid $1,400 every two weeks. He has
sent hundreds of online applications, mostly to clothing
retailers.  “There’s no response, nothing,” said Abderrahmane, 36,
who lives in Brooklyn. “It’s hard to find a job now. Everybody
is looking.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Willis in  Washington  at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Christopher
Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  