-- 
S&P Warns Over Euro-Area Bond ‘Weakest Link’ Effect

-- B y   Z o e   S c h n e e w e i s s
-- 
2011-09-06T12:09:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-03/joint-euro-bond-would-get-rating-of-the-weakest-link-s-p-official-says.html
Standard & Poor’s Managing Director
of European Sovereign Ratings Moritz Kraemer said the rating of
a common euro-area bond would reflect that of the “weakest”
country if severally guaranteed.  “If it is a several and not a joint guarantee, then it
would be the weakest link approach,” Kraemer said at a
conference in Alpbach, Austria, adding that “it depends on how
the euro bond would be structured.”  While Luxembourg’s  Jean-Claude Juncker , who leads the group
of euro-area finance ministers, and Italian Finance Minister
 Giulio Tremonti  have endorsed euro bonds, German  Chancellor
Angela Merkel  has ruled out common bond issuance under which
high-deficit countries would be able to access financial markets
at lower rates than they currently pay, easing the burden of
financing their deficits.  “My understanding is that it’s a bond similar to the jumbo
bonds in Germany,” where smaller federal states that don’t have
enough issuance volume “gang together” and “everyone
guarantees just his own bit,” he said.  “If the euro bond is structured like this, and we have
public criteria on that, the answer is very simple,” he said.
“If we have a euro bond where  Germany  guarantees 27 percent,
France 20 percent and  Greece  2 percent, then the rating of this
euro bond would be CC, which is the rating of Greece.”  Support for Objections  Germany has support for its objections to euro bonds, with
Austrian Finance Minister Maria Fekter saying on Aug. 23 that
nations aren’t ready to issue such bonds. France, the second-
biggest of the euro area’s six AAA-rated countries, see little
room for a common euro bond without closer integration of
 Europe ’s fiscal and budgetary regimes, said a French official
who declined to be identified in line with government policy.  Banding with its weaker neighbors to sell debt would cost
Germany 47 billion euros ($67 billion) a year in additional
financing costs, according to the Munich-based Ifo economic
institute.  Kraemer said S&P wasn’t in any talks with the European
Union on a potential issue of euro bonds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoe Schneeweiss in Alpbach,  Austria  at 
 zschneeweiss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net  