-- 
BofA, JPMorgan Among 17 Banks Sued by U.S. for $196 Billion

-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s   a n d   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 
2011-09-03T14:30:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-03/jpmorgan-bofa-among-17-banks-sued-by-fhfa-over-196-billion-in-securities.html
Bank of America Corp. and  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM)  were among 17 banks sued by the U.S. to recoup $196
billion spent on mortgage-backed securities bought by Fannie Mae
and Freddie Mac.  The Federal Housing Finance Agency, on behalf of Fannie Mae
and Freddie Mac, filed 17 lawsuits yesterday in New York state
and federal courts and in federal court in  Connecticut . The FHFA
accuses the banks of misleading Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac about
the soundness of the mortgages underlying the securities.  “The loans had different and more risky characteristics
than the descriptions contained in the marketing and sales
materials provided to the enterprises for those securities,”
the FHFA said in a  statement .  FHFA is seeking to rescind the transactions plus other
damages, including civil penalties and punitive damages in cases
alleging misconduct.  In addition to JPMorgan and Bank of America, the agency
filed complaints in federal court in Manhattan yesterday against
 Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , Merrill Lynch & Co.,
 Barclays Plc (BARC) , Nomura Holdings Ltd.,  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) , Societe
Generale SA,  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) ,  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and  First
Horizon National Corp. (FHN)   The FHFA sued Ally Financial Inc., Countrywide Financial
Corp.,  General Electric Co. (GE)  and Morgan Stanley in state court in
Manhattan, according to the agency. It sued  Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  in federal court in Connecticut.  Fannie and Freddie  Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac have operated under U.S.
conservatorship since 2008, when they were seized amid subprime
mortgage losses that pushed them toward insolvency.  The FHFA said in its filings that Fannie Mae and Freddie
Mac bought $6 billion in mortgage-backed securities from Bank of
America; $24.8 billion from Merrill Lynch, which Bank of America
took over in 2008, and $26.6 billion from Countrywide, which
Bank of America acquired the same year.  The FHFA claims Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac bought $33
billion in securities from JPMorgan and $30.4 billion from Royal
Bank of Scotland. According to the complaints, Fannie Mae and
Freddie Mac also bought $14.2 billion from Deutsche Bank, $14.1
billion from Credit Suisse, $11.1 billion from Goldman Sachs,
$10.6 billion from Morgan Stanley, $6.2 billion from HSBC, $6
billion from Ally, $4.9 billion from Barclays, $3.5 billion from
Citigroup, $2 billion from Nomura, $1.3 billion from  Societe
Generale (GLE) , $883 million from First Horizon and $549 million from
GE.  UBS Suit  The FHFA sued UBS AG, Switzerland’s biggest bank, in July
over $4.5 billion in residential mortgage-backed securities sold
to Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, claiming the bank misstated the
risks of the investments.  “The claims brought by the FHFA are unfounded,” said
Frank Kelly, a spokesman for Frankfurt-based Deutsche Bank.
“Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac are the epitome of a sophisticated
investor.”  Ally, based in  Detroit , said in a statement that it
believes FHFA’s claims are meritless and the company intends to
defend its position.  Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac “acknowledged that their losses
in the mortgaged-backed securities market were due to the
unprecedented downturn in housing prices and other economic
factors,” said  Larry DiRita , a spokesman for Charlotte, North
Carolina-based Bank of America.  Kim Cherry of Memphis, Tennessee-based First Horizon said
the company would defend itself.  Knew the Risks  The firms claimed to understand the risks, and continued
buying, even after their regulator said they lacked adequate
risk-management capabilities to do so, DiRita said.  Company representatives who declined to comment on the
suits yesterday included Danielle Romero-Apsilos of New York-
based Citigroup, Kerrie Cohen of London-based Barclays, Kristin Lemkau of JPMorgan in New York and  Russell Wilkerson  of
Fairfield, Connecticut-based GE.  Mark Lake of New York-based  Morgan Stanley (MS) , Jonathan Hodgkinson of Tokyo-based Nomura,  Michael DuVally , of Goldman
Sachs in New York, Steven Vames, of Zurich-based Credit Suisse,
Neil Brazil of London-based HSBC, and  Jim Galvin  of Paris-based
Societe Generale, also declined to comment.  Edinburgh-based Royal Bank of Scotland Plc will defend the
claims. “We believe we have substantial and credible legal and
factual defences to these claims and will defend them
vigorously,” the bank said in an e-mailed statement.  Some of the complaints described mortgages that were
already performing worse than investors were told at the time
securitizations were sold. Disclosures by some firms overstated
home values or misrepresented the number of homes occupied by
borrowers, according to the FHFA.  ‘Under Water’  An instrument underwritten by an affiliate of Merrill Lynch
was reported to have no loans larger than the value of the
house, known as the loan-to-value ratio. In reality, about 20.7
percent of the mortgages had an LTV ratio above 100 percent,
meaning they were already under-secured or “under water” from
the start, according to the FHFA’s complaint. Some pools
packaged by GE or its affiliates were said to have no loans with
an LTV over 100 percent, when about 13 percent did, according to
another suit.  In the complaint against Goldman Sachs, the FHFA claimed
the bank securitized many mortgages that failed to meet
underwriting standards even after outside firms it hired
reported “high percentages of defective or at least
questionable loans.”  “Goldman simply ignored and did not disclose the red
flags,” the FHFA claimed.  The cases are  Federal Housing Finance Agency v.  Bank of
America Corp. (BAC) , 11-CV-6195; FHFA v. Barclays Bank Plc., 11-CV-
6190; FHFA v. Citigroup, 11-CV-6196; FHFA v. Credit Suisse
Holdings (USA) Inc., 11-CV-6200; FHFA v. Deutsche Bank AG, 11-
CV-6192; FHFA v. First Horizon National Corp., 11-CV-6193; FHFA
v. Goldman, Sachs & Co., 11-CV-6198; FHFA v. HSBC North America
Holdings Inc., 11-CV-6189; FHFA v. JPMorgan Chase & Co., 11-CV-
6188; FHFA v. Merrill Lynch & Co., 11-CV-6202; FHFA v. Nomura
Holding America Inc., 11-CV-6201; FHFA v. SG Americas Inc., 11-
CV-6203, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  Also: FHFA v. Ally Financial Inc.; FHFA v. Countrywide
Financial Corp.; FHFA v. General Electric Co.; FHFA v. Morgan
Stanley, New York State Supreme Court,  New York  County
(Manhattan).  And: FHFA v. Royal Bank of Scotland, 11-CV-1383, U.S.
District Court, District of Connecticut (New Haven).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net ;
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 