-- 
Obama Says Jobs at Risk in ‘Gamesmanship’

-- B y   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r
-- 
2011-09-03T10:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-03/obama-says-jobs-are-at-risk-in-gamesmanship-over-transportation-measure.html
President  Barack Obama  renewed his
call for Congress to extend legislation to fund highways and
mass-transit projects he said would save “hundreds of
thousands” of jobs.  Obama said in his weekly  radio  and  Internet address  that
while “there’s a lot of talk in Washington these days about
creating jobs,” many are being put at risk “just because of
political gamesmanship.”  The law expires Sept. 30 and the president is seeking to
head off a battle over differences between the House and Senate
to avoid a lapse in funding and tax revenue as occurred when the
two chambers couldn’t agree on legislation to extend the
authority of the  Federal Aviation Administration .  Obama plans to unveil economic proposals, including tax
breaks to spur hiring and more spending on infrastructure, at a
joint session of Congress at 7 p.m.  Washington  time on Sept. 8.
Lawmakers are scheduled to return from their August recess next
week.  Employment in the U.S. unexpectedly stagnated in August.
The jobless rate held at 9.1 percent and payrolls were
unchanged, the weakest reading since September 2010, the Labor
Department said yesterday in Washington.  ’Jobs at Risk’  “There’s no reason to put more jobs at risk in an industry
that has been one of the hardest-hit in this recession,” he
said in the address. “There’s no reason to cut off funding for
transportation projects at a time when so many of our roads are
congested; so many of our bridges are in need of repair; and so
many businesses are feeling the cost of delays.”  The Senate, where Democrats hold a majority, is at odds
with the Republican-controlled House over the transportation
funding measure.  Obama held an Aug. 31 Rose Garden event urging lawmakers to
extend the legislation and was joined by David Chavern, chief
operating officer for the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, and AFL-CIO
President  Richard Trumka .  If the bill expires, the president said, it would be a
“disaster for our infrastructure and our economy” and would
immediately lead to more than 4,000 workers being furloughed
without pay.  “If it’s delayed for just 10 days, we will lose nearly $1
billion in highway funding that we can never get back,” he
said.  “And if we wait even longer, almost 1 million workers
could be in danger of losing their jobs over the next year.”  Republican Job Plan  He said the consequences would be felt nationally, pointing
to 19,000 jobs that could be lost in  Virginia  and more than
35,000 people who could be out of work in  Florida  if the
legislation expires.  Rep. Bob Goodlatte of Virginia said in the Republicans’
 weekly address  that the president should eliminate regulations
that harm  job creation  and cause increases in  gas prices . He
outlined parts of the  Republican jobs plan , which includes
increasing U.S. energy production and approving free trade
agreements.  “While our workers are being held back by Washington,
there’s nothing in place to stop the federal government from
bankrolling further big  government spending  -- the kind that
leads to government expansion into private-sector jobs,
burdensome mandates on job creators and skyrocketing national
debt,” he said in the address.  Goodlatte called on the president to encourage bipartisan
support for a  balanced-budget amendment  to the Constitution,
which requires approval by two-thirds of both House and Senate
members, and then ratification by three-fourths of the 50
states.  Getting the constitutional amendment passed “won’t be
easy” he said. “We need bipartisan support to get the Balanced
Budget Amendment across the finish line,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kate Andersen Brower in Washington at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  