-- 
Sarah Palin’s Appearance in Iowa Leaves Supporters Exhorting Her to Run

-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k
-- 
2011-09-04T04:01:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-03/palin-appearance-in-iowa-leaves-supporters-exhorting-her-to-run.html
Sarah Palin left chanting supporters
at a Tea Party rally in  Iowa  without a clear signal about her
presidential ambitions while demonstrating she intends to remain
a vocal critic of Democratic and Republican politicians.  “America is at a tipping point,” said Palin, 47. “This
is a systemic crisis due to failed policies and incompetent
leadership.”  The 2008 Republican vice presidential nominee brought her
brand of celebrity-infused politics to a spot in Iowa yesterday
where  Barack Obama  spoke to a fundraising event four years
earlier as he was campaigning for the Democratic presidential
nomination.  The outdoor event at the Indianola Balloon Grounds south of
 Des Moines  was sponsored by a Tea Party group and drew about
2,000 people, who waited in steady rain for Palin.  The former Alaska governor’s plans remain in doubt for the
field seeking to challenge Obama in 2012. Palin, who is also
scheduled to speak in  New Hampshire  on Labor Day, has said she
will announce her decision by the end of September.  In her 40-minute speech, she kept most of the focus on
Obama, without mentioning any of the Republicans running for
president. Yet some of her remarks sounded like they were aimed
at potential opponents, if she decides to run.  She cautioned against “corporate crony capitalism”
triggered by campaign contributions and called for a detailed
inspection of the candidates.  Vetting the Record  “You must vet a candidate’s record,” she said. “You must
know their ability to successfully reform and actually fix
problems that they are going to claim that they inherited.”  Palin said the Republican presidential candidates need to
be asked “what, if anything, do their donors expect” in return
for their investments.  “We need to know this because our country can’t afford
more trillion dollar thank-you notes to campaign backers,” she
said. “Like you, I’m not for sale.”  After her speech, Palin said her comments weren’t directed
at  Texas  Governor  Rick Perry , the frontrunner in the Republican
field. He has been the subject of stories in recent days by news
organizations examining potential links between actions in Texas
and campaign contributions he has received.  “I want all of our GOP candidates to take the opportunity
to kill corporate capitalism that is leading to this cronyism
that is killing our economy,” she told reporters. “They all
have an opportunity to speak out against it.”  Letting Followers Down  Palin ducked when asked how she could let her followers
down by not getting into the race.  “Oh, these are such nice people,” she said.  In her speech, Palin said she would like to see the
elimination of all federal corporate income taxes. She said she
would replace the lost revenue by eliminating “corporate
welfare,” “all loopholes” and “all bailouts,” calling them
“socialism for the very rich.”  Palin told her  Tea Party  supporters to expect difficulties
between now and the election in November 2012.  “I can tell you from hard-earned experience, with bumps
and bruises along the way, that the road ahead is not easy,”
she said. “You will be demonized. They’ll mock you. They’ll
make things up. They’ll tell you to go to hell.”  Palin offered no insight about her future plans when she
spoke briefly to reporters on Sept. 2 in Iowa.  Happy With Field  “I’m happy with the field of candidates,” she said during
a visit to the Machine Shed restaurant in a suburb west of Des
Moines. “There’s room for more, though, because a spirited
debate and more competition will allow for an even better
discourse and a more rigorous discourse that the public
deserves.”  Amid chants of “Run, Sarah, run,” Palin spent about 45
minutes shaking hands and posing for photos with members of
“Organize4Palin” and “Conservatives4Palin,” groups that are
urging her to enter the race. The gathering drew supporters from
as far away as  New Mexico , Texas and  California .  Time is running short, even for Palin, who has shown her
celebrity and ability to attract attention gives her a
fundraising advantage, should she decide to run.  The Iowa caucuses are scheduled for Feb. 6, five months
from now, and three candidate debates are set for this month, as
party activists in early-voting states begin to focus more
closely on the contest after Labor Day.  Work to Do  Craig Robinson , editor of the Iowa Republican website and a
former state party political director, said Palin would have
“an awful lot of work to do” if she gets into the race.  Political expectations would require her to win Iowa
because the state’s demographics and socially conservative
nature would be more favorable to her, Robinson said.  “If she is not going to win the state of Iowa, I don’t
know what early state she could win,” he said. “After
September, it’s going to be almost impossible to jump in the
race and win the Iowa caucuses.”  Palin also faces state-filing deadlines for presidential
candidates, including one on Nov. 1 for the primary in  South
Carolina . The southern state is scheduled to follow Iowa and New
Hampshire in nomination voting next year.  Obama, 50, may be politically vulnerable amid 9.1 percent
unemployment and approval ratings near lows of his presidency.  The Republican contest has changed since the Aug. 13 entry
into the race by Perry, who has surged into first place in
national polls, surpassing former Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney as the frontrunner.  Engaging Directly  Romney has started to engage more directly with Perry,
including modifying his schedule to allow him to attend a Tea
Party rally in New Hampshire today and a candidate forum in
South Carolina on Labor Day.  Should she join the race, Palin would face a large bloc of
voters already opposed to her. A  poll  released Aug. 25 by the
Pew Research Center found 41 percent of Republicans and
Republican-leaning voters say there is no chance they would vote
for Palin.  Such numbers don’t trouble Cynthia Hood, 55, a retired
registered nurse who drove more than eight hours from her home
in Tulsa,  Oklahoma , to see Palin.  “I certainly hope she will run and I think she will do
it,” she said. “She will take on the establishment.”  Palin’s entry could provide a boost for Romney because
Palin, Perry and Representative  Michele Bachmann  of  Minnesota 
would all be competing for the Tea Party and social conservative
vote in Iowa. In Iowa’s 2008 Republican caucuses, 60 percent who
attended described themselves to pollsters as born-again or
evangelical Christians.  A Gallup  poll  of Republicans and Republican-leaning voters
released Aug. 24 showed Palin in third place nationwide among
actual and potential candidates tested.  Perry led with 25 percent, followed by Romney at 14
percent. Palin finished third in the poll at 11 percent, tied
with Representative  Ron Paul  of Texas. The poll, taken Aug. 17-
21, had a margin of error of four percentage points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John McCormick in Indianola, Iowa at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  