-- 
Treasuries Surge on Jobs-Growth Stall

-- B y   D a n i e l   K r u g e r   a n d   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 
2011-09-03T04:00:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-03/treasuries-surge-on-jobs-growth-stall-outlook-for-more-stimulus-from-fed.html
Treasury 30-year bond yields fell to
the lowest since January 2009 after a government report showed
no jobs were added in August, reinforcing concern the  U.S.
economy  has slowed, which may prompt additional stimulus by the
 Federal Reserve .  U.S. 10-year yields fell below 2 percent as U.S. employment
data yesterday gave the weakest reading since September 2010.
Minutes of the Fed’s Aug. 9 meeting released Aug. 30 showed
policy makers suggested the central bank could offer more
support for the economy through focusing on purchases of longer-
term securities. Ten-year notes gained for the fifth time in six
weeks before the Fed releases its summary of regional economic
conditions on Sept. 7.  “The employment numbers were just atrocious,” said Scott Graham, head of government bond trading in  Chicago  at Bank of
Montreal’s BMO Capital Markets unit. “The expectation is the
Fed is going to be buying the back-end, selling the front-end.
You’ll absolutely see more curve-flattening trades.”  The 10-year note yield fell 20 basis points, or 0.2
percentage point, to 1.99 percent from 2.19 percent Aug. 26,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The price of the
2.125 percent security maturing in August 2021 rose 1 26/32, or
$18.13 per $1,000 face amount, to 101 1/4.  The 10-year Treasury yield could reach 1.75 percent, Graham
said.  Thirty-year bond yields fell 24 basis points to 3.30
percent and the two-year note yield was little changed at 0.20
percent.  Bond Returns  U.S.  government bonds  returned 2.8 percent in August, the
most since the depths of the financial crisis in December 2008,
according to a Bank of America Merrill Lynch index. Benchmark
10-year yields declined 57 basis points last month, the most
since a 71 basis point drop in December 2008, touching a record
low of 1.97 percent on Aug. 18.  Two-year notes traded at almost the record low 0.1568
percent after the Fed pledged Aug. 9 to keep the fed funds
target in a zero to 0.25 range until at least mid-2013.  Bond investors have reduced their expectations for
inflation as break-even rates on Treasury Inflation Protected
Securities, or TIPS, are hovering near the lowest since October
2010. The break-even rate, calculated from yield differences on
10-year Treasury notes and inflation-indexed U.S. government
bonds of similar maturity, has fallen to 2.04 percent from a
high this year of 2.66 percent reached on April 11.  Lower Hurdle  “The U.S. economy is dead in the water,” said  Jay Mueller , who manages about $3 billion of bonds at  Wells Fargo &
Co . in Milwaukee. “The Treasury market is rallying. The hurdle
was high for more accommodation, but it’s not as high anymore.”  The yield curve, the difference between two- and 30-year
Treasury debt, narrowed to 310 basis points, the least in a
year, as the jobless data bolstered the view that Fed Chairman
 Ben S. Bernanke  will be inclined to take additional steps beyond
the two previous rounds of debt buying, known as quantitative
easing, or QE.  Pacific Investment Management Co.’s  Bill Gross  said he
favors longer-maturity debt with the Fed likely to seek to
narrow the difference between short-and long-term borrowing
rates as employment growth stagnates.  Longer View  “We’ve advocated hard duration, that basically means
something beyond five years,” Gross, manager of the world’s
biggest bond fund, said in a radio interview on “Bloomberg
Surveillance” with  Tom Keene  and Ken Prewitt. “The front end
of the curve, in the U.S. at least, is inert. You have to move
out into longer duration, harder duration.’  U.S. payrolls were unchanged last month after an 85,000 gain
in July that was less than initially estimated, Labor Department
data showed yesterday in  Washington . The median forecast in a
Bloomberg News survey called for a rise of 68,000. The
 unemployment rate  was unchanged at 9.1 percent.  The Office of Management and Budget said in an update of
its economic forecasts through August that the jobless rate will
average 9.1 percent in 2011 and 9 percent next year. President
Barack Obama will address a joint session of Congress on Sept. 8
on his plans to boost jobs and accelerate growth.  “There isn’t much on the calendar that can materially
affect the now-lowered economic outlook for the rest of 2011 and
into 2012, which means rates should stay low within a range,”
said  Ian Lyngen , a government bond strategist at CRT Capital
Group LLC in  Stamford ,  Connecticut . “It certainly provides
cover for the Fed if they want to do more on the accommodation
front.”  Fed Minutes  Minutes from the Fed’s Aug. 9 meeting released this week
showed some policy makers urged action to stimulate a sluggish
economy. A few Fed policy makers, who weren’t identified, “felt
that recent economic developments justified a more substantial
move” beyond the pledge to hold its key  interest rate  at a
record low at least until mid-2013, the minutes said.  Fed officials discussed a range of tools, including buying
more government bonds to bolster the economy without coming to
an agreement on what they might do next should the economy
weaken further. They will more fully debate their options when
they gather Sept. 20-21 for a two-day meeting that was
originally scheduled to last one day.  “Bernanke is going to have to carry the world on his
shoulders here, and everyone’s going to be looking for him and
the Fed to begin to deploy QE3 now,’ said Richard Schlanger, a
 money manager  at Pioneer Investments in  Boston , which invests
$20 billion in fixed-income securities. “These are definitely
shaky times. That’s why Treasuries continue to rally.”  European sovereign-default risk rose to a record yesterday
after the U.S. jobs data. The Markit iTraxx SovX Western Europe
Index of credit-default swaps insuring the debt of 15
governments rose to 310 basis points in  London , surpassing an
all-time high closing price of 308 on Aug. 26.  Greece ’s two-year notes extended their decline, pushing the
yield on the securities up to a euro-era record 46.5 percent in
London.  Germany ’s 10-year bond yield dropped to the lowest since
at least 1999 when the euro was introduced, touching 1.996
percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  