-- 
Regulator Suing Lenders Caught Between Missions

-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t   a n d   C l e a   B e n s o n
-- 
2011-09-03T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-03/regulator-suing-lenders-caught-between-competing-u-s-missions.html
Edward J. DeMarco, head of the U.S.
watchdog overseeing Fannie Mae and  Freddie Mac , says his job is
protecting taxpayers. His critics think he’s undermining the
government’s efforts to shore up the economy.  DeMarco’s Federal Housing Finance Agency yesterday filed
lawsuits seeking to recover billions of dollars from Bank of
America Corp., Citigroup Inc., JPMorgan Chase & Co. and 14 other
lenders that sold bonds backed by flawed residential mortgages.  Financial stocks already shaken by a weak jobs report fell
sharply on advance reports of the court action, as investors
weighed the potential costs to the banks. That renewed the
debate over the role of a regulator that has sometimes clashed
with other housing agencies and with Treasury Department
officials over what steps Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac should take
to improve the housing market.  “You see the consumer groups coming out saying, ‘Yay, yay,
yay, let’s screw the banks,’” said  Paul Miller , an analyst at
FBR Capital Markets in Arlington, Virginia, in an interview with
Bloomberg Television. “But when you do this, you’re extracting
capital and liquidity from the housing market, which is a major
negative.”  DeMarco, 51, has frequently reminded lawmakers that every
move the agency makes is driven by its mission to “preserve and
conserve” the assets of the two government-sponsored
enterprises, or GSEs, which have drawn more than $171 billion in
taxpayer aid since being seized by regulators in September 2008.  ‘Extraordinary’ Losses  Last September, DeMarco defended the agency’s decision to
send subpoenas to the banks seeking information about flawed
mortgages. “The losses are extraordinary and we owe it to the
American taxpayer to find out where these losses are coming
from,” said DeMarco, who declined a request for an interview
through a spokesman yesterday.  While aiming to recover losses from the banks, DeMarco has
resisted policy proposals by HUD officials for mass mortgage
refinancings, principal writedowns and other steps aimed at
helping financially distressed homeowners, on the theory that
 Fannie Mae  and Freddie Mac might take even bigger losses on the
loans they hold, according to administration officials. His
position has garnered praise from some lawmakers.  “He comes under extreme pressure, especially from the
administration and from the other side of the aisle, to use his
office, and therefore the GSEs, as an escape route for failed
policies,” said Representative  Scott Garrett , a New Jersey
Republican and chairman of a House Financial Services panel that
oversees the agency. “He’s been put in a very tough spot and a
very difficult position and I’ve always felt he’s done an
admirable job.”  64 Subpoenas  DeMarco, who’s spent his career in government service, is
not a political appointee and by law doesn’t answer directly to
the administration. As acting FHFA director, his job is to
return the mortgage companies to financial health.  The complaints filed against the banks have been
anticipated since last year, when DeMarco issued 64 subpoenas
seeking loan files and transaction documents related to mortgage
bonds.  DeMarco filed the first lawsuit, against  UBS AG (UBSN) , in July,
claiming the Swiss bank misled Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac about
the risks of mortgage-backed securities it sold to the
companies.  Some of the firms sued had asked the Treasury and the
Fed to slow the process so they could settle the claims out of
court, according to a person briefed on the private conversation
who spoke on condition of anonymity. The impending lawsuits were
one subject of an Aug. 10 meeting at Treasury between Bank of
America Chief Executive Officer Brian Moynihan and Treasury
Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner , the person said.  ‘Great Concern’  The lawsuits are cause for “great concern,”  David Stevens , president of the  Mortgage Bankers Association  and a
former top housing official in the Obama administration, said
today. “Banks will likely hold capital in reserve against this
new litigation risk, lessening the amount they have available to
lend.”  Michael Barr , a former Treasury assistant secretary, said
that the lawsuits aren’t adding to the tension between DeMarco
and others in the administration about the best steps to take on
housing.  Suing the banks is “entirely appropriate,” Barr said.
“The Treasury wants the taxpayers to be paid back. This has
been a long-expected action by FHFA.”  Neil Barofsky , former inspector general for the Troubled
Assets Relief Program, also said that DeMarco is right to pursue
the banks.  ‘Opaque Bailout’  “There was a lot of money that Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac
lost buying these mortgages and I hope they go after it as
aggressively as possible,” Barofsky said. Pulling punches on a
valid claim “is nothing more than a transfer of money from
taxpayer pockets into the shareholders of Bank of America and
other banks, and that’s an opaque, non-transparent bailout.”  Frank Kelly, a spokesman for Frankfurt-based Deutsche Bank,
said in a statement that the claims brought by the FHFA were
unfounded.  “Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac are the epitome of a
sophisticated investor, having issued trillions of dollars of
mortgage-backed securities and purchased hundreds of billions of
dollars more, often after hand-picking the loans they now claim
should not have been included in the offerings,” Kelly said.  Bert Ely, a banking consultant based in Alexandria,
 Virginia , agreed. “As the two biggest sources of home lending,
they can’t claim ignorance,” Ely said in an interview. “If
there’s anybody who should have understood they were buying
senior tranches of crap, they should have.”  New Breed  Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, established by Congress to
enable widespread mortgage financing, began losing market share
to private-label securitizers in the 1990s. A new breed of
mortgage bond, one that lacked an implicit government guarantee,
was showing strong returns.  With profits and shareholders in mind, Washington-based
Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac of McLean, Virginia, started
investing in the mortgage-backed securities, which were being
marketed by big banks.  In 2007, subprime borrowers began defaulting in massive
numbers, the private mortgage-backed bonds soured and Fannie Mae
and Freddie Mac plunged toward insolvency. The Treasury
purchased nearly 80 percent of the companies and put the full
faith of the government behind their debt.  While DeMarco accuses banks of misleading Fannie Mae and
Freddie Mac, the two companies’ own behavior during the housing
bubble is under scrutiny. The Securities and Exchange Commission
is investigating whether former executives at the mortgage
companies misled their shareholders about exposure to risky
loans.  Aside from any other issues, DeMarco now has a statutory
mission to do what he can to recoup the companies’ losses, said
Phillip L. Swagel, a onetime adviser to former Treasury
Secretary  Henry Paulson .  “He’s doing his job,” Swagel said. “If someone doesn’t
like what he’s doing, they should change the job.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorraine Woellert in  Washington  at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 