-- 
Tropical Storm Lee Cuts Gulf Output, Soaks Louisiana

-- B y   D a n   H a r t   a n d   L y n n   D o a n
-- 
2011-09-03T21:52:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-03/tropical-storm-lee-stalls-off-louisiana-coast-shutting-energy-production.html
Tropical Storm Lee is “drifting
erratically” near the  Louisiana  coast, shutting more than half
of the crude oil and natural gas production from the resource-
rich  Gulf of Mexico .  Lee was about 45 miles (72 kilometers) southwest of Morgan
City, Louisiana, and moving in “a slow and possibly erratic
motion to the north or north-northwest” during the next 24
hours, the U.S. National Hurricane Center said in its latest
 advisory  at 5 p.m. New York time. The storm’s maximum sustained
winds were 60 mph, with higher gusts, and tropical storm-force
winds stretch as far as 230 miles from its center, the
forecaster said.  “ New Orleans  is in the bulls-eye of the flooding rain,”
said Matt Alto, an AccuWeather.com meteorologist, on the State
College, Pennsylvania-based forecaster’s  website .  Companies including  Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC) ,  BP Plc (BP/) ,  Exxon
Mobil Corp. (XOM)  and  Noble Corp. (NE)  evacuated workers from Gulf rigs and
platforms. About 60.3 percent of Gulf oil production and about
55 percent of natural gas output has been shut by the storm,
according to the  Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Regulation
and Enforcement .  The Gulf accounts for 27 percent of U.S. oil output and 6.5
percent of natural gas production. As much as 91 percent of gas
and 98 percent of oil output in the Gulf may be shut in the next
five days, according to Kinetic Analysis Corp., a Silver Spring,
Maryland-based company that predicts the effects of natural
disasters.  Production Outlook  Oil and gas producers will be watching wind speeds and wave
heights to determine whether and how long to shut operations,
said Jan Vermeiren, chief executive officer of Kinetic Analysis.  James Williams , an economist at  WTRG Economics , an energy
research firm in  London ,  Arkansas , said Lee isn’t strong enough
to cause any significant damage to energy assets at this point.  “We’re not talking about Hurricane Gustav here, moving
pipelines up and down Louisiana like it was spaghetti,”
Williams said in a telephone interview. “This one isn’t a big
story. It’s a wet story.” Gustav struck in 2008.  Ten to 15 inches (25 to 38 centimeters) of rain is expected
to fall over southern Louisiana, Mississippi and Alabama, with
as much as 20 inches in some areas, according to the hurricane
center. Louisiana has already received as much as 7 inches in
some coastal areas, the center said. The Florida panhandle may
see as much as eight inches of rain through tomorrow night.  Heavy Rain  The center of Lee is expected to cross the Louisiana coast
today and move slowly across the state tomorrow.  Entergy Corp. (ETR) 
said more than 38,000 customers in Louisiana had lost power as
of 1 p.m. local time.  Louisiana Governor Bobby Jindal declared a state of
emergency, saying the storm threatens “extremely heavy,
prolonged” rain over the state and may cause flash flooding and
high tides.  Thirty-five Louisiana parishes have declared states of
emergency, and officials urged voluntary evacuations in parts of
Lafourche Parish and Grand Isle, Jindal told a news conference
yesterday.  New Orleans Mayor Mitch Landrieu extended a state of
emergency he declared earlier this week after a fire broke out
in the eastern part of the city.  Storm Warnings  Storm warnings were posted for the northern Gulf coast from
the border of Alabama and Florida westward to Sabine Pass,
 Texas , including  New Orleans .  Mississippi Governor Haley Barbour declared a state of
emergency in several counties expected to be hit with heavy rain
and floods as Lee nears.  In the Atlantic, Katia was reduced to a tropical storm, with 
maximum sustained winds of 70 mph. The storm was about 430 miles 
east-northeast of the northern Leeward Islands and moving northwest 
at 10 mph, said in an advisory posted at about 5 p.m. New York time.  Katia may intensify to a hurricane “at any time,” the
center said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lynn Doan in  San Francisco  at 
 ldoan6@bloomberg.net ;
Dan Hart in Washington at 
 dahart@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sylvia Wier at   swier@bloomberg.net  