-- 
Sino-Forest China Joint Venture Had Sales, No Output, Globe and Mail Says

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e
-- 
2011-09-03T16:54:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-03/sino-forest-china-joint-venture-had-sales-no-output-globe-and-mail-says.html
Sino-Forest Corp. (TRE)  reported sales in
the millions between 1994 and 1997 from a wood-panel joint
venture in  China  that never produced a single piece of the
building material, the Globe and Mail newspaper reported today,
citing a former executive.  Zhanjiang Leizhou Eucalyptus Resources Development Co.
didn’t generate any revenue from the fiber board product before
the joint venture was disbanded in 1998, the newspaper reported,
citing Qi Shuxiong, a former Sino-Forest director.  The Ontario Securities Commission on Aug. 26 suspended
Toronto trading of Sino-Forest’s shares and alleged that some
executives and directors appeared to have engaged in activities
that they knew, or should have known, “perpetuate a fraud.”  Allen Chan , who co-founded Sino-Forest in 1992, announced
his resignation as chairman and chief executive officer on Aug.
28 and became the company’s chairman emeritus. He didn’t respond
to the Ontario regulator’s charges at the time. The Globe and
Mail said Chan didn’t respond to its interview requests.  Stan Neve, an external spokesman for Sino-Forest, didn’t
immediately respond to an e-mail request for comment from
Bloomberg outside of regular business hours.  Sino-Forest’s stock has plunged 67 percent since short
seller Carson Block’s  Muddy Waters  LLC published a June 2 report
alleging that the company overstated its timber holdings. Sino-
Forest has denied Muddy Waters’ allegations and has assigned an
independent committee to investigate the claims, hiring
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP to assist.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Donville in  Vancouver  at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at   scasey4@bloomberg.net . 