-- 
Social Security Is No Ponzi Scheme (Note to Rick Perry): View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-09-03T00:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-03/social-security-is-no-ponzi-scheme-note-to-rick-perry-view.html
As  Rick Perry  campaigned in  Iowa 
late last month, he made it clear that he doesn’t have much
faith in Social Security, one of the most popular U.S.
government programs.  “It is a  Ponzi scheme  for these young people,” Perry
said. “The idea that they’re working and paying into Social
Security today, that the current program is going to be there
for them, is a lie. It is a monstrous lie on this generation,
and we can’t do that to them.”  As we celebrate a holiday devoted to American workers, it’s
worth asking whether, as the Texas governor and leader of the
Republican pack claims, the retirement program created for those
very workers is at risk.  The answer, as we have argued in this space, is yes … and
no. Social Security’s finances need shoring up. But there is
nothing wrong with the program that Congress couldn’t fix in a
week. Gradually raising the retirement age to 69, changing the
formula for cost-of-living increases, and raising the cap on
wages subject to the  payroll tax  would close most of Social
Security’s funding gap for the next 75 years.  Such changes would rely about 60 percent on tax increases
and 40 percent on benefit cuts, and would mainly affect the
wealthiest Americans by asking them to pay more and get less in
return. In the end, Social Security would be more progressive
and benefits for the very oldest and the very poorest retirees
would be enhanced.  Ticking Clock  In May, the  Social Security trustees  reported that the
government pension system will run dry in 2036. That means
payroll taxes levied on workers in 25 years will cover only
three-fourths of benefits. The program by law can’t borrow money
to pay retirees, so recipients will face immediate across-the-
board cuts unless something is done.  That something can only take two forms -- raising taxes or
reducing benefits. Fortunately, there are many options within
those broad categories that spread the burden widely.  We don’t think private accounts should be among them. If
workers divert some of their payroll taxes to an investment
account, that would decrease the flow of money into Social
Security and deprive retirees of benefits of equal value. Bad
investment choices, or bear markets that lower returns on stocks
and bonds, could add to their woes. In other words, private
accounts would only make matters worse.  Instead, a very gradual rise in the standard retirement age
would be the fairest solution. When President  Franklin D. Roosevelt  signed the  Social Security law in 1935 , average  life
expectancy  was 64 and the official retirement age was set at 65.
As life spans have increased, the retirement age hasn’t kept up.  The official age of retirement -- when full benefits are
paid -- is now 66 (due to rise to 67 by 2027), well below the
average life expectancy of 78 years and four months. The gap is
even wider for the 40 percent of Americans who opt for early
retirement and start collecting benefits at age 62, albeit at a
lower rate.  President  Barack Obama ’s bipartisan deficit commission was
correct to recommended indexing the retirement age to longevity
by adding one month every two years, until 2075. That year,
standard retirement would begin at 69 and early retirement at
64. Those who physically can’t work beyond 62 could apply for
hardship exemptions. Adjusting retirement ages alone would erase
about 21 percent of the 75-year Social Security shortfall.  Adopting a more accurate measure of inflation to calculate
cost-of-living adjustments is the next best method for closing
the Social Security funding gap. The government now uses the
standard  Consumer Price Index . But the  Bureau of Labor
Statistics  and many economists say the CPI overstates inflation
because it fails to account for the product substitutions people
make when prices rise.  Switching to Apples  A better index, called the “chained CPI,” models actual
consumer behavior. Most consumers, for example, switch to apples
when the cost of oranges goes up, and thus keep household
expenses steady. Using the chained CPI would close an additional
25 percent of the funding shortfall.  With those two changes -- raising the retirement age and
measuring inflation better -- we’re almost halfway toward the
goal. To close much of the remaining gap, the best choice
involves raising taxes on those in high wage brackets, thus
making the system more progressive.  Currently, Social Security taxes are paid on wages up to
$106,800, at a rate of 12.4 percent -- half paid by the employer
and half by the employee. (The self-employed must pay the entire
12.4 percent.) Earnings above $106,800 are exempt, yet that’s
where most of the wage growth has been in the past few decades.
In the early 1980s, payroll taxes covered 90 percent of wages;
today they reach only 85 percent.  To restore the 90 percent standard, Congress could raise
the payroll-tax cap to $180,000. Such a change would hit high-
income Americans whose savings, private pensions and tax-
protected 401(k)  retirement plans  provide nest eggs far beyond
what Social Security provides. This would take care of 38
percent of the shortfall.  An additional 14 percent could be raised by taxing Social
Security benefits the same way that private pension income is
now taxed -- that is, on the portion of the pension contributed
by the employer -- phased in over 20 years. The employee portion
would not be taxed because it was already subject to income tax.
Yes, this would result in a tax increase for future
beneficiaries, but those in lower-income brackets could be
exempted to keep the payroll tax progressive.  Now we are just 9 percent short of our goal. We can close
that gap -- with room to spare -- by requiring newly hired state
and local government workers to pay into the federal system.
About 5.7 million public-sector workers don’t pay Social
Security taxes because they are covered by state and local
government pension plans.  Helping the Poorest  We’ve now closed 107 percent of the 75-year shortfall. That
leaves enough wiggle room to add benefits for the oldest and
poorest retirees, who are often one and the same. By 2050, there
will be 19 million Americans, up from 6 million now, over 85.
Octogenarians often outlive their personal savings just as their
health is deteriorating. To keep them from falling into poverty,
lawmakers could create a minimum benefit of 125 percent of the
federal poverty level (now about $1,100 a month), adding about 6
percentage points to the Social Security deficit.  The final tally? These changes would close 101 percent of
the funding gap. Each of these suggestions, moreover, has been
endorsed or included as part of a menu of options by the
president’s deficit commission and other economic research
groups. The savings and cost estimates come from the Social
Security chief actuary, the independent official who has
analyzed the financial effects of dozens of proposals, all
available at  www.ssa.gov/oact/ .  More than 50 million people now receive a Social Security
check. It’s the main income source for more than half of all
elderly households. It’s the core of the compact working
Americans have with their government. And though it’s
increasingly unstable, it can be fixed.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 