-- 
Solarworld in Renewable Energy ‘War’ With China

-- B y   S t e f a n   N i c o l a   a n d   E h r e n   G o o s s e n s
-- 
2011-09-03T05:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-03/solarworld-in-renewable-energy-war-with-china-closing-factory.html
Solarworld AG (SWV) ,  Germany ’s largest
module maker, plans to close a factory to cut costs and compete
against Chinese manufacturers that its chief executive officer
says are subsidized by the state.  Solarworld will shutter a California manufacturing plant
and some production lines in Germany, the Bonn-based company
said yesterday in a statement. The move was needed to increase
efficiency and reduce costs as Chinese rivals have helped drive
down the price of solar cells by 42 percent this year, CEO Frank Asbeck said.  Competing against Chinese producers that receive financial
assistance from the government isn’t “fair,” Asbeck said, such
as two loan facilities worth $713 million that  GCL-Poly Energy
Holdings Ltd. (3800)  received yesterday from state-run  China 
Development Bank Corp. The GCL-Poly financing and Solarworld’s
retrenching plan demonstrate the trends that are pushing Chinese
companies to the top of the solar industry.  “It’s not about a free market or good products anymore,
it’s about who gets the most political protection,” Asbeck said
in an interview. “That’s not even industrial politics anymore.
That’s war.”  Loans such as the one GCL received are “direct subsidies”
from the Chinese government, Asbeck said. “These guys get money
practically for free.”  GCL-Poly, China’s largest polysilicon maker, did not
disclose the terms of the loans. The company did not reply to e-
mailed questions yesterday. Chinese lenders have offered $34.4
billion to support the country’s solar companies, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg New Energy Finance. Polysilicon is
the main raw material of solar cells.  Three Failures  Three U.S. solar companies have failed in the past month
while Solarworld and its German peers including  Q-Cells SE (QCE)  and
Solon SE are struggling. Slumping prices and slowing demand are
driving a wave of consolidation within the industry as weaker
companies fail or get acquired, said Aaron Chew, an analyst at
Maxim Group LLC in New York.  “It’s not like this hasn’t been developing for a while,”
Chew said. Many companies that manufacture solar products in the
U.S. and  Europe  are finding it difficult to compete on price
with China. “Everyone could see the writing on the wall.”  Some Chinese companies are also lagging, Chew said. “Let’s
not forget, Suntech isn’t competitive either because their
inefficient plant was built in 2008.” Suntech Power Holdings
Co. of Jiangsu, China, has lost 42 percent of its value this
year.  “I’m all for competition, but it has to be fair,” Asbeck
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ehren Goossens in  New York  at 
 egoossens1@bloomberg.net ;
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  