-- 
Spain’s Rajoy Pledges Tax Cuts, Financial Overhaul

-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 
2011-09-03T16:31:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-03/spain-s-rajoy-pledges-tax-cuts-financial-overhaul-1-.html
Spain’s opposition leader  Mariano
Rajoy  said he will press for tax cuts for companies and an
overhaul of the financial industry if he wins the general
election on Nov. 20 as polls indicate he may.  Rajoy, head of the  People’s Party , said his party would
include a 5 percentage point cut in company tax in a “law for
entrepreneurs.” He also promised a “true restructuring of the
financial sector” and changes to labor and energy-market laws.  “Anyone who thinks things are going to be easy is wrong,
anyone who thinks we can do things without effort is wrong, and
anyone who thinks there’s a magic wand to sort everything out in
half an hour is wrong,” Rajoy said in the text of speech
delivered in Soutomaior,  Spain , today.  Polls indicate the PP will win the election that Socialist
Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero called early as he
battled a surge in borrowing costs that prompted the  European
Central Bank  to prop up the Spanish  bond market . The PP, which
eliminated a 6.5 percent budget deficit in the eight years it
governed to 2004, also pledged deeper spending cuts and measures
to slash Spain’s 21 percent jobless rate.  The opposition party may win 47.6 percent of the vote in
November compared with 35 percent for Zapatero’s Socialists, a
poll by ABC newspaper found on Aug. 7.  Election Defeat  Rajoy, 56, was appointed by former Prime Minister Jose
Maria Aznar as his successor in 2004 and has lost two general
elections since. The party handed the ruling Socialists their
worse local election defeat in three decades on May 22 and the
PP now governs in most of Spain’s 17 regions.  Maria Dolores Cospedal, the deputy PP leader who won
control of the Castilla-La Mancha region in May after three
decades of Socialist rule, this week announced spending cuts of
1.7 billion euros by the end of next year, equal to 5 percent of
the region’s gross domestic product. Public property will be
sold, teachers will spend longer in the classroom, government
departments will be scrapped and subsidies to unions axed, she
said on Aug. 31.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  