-- 
Sudanese Army, Rebels Clash in Southern Kordofan, Suna New Agency Reports

-- B y   S a l m a   E l   W a r d a n y
-- 
2011-09-03T04:43:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-03/sudanese-army-rebels-clash-in-southern-kordofan-suna-new-agency-reports.html
Seventeen people were killed and 14
others injured in clashes between the Sudanese Army and rebels
in Southern Kordofan State, the state-run SUNA news agency
reported today.  Fighting broke out late yesterday in the country’s main
oil-producing state, according to SUNA, one day after government
forces and members of the northern branch of the ruling party in
neighboring South  Sudan  clashed in the capital of Blue Nile
state.  The governor of Blue Nile state was fired yesterday as the
Sudanese president Umar al-Bashir declared a state of emergency
in the capital after fighting broke out, SUNA reported late
yesterday.  Sudan’s government has been trying to disarm members of the
SPLM-N in the border states of Blue Nile and Southern Kordofan
who fought with the forces of South Sudan during the two-decade
civil war that ended in 2005. South Sudan gained independence on
July 9. Sudanese government soldiers have clashed with SPLM-N
fighters since June 5 in Southern Kordofan.  Amnesty International  and  Human Rights Watch  said in an
Aug. 30 statement that the government continued to bomb civilian
areas in Southern Kordofan after the declaration of the cease-
fire.  “Now the real aim behind the cease-fire in Southern
Kordofan was uncovered: just paving the political and military
situation for attacks on Blue Nile,”  Yasser Arman , the SPLM-N
secretary-general, said yesterday in an e-mailed statement.  Peace Accord  Under a 2005 peace accord, the northern and southern armies
were due to jointly patrol Southern Kordofan and Blue Nile
states on the northern side of the border and the disputed
region of Abyei.   Sudan’s army said on May 30 it may attack any remaining
Southern Sudan troops in the northern border states of Southern
Kordofan and Blue Nile, heightening tension before the south’s
independence in July.  Southern Sudan’s vice president,  Riek Machar  said on May 31
that his northern counterpart, Ali Osman Taha, and al-Bashir
rejected a request by Southern Sudan’s government for United
Nations peacekeepers to stay in Southern Kordofan, Blue Nile
and Abyei after the south’s independence “in case things get out
of hand.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Salma El Wardany in Johannesburg at 
 selwardany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  