-- 
Wen: Europe Remains a Major Market for China

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-09-03T21:48:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-03/wen-europe-remains-a-major-market-for-china.html
(Corrects name of central bank’s  Zhou Xiaochuan  in third
paragraph from story first published Sept. 3.)  Chinese Premier Wen Jiabao said
 China  will continue to regard Europe as one of its main
investment destinations and called on the region to ensure the
safety of Chinese-held assets.  China “has always had confidence in the European economy
and the euro,” Wen told European Commission President  Jose Barroso  in a telephone call yesterday, according to a report
carried by the state-run Xinhua News Agency. The Asian nation is
“closely watching Europe’s economic conditions,” Wen said.  China will continue to “seek diversification in the
management of reserve assets,” central bank governor Zhou Xiaochuan said in August. The country holds the world’s largest
foreign-currency reserves at more than $3 trillion.  Wen said yesterday that China has the “confidence and
capacity” to maintain its economy on a stable and relatively
rapid growth track, according to Xinhua.  China’s economy  expanded 9.5 percent in the second quarter,
slowing from a 9.7 percent gain in the first three months, as
Wen campaigned to curb inflation and cool the  property market .  The slowdown in the economy is “reasonable” and within
the government’s expectations, Wen wrote in an article in the
ruling Communist Party’s Qiushi magazine published on Sept. 1.  The global economy is in a “complicated, sensitive and
difficult” period, Wen said. He urged governments to implement
effective and responsible macro-economic policies and strengthen
coordination.  A contraction in European manufacturing and slumping
business and consumer confidence suggest the slowdown in Euro-
area economic growth in the second quarter may continue in the
third, members of the so-called shadow ECB council said.  The ECB shadow council is a group of 15 economists and
portfolio managers who watch economic developments and monetary
policy in the euro region and issue recommendations each month.  --Zheng Lifei. Editors: Paul Tighe,  Jim McDonald   To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zheng Lifei in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7560
or  lzheng32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  