-- 
Yankees Beat Blue Jays to Take American League East Lead From Red Sox

-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 
2011-09-03T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-03/yankees-beat-blue-jays-to-take-american-league-east-lead-from-red-sox.html
The  New York Yankees  rallied past
the Toronto Blue Jays 3-2 to take over the American League East
lead from the  Boston Red Sox  who lost 10-0 to the  Texas Rangers .  The Yankees (83-53) have won five of their last six games
to reach a season-high 30 games over .500. They regained their
division’s lead for the first time since Aug. 22.  Robinson Cano singled to drive in  Derek Jeter  and snap a 2-
2 tie in the fifth inning at Yankee Stadium. Brett Gardner hit a
two-run homer in the third to tie the Blue Jays (69-69).  Jose Bautista  hit a run-scoring single and Eric Thames
scored on Adam Lind’s sacrifice fly to give the  Blue Jays  a 2-0
lead in the first inning.  Ivan Nova (15-4), who won for the 11th time in 12 starts,
allowed two runs on three hits and struck out four in seven
innings. Mariano Rivera picked up his 37th save after pitching a
perfect ninth inning.  “I’m not surprised,” Nova told reporters, “because, as I
said earlier, I know what I can do.”  Brandon Morrow (9-10) gave up four hits and three runs,
while striking out eight in six innings for the Blue Jays.  The Yankees played last night without sluggers Alex Rodriguez and Mark Teixeira. Rodriguez missed his sixth straight
game with a sprained left thumb and Teixeira was hit on his
right knee and left in the seventh inning of the game against
the  Red Sox  two days ago.  At Fenway Park, where the Red Sox tallied their Major
League Baseball record 700th consecutive home sell-out, Ian Kinsler hit a three-run homer, David Murphy had a solo home run
and  Elvis Andrus  had a two-run homer for the Rangers.  “It was kind of a bad night all around,” Red Sox manager
Terry Francona told reporters. “They did a lot offensively. We
did very little. We just didn’t play a very good game.”  Derek Holland (13-5) held the Red Sox to two hits and
struck out six in seven innings for the win. Andrew Miller
surrendered six runs on five hits, walked four and struck out
one in 1 1/3 innings.  The Red Sox fell to 83-54, while the Rangers, who are atop
the American League West, improved to 79-60.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  