-- U.K.'s Cameron Urges Peaceful Democratic Reforms in Egypt in CNN Interview
-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 2011-01-30T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-01-30/u-k-s-cameron-urges-peaceful-democratic-reforms-in-egypt-in-cnn-interview.html
U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron 
urged an end to violence and a strengthening of democracy and
civil rights in Egypt in a CNN interview.  “What we support is evolution, reform, not revolution,”
Cameron said, according to a transcript of the interview from
CNN’s “Fareed Zakaria’s GPS” program, scheduled to be aired
today. “Evolution and reform so that people who have grievances
get those grievances met.”  Thousands of Egyptian protesters massed yesterday in
central Cairo for a fifth day of protests, in defiance of a
military-imposed curfew, after Mubarak didn’t resign. Forty
people were killed and another 1,100 people have been injured in
the clashes that have swept major cities including Cairo and
Alexandria, according to the Egyptian Health Ministry.  “The building blocks of democracy,” such as civil rights,
rule of law, a military that “plays a proper role in society,
those building blocks are even more important in countries prey
to Islamic extremism than in other countries,” said Cameron.  Mubarak, 82, is “a friend of Britain,” Cameron said.
“Britain has good relations with  Egypt . We’ve worked together
over many issues,” he said, “not least the need to combat
Islamic extremism.”  Backing Repression  Asked about an allegation made by Mohamed Elbaradei, the
former head of the United Nations nuclear watchdog agency and
now a leader of the Egyptian opposition, that the U.K. and the
U.S. have backed 30 years of martial law and repression in
Egypt, Cameron replied, “I don’t believe that’s the case.”    Omar Suleiman , the head of Egypt’s intelligence services,
was sworn in yesterday as the country’s vice president,
according to state TV, after the government of Prime Minister  Ahmed Nazif  resigned at Mubarak’s request.  Cameron said on CNN that new arrangements put in place in  Europe  to support the financially vulnerable countries such as
Greece and Portugal “don’t involve Britain. That’s right
because we’re not in the Euro.” He said it was “right for us”
to make a bilateral loan to Ireland, which he called “an old
friend and a very strong partner” of the U.K.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Willis in  Washington  at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Mark Silva  in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 