-- 
Madeira’s Blandy, Host to Churchill, Looks to Invest Abroad as Taxes Loom

-- B y   H e n r i q u e   A l m e i d a
-- 
2011-12-09T12:28:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/madeira-s-blandy-host-to-churchill-looks-to-invest-abroad-as-taxes-loom.html
The Blandy Group, the Madeira hotel
owner that once counted  Winston Churchill  among its guests,
plans to focus on investment away from the Portuguese island as
the government faces pressure to raise taxes.  “All our major hotel investments are now set to take place
outside Madeira,” said Michael Blandy, chairman of the 200-
year-old family group. “This has already started with three
hotels operating in Brazil.’  Portugal  has asked Madeira’s semi-autonomous government to
come up with a plan to repay part of its 6.3 billion euros ($8.5
billion) of debt, which is may lead to a tax increase and weigh
on tourism -- the island’s main source of revenue. The Blandy
Group operates five hotels in Madeira and one in mainland
Portugal through its Porto Bay SGPS SA joint venture.  “The plan now is to open one hotel in  Brazil  every two
years,” said Blandy, adding that the soccer  World Cup  in 2014
and  Summer Olympics  in 2016 will bolster tourism.  Blandy Group  owns 45 percent of Porto Bay, while Madeira-
based Ocean Islands SGPS owns the other 45 percent. The
remaining 10 percent is held by small shareholders.  The company may eventually sell shares in Porto Bay, though
that’s not likely to happen in the next five years and the
shareholders haven’t made any commitment to a public sale,
Blandy said.  The Blandy Group was founded in 1811 by Michael’s forebear
John Blandy, who arrived in Madeira three years earlier looking
for work and set up a business with the island’s namesake wine.  Revenue from Madeira wine sales enabled the family to
expand into areas including shipping, coal storage and banking.
It also allowed the Blandys to acquire the  Reids Hotel  in 1937,
which later hosted guests including Churchill,  Sigmund Freud  and
George Bernard Shaw. The group sold the seafront property in
1996 to meet demands for dividends and avoid renovation costs.  “We just couldn’t afford to keep trophy hotels,” Blandy
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henrique Almeida in Lisbon at 
 halmeida5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  