-- 
Julius Baer, Falcon Sued by Trustee for Madoff-Related Funds

-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n   a n d   G i l e s   B r o o m
-- 
2011-12-09T14:59:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/madoff-trustee-sues-julius-baer-falcon-to-recover-funds-1-.html
Julius Baer Group Ltd. (BAER) , the 121-year-
old Swiss wealth manager, and Falcon Private Bank Ltd. were sued
by the trustee liquidating  Bernard Madoff ’s former investment
firm, who is seeking to recover $76 million in redemptions.  Irving Picard  filed two lawsuits yesterday in U.S.
Bankruptcy Court in Manhattan for a return of funds that were
transferred to the two Swiss banks by investors in Fairfield
Sentry Ltd., a feeder fund for Madoff’s firm. The trustee seeks
about $37 million from Julius Baer and about $39 million from
Falcon, a Zurich-based private bank owned by the government of
Abu Dhabi.  “We cannot comment on pending legal cases,” said Jan Vonder Muehll, a Zurich-based spokesman for  Julius Baer , which
manages 166 billion Swiss francs ($179 billion) for private
clients.  In 2010, the liquidators of the Fairfield funds started
separate litigation against Julius Baer, according to the bank’s
2010  annual report . Baer has said it avoided direct losses from
Madoff-related investments.  Madoff, who pleaded guilty to fraud charges, is serving 150
years in prison for the largest Ponzi scheme in U.S. history.
Investors lost about $19 billion in principal, Picard has said.
Fairfield is in liquidation in the British Virgin Islands.
Picard has filed similar lawsuits to recover investments taken
out of Madoff’s firm before the fraud was exposed.  The scandal wiped $7 billion from at least seven Geneva-
based money managers, including Union Bancaire Privee, Banco
Santander SA’s Optimal Investment Services, and Notz, Stucki &
Cie.  Irene Franco, a spokeswoman for Falcon, said the firm
hasn’t been informed about the Picard claim.  The cases are Irving Picard v. Bank Julius Baer & Co., 11-
2922, and Irving Picard v. Falcon Private Bank, 11-2923,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in Los Angeles at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net 
Giles Broom in Geneva at 
 gbroom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  