-- 
AGL to Focus on Absorbing Nicor After Acquisition, CEO Says

-- B y   M a r k   C h e d i a k
-- 
2011-12-09T22:35:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/agl-to-focus-on-absorbing-nicor-after-acquisition-ceo-says.html
AGL Resources Inc. (AGL) , which completed
its $2.5 billion takeover of  Nicor Inc. (GAS)  today, will concentrate
on absorbing the gas utility instead of acquiring interstate
pipelines, the company’s chief executive officer said.  “Our focus immediately is more on integrating this
transaction before we would look at another large transaction,”
John Somerhalder said in a telephone interview.  With the purchase of Naperville, Illinois-based Nicor, AGL,
based in Atlanta, is the largest standalone local gas
distribution owner by customer count.  “It would be difficult for us compete with Rich Kinder to
buy a lot of interstate pipelines, that is not our core,”
Somerhalder said.  In October, Kinder Morgan Inc.’s Chief Executive Officer
Richard Kinder led the energy industry’s biggest transaction in
more than a year by acquiring pipeline-owner El Paso Corp. for
$21.1 billion.  The U.S. gas industry should focus on creating domestic
needs for the  fossil fuel , which is being extracted from shale
rock through hydraulic fracturing, Somerhalder said.  “Our first priority as an industry is to make sure we grow
demand here,” he said.  He said he is supportive of projects to export gas through
U.S. liquefied natural gas terminals if they have “good
contracts” and win federal approval. Exports could provide
“some stability” to prices, he said.  AGL supports federal pipeline safety legislation crafted in
the wake of the explosion of a  PG&E Corp. (PCG)  gas line that killed
eight people last year in  California , Somerhalder said.  “We think it is the right thing to do,” he said.  The proposal would increase fines for violations and
require the installation of valves that can automatically shut
the flow of gas on new systems.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Chediak in  San Francisco  at 
 mchediak@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at   susanwarren@bloomberg.net . 