-- 
Talbots Last Best Hope Seen With Lowest-Valuation Sycamore Offer: Real M&A

-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 
2011-12-09T22:15:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/talbots-last-best-hope-seen-with-lowest-valuation-sycamore-offer-real-m-a.html
Talbots Inc. (TLB)  may struggle to get a
competing offer to beat the one it has sitting on the table
right now from Sycamore Partners LP.  While the New York-based private equity firm’s $3-a-share
unsolicited proposal this week was less relative to sales than
any U.S. retail acquisition ever completed, traders who profit
from takeovers aren’t betting a higher bid for Talbots will
emerge, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The company,
which sells clothes to women over 35 years old, traded 8.3
percent below the offer yesterday, the data show.  After Talbots’ managers cost owners more money than any
other specialty apparel retailer in North America this year as
analysts projected its worst sales slump will deepen, Sycamore
said the company still “rebuffed” its attempts to discuss a
potential sale. With Talbots losing 5 cents on each dollar of
sales in the past year, Janney Montgomery Scott LLC and Wedbush
Securities say the proposal gives shareholders a “compelling”
premium and protects against further losses after its stock
plummeted by as much as 82 percent this year.  “Take the money and run,”  Paul Lejuez , an analyst at
Nomura Holdings Inc. in New York, said in a telephone interview.
“That probably is the best way to sum up our view. The market
doesn’t think that anybody else is going to step in.”  Talbots, which said it would evaluate the offer with its
legal and financial advisers in a Dec. 6 statement, declined to
comment beyond the release, according to Rachel Rosenblatt, a
spokeswoman for the Hingham, Massachusetts-based company.  Unsolicited Offer  Jennifer Friedman, a spokeswoman for Sycamore, said the
firm declined to comment beyond its filing this week with the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  Today, Talbots rose 2.9 percent to $2.83 in New York.  Founded in 1947, the women’s  retailer  known for its
traditional basics such as blazers, ballet flats and pearls has
lost almost all its value since reaching $3.4 billion in 2001.  Its capitalization shrank to $110 million this week after
Talbots’ plunge this year, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  After Talbots closed at $1.56 on Dec. 6, Sycamore said in
an  SEC filing  that it made an unsolicited proposal of $3 a share
in cash for the company. The disclosure came one day after
Talbots announced that Chief Executive Officer Trudy Sullivan
will retire as soon as a replacement is found.  The offer by Sycamore for the 90.1 percent of Talbots that
it doesn’t already own values the company’s equity at $212
million. That equals about 0.18 times its reported sales,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. In deals worth at least
$100 million, the average apparel retailer sold for almost five
times as much when compared with its revenue.  Youth Movement  From the time that Sullivan, the former president of Liz
Claiborne Inc., became CEO in August 2007 until Sycamore
announced its proposal, Talbots tumbled 93 percent.  Under her leadership, sales at Talbots have declined for
four consecutive years as its decision to target younger
shoppers by adding trendier styles alienated the company’s usual
customers. Sullivan said in a March 24 teleconference the new
looks confused its older female clientele.  Analysts estimate that revenue will decline for two more
fiscal years, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Investors have also abandoned Talbots as profit margins
evaporated. In the past 12 months, the company lost 5 cents on
each dollar of revenue, versus an average 5.1 percent margin for
specialty apparel retailers in  North America  with market values
greater than $100 million, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “We cannot argue with an all-cash premium offer presented
by Sycamore,” Adrienne Tennant, an analyst at Janney
Montgomery, said in a report to clients dated Dec. 7.  Time and Money  “The immediacy of the all-cash payout versus the
uncertainty of a highly volatile and precarious turn that could
take years to materialize favors the near-term buyout, even if
it ultimately might undervalue” Talbots, she said.  Talbots’ effort to expand by acquiring J. Jill Group Inc.
for $517 million in 2006 also failed, saddling it with debt.
Three years later, it sold most of J. Jill’s assets to  Golden
Gate  Capital Corp. for $75 million. Stefan Kaluzny, Sycamore’s
founder, was a managing director at Golden Gate at the time.  Talbots currently has about $125 million in borrowings
versus $19 million in cash and short-term investments, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. In the past year, the company spent
$34 million more in cash on its operations than it brought in,
the biggest deficit in any 12-month period since at least 2002.  “The business is broken and it’s going to take a lot of
time and a lot of money to fix -- if it can be fixed,” said
Nomura’s Lejuez. “We don’t see that there is much more value in
it than that $3 price that they’re offering.”  Relative Value  Talbots’ largest shareholder, OppenheimerFunds Inc., said
the company doesn’t need to sell itself and that the Sycamore
offer is “too low” based on the value of its real estate and
other assets. Instead, Talbots should refocus its brand on 45-to
65-year-old women and move “back towards its roots,” according
to Mitchell Williams, the New York-based manager of the $2.3
billion  Oppenheimer Value Fund. (CGRWX)   “The idea that this has to be taken private to restructure
it is not the only avenue to fixing the firm,” he said in a
telephone interview. “They could go back to the basics. If the
company executes well, that will be the thing that determines
value over time. There are plenty of people interested in this
company still.”  Williams declined to say how much Talbots is worth.  Sycamore didn’t mention a price of $3 a share when it
approached Talbot’s board with its offer, according to a person
familiar with the matter.  ‘Bad Sweater’  The board is now evaluating its options and exploring
whether to launch a formal auction process, said the person, who
declined to be identified because the matter is private.  While the company could attract interest from other buyout
firms and may be worth more than the current offer, Talbots’
board should negotiate with Sycamore, whose founder has been
involved in other retail-related buyouts,  Sachin Shah , a  Jersey
City , New Jersey-based merger arbitrage strategist for Tullett
Prebon Plc, said in a telephone interview.  “It’s very easy to say the stock is worth a lot more
because you’ve already lost a lot of money,” Shah said. “The
company has been deteriorating. Talbots doesn’t have a
significant winning hand here to say no” to Sycamore, he said.  The plunge in Talbots’ stock also shows investors have lost
confidence in management’s ability to boost shareholder returns,
according to  Matt McCormick , a  money manager  at Cincinnati-based
Bahl & Gaynor Inc., which oversees $4.5 billion.  “My advice for Talbots’ board is to take the deal before
they want to return it like a bad sweater,” McCormick said in a
telephone interview. “It’s a no brainer.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tara Lachapelle in  New York  at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in  Sao Paulo  at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net . 