-- 
Amazon Stocked on Toys Rivals Don’t Have

-- B y   M a t t   T o w n s e n d   a n d   A s h l e y   L u t z
-- 
2011-12-09T21:19:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/amazon-stocked-on-toys-that-wal-mart-target-don-t-have.html
The number of out-of-stock toys is
increasing at the websites of  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) ,  Target Corp. (TGT) 
and  Sears Holdings Corp.’s (SHLD)  Kmart chain while  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) 
remains almost fully stocked, according to a Bloomberg
Industries analysis.  Wal-Mart, the world’s largest retailer, was missing 34
percent of 116 toys tracked as of Dec. 7, up from 16 percent a
month ago, according to a report led by Poonam Goyal, a
Bloomberg Industries analyst. Out-of-stock items totaled 46
percent at Target’s website, 23 percent at Kmart and 29 percent
at Toys “R” Us. Amazon didn’t have two of the 116 toys.  The data highlights Amazon’s advantage in e-commerce
because it also sells the goods of other retailers through its
site, so it is more likely to have items in stock, Goyal said.
That will train shoppers to rely more on Amazon to find in-
demand items, she said.  “These retailers risk their consumers migrating to another
retailer,” Goyal said in an interview. These chains haven’t
managed their inventory well because being out-of-stock this
early means they are missing out on sales, Goyal said.  Wal-Mart, based in Bentonville,  Arkansas , rose 0.6 percent
to $58.32 at the close in New York. Minneapolis-based Target was
little changed at $53.50, while Seattle-based Amazon increased
1.3 percent to $193.03 and  Hoffman Estates , Illinois-based Sears
dropped 2.4 percent to $56.96.  Wal-Mart didn’t have 53 percent of a similar group of toys
available on its  website  on Dec. 10 of last year, according to
Bloomberg Industries. Target was missing 45 percent, followed by
44 percent at Toys “R” Us, 18 percent at Kmart and 7 percent
at Amazon.  Restock Popular Merchandise  Representatives from Wal-Mart didn’t immediately respond
with comment.  Target customers who can’t find a product online can use a
feature on the retailer’s website to see stocked items in local
stores, Kirsten Halloran, a spokeswoman, said in an e-mailed
statement.  Toys “R” Us plans to restock popular merchandise
tomorrow, including the  LeapPad Explorer  tablet, Bob Friedland,
a spokesman, said in an e-mailed statement.  Kmart has more merchandise available through in-store
pickup, Tom Aiello, a vice president at  Sears Holdings , said in
an e-mailed statement. He didn’t comment on when Kmart would
restock toys.  Amazon projected how many toys to stock based on sales from
previous years, Grace Chung, a spokeswoman, said in an e-mailed
statement.  “We’ve grown up in a super competitive online
environment,” Chung said.  Target’s Prices Cheaper  Prices online at  Target , the second-largest U.S. discount
chain, were 1.4 percent cheaper than Wal-Mart, the Bloomberg
Industries survey also showed.  Amazon’s  prices  were 0.4 percent cheaper than Wal-Mart’s,
compared with 4.6 percent a week earlier. Toys “R” Us also
gained on Wal-Mart, reducing the price difference from 11.5
percent on Nov. 30 to 7.7 percent. Wal-Mart’s advantage over
Kmart remained the same at about 6 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matt Townsend in  New York  at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net 
Ashley Lutz in New York at 
 alutz8@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  