-- 
Samsung Wins Approval for Galaxy Tablet Sales in Australia as Apple Loses

-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r   a n d   J u n   Y a n g
-- 
2011-12-09T11:01:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/apple-loses-bid-to-extend-samsung-electronics-galaxy-tab-ban-in-australia.html
Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  will start
selling its rival to Apple Inc.’s iPad 2 in Australian stores
before Christmas after the country’s highest court denied the
U.S. company’s bid to maintain a ban on Samsung Galaxy tablets.  Chief Justice Robert French, on behalf of the three-judge
High Court panel, said today that Apple failed to persuade them
that it could win on appeal and denied the company a hearing. He
reinstated an appeals court judgment lifting the ban on the
Galaxy 10.1 tablets in Australia.  The ruling ends Apple’s four-month effort to keep the
iPad’s biggest rival out of Australia on claims it infringes
patents related to touch-screen technology. Apple and Samsung,
the world’s biggest makers of smartphones and tablet computers,
have sued each other on four continents since the Cupertino,
California-based company accused the South Korean electronics
maker in April of “slavishly copying” its products.  “While the win in  Australia  won’t give a big boost to
Samsung’s revenue, it should be seen as symbolic,” Choi Do Yeon,
an analyst at LIG Investment & Securities Co. in  Seoul  said in a
phone interview. “Samsung suffered a blow to its image from
earlier losses, but now they’re recovering.”  Samsung shares fell 1 percent to 1.05 million won at the
close of trading in Seoul. Apple, the world’s most valued
technology company, gained 0.4 percent to $390.66 yesterday.  Two Models  Samsung said it will sell a 16GB, Wi-Fi model in Australia
for A$579 ($590) and a 16GB, 3G model for A$729. The company
said the tablets would be available before Christmas, without
specifying when. Apple offers its 16GB, Wi-Fi iPad 2 in
Australia for A$579, according to its  website .  Samsung’s lawyer Katrina Howard said last week, before a
High Court judge extended the ban, the company had planned to
import the tablets into Australia over the weekend and have them
in stores on Monday.  Howard said it was “critical” for the company to start
sales before Christmas.  Apple and Samsung have filed at least 30 lawsuits against
each other, according to the Suwon, South Korea-based company.  Yesterday, Samsung failed to win an order from a Paris
court to block Apple from selling its newest smartphone iPhone
4S in  France . The maker of iMac computers also said it will
appeal a U.S. judge’s refusal to block Samsung’s 4G smartphone
and Galaxy Tab 10.1 computer.  Settlement Outlook  “Apple and Samsung are fighting under different
circumstances in so many different countries,” said  James Song ,
an analyst at Daewoo Securities Co. in Seoul. “With Samsung
beginning to win some cases, the two companies may be getting
closer to a settlement.”  In Sydney, Apple’s lawyer, Stephen Burley, argued today
that the appeal court made a mistake in overturning the ban and
that Samsung will “visit harm on Apple” by selling the device.  “You got your relief by the skin of your teeth,” French
told Burley, referring to the original judge’s ruling that
granted the injunction against the Galaxy tablet.  Extending the ban in Australia “would effectively
determine the outcome” of a trial over the patents because by
the time that’s concluded the Galaxy 10.1 will be obsolete,
French said.  Steve Park , an Apple spokesman in Seoul, repeated the
company’s statement on the dispute that “blatant copying is
wrong and we need to protect Apple’s intellectual property when
companies steal our ideas.”  Parts Supplier  Samsung is the second-largest component supplier for Apple.
The company gets about 7.6 percent of its total revenue from
selling memory chips, displays and other components for the
iPhone and iPad, according to Bloomberg data.  Samsung’s tablet sales will probably account for about 3
percent of its revenue this year, LIG Investment’s Choi said.  A trial date on Apple’s patent claims in Australia hasn’t
been set yet. Samsung’s countersuit, claiming Apple phones and
tablets infringe its patents on 3G wireless transmission is
scheduled for March in Sydney.  “Both Samsung and Apple are losing preliminary injunctions,
so we’ll have to wait until the actual trials to know who’s
really winning,” Choi said.  The case is:  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  v. Samsung Electronics Co.
NSD1243/2011. Federal Court of Australia (Sydney).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net 
Jun Yang in Seoul at 
 jyang180@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  