-- 
ArcelorMittal, Kumba Postpone Iron-Ore Arbitration on Sishen

-- B y   J a n a   M a r a i s
-- 
2011-12-09T15:45:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/arcelormittal-s-africa-sishen-say-arbitration-can-t-proceed.html
ArcelorMittal (MT)  South Africa Ltd., a
unit of the world’s largest steelmaker, and  Kumba Iron Ore Ltd. (KIO) 
agreed to postpone arbitration on a supply deal until court
proceedings over a mining right at Kumba’s Sishen mine end.  Kumba, a unit of  Anglo American Plc (AAL) , canceled a nine-year
agreement to supply ore from Sishen to the steelmaker at 3
percent above production costs in March 2010 as ArcelorMittal
lost its rights over 21.4 percent of the mine after failing to
renew the title. Arbitration was scheduled to be heard in May.  ArcelorMittal South Africa’s rights over the mine were
awarded to Imperial Crown Trading 289 (Pty) Ltd., whose owners
include Jagdish Parekh, a business partner of Duduzane Zuma.
Zuma is one of South African President  Jacob Zuma ’s sons.
ArcelorMittal and Kumba’s Sishen Iron Ore Co. asked the North
Gauteng High Court to set aside awarding the right to ICT.  A ruling in the case, opposed by ICT and the Department of
Mineral Resources, will be handed down on Dec. 15.  “There is a real prospect that, having regard to the
importance of the matters in issue, the unsuccessful parties
will apply for leave to appeal to the  Supreme Court  of Appeal,”
ArcelorMittal said in a statement today. An appeal is likely to
be heard before the end of 2012, and the arbitration would only
be able to proceed after that, the steelmaker said.  Interim Supply Agreement  The parties would look at renegotiating an interim supply
deal, which provides for a discount to market prices, closer to
its expiry at the end of July, ArcelorMittal  South Africa 
spokesman Themba Hlengani said in an e-mailed statement today.  ArcelorMittal is arguing Kumba’s Sishen Iron Ore already
has a 100 percent mining right over Sishen and its supply deal
remains valid. Should it win the court case, the arbitration
process would be rendered “academic,” it said in a statement.  ArcelorMittal South Africa rose 1.6 percent to 61.39 rand
by the close in Johannesburg. Kumba was unchanged at 500 rand.  Kumba maintains the supply deal has lapsed and arbitration
will need to go ahead regardless of the judgment handed down
next week, according to an e-mailed response to questions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jana Marais in Johannesburg at 
 jmarais@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at   jviljoen@bloomberg.net  