-- 
Arsenal, Spurs Consider Chelsea Defender Alex, Star Says: Soccer Roundup

-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 
2011-12-09T10:43:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/arsenal-spurs-consider-chelsea-defender-alex-star-says-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  Alex Wanted  Arsenal and Tottenham are set to offer Alex a way out of
Chelsea, the  Daily Star  said.  The Brazilian defender has been made available for transfer
after being dropped from the first team and forced to train with
the reserves after a bust-up with Chelsea manager Andre Villas- Boas, the Star said.  Arsenal manager Arsene Wenger and Tottenham manager  Harry Redknapp  are both keen to sign him in the January transfer
period, the Star said. Wenger had two bids rejected during the
summer, the newspaper said.  Gary Cahill  has also drawn the interest of both teams,
along with Chelsea, where Villas-Boas wants to use the Bolton
and England defender with John Terry, the Star said.  Jenas Replacement  Aston Villa  is considering Newcastle’s Danny Guthrie to
replace on-loan midfielder Jermaine Jenas, the  Daily Mirror 
said.  Jenas is out for the season with a ruptured Achilles tendon
and has returned to parent club Tottenham for surgery, the
Mirror said. Villa manager Alex McLeish could have signed
Guthrie for free next summer after his contract expires, but may
now bid for him in January, the newspaper said.  Anelka a Hammer?  West Ham manager  Sam Allardyce  wants to sign Chelsea
forward  Nicolas Anelka , the  Sun said .  Anelka has been told he can leave the Blues after a
disagreement with manager Andre Villas-Boas. But Allardyce, who
managed the Frenchman at Bolton, believes the Hammers must win
promotion back to the Premier League in order to make a serious
offer, the Sun said.  No Donovan  Everton captain Phil Neville says it’s doubtful Landon Donovan will join the club on loan in January, the  Liverpool
Echo  said.  The Toffees want to sign a goal scorer but Neville doesn’t
feel the U.S. international will be keen to return to Goodison
Park, the Echo said.  Donovan had a loan spell at Everton in early 2010 in the
run-up to the  World Cup  in South Africa.  Race for Ridgewell  Queens Park Rangers have joined the race to sign Birmingham
defender  Liam Ridgewell , the  Mirror said .  Ridgewell is set to leave Birmingham in January after
requesting a transfer before the season, the Mirror said. West
Brom, Stoke and Newcastle are also interested after all bidding
for him last summer, the newspaper said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 