-- 
Stocks, Euro Rise on Debt Plan

-- B y   S t e p h e n   K i r k l a n d   a n d   I n y o u n g   H w a n g
-- 
2011-12-09T21:30:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/asian-stocks-korean-won-drop-as-ecb-chief-damps-bond-buying-speculation.html
Stocks climbed, sending the Standard
& Poor’s 500 Index up for the week, Treasuries fell and the euro
rose as Europe set plans to boost its rescue fund and U.S.
consumer confidence beat forecasts.  The  S&P 500  climbed 1.7 percent to close at 1,255.19 at 4
p.m. in New York, leaving it up 0.9 percent for the week. The
 Stoxx Europe 600 Index  added 1.2 percent and the euro increased
0.3 percent to $1.3375. Ten-year Treasury yields rose nine basis
points to 2.07 percent. The 10-year Italian bond yield fell 10
basis points to 6.36 percent, reversing a 23-point increase. The
S&P GSCI Index of commodities added 0.2 percent, reversing
earlier losses, as lead, silver and copper rallied.  European leaders holding all-night talks in Brussels added
200 billion euros ($267 billion) to their crisis-fighting fund
and tightened anti-deficit rules, an accord hailed by European
Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  as a “very good outcome.”
A gauge of U.S. consumer confidence climbed to a six-month high
as Americans’ outlook improved.  “Things are incrementally getting resolved in  Europe  --
not out of the woods but at least we have some sort of
framework,” Jeffrey Schwarte, a  money manager  who helps oversee
about $231 billion in Des Moines,  Iowa , at Principal Global
Investors, said in a telephone interview. “It’s challenging
over there. But if you look at the underlying data in the U.S.,
it’s actually very strong relative to other developed markets.”  Struggling for Gain  The S&P 500 has struggled to stay above its 2010 closing
level of 1,257.64 since rising above it during the last week of
October. The index has shown a year-to-date gain during 18
sessions since Oct. 27, including today, only to later turn
lower for 2011. It ended today down 0.2 percent for the year.  The index has rebounded 14 percent from its low for the
year on Oct. 3 as better-than-forecast U.S. economic data helped
alleviate concern the world’s largest economy would relapse into
a recession. The  Citigroup Economic Surprise Inde x, which
measures whether data is beating or missing estimates, is near
its highest level since March after rebounding from an almost
three-year low in June.  The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan preliminary
index of consumer sentiment for December rose to 67.7 from a
final November reading of 64.1. The gauge was projected to rise
to 65.8, according to the median forecast of 73 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. economists increased their fourth-
quarter U.S. economic growth tracking estimate to 3.4 percent
from 2.9 percent following Commerce Department data showing the
 U.S. trade deficit  shrank 1.6 percent to $43.5 billion in
October, smaller than projected, from $44.2 billion in
September.  Market Leaders  Financial, energy and industrial companies led the S&P
500’s advance today, with  each group (SPXL1)  rising more than 2 percent.
Citigroup Inc., JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Bank of New York Mellon
Corp. climbed at least 2.8 percent to pace gains in 22 of 24
stocks in the KBW Bank Index, which rallied 2.7 percent.  General Electric Co. rose 3.3 percent to help lead the Dow
 Jones Industrial Average (INDU)  up 186.56 points after boosting its
quarterly dividend to 17 cents a share. Cooper Cos. jumped 17
percent, the most in three years, after the maker of  contact
lenses  forecast earnings that topped estimates. DuPont Co. slid
3.2 percent after cutting its full-year forecast.  The S&P GSCI Index recovered from an earlier 1 percent drop
led by agricultural commodities on signs of increasing supplies.
Crude oil rose 1.1 percent to $99.41 a barrel in  New York ,
recovering from a 1 percent drop earlier.  Cocoa fell for a 12th day in the longest slump in at least
50 years on signs of growing supplies. Bean arrivals at Ivory
Coast ports totaled 428,200 metric tons from the start of the
season through to Dec. 4, up 16 percent from a year earlier,
Natixis Commodity Markets Ltd. said in a report e-mailed
yesterday.  European Stocks  Four stocks gained for each that declined in the Stoxx 600.
Intesa Sanpaolo SpA surged 7.9 percent to lead banks to the
biggest gain among 19 industries after saying that European
Banking Authority tests showed the Italian lender doesn’t need
to raise capital. Alcatel-Lucent SA,  France ’s largest
telecommunications-equipment supplier, climbed 7.1 percent as
Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. upgraded the shares.  Italian two-year notes erased earlier losses, with the
yield falling 28 basis points to 5.96 percent, as the ECB bought
the nation’s debt, according to three people with knowledge of
the trades, who declined to be identified because the
transactions are confidential. The yield earlier jumped as much
as 40 basis points. A spokesman at the ECB in  Frankfurt  declined
to comment.  Europe’s blueprint for a closer fiscal union to save the
single currency left pressure on central bankers to address
investor concerns that Italy and  Spain  would succumb to the two-
year-old financial crisis. While ECB President Draghi hailed the
accord, investors urged him to expand his bond-purchase program
to fight the debt crisis.  ‘Dramatic Action’  “The  European Central Bank  is going to be forced, I think,
to take more dramatic action,” Stuart Eizenstat, a former
undersecretary of State and deputy Treasury secretary under
President  Bill Clinton , told Bloomberg Television. “And now
that they have this fiscal pact in place, they’ve got the cover
to do so. So really this is the time to step up and say to the
markets we’re going to stand behind our member states’ sovereign
debt.”  Belgian 10-year yields fell 12 basis points, while Spanish
yields were seven basis points lower. German bunds reversed
gains, sending the yield up 13 basis points to 2.15 percent
after it earlier fell to 1.98 percent.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index slipped 1.2 percent and
lost 2.6 percent in the week. The Hang Seng China Enterprises
Index sank 3.2 percent in  Hong Kong ,  India ’s Sensex slipped 1.7
percent and  South Korea ’s  Kospi Index (KOSPI)  slumped 2 percent.
Russia’s  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  declined 4.1 percent before a demonstration
tomorrow in Moscow to protest alleged ballot-box stuffing in
Dec. 4 elections.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Kirkland in London at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net ;
Inyoung Hwang in New York at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  