-- 
Asia Currencies Drop as Europe Debt Crisis Starts to Slow Growth

-- B y   J i y e u n   L e e   a n d   K y o u n g w h a   K i m
-- 
2011-12-09T08:35:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/asian-currencies-drop-this-week-as-europe-debt-crisis-starts-to-hit-growth.html
India ’s rupee and South Korea’s won
led declines in Asian currencies this week on signs the European
debt crisis is starting to slow regional economic growth.  The Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia Dollar  Index  fell 0.2 percent
and the  MSCI (MXAP)  Asia-Pacific Index of stocks dropped 2.1 percent on
concern euro-area leaders will fail to agree on a new package
aimed at stemming the crisis and boosting confidence in
financial markets. Malaysia reported today that export growth
slowed in October, while Japanese data showed the economy
expanded less than the initial estimate last quarter.  “We are seeing the risk-off mood and emerging-market
currencies are under pressure,” said Minori Uchida, a senior
analyst in  Tokyo  at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. “There’s
concern about a global slowdown.”  The rupee declined 1.9 percent this week to 52.2012 per
dollar as of 1:51 p.m. in Mumbai, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The won weakened 1.4 percent to 1,146.83,  Malaysia ’s
ringgit dropped 1.1 percent to 3.1546 and Indonesia’s rupiah
fell 0.5 percent to 9,100.  Reports this week showed Thailand’s consumer confidence
slumped to a decade-low of 61 last month and Taiwan’s exports
grew the least in more than two years.  Japan ’s economy expanded
at an annualized rate of 5.6 percent in the three months ended
Sept. 30, the Cabinet Office said in Tokyo today, compared with
a preliminary estimate of 6 percent.  Moody’s Investors Service cut the credit ratings of BNP
Paribas SA, Societe Generale SA and Credit Agricole SA today,
citing funding constraints and a deteriorating economic
situation amid the debt crisis.  Malaysian Exports  Malaysia’s overseas sales increased 15.8 percent in October
from a year earlier, after rising 16.6 percent in September, the
government reported. That was more than the 7.3 percent median
estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg. The  Philippines 
will report on Dec. 13 that  exports  fell 16.9 percent in October,
after dropping 27 percent in September, a separate survey showed.  European Central Bank President Mario Draghi damped
speculation the bank will buy more  government bonds  to help halt
rising yields. European Union leaders began a two-day summit on
the crisis in Brussels yesterday.  “All eyes have been on the euro zone because that will
determine the capital flows into  emerging markets ,” said
Radhika Rao, an economist at Forecast Pte in Singapore.  China’s yuan declined this week on speculation policy
makers will slow currency appreciation after inflation cooled to
the least in 14 months.  Consumer prices  rose 4.2 percent in
November from a year earlier after increasing 5.5 percent the
previous month, the National Bureau of Statistics said today.  Yuan Depreciation  The risk of yuan depreciation is rising in the short term,
triggered by “large-scale” capital outflows, Zhang Monan, a
researcher at the State Information Center, wrote in a
commentary in the  China  Securities Journal today.  The yuan fell 0.07 percent to 6.3643 per dollar this week
in  Shanghai , according to the China Foreign Exchange Trade
System. The People’s Bank of China set the daily reference rate
0.05 percent lower at 6.3352, the weakest level since Dec. 1.
The currency is allowed to fluctuate as much as 0.5 percent on
either side of the  fixing .  “Easing inflation implies there’ll be less room for yuan
appreciation,” said Edmond Law, deputy head of foreign exchange
at BWC Capital Markets in  Hong Kong . “Officials will now shift
their focus to protecting economic growth amid the increasingly
uncertain global outlook. The inflation data confirms further
monetary easing is likely.”  Elsewhere, the Philippine peso dropped 0.8 percent this
week to 43.63 per dollar.  Thailand ’s baht declined 0.5 percent
to 30.94, Taiwan’s dollar fell 0.3 percent to NT$30.239 and
Singapore’s dollar weakened 1.3 percent to S$1.3006.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jiyeun Lee in Seoul at 
 jlee1029@bloomberg.net ;
Kyoungwha Kim in Singapore at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  