-- 
AT&T Judge May End T-Mobile Merger Plan by Stopping U.S. Lawsuit

-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g   a n d   S a r a   F o r d e n
-- 
2011-12-10T05:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/at-t-hearings-begin-on-status-of-u-s-sprint-cases-on-t-mobile.html
AT&T Inc. (T) ’ s (S)  plan to buy T-Mobile USA
Inc. was placed in further jeopardy after a federal judge agreed
to consider a request by the U.S. to postpone or dismiss its
lawsuit seeking to block the deal.  Lawyers for AT&T and T-Mobile, saying the government’s suit
against them had turned into their best hope to complete the
transaction, urged U.S. District Judge Ellen Segal Huvelle in
Washington to keep the case on track for a Feb. 13 trial.
The U.S. argued the case may be moot after AT&T withdrew its
merger application at the Federal Communications Commission.  A decision to dismiss or delay the Justice Department’s
case would put the deal all but out of reach for AT&T. The
company’s strategy for regulatory approval rests on winning a
favorable court decision it could use at the FCC to argue that
the transaction isn’t anticompetitive. Without such a ruling,
AT&T has no chance of getting the deal done, T-Mobile’s lawyer,
George Cary, told Huvelle at a hearing yesterday.  “If this case doesn’t go ahead, then the deal is over,”
he said.  Huvelle, who scheduled a hearing for Dec. 15 on the
government’s request, said she was concerned that without an FCC
application in process it might be impossible to meet the
deadline for the deal and the trial would be a waste of time.  ‘Taxpayers’ Money’  “We don’t have any confidence that we are spending all
this time and effort and the taxpayers’ money and that we’re not
being spun,” Huvelle said. “The landscape has changed,” she
said, pressing AT&T’s lawyers on whether completing the purchase
by the contractual deadline of Sept. 20 is still realistic.  AT&T’s lawyer,  Mark Hansen , told Huvelle that the company
“wants its day in court.” AT&T would have to pay T-Mobile
about $3 billion, as well as spectrum and other services worth
about another $4 billion, according to analysts, if the
transaction doesn’t close by Sept. 20.  Justice Department lawyer  Joseph Wayland  said the
government will seek to put its suit on hold or withdraw it,
while reserving the right to refile, because AT&T pulled back
its FCC merger application. FCC approval is required to complete
the transaction, he said. The fact that AT&T had an application
before the FCC was among the reasons the department sued to
block the deal in August, Wayland said.  Huvelle ordered the government to file its briefs by
Dec. 13.  ‘AT&T’s Bluff’  “By saying they will file to dismiss, the  Justice
Department  is calling AT&T’s bluff,” said Andrew Gavil, an
antitrust professor at Howard University School of Law in
Washington. “They’re saying ‘You cannot maneuver us into
litigation with you by withdrawing your application from the
FCC.’”  Yesterday’s hearing marked AT&T’s first appearance in court
since it pulled the FCC application on Nov. 24. The company
abandoned its bid after the agency’s staff recommended the
purchase be rejected and the chairman said he’d push for a
review that could last a year. AT&T said it planned to focus on
winning clearance from the Justice Department first or revising
its proposal.  Cary, the T-Mobile lawyer, told Huvelle that the companies
“have always contemplated” that an FCC decision follow a
decision by the court. Cary said his client would use Huvelle’s
ruling, assuming it was favorable, to win approval from the FCC.  ‘Number of Ifs’  “That’s presumptuous,” Huvelle responded. “The number of
ifs in that scenario are mind-boggling.”  She noted that her ruling might be appealed, further
delaying a definitive decision. Huvelle also said that the FCC’s
report on the transaction showed their concerns went beyond
antitrust issues.  Hansen told Huvelle that the FCC “typically and
traditionally” is guided by the court on antitrust issues.  Huvelle responded, “the only case where I find similarity
is  EchoStar (DISH) , which fell apart.”  Huvelle oversaw the government’s 2002 lawsuit seeking to
block EchoStar Communications Corp.’s proposed acquisition of
Hughes Electronics Corp. That transaction, which also faced
Justice Department and FCC objections, was called off after
Huvelle ruled against EchoStar’s request for an expedited trial.  In seeking a trial of the government’s case, the companies
in November 2002 told Huvelle that they “urgently needed
judicial resolution” before the expiration of the merger
agreement two months later. Without a deal, EchoStar told
Huvelle it would be required to pay Hughes a $600 million
termination fee.  Huvelle said AT&T’s arguments today gave her “déjà vu.”  ‘Bit Unsettling’  “I find it a little bit unsettling being told when I would
have to decide because you will lose billions,” Huvelle told
AT&T’s lawyer.  The Justice Department sued Dallas-based AT&T and  Deutsche
Telekom AG ’s T-Mobile unit on Aug. 31, saying a combination of
the two companies would “substantially” reduce competition.
Seven states and  Puerto Rico  joined the effort to block the
deal, which would make AT&T the biggest U.S. wireless carrier.  Sprint, the third-biggest U.S. wireless carrier, filed its
antitrust lawsuit on Sept. 6, saying the proposed merger would
weaken its ability to compete with AT&T, the second-biggest, and
 Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ) , the market leader.  Cellular South, based in Ridgeland,  Mississippi , sued on
Sept. 19, claiming the merger threatened to “substantially”
cut competition.  Huvelle last month dismissed several claims in the suits by
 Overland Park , Kansas-based Sprint and Cellular South. She
limited the cases to Sprint’s allegations regarding access to
mobile devices and Cellular South’s complaints regarding roaming
fees as well as devices.  No trial has been set for the Sprint and Cellular South
cases. The parties agreed it should take place after the trial
of the government’s case.  The government’s case is U.S. v. AT&T Inc., 1:11-cv-01560;
Sprint’s case is Sprint Nextel Corp. v. AT&T Inc., 11-cv-01600;
and Cellular South’s case is Cellular South Inc. v. AT&T Inc.,
1:11-cv-01690, U.S. District Court,  District of Columbia 
( Washington ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net ;
Sara Forden in Washington at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 