-- 
AT&T May Face Judge’s Questions on Plans to Proceed With T-Mobile Purchase

-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g   a n d   S a r a   F o r d e n
-- 
2011-12-09T05:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/at-t-may-face-judge-s-questions-on-plans-for-t-mobile-purchase.html
AT&T Inc. (T)  may be questioned at a
federal court hearing in Washington on whether it plans to move
ahead with its proposed $39 billion purchase of  T-Mobile USA (DTE) 
Inc. in the face of growing resistance from U.S. regulators.  AT&T will appear in U.S. District Court today for the first
time since the company withdrew its application to the Federal
Communications Commission seeking approval for the deal. The
company said it abandoned the FCC bid after the agency signaled
it might try to block it to focus on winning clearance from the
 Justice Department  or revising its proposal.  Today’s hearing in the Justice Department’s lawsuit to stop
the T-Mobile takeover was called by U.S. District Judge Ellen Segal Huvelle as she seeks to ensure both sides will be ready
for trial on Feb. 13. Huvelle will also assess the status of
lawsuits by  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)  and Cellular South Inc., which
are separately trying to block the transaction.  “The Justice Department may try to persuade the judge to
press AT&T to take a position on whether it still plans to move
forward,” said Andrew Gavil, an antitrust professor at Howard
University School of Law in Washington. “They may say ‘We think
this deal is dead and we shouldn’t be litigating a case that, in
effect, is moot.’”  The retreat from review by the FCC, which would have to
approve the merger, has led opponents of the deal to challenge
the legitimacy of AT&T continuing to defend itself in court.  AT&T Subpoena  Earlier this week, LightSquared Inc., a wireless broadband
company, asked the court to block AT&T’s subpoena seeking
testimony from company officials on its business plans, arguing
in court papers that without a pending FCC application, AT&T has
no path to complete the merger and the Justice Department
lawsuit might be irrelevant. LightSquared was brought into the
case as a competitor as AT&T seeks to counter allegations the T-
Mobile deal is anticompetitive.  LightSquared said comments by  Jim Cicconi , AT&T’s senior
executive vice president of external and legislative affairs,
supported its position.  Cicconi said on AT&T’s website on Nov. 29 that a company
might withdraw an FCC merger application for two reasons: Either
it intends to abandon the transaction or it plans to submit a
new application “reflecting changes to the transaction or
materially changed circumstances.”  Jennifer Giordano, a lawyer for LightSquared, wrote in
court filings, “AT&T’s public statements suggest that the
transaction as currently structured may be substantially altered
or not proceed at all.”  ‘Changed Circumstances’  A lawyer for AT&T wrote to Giordano that a court victory
would constitute “materially changed circumstances” that would
be submitted to the FCC, according to court filings.  Huvelle’s special master, Richard Levie, said in his ruling
on LightSquared’s request that the Justice Department
interpreted Cicconi’s comments to mean “the current litigation
may, in fact, not present a live case or controversy.”  Still, Levie ordered the deposition go ahead, saying that
while the FCC withdrawal “raises the specter of an alteration
of the course of the proposed merger” it didn’t change the
status of the litigation.  “Although FCC approval is necessary for the proposed
merger, so, too, is a favorable ruling from the federal court in
this case,” Levie said in the Dec. 6 decision.  Michael Balmoris, a spokesman for AT&T, declined to comment
on the company’s trial strategy. Gina Talamona, a Justice
Department spokeswoman, declined to comment on what the agency’s
lawyers plan to say at today’s hearing.  Case on Hold  Under federal law, Huvelle has the authority to put the
case on hold until a decision from the FCC is rendered, said
 Herbert Hovenkamp , a professor and antitrust expert at the
University of Iowa College of Law.  “Usually the court, which is of general jurisdiction,
would defer to the agency that is considered to have more
expertise,” Hovenkamp said. “The agency can produce fact
findings that could inform the antitrust court down the road.”  The Justice Department sued Dallas-based AT&T and Deutsche
Telekom AG’s T-Mobile unit on Aug. 31, saying a combination of
the two companies would “substantially” reduce competition.
Seven states and  Puerto Rico  joined the effort to block the
deal, which would make AT&T the biggest U.S. wireless carrier.  Sprint, the third-biggest U.S. wireless carrier, filed its
antitrust lawsuit on Sept. 6, saying the proposed merger would
weaken its ability to compete with AT&T, the second-biggest, and
 Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ) , the market leader.  Less Competition  Cellular South, based in Ridgeland,  Mississippi , sued on
Sept. 19, claiming the merger threatened to “substantially”
cut competition.  Huvelle last month dismissed several claims in the suits by
 Overland Park , Kansas-based Sprint and Cellular South. She
limited the cases to Sprint’s allegations regarding access to
mobile devices and Cellular South’s complaints regarding roaming
fees as well as devices.  No trial has been set for the Sprint and Cellular South
cases. The parties agreed it should take place after the trial
of the government’s case.  The government’s case is U.S. v. AT&T Inc., 1:11-cv-01560;
Sprint’s case is Sprint Nextel Corp. v. AT&T Inc., 11-cv-01600;
and Cellular South’s case is Cellular South Inc. v. AT&T Inc.,
1:11-cv-01690, U.S. District Court,  District of Columbia 
( Washington ).  Editors: Fred Strasser, Stephen Farr  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net ;
Sara Forden in Washington
at   sforden@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Fred Strasser at 
 fstrasser@bloomberg.net  