-- 
Azul Aims to Expand as Brazilian Rivals Tam, Gol Scale Back Plan for Fleet

-- B y   J o s e   S e r g i o   O s s e
-- 
2011-12-09T02:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/azul-aims-to-expand-as-brazilian-rivals-tam-gol-scale-back-plan-for-fleet.html
Azul Linhas Aereas Brasileiras,
 Brazil ’s third-biggest domestic carrier, said it plans to expand
its fleet next year and bid for a stake in an airport, while
bigger rivals Tam SA and Gol Linhas Aereas Inteligentes SA scale
back their plans to increase capacity.  Azul aims for a net gain of 14 planes and plans to bid for
a 1 percent stake in the Viracopos Airport in Campinas, Brazil,
where its hub is located, said founder  David Neeleman , who also
founded  JetBlue Airways Corp. (JBLU)  The stake is the maximum that
airlines are allowed to own in airports. Tam, Brazil’s biggest
airline by market share, and Gol, the second largest, have said
they aren’t interested in bidding in auctions for stakes.  “We really want that 1 percent of Viracopos,” Neeleman
said yesterday at Bloomberg’s Sao Paulo office. “It’d be in the
controller’s interest to have us as a partner because Viracopos
without Azul is a whole different asset.”  While Gol and Tam fly many of the same routes as each
other, Azul focuses on little-used airports, which gives it more
room to expand, he said. Azul has increased its market share to
about 10 percent since it started up three years ago. Gol and
Tam said last month they plan to cut back their capacity
expansion in 2012 in an effort to boost profit margins.  ‘Tariff War’  “Tam and Gol have very low load factors, they fly the same
routes, there was this ridiculous tariff war between them, so
they have to fill up their planes more to be profitable,”
Neeleman said. “Our load factor is always above 80 percent. Our
yield is higher. If you match a higher yield and a better load
factor as we do, there’s a big difference.”  Yields are the average fare per mile, a measure of
profitability for airlines, while load factor is the average
percentage of booked seats of an airline.  Azul will receive eight  Embraer SA (EMBR3)  jets in 2012 and 14
ATR-600 propeller planes, eight of which will replace older
ATR-200 models, Neeleman said. Azul’s fleet will reach 63
aircraft at the end of next year.  Neeleman, who owns 80 percent of Azul, said there is no
rush to hold an initial public offering because the airline has
a strong cash position.  “We always talk about it, they always ask me when will the
IPO happen, but there is no big rush,” said Neeleman, who
raised $200 million to create Azul in December 2008 after
leaving JetBlue the previous May. “We don’t need the money.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jose Sergio Osse in  Sao Paulo  at 
 josse1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Helder Marinho at 
 hmarinho@bloomberg.net  