-- 
Investors May Be Unable to Refinance $156 Billion in U.K. Property Loans

-- B y   S i m o n   P a c k a r d
-- 
2011-12-09T08:58:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/banks-may-not-refinance-156-billion-of-u-k-property-loans.html
U.K. commercial real estate investors
may be unable to refinance about half of their 201.3 billion
pounds ($315 billion) of outstanding bank loans amid tightened
credit, according to a study by  De Montfort University .  About 85 billion pounds to 114 billion pounds “could not
be refinanced on current market terms,” according to a June
survey of lenders by the university near Leicester,  England . The
loans are too high compared with collateral property values.
About 24 percent were worth more than the real estate backing
them, it said.  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis worsened after the survey
was conducted. Banks will need to raise 115 billion euros ($153
billion) of additional capital to cover the reduced value of
 government bonds , the European Banking Authority regulator said
in a document obtained yesterday by Bloomberg News.  The debt crisis and a possible U.K. recession “had
exacerbated the ongoing lack of liquidity and increasing costs
of capital in the property lending market,” De Montfort said in
a statement.  European banks have cut back on lending after incurring 526
billion euros of losses since the third quarter of 2007 in the
credit crisis and ensuing property slump, according to Bloomberg
calculations.  Societe Generale SA (GLE)  and Eurohypo AG,  Commerzbank
AG (CBK) ’s real estate arm, have halted new lending, real estate
adviser CBRE Group Inc. said this week. Senior loans represented
about 66 percent of building values on average, CBRE said.  Lending Stop  Twenty organizations, or 34 percent of respondents, said
they stopped lending. The study showed that 35 percent of those
surveyed planned to expand their overall loan books, down from
46 percent at the end of 2010.  U.K. commercial real estate debt, including commercial
mortgage-backed securities and U.K. property loans owned by
Ireland’s National Asset Management Agency, totaled 280 billion
to 292 billion pounds at the end of the first half, the study
estimated. That’s down from a range of 288 billion pounds to 298
billion pounds at the end of 2010.  “The process of deleveraging continued at a modest pace
during the first half,” Bill Maxted, who wrote the report with
Trudi Porter, said in the statement.  The De Montfort researchers said loans in breach of their
financial terms or in default totaled 41 billion pounds, an
increase from 37.5 billion pounds six months earlier.  Banks have granted extensions on 48.4 billion pounds of
maturing loans while charging “non-market”  interest rates .
About four-fifths of the outstanding loans were worth more than
60 percent of the value of the properties backing them, the
study showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Packard in London at 
 packard@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ross Larsen at   rlarsen2@bloomberg.net . 