-- 
Barry Bonds Should Get 15-Month Prison Term for Perjury, U.S. Tells Judge

-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l   a n d   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 
2011-12-09T06:05:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/barry-bonds-should-get-15-month-prison-term-for-perjury-u-s-tells-judge.html
Barry Bonds ,  Major League Baseball ’s
career home-run record holder convicted of obstructing a U.S.
probe of steroid use by professional athletes, should serve
15 months in prison, U.S. prosecutors said.  Prosecutors, in a filing yesterday in federal court in  San
Francisco , said they disagreed with a court pre-sentencing
report that recommended Bonds receive a sentence of two years
probation, a $4,000 fine and 250 hours of community service even
though the guidelines call for a prison term of 15 to 21 months.
The former  San Francisco Giants  left fielder hadn’t taken
responsibility for his crime, the U.S. said.  “Bonds’s pervasive efforts to testify falsely, to mislead
the grand jury, to dodge questions, and to simply refuse to
answer questions in the grand jury makes his conduct worthy of a
significant jail sentence,” prosecutors said in the filing.  Bonds, 47, was convicted of obstruction for his response
before a federal grand jury when asked if his trainer,  Greg Anderson , ever gave him anything that required a syringe for
injection. Bonds didn’t immediately say yes or no and in a 146-
word response, he spoke about being a “celebrity child” who
didn’t “get into other people’s business.”  Jurors were unable to agree in April on whether Bonds lied
when he told a grand jury in 2003 that he didn’t knowingly take
steroids, didn’t take human growth hormone and didn’t receive
injections from Anderson. A mistrial was declared on those
counts.  ‘Good Works’  Lawyers for Bonds argued in a Dec. 6 court filing that
Bonds’s “history of good works” and other factors justify a
sentence of probation. Bonds is scheduled to be sentenced on
Dec. 16.  Only one of four people convicted in a federal
investigation of steroid use among professional athletes, former
track star  Marion Jones , received a prison sentence, the lawyers
said. The maximum sentence for obstruction of justice is 10
years in prison.  Bonds broke  Hank Aaron ’s record of 755 career home runs in
August 2007. He was indicted the following November on charges
of lying to the grand jury.  Bonds’s attorneys said at trial that he truthfully
testified that he received performance-enhancing substances from
Anderson without knowing what they were because the drugs were
new at the time and Anderson told him one was flaxseed oil.  The case is U.S. v. Bonds, 07-00732, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of  California  (San Francisco).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net 
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  