-- 
Battered U.K. Turbines Switch On After Halting in 165 Miles per Hour Winds

-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   A i r l i e   a n d   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 
2011-12-09T11:44:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/battered-u-k-turbines-switch-on-after-halting-in-165-mph-winds.html
The U.K.’s wind farms returned to
normal after halting yesterday to protect them from the
strongest gales in 25 years.  Almost two-thirds of Britain’s 5.25 billion pounds ($8.2
billion) of wind power capacity may have automatically stopped
generating yesterday as gusts triggered protection mechanisms,
National Grid Plc said. Gusts on the summit of Cairngorm,
Scotland’s sixth-highest mountain, peaked at 165 miles per hour
(265 kilometers per hour), the most since 1986, according to
data on the U.K.’s Met Office  website .  “It’s incredibly unusual wind speeds that we experienced,
public transport’s been disrupted and there’s been huge amounts
of structural damage,” said Niall Stuart, chief executive
officer in Glasgow at Scottish Renewables, a lobby group that
promotes cleaner energy.  Britain has about 4,000 megawatts of  wind turbines  linked
to the nation’s electricity network, enough to supply 8 million
European homes. Infinis Plc, the renewables company owned by  Guy
Hands , is investigating after one of its turbines caught fire
yesterday in an incident involving a machine made by Vestas Wind
Systems A/S, the world’s largest turbine maker.  “The turbines started generating again after the storm
force winds died down,” Paul Ferguson, a spokesman for
 Iberdrola SA (IBE) ’s Scottish Power, said by telephone from Glasgow.
“They operated as they are designed to do.”  EON AG said three of its wind farms, affecting nearly 100
turbines, stopped yesterday because of the high winds. They are
running normally today, Cara Ponton, a Nottingham, England-based
spokeswoman for the company, said by telephone.  “Wind turbines are designed to automatically shut down
when wind speeds reach around 25 meters per second,” or 56
miles per hour, said Greg Clarke, a spokesman for SSE Plc in
Perth, Scotland. “When wind speeds reduce to below 25 meters
per second, the turbines automatically start generating again.”  Electricite de France SA’s Hunterston B-8 nuclear reactor
halted yesterday “due to grid issues during extreme weather in
 Scotland ,” said Sue Fletcher, a company spokeswoman in East
Kilbride.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Catherine Airlie in London at 
 cairlie@bloomberg.net ;
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  