-- 
Berkshire’s Krutter Says Insurance Regulators May Miss Next AIG

-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 
2011-12-09T18:30:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/berkshire-s-krutter-says-don-t-count-on-regulators-to-identify-next-aig.html
American International Group Inc. (AIG) ’s
near failure in 2008 shows that government watchdogs may
struggle to curb risk beyond insurers’ traditional underwriting
businesses, an executive at rival  Berkshire Hathaway Inc.  said.  “The idea that somehow insurance regulators are going to
identify the next AIG Financial Products group, which is the
operation in  London  that brought down the AIG holding company,
is, in my view, not very realistic,” Forrest Krutter,
Berkshire’s corporate secretary, said today at a U.S. Treasury
Department panel discussion on insurer regulation in  Washington .  AIG was bailed out by the U.S. in 2008, in a rescue that
swelled to $182.3 billion, after the Financial Products division
suffered losses on derivative bets tied to subprime mortgages.
The federal Office of Thrift Supervision, which was since merged
into another regulator, “fell short” in its oversight of the
contracts at New York-based AIG, Scott Polakoff, then acting
director of the OTS, told a Senate panel in 2009.  State insurance regulators in the U.S. met their
responsibility, which was to make sure AIG units had sufficient
funds to back their obligations to buyers of property-casualty
coverage and life policies, Krutter said today.  “Insurance regulators should work at improving what
they’re ultimately very good at,” said Krutter. “Assuring that
when unregulated affiliates of insurance companies fail, as some
ultimately will in a competitive, capitalist economy, that the
insurance company affiliates are not placed in a financially
hazardous condition and that policyholders can sleep soundly
knowing that they have the insurance protection they paid for.”  Berkshire, led by billionaire Chairman and Chief Executive
Officer  Warren Buffett , didn’t require government capital during
the financial crisis. The Omaha, Nebraska-based firm sells
insurance through units including Geico and National Indemnity.
AIG, which has wound down Financial Products unit, is majority
owned by the U.S. Treasury Department.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in Washington at 
 Nbuhayar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  