-- 
Bid Rigging, MF Global, Insider Trading, Cordray: Compliance

-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 
2011-12-09T13:02:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/bid-rigging-mf-global-insider-trading-cordray-compliance.html
Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  agreed to pay $148
million to settle criminal charges and civil claims aimed at
Wachovia Bank, which it acquired in 2008.  The deal will resolve investigations by federal agencies,
including the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and the
 Justice Department , as well as  attorneys general  in 26 states,
into charges that Wachovia conspired to overcharge state and
local governments on investments.  The case is the latest in a more than five-year
investigation into how Wall Street banks conspired with local-
government advisers to reap excessive fees on investments sold
to public agencies by rigging competitive auctions and carving
up the market among themselves.  JPMorgan Chase & Co., (JPM)   UBS AG (UBSN)  and
 Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  previously settled similar cases.  “Wachovia won bids by playing an elaborate game of ‘you
scratch my back and I’ll scratch yours,’ rather than engaging in
legitimate competition to win municipalities’ business,”  Robert
Khuzami , the director of the SEC’s Division of Enforcement, said
in a statement.  The settlement by Wells Fargo will bring to $673 million
the amount that banks have paid to settle the case, some of
which is being returned to localities that were overcharged in
the scheme.  Wells Fargo, based in  San Francisco , said the conduct was
by former employees of Wachovia before its acquisition. About
$59 million from the settlement will go to state attorneys
general, the bank said.  “Wells Fargo is pleased to have fully resolved this
investigation of Wachovia Bank,” the bank said in a statement.  The SEC said Wachovia was involved in rigging at least 58
transactions over an eight-year span involving the proceeds of
more than $9 billion of municipal bonds. Wachovia steered new
business to brokers who participated in the conspiracy, the SEC
said. Wells Fargo neither admitted nor denied the SEC
allegations.  For more, click here.  Compliance Action  Corzine Tells Congress He Didn’t ‘Intend’ to Break Rules  Jon S. Corzine told U.S. lawmakers he never intended to
break any rules as head of MF Global Holdings Ltd. and doesn’t
know what happened to an estimated $1.2 billion in missing
client funds.  “I’m not in a position, given the number of transactions,
to know anything specifically about the movement of any specific
funds,” Corzine said yesterday at a House Agriculture Committee
hearing in  Washington . “I certainly would never intend to
direct or have segregated funds moved.”  Under subpoena and under oath, the former Democratic
senator and  New Jersey  governor testified on  Capitol Hill  for 2
1/2 hours, repeatedly apologizing to investors, customers and
employees of the failed  New York  brokerage.  “I simply do not know where the money is, or why the
accounts have not been reconciled to date,” Corzine said. “I
apologize, both personally and on behalf of the company, to our
customers, our employees and our investors. I truly know that
they are bearing the brunt” of the collapse.  Corzine said he didn’t knowingly authorize any movement of
funds out of client accounts, and that any such transfers could
have been a misunderstanding or misinterpretation of his intent.  He said that on the evening of Oct. 30, the night before MF
Global filed what has become the eighth-largest U.S. bankruptcy,
he was informed of the shortfall in client accounts and told
employees, “We’ve got to fix this” and “We’ve got to find the
money.” He speculated that someone “could misinterpret” such
remarks.  Corzine didn’t once decline to answer a question or invoke
his Fifth Amendment right to remain silent.  James W. Giddens, the trustee overseeing the liquidation of
the firm, has estimated that $1.2 billion in client money is
missing. The Commodity Futures Trading Commission, Securities
and Exchange Commission and Justice Department are
investigating.  James Kobak, a lawyer for Giddens, testified at the
hearings yesterday that the trustee will pursue all “legally
available” assets, including those from individuals who may
have liability for breaking the rules requiring protection of
commodity customers’ accounts. He also said customers now have
no assurance of a 100 percent return of their assets because of
the money that is missing.  Also testifying at yesterday’s hearings was Jill Sommers, a
commissioner at the CFTC, who said that regulators are still
working to trace all the transactions and that some client funds
may be recovered.  “If there is any customer money that has been transferred
out of the accounts, that is part of what we are working
together to find, and that money will be clawed back to be
distributed back to customers,” Sommers, the commissioner
overseeing the agency’s investigation of MF Global, told the
committee.  For more, click here and here.  UBS, Citigroup May Be Penalized in  Japan  on Tibor Probe  UBS AG (UBS)  and  Citigroup Inc. (C)  may be penalized in Japan for
attempting to influence the  Tokyo  interbank offered rate, the
country’s securities watchdog said.  The  Securities and Exchange Surveillance Commission 
recommended that Japan’s Financial Services Agency punish the
local brokerage units of UBS and Citigroup, the watchdog said in
a statement in Tokyo today. Employees of the local operations
repeatedly asked bankers to change the rates they submit for
setting Tibor to gain an advantage, it said.  Citigroup, the third-biggest U.S. lender by assets, is part
of a global probe by regulators into whether some of the world’s
largest banks manipulated the  interest rates  at which they
borrowed from each other. In Japan, apart from the Tibor
inquiry, New York-based Citigroup is facing potential penalties
for compliance violations at its local banking unit.  Both Zurich-based UBS and Citigroup lacked internal
controls to deal with the employees’ actions, the commission
said today. It didn’t elaborate on the kinds of penalties
sought.  There is no evidence that the Tibor rate was manipulated
following the actions, an SESC official said at a news
conference today, speaking on condition of anonymity in
accordance with the organization’s policy.  Citigroup’s Japanese brokerage unit, Citigroup Global
Markets Japan Inc., “has started working diligently to address
the issues raised,” the company said in an e-mailed statement.  Eiko Noda, a Tokyo-based spokeswoman for UBS, wasn’t
immediately available to comment.  The U.S. Justice Department and the Securities and Exchange
Commission may be investigating whether banks colluded to
artificially reduce the London interbank offered rate, or Libor,
a person with knowledge of the inquiry said in March. The probe
came to light after UBS,  Switzerland ’s biggest bank, said it
received subpoenas from U.S. and Japanese regulators.  For more, click here.  Garrett Bauer Pleads Guilty to Trading on Stolen Merger Tips  Garrett Bauer, a New York stock trader, pleaded guilty to
his role in an  insider-trading  scheme that the U.S. says
generated $37 million in illegal profits by relying on corporate
merger tips stolen from four law firms.  Bauer, 44, joined middleman Kenneth T. Robinson and
attorney Matthew H. Kluger in using nonpublic data to trade
ahead of more than 30 corporate transactions over 17 years, he
admitted in federal court in  Newark , New Jersey. Robinson, who
cooperated with prosecutors, pleaded guilty in April.  In charging the men in April, prosecutors said the scheme
involved companies such as Sun Microsystems Inc., 3Com Corp. and
Acxiom Corp. They said Bauer made more than $30 million on the
scheme, while Robinson earned more than $875,000 and Kluger more
than $500,000.  Bauer pleaded guilty to  securities fraud , conspiracy to
commit securities fraud, conspiracy to commit  money laundering ,
and obstruction of justice. He faces as long as 20 years in
prison on the fraud and obstruction counts when he’s sentenced
March 13. He forfeited cash and property worth more than $23
million.  Bauer, who is free on $4 million bail, regrets his actions
and has been giving lectures to students and traders about
insider trading, said,  Michael Bachner , his attorney.  Bauer forfeited about $20 million in bank accounts and
trading accounts, as well as a $6.65 million condominium on the
Upper East Side of Manhattan and an $875,000 home in  Boca Raton ,
 Florida . Assistant U.S. Attorney Matthew Beck said the
properties had liens on them.  Kluger is in plea negotiations with the U.S. Attorney’s
Office in Newark, according to a Sept. 30 court filing.  Robinson, a mortgage broker who secretly recorded Bauer and
Kluger for the  Federal Bureau of Investigation , is cooperating
with federal investigators, U.S. Attorney Paul Fishman said
after his plea hearing.  The cases are U.S. v. Bauer, 11-mj-03536, and U.S. v.
Robinson, 11-cr-00223, U.S. District Court, District of New
Jersey (Newark).  For more, click here.  ‘Oddball’ Hedge-Fund Friend Chose Stocks, Sidhu Tells Court  Rupinder Sidhu, who is accused of insider trading, said he
had no idea stock tips from his “eccentric” friend at hedge
fund AKO Capital LLP were based on confidential information.  Prosecutors allege AKO trader Anjam Ahmad told Sidhu when
the fund was about to place large buy or sell orders so Sidhu
could benefit from the effect on the shares. The pair split
profits of about 500,000 pounds ($783,500) from spread bets on
companies including Julius Baer Group Ltd.,  Swatch Group AG (UHR)  and
 Michael Page International Plc (MPI)  between June and August 2009, the
U.K. Financial Services Authority said in a London trial.  “I didn’t know about any AKO orders,” Sidhu testified
yesterday. “I was basing my trades on Ahmad’s decisions and his
rationale.”  Sidhu denies 23 counts of insider trading and one money-
laundering charge for which he’s on trial. The 40-year-old
 management consultant  from Osterley, West London, admitted
contacting Ahmad using unregistered mobile phones and instant-
messaging accounts under false names to discuss trades. In one
MSN Messenger conversation, they made a coded reference to a
potential purchase as a “party.”  For more, click here.  France Telecom  Loses EU Court Appeal Over $1.37 Billion Aid  France Telecom SA (FTE) ,  France ’s largest phone company, lost an
appeal at the European Union’s highest court against an EU order
that forced it to pay about 1.02 billion euros ($1.37 billion)
in back taxes to the French government.  The EU regulator’s “decision finding that that aid existed
and ordering its recovery is valid,” the  EU Court of Justice  in
Luxembourg said in a ruling yesterday. It upheld a lower EU
court’s ruling in 2009 “that the special tax regime to which
France Telecom was subject constituted state aid.”  The European Commission, which checks whether government
aid distorts competition, had probed France’s support for the
phone company when it was close to bankruptcy in 2002. It
decided that France Telecom received improper tax benefits from
1994 through 2004. A lower EU court in 2009 sided with the
regulator.  The Brussels-based commission won a separate case at the EU
high court in 2007 over France’s failure to recoup the tax
breaks. The court in that case rejected France’s arguments that
the commission should have given a more precise figure when it
ruled in 2004 that France Telecom must pay back as much as 1.1
billion euros, plus interest.  “We take note of the decision, which has no financial
consequences for the group because the full amount was paid to
the French state at the beginning of 2010,” Sebastien Audra, a
Paris-based spokesman for France Telecom, said by phone
yesterday.  The commission’s probe focused on the French state’s role
in supporting France Telecom at the end of 2002. When the
commission started investigating whether the promise of loans to
France Telecom constituted state aid, it also opened a probe
into whether the company benefited from unfair tax breaks.  The tax system dates back to a French law from 1990 when
the company, which was formerly part of a government department,
was set up.  The case is: C-81/10 P, France Telecom v. European
Commission.  Compliance Policy  Euro Leaders’ Reach Fiscal Union Accord, Next Step to ECB  European leaders reached a preliminary accord to solve the
debt crisis after all-night talks in Brussels.  Nineteen months since euro leaders forged their first plan
to contain the debt turmoil, the fifth comprehensive effort
added 200 billion euros ($267 billion) to the warchest and
tightened rules to curb future debts. They sped the start of a
500 billion-euro rescue fund to next year and diluted a demand
that bondholders shoulder losses in rescues.  “By beginning a fiscal union we’ve taken good steps
forward,” German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  told reporters. “We
are very pleased with the result.”  The blueprint for a closer fiscal union to save their
single currency left the onus on central bankers to address
investor concerns that  Italy  and  Spain  would succumb to the two-
year-old financial crisis.  While European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  hailed
the accord struck at all-night talks in Brussels, investors
urged him to expand his crisis-fighting arsenal to ensure debt-
addled nations can pay their bills. Italian and Spanish bonds
fell even as the ECB was said to be buying them in the market.  “The leaders have now defined the end point they want to
reach in terms of fiscal governance, but it’s a long way to go
there,”  Thomas Mayer , London-based chief economist at  Deutsche
Bank AG (DBK) , told Bloomberg Television. “We’ll probably see more
near-term tension and that will probably then trigger a more
hands-on intervention by the ECB.”  Draghi praised a “very good outcome” a day after he
damped expectations that a deal would prompt the ECB to step up
its bond-buying after so far spending $207 billion.  His concern is doing so would muddy the divide between
monetary and fiscal policies, while lessening pressure on
governments to strengthen budgets. The ECB is instead focused on
reviving bank lending and yesterday cut interest rates, offered
banks unlimited cash for three years and loosened collateral
rules for loans.  EU leaders resume talks later today.  For more on  Europe ’s debt crisis, see EXT4.  EU Banks Must Raise $153 Billion of Extra Capital, EBA Says  European Union banks must raise 114.7 billion euros ($152.8
billion) in fresh capital as part of measures introduced to
respond to the euro area’s sovereign-debt crisis.  German banks need to raise an additional 13.1 billion
euros, Italian banks 15.4 billion euros, and Spanish lenders
26.2 billion euros in core tier 1 capital, the  European Banking
Authority  in London said. The capital shortfalls include 15.3
billion euros for Spain’s  Banco Santander SA (SAN)  and 7.97 billion
euros for Italy’s  UniCredit SpA. (UCG)   European leaders are demanding the region’s banks bolster
capital to withstand writedowns after they agreed to take losses
on Greek bonds. The EBA estimated two months ago that the
region’s financial institutions needed 106 billion euros to
increase their core Tier 1 capital to a target of 9 percent of
risk-weighted assets by mid-2012, after marking their sovereign
bonds to match market prices.  For more, click here.  U.S. Stance on Climate Deal Draws Barbs From EU to  Barbados   President  Barack Obama ’s position that dangerous global
warming can be avoided without deeper cuts in fossil-fuel
emissions before 2020 has prompted a backlash in countries from
 Norway  to Barbados.  There are “multiple pathways” to prevent temperatures
from rising 2 degrees Celsius (3.6 degrees Fahrenheit) without
countries strengthening pledges to reduce  greenhouse gases  by
2020,  Jonathan Pershing , the U.S. climate envoy, said at United
Nations climate talks last week.  “It’s a very risky assumption, too risky,” Norway’s top
 climate change  envoy, Henrik Harboe, said in an interview. “We
know we are far below the recommendations of science.”  The question of when the world acts to contain global
warming is at the heart of the talks in Durban,  South Africa ,
where delegates from more than 190 nations are working on how to
take the next steps in curbing emissions after the limits
outlined in the  Kyoto Protocol  expire next year.  Pressure on the Obama administration to ease its position
on a new climate deal before 2020 was underscored earlier
yesterday when a U.S. student disrupted a high-level plenary
session in Durban as Stern was starting to speak.  “The Obama administration is feeling the heat,” Lou
Leonard, director of WWF’s climate change program, based in
Washington, said in an interview from Durban.  U.S. Special Envoy on Climate Change Todd Stern later
rejected suggestions that the nation’s position means it wants
to postpone action on climate change, noting his support for
measures agreed in the past two years that require more
countries to pledge emissions cuts.  “There is a misconception about the U.S. wanting to delay
action on climate change,” he told reporters in Durban. “It’s
completely off base to suggest that the U.S. is proposing we
delay action until 2020.”  For more, click here.  Congress  U.S. Senate Republicans Block Cordray for Consumer Bureau  Republicans in the U.S. Senate yesterday blocked the
nomination of Richard Cordray as the first director of the
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau. The vote, on a motion to
end debate, was 53-45, with 60 votes required to move the
nomination ahead.  In a televised statement after the vote, President Barack
Obama insisted his administration would continue its efforts to
get Cordray, a former Ohio attorney general, into the job.  Asked whether he was contemplating a recess appointment,
Obama told reporters he “won’t take any options off the
table.”  So far, Republicans have prevented Obama from making recess
appointments by holding short sessions, just a few minutes each,
during vacation periods. A recess appointment allows a president
to put people temporarily in posts that normally would require
Senate confirmation by naming them when Congress has formally
adjourned.  After the vote, the Senate’s third-ranking Democrat called
on Obama to use “all possible means” to get Cordray, now the
bureau’s top enforcement official, into the director post.  “He should do everything within his power to get Cordray
on board,” Senator  Charles Schumer  of New York told reporters.  Senate Democrats  and the White House had pressed for the
vote, even though it was clear that Republicans had enough votes
to block the motion to end debate.  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ellen Rosen  in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 