-- 
China, U.S., India Hold Up Agreement at UN Global Warming Talks in Durban

-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s ,   K i m   C h i p m a n   a n d   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 
2011-12-09T18:29:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/biggest-polluters-hold-up-agreement-at-un-global-warming-talks.html
China , the U.S. and India, the three
biggest polluters, maintained resistance to a time line leading
to the next agreement on global warming, threatening efforts to
keep alive the only limits on fossil fuel emissions.  European Union Climate Commissioner  Connie Hedegaard  said
she hasn’t yet won backing for her demand for a “road map”
pointing to the next climate agreement because some nations are
holding back support. She indicated that China and India
remained a block. Last night, the U.S. said it won’t agree to
begin talks for a legally-binding deal.  “The responsibility lies very, very heavily on the
shoulders of those big ones that are not giving in,” Hedegaard
said at a news conference in Durban, South Africa. “I’m
concerned about the pace. There isn’t much time left. If there
is no further movement from what I have seen at four o’clock in
the morning, there will be no deal.”  Two weeks of climate talks led by the  United Nations  are
due to end today. Divisions are deepening between envoys from
more than 190 countries about how to limit fossil-fuel emissions
after restrictions in the  Kyoto Protocol  expire next year.  ‘Crunch Now’  “The crunch now is between two powerful coalitions -- the
U.S., China and India pushing for nothing to be decided until
after 2020, and the EU, the islands and Least Developed
Countries on the other pushing for a Durban legal mandate to
kick off treaty negotiations right away,” said Mark Lynas,
climate change adviser to Maldivian President Mohamed Nasheed.
“Postponing action for another decade would fatally undermine
the credibility of the entire UN process.”  The talks are in a “big crisis” because of opposition by
the biggest emitters, said Martin Kaiser, head of international
climate politics at the environmental group Greenpeace. “It’s
now a big, big task to prevent a crash of the conference by the
end of today.”  South Africa, which is mediating the talks, called an
impromptu meeting of ministers and senior negotiators tonight as
talks stalled over when to begin negotiations for a new accord
and whether an agreement should be legally binding.  The EU today rejected the host country’s proposal for a
negotiating timeline leading to a new “legal framework” after
2020. Small  developing countries  also oppose the language
because it delays action, according to Kevin Conrad, head of
 Papua New Guinea ’s delegation in Durban.  ‘Vague’ Language  The proposal’s reference to a potential treaty’s legal form
and post-2020 timeframe are “very, very vague” and show a
“clear collusion” of China, the U.S. and India, Conrad said in
an interview today.  A U.S. spokeswoman declined to comment on the proposal.
India’s lead negotiator, J.M. Mauskar, said in an interview:
“It is wrong to say India is inflexible.” He declined to
comment further. China’s negotiator Xie Zhenhua says the top
priority of the Durban talks is extending Kyoto, according to
Xinhua News Agency.  Xie said China has a “flexible and open attitude to
discuss a process for post-2020 arrangements acceptable to all
parties,” Xinhua reported. China’s press office didn’t
immediately respond to a Bloomberg News request for comment.  Road Map  The EU says it won’t commit to new Kyoto targets after 2012
without agreement on a road map pointing toward a new treaty
that would bind all nations. That would require support from
China and India, which had no goals under Kyoto. The EU
yesterday won support from its plan from 120 nations including
islands in the  Pacific Ocean  and the poorest countries.  The U.S., which never ratified Kyoto, says it won’t agree
to start negotiating a new treaty at this time because China,
India and other big developing economies aren’t willing to take
on legally binding commitments.  The dispute may poison the talks enough that negotiations
collapse, said  Alden Meyer , who has been following global
environment meetings for more than two decades for the Union of
Concerned Scientists.  “If you have a breakdown of trust, what will the political
ramifications of that be?” Meyer said in an interview. “There
will be extreme anger from a broader range of developing
countries that developed countries are backing out of the
legally binding framework. What will the reaction be to that
anger? Will they bring down the whole house of cards? We don’t
know. Stay tuned.”  Rising Pollution  Greenhouse gases hit a record last year, and scientists at
the conference warned that current pledges leave the world on
course for the biggest temperature increases by 2100 since the
last ice age ended. Developing nations said they’re upset the
industrial nations haven’t already extended Kyoto pledges.  “The climate change effects we’re experiencing in  Lesotho 
and other countries are a matter of life or death because we
don’t have the safety nets that the developed world has,”
Manete Ramaili, the southern African nation’s environment
minister, said in an interview. “We have to have binding
targets. It’s a must.”  Envoys in Durban also working to set up a Green Climate
Fund that would channel a portion of the $100 billion in climate
aid that developed countries have pledged to mobilize by 2020.  “Parties want the Green Climate Fund to be launched in
here,” said Maite Nkoana-Mashabane, the South African foreign
minister who is presiding over the meeting.  Crisis and Quake  With  Japan  recovering from an earthquake and European Union
leaders meeting today in Brussels to save their common currency,
this year’s climate talks have sidestepped increasing current
pledges to reduce emissions that the  International Energy Agency 
says are insufficient to contain the rise in temperatures to 2
degrees Celsius (3.6 degrees Fahrenheit) since pre-industrial
times, a key goal of the negotiations.  While Kyoto set emissions caps for industrial nations, it
included only voluntary measures for developing nations such as
China and  India , which have become two of the three biggest
polluters since the treaty was negotiated in 1997.  Europe  isn’t going to weaken its positon, said U.K.
Secretary of State for Environment and Climate Change  Chris Huhne .  “We’re reaching the point where a number of delegations
have got to decide if they want to get a treaty with real
environmental integrity,” Huhne said today. “I expect that
this will go on, and it may go on through the night, and we will
stand firm for a treaty that actually delivers the goods in
reducing  carbon emissions .”  Tosi Mpanu Mpanu, an envoy from  Democratic Republic  of
Congo who speaks for African nations at the talks, said at a
news conference that it’s “do or die” for the talks.  “If there’s no deal it means we won’t do what’s right for
the planet,” he said. “We’ll be punished by countries that can
actually afford to wait.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Morales in Durban,  South Africa  at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net ;
Kim Chipman in Durban, South Africa at 
 kchipman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  