-- 
Military Detention of All Terror Suspects Deserves a Veto: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-12-09T00:00:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/bill-with-military-detention-of-all-terror-suspects-deserves-a-veto-view.html
Vetoing a defense budget bill at a
time of war might be tantamount to political suicide. Yet U.S.
President  Barack Obama  may have no choice.  The trouble stems from provisions regarding the detainment
of suspected terrorists that were inserted into the National
Defense Authorization Act by Senators  Carl Levin , Democrat of
 Michigan , and  John McCain , Republican of  Arizona . The  bill 
passed the Senate overwhelmingly on Dec. 1 and is now in
conference committee to be reconciled with the  House version .
The White House has threatened to reject the entire bill if the
Senate language is retained.  The intention of the detainee measures is a good one: to
provide clear congressional oversight of a process that has been
ad-hoc since the fight against global jihadists began after the
Sept. 11 attacks. However, neither version of the bill truly
establishes a cohesive legal framework for holding detainees and
instead basically maintains the status quo. The main change
enshrined in the Senate language is a bad one: It gives the
Pentagon full responsibility for holding suspected terrorists.  The  Justice Department  would be able to apply for a waiver
to detain and prosecute an individual. But it boggles the mind
to think that a fast-moving investigation with national security
implications might be held hostage to bureaucratic maneuvering.
Would we really want FBI agents, having apprehended someone
committing a terrorist act in the U.S., to have to wait on a
federal waiver before they could start questioning the suspect?  Other countries may also be hesitant to turn over suspects
to U.S. authorities knowing that they would be put in military
rather than civilian custody. For those reasons, Secretary of
Defense  Leon Panetta  and FBI Director Robert S. Mueller III both
 oppose  the Senate’s provisions.  Congress would keep the nation safer by sticking to the
House language on detainees, which would still require the
Justice Department to consult with the Secretary of Defense and
Director of National Intelligence to determine whether a suspect
should be held by civilian or military authorities.  The House version does have one egregious passage that
ideally would be stripped out in the reconciliation process: A
ban on federal court trials for any foreign national whose
alleged offense could be subject to a military commission.
Flexibility should be preserved for circumstances in which
national security would be better served through civilian
justice.  Both versions of the bill would make it harder for the
president to transfer detainees from the camp at the U.S. naval
base in Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, to other countries or a location
within the U.S. This is unfortunate; we would like to see
President Obama close the camp, as he pledged during the 2008
campaign. But it is a political reality that no member of
Congress has the stomach to allow the detainees to be housed in
his or her district or state. Gitmo isn’t shutting down any time
soon.  Both bills would reaffirm the government’s ability to
detain suspects more or less indefinitely. Objections from civil
libertarians are understandable but not persuasive. This war has
spread far from the battlefields of  Afghanistan , and its open-
ended nature requires long-term detention.  We would prefer Congress offer a more concrete outline of
its preferred legal regime, and that it consider creating a
National Security Court that would operate in the gray area
between civilian and military law. However, the only
disqualifying measure under debate now is the Senate’s mandate
on military detainment. That would be a setback to national
security. If the conference committee doesn’t remove it, Obama
should pick up his veto pen.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 