-- 
Blackstone’s Biggest Investment Shows Clients’ Clout

-- B y   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e   a n d   S a b r i n a   W i l l m e r
-- 
2011-12-09T16:05:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/blackstone-s-biggest-investment-shows-buyout-clients-new-clout.html
(Corrects Grady’s quotes in fourth and fifth paragraphs,
and clarifies that the management fee is on invested capital in
11th paragraph of story published Dec. 8.)  Blackstone Group LP (BX)  won as much as
$1.8 billion in state pension money from  New Jersey , the most an
investor has committed to the firm at one time since it opened
its first buyout fund in 1987. Its client won lower fees.  The state will put up to $1.5 billion into four new custom
funds called separately managed accounts, according to terms
approved today by the New Jersey State Investment Council. The
remaining $300 million will go to three existing funds run by
Blackstone, the world’s biggest private-equity firm.  Big private-equity investors are turning to separately
managed accounts, or SMAs, to obtain cheaper fees and more
control in exchange for locking up their money for a decade or
more. Last month, the Teacher Retirement System of Texas
committed $3 billion apiece to  KKR & Co. (KKR)  and Apollo Global
Management LLC.  The deal with New York-based Blackstone will save New
Jersey about $120 million in fees over the life of the agreement
and “enable us to be more nimble, more flexible, but still take
advantage of a terrific partnership with a world-class
organization,” said Robert E. Grady, chairman of the New Jersey
Investment Council, which approved the commitments at a public
meeting today in Trenton.  “It allows us to take advantage of Blackstone’s feet on
the street,” Grady said in an interview.  Blackstone is New Jersey’s largest alternative-asset
manager, the investment division said today. The state pledged
$2.5 billion to the firm in the past 12 months, according to a
report by the council.  Separate Accounts  Under the agreement, as much as $1 billion will go to two
separate accounts focused on buyouts and real assets. The rest
will be allotted to custom energy and credit funds run by GSO
Capital Partners, Blackstone’s credit-investment unit, with the
total not exceeding $1.5 billion.  New Jersey also will invest in three funds open to the
firm’s other clients: $150 million in Blackstone Energy Partners
I, $100 million in GSO Special Situations and $50 million in
 Blackstone Capital Partners VI .  The New Jersey Division of Investment oversaw $69.6 billion
as of Oct. 31, including the assets of seven retirement systems
providing benefits for more than 780,000 current and future
retirees.  The investment council voted 7-2 to approve the commitment.  Under the agreement, Blackstone will receive 1 percent of
the invested separately managed cash annually as a management
fee and an average of 15 percent of the profits from successful
investments, according to a report by the council. That’s lower
than the industry’s traditional “2 and 20” structure that pays
a 2 percent management fee and 20 percent of profits, a fee
known as carry.  ‘Cowboy Investing’  Blackstone will collect a carry of 20 percent and
management fees ranging from 0.75 percent to 1.5 percent from
the three open funds.  James Marketti, a council member representing the
 Communications Workers of America  labor union, opposed the deal.  “I call this cowboy investing and I’m not sure as
institutional investors that we should be in this kind of
program,” Marketti said at today’s hearing before the vote. He
called the deal “an effort to circumvent the responsibilities”
of the investment council.  Grady, the chairman, said the agreement will allow council
members to opt out of any investment “that they don’t think is
appropriate for the state or doesn’t reflect their values at any
given moment or that they don’t think is a good opportunity.”  Texas-KKR Deal  The way the biggest private-equity firms are courting
investors represents a shift that began when the global market
plunge of 2008 slowed fundraising. Now institutions such as
 Texas Teachers , which oversees $107 billion, can bargain for
lower management fees and greater investment options.  The  Texas  pension cash that went to KKR and Apollo will be
placed in separate accounts at each firm, and the pension system
will share ideas with the buyout managers. Texas Teachers agreed
to allow the firms to reinvest a portion of Texas’s profits back
into the funds. KKR took almost a year to agree to the terms of
the commitment.  Blackstone passed on the fundraising deal with Texas
Teachers because “it didn’t make much sense” for the firm’s
plans, Chief Executive Officer  Stephen Schwarzman  said last
week.  “Groups like Texas and others are flexing their
purchasing-power muscle,” said Brian Birk, managing partner at
Sun Mountain Capital, a  Santa Fe , New Mexico-based firm that
helps institutions such as pension plans invest in private
equity. “There is a lot of concern in the LP community that GPs
are making a very nice living off of fees, so this type of
structure is a better way of aligning interests.”  TPG, Carlyle  LPs, or limited partners, are the pensions, endowments and
other investors in funds run by general partners, known as GPs.  TPG Capital and  Carlyle Group  are among private-equity
firms that have either set up separate accounts or are in the
process of doing so.  For buyout funds with at least $2.5 billion that are
gathering money now or that completed fundraising in 2010 and
2011, the average management fee is 1.58 percent, according to
London-based researcher Preqin Ltd. While reduced fees from
separately managed accounts may erode profits at private-equity
firms, they may have little choice if forgoing SMAs means losing
business to competitors.  “It’s unclear whether these large LPs would give money to
GPs if they didn’t offer separate accounts,” said Steven Nadel,
a partner in the investment management group at Seward & Kissel
LLP in  New York . “It’s kind of like having a choice between
making money and paying taxes or not making money.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Devin Banerjee in New York at 
 dbanerjee2@bloomberg.net ;
Sabrina Willmer in New York at 
 swillmer2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  