-- 
Blind Horses, Dogs Cheat Euthanizers, Find Sweet Life on Farm

-- B y   M i k e   D i   P a o l a
-- 
2011-12-10T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/blind-horses-dogs-cheat-euthanizers-find-sweet-life-on-farm-commentary.html
The Great North Woods were ablaze
with color when I visited the  Rolling Dog Farm  in Lancaster,  New
Hampshire . Too bad most of its horses and dogs are blind.  When I first heard of a sanctuary for disabled animals, I
wondered whether it crossed a line, going beyond compassion. The
animals, rescued from shelters all around the U.S., are blind or
deaf or have orthopedic and neurological problems.  “Many times, the day an animal arrives here is the same
day it was supposed to be euthanized,” said Alayne Marker, who
co-founded Rolling Dog with her husband,  Steve Smith .  Part of me was thinking that ending an animal’s suffering
might be more humane. Such thoughts are erased within a minute
of meeting the animals. For one thing, there is no discernible
suffering.  In the paddock, six horses are munching on apples fallen
from trees outside the fence. When we enter, the braver ones
amble over with an odd gait, heads turned slightly sideways, as
they tend to lead with their ears.  “People think of a 1,000-pound animal that can’t see as a
train wreck waiting to happen,” Smith says. “With most horses,
if you give them enough time in a safe environment, they can
adapt to blindness and have a wonderful quality of life, as you
can see.”  I can see. The horses may not fully appreciate their
idyllic setting, but they seem happy -- and very healthy.  Lena the Mentor  Lena is a pure-bred registered quarter-horse who went blind
from what sounds like abuse. Her trainer had tried to correct
her propensity to rear up by making her tip over, conditioning
her to associate rearing with falling. Repeated blows to her
head during this “training” destroyed her optic nerve.  Lena is now a mentor to younger newcomers, teaching them
social skills essential for members of a herd. “The blind
leading the blind” is a standard joke here.  Marker and Smith founded the Rolling Dog Ranch Animal
Sanctuary in  Montana  in 2000, and moved the operation to New
Hampshire last year, changing “ranch” to “farm” to reflect
regional nomenclature. Compared with Montana’s vast spaces, the
New England site is much closer to essential services, such as
vets and grocery stores, saving time and fuel.  They have 7 horses and about 30 dogs on their 132-acre
farm, plus one full-time staffer to help with the endless
chores. Last year their operating costs ran about $500,000, all
raised through donations. Most of the animals are up for
adoption via Petfinder.com, and the farmers spread the word
through their website, Facebook and a quarterly newsletter.  Future Food  Other residents include some barn cats, a brood of laying
hens and 20 Holsteins that graze placidly on the verdant
hillside behind the house. The cattle aren’t pampered pets,
however, but future food for the dogs.  The Holsteins were purchased from a local dairy farmer who
had no use for bull calves. Smith and Marker rescued the
animals, which would have otherwise had a short and cramped
existence before being processed as veal. Instead, they are
raised with tender care in an open paddock overlooking the White
Mountains. They are even given names.  “Our view is, what’s the alternative?” Smith says.
“What’s better than raising them yourself and knowing exactly
how they were treated, that you did everything possible to give
them as humane a life as possible?”  Smith and Marker say the most misunderstood animals here
are the ones that are both blind and deaf. Most people can’t
imagine that a life in darkness and silence can be worth living,
so they are difficult to get adopted.  Tracy and Hepburn  I meet Spencer and Katie, an inseparable pair of lively
deaf and blind dachshunds, but I don’t think I would have been
aware of either disability if I hadn’t been told. They seem
happy, and why not? With a diet of grass-fed beef and fresh
eggs, they’re eating better than most Americans.  “We always tell people, just give them a chance, all they
want to be is a dog or a horse and just get on with life, and
love and be loved,” says Marker. “That’s really what it’s all
about, and we give them that chance here.”  (Mike  Di Paola  writes on preservation and the environment
for Muse, the arts and culture section of Bloomberg News. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Mike Di Paola at  mdipaola@nyc.rr.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New York  at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 