-- 
Web Security Firm Blue Coat Will Be Bought by Thoma Bravo for $1.3 Billion

-- B y   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e   a n d   C e c i l e   D a u r a t
-- 
2011-12-09T21:28:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/blue-coat-systems-to-be-bought-by-thoma-bravo-for-1-3-billion.html
Blue Coat Systems Inc. (BCSI) , a maker of
Internet-security software, agreed to be bought by an investor
group led by led by Thoma Bravo LLC for about $1.3 billion.  Stockholders will receive $25.81 in cash for each share,
Sunnyvale, California-based Blue Coat said today in a statement.
That’s a premium of 48 percent over yesterday’s closing price
and 52 percent over the 20-day trailing average price before
today.  The deal is the fourth-largest Internet-security
acquisition since December 2006, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The average premium of 120 U.S. Internet-security
companies acquired since then was 24 percent, the largest being
McAfee Inc.’s $7.7 billion sale to  Intel Corp . last year, the
data show. Blue Coat is Thoma Bravo’s fifth security-technology
investment, the firms said in the statement.  “This is a terrific outcome for shareholders,” Jesse Cohn, a portfolio manager at Elliott Management Corp., wrote in
an e-mail. The New York-based hedge fund owns 13 percent of the
company, he said. “Blue Coat has leading technology in good
markets, and we are pleased this compelling value was
recognized.”  Blue Coat rose 44 percent to close at $25.11 in  New York ,
the biggest increase in 10 years. The shares fell 41 percent
this year before today.  ‘Ill Patient’  Founded in 1996, the firm makes software that it says
increases Web security and runs faster video applications. The
company has struggled this year to maintain sales. In August, it
replaced then-CEO Michael Borman with Gregory Clark after
reporting an 81 percent drop in first-quarter profit from a year
before.  “It was clear over 18 months that the product
inefficiencies and lack of execution in the field at Blue Coat
were not fixable without an outsider doing a serious operation
on this ill patient,”  Daniel Ives , an analyst at FBR Capital
Markets & Co. in New York, wrote in a note to clients today.
“In a very competitive security landscape we believe today’s
deal was the right move at the right time.”  The group of buyers, which included the  Ontario Teachers’
Pension Plan , made the agreement a day after International
Business Machines Corp. said it will buy the Web analytics
company DemandTec Inc. for $440 million. On Dec. 3, SAP AG
agreed to buy SuccessFactors Inc. for $3.4 billion in cash to
boost its Internet-computing, or so-called cloud, offerings.  Software Focus  “Our partnership with Thoma Bravo will assist Blue Coat in
more aggressively realizing the opportunities in its two
markets, by providing a platform that enables greater focus,” Clark, the CEO, said in the statement.  Thoma Bravo, a private-equity firm with offices in  Chicago 
and  San Francisco , focuses on software and business-services
investments, according to its  website . Those have included
Datatel Inc., maker of software for university administrations;
VECTORsgi Inc., maker of e-commerce software; and Prophet21
Inc., maker of software for durable-goods distribution
companies.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  advised Blue Coat and Jefferies
Group Inc. advised Thoma Bravo. Thoma Bravo also received
financing commitments from Jefferies Finance LLC. The
transaction is expected to be completed before April 2012.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Devin Banerjee in New York at 
 dbanerjee2@bloomberg.net ;
Cecile Daurat in Wilmington at 
 cdaurat@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  