-- 
BNP Paribas Sold $2 Billion French Swap, EBA Says

-- B y   A b i g a i l   M o s e s
-- 
2011-12-09T17:34:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/bnp-paribas-sold-2-billion-swap-protection-on-france-eba-says.html
(Corrects amounts in second paragraph.)  BNP Paribas SA (BNP) , France’s biggest
bank, sold a net 1.5 billion euros ($2 billion) of credit-
default swaps on the nation’s sovereign debt, according to data
compiled by the European Banking Authority.  UniCredit SpA (UCG) , Italy’s biggest lender, and  Banca Monte dei
Paschi SpA (BMPS)  are net insurers of more than 500 million euros each
of their government’s bonds, and  Oesterreichische Volksbanken
AG (VBPS) , the Austrian lender which has yet to pay interest on 1
billion euros of state aid received in 2009, has guaranteed a
net 839 million euros of its national debt,  EBA data show .  European leaders have blamed credit-default swaps for
exacerbating the region’s debt crisis and have gone out of their
way to prevent a payout of insurance on any euro area country.
The European Union is moving closer to banning the use of
derivatives on  government bonds  for any reason other than
hedging risk.  “Some of this is trading rather than pure hedging,” said
Gary Jenkins, head of fixed income at Evolution Securities Ltd.
in London. “If European counties the size of France or Italy
actually defaulted and triggered CDS, there would be total
carnage and meltdown. It would be the end of the world, and at
that stage it’s likely your counterparty would be the least of
your worries.”  Banco Santander SA and Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA,
Spain’s biggest lenders, have no net exposure through credit-
default swaps to their government, EBA data show.  Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange
for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
borrower fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Abigail Moses in  London  at 
 Amoses5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  