-- 
Republicans Unveil Bill to Extend Payroll Tax Cut Next Year

-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n   a n d   S t e v e n   S l o a n
-- 
2011-12-10T05:01:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/boehner-releases-legislation-to-extend-payroll-tax-cut-for-2012.html
House Republicans  prepared for
clashes with Democrats by introducing a $202.4 billion bill that
would extend a  payroll tax  cut for 2012, change the  unemployment
benefits  program and expedite a Canadian oil pipeline.  The bill introduced yesterday, which could pass the House
as early as Dec. 13, also would extend full write-offs for
capital investments through 2012 and postpone scheduled cuts to
physician reimbursements from Medicare for two years. It would
cover the cost with $203.4 billion in policy changes, including
extending a pay freeze for civilian  federal employees , selling
portions of the wireless spectrum and limiting tax credits that
can be claimed by illegal immigrants.  “This package includes many of the president’s own
ideas,” said Representative  Dave Camp , a Michigan Republican
who heads the House Ways and Means Committee, in a statement.
“With its passage, Americans can be confident that these
programs and provisions will be available next year, that they
will not result in decades of debt and that they will be paid
for with fiscally responsible reforms, not job-killing tax
hikes.”  Democrats dismissed the bill as a partisan exercise,
calling into question what sort of year-end legislative package
can be cobbled together to gain enough support in the
Republican-led House and the Democrat-controlled Senate.  No ‘Shot’  “What we are doing here is pointless because it isn’t
going to pass the Senate,” House Democratic leader  Nancy Pelosi , a California Democrat, told reporters yesterday. “Their
proposal doesn’t have a shot.”  Jay Carney , the White House press secretary, said
Republican decisions to add “extraneous” provisions or
“refight old ideological battles” were wrongheaded.  “This shouldn’t be about scoring political points against
the president,” he said. “It’s not about him. This should be
about cutting taxes for the middle class.”  Lawmakers said they aren’t sure how Congress will resolve
their differences before the payroll  tax cut  expires Dec. 31.  “It’s a classic moment of this session of Congress, which
is that both parties are for something and we can’t figure out
how to get it done,” Senator  Joseph Lieberman , a Connecticut
independent, said Dec. 8.  If Congress doesn’t act, the 2 percentage point reduction
in the  payroll tax  for employees will expire Dec. 31, and
employees will pay 6.2 percent of their first $110,100 in wages
for 2012, up from 4.2 percent this year. President  Barack Obama 
has been urging Congress to extend and expand the tax cut. He
also wants lawmakers to vote by the end of the year to continue
expanded unemployment benefits.  Reducing Benefits  The Republican bill includes changes to the way the
unemployment compensation system works. It would “gradually
reduce” maximum benefits from 99 weeks to 59 weeks. The bill
also would require recipients of unemployment benefits to be
actively looking for work or trying to get a high-school
diploma. Under the bill, states could require drug tests as a
condition of receiving benefits.  Republicans are emphasizing their decision to use the
payroll tax issue to expedite  TransCanada Corp. (TRP) ’s Keystone XL
pipeline that would link  Canada ’s oil sands with Texas
refineries. The bill would require a decision on the issue
within 60 days. The Obama administration has pushed back the
issuance of a permit to 2013, a move that Republicans criticize
because the decision would be made after the 2012 election.  Pipeline Issue  TransCanada agreed to develop a new route in cooperation
with officials in  Nebraska  who had opposed the initial plans.  The State Department said on Nov. 10 that it wanted to
study a rerouting so that the pipeline wouldn’t cross the
Sandhills region of Nebraska, which is above an aquifer
supplying drinking water to 1.5 million people.  Obama has said he would reject a bill with pipeline
provisions, and Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  said in a
statement that including such language is wasting time.  “With the middle class facing a huge tax increase on the
first of January, now is not the time to be debating unrelated
measures like an oil pipeline,” said Reid, a Nevada Democrat.  The House bill calls for $38 billion in savings by raising
the guarantee fees that government-owned mortgage giants  Fannie
Mae (FNMA)  and Freddie Mac charge to lenders. Senate Democrats have
supported that idea, along with a few other items in the bill,
such as a provision that would prevent people with annual income
exceeding $1 million from receiving  unemployment insurance .  Other Provisions  The bill also finds significant savings from provisions
affecting the federal workforce. Republicans said the bill would
save $26 billion by extending through 2013 the a freeze for
federal workers and $36 billion by revising the co-payment
structure for civilian federal retirees.  More savings would come from health-care changes. People
who receive subsidized insurance under the 2010 health care law
and then see their incomes rise would be required to repay the
government more money than under current law. High-income
Medicare recipients would be required to pay higher premiums.  The bill would require taxpayers to have a  Social Security 
number to claim a portion of the refundable  child tax credit ,
saving $9.4 billion. Republicans, citing reports from government
auditors, say the current rules allow illegal immigrants to
claim the credit.  Republicans also want to extend the federal welfare program
and prevent benefits from being accessed at automated teller
machines in strip clubs, liquor stores and casinos.  Boiler Standards  The legislation would require the Environmental Protection
Agency to delay new pollution standards for industrial boilers,
extending a deadline for five years for companies to comply.  The agency has said the rules would cut pollution of
mercury and soot. The regulations are set to be in place in
March, with the first restrictions taking effect two years
later.  The rule, which may require upgrades of pollution controls
at paper mills, chemical manufacturers and refineries, will cost
$1.5 billion a year, according to an EPA analysis. The House
passed a similar measure in October to delay the boiler
standard, a bill that the administration threatened to veto.  The bill is HR 3630.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net ;
Steven Sloan in Washington at 
 ssloan7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  