-- 
Boeing NLRB Complaint That Stoked Political Debate Is Withdrawn After Pact

-- B y   S u s a n n a   R a y   a n d   H o l l y   R o s e n k r a n t z
-- 
2011-12-09T21:31:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/boeing-labor-complaint-over-787-factory-is-withdrawn-by-nlrb-1-.html
The  National Labor Relations Board 
withdrew its complaint against  Boeing Co. (BA)  over the opening of a
787 Dreamliner plant in South Carolina, ending a case that
exacerbated business-government tensions.  Boeing and its Machinists union have begun a “new
relationship” with a contract approved this week that includes
promises for assembling a new jet in the Seattle area, Lafe Solomon, the NLRB’s acting general counsel, said today. He said
settling the U.S. charge had always been his preferred outcome.  “There is  job security  in the Washington area, there is
also job security in the North Charleston area,” Solomon said
on a conference call. “The case is now closed.”  The April 20 complaint, which charged Boeing with illegal
retaliation for union strikes, spurred demands in Congress to
dismantle the NLRB and spilled into the 2012 presidential
election. Even as the Obama administration welcomed today’s
move, some Republicans said they would still investigate and try
to rein in the board through legislation.  “The need for congressional action has never been more
urgent,” Representative  John Kline , a Minnesota Republican and
chairman of the House Education and Workforce Committee, said
today. “It is time for the Senate to stand up for our
workforce” with a bill to curb the board’s powers. A
Republican-backed measure to do so passed the House on Nov. 30.  Surprise Agreement  A surprise agreement last week on a new contract for
Boeing’s Machinists paved the way to end the complaint. The
terms include assurances that a revamped version of the 737 jet
will be built at a current Seattle-area plant, and union leaders
asked that the case be dropped after members ratified the plan
on Dec. 7.  “Glad people are going to be working,” President  Barack
Obama  said today outside the White House, responding to a
reporter’s question.  “Boeing is grateful for the overwhelming support we
received from across the country to vigorously contest this
complaint and support the legitimate rights of businesses to
make business decisions,” Tim Neale, a company spokesman in
Washington, D.C., said in a statement.  Boeing, based in  Chicago , rose 2.5 percent to $71.93 in New
York trading, the highest closing price since July 22. The
shares have gained 10 percent this year.  ‘Working Together’  “This is really about the two sides working together for
the future of aerospace in Washington state,” said Connie Kelliher, a Machinists spokeswoman in Seattle.  The union asked the NLRB to get involved after Boeing
decided in 2009 to build the 787 plant in  South Carolina , the
planemaker’s first new commercial-jet factory outside the Puget
Sound region where the company was founded. The NLRB based its
complaint on comments made by Boeing executives about the
company’s labor situation.  Boeing won’t have to build more Dreamliners in Everett,
Washington, to make up for work placed in South Carolina, as the
NLRB had demanded. Union leaders cited the new plant as a reason
to ratify the labor accord, saying they knew the company could
and would move work again if the relationship didn’t change.  Solomon said he felt the charge still had been successful
in promoting the  National Labor Relations Act , and that the
agency would continue to investigate union complaints of
employer retaliation for strikes.  “If faced with a similar pattern, we might well issue a
complaint,” Solomon said. “The NLRB does not initiate any
action on its own, we only react to charges filed.”  ‘Labor Stooges’  The Boeing plant’s location in South Carolina, site of a
pivotal Republican primary next month, thrust the labor
complaint into the party’s presidential-nominating battle.  Former Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney visited the
factory in September and said Obama had put “labor stooges on
the NLRB to pursue a political pay-back strategy.” Former House
Speaker  Newt Gingrich  said today that the outcome is a victory
for all 22 states, including South Carolina, that have so-called
right-to-work laws letting employees opt out of joining a union.  “The American people will not be dictated to by out-of-
control bureaucrats in  Washington ,” Gingrich said.  Republican support for letting businesses relocate jobs in
response to strikes amounts to “signing the death warrant for
the NLRB,” said  Nelson Lichtenstein , a labor professor at
 University of California ,  Santa Barbara .  While the board’s complaint against Boeing was grounded in
U.S. labor law, it’s unlikely that Republicans and Democrats in
Congress can compromise to keep the NLRB alive as a third
vacancy at month’s end threatens to leave it with just two
members, not enough for a quorum, Lichtenstein said.  ‘In Bed’  The U.S. Chamber of Commerce, the nation’s largest business
lobbying group, said the sequence of events in the Boeing case
showed “how in bed the board really is” with unions.  “The union brings a complaint, the NLRB brings the charge,
and once the union works things out, like a good foot soldier,
the NLRB withdraws its complaint,” said  Randy Johnson , who
handles labor policy at the Washington-based Chamber. The
possibility of similar action by the NLRB leaves “a cloud of
uncertainty hanging over the business community.”  Boeing had said it expected to lose the case initially and
fight all the way to the  Supreme Court , a process that could
take years. A hearing in  Seattle  began in June and lawyers had
been arguing over subpoenas and public access ever since, and
they didn’t expect testimony to begin until 2012.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susanna Ray in Seattle at 
 sray7@bloomberg.net ;
Holly Rosenkrantz in Washington at 
 hrosenkrantz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net ;
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  