-- 
Bona Film Undervalued as Short Sellers Target China, CEO Yu Says

-- B y   Y e   X i e
-- 
2011-12-09T21:18:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/bona-film-undervalued-as-short-sellers-target-china-ceo-yu-says.html
Bona Film Group Ltd.,  China ’s biggest
private film distributor, is undervalued as investors spooked by
short sellers’ negative reports on Chinese companies flee the
country’s stocks, said Chief Executive Officer Yu Dong.  Short sellers including Muddy Waters LLC’s Carson Block
have been publishing research notes questioning firms’ financial
statements over the past year after companies such as China
MediaExpress Holdings Inc. disclosed accounting irregularities
or auditor resignations. The  USX China Index  of 174 companies
has lost 22 percent this year, compared with a 0.2 percent drop
for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  “We are one of the most profitable private companies in
China and yet our shares do not reflect that,” Yu, who is
visiting investors in New York, said in an interview today.  Bona’s  shares (BONA)  have lost 49 percent since its initial public
offering in December 2010, and are trading at 11 times estimated
earnings, down from 16.7 at the end of January.  “The  capital market  is discouraging,” said Mason Xu,
Bona’s Chief Financial Officer. “One bad apple spoils the
bunch. But this is only temporary. The market will appreciate
the value of Chinese companies.”  Xu said the company has enough cash to fund expansion and
has no plans to raise more money through stock offerings. Third-
quarter profit rose 53 percent from a year earlier, Bona
reported last month.  Box office receipts in China grew 64 percent last year to
10.2 billion yuan ($1.6 billion), according to the State
Administration of Radio, Film and Television. Receipts will
increase to 13 billion yuan this year, according to Yu.  To contact the reporters of this story:
Ye Xie in  New York  at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  