-- 
Mexican States, Alabama Cities Can’t Bring Some BP Claims

-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s   a n d   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 
2011-12-10T18:53:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/bp-judge-rejects-spill-claims-by-mexican-states-alabama-cities.html
Mexican states and Alabama cities
that a federal judge deemed too far removed from the 2010  Gulf
of Mexico  oil spill to have been physically harmed by it had
some of their claims against  BP Plc  dismissed.  U.S. District Judge  Carl Barbier  in  New Orleans  also threw
out state law claims by six Louisiana parishes seeking penalties
over wildlife killed or injured by the spill. He said the
parishes, or counties, can still sue BP and other spill
companies under U.S. law to recover wildlife losses, spill
damages and removal costs.  “The Mexican states have failed to demonstrate that
recovery is authorized by a treaty or executive agreement”
between the U.S. and  Mexico , Barbier said in yesterday’s ruling.
The coastal states of Tamaulipas, Quintana Roo and Veracruz must
prove that a “proprietary interest” was physically harmed by
the drifting oil in order to sue BP for negligence, he said.  Barbier threw out claims by four inland Alabama cities that
sued BP and other companies involved in the spill for physical
damages and economic losses.  “The court also takes notice of the fact that the Alabama
cities are not located directly on the coast, but are some
distance inland,” Barbier said.  Remaining Claims  Rhon Jones, the lawyer for the Alabama cities, said
Barbier’s ruling instructs the cities to present their claims
directly to BP. If the  oil company  won’t pay, the judge said the
cities may come back to the court for further consideration.  “These four Alabama cities are on direct travel routes to
the coast,” he said. “We believe these cities have suffered an
economic impact because of the spill.”  The decision allows the Mexican states to pursue some
claims because they “all did suffer proprietary interest
damages,” Enrique Serna, their attorney, said in a phone
interview. “Regarding negligence and gross negligence, we are
content that those claims are alive.”  The Mexican states sought to pursue claims under the U.S.
Oil Pollution Act, using the Cartagena Convention, a treaty
covering the rights of foreign governments to recover damages.
The Cartagena Convention “does not authorize the recovery under
OPA,” Barbier said in yesterday’s ruling.  Claims Narrowed  “We are disappointed” with this part of the ruling, Serna
said. “We are going to analyze the decision carefully and will
weigh our options.”  BP still faces  claims  for physical spill-damage, oil-
removal costs, lost  tax revenue  and increased social services
costs by other local governments that sued after the worst
offshore  oil spill  in U.S. history, Barbier ruled. In some
cases, the government entities may be entitled to seek punitive
damages from BP and the other companies involved in the spill.  Yesterday’s decision followed previous rulings by Barbier
that narrowed the focus of the oil-spill litigation, eliminating
hundreds of claims among those consolidated in his court for
pretrial processing. Thousands of coastal property owners,
tourism businesses and government entities sued BP, its well
partners and contractors for damages from the spill.  February Trial  Defendants in the suits include  Transocean Ltd. (RIG) , the
Switzerland-based owner and operator of the Deepwater Horizon
drilling rig that exploded;  Halliburton Co. (HAL) , which provided
cementing services;  Cameron International Corp. (CAM) , which provided
blowout-prevention equipment; and BP’s minority partners in the
well,  Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC)  and  Mitsui & Co. (8031) ’s Moex Offshore
LLC unit.  A trial is set for February to determine the liability of
each company for causing the spill.  The case is In Re: Oil Spill by the Oil Rig Deepwater
Horizon in the Gulf of Mexico on April 20, 2010, MDL-2179, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of Louisiana (New Orleans).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com ;
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Southfield, Michigan, at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  