-- Iberdrola Said to Bid $3.4 Billion to Raise Neoenergia Stake
-- B y   C r i s t i a n e   L u c c h e s i
-- 2012-01-24T09:41:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/bradesco-said-to-be-close-to-buying-hsbc-s-losango-finance-unit-in-brazil.html
Iberdrola SA (IBE)  offered about 6 billion
reais ($3.42 billion) to raise its stake in Neoenergia SA, a
Brazilian power company, to 75 percent from 39 percent, said a
person close to the deal.  The Spanish electricity utility, based in Bilbao, expects
the bid will help conclude talks with state-controlled  Banco do
Brasil SA (BBAS3)  and Previ, the sellers, said the person, who asked not
to be identified because the discussions are private.  The talks have been going on for more than a year.
Brazilian President  Dilma Rousseff  is reviewing Iberdrola’s
proposal and must approve it before the deal can move forward,
the person said.  Iberdrola has announced more than $14 billion in
acquisitions in the last five years, mostly for targets in North
and South America, as it seeks to expand in faster growing
markets and bring its expertise in  wind energy  to the Americas.
The company, the world’s biggest investor in wind parks, already
is larger than any U.S. power company by revenue.  Neoenergia, a Rio de Janeiro-based company that distributes
electricity in the northeastern states of Bahia, Pernambuco and
 Rio Grande  do Norte, had about 3.7 billion reais of cash and 5.2
billion reais in retained earnings as of Sept. 30, 2011,
according to its latest statement. The bigger the stake
Iberdrola has in Neoenergia, the better the Spanish company’s
 consolidated balance sheet  will look, said the person.  Iberdrola declined to comment yesterday and officials
weren’t immediately available to comment today. The shares rose
0.3 percent to 4.55 euros in  Madrid  at 10:31 a.m. local time.  Banco do Brasil declined to comment through its press
office in  Rio de Janeiro . Rousseff’s office in Brasilia declined
to comment.  BNDES Stake  Banco do Brasil, a Brasilia-based bank controlled by the
federal government, would sell its 11.99 percent stake in
Neoenergia while its workers’ pension fund, Previ, would cut its
stake to 25 percent from 49.01 percent, the same person familiar
with the deal said.  Under the most recent proposal under discussion,  Brazil ’s
national development bank, known as BNDES, may buy a stake of 15
percent to 20 percent in Neoenergia in a gradual process,
diluting the other shareholders in the process, the person said.
A previous proposal had the BNDES immediately buying a 15
percent stake in Neoenergia, according to the person.  BNDES declined to comment through its press office in Rio.  Previ needs to reduce its Neoenergia stake because local
regulations don’t allow state company pension funds to own more
than 25 percent of the capital of a single company. The
government wants to retain a stake in Neoenergia because it
considers the industry to be strategic, said the person.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cristiane Lucchesi in  Sao Paulo  at 
 clucchesi5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  