-- 
Brazil Says Done With Fiscal Stimulus as Interest-Rate Cuts to Fuel Growth

-- B y   A r n a l d o   G a l v a o ,   A n d r e   S o l i a n i   a n d   A d r i a n a   A r a i
-- 
2011-12-12T21:29:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/brazil-says-fiscal-restraint-to-allow-for-further-gdp-boosting-rate-cuts.html
Brazil  has taken the bulk of
stimulus measures needed to reignite  economic growth  next year
and sees no need to rely on state banks to help boost credit,
Deputy Finance Minister Nelson Barbosa said.  “A great deal of what we think is necessary for next year
has already been done,” Barbosa, 42, said in a Dec. 9 interview
at his office in Brasilia.  Brazil’s economy, the world’s second-largest emerging
market after  China , contracted for the first time in 2 1/2 years
in the third quarter after policy makers raised borrowing costs
and the European and U.S. debt crises hurt confidence. As a
result, economic growth for the whole of 2011 will slow to 3
percent from 7.5 percent last year, according to  Banco Bradesco
SA. (BBDC4)  China’s expansion is estimated at 9.2 percent this year
while  Russia ’s probably was 4 percent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Since August, President  Dilma Rousseff ’s administration has
cut the benchmark interest  rate  three times, slashed taxes on
 consumer goods  from pasta to refrigerators and eased curbs on
credit. Earlier this year the government cut taxes on payroll,
exports and small companies and agreed to a 14 percent increase
in the  minimum wage  effective January, measures that mean a
combined fiscal stimulus of 39 billion reais ($21.7 billion),
Barbosa said.  The government also plans to raise public investment to
about 1.2 percent of gross domestic product in 2012 from about 1
percent this year, Barbosa said.  Accelerating Growth  The measures taken this year and further central bank
reductions in interest rates are enough to ensure the economy
will resume growth and pick up speed until annualized GDP
expansion reaches 5 percent in the final quarter of 2012, he
said. GDP shrank 0.17 percent in the three months ended in
September on an annualized basis. Growth in the whole of 2012
will likely be 4 percent and inflation will be less than 5
percent, Barbosa said.  Traders are wagering policy makers will cut the benchmark
 interest rate  by an additional 125 basis points by the end of
April from 11 percent in January. Yields on interest rate future
contracts maturing in January 2013, the most traded in Sao
Paulo, fell 4 basis points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 9.82
percent today.  Policy Mix Unchanged  Economists expect GDP to expand no more than 3.5 percent
next year, according to the latest central bank survey taken a
day after the stimulus package was announced. They forecast
consumer prices will rise 5.5 percent, the same survey shows.  The government is committed to keeping spending under
control so the central bank can continue to cut interest rates,
Barbosa said. Tax cuts on consumer loans, home appliances and
food staples announced Dec. 1 were “narrowly focused” to help
companies and retailers reduce inventories and pose no threat to
the government’s fiscal target in 2012, he said.  “The measures announced last week can’t be interpreted as
a change in the policy mix and don’t impose any risk to a bigger
monetary effort if the central bank finds it necessary,”
Barbosa said.  Unlike in the aftermath of the 2008 collapse of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc., Brazil won’t use state-controlled banks
to fuel anti-cyclical investment, Barbosa said. That means  Banco
do Brasil SA (BBAS3)  won’t require additional capital and the government
has no plans to increase capital injections into the national
 development bank , or BNDES, beyond the 25 billion reais it had
already announced earlier this year.  “We see no need to use state banks as we did in 2008,”
said Barbosa, who is also chairman of Banco do Brasil, which is
 Latin America ’s biggest lender by assets.  Barbosa also said he sees no need for the central bank to
use international reserves to provide credit for Brazilian
exporters as was done during the 2008 credit crunch.
International reserves held by the central bank rose to $353
billion on Dec. 9 from $239 billion in 2009.  Ethanol Tax Cuts  Inflation will slow next year because the main events that
fueled consumer price increases this year are unlikely to take
place again, he said. Domestic demand didn’t drive inflation
above the target range in 2011, according to Barbosa.  “Will we have an ethanol price shock the size we had this
year? Will we have commodity prices increasing as in the first
half of 2010? I find it very unlikely,” said Barbosa.  Annual inflation slowed to 6.64 percent in the 12 months
through November, the national statistic agency said last week.
Consumer price increases have breached the upper end of the 2.5-
to-6.5 percent target range since April.  The government is still evaluating whether it has room in
its budget to reduce taxes on ethanol to encourage production,
Barbosa said. A reduction would level the tax burden on ethanol
and sugar production for sugar-cane growers.  “We need to correct this advantage sugar has over ethanol.
We will do it when we can,” Barbosa said.  Positive for Rates  Barbosa said the government plans continue to rely more on
 interest-rate  cuts than fiscal stimulus to spur economic  growth ,
and fiscal policy will be “relatively neutral” in 2012.
Rousseff’s 2012 budget proposal targets a surplus before
interest payments of 139.8 billion reais for the federal, state
and local governments, or 3.1 percent of GDP.  “This is very positive for the interest rate market,
because it reduces pressure on the long end of the curve,”
 Diego Donadio , Latin America strategist at BNP Paribas SA in  Sao
Paulo , said in a telephone interview. “It means less pressure
on inflation and this is good.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Arnaldo Galvao in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 agalvao1@bloomberg.net ;
Andre Soliani in Brasilia at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net ;
Adriana Arai in Sao Paulo at 
 aarai1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  