-- 
Brown Says More Automatic Cuts to Come If California Tax Plan Voted Down

-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 
2011-12-09T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/brown-says-more-automatic-cuts-to-come-if-tax-plan-is-voted-down.html
California  Governor  Jerry Brown  will
seek a second round of automatic spending cuts that would be
triggered if voters reject temporary increases in income and
sales taxes he wants to bridge a $13 billion deficit.  Brown said he’ll include projected revenue from the tax
increase in the budget he proposes next month, even though
voters won’t have a say on the higher levies until November. If
his plan is rejected, it would blow a hole in what Brown said
would be a balanced budget for fiscal 2013. Automatic cuts would
be needed to eliminate that shortfall, Brown said.  Californians already face automatic cuts if $4 billion in
revenue gains built into this year’s spending plan fail to
materialize. Higher education and services for the disabled
would be reduced if the state falls short of estimates by $1
billion. The school year could be cut by the equivalent of seven
days if the shortfall is $2 billion or more.  “We’re going to balance the budget,” Brown said in an
interview in  Los Angeles  Dec. 6. “We’ll propose cuts and the
taxes, and if the taxes don’t materialize, I will propose we
have trigger cuts that go into effect immediately.”  Such mid-year cuts are unpopular with voters, according to
a  Field Poll  released Dec. 5. Sixty-five percent of 1,000
registered voters surveyed Nov. 15-27 said it was a bad idea to
include the trigger provision in the current budget. The poll, a
nonpartisan sampler of opinion in California, had a margin of
error of plus or minus 4.5 percentage points.  Ballot Initiative  Brown, a 73-year-old Democrat, is pressing for a ballot
initiative to increase revenue $7 billion a year by temporarily
raising income taxes on those making more than $250,000 a year
and boosting the statewide  sales tax  by 0.5 percentage point to
7.75 percent. He would dedicate the gain to schools and to
shifting thousands of prison inmates to county jails.  The governor proposed raising levies on individuals making
$250,000 a year to 10.3 percent, from 9.3 percent. For those
earning $300,000 to $500,000, the rate would climb to 10.8
percent from 9.3 percent. For single filers with income above
$500,000, the rate would rise to 11.3 percent from 9.3 percent.
Californians with income of more than $1 million are now taxed
at 10.3 percent.  “We hacked a $26 billion deficit down to about $10 billion
and we’re going to take out the rest of it with more cuts and
hopefully some temporary taxes,” Brown said.  California  tax collections since the start of the fiscal
year have trailed projections by about $1 billion, while
spending for the period is almost $2 billion over budget, state
Controller John Chiang reported yesterday.  Revenue Prediction  The state Legislative Analyst’s Office has estimated that
revenue for the year will be $3.7 billion below budget, which
would mean a deficit of $13 billion through June 2013. Brown’s
finance department, which is developing its own revenue
prediction, will use whichever estimate shows higher revenue to
determine how much spending must be eliminated.  “Regardless of whether midyear cuts are enacted next week,
the Legislature faces a tremendous fiscal challenge when it
returns to session next month,” Chiang said in a statement.  Brown included the automatic cuts in his  budget  after he
failed to win Republican support to keep tax and fee increases
from expiring. He and Democrats decided at the time that the
nascent economic rebound was likely to boost  tax revenue  $4
billion beyond what was predicted just a month earlier.  The recovery was shaken by  Europe ’s widening debt crisis
and an impasse over raising the U.S. debt ceiling. The automatic
cuts provision was intended in part to ensure that the state had
enough cash on hand to repay investors who bought $5.4 billion
of short-term cash-flow notes.  ‘Holding Taxpayers Hostage’  Republican Assembly Leader Connie Conway of Tulare accused
Brown of “holding taxpayers hostage with the threat of more
cuts to our classrooms.”  “We shouldn’t squeeze more out of existing taxpayers who
are already struggling to make ends meet,” she said yesterday
in a statement.  Brown, who served two terms as governor from 1975 to 1983,
also called for a change in the way department budgets are set,
in order to curb costs and boost efficiency.  He said he wants agencies to use so-called zero-based
budgeting, which means every dollar must be justified each year
instead of adding funds to the previous year’s spending.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael B. Marois in  Sacramento  at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net .
Christopher Palmeri in Los Angeles at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  