-- 
Buddhist Packing Bond Pistol Shows American Embrace of Guns

-- B y   K e n   W e l l s
-- 
2011-12-09T22:37:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/buddhist-packing-bond-pistol-shows-american-warm-embrace-of-guns.html
Robin Natanel picks up a compact
black pistol, barrel pointed down range. Gripping the gun with
both hands, left foot forward, she raises the semi-automatic and
methodically squeezes off five shots. The first one creases the
left edge of a red bull’s-eye on a target 25 feet away. The four
others paint a three-inch pattern around the first. If the
target were a person’s head or heart, he’d probably be dead.  Natanel is a Buddhist, a self-avowed “spiritual person,”
a 53-year-old divorcee who lives alone in a liberal-leaning
suburb near  Boston . She is 5-foot-1 (155 centimeters) and has
blonde hair, dark eyes, a ready smile and a soothing voice, with
a hint of Boston brogue. She’s a Tai Chi instructor who in
classes invokes the benefits of meditation. And at least twice a
month, she takes her German-made  Walther  PK380 to a shooting
range and blazes away.  Two years ago, an ex-boyfriend broke into her house when
she wasn’t home. The police advised a restraining order.
Instead, she bought pepper spray and programmed the local police
number on her cell phone’s speed dial. “I was constantly
terrified for my safety,” she says.  Ultimately, she got the Walther, joining a confederacy of
people who might once have been counted on in the main to be
anti-handgun -- women, liberals, gays, college kids. They are
part of a national story: Domestic handgun production and
imports more than doubled over four years to about 4.6 million
in 2009, according to the National Shooting Sports Foundation, a
gun-industry trade group.  ‘Societal Change’  The surge has been propelled by shifting politics and
demographics that have made it easier and more acceptable than
at any time in 75 years for Americans to buy and carry pistols.
Post-9/11 fears also seem to be a factor, as has been the
relentless pro-gun politicking of the  National Rifle Association 
and marketing, particularly to women, by handgun manufacturers.
Events like yesterday’s fatal shootings on the  Virginia Tech 
University campus reinforce a feeling that the world is an
unsafe place, even as violent U.S. crime rates fall.  Natanel found it was no trouble to purchase the Walther, a
brand favored by movie superspy James Bond, or to locate experts
to train her. Her circumstances won her a conceal-carry permit
in a state with tough gun-control laws. Her friends have been
broadminded about her conversion.  “I’d never considered a gun,” Natanel says. “I thought
they were scary. I wanted nothing to do with them. I didn’t
think anyone should have them.”  Twenty years ago, 76 percent of women felt that way about
handguns, and 68 percent of all people in the country were wary
enough of firearms of any kind to tell Gallup pollsters that
they backed laws more strictly limiting their sale. Then what
Gallup calls “a clear societal change” began.  Democrats, Women  In October, a Gallup  poll  found record-low support for a
handgun ban -- at 26 percent among all, and 31 percent among
women. The poll, which has tracked gun attitudes since 1959,
documented a record-low 43 percent who favor making it more
difficult to acquire guns and record-high numbers of women and
Democrats saying there is a firearm at home. Forty-seven percent
said someone in the household owns at least one gun, the highest
reading in 18 years.  The growing acceptance of guns echoes a transformation in
the politics of weapons. In 1987, Florida joined a handful of
states that by law or tradition allowed people to carry hidden
guns; now  Illinois  is the sole conceal-carry holdout, and the
U.S. House of Representatives on Nov. 16 sent to the Senate a
bill advocated by the NRA that would require those that issue
concealed gun permits to recognize licenses from other states.  Virginia  Tech  Congress let the ban on assault weapons expire in 2004. The
last federal gun-control initiative to pass -- a 2008 measure
that beefed up screening to prevent the mentally ill from buying
firearms -- was an incremental change in the wake of a 2007
massacre at Virginia Tech in Blacksburg, perpetrated by a
psychotic student. Yesterday, the school said one of its police
officers was shot and killed on campus and that another person
was found dead from a gunshot wound.  In decades past, mass shootings, such as the Jan. 8 rampage
that killed six and wounded Democratic U.S. Representative
 Gabrielle Giffords  of  Arizona , provided a potent rallying cry
for the anti-gun movement. These days, pro-gun forces are as
likely to parade them out as evidence that citizens need to arm
themselves against attacks that the authorities are often
helpless to prevent.  Students for Concealed Carry on Campus ,
which claims 45,000 adherents on Facebook, sprang up in response
to the 2007 Virginia Tech shootings.  Gaining Momentum  “Post-9/11, the thinking of more and more people is that,
when push comes to shove, I need to be more responsible for my
safety,” says Peggy Tartaro, executive editor of  Women & Guns ,
a magazine published by the Second Amendment Foundation, a
Bellevue, Washington-based group named for the constitutional
amendment regarding the right to keep and bear arms.  At the same time, the conceal-carry movement has gained
momentum, in part because the dire predictions of anti-gun
groups in the early years of the fight -- that carriers of
hidden guns would deploy them to settle disputes over road rage
and the like -- haven’t materialized.  “We don’t look around and see blood spreading across the
country,” says Deborah Homsher, an Ithaca,  New York , writer
whose 2001 book, “Women & Guns,” explored gun politics in the
1990s. “I think that fact deflates the anti-argument.”  Women in Combat  The advent of the 24/7 news cycle and its steady thrum on
violent crimes may also be helping to drive people to handguns.
Deciding to acquire one is part of “a broader feeling of
helplessness that doesn’t come out of any kind of thoughtful
calculation of risk,” says Homsher. “People buy guns to get
rid of their phantoms.”  Women, too, may be liberalizing gun attitudes, because of
the unprecedented numbers of them who have trained on firearms
in the military and law enforcement in the past 30 years. Some
250,000 women have served in combat zones -- and often in combat
roles -- in Iraq and  Afghanistan , returning with a familiarity
of firearms their mothers never had.  The latest  data  from the National Firearms Survey, a
telephone poll conducted by an arm of the Harvard School of
Public Health, shows 40 percent of America’s 283 million
privately owned firearms are handguns, up from the 34 percent
the survey  found  in 1994. And while middle-aged white men own
the most handguns of any demographic segment, according to
federal data, other groups are arming up.  Matthew Shepard  Besides Students for Concealed Carry, there are the Pink
Pistols, Mothers Arms, Jews for the Preservation of Firearms
Ownership, the Second Amendment Sisters, the Women’s Firearm
Network and the International Defensive Pistol Association,
among others. Their influence may be outsized in gaining
converts as they set up Facebook pages, churn out blogs and post
recruiting videos on YouTube.  The public face of the 11-year-old Pink Pistols, which
claims 1,500 members across 29 chapters, is  Nicki Stallard , a
52-year-old, San Jose,  California , medical technician who has a
Colt .45 and a conceal-carry permit. She recruits under the
group’s motto, “Armed gays don’t get bashed.”  Stallard, who had a sex-change operation in 2007, is in a
documentary being made by HEYbabe Productions, a group of
independent film makers, that amounts to a call to arms for
gays. The title,  “Arming Laramie,”  derives from Laramie,
 Wyoming , the site of the 1988 murder of Matthew Shepard, a 21-
year-old gay college student, that led to the passage of a 2009
federal hate crimes law named after him.  ‘It’s Emotional’  As Gwen Patton, a former spokeswoman for the Pink Pistols,
says in the trailer: “We teach queers to shoot -- then we teach
everybody that we’ve done it.”  Proselytizing for handguns in the gay community can be
difficult, Stallard says, given that “many people in gun
culture are anti-gay, so as a reflex, the gays are anti-gun. It
isn’t logical, it’s emotional.”  Stallard, who grew up in what she calls “anti-gun  New York
City ,” acquired her handgun before the sex change, and says the
surgery increased her concern about being a victim. She likens
the Pink Pistols to Deacons for Peace and Justice, an armed
movement in the 1960s that protected civil rights demonstrators
from the Ku Klux Klan.  “I accept that the gay-rights movement began in
nonviolence, and I believe in nonaggression,” she says. “But
if in adopting a posture of nonviolence you make yourself a
target for a sociopath, that’s not right. Violence is ugly, but
if my life is on the line I will protect myself.”  Ownership Discrepancies  While the skeptics don’t dispute that the raw number of
guns, including pistols, has grown, they point to the General
Social Survey conducted by the National Opinion Research Center,
which indicates more guns are being concentrated in fewer hands.
That poll last year found a third of households claimed to have
at least one gun, far fewer than those answering the same
question in Gallup’s October poll. Tartaro says these
discrepancies lie in the fact that people “simply don’t always
tell pollsters the truth about gun ownership.”  Those Americans who have acquired handguns for protection
are living with “serious delusions,” says Caroline Brewer, a
spokeswoman for the  Brady Campaign to Prevent Gun Violence . She
contends that few are trained rigorously enough to deploy their
weapons in the shock and heat of an attack, that they’ll shoot
innocent bystanders, that more times than not their firearms
will be turned against them.  Allowing Hidden Guns  “To suggest all these guns make the world safer is pure
fantasy,” she says. “And the idea that Americans are
comfortable with millions of guns being carried by millions of
people -- I just don’t buy it. Most Americans aren’t aware how
easily people can get guns, and all the places that they can
take guns.”  Such fears underpin the concerns of states that allow
people to carry hidden handguns but make permits difficult to
obtain by leaving it up to the discretion of local police.
Densely packed New York City, with a population of more than 8
million, issued just over 2,100 permits last year,  according  to
the New York Daily News. Meanwhile,  Florida , with about 19
million citizens, issued 123,759 in the fiscal year ended June
30 and has more than 1 million active permits, state data show.  “When you look at how rigorously our police and military
are trained in firearms to keep their skills up to snuff, I just
think it’s a huge leap to suggest people will be able to safely
use guns with so little training,” says Laura Browder, a
University of Richmond professor of American studies and author
of a 2006 book, “Her Best Shot,” exploring the history of
American women and firearms.  Pulling the Trigger  Browder lives in Virginia, where it’s possible to get a
conceal-carry permit with no more than 10 hours of training in a
hunter safety course. Alaska and Vermont allow residents to
carry concealed handguns with no permit at all.  Lyn Bates, an instructor with Arming Women Against Rape
and Endangerment, or  AWARE , who taught Robin Natanel to shoot,
shares Browder’s concern even as she defends handgun ownership.
A Boston-area grassroots group, AWARE’s philosophy is built
around the tenet that the gun should be the last resort and that
owners need to be rigorously prepared, physically and
psychologically, to pull the trigger.  One AWARE exercise presents students with a list of 45
questions that get to the nub of the legal and moral argument
over shooting an assailant. A few of them: When is shooting
justified? How can you tell? Can you shoot if your assailant has
a knife? A club? If your assailant is unarmed? Can you shoot to
stop a rape? Can you ever shoot someone in the back?  Synagogue Shooters  Bates, 64, says she believes guns can be potent equalizers
that well-trained civilians can handle. “A gun is like a fire
extinguisher,” she says. “It isn’t there because you want to
have a fire or expect to have a fire. It’s there because you may
find yourself in that situation where it can save your life and
give the professionals time to get there.”  This is why more Jews should join the conceal-carry
bandwagon, says Dovid Bendory, an Orthodox rabbi in Livingston,
 New Jersey , who heads the 4,500-member  Jews for the Preservation
of Firearms Ownership . Post-9/11, the U.S. Department of
Homeland Security ranks the domestic terror threat against
synagogues equal to that of railroads and utilities.  “I ask Jews all the time, ‘Are you prepared for an active
shooter in a synagogue?’” Bendory says. “‘What would you do?’
The common answer is ‘I’d dial 911.’ So I ask, ‘And what would
you do until the police got there? Hide?’ They don’t have a good
answer for that. I believe we are woefully unprepared for such
an attack.”  Ground Zero  Raised on the Jersey Shore in a house of liberal Democrats
where guns were anathema, Bendory, 43, says his conversion was
slow. He saw his first armed Jew in 1987 when he went to  Israel 
and encountered a soldier on his way home, a rifle slung over
his shoulder. It got him thinking about his reflexively anti-gun
stand in America.  While Israel does have gun control laws, it is a gun-savvy
society whose egalitarian obligations to military service
translate to large numbers of armed civilians trained in gun
use. Civilians with guns have stopped terrorist attacks there.
In March 2008, for example, a school principal drew his
concealed pistol and killed a Palestinian man who had attempted
to stab him and another Israeli at a bus stop, according to
Arutz Sheva, operator of the website IsraelNationalNews.com.  Bendory says the 9/11 attacks were a sign for him. “I
worked across the street from Ground Zero,” he says, “and I
thought, ‘The same terrorism Israel has fought for years has
come to America.’ I wondered what we needed to do to defend
ourselves here.” His conclusion was to arm himself.  Women Living Alone  Natanel is emblematic of a demographic bulge that may help
explain why women are drawn to handguns: More and more of them
are living alone. The number of one-person households in America
increased to 27 percent of the population in 2010 from 13
percent in 1960, according to U.S. Census data. Including single
mothers, about half of all women now live  without spouses , up
from about 35 percent in 1950, based on census estimates.  The NRA and gunmakers in the 1980s began marketing to women
with self-defense classes and handguns tailored to their size
and needs, often amid intense criticism in anti-gun quarters
that what they were peddling was fear.  The NRA’s “Choose to Refuse to be a Victim” campaign,
started in 1993, rolled out magazine ads with a toll-free number
that encouraged women to call for a self-defense brochure and
sign up for $20 self-defense seminars taught by women.  ‘Marketing Fear’  U.S. Representative Nita Lowry, a New York Democrat,
demanded that the association halt the program, accusing it of
“a thinly veiled attempt by the NRA to add new members and
promote gun ownership by preying on women’s legitimate fear of
violence.” The NRA, noting that the promotion didn’t push
firearms or require callers to join the NRA, refused. These
days, it dedicates several pages of its website to women’s
offerings, including an updated version of  “Refuse to be a
Victim”  and female hunting and shooting clinics.  Meanwhile,  Smith & Wesson Holding Corp. (SWHC)  began advertising
its LadySmith revolvers, including a lightweight, snub-nose .38
caliber model with optional pink rubber handles that the company
said it had developed with suggestions from more than 6,000
women. An ad described the guns as “elegant without losing any
of their practicality. Smith & Wesson Holding Corp was raised to
“buy” at CL King & Associates by equity analyst James Barrett.  ‘Not V8 Moment’  “I think the gun industry has been very successful at
marketing fear of crime to women,” Browder says. “If you look
at gun ads directed at women, it’s the lone woman walking
through a deserted parking lot. The police can’t protect you.
You need to protect yourself with a weapon.”  That the country may be statistically safer, with incidents
of sexual assault against women declining 70 percent between
1993 and 2008, doesn’t necessarily matter.  “A lot of women don’t feel safer,” says  Paxton Quigley , a
New York-based writer, certified NRA instructor and gun-rights
advocate who bought her first handgun after a friend was raped.  Tartaro adds a caveat: “This doesn’t mean that all these
women are going to go out tomorrow and buy a gun for defense.
Buying a gun is not a V8 Moment. It’s an incremental process. It
requires instruction and training.”  The number of armed women in the U.S. is a matter of
debate, as is the issue of whether that number is growing. The
General Social Survey has found it holding steady at around 11
percent since the survey began in 1980. That would translate to
about 17.5 million.  ‘Guns for Meditation’  Other evidence suggests female gun ownership is increasing,
though not necessarily of handguns. The National Shooting Sports
Foundation cites data from the National Sporting Goods
Association that female participation in target shooting rose 46
percent from 2001 to 2010 while in hunting it increased 37
percent. In the NSSF’s annual survey of firearms retailers, 61
percent said they saw an increase in female customers in their
stores in 2010 over 2009.  None of this is news to Cathryne Czubek, a New York film
maker who spent six years researching and making a documentary,
 “A Girl and A Gun.”   “What surprised me is how a lot of women use guns for
meditation,” Czubek says. “They parallel it with their yoga
practice. It’s a certain mindset that you get into when you’re
in a range. You are so focused -- you slow down your breathing
and metabolism.”  Music Teacher  In Shawnee,  Oklahoma , about 40 miles from Oklahoma City,
Tammy Pinkston, 47, has her own story to tell about women and
handguns. Born in Toledo,  Ohio , she moved as an 11-year-old to
Oklahoma with her divorced mother, who bought 30 acres (12
hectares) on a mountaintop near the hamlet of Heavener. There
weren’t any people living nearby, and Pinkston and her mom kept
firearms in the farmhouse, as did the distant neighbors. “It’s
the kind of place where if you’re a bad guy and break into a
house you’re probably going to get shot,” she says.  After college, Pinkston eventually settled into a career in
Shawnee as a music teacher, mostly for area churches. About five
years ago, she began to apply her teaching skills to guns and
gun safety, getting an NRA instructor certification in 2008 and
team-teaching with an experienced male friend. A typical class
would be 36 people, a handful of them women. Pinkston noticed
their reluctance to ask questions because “they didn’t want to
appear stupid” in front of men.  ‘Scary Places’  Out of this observation came her company,  Oklahoma Personal
Defense Academy for Women . She fills up her all-women classes on
a regular basis. That Shawnee isn’t exactly a hotbed of crime
isn’t the point for her students, Pinkston says. Perception is
key, she says, and hardly a week goes by without newspapers or
TV reporting some awful crime against a victim caught unaware.  She tells of a case at a mall “surrounded by million-
dollar houses” in which a woman was stalked by a man before he
tried to kidnap her by dragging her into her car. She escaped by
wrenching free and “face-planting on the mall parking lot,”
Pinkston says. “Like I tell my students, I don’t go to scary
places, but sometimes the places I go turn scary.”  Most of Pinkston’s students aren’t crime victims; they’re
women living alone, widows or divorcees in their 50s and 60s.
“All of a sudden they are by themselves,” she says. “They
feel unsafe. The majority have come to me because they realize
they need to defend themselves and they need a tool to do so. In
a hand-to-hand fight, they’re not going to overpower a man.”  Bra Holster  The  Justice Department ’s 2009 Female Victims of Violence
report  showed  that 552,000 females 12 and older in 2008
experienced “nonfatal violent victimizations” including rape,
sexual assault, robbery or physical assault by an intimate
partner. Ninety-nine percent of the assailants were men.  The not-so-subtle subtext in women arming themselves is the
real battle of the sexes. Men on average are bigger, and have
superior upper body strength and muscle mass. In hand-to-hand
combat with men, women almost always lose.  “Not all men are predators,” says Pinkston, “but all
women are prey. We’re the little white bunny in the field. Good
men don’t hunt women, but bad men do. If such a man kicked down
your door and there was no cop on the couch to protect you, what
would you do? For women, there are worse things than death.”  ‘You’re Done’  Over lunch at a Friendly’s restaurant in Springfield,
 Massachusetts , Robin Natanel marvels at her changed attitudes. A
half-hour earlier, she was browsing the Smith & Wesson retail
store and, she says, “drooling over guns -- it’s like shoe-
shopping to me now.”  She was considering a smaller pistol because she’d become
enamored of a new conceal-carry holster called the  Flashbang 
that attaches to the underwire of a bra. The wearer simply pulls
up her blouse or T-shirt and with a single swipe downward can
free the gun and fire, hence the archly descriptive name. The
Walther, she says, “is just too big to fit the Flashbang.”  The topic turns serious. Natanel recalls the Oct. 12
shooting rampage at a Southern California hair salon in which
eight people died. “If people couldn’t get guns at all, yes,
maybe that would have prevented the shooting. But that’s not the
world we live in,” Natanel says. “And what if I had been there
with my gun? What if I could have intervened? Slowed him down.
Would people judge me then?”  She adds: “I wake up every day saying, ‘Please, I never
want to shoot.’ But make no mistake about it -- you try to hurt
me and you’re done.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ken Wells in New York at 
 Kwells8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gary Putka at 
 gputka@bloomberg.net  