-- 
C C Land Denies Report Company, Chairman Defaulted on Property Purchases

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-12-09T10:20:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/c-c-land-denies-report-company-chairman-defaulted-on-property-purchases.html
C C Land Holdings Ltd. (1224) , a Chinese
developer, denied a  Hong Kong  Economic Journal newspaper report
that Chairman Cheung Chung Kiu bought properties from Renhe
Commercial Holdings Co. and defaulted on 2 billion yuan ($314
million) of payments linked to the purchases.  C C Land, whose developments are mainly in western  China ,
dropped 9.3 percent to HK$1.57 at the close in Hong Kong, while
Renhe fell 9.6 percent to 94 Hong Kong cents. Renhe pared losses
of 16 percent, the most in more than two months.  “It is a pure rumor and anything that the newspaper
reported is incorrect,” said Eva Chan, C C Land’s Hong Kong-
based spokeswoman, adding that the company also didn’t buy
properties from Renhe. “C C Land and Mr. Zhang didn’t default
on any debt. Mr. Zhang’s personal financial conditions are
healthy.” Cheung is also known as Zhang Songqiao and has a net
worth of $495 million, according to Forbes’s  estimates  last year.  Neither Cheung nor C C Land was involved in the sale or
other projects, Renhe said in a statement to the Hong Kong stock
exchange today.  Renhe, a Harbin-based shopping mall developer, has received
30 percent of the payment from the sale of a shopping mall in
China’s western city of Chengdu, while the remaining 70 percent
of HK$1 billion ($129 million) was due to be paid by Nov. 30,
the company said in the statement. The company is negotiating
with buyers and expects the balance to be settled in the “next
few months.”  Credit Outlook  Cheung has not acquired any related projects or other Renhe
developments, C C Land said in a separate statement to the Hong
Kong stock exchange today.  The credit outlook for Chinese developers will be
“increasingly severe,” according to a September report by
 Standard & Poor’s . The government expanded property curbs this
year including raising down-payment and mortgage requirements,
and imposed purchase restrictions in about 40 cities to avert an
asset bubble.  China’s home prices in October had the worst performance
this year, falling from September in 33 out of 70 cities
monitored by the government.  --Bonnie Cao. Editors: Andreea Papuc, Linus Chua  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bonnie Cao in Shanghai at 
 bcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  