-- 
Cameron Negotiates U.K.’s Isolation in EU

-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a   a n d   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 
2011-12-09T13:05:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/cameron-wishes-euro-nations-well-as-u-k-negotiates-isolation.html
Prime Minister David Cameron said
Britain refused to sacrifice sovereignty to save the euro,
remaining outside an agreement by European nations to tighten
budget rules.  Cameron broke ranks with French President  Nicolas Sarkozy 
and German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  after he failed to secure
safeguards that would have stopped European Union plans to
police financial services in  London , Europe’s trading hub.  In a clash that may reshape Europe’s balance of power, the
euro users opted to enshrine closer fiscal union in a new treaty
that leaves out the U.K. instead of amending EU treaties that
date back to the 1950s. Nine non-euro members --  Denmark ,
 Poland ,  Bulgaria ,  Hungary ,  Sweden , the  Czech Republic , Latvia,
Lithuania and  Romania  -- indicated they may follow suit after
consulting with their national parliaments.  “We wish them well,” Cameron told reporters after all-
night talks with his European counterparts in Brussels. “My
judgment was that what was on offer just wasn’t good enough for
Britain. It’s better to allow those countries to do their own
thing on their own.”  What Cameron will present as a victory to euro-skeptic
lawmakers in his Conservative Party at home leaves the U.K.
increasingly isolated in Brussels. Cameron failed to win
assurances that the institutions representing all 27 nations
will work in their interest, not just those using the euro.  Conservatives and  Europe   Last night’s negotiations make Cameron the latest
Conservative prime minister to split with Europe over the single
currency. In 1990, Margaret Thatcher was brought down by her own
Cabinet over her refusal to agree to a timetable for joining the
single currency. Her successor, John Major, had an official  hide
under the table  at one set of EU talks to advise him as he
negotiated an opt-out. That was still not enough to satisfy the
most euro-skeptic of his party, who undermined his leadership.  Cameron too has found in recent weeks that it’s difficult
to satisfy Conservative lawmakers on the European issue. At his
weekly questions session on Dec. 7, the prime minister was
assailed by question after question from his own side demanding
assurances that he wouldn’t cede powers to Brussels, and would
grant a referendum on any deal.  In October more than a quarter of his  Conservative Party 
lawmakers voted in favor of a referendum on British membership
of the bloc. Cameron attempted to answer the criticism today
saying the negotiations amounted to lost “sovereignty” for
those who signed up to the plan.  U.K. Vote ‘Inevitable’  Some even within his own Cabinet may need more than that.
In an interview with the Spectator magazine ahead of the
negotiations, Northern Ireland Secretary Owen Paterson said a
U.K. referendum is “inevitable” if members of the single
currency draw closer together to end the sovereign-debt crisis.  Foreign Secretary William Hague said Cameron’s stance will
enhance respect for Britain around the negotiating table. “Over
the past 15 years, British prime ministers would say things and
then not do them at the summit,” Hague told BBC Radio 4’s
“Today” show from Brussels. “We do do the things we say.”  A further problem for Cameron is that his coalition
partners, the  Liberal Democrats , are much more pro-European than
the Conservatives. The Liberal Democrat leader, Deputy Prime
Minister Nick Clegg, said today Britain had made “modest and
reasonable” demands aimed at a maintaining a level playing
field for financial services.  ‘Isolated’  Douglas Alexander, foreign affairs spokesman for the
opposition  Labour Party , said Cameron was “a prime minister who
spends so much time worrying about his own backbenchers that he
missed the opportunity to advance Britain’s interests in
Europe.” He said Britain is “more isolated than at any point
in the 35 years of British membership of Europe.”  European leaders added 200 billion euros ($267 billion) to
their crisis-fighting war chest and tightened anti-deficit
rules, seeking to lure the  European Central Bank  into stepping
up its rescue operations.  In an accord hailed by ECB President  Mario Draghi , the
leaders outlined a “fiscal compact” to prevent future debt
runups, accelerated the start of a planned 500 billion-euro
rescue fund and dropped bondholder loss-sharing provisions.  Sarkozy criticized Cameron’s “unacceptable demands” for
“opt-outs” on financial regulation and accused Britain of
creating a two-speed Europe.  “It’s the British opt-out of the euro that creates a two-
speed Europe,” Sarkozy said. “You can’t choose to stay out of
the euro, and then complain you are being kept out.”  Merkel said EU states were familiar with the position taken
by Cameron given that the U.K. has had a euro opt-out “from the
very beginning.”  “With the text agreed yesterday, very simply we offered
the opportunity to take part in the treaty in its entirety,”
Merkel told reporters in Brussels today. “I really don’t
believe  David Cameron  was ever with us at the table.” Leaders
took the decision to press ahead because “we couldn’t accept
weak compromises on the euro, rather we had to make hard
rules.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in Brussels at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  