-- 
Cameron Treaty Veto Leaves U.K. Alone as EU Leaders Negotiate Fiscal Unity

-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a   a n d   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 
2011-12-10T00:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/cameron-brings-britain-full-circle-from-heath-in-split-with-rest-of-europe.html
David Cameron  found himself alone as
the 26 other European Union nations began negotiating the future
of the region’s economy. Delivering on a veto threat his
predecessors carried with them to Brussels for the past 30
years, Cameron strengthened the hand of members of his
Conservative Party who want Britain to pull out of the EU.  It was Conservative Prime Minister Edward Heath who took
Britain into an embryonic EU, the European Economic Community,
in 1973. His three Tory successors have each battled to maintain
influence in Europe while refusing to sign up to the federal
dreams of their neighbors.  “We wish them well,” Cameron told reporters after all-
night euro-crisis talks in Brussels ended early yesterday. “My
judgment was that what was on offer just wasn’t good enough for
Britain. It’s better to allow those countries to do their own
thing on their own.”  Cameron’s move was greeted with delight and comparisons to
wartime leader  Winston Churchill  by Conservatives at home.
Opposition politicians said he was now unable to protect U.K.
interests in any treaty agreed upon by the 26 other countries,
reaping the harvest of failing to make alliances in Europe
during his 19 months in power.  In a clash that may reshape Europe’s balance of power, the
17 euro countries opted to enshrine closer fiscal union in a new
treaty that leaves out the U.K. instead of amending EU
agreements that date back to the 1950s. Nine non-euro members --
 Denmark ,  Poland ,  Bulgaria ,  Hungary ,  Sweden , the  Czech Republic ,
Latvia, Lithuania and  Romania  -- indicated they may follow suit.  Financial Services  The trigger was Cameron’s refusal to back a 27-nation pact
without ironclad guarantees of a British veto right over future
financial regulations. Cameron called them a threat to London’s
standing as  Europe ’s leading financial center.  “It’s not good for us to have Britain stepping away from
the mainstream we’ve developed, but it’s not good for Britain
either because if it wants to play a central role in Europe, it
has to be a part of all the common policies we are developing,”
Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker  told reporters in
Brussels. “A country which is not part of the central piece of
policy making is losing influence.”  Briefing reporters on his decision, Cameron twice refused
to rule out Britain one day leaving the union altogether.
“British membership is in our interest and I have always said
that if that’s the case I will support our membership,” he
said.  ‘Profound Shift’  “There’s been a very profound shift in the  Conservative
Party  from euro-enthusiasm to soft euro-scepticism to hard euro-
skepticism,” said Tim Bale, professor of politics at the
University of Sussex. “Europe was always going to be the
iceberg issue for the Conservatives in government. So much of
our trade and so much of our diplomacy is done with and through
Europe that it’s difficult to see isolation being in Britain’s
interest.”  The EU is the U.K.’s  largest market , responsible for 54
percent of its exports last year. Cameron and Chancellor of the
Exchequer  George Osborne  have repeatedly said that a resolution
of the euro-zone debt crisis is vital for Britain as they
wrestled with their Conservative Party whose priority was
ensuring that powers aren’t ceded to Brussels.  At his weekly question session in the House of Commons on
Dec. 7, the prime minister was assailed from his own side for
assurances that he wouldn’t cede authority to the EU and would
grant a referendum on any deal. In October, more than a quarter
of his party lawmakers voted in favor of a referendum on British
membership of the bloc.  ‘Chamberlain-esque’  On Dec. 8, Conservative lawmaker Edward Leigh referred in a
debate to Neville Chamberlain, made infamous for striking a deal
with Adolf Hitler in the run-up to World War II. He warned
Cameron not to return from Brussels “with a kind of
Chamberlain-esque piece of paper saying, ‘I have negotiated
very, very hard, I have got opt-outs on this and that and I have
succeeded.’”  Yesterday, Conservative lawmaker Bill Cash welcomed
Cameron’s blocking of an EU-wide treaty, telling Sky News the
U.K. was “now embarked on a very serious, responsible path
towards renegotiating in a fundamental way the whole of our
treaty relationship with the EU. The Germans and the French
precipitated this by their demand, throwing down their gauntlet
saying we had to do what they wanted.”  The  London  Evening Standard newspaper reprinted a cartoon
it first ran after the fall of  France  in 1940, showing a British
soldier standing on a beach shaking his fist at German bombers
and saying  “Very well, alone.”   Lethal Issue  Europe has been a lethal issue for Conservative prime
ministers since at least 1990, when it led to Margaret Thatcher’s downfall over her refusal to agree to a timetable for
joining the single currency. Her successor, John Major, had an
official  hide under the table  at one set of EU talks to advise
him as he negotiated an opt-out. That was still not enough to
satisfy the most euro-skeptic of his party, who undermined his
leadership.  “This is a terrible outcome for Britain because we’re
going to now be excluded from key economic decisions that will
affect our country in the future,”  Ed Miliband , leader of the
opposition  Labour Party , told  Sky News  yesterday. “Really what
he has done is spent many months not promoting the national
interest but more interested in dealing with the splits in his
own party. That has served Britain very badly and I fear the
consequences this will have for our country.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in Brussels at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net ;
 Robert Hutton  in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 