-- 
Canada’s Dollar Advances Amid U.S. Confidence Increase, Europe’s Debt Plan

-- B y   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r   a n d   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 
2011-12-09T22:10:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/canada-s-dollar-rises-as-european-agreement-eases-concern-growth-will-slow.html
Canada’s dollar gained from its
weakest this month as a jump in  consumer confidence  in the U.S.,
the nation’s biggest trade partner, and Europe’s latest plans to
deal with its debt crisis spurred appetite for riskier assets.  The Canadian currency, also known as the loonie for the
image of the aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, rose against 10 of
its 16 most-traded peers as stocks climbed. It had fluctuated
earlier as investors weighed the European Union’s plans to boost
its rescue fund and tighten budget rules.  “Canada’s dollar is following along broader sentiment
here,”  Camilla Sutton , chief currency strategist at Bank of
 Nova Scotia ’s Scotia Capital unit in Toronto, said in a
telephone interview. “Our economy is intertwined with the U.S.,
and so what happens in the U.S. tends to follow in  Canada .”  Canada’s currency appreciated 0.6 percent to C$1.0169 per
 U.S. dollar  at 5 p.m. in Toronto after touching C$1.0263
earlier, the weakest level since Nov. 30. It gained 0.3 percent
on the week. One Canadian dollar buys 98.34 U.S. cents.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index advanced 1.7 percent, and
the S&P TSX Composite Index benchmark of Canadian stocks rose
0.7 percent.  Canadian  government bonds  dropped, sending benchmark 10-
year yields up seven basis points, or 0.07 percentage point, to
2.06 percent. The yields touched 1.979 percent yesterday, the
lowest level in Bloomberg records.  European Changes  The loonie weakened earlier amid speculation European
leaders will struggle to institute changes agreed to today to
counter the region’s sovereign-debt crisis. Officials holding
all-night talks in Brussels added 200 billion euros ($267
billion) to their crisis-fighting warchest and tightened anti-
deficit rules, an accord hailed by European Central Bank
President  Mario Draghi  as a “very good outcome.”  “I’m surprised we’re seeing euro so resilient here,”
Scotia’s Sutton said. “In terms of the growth side, which will
improve the fiscal side, we’re a long way from there, and
there’s a tremendous amount of uncertainty around that.”  The currency strengthened as the Thomson Reuters/University
of Michigan preliminary index of consumer sentiment in the U.S.
climbed to a six-month high. The gauge increased to a reading of
67.7 this month from 64.1 at the end of last month. The median
estimate of 73 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News called for
a reading of 65.8.  North American Economy  Canada’s dollar reached the strongest level in more than a
month against the greenback yesterday, $1.0052. It was the best
performer over the past month versus all of its 16 major
counterparts on speculation the North American economy will
endure  Europe ’s debt crisis and as crude oil traded near $100 a
barrel.  Crude futures dropped as much as 0.6 percent today to
$97.36 a barrel in  New York  before rising 1.9 percent to $99.82,
paring a weekly loss to 1.3 percent.  Bank of Canada policy makers said on Dec. 6 that growth in
the domestic and U.S. economy is stronger than forecast, easing
speculation the central bank would signal further monetary
easing. That has also helped the nation’s currency.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Fournier in Montreal at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net ;
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  