-- 
Canada October International Merchandise Trade Report (Text)

-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 
2011-12-09T13:30:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/canada-october-international-merchandise-trade-report-text-.html
The following is the text of
 Canada 's international merchandise trade report for
October from  Statistics Canada .  Canada's merchandise exports declined 3.0% and imports
rose 1.9% in October. Consequently, Canada's trade balance
with the world went from a surplus of $1.0 billion in
September to a deficit of $885 million in October.  Exports and imports  After three consecutive monthly increases, exports
decreased to $38.4 billion in October, as both prices and
volumes fell. Industrial goods and materials, and energy
products sectors led the decline. Automotive products was
the only sector to record a gain during the month.  Imports reached a record high of $39.3 billion, as
volumes increased 1.3%. Imports of machinery and equipment
led the overall increase, followed by energy products and
automotive products.  Imports from the  United States  rose 3.0% to $24.5
billion, the highest value since October 2008, while
exports fell 0.9% to $27.6 billion. As a result, Canada's
trade surplus with the United States narrowed from $4.1
billion in September to $3.1 billion in October.  Exports to countries other than the United States fell
7.9% to $10.8 billion, after peaking in September 2011.
Imports from countries other than the United States edged
up 0.1% to $14.7 billion. Canada's trade deficit with
countries other than the United States increased from $3.0
billion to $4.0 billion in October.  Trade balance  Exports decrease in most sectors  After five consecutive monthly increases, exports of
industrial goods and materials fell 6.0% to $9.8 billion
in October, as prices and volumes fell. Metals and alloys
largely contributed to the decline with a 24.5% decrease
in exports of precious metals and alloys. Partially
offsetting the overall decline were higher exports of
metal ores, up 6.7%, on the strength of iron ores,
concentrates and scrap.  Exports of energy products decreased 5.8% to $8.9
billion in October. The main contributors to the decline
were petroleum and coal products, with a decrease of
20.7%, and coal and other bituminous substances, down
30.6%.  Exports of automotive products increased 4.0% to $5.0
billion in October. Exports of passenger autos and chassis
increased 4.7%, mostly due to higher volumes.  Machinery and equipment lead the increase in imports  Imports of machinery and equipment grew 3.8% to $10.7
billion in October, as volumes and prices rose. Other
communication and related equipment, mainly cellular
telephones, and other transportation equipment, with
higher imports of locomotives, led the gain in machinery
and equipment.  Imports of energy products increased 3.0% to $4.5
billion. The main contributor to the rise was crude
petroleum, gaining 11.5% on the strength of volumes.
Petroleum and coal products declined mainly because of
lower volumes.  Imports of automotive products rose 1.8% to $6.1
billion. Passenger autos and chassis led the increase, up
8.2%, on the strength of volumes. Partially offsetting the
gain was the decline in imports of trucks and other motor
vehicles.  Note: In general, merchandise trade data are revised on an
ongoing basis for each month of the current year. Current
year revisions are reflected in both the customs and
balance of payments (BOP) based data. The previous year's
customs data are revised with the release of the January
and February reference months as well as on a quarterly
basis. The previous two years of customs based data are
revised annually and are released in February with the
December reference month. The previous year's BOP based
data are revised with the release of the January, February
and March reference months. Revisions to BOP based data
for the previous three years are released annually in June
with the April reference month.  Factors influencing revisions include late receipt of
import and export documentation, incorrect information on
customs forms, replacement of estimates produced for the
energy sector with actual figures, changes in
classification of merchandise based on more current
information, and changes to seasonal adjustment factors.  Note to readers  Merchandise trade is one component of Canada's
international balance of payments (BOP), which also
includes trade in services, investment income, current
transfers as well as capital and financial flows.  International merchandise trade data by country are
available on both a BOP and a customs basis for the United
States,  Japan  and the  United Kingdom . Trade data for all
other individual countries are available on a customs
basis only. BOP data are derived from customs data by
making adjustments for factors such as valuation,
coverage, timing and residency. These adjustments are made
to conform to the concepts and definitions of the Canadian
System of National Accounts.  Data in this release are on a BOP basis, seasonally
adjusted in current dollars. Constant dollars are
calculated using the Laspeyres volume formula.  Changes to the classification  Statistics Canada has reduced the number of 10-digit
Harmonized Commodity Coding and Description System (HS)
classification codes that are used to report the commodity
detail in Canada's merchandise import trade data. This
will improve efficiency, maintain data quality and reduce
response burden.  These changes will take effect in January 2012 to
coincide with the World Customs Organization 2012
amendments to the 6-digit HS classification codes as well
as with Finance Canada's changes to the 2012 Customs
Tariff at the 8-digit HS codes. To obtain an HS 2012
Concordance Table, contact the International Trade
Division's Marketing and Client Services Section.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at 
 ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  