-- 
Canada Third Quarter Labor Productivity Report (Text)

-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 
2011-12-09T13:30:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/canada-third-quarter-labor-productivity-report-text-.html
The following is the text of
 Canada 's business sector labor productivity report for
the third quarter released by  Statistics Canada .  The labour productivity of Canadian businesses rose
0.4% in the third quarter, after declining 1.0% in the
second quarter.  Productivity of Canadian businesses rebounds  The third-quarter productivity gain reflected the
upturn in business output, which outpaced the growth in
hours worked.  Following a 0.4% decrease in the second quarter, the
real gross domestic product (GDP) of businesses rose 1.0%
in the third quarter. The goods-producing industries
contributed the most to the increase, as mining and oil
and gas extraction and manufacturing increased their
activity. In the second quarter, output in these two
industries was disrupted by temporary factors, including
the tsunami in  Japan  and the forest fires in northern
 Alberta .  Hours worked grew by 0.7%, an increase similar to that
observed in each of the last three quarters. Employment
and average hours (hours worked per job) also grew at much
the same rate as in the previous quarter, registering
increases of 0.4% and 0.3% respectively.  In the third quarter, the productivity gain for all
businesses combined was attributable to goods-producing
businesses, as their productivity was up 0.7%, following a
1.8% decrease in the previous quarter. The main
contributors to the increase were mining and oil and gas
extraction (+1.7%) and manufacturing (+0.7%).  In services-producing businesses, productivity remained
unchanged despite large increases in wholesale trade and
in finance and insurance.  In the  United States , the productivity of American
businesses rose 0.5% in the third quarter, after remaining
unchanged in the second quarter and falling 0.3% in the
first quarter.  In Canadian businesses, labour costs per unit of
production declined 0.5%, following five consecutive
quarterly increases.  The decrease in unit labour costs in the third quarter
was largely a result of increased productivity, as average
compensation per hour worked edged down 0.1%, after
remaining unchanged in the previous quarter. In each of
the last two quarters, hourly compensation in Canada
followed the same pattern as in the United States.  After three quarters of appreciation, the average value
of the Canadian dollar relative to the American dollar was
down 1.3% in the third quarter. With this depreciation,
Canadian unit labour costs expressed in US dollars fell
1.7% in the third quarter, the first decrease in a year.
In comparison, American businesses saw their unit labour
costs decline 0.6%, after remaining steady in the previous
quarter.  The third quarter labour productivity figures released
today were revised back to the first quarter of 2008 at
the aggregate level and to the first quarter of 1997 at
the industry level.  Note: Important changes are coming to Canada's System of
National Accounts (CSNA), starting in October 2012. These
changes will affect all users of CSNA products and
statistics such as gross domestic product (GDP), balance
of payments, international investment, and input-output
tables. For more information, consult the National
Economic Accounts website.  The term "productivity" in this release refers to
labour productivity. For the purposes of this analysis,
labour productivity and related variables cover the
business sector only. Labour productivity is a measure of
real GDP per hour worked. Unit labour cost is defined as
the cost of workers' wages and benefits per unit of real
GDP.  This release incorporates a number of source data
revisions: revised GDP by industry released in September;
revised Survey of Employment, Payrolls and Hours data,
released in March; and the new annual benchmarks for the
Economic Accounts labour statistics, published on November
23. In addition, the seasonally adjusted estimates of
hours worked and employment by industry were revised using
the X-12-ARIMA seasonal adjustment method.  All the growth rates reported in this release are
rounded to one decimal place. They are calculated with
index numbers rounded to three decimal places, which are
now available on CANSIM.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at 
 ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  