-- 
Cantor Plans Unit to Draw Stock Orders From Retail Brokers

-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 
2011-12-09T22:53:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/cantor-fitzgerald-plans-unit-to-draw-stock-orders-from-retail-brokerages.html
Cantor Fitzgerald  LP is expanding
into equity wholesaling, the business of executing orders off
exchanges primarily for firms catering to individual investors.  The operation will begin next month, Jarred Kessler
confirmed through Sandra Lee, a spokeswoman. Kessler is global
head of equities at Cantor. Dow Jones Newswires reported earlier
today that Cantor,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  Credit Suisse
Group AG (CSGN)  all may enter the business.  American financial services firms are looking for new lines
of business after U.S. lawmakers passed the Volcker rule last
year as part of the Dodd-Frank Act to restrict banks from making
bets with shareholder money. Equity wholesaling is dominated by
firms including  Knight Capital Group Inc. (KCG) ,  UBS AG (UBSN) , Citadel LLC
and  Citigroup Inc. (C) , whose market-making units execute trades
within their own walls.  “It doesn’t seem like a growth business,”  Adam Sussman ,
head of research at New York-based Tabb Group LLC, said in a
phone interview. “If it’s not a growth business, it’s a
displacement strategy, which means they think they’re going to
take business away from someone else.”  Michael Duvally, a spokesman for Goldman Sachs, and Credit
Suisse’s Karen Laureano-Rikardsen declined to comment.  Shawn Matthews, the chief executive officer of the Cantor
Fitzgerald & Co. subsidiary, said in a Nov. 30 interview with
Bloomberg News that Cantor plans to add at least 200 employees
next year in a companywide expansion. The company boosted
headcount in areas including credit trading, leveraged loans and
fixed-income sales by more than 200 this year.  About 10 percent of U.S. equities volume comes from
individual traders, according to Joseph Mecane, co-head of U.S.
listings and cash execution at NYSE Euronext. About  30 percent 
of equities trading takes place over-the-counter, with those
transactions based on prices established on exchanges, according
to data compiled by Bats Global Markets Inc.  Ameritrade, Schwab  Discount and other brokers that cater to individual
investors often turn to wholesalers for orders that can be
traded at the market’s prevailing price.  TD Ameritrade Holding
Corp. (AMTD)   sent  74 percent of its market orders in NYSE-listed stocks
to Citadel and 21 percent to UBS in the third quarter.  Charles
Schwab Corp. (SCHW)  sent 99 percent to UBS in the second quarter.  Market makers in the wholesaling business typically give
slightly better prices than are available publicly to individual
investors, and pay retail brokers for sending them. The orders
are attractive to market makers because the senders, unlike
professional traders sending buy and sell requests to exchanges,
aren’t expected to know more about short-term price movements
than the wholesaler.  Firms engaging in wholesaling “make a little bit of a
spread between the price they improve the client at and their
exit price,” Sussman said. The spread refers to the difference
between the price at which the firm buys shares and sells them.  NYSE Euronext and Nasdaq OMX Group Inc., the biggest
operators of U.S. stock markets, have argued that the increase
in orders traded away from exchanges erodes the ability of
buyers and sellers to interact and yield prices that are deemed
reliable. The New York Stock Exchange and NYSE Amex proposed a
pilot program in October to attract some of the orders
wholesalers don’t trade with. Their aim is to diversify the
participants using the venues to attract more volume.  “We are looking to build out our sales and trading
businesses in both debt and equity,” Cantor’s Matthews said in
the Nov. 30 phone interview about the company’s overall
expansion. “There are a lot of qualified people looking for an
alternative to the traditional financial services model that has
made many banks act more like massive  hedge funds .”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nina Mehta in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  