-- 
Carbon Permits Sell for Minimum Before New Jersey Exits RGGI

-- B y   J u s t i n   D o o m
-- 
2011-12-09T17:16:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/carbon-permits-sell-for-minimum-before-new-jersey-exits-rggi.html
Carbon-dioxide emissions allowances
in the U.S. Northeast were auctioned for $1.89, the minimum
allowable bid, as  New Jersey  prepared to exit the 10-state
regional program.  The quarterly auction sold 27.3 million, or 63 percent, of
the available 43 million allowances, the fifth-lowest since the
program began in 2008, the  Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative 
said today on its  website .  The results bolster New Jersey’s decision to exit RGGI at
the end of the year, said Larry Hajna, a spokesman for the
state’s Department of Environmental Protection. Republican
Governor  Chris Christie  in May called RGGI “a failure” because
permits that were initially projected to cost $20 to $30 never
 sold  for more than $3.51.  “ Climate change  is real, but RGGI is not working,” Hajna
said in an e-mail. “Today’s auction results affirm the fact
that supply of allowances continues to outweigh demand.”  The auction, held Dec. 7, generated $51.5 million for the
states from power producers. Each allowance gives a company the
right to emit one ton of carbon dioxide in a cap-and-trade
program that includes the six New England states, New Jersey,
New York, Delaware and  Maryland .  No Motivation  The program was designed to encourage producers to cut
emissions and Christie said the low prices won’t motivate them
to change their business practices. Requiring companies to
purchase allowances drives up costs for the companies, and
ultimately customers, he said.  Auction prices have fallen as the worst U.S. economic slump
since the Great Depression resulted in consumers spending less
on power and cutting demand for emissions allowances, Susan Tierney, a managing principal at the Boston-based consulting
company Analysis Group, said by telephone. “Electricity demand
is down, so there’s less power production and less pressure on
the power sector.”  The states benefit from the revenue generated by the
auctions, Tierney said. “Every state gained from participation
in RGGI in terms of macro effects, so they’d be turning away
from that opportunity if they decide to leave.”  Economic Benefits  States use the auction proceeds for renewable energy
programs, utility programs, assisting consumers with bills or to
pad their general funds. Analysis Group said the 10 states had
received $912 million from power companies through September, in
a November  report . The program generated a total of $1.6 billion
in “economic value,” including auction revenue, jobs created
and other factors, the report said.  New Jersey received $118 million in auction revenue. New
York received the most, $328 million, followed by Maryland, at
$170 million, and $143 million to  Massachusetts .  Massachusetts has distributed the proceeds to more than 70
communities, Mark Sylvia, the state’s energy resources
commissioner, said by telephone. “We’ve demonstrated over the
last three years that a regional approach to an issue like
 carbon emissions  can be successful,” he said.  Other states have considered exiting the program.  New
Hampshire  and Delaware almost opted out of RGGI earlier this
year, and  Maine ’s Legislature approved a measure that gives the
state permission to pull out if the total emissions regulated
through RGGI fall below 35 million tons a year.  The New Hampshire legislature approved in June a bill to
withdraw from the program, and the state senate was one vote shy
of overturning Governor  John Lynch ’s subsequent veto.  Costing Jobs  “Governor Lynch believes that withdrawing from RGGI would
cost our citizens jobs and in the future hinder our economic
recovery,” Colin Manning, a spokesman for the governor, said by
telephone. The state received about $33 million in proceeds,
according to the Analysis Group’s report.  Delaware  State Senator George Bunting, who originally
supported RGGI, sponsored a bill in May to exit the program,
saying in a telephone interview that it hasn’t been as effective
as he’d hoped. “I had confidence that in the long haul, this
was going to prove to be a decent thing,” he said.  Maine’s Governor Paul LePage, who was elected last year,
wouldn’t have supported RGGI if he had been in office when it
was introduced, said Ken Fletcher, director of the state’s
Office of Energy Independence and Security.  “I’m not saying RGGI was a complete failure or a complete
success,” he said in an interview. “There was a cost to it,
and some good things to come out of it.”  Carbon allowances this year won’t exceed 188 million tons,
and next year’s cap will fall to 165 million for the remaining
nine states, according to RGGI.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Justin Doom in  New York  at 
 jdoom1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  