-- 
Cash In at Age 75 and Help Save Social Security: Jerome Golden

-- B y   J e r o m e   G o l d e n
-- 
2011-12-09T00:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/cash-in-at-age-75-and-help-save-social-security-jerome-golden.html
There is much talk about the need to
bring Social Security into actuarial balance, to ensure that the
 trust fund  stays positive beyond 2035, and the system remains
sound for future generations. Why not right that balance and at
the same time give Social Security beneficiaries more choices
about how and when their benefits are distributed?  Allowing new retirees to decide what benefit structure
works best for them -- whether it’s to defer monthly payments
until age 75 and beyond, or to save up  benefits  as a hedge
against the eventual cost of long-term care -- could save
hundreds of billions of dollars over the next 10 to 20 years,
and could well save the program money for generations to come.  In my career, I have focused entirely on the private
sector. I have not analyzed government programs -- until now.
While plenty of proposals have been made to simply cut retiree
benefits, I considered whether there might be a way to make
Social Security better and stronger.  The sheer size of Social Security gives you a sense of its
importance to current and future retired Americans. The current
value of the program’s promised benefits is, depending on the
measurement used, in the range of $12 trillion to $15 trillion.
That is almost as much as the  value  of all the private
retirement plans combined.  The reform that I propose is designed to improve people’s
ability to achieve security, however they choose to retire;
strengthen the Social Security “brand”; and save a significant
amount of money in the next two decades until long-term
demographic trends, particularly the phasing out of baby-boom
retirees, bring Social Security into actuarial balance.  The fundamental strategy underlying this reform is to
permit newly retired workers to use their share of the $12
trillion to $15 trillion to create a personal retirement program
that aligns with their own circumstances and objectives.  Retiree Choices  For example, you might plan to continue working to age 75
and gradually cut back on your hours. You would be able to stage
your Social Security benefits over that same period to meet your
developing cash-flow needs.  Or, if you are concerned about one day needing to pay for a
caregiver, rather than burden your children or grandchildren,
you would be able to take a lower Social Security monthly
payment in the beginning in return for a higher one when the
time comes to pay for that long-term care. Essentially, you
could have your personal store of Social Security value
accumulate on an actuarial basis (recognizing both interest and
longevity credits) for future use.  Some options could not be permitted. For instance, retirees
could not be allowed to take their share as a lump sum, because
if enough people did that, the system would collapse. On the
other hand, these reforms could also be extended in some fashion
for the benefit of not only new retirees but also people who are
already receiving Social Security benefits.  In most cases, beneficiaries’ customized programs would
save the system money. And the amounts could be significant.
Consider that a single beneficiary who staged his or her
elections would save the system approximately $75,000 during the
period before the higher payments resulting from deferral would
exceed those that would have been made if the beneficiary
elected to receive full benefits at the normal  retirement age .  With 2.5 million new Social Security retiree awards each
year, an adoption rate of just 10 percent could bring almost $20
billion in future savings from the people retiring in just the
first year. Over the next 10 years, there could be savings of
$200 billion to $400 billion and, over the next 20 years, even
more.  Value Doesn't Change  Of course, a significant number of Social Security
beneficiaries would be expected to still take full benefits at
their normal retirement age -- because it’s their only or major
source of retirement income. Importantly, this reform would not
reduce the current value of anyone’s promised benefits; it would
only reduce the system’s cash outflow in the near term, buying
time for the demographics to work through the system.  Under this reform, there would be no need to increase the
normal retirement age; the average age at election of benefits
would rise naturally. In addition, if enough people postponed
their regular monthly benefits to cover the eventual cost of a
caregiver, that might take pressure off Medicaid and other
funders of long-term care.  Perhaps the biggest benefit would be that all Americans
could achieve a greater sense of security about their own
retirement future.  (Jerome Golden is the founder and president of Golden
Retirement LLC. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Jerome Golden at  jsg@goldenretirement.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net . 