-- 
MF Global Trustee’s $2.2 Billion Customer Payout Wins Backing From CFTC

-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r   a n d   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 
2011-12-09T15:49:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/cftc-backs-mf-global-trustee-s-proposed-2-1-billion-payout-before-hearing.html
The  Commodity Futures Trading
Commission  defended a planned $2.2 billion payout to U.S.
commodity customers by the trustee liquidating the  MF Global
Inc.  brokerage, saying customer claims take priority over all
other claims.  The third transfer by trustee James Giddens, which a judge
is considering in Manhattan bankruptcy court today, would give
commodity customers about 72 percent of their assets, a lawyer
for Giddens told the judge. Judge Martin Glenn received at least
18 formal objections and 43 letters questioning the move,
including one from creditors of the parent company and one from
the parent’s trustee, who said they also have claims on the
brokerage.  “The claims of commodity customers must be satisfied in
full before any portion of the MFGI estate may be used to
satisfy the claims of general creditors,” the CFTC said in a
court filing yesterday.  CME Group Inc. (CME) , owner of the world’s largest futures
exchange, will guarantee $550 million of the payment in case any
customer gets more than a fair share of the brokerage’s assets,
which by law must be split equally among customers, the CFTC
said.  In the transfer, Giddens would pay out from 80 percent to
85 percent of all assets remaining in his control, keeping $800
million in reserve, according to court papers. Two previous
payouts to commodity customers totaled about $2 billion.  CFTC Restrictions  CFTC regulators approved restrictions on how brokers can
invest customer funds, after as much as $1.2 billion went
missing before  MF Global Holdings Ltd.  filed for bankruptcy on
Oct. 31.  Jon Corzine , the defunct parent company’s former chief
executive officer, said he “would never have intended”
transfers from segregated accounts and had no knowledge of any
such movements of funds until a day before the bankruptcy.  Giddens has transferred about 38,000 commodity accounts to
other firms, and struck a deal to sell 330 securities accounts.
Three transfers of collateral made and pending will give
commodity customers about $4 billion of their assets, while the
sale of securities accounts would give most smaller customers
access to all their funds, according to court filings.  The trustee for the bankrupt parent faulted Giddens’s plan
for the securities customers, saying they shouldn’t get the
total net equity in their accounts. Because the brokerage is 100
percent-owned by the holding company, the equity in MF Global
units is an asset of the bankrupt estate, wrote lawyers for the
trustee, former Federal Bureau of Investigation director  Louis Freeh .  ‘Language Changes’  To deal with objections by commodity customers who haven’t
yet received any money, Giddens said he “made some language
changes” in a proposed order he will ask the judge to sign
approving the transfer.  To satisfy administrators of MF Global’s U.K. and other
foreign affiliates, who objected that the transfer might deplete
funds available to pay them, Giddens would make future transfers
based on available assets and not ask the judge to let him use
his own discretion, he said in a filing this week.  “The trustee believes it would be more prudent, relieve
uncertainty, and better inform the expectations of customers to
make further bulk transfers, if any, only upon further motion
and order of the court based on facts and circumstances and
availability of property,” he said.  British Unit  MF Global UK Ltd. said Dec. 6 it has $250 million remaining
in accounts at the MF Global brokerage, of which $230 million is
in segregated commodity accounts for customers. The U.K. company
hasn’t received any money from the trustee of the U.S. brokerage
and isn’t in line to get any in the planned payout of $2.2
billion, the administrators of the bankrupt company said in a
court filing.  The judge handling the MF Global brokerage liquidation in
 New York  “must adequately protect” all former customers in any
order he signs approving Giddens’s next transfer, they said.  Some customers faulted the transfer because it covered only
U.S. customers. The brokerage trustee treats foreign futures
customers “differently,” favoring U.S. clients, said RWA
Raiffeisen Ware Austria AG, a cooperative agricultural group.  In the filing, Giddens said he excluded customers whose
assets are held in foreign accounts “because virtually all of
it is not under the trustee’s control, but rather under the
control of MFGI’s foreign former affiliates,” which are being
liquidated in their home countries.  What and When  RWA has asked Giddens what he is doing to recover the funds
from administrators of the U.K. affiliate, and when he might
return assets to these customers.  “We are urgently working on responses to all our
objectors,”  Kent Jarrell , a Giddens spokesman, said in an e-
mail.  Creditors of the MF Global parent said Giddens is planning
the distribution without explaining why he thinks the funds are
customer property or verifying that the customers are entitled
to receive the funds.  Paying the wrong people or paying out too much will hurt
the bankrupt parent company’s estate, which has claims against
the brokerage and owns its equity, MF Global Holdings creditors’
lawyer  Martin Bienenstock  said in a Dec. 5 court filing.  Segregated Funds  Including funds already distributed, Giddens controlled
$4.9 billion in U.S. segregated commodity customer funds, CME
said. It calculated that an additional $900 million in customer
funds were traded on foreign exchanges, putting the total at
about $5.8 billion. Previous estimates put the segregated
accounts at about $5.4 billion.  A $1.2 billion shortfall would mean more than 20 percent of
commodity customers’ segregated assets are missing.  CME said the creditors committee in the holding company’s
bankruptcy doesn’t have the legal right to object to the
trustee’s distributions.  The parent company’s Oct. 31 bankruptcy filing, the eighth-
largest in U.S. history, listed assets of $41 billion. Corzine,
the former co-chief executive officer of Goldman Sachs Group
Inc., quit as MF Global’s CEO on Nov. 4.  The brokerage case is Securities Investor Protection Corp.
v. MF Global Inc., 11-02790, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of New York ( Manhattan ). The parent’s bankruptcy case
is MF Global Holdings Ltd., 11-bk-15059,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court ,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  