-- 
Chevron May Need to Drill Relief Well at Brazil Spill Site

-- B y   P e t e r   M i l l a r d   a n d   R o d r i g o   O r i h u e l a
-- 
2011-12-09T20:30:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/chevron-may-need-to-drill-relief-well-at-frade-chambriard-says.html
Chevron Corp., the  second-largest (CVX) 
U.S. oil company, may need to drill a relief well at its $3.6
billion Frade project in deep water off Brazil’s coast as part
of measures to counter a spill.  The cementing at the Frade well that leaked last month
currently “doesn’t guarantee 100 percent efficiency,” Magda Chambriard, a director at the regulator known as ANP, told
reporters today in Rio de Janeiro. Drilling a relief well is
“one possibility” if Chevron doesn’t convince ANP that the
cementing is solidly stuck to the ground, Chambriard said.  A decision on the cementing may be reached as early as next
week, Chambriard said.  Chevron may have to pay as much as 350 million reais
($193.5 million) in fines and damages for the Nov. 7 leak of at
least 2,400 barrels of crude at the Frade project off the coast
of  Rio de Janeiro .  Brazil has tightened safety conditions at oil projects
following the spill at BP Plc’s Macondo well in the  Gulf of
Mexico  last year, Chambriard said. The agency has shut 11
drilling rigs and production platforms over the past year
because of safety concerns, she said.  “Our analysis so far indicates that the cement plugs have
been properly placed,”  Scott Walker , a spokesman for  San Ramon ,
California-based Chevron, said in an e-mailed response to
questions today. “Chevron will continue to discuss this and
other issues with regulators and hopes to get their approval
soon to proceed with the proposed well abandonment plan,”
Walker said in the e-mail.  A relief well off of  Brazil ’s coast will cost at least $50
million, according to Hernani Chavez a former exploration and
production manager at Petroleo Brasileiro SA.  “Cementing the well should be totally sufficient,” Chavez
said in a telephone interview from Rio de Janeiro today. “At
Macondo, a relief well was necessary because they were unable to
halt the flow, the situation was completely different.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Peter Millard in Rio de Janeiro at 
 pmillard1@bloomberg.net ;
Rodrigo Orihuela in Rio de Janeiro at 
 rorihuela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  