-- 
China Inflation Cooling to 4.2% May Presage More Monetary Easing: Economy

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-12-09T10:29:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/china-inflation-cools-to-slowest-in-14-months-giving-room-to-ease-policy.html
China’s inflation reached a 14-month
low and industrial production rose less than forecast,
bolstering the case for more stimulus measures to shore up
growth in the world’s second-largest economy.  Consumer prices  rose 4.2 percent from a year earlier, the
statistics bureau said on its website. Output gained 12.4
percent, the smallest increase since August 2009 and below a
median forecast of 12.6 percent. A separate report showed
passenger-car sales rose the least in six months.  Premier  Wen Jiabao ’s government may telegraph at an annual
economic works conference in coming days that growth is now a
greater concern than inflation, given risks posed by Europe’s
crisis and a domestic property-market slowdown. Investors have
been paring back expectations for gains in the yuan as China
slows, with 12-month non-deliverable forwards today suggesting a
0.8 percent decline against the dollar.  “Curbing inflation is a good thing, but the reason why
inflation is slowing is because the global economy is slowing,”
said Koji Toda, chief  fund manager  at Resona Bank Ltd. in  Tokyo ,
which oversees the equivalent of $68 billion. “If you see that
fact, you can’t be so optimistic.”  Yuan forwards fell 0.2 percent to 6.4150 per dollar as of
3:52 p.m. in  Hong Kong .  China  will maintain a “prudent” monetary policy and a
“proactive” fiscal policy next year, the official Xinhua news
agency reported today, citing a meeting of the Communist Party’s
Politburo chaired by President  Hu Jintao  ahead of the works
conference.  ‘Elastic’ Definition  “The word prudent will have a very elastic meaning in
2012,” said  Stephen Green , a Hong Kong-based economist with
Standard Chartered Plc. While this “likely signals a cautious
approach” to further easing in the short term, “the money tap
will be loosened, no doubt,” he said.  In December last year, the Politburo said the nation would
shift its monetary policy stance to “prudent” from
“moderately loose,” with controlling inflation the top
priority. At that point, the government had already raised
 interest rates  and  reserve requirements , showing how changes in
the official labels for policy can lag behind the implementation
of shifts.  Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ)  said  China’s
economy  is cooling more quickly than expected, with a rebound
possible in the second quarter after more easing. Passenger-car
sales rose 0.3 percent to 1.34 million units, the China
Association of Automobile Manufacturers said.  Retail Sales, Investment  Producer prices gained 2.7 percent, the least in almost two
years, the statistics bureau reports showed. Retail sales rose a
more-than-estimated 17.3 percent. Fixed-asset investment
excluding rural areas climbed 24.5 percent in the first 11
months from a year earlier compared with 24.9 percent in the
first 10 months, today’s releases showed.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index dropped 2.2 percent as of 4:54
p.m. in Tokyo after leaders meeting in Brussels said European
nations will channel as much as 200 billion euros ($267 billion)
to the  International Monetary Fund  to tackle the region’s debt
crisis.  In  South Korea , the central bank may cut its economic
growth forecast for next year if  Europe ’s crisis worsens beyond
the first quarter, which currrently seems unlikely, Lee Sang
Woo, director-general of its research department, said today.
The monetary authority sees a 3.7 percent expansion, down from
an estimate of 4.6 percent in July.  Hong Kong,  Japan   Hong Kong may have to stand behind banks and deposits
should the global economy slump, Nigel Chalk, the International
Monetary Fund’s China mission chief, told Bloomberg Television
today. An IMF report said that the city needs to be ready to add
“significant and immediate” fiscal stimulus.  Japan’s growth rebound in the aftermath of the March
earthquake was less than initially estimated, a government
report showed today, underscoring the case for the  Bank of Japan (8301) 
to add stimulus. Gross domestic product increased an annualized
5.6 percent last quarter, compared with a preliminary figure of
6 percent.  A slowdown in Japan’s growth is “unavoidable” for now,
 Kiyohiko Nishimura , deputy governor of the central bank, said in
Tokyo today.  Also due today is a U.S. trade report that may show the
nation’s deficit rose to $44 billion in October from $43.1
billion in September, according to the median forecast in a
 Bloomberg News survey  of analysts.  Food Costs  In China, officials due to meet for the Central Economic
Work Conference to set the policy framework for next year may
consider further stimulus. The Economic Observer has reported
that the meeting will be from Dec. 12 to 14.  Today’s data showed inflation moderating on smaller gains
in food prices, which climbed 8.8 percent from a year earlier,
less than the 11.9 percent gain in October.  “The policy wind is going to increasingly blow in the
direction of easing,” Yao Wei, a Hong Kong-based economist at
Societe Generale SA, wrote this week. Officials may decide at
the work meeting that “stabilizing growth” will replace
“stabilizing prices” as the policy priority, she said.  Nomura Holdings Inc. says China’s central bank may cut
interest rates in the first quarter as growth reaches a
“trough.” The  Shanghai stock index (SHCOMP) , China’s benchmark, has
declined more than 17 percent this year on concern growth will
falter, damping company earnings and boosting banks’ bad debts.  Falling Property Prices  The two biggest risks to the economy are a “much-worse”
euro-zone debt crisis and falling investment in property because
of tightening measures, Lu Ting, a Hong Kong-based economist for
Bank of America Merrill Lynch said today.  In November, housing transactions climbed 12 percent from
the previous month as prices fell, according to data released by
the statistics bureau today.  Nomura estimates economic growth may slow to 7.5 percent in
the January-March period, the least since the global financial
crisis, from an estimated 8.6 percent this quarter.  Inflation may average about 4 percent in 2012, Zheng Jingping, the statistics bureau’s chief engineer, wrote this
week. Consumer-price gains reached a three-year high of 6.5
percent in July and have exceeded the government’s full-year
target of 4 percent every month this year.  The  People’s Bank of China  cut the amount of cash lenders
must set aside as reserves for the first time in three years
this month, adding cash to the financial system to support
growth. An official  manufacturing index  contracted for the first
time since February 2009 as export orders and new orders
slumped, adding to evidence that growth is ebbing.  China’s expansion slowed to 9.1 percent in the third
quarter, the least in two years, after the government raised
interest rates, tightened credit and expanded property-market
curbs.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Li Yanping in Beijing at 
 yli16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  