-- 
China Sovereign Fund Has About 60% of Assets Invested in U.S., Jin Says

-- B y   J o s h u a   F e l l m a n   a n d   S y l v i a   W i e r
-- 
2011-12-10T05:42:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/china-sovereign-fund-has-about-60-of-assets-invested-in-u-s-jin-says.html
China Investment Corp. , the nation’s
sovereign wealth fund, has about 60 percent of its assets in the
U.S., which has many investment opportunities and a good legal
system, Jin Liqun told CNBC in an interview yesterday.  Jin, chairman of CIC’s supervisory board, said that much of
the rest of the fund’s assets are in  Europe , other nations in
Asia and  Canada , with investments in resources, real estate and
“open-market transactions.”  The fund needs to take a “serious look” at the financial
industry in the U.S. and Europe to see if it’s ready for
“serious discussions” about investment, Jin told the financial
news channel.  China Investment managed $409.6 billion at the end of 2010,
making it the world’s fifth-largest national fund, according to
Sovereign Wealth Fund Institute. CIC’s international investments
returned 12 percent last year, compared with the MSCI World
Index’s 9.6 percent gain, according to the fund’s annual report.  “The European debt crisis can hardly get solved in the
near term and banks there are likely to suffer further losses”
from potential write-downs in debt holdings, said Lu Zhiming, a
Shanghai-based analyst at Bank of Communications Co. “The
timing doesn’t look right yet for investments.”  China ’s central bank plans to create a new investment
vehicle to manage $300 billion in foreign reserves, Reuters
reported yesterday, citing two unidentified people familiar with
the matter. The vehicle will run two funds that pursue “more
aggressive” investments in the U.S. and Europe markets to
generate higher returns, the report said.  Regarding aid for Europe, Jin said that China is still a
developing, low-income nation; that its “hard-won” financial
reserves are important for the nation’s economy; and that it’s
not the job of CIC or any Chinese companies, state-owned or
private, to rescue any country in distress.  Still, China would be willing to help with a “credible,
convincing” program in Europe, he said.  “China would be willing to invest in, for instance,
infrastructure in European countries” and can take equity
stakes in companies that need capital, Jin said.  Economic Growth  Jin also said that China can maintain an economic growth
rate of about 8 percent for “a decade or two” and that some
investors’ concerns that the banking system is fragile are
unwarranted.  China’s banks have loaned about 6 trillion yuan ($947
billion) of assets to homeowners and roughly the same amount to
developers, Jin said. With requirements for mortgages including
minimum 60 percent down payments, stress tests show that banks
can deal with the bursting of any bubbles, he said.  The U.S. passing a yuan-manipulation bill would be a
“recipe for disaster,” and an artificially high yuan would
boost exports from other nations, rather than push production
back to the U.S., Jin said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Fellman in Shanghai at 
 jfellman@bloomberg.net ;
Sylvia Wier in New York at 
 swier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sylvia Wier at   swier@bloomberg.net  