-- 
China Pledges ‘Prudent’ Monetary Policy in 2012 Even as Loosening Forecast

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-12-09T09:32:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/china-pledges-prudent-monetary-policy-in-2012-even-as-loosening-forecast.html
China  will maintain a “prudent”
monetary policy and a “proactive” fiscal policy next year, the
official Xinhua news agency reported, citing a meeting of the
Communist Party’s Politburo chaired by President  Hu Jintao .  The decision of the Politburo, the 25-member body that
oversees policy-making, came ahead of a work conference that
will set economic policy guidelines for the coming year. That
event may take place Dec. 12-14, according to the Economic
Observer newspaper.  China has already eased monetary policy to aid growth, this
month cutting the amount of  cash  lenders need to set aside as
reserves for the first time since 2008. Nomura Holdings Inc.
estimates that the economy may expand only 7.9 percent in 2012,
the slowest pace in 13 years, as export growth weakens and
investment in housing cools. Data today showed industrial-
production growth weakening and inflation moderating.  “The word prudent will have a very elastic meaning in
2012,” said  Stephen Green , a Hong Kong-based economist with
Standard Chartered Plc. While this “likely signals a cautious
approach” to further easing in the short term, “the money tap
will be loosened, no doubt,” he said.  In December last year, the Politburo said the nation would
shift its monetary policy stance to “prudent” from
“moderately loose,” with controlling inflation the top
priority. At that point, the government had already raised
 interest rates  and  reserve requirements , showing how changes in
the official labels for policy can lag behind the implementation
of shifts.  Stimulus Aftermath  Officials are still wrestling with the aftermath of a 4-
trillion yuan ($631 billion) stimulus package and record lending
that helped to lift the economy out of the 2008-09 global
financial crisis.  Premier  Wen Jiabao  said in November that policies will be
“fine-tuned” as needed. Inflation has cooled for four
consecutive months after reaching a three-year high of 6.5
percent in July.  “The scope for monetary easing is limited given inflation
risks and negative real interest rates,” said Cui Li, a Hong
Kong-based economist at Royal Bank of Scotland Plc. “Fiscal
policy will remain the key pillar to shore up growth in light of
global uncertainties.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Li Yanping in Beijing at 
 yli16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  