-- 
China Passenger-Car Sales Gain at Slowest Pace in 6 Months as Demand Wanes

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-12-09T07:14:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/china-passenger-car-sales-gain-at-slowest-pace-in-6-months-as-demand-wanes.html
China ’s passenger-car sales rose at
the slowest pace in six months, as monetary tightening and the
removal of government incentives dented demand at  Chery
Automobile  Co. and  Honda Motor Co. (7267)   Wholesale deliveries, including sport-utility vehicles and
minivans, gained 0.3 percent to 1.34 million units last month,
the  China Association of Automobile Manufacturers  said today in
a statement. That compares with the 0.5 percent median estimate
of five analysts surveyed by Bloomberg and is the slowest pace
since May, when sales dropped 0.1 percent to 1.04 million.  China’s vehicle sales have slowed from last year’s record
32 percent increase as inflation, higher  interest rates  and the
end of a two-year stimulus plan deter purchases. Deliveries for
2011 may rise the least in 13 years, according to the auto
industry group, adding to signs  China’s economy  is slowing.  “Inflation and gasoline prices are high and the outlook is
still uncertain,” said Yale Zhang, managing director at
industry consultant Autoforesight Shanghai Co. “This has
reduced consumers’ will to purchase.”  China Slowdown  The auto manufacturers association, which has cut its
market forecast twice this year, estimates the number of
vehicles delivered to Chinese dealerships will rise between 3
percent and 5 percent in 2011, after surging 32 percent in 2010
on the back of tax breaks and rebates for buyers in rural areas.
That would mark the first time the Chinese market expands at a
slower pace than U.S. light-vehicle retail sales, based on
association figures stretching back to 1998.  Dong Yang, deputy head of the association, said today that
China’s vehicle sales will “very likely” grow more than 2
percent this year.  Minivans, popular in rural areas to transport goods and
people, fell 9.5 percent last month in China, leading declines
in passenger-car deliveries, according to association numbers.
That extends this year’s slide to 9.8 percent. Sport-utility
vehicle sales gained 21 percent in November.  Including buses and trucks, total sales in China fell 2.4
percent to 1.66 million vehicles last month, according to the
association. In the first 11 months of the year, they increased
2.6 percent, with passenger-car deliveries up 5.3 percent to
13.1 million.  Chery, Honda  Chery Automobile’s car deliveries fell 5.9 percent to
41,600 last month.  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) ,  Japan ’s biggest
automaker, sold 82,000 vehicles, down 1.3 percent from a year
earlier, Niu Yu, the company’s Beijing-based spokesman, said
Dec. 6. Tokyo-based rival Honda had a 3.3 percent decline in
November sales to 58,228, the company said in a statement the
same day.  Ford Motor Co. (F) , maker of the Focus compact and Mondeo
sedan, said its sales in China fell 7 percent in November to
43,338, led by a 19 percent decline in deliveries at its
commercial-vehicle joint venture.  In contrast,  General Motors Co. (GM)  boosted deliveries in China
20 percent last month to 237,130, the fastest pace in 10 months,
helped by minivans made by joint venture  SAIC-GM-Wuling
Automobile Co.   GM’s Buick Excelle tied with  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s Lavida sedan
for the top-selling model last month, with sales of 23,900 units
each, according to association data.  Slowing Economy  Last month’s deceleration in auto sales adds to evidence
that the world’s second-largest economy is slowing.  China’s manufacturing contracted last month for the first
time since February 2009, according to a government-backed
survey of  purchasing managers , as the  property market  cooled and
 Europe ’s crisis cut export demand.  The central bank announced its first reduction in banks’
reserve requirements since 2008 the night before the release of
the data. Retail gasoline prices were lowered by as much as 3.3
percent in October, the first cut this year, after four
increases since June 2010 boosted prices by about 20 percent,
according to the nation’s top economic planner.  “We’re aware of how the world economy is performing,”
Olaf Kastner, chief executive officer of Bayerische Motoren
Werke AG’s China venture, said in a Dec. 1 interview. “For next
year we’re still positive. We might not see the very high growth
rate we have enjoyed for the last two to three years, all of
us.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Liza Lin in Shanghai at 
 llin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  