-- 
China Said to Buy Local Corn for Government Reserves in Three Provinces

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-12-09T08:00:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/china-said-to-buy-local-corn-for-government-reserves-in-three-provinces.html
China , the second-largest corn
producer, has started purchasing the grain from farmers for
state reserves, said two trading executives and a government
official familiar with the matter.  The government will buy local corn at 1,960 yuan ($308) a
metric ton in Heilongjiang province, 1,980 yuan a ton in Jilin
and 2,000 yuan a ton in Liaoning, said the two executives, who
declined to be identified as they are not authorized to speak to
the media. There were no details on how much the government may
buy or when the purchasing may end, the executives said.  Two calls to  China Grain Reserves Corp. , which is
responsible for stockpiling grains and oilseeds on behalf of the
government, wasn’t answered.  China’s  imports of corn  and wheat may rise as state
reserves boost stockpiles and expanding livestock production
spurs use of feed grain, state-owned researcher the China
National Grain & Oils Information Center said Nov. 15. China
bought corn from the U.S. this year to replenish its inventories
after selling the grain to curb local prices.  “The government purchasing will help stem the recent
decline in corn prices,”  Tian Feng , analyst at BOC
International (China) Ltd., said by phone from Shanghai today.
“The futures market responded bullishly.”  Corn for September delivery, the most-actively traded
contract, gained 1.3 percent to 2,249 yuan a ton on the  Dalian
Commodity Exchange .  China may import 4 million tons of corn in the year that
started Oct. 1, an increase of 3.02 million tons from a year
ago, after state reserves boost purchases, the national grain
center said in November.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Feiwen Rong in Beijing at 
 frong2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Richard Dobson  at 
 rdobson4@bloomberg.net  