-- 
China’s Politburo Affirms ‘Prudent’ Monetary Policy Next Year, Xinhua Says

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-12-09T11:42:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/china-to-maintain-prudent-monetary-policy-next-year-xinhua-news-reports.html
China  will maintain a “prudent”
monetary policy and a “proactive” fiscal policy next year, the
official Xinhua news agency reported, citing a meeting of the
Communist Party’s Politburo chaired by President  Hu Jintao .  The decision of the 25-member body that oversees policy-
making came ahead of a work conference that will set economic
guidelines for the coming year. That event may take place Dec.
12-14, according to the Economic Observer newspaper.  China has already eased monetary policy to aid growth, this
month cutting the amount of  cash  lenders need to set aside as
reserves for the first time since 2008. Nomura Holdings Inc.
estimates that the economy may expand only 7.9 percent in 2012,
the slowest pace in 13 years, as export growth weakens and
investment in housing cools. Data today showed industrial-
production growth weakening and inflation moderating.  “The word prudent will have a very elastic meaning in
2012,” said  Stephen Green , a Hong Kong-based economist with
Standard Chartered Plc. While this “likely signals a cautious
approach” to further easing in the short term, “the money tap
will be loosened, no doubt,” he said.  In December last year, the Politburo said the nation would
shift its monetary policy stance to “prudent” from
“moderately loose,” with controlling inflation the top
priority. At that point, the government had already raised
interest rates and  reserve requirements , showing how changes in
the official labels for policy can lag behind the implementation
of shifts.  Stimulus Aftermath  China will “preset or fine tune policies in light of
changes in economic development”, Xinhua News reported today,
citing a statement issued by the politburo.  The Asian nation would continue to balance efforts to
“ensure stable and relatively fast economic growth while
adjusting the economic structure and regulating inflationary
expectations”, the report said.  Officials are still wrestling with the aftermath of a 4-
trillion yuan ($631 billion) stimulus package and record lending
that helped to lift the economy out of the 2008-09 global
financial crisis.  Inflation has cooled for four consecutive months after
reaching a three-year high of 6.5 percent in July.  “The scope for monetary easing is limited given inflation
risks and negative real  interest rates ,” said Cui Li, a Hong
Kong-based economist at Royal Bank of Scotland Plc. “Fiscal
policy will remain the key pillar to shore up growth in light of
global uncertainties.”  Property Curbs  China will also maintain its “unswerving stance” on
property-market regulation next year, in order to return housing
prices to a “reasonable level,” Xinhua said,.  November housing transactions rose 12 percent, rebounding
from a decline the previous month as lower  home prices  attracted
buyers, according to data from the nation’s statistics bureau
today.  The value of homes sold last month climbed to 416.4 billion
yuan ($65.4 billion), based on data from the National Bureau of
Statistics today. That’s up from 372.3 billion yuan in October
when housing sales slumped 25 percent, the first retreat in
three months as the government intensified measures to cool the
housing market this year.  Premier  Wen Jiabao  said last month that he won’t “waver”
on property curbs, while local governments in the western city
of  Chengdu  and southern city of Zhongshan imposed temporary home
purchase restrictions.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zheng Lifei in Beijing at 
 lzheng32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  