-- 
China’s Interest-Rate Swaps Snap Three-Day Gain on 14-Month Low Inflation

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-12-09T08:53:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/china-s-interest-rate-swaps-snap-three-day-gain-on-14-month-low-inflation.html
China ’s one-year interest-rate swaps
dropped, snapping a three-day gain, after a government report
showing inflation at a 14-month low raised prospects for further
policy easing.  Consumer prices  climbed 4.2 percent in November from a year
earlier, the least since September 2010, and less than the
median estimate of analysts in a Bloomberg survey for a 4.5
percent increase. The central bank cut the amount of cash banks
must set aside as reserves last week for the first time in three
years as Morgan Stanley, UBS AG and Citigroup Inc. lowered
estimates for China’s economic growth next year.  “We expect further reserve-requirement ratio easing before
the Lunar New Year” that runs from Jan. 23-27, said Wee-Khoon Chong, a Hong Kong-based fixed-income strategist at Societe
Generale SA. The weaker-than-expected CPI “should encourage the
market on possible easing,” he said.  The one-year swap contract, the fixed cost needed to
receive the floating seven-day repurchase rate, declined five
basis points, or 0.05 percentage point, to 2.76 percent as of
4:30 p.m. in  Shanghai , according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The rate was up one basis point from a week ago.  The People’s Bank of China withdrew 101 billion yuan ($15.9
billion) from the banking system this week via open-market
operations, after mopping up 24 billion yuan in the five days
through Dec. 2, Bloomberg  data  show.  The seven-day  repurchase rate , which measures interbank
funding availability, gained six basis points to 3.52 percent,
according to a weighted average compiled by the National
Interbank Funding Center. It dropped 18 basis points in the week.  Chong said the market will focus now on the government’s
annual work conference next week for policy signals.  The yield on the 3.44 percent government bonds due June
2016 dropped one basis point to 3.05 percent and was little
changed from Dec. 2, according to the Interbank Funding Center.  -- Judy Chen . Editors: Simon Harvey, Sandy Hendry  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Judy Chen in Shanghai at 
 xchen45@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 