-- 
China’s November Housing Sales Rebound as Prices Fall on Government Curbs

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-12-09T07:06:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/china-s-november-housing-sales-rebound-as-prices-fall-on-government-curbs.html
China ’s November housing transactions
rose 12 percent, rebounding from a decline the previous month as 
lower home prices attracted buyers.  The value of homes sold last month climbed to 416.4 billion
yuan ($65.4 billion), based on data from the National Bureau of
Statistics today. That’s up from 372.3 billion yuan in October
when housing sales slumped 25 percent, the first retreat in
three months as the government intensified measures to cool the
housing market this year.  China’s residential values fell for a third month in
November as developers cut prices to boost sales amid expanded
housing curbs, according to  SouFun Holdings Ltd. (SFUN)  The government
this year increased down-payment requirements and  mortgage rates 
on some homes and imposed housing purchase restrictions in about
40 cities to avert a housing bubble.  “The rebound is normal because the home transaction data
is volatile in the short term,” said Xiao Jian, a Beijing-based
property analyst at South West Securities Co. “It doesn’t
change the long-term downward momentum because the government’s
curbs are still in place.”  Investments in homes, office buildings, malls and other
types of real estate climbed 30 percent to 5.5 trillion yuan in
the first 11 months this year, the statistics bureau said today.
New property construction climbed 21 percent to 1.7 billion
square meters (18.3 billion square feet).  Premier  Wen Jiabao  has said the government won’t relax
property curbs as he fine-tunes other economic policies. The
central bank also increased  interest rates  three times and
reserves ratio six times in 2011, before cutting the reserve
requirement this month for the first time in three years.  ‘Tipping Point’  China’s property market has reached a “tipping point” and
the slowdown in the housing industry will have a spillover
effect on demand for steel and other construction materials,
according to Nomura Holdings Inc. The risk of economic growth
falling to less than 8 percent in the first quarter is also
higher than before because of the housing market, Zhang Zhiwei,
a Hong Kong-based economist at Nomura, said last month.  Home sales volume rose 7.5 percent in the first 11 months
from a year earlier to 796 million square meters, according to
the data.  “One explanation for the increase in home transactions is
some of the October data may have been postponed,” said Johnson
Hu, a Hong Kong-based property analyst for at CIMB-GK Securities
Research.  Residential property investments accounted for 6.1 percent
of the country’s gross domestic product last year, according to
Citigroup Inc.  China’s  home prices  fell in 33 of 70 cities monitored by
the government in October, the worst performance since it
expanded property curbs and scrapped the reporting of national
average housing data this year. The government is scheduled to
announce its November data on Dec. 18.  China’s property prices are about to reach a “turning
point,” with developers facing tighter liquidity, the central
bank said on December 2, citing a research report by its
statistics department.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bonnie Cao in Shanghai at 
 bcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  