-- 
Chow Tai Fook Said to Raise $2 Billion in IPO

-- B y   F o x   H u ,   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s   a n d   V i n i c y   C h a n
-- 
2011-12-09T08:58:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/chow-tai-fook-said-to-raise-2-billion-in-ipo.html
Chow Tai Fook Jewellery Group Ltd.,
the company with revenue greater than  Tiffany & Co. (TIF) , raised
HK$15.8 billion ($2 billion) after selling shares at the bottom
of a  price range  marketed to investors, said two people with
knowledge of the matter.  The company sold 1.05 billion shares at HK$15 each, said
the people, asking not to be identified because the information
is private.  Chow Tai Fook  had offered the shares at HK$15 to
HK$21 each, according to its  IPO prospectus . Had the jeweler
sold the shares above $18.52 apiece, the IPO would have been
Hong Kong’s biggest this year.  Chow Tai Fook joins a growing list of companies that have
priced their stock offerings at or near the minimum amount
sought as stocks have tumbled in  Hong Kong (HSCI)  amid concerns about
 Europe ’s debt crisis. New China Life Insurance Co. priced its
$1.9 billion Hong Kong and Shanghai IPO near the bottom of its
marketed range yesterday, and HKT Trust’s $1.2 billion November
IPO was priced at the low end.  “The poor reception of IPOs reflects weak global investor
sentiment,” said Cedric Ma, Hong Kong-based senior strategist
at Convoy Asset Management Ltd., which oversees the equivalent
of $260 million. “The market is also looking a little bit
crowded since a lot of companies are trying to raise cash at the
same time.”  Busiest Month  Chow Tai Fook  and New China Life are among companies
raising more than $5 billion from initial public offerings in
Hong Kong this month. The offerings may make December the
busiest month for new share sales in the city this year, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. Haitong Securities Co.,  China ’s
third-biggest brokerage by market value, is scheduled to price a
$1.7 billion Hong Kong share sale today, according to its
prospectus.  The jewelry chain, controlled by billionaire Cheng Yu Tung,
joins Italian fashion house  Prada SpA  in raising funds in Hong
Kong, where luxury-goods companies seek to tap China’s growing
affluence. Prada in June raised $2.5 billion, including
overallotment, and its shares have dropped 9.2 percent from the
offer price.  Tiffany Valuation  Priced at the bottom of its range, Chow Tai Fook is valued
at about 15 times estimated net income for the year ending March
2013, one of the people said. Tiffany, the New York-based luxury
jewelry retailer, trades just below 16 times the average analyst
estimate for earnings for the year ending January 2013, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. Chow Tai Fook posted sales of HK$35
billion for the 12 months ended March 31, 46 percent more than
Tiffany’s full-year revenue.  “The price looks reasonable only if Chow Tai Fook is able
to deliver its forecast growth,” said Edwin Fan, a Hong Kong-
based analyst at  Bank of China . “Pricing at the low end of the
range may give it some upside room on the first trading day.”
The jeweler forecasts net income of more than HK$6.3 billion in
the year ending March 31, according to its prospectus.  The jeweler will start trading amid worries that slower
economic growth in China could hurt consumer company sales.  Chow Tai Fook’s smaller competitor  Luk Fook Holdings
International Ltd. (590)  said same-store sales growth may slow in the
year ended March 2013. Luk Fook’s Chief Financial Officer Paul Law in a phone interview today projected same-store sales growth
between 15 percent and 20 percent in the 2013 fiscal year,
slower than his forecast growth of more than 30 percent for the
year ended March 2012.  Big Blessing  Deutsche Bank AG, Goldman Sachs Group Inc., HSBC Holdings
Plc and JPMorgan Chase & Co. managed the IPO for Chow Tai Fook.
Joseph Lo, an external spokesman for Chow Tai Fook at Brunswick
Group, declined to comment.  Founded in 1929 in the southern Chinese city of  Guangzhou ,
the company was named after founder  Chow Chi Yuen . “Tai Fook”
means “big blessing” in Chinese. The company, with more than
1,400 outlets in greater China, plans to start trading on Dec.
15, the prospectus shows.  Hong Kong’s  Hang Seng Index (HSI)  slid 2.7 percent today and is
down 19 percent this year.  Baoxin Auto Group Ltd. , a dealer of BMW and Land Rover cars
in China, also priced its $415 million Hong Kong IPO at the
bottom of the range marketed to investors, according to two
people with knowledge of the matter. Citic Securities Co.,
raised $1.8 billion in September after selling shares at the low
end of its pricing range.  Chow Tai Fook has 12.6 percent of mainland China’s jewelry
market, with a 20 percent share in Hong Kong and Macau, the
company said in the IPO filing, citing a Frost and Sullivan
report. It sources rough diamonds from companies such as  Rio
Tinto  and Diamond Trading Co., the distribution arm of  De Beers .  Retail sales in China have  grown  an average of 17 percent
in the first ten months of this year, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. In  Hong Kong , Chinese visitors splurging on high-
end shoes, watches and jewelry have driven monthly retail  sales 
to record highs.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Fox Hu in Hong Kong at 
 fhu7@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  