-- 
Citigroup Said to Face Possible Penalty in Japan Tibor Probe

-- B y   T a k a h i k o   H y u g a
-- 
2011-12-09T02:46:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/citi-penalty-sought-in-japan-s-tibor-probe.html
Citigroup Inc. (C) ’s Japanese brokerage
unit faces possible punishment after it attempted to influence
the Tokyo interbank offered rate, two people familiar with the
situation said.  The  Securities and Exchange Surveillance Commission  may
recommend the Financial Services Agency penalize Citigroup
Global Markets  Japan  Inc. after staff tried to alter  interest
rates  that would ensure Tibor moved to the brokerage’s advantage,
the people said. They asked to remain anonymous because the
investigation is continuing.  Citigroup is part of a global probe by regulators into
whether some of the world’s biggest banks manipulated the
interest rates at which they borrowed from each other. In Japan,
apart from the Tibor inquiry, Citigroup is facing potential
penalties for compliance breaches at its local banking unit.  Mika Nemoto, a Tokyo-based spokeswoman at Citigroup,
declined to comment. An SESC official, who didn’t want to be
identified, declined to comment, citing the commission’s policy.
The Nikkei newspaper reported the Tibor investigation earlier.  Citigroup shares fell 6.3 percent to 2,158 yen in Tokyo
trading at 11:29 a.m. local time.  Libor Investigation  The U.S.  Justice Department  and the Securities and Exchange
Commission may be investigating whether banks colluded to
artificially reduce the London interbank offered rate, or Libor,
a person with knowledge of the inquiry said in March.  Citigroup, led by Chief Executive Officer  Vikram Pandit 
since 2007, has been asked to make employees available to
testify as witnesses before the U.K. Financial Services
Authority, two other people briefed on the plans said in March.
Deutsche Bank AG, Bank of America Corp. and JPMorgan Chase & Co.
were also included in the request, the people said.  The investigation came to light earlier this year after  UBS
AG (UBS) ,  Switzerland ’s biggest bank, said it received subpoenas from
U.S. and Japanese regulators.  Barclays Plc (BARC)  has also said it’s
cooperating with U.S. and British market watchdogs.  Tibor rates are set daily by the country’s banks through
the Japanese Bankers Association, a trade group. Citigroup
joined the pool of banks used to set the rates in April 2010.  Libor rates, a benchmark for more than $350 trillion of
financial products worldwide, are set by the British Bankers’
Association. The rates are based on data from banks reflecting
how much it would cost them to borrow from each other for
various periods of time.  Citigroup has already attracted the attention of Japanese
regulators. The FSA is preparing to penalize its Citibank Japan
Ltd. unit for failing to fully explain product risk to retail
customers, two people with knowledge of the situation said this
month. Darren Buckley, chief executive officer of the unit, may
step down as soon as this month to take responsibility for the
breach, the people said on condition of anonymity.  The SESC was established in Japan in 1992 after a series of
financial scandals to ensure fair transactions in securities and
financial  futures markets , according to its website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Takahiko Hyuga in Tokyo at 
 thyuga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  