-- 
Citigroup’s Mathur Said to Depart With Hybrid Traders as Pandit Cuts Jobs

-- B y   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 
2011-12-09T16:09:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/citigroup-s-mathur-said-to-depart-with-hybrid-traders-as-pandit-cuts-jobs.html
Citigroup Inc. (C) , the third-biggest
U.S. bank, is shrinking a team of traders who deal in “hybrid”
products as Chief Executive Officer  Vikram Pandit  cuts Wall
Street jobs, two people familiar with the matter said.  Samir Mathur, former head of hybrid trading, is leaving the
New York-based firm and is in talks to join a hedge fund,
according to one of the people, who asked to remain anonymous
because the move hasn’t been announced. Other members of the
desk who reported to him, including Yontcho Valtchev, Vivek Kapoor, Eric Kim, Sean Corrigan and Allison Niiya, also are
leaving, the person said.  Mathur is among ex-members of the desk who are at the
center of a dispute with Ghazi Abbar, a former customer from
Jeddah,  Saudi Arabia . Abbar claims he lost $383 million of his
family’s fortune when Citigroup sold him products that later
soured, even though the bank internally questioned his ability
to properly manage some of them. Pandit, 54, is shrinking the
desk as he cuts 4,500 jobs amid a revenue slump.  “It makes sense for Citigroup to reduce the size of its
sales trading activities, particularly in developed markets,”
Richard Staite, an analyst at Atlantic Equities LLP, wrote in a
Dec. 7 note to clients. “We believe a shift away from trading
toward lower-risk consumer and corporate banking may lead to a
higher valuation multiple.”  Mathur follows Erwin Parviz, the former London-based head
of hybrid structuring who left Citigroup in June, according to
U.K. Financial Services Authority records.  Investment Banking   Planned layoffs will include about 900 from the division
that contains trading and investment banking, a person familiar
with the matter said last month.  Danielle Romero-Apsilos, a Citigroup spokeswoman, declined
to comment. Members of the hybrid team didn’t respond to phone
messages, said they couldn’t comment or couldn’t be located for
comment. Citigroup, with 267,000 employees worldwide as of Sept.
30, is the third-biggest U.S. bank by assets behind  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)   Mathur’s team traded hybrid derivatives, financial
instruments that derive their values from different underlying
assets. Buyers seek to profit from the performance of assets,
such as a stake in a hedge fund, without directly owning them.
The desk often sold products to large investment firms including
 Man Group Plc (EMG)  and Tudor Investment Corp., people familiar with
the matter said last month.  Taxpayer Bailout  Mathur helped to create one of Abbar’s transactions,
according to an arbitration claim Abbar has filed with the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority. The bank denies the
allegations and has sued Abbar to block the arbitration.  Mathur has worked as a trader for Citigroup since 1998,
according to Finra records. He rose to become head of hybrid
trading before the bank almost collapsed in 2008 and received a
$45 billion taxpayer bailout.  Colleagues of Mathur’s also are Wall Street veterans, Finra
records show. Valtchev had worked for Citigroup since 2005 after
stints with Deutsche Bank AG and  Barclays Plc (BARC) , while Kapoor
joined in 2007 after working at UBS AG,  Credit Suisse Group AG (CS) 
and  Standard & Poor’s . Niiya had worked for Citigroup since
2000, according to the records. While most are traders, Kim is
an analyst.  Citigroup advanced $1.30, or 4.7 percent, to $29.05 at
11:06 a.m. in New York. The stock tumbled 41 percent this year
through yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Donal Griffin in New York at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 