-- 
Climate Talks Closer to Agreement on Plan with $100 Billion Aid

-- B y   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z   a n d   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 
2011-12-09T00:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/climate-talks-closer-to-deal-on-100b-aid-plan.html
Envoys at United Nations talks are
near an agreement that would set up a fund channeling a portion
of the $100 billion a year in pledged climate aid to developing
nations, part of a package to keep a lid on global warming.  Delegates from more than 190 nations are scheduled to
 finish  two weeks of talks today in Durban, South Africa, where
they’ve also considered how to extend the Kyoto Protocol’s
limits on fossil fuel emissions, which expire next year.  “Things are starting to move,” said  Alden Meyer , who has
followed the annual gatherings for more than a decade for the
Union of Concerned Scientists, a Washington-based lobby group.
“We’re likely to get an agreement. The question is how
ambitious it will be, whether we can get the higher level of
ambition needed to save the planet.”  With Japan recovering from an earthquake and European Union
leaders meeting today in Brussels to save their common currency,
ambitions for this year’s climate talks sidestepped adopting a
new pact that would replace Kyoto, the only treaty limiting
fossil fuel emissions blamed for damaging the atmosphere.  Greenhouse gases hit a record last year, and scientists at
the conference warned that current pledges leave the world on
track for the biggest temperature increases by 2100 since the
last ice age ended. Developing nations said they’re upset the
industrial nations haven’t moved quicker.  ‘Life or Death’  “The climate change effects we’re experiencing in  Lesotho 
and other countries are a matter of life or death because we
don’t have the safety nets that the developed world has,”
Manete Ramaili, the southern African nation’s environment
minister, said in an interview. “We have to have binding
targets. It’s a must.”  Details of the package were still being negotiated last
night by environment ministers and envoys from more than 190
nations. Yesterday, there was no word on exactly how they’d
bridge differences over how to extend Kyoto, which developing
nations said is essential to success in Durban.  While Kyoto set emissions caps for industrial nations, it
included only voluntary measures for developing nations such as
China and  India , which have become two of the three biggest
polluters since the treaty was negotiated in 1997.  The U.S. never ratified Kyoto;  Japan ,  Russia  and  Canada 
refuse to extend their targets, and the European Union said it
would only move ahead if all nations promise to join a binding
deal that enters force no later than 2020.  Failure Possible  That issue could still derail the entire package, said
Andrew Light, coordinator of climate policy at the  Center for
American Progress , a Washington-based research group with White
House ties.  “If the EU refuses to do Kyoto because they aren’t happy
with what others and the U.S. are saying about the mandate
debate and the meeting blows up, then the U.S. has lost
everything it’s gained,” said. “The U.S. is one of the parties
that might be the cause of that happening.”  Last night, the EU said it got the group of poorest and
most vulnerable countries to work toward mandatory emissions
cuts, and  Brazil  said it was working with UN envoys on the sort
of “road map” the EU wants.  China  has said it would consider a
binding target after 2020 if five conditions are met, starting
with an extension for Kyoto.  Road Map  “On the road map we are working with a very open mind on
the sequence of events that will lead us in a post-2020 phase of
the fight against climate change,” Brazilian Ambassador Luiz
Alberto Figueiredo said last night. “This is not something that
will divide us in the final hours of this conference.”  Ministers must still debate technical issues such as how to
enact an extension and political ones like the exact legal
nature of any future deal. Some of the most controversial
matters have been postponed to next year’s meeting in Qatar.  “There are a whole bunch of options, varying from a new
protocol to no decision,” said Mark Lynas,  climate change 
adviser to Maldivian President Mohamed Nasheed, referring to the
legal form of a new deal. “On the two or three critical issues,
there won’t be any outcome until presumably 4 o’clock in the
morning on Saturday, or even not then. My flight is 4 p.m. on
the Saturday, which might be optimistic.”  Claudia Salerno, the Venezuelan envoy who helped derail a
decision at the talks in Copenhagen two years ago, said she’s
more confident an agreement will be reached this year.  ‘Positive Outcome’  “The forces are converging for a positive outcome here,”
Salerno said yesterday in an interview in Durban.  Todd Stern, the chief climate envoy for the U.S., which
joined with  Saudi Arabia  to hold up the Green Climate Fund last
week, said he’s confident that measure will move forward.  “It has made a lot of progress,” Stern said at a briefing
in Durban yesterday. “It is an area which is among the most
advanced. That’s going to get done. I’m confident of that.”  Stern also said he’d back the EU’s road map plan.  The envoys last year agreed to establish the fund that will
help raise an unspecified portion of the $100 billion of annual
aid that developed countries promised two years ago to mobilize
by 2020 for climate-related projects. This year, they’re
developing the governing rules for the institution.  Stern said the fund is part of a “balanced package” of
measures whose other programs including ways to monitor and
verify emissions also must make progress.  Envoys started to make more rapid progress when the South
African hosts called on ministers from individual nations to
take charge of different strands of the talks, said Meyer, from
the group of scientists.  New Zealand  is working on greenhouse
gas mitigation,  Ecuador  on programs to help nations adapt to
climate change and the U.K. on a scientific review due by 2015.  South Africa  also organized “indabas,” or informal
gatherings of leaders, to talk about the way forward for the
talks outside the structures of the UN meeting process.  ’’We are very optimistic there will be an agreement to take
us forward,’’ Jimmy Manyi, South Africa’s government spokesman
said yesterday. “We do not envisage a situation where we have a
deadlock.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andres R. Martinez in Durban, South Africa, at   amartinez28@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Morales in Durban, South Africa via 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alessandro Vitelli at 
 avitelli1@bloomberg.net  