-- 
Cocoa Caps Longest Slump in 50 Years as Ivory Coast Supply Rises

-- B y   M a r v i n   G .   P e r e z
-- 
2011-12-09T19:15:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/cocoa-rebounds-from-longest-streak-of-declines-in-50-years-coffee-gains.html
Cocoa prices plunged, capping the
longest slump in 50 years, on signs that supplies are rising in
 Ivory Coast , the world’s biggest producer.  Deliveries to ports this season from farms in Ivory Coast
climbed 5.8 percent through Dec. 4, a document from the
industry’s regulators showed today. Voters in the West African
country will cast ballots on Dec. 11 in the first legislative
election in more than a decade that’s likely to shore up support
for President Alassane Ouattara, who’s pledged to overhaul the
cocoa industry to increase output.  Prices have dropped 45 percent since touching 32-year high
in March, when a civil war disrupted supplies following a
disputed November election. The commodity dropped as global
output rose and slowing economies in the U.S. and Europe
signaled supply may exceed demand for a second year. The slump
may lower costs for companies including Hershey Co., Nestle SA
and  Barry Callebaut (BARN)  AG, the world’s top bulk-chocolate maker.  “Increasing availability of cocoa from Western Africa is
still the dominant force in the market,”  Jack Scoville , a vice
president for Price Futures Group in Chicago, said in a report.
“Traders are also worried about the economic situation in
Europe.”  Cocoa for March delivery retreated 3 percent to settle at
$2,067 a metric ton at 12:02 p.m. on ICE Futures U.S. in  New
York , after touching $2,053, the lowest since November 2008. The
price fell for a 12th consecutive day, the longest slide since
at least 1961, according to Bloomberg data.  Surplus Outlook  Global supplies will exceed demand for the second straight
year, according to the London-based International Cocoa
Organization. The surplus last season totaled 341,000 tons, Lysu Paez, an analyst at Natixis, wrote in a report yesterday.  “Cocoa prices may not recover much over coming weeks,”
Paez said.  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index of 24 raw materials fell
as much as 1 percent today to the lowest since Nov. 25. The
gauge has dropped 15 percent since reaching a 32-month high in
April as  Europe ’s debt crisis escalated.  Cocoa has slumped 32 percent in 2011, the second-biggest
decline among the commodities tracked by the GSCI. Cotton
plunged 38 percent this year.  “The macroeconomic scenario is changing by the hour,”
Drew Geraghty, a broker at ICAP Futures LLC in  Jersey City ,  New
Jersey , said in a telephone interview. “Most agricultural
commodities are down today.”  On NYSE Liffe in  London , cocoa futures for March delivery
tumbled 2.3 percent to 1,338 pounds ($2,093) a ton.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marvin G. Perez in New York at 
 mperez71@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  