-- 
Colombian Peso Extends Weekly Gain as Europe Reaches Debt Deal

-- B y   A n d r e a   J a r a m i l l o
-- 
2011-12-09T19:19:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/colombia-s-peso-advances-after-europe-reaches-debt-agreement.html
Colombia ’s peso extended a second
weekly gain after European leaders boosted a rescue fund and
tightened budget rules to stem the region’s debt crisis, helping
buoy demand for higher-yielding assets.  The peso rose 0.3 percent to 1,925.50 per  U.S. dollar , from
1,931 yesterday. It added 0.8 percent this week, the second-best
performance among the six most-traded Latin American currencies
tracked by Bloomberg, behind  Chile ’s peso.  European leaders holding all-night talks in Brussels added
200 billion euros ($267 billion) to their crisis-fighting
capacity and tightened anti-deficit rules, an accord hailed by
European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  as a “very good
outcome.”  “There is certain optimism in the market today,” said
Daniel Lozano, an analyst at Serfinco SA brokerage in Bogota.  Colombia’s central bank said in  minutes  of a Nov. 25
monetary policy meeting published today that the decision to
raise the benchmark  interest rate  a quarter percentage point to
4.75 percent reflected the need to bolster credibility amid
expectations for faster inflation. The decision wasn’t
unanimous.  The gap between yields on government inflation-indexed
bonds due 2013 and similar-maturity fixed-rate debt, a gauge of
annual consumer price increase expectations known as the
breakeven rate, fell to 3.55 percentage points today from an
eight-month high of 3.91 percentage points on Nov. 17.  Policy makers will likely raise the  lending rate  further in
the Dec. 16 meeting, Bret Rosen, a Latin America strategist at
Standard Chartered Bank in  New York , wrote in a note to clients
today.  Rate Outlook  “Another 25 basis points hike would put the benchmark rate
closer to what can be defined as a neutral level, while also
enhancing Banco de la Republica’s credibility,” Rosen wrote.
“This should be bullish” for investors betting on peso gains.  Central bank board members who had voted to leave the
lending rate unchanged said the bank should consider
“prudential regulatory measures” in addition to interest-rate
changes to combat rapid loan growth and record housing costs.
They also questioned the move to raise borrowing costs in
Colombia after  Brazil  started cutting rates in August and other
countries in the region have signaled they may do the same to
safeguard their economies from slowing global growth.  The yield on Colombia’s 10 percent bonds due in July 2024
rose two basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 7.56
percent, according to the stock exchange. The bond’s price fell
0.169 centavo to 119.325 centavos per peso.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Jaramillo in Bogota at 
 ajaramillo1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  