-- 
Consumer Sentiment in U.S. Climbs

-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 
2011-12-09T16:31:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/consumer-confidence-in-u-s-climbs-more-than-forecast-to-a-six-month-high.html
Confidence among U.S. consumers rose
more than forecast in December as Americans’ outlooks improved.  The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan preliminary
index of  consumer sentiment  rose to 67.7, a six-month high, from
64.1 at the end of November. The median estimate of 73
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News called for a reading of
65.8. The gauge averaged 89 in the five years leading up to the
recession that began in December 2007 and ended in June 2009.  Falling gasoline prices, a drop in unemployment and a
rebound in stocks may be helping boost confidence, raising the
odds that the pickup in household spending will continue into
2012. Nonetheless, gridlock over deficit-cutting measures in
 Washington  and concern that a European nation will default
represent roadblocks to additional gains in sentiment.  “There has been a disconnect from the almost recessionary
sentiment readings and reasonably good spending numbers, and
something had to give,” said  Stuart Hoffman , chief economist at
PNC Financial Services Group Inc. in Pittsburgh, who projected
sentiment would rise to 68. “Spending has held in there and
consumers’ negative attitudes have improved. Consumers started
the holiday season strong and it looks like they will end it
decently.”  Stocks rose after the report, adding to earlier gains as
European leaders agreed to boost a rescue fund and tighten
budget rules to stem the region’s debt crisis. The Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index climbed 1.5 percent to 1,252.71 at 11:29 a.m.
in  New York .  Treasury securities  fell, pushing the yield on the
benchmark 10-year note up to 2.02 percent from 1.97 percent late
yesterday.  Germany,  France   German exports fell in October and French industrial output
stagnated, adding to signs that the euro region may slide into
recession as leaders struggle to solve the sovereign debt
crisis, reports showed today.  German sales overseas dropped 3.6 percent from September,
the Federal Statistics office in Wiesbaden said, almost three
times economists’ median forecast for a 1.3 percent decline. In
France, industrial production was flat in October after falling
2.1 percent a month earlier, more than the initial 1.7 percent
estimate, Paris-based statistics office Insee said.  In  Asia ,  China ’s inflation reached a 14-month low and
industrial production rose less than forecast, bolstering the
case for more stimulus measures to shore up growth in the
world’s second-largest economy. Consumer prices increased 4.2
percent from a year earlier, the statistics bureau said on its
website. Output gained 12.4 percent, the smallest increase since
August 2009.  Survey Results  Estimates for U.S. consumer sentiment in the Bloomberg
survey ranged from 63 to 68. The index averaged 64.2 during the
18-month recession.  Another report today showed the  trade deficit  narrowed in
October to the lowest level of the year, reflecting a drop in
imports that will help give the economy a lift. The gap shrank
1.6 percent to $43.5 billion, smaller than projected, from $44.2
billion in September, according to data from the Commerce
Department.  The Michigan survey’s index of consumer expectations for
six months from now, which more closely projects the direction
of  consumer spending , climbed to 61.1 from 55.4.  The index of current conditions, which reflects Americans’
perceptions of their financial situation and whether they
consider it a good time to buy big-ticket items like cars,
increased to 77.9 from 77.6 the prior month.  Inflation Outlook  Consumers in today’s confidence report said they expect an
inflation rate of 3.1 percent over the next 12 months, down from
3.2 percent in November.  Over the next five years, the range tracked by Federal
Reserve policy makers, Americans expect a 2.7 percent rate of
inflation, the same as the prior month.  The Michigan index compares with the Bloomberg Consumer
Comfort  Index  which was minus 50.3 in the week ended Dec. 4,
down from minus 50.2 a week earlier. The measure has been at
minus 50 or less for 11 of the past 12 weeks, a performance
unprecedented in its 26-year history.  A gallon of regular unleaded gasoline fell to $3.27 on Dec.
5, its lowest since February, according to AAA, the nation’s
largest automobile association. The  unemployment rate  in
November fell to 8.6 percent, its lowest in more than two years,
while the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index gained 6.5 percent from
Nov. 25 through yesterday on signs  Europe  would avoid a default.  Early holiday season sales, which traditionally begin the
day after Thanksgiving, provided a mixed picture. Limited Brands
Inc. and  Macy’s Inc. (M)  posted November same-store sales that
topped analysts’ estimates as Thanksgiving weekend deals drew
record crowds, while stores that missed out on the shopping
blitz trailed expectations.  Holiday Excitement  “What you saw on Black Friday is people were excited
early,”  Saks Inc. (SKS)  Chief Executive Officer Steve Sadove said in a
Bloomberg Television interview Dec. 1. Saks posted a 9.1 percent
increase in November sales from a year earlier.  Kohl’s Corp. (KSS)  reported sales that declined 6.2 percent.
Monthly sales for the  Menomonee Falls , Wisconsin-based company
were “disappointing,” Chief Executive Officer Kevin Mansell said
in a statement.  Ahead of the  holiday shopping season , consumers were
limiting their expenditures. Household spending slowed to a 0.1
percent gain in October, the smallest since a 0.2 percent drop
in June, according to Commerce Department data.  President  Barack Obama  and congressional leaders are trying
to put together a package of year-end tax and spending
provisions that can be enacted, including an extension of the
payroll tax cut and jobless benefits.  A final deal may not emerge until next week, because the 
U.S. House of Representatives won’t vote on its plan until then.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Willis in Washington at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  