-- 
Copper Futures Rise Most in a Week as Europe Takes Steps to Stem Debt Woes

-- B y   Y i   T i a n   a n d   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z
-- 
2011-12-09T18:49:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/copper-climbs-as-inflation-slows-down-in-china-world-s-biggest-consumer.html
Copper rose the most in more than a
week after European leaders agreed to increase a rescue fund and
tighten budget rules to stem the region’s debt crisis.  European officials meeting in Brussels plan to boost rescue
funds by as much as 200 billion euros ($267 billion). Copper
also gained on speculation that  China , the world’s biggest
consumer, may take more steps to stoke growth after inflation
slowed and industrial production climbed less than forecast.  Investors have “all eyes on  Europe ,”  Robert Montefusco , a
trader at Sucden Financial Ltd. in  London , said in an e-mail.
The additional funding to stem the crisis is “a step in the
right direction,” he said.  Copper futures for March delivery increased 1.6 percent to
close at $3.5575 a pound at 1:24 p.m. on the Comex in  New York ,
the biggest gain for a most-active contract since Nov. 30. For
the week, the metal dropped 0.8 percent and extended its decline
this year to 20 percent.  In China, consumer prices in November increased 4.2 percent
from a year earlier, the smallest gain in 14 months, and the
12.4 percent increase in industrial output was below the median
estimate of 12.6 percent in a Bloomberg News survey.  “The price data makes the case for further monetary easing
by the government in the weeks ahead and could provide the basis
for a modest degree” of support for metals,  Edward Meir , an
analyst at INTL FCStone Inc. in New York, said in a report.  On the London Metal Exchange, copper for delivery in three
months rose 1.4 percent to $7,815 a metric ton ($3.54 a pound).  Lead, nickel, zinc and tin also climbed in London. Aluminum
settled unchanged, after gaining as much as 1.1 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yi Tian in New York at 
 ytian8@bloomberg.net ;
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  