-- 
Corporate Bond Risk Rises in Europe, Credit-Default Swaps Show

-- B y   A b i g a i l   M o s e s
-- 
2011-12-09T10:12:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/corporate-bond-risk-rises-in-europe-credit-default-swaps-show.html
The cost of insuring against default
on sovereign and bank debt rose after European Union measures to
tackle the region’s crisis fell short of a pact involving all 27
member countries.  The Markit iTraxx SovX Western Europe Index of credit-
default swaps on 15 governments rose five basis points to 367 at
10 a.m. in London, paring its jump after the  European Central
Bank  was said to be buying Italian debt. An increase signals
worsening perceptions of  credit quality .  Leaders are struggling to convince investors they can
contain the crisis after failing to overcome differences while
producing the fifth resolution package in 19 months. The U.K.
broke ranks by refusing to adopt new budget rules and the ECB
refused to expand bond purchases.  “From what we have seen so far, this summit has not
produced a silver bullet,” said  Gary Jenkins , head of fixed
income at Evolution Securities Ltd. in London.  In an accord hailed by ECB President  Mario Draghi , the
leaders outlined a “fiscal compact” to prevent future debt
crises, accelerated the start of a planned 500 billion-euro
rescue fund and dropped bondholder loss-sharing provisions. The
central bank’s bond purchase program is “neither eternal nor
infinite,” he said at a press conference.  The Markit iTraxx Financial Index linked to senior debt of
25 banks and insurers added eight basis points to 305 and the
subordinated gauge was up 7.5 at 537.5, according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co.  Contracts on the Markit iTraxx Crossover Index of 50
companies with mostly high-yield credit ratings increased 12.5
basis points to 775.5. The Markit iTraxx Europe Index of 125
companies with investment-grade ratings was up 2.75 at 179.5
basis points.  A basis point on a credit-default swap protecting 10
million euros ($13.3 million) of debt from default for five
years is equivalent to 1,000 euros a year. Swaps pay the buyer
face value in exchange for the underlying securities or the cash
equivalent should a borrower fail to adhere to its debt
agreements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Abigail Moses in  London  at 
 Mshanahan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  