-- 
Corzine’s ‘Intent’ at Hearing Was to Head Off Possible Claims, Lawyers Say

-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h   a n d   J o s h u a   G a l l u
-- 
2011-12-09T05:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/corzine-s-intent-at-hearing-was-to-head-off-possible-claims-lawyers-say.html
Throughout more than two hours of
congressional testimony, Jon S. Corzine was careful to invoke
the idea of intent when asked how his failed brokerage,  MF
Global Holdings Ltd ., came to lose track of as much as $1.2
billion in its clients’ money.  “I certainly would never intend to direct or have
segregated funds moved,” Corzine said yesterday during his
appearance before the House Agriculture Committee, testifying he
didn’t know what happened to the missing money. “I am
comfortable that certainly on my part there was no intention to
violate segregation rules,” he told lawmakers at another point.  Corzine, responding to the first of three subpoenas from
congressional committees investigating the collapse of his firm
and the missing funds, defied the expectations of some analysts
when he decided to answer questions and not resort to his right
against self-incrimination. Lawyers said it was no surprise that
he repeatedly focused on intent in his testimony.  The language Corzine used “is certainly an attempt to
defuse any criminal responsibility,” said Stephen Braga, an
attorney with  Ropes & Gray LLP  in Washington.  “Most crimes require a wrongful intent, and accordingly
mistake is a defense to most crimes,” Braga said. “This
testimony suggests an unintentional, mistaken occurrence, which
would not be criminal. Whether that suggestion fits the facts or
not remains to be seen.”  The 64-year-old former New Jersey governor and U.S senator,
who hasn’t been accused of wrongdoing, spoke publicly for the
first time since he resigned as chairman and chief executive
officer of MF Global, which filed the eighth-largest U.S.
bankruptcy Oct. 31.  Funds Probed  With the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, Securities
and Exchange Commission and  Justice Department  probing the
missing funds, Corzine faced the dilemma of how to present his
version of events without opening himself to potential charges
or further litigation. Several lawsuits have been filed by
customers and former employees since the Oct. 31 bankruptcy,
including one yesterday against Corzine and four other former MF
Global executives in federal court in  Chicago  by a group of
commodity traders whose accounts were frozen.  Testifying under oath, Corzine said he didn’t knowingly
authorize any movement of funds out of client accounts, and that
any transfers of money could have been a misunderstanding or
misinterpretation of his intent.  “I’m not in a position, given the number of transactions,
to know anything specifically about the movement of any specific
funds,” Corzine said.  ‘Pin You Down’  After one exchange, Representative K. Michael Conaway, a
Texas Republican, said: “I understand why you keep using
‘intent.’ I’m not trying to pin you down, we’re not the
prosecution.”  Corzine also repeatedly said that he didn’t “direct”
anyone to move funds. That was also a careful choice of words,
according to Seth Taube, head of the trial section in the New
York office of law firm  Baker Botts LLP .  “The issue is what safeguards were in place with respect
to segregated funds,” Taube said, noting that the
responsibility of top executives is to put systems in place to
prevent mistakes. “So in a sense Governor Corzine’s answer
misses the point. It’s not about directing someone to take the
funds, it’s about locking the door so no one else can open it
and help themselves.”  Corzine said he wasn’t an expert in payment, clearing and
settlement systems and didn’t view reports daily on the
segregation of client funds. Instead, he said he was “stunned”
to learn of the shortfall and repeatedly described a state of
“chaos” at the firm in the last days before its bankruptcy.  Sarbanes-Oxley  James W. Giddens, the trustee overseeing the liquidation of
MF Global, has estimated that $1.2 billion is missing. If that’s
because of internal errors at MF Global, Corzine may have
breached responsibilities under Sarbanes-Oxley rules, according
to Daniel Collins, a professor of accounting at the University
of  Iowa ’s Tippie College of Business.  Under the 2002 law -- for which Corzine voted as senator --
top executives must certify the accuracy of financial statements
and assess whether they have sufficient safeguards to catch
fraud and bookkeeping errors. Corzine signed off on MF Global’s
quarterly reports prior to the bankruptcy.  “Whether these are operational errors or not is a serious
matter,” Collins said in a phone interview. “If effective
controls for monitoring the flow of the funds from the clients
through the different investments are not in place, then that
would be a breach of the Sarbanes-Oxley responsibilities of top
management.”  Two More Subpoenas  President  George W. Bush  signed Sarbanes-Oxley into law
after accounting scandals at  Enron Corp . and WorldCom Inc.
eroded investor confidence. Executives must also have internal
controls certified by an outside auditor under the law.  Yesterday’s testimony came before a committee of 46
lawmakers with oversight of the CFTC. Corzine is scheduled to
face two more congressional panels -- the Senate Agriculture
Committee and House Financial Services oversight and
investigations subcommittee -- that voted to subpoena his
testimony for hearings next week.  Corzine had requested to appear in January so he could gain
access to his e-mails, notes and other documents at the firm.  Corzine said that on the evening of Oct. 30, the night
before MF Global filed for bankruptcy, he was informed of the
shortfall in client accounts and told employees, “We’ve got to
fix this,” and “We’ve got to find the money.” He speculated
that someone “could misinterpret” such remarks.  ‘Decisive Figure’  “In every witness’s day in the congressional dock, there
are probably phrases he wished he hadn’t uttered,” Stephen Ryan,
head of the government strategies practice at  McDermott Will &
Emery  LLP in  Washington . “A decisive figure like a former
senator and governor and senior Goldman Sachs official says
things clearly, precisely and is not subject to
misinterpretation.”  At the hearing, lawmakers began probing who at MF Global,
if not Corzine, was responsible for the daily accounts. They’ve
already pledged to hold additional hearings to investigate the
company.  “He was responsible for the people and systems he put in
place,” Representative Frank D. Lucas, chairman of the House
Agriculture panel, said in an interview after the hearing.
“This is far from over.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net ;
Lorraine Woellert in Washington at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Lawrence Roberts  at  lroberts13@bloomberg.net  