-- 
Croatia Signs EU Accession Treaty to Be Bloc’s 28th Member

-- B y   J a s m i n a   K u z m a n o v i c
-- 
2011-12-09T14:16:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/croatia-signs-eu-accession-treaty-to-become-28th-member-in-2013.html
Croatia  clinched an agreement to
become the 28th member of the  European Union  in 18 months as the
world’s largest trading bloc expands further into the Balkans
region.  Croatian President Ivo Josipovic and Premier Jadranka Kosorsigned the treaty in Brussels today with leaders including EU
President Herman van Rompuy, German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and
European Commission President  Jose Barroso .  The ceremony caps a six-year effort to follow  Slovenia , a
former Yugoslav federal partner, into the EU and puts Croatia
closer to full integration two decades after the region was
engulfed in a civil war. Western investors including  Germany ’s
Siemens AG and  Sweden ’s Ericsson AB count on expansion into the
Balkans as EU growth stalls over the sovereign debt crisis.  “It is a day of joy for Croatia, a day of joy for the EU
as a whole,”  van Rompuy  said. “Croatian achievements show
everyone in the region that with hard work, persistence and
courage, membership in the EU is within the reach.”  Membership, which will provide Croatia with hundreds of
millions of euros in EU regional development subsidies, needs to
be approved by a popular referendum, which will probably be held
in February. The next step is ratification by all EU countries.
A single veto could derail membership.  ‘Crowning Achievement’  EU entry is a “crowning achievement” for Croatia, said
Kosor and she is “very optimistic” the referendum will pass.  The nation got the final nod as Montenegro, another former
Yugoslav republic, was told it will start entry negotiations in
June. At the same time,  Serbia ’s application for official
candidacy status was delayed until March because of concerns the
government hasn’t done enough to quell violence in  Kosovo  from
local Serbs living in the breakaway province.  “Croatia had to overcome war to join the European Union,
and that is not only a Croatian triumph, but the triumph of
European peacemaking,” Croatian President Ivo Josipovic said.  Croatia, which is scheduled to join on July 1, 2013,
concluded the talks in June after almost six years of
negotiations. Van Rompuy said the commission will continue to
monitor Croatia’s progress in making reforms.  Accession is “the proof of the transformative power of our
policies,” said Barroso. Croatia has met the strict conditions
of the enlargement process and is today a “very different
country” from the one that applied for accession 10 years ago,
he said.  Turning Over Power  Premier Kosor will not be in power to see the country
ushered into the bloc. Her ruling  Croatian Democratic Union  lost
elections to an opposition bloc on Dec. 4, giving the
responsibility to the  Social Democrats  and Premier-Elect Zoran
Milanovic.  The country of 4.2 million is taking longer than its Balkan
neighbors to emerge from a recession and reduce its budget gap,
forecast for this year at 6.2 percent of gross domestic product.  Central bank  Governor Zeljko Rohatinski said the economy
will grow 0.5 percent this year, while analysts Zdeslav Santic
of  Soc-Gen Splitska Banka d.d.  and Hrvoje Stojic of Hypo Alpe-
Adria-Bank d.d. forecast for the next year a contraction of 2.1
percent and 2 percent, respectively.  Milanovic said on Dec. 6 he will introduce fiscal measures
within 50 days of taking office to bolster the country’s credit
rating and avoid seeking international aid.  Croatia had its  credit rating  reduced a year ago to BBB-,
one step above junk at  Standard & Poor’s , which cited a
“deteriorated fiscal position and continuously weak” external
financing.  Fitch Ratings  said on Dec. 5 it will review its
assessment in the first quarter in 2012, by which time it
“expects to have more information regarding the government’s
fiscal and economic program.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jasmina Kuzmanovic in Zagreb at 
 jkuzmanovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  