-- 
Croatian Ruling Party, Former Premier Sanader Indicted for Graft

-- B y   J a s m i n a   K u z m a n o v i c
-- 
2011-12-09T15:00:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/croatian-ruling-party-former-premier-sanader-indicted-for-graft.html
The ruling  Croatian Democratic Union ,
which lost elections to an opposition bloc on Dec. 4, joined
former Premier Ivo Sanader in being indicted on charges of
corruption, abuse of office, and conspiracy to commit crime.  The ruling party, Sanader and six other party officials
were charged for siphoning money from state companies and using
these illegal funds for the party’s and personal needs, the
 Public Prosecutor  said today in a statement on its website. The
 Croatian Democratic Union  is accused of illegally gaining
31.6 million-kuna ($5.6 million), while Sanader illegally
gained 15 million kuna, according to prosecutors.  This is the third indictment for Sanader, who is standing
trial for suspicion of corruption in cases involving  Hungary ’s
 Mol Nyrt. (MOL)  and Austria’s Hypo Alpe-Adria-Bank International AG.  The ruling party’s lawyer, Vladimir Gredelj, said on Dec. 6
he had resigned as their legal representative “due to
irreconcilable views on the use of so-called black funds.”
Gredelj was speaking at a press conference.  Calls to the cell phone of Sanader’s main lawyer Cedo
Prodanovic were not immediately returned as were phone calls to
ruling party spokeswoman Suncana Glavak.  The Croatian Democratic Union ruled Croatia for 17 out of
21 years since the country’s independence. It lost elections
earlier this week to an opposition bloc led by  Social Democrats .
Sanader was elected premier in 2003 and 2007, and left office in
July 2009 without explanation. He was arrested in  Austria  last
year on an international arrest warrant and extradited to
Croatia in July.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jasmina Kuzmanovic in Zagreb at 
 jkuzmanovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  