-- 
Crude Oil Rises on Increasing U.S. Consumer Sentiment, European Accord

-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 
2011-12-09T20:53:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/crude-oil-fluctuates-heading-for-biggest-weekly-decline-since-september.html
Oil climbed the most in more than a
week after a report showed that confidence among U.S. consumers
rose to a six-month high and as European leaders agreed to boost
the region’s rescue fund and tighten budget rules.  Futures gained 1.1 percent after Thomson Reuters/University
of Michigan preliminary index of  consumer sentiment  increased to
67.7 in December from 64.1 at the end of last month. European
countries announced steps to ease the area’s debt crisis without
forging an accord among all European Union members.  “The consumer confidence number is another positive signal
about the  U.S. economy ,” said  Gene McGillian , an analyst and
broker at Tradition Energy in  Stamford ,  Connecticut . “We
seesawed earlier today as people tried to get a handle on the
results of the European summit. The agreement is starting to
give the market some reassurance.”  Crude oil for January delivery advanced $1.07 to settle at
$99.41 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . It was the
biggest gain since Nov. 29. Futures have increased 8.8 percent
this year. Prices decreased 1.5 percent this week because of
rising U.S. stockpiles and concerns about the debt crisis.  Brent oil for January settlement increased 51 cents, or 0.5
percent, to end the session at $108.62 a barrel on the London-
based ICE Futures  Europe  exchange.  The U.S. consumer confidence reading was projected to rise
to 65.8, according to the median estimate of 73 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News.  The U.S. was the world’s biggest oil-consuming country in
2010, responsible for 22 percent of global oil demand, according
to BP Plc’s Statistical Review of World Energy released on June
8. The 17 countries using the euro accounted for about 12
percent of world demand last year, BP figures show.  Debt Rules  The European countries enshrined debt rules in a new treaty
that leaves out the U.K. instead of amending EU agreements that
date back to the 1950s.  European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  hailed  a
“very good outcome” a day after he damped expectations that a
deal would prompt the ECB to step up its bond-buying.  The agreement added 200 billion euros ($267 billion) to the
region’s war chest and tightened rules to curb future debts. The
leaders sped the start of a 500 billion-euro rescue fund to next
year and diluted a demand that bondholders shoulder losses in
rescues.  Market Driver  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  gained 1.7 percent, and the
 Dow Jones Industrial Average  advanced 1.5 percent at 3:06 p.m.
in New York on the rescue fund and the U.S. confidence figure.  “The oil market is being driven for the most part by
what’s happening in equities,” said  Kyle Cooper , director of
research for IAF Advisors in Houston. “We could open a dollar
higher or lower Monday based on the weekend headlines from
Europe.”  Oil may fall next week on concern that the summit won’t
ease concerns about the spread of the debt crisis, a Bloomberg
News survey showed. Eleven of 27 analysts and traders, or 41
percent, forecast oil will decrease through Dec. 16. Nine
respondents, or 33 percent, predicted futures will increase and
seven estimated there will be little change.  EU governments are also considering imposing stiffer
sanctions on  Iran , OPEC’s second-largest oil producer after
 Saudi Arabia , amid “serious and deepening concerns” over the
country’s nuclear program, according to a draft EU summit
statement. Foreign ministers will decide on the next set of
sanctions Jan. 30, the statement showed.  Japan  issued new sanctions against Iran over the country’s
suspected nuclear weapons program, the Trade Ministry said in a
statement today in  Tokyo .  Iranian Output  Iran pumped about 5 percent of the world’s crude last year,
based on BP’s data. The country is on the  Strait of Hormuz ,
through which about a fifth of global oil supply is transported,
according to the U.S. Energy Department.  The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries may set a
new collective production quota at its meeting in Vienna on Dec.
14 without setting individual country allocations, according to
consultant PFC Energy. The group has not changed output targets
since 2008.  Nymex will cut the margin requirement on crude and heating
oil futures from the close of business Dec. 12, CME Group Inc.,
the exchange’s parent company, said yesterday. The margin for
light sweet crude will be $7,560 per contract, 6.7 percent lower
than the current level. The exchange last reduced the margin to
$8,100 from $8,437.50 in May.  Oil volume in electronic trading on the Nymex was 555,760
contracts as of 3:06 p.m. in  New York . Volume totaled 647,193
contracts yesterday, 1.8 percent below the three-month average.
Open interest was 1.33 million contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  