-- 
Crude Heads for Weekly Decline as European Summit Disappoints

-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 
2011-12-09T13:00:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/crude-heads-for-biggest-weekly-drop-since-september-as-europe-disappoints.html
Oil headed for the biggest weekly
decline since September as economic rescue measures by European
leaders failed to assuage concern that growth is slowing.  West Texas Intermediate futures dropped 2.5 percent this
week, as euro-area countries resolved on steps to ease the
region’s crisis without forging an agreement among all European
Union members. Chinese industrial production slowed last month.
 Saudi Arabia , the world’s largest crude exporter, is in no rush
to agree to new output quotas when OPEC meets next week, Oil
Minister Ali al-Naimi said.  “The details have failed to impress the market,” said
James Zhang, a strategist at Standard Bank Plc in London,
referring to the European measures. “We expect the euro zone
crisis to drag on well into next year.”  Crude for January delivery traded at $98.46 a barrel, 12
cents higher on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  at 12:49 p.m.
London time. Prices are poised for the biggest weekly decline
since the period ended Sept. 23. Futures have gained 8 percent
this year after climbing 15 percent in 2010.  Brent oil for January settlement on the London-based ICE
Futures Europe exchange advanced 27 cents to $108.38 a barrel.
The European benchmark contract was at a premium of $9.94 to New
York-traded West Texas Intermediate grade. The spread was a
record $27.88 on Oct. 14.  China ,  Japan   Factory output in China, the world’s second-biggest crude
consumer, climbed 12.4 percent in November from a year earlier,
the lowest growth since August 2009, according to the nation’s
statistics bureau. Car sales rose 0.3 percent, the least in six
months, the China Association of Automobile Manufacturers said.  European leaders agreed to add as much as 200 billion euros
($267 billion) to funds to fight the debt crisis and bowed to
demands from the  European Central Bank  to tighten rules to curb
deficits.  The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, which
meets on Dec. 14 in Vienna, will probably fail to agree on new
production quotas as Saudi Arabia pumps crude at the fastest
rate in more than 30 years and  Iran  faces losing customers
because of European sanctions, according to analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg News.  Brent crude  is down 9 percent since the last
OPEC meeting on June 8.  Saudi output will be determined by “whatever the customers
want,” al-Naimi said yesterday in Durban. The kingdom wants
spare oil-production capacity of 1.5 million to 2 million
barrels a day, he said.  Iran Sanctions  European Union governments will consider imposing stiffer
sanctions on Iran amid “serious and deepening concerns” over
the country’s nuclear program, according to a draft EU summit
statement. Foreign ministers will decide on the next set of
sanctions Jan. 30, the statement showed. Japan’s government said
today that it issued new sanctions against Iran.  Iran pumped about 5 percent of the world’s crude last year,
based on BP Plc’s annual Statistical Review of World Energy. The
country is on the  Strait of Hormuz , through which about a fifth
of global oil supply is transported, according to the U.S.
Energy Department.  Crude may fall next week on speculation European leaders
won’t calm market concern over the debt crisis, a Bloomberg News
survey showed. Eleven of 27 analysts and traders, or 41 percent,
forecast oil will decrease through Dec. 16. Nine respondents, or
33 percent, predicted futures will increase and seven estimated
there will be little change. Last week, 46 percent of survey
respondents projected a price drop.  Nymex will cut the margin requirement on crude and heating
oil futures from the close of business Dec. 12, CME Group Inc.,
the exchange’s parent company, said yesterday. The margin for
light sweet crude will be $7,560 per contract, 6.7 percent lower
than the current level. The exchange last reduced the margin to
$8,100 from $8,437.50 in May.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Grant Smith in  London  at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  