-- 
Cyber Monday Comes Twice at Sears as Discounts Threaten Margins: Retail

-- B y   M a t t   T o w n s e n d
-- 
2011-12-09T05:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/cyber-monday-comes-twice-as-sears-bargains-crimp-margins-retail.html
Cyber Monday came twice this year at
 J.C. Penney Co. (JCP)  and  Sears Holdings Corp. (SHLD)  -- once on the day
after Thanksgiving weekend and again a week later.  The proliferation of Cyber Mondays and related discounts is
testament to the marketing maneuvers retailers are employing
this year to keep consumers spending between now and Christmas.  Typically stores prune the deals after Thanksgiving. Less
so this year. Amid 8.6 percent unemployment and concern  Europe ’s
debt crisis could tip the U.S. back into recession, retailers
are still pouring on the discounts. That may hammer margins,
especially for retailers forced to deal with higher labor and
raw material costs this year, said Poonam Goyal, a Bloomberg
Industries analyst.  “Investors expected margins to be down due to inflation,
but they didn’t expect margins to be down from more
promotions,” said Goyal, who is based in Princeton,  New Jersey .
“The promotions don’t get deeper necessarily after Black
Friday, and to see them at the same level is a bit alarming.”  Retailers are in the midst of the traditional spending lull
between the Black Friday weekend and the final days before
Christmas when shoppers often pull back. This year’s pause comes
after retailers posted record Black Friday weekend sales of
$52.4 billion, according to the  National Retail Federation .
Industrywide same-store sales in November also rose 3.2 percent,
surpassing analysts’ projections.  To get those results, retailers began promoting for the
holidays earlier than ever. “Black Friday” deals arrived a
month before the actual day and marketing ploys like Black
November and Black Friday week proved popular.  Better Deals  Some consumers have already blown through their holiday
budgets. Others, trained to expect discounts and flashy
marketing gambits, will wait for better deals before being
tempted back to the mall, said David Bassuk, head of the global
retail practice at consultant AlixPartners in  New York .  “It is a crazy time right now with retailers willing to do
anything,” Bassuk said. These antics make December’s results
“highly questionable.”  Store traffic in the first week of December declined 5.9
percent from a year earlier, according to ShopperTrak. Traffic
was steady during the same week in 2010, the Chicago-based firm
said. If shoppers continue to pull back, retailers may be forced
to cut prices more than expected, resulting in a margin squeeze,
says Goyal.  That already began happening during the third quarter. The
average gross margin, or the percentage of sales left after cost
of goods sold, for 43 retail companies in the  Standard & Poor’s 
500 Index narrowed to 32.2 percent, from 33.1 percent a year
earlier, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Vulnerable Chains  Apparel chains may be especially vulnerable because the
clothes they are selling now were sourced earlier in the year
when cotton prices were at record highs. Third-quarter gross
margins declined more than 3 percentage points at  Abercrombie &
Fitch Co. (ANF) ,  Gap Inc. (GPS) ,  Urban Outfitters Inc. (URBN)  and  Chico’s FAS Inc. (CHS)   Unseasonable weather is a factor, too. November
temperatures in  North America  were the fourth-warmest in the
past 50 years, and so far December is balmier than a year ago,
according to Berwyn, Pennsylvania-based Planalytics Inc.  That has forced retailers to mark down winter clothing --
potentially another hit to margins, said Ken Stumphauzer, a
retail analyst for Sterne Agee & Leach Inc. in New York.  That is adding to the woes of mid-tier retailers such as
 Kohl’s Corp. (KSS)  and J.C. Penney, which both missed sales estimates
in November, he said.  “You’d expect to see aggressive pricing pressure out of
them, which has a cascade effect,” Stumphauzer said. “If
Kohl’s gets very promotional, then that affects the opening
price points at Macy’s. It has a spillover effect.”  Busy Inventing  Having turned Black Friday and Cyber Monday into
shopathons, retailers are busy inventing new shopping days.  J.C. Penney, Sears and its Kmart chain proclaimed on the
front pages of their websites on Dec. 5 that it was Cyber
Monday, a week after the actual event occurred. On this Cyber
Monday, a term invented by the Washington-based NRF in 2005,
deals ranged from 40 percent off a DVD player from Samsung
Electronics Co. to 80 percent off a children’s camcorder.  Last week, Gap’s Banana Republic chain offered 30 percent
off its merchandise in an event dubbed the “It’s not Black
Friday” sale. The markdowns followed a greater-than-expected
decline in November same-store sales.  After a 1.8 percent gain in November comparable-store sales
trailed analysts’ estimates,  Target Corp. (TGT)  yesterday began a
three-day “Almost Last Minute Sale” with markdowns on such
items as  Stanley Black & Decker Inc. (SWK)  coffee makers and gift card
giveaways. A week earlier, the discount chain held the “Big Toy
Event” on Dec. 1 offering half off a second item.  “Target is excited to introduce a new savings event just
in time for Christmas,” Kathee Tesija, Target’s executive vice
president of Merchandising, said in a statement on Dec. 6.  Consumers should expect more “branded discount days like
Cyber Monday,” Bassuk said. “The question is who is going to
open on Christmas day?”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Townsend in New York at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  