-- 
Czech Economy Slides Into Contraction as Euro Crisis Bites

-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 
2011-12-09T14:46:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/czech-gdp-grows-least-in-seven-quarters-on-austerity-and-crisis.html
The  Czech Republic  joined Slovenia as
the only eastern members of the European Union to slide into an
economic contraction, a victim of dwindling exports to the euro
area and government austerity curbing household spending.  Gross domestic product  in the third quarter fell 0.1
percent from the previous three months, when it grew 0.1 percent
advance, contracting for the first time since the second quarter
of 2009, the statistics office in Prague said on its website
today. Poland’s economy grew 1 percent,  Hungary ’s advanced 0.5
percent and Slovakia’s expanded 0.8 percent in the same period,
while Slovenia’s contracted 0.2 percent.  Czech economic growth depends on demand for products
including Skoda Auto AS vehicles and other car parts from the
EU. The bloc buys about 80 percent of the country’s exports,
with Germany accounting for a third. Government measures to cut
the  budget deficit  below the EU’s limit of 3 percent of GDP by
2013 are damping domestic demand as well.  “The Czech Republic is highly vulnerable to adverse
developments in the  euro zone , which accounts for two-thirds of
its export market,” David Petitcolin, an analyst at Royal Bank
Of Scotland PLC, said in an e-mailed note after the data
release. “The crisis in  Europe  has already started to bite,
leading to deteriorating performance.”  Koruna Slide  The koruna has lost 3.1 percent to euro so far this
quarter, the third-worst performance among the 25 emerging-
market currencies tracked by Bloomberg. The koruna was little
changed at 25.457 against the euro as of 3:45 p.m. in  Prague .
Czech bonds dropped today as quickening inflation made interest
rate cuts less likely. Two-year bond yields increased 6 basis
points, or 0.06 percentage point, to 1.69 percent.  Third-quarter GDP rose 1.2 percent from a year earlier,
slowing from a revised 2 percent in the second quarter.
Household spending fell 0.5 percent from the previous three
months and 0.4 percent from a year earlier, while government
consumption decreased 0.4 percent and 3 percent, respectively.
Gross fixed capital formation fell 0.5 percent quarterly and 1.9
percent on the year.  Export growth has slowed along with industrial output.
Third-quarter sales abroad rose 8.8 percent from a year earlier
after 9.4 percent in the previous three months and 15.6 percent
increase in the January-March period. Output growth slowed to
1.6 percent in September from 16.4 percent in January.  Demand Weakens  The central bank on Nov. 3 cut its 2011 economic-growth
forecast to 2 percent from 2.1 percent, and reduced the 2012
estimate to 1.2 percent from 2.2 percent, citing the effects of
the euro area’s sovereign debt crisis on economies in the
common-currency region.  “Foreign demand is weakening and our biggest export
market, the euro area, won’t be doing very well,” saidMiroslav Frayer, an analyst at  Komercni Banka AS. (KOMB)  “Household budgets are
burdened by fiscal restrictions, and, moreover, uncertainty over
future fiscal steps and over the global outlook aren’t
encouraging too much spending either.”  Slowing growth may require the government to curb spending
next year as it based the 2012 budget draft, now debated in the
parliament, on an assumption of 2.5 percent economic expansion.
Finance Minister Miroslav Kalousek has repeatedly said he
expects to propose changes to the next year’s budget early next
year when new forecasts are available.  Rate Effect  The central bank, which said household and state spending
were curbed by fiscal restrictions, will weigh the worsening
economic performance against accelerating inflation when
deciding on monetary policy. Separate data showed today headline
inflation rate rose to 2.5 percent in November, the highest
reading in 35 months, mainly due to cost of food.  The Ceska Narodni Banka has left the benchmark two-week
repo rate unchanged at record low 0.75 percent since May 2010, a
quarter point less than the  European Central Bank ’s main rate
following its reduction by the same amount yesterday.  The next rate move may be in any direction, central bank
Governor Miroslav Singer said Nov. 3. There is no reason for
“even  lower” rates to help the economy, he said on Dec. 6.  Policy makers “will carefully monitor factors that may
boost inflation or consumer-price expectations, such as the
koruna’s weakening,”  Pavel Sobisek , a Prague-based economist at
 UniCredit SpA (UCG) , wrote in an e-mail today. “I see a bigger
likelihood of the CNB raising its repurchase rate rather than
reducing it, probably in the last quarter of 2012.”  Inflation Accelerates  The inflation rate unexpectedly rose to the highest in 35
months in November on rising food costs, the statistics office
said in a separate statement today. Consumer prices rose 2.5
percent from a year earlier after a 2.3 percent in crease in
October..  Koruna moves will be important for future decisions on
interest rates as a firming currency tames inflationary
pressures and tightens monetary conditions, while its weakening
makes imports more expensive.  The central bank’s base scenario sees the koruna gaining
early next year, with the average  exchange rate  at 23.1 to the
euro in 2012.  The bank also prepared an alternative scenario which sees a
“sharp slowdown” in the euro area’s economic growth next year.
Under this outlook, the koruna would be weaker, averaging 24.2
per euro, and market  interest rates  would stay stable.  The central bank board agreed that the “alternative
scenario provided a more realistic picture of the future than
the baseline scenario,” according to the minutes from the Nov.
3 policy meeting.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Laca in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  