-- 
Czech Inflation Rate Rises to 3-Year High on Food

-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 
2011-12-09T13:02:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/czech-inflation-rate-rises-to-11-month-high-as-food-prices-gain.html
(Corrects time period in headline, first paragraph.)  The Czech inflation rate unexpectedly
rose to the highest in 35 months in November on rising prices of
food as policy makers debate whether to cut interest rate amid
slowing economic growth.  Inflation  accelerated to 2.5 percent from 2.3 percent in
October, the Prague-based Czech Statistics Office said in a
statement today on its website. The result exceeded the 2.3
percent median forecast in a Bloomberg survey of 16 economists.
The central bank saw November inflation at 2 percent. Consumer
prices rose 0.4 percent from the previous month.  The Ceska Narodni Banka left the benchmark two-week
repurchase rate at a record-low 0.75 percent on Nov. 3, a
quarter-point less than the  European Central Bank ’s main rate.
One policy maker in Prague sought a 25 basis-point reduction in
Czech rates in November and the bank’s new baseline forecast
assumed a decline in market interest rates by year-end.  Food and non-alcoholic beverages led price growth, rising
5.3 percent from a year earlier, while the cost of alcohol and
tobacco products rose 2.8 percent and transportation cost was up
4.4 percent from a year earlier, the statistics office said.  Monetary authorities in  Poland  left the  seven-day  rate
unchanged for a fifth meeting at 4.5 percent on Dec. 7, while
Hungary raised its  benchmark  rate by a half-point to 6.5 percent
on Nov. 29.  Bank Outlook  The Czech central bank’s outlook from Nov. 3 sees the
inflation rate rising to 2.8 percent in the fourth quarter of
2012 mainly because of an increase in the lower bracket of the
value-added tax from January. Monetary-policy inflation will
move “slightly under the inflation target” of 2 percent
through the first quarter of 2013, Governor Miroslav Singer
said.  Koruna moves will be important for future decisions on
 interest rates  as a firming currency tames inflationary
pressures and tightens monetary conditions, while its weakening
makes imports more expensive.  The central bank’s base scenario sees the koruna gaining
early next year and it sees the average  exchange rate  at 23.1 to
the euro in 2012. The bank also prepared an alternative scenario
which sees a “sharp slowdown” in the euro area’s economic
growth next year. Under this outlook, the koruna would be
weaker, averaging 24.2 per euro, and market interest rates would
stay stable.  The central bank board agreed that the“alternative
scenario provided a more realistic picture of the future than
the baseline scenario,” according to the minutes from the Nov.
3 policy meeting.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Laca in  Prague  at 
 placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  