-- 
Danish Krone Appetite Has Central Bank Testing New Tools

-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   W i e n b e r g
-- 
2011-12-09T14:01:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/danish-krone-appetite-has-central-bank-testing-new-tools-1-.html
Demand for  Denmark ’s krone is testing
the central bank’s toolkit as it sends  interest rates  to record
lows and adds liquidity in an effort to counter a capital influx
that’s intensified as the euro area’s crisis deepens.  Nationalbanken yesterday cut its lending rate to 0.8
percent from 1.2 percent to maintain the krone’s peg to the
euro, after the  European Central Bank  lowered its main rate a
quarter of a percentage point to 1 percent. The Copenhagen-based
bank will also offer banks and mortgage lenders three-year loans
and conduct regular operations to adjust liquidity to support
the currency peg, it said.  “Investors are spreading their risk on more currencies
amid the euro crisis,” Anders H. Svennesen, portfolio manager
at Hilleroed, Denmark-based ATP, with $130 billion in assets,
said in an interview. “That’s benefiting Danish assets, along
with for example Swedish, Norwegian and Swiss.”  ECB officials, meeting under the presidency of  Mario Draghi 
for a second time, have signaled they may step up efforts to end
the euro area’s debt crisis 19 months after  Greece  became the
bloc’s first nation to seek a bailout. Denmark’s main rate has
been below the ECB’s since the two banks last cut borrowing
costs on Nov. 3.  “There seems to be interest from both foreign and domestic
investors for Danish government bonds,” Svennesen said. His
fund held Danish government debt worth 197 billion kroner ($35.3
billion) at the end of 2010 and has kept the size of the
investment almost unchanged this year, he said.  Zero Rates  Denmark’s central bank, whose sole mandate is to keep the
krone within a 2.25 percent band against the euro, doesn’t hold
scheduled meetings and can change its rates at any time to
defend the peg.  “The extra interest-rate adjustment will hardly change the
fact that the  exchange rate  is strong against the euro,” Niels Roenholt, an economist at Jyske Bank A/S, said in a note.  The krone traded at 7.4353 against the euro today as of
1:53 p.m. in Copenhagen. That compares with a six-month average
of 7.4480, according to Bloomberg data. The central bank seeks
to defend a central target of 7.46038 against  Europe ’s single
currency and in practice only tolerates swings well within the
2.25 percent band.  The ECB is likely to cut its main rate again in January,
bringing its benchmark to 0.75 percent and forcing the Danish
lending rate down to 0.55 percent “or even lower,” said Arne Lohmann Rasmussen, chief analyst at Danske Bank A/S, in a note.  “We’re fast approaching de facto zero rates in Denmark,”
Lohmann Rasmussen said. “This is driven by the large inflow
into Danish  government bonds  in recent months.”  Foreign Interest  Foreign investors raised their share of Danish bonds to 34
percent of the total in October from 27 percent at the beginning
of the year, Lohmann Rasmussen said.  “We expect the purchases to continue through December,”
he said.  It costs Denmark about five basis points less than  Germany 
to borrow for 10 years. The Nordic country pays about 25 basis
points less than Germany to borrow for 30 years.  Denmark’s $325 billion economy is Scandinavia’s worst
performing as the nation grapples with a banking crisis and
housing slump. Most of the country’s banks have been cut off
from funding markets, squeezing credit and stalling growth.  Still, investors are rewarding the Nordic nation’s limited
debt burden. Denmark’s government debt will be 44.1 percent of
gross domestic product this year, compared with a euro-area
average of 88 percent, the European Commission said Nov. 10.  Haven Status  Denmark’s burden is relatively small because “a lot of
debt was paid off in the good years before the crisis,”
Svennesen said.  Denmark used a net 10.7 billion kroner ($1.93 billion) of
foreign currency last month to protect the krone’s peg against
the euro through so-called interventions, the central bank said
Dec. 2. Denmark had foreign reserves of 467.7 billion kroner at
the end of November, compared with a five-year average of 287.2
billion kroner, according to  Bloomberg data .  “The big interest in Danish securities underlines that the
country is perceived as a safe haven in the current crisis,”
Lohmann Rasmussen said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  