-- 
Deadly E. coli Strains Go Undetected as Beef Sellers Fight Test

-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   A r m o u r
-- 
2011-12-09T14:28:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/deadly-e-coli-strains-go-undetected-as-beef-sellers-fight-test.html
In less than two weeks in late 2007, 
Kayla Boner went from being a chatty, freckle-faced teenager 
celebrating her 14th birthday to a hospital patient on a 
ventilator with failing kidneys and seizures.  Boner’s family said she died from a type of  E. coli 
that isn’t regularly examined in U.S. meat inspections.
That strain of the bacteria, and five others that go untested, 
are at the center of a widening regulatory fight pitting the 
$74 billion beef industry against public health groups.  Expanded testing “could have saved Kayla’s life,” said 
Dana Boner, Kayla’s mother and a member of the advocacy group 
STOP Foodborne Illness, in a telephone interview. “I never, 
ever thought she could die from E. coli.”  U.S. inspectors now look for only one strain of E. coli, 
called 0157:H7. Boner and  food-safety  advocates back a U.S. 
plan to bar sales of raw ground beef contaminated with six 
additional strains, including the type that killed Kayla Boner.  At the same time, agriculture interests say there’s no
proof that expanded testing will deliver the proven health
benefits the proponents say it will and, in the meantime,
may cost the industry as much as $300 million a year.  Todd Allen of Wichita,  Kansas , who oversees the
feeding of 800,000 cattle annually for Minneapolis-based
Cargill Inc., the world’s largest agriculture company, says
it’s not proven that the other strains are as prevalent as
0157, and the technology to test them isn’t fully developed.  ‘Issue of Resources’  “We’re going to spend millions testing,” Allen said
in a telephone interview. “Are we going to prevent two to
three illnesses? Is this where we should be putting our
dollars? It’s an issue of resources.”  The 0157 strain of E. coli was banned in 1994 after
700 people became sick and four children died from tainted
hamburger sold by San Diego-based  Jack in the Box Inc. (JACK) 
restaurants. The six E. coli forms addressed in the new
rule belong to a family, called Shiga toxin-producing, that
can cause severe illness.  An average American eats the equivalent of almost 120
hamburgers a year made from beef, according to statistics
from the  National Cattlemen’s Beef Association . Reducing an
estimated 110,000 illnesses each year tied to the six added
strains justify the costs, said Elisabeth Hagen, the U.S.
undersecretary for food safety, in an e-mail.  “Too many Americans are getting sick from the food
they eat,” Hagen wrote. “These illnesses are preventable
because we know what works.” Illnesses from the 0157
strain have been cut by about half since 1997, in part
because of the ban, she said.  Comment Period  On Dec. 1, the U.S. Department of Agriculture
department held a public meeting on the rule, then extended
the comment period a month to Dec. 21 following a request
by industry groups including the  American Association of
Meat Processors  in Elizabethtown,  Pennsylvania , and  the
Meat Import Council of America  in Reston, Virginia.  U.S. estimates published in the Federal Register
suggested the rule would cost as much as $10.5 million
annually, not including the financial hit from recalls. A
single recall with the potential to cause illnesses or
death may cost retailers, manufacturers and others as much
as $5 million, according to the report.  The American Meat Institute, though, says those
estimates are too low, setting the costs of complying with
the rule at about $300 million a year.  The ban would apply to raw ground beef, tenderized
steaks and trim. Cooking typically kills the bacterium on
steaks or larger slabs of beef because the pathogen doesn’t
penetrate the surface, said Cargill’s Allen.  Spread by Processing  The processing system helps to spread E. coli
throughout ground beef. Trace amounts of fewer than a dozen
of the bacteria may cause severe stomach cramps, bloody
diarrhea and vomiting, as well as death. Risks are higher
for the very young, elderly or those with suppressed immune
systems.  Ground beef caused an outbreak of one of the six
untested E. coli strains that sickened three people in
2010, according to the Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention in Atlanta.  Processors try to prevent contamination with heat or
steam pasteurization, by acid washing carcasses, and using
vaccines to or feed additives.  Bill Marler, a Seattle food safety lawyer who obtained
about $30 million in legal settlements against Jack in the
Box following the 1994 outbreak, called the law critical to
preventing illness.  2009 Petition  “The meat industry really thinks it’s OK to have E.
coli in meat because it’s the responsibility of the
consumer to cook it,” Marler said in an interview. He
filed a 2009 petition with the USDA asking the agency to
ban the six strains.  Some processors and retailers are voluntarily testing
for the extra strains, including Beef Products Inc. in
Dakota Dunes,  South Dakota , a producer of lean beef.  Costco Wholesale Corp. (COST) , the largest U.S. warehouse
club chain Issaquah, Washington-based, in August 2010
started a program to test for the six additional E. coli
strains on roughly 700,000 pounds of beef a day and 40,000
pounds an hour of hot dogs.  In early 2012, Costco will require suppliers who
provide the company with raw material for their hot dogs
and ground beef to provide certificates showing the product
has been tested for the six strains and isn’t contaminated,
said Craig Wilson, head of food safety at Costco, in an
interview.  False Positives  False positives test results occur more than 20
percent of the time, he said. It may take up to two weeks
to confirm results. Meat that gets a positive reading in
the first test, which takes less than 24 hours, is diverted
to another source, such as returning it to the vendor.  “It’s the right thing to do,”  Wilson said. “If you
have data to detect a pathogen that could sicken you or
your children and we have the technology to prevent that,
we should do it.”  Kayla’s mother, Dana Boner, 43, of Monroe,  Iowa ,
agrees. “It shouldn’t be on the shelf if it can kill
people,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Armour in Washington at 
 sarmour@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net  