-- 
Diamonds to Rise as Demand Expands at Double Supply, Bain Says

-- B y   I l y a   K h r e n n i k o v
-- 
2011-12-09T10:20:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/diamonds-to-rise-as-demand-expands-at-double-supply-bain-says.html
Diamond prices are poised to rise as
demand grows at double the pace of supply through 2020 because
of expanding middle class populations in  China  and  India , said
Bain & Co. in a report for the Antwerp World Diamond Centre.  World demand is expected to expand an average 6.4 percent a
year to almost 247 million carats by 2020 while production grows
an annual 2.8 percent to 175 million carats, it said in the
 report . Output totaled 133 million carats last year, it said.  “Historically such supply-demand imbalances have provided
the foundation for firm prices in the industry,” the  Boston ,
Massachusetts-based consultant wrote in the report.  Rough-diamond prices rose 49 percent in the first half,
accelerating after two straight years of more than 30 percent
growth as stagnant output failed to meet Asian demand, according
to data from PolishedPrices.com.  De Beers , supplier of about a
third of all rough diamonds, was among those caught on the back
foot after idling mines following the global financial crisis.  De Beers  Chief Executive Officer Philippe Mellier said in
October that prices may “stick” at current levels after the
first-half rally. Retail demand in India and China is “very,
very strong” and U.S. sales are growing, defying expectations
of a slide in consumption, he said. A PolishedPrices.com index
of overall prices has dropped 6.8 percent in the second half.  China and India will increase their share of world diamond
demand to about 30 percent by 2020, from 21 percent, as middle
class populations in the two countries will more than double to
469 million people, according to Bain & Co. World demand will
grow to $23 billion in 10 years from $12 billion last year.  Supply will be driven by a recovery to pre-crisis output at
current mines and as much as 23 million carats from 13 new mines
from companies such as  De Beers ,  OAO Alrosa  and  Rio Tinto Group. (RIO)   Investment in diamonds is unlikely to become significant
for demand, Bain & Co. said. “Even though diamonds may seem
like an attractive investment, much like gold or silver, the
difficulties with valuation, the absence of a  spot market  and
the lack of liquidity make them largely unsuitable,” it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilya Khrennikov in Moscow at 
 ikhrennikov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  