-- 
Dollar Funding Costs Rise Most in a Month in Euro Money Markets

-- B y   N a m i t h a   J a g a d e e s h
-- 
2011-12-09T13:11:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/dollar-funding-costs-rise-most-in-a-month-in-euro-money-markets.html
The cost for European banks to borrow
in dollars rose the most in a month on concern the measures
agreed upon by euro-area leaders won’t be enough to stem the
region’s debt crisis.  The three-month cross-currency  basis swap , the rate banks
pay to convert euro payments into dollars, widened nine basis
points to 126 basis points below the euro interbank offered rate
at 12:30 p.m. in  London . That’s the most expensive rate since
Dec. 2.  Europe’s leaders said today its permanent rescue fund won’t
get a banking license that would enable it to increase its
firepower by borrowing from the  European Central Bank . Regional
leaders added 200 billion euros ($267 billion) to the rescue
fund and tightened anti-deficit rules.  The rescue fund was “not enough” and should be enlarged,
said Alessandro Giansanti, a senior rates strategist at ING
Groep NV in Amsterdam. Rising dollar-borrowing costs reflect
investors’ disappointment that today’s accord is “short in
details,” he said.  The one-year basis swap widened to 78 basis points under
Euribor from 73 basis points yesterday, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  Banks’ Reluctance  A measure of banks’ reluctance to lend to one another in
 Europe  fell after the ECB cut  interest rate  by 25 basis points
to 1 percent yesterday. The Euribor-OIS spread, the difference
between the borrowing benchmark and overnight index swaps, was
96 basis points from 100 basis points yesterday.  Lenders reduced  overnight deposits  at the ECB, parking 310
billion euros at the Frankfurt-based central bank yesterday,
from 324 billion euros on Dec. 7. That compares with a year-to-
date weekly average of 87 billion euros.  Three-month  Euribor , the rate banks say they pay for three-
month loans in euros, fell to 1.437 percent from 1.47 percent
yesterday. One-week Euribor fell to 0.831 percent from 0.887
percent yesterday.  The dollar London interbank offered rate, or  Libor , for
three-month dollar loans rose to 0.542 percent from 0.54
yesterday.  The premium for the overnight rate lenders are prepared to
pay for unsecured three-month funding using the forward market
rose to the highest in three years. The so-called  FRA-OIS spread 
widened 1.3 basis points to 96.3 basis points, the most since
December 2008.  “There’s quite a lot of pressure on the market as we go
into year-end,” said  Peter Chatwell , a strategist at Credit
Agricole CIB in London. “Looking for sentiment to turn right
now is a bit of a push. Spreads should tighten a bit but now is
the wrong time for that to happen.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Namitha Jagadeesh in London at 
 njagadeesh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  