-- 
Eastern U.S. May Be Warmer Than Normal Through Mid-December

-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 
2011-12-09T14:06:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/eastern-u-s-may-be-warmer-than-normal-through-mid-december.html
The eastern U.S. may be warmer than
normal into mid-December, according to forecasters.  Weather Derivatives Meteorologist  David Salmon  said
temperatures may be 6 degrees Fahrenheit (3.3 Celsius) warmer
than normal from Dec. 15 to Dec. 19 in his latest 6- to 10-day
outlook.  Temperatures may be 10 degrees above normal from eastern
Missouri to western Virginia and  North Carolina , Salmon said
from Belton, Missouri.  Traders use long-range temperature predictions to gauge
energy use and market fluctuations. Hot or cold weather can
increase demand for heating and cooling. Power plants use about
30 percent of the nation’s natural gas supplies, according to
Energy Department data.  In his 6- to 10-day outlook, Commodity Weather Group LLC’s
President  Matt Rogers  said he expects temperatures to be at
least 5 degrees warmer than normal along the East Coast and
about 3 degrees higher in interior regions.  The western U.S., particularly southern  California  and the
Southwest, is expected to be cooler than normal, according to
Rogers in Bethesda, Maryland.  In his 10- to 15-day outlook for Dec. 19 to Dec. 23, Rogers
predicts most of the U.S. will have more seasonal temperatures
with parts of the upper Great Plains being about 3 degrees
warmer than normal.  Salmon didn’t release a comparable forecast.  The normal average temperature in New York on Dec. 17 is 38
degrees, according to MDA EarthSat Weather in Gaithersburg,
Maryland. In Boston, it’s about 35, in Atlanta it’s 45, in
Houston it’s 54, in Seattle it’s 40 and in Burbank, California
it’s 54.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in  Boston  at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  