-- 
Gasoline Gains as U.S. Consumer Confidence at Six-Month High

-- B y   B a r b a r a   P o w e l l
-- 
2011-12-09T21:23:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/heating-oil-falls-on-european-summit-outcome-dollar-gains.html
Gasoline advanced for the first time
in three days as a gauge of U.S. consumer confidence surged this
month to a six-month high and equities climbed.  Gasoline gained as the Thomson Reuters/University of
Michigan preliminary index of  consumer sentiment  rose to 67.7
from 64.1 at the end of November. This follows a report
yesterday that  jobless claims  fell last week to the lowest since
February. The  Standard & Poor’s 500 (SPX)  Index was up 1.7 percent
today.  “The consumer number is why equities are having a small
rally,” said Fred Rigolini, vice president of Paramount Options
Inc. in  New York . “Gasoline is reacting to that and the
positive news from the U.S.”  Gasoline for January delivery rose 2.95 cents, or 1.2
percent, to settle at $2.5961 a gallon on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange . Prices slipped 0.8 percent this week and
have gained 5.8 percent in 2011.  In another report today, Commerce Department figures showed
that the  trade deficit  narrowed in October to the lowest level
of the year, reflecting a drop in imports that will help boost
the economy.  Regular gasoline  at the pump, averaged nationwide, fell 0.2
cent to $3.293 a gallon yesterday, according to AAA data.  Heating oil slipped on concern that that the euro-area
economy will falter and curtail diesel fuel demand.  Europe  Summit  European leaders attending a summit on the region’s fiscal
crisis agreed to boost a rescue fund by $267 billion (200
billion euros) and tighten rules to curb future debts.  “The oil market is skeptical how this agreement is going
to be implemented,” said  Andy Lipow , president of Lipow Oil
Associates LLC in Houston. “Significant austerity would impact
fuel demand and Europe is really a distillate-run economy.”  About half of U.S. diesel and heating oil exports in
September went to Europe, Energy Department data show.  German  exports  fell in October from the prior month,
according to the Federal Statistics office in Wiesbaden today,
reinforcing concerns that the euro region may slip into
recession. French  industrial production  was flat in October,
Paris-based statistics office Insee said. Germany and  France  are
the region’s largest economies.  January-delivery heating oil declined 1.73 cents, or 0.6
percent, to settle at $2.9125 a gallon on the exchange. Prices
sank 2.6 percent this week and are up 15 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Barbara J Powell in Dallas at 
 bpowell4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  