-- 
Lehman Told Not to Pay Gleacher for Advice on Archstone

-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 
2011-12-09T20:28:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/lehman-told-by-u-s-trustee-not-to-pay-gleacher-for-advice-on-archstone.html
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ) , which
is trying to raise about $2.6 billion as part of a plan to sell
Archstone, its biggest real estate asset, was told not to pay
 Gleacher & Co. (GLCH)  for its advice because the firm’s fees are “not
reasonable.”  Gleacher sought as much as $15 million in fees from
bankrupt Lehman if Archstone is sold, including a retainer of as
much as $3.6 million at a rate of $300,000 a month, according to
a court filing. Lehman is already paying  Lazard Freres & Co. (LAZ)  for
investment banking advice and shouldn’t hire Gleacher, said the
U.S. Trustee who oversees bankruptcies for the Justice
Department.  “The debtors have already retained Lazard Freres & Co. to
perform the same services,” said Tracy Hope Davis, the U.S.
Trustee. “The proposed fees to be paid to Gleacher are not
reasonable.”  Gleacher has been working for Lehman for at least nine
months without being officially hired, Davis said in a court
filing today. Lehman is now asking a judge to make the hiring
official and pay back fees to Gleacher. The judge should
decline, Davis said.  The firm’s chairman, Eric Gleacher, who founded Lehman’s
mergers and acquisitions group before leaving in 1983, didn’t
immediately respond to an e-mail seeking comment on the fees.
Kimberly Macleod, a Lehman spokeswoman, said she couldn’t
immediately comment.  Controlling Stake  Lehman aims to raise about $2.6 billion to buy a
controlling stake in Archstone from  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  and
 Barclays Plc (BARC) , with a goal of selling or liquidating the
apartment owner for $6 billion or more, according to a person
familiar with the plan.  Lehman, which has court approval for a $65 billion
liquidation plan to pay creditors, is trying to raise money for
an Archstone deal in talks with investors including  Blackstone
Group LP (BX)  and Brookfield Asset Management Inc., said another
person familiar with the plan. Both people asked not to be
identified because the negotiations are private.  Bank of America and Barclays have been offered about $1.3
billion for half of their 53 percent stake in Archstone, which
Lehman would have to match, Lehman has said in a filing.  Apartment Developments  Archstone is worth “at least” $1 billion more than the $5
billion equity value implied by a bid for the banks’ stake by
 Equity Residential (EQR) , founded by Sam Zell, Lehman said.  Archstone, which Lehman acquired in a $22 billion leveraged
buyout with Tishman Speyer Properties LP, has ownership
interests in hundreds of apartment developments from Washington
and New York to  San Francisco .  Lehman invested $2.4 billion in the buyout of Archstone in
2007 and currently owns 47 percent of Archstone, according to
court papers. Chief Executive Officer Bryan Marsal has said real
estate sales will continue through 2014.  The case is In re Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., 08-13555,
 U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 