-- 
Heineken Chases Wider Profit Margin in China by Focusing on Premium Beer

-- B y   K y u n g h e e   P a r k   a n d   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 
2011-12-09T04:22:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/heineken-chases-higher-china-profit-with-premium-beer-focus.html
Heineken NV (HEIA) , the world’s third-
biggest brewer by volume, and partner Asia Pacific Breweries
Ltd. plan to boost profitability in China by focusing on premium
beer in the world’s fastest-growing major economy.  Premium beer is 10 times more profitable than mass market
tipple prompting the two partners to focus on the segment, Theo de Rond, president of Heineken’s Asia Pacific region, said in an
interview in  Singapore  yesterday. Premium beer sells for about
four times more than the regular brew in China, Chief Executive
Officer Jean Francois van Boxmeer said in Singapore.  Heineken, struggling with declining beer sales in western
Europe, is competing with companies such as  Anheuser-Busch InBev
NV (ABI) , Kirin Corp. and Tsingtao Brewery Co. in the world’s biggest
beer market by volume. Heineken and its Singapore-based partner,
which sell the Heineken and Tiger beers in the world’s most-
populous nation, sold the stakes held by their joint venture in
 China  in some breweries to focus on the high-end market.  “You have  population growth  and you have economic
growth,” said Boxmeer. “We’re not operating in the mainstream
market in China, we’re operating in the premium market.”  While China accounted for 71 percent of the whole beer
market in the Asia-Pacific region last year, it contributed 16
percent of the profit, Van Boxmeer said. That’s because the
average price of beer in China is about 25 euros ($33) per 100
liters, compared with 51 euros in  India , 60 euros in Vietnam and
182 euros in Australia, he said.  China Beer Consumption  In 2010, China consumed 44.8 billion liters of beer, 6.3
percent more than the year earlier, according to a statement
from  Asia Pacific Breweries (APB)  in July.  Consumption of premium beer in China is estimated by Asia
Pacific Breweries to grow 12 percent annually through 2020 to
2.1 billion liters, Asia Pacific Breweries said yesterday.  “Focusing on the premium side of the market is the
approach foreign brands should take,” said Olive Xia, an
analyst at Core Pacific-Yamaichi International Ltd. in Shanghai,
who has a “buy” rating on Tsingtao. Local brands dominate the
non-premium market, she said.  China’s gross domestic product has grown 11.2 percent on
average over the past five years. Societe Generale SA expects
expansion of 9.2 percent this year and 8.1 percent in 2012.  Exiting Some Segments  Heineken-APB (China) Pte agreed to sell a 21.4 percent
stake in  Kingway Brewery Holdings Ltd. (124) , a Chinese beermaker, for
1.08 billion yuan ($170 million) in March.  The joint venture agreed in July to sell stakes in Jiangsu
Dafuhao Breweries Co. and Shanghai Asia Pacific Brewery Co. to
the maker of Snow beer, a joint venture of  SABMiller Plc (SAB)  and
state-owned  China Resources Enterprise Ltd. (291)   China Resources Enterprise had the biggest share of China’s
beer market last year with 21 percent, followed by Tsingtao
Brewery Co. at 14 percent and Anheuser-Busch InBev NV’s 11
percent, according to Asia Pacific Breweries.  Heineken and Asia Pacific Brewery make Heineken and Tiger
brand beer at plants in Guangzhou and Hainan for the Chinese
market.  Heineken in October reported so-called organic revenue
growth of 3 percent in the third quarter, beating estimates, as
ad campaigns helped curb a decline in sales in western  Europe .
It’s among brewers suffering as consumer confidence wanes in
western Europe, where it made almost half its revenue last year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kyunghee Park in Singapore at 
 kpark3@bloomberg.net ;
Clementine Fletcher in London at 
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  