-- 
Emerging Stocks Fall for Second Day as Growth Concerns Mount

-- B y   S a n t a n u   C h a k r a b o r t y   a n d   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 
2011-12-09T22:14:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/emerging-stocks-fall-most-in-two-weeks.html
Emerging-market stocks sank to the
lowest level this month as signs of an economic slowdown in
 China  and  South Korea  outweighed European leaders’ accord on
ways to fight the debt crisis and U.S. consumer confidence that
topped estimates.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  fell 1.4 percent to 934.18
at the close in New York, paring an earlier drop of 2.3 percent.
The gauge is at its lowest since Nov. 30 and down 2.8 percent
this week. The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  dropped 3.2
percent in  Hong Kong  and the  Kospi Index (KOSPI)  sank 2 percent in
Seoul.  Brazil ’s Bovespa rose 1.4 percent, reversing a weekly
loss. Russia’s  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  slid 4.1 percent ahead of political
protests this weekend.  China’s industrial output grew at the slowest pace in two
years in November, data today showed. South Korea’s economic
growth is likely to slow to 3.7 percent in 2012 from 3.8 percent
this year, the central bank said. Stocks fell even as European
Union leaders added 200 billion euros ($267 billion) to their
crisis-fighting war chest and tightened anti-deficit rules to
stem the region’s sovereign credit crisis.  “The Chinese economy will slow down next year much more
than what the market expected,” said  Adrian Mowat ,  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s Hong Kong-based chief Asian and emerging-market
strategist, said in a Bloomberg UTV interview today. “ Europe 
will continue to provide volatility, but probably it is going to
be the main signal of direction in markets.”  MSCI’s emerging-markets index has declined 19 percent this
year, compared with the 7.2 percent drop in the MSCI World Index
amid concerns of faltering growth in the U.S., Europe and China.
The developing-nations gauge trades for 9.7 times estimated
earnings, compared with its four-year average of 12.2 times,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  No ‘Break-Through’  The Czech Republic’s PX gauge lost 0.3 percent after a
report showed the economy grew at the slowest pace in seven
quarters in July through September.  “We are concerned about the near-term outlook for global
 emerging markets  as the EU summit seems to have failed to
provide break-through steps to address the EU crisis,”  Benoit Anne , London-based head of emerging-market strategy at Societe
Generale SA, wrote in an e-mailed report to clients today.  The South Korean won led declines among emerging-market
currencies, weakening 1.3 percent versus the dollar. The  Indian
rupee  lost 0.5 percent.  South Africa ’s rand added 2.1 percent
and the Brazilian real strengthened 1.5 percent as commodities
gained following U.S. consumer confidence data.  Brazilian Stocks  The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan preliminary
index of  consumer sentiment  for December rose to 67.7 from a
final November reading of 64.1. The gauge was projected to rise
to 65.8, according to the median forecast of 73 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg.  Copper advanced 2.1 percent and silver gained 2.3 percent
in New York.  The  Bovespa (IBOV)  reversed losses for the week as a report showed
inflation trailing economists’ estimates. The first preview of
the IGP-M report showed Brazil inflation was 0.04 percent this
month through yesterday, according to the Rio de Janeiro-based
Getulio Vargas Foundation. That compared to a median estimate of
0.42 percent in a Bloomberg survey of 17 economists.  Brazilian mining companies  Vale SA  and  MMX Mineracao &
Metalicos SA  followed metals prices higher.  Airline Gol Linhas Aereas Inteligentes SA advanced the most
in the Bovespa this week, surging 12 percent, as Delta Air Lines
Inc. invested $100 million in the company.  Taiwan’s  Taiex Index (TWSE)  and the  BSE India Sensitive Index (SENSEX) , or
Sensex, each slid more than 1 percent.  Factory Production  Chinese  industrial output  rose 12.4 percent last month, the
slowest pace since August 2009, according to statistics bureau
data today. Consumer prices rose 4.2 percent in November from a
year earlier, slowing from a 5.5 percent gain in the previous
month, the bureau reported earlier. The median estimate of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg was for a 4.5 percent increase.  Jiangxi Copper Co. (358) , China’s biggest copper producer, fell
5.4 percent in Hong Kong. PetroChina Co., the nation’s second-
largest oil refiner, slumped 4 percent.  The slowdown in China’s domestic consumption and overseas
demand has been faster than expected this quarter, Citigroup
Inc. analysts wrote in a report dated yesterday, citing feedback
from retailers and manufacturers at a Hong Kong conference.  Fund Flows  Investors withdrew $1.2 billion from global funds in the
week to Dec. 7, the fifth consecutive week of net sales, while
money flowed into emerging-market funds for the first time in
four weeks, Citigroup analysts wrote in a report today, citing
data from fund researcher EPFR Global.  “Investors remained cautious to slightly negative
throughout the week on the possible outcome of the EU summit,”
Yue Hin Pong, one of the Citigroup analysts, wrote in a separate
e-mail.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over  U.S. Treasuries  fell nine basis points, or 0.09
percentage point, to 405, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Santanu Chakraborty in Mumbai at 
 schakrabor11@bloomberg.net ;
Zachary Tracer in  New York  at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  