-- 
Energy Stocks in N.Y. Buck Hong Kong Plunge: China Overnight

-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r   a n d   Y e   X i e
-- 
2011-12-09T19:03:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/energy-stocks-in-n-y-buck-hong-kong-plunge-china-overnight.html
Chinese stocks traded in the U.S.
rose for the first day in four as European efforts to stem the
region’s debt crisis boosted energy and materials companies to a
premium over  Hong Kong  shares.  The Bloomberg China-US 55 Index  of the most-traded Chinese
stocks rebounded 1.1 percent at 1:16 p.m. in New York after
falling 2.3 percent this week through yesterday.  Yanzhou Coal
Mining Co., (YZC)   China ’s fourth-largest producer of the fuel, led
energy company gains, adding 3.7 percent to a 4 cent premium in
the U.S.  Cnooc Ltd. (883) , the nation’s largest offshore oil producer,
gained 1.6 percent to $193.05, a 3 cent premium.  European leaders meeting in Brussels expanded a bailout
fund and agreed to a closer fiscal union to fight the crisis.
German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said the deal puts Europe on the
path toward a “lastingly stable euro.” U.S. stocks headed to a
second week of gains after the agreement.  “Investors must think that if there’s a chance that Europe
can fix itself, and we get out of this extended period of
stagnation, what would growing economies need?” said Richard Kang, chief investment officer at Emerging Global Advisors in
New York, which manages an exchange-traded fund focused on
developing-market energy companies. “If you are in the business
of widget making, whether you are making cars or whatever, you
need steel, you need copper and you need oil if you are going to
ramp up.”  The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI) , which tracks Chinese
companies listed in Hong Kong, fell the most in a month, losing
3.2 percent. The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  of domestic shares
reached the lowest level since March 2009 after dropping 0.6
percent.  Industrial Production   The stock measures fell as Chinese industrial output
increased at the slowest pace in November since August 2009.
Production rose 12.4 percent, lower than the median forecast of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Inflation cooled for a fourth
month as consumer prices rose 4.2 percent, lower than all
estimates in a Bloomberg survey of 35 economists.  Citigroup Inc. said a slowdown in China’s domestic
consumption and overseas demand has been “faster than
expected” this quarter. The brokerage cited feedback from
retailers and manufacturers at a Hong Kong conference.  Chinese materials companies in the U.S. rose 2.8 percent,
the best performance among nine  industry groups .  Yanzhou Coal led energy stocks higher, cutting its losses
for the week to 2.3 percent. The American depositary receipts,
which represent 10 ordinary shares, climbed to $23.07, while the
Hong Kong shares declined to HK$ 17.58, the equivalent of $2.26.  Cnooc, PetroChina  Cnooc ADRs, which are worth 100 ordinary shares, rose 1.6
percent to $193.05 and are set for a second weekly gain. The
Hong Kong Shares slid to HK$ 14.78, or the equivalent of $1.90.
One hundred Hong Kong shares cost about $3.05 less than the U.S.
equivalent.  PetroChina Co. (PTR) , the country’s second-largest oil
refiner, rose 0.4 percent to $124.54, which is a 3 cent premium
to the Hong Kong-traded shares.  Aluminum Corporation of China Ltd. (ACH) , the nation’s biggest
aluminum-maker, rose 2.8 percent to $11.89, paring its yearly
decline to 48 percent. It surged the most among materials
companies in the China-US index.  E-Commerce China Dangdang Inc. (DANG)  gave back part of
yesterday’s 20 percent surge, falling 6.8 percent, the most
among companies in the Bloomberg measure. China’s largest online
bookseller’s plan to introduce an e-book platform will have a
“minimal” effect on the company’s 2012 results, Adam Krejcik,
an analyst at  Roth Capital Partners , wrote in a Dec. 9 research
note.  Real-Estate Rebound  SoFun Holdings Ltd., (SFUN)  which offers online real-estate
listings, added 2 percent. China’s November housing transactions
rose 12 percent, rebounding from a decline in October.  The  IShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund (FXI) , the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., increased 2 percent to $36.40.  The Chinese yuan was little changed at 6.3647 per dollar in
Shanghai, according to the China Foreign Exchange Trade System.
The yuan has advanced 3.8 percent this year, the best
performance among Asia’s 10 most-traded currencies excluding the
yen.  China will maintain a “prudent” monetary policy and a
“proactive” fiscal policy next year, the official Xinhua news
agency reported Dec. 9, citing a meeting of the Communist
Party’s Politburo chaired by President Hu Jintao. China will
“preset or fine tune policies in light of changes in economic
development,” Xinhua reported.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zachary Tracer in  New York  at 
 Ztracer1@bloomberg.net ;
Ye Xie in New York at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  