-- 
Tepco May Ask Government to Buy Stake to Avoid Collapse, President Says

-- B y   C h i s a k i   W a t a n a b e   a n d   S t u a r t   B i g g s
-- 
2011-12-09T03:03:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/tepco-may-ask-government-to-acquire-stake-president-tells-tokyo-newspaper.html
Tokyo Electric Power Co. (9501)  may ask the
government to buy a stake in the company to avoid a collapse
under the weight of compensation claims for the Fukushima
disaster, President Toshio Nishizawa said in an interview in the
Tokyo Shimbun newspaper today.  “It’s one possibility,” Nishizawa told the newspaper in
response to a question on whether the utility needs a capital
injection. The interview follows a flurry of news reports
yesterday suggesting a state-run fund will buy preferred shares
in the company.  “It’s the beginning of the endgame for Tepco as the entity
that exists right now,” said Penn Bowers, an analyst with CLSA
Asia-Pacific Markets in Tokyo. The government may be close to
nationalizing Tepco to spin off its viable assets, he said.  The March 11 nuclear disaster, the worst in 25 years,
caused the evacuation of about 160,000 people and dumped
radiation on farms and into the sea, contaminating food
supplies. Tepco said it will outline a plan today to reorganize
to meet claims that may total 4.5 trillion yen by March 2013,
according to a government panel.  Tepco may also raise electricity prices to help pay for
decommissioning the damaged reactors at the Fukushima Dai-Ichi
plant, Nishizawa told the newspaper.  Tepco spokesman Masato Yamaguchi referred inquiries to a
statement yesterday from the company that said plans on
government support haven’t been finalized. Yamaguchi spoke in a
telephone interview today.  Public Support  The company’s shares fell more than 10 percent yesterday
after the Mainichi newspaper reported the company will be taken
over by the government. The stock rose as much as 4 percent to
254 yen in Tokyo and was at 250 yen at 10:45 a.m.  The shares have lost 88 percent of their value since the
March 11 earthquake and tsunami wrecked its Fukushima Dai-Ichi
atomic plant.  The government’s Nuclear Damage Liability Facilitation Fund
may buy preferred shares worth at least 1 trillion yen ($12.9
billion) from the utility by next summer, the Mainichi said
yesterday, without saying where it obtained the information.  The Sankei newspaper reported the government may inject 1.5
trillion of public funds, while  Kyodo News  reported Tepco may
seek 3 trillion yen, including public funds and loans, during
the four years from April.  The government, which agreed to provide about 900 billion
yen to support Tepco in November, is leaning toward buying
shares because it’s becoming likely liabilities will exceed its
assets, a situation that may result in the company seeking
 bankruptcy protection , the Mainichi report said. The preferred
stock will be convertible into common shares, the report said.  Maintaining Supplies  Officials want to keep the company running to maintain
stable power supplies, the report said. Tepco wants to remain a
private entity and isn’t planning to seek a capital injection,
Nishizawa said on Nov. 4.  Yukio Edano, minister for trade and industry, has said a
court-led bankruptcy must be avoided as it would give
preferential claims to bondholders and other creditors, not
those directly affected by the disaster.  Tepco, which has racked up losses of 1.8 trillion yen since
the disaster, is forecasting a loss of 600 billion yen in the
year to March 31.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chisaki Watanabe in  Tokyo  at 
 cwatanabe5@bloomberg.net ;
Stuart Biggs in Tokyo at 
 sbiggs3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Langan at 
 plangan@bloomberg.net  