-- 
Estonian GDP Growth Revised Up for Third Quarter to 8.5%

-- B y   O t t   U m m e l a s
-- 
2011-12-09T08:11:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/estonian-gdp-growth-revised-up-for-third-quarter-to-8-5-1-.html
Estonia’s  economic growth  accelerated
in the third quarter after an initial estimate of a slowdown, as
a recovery in construction outweighed easing demand among the
nation’s trading partners.  Gross domestic product rose 8.5 percent from a year
earlier, compared with a preliminary estimate of 7.9 percent and
growth of 8.4 percent in the second quarter, the Statistics
Office in the capital, Tallinn, said today on its  website .
Output increased a seasonally adjusted 1.2 percent from the
previous quarter, compared with a preliminary estimate of 0.8
percent.  Estonia became the first former Soviet republic to adopt
the euro on Jan. 1, seeking to boost trade and investment after
recording the second-deepest recession in the European Union in
2008 and 2009 behind  Latvia . The $19 billion economy has grown
fastest than any other member of the 27-nation bloc this year,
helped by rising demand in neighboring Sweden and Finland for
its electronics and machinery, and by increased shipments of
Russian oil products through its ports.  “In conjunction with the decrease in the contribution of
manufacturing, the GDP growth has become more broad-based due to
the increase in the contribution of several other economic
activities,” the statistics office said. “Construction,
information and communication made a considerable contribution
to the GDP growth, as well.”  Construction, led by companies such as  Merko Ehitus AS (MRK1T) , the
biggest listed Baltic builder, contributed 1.4 percentage points
to GDP growth, compared with 0.2 percent in the second quarter.
The industry has been boosted by EU-financed road and rail
projects, while private-sector investments remain largely
frozen. The information and communications industry added 0.9
percentage point, compared with 0.4 percentage point in the
previous three months.  Manufacturing, powered by demand for wireless-network
equipment and wind generators assembled at local subsidiaries of
 Ericsson AB (ERICB)  and  ABB Ltd. (ABBN) , contributed 2.5 percentage points,
compared with 4.6 percent in the second quarter.  Estonia, the third-riskiest European Union member two years
ago, is now among the 10 best, ahead of nations including
Austria and  France . Its five-year credit-default swaps closed
yesterday at 158 basis points, compared with a peak for this
year of 190 basis points on Nov. 29, according to CMA Datavision
prices.  The nation of 1.3 million should brace for slowing exports
and declining business and consumer confidence next year amid
 Europe ’s debt crisis, the  International Monetary Fund  said Nov.
29. GDP will expand 3.1 percent in 2012, down from 7.5 percent
this year, the Washington-based lender forecast.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ott Ummelas in Tallinn at 
 oummelas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  