-- 
EU Banks Won’t Cut Lending to Meet 9% Buffer, Clausen Says

-- B y   A d a m   E w i n g
-- 
2011-12-09T14:50:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/eu-banks-won-t-cut-lending-to-meet-9-buffer-clausen-says.html
Europe’s banks won’t cut lending to
businesses or households as they adjust their balance sheets to
fulfill a 9 percent capital adequacy target, said  Christian Clausen , the president of the European Banking Federation.  “All banks I talk to keep lending to small- and medium-
sized enterprises and households,” Clausen, who is also the
chief executive officer of Nordea Bank AB in  Stockholm , said in
an interview today. “That part of the bank will keep rolling.
There will be credit supply to those customers, but they are
getting rid of some assets.”  The European Banking Authority yesterday warned banks not
to cut lending or inflate capital levels artificially to raise
114.7 billion euros ($153 billion) in extra capital needed to
meet stricter regulatory requirements. Clausen, whose federation
represents the EU’s national banking associations, in November
told  Europe ’s lenders to keep dumping Italian bonds and other
assets tainted by the debt crisis to protect their balance
sheets.  “The banks will have to do all things” to meet the
stricter  capital requirements , Clausen said. “They are all, as
I hear, very diligent about how to get there and creating the
business model going forward that will give them the 9
percent.”  ‘Political Views’  The EBA told banks to raise the money from investors,
retained earnings and lower bonuses. Failing that, companies may
sell assets, provided the disposals don’t limit overall lending
to the “real” economy, the authority said in a statement.  “I know there are some political views on what banks
should do, but we have to understand that if you need to raise
capital, you need to have a plan that shows you have a
sufficient return on capital.”  The EBA’s latest estimate of how much capital banks must
raise follows an October assessment, in which lenders were told
to find an additional 106 billion euros to achieve a core Tier 1
capital ratio of 9 percent of their risk-weighted assets by mid-
2012, after marking their sovereign bonds to market prices.  Banks needing to raise capital to achieve the higher ratio
will only be successful if they can persuade investors they
offer adequate returns, Clausen said. A number of banks won’t be
able to tap markets unless they offload assets that are weighing
down their balance sheets, he said.  Delivering Returns  “You don’t ask investors for capital if you have a plan
that delivers 7 percent return on equity,” Clausen said, adding
banks need to outline plans to reach a return on equity of at
least 10 percent within two years if they’re to win investor
favor.  “The money is available,” Clausen said. “For an investor
buying at half book value and getting a price to book of one in
two to three years, that’s a very good investment opportunity.
But it has to be a credible plan. It has to be convincing.”  The 46-member  Bloomberg Europe Banks and Financial Services
Index (BEBANKS)  has an average price-to-book ratio of 0.71, according to
Bloomberg data. Sweden’s Nordea has a ratio of 0.94, UBS AG, the
biggest Swiss bank, has a 0.82 ratio, while  France ’s BNP Paribas
SA has 0.56.  German banks were ordered to raise 13.1 billion euros of
capital, more than the regulator estimated in October, after
some European sovereign bonds tumbled in the three months
through September. Deutsche Bank AG, the country’s largest
lender, must raise 3.2 billion euros, while Commerzbank AG has
to increase capital by 5.3 billion euros, according to the EBA.
Spanish banks were told to raise 26 billion euros and their
Italian counterparts 15.4 billion euros.  No Easy Task  The Bloomberg Europe Banks and Financial Services Index
rose 1.3 percent at 1:45 p.m. in  London , rebounding from
yesterday’s 3.1 percent slump. Banks received financial support
yesterday from the  European Central Bank , which coupled an
interest-rate cut with a pledge to offer unlimited cash for
three years in an effort to avert a liquidity crisis.  “It’s important that banks raise their capital, but they
should do it in a way that wouldn’t imply a reduction in
lending,” European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said.
“That’s not an easy task at this point of time.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Adam Ewing in Stockholm at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  