-- 
EU Leaders Drop Demands for Investors to Take Writeoffs in Future Bailouts

-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y   a n d   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 
2011-12-09T15:06:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/eu-leaders-drop-demands-for-investors-to-take-writeoffs-in-future-bailouts.html
European Union leaders dropped their
demand that investors share the cost of bailouts as  Germany 
abandoned a campaign that helped deepen the two-year-old
financial crisis.  Limiting so-called private-sector involvement to the terms
accepted in International Monetary Fund bailouts was part of a
package agreed upon in Brussels early today as leaders met to
forge tighter economic bonds to stem the crisis.  “As regards private-sector involvement, we have made a
major change in our doctrine: from now on we will strictly
adhere to the IMF principles and doctrines,” EU President
Herman Van Rompuy told reporters at a briefing. “Or, to put it
more bluntly, our first approach to PSI, which had a very
negative effect on debt markets is now officially over.”  That marks a defeat for German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  who
wanted to expose bondholders to losses in debt restructurings as
her electorate resented writing the biggest bailout checks. Her
push, which began last year, drew criticism from a  European
Central Bank  concerned it would fan contagion and was blamed for
some investors for driving up bond yields and forcing Ireland
and Portugal to seek aid packages.  “They underestimated the contagion effect,” said  Michael Leister , a fixed-income strategist at  WestLB AG  in  London .  European disagreement over Merkel’s call also threatened to
derail efforts to speed the setup of a permanent bailout fund,
three people involved in the negotiations said last month.
France, Spain, Portugal and Ireland were among those lobbying
against Germany and the Netherlands.  With Merkel backing down, leaders agreed this morning to
now accelerate the start of their 500 billion-euro fund ($666
billion) to next year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Simon Kennedy in Brussels at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net ;
 Rebecca Christie  in Brussels at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  