-- 
EU Leaders Work on ‘Fiscal Compact’ to Lure Central Bank Into Euro Fight

-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r   a n d   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 
2011-12-09T00:11:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/eu-leaders-work-on-fiscal-compact-to-lure-central-bank-into-euro-fight.html
European leaders battled into the
night to halt two years of debt-driven turmoil in financial
markets and dispel concerns that the 17-nation euro currency is
on the brink of unraveling.  Leaders worked on a “fiscal compact” at a Brussels summit
to restore bondholders’ confidence and make it possible for the
 European Central Bank  and  International Monetary Fund  to step up
contributions to the rescue effort. No agreement has yet been
reached, said two government officials familiar with the talks.  Chancellor Angela Merkel  of Germany, Europe’s dominant
economy, damped expectations, saying the euro’s credibility has
suffered and calling the 15th summit in 23 months part of a
“step-by-step” solution to the crisis that has cast doubt on
the currency’s survival. Italian and Spanish bonds tumbled and
the U.S. Standard & Poor’s Index fell the most in two weeks as
some investors reined in optimism about the summit’s outcome.  European leaders are navigating a labyrinth of political,
legal and economic constraints amid unrelenting pressure from
financial markets to craft a fifth “comprehensive” package to
stamp out the crisis that began with the Greek government
discovering an unexpected  budget hole  in October 2009.  Talks that started at 7:30 p.m. yesterday dragged past
midnight, with the leaders yet to tackle how to anchor tougher
budget rules in European treaties. The debate focused on a
proposal to cap structural deficits at 0.5 percent of gross
domestic product and require each country to establish an
“automatic correction mechanism” when budgets stray from the
target.  ‘More Intrusive’  The proposal, laid out by European Union President  Herman Van Rompuy , also foresaw a near-automatic disciplinary procedure
for high-deficit countries and “more intrusive control” of
taxing and spending by governments that flout the rules.  Whether the meeting wraps up on schedule today or runs into
the weekend, the leaders are likely to leave Brussels with much
business unfinished. Planned treaty amendments won’t be penned
until March and may take several more months to enshrine in law.  In addition, the independent ECB signaled yesterday that a
Brussels deal to strengthen fiscal discipline wouldn’t prompt it
to rush to the rescue of Spain or  Italy , the two countries now
seen as most vulnerable.  ECB President  Mario Draghi  said he was “kind of
surprised” by a view that took hold in markets last week that
the central bank would rapidly supplement its 207 billion-euro
($276 billion)  bond-buying operations  in response to a summit
announcement of steps toward a closer fiscal union. Draghi is
taking part in the summit.  Bond Slide  Italian 10-year bonds  slid the most in almost a month,
pushing up yields by 44 basis points to 6.43 percent. Bonds of
other high-yielding countries also fell as investors sought the
relative safety of German debt. The yield on 10-year bunds
declined 9 basis points to 2.01 percent.  The euro slipped 0.5 percent yesterday and was little
changed at $1.3344 at 9:02 a.m. in  Tokyo . In the U.S., where
President  Barack Obama  has been pushing European leaders to find
a solution to the crisis, the  S&P 500  lost 2.1 percent to
1,234.35 points.  Still, Draghi didn’t rule out a proposal up for discussion
at the summit that would channel about 150 billion euros from
national central banks into the IMF’s crisis-fighting war chest.
Euro-area governments expect central banks of non-euro EU
countries to chip in 50 billion euros more.  The ECB provided breathing space yesterday, trimming its
main  interest rate  by a quarter-point to 1 percent and pledging
to offer commercial banks unlimited cash for three years to tide
them through the crisis.  Treaty Change  ECB measures sought to alleviate the impact of the debt
crisis on the banking system, now in need of 114.7 billion euros
in fresh capital, according to a European Banking Authority
announcement yesterday. European lenders will have to raise a
total of 8 billion euros more than estimated by the EBA in
October.  With  Greece , Ireland and  Portugal  drawing on a combined 256
billion euros in European and IMF loans and Greece counting on
130 billion euros more, the government leaders’ focus shifted to
preventing future budgetary crackups. That would happen by
reinforcing a “stability pact” that  Germany  conceived in the
1990s and watered down in 2005.  “What’s important for me is that the euro can only win
back its credibility if we change the treaties a way that
develops toward a stability union,” Merkel said before the
summit. “That’s what at the core here for me.”  Draft Proposal  Van Rompuy’s draft proposal contained elements that are
taboo for Germany, including the “possibility of moving toward
common debt issuance” and enabling a planned permanent rescue
fund to act as a bank that could borrow from the ECB.  Looming over the  crisis management  was a decision by
Standard and Poor’s decision to issue a downgrade warning for 15
euro-area governments pending the summit outcome.  “We need more solidarity in the euro zone and more
discipline,” French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  said at a pre-
summit meeting of conservative leaders in Marseille.  Europe  is
in an “extraordinarily dangerous situation.”  In a joint pre-summit letter to European leaders, Merkel
and Sarkozy set a March 2012 deadline for an agreement on treaty
amendments, calling on euro states to set up their own fiscal-
enforcement system in the absence of an accord among all 27 EU
governments.  That go-it-alone threat plus a call for a financial
transaction tax set up a showdown with U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron , head of the biggest EU country still using its own
currency. Cameron comes to Brussels vowing to defend  London ’s
status as Europe’s premier financial market.  British Interests  “We need obviously to get that stability in the euro zone
that’s good for European countries, good for Britain as well,”
Cameron said on his way into the summit. “But also we need to
protect Britain’s interests.”  Merkel and Sarkozy pushed back against the U.K. demands,
regarding Cameron’s plea as a distraction from efforts to shore
up the euro zone, a German government official said on condition
of anonymity.  Van Rompuy ’s draft called for the permanent rescue fund,
the 500 billion-euro European Stability Mechanism, to be set up
in July 2012, a year ahead of schedule. He proposed letting it
lend the full amount, instead of lowering its lending limit by
the roughly 170 billion euros already committed by the temporary
rescue fund, the  European Financial Stability Facility .  In a concession by Germany, the revamped permanent fund
will follow IMF practices on imposing potential losses on
holders of bonds of debt-ridden states. Merkel agreed in the
pre-summit letter that the two writedowns imposed on Greek
bondholders this year were “unique and exceptional.”  Finnish Sensitivity  National sensitivities pervade the negotiations, such as
 Finland ’s objection to scrapping the unanimity rule for
decisions by the fund to grant aid packages. Van Rompuy proposed
that an 85 percent supermajority could vote to release aid funds
only when an “urgent decision” is required.  European leaders “now recognize the urgency of doing
something serious and bold,” Obama said at a White House news
conference yesterday. “The question is whether they can muster
the political will to get it done.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Bodoni in Brussels at   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  