-- 
EU Urges Legally-Binding Climate Treaty Pledge In UN Text

-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s   a n d   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 
2011-12-09T17:17:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/eu-urges-legally-binding-climate-treaty-pledge-in-un-text.html
Europe  wants stronger legal language
at United Nations climate talks, warning the biggest polluters
that their lack of commitment to a path toward a legally-binding
treaty by 2020 may cause the talks to collapse.  Negotiators in Durban,  South Africa , are debating a
proposal by the host on a timeline leading to a new “legal
framework” on fighting global warming that would be agreed by
2015 and take force after 2020.  While the text indicates progress towards a EU demand that
countries chart a clear path to a new climate agreement, it
falls short of meeting the bloc’s key condition that the treaty
binds all nations. The U.S., China and  India  have signaled they
oppose such a plan.  “If there’s no further movement from what I have seen at
around 4 o’clock in the morning then I must say I don’t think
there will be a deal in Durban,”  Connie Hedegaard , the EU
Climate Commissioner, told a news conference today in Durban.
“That’s what we’re faced with.”  Two weeks of UN climate talks are due to end today and
envoys from more than 190 countries remain divided about how to
limit fossil-fuel emissions after restrictions in the  Kyoto
Protocol  expire next year.  Draft Text  The South African hosts of the meeting have proposed
language in a final statement that says the UN “decides to
launch a process in order to develop a legal framework
applicable to all under the United Nations Framework Convention
on  Climate Change  after 2020.”  The proposal isn’t yet an official negotiating document and
came out of informal meetings the  South Africans  are hosting to
catalyze discussions at the meeting.  The call for a ‘legal framework’ could mean a non-binding
legal framework,  Sierra Club ’s Steve Herz said in an interview.
“It’s intentionally a fudge,” he said.  The EU is seeking a deal that would enter force no later
than 2020, binding all nations, and in exchange is ready to take
on new Kyoto targets after 2012. The 27-nation bloc teamed up
yesterday with 48 of the world’s least developed nations and 42
small island states, calling for other nations to join the
alliance that backs mandatory greenhouse gas goals for all
countries.  Hedegaard said today she also had support from South Africa
and  Brazil , which represent half of the Basic group of major
developing nations. China and India are the other two members.  “The EU will insist that the text includes a legally
binding protocol, a 2015 deadline for a road map and addresses
the ambition gap between now and 2020,”  Jos Delbeke , director
general for climate at the European Commission, said at the
Durban talks today.  A U.S. spokeswoman didn’t immediately comment on the South
African proposal. India’s lead negotiator, J.M. Mauskar, said in
an interview that: “It is wrong to say India is inflexible.”
He declined to comment further.  “Legal framework’ is a smoke screen and leaves open,
whether it will be internationally legally binding also for the
U.S.,” Greenpeace’s Martin Kaiser said in an interview in
Durban.  The text also calls for dissolving next year a 2007
agreement reached in Bali that maintains a division of
commitments between developed and developing countries. The U.S.
now says the distinction is outdated because it lumps  China  and
other rapidly emerging world economies in the same category as
poor nations, allowing them to stick to voluntary targets.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Morales in Durban, South Africa at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net ;
Ewa Krukowska in Durban, South Africa at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  