-- 
European Banks Told Not to Cut Lending, Change Capital Definitions by EBA

-- B y   L i a m   V a u g h a n
-- 
2011-12-09T00:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/european-banks-told-not-to-cut-lending-change-capital-definitions-by-eba.html
European regulators  warned banks not
to cut lending or inflate capital levels artificially as they
ordered the region’s financial firms to raise 114.7 billion
euros ($153 billion).  The  European Banking Authority  told lenders yesterday to
bolster their Core Tier 1 capital ratios to more than 9 percent
of risk-weighted assets by the middle of next year to reassure
investors the region’s banks can withstand the debt crisis. The
EBA told banks to raise the money from investors, retained
earnings and lower bonuses. Failing that, companies may sell
assets, provided the disposals don’t limit overall lending to
the “real” economy, the EBA said in a statement.  The measure sets up a clash between lenders and regulators
trying to avert a potential credit crunch. The  Bloomberg Europe
Banks and Financial Services Index (BEBANKS)  has slumped 33 percent this
year, leaving bank shares trading at an average discount to book
value of 39 percent. That makes it more attractive for banks to
sell assets than stock.  “Who is going to pump money into banks in the  euro zone  in
its darkest hour when their shares are already trading at a huge
discount to book value?” said Bob Penn, a partner at Allen &
Overy LLP in London. “Banks will deleverage because they feel
that they have no other choice.”  Bankers and lawyers question whether the EBA will be able
to enforce its lending rules and halt a process by which
European banks may shrink their assets by 2.5 trillion euros
over the next 18 months, according to estimates by Morgan
Stanley analysts led by Huw van Steenis in  London .  ‘Real Test’  Banks have until Jan. 20 to devise a plan for how they will
reach the target. National regulators will then be responsible
for enforcing the process.  “This will be a real test of how much authority the EBA
actually has with national regulators,” said Jacob Ghanty, a
London-based partner at Berwin Leighton Paisner LLP. “It is not
just telling  credit institutions  where they need to get, but
also how to get there.”  German banks were ordered to raise 13.1 billion euros of
capital, more than the regulator estimated in October, after
some European sovereign bonds tumbled in the three months
through  September. Deutsche Bank AG , the country’s largest
lender, must raise 3.2 billion euros, while Commerzbank AG has
to boost capital by 5.3 billion euros, according to the EBA.
Spanish banks were told to raise 26 billion euros and their
Italian counterparts 15.4 billion euros.  Risk-Weighted Assets  The BdB,  Germany ’s banking lobby group, yesterday denied
the country’s banks were undercapitalized and warned of negative
consequences for the European economy from the  stress test .
 Michael Kemmer , the association’s general manager, said the EBA
had lost some credibility with its latest announcement.  Banks may also be prohibited from adjusting their internal
risk-weighting models as a shortcut to boosting regulatory
capital, a process known as risk-weighted asset optimization.
Lenders can inflate capital levels by declaring the assets they
hold less risky under the  Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision ’s rules.  “Reductions in risk-weighted assets due to the validation
and roll-out of appropriate internal models to additional
portfolios should not, in general, be allowed as a means of
addressing a capital shortfall unless these changes are already
planned and under consideration by the competent authority,”
the EBA said.  European firms, governed by Basel II rules, use their own
models to decide how much capital to hold based on an assessment
of how likely assets are to default and the riskiness of
counterparties. By claiming those assets are less risky today
than yesterday, banks can instantly boost their capital ratio.  Contraction in Lending  Banco Santander SA (SAN) ,  Spain ’s biggest bank, was ordered to
raise 15.3 billion euros, more than any other European lender.
The company has said it will generate capital from its profits
and find 4 billion euros by optimizing risk-weighted assets and
rolling out internal models. The bank may also reduce the
capital shortfall with about 8.5 billion euros of convertible
bonds and sales of assets in Colombia and  Chile .  “We have seen a contraction in lending over the past three
months,” said Alberto Gallo, head of European credit strategy
at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in London. “I don’t expect
that trend to revert.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liam Vaughan in London at 
 lvaughan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  