-- 
European Stocks Post Weekly Decline as ECB Quells Bond-Buying Speculation

-- B y   P e t e r   L e v r i n g
-- 
2011-12-10T00:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/european-stocks-post-weekly-decline-as-ecb-quells-bond-buying-speculation.html
European stocks (UKX)  fell for the third
week in four as the  European Central Bank  damped speculation it
would boost debt purchases, overshadowing an agreement by the
region’s leaders to step up measures to fight the debt crisis.  Metro AG,  Germany ’s biggest retailer, tumbled the most in
three years after forecasting lower sales and earnings. Michael
Page International Plc slumped 11 percent after saying profit
will miss analysts’ estimates. Nokia Oyj slid 7.9 percent to
lead a gauge of technology firms lower. Banco Sabadell SA rose
the most since January after agreeing to buy stricken Spanish
lender Caja de Ahorros del Mediterraneo.  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index  slipped 0.1 percent to 240.51
this past week. The gauge dropped 1.5 percent on Dec. 8 as ECB
President  Mario Draghi  said the central bank’s bond-purchase
program is “neither eternal nor infinite.” The benchmark
measure has still  rallied 12 percent  from this year’s low on
Sept. 22 amid optimism policy makers would solve the crisis.  “The ECB signaled clearly, by saying bond buying will be
limited, that turning to the ECB is not the solution to the debt
crisis,” said Henrik Drusebjerg, who helps oversee $230 billion
as senior strategist at Nordea Bank AB in Copenhagen.
“Politicians are saying the right things, but the challenge
will be if they can actually implement what they decided.”  ECB Rate Cut  ECB policy makers reduced the euro area’s benchmark
interest rate by a quarter percentage point on Dec. 8 to 1
percent, matching a record low. They also loosened collateral
rules so that banks can borrow more from the ECB and announced
two unlimited three-year loans.  Draghi said he didn’t signal that the central bank would
step up government bond purchases when speaking before lawmakers
in Brussels on Dec. 1. He said he was “kind of surprised by the
implicit meaning” that was given to his comments when he said
the ECB could follow faster fiscal union with “other
elements.”  “Draghi appeared to pour cold water on expectations of
more bond purchases,” said  David Jones , chief market strategist
at IG Index in  London . “This seemed to push responsibility
firmly back on individual governments, a fact that perhaps still
doesn’t sit too comfortably with a lot of investors.”  The Stoxx 600 pared its weekly decline yesterday as
European leaders agreed to boost funds available to assist
nations struggling with budget deficits. Policy makers meeting
in Brussels added 200 billion euros ($267 billion) to their
crisis-fighting war chest by funneling money from central banks
to the  International Monetary Fund . They also tightened rules to
curb future debts and watered down demands that bondholders
should shoulder losses in bailouts.  Italian Austerity  In the run-up to the summit, U.S. Treasury Secretary
 Timothy F. Geithner  said Italy has a “strong program” of
economic changes and European leaders are moving toward a
“fiscal union” that will strengthen the euro-region firewall.
Italian premier  Mario Monti  presented a 30 billion-euro package
to reduce the European Union’s second-biggest debt to the
Italian parliament, including more than 12 billion euros in
spending cuts and plans to force workers to delay retirement.  In  Asia ,  China ’s  inflation  cooled to the slowest pace in 14
months in November, and industrial output climbed by the weakest
amount in more than two years.  Japan ’s economy grew less than
the government’s initial estimate last quarter and the  Bank of
Korea  said the nation’s growth may slow next year.  Chinese Investment Fund  China’s central bank plans to create a new investment
vehicle to manage $300 billion in foreign reserves, Reuters
reported, citing two people familiar with the matter. The
vehicle will manage two funds, targeting investments in the U.S.
and  Europe , and will be affiliated with China’s State
Administration of Foreign Exchange, the  news agency  said.  Metro  dropped 18 percent, the most since October 2008,
after the retailer forecast that sales and earnings will fall
this year following a weak start to the Christmas season.  Michael Page  tumbled 11 percent as the recruiter said full-
year pretax profit will miss analyst forecasts. Rival Hays Plc
also retreated 11 percent for the biggest decline since August.  Technology shares had the second-biggest drop among 19
 industry groups  in the Stoxx 600. Nokia, the Finnish maker of
mobile phones, sank 7.9 percent. STMicroelectronics NV, Europe’s
largest semiconductor maker, slipped 6.2 percent in Milan.  Gartner Inc. cut its growth forecast for global
semiconductor spending and Texas Instruments Inc., the second-
biggest U.S. chipmaker, forecast sales that fell short of
analysts’ estimates as demand for components weakened.  Commerzbank Capital  Commerzbank AG declined 11 percent as regulators told the
lender it must raise more capital than previously estimated
after some sovereign bonds tumbled. The European Banking
Authority said Germany’s second-largest bank had a 5.3 billion-
euro shortfall.  Sabadell (SAB)  rose 14 percent after agreeing to acquire CAM for
one euro in a deal financed and guaranteed by  Spain ’s commercial
lenders to shield the national budget from losses. The purchase
will create a lender with 166 billion euros in assets, Spain’s
fifth-largest, combining Sabadell with a savings bank that was
seized by the Bank of Spain in July after souring property loans
wrecked its business.  Raiffeisen Bank International AG, the third-biggest lender
in Eastern Europe, climbed 9.6 percent as its main shareholder,
the unlisted Raiffeisen Zentralbank Oesterreich AG, sought
shareholder permission to fill a 2.5 billion-euro capital gap by
selling new shares and other securities  RZB, which is controlled by eight regional Austrian
cooperative banks, scheduled a shareholder meeting for Dec. 28.
It may issue as many as 3 million new shares in RZB, or half of
the outstanding, and sell non-voting securities known as
participation capital, according to the agenda.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Levring in Copenhagen at 
 plevring1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  