-- 
Euro Rises From One-Week Low Versus Dollar as EU Leaders Reach Agreement

-- B y   K e i t h   J e n k i n s   a n d   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 
2011-12-09T13:30:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/euro-strengthens-versus-yen-dollar-after-european-leaders-reach-agreement.html
The euro rose from a one-week low
against the dollar after the region’s leaders boosted a rescue
fund and tightened budget rules to counter the debt crisis.  The 17-nation currency gained the most in a week versus the
yen as leaders holding all-night talks in Brussels added 200
billion euros ($267 billion) to their crisis-fighting capacity
and toughened anti-deficit rules. Norway’s krone rose as crude
oil advanced for the first time in three days and European
stocks advanced. The Dollar  Index (DXY)  fell for the fourth time in
five days.  “The euro has found some support as the EU leaders’
meeting delivered what was broadly expected,” said  Paul Robson ,
a senior foreign-exchange strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc in London. “They are gradually moving toward fiscal
union. The market was already bearishly positioned, so it would
have taken something quite poor to have come out of the EU
summit to push the euro down.”  The euro gained 0.3 percent to $1.3376 at 8:27 a.m. in New
York after dropping to $1.3282, the lowest level since Nov. 30.
The single currency rose 0.3 percent to 103.86 yen after
advancing as much as 0.8 percent, the most since Dec. 2. The yen
was little changed at 77.68 per dollar.  European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  declared the
results of the EU talks as a “very good outcome” a day after
he damped expectations that such a deal would prompt the ECB to
step up its bond-buying operations.  ECB Buys Bonds  The ECB was said to buy Spanish and Portuguese government
bonds, with two people saying they saw the trades for each
nation. The sources declined to be identified, because the
trades are private. An official at the ECB declined to comment.  “Since closer fiscal ties for the  euro zone  is broadly
considered to be part of the solution for the sovereign-debt
crisis, progress has been made,” Jane Foley, a senior foreign-
exchange strategist at Rabobank International in  London , wrote
in a note to clients. “This week’s summit has done enough to
keep European Monetary Union alive for now and to stop the euro
plunging, but the crisis rumbles on.”  Italian 10-yields rose nine basis points, or 0.09
percentage point, to 6.55 percent even as leaders added funds to
the European Financial Stability Facility.  China ’s central bank
may use $300 billion of its reserves to invest in the U.S. and
 Europe , Reuters reported.  South Korea ’s won fell against all its major counterparts
after the central bank said the economy is likely to grow 3.7
percent next year, slowing from a 3.8 percent gain this year.
Inflation is forecast at 3.3 percent, compared with 4 percent in
2011, the central bank said.  The won fell 1.4 percent to 1,146.83 per dollar, its worse
daily loss in four weeks.  Krone, Dollar  Norway’s krone rose 0.9 percent to 5.7393 and crude oil
futures rose 0.4 percent to $98.41 a barrel in  New York .  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index added 0.7 percent, and Standard
& Poor’s 500 Index futures climbed 0.1 percent.  The Dollar Index dropped for the fourth time in five days
as signs the world’s biggest economy will avoid a recession
reduced investor appetite for safer investments.  The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan index of
consumer sentiment climbed to 65.8 in December from 64.1 the
prior month, according to a Bloomberg News survey before today’s
report. Fewer Americans filed applications for jobless benefits
last week, the Labor Department said yesterday.  The Dollar Index, which IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses
to track the U.S. currency against those of six major trading
partners, fell 0.3 percent to 78.600.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Keith Jenkins  in London at 
 kjenkins3@bloomberg.net 
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  