-- 
Euro Leaders Push Budget Rigor 20 Years After Maastricht With Onus on ECB

-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r   a n d   S i m o n   K e n n e d y
-- 
2011-12-09T15:23:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/euro-states-to-shift-267-billion-to-imf-as-focus-shifts-to-deficit-deal.html
European leaders’  blueprint  for a
closer fiscal union to save their single currency left the onus
on central bankers to address investor concerns that Italy and
 Spain  would succumb to the two-year-old financial crisis.  On the 20th anniversary of the Maastricht summit that
created the euro and 19 months since leaders forged their first
plan to contain the debt turmoil, leaders added 200 billion
euros ($267 billion) to their warchest and tightened rules to
curb future debts. They sped the start of a 500 billion-euro
rescue fund to next year and diluted a demand that bondholders
shoulder losses in rescues.  While European Central Bank President Mario Draghi hailed
the accord struck at all-night talks in Brussels, investors
urged him to expand his crisis-fighting arsenal to ensure debt-
addled nations can pay their bills. Italian and Spanish bonds
fell even as the ECB was said to be buying them in the market.  “The leaders have now defined the end point they want to
reach in terms of fiscal governance, but it’s a long way to go
there,”  Thomas Mayer , Frankfurt-based chief economist at
Deutsche Bank AG, told Bloomberg Television. “We’ll probably
see more near-term tension and that will probably then trigger a
more hands-on intervention by the ECB.”  Leaders set a deadline of March for agreeing the language
of the new rulebook and for reassessing plans to cap the overall
lending of their permanent rescue facility at 500 billion euros.  The summit’s fiscal pact sets Europe on the path to a
“lastingly stable euro,” German Chancellor Angela Merkel, who 
drove the push for stricter budget rules, told reporters. “The 
breakthrough to a stability union has been achieved.”  U.K. Excluded  In a clash that may reshape  Europe ’s balance of power, the
euro users took the novel approach of enshrining the debt rules
in a new treaty that leaves out the U.K. instead of amending EU
agreements that date back to the 1950s. Nine of the 10 non-euro
members -- Denmark,  Poland , Bulgaria, Hungary, Sweden, the  Czech
Republic , Latvia, Lithuania and Romania -- indicated they may
follow suit after consulting with their parliaments.  The trigger was the refusal by U.K. Prime Minister David Cameron to back a 27-nation pact without ironclad guarantees of
a British veto right over future financial regulations. Cameron
called them a threat to  London ’s standing as Europe’s leading
financial center.  Italian Yields  Investors gave a mixed reaction.  European stocks  climbed,
while the euro erased gains on speculation authorities will
struggle to institute their agreements. Yields on  Italy ’s 10-
year notes rose 8 basis points to 6.53 percent, while Spain’s
gained 3 basis points to 5.85 percent.  Draghi praised a “very good outcome” a day after he
damped expectations that a deal would prompt the ECB to step up
its bond-buying after so far spending 207 billion euros.  His concern is doing so would muddy the divide between
monetary and fiscal policies, while lessening pressure on
governments to strengthen budgets. The ECB is instead focused on
reviving bank lending and yesterday cut  interest rates , offered
banks unlimited cash for three years and loosened collateral
rules for loans.  “Markets are focused on how do sovereigns and banks get
funding in the early parts of next year,” said David Mackie,
chief European economist at  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  “The ECB did
more than expected for banks yesterday, but people are still
unsure about the sovereigns.”  Euro Debts  Euro-area governments have to repay more than 1.1 trillion
euros of long- and short-term debt in 2012, with about 519
billion euros of Italian, French and German debt maturing in the
first half alone, data compiled by Bloomberg show. European
banks have about $665 billion of debt coming due in the first
six months, according to Citigroup Inc., based on Dealogic data.  Holger Schmieding, chief European economist at Berenberg
Bank in London, said the “avalanche” of refinancing needs in
the next two months means the crisis could worsen and “the ECB
would then finally be forced to step up its anti-crisis response
to save the euro and itself.”  Given his view that the ECB is unlikely to drive yields
much lower or cap them, Citigroup economist  Juergen Michels  said
he expects a “deep euro-area recession and strained financial
markets” in 2012 with the region’s economy contracting every
quarter.  Another test will be the response of credit-ratings
companies.  Standard & Poor’s , which this week put  Germany ,  France 
and 13 other euro-area nations on review for a downgrade, said
it will study the summit implications and “impact on the
growing systemic stresses we identified.” While a “unified
stance” could prompt delay, rating cuts remain possible within
the next three months, said  Joerg Kraemer , chief economist at
Commerzbank AG in  Frankfurt .  Untested Territory  In putting an extra 200 billion euros on the line, European
governments for the first time extracted a contribution from the
euro region’s national central banks, getting them to lend 150
billion euros to the International Monetary Fund’s general
resources. Non-euro EU states will chip in around 50 billion
euros. Leaders aim to confirm within 10 days how they will
channel the funds to the IMF, which would then be better able to
aid troubled European states.  One potential concern for investors is funneling the cash
through the Washington lender’s general account rather than a
fund earmarked for Europe is that any loans it makes likely
require repayment before privately held bonds.  G-20 Contributions  Europe is nevertheless counting on its downpayment to
attract reserve-rich  emerging markets  such as  China  to join in
the rescue, a month after efforts to solicit outside aid ran
into obstacles at a Group of 20 meeting.  “We can contribute if some conditions are met,” Sohn Byung Doo, director general of the G-20 bureau at  South Korea ’s
 Finance Ministry , said in an interview today. China, holder of
the largest currency reserves, noted Europe’s “important
proposals to deal with the debt crisis,” Foreign Ministry
spokesman Hong Lei said in Beijing.  Leaders aim to set up the permanent rescue fund, known as
the European Stability Mechanism, in July 2012, a year ahead of
schedule. Germany deflected a move to grant the ESM a banking
license, which would enable it to multiply its firepower by
borrowing from the ECB.  German Retreat  In a climbdown by Germany, the permanent fund will follow
IMF practices on imposing potential losses on holders of bonds
of debt-ridden states. Merkel had championed “private sector
involvement” as a way of lessening the bailout burden on
taxpayers, running into warnings from the ECB and investors that
such a ploy fanned contagion.  “To put it more bluntly: our first approach to private
sector involvement, which had a very negative effect on the debt
markets, is now over,” EU President  Herman Van Rompuy  said.  The new fiscal accord goes beyond a toughening of rules
already slated to take effect next week. It would curb
structural deficits at 0.5 percent of gross domestic product and
require each country to establish an “automatic correction
mechanism” when budgets stray from the target. This “golden
rule” will be anchored in national constitutions.  The blueprint also foresaw a near-automatic disciplinary
procedure for wayward countries and “more intrusive control”
of taxing and spending by governments that overstep the deficit
limit of 3 percent of GDP. It caps a three-month drive by Merkel
to lock tighter budget discipline into treaties as part of what
she calls the “deeper integration” needed to support the euro.  Investors may still ask whether the penalties against
deficit sinners will have any effect and what legal instruments
exist to impose them, said Kraemer at Commerzbank. He also said
it remains unclear how governments will organize the funds for
the IMF boost.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Simon Kennedy in Brussels at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net ;
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  