-- 
Euro May Test 2001 Low Versus Yen, Ichimoku Suggests: Technical Analysis

-- B y   M o n a m i   Y u i   a n d   K a z u m i   M i u r a
-- 
2011-12-09T01:49:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/euro-may-test-2001-low-versus-yen-ichimoku-suggests-technical-analysis.html
The euro may decline to a decade low
against the yen as early as next week, Ueda Harlow Ltd. said,
citing trading patterns.  The 17-nation euro is likely to weaken as the currency
broke below the conversion line of a daily ichimoku chart,
according to Toshiya Yamauchi, a senior currency analyst in
 Tokyo  at Ueda Harlow, which provides foreign-exchange margin
trading services. The lagging line moving below the so-called
cloud and candles, whose bottom represents the currency’s close
for each day, also signals a decline in the euro, Yamauchi said.  “The euro is likely to drop, targeting the Nov. 25 low of
102.49 and then the Oct. 4 of 100.76,” said Yamauchi. “Those
levels may be reached by next week, depending on what comes out
of the European summit.”  The euro was at 103.69 yen as of 10:27 a.m. in Tokyo.
Yamauchi said the “psychological” level of 100 may come in
sight should the currency breach 100.76 yen, the weakest level
since June 2001, set on Oct. 4.  European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  reduced the
benchmark rate by a quarter-percentage point to 1 percent
yesterday, matching a record low and offered banks unlimited
cash for three years while damping speculation the ECB will buy
more  government bonds  to stem the crisis. European leaders began
open-ended talks aimed at safeguarding the 17-nation shared
currency yesterday in Brussels.  Clouds and Candles  Ichimoku charts are used to predict a currency’s direction
by analyzing the midpoints of historical highs and lows. The
conversion line plots the sum of the highest high and lowest low
in the preceding nine trading days. A lagging span is the most
recent closing price plotted 26 days behind the current level.
The cloud refers to the area between the first and second
leading span lines and is used to show an area where buy orders
may be clustered.  Candlesticks consist of a body, which is black or white,
and upper and lower wicks. A wick shows the highest or lowest
price. If a currency closes higher than it opens, the body is
white. When it closes lower, the body is black.  In  technical analysis , investors and analysts study charts
of trading patterns and prices to forecast changes in a
security, commodity, currency or index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Monami Yui in Tokyo at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net ;
Kazumi Miura in Tokyo at 
 kmiura@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at   rswift5@bloomberg.net . 