-- 
European Soccer Body Says Croatia Officials Arrested in Match-Fixing Probe

-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 
2011-12-09T17:31:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/european-soccer-body-says-croatia-officials-arrested-in-match-fixing-probe.html
European soccer’s governing body said
the sport’s ruling association in  Croatia  has alerted it about
arrests there over allegations of corruption.  Croatia F.A. vice-president Zeljko Siric and the head of
the country’s referee commission Stjepan Djedovic were arrested
on suspicion of fixing at least one match in the domestic
league, state news agency Hina said, citing a federation
spokesman. The Croatian F.A. didn’t respond to calls for
comment, and UEFA didn’t identify those arrested.  “UEFA is ready to assist in any investigation and we are
closely monitoring the developments of this case,” the body
said in an e-mailed statement.  There have been several arrests in Europe, Africa and Asia
as the sport and police try to deal with match-fixing scandals
around the world. FIFA, the sport’s global governing body, is
working with law enforcement officials and is creating new
structures to address the crisis, which included a delay to the
start of the Turkish season after champion Fenerbahce was
stripped of its title for buying matches.  “Any action that helps the scourge of match-fixing is
welcomed by FIFA,”  Chris Eaton , FIFA’s head of security, said
in a telephone interview.  Last year players, coaches and team managers were arrested
after Croatian police uncovered a match-fixing scam. In October,
Eaton said criminals groups may have made as much as 2 billion
euros ($2.7 billion) from fixing Italian soccer matches over the
past six years.  In May, FIFA President  Sepp Blatter  pledged 20 million
euros to Interpol over 10 years. The donation includes the
creation of an anti-corruption center in Singapore. Others are
to be set up in  South America  and the  Middle East .  Other measures set to start early next year are the
creation of a reward program for those who come forward with
information about rigged matches, a tip-off hotline and a
rehabilitation program for players and officials who’ve been
coerced into helping gangs to fix games.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tariq Panja  in the London newsroom at
   tpanja@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 