-- 
Hewlett-Packard Plans to Turn WebOS Into Open-Source Project

-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 
2011-12-10T00:01:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/hewlett-packard-turning-webos-into-open-source-project-after-slow-adoption.html
Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  will turn its
WebOS software into an open-source project, aiming to get other
hardware makers to embrace the struggling operating system as an
alternative to software from  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and  Google Inc. (GOOG)   WebOS, acquired in last year’s $1.2 billion purchase of
Palm Inc., will be offered under a license that lets hardware
manufacturers and software developers access its source code and
use it freely in products, the  Palo Alto , California-based
company said today in a statement. Hewlett-Packard will remain
active in developing and supporting WebOS.  “The thing we recognized about WebOS is it really is a
remarkable platform,” Chief Executive Officer  Meg Whitman  said
in an interview. “It was not the right thing to just shut it
down. It shouldn’t be wasted.”  The plan resolves a months-long debate over how to deal
with software that drew praise for its innovation when it
debuted in 2009, yet failed to help its owners gain market share
in mobile devices. Hewlett-Packard will make WebOS available to
makers of tablets, smartphones and other devices under a license
that requires companies using it to contribute their changes
back to the project, company executives said.  The company also plans to set up a “governance committee”
of as many as six members, including Hewlett-Packard technicians
and outside developers, to approve changes to WebOS code.  No ‘Fractured’ Systems  The move is designed to help prevent fragmentation of the
software that would slow its momentum by letting device makers
bring incompatible versions to market, Martin Risau, Whitman’s
chief of staff, said in an interview.  “We want to do it right,” he said. “We want to make sure
WebOS is not going to be fractured.”  The company announced in August that it would stop
producing hardware that used the operating system, including
Palm Pre phones and the TouchPad tablet.  Whitman considered options for WebOS, including shutting it
down and selling the intellectual property, or striking a
partnership, she said. Now, Hewlett-Packard itself will benefit
from the decision, and will likely release new WebOS-based
hardware devices in 2013, she said. The company probably won’t
release any more smartphones using the software.  “I think we’re out of the smartphone business,” she said.  Hewlett-Packard’s decision would benefit electronics makers
that want alternatives to Google’s Android operating system and
Microsoft Corp.’s Windows Phone and planned Windows 8, said Tim Bajarin, president of researcher Creative Strategies Inc.  Google, Microsoft Counterweight  “The hardware developers have been looking for a third OS
option, especially for tablets,” he said. “What they really
want is a third OS with no strings attached.”  Developers can also write WebOS applications using the
HTML5 programming language, Bajarin said.  Now, Hewlett-Packard’s task will be releasing the open-
source version of the code in a timely fashion while attracting
more interest in the platform.  At the same time, the company is working to replace
portions of WebOS’s source code licensed from companies
including Microsoft and  Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  with open-source
alternatives, said Sam Greenblatt, chief technology officer for
advanced technologies at Hewlett-Packard. For example, the
system uses Microsoft digital rights management software and the
 Berkeley DB  database from Oracle, he said.  Sales Shortfalls  WebOS was developed by Palm under its former CEO  Jon Rubinstein  -- now a Hewlett-Packard executive -- before the
computer maker bought Palm in July 2010. The operating system
powered Palm smartphones and the TouchPad, which Hewlett-Packard
introduced in July of this year.  In February, then-CEO  Leo Apotheker  said he’d planned to
install the operating system on every Hewlett-Packard personal
computer. The company also said it would include the software on
certain printers.  After disappointing sales, Apotheker pulled the TouchPad
and WebOS phones from the market on Aug. 18. That day Hewlett-
Packard also announced a $10.3 billion acquisition of software
maker Autonomy Corp. and discussed spinning off the PC division.
Investors sent the shares tumbling 20 percent the next day, and
Apotheker was ousted a month later.  WebOS has been a drag on profit. In fiscal 2011, which
ended in October, Hewlett-Packard posted $1.64 billion in
expenses related to the decision to stop making WebOS devices.  In a July reorganization, Rubinstein took a new product
development job in the PC group. Then in August the company’s
WebOS software developers joined a group headed by then-chief
technology officer  Shane Robison , who has since departed.  Whitman has been revisiting her predecessor’s decisions as
she tries to stabilize the company. On Oct. 27, she scrapped
Apotheker’s proposal to spin off the company’s $39.5 billion PC
division.  Hewlett-Packard gained less that 1 percent to $27.90 at the
close in  New York . The shares have lost 34 percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in  San Francisco  at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  