-- 
Ex-Day Trader Bouchareb Gets 30 Months in Insider Case

-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n   a n d   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 
2011-12-09T18:37:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/ex-day-trader-bouchareb-gets-30-months-in-insider-case-1-.html
Former day trader Jamil Bouchareb was
sentenced to 30 months in prison for trading on stock tips
gleaned from the wife of a former  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ) 
salesman.  Bouchareb’s partner, Daniel Corbin, was sentenced to six
months immediately after U.S. District Judge  Victor Marrero 
imposed Bouchareb’s sentence today in federal court in
 Manhattan .  Bouchareb and Corbin were indicted in December 2008 on
charges they made illegal trades based on confidential tips from
the wife of Matthew Devlin, the former Lehman salesman. Devlin’s
wife,  Nina Devlin , at the time was a Brunswick Group public-
relations executive who was involved with corporate deals. Nina
Devlin wasn’t charged with wrongdoing.  Bouchareb pleaded guilty to conspiracy and securities fraud
in May 2009, agreeing to forfeit $1.58 million.  “I made a stupid mistake,” Bouchareb told Marrero at
today’s hearing. “If you could allow me a second chance, I’d
appreciate it.”  Provided Gifts  Prosecutors claimed there was a long-running insider-
trading agreement between Matthew Devlin and Bouchareb. In his
guilty plea, Bouchareb said Devlin told him that his wife would
divorce him if she knew he was passing along the tips. He said
that, “after a certain time,” he assumed the information was
secret and wasn’t meant to be traded on.  “We provided gifts to Mr. Devlin,” Bouchareb said in his
guilty plea hearing. “We would go to dinners or a Porsche-
driving school.”  Devlin admitted to his role in the scheme in December 2008
and agreed to cooperate with prosecutors, according to a court
document. He is scheduled to be sentenced March 2, the U.S.
Attorney’s Office said.  Assistant U.S. Attorney Eugene Ingoglia told Marrero that
deterring future  insider trading  was an important element when
sentencing defendants.  “They have to have that voice go off that says, ‘I could
ruin my life by doing this,’” he said.  Corbin’s attorney Ronald Gainor described his client as
playing a “minimal role” in the scheme.  “I truly am sorry for everything that has happened here,”
Corbin said before he was sentenced.  The case is U.S. v. Bouchareb, 08-mj-2777, U.S. District
Judge, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
David McLaughlin in U.S. District Court in New York
at   dmclaughlin@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Van Voris in U.S. District Court in New York
at   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 