-- 
Extract to ‘Urgently’ Resume Partner Talks After China Bid

-- B y   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h
-- 
2011-12-09T12:10:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/extract-ceo-to-urgently-resume-partner-talks-after-china-bid.html
Extract Resources Ltd. (EXT) , owner of the
world’s fourth-largest uranium deposit, will “urgently” resume
talks with potential partners as a A$2.2 billion ($2.2 billion)
takeover bid from China looms following an offer yesterday to
buy its biggest shareholder.  Australian regulators have ruled that state-owned China
Guangdong Nuclear Power Group Co. must offer A$8.65 a share for
Extract should the Chinese company’s 632 million-pound ($988
million) bid for  Kalahari Minerals Plc (KAH)  succeed. London-based
Kalahari, whose directors have recommended the Chinese bid
announced yesterday, owns 43 percent of Extract.  “At no stage have we ever been restricted from talking to
anyone, so we have continued to have those partnership
discussions and we are going to be resuming those as a matter of
urgency,” Jonathan Leslie, chief executive officer of Perth-
based Extract, said in a phone interview from London today.  Extract’s search for a partner to help develop its Husab
uranium deposit in  Namibia , which has been estimated to cost
about $1.7 billion, was slowed following the announcement of
talks between Guangdong Nuclear and Kalahari in March, Leslie
said. “We’ve got existing contacts with all the major players
in the uranium industry, and the very fact that this offer has
taken place shows the strategic importance of it.”  Rio Tinto  Rio Tinto Group (RIO) , the world’s third-biggest mining company
and owner of the Rossing mine adjacent to Extract’s Husab, is
unlikely to make a rival bid as it may team up with Guangdong
Nuclear in developing the asset should the Chinese company be
successful, BMO Capital Markets analyst Edward Sterck said
yesterday.  Rio owns 14 percent of Extract and 11.5 percent of
Kalahari, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Extract in
February said it was in talks with London-based Rio about
merging the companies’ uranium projects in the African nation.  “We’ve continued to have discussions but the particular
structure we were looking at then has been put on hold,” Leslie
said today. It would be “very surprising” if Rio weren’t part
of renewed partnership talks, and Extract’s other major
shareholder, Tokyo-based Itochu Corp., was part of such
discussions earlier, he said.  Tony Shaffer, a London-based spokesman for  Rio Tinto ,
declined to comment. Rio’s Rossing mine is the third-biggest
producer of uranium, accounting for about 6 percent of global
supply, according to World Nuclear Association  figures . Husab is
about 7 kilometers (4.4 miles) from Rossing and 30 kilometers
from Paladin Energy Ltd.’s Langer Heinrich project.  Deal Parameters  “When we have discussions with people, they know exactly
what those parameters are now,” Leslie said today. “We are
going to certainly look at all alternatives.”  A full takeover bid for Extract will be triggered should
Guangdong Nuclear get a 50 percent stake in Kalahari, according
to yesterday’s statement on the bid, citing the Australian
Securities and Investment Commission.  Extract rose as much as 5.7 percent to A$8.55 in Sydney
trading. The stock closed at A$8.47, valuing Extract at A$2.1
billion.  “It’s difficult to see anyone else coming in to counter
bid for Kalahari given the friendly nature of the offer and the
relatively tightly held shareholder base of Extract and Kalahari
combined,” BMO’s Sterck, a London-based analyst who has a
“market perform” rating on Extract, said by phone. “Rio Tinto
is unlikely to come in with a direct counter bid to Guangdong
Nuclear because they may be expecting to be part of development
plans anyway.”  Recent Transactions  Kalahari dropped 0.1 percent to 241.75 pence in London
trading at 11:18 a.m. Guangdong Nuclear offered 243.55 pence a
share for Kalahari. APAC Resources Ltd., with a 14 percent
stake, and  Itochu Corp. (8001) , with 13 percent, are Kalahari’s biggest
shareholders.  “If you look at other recent transactions in the market,
it’s not necessarily the greatest price in the world,” APAC CEO
Andrew Ferguson said by phone today in  Hong Kong . The company
will take its time to evaluate the offer, he said.  In October, Rio Tinto agreed to buy Canadian uranium
explorer Hathor Exploration Ltd., gaining control of more than
70 percent of the stock on Dec. 1. That deal valued Hathor’s
resource at $11.16 per pound of uranium oxide, according to BMO.
The offer for Kalahari values its resource at $4.08 a pound, BMO
said.  Await Guidance  The Kalahari offer is conditional on Guangdong Nuclear
getting acceptances of more than 50 percent. The offer is at a
16 percent premium to the average price for six months prior to
March 4, the last day prior to the first announcement by
Guangdong Nuclear of a possible offer for Kalahari, it said.  Kalahari directors, who hold about 2.2 percent of the
stock, are to recommend the deal, and Guangdong Nuclear has
secured non-binding letters of intent for a further 3.9 percent
stake. Extract shareholders should take no action and await
further guidance from the company’s independent directors, CEO
Leslie said.  The offer price for Kalahari compares with an initial March
proposal by Guangdong Nuclear of 290 pence and a reduced May
offer of 270 pence that was barred by the U.K. Takeover Panel.
Kalahari said Nov. 10 that the companies were in talks for an
offer of 243.55 pence.  The acquisition would be the second-biggest Chinese
takeover of a foreign mining company, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  China ’s Nuclear Plans  The nation began its first commercial nuclear plant in 1994
and now has the highest number of atomic facilities being built,
data from the World Nuclear Association show.  China, the world’s biggest energy user, has 13 generators
in commercial operation and 28 under construction, according to
the Ministry of Environmental Protection. China may have more
than 100 atomic reactors by 2020, it said in June.  Extract is being advised by Rothschild and Clayton Utz, it
said. Guandong Nuclear are advised by Deutsche Bank AG and
Kalahari by Azure Capital, Strand Hanson Ltd. and Ambrian
Partners Ltd.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Riseborough in  London  at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  