-- 
MF Global Judge Approves $2.2 Billion Transfer to Brokerage’s Customers

-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 
2011-12-09T19:36:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/mf-global-judge-approves-2-2-billion-transfer-to-brokerage-s-customers.html
MF  Global  Inc.’s customers can get
another $2.2 billion distribution, allowing them to recover 72
percent of what they lost when the brokerage failed, a judge
ruled.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Martin Glenn, overseeing a court
hearing today in  Manhattan , overruled objections from creditors
of the brokerage’s parent company,  MF Global Holdings Ltd.  He
approved a request by James Giddens, the trustee liquidating the
brokerage, to make the distribution.  Most of the transfers will go out in the next few days,
though some will take two to four weeks, James Kobak, a lawyer
for Giddens, told Glenn. Giddens found “suspicious
transactions” in the days before the brokerage’s parent filed
for bankruptcy, and the shortfall in the brokerage’s segregated
customer accounts may still be $1.2 billion, Kobak said.  “At this point we can’t say that the figure is less than
$1.2 billion,” Kobak said, adding that Giddens wasn’t sure
whether there had been criminal activity involving the
shortfall. Giddens believes there was supposed to be
$5.8 billion in the accounts, more than a prior estimate of
$5.45 billion, Kobak said.  This third bulk transfer will be the last, as the trustee
will set aside more than $1 billion to deal with other claims as
an investigation continues, Kobak said. Giddens also is seeking
customer funds from administrators of MF Global’s foreign
affiliates, the trustee said in a statement.  ‘Stop, Look’  “Perhaps after this it is time to stop, look and listen,”
Kobak said. Results of the probe so far have made Giddens
cautious about distributing money when it’s still unknown how
big the shortfall is, Kobak said.  Kent Jarrell , a spokesman for Giddens, declined to give
more details about the suspicious transfers after the hearing,
citing ongoing investigations.  Glenn separately approved the transfer of about 330 of MF
Global’s customer securities accounts to Perrin, Holden &
Davenport Capital Corp. Kobak said some money from the
securities accounts may also be missing and he would elaborate
later. MF Global has transferred about 38,000 commodities
accounts to other firms.  MF Global Holdings, once run by former New Jersey Governor
and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. co-chairman  Jon Corzine , filed the
eighth-largest U.S. bankruptcy after a wrong-way $6.3 billion
trade on its own behalf on bonds of some of  Europe ’s most
indebted nations.  Including funds already distributed, Giddens controlled
$4.9 billion in U.S. segregated commodity customer funds,
according to  CME Group Inc. (CME) , the world’s largest future market.
It calculated that an additional $900 million in customer funds
were traded on foreign exchanges.  Gold Bars  Glenn said he would deal in January with the distribution
of physical goods, such as gold and silver bars, after lawyers
for some customers said they couldn’t obtain partial ownership
of gold bars because the bars can’t be broken into pieces.  HSBC
Holdings Plc (HSBA)  sued Giddens today to establish ownership of five
gold bars and 15 silver bars that underlie eight Comex contracts
between the brokerage and a client. Both parties have asserted
claims to the bars stored by HSBC, the London-based bank said in
asking a judge to decide who the rightful owner is.  MF Global Holdings filed for bankruptcy to apportion
returns to creditors, including bondholders and lenders such as
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , while Giddens is overseeing distributions
to customers at MF Global Inc. under the Securities Investor
Protection Act.  Customer Objections  Two previous payouts to commodity customers totaled about
$2 billion. Glenn overruled objections to the latest transfer
from customers, including MF Global’s U.K. affiliate. MF Global
claims the U.K. affiliate owes it $857 million while the
affiliate contends the U.S. brokerage owes it $283 million,
Kobak told Glenn.  Some customers, including Queen’s Quay Avante Ltd. and
Sapere Wealth Management LLC, had objected that they hadn’t
received funds through the first two transfers.  Creditors of the holding company also objected, saying the
money to be distributed should first be confirmed as property
that belongs to customers “to the exclusion of other
creditors.” They said that distributions should only occur
under certain conditions, including one that would allow the
money to be recovered under the  bankruptcy code  if it was found
to be property of creditors, not customers.  Martin Bienenstock , a lawyer for the official committee of
creditors in the Chapter 11 case, told Glenn today that Giddens
had taken an “extreme position” in saying all customer claims
would come ahead of creditor claims.  ‘Exclusively for Customers’  “We don’t think they have any right to invade the 4D
account,” Kobak said today, referring to the estate of the
failed brokerage. “We think it’s exclusively for customers.”  MF Global Holdings creditors don’t have the authority to
probe any issues at the brokerage, and interests of the parent’s
estate should be represented by Chapter 11 trustee  Louis Freeh ,
the judge said. Glenn told Bienenstock that he could have more
time to make arguments about whether creditors have any standing
at all in the brokerage’s wind-down.  “The committee’s standing is questionable,” Glenn said.  Kobak told the House Agriculture Committee at a hearing in
 Washington  yesterday that there wasn’t enough money available to
distribute 75 percent, as some customers wanted.  Giddens will pursue all “legally available” assets
including those from individuals who may have liability for
breaking the rules requiring protection of commodity customers’
accounts, he also testified. Corzine testified that he didn’t
know where the missing $1.2 billion went.  ‘I Was Stunned’  “I was stunned when I was told on Sunday Oct. 30 that MF
Global could not account for many hundreds of millions of client
money,” Corzine said under oath. “I remain deeply concerned
about the impact this has on MF Global customers and others. I
simply do not know where the money is.”  Jill E. Sommers, of the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission, said that in the end, regulators will find out where
the missing money is.  Glenn, in a separate hearing today, adjourned until next
week consideration of the holding company’s request to use cash
collateral of its largest lender, New York-based JPMorgan, to
pay lawyers and other costs of its bankruptcy.  JPMorgan Lien  JPMorgan, agent to a $1.2 billion loan, agreed at the
outset of MF Global Holdings’ bankruptcy to let it use $26
million subject to an agreement that gives the bank a lien on
all of the company’s assets.  The parent company’s Oct. 31 bankruptcy filing listed
assets of $41 billion and debt of $39.7 billion. Corzine quit as
MF Global’s CEO on Nov. 4.  The brokerage case is Securities Investor Protection Corp.
v. MF Global Inc., 11-02790, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of  New York  (Manhattan). The parent’s bankruptcy case
is MF Global Holdings Ltd., 11-bk-15059,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court ,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  