-- 
SEC Says It May Sue Hedge Fund Harbinger Capital

-- B y   S a i j e l   K i s h a n
-- 
2011-12-09T23:47:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/falcone-s-harbinger-to-halt-withdrawals-as-sec-says-it-may-sue-hedge-fund.html
Billionaire Philip Falcone’s hedge
fund, Harbinger Capital Partners LLC, was told it may be sued by
federal regulators for securities-law violations and said it
plans to halt investor withdrawals at year-end.  Falcone, 49, as well as fund executives Omar Asali and
Robin Roger, the general counsel, also received Wells Notices
from the staff of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission,
Harbinger said in a client letter today.  The threat of a lawsuit adds to woes for Falcone as assets
at his $5.7 billion hedge fund have slumped from a peak of $26
billion three years ago and a wireless technology venture he’s
backing faces regulatory hurdles. Harbinger is being probed by
the SEC and the U.S. Attorney’s office over a $113 million loan
Falcone took from one of his funds. The investigation also
looked into possible preferential treatment of some investors,
two people with knowledge of the probe said last year.  “Harbinger went from being a well-regarded fund to one
that is potentially toxic for institutional investors,” said
Peter Rajsingh, a managing member of Castellar Partners LLC, a
New York-based firm that advises clients on investing in  hedge
funds . “It’s unfortunate; the compounding factors here will
make it an uphill battle” for Falcone, he said.  The SEC’s notices relate to alleged “violations of the
federal securities laws’ anti-fraud provisions in connection
with matters previously disclosed and an additional matter
regarding the circumstances and disclosure related to agreements
with certain fund investors,” the New York-based hedge fund
said.  Halting Withdrawals  Harbinger said it “anticipates” withdrawals from its main
hedge fund will be suspended effective Dec. 30, according to a
letter sent to clients today.  Harbinger “believes that the decision to temporarily
suspend withdrawals is necessary when balancing the preservation
of value for all Feeder Fund investors,” the firm said.  Harbinger three years ago curbed client withdrawals from
its biggest fund in the aftermath of the 2008 bankruptcy of
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. Falcone segregated hard-to-sell
assets into another fund and told clients it would take as long
as two years for them to get their money back.  Goldman’s Investment  The Wells Notices relate to an SEC investigation into
whether Harbinger allowed some clients, including Goldman Sachs
Group Inc., to withdraw money while barring others, the Wall
Street Journal reported today, citing unidentified people
familiar with the matter.  Goldman Sachs had $1 billion invested for clients in two
Harbinger funds at the end of 2008, three people briefed on the
matter said last year.  Asali, who joined the firm in 2009 to oversee global
portfolio strategy and portfolio analytics, as well as assume
certain risk management duties, was previously co-head of
Goldman Sachs Hedge Fund Strategies. He is also vice chairman of
 Spectrum Brands Holdings Inc. (SPB)   Andrea Raphael, a spokeswoman for New York-based Goldman
Sachs, and Lew Phelps, a spokesman for Harbinger, declined to
comment.  Falcone has said in the past that allegations of
preferential treatment of some clients were “completely and
utterly untrue.” He disclosed the loan, which was used to pay
personal taxes, in the Special Situation Fund’s March 2010
financial statements.  Paying in Shares  Instead of returning cash to investors, Falcone paid
investors by giving them non-tradable shares of LightSquared
Inc., his wireless telecommunications venture.  The company faces challenges from makers of global-
positioning system devices who say the service will disrupt
navigation by cars, boats, tractors and planes. The service
caused interference to 75 percent of GPS receivers examined in a
U.S. government test, according to a draft summary of results
released today.  “Harbinger and its affiliates are disappointed that the
staff issued Wells Notices,” the firm said in today’s filing.
“If the SEC decides to bring an enforcement action,” they
“intend to vigorously defend against it.”  John Nester , a spokesman for the SEC in  Washington ,
declined to comment.  Harbinger told clients in April that the government was
looking into whether it had engaged in market manipulation in
its trading of the debt securities of an undisclosed firm from
2006 and 2008. Investigators were also examining a potential
violation of a rule prohibiting investors from selling short a
stock within five business days of a secondary offering and then
buying shares in that offering, the firm said then.  Harvard Graduate  Short-sellers bet on a decline in price, borrowing and
selling shares with the aim of buying them back later for less
to pocket the difference.  The Wells Notices “do not constitute a determination”
that the firm has violated any laws, Harbinger said in today’s
letter. Rather, the notices reflect “the current views” of the
SEC enforcement staff.  Harbinger said the Wells Notices were not addressed to
 Harbinger Group Inc. (HRG) , the publicly traded holding company
controlled by Falcone, or any of its subsidiaries, including
Spectrum, and did not affect the hedge fund’s investment in
LightSquared.  Falcone, a 1984 graduate of  Harvard University  in
Cambridge,  Massachusetts , started Harbinger in 2001. Before
that, he ran distressed-debt trading at  Barclays Capital , the
investment-banking unit of London-based Barclays Plc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Saijel Kishan in New York at 
 skishan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  