-- 
Fidelity’s Korhonen Quits Five Years After Succeeding Bolton

-- B y   H o w a r d   M u s t o e   a n d   T i m   F a r r a n d
-- 
2011-12-09T17:07:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/fidelity-s-korhonen-quits-five-years-after-succeeding-bolton-1-.html
Jorma Korhonen, who took over some of
 Anthony Bolton ’s funds five years ago, is leaving Fidelity
Worldwide Investment after slumping returns prompted the  money
manager  to seek a replacement.  Korhonen will be succeeded by Jeremy Podger in March,
Fidelity said in an e-mailed statement. Until then, the  Fidelity
Global Special Situations Fund (FIDUKGS)  will be run by Sudipto Banerji
with immediate effect, the company said.  Korhonen took the reins of Global Special Situations when
it was split from Bolton’s U.K. Special Situations Fund in 2006.
At the time, Bolton’s fund was valued at $12 billion and he’d
managed it for 27 years, becoming Britain’s most successful
money manager.  “The performance of the fund had not met expectations and,
after a period of discussion with the portfolio manager, Jorma
Korhonen, we agreed that the fund should be under new
management,” Anne Read, a spokeswoman for Fidelity in  London ,
said today in an e-mailed statement. “Consequently, Jorma has
decided to leave the company to seek a fresh challenge.”  The Special Situations fund has slumped 17 percent this
year and is down 2.9 percent since Korhonen took over. A
voicemail left on Korhonen’s direct line in London wasn’t
immediately returned.  Bolton delivered annual returns of 20 percent during his
tenure, outpacing the 13.5 percent average for the FTSE All-
Share Index, Fidelity said in April 2010. That was the month
Bolton was named portfolio manager for  Fidelity China Special
Situations Plc (FCSS) , a trust specializing in Chinese shares.  “Jeremy Podger has an impressive track record in the
management of global equities, having beaten benchmarks by a
cumulative 60 percent during a 15 year period,” Dominic Rossi,
global chief investment officer for equities at Fidelity, said
in the statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Howard Mustoe in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net ;
Tim Farrand in Edinburgh at 
 tfarrand@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  