-- 
Finland Will Exit ESM If Unanimity Requirement Is Dropped, Urpilainen Says

-- B y   K a t i   P o h j a n p a l o
-- 
2011-12-09T14:15:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/finland-will-exit-esm-if-unanimity-requirement-is-dropped-urpilainen-says.html
Finland is ready to withdraw its
support from  Europe ’s permanent rescue mechanism if the Nordic
country’s condition of unanimous decision making is ignored,
Finance Minister Jutta Urpilainen said.  “As we are strongly committed to unanimous decision
making, in practice that means we have two options,” Urpilainen
told reporters in Helsinki today. “Either we keep to the
original agreement that decisions are taken unanimously on the
permanent mechanism, or Finland doesn’t participate in the
permanent mechanism.”  Europe’s leaders last night  agreed  on the need for a
“qualified majority” to speed up decision making and prevent
individual countries from blocking bailouts. Finland can only
back the move if two thirds of its lawmakers support the change.
The Nordic country earlier this year threatened to delay an
agreement on  Greece ’s second rescue package after insisting on
collateral in exchange for support.  “It’s natural that a country that has taken meticulous
care over its finances has certain conditions they want to hold
onto,” Urpilainen said. “We are a small country and think it’s
important to respect democracy and allow each member state
influence over decisions that imply large financial consequences
and liabilities.”  Parliamentary Rejection  Prime Minister  Jyrki Katainen ’s six-party coalition holds
124 seats in the 200-member legislature and both opposition
parties have signaled they will reject the elimination of
unanimity. Katainen would need at least 133 votes to achieve the
two-thirds majority.  “After the summit is over, we’ll consider how to move
forward with other countries on this decision making issue,
whether we can find a way to keep to the original agreement on
the European Stability Mechanism that contains unanimous
decision making,” Urpilainen said.  Policy makers have until March to find common ground on the
issue. European leaders also agreed to forge tighter economic
bonds to stem the crisis and decided to accelerate the start of
the 500 billion-euro ($666 billion) permanent rescue fund to
July 2012, a year ahead of schedule.  They also agreed to lend 200 billion euros to the
 International Monetary Fund  via national central banks to be
used for loans to troubled states. Limiting so-called private-
sector involvement to the terms accepted in IMF bailouts was
part of the package.  Burden Sharing  “As regards private-sector involvement, we have made a
major change in our doctrine: from now on we will strictly
adhere to the IMF principles and doctrines,” European Union
President  Herman Van Rompuy  told reporters at a briefing in
Brussels. “Or, to put it more bluntly, our first approach to
PSI, which had a very negative effect on debt markets is now
officially over.”  Finland is satisfied with the change in stance on burden
sharing, Urpilainen said. “We see investor burden sharing as a
strong element of the ESM as it is in the IMF,” she said. “I’m
pleased about the outcome.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kati Pohjanpalo in Helsinki at 
 kpohjanpalo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  