-- 
Flex-Fuel Cars Find Few Pumps, Chargers Aplenty: BGOV Barometer

-- B y   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e
-- 
2011-12-09T05:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/flex-fuel-cars-find-few-pumps-chargers-aplenty-bgov-barometer.html
Public charging stations for electric
autos outnumber outlets for alternative motor fuels by almost
two to one, even though there are hundreds of times more flex-fuel vehicles than plug-in cars on U.S. roads.  The BGOV Barometer shows drivers of the approximately
16,500 highway-worthy electric vehicles in the U.S. can choose
from 4,448 public charging stations should they want to plug in
someplace other than home or work, according to U.S. Energy
Department  data .  That’s one per 3.7 electric cars, such as  General Motors
Co. (GM) ’s Chevrolet Volt,  Nissan Motor Co. (7201) ’s Leaf or  Tesla Motors
Inc. (TSLA) ’s Roadster. That compares with 2,468 places to fill up the
7.6 million vehicles that can run on E85, a fuel that is 85
percent ethanol. E85-capable vehicles, also known as flex-fuel
vehicles, can run on either E85 or traditional gasoline.  The Obama administration is pushing for still more charging
stations, with $230 million worth of support from the Energy
Department and private investment.  Ecotality Inc. (ECTY)  received funds 
under the federal program to install 14,000 chargers in 18
metropolitan areas in six states and the  District of Columbia .  “Electricity is the flavor of the month, just as others
have had their time in the sun, electricity is now there,” said
 Brett Smith , co-director of manufacturing, engineering and
technology at the Center for Automotive Research in  Ann Arbor ,
 Michigan . “Is this a long-term technology or is it just that
flavor of the month?”  Smith cited E85 and hydrogen fuel-cell cars as examples of
technologies that have been favored by the government before the
Obama administration choose to promote electric vehicles through
policy and spending.  Hours to Charge  The question with public charging stations is whether
electric-vehicle drivers will use them, Smith said. Even a quick
charge to “top off” an electric car can take two to three
hours, leading most drivers to charge at home or work, he said.  Fifteen electric models will be will be brought to market
by the end of 2014, according to LMC Automotive, which forecasts
a glut of electric cars given that hybrid-electric sales are
only about 2 percent of U.S. sales this year.  The number of charging stations available today is “a good
start,” said Brian Wynne, president of the Electric Drive
Transportation Association.  “Bear in mind that this is going to change quite
dramatically,” Wynne said of electric-vehicle demand. “We’re
selling every car we make. The question is what kind of a curve
are we on.”  Nissan announced Dec. 6 it would expand Leaf sales to 30
U.S. states on Dec. 11 and plans to take orders for it in all 50
states by March.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angela Greiling Keane in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  