-- 
Football Beer Taps Add Safety, $700,000 to West Virginia University Sports

-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 
2011-12-09T19:40:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/football-beer-taps-add-safety-700-000-to-west-virginia-university-sports.html
West Virginia University  says it has
found a profitable way to curb excessive drinking at home
football games: sell beer at concession stands.  By tapping kegs at Mountaineer Field,  West Virginia  has
added $700,000 to the athletic department and reduced the number
of incidents in which police were called because of excessive
drinking by around 30 percent, Athletic Director Oliver Luck
said in an interview.  The Morgantown-based university, which is preparing to
leave the  Big East  Conference for the Big 12, made the decision
to sell beer at its seven home football games this season after
discussions with police at the campus, city and state levels,
Luck said on Dec. 7 following the IMG Intercollegiate Athletics
Forum in New York.  “No athletic director is going to push beer sales through
with the cops saying, ‘What? You’re crazy,’” he said. “The
alcohol consumption was significant, as it is at a lot of
schools, and we felt this is a way to get better control of
it.”  West Virginia, with an undergraduate enrollment of 22,717,
is one of 20 schools in college football’s 120-team top tier,
including Louisville and Cincinnati, to sell beer to the public
at football games, double what it was 10 years ago, according to
the Des Moines Register.  Schools and conferences can set guidelines on alcohol sales
during sports events, according to Erik Christianson, a
spokesman for the Indianapolis-based  National Collegiate
Athletic Association . Alcohol sales are banned at NCAA
championships.  Louisiana Gains  Beer sales at the  University of Louisiana ’s five home games
this season brought in an additional $150,000 in revenue, about
a third of the school’s concessions intake, school spokesman
John Dugas said in an e-mail.  “This is the third year we have sold beer at football
games, and we have experienced very few issues at all,” Dugas
said.  Luck, the father of Stanford University quarterback Andrew Luck and former vice president of business development at the
 National Football League , said West Virginia’s additional
revenue went into the athletic department’s general fund.  “What colleges do is look at what the pro teams do and
say, ‘Is that applicable to my university?’” Luck said. “They
have suites, so let’s build suites, and they sell beer, so let’s
sell beer.”  ‘Pass-Out’ Stopped  The decision was accompanied by limits on coolers and other
objects fans could bring into games, new policing methods inside
the stadium, a new incident-tracking system and the elimination
of the school’s “pass-out” policy that allowed fans to leave
at halftime and later return to the game,  Morgantown Police
Department  Chief Ed Preston said yesterday in a telephone
interview.  He said eliminating pass-outs was “one of the best safety
features that could have been added to these games.”  “It reduces the potential for binge drinking,” Preston
said. “From a security and safety standpoint, it also reduces
the potential of any contraband or weapons being brought into
the games.”  Everyone must show identification to purchase beer at
games, sales stop in the middle of the third quarter and nobody
is served if noticeably intoxicated, Luck said. The team made
partnerships with  Anheuser-Busch InBev NV (ABI) ,  Molson Coors Brewing
Co. (TAP)  and a local craft brewery.  Police Response  The number of police cases at the school’s first four home
games dropped 64.5 percent, to 24 from 68, from the same number
of contests last year, according to WVU Police Chief Bob
Roberts. He estimated that the decrease was about 35 percent in
incidents specifically related to alcohol use.  Calls to police dropped 15 percent, to 149 from 176, and
arrests dropped 20.5 percent, to 62 from 78, Roberts said.  Other athletic directors and a state legislator have called
to inquire about beer sales, Luck said. He declined to identify
them.  The Mountaineers were 9-3 this season, with home games
against top-ranked  Louisiana  State and state rival Marshall, and
finished at No. 23 in the  Bowl Championship Series  standings.
The Big East champions play in the Orange Bowl against No. 15
Clemson at Sun Life Stadium in Miami Gardens,  Florida , on Jan.
4.  Luck said the school licensed all of its venues for beer
sales but there was no discussion at West Virginia about selling
beer at other events, such as basketball games, because no other
sports had problems with excessive drinking by fans.  “People don’t come to basketball games sloshed, and run
outside at halftime to drink some more,” he said. “The money
is important but the money did not drive this decision.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in  New York  at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  