-- 
Better Economics, Less Traveling, Could Rekindle NBA Love: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-12-09T00:00:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/for-nba-better-economics-less-traveling-could-rekindle-fans-love-view.html
At the risk of going against the
grain, let us celebrate the  National Basketball Association .  Really.  After a tiresome work outage (which followed several
tiresome seasons), teams open training camps today to prepare
for a lockout-shortened season. So why be optimistic about the
wayward American custodian of a great global sport?  First, the league is starting to make more economic sense.
Under a new labor deal struck Nov. 26, the share of basketball-
related income given to players will be reduced from 57 percent
to 51.2 percent during the 2011-2012 season. (It will then vary
depending on how revenue lines up with projections.)  NBA players will  remain  on average the highest paid
athletes in the world, and owners will save about $3 billion
over 10 years if everyone adheres to the agreement for the full
period. Last year, according to NBA Commissioner  David Stern ,
teams collectively lost $300 million on leaguewide revenue of
$4.3 billion.  New rules increasing revenue sharing, mandating a more
punitive luxury-tax system for teams that overspend,
rationalizing salary-cap and trade regulations (to some extent),
and shortening players’ contracts may help some smaller-market
teams compete and lead to greater parity.  Quality of Play  Better economics, in turn, should induce ownership and the
league to focus more on the quality of play. There’s some
evidence this will happen. The league will introduce a few smart
rule changes this year to speed up games, and plans to better
enforce violations (like traveling) and certain types of fouls
(like the soul-killing arm-locking that has come to dominate
life under the basket).  And the lockout has led to a shorter and more compressed
season. Teams will play 66 games between Christmas and the end
of April, often back-to-back and sometimes over three
consecutive nights. The excitement that generates should be all
the league needs to see the logic of, say, a 70-game schedule.  The traditional 82-game season, which stretched from
October to June, seemed Mahabharata-esque. Early matchups --
that is, pretty much anything played before the  Super Bowl  --
felt like desultory pickup games for torpid giants.  Perhaps most critically, the lockout also showed that many
sports fans didn’t particularly miss the NBA. In the public
mind, whether fair or not, the quality of play has degenerated
over the years. At the same time, player greed and league
indifference to the unhealthy consolidation of skill -- as
exemplified by  LeBron James  taking his talents to  South Beach  --
had reached perverse levels.  The NBA has to know that Americans can live without it,
which is why it should do more to reform. It should take a few
lessons from the ever-popular college game, such as allowing
fewer fouls per player or letting teams use more creative
defenses.  Neither change is likely. But with an improved (though
imperfect) economic model, and a clearer sense of its own
mortality, here’s hoping the NBA can find its way back to
relevance, excitement and, perhaps, joy.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 