-- 
Forint Strengthens First Day in Four as Euro Leaders Agree on Budget Pact

-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 
2011-12-09T16:25:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/forint-weakens-fourth-day-as-government-balks-at-european-pact.html
Hungary ’s forint gained for the first
day in four as euro area leaders agreed on a deal to prevent
future debt runups and Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  asked
lawmakers in Budapest to consider signing the pact.  The forint appreciated 0.8 percent to 303.5 per euro at per
euro at 5:06 p.m. in Budapest, erasing its weekly loss. The BUX
 Index (BUX)  of stocks rose 0.9 percent to 17,036.03 led by a 3.4
percent rally in  Mol Nyrt. (MOL) , the country’s biggest refiner. The
cost of insuring against a default on Hungary’s government debt
with credit-default swaps climbed two basis points to 580 basis
points, according to data provider CMA.  European leaders expanded their crisis-fighting warchest
and tightened anti-deficit rules, an accord hailed by European
Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  as a “very good outcome.”
The governments laid out the budget rules in a separate euro-
area treaty after Britain balked at amending the pact covering
all 27 European Union countries and Hungary asked for time to
consult lawmakers.  “The deal creates a strict set of rules which would indeed
boost credibility,” Gergely Tardos, head of research at OTP
Bank Nyrt., Hungary’s biggest lender, said in a telephone
interview. “However it’s more about preventing a future crisis
than solving the region’s short-term problems.”  Hungary’s Parliament must decide on whether the country
should join the EU fiscal pact because it’s a matter of
“sovereignty” which the premier cannot decide alone, Orban
told reporters in Brussels today.  The forint slumped as much as 1 percent earlier today
before Orban clarified that he wasn’t rejecting the pact
outright.  Rally Starting  “As soon as it became clear that he is far from directly
opposed the rally started,” Tardos said.  Hungary, the European Union’s most indebted eastern member,
last month lost its investment-grade  credit rating  at Moody’s
Investors Service after seeking fresh assistance from the
 International Monetary Fund  and the EU.  “Predictability is still weak in Hungarian economic policy
making and this decision confirms that,”  Zoltan Arokszallasi,
a Budapest-based economist at Erste Group Bank AG, said in a
telephone interview on Hungary not backing the European pact
immediately.  Hungary needs to “completely redo” next year’s draft
budget because of slowing growth, Orban said at a press briefing
in Brussels, Index news website reported.  The yield on benchmark five-year government bonds fell 16
basis points to 8.698 percent.  Orban has confronted EU policy makers and investors since
taking office last year by imposing extraordinary taxes on
banking and other industries, nationalizing $14 billion in
privately-managed pension assets and allowing the early
repayment of foreign-currency loans at below-market rates.  European stocks climbed after Reuters reported that  China 
will create a new investment vehicle to improve returns on its
foreign-exchange reserves.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Kirkland at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net  