-- 
Orange Suisse Sale Said to Draw Apax, Providence, Xavier Niel

-- B y   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l
-- 
2011-12-09T19:09:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/france-telecom-s-orange-suisse-sale-said-to-draw-apax-providence-equity.html
Apax Partners LLP, EQT Partners AB
and Providence Equity Partners Inc. are among investors planning
to submit second-round bids next week for  France Telecom SA (FTE) ’s
Orange Switzerland unit, according to a person familiar with the
matter.  French telecommunications billionaire Xavier Niel, working
with  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ’s private-equity arm, is also
expected to file a bid for the mobile operator, said the person,
who declined to be identified because the process is private.  While Orascom Telecom Holding SAE founder Naguib Sawiris
and cable operator  Liberty Global Inc. (LBTYA)  also may submit
individual offers, their interest is less certain, the person
said. Carlyle Group LP and Bain Capital LLC have dropped out of
the process, this person said. The unit may fetch as much as 2
billion euros ($2.7 billlion), people with knowledge of the
matter said in August.  France  Telecom Chief Executive Officer Stephane Richard is
selling European assets to rebalance the company’s operations
toward faster-growing markets in Africa and the  Middle East . The
Paris-based mobile operator, France’s largest, is also in
discussions to sell its Orange Austria unit to Hong Kong-based
Hutchison Whampoa Ltd., people familiar with the situation said
in October, and is planning to exit Portugal.  Spokespeople for France Telecom, Liberty Global and Goldman
Sachs declined to comment. Spokespeople for Apax and EQT didn’t
immediately return calls seeking comment. A spokesman for
Providence declined to comment. Spokesmen for Carlyle and Bain
didn’t immediately respond to phone and e-mail messages seeking
comment. Second-round bids are due Dec. 12.  CVC Partners  The decision by France Telecom to sell its Swiss operation
follows an effort to merge it last year with rival Sunrise,
which was rejected by regulators. Sunrise’s owner,  CVC Capital
Partners , is being excluded from the Orange Switzerland sale
process, although it has discussed assisting Providence with
arranging financing in the hopes of attempting another merger,
according to people with knowledge of the talks.  A spokesman for CVC declined to comment.  A combination of Orange Switzerland with Sunrise would
leave the country of about 8 million residents with two mobile
operators: the merged entity and  Swisscom AG (SCMN) , the former Swiss
phone monopoly. By comparison, the U.K., Germany and Italy all
have four full-service mobile-network providers.  France Telecom is expanding in Africa as it retreats in
 Europe . In October it agreed to acquire Congolese mobile
operator Congo-China Telecom, entering its third new country in
about a year.  Perella Weinberg Partners and Lazard Ltd. are advising
France Telecom on the Swiss sale.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Campbell in Paris via 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  