-- 
Fund Manager Kim Offered Six- to 18-Year Sentence for Alleged Ponzi Scheme

-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 
2011-12-09T17:11:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/fund-manager-kim-offered-six-to-18-year-sentence-for-alleged-ponzi-scheme.html
Brian Kim, a former hedge-fund
manager accused of running a $6 million Ponzi scheme, was
offered six to 18 years in prison by prosecutors in exchange for
a guilty plea to grand larceny and related charges.  Kim was taken into custody this year by authorities in  Hong
Kong , where he had fled before a U.S. trial scheduled to begin
in January on charges that he stole $430,000 from a  Manhattan 
condominium complex where he lived.  He was indicted again in February and charged with running
a Ponzi scheme at his firm, Liquid Capital Management LLC, from
January 2003 to January 2011. He returned to the U.S. in October
and pleaded not guilty to grand larceny and bail jumping.  Kim hasn’t decided whether to accept the Manhattan district
attorney’s offer, which would resolve all three of the state
cases against him, his lawyer, Justin Levine, said today after a
hearing before Justice Charles Solomon of the  New York  State
Supreme Court Judge. His client may face as long as 45 years in
prison if convicted of all the charges, Levine said.  Kim plans to plead guilty next week in federal court in
Manhattan to passport-fraud charges that carry a maximum
sentence of a year in prison, Levine said. U.S. prosecutors
accused Kim of lying to officials in New York to obtain a new
passport by saying he had lost his, which he had surrendered as
part of the 2009 condo case, Levine said.  Diverted Funds  Manhattan prosecutors said Kim told his clients they were
investing in safe and stable securities while he generated
losses trading highly speculative futures contracts and diverted
customer money to himself. He created fake monthly performance
statements to conceal the scheme from at least 45 victims, the
government said.  Kim and his employees told prospective clients the fund
generated returns of more than 240 percent, and they hid losses
by making new investments look like profits, the U.S. Commodity
Futures Trading Commission said in a civil suit.  Shopping trips in New York, skiing in  Vermont  and
excursions to  Atlantic City ,  New Jersey , were funded by improper
withdrawals from the fund, the CFTC said. Kim “is the sole and
managing member” of the New York-based company, the agency said
in its complaint, filed in February.  Kim is being held without bail. His next state court date
is Jan. 13.  The state case is People v. Kim, 2011/86, New York State
Supreme Court, New York County (Manhattan). The CFTC suit is
U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission v. Kim, 11-cv-01013,
and the federal criminal case is U.S. v. Kim, 11-cr-00642, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 