-- 
French, Belgian Bonds Rally as EU Debt Measures Stoke Optimism; Bunds Drop

-- B y   P a u l   D o b s o n   a n d   E m m a   C h a r l t o n
-- 
2011-12-09T16:32:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/german-bonds-rise-for-fourth-day-as-european-leaders-agree-on-fiscal-rules.html
French and Belgian bonds rose,
outperforming benchmark German bunds, as investors digested a
fifth package of crisis-fighting agreements devised by European
leaders to end the region’s debt crisis.  Italian and Spanish notes advanced as the  European Central
Bank  was said to buy the securities. The nations’ longer-dated
debt also climbed, reversing an earlier drop, before auctions
next week. German bunds declined for the first time in four days
after European leaders said they would channel 200 billion euros
($267 billion) into the  International Monetary Fund  and tighten
anti-deficit rules.  “On the positive side, you have the pledge to provide
financing for the IMF,” said  Richard McGuire , a fixed-income
strategist at Rabobank International in London. “If the ECB is
intervening in the markets, perhaps that’s supporting this risk-
on view. Some traction has been made but we’re long on rhetoric
and still short on substance.”  French 10-year  yields  were nine basis points lower at 3.27
percent as of 3:34 p.m.  London  time. The 3.25 percent securities
due October 2021 rose 0.765, or 7.65 euros per 1,000-euro face
amount, to 99.87. Equivalent-maturity Belgian yields dropped 12
basis points to 4.55 percent.  German 10-year bund yields were 13 basis points higher at
2.12 percent as the Stoxx Europe 600 Index of shares advanced
1.2 percent and the euro strengthened 0.3 percent to $1.3376.  ECB President  Mario Draghi  welcomed the accord struck at
all-night talks in Brussels, as the region’s leaders ventured
into untested legal territory by plotting to anchor tougher
budget rules in a separate euro-area treaty.  ESM Brought Forward  The lawmakers said they will aim to set up the permanent
rescue fund, known as the European Stability Mechanism, in July
2012, a year ahead of schedule. It’s 19 months since euro
leaders forged their first plan to contain the debt turmoil that
started in  Greece  more than two years ago.  In addition to purchases of Spanish and Italian debt, the
ECB was also said to buy Portuguese bonds today, according to
two people with direct knowledge of the trades, who declined to
be identified because the deals are private. A spokesman for the
central bank in  Frankfurt  declined to comment.  Italy is due to sell bonds maturing in 2016 on Dec. 14 and
 Spain  will auction securities due in 2016, 2020 and 2021 the
following day. The European Financial Stability Facility bailout
fund plans to raise as much as 2 billion euros over three months
from its first sale of bills next week.  ‘Overly Pessimistic’  Italian two-year yields were 24 basis points lower at 5.99
percent, while 10-year yields dropped 10 basis points to 6.36
percent. Spanish two-year rates declined 25 basis points to 4.66
percent. The nation’s 10-year yield slid eight basis points to
5.73 percent.  The rate on Portuguese two-year notes climbed 15 basis
points to 17.09 percent.  Before the summit, “the market got overly pessimistic and
it’s perhaps more positive than what was feared,” said  Peter Chatwell , a fixed-income strategist at Credit Agricole SA in
London. “The non-German triple As are outperforming and if we
didn’t have supply pressure, I think you’d see the same for
Spain and Italy.”  The difference in yield, or spread, between AAA rated
French 10-year debt and German bunds narrowed 22 basis points to
112 basis points. The Austrian-German spread tightened 12 basis
points to 108 basis points.  Volatility on German and Spanish debt was the highest among
euro-area nations tracked by Bloomberg today, according to
measures of 10-year bonds, two- and 10-year yield spreads and
credit-default swaps. The difference between  Germany ’s two-year
and 10-year yields moved 2.5 times the 90-day average, the gauge
showed.  ‘Not Convinced’  Italy  has to sell 221 billion euros of bonds next year,
according to Gianluca Ziglio, a fixed-income strategist at UBS
AG in London.  The decline in German bunds today erase their advance for
the week, with yields little changed versus the close on Dec. 2.
The region’s leaders said today the ESM won’t get a banking
license that would enable it to increase its firepower.  “I’m not convinced that there is enough here to calm the
markets as we head into next year with a lot of supply,” said
 Padhraic Garvey , head of developed-market debt strategy at ING
Groep NV in Amsterdam. “The ECB will have to continue
supporting the bonds.”  German bunds have handed investors a gain of 8.2 percent
this year, while Italian debt made a loss of 7.6 percent,
according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European
Federation of Financial Analysts Societies.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Paul Dobson in London at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net ;
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  