-- 
German Exports Fall More Than Forecast

-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 
2011-12-09T07:22:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/german-exports-fell-more-than-forecast-in-october-on-slowdown.html
Exports  from  Germany , Europe’s
largest economy, fell more than economists forecast in October
as slowing global growth and the region’s debt crisis damped
demand.  Exports, adjusted for work days and seasonal changes,
dropped 3.6 percent from September, when they rose 1 percent,
the Federal Statistics Office in Wiesbaden said today.
Economists forecast a drop of 1.3 percent, according to the
median of 14 estimates in a Bloomberg News  survey .  Imports 
declined 1 percent from the previous month.  Germany’s economic expansion may grind to a near halt next
year as euro-area governments cut spending and global demand
falters. The Bundesbank on Nov. 21 cut its 2012 growth
projection to between 0.5 percent and 1 percent, saying a
“pronounced” period of weakness can’t be ruled out.  Volkswagen
AG ,  Europe ’s largest carmaker, said on Dec. 6 that it’s “more
cautious” about the outlook and is “preparing carefully for
all possible situations.”  “The readiness to order is weakening in our main trading
partners in the euro zone,” said Jens Kramer, an economist at
NordLB in Hanover, Germany. “Customers in emerging economies
are only partially making up for it.”  The  trade surplus  narrowed to 11.6 billion euros ($15.4
billion) from 17.3 billion euros in September. The surplus in
the current account, a measure of all trade including services,
was 10.3 billion euros, down from 16 billion euros a month
earlier.  ‘Downside Risks’  The European Central Bank yesterday cut its benchmark
 interest rate  by 25 basis points to 1 percent and lowered its
2012 growth forecast for the 17-nation euro area to 0.3 percent
from 1.3 percent. President  Mario Draghi  said the economic
outlook “remains subject to high uncertainty and substantial
downside risks.”  In the euro area and Britain, manufacturing shrank at the
fastest pace in about 2 1/2 years in November. China’s
manufacturing contracted for the first time since February 2009
last month as the  property market  cooled and Europe’s turmoil
cut export demand.  German car manufacturers are bracing for a slowdown in
demand, the VDA auto industry association said Dec. 2. If
tensions in financial markets don’t ease, a “slight” decline
is possible in the western European  car market , VDA President
 Matthias Wissmann  said in Berlin.  It’s “impossible at present to reliably predict” how the
new fiscal year will unfold, steelmaker  ThyssenKrupp AG (TKA)  said on
Dec. 2, when forecasting “significantly lower” first-quarter
earnings. Chief Executive Officer Heinrich Hiesinger said he
doesn’t expect a breakup of the currency bloc.  ‘Cautiously Optimistic’  Some companies are optimistic.  Hugo Boss AG (BOS) , a German
luxury clothier, expects to see “record growth” in 2012 even
as the debt crisis makes the environment tougher for the sector,
CEO Claus Dietrich Lahrs told the Financial Times.  German exporters are “cautiously optimistic” for 2012,
 Anton Boerner , head of the BGA exporters’ association, said on
Dec. 5. Export growth will slow to as little as 6 percent from
12 percent in 2011 in nominal terms, he said.  “The dynamism in export demand from emerging economies
will lessen,” said Arnd Schaefer, an economist at WestLB in
Dusseldorf, Germany. “The contribution of foreign trade to
Germany’s gross domestic product will be negative next year.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  