-- 
German Inflation Slows as Crisis Damps Demand

-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 
2011-12-09T07:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/german-inflation-slowed-in-november-as-debt-crisis-damped-demand.html
Inflation in  Germany ,  Europe ’s
largest economy, slowed in November as the region’s worsening
fiscal crisis damped economic growth.  The  inflation rate , calculated using a harmonized European
Union method, declined to 2.8 percent from 2.9 percent in
October, the  Federal Statistics Office  in Wiesbaden said today,
confirming an initial estimate published on Nov. 28. In the
month, prices were unchanged.  “Inflation pressure is easing because of the problems in
the euro zone,” said Arnd Schaefer, an economist at WestLB in
Dusseldorf, Germany. “We’ll see a clear drop” in inflation
rates next year, due also to declining energy costs.  The European Central Bank yesterday lowered its benchmark
interest rate by a quarter percentage point to 1 percent, with
President  Mario Draghi  saying there are “substantial downside
risks” to the growth outlook. Euro-region  unemployment  rose to
the highest in more than a decade in October and  consumer
confidence  dropped to a two-year low last month.  Euro-area inflation will slow to 2 percent in 2012 and 1.5
percent in 2013 from 3 percent today, the ECB predicted
yesterday.  With governments stepping up austerity measures to contain
the region’s fiscal crisis and companies eliminating jobs,
consumers may hold back spending, undermining economic growth.
German services output contracted in November and the Bundesbank
on Nov. 21 cut its 2012 growth projection to between 0.5 percent
and 1 percent, saying a “pronounced” period of weakness can’t
be ruled out.  Metro AG (MEO)  fell the most since its 1996 initial public
offering in Frankfurt trading on Dec. 6 after Germany’s biggest
retailer forecast that sales and earnings will fall this year
following a weak start to the Christmas season.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  