-- 
German, French Slowdown Risks Recession

-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 
2011-12-09T12:51:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/german-french-slowdown-raises-risk-of-recession.html
German exports fell in October and
French industrial output stagnated, adding to signs that the
euro region may slide into recession as leaders struggle to
solve the sovereign debt crisis.  German  exports  dropped 3.6 percent from September, the
Federal Statistics office in Wiesbaden said today, almost three
times economists’ median forecast for a 1.3 percent decline. In
 France ,  industrial production  was flat in October after falling
2.1 percent a month earlier, more than the initial 1.7 percent
estimate, Paris-based statistics office Insee said.  Slowing growth in the euro area’s two largest economies may
tip the 17-nation currency bloc into recession as European
governments boost their rescue fund and tighten fiscal rules in
the latest attempt to stamp out the debt crisis. The turmoil is
hurting global growth by damping European demand for foreign
goods. Chinese manufacturing contracted for the first time since
2009 last month, a report showed on Dec. 1.  “Fiscal tightening plus credit tightening and the
confidence impact of the sovereign crisis point to recession” in
Europe, said  Sarah Hewin , senior economist at Standard Chartered
Bank in  London . “We’re not expecting anything as bad as the
2008-2009 downturn on the assumption the euro area will continue
to muddle through.”  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index  rose 1.2 percent as of 1:30 p.m.
in Frankfurt after leaders meeting overnight in Brussels agreed
to add 200 billion euros ($267 billion) to their crisis-fighting
war-chest and tighten anti-deficit rules. The euro gained 0.5
percent to $1.3405 while Italian bonds dropped, driving the 10-
year yield up 5 basis points to 6.48 percent.  ECB Cuts Forecast  The European Central Bank yesterday cut its  benchmark
interest rate  for the second time in as many months, taking it
to 1 percent, as it slashed its 2012 growth forecast to 0.3
percent from 1.3 percent.  “These revisions mainly reflect the impact on domestic
demand of weaker confidence and worsening financing conditions,
stemming from the heightened uncertainty related to the
sovereign debt crisis, as well as downward revisions of foreign
demand,” ECB President  Mario Draghi  told reporters in
Frankfurt. The ECB predicted euro-area inflation will slow to 2
percent next year and 1.5 percent in 2013 from 3 percent today
as growth weakens.  German inflation slowed to 2.8 percent in November from 2.9
percent in October.  “Inflation pressure is easing because of the problems in
the  euro zone ,” said Arnd Schaefer, an economist at WestLB in
Dusseldorf,  Germany . “We’ll see a clear drop” in inflation
rates next year.  ‘More Cautious’  The Bundesbank on Nov. 21 cut its 2012 German growth
projection to between 0.5 percent and 1 percent, saying a
“pronounced” period of weakness can’t be ruled out. French
business confidence fell to a two-year low in November,
suggesting the economy won’t expand in the fourth quarter, the
Bank of France said yesterday.  Volkswagen AG ,  Europe ’s largest carmaker, said on Dec. 6
that it’s “more cautious” about the outlook and is “preparing
carefully for all possible situations.”  “The readiness to order is weakening in our main trading
partners in the euro zone,” said Jens Kramer, an economist at
NordLB in Hanover, Germany. “Customers in emerging economies
are only partially making up for it.”  Germany’s trade surplus narrowed to 11.6 billion euros in
October from 17.3 billion euros in September.  U.K. Deficit  The U.K.  goods-trade deficit  improved in October as exports
to non-European Union nations soared to a record 12.6 billion
pounds ($19.7 billion), the  Office for National Statistics  said
today in London.  A report at 8:30 a.m. in  Washington  may show the  U.S. trade
deficit  widened in October as a strengthening economy helped
drive up the nation’s import bill, while exports cooled from a
record high, according to a Bloomberg News survey of economists.  Confidence among U.S. consumers probably rose in December
to the highest level in six months, another survey shows. The
Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan index of consumer
sentiment increased to 65.8 from 64.1 in November, according to
the median of 73 forecasts. That report is due at 9:55 a.m. New
York time.  China ’s inflation rate reached a 14-month low of 4.2
percent in November, the country’s statistics bureau said today,
and industrial production rose less than economists forecast,
bolstering the case for more stimulus measures to shore up
growth in the world’s second-largest economy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Black in  Frankfurt  at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  