-- 
Gingrich Faces Increased Scrutiny That Will Test His Temperament

-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 
2011-12-09T05:00:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/gingrich-faces-criticism-from-his-former-allies-that-will-test-temperament.html
As media scrutiny and attacks by
rivals intensify,  Newt Gingrich  is facing the first test of a
new discipline on display as he seeks the Republican
presidential nomination.  It’s a measurement sure to come as critics, and Gingrich
himself, have said the temperament question -- can he hold his
tongue and keep his temper -- is one of the biggest unknowns of
his rising campaign.  “I’m capable on occasion of saying things that really are
indefensible,” Gingrich told a group of business leaders
yesterday in Greenville, South Carolina.  Surrogates for Mitt Romney -- who runs second to Gingrich
in recent polls of the Republican race -- have gone on the
attack against the former U.S. House speaker, offering potential
provocations for an undisciplined response. In a conference call
with reporters yesterday, two Romney backers and former
Republican officeholders questioned his leadership and political
commitment.  “He’s more concerned about Newt Gingrich than he is about
conservative principles,” said one of them, former New
Hampshire Governor John Sununu.  As speaker, Gingrich developed a reputation making
headlines that emboldened his opponents and caused political
headaches for his staff and House Republican colleagues.  Child Labor Issue  There was a glimpse of that side of Gingrich on Nov. 18
when, speaking at Harvard University’s Kennedy School of
Government, he called child labor laws “stupid” and proposed
allowing children to work as school janitors. He and his
campaign have spent weeks trying to explain those remarks.  He sparked criticism within his party on May 16 when he
described the proposal by House Budget Chairman  Paul Ryan  to
replace Medicare with subsidies to help the elderly buy
insurance -- a  plan  seen as a cornerstone of the Republican
fiscal agenda in Congress -- as “right-wing social
engineering.”  Gingrich later apologized to Ryan, a Wisconsin Republican,
for his comments.  His campaign languished after senior advisers walked out in
a disagreement in strategy in June, and the former Georgia
congressman came across in early candidate debates as cross and
lecturing. In more recent debates and in television interviews,
such as one Dec. 7 on CNN, Gingrich is almost always smiling.  ‘Stay Positive’  “All I’m going to say is we’re going to stay positive,”
he said yesterday in Greenville, declining to respond to the
Romney campaign’s offensive. “The only opponent I have is
Barack Obama.”  He also is trying to avoid gaffes. When asked yesterday
whether he agreed that politicians ought to fairly represent
their constituents, he spied a potential trap.  “To stand up here right now and say, ‘No, I don’t think
they should represent the people they represent,’ would give my
good friends the opportunity for a whole, new 30-second attack
ad that I don’t want them to have.”  He rebuked critics of his suggestion to put poor children
to work in school janitorial jobs.  ‘Child Slavery’  “Liberals went on TV and said, ‘Oh my God, Newt believes
in child slavery,’” he told a group of several hundred
supporters in Greenville. “Not since Daniel Patrick Moynihan
wrote similar documents has the Left reacted with such a level
of hysteria,” referring to a former New York Democratic senator
who in 1963 criticized welfare because of the negative impact he
said it would have on black families.  Even as he avoids direct criticism of Romney, Gingrich
doesn’t shy away from attacks on other targets -- he has labeled
the nonpartisan  Congressional Budget Office  a “reactionary,
socialist institution,” and called for job retraining programs
for lawyers and government bureaucrats.  The Romney campaign is trying to make the case that the new
Gingrich is not all that different from the old one.  In the call with reporters yesterday, former Missouri
Senator Jim Talent, a Romney adviser who served in House during
Gingrich’s speakership, said that if his former colleague won
their party’s nomination, the general election would be about
personality issues -- rather than the economy or Obama
administration policies.  What Democrats Want  “My concern is that if he’s the nominee, and I say this as
a Republican, this election is going to be about him,” said
Talent. “And that’s exactly what the Democrats want.”  Sununu, whose service as White House chief of staff under
President  George H.W. Bush  overlapped Gingrich’s tenure as House
Minority Whip, described him as an erratic, self-serving
politician who undermines his party’s agenda.  “The off-the-cuff, for example, that Gingrich throws out
on occasion is a reflection of the off-the-cuff thinking that he
goes through to deal with issues,” said Sununu, a top Romney
adviser. “That is not what you want in the commander-in-
chief.”  Democrats are gearing up a similar case, depicting Gingrich
as the “Godfather of Gridlock” in  Washington . They’ve also
dismissed the message delivered in Gingrich’s first campaign ad,
in which he promises to “rebuild America.”  “I was tickled when I saw his ad in  Iowa  talking about how
he’s going to bring the country together to solve problems,”
said  David Axelrod , Obama’s chief political strategist, at a
lunch with Bloomberg View yesterday. “He’d be, like, the least
likely person you’d assign that task to, based on his record and
his approach.”  The Gingrich campaign seeks to undermine those charges by
not overreacting to them.  ‘Very Good Look’  “The American people are getting a very good look at
Newt’s temperament, his style and leadership and what kind of
president he would be,” said R.C. Hammond, the campaign
spokesman. “We’ll let that stand for its own judgment.”  Some Republicans who’ve followed his career for decades,
say they see a calmer, more focused Gingrich.  “He always used to shoot from the hip,” said Nancy Neff,
68, a retiree in  South Carolina  who volunteered for Gingrich’s
first congressional campaign. “I think he’s mellowed.”  Some former aides remain skeptical. Rich Galen, an aide and
adviser to Gingrich when he was in the House, wonders whether
“Bad Newt” with reemerge as the attacks on him accelerate.  “That, in the end, will be the test,” said Galen. “The
outcome appears to be in his hands.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Lerer in Washington at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  