-- 
Global M&A May Take at Least Two Years to Return to 2007 Pace, Survey Says

-- B y   W i l l   R o b i n s o n
-- 
2011-12-09T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/global-m-a-may-take-at-least-2-years-to-return-to-2007-levels.html
Global mergers and acquisitions may
take at least two years to return to the record pace of 2007,
when volume was more than $4 trillion, a survey of takeover
professionals showed.  Limited economic growth will be the most significant
obstacle to doing deals, according to 36 percent of respondents
in Bloomberg’s 2012 Global M&A Outlook survey of financial
market professionals released yesterday. Concern about sovereign
debt was identified by about 25 percent as the biggest obstacle.  The world economy would grind to a standstill if the 17-
nation euro zone failed to overcome its debt crisis, as risks of
a double-dip recession in the U.S. and  Europe  loom, the  United
Nations  said Dec. 1. Equity markets tumbled yesterday as the
 European Central Bank  damped speculation it would boost debt
purchases and regulators said the region’s lenders need to raise
more capital than previously estimated.  “People are slowly realizing that optimism alone isn’t
going to bring about deals, and we actually have to take steps
toward fixing the underlying economic problems,” said Anita Khalili, a co-author of the report. “It’s amazing how many of
the respondents talked about Europe needing to fix the problems
it has for M&A to be healthy,” she said.  The biggest jump in dealmaking may take place in the energy
and power industries, according to more than 40 percent of those
surveyed. Two of the four biggest takeovers announced this year
involved energy companies, bringing year-to-date deal volume to
about $2.2 trillion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “As we look to move away from oil production, demand is
high to look at alternative resources,” Khalili said. “This
industry is ripe for increased M&A activity,” she said.  Cash on Hand  Mergers and acquisitions among basic materials and
financial companies may also increase next year, according to
more than a quarter of those surveyed. Basic materials include
raw materials such as metals and mining and chemicals.  Most of those surveyed said internal cash reserves will be
the major source of capital for financing M&A transactions in
2012. Last year, more than 40 percent of respondents expected
equity to be the primary funding source.  The Asia-Pacific region’s buyers may be the most active in
2012, survey respondents said, even as this year’s M&A activity
in the region failed to match respondents’ outlook for growth in
last year’s survey.  Nippon Steel Corp. (5401) ’s agreement to purchase  Sumitomo Metal
Industries Ltd.  for $9.5 billion is the fifth-largest deal
announced in 2011, Bloomberg data show. The combination of the
two Japanese companies contributed to more than $640 billion in
Asia-Pacific volume this year.  Latin America   The biggest decline in M&A was in Latin America after a
jump in 2010.  Brazil  dropped, after reaching its highest volume
in a decade last year, according to the report.  So-called megadeals, or those valued at more than $5
billion, accounted for about 30 percent of deal volume as of
mid-August, and about 50 percent of survey respondents said that
will probably remain about the same in the comparable period of
2012. The biggest takeover announced this year,  AT&T Inc.’s (T) 
agreement to buy  T-Mobile USA Inc.  from  Deutsche Telekom AG  for
$39 billion, may fail due to a U.S. government antitrust
challenge.  Private-equity buyers are also seen as likely to play
about the same role as they did in 2011, according to about half
of the respondents. Buyout firms accounted for around 16 percent
of company takeovers in 2011, the report says.  Blackstone Group
LP’s (BX)  purchase of  Centro Properties Group’s (CNP)  U.S. shopping centers
for $9.4 billion was the biggest deal made by the world’s
largest private-equity firm since 2007.  Bloomberg’s 2012 Global M&A Outlook report reflects the
views of more than 1,000 financial market professionals who
focus on M&A, in surveys conducted from Aug. 20 through Nov. 30.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Will Robinson in New York at 
 wrobinson11@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  