-- 
Global Funds Post Fifth Week of Outflows, Citigroup Says

-- B y   W e i y i   L i m
-- 
2011-12-09T03:44:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/global-funds-post-5th-week-of-outflow-emerging-funds-gain-citigroup-says.html
Investors withdrew $1.2 billion from
global funds in the week to Dec. 7, the fifth consecutive week
of net sales, while money flowed into emerging-market funds for
the first time in four weeks, Citigroup Inc. said, citing data
from fund researcher EPFR Global.  The MSCI World Index of developed-nation equities fell 1.1
percent during the week after  Standard & Poor’s  said it was
placing the 15 euro nations on review for possible credit-rating
downgrades, and before European leaders began a summit to tackle
two years of debt-driven turmoil. The  MSCI Emerging-Markets
Index (MXEF)  gained 3.3 percent in the five days through Dec. 7.  “Investors remained cautious to slightly negative
throughout the week on the possible outcome of the EU summit,”
Yue Hin Pong, one of the Citigroup analysts cited in today’s
report, wrote in an e-mail.  Euro-area leaders meeting in Brussels may agree to provide
150 billion euros ($201 billion) in loans through the
 International Monetary Fund  to shore up European finances, a
European Union diplomat said.  Germany  hasn’t taken a public
stance on the proposal.  Chancellor Angela Merkel  has insisted
that the rest of Europe first bow to tighter rules on budget
deficits in order to reassure central bankers about the euro
region’s longer-term economic health.  Emerging Markets  Emerging-market funds had inflows of $400 million, analysts
led by  Markus Rosgen  wrote in the report dated today.  Developing-nation stocks will outperform those of developed
countries next year as monetary policy becomes more
“accommodative,” Dominic Rossi, Fidelity’s global chief
investment officer for equities, said in a report e-mailed
yesterday. Citigroup Inc. said in a report dated Dec. 7
developing-market shares may advance about 28 percent by the end
of 2012.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index lost 1.4 percent to 934.48
at 11:20 a.m. Singapore time. The gauge has fallen 19 percent
this year, compared with an 8.5 percent decline in the MSCI
World Index of developed countries.  Bond funds focused on emerging markets took in $163 million
in the week ended Dec. 7,  Barclays Capital  said, citing data
from EPFR Global. Dollar-denominated notes attracted the
majority of the inflows at $134 million, while local-currency
securities had $84.3 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  