-- 
Goldman Backs Trader’s Hedge Fund

-- B y   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k   a n d   L a r s   P a u l s s o n
-- 
2011-12-09T12:33:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/goldman-sachs-said-to-back-former-barclays-trader-s-hedge-fund.html
Goldman Sachs (GS)  Group Inc. plans to
provide funding for a hedge fund being started by Todd Edgar, a
former commodities trader at Barclays Plc, said two people with
knowledge of the preparations.  Goldman Sachs will make an investment through a so-called
seeding fund that the New York-based firm started this year
after raising money for it from pension funds and wealthy
individuals, the person said. Edgar will get $150 million to
$200 million from Goldman Sachs in return for a cut of the fees
his hedge fund generates, said the people who declined to be
identified because the negotiations are private.  The  U.S. Congress  last year restricted banks’ investments
in hedge funds through the so-called Volcker rule after
lawmakers concluded that financial institutions shouldn’t be
using federally backed deposits for wagers on markets. The
Goldman Sachs seeding fund is permitted under the law because it
uses client money rather than the firm’s capital.  Edgar and his team of commodities traders left  Barclays (BARC)  in
the third quarter of this year. His fund will trade futures and
options on metals based on the firm’s views of global economic
trends, the people said. The fund will be based in New York and
plans to start trading next year, the people said.  Joanna Carss, a spokeswoman for Goldman Sachs in  London ,
and Edgar declined to comment. He joined Barclays, Britain’s
second-largest bank by assets, from  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  in
2009.  Blackstone Group  Some hedge funds are turning to firms such as Goldman Sachs
and  Blackstone Group LP (BX)  that provide startup financing because
pension funds and other investors have shied away from smaller
money managers since the credit crisis in 2008. Two-thirds of
the asset growth for  hedge funds  since 2009 has been at firms
managing more than $5 billion, according to Chicago-based Hedge
Fund Research Inc.  Blackstone, the world’s largest private-equity firm,
invests in hedge funds for a slice of a manager’s fees and an
equity stake in the company. Hedge funds, private pools that try
to make money whether markets are rising or falling, typically
charge clients 2 percent of assets managed and 20 percent of any
investment gains.  Edgar’s fund will be the second to receive an investment
from Goldman Sachs this year. In September, Goldman Sachs
invested $100 million in New York-based Palestra Capital
Management LLC, a fund focused on stocks run by Jeremy Schiffman
and Andrew Immerman, one of the people said.  Goldman Sachs has received about $600 million from clients
to invest in startup hedge funds with plans to raise more money,
the person said. Goldman Sachs’s hedge-fund investment effort is
being led by two executives, Kent Clark in  New York  and Ali Raissi in London.  The firm shut an earlier seeding fund in 2008, a year when
hedge funds lost 20 percent on average after the collapse of
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jesse Westbrook in London at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net ;
Lars Paulsson in London at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Edward Evans  at   eevans3@bloomberg.net . 