-- 
Gold Traders Most Bullish in Month on Debt Crisis: Commodities

-- B y   N i c h o l a s   L a r k i n
-- 
2011-12-09T18:10:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/gold-traders-most-bullish-in-a-month-on-european-debt-crisis-commodities.html
Gold traders are more bullish as
investors buy metal at the fastest pace in a year to protect
their wealth from  Europe ’s escalating debt crisis.  Eighteen of 26 surveyed by Bloomberg expect the metal to
advance next week, the highest proportion since Nov. 11.
Holdings in  exchange-traded products  backed by gold rose 108.5
metric tons to a record from the start of October, the most
since the second quarter of 2010, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. The extra bullion is valued at $5.99 billion.  Investors are now making a $130.2 billion bet on gold as
European leaders meet in Brussels to seek ways to tackle the
crisis that means Germany and  France  are under threat of losing
their AAA rating from Standard & Poor’s. The European Central
Bank yesterday cut interest rates for a second consecutive month
to shore up growth, increasing the appeal of gold, which earns
investors returns through price gains.  “People are buying out of concern, out of fear,” said
Mark O’Byrne, executive director of Dublin-based GoldCore Ltd.,
a brokerage that sells everything from quarter-ounce British
Sovereigns to 400-ounce bars. Central banks “are all pursuing
extremely loose monetary policies and we still have negative
real interest rates. That makes gold attractive.”  Bullion rose 21 percent to $1,717.80 an ounce this year on
the Comex in New York, and reached a record $1,923.70 in
September. The  Standard & Poor’s  GSCI  gauge  of 24 commodities
rose 1.8 percent and the MSCI All-Country World Index of
equities retreated 8.9 percent. Treasuries returned 9.3 percent,
a Bank of America Corp. index shows.  Raw Sugar  Traders also anticipate gains in corn and soybeans and
declines in copper and raw sugar next week, the surveys showed.  Investors held a record 2,358.2 tons of bullion through
ETPs on Dec. 6, and bought 84.8 tons last month, the most since
July. The combined tonnage is greater than the  reserves  of all
but four of the world’s central banks and equal to more than 10
months of global mine supply.  Growth in the euro region will drop to 1.1 percent next
year, from 1.6 percent this year, the International Monetary
Fund forecasts. The ECB lowered its benchmark  interest rate  by
0.25 percentage point to 1 percent yesterday to match a record
low. Bullion rose 3.6 percent in three days after the bank cut
rates by the same amount on Nov. 3.  Unlimited Cash  The ECB also said it would offer banks unlimited cash for
three years and loosened the collateral criteria it imposes when
lending by making credit claims such as bank loans eligible and
reducing the rating threshold on asset-backed securities.  Gold bar and coin demand in Europe more than doubled to
118.1 tons in the third quarter from a year earlier, data from
the London-based World Gold Council show. European Union clients
opened a record number of accounts with GoldCore last week and
that may be exceeded this week, O’Byrne said.  Central banks are adding to their  gold reserves  for the
first time in a generation.  South Korea  said last week it bought
15 tons in November to diversify its foreign-exchange reserves.
The World Gold Council expects central banks to buy as much as
450 tons this year. Official holdings stand at 30,708 tons, data
from the council show.  The banks were also buying gold in 1980 as prices rose to a
then-record $850, only to drop for most of the next 20 years.
Bullion tripled from 1999 through the beginning of 2008 as the
banks  sold  more than 4,000 tons.  Global Equities  Increasing optimism that European leaders would find a way
of containing the debt crisis spurred investors to add $2.56
trillion to the  value  of global equities since Nov. 26,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. A reversal of that
sentiment would also be a threat to gold. The metal fell 5.6
percent in the two weeks through Nov. 25 as stocks declined 9
percent, with investors selling the metal to cover their losses.  “If there is no agreement at all, this could put pressure
on the equities and commodities and might drag gold down,” said
 Daniel Briesemann , an analyst at Commerzbank AG in  Frankfurt .  Hedge funds  and other money managers are paring bullish
bets. Speculators cut their net-long  position  by 15 percent from
a two-month high to 146,298 futures and options contracts in the
two weeks to Nov. 29, data from the Commodity Futures Trading
Commission show. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said Dec. 1 it expects
gold to trade at $1,940 in 12 months, 13 percent more than now.  Twelve of 26 traders and analysts surveyed by Bloomberg
expect copper to fall next week, and five were neutral. The
metal for delivery in three months, the  London  Metal Exchange’s
benchmark contract, declined 19 percent to $7,800 a ton this
year.  ICE Futures  Raw sugar retreated 27 percent this year to 23.32 cents a
pound on ICE Futures U.S. in  New York . Seven of 10 people
surveyed expect prices to drop next week.  Thirteen of 25 anticipate a gain in corn, while 14 of 26
said soybeans will increase. Corn declined 6.2 percent to
$5.90 a bushel in  Chicago  this year, and soybeans slid 21
percent to $11.0925 a bushel.  “The growth in the developed world is at risk, this makes
us more cautious in the first six months of the year,” said
David Field, who manages the 1.3 billion-euro ($1.7 billion)
Carmignac Commodities fund at Carmignac Gestion in Paris. Growth
in developing economies “will be strong enough, and that will
drive a reasonably robust demand picture for commodities.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nicholas Larkin  in London at 
 nlarkin1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 