-- 
Goldman Said to Plan CDs Tied to Equities

-- B y   M a t t   R o b i n s o n
-- 
2011-12-09T16:22:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/goldman-sachs-is-said-to-start-offering-fdic-backed-cds-linked-to-equities.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  plans to
issue four certificates of deposit linked to stocks as record
low interest rates drive investor demand for the potentially
higher-yielding CDs.  The structured CDs are the bank’s first and are set to
price at the end of the month, said a person with knowledge of
the offerings who declined to be identified because terms aren’t
set. One four-year CD is linked to changes in the  Dow Jones
Industrial Average , with annual returns at a minimum of about
0.5 percent and a possible maximum of 24 percent, according to a
preliminary sales  document . That compares with the average yield
of 1.15 percent for a three-year, fixed-rate deposit,
Bankrate.com  data  show.  Demand for CDs tied to assets such as equities, commodities
and exchange-traded funds has soared as the  Federal Reserve  has
held its benchmark rate at zero to 0.25 percent since 2008. Bank
revenue from the investments has more than tripled to $99 per
million dollars in retail deposits in October from $30 in
January, according to Kehrer-LIMRA Research compiled from
approximately 30 lenders, including Wells Fargo & Co. and
SunTrust Banks Inc.  The market-linked or structured CD market has had “healthy
growth,” said Glenn Lotenberg, a managing director at Incapital
LLC in  Boca Raton ,  Florida , which expects to sell $2.5 billion
of structured CDs this year, from $2 billion in 2010.  Data on the market is incomplete as the investments aren’t
registered by the Securities and Exchange Commission and the
Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. doesn’t track market-linked
deposits separately.  Michael DuVally , a spokesman for New York-based Goldman
Sachs, declined to comment.  Banks Benefit  Banks benefit from issuing structured CDs, which the FDIC
insures up to $250,000, by raising deposits at lower funding
levels and collecting commissions, said Tim Bonacci of CD
Funding Securities LLC, who’s helped about 30 financial
institutions set up their own proprietary CD business since
2005. The average fee on a five-year deposit is about 3 percent,
Bonacci said in an interview last month.  Goldman Sachs, which was the most profitable securities
firm in Wall Street history before it converted to a bank in
2008 after the collapse of smaller rival Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc., had $41.8 billion in deposits in the third
quarter. That’s up from $38.6 billion at the end of 2010.  The four-year CD tracks the monthly percentage change in
the Dow, with gains capped at 1.5 percent to 2 percent and no
floor on the declines. That means if the Dow advanced 5 percent,
the monthly return would be recorded as no more than 2 percent,
while a drop of the same amount would be taken in full.  Banks create market-linked CDs by combining zero-coupon
bonds with derivatives to offer customized bets to investors.
Derivatives are contracts whose value is derived from stocks,
bonds, currencies and commodities.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matt Robinson  in New York at 
 mrobinson55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Alan Goldstein  at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 