-- 
Gulf Keystone CEO Kozel Faces $6 Million Tax Fine Over Offshore Assets

-- B y   K i t   C h e l l e l   a n d   S u s a n n a h   N e s m i t h
-- 
2011-12-09T08:59:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/gulf-keystone-ceo-kozel-faces-6-million-tax-fine-over-offshore-assets.html
Todd Kozel, the founder and chief
executive officer of  Gulf Keystone Petroleum Ltd. (GKP) , said he may
have to pay a $6 million fine to U.S. tax authorities because he
didn’t declare overseas accounts and trusts.  The penalty came to light when Kozel’s attorneys listed it
among his debts in his  Florida  divorce case. Kozel applied for
immunity from prosecution under the  Internal Revenue Service ’s
amnesty program over assets including Swiss bank accounts, his
wife Ashley Kozel’s lawyer said this week.  In an interview after a hearing in Sarasota, Florida, Kozel
said that while he applied for amnesty, he didn’t owe taxes and
only failed to file the proper forms declaring the accounts.
“This was a mistake on my part for not checking a box on tax
returns for money that I did claim,” he said.  Kozel, who has overseen Gulf Keystone’s rise from a penny
stock to the most-valuable firm on London’s  Alternative
Investment Market (AIM100) , is facing separate lawsuits in the U.K.,
 Pennsylvania  and Florida disputing how much of the  oil company 
he owns.  Gulf Keystone, based in  Bermuda , plans to join the FTSE 250
Index next year. The company’s shares have risen more than 1,000
percent since it announced it found as much as 10 billion
barrels of oil in northern Iraq’s Shaikan field.  At the divorce hearing, Kozel’s attorney Mark Luttier said
the fine, which hasn’t been paid in full, represented about 25
percent of the highest total Kozel held in offshore accounts.
His wife’s attorney, Jeffrey Fisher, told the Florida judge he
was concerned about the validity of Kozel’s tax disclosure.  ‘Misinformation’  “There is a lot of misinformation in that voluntary
disclosure file,” he said.  The hearing in Florida was adjourned when the Kozels
announced they had reached a tentative settlement.  The IRS has collected $2.7 billion under a partial amnesty
program that offers reduced penalties to U.S. citizens who
voluntarily disclose overseas assets, the agency said in
September.  Kozel’s holdings in Gulf Keystone are “opaquely structured
and incompletely disclosed,” according to court papers filed by
Excalibur Ventures LLC in its  London  lawsuit against the
company.  While Kozel is publicly listed as owning about 1.6 percent
of Gulf Keystone, lawyers for his wife and Excalibur have
identified links with offshore trusts and affiliated companies
which own more shares.  Excalibur, which is suing Gulf Keystone for 30 percent of
its Kurdish oil assets, says Kozel is a beneficiary of Gokana
Trust, an investment vehicle which is the company’s eighth
biggest shareholder.  Kozel denies he is a beneficiary of Gokana and said he has
complied with market rules. He was awarded salary, cash and
shares worth a total of $9.98 million as chief executive officer
and chairman Gulf Keystone in 2010, according to the  company’s
annual report .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kit Chellel in London at 
 cchellel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  