-- 
Guy Hands-Owned Company Says Wind Turbine Caught Fire in Storms

-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 
2011-12-09T10:35:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/guy-hands-owned-company-says-wind-turbine-caught-fire-in-storms.html
Infinis Plc, the renewables company
owned by financier  Guy Hands , said one of its  wind turbines 
caught fire in “extreme stormy weather conditions” that caused
most of Britain’s turbines to stop generating power.  The nacelle, the case containing the wind turbine’s power-
generating components, caught fire yesterday at the Ardrossan
wind farm in Ayrshire,  Scotland , Infinis said in a statement
late last night. The fire extinguished itself before
firefighters arrived and no one was injured, Infinis said. The
cause of the blaze is not yet known, the company said.  Terra Firma Capital Partners Ltd.’s Northampton-based
Infinis said it is investigating the incident, which involved a
machine made by the largest turbine-maker  Vestas Wind Systems
A/S . Vestas is examining what happened to the 2-megawatt V80
model, which has a rotor diameter of 80 meters (262 feet),
 Michael Holm , a company spokesman, said today by phone.  “We are looking into the root cause,” he said, referring
further comments to Infinis, which declined to comment when
contacted. The Ardrossan wind farm has a generating capacity of
30 megawatts with 15 Vestas turbines each with a 2-megawatt
capacity, according to the Infinis website.  Wind speeds of as much as 165 miles per hour (265
kilometers per hour) were recorded yesterday in Scotland, the
U.K.’s Met Office said.  Staff vacate wind farms when wind speeds exceed 55 mph and
no one was present on site at the time, Infinis said. Scottish
Power, the network operator, was notified and the site was
disconnected from the electricity network.  “The wind industry always maintains the highest standards
of health and safety, which is why incidents like this are
extremely rare,” Robert Norris, a spokesman at RenewableUK, the
wind industry group, said in an e-mailed statement.  There are almost 3,000 onshore turbines across 298 parks in
the U.K., according to RenewableUK. “Until we have more
information it is unhelpful to speculate on the cause,” Norris
said.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 Sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  