-- 
Microsoft Said to Seek TV Executive to Develop Shows for Xbox Live Service

-- B y   D i n a   B a s s   a n d   R o n a l d   G r o v e r
-- 
2011-12-09T21:10:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/microsoft-said-to-seek-tv-executive-to-develop-shows-for-xbox-live-service.html
Microsoft Corp.  is seeking to hire a
television executive to develop original shows as part of a
drive to expand its Xbox Live game and video service, according
to people with knowledge of the company’s plans.  Microsoft has hired Tom Schneider, a partner at Stratis
LLC, to conduct the search, said the people, who weren’t
authorized to speak publicly. Two former NBC executives, Marc Graboff and  Jeff Gaspin , have been approached, they said.  Microsoft, based in Redmond, Washington, is trying to turn
the Xbox console into an entertainment hub, rather than mostly a
game machine. The company, the world’s largest software
producer, is introducing a TV service with programs from almost
40 TV and entertainment suppliers to draw more users to the Web-
enabled product.  Original programming would help Microsoft differentiate the
service from those offered by competitors including Apple Inc.
and  Google Inc. (GOOG)  Some of the Xbox’s top-selling games were
created by Microsoft and the company is looking to replicate
that success with program it develops.  The TV service will include content from partners like  Time
Warner Inc. (TWX) ’s HBO, Sony Corp.’s Crackle and the  BBC .  Microsoft is only interested in making a hire if it can
find the right person and it’s possible no one will be chosen
for the job, one of the people said.  Gaspin was chairman of NBC Universal TV Entertainment. He
stepped down after  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA)  took control of NBC in January.
Graboff, president of west coast business operations for NBC
Entertainment, announced plans to leave last month.  David Dennis, a Microsoft spokesman, declined to comment.
Schneider didn’t respond to phone and e-mail requests for
comment.  Microsoft rose 1.2 percent to $25.70 at 4 p.m. New York
time. The stock has declined 7.9 percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dina Bass in Seattle at 
 dbass2@bloomberg.net ;
Ronald Grover in  Los Angeles  at 
 rgrover5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  