-- 
LightSquared Vows Lower Data Bills

-- B y   S c o t t   M o r i t z   a n d   T o d d   S h i e l d s
-- 
2011-12-09T20:12:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/lightsquared-vows-50-lower-data-bills-as-u-s-weighs-network-s-approval.html
LightSquared Inc. ’ s (S)  proposed
wholesale wireless network will let retail partners cut
customers’ mobile-data costs in half, the company’s chief
executive said.  Pricing will begin at $7 a gigabyte for the high-speed
 Internet service , which now has more than 30 partners including
Sprint Nextel Corp. and  Best Buy Co. (BBY) , LightSquared CEO Sanjiv Ahuja said today in an interview at Bloomberg headquarters in
 New York . That may help lower monthly bills to about $50 a month
from about $100, he said.  “Through our service, phone companies will be able to drop
the consumers’ bill by 50 percent,” Ahuja said.  LightSquared, backed by billionaire  Philip Falcone , faces
challenges from makers of global-positioning system devices who
say the service will disrupt navigation by cars, boats, tractors
and planes.  U.S. regulators who must approve the service are conducting
tests of the service and haven’t announced results. A draft
report prepared for U.S. officials said the service caused
interference to 75 percent of devices tested recently.  While the promise of a lower-cost mobile service at a time
of surging data demand is significant, an even larger issue for
LightSquared is whether it can put all the pieces together soon
enough, said  Jonathan Chaplin , an analyst with Credit Suisse
Group AG.  “Seven dollars isn’t bad, but it’s less disruptive than we
expected,” said Chaplin, adding that the market rate is about
$10 a gigabyte.  FCC Review  Chaplin said he estimates the company has until April to
get more cash. “Their real issue -- 100 percent of it -- is
time, because they have so much debt,” he said.  LightSquared will be adequately funded through the
government’s review period, Ahuja said. “We’ll have capital
beyond when we expect FCC clearance to happen,” he said. “That
should be the early part of next year.”  The Federal Communications Commission is considering
whether to allow Reston, Virginia-based LightSquared to start
operations and use airwaves formerly reserved mainly for
satellites. The company should be barred from using some
airwaves for its planned network to avoid interference with
navigation equipment, makers and users of GPS devices have said.  LightSquared, backed by $3 billion from Falcone’s Harbinger
Capital Partners hedge fund, this week said tests show that GPS
devices from three makers won’t be disrupted by its network. In
July, LightSquared said it expects to be able to offer service
to 260 million people in the U.S. by the end of 2014, a year
earlier than required under its licenses with the FCC.  30 Customers  Separately, Harbinger said today it expects to suspend
withdrawals from its hedge fund on Dec. 30 and that it has been
notified by the Securities and Exchange Commission that it may
be sued by the agency over alleged “violations of the federal
securities laws.”  Ahuja named more than 30 customers that have signed on for
LightSquared’s service and promised some bigger names once the
company gains approval to start operations from the FCC.  Clients range from established carriers including Sprint to
startups, such as FreedomPop, a communications venture that
lists Skype Technologies SA co-founder Niklas Zennstrom as a
backer.  The customer gains signal demand for LightSquared’s
service, even as it faces delays amid scrutiny from regulators.
The company is building the high-speed network to challenge
wholesalers such as  Clearwire Corp. (CLWR)  and larger phone companies
such as  Verizon Wireless  and  AT&T Inc. (T)   To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Moritz in New York at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net ;
Todd Shields in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Shepard at 
 mshepard7@bloomberg.net  