-- 
IMF Cuts Bulgarian 2011, 2012 Economic Growth Estimates

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   K o n s t a n t i n o v a
-- 
2011-12-09T12:40:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/imf-cuts-bulgarian-2011-2012-economic-growth-estimates-1-.html
The  International Monetary Fund  said
the euro-area crisis has hurt  Bulgaria ’s economic recovery and
cut its growth forecasts for this and next year.  Bulgaria’s  gross domestic product  will expand to 1.9
percent this year, after a September forecast of 2.5 percent,
the Washington-based lender said in an e-mailed statement today.
Recovery will slow to 1.3 percent in 2012, down from a 3 percent
estimate in September, the IMF said.  “In spite of good policies, the recovery in Bulgaria has
been hurt by the economic slowdown and ongoing uncertainty in
 Europe ,” the fund said. “The near-term economic outlook for
Bulgaria has weakened. The way forward is to maintain prudent
fiscal policies, enhance fiscal buffers to help weather any
deterioration in conditions.”  Bulgaria, the  European Union’s  poorest country in terms of
economic output per capita, withstood the global recession in
2009 without an international bailout. Its economic growth
slowed to 1.6 percent from a year earlier in the third quarter,
the weakest in five quarters, as demand for exports among the
country’s main trading partners dwindled. Bulgaria ships 60
percent of its exports to the EU.  “Fiscal policy remains on track,” the IMF said.  The Balkan nation will achieve its deficit target of 2.5
percent of GDP this year. Next year’s budget gap target of 1.3
percent is “prudent,” it said.  Inflation Outlook  EU-harmonized  inflation  will be below 3 percent next year.
The current account will have a “small surplus” this year and
be balanced in 2012, the fund said.  Bulgaria needs to accelerate a long-delayed overhaul of the
public sector involving the administration, health-care,
education and pension systems, which will help “lay the
foundations for stronger and more sustainable recovery in
growth, job creation and incomes,” the IMF said.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Elizabeth Konstantinova at 
 ekonstantino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  