-- 
IMF China Chief Says Worsening Crisis May Force Hong Kong to Back Banks

-- B y   S o p h i e   L e u n g   a n d   K e v i n   H a m l i n
-- 
2011-12-09T09:14:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/imf-says-hong-kong-needs-immediate-stimulus-should-crisis-cause-recession.html
Hong Kong  may need to stand behind
some banks and deposits should  Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis
worsen and cause the global economy to slump, said Nigel Chalk,
the International Monetary Fund’s China mission chief.  In a “very bad scenario” the government may have to
“perhaps guarantee some of the deposits in the banking system
as they did in 2008 in the wake of  Lehman Brothers ,” Chalk said
in a Bloomberg Television interview from  Washington . The fund
sees a low probability of such a situation, it indicated in a
report released today.  Hong Kong must be ready to provide “significant and
immediate” fiscal stimulus that could include tax cuts,
subsidies for the poor and rolling back some property curbs, the
IMF report said. Recession is “possible” for the city on
deteriorating exports and the government will ease property
curbs in the event  home prices  slump, Financial Secretary John Tsang said this week.  “A bad situation in the global economy can very, very
easily push” Hong Kong into recession again, Chalk said.
“They’ve really got to keep their gunpowder dry, ready to react
in case there is that need and as I said most of that reaction
should be done from the fiscal side.”  Slower Growth  The IMF expects Hong Kong’s economic growth to slow to 4
percent in 2012, down from 5.75 percent this year, on weaker
export demand, it said. The city “could end up with a growth
rate of somewhere close to zero and maybe negative” in a global
slump, Chalk said today.  Hong Kong narrowly dodged a recession in the third quarter
with 0.1 percent  growth  from the previous three months, as low
unemployment and tourists from  China  boosted consumption while
Europe’s crisis dragged on exports. Chief Executive  Donald Tsang , who predicted last month that growth may slow to 2
percent next year, said today he sees a “huge” downturn risk
for the global economy.  “Looking ahead, we can’t be optimistic on Hong Kong’s
economic outlook,” Tsang said.  The collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in 2008
prompted hundreds of Hong Kong investors to protest at possible
losses on Lehman-linked investments, while Bank of  East Asia 
Ltd. suffered a brief run on deposits at branches in the city.  Lehman Collapse  After the Lehman collapse, the  Hong Kong Monetary Authority 
said it would use its foreign exchange reserves to guarantee
 bank deposits  and the government announced a fund from which
banks could access additional capital if needed, shoring up
confidence in lenders after the run on Bank of East Asia.  While the city’s property market is clearly slowing, the
outlook is “highly uncertain,” the IMF said. Hong Kong should
reverse some tightening measures on residential property in the
event of pressure from external shocks, it said.  Home prices dropped 3.5 percent from the peak in June,
according to an index compiled by the  Centaline Property Agency 
Ltd., the city’s largest closely held property broker. The value
of home sales slumped 40 percent in November from a year
earlier, according to the  Land Registry .  The city pledged in October to build subsidized homes and
ensure land supply for private housing, after it last year
imposed higher charges on homes sold within two years of
purchase and raised some down payments. Residential prices had
surged 70 percent since the start of 2009 on low  mortgage rates 
and an influx of mainland Chinese buyers.  Inflation , excluding distortions from government subsidies,
accelerated to a record 6.4 percent in October. A rise in
consumer prices has led some to call for changing the city’s 28-
year-old currency peg to the  U.S. dollar . The fixed exchange
rate system “merits continued support” because it provides
financial stability, the IMF said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sophie Leung in Hong Kong at 
 sleung59@bloomberg.net ;
Kevin Hamlin in Beijing at 
 khamlin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  