-- 
Tin Contract in Largest Shipper Aims to Create Benchmark in LME Challenge

-- B y   Y o g a   R u s m a n a   a n d   C h a n y a p o r n   C h a n j a r o e n
-- 
2011-12-09T10:02:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/tin-contract-in-largest-shipper-aims-to-create-benchmark-in-lme-challenge.html
Tin producers from  Indonesia , the
world’s largest exporter, are backing the start of a physical
contract in the country to try to establish an alternative to
the benchmark on the  London  Metal Exchange.  The Indonesia Commodity & Derivatives Exchange, which
trades palm oil and gold, plans to introduce the new contract
next week, offered in lots of 5 metric tons and priced in
dollars, according to a statement today. Trade will start Dec.
15, according to Megain Widjaja, exchange chief executive.  Tin has declined 25 percent this year in London on concern
that the European debt crisis may hurt demand. Almost 30
producers in Indonesia, which accounts for about 40 percent of
global shipments, started a voluntary ban on spot exports from
Oct. 1 to try to reverse the slump in prices.  “Indonesia is rich in minerals like tin, copper and nickel,
so it’s time for us to have our own market and price,” Syahrul
Sampurnajaya, head of Commodity Futures Trading Regulatory
Agency, said at a briefing. The aim is “to create a reference
price for Indonesian tin and for the global tin market.”  Three-month tin traded at $20,100 per ton on the LME at
5:47 p.m. in Singapore. The metal, which is used to make solder
for electronics as well as packaging, is the second-worst base-
metal performer on the LME this year after nickel.  Timah’s Support  Buyers are ready to purchase metal from the new market,
Wachid Usman, president director of  PT Timah (TINS) , said at the
exchange briefing. Timah, the world’s largest tin-exporting
company, has supported the ban on spot sales.  Timah, PT Koba Tin and PT Refined Bangka Tin are among
producers that may join the market, while there are eight
potential buyers, including users from  Japan , said Rudy Irawan,
executive chairman of the Indonesia Tin Association.  The new contract, which covers metal of purity of 99.85
percent, will trade for 15 minutes daily from 2:30 p.m., the
statement said. Delivery will be into Pangkalbalam and Muntok on
Bangka Island in the main producing region, the statement said.  “The tin contract will be a stepping stone and benchmark
for other metals like copper and nickel,” said Syahrul.  The Indonesia Commodity & Derivatives Exchange, or ICDX,
was established in 2009, and offers gold contracts in rupiah and
dollars and a palm oil contract in rupiah. Indonesia is also the
world’s largest palm oil producer, ahead of  Malaysia .  Liz Milan, managing director of LME  Asia , declined to
comment on the plan.  ‘Last Resort’  “It’s evident that during the tin-export ban by Indonesian
producers, people are able to take delivery of the metal from
LME warehouses in Singapore and Malaysia,” Milan said. “That
affirmed the LME role as a market of last resort.”  Indonesia’s tin exports plunged 60 percent to 2,202 tons in
November from a month earlier as the trade ban took effect, the
trade ministry said yesterday.  Tin stockpiles monitored by the LME slumped 24 percent last
month and 23 percent in October, according to bourse data. Total
reserves stood at 11,905 tons as of Dec. 8, the lowest level
since April 2009, and were 12,165 tons today.  Holdings in warehouses in  Singapore  have fallen to 370 tons
from 3,385 tons on Sept. 30, while reserves in Malaysia have
dropped to 11,115 tons from 17,380 tons in the same period,
according to bourse data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yoga Rusmana in Jakarta at 
 yrusmana@bloomberg.net ;
Chanyaporn Chanjaroen in Singapore at 
 cchanjaroen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  