-- 
India’s Rupee Poised for Weekly Decline on Europe Crisis Concern

-- B y   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s
-- 
2011-12-09T04:13:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/india-s-rupee-poised-for-weekly-decline-on-europe-crisis-concern.html
India ’s rupee headed for a weekly
drop on concern  Europe ’s leaders will struggle to resolve their
debt crisis, slowing economic activity and denting demand for
the nation’s assets.  The currency dropped for a fourth day as European leaders
met in Brussels to dispel concerns the 17-nation euro currency
is on the brink of unraveling and after the  European Central
Bank  damped speculation it would step up bond purchases. India’s
 factory output  declined 0.6 percent in October, the first drop
since June 2009, according to the median forecast of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg before official data due Dec. 12.  “The rupee has been very sensitive to risk-on risk-off
dynamics,” analysts at HSBC Holdings Plc, including London-
based Global Head of Currency Strategy  David Bloom , wrote in a
report published yesterday. “Even if global conditions improved
materially, we believe the market would remain cautious on the
rupee until more convincing domestic signals emerged.”  The rupee fell 2.1 percent this week and 1 percent today to
52.2813 per dollar as of 9:27 a.m. in Mumbai, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. It declined every day this week apart
from Dec. 6 which was a public holiday in India. The rupee has
lost more than 14 percent this half, the worst performance among
 Asia ’s 10 most-traded currencies.  Three-month offshore rupee forwards traded at 53.34 to the
dollar, compared with 52.83 yesterday. Forwards are agreements
to buy or sell assets at a set price and date. Non-deliverable
contracts are settled in dollars.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanette Rodrigues in Mumbai at 
 jrodrigues26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  