-- 
India Overstated Exports by $9 Billion Because of Data ‘Misclassification’

-- B y   T u s h a r   D h a r a
-- 
2011-12-09T19:33:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/india-overstated-exports-by-9-billion-this-year-ministry-says.html
India ’s commerce ministry said it
overstated merchandise  exports  by $9 billion in the eight months
through November because of “misclassification and errors” in
computing overseas sales.  “Notwithstanding the misclassification, there were errors
in double counting and all sorts of things which inflated
exports by about $9 billion,” Commerce Secretary  Rahul Khullar 
told reporters in New Delhi yesterday. Overseas sales in the
April-to-November period now stands at $192.7 billion, Khullar
said.  India’s monthly export growth has averaged about 44 percent
since April even as  Europe ’s debt crisis and a faltering U.S.
recovery reduced global consumer demand, prompting economists to
question the quality of the data. Today’s revision explains “in
part the weakening of the rupee,” Asia’s worst-performing
currency this year, said Jay Shankar, Mumbai-based economist at
Religare Capital Markets Ltd.  “The global economy isn’t doing well, so it was hard to
understand how India was posting such fantastic export
numbers,” said Biswajit Dhar, director of New Delhi-based
Research and Information System for  Developing Countries .
“There were reasons to believe something was going wrong.”  The rupee weakened 0.6 percent to 52.04 per dollar in
Mumbai yesterday, extending its decline this year to 14.1
percent. The BSE India  Sensitive Index (SENSEX) , which has lost a fifth
of its value in 2011, dropped 1.7 percent. The yield on the 8.79
percent bonds due November 2021 rose two basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, to 8.54 percent.  Waning Demand  India’s exports in November were $22.3 billion, Khullar
said, without elaborating. Bloomberg calculations based on
previously announced data show exports grew 3.7 percent last
month from a year earlier, the slowest pace in more than two
years.  The South Asian nation’s imports in November were $35.9
billion, he said. Imports in the eight months through November
were $309.5 billion, causing a trade deficit of $116.8 billion
in the period, Khullar said.  India will get “close to, but not quite $300 billion in
exports” in the year ending March 31, he said.  The South Asian nation’s export growth has vacillated this
year, surging 82 percent in July before slowing to an 11 percent
gain in October, according to previously reported data by the
commerce ministry.  A report by Mumbai-based Kotak Institutional Equities
Research in October showed “wide gaps” in engineering export
numbers released by the government and data culled from annual
reports of the top 500 companies on India’s exchanges for the
year ended March 31.  While official announcement showed engineering exports
jumped 79 percent to $68 billion in the year through March, data
collected by Kotak from company reports indicated only an 11
percent increase to 638 billion rupees ($12.3 billion) during
the period, according to the report written by Sanjeev Prasad,
Sunita Baldawa and  Amit Kumar .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tushar Dhara in  New Delhi  at 
 tdhara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  