-- 
India’s HCL Targets ‘Aggressive’ Acquisitions Amid Europe Sovereign Crisis

-- B y   B e t h   M e l l o r
-- 
2011-12-09T00:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/india-s-hcl-targets-aggressive-acquisitions-amid-european-debt-crisis.html
HCL Technologies Ltd., an Indian
provider of technology services whose clients include  Deutsche
Bank AG  and  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK) , said the European debt crisis
will help it to buy and partner with local companies.  The New Delhi-based company targets deals in the  Nordic
countries , Germany and  France  because continental  Europe  is the
“biggest growth area for us,” Chief Executive Officer Vineet Nayar said in an interview in HCL’s London office. Clients often
want to work with a local vendor and HCL will pursue
“aggressive partnerships in the local markets and aggressive
acquisitions,” he said.  Potential targets are probably more “open for
acquisition” as a result of the current economic crisis, Nayar
said. HCL’s order pipeline is “bigger than ever before” and
the company plans to expand offerings for data analysis and
cloud computing, which let clients rent software delivered over
the Web rather than install it on their own machines.  Indian IT and software companies are benefitting from
rising corporate spending on computer services and from
governments trying to improve efficiency with technology as
budget cuts bite. HCL bought U.K. software provider  Axon Group 
for $658 million in 2008, its biggest ever deal. Indian rival
 Tata Consultancy Services Ltd. (TCS)  said in September it was weighing
acquisitions in France, Germany, Japan and the U.S.  “All large Indian IT companies are looking at the M&A game
more closely, given that valuations have come down in Europe,”
said Standard Chartered analyst Pankaj Kapoor, who has an
“outperform” rating on HCL shares.  Search for Value  Before today, HCL had dropped 8.4 percent in Mumbai trading
this year, valuing the company at $5.6 billion.  HCL doesn’t plan to expand its U.K. presence and would only
be interested in British companies with a strong continental
European footprint, Nayar said.  HCL is also benefitting from the current economic climate
as more companies and governments are ditching their existing
information technology service providers and searching for
partners that offer better value, he said.  The $1 trillion information technology services market is
“at the beginning of a phase of further disruption, similar to
the one the low-cost airlines have brought in the  transportation
industry ,” because of “low-cost” cloud-computing services,
researcher Gartner Inc. said Dec. 1.  Gartner in October predicted worldwide enterprise IT
spending will rise by 3.9 percent to $2.7 trillion in 2012.
While growth will slow from a predicted 5.9 percent increase in
2011, the researcher said that “despite the global economic
challenges, enterprises will continue to invest in IT.”  Phone-Hacking Probe  The HCL CEO reiterated that the company is cooperating with
the U.K. Home Affairs committee and Metropolitan Police in a
phone-hacking inquiry at News Corp.’s U.K. publishing unit.  HCL, which won a five-year contract to manage News
International’s data center and networks in 2009, said in a
letter to U.K. lawmakers this year it was asked for assistance
in deleting e-mails nine times between April 2010 and July 2011.  In January 2011, the month when  News Corp . began handing
information to the police, the company requested help to
“truncate a particular database,” according to the letter. HCL
said it wasn’t able to handle the request and suggested another
company.  Nayar said it is “common practice across all customers”
for IT services providers to be asked to delete data, and that
“only the customer knows what the data is.” He also said that
“we don’t store the data and therefore the actual deletion was
done by some other agency.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Beth Mellor in London at 
 bmellor@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel in London at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  