-- 
INTL FCStone Starts Trading on LME Floor in Expansion of Metals

-- B y   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z   a n d   M a r i a   K o l e s n i k o v a
-- 
2011-12-09T16:04:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/intl-fcstone-starts-trading-on-lme-floor-in-expansion-of-metals.html
INTL FCStone Inc. (INTL) , dating back to a
door-to-door egg wholesaler in 1924, started trading on the
London Metal Exchange today as the first newcomer in four years
after the acquisition of MF Global U.K. Ltd.’s metals business.  The team of 15 people led by Malcolm Leonard returned as
INTL FCStone staff to the booth it had occupied next to JPMorgan
Chase & Co. before MF Global Holdings Ltd. filed for bankruptcy
in October. INTL FCStone took over MF Global’s metals business
and the workers last month, one of 10 acquisitions in the last
three years.  “On the metals side, we’ve leapfrogged maybe 10 years of
development time by getting an experienced team on board,” Sean O’Connor, 49, chief executive officer of INTL FCStone, said in a
phone interview from  New York . “The addition of the LME team
will increase the share of revenues we get from executing
commodity contracts.”  The LME handles more than 80 percent of global trade in
metals futures. Prices more than tripled in the past decade as
demand from  emerging markets  led by  China  overwhelmed supplies
from mines. The LME, which is owned by its members, handled
$11.6 trillion of contracts last year, compared with $2.5
trillion in 1999, reflecting both higher prices and increasing
speculative interest in raw materials.  Metals, Grains  New York-based INTL FCStone provides advice, trading and
clearing in metals, grains and foreign currencies for more than
10,000 clients, according to the company’s website. Revenue was
$269 million in the 2010 fiscal year, it said on its website.  INTL FCStone ( Europe ) Ltd. is the first new company to
trade on the LME floor since 2007 when ED&F Man Commodity
Advisers Ltd. joined the exchange and became a category 1
member, giving it the right to trade in the 6-meter-wide (20-
foot) trading pit on Leadenhall Street. There are 12 ring
traders including J.P. Morgan Securities Ltd.,  Barclays Capital 
and Societe Generale.  “We’ll become an integral part of the market,” O’Connor
said. “We will make money doing it. And for a lot of people
who’re active in the LME, they see the fact that you’re a ring
dealing member is almost like you are a primary dealer in the
Treasury market.”  INTL FCStone, which in September became a category 2
member, had no plans to become a category 1 member until the  MF
Global (MF)  business was available, O’Connor said. “The MF metals
team is a pretty near-perfect fit for our strategy,” O’Connor
said. “They were probably the jewel in the MF crown.”  Hencorp Purchase  MF Global’s unit is one of 10 acquisitions by INTL FCStone
in three years, according to William J. Dunaway, chief financial
officer of INTL FCStone in  Kansas City ,  Missouri . This year it
acquired Hudson Capital Energy LLC’s business and customer
relationships, Coffee Network and the LME business of Ambrian
Capital Plc.  The company, which has been active in physical metals for
at least six years, sought to expand trading in futures in
response to demand from its consumer and producer clients,
O’Connor said.  INTL FCStone rose 4.5 percent to $24.83 at 3:11 p.m.  London 
time in Nasdaq Stock Market trading, valuing the company at $446
million. The gain is the biggest since Nov. 30.  About 80 percent of INTL FCStone revenue is from
commodities, according to information on the company’s website.
It traded $47 billion of physical commodities in 2010, O’Connor
said.  INTL FCStone was created from the 2009 merger of INTL
Assets Holding Corp. and FCStone Group Inc. The company has
added 100 to 150 people in the past 12 months, bringing the
total to about 1,000 people, according to O’Connor. The MF
Global metals unit brought about 50 people to INTL FCStone in
London, New York,  Hong Kong  and Sydney.  “We’re growing while everyone else has been declining,”
O’Connor said. “Our business model is based on the real need of
the market.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Kolesnikova in London at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  