-- 
Iran Shows Off Downed Spy Drone on TV as U.S. Assesses Loss of Technology

-- B y   J o h n   W a l c o t t
-- 
2011-12-09T19:37:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/iran-shows-off-downed-spy-drone-as-u-s-assesses-technology-loss.html
The unmanned RQ-170 Sentinel is still
highly classified, yet since one came down in Iran five days
ago, it’s a lot less secret.  Three U.S. defense officials said the plane the Iranians
 displayed  on television yesterday appears to be the  Lockheed
Martin Corp. (LMT)  RQ-170 that controllers lost contact with on Dec.
4. The Pentagon and the Central Intelligence Agency have
declined to comment on the matter.  Three U.S. intelligence officials said the greatest concern
now is that the Iranians will give Russian or Chinese scientists
access to the aircraft, which is designed to be virtually
invisible to radar and carries advanced communications and
surveillance gear.  Studying it may give two technologically sophisticated
potential adversaries insight into the unmanned spy plane’s
flight controls, communications gear, video equipment and self-
destruct, holding pattern or return-to-base mechanisms,
officials said. The officials spoke on condition of anonymity
because the RQ-170 is part of a Secret Compartmented
Intelligence (SCI) program, a classification higher than Top
Secret, and because the investigation into the loss of the drone
is also classified.  Reverse Engineering  In addition, they said, the remains of the  RQ-170  could
help the Russians, Chinese, Iranians or others develop Infrared
Surveillance and Targeting (IRST) or Doppler radar technology
that under some conditions are capable of detecting stealth
aircraft such as drones and the new Lockheed Martin F-35s.  There also is a danger that the fallen Sentinel’s shape,
special coatings, control surfaces, engine inlet and other
unique qualities could help other countries develop or improve
their own radar-evading aircraft, such as  China ’s J-20 stealth
fighter.  “There is the potential for reverse engineering,
clearly,” Air Force Chief of Staff General Norton Schwartz said
yesterday during a taping of the television show “This Week in
Defense News,” according to Air Force Times. “Ideally, one
would want to maintain the American advantage. That certainly is
in our minds.”  If the jet “comes into the possession of a sophisticated
adversary, there’s not much the U.S. could do about it,” he
said.  The intelligence officials said that Chinese or Russian
access to the drone is a greater concern than a possible Iranian
effort to reverse-engineer the RQ-170, which they said is
unlikely given the drone’s special coatings and other materials.  Stealing Secrets  “Buy, Build or Steal: China’s Quest for Advanced Military
Aviation Technologies,” a new report from the Institute for
National Strategic Studies at the National Defense University in
Washington, says that stealth technology is a high priority for
Beijing since “few things differentiate the lethality of an  air
force  more than the level of technology in its most advanced
aircraft.”  “China will likely rely more heavily on espionage to
acquire those critical military aviation technologies it cannot
acquire legitimately from foreign suppliers or develop on its
own,” the report concludes.  Nevertheless, the Obama administration didn’t seriously
consider bombing the wreckage or sending special operations
forces into Iran to destroy or retrieve it because either would
be an act of war, two U.S. officials said.  Hacking Claim  Reverse engineering the Sentinel or its components would be
difficult and time consuming, the intelligence officials said.
The most troubling prospect is that the Iranians’ second claim
about how they brought it down -- by hacking into its controls
and landing it themselves -- might be true, said one of the
intelligence officials .  The official said the possibility that the Iranians,
perhaps with help from China or  Russia , hacked into the drone’s
satellite communications is doubly alarming because it would
mean that Iranian or other cyber-warfare officers were able to
disable the Sentinel’s automatic self-destruct, holding pattern
and return-to-base mechanisms.  Those are intended to prevent the plane’s secret flight
control, optical, radar, surveillance and communications
technology from falling into the wrong hands if its controllers
at Creech Lake Air Force Base or the Tonopah Test Range, both in
 Nevada , lose contact with it.  Targeting Computer Networks  In recent years, one of the officials said, computer
hackers thought to be part of extensive Chinese or Russian cyber
espionage efforts have attacked the computer networks of
numerous defense contractors, including Lockheed Martin; broken
into two satellite ground stations and planted keystroke logging
software in some military computers -- including some that are
used to control some U.S. drones.  It isn’t known whether that malware has been found in RQ-
170 computers, or only in those used to control less advanced
drones such as the Predator and Reaper, made by General Atomics
Aeronautical of  San Diego , that are used by the Air Force and
CIA in  Afghanistan ,  Pakistan , Yemen, Somalia and elsewhere.  Two U.S. intelligence officials said that while the drones’
and other military and intelligence computer networks are kept
separate from the public Internet, investigators have uncovered
what they said are numerous instances when thumb drives
containing Chinese and other malware have infected classified
networks. Often, they said, such infections have spread quickly
and proved very difficult to eradicate.  Television Debut  The drone made a 2 1/2 minute television debut yesterday on
 Iran ’s state-owned Press TV channel. Two U.S. officials with
knowledge of the RQ-170 program said that some details,
including the seams on the drone’s fuselage, its access ports
and its unusual air intake, appear to confirm that it’s genuine.  The official Iranian Republic News Agency reported that the
Foreign Ministry protested the “violation of Iran’s airspace by
a U.S. spy drone on Dec. 4,” the day Iranian forces claimed to
have shot down the aircraft 140 miles inside the Iranian border
from Afghanistan.  The RQ-170 was flying a reconnaissance mission inside
Iranian airspace when its controllers lost contact with it, U.S.
officials said.  The officials said that for three years the U.S. has been
flying two types of unmanned surveillance missions over Iran and
along the Afghanistan-Iran border from a 9,200-foot runway at a
former Soviet airbase in Shindand in western Afghanistan’s Herat
province.  In addition to monitoring construction and other activity
at suspected Iranian nuclear facilities from high altitudes, the
officials said, the CIA has been using drones to monitor cross-
border traffic and Iranian support for insurgents.  The CIA, not the Air Force, flies the missions inside Iran
so they are covert operations that the U.S. government can deny.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Walcott in  Washington  at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  