-- 
Israel Says Republican Payroll Tax Position Will Help Democrats

-- B y   H e i d i   P r z y b y l a
-- 
2011-12-09T11:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/israel-says-republican-payroll-tax-position-will-help-democrats.html
Representative Steve  Israel , leading
Democrats’ campaign to win back control of the U.S. House,
assailed Republicans’ position on extending the  payroll  tax
break, saying it will backfire politically and help Democrats.  House Speaker  John Boehner  of  Ohio  wants to tie approval of
the Keystone XL oil pipeline to the extension of the payroll tax
cut and to ease restrictions on some industrial emissions.  “Only the  House Republicans  would decide to load a middle-
class tax cut with pork,” Israel said in an interview for
Bloomberg Television’s “Political Capital with  Al Hunt ” airing
this weekend. Democrats need to pick up 25 seats in order to win
back control of the chamber.  “We have seats in play that we didn’t anticipate would be
in play, and it’s because of this extremism, this assault
against the middle class,” said Israel, of  New York .  “The more they pursue this extremist agenda and try and
hurt the pocketbooks of the middle class in order to reward
their special-interest friends, the more Republican seats will
be in play,” Israel said.  President  Barack Obama  has said he would reject efforts to
tie approval of the pipeline to the extension of the  payroll  tax
cut. Boehner said it should be included because development of
the pipeline will create jobs.  The proposed  TransCanada Corp. (TRP)  pipeline would carry oil
from  Canada  to the U.S. The Obama administration, citing
environmental concerns, put off a decision on it until 2013.  Corzine Donations  Israel also said he’s undecided on whether to return about
$130,000 in contributions from  Jon Corzine , the former New
Jersey governor and head of  MF Global Holdings Ltd.  who told a
congressional panel yesterday he doesn’t know what happened to
an estimated $1.2 billion in missing client funds.  Under subpoena and under oath, the former senator
apologized to investors, customers and employees of the failed
New York broker.  In the eighth largest U.S. bankruptcy, MF Global filed for
protection from creditors on Oct. 31. James Giddens, the trustee
overseeing the liquidation of the firm, has estimated that $1.2
billion in client money is missing, and the Commodity Futures
Trading Commission, Securities and Exchange Commission and
 Justice Department  are investigating.  “We’ll make every decision based on the facts at hand, but
we’re not going to react to something that the Republicans say,
when in fact they enjoy the largess of the Koch brothers” and
others, Israel said. Billionaire brothers Charles and  David Koch , owners of Koch Industries Inc., spent millions in the 2010
midterm elections to elect Republicans.  ‘Stealth Groups’  “I find it interesting that Republicans, who have engaged
in this kind of activity and who enjoy the support of these
secret, stealth groups, who are beaming into campaigns saying
the most nefarious things about people without telling you who’s
paying for it,” he said, “they can hide behind those groups.”  Israel outlined a path to capturing the 25 seats needed for
Democrats to overtake the House.  He said Democrats are targeting 19 districts now
represented by Republicans that voted both for Massachusetts
Senator  John Kerry  for president in 2004 and Obama in 2008.
“We’ll win at least half of those seats,” he said.  In total, there are 43 districts that have a Republican
member of Congress and which also voted for Obama. “We’ll win
at least 15 of those 43,” he said. “I’m not saying we’re going
to win 25 seats,” said Israel. “It’ll be razor close.”  Voter Frustration  In 2006, voter frustration resulted in the loss of
Republican leadership of both the House and Senate. Two years
later, the electorate gave the  Democratic Party  the White House
and complete control of the legislative process. In 2010, voters
rebelled anew, setting off a pro-Republican wave that flipped
House control and pared the Democrats’ margin of power in the
Senate.  Republican lawmakers claimed a mandate for shrinking
government through deep budget cuts and a plan to convert
Medicare into a voucher system. Now their numbers and those
policies will work against Republicans, said Israel.  “We have a mathematical advantage,” he said. “They’ve
got to defend 60 seats where incumbents voted to end Medicare
who are saying they will not support a middle-class tax increase
but are going to support the full extension of the Bush tax
cuts.”  Democrats must overcome newly drawn congressional maps that
provide more safety to vulnerable Republicans and a president
struggling with low job approval ratings as voters worry about
an economy with joblessness at 8.6 percent.  Israel said he doesn’t believe Obama’s poll showings are an
albatross for House Democrats seeking re-election.  “There is a certain reality here that the president’s
numbers are challenged in certain areas,” he said. “But House
Republican numbers are about half of where the president is.
They are lethal. They are radioactive.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heidi Przybyla in Washington at 
 hprzybyla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  