-- 
Ivory Coast Eurobonds Tumble to Eight-Month Low Before Election

-- B y   C h r i s   K a y
-- 
2011-12-09T13:05:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/ivory-coast-eurobonds-fall-to-lowest-since-march-before-election.html
Ivory Coast ’s defaulted Eurobonds
fell to the lowest price since March on concerns of potential
unrest before voters cast ballots on Dec. 11 and weak global
sentiment weighed on relatively illiquid securities.  The West African nation’s $2.3 billion of dollar-
denominated bonds due 2032 dropped 1.6 percent to 46.75 cents on
the dollar, the lowest since March 31, as of 12:02 p.m. in
 London , taking its weekly decline to 6.3 percent, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Voters in the world’s largest cocoa producer will cast
ballots in the first legislative election in more than a decade.
The poll is likely to shore up support for President  Alassane Ouattara , according to the Ivorian Civil Society, as the party
of former leader  Laurent Gbagbo  is boycotting the National
Assembly election as he faces charges of crimes against humanity
at the  International Criminal Court . Gbagbo’s refusal to accept
defeat in a November 2010 presidential vote sparked five months
of violence that killed as many as 3,000.  At least three people were killed when a hand grenade
exploded outside a campaign office Dec. 7 in Grand Lahou, 100
kilometers (62 miles) west of Abidjan. Three more were injured,
said Jean Djaha, a candidate with the Parti Democratique de Cote
d’Ivoire.  The defaulted bond is “more sensitive to the political
situation in Cote d’Ivoire and the imbroglio over the
authorities’ willingness to proactively service the arrears,”
 Samir Gadio , a London-based emerging markets strategist at
Standard Bank Group Ltd., said in an e-mailed reply to questions
today.  The country missed payments after elections last year as
Ouattara, internationally recognized as the victor, was locked
in a political standoff with Gbagbo until April. The government
will resume interest payments on defaulted Eurobonds in June,
Norbert Kobenan, an aide to the finance minister, said Nov. 21.  Waning demand for riskier emerging-market assets on signs
of an economic slowdown in  China  and  South Korea  may be weighing
on Ivory Coast’s Eurobonds, Graham Stock, chief strategist at
Insparo Asset Management, said by phone from London today.  “The overwhelming cause in the weakness of the bond prices
is just global sentiment, particularly weighing on relatively
illiquid securities,” said Stock. “The main opposition party
isn’t taking part arguably because it’s too disorganized
following the defeat and arrest of Gbagbo. I would expect the
elections to proceed reasonably peacefully and not lead to a
major change in the balance of political power in Ivory Coast.”  The move by Gbagbo’s Front Populaire Ivorien party, which
ruled for a decade, to stay away from the poll may lead to
clashes in parts of the country’s south where the party derived
support, according to Sebastian Spio-Garbrah, managing director
of New York-based DaMina Advisors LLP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Kay in Abuja at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  