-- 
J&J Birth Control Patch Backed by FDA Advisory Panel Reviewing Clot Risks

-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 
2011-12-09T21:39:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/j-j-birth-control-patch-s-benefits-outweigh-risks-fda-advisory-panel-says.html
Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) ’s birth control
patch won the backing of advisers to the U.S.  Food and Drug
Administration , the second time in two days the group endorsed a
contraceptive linked to a higher risk of blood clots.  The benefits of the Ortho Evra patch outweigh the clot
dangers, FDA reproductive and drug safety advisory panels said
today in a 19-5 vote. The agency should change the information
label to better reflect the risk, the panels said at a meeting
today in Adelphi,  Maryland . The agency doesn’t have to follow
the recommendations.  Studies have shown conflicting evidence about whether women
who use  New Brunswick , New Jersey-based J&J’s patch  or
contraceptive pills containing drospirenone have a higher risk
of blood clots than if they take older birth control pills that
don’t contain drospirenone. Those ambiguous results prompted the
FDA to request the reviews.  “I felt the risk was quite small,” said Geri Hewitt, a
panel member with the Ohio State University Department of
Obstetrics and Gynecology in Columbus. Ortho Evra is “a unique
product and nothing else like it was available.”  The same advisers yesterday voted 15-11 that the benefits
of Leverkusen, Germany-based  Bayer AG (BAYN) ’s Yaz and similar birth
control pills outweigh the potential for clots. The panel
recommended information labels be strengthened to clarify the
risks.  Greater Chance  Women who use the patch have a 55 percent greater chance of
experiencing blood clots compared with those who use older low-
dose hormonal pills, the agency  found  in an October study. The
weekly patch is marketed by J&J as a more convenient option to
daily oral contraceptives.  The FDA found the incidence of blood clots in women using
the patch for one year is 14 in 10,000 women compared with 8 in
10,000 women on older pills, according to the October report.  The advisers voted 20-3 with one abstention the label isn’t
adequate. The patch now carries a warning that women who smoke
and who are older than 35 shouldn’t use the product because they
risk death from heart attack, blood clots or stroke. The boxed
warning also refers to four studies that examined blood
clotting, which found dangers ranging from a doubling of the
risk to no potential for harm.  Lawsuits Settled  The patch is the object of hundreds of lawsuits filed by
women who allege Ortho Evra caused blood clots. J&J has
voluntarily strengthened the product’s warning label three times
since 2005 with the FDA’s agreement and paid at least $68.7
million to settle claims, according to court records.  Panel members were concerned the results of studies on
drospirenone-containing pills may have been affected by factors
that weren’t studied such as women’s body mass index, smoking
habits and family history.  Panel members had the same concerns with the Ortho Evra
studies, though their unease that the factors were unexamined
was not as strong with the patch.  The FDA pushed for more studies covering such factors in a
Dec. 6 staff report prepared for this week’s meetings.  Bayer’s Yaz and Yasmin  brought in  $1.5 billion in sales for
the Leverkusen, Germany-based drugmaker last year as its second
best-selling product, less than the $1.8 billion in 2009.  Teva
Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA) , based in Petach Tikva,  Israel ,
introduced a generic version of Yaz in May 2010.  J&J doesn’t release specific revenue numbers for the patch.
The company stopped focusing on birth control products and no
longer does direct-to-consumer advertising for them, Diane
Harrison, global medical safety physician, with J&J subsidiary
Janssen Research & Development, said during today’s meeting.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in  Washington  at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net . 