-- 
Japan GDP Rebound Last Quarter Less Than Initial Estimate

-- B y   [ b n : P R S N = 1 7 4 4 3 2 3 8 ]   A n d y   S h a r p   [ ]   a n d   [ b n : P R S N = 1 7 1 2 0 4 6 ]   M a y u m i   O t s u m a   [ ]
-- 
2011-12-09T02:17:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/japan-s-economy-expands-less-than-initial-estimate-as-investment-declines.html
Japan ’s economy grew less than the
government’s initial estimate last quarter as companies reduced
investment on concern overseas demand was stalling.  Gross domestic product  increased at an annualized 5.6
percent in the three months ended Sept. 30, the Cabinet Office
said in  Tokyo  today, compared with a preliminary figure of 6
percent. The median forecast of 19 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News was for an increase of 5.2 percent.  Japan’s economic recovery after two straight quarters of
contraction and a record earthquake in March is threatened by a
global slowdown and a yen rate staying near post-World War II
highs against the dollar. Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  ordered
a fourth extra budget last week to shore up demand in the
world’s third-largest economy.  “Every sector is working and growing somewhat, but not up
to potential,” said  Martin Schulz , a senior economist at
Fujitsu Research Institute in Tokyo. Sluggish recoveries in the
housing market and exports “point to a much slower year next
year,” he said.  The yen traded at 77.70 per dollar as of 10:39 a.m. in
Tokyo compared with its postwar record of 75.35. The Nikkei 225
Stock Average fell 1.5 percent after the  European Central Bank 
damped speculation it would step up debt purchases.  Corporate  capital spending  fell 0.4 percent from the second
quarter, compared with the initial reading of a 1.1 percent
increase, today’s report showed. Private consumption was revised
down to show a gain of 0.7 percent from 1 percent, according to
the data.  Manufacturers Pessimistic  Japan’s large manufacturers turned pessimistic in the
fourth quarter, a separate government report showed today.
 Sentiment  among those companies was minus 6.1 compared with plus
10.3 three months earlier. A number below zero means pessimists
outnumber optimists.  The government revised historical GDP figures to show that
the economy expanded at a 0.1 percent annualized rate in the
final quarter of 2010, compared with its previous reading of a
contraction.  The yen’s strength is prompting companies to consider
shifting production overseas.  Nissan Motor (7201)  Co. Chief Executive
Officer  Carlos Ghosn  said last week that the lack of returns in
Japan will lead the nation’s second-largest automaker to
gradually move output abroad.  Finance Minister  Jun Azumi  said last week that he would
take action against speculative moves on foreign exchange
markets, an indication the government may intervene again to
protect exporters.  ‘Currency Uncertainty’  “At a time when corporations are looking to make plans for
the following fiscal year, this currency uncertainty is
definitely not helping,” Cameron Umetsu, senior economist at
UBS Securities Japan Ltd. in Tokyo, said before the report. Next
year “the only safe bet is that reconstruction will provide
support, and the hope is that the U.S. and Chinese economies can
remain resilient.”  The Japanese government ratified a third supplementary
budget totaling 12.1 trillion yen last month to support
rebuilding from the March 11 disaster. Noda ordered a fourth
extra budget last week that is likely to be worth around 2
trillion yen.  Japanese companies reduced  capital spending  by 9.8 percent
from a year earlier in the three months ended September 30, the
second quarter of reduction, according to a Finance Ministry
report Dec. 2.  Exports Fall  Machinery orders, an indicator of future capital outlays,
decreased 6.9 percent in October from the previous month, the
Cabinet Ministry said in a report yesterday. Exports declined
3.7 percent from a year earlier in October, government data
showed Nov. 21.  Bank of Japan (8301)  Governor Masaaki Shirakawa said last month
that the European debt crisis is the biggest threat to Japan.
ECB President  Mario Draghi  said yesterday that the central
bank’s bond purchase program is “neither eternal nor
infinite.”  Almost half of respondents to the quarterly Bloomberg
Global Poll say one or more countries will leave the 17-nation
 euro zone  within a year. European policy makers are meeting in
Brussels to consider tougher budget rules after  Standard &
Poor’s  said Dec. 5 it is considering downgrading 15 nations in
the bloc.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andy Sharp in Tokyo at 
 asharp5@bloomberg.net ;
Mayumi Otsuma in Tokyo at 
 motsuma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  