-- 
Japan Upper House Censures Noda’s Ministers, Threatens to Boycott Session

-- B y   S a c h i k o   S a k a m a k i   a n d   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a
-- 
2011-12-09T09:00:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/japan-upper-house-set-to-censure-two-of-premier-noda-s-cabinet-ministers.html
Japan ’s opposition-controlled Upper
House censured two of Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda ’s ministers
and threatened to boycott the next Diet session unless they are
fired, a move that could slow disaster rebuilding efforts.  The chamber today passed the non-binding motions against
Defense Minister Yasuo Ichikawa and Consumers Affairs Minister
Kenji Yamaoka submitted by the  Liberal Democratic Party  and New
Komeito party. Ichikawa cut his salary this week to take
responsibility after a deputy compared the planned move of a
U.S. military base on Okinawa to rape.  The censures, which came on the Diet’s last session of the
year, threaten to undercut Noda’s efforts to focus on reviving
an economy damaged by the March earthquake and nuclear disaster
and burdened by the world’s largest debt. Natsuo Yamaguchi,
leader of the opposition New Komeito party, said on Fuji TV last
night his party is unlikely to attend parliament with censured
ministers still in office.  Yamaoka was criticized for taking donations from a health
food company accused of running a pyramid scheme, and said he
returned donations from the company. Noda reiterated that both
men will keep their posts.  ‘Very Regrettable’  “This is very regrettable, but we have to accept it
seriously,” Noda said at a nationally televised press
conference in  Tokyo . “I’d like both ministers to reflect upon
this, and do their best to fulfill their duties.”  The measures, submitted by New Komeito and the Liberal
 Democratic Party , did not go to the more powerful lower house,
controlled by Noda’s Democratic Party of Japan.  A prolonged fight over the two ministers’ fate threatens to
delay compilation of a fourth recovery stimulus plan after Noda
secured passage of a 12.1 trillion yen ($155 billion) package
last month.  Noda’s popularity has fallen as he pushes a proposal to
gradually double the 5 percent sales tax by mid-decade to pay
for rising social welfare costs.  Satoshi Tanaka, director of the Okinawa Defense Bureau,
compared the planned relocation of the U.S. Futenma Marine air
 base  to another location on the island to rape in comments to
reporters on Nov. 28 and was subsequently fired. Local residents
want the facility moved off the island, in part because of
sexual assault cases involving American military personnel.  Under Fire  Ichikawa himself came under fire for saying he “doesn’t
know the details” of a 1995 incident in which three U.S.
soldiers sexually assaulted an Okinawan schoolgirl.  The head of Noda’s coalition ally called on Ichikawa this
week to step down, saying the controversy could undermine the
government.  “This is not just a problem for Minister Ichikawa but for
the prime minister, whose response could affect his political
position,”  Shizuka Kamei , head of the People’s New Party, said
in a Dec. 5 interview. “He can’t keep his seat and fulfill his
duties as defense minister.”  Noda’s approval rating fell to 38 percent from 42 percent a
month ago, according to a Mainichi newspaper poll published Dec.
5. About 54 percent oppose his sales tax proposal, while 45
percent approve. The paper surveyed 1,012 people Dec. 3-4 and
gave no margin of error.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sachiko Sakamaki in Tokyo at 
 Ssakamaki1@bloomberg.net 
Takashi Hirokawa in Tokyo at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  