-- 
Japan Extends Tax Break to Help Automakers as Economic Recovery Falters

-- B y   T o r u   F u j i o k a
-- 
2011-12-09T18:35:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/japan-extends-tax-breaks-to-aid-automakers-as-economic-recovery-falters.html
Japan  extended the duration of tax
breaks for fuel-efficient vehicles to support automakers as
gains by the yen and weakness in global demand hurt the nation’s
economic  recovery .  The program will expire April 2015 instead of next April,
according to an outline of tax policies approved by cabinet
members in Tokyo today. Japan will also resume for one year
rebates for eco-friendly vehicles, which expired in September,
according to the documents.  The government and the ruling  Democratic Party  of Japan
debated the tax cuts and rebates for the auto industry until
just a few hours before the completion of the outline. Finance
Minister  Jun Azumi  has said that before cutting taxes the nation
needs to support the “key industry” of automobiles while
finding ways to curtail losses of revenue. Japan shoulders the
world’s largest public debt.  Failure to provide enough support to the  auto industry 
“will be a critical issue for the economy as a whole in the
future,” Christopher Richter, an analyst at CLSA Asia-Pacific
Markets in Tokyo, said before the release.  Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  rejected requests for more
reductions of levies on vehicles, the documents showed. The
government decided to lower car weight taxes by 150 billion yen
($1.9 billion) after the Trade Ministry requested about 1
trillion yen of levy cuts.  “Our request isn’t only to reduce the tax burden, but it’s
to combat the strong yen, prevent a hollowing out and maintain
domestic production,” Toshiyuki Shiga, head of the Japan
Automobile Manufacturers Association, said on Nov. 15.  ‘Complete Backup’  “The importance of the car industry is undeniable,” Azumi
told reporters after the cabinet members approved the outline.
“We want to provide a complete backup for them.”  Toyota Motor Corp.  has cut its profit forecast for the year
ending March 31 by 54 percent after flooding in  Thailand 
disrupted production and as the yen’s strength pushed up prices
in export markets. A slowdown in Japan’s economic growth is
“unavoidable” for now, Bank of Japan Deputy Governor Kiyohiko Nishimura said yesterday.  For other measures, Japan will impose a ceiling on  tax
deductions  for taxpayers who earn more than 15 million yen
($190,000). Those who hold more than 50 million yen of assets
abroad will be required to report once a year.  Japan will introduce a carbon tax to curb greenhouse gas
emissions as the nation increases the use of fossil fuels to
generate power in reaction to a reduction in electricity
generation by the nuclear industry. The government won’t raise
tobacco taxes next fiscal year after an increase in 2010.  Shore Up Demand  Noda ordered a fourth extra budget last week to shore up
demand in the world’s third-largest economy. The government will
earmark 300 billion yen for rebates of eco-friendly cars in the
supplementary budget to be compiled this month, today’s
documents showed.  Gross domestic product increased at an annualized 5.6
percent in the three months ended Sept. 30, the Cabinet Office
said in  Tokyo , compared with a preliminary figure of 6 percent
as companies reduced investment on concern overseas demand was
stalling. The median forecast of 19 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News was for an increase of 5.2 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Toru Fujioka in Tokyo at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  