-- 
Hurt’s Krapp, The Antlers, Sendak’s ’Schnozzola,’: NYC Weekend

-- B y   Z i n t a   L u n d b o r g
-- 
2011-12-10T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/john-hurt-s-krapp-the-antlers-sendak-s-schnozzola-trains-nyc-weekend.html
John Hurt picks up a banana,
struggles with it and of course later slips on the peel.  He plays the title character in Samuel Beckett’s darkly
comic “Krapp’s Last Tape,” a 69-year-old reacting to a
recording he made as a much younger man -- especially the
description of an erotic episode.  Directed by Michael Colgan for the Gate Theatre Dublin, the
play runs at the  Brooklyn  Academy of Music as part of the Next
Wave Festival through Dec. 18.  At BAM Harvey Theater, 651 Fulton St., Brooklyn.
Information: +1-718-636-4100;  http://www.bam.org .  After the show, dine at Scopello, named after a village in
Sicily.  Start off with a glass of Chianti and marinated grilled
sardines. Follow with short ribs braised in red wine, and for
dessert, hot pastry pockets filled with ricotta and chocolate.  At 63 Lafayette Ave., Brooklyn. Information: +1-718-852-
1100.  Saturday  Get into the spirit of the season with the Jewish Museum’s
exhibition of Hanukkah lamps selected by artist Maurice Sendak.  He chose one from the Netherlands because the piercings
looked like “two eyes and a schnozzola,” reminding him of a
golem.  See the Viennese Art Nouveau beauty designed by Karl
Hagenauer in the early 20th century, a tall lamp from  Russia 
crowned with an imperial double-headed eagle, as well as 30
others from the museum’s collection.  Sendak says he picked those that “go right to the heart.”  “An Artist Remembers” runs through Jan. 29 at 1109 5th
Ave. Information: +1-212-423-3200;
 http://www.thejewishmuseum.org .  Saturday Matinee  Go back to a simpler holiday time with “A Child’s
Christmas in  Wales ,” adapted from the Dylan Thomas story and
interwoven with festive songs.  Everything was better when Thomas was a boy -- the snow was
“shaken from white wash buckets down the sky;” the candy
endless: “crunches, cracknels, humbugs, glaciers, marzipan and
butterwelsh,” and the pranks highly scary and satisfying.  In previews at the Irish Repertory Theatre, 132 W. 22nd St.
for a Dec. 11 opening. Runs through Jan. 2. Information: +1-212-
727-2737;  http://www.irishrep.org .  Saturday Night  Brooklyn-based band The Antlers returns from its European
tour and hits Webster Hall.  Looking to move forward after their celebrated full-length
debut, “Hospice,” and leave the “sad band” moniker behind,
the group produced “Burst Apart.”  Not as intimate as earlier work, the new album is expansive
and melodic, animated emotion blended with high tech electronic
slickness.  Prepare yourself for the full force of lead singer Peter
Silberman’s muscular falsetto.  Montreal’s Suuns opens.  At 125 E. 11th St. Information: +1-212-353-1600;
 http://www.websterhall.com .  Sunday  Watch more than a dozen model trains chug past New York
City landmarks such as Yankee Stadium, Rockefeller Center and
the Statue of Liberty.  Since it’s the Holiday Train Show at the New York Botanical
Garden, all the replicas are created from nuts, bark, plants and
leaves.  There’s a new artist’s studio showing how the models are
constructed, plus kids can enter a big gingerbread playhouse and
also decorate a spicy cookie.  Runs through Jan. 16 at 2900 Southern Boulevard, Bronx.
Information: +1-718-817-8700;  http://www.nybg.org .  Sunday Matinee  Leon Botstein conducts the American Symphony in two giant,
rarely performed Romantic works. First up, Piers Lane plays
Busoni’s five-movement Piano Concerto, which ends with a male
chorus singing in praise of the power eternal.  Then comes Lizst’s “Faust Symphony,” with tenor William
Burden. The work creates musical portraits of the aging
philosopher, Gretchen and Mephistopheles, and for the finale,
there’s a ringing invocation of the Eternal Feminine.  All tickets are $25.  Carnegie Hall , 57th St. and 7th Ave.
Information: +1-212-247-7800;  http://www.americansymphony.org .  “Messiah”  Head downtown to hear Trinity Wall Street’s performance of
Handel’s “Messiah.”  The work has long been associated with this church, which
presented the second U.S. performance in 1770.  Music Director Julian Wachner conducts the Trinity Choir
and Baroque Orchestra, with soloists drawn from the chorus.  Begins 3 p.m. at Trinity Church, 74 Trinity Place. Check
the website for additional performances. Information: +1-212-
602-0800;  http://www.trinitywallstreet.org .  (With assistance from Lili Rosboch. Zinta Lundborg is an
editor for Muse, the arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News.
The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zinta Lundborg at 
 zlundborg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 