-- 
MF Global, JPMorgan, HSBC, Pfizer, Wells Fargo in Court News

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 
2011-12-09T12:30:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/jpmorgan-hsbc-apple-pfizer-wells-fargo-in-court-news.html
Jon Corzine and four other former
executives of bankrupt  MF Global Holdings Ltd.  were sued by a
group of commodity traders seeking damages for lost funds.  Henning-Carey Proprietary Trading LLC, a clearing firm and
member of  CME Group Inc. (CME) , joined with eight traders in seeking
recovery of an unaccounted-for $1.2 billion in customer funds at
the brokerage unit MF Global Inc.  “Defendants were responsible for insuring that the
plaintiffs’ property was properly segregated and accounted
for,” the traders said in the complaint filed yesterday in
federal court in Chicago.  The suit is one of several filed by brokerage customers and
former employees against Corzine, MF Global executives or the
company since it filed for bankruptcy protection on Oct. 31.  Corzine told the House Agriculture Committee at a hearing
in  Washington  yesterday that he “would never have intended”
transfers from segregated accounts and had teams in place at the
firm to ensure they didn’t occur.  He wouldn’t say if he and other executives were willing to
share customers’ losses.  Corzine and his executives were responsible for looking
after customers’ segregated accounts, yet the money went missing
as the company tried to salvage its business after “engaging in
highly leveraged and speculative trading in foreign sovereign
bonds,” the traders claimed in the complaint.  Andrew Levander, an attorney for Corzine, didn’t respond to
an e-mail yesterday seeking comment on the traders’ allegations.  The plaintiffs’ accounts were frozen along with about
38,000 others on Oct. 31, after “apparent segregation
violations,” making it impossible for customers to access their
accounts or the assets in them, the plaintiffs said.  The case is Henning-Carey Proprietary Trading LLC v.
Corzine, 11-cv-08717, U.S. District Court, Northern District of
Illinois (Chicago).  For more, click here.  Julius Baer , Falcon Sued by Trustee for Madoff-Related Funds  Julius Baer Group Ltd. (BAER) , the 121-year-old Swiss wealth
manager, and Falcon Private Bank Ltd. were sued by the trustee
liquidating  Bernard Madoff ’s former investment firm who is
seeking to recover $76 million in redemptions.  Irving Picard  filed two lawsuits yesterday in  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court  in Manhattan for a return of funds that were
transferred to the two Swiss banks by investors in Fairfield
Sentry Ltd., a feeder fund for Madoff’s firm. The trustee seeks
about $37 million from Julius Baer and about $39 million from
Falcon, a Zurich-based private bank owned by the government of
Abu Dhabi.  “We cannot comment on pending legal cases,” said Jan
Vonder Muehll, a Zurich-based spokesman for Julius Baer, which
manages 166 billion Swiss francs ($179 billion) for private
clients.  In 2010, the liquidators of the Fairfield funds started
separate litigation against Julius Baer, the bank said in its
2010  annual report .  Madoff, who pleaded guilty to fraud charges, is serving 150
years in prison for the largest Ponzi scheme in U.S. history.
Investors lost about $19 billion in principal, Picard has said.
Fairfield is in liquidation in the British Virgin Islands.
Picard has filed similar lawsuits to recover investments taken
out of Madoff’s firm before the fraud was exposed.  Irene Franco, a spokeswoman for Falcon, said the firm
hasn’t been informed about the claim.  The cases are Picard v. Bank Julius Baer & Co., 11-2922,
and Picard v. Falcon Private Bank, 11-2923, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  Stichting Pensioenfonds Sues JPMorgan Chase Over Securities  Stichting Pensioenfonds ABP , the Netherlands’ biggest
retirement fund, sued  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , alleging violations
of securities laws and fraud involving sales of residential
mortgage-backed securities.  The suit, filed in New York state court in Manhattan Dec.
7, accused the New York-based bank of negligent
misrepresentation, alleging the sales were based on false and
misleading statements. Damages should be determined at trial,
according to the filing.  “ABP purchased securities that were far riskier than had
been represented, backed by mortgage loans worth significantly
less than had been represented and that had been made by
borrowers who were much less creditworthy than had been
represented,” ABP said.  Jennifer Zuccarelli , a spokeswoman for JPMorgan, declined
to comment about the lawsuit.  The Heerlen, Netherlands-based pension fund sued Deutsche
Bank AG over similar allegations in New York State Supreme Court
in September. ABP serves as the pension fund for Dutch public
educational and government workers and has more than 250 billion
euros ($332.8 billion) in assets under management, according to
the complaint.  The case is Stichting Pensioenfonds ABP v. JPMorgan Chase &
Co., 653383/2011, New York State Supreme Court (Manhattan)  For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  Lawsuits/Pretrial  HSBC Allowed by Judge to Join JPMorgan in Madoff Appeals  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  can join JPMorgan Chase & Co. and UBS AG
in appeals of decisions dismissing most of the lawsuits brought
by the trustee liquidating Bernard L. Madoff Investment
Securities Inc., a judge ruled.  U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff in July dismissed most of
the Madoff trustee’s $9 billion suit against London-based HSBC.
In November, U.S. District Judge  Colleen McMahon  threw out most
of the trustee’s $19 billion suit against New York-based
JPMorgan and dismissed most of the suit against UBS.  The two judges ruled on the same grounds, accepting the
banks’ arguments that the claims underlying the trustee’s suits
could only be brought by individual Madoff creditors.  Irving Picard, the Madoff trustee, couldn’t appeal
immediately because neither judge dismissed all of the suits. To
lift the bar to appeal, McMahon previously entered a final
judgment in the JPMorgan case, allowing Picard to seek a review
by a U.S. Court of Appeals.  Yesterday, at the request of HSBC, Rakoff did the same by
entering a final dismissal judgment so Picard can appeal. HSBC
said it wanted to have its case heard at the same time as
JPMorgan’s.  The HSBC case lacked “factors that might lead the court to
deny such relief” in Picard’s suit against New York Mets owners
Fred Wilpon and Saul Katz, Rakoff said. In September, Rakoff
knocked out about $700 million of the $1 billion in claims in
the Wilpon case and scheduled a jury trial for March.  Rakoff said he is still considering whether to allow Picard
to appeal his decision that the trustee can only sue to recover
fictitious profits that customers took out within two years of
the Madoff firm’s bankruptcy. Picard sought to go back six years
in disgorging bogus profits from the Ponzi scheme.  Picard argued in court papers that Rakoff should allow an
immediate appeal because another district judge disagreed with
Rakoff’s conclusion that suits can only look back two years.
Until the question on timing is resolved, hundreds of suits by
the trustee against customers are in limbo.  The HSBC suit in U.S. District Court is Picard v. HSBC Bank
Plc, 11-763, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan). The UBS suit in district court is Picard v.  UBS AG (UBSN) ,
11-04213, in the same court. The JPMorgan lawsuit in district
court is Picard v. JPMorgan Chase & Co., 11-00913, in the same
court. The JPMorgan lawsuit in bankruptcy court was Picard v.
JPMorgan Chase & Co., 10-04932, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern
District of New York (Manhattan). The Wilpon suit in district
court is Picard v. Katz, 11-03605, U.S. District Court, Southern
District New York (Manhattan).  The Madoff liquidation case is Securities Investor
Protection Corp. v. Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities
Inc., 08-01789, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New
York (Manhattan). The criminal case is U.S. v. Madoff, 09-
cr-00213, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Samsung Loses Bid to Block Apple IPhone 4S Sales in France  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  failed to win a court order
blocking  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  from selling its newest smartphone, the
iPhone 4S, in France.  The Paris court rejected Samsung’s request for an emergency
order against Apple while it considers the South Korean
company’s patent-infringement claims.  Samsung, the biggest maker of smartphones, sought to block
sales of the new handset in France, Italy and the U.K. days
after it was unveiled in October, arguing Apple violated its
wireless-communications patents. Suwon, South Korea-based
Samsung sued in Paris in July over earlier versions of the
iPhone and Apple’s iPad tablet.  “The disproportionate character of the ban sought by
Samsung against Apple is clear,” Judge Marie-Christine
Courboulay said in the decision yesterday.  The Paris court ruled Samsung must pay Apple 100,000 euros
($134,100) for legal fees while denying Apple’s request for
damages. Samsung’s claim wasn’t “abusive” and the company’s
infringement claims can move forward as a regular lawsuit,
Courboulay said.  Florence Catel, a Samsung spokeswoman in Paris, declined to
comment on the decision. Calls to Apple’s office in  London  for
comment weren’t immediately returned.  Samsung has been locked in a global legal battle with Apple
since the Cupertino, California-based company claimed in an
April suit that  Samsung’s Galaxy devices  copied the iPad and
iPhone. Samsung was the world’s biggest maker of smartphones in
the last quarter, while Apple dominates the tablet market.  For more, click here.  Education Management Should Face Recruitment Suit, U.S. Says  Education Management Corp. (EDMC) , the second-largest U.S. for-
profit college chain, should be forced to defend a lawsuit
alleging its recruiting policies helped the company wrongfully
secure more than $11 billion in student aid, government lawyers
said in a court filing.  U.S. officials have properly outlined claims that
Pittsburgh-based Education Management created an illegal
compensation system for admission recruiters to ensure a steady
flow of students who receive government aid to pay college
expenses, Justice Department attorneys said in the filing made
public yesterday.  “EDMC’s unlawful compensation scheme emanates from the
highest levels of the corporation and represents a conscious
effort to do exactly what” federal regulations prohibit in
terms of providing bonuses to recruiters, the government said in
the filing in federal court in Pittsburgh opposing the firm’s
request to have the case thrown out.  For-profit colleges have been under scrutiny by Congress,
state lawmakers and attorneys general who are investigating
sales practices and students’ debt loads. Eleven states and the
District of Columbia joined the U.S. as plaintiffs in the case.  The government, which intervened in suits filed by two EDMC
whistleblowers, contends the company systematically violated
federal law by paying recruiters based on their success in
persuading prospective students to enroll in the for-profit
school.  EDMC argued in court filings that prosecutors haven’t
properly stated claims supporting allegations that the
institution started a companywide campaign to defraud the
government and violate Department of Education regulations.  “We are reviewing the governments’ responses to EDMC’s
motion to have the court dismiss this lawsuit, and we will have
an opportunity to file a reply with the court,” Bonnie
Campbell, a legal adviser to the company, said in an e-mailed
statement. “Based on what we have seen, we continue to believe
the case should be dismissed.”  The case is U.S. v. Education Management Corp., 07-00461,
U.S. District Court, Western District of Pennsylvania
(Pittsburgh).  For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  Trials  Pfizer Wins Review of Punitive-Damages Award in Prempro Case  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) , the world’s largest drugmaker, persuaded a
Pennsylvania appeals court to review an $8.6 million punitive-
damages award to a woman who blamed her cancer on the company’s
menopause drugs.  The Pennsylvania Supreme Court  agreed to hear arguments by
Pfizer’s Wyeth unit that a judge erred in letting a Philadelphia
jury award punishment damages to Mary Daniel, a former bank
manager from Arkansas who sued the drugmaker alleging its
Prempro pills caused her breast cancer. Jurors also awarded
Daniel more than $1.6 million in compensatory damages on her
claim.  More than 6 million women took Prempro and related
menopause drugs to treat symptoms such as hot flashes and mood
swings before a 2002 study highlighted their links to cancer.
Wyeth’s sales of the medicines, which are still on the market,
topped $2 billion before the release of the  Women’s Health
Initiative , a National Institutes of Health-sponsored study.  “The company is pleased the Pennsylvania Supreme Court
will hear the company’s appeal regarding whether punitive
damages are warranted,” Chris Loder, a Pfizer spokesman, said
in an e-mailed statement yesterday. “The company has said all
along that Wyeth acted responsibly” in its handling of the
drug, he added.  Until 1995, many menopausal women combined  Premarin ,
Wyeth’s estrogen-based drug, with progestin-laden  Provera , made
by Pfizer’s Upjohn unit, to relieve their symptoms. Wyeth
combined the two hormones in its  Prempro  pill.  Pfizer’s Wyeth and Pharmacia & Upjohn units have lost 10 of
the 18 Prempro cases that juries have considered since trials
began in 2006. The most recent verdict came this week when a
Philadelphia jury awarded three women more than $72 million in
damages on their claims over the drugmaker’s hormone-replacement
medications.  “We are pleased the court declined to consider any issue
relating to Wyeth’s negligence in causing her breast cancer or
Mrs. Daniel’s compensatory award,”  Zoe Littlepage , one of the
woman’s lawyers, said in an e-mailed statement yesterday.  The case is Daniel v. Wyeth, 040602368, Court of Common
Pleas (Philadelphia).  For more, click here.  ‘Oddball’ Hedge-Fund Friend Chose Stocks, Sidhu Tells Court  Rupinder Sidhu, who is accused of insider trading, said he
had no idea stock tips from his “eccentric” friend at hedge
fund AKO Capital LLP were based on confidential information.  Prosecutors allege AKO trader Anjam Ahmad told Sidhu when
the fund was about to place large buy or sell orders so Sidhu
could benefit from the effect on the shares. The pair split
profits of about 500,000 pounds ($783,500) from spread bets on
companies including Julius Baer Group Ltd.,  Swatch Group AG (UHR)  and
 Michael Page International Plc (MPI)  between June and August 2009, the
U.K. Financial Services Authority said in a London trial.  “I didn’t know about any AKO orders,” Sidhu testified
yesterday. “I was basing my trades on Ahmad’s decisions and his
rationale.”  Sidhu denies 23 counts of insider trading and one money-
laundering charge for which he’s on trial. The 40-year-old
management consultant from Osterley, West London, admitted
contacting Ahmad using unregistered mobile phones and instant-
messaging accounts under false names to discuss trades. In one
MSN Messenger conversation, they made a coded reference to a
potential purchase as a “party.”  Sidhu told jurors this was because he wanted to keep the
spread betting secret from his family, who banned the practice
after he racked up heavy trading losses in 2008. Ahmad told
Sidhu his contract with AKO prevented him from trading for
himself.  Ahmad, a former equity strategist at  Citigroup Inc. (C) , was a
gifted mathematician who was known for being “quirky and
eccentric” and “an oddball,” Sidhu said in testimony Dec. 7.
They had been friends since secondary school and Sidhu regularly
sought his advice on trading.  For more, click here.  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  Verdicts/Settlements  Pfizer Settles Prempro Case After Losing $72.6 Million Verdict  Pfizer Inc., the world’s largest drugmaker, agreed to
settle claims that its menopause drugs caused cancer in three
women who won a $72.6 million jury award earlier this week, a
lawyer said.  The New York-based company agreed to resolve claims by
Susan Elfont, Bernadette Kalenkoski and Judy Mulderig that
hormone-replacement drugs made by two Pfizer units caused their
breast cancer, Ted Meadows, a lawyer for the women, said in an
interview yesterday. A Philadelphia jury awarded the three women
$72.6 million in compensatory damages on Dec. 6.  “They’re just glad to be able to go on with their lives,”
said Meadows, who declined to disclose the amounts of the
settlements because they are confidential.  The accord comes a day before jurors were to begin hearing
testimony in a second phase of the case. The panel would have
been asked to decide whether Pfizer should face punitive damages
over its handling of the menopause drugs.  “The parties have entered into a mutual agreement to
resolve this case under confidential terms,” Chris Loder, a
Pfizer spokesman, said in a telephone interview. The earlier
verdict will be set aside as part of the settlement, he said.  More than 6 million women took Prempro and related
menopause drugs to treat symptoms such as hot flashes and mood
swings before a 2002 study highlighted their links to cancer.
Wyeth’s sales of the medicines, which are still on the market,
topped $2 billion before the release of the  Women’s Health
Initiative , a National Institutes of Health-sponsored study.  The  Philadelphia case  that settled is Elfont v. Wyeth
Pharmaceuticals Inc., 00924, Jury Term 2004, Philadelphia Court
of Common Pleas (Philadelphia).  For more, click here.  Garrett Bauer Pleads Guilty to Trading on Stolen Merger Tips  Garrett Bauer, a New York stock trader, pleaded guilty to
his role in an insider-trading scheme that the U.S. says
generated $37 million in illegal profits by relying on corporate
merger tips stolen from four law firms.  Bauer, 44, joined middleman Kenneth T. Robinson and
attorney Matthew H. Kluger in using nonpublic data to trade
ahead of more than 30 corporate transactions over 17 years, he
admitted in federal court in Newark, New Jersey. Robinson, who
cooperated with prosecutors, pleaded guilty in April.  In charging the men in April, prosecutors said the scheme
involved companies such as Sun Microsystems Inc., 3Com Corp. and
Acxiom Corp. They said Bauer made more than $30 million on the
scheme, while Robinson earned more than $875,000 and Kluger more
than $500,000.  “After taking the lion’s share of the $37 million in
profits, Bauer now faces punishment for conduct that undermines
the fairness of our financial markets and the public’s trust in
the safety of its investments,” U.S. Attorney Paul Fishman said
in a statement.  Bauer admitted securities fraud, conspiracy to commit
securities fraud, conspiracy to commit money laundering, and
obstruction of justice. He faces as many as 20 years in prison
on the fraud and obstruction counts when he is sentenced March
13. He forfeited cash and property worth more than $23 million.  Bauer, who is free on $4 million bail, regrets his actions
and has been giving lectures to students and traders about
insider trading, said his attorney Michael Bachner. He has
spoken at business schools, law schools, churches and synagogues
to audiences ranging from 20 to 200 people, Bachner said.  The cases are U.S. v. Bauer, 11-mj-03536, and U.S. v.
Robinson, 11-cr-00223, U.S. District Court, District of New
Jersey (Newark).  For more, click here.  Wells Fargo to Pay $148 Million in Muni Bid-Rigging Case  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  agreed to pay $148 million to settle
criminal charges and civil claims for conspiring to overcharge
state and local governments on investments, becoming the fourth
bank to enter a settlement in the case.  The deal will resolve investigations into Wachovia Bank,
which Wells Fargo acquired in 2008, by U.S. agencies, including
the Securities and Exchange Commission and the Justice
Department, as well as attorneys general in 26 states, the
Justice Department said in a statement.  The case is the latest in a more than five-year
investigation into how Wall Street banks conspired with local-
government advisers to reap excessive fees on investments sold
to public agencies by rigging competitive auctions and carving
up the market among themselves. JPMorgan Chase & Co., UBS AG and
 Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  previously settled similar cases.  “Wachovia won bids by playing an elaborate game of ‘you
scratch my back and I’ll scratch yours,’ rather than engaging in
legitimate competition to win municipalities’ business,” Robert
Khuzami, director of the SEC’s Division of Enforcement, said in
a statement.  The settlement by Wells Fargo will bring to $673 million
the amount that banks have paid to settle the case, some of
which is being returned to localities that were overcharged in
the scheme.  Wells Fargo, based in San Francisco, said the conduct was
by former employees of Wachovia before its acquisition. About
$59 million from the settlement will go to state attorneys
general, the bank said.  “Wells Fargo is pleased to have fully resolved this
investigation of Wachovia Bank,” the bank said in a statement.  The charges are connected to investment contracts that
states and cities bought with proceeds raised in the $3.7
trillion municipal-bond market, allowing them to earn a return
until the cash is needed for public-works projects.  For more, click here.  KME, Halcor Lose EU Top Court Challenges of Antitrust Fines  KME Group SpA (KME)  and Greek metals processor  Halcor SA (XAKO)  lost
European Union top court appeals over cartel fines.  The antitrust penalties against the companies should stand,
the EU Court of Justice in Luxembourg said in rulings yesterday.  KME appealed fines levied in two separate cartels in 2003
and in 2004, respectively. A lower EU court in 2009 rejected the
company’s first challenge to the 2003 fine of 39.8 million euros
($53.3 million). In 2004, KME was fined 67.1 million euros and
Halcor 9.16 million euros in another cartel. Halcor’s fine was
cut to 8.25 million euros by a lower EU court in 2010.  The European Commission, the 27-nation EU’s antitrust
regulator, fined three companies in 2003, including  Outokumpu
Oyj (OUT1V)  and Wieland-Werke AG, a total of 79 million euros for a
cartel between 1988 and 2001 in the market for copper tubes used
in air conditioning and refrigeration. A few months later, the
regulator levied a 222.3 million-euro penalty on companies
including KME and Halcor in the water, heating and gas tubes
market.  Yesterday’s ruling confirms the lower court’s decision
which largely backed the EU antitrust authority, the Brussels-
based regulator said in an e-mailed statement.  Halcor will examine the ruling and has already set aside 5
million euros to cover part of the fine, according to a filing
the company made to the Athens bourse. Francesco Giubilei, a
spokesman for Florence, Italy-based KME said he couldn’t comment
because it’s a national holiday.  The cases are: C-272/09 P, KME and Others v. European
Commission, C-389/10 P, KME Germany and Others v. Commission.  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 