-- 
Kingfisher Air Brand Pledged for Loan Worth Triple Carrier’s Market Value

-- B y   K a r t h i k e y a n   S u n d a r a m
-- 
2011-12-09T18:33:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/kingfisher-air-pledges-brand-furniture-for-1-2-billion-loans.html
Kingfisher Airlines Ltd. (KAIR) , the Indian
carrier seeking cash after losses, pledged assets ranging from
its brand to office furniture for bank loans of as much as 64.2
billion rupees ($1.2 billion).  A luxury villa in the western Indian state of Goa, two
helicopters, a building in Mumbai and shares have also been used
as collateral for loans as of Nov. 30, Junior Finance Minister
Namo Narain Meena said in response to a question in parliament
in New Delhi yesterday. The total value of the guarantees,
including furniture and fixtures worth 3.3 billion rupees, was
52.4 billion rupees, he said.  Vijay Mallya, Kingfisher’s billionaire chairman, said on
Dec. 5 that the airline will meet lenders this week to seek
working capital loans to pay for operating costs and fuel.
Kingfisher has also cut flights, scrapped low-cost services and
delayed Airbus SAS A380s deliveries as part of a turnaround
following 16 straight quarterly losses.  The brand loan of 41 billion rupees was based on a
valuation made by accounting firm  Grant Thornton  as of April 23,
2010, he said. The airline then had a market value of 13.2
billion rupees, which has since fallen to about 11.9 billion
rupees, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Debt Revamp  The airline will start repaying loans to  State Bank of
India (SBIN) , the nation’s biggest lender, from September 2012, Meena
said. He didn’t comment on the other 18 lenders of a group that
has lent to Kingfisher.  The carrier, based in Bangalore, got as much as 12.1
billion rupees of new loans earlier this year after banks
converted 13 billion rupees of existing debt into preferred
shares.  State Bank  has no plans for a second round of debt
restructuring for the airline, Meena said.  Kingfisher fell 3.8 percent to 23.95 rupees in Mumbai
trading yesterday. The stock has declined 64 percent this year,
compared with a 21 percent drop in the BSE  India   Sensitive
Index. (SENSEX)   Kingfisher and  Jet Airways (India) Ltd. (JETIN)  have lost a
combined 63 billion rupees in three years as low fares and
rising fuel prices offset gains from surging passenger numbers.  Indian tax authorities will pursue legal action against
Kingfisher after it failed to pay service tax in the fiscal year
that began April 1, S.K. Goel, chairman of Central Board of
Excise and Customs, told reporters in New Delhi yesterday.  Prakash Mirpuri, a spokesman at Kingfisher, declined to
comment on the tax dues.  The carrier plans to raise about 10 billion rupees in new
loans,  Ravi Nedungadi , chief financial officer at parent UB
Group, said Nov. 15. The company may also hold a rights offer
before the end of March and sell property in Mumbai for funds.  Kingfisher has about $1.4 billion of debt and a debt-to-
asset ratio of 82 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Jet Airways’ ratio is 67 percent, while SpiceJet is
at 7.7 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Karthikeyan Sundaram in  New Delhi  at 
 kmeenakshisu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  