-- 
NBA’s Stern Says Paul Trade Veto Based on Value to Hornets

-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 
2011-12-09T17:41:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/knicks-court-chandler-league-blocks-chris-paul-trade-as-free-agency-opens.html
National Basketball Association
Commissioner  David Stern  said today he vetoed the trade of Chris Paul to the  Los Angeles Lakers  because it was “more valuable”
to keep the All-Star guard with the  New Orleans  Hornets.  The head of the NBA players union,  Billy Hunter , said his
group will investigate Stern’s actions and decide its next
moves. He said a lawsuit wasn’t being considered “at this
moment.”  Both Stern and Hunter spoke in brief interviews at the
NBA’s New York headquarters building lobby a day after the
commissioner blocked Paul’s trade to the Lakers, a deal
criticized by some team owners.  The league owns the Hornets and is trying to sell the club.  The three-team trade would have sent Lakers forward Lamar Odom to the Hornets, who also would have received guards Kevin Martin and Goran Dragic, forward Luis Scola and a first-round
draft pick from the  Houston Rockets , according to Yahoo! Sports.
Houston would have gotten the Lakers’ Pau Gasol in the exchange.  Dan Gilbert of the  Cleveland Cavaliers  was among league
owners who pushed Stern to nullify the trade and make the
Hornets keep Paul, a four-time All-Star who can become a free
agent after this season, according to an e-mail Gilbert sent to
the commissioner and was shared with Bloomberg News.  ‘Basketball Reasons  NBA spokesman Tim Frank said earlier that the deal was
vetoed for “basketball reasons.”  “That’s all they said to us,” Hunter said today after
signing the 10-year collective bargaining agreement between the
league and its players, which ended a five-month lockout. “No
other explanation.”  Stern, 69, said that he wouldn’t discuss further trades.  “I’ll leave that to the team as the discussion goes on,”
he said. “I don’t want to speak on the basketball side but that
particular one was weighed against  Chris Paul ’s continued
presence in New Orleans, which was deemed preferable.”  In a separate comment, Stern again said Paul should remain
with the Hornets.  “The decision was taken that Chris Paul in New Orleans was
more valuable than the trade that was being discussed,” the
commissioner said.  Hunter, 69, said he spoke with Paul last night and was waiting
to hear from him again today. He said he expected Paul to be in
Hornets’ training camp, which opened today.  ‘Investigate Further’  “It’s not an issue about it sitting OK with us,” Hunter
said. “Right now what we’ve got to do is look at the
circumstances and investigate it further. In any instance where
the league declines a contract, we have a right to review it and
if we think it was inappropriate we have a right to challenge
it.”  Hunter said that after talking with Paul again, “we’ll
probably have some discussions with the NBA later this
afternoon.”  Stern’s decision came the same day the NBA and it players
ratified the labor agreement. The contract, reached after a
five-month lockout and 2 1/2 years of discussions, aims to
promote competitive balance by boosting small-market teams.  Last season, some of the game’s biggest stars left for
larger markets.  LeBron James  and  Chris Bosh  joined the  Miami
Heat  and  Carmelo Anthony  was traded to the  New York  Knicks from
Denver.  Gilbert called the proposed Paul trade a “travesty” in
his e-mail to Stern and asked that it be put to a vote of the
league’s 29 owners.  The regular season, shortened to 66 games from 82 following
the 161-day lockout, is scheduled to begin Dec. 25. Teams
officially may begin signing players and making trades as of 2
p.m. New York time today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 