-- 
Koenig & Bauer Aims for Growth as Printing Rivals Struggle

-- B y   R i c h a r d   W e i s s
-- 
2011-12-09T10:55:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/koenig-bauer-aims-for-growth-as-printing-rivals-struggle.html
Koenig & Bauer AG,   Germany ’s second-
largest maker of printing machines, said it aims to increase
sales and profit next year as rivals struggle.  Revenue and new orders will “grow moderately” in 2012,
Chief Executive Officer Claus Bolza-Schuenemann said at a press
conference in  Frankfurt  today. Earnings will rise only
“slightly” as pricing pressure persists and the company faces
continuing costs to reduce capacity.  The company, based in Wuerzburg, is benefiting from a focus
on niche markets, such as money and packaging printing, as
rivals suffer from digital competition.  Heidelberger
Druckmaschinen AG , the world’s largest printing-press maker, has
lost more than 500 million euros ($668 million) in the last
three years and it will continue to be unprofitable in fiscal
2012 and 2013, according to analysts  surveyed  by Bloomberg.  Manroland AG, the Offenbach, Germany-based manufacturer
that at one time was the world’s biggest maker of newspaper-
printing machinery, filed for insolvency on Nov. 25, the
country’s largest corporate failure in two years. The IG Metall
labor union  said  yesterday that politicians should be willing to
provide an “integrated concept” for the printing industry.
Bolza-Schuenemann said he was skeptical of a state role.  “Government aid for rivals in insolvency would threaten
jobs at  Koenig & Bauer ,” the CEO said.  Cooperation with rivals suffering from low capacity
utilization wouldn’t help the industry and would add to burdens
at Koenig & Bauer, Bolza-Schuenemann said. The company has been
cutting jobs and reducing capacity for two years.  “When people ask why don’t you pick up parts of that
rival, I tell them, ‘we have enough to do ourselves,’” Chief
Financial Officer Axel Kaufmann said.  Koenig & Bauer  reiterated  today that sales this year will
rise “slightly” and that it will post a “small” pretax
profit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Richard Weiss  in Frankfurt at 
 rweiss5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  