-- 
South Korea’s Won Posts Weekly Decline on Europe Debt, Growth Concern

-- B y   J i y e u n   L e e
-- 
2011-12-09T06:47:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/korean-won-set-for-weekly-decline-on-europe-debt-concern-growth-forecasts.html
South  Korea ’s won dropped this week
as concern  Europe  will fail to reach agreement to contain the
region’s debt crisis dimmed the outlook for the global economy.
 Government bonds  retreated.  The currency slid the most in four weeks today as European
Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  damped speculation the bank
will buy more government bonds. European Union leaders began
their two-day summit in Brussels yesterday.  South Korea ’s
economy is likely to grow 3.7 percent next year, slowing from a
3.8 percent gain this year, the Bank of Korea said today.
Inflation is forecast at 3.3 percent, compared with 4 percent in
2011, the central bank said.  “The weak forecast for the economy is supporting demand
for the dollar,” said Byeon Ji Young, a Seoul-based currency
analyst at Woori Futures Co. “Draghi’s comments disappointed
the market, and investors are concerned the European summit
results won’t match expectations.”  The won fell 1.4 percent this week to 1,146.83 per dollar
in  Seoul , according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The currency
dropped 1.3 percent today, the biggest decline since Nov. 10.
The Kospi Index of shares declined 2.2 percent this week.  The Bank of Korea held  borrowing costs  at 3.25 percent for
a sixth month yesterday. Downside risks to growth are “high”
because of the European turmoil, possible slumps in major
economies and unrest in international financial markets, the
central bank said in its statement yesterday. The ECB cut its
benchmark rate by 25 basis points to 1 percent yesterday.  The yield on South Korea’s 3.5 percent bonds due September
2016 climbed two basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 3.52
percent this week, according to Korea Exchange Inc. prices. The
rate was unchanged today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jiyeun Lee in Seoul at 
 jlee1029@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  