-- 
KPMG Warned Olympus in Accounting Fraud, Then Got ‘Careless,’ Probe Finds

-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u
-- 
2011-12-09T05:44:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/kpmg-warned-olympus-then-got-careless-.html
KPMG  LLP’s Tokyo affiliate signed off
on  Olympus Corp .’s 2009 results five days after the auditor
confronted its camera-making client over accounting
irregularities, according to the findings of a month-long probe.  KPMG Azsa LLC auditors challenged President Tsuyoshi Kikukawa and other executives over more than $600 million in
takeover advisory fees and payments on other acquisitions,
according to the report of an independent investigation into
Olympus’s accounts. KPMG approved the company’s financial
statement after an outside experts’ report Olympus commissioned
justified the takeover costs.  The failure to uncover the $1.7 billion fraud that took
place over more than a decade has damaged  Japan ’s credibility
and highlighted a corporate culture of “yes men,”
investigators led by a former judge reported this week. KPMG and
Ernst & Young ShinNihon LLC, which took over as auditors, face
questions from regulators over their roles in the scandal.  “At the end of the day, it’s the company that pays the
fees to auditors,” said  Yuuki Sakurai , president at Fukoku
Capital Management in Tokyo. “Your business would soon run into
trouble if you got a reputation as a firm that goes running to
regulators without solid evidence.”  On May 21, just over a week after KPMG Azsa had approved
the accounts, Olympus’s Kikukawa visited the firm and told the
auditors their contract would not be renewed. KPMG Azsa and
Ernst & Young ShinNihon LLC failed to conduct an adequate
handover, the panel said.  E&Y Committee  Ernst & Young ShinNihon LLC set up a committee to probe its
auditing of Olympus, according to a statement on the accounting
firm’s website yesterday. ShinNihon said it plans to release the
findings as soon as the group reports.  The independent investigation into Olympus concluded there
wasn’t any problem with ShinNihon’s auditing, the accounting
firm said yesterday. “There were parts where our explanation
fell short and we plan to follow up.”  Japan’s Financial Services Agency is looking into any role
the auditors may have played in the Olympus cover-up, Minister
 Shozaburo Jimi  said. “I’d like to see appropriate action
carried out on this case,” he said today. KPMG and Ernst &
Young combined audit nine of Japan’s 15 biggest companies,
including  NTT Docomo Inc. (9437)  and Honda Motor Co.  “We will fully cooperate with regulators investigating
this incident and make efforts to carry on with our business so
that we can help develop Japan’s capital market,” KPMG Azsa
said in a faxed statement on Dec. 7.  Don’t Publish  KPMG Azsa had told Olympus as early as April 2009 not to
publish its May 12 earnings unless the two could agree on the
accounting for fees awarded to Axes America LLC in the form of
preference shares for the $2.1 billion takeover of Gyrus Group
Plc, a U.K. medical equipment company, the independent panel’s
report said. The panel vindicated  Michael Woodford , who was
fired as Olympus’s first foreign president and chief executive
officer on Oct. 14 after he confronted the board over the fees,
paid to a now-defunct  Cayman Islands  fund, Axam Investment Ltd.  “The auditing firm did point out that a part of the
transaction was unreasonable, thus the checks-and-balances
function could have possibly worked,” the report said. However,
the auditor “carelessly relied on the outside experts’
report.”  Accounting Change  KPMG Audit Plc in Cardiff,  Wales , questioned the preference
shares in Gyrus’s 2009 accounts filed to  Companies House  in the
U.K. in March 2010. The firm ceased being an auditor in part
because of its client’s accounting for the securities, it said
in a letter to directors that was filed to Companies House the
following month.  By the time Ernst & Young signed off on Gyrus’s 2010
financial statement at year later, the U.K. company had revised
earnings for 2009 because it “incorrectly recorded” the
preference shares at nominal value. Gyrus booked the securities
in its year-end accounts at $620 million, the same amount it
paid to Axam.  Both KPMG and Ernst & Young’s U.K. arms said they weren’t
given sufficient information about the identities of Axes or
Axam to know whether the payments were to a related party.  The investigators’ report this week traced a web of
offshore companies set up by Olympus and a network of mostly
Japanese financial advisers that were used to hide 118 billion
yen ($1.5 billion) of losses dating back to the 1990s. Olympus
last month admitted the fees and more than $700 million written
off the value of three other deals were part of its loss-hiding
scheme.  Commerzbank,  SocGen (GLE) , LGT  In a meeting on May 7, 2009, KPMG Azsa told the Olympus
executives, including Hideo Yamada and Hisashi Mori, that unless
they gave a better explanation of the fees and payments made to
offshore funds KPMG Azsa may be forced to resign as auditor, the
report said. Yamada and Mori both quit from Olympus’s board last
week.  The 185-page report on the investigation also said KPMG
Azsa failed to verify whether Olympus’s overseas deposits at
Frankfurt-based Commerzbank AG and Paris-based Societe Generale
SA in  Singapore , and LGT Bank AG in Liechtenstein were genuine.
The three banks didn’t respond to KPMG Azsa’s requests for
collateral information on the accounts, the report said.  Olympus used the deposits as collateral to extend loans to
offshore vehicles that were then used to buy impaired financial
assets. The outflow of money was hidden as Olympus accountants
instructed the banks not to respond to the auditor’s inquiries
on collateral obligations, the report said.  Full Compliance  “We have been fully cooperating with the third-party
committee, said Christof Buri, a spokesman for LGT Group in
Vaduz, Liechtenstein. “We contacted them in November on our own
initiative.” He said the bank had no further comment on the
report.  “At all times  Commerzbank (CBK)  was in full compliance with all
relevant laws and obligations and will assist with any possible
enquiries by the regulator,” said Margarita Thiel, a Singapore-
based spokeswoman. SocGen’s Singapore-based spokeswoman Kate
Henley declined to comment.  In 1999, auditors Asahi & Co., which became KPMG Azsa in
2004, discovered Olympus had removed a loss from its books in a
practice known as “tobashi” or “to make fly away,” the
report said. Olympus unwound that transaction at the auditors’
request, according to the report.  The use of at least 17 Cayman Islands and British Virgin
Islands entities and the collusion of a “rotten” core of
senior managers helped keep the auditors from the facts, the
report said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariko Yasu in  Tokyo  at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Ben Richardson  at 
 brichardson8@bloomberg.net  