-- 
N.Z. Spending, Confidence Drop as EU Crisis Worries Consumers

-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 
2011-12-09T03:43:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/n-z-spending-confidence-drop-as-eu-crisis-worries-consumers.html
New Zealand  consumer purchases on
debit, credit and store cards at retailers fell in November and
 consumer confidence  declined this month, underscoring the case
for the central bank to maintain record-low borrowing costs.  The  value of card transactions  slipped 0.5 percent from
October, when it rose a revised 1.6 percent,  Statistics New
Zealand  said today in Wellington. Consumer confidence dropped
for a fourth month in December to its lowest level since May,
according an ANZ National Bank Ltd.-Roy Morgan index.  Lower spending and a drop in consumer confidence add to
signs that domestic demand has slowed as concern mounts that
 Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis will restrain global growth.
Central bank Governor Alan Bollard yesterday cut his forecasts
for economic growth and signaled  interest rates  may stay at a
record low until at least the middle of 2012.  “The economy continues to grow, if only at a subdued
pace,” Ben Jarman, economist at  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  in Sydney,
said in an e-mailed note. “Against this backdrop, and with
large downside risks looming offshore, the  Reserve Bank  will
have no urgency to move policy.”  New Zealand’s dollar was little changed. It bought 77.35
U.S. cents at 3 p.m. in Wellington from 77.21 cents before the
spending report and from 77.28 cents in late New York trading
yesterday.  The economy will likely grow 2 percent in the year ending
March 31, down from 2.8 percent predicted in September, the
central bank said in its monetary policy statement yesterday.
Private consumption will increase 1.7 percent, it said.  Monetary Stimulus  Bollard has kept the official cash rate at 2.5 percent
since March. Eleven of 16 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News
after yesterday’s decision expect he will hold rates until at
least June.  Card spending surged to a seven-month high in October on
spending by local and foreign fans attending the  Rugby World
Cup . Even after November’s decline, the series is rising about
0.5 percent a month, the statistics agency said citing an
underlying trend series.  In November, hospitality sales fell 2.2 percent, today’s
report showed. Apparel dropped 4.9 percent. Purchases of
consumables, which make up about 35 percent of the total,
declined 1 percent. Sales of durable goods such as furniture and
appliances increased.  Sales at fuel outlets rose 3.9 percent. Excluding spending
at fuel outlets, car dealers and parts stores, transactions
declined 1.3 percent.  Spending on non-retail items such as travel and medical
fees increased 0.3 percent. Spending on retail and non-retail
items combined fell 0.2 percent, the agency said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  