-- 
Naira Strengthens First Day on Four, Pares Third Weekly Decline

-- B y   C h r i s   K a y
-- 
2011-12-09T14:48:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/naira-heads-for-third-week-drop-as-nigeria-s-import-demand-rises.html
Nigeria ’s naira rebounded, snapping
three days of declines, paring its third consecutive weekly
retreat on speculation the central bank sold dollars.  The currency of Africa’s biggest oil producer gained 0.2
percent to 161.765 per dollar on the  interbank market  as of 3
p.m. in Lagos, after falling as much as 0.7 percent, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. The advance trimmed this week’s
decline to 0.2 percent.  The naira fell 2.2 percent to a seven-week low yesterday
after the  Central Bank of Nigeria  on Nov. 21 lowered the
midpoint of its exchange-rate band to 155 naira per dollar from
150 naira. The bank sold foreign exchange in the market today,
Access Bank Plc’s treasury group said by e-mail. Mohammed Abdullahi, a spokesman for the Abuja-based based  central bank ,
didn’t respond to an e-mailed request for comment.  “It is very probable that the currently strong foreign
exchange demand partly stems from festive season demand,”
Yvonne Mhango, a Johannesburg-based sub-Saharan Africa economist
at  Renaissance Capital , wrote in an e-mailed note.  Rising imports and weakening oil prices, the source of more
than 95 percent of Nigeria’s foreign-exchange income, mounted
pressure on the bank to lower the target exchange rate.  Imports into sub-Saharan Africa’s second-largest economy
jumped 91 percent to 9.3 trillion naira ($57 billion) in the
January to September period from a year earlier, according to a
statement published Dec. 7 on the website of Abuja-based
National Bureau of Statistics. The central bank sold $200
million at a twice-weekly foreign-currency auction Dec. 7, less
than the $245 million asked by lenders. The last time lenders’
 demand  was met was Nov. 30.  Ghana ’s cedi fell for a second day, slipping 0.3 percent to
1.6452 per dollar as of 2:06 p.m. in Accra, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Kay in Abuja at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  