-- 
Natixis Scales Back Vessel, Telecom Lending, Sells Loans in Asia

-- B y   W e n d y   M o c k
-- 
2011-12-09T08:01:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/natixis-scales-back-vessel-telecom-lending-sells-loans-in-asia.html
Natixis SA (KN) , the investment-banking
arm of France’s second-largest retail lender, is scaling back
shipping and telecommunications financing in Asia as it focuses
on global energy and commodities.  The shift is part of the bank’s aim to generate more cross-
selling opportunities from its global energy and commodities
business, according to De Doan Tran, global head of corporate
and investment banking.  “We will concentrate on anything to do with oil and gas
companies, and metal and mining,” Paris-based Doan Tran said in
an interview Dec. 6. Such opportunities exist for commodity and
energy clients “because they do things worldwide,” he said.
“We’re not interested in banking extremely local clients that
only have domestic needs.”  Scaling back structured finance will help Natixis lower its
funding requirements at a time when banks worldwide face tougher
liquidity and  capital requirements  as regulators, led by the
 Basel  Committee on Banking Supervision, seek to prevent a repeat
of the credit freeze sparked by the collapse of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc.  French banks top the list of Greek creditors with $57
billion in exposure to private and public debt at the end of
March, according to the  Bank for International Settlements  based
in Basel, Switzerland.  Natixis is also selling parts of its existing Asia lending,
including some ship financing and debt related to
infrastructure, Doan Tran said. Natixis is most interested in
selling on loans in which it had a participation role, rather
than a mandated lead arranger or bookrunner role, he said.  Risk-Weighted Assets  The bank is targeting a cut in its global risk-weighted
assets by 10 billion euros ($13.4 billion), and liquidity needs
by 15 billion to 20 billion euros, by the end of 2013, according
to its Nov. 9 third quarter earnings presentation. Natixis is
the investment-banking and asset-management unit of Groupe BPCE.  The lender will no longer finance vessels in  Asia , Doan
Tran said, and only fund energy projects such as oil rigs, Doan
Tran said. For aircraft, it will focus on lending to larger
clients, and allocate capital from telecommunications and
infrastructure to focus on utilities and power, he said.  Natixis’s loan business in the Asia-Pacific region outside
of  Japan  almost halved this year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. It’s the No. 49 arranger, with a 0.5 percent market
share, falling from No. 32 in 2010, the data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wendy Mock in  Hong Kong  at 
 wmock3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  