-- 
NBA Players, Owners Ratify Deal; Roster Makeovers Set to Begin

-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 
2011-12-09T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/nba-players-owners-ratify-deal-roster-makeovers-set-to-begin.html
The  National Basketball Association 
officially is back.  The league and its players, who were locked out 162 days
ago when their last labor deal expired, yesterday ratified a new
10-year agreement that allows team practices and player signings
to begin at 2 p.m. New York time. The season, shortened to 66
games from 82, begins Dec. 25.  Twenty-five of the league’s 30 franchises voted in favor of
the agreement that allows each side to opt out after six years,
NBA Commissioner David Stern said at a news conference. Of the
more than 200 players who voted electronically, 86 percent were
in favor of ratifying the deal, the  National Basketball Players
Association  said in a news release.  “It’s a fair agreement, we believe, that had many
compromises from both sides,” Stern said. “While it’s not
perfect, the deal addresses significant issues on both sides in
a very productive way.”  Under the accord, which also settles multiple lawsuits,
players will receive 51.2 percent of basketball-related income
this season. Future splits run from 49 percent and 51 percent,
depending on whether the league falls short of projections or
exceeds them. Last season the league reported about $4.3 billion
in revenue, with players receiving 57 percent of basketball-
related income.  Chris Paul  Trade Rejected  After the league made improved competitive balance between
small- and big-market teams an issue in the negotiations, the
NBA last night rejected a trade that would have sent All-Star
guard Chris Paul to the  Los Angeles Lakers  from the  New Orleans
Hornets , which was bought by the league a year ago after it ran
into financial difficulties,  Mike Bass , a spokesman for the NBA,
said in an e-mail.  “The league office declined to make the trade for
basketball reasons,” Bass told the  Associated Press .  Among the unrestricted free agents on the market are Tyson Chandler, David West, Kris Humphries, Caron Butler, Nene, Jason Richardson and  Glen Davis . Forward Shane Battier said yesterday
in a post on Twitter that he was signing with the  Miami Heat .  Paul and  Dwight Howard  of the  Orlando  Magic will be free
agents after the 2011-12 season, meaning Orlando may look to
work a trade before then if re-signing isn’t possible.  The league’s new revenue-sharing agreement will “roughly
quadruple the amount shared,” Stern said. During the 2013-14
season about $196 million will be transferred between teams,
with six franchises getting at least $16 million.  No Objections  “When we started this tortured journey, more robust
revenue sharing was a very important goal that we set,” Stern
said. “It required bringing along a number of teams that had
grown up, so to speak, without major obligations to revenue
share. I feel very good that, amongst the people that voted for
this deal, the large markets were not there objecting or
standing in the way at all.”  The owners and players also agreed that, at some point, the
league will begin blood testing for the muscle builder human-
growth hormone, though not until an independent panel of
scientists decides that the test is valid, said Adam Silver, the
NBA’s deputy commissioner and chief labor negotiator.  “It’s safe to say it won’t happen this season,” Silver
said. “There’s no specific timeline. We’ve been watching
closely what’s been going on in the NFL with their players
association.”  The  National Football League  and  Major League Baseball 
included provisions to test for HGH in their new labor contracts.
While the NFL included it as part of an August labor contract,
the players’ association has delayed its implementation while
disputing the program details.  The lockout was the fourth-longest work stoppage in major
U.S. team sports history, behind a 310-day lockout in the
 National Hockey League  in 2004-05, a 232-day baseball players
strike in 1994, and the NBA’s 1998-99 lockout, which lasted 204
days and led to a 50-game season that began in February 1999.  Stern, 69, also presided over the NBA during the 1998-99
lockout. He said the latest deal is probably his last.  “I’m not planning to be here, certainly for the 10, and
probably not for the six,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in  New York  at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 