-- 
NBA’s ‘Idiotic’ Rejection of All-Star Paul’s Trade Overshadows Labor Peace

-- B y   S c o t t   S o s h n i c k   a n d   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 
2011-12-09T18:58:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/nba-s-idiotic-rejection-of-all-star-paul-s-trade-overshadows-labor-peace.html
Idiotic. Absolutely nuts. Never seen
anything like it.  Those were some of the words greeting National Basketball
Association Commissioner  David Stern  on what was supposed to be
the first day in a decade of labor peace, marked by the return
of happy-to-be-back players in training camp after a five-month
lockout.  Instead, Stern and other officials were lambasted today
after they rejected the trade of Chris Paul, 26, to the  Los
Angeles Lakers  from the league-owned New Orleans Hornets, a move
in which the NBA cited unspecific basketball reasons.  “This is absolutely nuts,” said Steve Kerr, a former
Phoenix Suns general manager now an NBA analyst with TNT. “It’s
idiotic.”  For Paul, a four-time All-Star who’s scheduled to become a
free agent after this season, the Hornets would have received
Lakers forward  Lamar Odom , last season’s Sixth Man of the Year,
as well as guards Kevin Martin and Goran Dragic, forward Luis Scola and a first-round draft pick from Houston. The Rockets
would have gotten Pau Gasol from the Lakers.  Gasol’s departure from  Los Angeles  would have created a
vacancy in the front court that may have been filled by 26-year-
old Dwight Howard, an Orlando Magic All-Star who, like Paul, is
set for free agency after this season.  “From the Hornets perspective, this one is one of the best
basketball trades we’ve seen in years,” Kerr said in a
telephone interview.  Expiring Contracts  He noted how hard it is for a general manager to get equal
value when trading any player, let alone a superstar, when his
contract is about to expire.  “You can’t argue this isn’t a fair trade basketball-
wise,” Kerr said. “You just can’t.”  The NBA didn’t say who advised Stern on whether the trade,
from a purely basketball perspective, made sense.  “I don’t want to speak on the basketball side, but that
particular one was weighed against  Chris Paul ’s continued
presence in New Orleans, which was deemed preferable,” Stern
said this morning in a brief interview at league headquarters in
New York, where the new labor accord was signed.  Among the principal reasons for the lockout, Stern said
many times, was creating an agreement that would foster
competitive balance by making it easier for small-market, lower-
revenue clubs to retain and attract star players.  The previous contract expired after  LeBron James  left the
 Cleveland Cavaliers  for the  Miami Heat , where the two-time Most
Valuable player teamed with fellow All-Stars Chris Bosh and
Dwyane Wade. Paul joked at Carmelo Anthony’s wedding about
creating a Miami-like super team with the  New York  Knicks.  ‘Travesty’  Dan Gilbert of the Cavaliers was among the owners who
pushed Stern to nix the Paul trade, calling the proposed swap a
“travesty” in an e-mail to the commissioner that was shared
with Bloomberg News.  Gilbert called for the trade to be voted on by the league’s
29 owners.  “When will we just change the name of 25 of the 30 teams
to the Washington Generals,” he wrote, referring to the team
that always loses to the Harlem Globetrotters.  Owner Les Alexander of the Rockets and Mark Cuban of the
defending-champion  Dallas Mavericks  declined in e-mails to
comment on the Paul trade case. Cuban usually is one of the more
outspoken NBA owners.  Stern, in a statement today, said his decision wasn’t
influenced by league owners.  Union Review  Billy Hunter , executive director of the players’
association, said in an interview today that he’s waiting to
hear from Paul before deciding how to proceed. Paul didn’t
return an e-mail seeking comment on the trade nullification.  Steve Mills, a former  Madison Square Garden (MSG)  executive who
represented the Knicks during the 1998-99 labor talks, said he’s
never seen anything like a league rejecting a trade made by a
team that it owns.  “It’s such a unique situation,” he said in a telephone
interview, noting that, from a basketball perspective, the
Hornets looked like they did OK. “Preferably, this would’ve
never happened.”  Russ Granik, who spent 1990 to 2006 as Stern’s top
lieutenant, says the league’s position that this was a
basketball decision should be accepted.  He compared the situation to the 1975 trade of eventual
Hall-of-Fame center Kareem Abdul-Jabbar to the Lakers from the
 Milwaukee Bucks , who got four players in return.  “You’re getting lots of pieces,” Granik said in a
telephone interview. “It’s hard to replace a superstar with
pieces.”  No Effect  Paul’s presence has no effect on the Hornets’ value to a
potential buyer from a business standpoint, said  Sal Galatioto ,
founder of New York-based Galatioto Sports Partners, which has
sold NBA teams including the  Philadelphia 76ers ,  Golden State
Warriors  and  Phoenix Suns .  “Nobody buys a team because of players,” Galatioto said
in a telephone interview. “Players come and go.”  Kerr, who played on Chicago Bulls championship teams
alongside Michael Jordan, said labor contracts can’t legislate
competitive balance. Power in the league, he said, has to do
with drafting well, free agency and market attractiveness.  “I guess now they’ll talk about league ownership of the
team,” he said. “It’s the biggest conflict of interest of all
time, and one that’s opened up a huge can of worms.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Scott Soshnick  in New York at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net ;
Mason Levinson in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  