-- 
Nigeria Bank Raids Reach 100 This Year

-- B y   E m e l e   O n u   a n d   M u s t a p h a   M u h a m m a d
-- 
2011-12-09T05:54:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/nigeria-bank-raids-reach-100-this-year-on-boko-haram-attacks.html
Armed attacks on banks in  Nigeria 
have reached 100 this year as a militant Islamic sect, Boko
Haram, increasingly targets lenders in the country’s mainly
Muslim north, a central bank official said.  “About 100 bank branches have been attacked by Boko Haram
and armed robbers this year,” Mohammed Abdullahi, spokesman of
the  Central Bank of Nigeria , said in a telephone interview
yesterday. “When compared with about 5,574 branches of the
banks, 1.7 percent have been attacked.”  Authorities in  Africa ’s most populous country of more than
160 million people blame the Boko Haram sect, which draws
inspiration from Afghanistan’s Taliban movement, for a surge in
violent attacks this year, including suicide bombings and armed
assaults on government buildings, police stations and banks in
the north and Abuja, the capital. The sect claimed
responsibility for the Aug. 26 suicide car-bombing of the United
Nations building in Abuja that killed 24 people.  At least 30 attacks attributed to Boko Haram, whose name in
the Hausa language translates as “Western education is a sin,”
have been reported this year, according to the police. In the
latest attack on Dec. 4, assailants destroyed branches of
 Intercontinental Bank Plc (INTERCON)  and  Guaranty Trust Bank Plc (GUARANTY)  in the
town of Azare in the northeast with explosives and gunfire. They
also attacked a nearby police station, leaving at least six
people dead.  Legitimate Targets  The group wants Islamic rule in Nigeria’s Muslim north and
perceives lenders that charge interest, contrary to their
belief, as legitimate targets,  Shehu Sani , president of Kaduna-
based civic group, Civil Rights Congress, who had tried to
mediate between the government and the sect, said in a phone
interview on Dec. 6. “The Islamist insurgents also attack banks
as a source of finance for their activities,” he said.  Nigeria, Africa’s top oil producer and most populous nation
of more than 160 million people, is roughly split between a
mainly Muslim north and a predominantly Christian south. More
than 14,000 people died in ethnic and religious clashes in the
West African nation between 1999 and 2009, according to the
Brussels-based  International Crisis Group .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emele Onu in Lagos at 
 eonu1@bloomberg.net ;
Mustapha Muhammad in Kano at 
 mmuhammad5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dulue Mbachu at 
 dmbachu@bloomberg.net  