-- 
NYC Triathlon Adds Open-Water Swim Requirement After Deaths in 2011 Event

-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 
2011-12-09T19:09:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/nyc-triathlon-adds-open-water-swim-requirement-after-deaths-in-2011-event.html
New York City Triathlon  officials are
requiring all 2012 entrants to commit to completing an open-
water swim of at least a half mile within 18 months of the event
after two competitors died in this year’s race.  Triathletes must agree when registering  online  to do the
swim and verify that they have read a five-paragraph waiver
alerting them to the “difficult demands” of the 1.5-kilometer
(0.93-mile) swim down the  Hudson River .  Organizers will rely on a “truthful response” and won’t
request documentation that the required swim was completed, said
John Korff, president of Korff Enterprises Inc., which has
staged the race since 2000.  “We’re assuming since our competitors are adults, they’ll
do it,” Korff said today in a telephone interview. “We can’t
mandate they do it because then we have to verify it. How do we
ever know? You assume responsibility for your own actions.”  Michael Kudryk, a 64-year-old from Freehold, New Jersey,
and Amy Martich, a 40-year-old investment analyst from the
Chicago area, died after suffering heart attacks while competing
in the swim portion of the race in August.  Manhattan  Borough President Scott Stringer called for a
comprehensive review of the race’s safety rules. Korff said he
worked closely with  USA Triathlon , the sport’s governing body in
the U.S., to create the open-water swim requirement.  Athletes also cycle 40 kilometers (25 miles) along the
Henry Hudson Parkway and then run 10 kilometers (6.2 miles),
finishing in Central Park. The event draws about 3,000 athletes
to  New York  every year.  Swim Sites  The required swim must be completed in a lake, river or
ocean. Floatation devices aren’t allowed although a USA
Triathlon-certified wetsuit may be used, according to the
waiver.  The New York race has psychologists patrolling the start
area looking for competitors who appear apprehensive.  “We’re not worried about a guy in  New Jersey  who lives on
a lake,” Korff said. “We’re worried about the guy who lives in
Manhattan and thinks an open-water swim means swimming in an
outdoor pool. We want this to be fun, but this also requires
training. Before you go out and try to be Superman, don’t forget
to put on your cape.”  Bloomberg Businessweek, whose parent company Bloomberg LP
owns Bloomberg News, sponsors the New York City Triathlon.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Buteau in Atlanta at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  