-- 
Loaded-Up Payroll Tax-Cut Bills to Collide

-- B y   S t e v e n   S l o a n   a n d   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 
2011-12-09T15:54:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/loaded-up-payroll-tax-cut-bills-to-collide.html
U.S. House Speaker  John Boehner  and
Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  are poised for a collision
next week of their bids to extend or expand a  payroll tax  cut
for workers.  House Republicans rallied yesterday behind a plan Boehner
is preparing that would pair an extension of the current  payroll 
tax cut with eased restrictions on some industrial emissions and
expedited approval of an oil pipeline from  Canada . Reid is
focused on expanding cuts to the worker payroll tax and using a
surtax on annual income exceeding $1 million to pay for it.  Both leaders agree on extending the Social Security payroll
tax cut in some manner, addressing expanded  unemployment 
benefits that will lapse at the end of the year, preventing cuts
to physician reimbursements by Medicare and approving some
spending reductions. Their differences over how to pay for a
comprehensive package, along with some of their priorities,
present procedural hurdles -- such as the need for 60 votes to
avoid a filibuster -- that are tough to clear, said Senate
Budget Committee Chairman  Kent Conrad , a North Dakota Democrat.  “At this moment, I don’t see the formula that gets 60
votes,” he said. “I’m still hopeful that we will.”  ‘Extremist Agenda’  Representative Steve Israel of  New York , the head of the
Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee, said the Republican
approach will help Democrats politically.  “The more they pursue this extremist agenda and try and
hurt the pocketbooks of the middle class in order to reward
their special-interest friends, the more Republican seats will
be in play,” Israel said yesterday in an interview taped for
broadcast this weekend on Bloomberg Television’s “Political
Capital with  Al Hunt .”  The House and the Senate won’t hold votes today and most
lawmakers are returning to their districts for the weekend.
Unless they address the payroll tax cut by Dec. 31, workers will
get 2 percent less in their paychecks starting in January.  That’s a result that both parties want to avoid, said
Senator  Joseph Lieberman , a Connecticut independent.  “It’s a classic moment of this session of Congress, which
is that both parties are for something and we can’t figure out
how to get it done,” he said.  Pipeline Fight  The biggest fights likely will center on a Republican
demand that the bill include language that would expedite the
approval of the Keystone XL pipeline in Canada. The proposed
 TransCanada Corp. (TRP)  pipeline would carry oil from Canada to the
U.S. The Obama administration has put off a decision on the
pipeline until 2013.  President  Barack Obama  has said that he will reject efforts
to tie approval of the pipeline to extension of a  payroll  tax
cut. Boehner said the issue should be addressed in the package
because development of the pipeline will create jobs.  ‘The Keystone pipeline project would create tens of
thousands of jobs immediately,’’ said Boehner, an Ohio
Republican. “At a time when the American people are still
asking the question ‘Where are the jobs?,’ this is a bipartisan
proposal that the president ought to endorse.”  Representative  Jeb Hensarling , a Texas Republican, urged
Obama not to use his veto authority on the pipeline issue.  “Mr. President, we will have some of your ideas in the
bill, maybe it’s time for you to try some of ours,” he told
reporters after the Republican meeting.  ‘Poison Pills’  House Democratic leader  Nancy Pelosi  of California said
Republicans were “injecting poison pills” into the
legislation, knowing that Obama wouldn’t sign it into law with
those provisions.  While both parties are interested in continuing expanded
 unemployment benefits  beyond their scheduled expiration at the
end of the year, they are divided over the details. Over time,
Republicans want to scale back how long the unemployed can claim
compensation from 99 weeks to 79 weeks and eventually 59 weeks,
said Representative Pat Tiberi, an Ohio Republican.  House Ways and Means Committee Chairman  Dave Camp , a
Michigan Republican, said yesterday that Republican leaders are
still talking to members about unemployment benefits “to try to
find a policy that everyone can agree on.”  Pelosi said reducing the benefits to 59 weeks would be
“problematic” for her caucus.  Other Provisions  The Republican bill also would overturn an Obama
administration rule that bars states from conducting drug tests
for recipients of unemployment compensation and would include
income-based eligibility for  food stamps , according to
Representative Aaron Schock, an Illinois Republican.  Another area of potential agreement is a provision that
allows the complete write-off of capital investments that
Representative Charles Boustany, a Louisiana Republican, said
would be included in the Republican measure. Unless Congress
acts, the ability for full write-offs expires Dec. 31, and in
2012 companies could receive only 50 percent bonus depreciation.  Representative  Sander Levin  of  Michigan , the top Democrat
on the Ways and Means panel, said he could support that
provision.  Both parties have expressed interest in avoiding reductions
in reimbursements by Medicare that are due to begin Jan. 1. The
Republican bill would prevent the cuts for two years and provide
physicians with reimbursements that would be 1 percent larger
than they were this year, according to Representative Phil Gingrey, a Georgia Republican who is a physician. That would
cost $39 billion over 10 years, according to the  Congressional
Budget Office .  Longer-Term Fixes  Gingrey said Camp promised to consider longer-term fixes to
the Medicare reimbursement system next year. Camp’s pledge
persuaded Gingrey to back the package, Gingrey said.  Republicans will find savings, according to Gingrey, by
expanding the pool of higher-income Medicare beneficiaries who
would be required to pay larger premiums for Part B physician
care. The plan includes income-based eligibility for the drug
benefit program under Medicare Part D.  Upper-income senior citizens would pay “closer to the true
cost” of the programs, Gingrey said.  The Senate yesterday blocked separate Democratic and
Republican bills that would have extended or expanded the
payroll tax next year. The Democratic measure, which failed to
advance in a 50-48 vote, would have reduced the payroll tax to
3.1 percent next year for employees. The Republican bill, which
stalled in a 22-76 vote, would have extended the payroll tax at
the current 4.2 percent rate for one year.  ‘Partisan Joke’  Both bills needed 60 votes to advance. After the votes,
Reid said the Republican proposal being drafted in the House
wouldn’t succeed in his chamber.  “ House Republicans ’ bill is a partisan joke that has no
chance of passing the Senate,” the Nevada Democrat said in a
press release. “Instead of playing political games, Congress
should work to find common ground.”  The House could vote on the Republican plan as soon as Dec.
13, Gingrey said. Its work won’t likely be completed if
Democrats in the Senate block the measure, setting up possible
back-and-forth maneuvering between the chambers next week.  Boehner “put enough red meat for their Tea Party folks to
get it done,” said Representative Henry Cuellar, a Texas
Democrat. “But on the way back, he’s going to lose a lot of
those folks because they’re going to strip out things and then
it’s up to the Democrats to come in and help it out.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steven Sloan in Washington at 
 ssloan7@bloomberg.net ;
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  