-- 
Obama Says Righting U.S. Economy to Be ‘Long-Term Project’ for Presidents

-- B y   J o e   S o b c z y k
-- 
2011-12-09T23:50:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/obama-says-righting-u-s-economy-will-be-long-term-project-.html
President  Barack Obama  said restoring
the U.S. to robust economic growth is “a long-term project”
and will take more than one term and likely “more than one
president.”  Americans “have every reason to be impatient” with the
pace of the recovery, Obama said in an interview with the CBS
program “60 minutes,” according to an excerpt released by the
network.  “I didn’t underestimate how tough this was going to be,”
Obama said. “I always believed that this was a long-term
project.”  The president said in response to a question that “it’s
possible” the nation’s unemployment rate may fall to 8 percent
by the time of the 2012 election. “I’m not in the job of
prognosticating on the economy,” he said. “I’m in the job of
putting in place the tools that allow the economy to thrive and
Americans to succeed.”  The state of the economy likely will be the top issue in
the presidential campaign as the Republican candidates have been
making Obama’s policies a central part of their arguments.  While employers added 120,000 jobs to their payrolls last
month and  unemployment  fell to 8.6 percent, the recovery remains
fragile and jobs aren’t being created fast enough, Alan Krueger,
chairman of the White House Council of Economic advisers, said
Dec. 2 after the jobs data was released. Wage gains were
limited, restraining consumers’ ability to boost spending that
accounts for 70 percent of the economy.  2012 Forecast  Unemployment will average 8.7 percent in 2012, according to
the median forecast by economists surveyed by Bloomberg News
from Dec. 2-8.  Republicans, including former Massachusetts Governor  Mitt Romney , among the front-runners for the party’s presidential
nomination, have faulted Obama for a forecast released at the
start of his administration that the stimulus package he pushed
through Congress would keep the  unemployment rate  from rising
above 8 percent. It’s been above that level since February 2009
and hit a peak of 10.1 percent in October of that year.  “Reversing structural problems in our economy that have
been building up for two decades, that was going to take time,”
Obama said according to the “60 Minutes” excerpts. “It was
going to take more than one term. Probably takes more than one
president.”  Obama told CBS that, when he talks with his staff, he uses
the analogy of a ship “going through really bad storms.”  “People are going to say, ‘You know what? A good captain
would have had us in some smooth waters and sunny skies at this
point,’ Obama said. “And I don’t control the weather. What I
can control are the policies we’re putting in place to make a
difference in people’s lives.”  The full interview is scheduled for broadcast on Dec. 11.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Sobczyk in  Washington  at 
 jsobczyk@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 