-- 
Obama, Euro Crisis, NYC Protest: Bloomberg Best Photos of 2011

-- B y   N a t a s h a   C h o l e r t o n - B r o w n
-- 
2011-12-10T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/obama-euro-crisis-buffett-tsunami-nyc-demo-best-bloomberg-photos-2011.html
Bloomberg Photos produced memorable
images throughout 2011 that reflected the news within the world
of business and finance.  Thousands of photographs served all Bloomberg platforms and
its media clients in print, Internet, mobile and television.
They illustrated world financial-market volatility and the
European sovereign debt crisis, which cut both currency values
and economic growth.  The photo team also covered the legal case at the Galleon
Group LLC hedge fund, the biggest insider-trading scheme in a
generation.  Among the dramatic images this year:  Japan ’s March 11 earthquake and tsunami, which led to the
worst radiation release since Chernobyl, was captured by
Tomohiro Ohsumi. He photographed large ships that were tossed
onto houses and cars.  As world travelers suffered from another Icelandic volcanic
explosion, its beauty was recorded by Ragnar Axelsson. In one
shot, a lone figure struggled through the gloom caused by the
 ash cloud .  Another natural disaster was the Bangkok floods. Dario
Pignatelli photographed art-like sculptures rising from dirty
brown water -- construction material lying partly submerged on
the city’s northern suburbs.  In Europe’s battle with the debt crisis, Jock Fistick
pictured finance ministers looking almost jovial as they met in
Brussels to discuss possible solutions.  By contrast,  George Papandreou , who was Greece’s prime
minister until last month, had his hands clasped as if in prayer
when he was photographed by Kostas Tsironis.  Tsironis also braved riots to record Greek police facing
petrol-bomb attacks as protesters rallied against austerity
cuts.  Ben S. Bernanke , chairman of the U.S. Federal Reserve, was
captured in a serene portrait by Andrew Harrer.  By contrast, frenzied traders are shown reacting to
changing prices in images by Chris Ratcliffe, Scott Eells and
Tim Boyle.  Dominique Strauss-Kahn, who had to step down as chief of
the International Monetary Fund after being accused of sexually
assaulting a Manhattan hotel maid, was photographed slumped in a
New York court house by Richard Drew.  Elsewhere, Kweku Adoboli, the trader accused of costing  UBS
AG (UBSN)  $2.3 billion by making unauthorized transactions, was
captured on camera by Simon Dawson as he entered a London court.  Danielle Chiesi, a former New Castle Funds LLC analyst who
pleaded guilty to securities fraud, had time to wave for a
portrait by Rick Maiman as she left a New York court house.  Politics produced some telling moments recorded by
Bloomberg’s photographers.  President Barack Obama and Julia Gillard, Australia’s prime
minister, seemed oblivious to the cameras following a news
conference in Canberra. Their shared moment was caught by Mark
Graham.  Italy’s Finance Minister  Giulio Tremonti  bowed his head as
he sat next to the country’s Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  in
an image by Alessandra Benedetti, which came four months before
Berlusconi departed office.  The U.S. presidential debate in Hanover, New Hampshire,
with Newt Gingrich,  Michele Bachmann  and Rick Perry, provided us
with key images as the campaign gathered pace. Scott Eells and
Daniel Acker were the photographers.  Chris Ratcliffe recorded a floral tribute to  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s
 Steve Jobs  as an impromptu street memorial was placed outside
the London Apple store after the computer executive’s death.  Tim Cook , Apple’s new chief executive officer, was caught
as a small figure below the company logo by David Paul Morris.  Among other business portraits, Mexican billionaire Carlos Slim stands out in a beautifully lit shot by Chris Goodney.  Steve Ballmer,  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s chief executive, appears
in silhouette against an Xbox 360 light screen in a picture by
Andrew Harrer.  The diversity of the coverage is shown with Adrian Moser’s
image of the BMW concept vehicle from the Geneva Motor show and
a boy moving a herd of buffaloes along a country lane in
 Pakistan  by Asim Hafeez.  The photo team’s year was rounded off with Chris Ratcliffe
being named as Business Photographer of the Year in the U.K.
Picture Editors’ Guild Awards 2011.  (Natasha Cholerton-Brown is the global team leader for
Bloomberg Photos. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the editor responsible for this slideshow:
Natasha Cholerton-Brown at  