-- 
Obama Cheers ‘Whole Bunch’ of Homecomings as Iraq Role Evolves

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v   a n d   V i o l a   G i e n g e r
-- 
2011-12-09T05:01:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/obama-cheers-whole-bunch-of-homecomings-as-iraq-role-evolves.html
President  Barack Obama  is calling
attention to the end of the war in Iraq that will bring U.S.
troops home for the holidays, staging a series of events even as
his administration and Iraqis talk about the future U.S. role
there and rising threats from neighbor Iran.  Obama, who sat for interviews with four local television
stations around the country yesterday, told WISH-TV in
Indianapolis that the next time he is in  Indiana  it may be to
promote hiring for veterans returning to a tough economy.  “We’ve got a whole bunch of them who are going to be
coming back this month because we’ve ended the war in Iraq as I
promised,” he said.  Obama begins the next week with a White House meeting with
Iraqi Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki on Dec. 12. He and first
lady  Michelle Obama  will address troops Dec. 14 at Fort Bragg,
 North Carolina , home of the 82nd Airborne Division and the Army
Special Operations Command.  The Obamas wanted to speak to troops and their families on
Dec. 14 “as we definitively end America’s war in Iraq this
month,” the White House said in a statement yesterday.  Michelle Obama is scheduled on Dec. 16 to deliver donated
gifts to the Marines’ Toys for Tots program. The first lady’s
office also said in a statement yesterday that she had invited
military families to be the first to view the White House
holiday decorations this year, including a tree decorated by
Gold Star families and the official White House Christmas tree
that honors Blue Star families.  Political Issue  Obama, running for re-election next year, promised to end
U.S. military involvement during his 2008 campaign. He has been
criticized by Republican presidential challengers who say it’s
too soon to end the mission and doing so could put U.S. gains at
risk.  Republican presidential candidate  Mitt Romney  called
Obama’s decision an “astonishing failure to secure an orderly
transition.” Romney questioned whether the decision came from
“naked political calculation or simply sheer ineptitude.”  The agreement that kept troops in the country through the
end of the year was negotiated in 2008 under President  George W. Bush . The Iraqi government declined to provide immunity from
prosecution for U.S. troops to stay into next year.  ‘Partisan Environment’  “You don’t want, as a Democratic president, the charge
that you somehow lost the war,” said  Anthony Cordesman , an
analyst at the Center for Strategic and International Studies, a
policy center in Washington. “In this partisan environment,
every charge will be made and has been.”  The U.S. military is working to remove its remaining 8,000
military personnel and 5,000 contractors from  Iraq  as the year-
end deadline nears. That is down from a peak of about 300,000
Americans in Iraq in 2007, including almost 170,000 uniformed
personnel as well as civilians and contractors.  The number of American military bases in Iraq has plummeted
to five from 505 at the peak, said Lieutenant General Frank
Helmick, the deputy commander of American forces in the country.
They have fewer than 1,000 truckloads of equipment left to
remove before the final exit, he said.  Helmick told reporters at the Pentagon on Dec. 7 that
violence in Iraq “is at an all-time low” since the invasion to
less than 50 attacks per week compared with a peak of 1,600.  “We enabled and facilitated elections,” he said. “We’ve
built a military.”  U.S. Presence  After the troop exit, the U.S. presence will consist mainly
of the embassy in  Baghdad  and its affiliated consulates and
other offices. About 16,000 personnel will serve under the
embassy’s umbrella next year, according to State Department
figures. About 1,700 of them will include diplomats and subject-
matter experts in fields such as business and agriculture as
well as law enforcement officers, while 5,000 will be security
contractors to guard staff and facilities.  The U.S. military also will continue coordination with
Iraq, such as port visits and joint exercises. Whether and how
Iraq might enlist the U.S. in helping defend its air space will
depend on what Iraqi officials decide, Helmick said. The U.S.
has thousands of forces elsewhere in the region, including in
neighboring  Kuwait , as well as aircraft carriers off the coasts.  The war is ending as U.S. concerns about Iraq’s neighbor,
 Iran , and its nuclear program are mounting.  Attacks by Iranian-backed militias, al-Qaeda in Iraq and
weak management and logistics in the police and army continue to
undermine internal security. The country’s air defenses are
mostly nonexistent, and command of intelligence, surveillance
and reconnaissance capabilities remains weak.  The ‘Question Mark’  “We really don’t know what’s going to happen,” Helmick
said. “There is a question mark right now for external
security. But for the internal security, we’ve done all we can
do.”  The war also has had its impact on the American fighting
men and women, who returned home scarred physically or with
post-traumatic stress. A program called “Operation New Exit”
aims to bring service members back to Iraq who were evacuated
because of injuries, so they can leave formally and with
dignity.  “From the U.S. viewpoint you want to have a presence that
can counter Iran’s influence,” Cordesman said. “It isn’t now
simply the future of Iraq, but the future of  Syria . The issue is
regional security. It is the Arab Winter.”  Army General Martin Dempsey, chairman of the Joint Chiefs
of Staff and Obama’s top military adviser, has said, while U.S.
commanders favored leaving as many as 16,000 troops in Iraq,
they wouldn’t consider that option without immunity. Panetta has
said the U.S. will still have 40,000 American troops nearby in
the Gulf region after the mission ends.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Margaret Talev  in  Washington  at 
Viola Gienger in Washington at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  