-- 
Obama Defeats Romney in Global Poll Showing Republican Weakness

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 
2011-12-09T05:00:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/obama-defeats-romney-in-global-poll-showing-republican-weakness.html
Global investors, skeptical about
President  Barack Obama ’s ability to turn around the economy,
nonetheless aren’t enamored with the Republican alternatives.  While a plurality of investors said Obama’s re-election
would be a bad thing for U.S. markets, 57 percent said in a
Bloomberg Global Poll that the current contenders for the
Republican presidential nomination aren’t offering good ideas to
lessen U.S. economic woes.  Globally, Obama ran slightly ahead of Republican  Mitt Romney  in a hypothetical matchup, 39 percent to 35 percent, when
investors were asked whose presidency would be better for the
world economy. That’s a reversal from the last poll, in
September, in which Romney led Obama, 37 percent to 34 percent.  In the latest poll, Obama beats Republican  Newt Gingrich 
more decisively on the global economy question, 45 percent to 29
percent.  Obama’s advantage is driven by non-U.S. investors. American
investors expressed a clear preference for either Republican --
favoring Romney over the president 65 percent to 24 percent, and
backing Gingrich 52 percent to 33 percent.  The quarterly poll, conducted Dec. 5-6, surveyed 1,097
investors, traders and analysts who are Bloomberg subscribers,
including 419 in the U.S.  “I can imagine re-election of Barack Obama could be a
disappointment for U.S. markets in the short term, but his
policy could support the global economy,” said Michael Fuxa,
41, a poll respondent and head of investments for uniVersa Life
Insurance Co. in Nuremberg,  Germany .  Entitlement Programs  Alfredo Viegas, managing director of  emerging markets  at
Knight Capital in Greenwich,  Connecticut , said that Gingrich or
Romney, working with a Republican-led  House of Representatives ,
would be more likely than Obama to enact changes to entitlement
programs, such as  Medicare , to control federal spending.  “I do believe their ideas on curtailing the budgetary
growth profile of entitlements is reason enough to vote for
them,” Viegas, a poll respondent, said in an e-mail.  Thirty-eight percent of global investors said Obama’s re-
election would be a good thing for U.S. markets, while 44
percent said it would be a bad thing.  Among investors outside the U.S., 37 percent were
optimistic about how Obama’s policies were affecting the
business climate, compared with 18 percent in the U.S.  Republican Ratings  Opinions on Romney and Gingrich among U.S. and overseas
investors also diverged.  Investors outside the U.S. gave Romney a 21 percent
favorable rating, with 33 percent rating him unfavorably and 46
percent saying they had “no idea.” Gingrich had a 15 percent
favorability rating outside the U.S., with 41 percent viewing
him unfavorably and 44 percent unsure.  Among U.S. investors, Romney had a 58 percent favorable and
37 percent unfavorable rating. Views toward Gingrich, the
frontrunner in polls of the Republican race, are almost exactly
the reverse, with 55 percent of U.S. investors rating him
negatively and 38 percent favorably.  “Romney has a business and finance acumen that Obama could
never match,” said Magnus Ranje, 33, a poll respondent and vice
president of Danske Markets Inc. in  New York .  While Republicans regularly target Obama administration
regulatory policies and the 2010 overhaul of the nation’s
health-care industry he pushed into law as major impediments to
the  U.S. economy , investors overall more commonly identify other
obstacles.  Political Gridlock  Gridlock between Democrats and Republicans is a
“substantial” barrier to U.S. economic growth, said 56 percent
of global investors, and a “modest” barrier, according to an
additional 28 percent.  Uncertainty about the health-care law, which the U.S.
Supreme Court is to consider next year, was cited as a
substantial barrier by 23 percent and a modest barrier by 41
percent. Twenty-eight percent said regulatory policy is a
substantial barrier, and 40 percent said it poses a modest
barrier.  One in four investors said widening  income inequality  is a
substantial barrier to economic growth in the U.S.  Improvement for Obama  Obama has regained some standing among global investors
since the last poll in September, as concerns of a double-dip
recession ebbed.  The U.S. president has a favorable rating of 48 percent and
an unfavorable rating of 47 percent, compared with a favorable
rating of 39 percent and an unfavorable rating of 57 percent in
the September poll. In a May survey, his favorability rating was
55 percent.  Performance of the benchmark  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  of
U.S. stocks was up 8.21 percent between completion of the last
poll, on Sept. 26, and the new survey that ended Dec. 6.  Still, investors are twice as pessimistic as they are
optimistic about the effects of Obama administration policies on
the U.S. investment climate, 66 percent to 30 percent.  The September poll was completed less than two months after
a standoff between Obama and Republican lawmakers over raising
the U.S.  debt ceiling  took the country to the brink of default
and led  Standard & Poor’s  to downgrade the U.S. credit rating.  Since then, investors’ views of Congress have improved,
though to a lesser degree than their ratings of Obama.  Investors have a 66 percent unfavorable view of
congressional Republicans, down from 68 percent in the last
poll, and a 59 percent unfavorable view of congressional
Democrats, down from 63 percent.  U.S. Views  U.S. investors were more critical of Congress than overseas
investors. Congressional Republicans had a 70 percent
unfavorable rating among U.S. investors and a 63 percent
unfavorable rating among non-U.S. investors.  Congressional Democrats had an 86 percent unfavorable
rating among U.S. investors, with 13 percent viewing them
favorably. The Democrats received an unfavorable rating from 42
percent of overseas investors and a favorable rating from 39
percent.  Among all investors, 60 percent said raising taxes on the
rich is the right way to address dire fiscal problems, a
position promoted by Obama. Views diverged among overseas and
U.S. investors: 69 percent of overseas investors say raising
taxes is the right thing to do while 51 percent of U.S.
investors say it’s the wrong approach.  ‘Comprehensive Solution’  “I am by no means a proponent of paying down debt
exclusively by taxing the rich,” poll respondent Levente Mady,
managing director of derivatives for Union Securities Ltd. in
 Vancouver ,  Canada , said in an e-mail. “But they need to be part
of a comprehensive solution where everyone takes less in
benefits and pays more in taxes in order to balance the books
eventually.”  The tax issue aside, Mady said Romney or Gingrich may be
better than Obama for the world economy.  “I don’t necessarily think that Gingrich or Romney are
going to do a great job,” Mady said. “Obama had his chance and
blew it. It is somebody else’s turn.”  Global tensions with  Iran  over its nuclear program emerged
as a concern in the poll, following the Nov. 29 ransacking of
the British Embassy in Tehran by demonstrators, with 65 percent
of investors saying they expect a military strike against  Iran’s
nuclear program  at some point.  The  United Nations ’  International Atomic Energy Agency  said
in a Nov. 8 report that Iran has continued work on developing
nuclear weapons capability. The U.S., U.K. and Canada on Nov. 21
announced financial penalties on Iran, and the European Union on
Dec. 1 toughened sanctions.  The quarterly Bloomberg Global Poll is conducted by Selzer
& Co., a  Des Moines , Iowa-based firm. The margin of error for
the entire sample is plus or minus 3.0 percentage points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Talev in Washington D.C. at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 