-- 
Volksbanken Needs New Restructuring Plan, EU Regulator Says

-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 
2011-12-09T12:16:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/oesterreichische-volksbanken-must-give-eu-new-restructuring-plan.html
Oesterreichische Volksbanken AG (VBPS) , the
Austrian lender which has yet to pay interest on 1 billion euros
($1.3 billion) of state aid received in 2009, must draw up new
restructuring measures after EU regulators opened an
investigation into the bank’s government bailout.  “A new further-reaching restructuring plan” should be
submitted as soon as possible, the European Commission said in
an e-mailed statement today. Regulators have “serious doubts”
about a plan presented last year which has “insufficient”
measures to avoid harm to competition and to share the cost of
restructuring between the bank, its shareholders and the state.  Volksbanken, majority-owned by a group of 62 regional
cooperative banks, said in October that it is seeking new
restructuring measures as it faced an annual loss of as much as
750 million euros. It scrapped its original plan to repay 300
million euros in government capital by the end of the year amid
losses and writedowns stemming from its corporate-client unit
Investkredit and its Romanian bank.  “We are reorganizing our business in a sustainable way to
guarantee our business model,” said Petra Roth, a spokeswoman
at lender, said by phone from Vienna.  Cooperative Banks  “This includes a cross-guarantee accord” with the
cooperative banks, Roth said. “This will create the sustainable
business model that the EU is demanding.”  Austrian  Finance Ministry  spokesman Harald Waiglein didn’t
immediately return a call and an e-mail seeking comment.  Format  magazine reported today that Volksbanken was
considering setting up a so-called bad bank as part of a plan it
may submit to the Austrian finance ministry next week, without
saying where it got the information. Volksbanken wants  Austria 
to carry the costs of this bad bank via capital injections and
guarantees and to reduce its capital by 60 percent to wipe out
losses, writing down 600 million euros of government aid, the
Vienna-based magazine said.  Roth declined to comment on the Format report.  Regional cooperative banks own 61 percent of Volksbanken.
 Germany ’s  DZ Bank  owns 23 percent, a unit of  Munich Re (MUV2)  owns 9
percent and  Raiffeisen Zentralbank Oesterreich AG  owns 6
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 