-- 
Olympus Ex-CEO Woodford Visits Japan in Delisting Showdown

-- B y   C h r i s   C o o p e r
-- 
2011-12-09T12:46:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/olympus-ex-ceo-woodford-visits-japan-in-delisting-showdown-1-.html
Olympus Corp. ’s former chief
executive officer  Michael Woodford  will arrive in  Japan  the day
before a deadline for the camera maker to announce earnings or
face delisting from the nation’s stock market.  Woodford will have meetings with people related to the
Tokyo-based company and he will also hold a press conference on
Dec. 14, according to an e-mail from Waku Miller, his spokesman.  Olympus, which is probing about 70 executives after
Woodford blew the whistle on a cover-up that cost 135 billion
yen ($1.7 billion), is due to restate earnings and release
second-quarter results next week after admitting to hiding
losses for decades. Company “yes men” who failed to stop
senior managers covering up the losses should be removed,
Olympus said when it announced the probe this week.  The  Tokyo  Stock Exchange has set a Dec. 14 deadline for
Olympus to announce earnings to avoid automatic delisting. The
bourse said this week that Olympus remains at risk of being
removed depending on the scale of the restatement of results.  The company has shed the equivalent of $4.5 billion, or
more than half its market value since Woodford was fired. The
stock rose 2.4 percent to 1,206 yen as of the 3 p.m. close of
trade in Tokyo today.  Ernst & Young ShinNihon LLC, an Olympus auditor, earlier
this week said it formed a committee to investigate its auditing
of the company.  Woodford, who has said he wants to avoid a delisting, plans
to hold meetings to help revitalize Olympus during his stay,
according to the e-mail. He will arrive on Dec. 13 and remain
until Dec. 16, the e-mail said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chris Cooper  in Tokyo at 
 ccooper1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ben Richardson at 
 brichardson8@bloomberg.net  