-- 
London Stock Exchange on Review for S&P Downgrade Due to Italy

-- B y   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r
-- 
2011-12-09T19:47:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/london-stock-exchange-on-review-for-s-p-downgrade-due-to-italy.html
London Stock Exchange Group Plc (LSE) , the
equity-market operator that also owns a clearinghouse in Italy,
may have its  credit rating  cut by  Standard & Poor’s  because
Italian banks’ finances are deteriorating.  S&P has begun reviewing whether to downgrade LSE’s A- long-
term issuer rating, according to a statement released today. An
announcement will be made within three months, after S&P
completes its evaluation of credit grades on the Italian
government and the nation’s banks, S&P said.  LSE “is materially exposed to unsecured credit risk to
Italian banks,” New York-based S&P said in a report today.
“The creditworthiness of these counterparts has been
deteriorating over the past several months.”  Credit-default swaps on European banks such as UniCredit
SpA,  Italy ’s biggest lender, show the odds they will be unable
to repay their debt has increased. The exchange bought Cassa di
Compensazione e Garanzia SpA, the Italian clearing unit, when it
purchased the Italian bourse in 2007.  The expanding European debt crisis drove credit-default
swaps on Milan-based UniCredit as high as 688 basis points, a
record, on Nov. 25, according to data compiled by CMA.  Clearinghouses manage counterparty risks by building
guarantee funds and requiring cash collateral margins on
transactions. They typically reinvest the collateral to earn
profits for shareholders.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. cut its recommendation on LSE
shares to “sell” on Nov. 15, citing concern about the
sustainability of CC&G’s net interest income, or income LSE
earns from taking margin or deposits from traders who use its
Italian central counterparty.  The exchange takes the margin deposits, pays the depositors
interest and earns income by investing the funds for the short
term in the Italian  interbank market .  “If a treasury counterpart with whom it has placed cash
defaults, it is CC&G who bears the loss, not the clearing
members,” S&P said. “The creditworthiness of LSE Group is, to
a potentially meaningful extent, linked to key counterparts in
the Italian banking sector.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nandini Sukumar in London at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  