-- 
Hong Kong’s TMA to Invite Banks to Publish Dim Sum Loan Rates

-- B y   K a t r i n a   N i c h o l a s
-- 
2011-12-09T03:18:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/hong-kong-s-tma-to-invite-banks-to-publish-dim-sum-loan-rates.html
Hong Kong ’s  Treasury Markets
Association  will invite banks to post their own lending rates
for yuan in the city on its website as part of the efforts to
develop an offshore loan market in the Chinese currency.  “In order to promote transparency and pave the way to
developing an official reference rate in offshore renminbi, TMA
will invite a few banks to post their own offer rates on TMA’s
website,” the association said in a  statement  on the Asia-
Pacific Loan Market Association’s website today.  The lack of a floating reference rate over which to price
offshore yuan loans in Hong Kong is inhibiting the market’s
growth. The London interbank offered rate, set daily by the
British Bankers’ Association based on data from banks reflecting
how much it would cost them to borrow from each other for
various periods of time, is used as a benchmark for more than
$350 trillion of financial products worldwide.  APLMA chairman John Corrin said in August the association
had been holding meetings with the TMA and the Hong Kong
Monetary Authority to try and develop a benchmark rate. Likely
to be called ‘CNH Hibor,’ the floating  reference rate  would
mimic Libor in construction, drawing rates every morning from
about 14 banks in Hong Kong to gauge an average cost of
interbank renminbi borrowing in the city, Corrin said.  The so-called Dim Sum loans signed to date in Hong Kong
have been priced off individual bank’s renminbi prime lending
rates. “The money and foreign exchange swap markets are not yet
liquid and deep enough to provide a credible rate fixing in this
new offshore currency,” TMA said in the statement.  “TMA is conscious of the demand for the fixing as well as
the fact that once the rates are published, they will be used in
legal contracts determining the fixings on derivatives and loan
rates,” the statement said. “TMA needs to ensure we have an
indisputable fixing when launched and we are of the view the
market is not in this position yet.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katrina Nicholas in Singapore at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  