-- 
Rogers, BCE to Acquire Maple Leaf Sports in $1.3 Billion Deal for NHL Team

-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r   a n d   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 
2011-12-09T21:28:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/toronto-maple-leafs-said-to-be-close-to-be-sold-to-canada-s-rogers-bce.html
Rogers Communications Inc . and  BCE
Inc. (BCE)  agreed to buy a controlling stake in  Maple Leaf Sports &
Entertainment Ltd . in a C$1.32 billion ($1.3 billion) deal to
own the most valuable team in the  National Hockey League .  Rogers and BCE, Canada’s two largest phone companies, will
buy a 75 percent stake in Maple Leaf Sports from  Ontario
Teachers’ Pension Plan  in a cash transaction. Canadian
businessman Larry Tanenbaum will increase his holding to 25
percent from 20 percent, according to statements today.  The acquisition fits with BCE’s and Rogers’ strategies of
adding content they can sell to subscribers on smartphones,
tablets and computers. In addition to the NHL’s Maple Leafs,
which have won the Stanley Cup championship 11 times, Maple Leaf
Sports owns the  National Basketball Association ’s Raptors.  “Now you’re getting to people with so many more devices
and outlets and ability to access content, the value of that
content is going to be more valuable, and that’s what this seems
to be a play for,” said  Jeff Young , chief investment officer at
NexGen Financial Corp., which oversees C$900 million including
shares of BCE and Rogers.  Rogers committed C$533 million for a 37.5 percent stake in
Maple Leaf Sports, according to a company statement. BCE and its
pension fund will also contribute C$533 million for an equal
stake. The transaction is expected to close in mid 2012. It
gives Maple Leaf Sports, also owner of Toronto FC of  Major
League Soccer , an enterprise value of C$2 billion.  Rogers fell 0.5 percent to C$36.76 at the close in Toronto.
BCE, based in  Montreal , climbed 0.3 percent to C$40.74, its
highest level since November 2007.  Tanenbaum Stays Chairman  Tanenbaum continues as chairman of Maple Leaf Sports and as
a governor of the NHL, NBA and Major League Soccer.  The Maple Leafs are the NHL’s most valuable franchise at
about $521 million, Forbes said Nov. 30, up from $505 million a
year ago. The Raptors are worth $399 million, placing them 10th
out of 30 NBA franchises, Forbes said in January.  Investor  Jim Hall  and Dvai Ghose, an analyst at Canaccord
Genuity in Toronto, expressed skepticism about the value for
phone companies to invest in sports teams.  “I have yet to be convinced of the merits of owning or
controlling content in the telecom game,” said Hall, manager of
the C$820 million Mawer Canadian Equity Fund, which owns both
stocks.  Enbridge Inc. (ENB) , a Calgary-based oil pipeline operator,
“doesn’t need to own  oil fields  and refineries to make money
shipping stuff down their pipes. Why do Rogers and BCE?”  Questionable Strategy  Investing in sports is a questionable strategy, said
Canaccord’s Ghose, who recommends holding Rogers and BCE.  “They should be spending on what they are there in
existence for, which is providing network connectivity to
customers, wireline and wireless,” he said.  A sale of the Maple Leafs and Raptors must be approved by
the NHL and NBA.  Bell, a BCE unit, will own 28 percent of Maple Leafs
Sports, and its pension fund will hold 9.5 percent. BCE Chief
Executive Officer George Cope said at a press conference that
the company is committed to its investment in the  Montreal
Canadiens  hockey team and that he “will work with the NHL to
accommodate their needs.”  The structure of the deal, with Bell’s investment under 30
percent, will probably enable the company to keep the Montreal
Canadiens,  Maher Yaghi , a Desjardins Securities Inc. analyst,
said in a note to investors.  Competition Bureau  The deal, if approved, would also give BCE and Toronto-
based Rogers control of the Marlies minor-league hockey club and
the Air  Canada  Centre, which can seat as many as 19,800
spectators.  Canada’s Competition Bureau will review the proposed
transaction to determine, like in any merger, “whether they are
likely to result in a substantial lessening or prevention of
competition,” Alexa Keating, a spokeswoman for the regulator,
said in an e-mail.  BCE’s TSN competes with Rogers’ SportsNet channel, and Cope
said the stations will share coverage of Leafs and Raptors
games.  “Competition on the broadcast side just got a whole lot
more intense,” Cope said at the press conference, when asked
whether he anticipated regulatory scrutiny.  The CEO said that he became interested in adding sports
content after seeing how BCE’s sponsorship of the 2010 Vancouver
Winter Olympics spurred viewership on smartphones and tablets.  Canadian Hands  Rogers owns Major League Baseball’s Toronto Blue Jays and
the nearby Rogers Centre stadium. CEO Nadir Mohamed said that
it’s an “important point” that this deal keeps ownership of
Maple Leaf Sports in Canadian hands.  Teachers’, Canada’s third-biggest pension fund said in
March that it may sell its majority stake in the NHL and NBA
teams after receiving unsolicited expressions of interest. The
fund, based in Toronto, then said Nov. 25 it would keep its 80
percent stake in Maple Leaf Sports.  “Less than a week later, we were unexpectedly approached
by Rogers and Bell by a new, unsolicited offer,” Jane Rowe,
Teachers’ head of private equity, said today at the press
conference in Toronto. “It was comprehensive, firm, and it met
all of the terms and conditions that we at Ontario Teachers’
considered necessary.”  Rowe declined to say how much Teachers’ made from its
investment.  Morgan Stanley (MS)  advised the pension fund on the sale,
and CIBC advised Rogers.  The value of the deal dwarfs other recent acquisitions of
professional sports groups. The  National Football League ’s
Jacksonville Jaguars were sold to Pakistan native  Shahid Khan ,
owner of auto-part maker Flex-N-Gate Group for about $750
million last month.  The NHL’s Atlanta Thrashers were sold to Winnipeg,
Manitoba-based True North Sports & Entertainment and moved to
Winnipeg earlier this year. The sales price was $170 million,
including a $60 million relocation fee that was split by the
rest of the league, according to ESPN.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net ;
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  