-- 
Los Angeles Gasoline Strengthens to Two-Week High on New Cycle

-- B y   L y n n   D o a n
-- 
2011-12-09T22:57:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/los-angeles-gasoline-strengthens-to-two-week-high-on-new-cycle.html
Los Angeles  gasoline strengthened for
the second day as scheduling began for the third cycle of the
month on  Kinder Morgan Energy Partners LP (KMP) ’s West line.  California-blend gasoline, or Carbob, in  Los Angeles  rose 2
cents to a premium of 6.5 cents versus gasoline futures on the
 New York Mercantile Exchange  at 4:16 p.m. New York time,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s the highest
level since Nov. 25.  Kinder Morgan started scheduling for the third cycle on the
West line, which carries refined products from Southern
California into  Arizona . Los Angeles Carbob strengthened
yesterday when a refiner bought off the  spot market  before the
second cycle ended, said Bob van der Valk, an independent
pricing analyst in Terry,  Montana .  California-blend gasoline in  San Francisco  slipped 0.5 cent
to a premium of 1 cent a gallon after  ConocoPhillips (COP)  and  Royal
Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  reported unit starts at their refineries in
Northern California.  ConocoPhillips was starting a hydrocracker at the  Rodeo 
refinery after a hydrogen plant shutdown Dec. 5, and Shell was
starting a Dimersol unit at the  Martinez  refinery, according to
filings with county regulators.  California-blend diesel, known as CARB diesel, in  Los
Angeles  fell 0.13 cent to a discount of 3.63 cents to heating
oil futures traded on the Nymex. The same fuel in  San Francisco 
was unchanged at a discount of 2.25 cents to futures.  Conventional, 87-octane gasoline in  Portland ,  Oregon ,
strengthened for the first time in a week, jumping 7 cents to
reach parity with futures.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lynn Doan in  San Francisco  at 
 ldoan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  