-- 
India’s Deadliest Fire in Since 2004 Kills at Least 89 at Kolkata Hospital

-- B y   P r a d i p t a   M u k h e r j e e   a n d   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n
-- 
2011-12-09T13:32:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/hospital-fire-kills-70-people-mainly-patients-in-indian-city-of-kolkata.html
At least 89 people died in  India ’s
deadliest fire accident since 2004 as smoke and flames swept
through a seven-story hospital in the eastern city of Kolkata.  The blaze, which started in the basement of the building at
about 3:30 a.m. local time, was brought under control about
three hours later,  AMRI  Hospitals said in the statement. The
healthcare chain is part-owned by Kolkata-based  Emami Group , a
maker of cosmetics and massage oils.  Television images showed firemen using ladders, smashing
window panes and rescuing trapped victims, most of them
patients, with ropes tied around them. Mamata Banerjee, the
chief minister of West Bengal of which Kolkata is the capital,
described the negligence as a “serious offense,” ordered the
cancellation of its license and vowed harsh punishment to those
found guilty of causing the tragedy.  The hospital, which followed stringent fire and safety
measures, is extending “all possible treatment” to patients,
AMRI said.  Authorities arrested six people, including AMRI’s co-owner
S.K. Todi, said Banerjee, adding the hospital will be shut down
after rescue operation is over. R.S. Goenka, co-chairman of
Emami, has surrendered to the police, said Mahasweta Sen, a
spokeswoman for the company.  No Doctors  Three phone calls made to Todi’s office went unanswered.
Todi is the chairman of the  Shrachi Group , a Kolkata-based real
estate developer.  Medical staff abandoned their patients after the fire
spread,  Associated Press  reported, citing relatives of the dead.
Helpers were seen carrying the bodies of the victims as of 4:15
p.m. local time. About 60 people were injured in the tragedy,
according to the police control room.  “My husband and I rushed to the hospital and rescued my
mother after she called us at about 5 a.m.,” said Paromita
Guhathakurta, 38. “The attendants fled after smoke engulfed the
wards.”  Her mother Mridula, 63, who is undergoing radiation therapy
for a brain tumor, has been shifted to the intensive care unit
in an undamaged wing of the same hospital, with no doctors
around to tend to her, Guhathakurta said.  In July, 2004, 91 children were killed in a school fire in
the southern Indian town of Kumbakonam. In June, 1997, 59 people
died in a cinema fire in  New Delhi  after being trapped in the
balcony. More than 100 were injured in the stampede.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bibhudatta Pradhan in New Delhi at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net ;
Pradipta Mukherjee in Kolkata at 
 pmukherjee7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sam Nagarajan at 
 samnagarajan@bloomberg.net  