-- 
House Bill May Ban U.S. Surveillance Gear Sales

-- B y   B e n   E l g i n
-- 
2011-12-09T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/house-bill-would-ban-surveillance-gear-sales-by-american-firms.html
A bill introduced in the U.S. House
of Representatives yesterday would stop the sale of surveillance
technologies to repressive regimes by American companies.  Sponsored by Representative Chris Smith, a Republican from
 New Jersey , the measure would prohibit the export of hardware
and software that can be used to block and track communications
sent over the Internet. In addition, it would require companies
listed on U.S. stock exchanges to report to the U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission how they conduct due diligence on human
rights issues, as well as how customer information is shared
with repressive countries.  The export of surveillance gear to such countries as Iran
and Syria has come under increasing scrutiny by human rights
groups and government officials. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  called on technology companies in a Dec. 8 speech to
make “good decisions” about how and whether to do business
involving nations that may use the equipment or software against
their citizens.  “In recent months, we’ve seen cases where companies,
products, and services were used as tools of oppression,”
Clinton said at the Freedom Online Conference in The Hague,
Netherlands. “When companies sell surveillance equipment to the
security agency of Syria or Iran or, in past times, Qaddafi,
there can be no doubt it will be used to violate rights.”  Bloomberg News has reported this year on Western companies’
sales of surveillance systems to repressive governments,
including Iran, Syria and Bahrain.  ‘ Big Brother ’  Crackdowns on pro-democracy protests in the Middle East
underscored how technology by companies such as Stockholm-based
 Ericsson AB (ERICB) ,  NetApp Inc. (NTAP)  of Sunnyvale,  California , and Munich-
based  Siemens AG (SI)  has been used by governments to monitor and
arrest dissidents.  “The Internet in many countries has been transformed from
a freedom plaza to Big Brother’s best friend,” Smith said
during a hearing of the House Subcommittee on Africa, Global
Health and Human Rights.  “Many of these technologies are being made in the
U.S.A.,” he said. “Sadly, many of them are also being
exported, every day, to some of the most unsavory governments in
the world, whose use of them is far from legitimate.”  Smith introduced his bill, called the Global Online Freedom
Act of 2011, after the European Union on Dec. 2 adopted new
sanctions on Syria, restricting the supply of technology that
the EU measure said was “primarily for use in the monitoring or
interception” of Internet or phone communications.  The U.K. is examining whether to ban the sale of mobile-
phone surveillance software to  Iran  and Syria, Business Minister
Judith Wilcox said Nov. 28.  “Stronger action is needed,” Daniel Calingaert, vice
president for policy at Freedom House in  Washington , D.C., said
at the hearing in Washington. “The abysmal human rights records
of the governments that have received Western censorship and
surveillance technology is cause for serious concern.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Elgin in  San Francisco  at 
 belgin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Melissa Pozsgay at   mpozsgay@bloomberg.net  