-- 
Toyota Cuts Annual Profit Forecast by 54% After Thai Floods Disrupt Output

-- B y   A n n a   M u k a i   a n d   Y u k i   H a g i w a r a
-- 
2011-12-09T21:24:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/toyota-cuts-annual-profit-forecast-by-54-after-thai-floods-disrupt-output.html
Toyota Motor Corp. ’s recovery is
proving tougher than anticipated.  Already poised to lose its crown as the world’s largest
carmaker this year, Toyota yesterday cut its profit forecast by
more than half after Thailand’s worst floods in almost 70 years
disrupted output of Camry and Prius vehicles. While the rebound
at rival  Nissan Motor Co. (7201)  accelerates,  Asia ’s largest automaker
has lost four times more production in the floods.  “It’s acts of God after other acts of God,” Jody Lurie,
an analyst at Janney Montgomery Scott LLC in Philadelphia, said
in a phone interview. “If the U.S. automakers are doing some
kind of voodoo to get Toyota out of the top spot, it’s
definitely worked.”  Thailand’s floods exacerbated Toyota City, Japan-based
Toyota’s struggles after Japan’s earthquake and tsunami in March
and the surging yen. The reduced forecasts follow  Ford Motor Co. (F) 
on Dec. 8 declaring its first quarterly dividend since 2006 and
precede the likely concession of its three-year reign as the
world’s biggest carmaker to  General Motors Co. (GM)   Component shortages  caused by Thailand’s floods disrupted
production for Japanese automakers worldwide, compounding the
challenge from the record quake and the yen’s surge. Toyota said
the Thai floods will cut earnings by 120 billion yen ($1.55
billion).  Net income  will fall 56 percent to 180 billion yen in the
12 months ending March 31, the carmaker said in a statement.
That’s less than half the profit projected by the average of 21
analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Difficult Comeback  “It looks like Toyota’s recovery is going to be tougher
and take longer than expected,”  Satoru Takada , a Tokyo-based
auto analyst at TIW Inc., said yesterday. “With the strong yen
weighing heavily, it’s looking increasingly difficult for Toyota
to make its comeback.”  GM has taken advantage of Toyota’s disruptions, gaining
market share in the U.S. with the Chevrolet Cruze compact and in
 China  with Buick Excelle sedans. The Detroit-based automaker
boosted global sales 9.2 percent to 6.79 million through the
year’s first three quarters.  Toyota  fell 0.4 percent in  Tokyo  trading before the company
released its forecasts. The stock has fallen 18 percent this
year, underperforming Japan’s benchmark  Nikkei 225 Stock
Average. (NKY)  The company’s American depositary receipts gained 1.6
percent to $68.20 at the close in  New York .  Thailand Floods  In Thailand, the floods created a second wave of factory
disruptions for Japanese carmakers such as Toyota, which had
taken six months to restore production hobbled by Japan’s March
11 natural disaster.  Disruptions from the Thai floods will probably cause
260,000 vehicles in lost production, or 3.4 percent of the
previous annual target, according to Toyota. By comparison,
Nissan estimates lost production of 60,000 units, or 1.3 percent
of its annual target.  Toyota probably lost more output than any other carmaker
because of the floods, said Masatoshi Nishimoto, a Tokyo-based
senior manager at research firm IHS Automotive. Toyota may not
be able to make up for lost production of models such as the
Vigo SUV until September because the company had procured about
90 percent of the vehicle’s parts from  Thailand  and won’t easily
find alternate suppliers, Nishimoto said.  Yen Outlook  Toyota revised its outlook for the yen against the dollar
to 78 from 80, and 109 from 116 versus the euro, meaning the
company expects the stronger domestic currency to reduce
operating income by 160 billion yen, it said. The yen, the best-
performing major currency this year, forced the company to raise
prices, Toyota said.  “We raised prices of some our models on the high yen, and
this is very difficult for us to admit, but we expect a drop in
sales from this,” Satoshi Ozawa, chief financial officer at
Toyota, said at a press conference in Tokyo. “Still, the yen is
too strong, and we had to sacrifice some unit sales.”  Toyota delayed the new projections by a month because of
the floods.  Honda Motor Co. , which also pushed back its
forecasts because of Thailand, aims to disclose them by the end
of January, Chief Financial Officer Fumihiko Ike said last week.  By contrast, Nissan, Japan’s second-largest carmaker, last
month raised its profit forecast after its vehicle sales in
China rose and the company recovered faster than Toyota and
Honda from the earthquake.  Less Profit  Toyota cut its forecast for operating income 56 percent to
200 billion yen, less than half the  average  analyst estimate
compiled by Bloomberg. That means the company will probably earn
less profit than Nissan for the third time in four years.  GM and  South Korea ’s  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380)  have benefited as
their Japanese rivals struggled. GM’s vehicle sales are poised
to overtake Toyota’s this year and analysts estimate Hyundai
will earn 7.07 trillion won ($6.2 billion) in profit during
2011, more than double Toyota’s.  President Akio Toyoda is aiming to regain lost market
share. At the Tokyo Motor Show last week, the grandson of the
founder showed off the company’s new 86 coupe, betting the car
will widen Toyota’s appeal.  The automaker also displayed a plug-in version of its best-
selling Prius hybrid that will go on sale from January. The
Prius PHV will become a “winner” that will take sales from
GM’s Chevrolet Volt, according to CLSA Asia-Pacific Markets
analyst Chris Richter.  A recovery may already be under way in the U.S. Toyota’s
November vehicle sales in the country rose for the first time in
seven months as supply at dealers recovered and  consumer
confidence  surged the most in more than eight years. The company
plans to hire workers in  Japan  next quarter to increase
production in the country, Toyota’s Ozawa said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna Mukai in Tokyo at 
 amukai1@bloomberg.net ;
Yuki Hagiwara in Tokyo at 
 yhagiwara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  