-- 
Pakistan Textile Exports May Be Hurt by Gas Shortage, Group Says

-- B y   K h u r r u m   A n i s
-- 
2011-12-09T11:36:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/pakistan-textile-exports-may-be-hurt-by-gas-shortage-group-says.html
Pakistan ’s textile shipments, which
contribute 60 percent to the country’s total export earnings,
may miss an industry target by 25 percent because of an energy
crisis that has shut factories, a textile group said.  “There will be negative growth,” Shahzad Ali Khan,
chairman of the Standing Committee for Energy at the  All
Pakistan Textile Mills Association , said in a telephone
interview. “The gas issue is sinking the industry.”  Exports of textiles may be $12 billion in the financial
year that began in July, compared with the group’s target of $16
billion, Khan said yesterday. Shipments rose 35 percent to $13.8
billion the previous year. Pakistan’s total exports fell 10
percent from a year earlier last month, a report showed today.  Pakistan is preparing for a gas shortfall of 1.05 billion
cubic feet a day by February, Petroleum Minister Asim Hussain
said Nov. 13. The nation’s energy shortage has caused daily
power outages and riots and caused factories to shut down.  Sui Northern Gas Pipelines Ltd., which  serves  more than 3.9
million consumers in the country’s north and central parts, said
on its  website  factories won’t receive gas from Dec. 8 to Dec.
15. Some 80 percent of the textile industry is dependent on gas
plants, the association has said.  Factory Shutdowns  “Already, 20 percent of our members have shut down their
factories here,” Anis-ul-Haq, secretary of the group’s Punjab
office, said by telephone. “This is because of gas shortages,
and also because of other related problems like expensive
furnace oil and no electricity. It may swell to 40 percent if
things do not improve.”  Almost 75 percent of the textile group’s 400 members are
based in Punjab, which is Pakistan’s largest province in terms
of population. The  textile industry  provides  employment  to 38
percent of the country’s manufacturing labor force.  Some 20 percent of the country’s textile workers are out of
jobs already and the number could swell by another 20 percent
“if things are not controlled,” Haq said. The industry has
experienced 150 days of shutdowns since January, he said.  Pakistan policy makers are struggling to boost economic
growth from 2.4 percent in the year ended June, one of the
lowest expansions in the past decade. Terror attacks have killed
at least 35,000 people since 2006, according to government
estimates. Floods in August forced more than one million people
from their homes and damaged crops in parts of southern Pakistan
still recovering from last year’s worst ever monsoon inundations
that devastated the region.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Khurrum Anis in Karachi, Pakistan at 
 kkhan14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Merritt  at 
 dmerritt1@bloomberg.net  