-- 
Faster Emergency-Stop Ignition Standard Proposed for Cars by U.S. Watchdog

-- B y   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e
-- 
2011-12-09T18:29:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/panic-stop-ignition-standard-for-cars-proposed-by-u-s-1-.html
U.S. auto-safety regulators proposed
standardizing keyless ignitions to allow drivers to turn off
cars faster and more easily in incidents of unintended
acceleration following  Toyota Motor Corp. ’s record recalls.  The proposed rule will cost less than $500,000 a year, the
U.S. National Highway Traffic Safety Administration said in a
proposed  rule  to be published Dec. 12 in the Federal Register.  “These are the kinds of things you never think to read up
on when you’re in a new vehicle or a rental vehicle,” said
Henry Jasny, vice president of Advocates for Highway and Auto
Safety, which pushed for the standard. “It’s better that it’s
standardized.”  The rule, developed after a driver and his family died in
the crash of a borrowed Toyota Lexus ES-350, seeks to make sure
that all vehicles with keyless ignitions can be turned off in
the same way. Toyota in 2009 and 2010 recalled more than 10
million Toyota and Lexus vehicles for defects that may cause
unintended acceleration. Some of the cars had push-button
starts, meaning panicking drivers would have to hold down the
button to stop the car rather than turning a key.  ‘Inability to Stop’  “At issue are drivers’ inability to stop a moving vehicle
in a panic situation, and drivers who unintentionally leave the
vehicle without the vehicle transmission’s being ‘locked in
park,’ or with the engine still running, increasing the chances
of vehicle rollaway or carbon monoxide poisoning in an enclosed
area,” the regulator said in the proposal.  The rule would standardize the length of time drivers must
push a button to stop a moving car to a half-second. The Society
of Automotive Engineers, which writes industry standards for
automakers to follow voluntarily, in January recommended a range
of a half-second to two seconds.  In the Lexus ES-350 crash that killed four people in 2009,
helping prompt Toyota’s recalls, the car had a keyless
electronic starting system with a push-button control that
required the driver to hold the button for as long as three
seconds to stop the engine, NHTSA said in the proposed rule.  The rule probably won’t help sales of push-button ignitions
or components because it will probably require a calibration
change, rather than different parts, said Rich Hilgert, a
Morningstar Inc. analyst who follows auto suppliers.  Ignition Sales  “There’s more than likely an off-the-shelf solution,
especially with electronics,” Hilgert, based in  Chicago , said
in a telephone interview. “It doesn’t seem like this is going
to be that difficult to come up with a solution for.”  Suppliers of push-button start ignitions include  Strattec
Security Corp. (STRT) , based in  Milwaukee .  BorgWarner Inc. (BWA) , Federal-
Mogul Corp. and Robert Bosch GmbH supply ignition parts,
according to Automotive Who’s Who Inc., a company in  Grand
Rapids ,  Michigan , that oversees an automotive-supplier
directory.  Automakers have also worked on standardizing keyless
ignitions and are reviewing the proposed rule, said Gloria Bergquist, a spokeswoman for the Alliance of Automotive
Manufacturers, whose members include Toyota,  Ford Motor Co. (F)  and
 General Motors Co. (GM)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Angela Greiling Keane in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  