-- 
People’s Bank of China Plans $300 Billion Investment Vehicle, Reuters Says

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-12-09T17:19:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/people-s-bank-of-china-plans-300-billion-investment-vehicle-reuters-says.html
China ’s central bank plans to create
a new investment vehicle to manage $300 billion in foreign
reserves, Reuters  reported  yesterday, citing two unidentified
people familiar with the matter.  The vehicle will manage two funds, targeting investments in
the U.S. and  Europe , and will be affiliated with the  State
Administration of Foreign Exchange , the  news agency  said. The
funds will pursue “more aggressive” overseas investments to
generate higher returns, possibly through the purchase of stock
in overseas-listed companies, Reuters said.  China’s foreign exchange reserves, the world’s largest,
were $3.2 trillion at the end of September. The nation invests
in international bonds such as  U.S. Treasuries  and sovereign
debt from European Union members. China wants to convert some
reserves into investments in the U.S., Commerce Minister  Chen Deming  said Dec. 2.  “Foreign exchange reserves are used to protect your
economy in a currency crisis, but by any reasonable measure,
China has far more reserves than it needs for that purpose,”
 Mark Williams , Asia economist at London-based Capital Economics
Ltd., said in a telephone interview. “It makes sense for them
to maximize the returns of this excess fortune.”  China Investment Corp., the nation’s sovereign wealth fund,
already invests a portion of the reserves in financial
instruments including equities. CIC managed $409.6 billion at
the end of 2010, making it the world’s fifth-largest national
fund, according to Sovereign Wealth Fund Institute.  CIC Returns  CIC’s international investments returned 12 percent last
year, compared with the MSCI World Index’s 9.6 percent gain,
according to the fund’s annual report. CIC isn’t operated by the
central bank.  “There have been expectations that CIC would get extra
cash,” Williams said. “It’s interesting that cash is being
doled out to a new investment vehicle. The Chinese government is
effectively creating a number of separate sovereign wealth funds
which presumably can introduce some competition between them.”  The new venture will operate similarly to the central
bank’s Hong Kong-based SAFE Investment Co., which has purchased
shares in “dozens” of overseas listed companies, Reuters said
yesterday. While details of the venture are still under
discussion, the central bank has picked “key” managers,
Reuters said.  The venture will issue domestic bonds for funding, similar
to how CIC raises money, Reuters said.  The People’s Bank of China doesn’t have a comment on the
report, a central bank press official who declined to be
identified because of bank rules said in a telephone interview
yesterday evening.  Shrinking Reserves  China’s foreign-exchange reserves continued to fall through
this month, after starting to decline at the end of September,
 Li Yang , a former adviser to the nation’s central bank, told an
economic forum on Dec. 7.  The reserves increased the least in more than a decade last
quarter and declined in September for the first time in 16
months, according to the central bank, which releases the data
quarterly. Li didn’t say how he knew that foreign reserves were
falling or give a reason for the declines.  The entry of foreign currency into China fuels growth in
the nation’s money supply, instead of spurring appreciation of
the yuan, because the central bank limits the currency’s gain.
In response, the central bank sold bills and ratcheted up
 reserve requirements  for lenders during the past two years to
rein in liquidity.  “China has only two options: decrease foreign reserves or
invest them in developed nations’ currencies, even if doing so
incurs a loss,”  Ayako Sera , a market strategist in  Tokyo  at
Sumitomo Trust & Banking Co., which manages the equivalent of
$322 billion, said last month.  The nation needs large markets that can accommodate its
foreign assets, so it has “no choice” save to own euro, dollar
and yen assets in good balance, Sera said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Liza Lin in Shanghai at 
 llin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Bruce Grant  at 
 bruceg@bloomberg.net  