-- 
Petronas’ Engen Plans Acquisitions to Double Africa Business

-- B y   K a m l e s h   B h u c k o r y
-- 
2011-12-09T15:14:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/petronas-s-engen-plans-to-double-sub-saharan-outlets-in-5-years-cook-says.html
Engen Petroleum , a unit of  Malaysia ’s
 Petroliam Nasional Bhd. , said it plans acquisitions and new
sites to help double the number of retail outlets in sub-Saharan
 Africa  outside of  South Africa .  “The big plan” is to increase the number of gas stations
to 1,000 by 2016 from about 500 across 18 southern African
countries, Mike Cook, Engen’s international business retail
manager, said yesterday in an interview in Port Louis, the
Mauritian capital. “As more and more African countries
stabilize, more people are becoming self-dependent. The car
population is rising.”  Regional expansion will be led by Zambia, Zimbabwe and
Mozambique and to a “lesser extent” by Botswana, he said. It
will make purchases in  Kenya  to boost its “very small
footprint,” while a mergers and acquisitions team is also
looking at opportunities in  Ivory Coast , Cook said.  Petronas, as the Malaysian company is known, owns 80
percent of Engen, which plans to become the biggest petroleum
marketer in sub-Saharan Africa by 2016, according to Cook.
Engen, South Africa’s largest fuel retailer, bought Chevron
Corp.’s assets in countries including Mauritius, Zambia and the
French territory of Reunion, in December last year.  “We are trying to build at least 15 new sites each year
over the next five years,” Cook said, with an investment of
$113 million in the period. It opened 29 new sites in 2009.  Engen has 1,200 retail outlets in South Africa, where it
will aim to hold onto its 27 percent of the market, he said.
Engen, which owns and manages a 135,000 barrel-per-day refinery
in Durban that supplies neighboring Namibia and Botswana,
doesn’t have plans to open new refineries in the region,
preferring supplies from existing operations, Cook said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kamlesh Bhuckory in  Port Louis  at 
 kbhuckory@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  