-- 
PGE Suspends Plans to Help Build Lithuanian Nuclear Plant

-- B y   M a r e k   S t r z e l e c k i   a n d   M i l d a   S e p u t y t e
-- 
2011-12-09T13:04:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/pge-suspends-plans-to-help-build-lithuanian-nuclear-plant-2-.html
PGE SA,  Poland ’s largest utility,
dropped plans to participate in building a nuclear power plant
in Lithuania as it focuses on other investment projects.  “Considering other key projects of the group,
participation in the project has been suspended before any
formal commitments were made,” Chief Executive Officer  Tomasz
Zadroga  said today in an e-mailed statement. Company spokesman
Lukasz Witkowski declined to comment further.  PGE is also halting talks with OAO Inter RAO UES to buy
electricity from  Russia ’s Kaliningrad region bordering Poland,
the Warsaw-based company said in the statement.  PGE plans to build Poland’s first nuclear plant by 2020 and
expand its generating capacity by adding new power units fed by
coal and natural gas. The company expects its reactors in the
central European country to be “much more profitable” than the
project in  Lithuania , Zadroga said on TVN CNBC.  In November, the company picked contractors to add 1,800
megawatts of coal-fired power capacity at its Opole plant for
9.4 billion zloty ($2.8 billion).  While growing power demand, rising electricity prices and
planned decommissioning of old less-efficient power units will
make the investment profitable, PGE’s new long-term strategy
will have to reflect lower growth of demand for energy and a
more difficult situation on the credit markets, Zadroga said
earlier this month.  Regional Cooperation  Lithuania had planned to build a new in  Visaginas  for as
much as 5 billion euros ($6.7 billion) by 2020, together with
Poland and its two Baltic neighbors Latvia and  Estonia . Talks
with Poland over the construction have been ongoing since at
least 2006.  “The exit of one partner doesn’t halt the project” in
Lithuania, said Prime Minister Andrius Kubilius in a press
conference in Vilnius today. “Our strategic goals remain
unchanged. The project has strong commercial potential.”  Lithuania picked  Japan ’s  Hitachi Ltd. (6501)  in July as an
investor and technology provider to help build the atomic plant
in the country to diversify the region’s energy resources.  The Baltic nation closed its only, Soviet-era  Ignalina
nuclear  facility at the end of 2009 to comply with accession
pledges to the European Union.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marek Strzelecki in Warsaw at 
 mstrzelecki1@bloomberg.net  or
Milda Seputyte in Vilnius at 
 mseputyte@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  