-- 
Pharmacyclics Shares Tumble After J&J Deal Raises Doubts About Acquisition

-- B y   S a r a h   F r i e r   a n d   C h r i s   S t a i t i
-- 
2011-12-09T21:09:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/pharmacyclics-shares-tumble-as-j-j-deal-raises-doubts-about-acquisition.html
Pharmacyclics Inc. (PCYC) , the cancer-drug
maker that announced a deal with  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  yesterday,
fell the most in 19 months after RBC Capital Markets said the
transaction means it is unlikely to be acquired.  “The vastly reduced probability that Pharmacyclics will be
acquired in 2012/2013 could likely cap performance in the near
term,” said Jason Kantor, an analyst with RBC Capital Markets
in  San Francisco , in a note yesterday to investors. He
downgraded the shares to “sector perform” from “outperform.”  Pharmacyclics, based in Sunnyvale, California, said
yesterday that Johnson & Johnson agreed to pay as much as $975
million for the company’s experimental blood cancer treatment.
The companies said they will split profits and share costs of
developing the drug, now being evaluated in first- and second-
stage trials. Three stages of clinical trials generally are
required for U.S. marketing approval.  Pharmacyclics shares were downgraded today to “neutral”
from “buy” by Global Hunter Securities analyst Brian Lian,
based in  New York .  The shares declined 15 percent to $12.39 at the close in
New York, the biggest drop since January 2009. The shares have
more than doubled this year.  “They delivered the partnership so people are thinking,
‘Well, you did it, so what else is there?’” said Joseph Pantginis, an analyst with  Roth Capital Partners  in New York
with a “buy” rating on the stock. “The stock literally before
yesterday had been trading at multiyear highs so it was an easy
profit-taking signal.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sarah Frier in New York at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Staiti in Boston at 
 cstaiti@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  