-- 
Philippine Peso Falls Most in a Year on Europe; Bonds Advance

-- B y   D a v i d   Y o n g
-- 
2011-12-09T09:29:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/philippine-peso-weakens-on-europe-debt-concern-bonds-advance.html
The Philippine peso fell the most in
more than a year on concern European policy makers will struggle
to contain the region’s debt crisis, hobbling the global
economic recovery. Local-currency bonds gained.  The currency had a weekly loss as European leaders worked
on a “fiscal compact” at a summit in Brussels to address the
crisis and after the  European Central Bank  damped speculation it
would step up bond purchases. The slowdown in  Europe  is sapping
demand for Philippine exports.  Government bonds  advanced this
week on optimism the central bank will cut  interest rates  next
year to help shore up growth.  “The peso has been affected by the euro-zone situation,”
said Speedy Delfino, a fixed-income trader at East  West Bank  in
 Manila . “As for bonds, they have rallied on slower inflation,
plus the central bank comments that they can afford to ease in
the first quarter.”  The peso weakened 0.8 percent to 43.63 per dollar at the
close in Manila, dropping the most since November 2010,
according to Tullett Prebon Plc. The currency declined 0.8
percent this week, paring its gain this year to 0.4 percent.  A government report on Dec. 13 will show Philippine  exports 
fell 16.9 percent in October from a year earlier, according to
the median forecast of eight economists surveyed by Bloomberg.
Shipments slumped 27 percent in September, the worst performance
since April 2009.  Inflation Slows  Consumer-price gains slowed to 4.8 percent in November from
a year earlier, compared with 5.2 percent in October. Demand
surged at a sale of 25-year bonds on Dec. 6, allowing the
government to borrow at the cheapest cost since at least 2000.  The yield on the government’s 8 percent note due July 2031
declined 11 basis points, or 0.11 percentage point, to 6.22
percent, according to Tradition Financial Services. The rate
fell 42 basis points this week.  Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas kept its overnight rate at 4.5
percent at its Dec. 1 meeting, unchanged since May. The central
bank is open to easing monetary policy next year, Governor
Amando Tetangco said on Dec. 6.  The  Philippines  may sell zero coupon bonds next year,
Deputy Treasurer Eduardo Mendiola said in an interview today.
The Bureau of the Treasury plans to reduce the amount of debt it
will sell in 2012, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Yong in Singapore at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  