-- 
PIC, Afrisam Noteholders to Reorganize South African Cement Maker’s Debts

-- B y   V e r n o n   W e s s e l s
-- 
2011-12-09T16:37:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/pic-afrisam-noteholders-to-reorganize-south-african-cement-maker-s-debts.html
The Public Investment Corp. and most
holders of 1.03 billion euros ($1.4 billion) of Afrisam Ltd.
bonds due in 2012 agreed to a reorganization of the debt, saving
 South Africa ’s second-largest cement maker from collapse.  The PIC and 80 percent of the noteholders, including
Pembani Group (Pty) Ltd. and BlackRock Advisors (U.K.) Ltd.,
agreed to the restructuring, the Pretoria-based PIC and other
bondholders said in a joint e-mailed statement today. Afrisam is
not yet part of the agreement, they said.  Afrisam’s existing debt position will be “materially
reduced by” more than 15 billion rand ($1.85 billion), the
companies said. “Afrisam will become a much stronger business
with a de-levered  capital structure  and sufficient liquidity to
meet the challenges of the current economic climate and
beyond.”  Bunker Hills Investments Ltd., the largest shareholder in
Johannesburg-based Afrisam with a 37 percent stake, on Dec. 2
lost a court bid to block the PIC, Africa’s largest money
manager, from converting preference shares in Afrisam into
equity. The PIC currently owns 20 percent of Afrisam and will
now convert its claims against Afrisam, giving it and Pembani,
formerly known as Worldwide African Investment Holdings Ltd., 95
percent of the cement maker.  The remaining 5 percent of the business will be offered to
junior debt holders, including Bunker Hills and  Holcim Ltd. (HOLN) , if
they agree to the reorganization, the bondholders said.  Holcim, the world’s second-largest cement producer, helped
create Afrisam in 2006 when it sold most of its business to
Bunker Hills and other investors for a total of 23 billion rand,
most of which was funded with debt. Holcim, based in Jona,
 Switzerland , retained a 15 percent stake.  Other noteholders, including BlueBay Asset Management Ltd.,
Marathon Asset Management LP and Noonday Asset Management LLP
also agreed to the restructuring, the bondholder said.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  