-- 
Gross Boosts Treasury, Mortgage Debt in Flagship Fund

-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 
2011-12-09T22:44:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/pimco-s-gross-boosts-treasury-mortgage-debt-in-flagship-total-return-fund.html
Bill Gross , who runs the world’s
biggest bond mutual fund at  Pacific Investment Management Co .,
increased his holdings of Treasuries and mortgage debt amid a
bet U.S. interest rates will stay low for years.  Government and Treasury debt as a percentage of the $241
billion  Total Return Fund (PTTRX)  climbed to 23 percent from 19 percent
the previous month, according to data posted on Newport Beach,
California-based Pimco’s  website  today. Mortgage securities, the
fund’s largest holdings, were increased to 43 percent from 38
percent in October. Pimco doesn’t comment on portfolio changes.  Gross eliminated Treasuries from the portfolio in February
and has increased the holdings amount since then. U.S. growth
won’t prevent the  Federal Reserve  from signaling that borrowing
rates will remain lower longer than policy makers have already
indicated, Gross said during a Dec. 2 Bloomberg radio interview
after a report showed the  jobless rate  declined in November.
Gross said the Fed will keep the target rate close to zero for
as long as four years.  The economy still has “some slogging to do here,” Gross
said last week from Pimco’s headquarters in  Newport Beach ,
 California . “The Fed is focusing on the problems in euro land
and the potential lock-up of the financial markets.”  Fed officials hold their last policy meeting for year Dec.
13. The  Federal Open Market Committee  has said it will keep its
 rate  for overnight loans between banks at zero to 0.25 percent
through at least the middle of 2013.  Treasuries have returned 9.3 percent in 2011 in what would
be their best year since the depths of the financial crisis in
2008, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes. The
securities gained as European leaders struggled to agree on a
coordinated approach to contain the region’s debt crisis.  The fund has returned 3.4 percent this year, trailing
behind 72 percent of rivals. It has returned 7.8 percent on
average over the past five years, topping 97 percent of its
competitors, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The firm
managed $1.34 trillion in assets as of June.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  