-- 
Polymetal CEO Says FTSE 100 Inclusion Eases Gold Acquisitions

-- B y   I l y a   K h r e n n i k o v
-- 
2011-12-09T14:08:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/polymetal-ceo-says-ftse-100-inclusion-eases-gold-acquisitions.html
Polymetal International Plc  this week
became the first Russian gold miner to be admitted to  London ’s
benchmark FTSE 100 Index after switching its main listing to the
British capital and raising 491 million pounds ($771 million) in
an initial public offering. Chief Executive Officer Vitaly Nesis
commented on the potential impact:  ON TRADING MSCI RUSSIA FOR FTSE 100  I definitely believe this is worth it. MSCI is a widely
respected and followed index, but approximately 10 times more
money follows the FTSE, so the amount of liquidity is
incomparable in terms of size. I also believe that FTSE money is
much less volatile compared with MSCI money. Inflows and
outflows from emerging market investors tend to be quite
volatile and clearly over the longer period this creates a
significant disadvantage both for the company and the long-term
shareholders.  Imagine we have an M&A transaction and we need to raise
money to buy an asset, but the emerging equity markets are
closed and the developed equity markets are open. This situation
is not hypothetical. Sometimes there is so much  risk aversion 
toward developing markets that you cannot raise any money.  ON ISSUING NEW SHARES FOR ACQUISITIONS  In terms of regulatory approvals and process, in  Jersey 
it’s very easy to issue new shares. It’s not like Russian
security laws where the issuance process takes almost half a
year. In Jersey this can be done in a matter of a couple of
weeks. So if there is a suitable target and there is an
agreement, the shares needed to finance an acquisition can be
issued very quickly.  Right now no deals have been announced. The conditions of
the IPO are such that the largest shareholders and the company
are locked up for six months.  ON COMPANY VALUATION  Our strategy implies significant growth and I believe the
market is either not aware of this growth potential or the
market is taking a skeptical attitude toward this growth. The
management should think about how to make this growth come true
and to communicate to the market that this growth is coming and
it will be sustainable. That is what I am worried about. I am
not worried about what’s the current market cap or share price.  ON SPENDING ON MINORITIES BUYOUT  The net requirement for the buyout of minorities is
actually significantly less than we raised in the IPO. Part of
the shares we are buying out are OAO Polymetal’s treasury shares
pledged under the repurchase agreement, so the proceeds paid out
for them will return to the company.  Buying shares in Russian OAO Polymetal has no impact on the
free float of Polymetal International.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilya Khrennikov in Moscow at 
 ikhrennikov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  