-- 
Portuguese Economy Contracts for a Fourth Quarter on Cuts

-- B y   J o a o   L i m a
-- 
2011-12-09T14:18:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/portuguese-economy-contracts-for-a-fourth-quarter-on-cuts-1-.html
Portugal’s economy shrank for a
fourth quarter in the three months through September as the
government cut spending and raised taxes to narrow its  budget
deficit .  Gross domestic product  dropped 0.6 percent from the second
quarter, more than the 0.4 percent estimated on Nov. 14, the
Lisbon-based National Statistics Institute said in an e-mailed
statement today. From a year earlier, GDP dropped 1.7 percent.  Prime Minister  Pedro Passos Coelho  has seen his economy
slip back into recession as he pares spending and increases
taxes to meet the terms of a 78 billion-euro ($104 billion) aid
plan from the European Union and the  International Monetary
Fund . As the country’s borrowing costs surged, Portugal followed
Greece and Ireland in April in seeking a bailout.  “Exports of goods and services decelerated, although they
continued to grow at a high pace,” the institute said in a
statement.  Exports rose 6.5 percent from a year earlier and imports
fell 2.8 percent, today’s report showed. Household spending
declined 3.3 percent from a year earlier and  government spending 
fell 0.4 percent. Investment dropped 14 percent.  Weak Demand  Cimpor-Cimentos de Portugal SGPS SA (CPR) , the country’s biggest
cement company, reported on Nov. 8 that cement and clinker sales
volumes fell 16.3 percent in Portugal and 16.5 percent in Spain
in the third quarter.  Brisa-Auto Estradas de Portugal (BRI)  SA,
Portugal’s biggest toll-road operator, on Nov. 18 said it will
cut costs as it predicts toll revenue will fall 1 percent next
year with a 6 percent decline in traffic.  Portugal’s economic expansion has averaged less than 1
percent a year for the past decade. The economy will shrink 3
percent next year, the European Commission forecast on Nov. 10.
It would be one of only two euro-area countries to contract, the
other being  Greece  with a 2.8 percent drop, according to the
commission forecasts. The euro area is forecast to expand 0.5
percent.  The government forecasts that unemployment will rise to
13.4 percent in 2012 before it starts to decline in 2013.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joao Lima in Lisbon at 
 jlima1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at 
 tquinson@bloomberg.net  