-- 
Prudential Said to Agree to Buy Dublin Office Block From NAMA

-- B y   N e i l   C a l l a n a n   a n d   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 
2011-12-09T15:50:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/prudential-said-to-agree-to-buy-dublin-office-block-from-nama.html
A  Prudential Plc (PRU)  affiliate agreed to
purchase a Dublin office block in the first sale that Ireland’s
National Asset Management Agency has offered to help finance, a
person with knowledge of the matter said.  The buyer beat five other bidders for One Warrington Place,
which was put on sale for about 27 million euros ($36 million),
said the person, who declined to be identified because the
information is private. NAMA is willing to supply as much as 70
percent of so-called vendor debt financing to help sell the
property. The person didn’t say whether the buyer asked for the
financial assistance.  NAMA was set up to purge Ireland’s banks of 74.2 billion
euros of risky commercial real-estate loans, for which it paid
31.7 billion euros. To generate real estate deals the Irish
government announced this week that it would cut fees known as
the stamp duty on commercial property to 2 percent from 6
percent and give an exemption on capital gains tax on commercial
properties bought between now and the end of 2013 provided they
are held for seven years.  The value of Irish investment property fell 4.6 percent in
the three months to the end of September, real estate adviser
CBRE Group Inc. said on Oct. 31. Investment property values have
fallen almost 65 percent from the peak, it said.  NAMA Chief Executive Officer  Brendan McDonagh  said in
October that the property drew about 30 expressions of interest.  Paul Griffin, a spokesman for Prudential, and NAMA
spokesman David Clerkin declined to comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joe Brennan in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net ;
Neil Callanan in  London  at 
 ncallanan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ross Larsen at 
 rlarsen2@bloomberg.net . 