-- 
Trade Deficit in the U.S. Probably Widened to $44 Billion as Imports Rose

-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 
2011-12-09T05:01:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/trade-deficit-in-the-u-s-probably-widened-as-imports-increased.html
The trade  deficit  probably widened in
October as a strengthening U.S. economy helped drive up the
nation’s import bill while exports cooled from a record high.  The gap grew to $44 billion from the prior month’s $43.1
billion shortfall that was the smallest this year, according to
the  median  estimate of 79 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.
Consumer sentiment rose to a six-month high in December, another
report may show.  Import growth may be sustained as the world’s largest
economy shows signs of strength entering 2012. Demand from
developing nations that has been driving sales at companies such
as  Dow Chemical Co. (DOW)  may help cushion the U.S. from any slowdown
in Europe.  “ Consumer spending  picked up so we can expect imports to
have increased,” said Neil Dutta, an economist at Bank of
America Corp. in  New York . “The global trade cycle may have
stalled as the European sovereign-debt crisis intensified in
October. Longer term, the story is still one of rising exports
and an ongoing narrowing of the  trade gap .”  The Commerce Department will release the trade figures at
8:30 a.m. in Washington. Estimates in the Bloomberg survey
ranged from $40.3 billion to $46 billion.  The dollar has fallen 11 percent since a post-recession
peak in June 2010 against the currencies of six major trade
partners as tracked by IntercontinentalExchange Inc.’s Dollar
Index. The drop makes American goods cheaper abroad and is
spurring manufacturing, which expanded in November at the
fastest pace in five months, according to the  Institute for
Supply Management .  ‘Fairly Strong’  Manufacturers benefiting from overseas demand include Dow,
the largest U.S. chemical maker. The Midland, Michigan-based
company is prepared for “slower and jagged” global growth next
year, and “exports have actually stood fairly strong for Dow”
in  Asia , according to Chief Financial Officer William Weideman.  “The U.S. and Western Europe will continue to see slow
growth for the next several quarters due to high unemployment,
weak construction markets, and lower  consumer confidence  due to
the sovereign debt concerns,” Weideman said in a Dec. 6
conference call with investors. “This will be offset by ongoing
resilience in the emerging geographies.”  U.S. exports, a driver of the expansion, will advance in
2012 even as a sovereign-debt crisis pushes  Europe  into
recession, according to  Joseph Carson , director of global
economic research at AllianceBernstein LP. Faster growth in
developing markets will cushion the slowdown in demand from the
euro area, whose share in exports has dwindled to 13 percent.  Consumer Spending  Imports also may keep climbing as gains in consumer
spending, which accounts for about 70 percent of the economy,
encourage companies to replenish shelves. Inventories at
wholesalers rose in October by the most in five months as
distributors moved to bring stockpiles in line with demand,
Commerce Department figures showed yesterday.  Americans were less pessimistic in early December,
according to the Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan
preliminary  index of sentiment . A reading of 65.8 is the median
estimate in the Bloomberg survey after 64.1 in November. The
figures will be released at 9:55 a.m.  Trade may contribute to the expansion in the final three
months of this year after adding 0.5 percentage point to
economic growth in the July-to-September quarter. The economy
expanded at a 2 percent annual rate in the period.  China ’s trade surplus with the U.S. remains an irritant in
relations between the world’s two largest economies. President
 Barack Obama  last month renewed pressure on China’s foreign-
exchange policy and trade practices, saying “enough’s enough”
on what the U.S. views as too-slow appreciation of the yuan.  China sees an increase in domestic costs and a slowdown in
overseas demand putting “severe” pressure on its exports next
year, a sign policy makers may have little appetite to allow
faster gains in its currency. Premier  Wen Jiabao ’s embrace of
higher wages, along with a jump in land and raw-materials prices
and a stronger yuan, are restraining shipments, the Commerce
Ministry said on Dec. 7.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in  Washington  at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  