-- 
Rand Gains, Rebounding From 1-Week Low, After EU Budget Pact

-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 
2011-12-09T16:00:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/rand-gains-rebounding-from-1-week-low-after-eu-budget-pact.html
The rand gained the most this month
against the dollar, paring its weekly decline, after the euro
region’s leaders boosted a rescue fund and U.S. consumer
confidence topped estimates.  South Africa ’s currency advanced as much as 2.1 percent,
after earlier falling 0.7 percent, and traded 1.6 percent
stronger at 8.1337 per dollar as of 5:37 p.m. in Johannesburg,
the biggest one-day gain on a closing basis since Nov. 30. The
rand has retreated 1 percent this week.  Leaders holding all-night talks in Brussels added 200
billion euros ($267 billion) to their crisis-fighting capacity
and toughened anti-deficit rules.  China ’s central bank may use
$300 billion of its reserves to invest in the U.S. and  Europe ,
Reuters reported. Confidence among U.S. consumers rose more than
forecast in December to a six-month high, damping demand for
safer assets.  “The market is retracing a little bit after yesterday’s
sell-off,”  Brigid Taylor , head of institutional sales at
Johannesburg-based Nedbank Capital, said by phone. “We are just
having to watch Europe for direction.”  The euro, the currency of South Africa’s biggest regional
trading partner, gained and South Africa’s  benchmark stock index 
pared losses. U.S. Treasuries fell as investors appetite for
riskier assets improved.  Earlier, the rand declined to the weakest level against the
dollar in more than a week after European Central Bank President
 Mario Draghi  damped speculation that more purchases of euro-area
bonds are imminent.  South Africa’s 13.5 percent bonds due 2015 retreated for a
fourth day, driving the yield up two basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, to 6.78 percent, the highest on a closing
basis since Nov. 30. The yield has climbed eight basis points
this week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  