-- 
Raspadskaya Cuts Production Target 18% on Blast-Ravaged Mine

-- B y   Y u l i y a   F e d o r i n o v a
-- 
2011-12-09T12:53:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/raspadskaya-cuts-production-target-18-on-blast-ravaged-mine-1-.html
OAO Raspadskaya (RASP) , the coal producer
part-owned by billionaire  Roman Abramovich , lowered its output
target for next year by 18 percent while working on restoring
its flagship mine where blasts killed 90 miners last year.  “We plan to be able to produce 4.5 million tons of coal in
the flagship mine next year, while the company’s output will be
10.5 million tons,” said Gennady Kozovoy, Raspadskaya’s chief
executive officer and co-owner. He spoke in a Dec. 7 interview
from Mezhdurechensk,  Russia ’s Kemerovo region, about 3,500
kilometers (2,200 miles) east of Moscow.  That compares with an estimated 1.4 million metric tons at
the mine this year and 6.4 million tons companywide, he said.  A series of blasts ripped through the mine, also called
Raspadskaya, in May last year, shutting down what was then the
biggest source of coal for Russian steelmakers for about seven
months. Some production resumed in December last year.  Kozovoy’s latest estimates signal a further reduction after
Raspadskaya in October cut its 2011 output forecast by about 20
percent to 6.8 million tons because of delays at the damaged
mine. According to a production  forecast  in February, the
company targeted output of 12.8 million in total next year,
including 6 million tons of coal at the flagship mine.  Underground Fire  While an underground fire is still burning on one of the
mine’s eight levels, oxygen flow to the blaze has been cut off,
Kozovoy said. “We now have 3,500 people working there, as
before the accident,” he said.  “We have invested as much as $190 million so far in
reconstruction of our main mine” and will invest $80 million
more next year, Kozovoy said.  The site may produce as much as 7 million tons of coal in
three years, Kozovoy said. That’s the volume the Raspadskaya
mine operated at before the blast, Dmitry Smolin, an analyst at
UralSib Capital, said by phone.  The fire is expected to burn up about 11 million of the
mine’s 700 million tons of reserves, according to Kozovoy. The
“strategic target” is to expand total company production to 17
million tons, he said.  Restoring operations is taking longer than expected partly
due to “technological problems,” Kozovoy said. Safety and
industry regulators are also delaying progress by withholding
approvals while paperwork is processed, he said.  “We expected Raspadskaya to produce only 8 million tons in
2012, so their forecast is pretty positive, even if it is a
downgrade,” Uralsib’s Smolin said.  Winning Back Markets  Raspadskaya exported its first coal since the accident in
October. “Next year, we plan that exports will account for 30
percent of our sales, as was the case before the blast,”
Kozovoy said.  Raspadskaya wants to regain lost customers in Ukraine,
Kozovoy said. The miner is also in talks with buyers from
 Southeast Asia , he said.  The coal producer intends to spend about $200 million a
year on maintenance and plans to expand further, depending on
the market conditions, Kozovoy said.  Raspadskaya said last month it will buy back as much as
$380 million of shares, or 10 percent of its issued capital,
starting Dec. 19.  ‘Fair Price’  Corber Enterprises Ltd., through which Kozovoy and his
partners, including Abramovich, jointly control 80 percent of
Raspadskaya, will participate in the buyback, he said. “We will
decide in a year whether to cancel the repurchased stock or to
sell it,” he said.  Evraz Plc, the steelmaker also partly owned by Abramovich,
and Raspadskaya management were seeking to sell out of the coal
mining company this year. They halted talks on the plan in
October, citing market volatility.  Raspadskaya stock, which has dropped more than 50 percent
so far this year and closed at 103.78 rubles ($3.30) in Moscow
yesterday, is still undervalued by the market, Kozovoy said.  “We think that a fair price for Raspadskaya is not lower
than $9 a share,” he said. That price would give the company a
valuation of $7 billion, according to Bloomberg calculations.  Raspadskaya shares fell as much as 5.2 percent today,
before narrowing losses to 0.5 percent and trading at 103.30
rubles at 4:52 p.m. in Moscow.  While discussions with buyers have stalled, they may be
revived at the right price, Kozovoy said, adding that he agreed
to remain Raspadskaya’s CEO “into the mid-term.”  Separately, the company is considering selling five-year
Eurobonds in May 2012, Kozovoy said.  “We are talking to banks to arrange it,” he said. If a
weak  bond market  prevents a sale, Raspadskaya may seek loans.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yuliya Fedorinova in Moscow at 
 yfedorinova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  