-- 
RBC, Bank of Montreal Lead 1,362 Job Cuts at Canada’s Banks

-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r   a n d   S e a n   B .   P a s t e r n a k
-- 
2011-12-09T05:02:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/rbc-bank-of-montreal-lead-1-362-job-cuts-at-canada-s-banks.html
Royal Bank of Canada (RY)  and Bank of
Montreal led four Canadian lenders in trimming 1,362 jobs in the
fiscal fourth quarter, the industry’s first employment drop in
two years.  Royal Bank,  Canada ’s largest lender, had 585 fewer full-
time employees at the end of the period, a 0.85 percent
reduction from the previous quarter. Bank of Montreal, the
fourth-largest, had 435 fewer workers, a 0.9 percent drop,
according to company reports. Canadian Imperial Bank of
Commerce’s staffing fell 0.4 percent with 186 fewer jobs for the
period ended Oct. 31. Most cuts were in Canada.  This marks the first time since the fourth quarter of 2009
that net jobs declined at Canada’s eight-biggest banks. Canadian
lenders are lowering costs ahead of an expected slowdown in
2012, after posting record combined profits of C$23.6 billion
($23.1 billion) this fiscal year.  “We’ve certainly seen a negative shift in the mood about
the global environment,”  Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD)  Chief Executive
Officer  Edmund Clark  told investors last week. “The likely net
effect will be slower growth and possibly a mild recession.”  Toronto-Dominion, the second-largest lender, added 192
people in the quarter, joining increases at  Bank of Nova Scotia (BNS) ,
which bolstered ranks by 470 workers.  No Major Cuts  Canadian lenders haven’t announced any major job cuts in
the past few years, and some have added staff through
acquisitions. The eight banks increased their workforces by 7.2
percent this year from 2010, to 332,303 full-time equivalent
positions, according to company reports.  “As a major employer in Canada, RBC’s employee numbers are
influenced by many factors, including new products and services,
new geographic markets, normal attrition, technology changes and
overall economic growth,” said Katherine Gay, a spokeswoman for
Toronto-based Royal Bank.  Bank of Montreal (BMO)  spokesman Paul Deegan didn’t immediately
comment.  The Bank of Canada said in a report yesterday that the
country’s financial system faces a “high” risk of disruption
linked to  Europe ’s debt crisis. Risks to stability have
increased “markedly” over the past six months, the bank said.
Global banks have cut more than 200,000 jobs this year,
eclipsing the 174,000 in 2009, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  “The external environment remains very uncertain,” CIBC
CEO Gerald McCaughey said in a Dec. 1 conference call. “It
appears the external headwinds that have negatively impacted the
industry profitability are likely to continue to be with us in
2012.”  National Bank  National Bank of Canada (NA) , the country’s sixth-largest bank,
added 97 jobs in the fourth quarter. The Montreal-based lender
also said yesterday that it paid C$5 million in severance for
“streamlining of certain financial market activities.” Bank
spokesman Claude Breton said the number of people affected is
“low”. The Globe and Mail reported the cuts affected 20
people.  “We will continue to invest in all our business lines,”
National Bank Chief Financial Officer Ghislain Parent said in a
telephone interview. “Of course, in 2012, I think we will be
more prudent because of the uncertainties in the economy.”  Laurentian Bank of Canada (LB) , the Montreal-based lender, cut
138 jobs, or 3.6 percent of its workforce, and  Edmonton ,
Alberta-based  Canadian Western Bank (CWB)  trimmed 18 positions.  “I think job cuts will be done more slowly, and with less
fanfare in 2012,” said Wayne Busch, managing director,
financial services for Accenture Inc. in Toronto. “The number
one cost at most banks is employees.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net ;
Sean B. Pasternak in Toronto at 
 spasternak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  