-- 
RBS Sempra Founders’ Freepoint Commodities to Start Europe Trade February

-- B y   L a r s   P a u l s s o n
-- 
2011-12-09T16:02:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/rbs-sempra-founders-freepoint-commodities-to-start-europe-trade-february.html
Freepoint Commodities LLC will start
trading European energy contracts in  London  from February after
hiring staff from  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)   The company, based in Greenwich,  Connecticut , hired Michael Walter to lead its European natural gas and power trading as
well as global coal and emissions, it said today.  “We currently have five traders in London,” said David Messer, Freepoint's chief executive officer and a founder of 
RBS Sempra Commodities LLP who left the joint venture in 2009
and set up Freepoint last February. “We do not have a specific
target headcount, but we expect to make more hires.”  Closely held Freepoint is signing agreements with brokers
and counterparties to buy and sell commodities including power
and gas in the region’s over-the-counter market, according to
two people with knowledge of the plans who declined to be
identified because the information isn’t public. Banks are
losing staff in commodities at a faster pace than in fixed
income and currencies because of tightening regulations on
trading, Coalition Development Ltd., a London-based consultant,
said last month.  “One of the reasons people are finding Freepoint
attractive is that they are a different type of organization
than the banks,” said Peter Henry, principal consultant and
head of front office search at Commodity Search Partners in  New
York . “People think they will be somewhat protected from the
regulatory change.”  Volcker Rule  JPMorgan is among companies that shut units trading its own
money in commodities before the implementation of the Volcker
rule in 2012 that will limit such practices. The legislation,
named after former U.S. Federal Reserve Chairman  Paul Volcker ,
was included in the Dodd-Frank Act to limit banks taking risks
with their own capital.  Freepoint, which last month said it signed a $500 million
credit facility with banks led by BNP Paribas SA to support its
trading activities, already buys and sells North American
natural gas and power as well as global oil and has about 100
employees, according to its  website .  The loan will help the company to diversify across
commodity classes and geographic regions, Chief Executive
Officer Messer said in a Nov. 2 statement. The European unit
will focus initially on gas, power, emissions, and coal with
freight and liquefied natural gas following, he said today.  $300 Million Capital  Freepoint’s other founders are Frank Gallipoli, former
president of RBS Sempra, and Robert Feilbogen, the former chief
operating officer. The founders, employees and private equity
funds managed by Stone Point Capital LLC have provided committed
equity capital for the company of more than $300 million. Messer
left RBS Sempra in 2009 after 26 years with the firm and its
predecessors, followed by Gallipoli and Feilbogen.  JPMorgan last year bought assets from RBS Sempra, a venture
between Royal Bank of  Scotland  Group Plc and  Sempra Energy (SRE) ,
including its global oil, global metals and European power and
gas units, for $1.6 billion.  Walter worked at JPMorgan from July 1 last year through
Sept. 30, 2011,  according  to the Financial Services Authority’s
website. He was previously registered as an employee with RBS
Sempra and Royal Bank of Scotland from 2002.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson in London at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  