-- 
RBS Slashes Holdings of French Bonds More Than Southern Europe

-- B y   G a v i n   F i n c h   a n d   R a d i   K h a s a w n e h
-- 
2011-12-09T13:55:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/rbs-slashes-holdings-of-french-bonds-more-than-southern-europe.html
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS) ,
Britain’s biggest government-owned lender, is cutting holdings
of French government debt more quickly than it is for any other
sovereign in the euro region, including the southern nations.  RBS cut its holdings of French government debt by about 2
billion euros ($2.68 billion) to 17.15 billion euros in the nine
months to Sept. 30, according to data compiled by the  European
Banking Authority  and published yesterday. It reduced its
holdings of Luxembourg’s sovereign debt by 460 million euros
during the same period, the next biggest reduction.  RBS’s move highlights how investor concern about firms’
holdings of regional sovereign debt, which has contributed to a
31 percent decline in the  Bloomberg Europe Banks and Financial
Services Index (BEBANKS)  this year, is spreading from the southern
European nations to the core of the euro area. European Union
leaders are meeting in Brussels today to hammer out a plan to
stop the crisis from worsening.  The spread between 10-year French government bonds and
German debt of a similar maturity widened to a euro-era record
last month as concern mounted that some of its largest banks may
need rescuing after being shut out of the funding markets. The
eight largest prime U.S. money-market mutual funds cut holdings
in French banks’ securities by 68 percent in November, according
to an analysis of fund disclosures by the Bloomberg Risk
newsletter.  Through the use of credit-default swaps and other
strategies, RBS’s net holdings of French debt shrank by 4.27
billion euros, just shy of the 4.32 billion euro net reduction
in Italian  government bonds , the data show.  RBS Group Finance Director Bruce van Saun highlighted the
bank’s reduction of southern European debt, including Italian
bonds, on a Nov. 4 earnings  call , though he made no mention of
its French holdings. RBS cut its southern European debt by 75
percent, or 3.2 billion pounds, on a net basis in the first nine
months, van Saun said on the call.  An RBS spokesman, Michael Strachan, declined to comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gavin Finch in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net ;
Radi Khasawneh in London at 
 rkhasawneh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  