-- 
Treasuries Pare Drop as Concern Remains After European Agreement

-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 
2011-12-09T14:11:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/treasuries-decline-yield-on-10-year-note-rises-three-basis-points-to-2-.html
Treasuries pared their decrease as
sovereign-debt concern remained as European leaders agreed to
tighten budget rules and speed the start of a rescue fund.  The cost for European banks to borrow in dollars rose on
speculation the measures agreed upon today by euro-area leaders
during a two-day summit in Brussels won’t be enough to stem the
region’s sovereign-debt crisis.  “There is some skepticism regarding the agreement in
 Europe , and that’s why yields aren’t going very far,” said
Larry Milstein, managing director of government and agency debt
trading in New York at R.W. Pressprich & Co., a fixed-income
broker and dealer for institutional investors.  Yields on 10-year notes advanced less than one basis point,
or 0.01 percentage point, to 1.98 percent at 9:03 a.m. New York
time, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 2 percent
securities due in November 2021 fell 2/32, or 63 cents per
$1,000 face amount, to 100 5/32. The yields earlier increased
five basis points to 2.02 percent.  The three-month cross-currency basis swap, the rate banks
pay to convert euro payments into dollars, widened nine basis
points, or 0.09 percentage point, to 126 basis points below the
euro interbank offered rate. That’s the most expensive rate
since Dec. 2.  Nineteen months since euro leaders forged their first plan
to contain debt turmoil, a fifth comprehensive effort added
200 billion euros ($267 billion) to the war chest and tightened
rules to curb future debts. They sped the start of a
500 billion-euro rescue fund to next year and dropped a proposal
that bondholders shoulder losses in rescues.  Gain in Treasuries  Demand for  U.S. debt  as a result of Europe’s crisis pushed
a gauge of Treasuries due in 10 years or longer up 21 percent in
the past six months, the best performance among 144 bond indexes
compiled by Bloomberg and the European Federation of Financial
Analysts Societies, after accounting for currency changes.  The U.S. will auction $32 billion of three-year notes on
Dec. 12, $21 billion of 10-year debt the next day and
$13 billion in 30-year bonds on Dec. 14, the U.S. Treasury
Department said yesterday. The government will also sell
$12 billion of five-year Treasury Inflation Protected Securities
on Dec. 15.  The  Federal Reserve  is replacing $400 billion of shorter
maturities in its holdings of Treasuries with longer-term debt
to cap borrowing costs in a plan it announced in September. It’s
scheduled to buy as much as $2.75 billion of securities due from
2036 to 2041 today as part of the program, according to the New
York Fed’s website.  Economic View  The threat of slowing economic growth will maintain demand
for U.S. securities, said Hans Goetti, the Singapore-based chief
investment officer for  Asia  at Finaport Investment Intelligence,
which oversees the equivalent of $1.5 billion in global assets.  “The  U.S. economy  has strengthened a bit lately, but it’s
still not where it should be,” he said. “Bonds still make a
lot of sense.” Ten-year yields may fall to less than 1.5
percent next year, Goetti said.  The trade deficit narrowed in October to the lowest level
of the year, reflecting a drop in imports that will help give
the U.S. economy a lift.  The gap shrank 1.6 percent to $43.5 billion, smaller than
projected, from $44.2 billion in September, Commerce Department
figures showed today. Purchases from overseas fell to the lowest
level since April, due almost entirely to a plunge in demand for
petroleum.  The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan  index  of
consumer sentiment rose to 65.8 in December from 64.1 in the
prior month, according to a Bloomberg News survey before today’s
report. Fewer Americans filed applications for jobless benefits
last week, the Labor Department said yesterday.  Ten-year note yields in the U.S. will climb to 2.42 percent
by the middle of next year, according to the average forecast in
a Bloomberg News survey of analysts, with the most recent
forecasts given the heaviest weightings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cordell Eddings in  New York  at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  