-- 
Treasuries Drop on U.S. Consumer Confidence, European Agreement

-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 
2011-12-09T22:24:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/treasuries-pare-decrease-as-concern-remains-after-european-budget-accord.html
Treasuries fell for the first time in
three days as a report showed  consumer confidence  rose in
December more than forecast and European leaders agreed to
tighten budget rules and speed the start of a bailout fund.  Yields  on benchmark 10-year notes advanced from the lowest
level this month as a proposal supported by Germany that
bondholders bear losses in financial rescues was dropped from an
accord reached during a two-day summit in Brussels. Thirty-year
bond yields had a second weekly gain as a rally in stocks
reduced demand for a refuge.  “The consumer confidence data was very strong, helping the
sentiment in the market,” said  Adrian Miller , fixed-income
strategist at Miller Tabak Roberts Securities LLC in New York.
“There is positive sentiment out of the  euro zone , and that is
weighing on Treasuries.”  Yields on 10-year notes advanced nine basis points, or 0.09
percentage point, to 2.06 percent at 5:18 p.m. New York time,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 2 percent
securities due in November 2021 decreased 26/32, or $8.13 per
$1,000 face amount, to 99 14/32.  The 10-year note yields had a weekly  increase  of three
basis points after touching 1.96 percent, the lowest level since
Nov. 28. A drop of more than two points in 30-year bonds pushed
yields up 11 basis points today to 3.11 percent. They increased
eight basis points this week.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index advanced 1.7 percent today,
extending its five-day rally to 0.9 percent. The euro
appreciated 0.3 percent to $1.3386. Crude oil futures rose 1.9
percent to $99.83 a barrel in  New York .  European Accord  A fifth comprehensive effort, coming 19 months since euro
leaders forged their first plan to contain sovereign-debt
turmoil, added 200 billion euros ($267 billion) to Europe’s
crisis-fighting capacity and tightened rules to curb future
debt. The agreement sped the establishment of a 500 billion-euro
rescue fund to next year and dropped a proposal that bondholders
shoulder losses in rescues.  “The agreement is a step in the right direction, but it
wasn’t enough,” said  Sean Murphy , a Treasury trader in New York
at Societe Generale SA, one of the 21 primary dealers that trade
with the  Federal Reserve . “The summit lacked the firepower
necessary to take the firm footing out of Treasuries.”  S&P said it’s examining the outcome of the European Union
summit ending today before deciding whether to go ahead with its
threat this week to cut the credit rating of 15 euro-region
nations including  Germany .  “We will be studying the implications of the summit and
its impact on the growing systemic stresses we identified,” the
ratings company said via e-mail today.  S&P on Banks  The European Union’s AAA long-term rating and the rankings
of some of the region’s largest banks including BNP Paribas SA,
Commerzbank AG and Deutsche Bank AG may also be lowered by S&P.  In a sign financial institutions are facing stress, the TED
spread, or the difference between what banks and the U.S.
government pay to borrow for three months, climbed to more than
54 basis points, the highest since June 2009. The three-month
London interbank offered rate, or Libor, was 0.54 percent, while
the rate on U.S. bills remained at zero.  Demand for  U.S. debt  as Europe’s crisis got worse pushed a
gauge of Treasuries due in 10 years or longer up 21 percent in
the past six months, the best performance among 144 bond indexes
compiled by Bloomberg and the European Federation of Financial
Analysts Societies, after accounting for currency changes.  U.S. Confidence  Bonds slid today as a report showed confidence among U.S.
consumers rose in December to a six-month high. The Thomson
Reuters/University of Michigan preliminary index of consumer
sentiment climbed to 67.7 from 64.1 at the end of November. The
median estimate of 73 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News
called for a reading of 65.8.  The U.S. plans to auction $32 billion of three-year notes
on Dec. 12, $21 billion of 10-year debt the next day and $13
billion in 30-year bonds on Dec. 14, the U.S. Treasury
Department said yesterday. The government will also sell $12
billion of five-year Treasury Inflation Protected Securities on
Dec. 15.  “The market wants to prepare for the onslaught of supply
coming, but it’s hard with  Europe  in the picture,” said Jason Rogan, director of U.S. government trading in New York at
Guggenheim Partners LLC, a brokerage for institutional
investors. “Euro leaders are starting to sound like the boy who
cried wolf, but you have to believe something will get done.”  The Fed is replacing $400 billion of shorter maturities in
its holdings of Treasuries with longer-term debt to cap
borrowing costs under a plan announced in September. It bought
$2.512 billion of securities due from February 2036 to May 2041
today, according to the New York Fed’s website.  U.S. 10-year note yields will climb to 2.39 percent by the
middle of next year, according to the average forecast in a
Bloomberg News survey of 64 analysts, with the most recent
forecasts given the heaviest weightings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  