-- 
Gingrich Focus of Iowa Debate

-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k
-- 
2011-12-10T23:47:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/romney-leaves-gingrich-attacks-to-surrogates.html
Tonight’s Republican debate in Iowa
presents a field focused on the ascendancy of  Newt Gingrich , who
is shouldering criticism for comments he made to Jewish media
about Palestinians and peace with Israel.  Calling the Mideast peace process “delusional,” Gingrich
said in an interview with the Jewish Channel cable TV network
that the Palestinians are “invented people.” Gingrich, the
former House speaker from  Georgia , has emerged as  Mitt Romney ’s
top challenger for the nomination less than a month before the
Jan. 3 Iowa caucuses start the party’s nomination contests.  Senator  Carl Levin , a Michigan Democrat who is Jewish,
issued a statement today saying Gingrich “is wrong to think his
attempt to turn the Palestinians into a non-people with no claim
to a state will appeal to his audience on the Jewish Channel.”  After an appearance in  Des Moines  today, Gingrich told
reporters he had no intention of losing his cool should he come
under attack tonight.  “I’m going to go in, say a prayer, be a witness to what
America needs to do, answer the questions directly and honestly,
and see what happens,” he said.  Tonight’s debate, sponsored by ABC News and the Des Moines
Register, will be broadcast live from Drake University in Des
Moines. The gathering is also sponsored by the Des Moines
Register newspaper, Yahoo.com, the  Republican Party  of Iowa and
WOI-TV, a local ABC affiliate.  ‘Relentlessly Positive’  “We shouldn’t be tearing each other down,” Gingrich told
about 150 supporters today at the opening of his Iowa
headquarters in Urbandale, Iowa. “My campaign will be
relentlessly positive.”  R.C. Hammond, a Gingrich spokesman, said in a statement
today that the former speaker “supports a negotiated peace”
between  Israel  and the Palestinians.  “However, to understand what is being proposed and
negotiated you have to understand decades of complex history,
which is exactly what Gingrich was referencing,” the statement
said.  At his Iowa headquarters in Des Moines today, Romney
avoided any direct criticism of Gingrich, something he left to
surrogates earlier in the week.  “We want you guys to get out and get your friends to
caucus and to do whatever has to get done on Jan. 3 to get out
there and make a difference and make sure we select someone as
our nominee who will win the presidency and will be able to get
jobs back for our country,” he told about 120 supporters.  Romney’s Electability  Former Minnesota Governor  Tim Pawlenty , who endorsed Romney
after dropping out of the presidential race in August, also
pointed to Romney’s potential electability at the rally.  “We need a person in that chair who we know has a
steadiness,” he said. “Mitt Romney is the most knowledgeable
and capable and electable candidate in this field.”  Tonight’s formal debate is the 12th this year for the
Republican candidates, who will meet again on Dec. 15 in Sioux
City, Iowa.  The debate will be the most intimate gathering the group
has held to date, with just six candidates on stage following
the departure from the race by businessman  Herman Cain . Former
Utah Governor Jon Huntsman Jr., who isn’t actively campaigning
in  Iowa , didn’t meet polling criteria for participation.  Gingrich’s Baggage  The debate follows the release of a video by a political
action committee supporting Romney that suggests Gingrich has a
“ton of baggage” as a presidential candidate. The video was
put forward by the group Restore Our Future, which said it plans
to spend $3.1 million on advertising in Iowa.  “I don’t have any comment on anything that PACs are going
to do or say,” Romney, 64, told reporters yesterday.  Romney advisers criticized Gingrich as “off message” and
undisciplined in a call yesterday with reporters.  Mary Kramer, an Iowa supporter and a former U.S. ambassador
to  Barbados , pointed to Gingrich’s comments about Palestinians
and the Israeli-Palestinian  peace process .  “That’s one of the things that I think makes me a little
bit nervous about Speaker Gingrich,” she said. “He sometimes
makes comments that are open to very broad interpretations.”  Iowa State Representative Renee Schulte said Gingrich’s
history of divorce presents “a contrast” with Romney’s 42-year
marriage. “It’s not that anybody is trying to attack anybody:
it’s just a difference,” she said.  Two of Gingrich’s top Iowa supporters chided Romney and his
campaign headquarters in  Boston  for taking a more combative
tone.  Panic & Desperation  “What we’re seeing from Mitt Romney and Boston is
desperation and panic,” Linda Upmeyer, chairwoman of Gingrich’s
Iowa campaign effort, told reporters on a conference call.  Romney, a former Massachusetts governor and second-time
presidential candidate, has campaigned for much of the year,
mostly avoiding attacks on his opponents as he has kept his
focus on President  Barack Obama . That tone has changed since
Gingrich has gained polling advantages in states with the
earliest primaries and caucuses and in national polls.  In a  meeting  with the Register’s editorial board, Romney
noted his business experience as he contrasted himself with
Gingrich.  “Speaker Gingrich has spent the last 30, 40 years in
 Washington ,” he said. “Nothing wrong with that. It’s just
different.”  Romney told the newspaper that he isn’t concerned about
Gingrich’s rise in the polls.  “My guess is that over time, Speaker Gingrich will follow
a trajectory that will be unique to him but that will come down,
and by the time we’ll finish with this, I’ll get the
nomination,” he said. “If I didn’t think that, I wouldn’t be
battling like I am. I expect to get the nomination.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John McCormick in Urbandale, Iowa, at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  