-- 
Romney to Spend More Time Courting Voters to Blunt Gingrich Rise

-- B y   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s
-- 
2011-12-09T05:01:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/romney-to-spend-more-time-courting-voters-to-blunt-gingrich-rise.html
There’s just one thing nagging at
 Iowa  voter Cari Gregg about embracing Mitt Romney as her
presidential candidate: He hasn’t bothered to show up to
campaign for her vote.  “My struggle throwing my full support to him is he’s kind
of writing us off a little bit,” said Gregg, a 26-year-old
credit analyst from Johnston, Iowa, who attended a Dec. 7 rally
for Romney headlined by New Jersey Governor  Chris Christie  --not
the candidate himself. “You have to at least come here and let
people know you want it.”  There are less than four weeks until Iowa’s Jan. 3 caucuses
kick off the Republican presidential nominating process. On the
streets of some early-voting states, Romney, 64, has been a man
difficult to find.  Rival  Newt Gingrich , the former U.S. House speaker from
 Georgia  who is surging in the polls, appeared at four events in
two days last week and plans to be in Des Moines tomorrow.
Romney plans to campaign today in  Cedar Rapids , with a town hall
that will mark only his ninth event in Iowa since entering the
presidential race on June 2.  Now the former Massachusetts governor and second-time
presidential hopeful says he’s ready to shift tactics and begin
offering his “closing arguments” to voters.  Change of Approach  It’s an acknowledgment that Romney’s approach to date,
limiting his interactions with voters while delegating some of
the job to surrogates such as Christie, isn’t sufficient to
propel him to victory.  The past two weeks have brought “not just the emergence of
Newt, but actually a little bit of decline for  Mitt Romney ” in
such early-voting states as Iowa and Florida, said  Alex Castellanos , an unaffiliated Republican strategist. Romney “has
two issues to deal with now. One is stopping Newt, but the other
is there’s no guarantee now that Romney inherits anything that
Gingrich might surrender.”  Romney’s campaign says the tempo shift is driven by the
calendar.      “It’s really reflective of the timing here that
we’re getting closer to the finish and we felt that this was an
appropriate time to begin drawing the very clear contrasts
between Governor Romney and Speaker Gingrich,” said Jim
Merrill, a New Hampshire-based senior adviser. “There’s no
change in strategy. We know, and we’ve known from Day 1, that
whether it’s in  New Hampshire  or in other states throughout the
country, we’ve got to make our case to voters.”  Heir Apparent  For most of the year, Romney has campaigned as an heir
apparent to the nomination, mostly eschewing attacks on his
opponents during televised debates and in public remarks and
focusing his fire on President  Barack Obama .  Romney has limited his unscripted events with voters except
in New Hampshire, where he is popular, well-known from his years
as governor of a neighboring state, and owns a vacation home. On
Dec. 11, Romney will hold his 18th town hall in the Granite
State since entering the race.  Elsewhere, he has favored prepared speeches, endorsement
announcements, and roundtables with business leaders where he
can showcase his executive experience with Bain Capital LLC.  His rivals have made the rounds in restaurants and forums
in which voters have the freedom to ask about whatever interests
or worries them. In  South Carolina  yesterday, Texas Governor
 Rick Perry  met voters for lunch at a café in Beaufort, had
dinner with them at a Greenville diner, and attended a town hall
in Okatie.  Fundraising and Endorsements  In contrast, Romney crisscrossed the country multiple times
for at least four fundraisers, collected the endorsement of
former Vice President Dan Quayle, and delivered a speech to the
Republican Jewish Coalition, devoting little time to in-person
wooing of voters.  Romney has done some remote campaigning, holding his fifth
telephonic town hall with Iowans Dec. 5. He’s also dispatched a
variety of surrogates. Romney’s wife, Ann, and son, Josh, are
scheduled to join former Minnesota Governor  Tim Pawlenty  for a
rally tomorrow in  Des Moines  while the candidate prepares for a
debate there that evening.  At the headquarters of the Kum & Go convenience store chain
on the evening of Dec. 7, it fell to Christie to make the case
to a self-described undecided voter about why she should back
Romney.  Knocking Gingrich  Christie’s answer portrayed Romney as a devoted family man
and a candidate who would never do anything in the Oval Office
to make Americans “ashamed” -- a knock against Gingrich, 68,
who faced ethics charges that resulted in a 1997 House reprimand
and has been married three times.  Romney told reporters in  Paradise Valley , Arizona Dec. 6
that he would soon be stepping up his “politicking” in Iowa,
New Hampshire, South Carolina and  Florida , the first states to
hold nominating contests.  “We’re making our closing arguments -- you’ll see me
campaigning aggressively,” Romney said. “I’ll be on the air a
good deal more than in the past doing my very best to
communicate to the American people why I’m running for
president, hopefully getting their support.”  Romney has sat for more television interviews in recent
days and begun airing advertisements in Iowa and New Hampshire,
including one that highlights his 42-year marriage, drawing a
contrast with Gingrich’s personal life.  His campaign tapped former New Hampshire Governor John Sununu and former Missouri Senator Jim Talent yesterday to hold
a press conference call in which they portrayed Gingrich as a
politician whose efforts at self-promotion frequently undermine
his party’s agenda.  Original Playbook  Romney’s aides and some Republican strategists not
affiliated with the campaign say Romney’s strategy from the
outset was for him to ramp up slowly in a crowded field and then
intensify his efforts when a clear competitor emerged.  “They’ve had a very good game plan,” said  Charlie Black ,
another unaffiliated Republican strategist who was a top adviser
to Arizona Senator  John McCain ’s 2008 presidential campaign.
“Those guys are experienced enough to know nobody comes in and
wins every primary without hand-to-hand combat. It was just
unclear who the big challenger was going to be. Now Newt has
emerged as the primary competition.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in  Washington  at   or
 Jdavis159@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva@bloomberg.net  