-- 
Russian Socialite Becomes Web Firebrand After Night With Police

-- B y   K a t y a   K a z a k i n a
-- 
2011-12-10T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/russian-socialite-becomes-web-firebrand-after-evening-with-moscow-police.html
As Moscow braces for organized
protests this weekend, one indicator of the breadth of political
discontent can be found in the sudden transformation of an
Internet diarist named  Bozhena Rynska .  The 36-year-old Moscow socialite and journalist has been a
familiar figure in the press and cyberspace, known for her spicy
chronicles of  Russia ’s oligarchs and Facebook photos featuring
her frequent appearances at red-carpet events.  In the wake of Russia’s elections on Dec. 4, which sparked
allegations of fraud, Rynska in quick succession attended a
protest in Moscow, got arrested and produced a stream of
Facebook posts that have stoked heated discussions among her
nearly 5,000 cyber-friends.  Several influential actual friends came to see her at the
police precinct where she was held -- “My high-society contacts
are very supportive,” she said. Upon release around 12:30 a.m.,
Rynska left in a BMW, escorted by another friend driving a
“giant Rolls Royce.”  “I am not a revolutionary, I’m just fed up,” Rynska said
in a telephone interview. I knew her from when we attended the
same middle school in  St. Petersburg . It was past 1 a.m., Moscow
time, when we talked, but she was still filing stories, posting
on Facebook and giving interviews.  “Political activism has suddenly become hip,” said Maria Lipman, an analyst at  Carnegie Moscow Center , in a telephone
interview. “Young and urban Russians, who were absolutely not
interested in politics a few months ago, have come out in droves
to vote and monitor the elections. The mood has changed from
resentment to defiance and it’s spreading thanks to the new
technology and the Internet.”  Buzz Over Fraud  The Dec. 4 parliamentary election stirred widespread anger
in Russia over fraud allegations and Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin ’s plan to return as president. Since then, Facebook,
Twitter and blogs have been buzzing with discussions of
corruption and injustice as well as mobile-phone uploads from
the polling stations and demonstrations.  More than 35,000 people have registered to attend the
protest scheduled for tomorrow in Bolotnaya Square, near the
Kremlin, according to the event’s Facebook page. Officials have
approved a rally for 30,000, which would be the biggest in the
city in a decade.  One popular Facebook post offered step-by-step legal
advice, ranging from what to do before the demonstration
(notarize a copy of your passport) to how to select a lawyer and
what not to do if arrested.  In her Facebook posts, Rynska’s curse-laden appeals for
action compared the police to wild beasts and urged her
compatriots to “strike back.” Some Internet readers accused
her of extremism, while others commended her fearlessness.  ‘Russian Winter’  The recent rise in activism, which was quickly dubbed “The
Russian Winter,” can be traced to September, when President
 Dmitry Medvedev  nominated Putin, his predecessor for two terms
and current prime minister, to succeed him.  “Rationally, everyone had expected that,” Lipman said.
“Emotionally, it was like a shock. The common reaction was,
‘Oh, no! Not for another 12 years!’”  This is why so many people went to vote and monitor the
elections, she added. “They observed, they recorded and they
reported,” she said.  “Social networks played a huge role once the drive was
there,” Lipman said. “Now the protests are considered so
popular in online circles, it’s almost impossible not to join.
You’d feel like an outsider.”  (Katya Kazakina is a reporter for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
her own.)  To contact the reporter of this story:
Katya Kazakina in  New York  at 
 kkazakina@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 