-- 
Sabre Seeks to Pursue Antitrust Counterclaims Against American Airlines

-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 
2011-12-09T14:47:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/sabre-seeks-to-pursue-antitrust-counterclaims-against-american-airlines.html
Sabre Holdings Corp.  asked a judge to
modify the so-called automatic stay in  American Airlines ’
bankruptcy so it can pursue counterclaims against the carrier in
an antitrust dispute.  Sabre said in its filing in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in  New
York  that AMR Corp.’s American doesn’t oppose the request.  “To enforce the automatic stay would permit American to
use the stay as a sword, not a shield, in litigation crucial to
both American and Sabre,” Sabre said in the filing.  American sued Travelport Ltd. and  Orbitz Worldwide Inc. (OWW) ,
the operators of electronic reservations systems, in April
accusing them of monopolizing the distribution of fare and
flight data to travel agents. Sabre, the largest U.S.-based
global fare data distribution system, was added as a defendant
in June.  Trials had already been scheduled by the state and federal
courts for next year in the antitrust lawsuits when American
filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy last month. Sabre, based in
Southlake, Texas, filed antitrust counterclaims before the
bankruptcy.  Although American is permitted under bankruptcy law to
continue pursuing its affirmative claims, the automatic stay
precludes Sabre from going ahead with its counterclaims.  The bankruptcy court will hold a hearing to decide whether
Sabre can continue with its half of the suits.  AMR, based in  Fort Worth , Texas, filed for Chapter 11
reorganization on Nov. 29, listing assets of $24.7 billion and
debt totaling $29.6 billion.  The case is In re  AMR Corp. (AMR) , 11-15463, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  