-- 
Samsung, Teva, DC Comics, Coca-Cola: Intellectual Property

-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 
2011-12-09T12:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/samsung-teva-dc-comics-coca-cola-intellectual-property-1-.html
Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  failed to win
a court order blocking  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  from selling its newest
smartphone, the iPhone 4S, in  France .  The Paris court rejected Samsung’s request for an emergency
order against Apple while it considers the South Korean
company’s patent-infringement claims.  Samsung, the biggest maker of smartphones, sought to block
sales of the new handset in France,  Italy  and the U.K. days
after it was unveiled in October, arguing that Apple violated
its wireless-communications patents. Suwon, South Korea-based
Samsung sued in Paris in July over earlier versions of the
iPhone and Apple’s iPad tablet.  “The disproportionate character of the ban sought by
Samsung against Apple is clear,” Judge Marie-Christine
Courboulay said in yesterday’s decision.  The Paris court ruled Samsung must pay Apple 100,000 euros
($134,100) for legal fees while denying Apple’s request for
damages. Samsung’s claim wasn’t “abusive” and the company’s
infringement claims can move forward as a regular lawsuit,
Courboulay said.  Florence Catel, a Samsung spokeswoman in Paris, declined to
comment on the decision. Calls to Apple’s office in  London  for
comment weren’t immediately returned.  Samsung has been locked in a global legal battle with Apple
since the Cupertino, California-based company claimed in an
April suit that Samsung’s Galaxy devices copied the iPad and
iPhone. Samsung was the world’s biggest maker of smartphones in
the last quarter, while Apple dominates the tablet market.  The companies have filed at least 30 lawsuits in 10
countries, and European Union regulators have started an
antitrust probe of the companies’ use of smartphone patents.  A Milan court will hold a hearing Dec. 16 concerning
Samsung’s Italian suit. In a Dec. 3 decision, a federal court in
 San Jose ,  California , rejected Apple’s request to block
Samsung’s 4G smartphone and its Galaxy 10.1 tablet computer.  Teva’s Cephalon Wins Appeal Against Watson Over Fentora Copy  Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA) ’s Cephalon unit won an
appeals court decision that prevents Watson Pharmaceuticals Inc.
from selling a generic copy of the painkiller Fentora until
2019.  The U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit in
 Washington  yesterday upheld the validity of a Cephalon patent on
Fentora and backed a lower-court ruling that Watson infringed
the patent. The appeals court posted a notice of the decision on
its website without a formal opinion explaining its findings.  Fentora is approved to relieve sudden episodes of cancer
pain in adults already taking opioids, or morphine-like drugs.
Cephalon has said its patent 6,264,981 that was upheld expires
in 2019 and is for a process of making the tablet dissolve.  The drug generated $81 million in U.S. sales in the first
half, Cephalon said in August. Petach Tikva, Israel-based Teva
bought Cephalon in October.  The case is Cephalon Inc. v.  Watson Pharmaceuticals Inc. (WPI) ,
09cv724, U.S. District Court for the District of  Delaware 
(Wilmington).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  DC Comics Loses Bid to Block Superloans Logo in New Zealand  DC Comics lost its bid to ban the logo of a New Zealand
finance company for infringing its Superman trademarks, New
Zealand’s Dominion Post  reported .  New Zealand’s intellectual property office said there was a
clear difference between Superman and Buck, the flying superhero
used by Wellington-based  Superloans , according to the Dominion
Post.  The office said Buck has a shield on his chest bearing a
dollar sign, and his holding money in his hand deviated from
Superman’s altruistic orientation, the newspaper reported.  DC Comics was ordered to pay Superloans’ litigation costs,
according to the Dominion Post.  Hermes Infringement Complaint Leads to Indictment in Taiwan  Hermes International (RMS) ’s trademarks associated with is Birkin
handbag were found to have been infringed by the maker of the
canvas “Banane Taipei” bags,  according to  the Taipei Times.  Logos of the French luxury-goods company were copied and
placed on the Taiwan bags, the newspaper reported.  After a complaint from Paris-based Hermes, Taipei’s
Intellectual Property Office rejected an application to register
the Banane Taipei logo and the products’ two creators were
indicted for criminal trademark infringement, the Times said.  Banane Taipei bags became popular in Taiwan after actress
Barbie Hsu gave them away as gifts to guests at  her wedding  in
May, the newspaper reported.  ‘Sanuki Udon’ Noodle Trademarks Canceled by  China ’s IP Office  China’s Intellectual Property Office canceled a trademark
for noodle products after a Japanese company complained, the
China Post  reported.   Namchow Group lost the registration for “Sanuki Udon,”
which  Japan ’s Kabashima Co. had argued was a place name and
public property not entitled to trademark protection, according
to China Post.  Sanuki udon  noodles are a product of Japan’s Kagawa
Prefecture, and because of the ruling, the name can be used by
any maker of udon-type noodles from flour from the Sanuku region
of Kagawa, according to China Post.  Namchow officials told the China Post they are discussing
whether to appeal the Intellectual Property Office’s ruling to
China’s Supreme Court.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Anti-Piracy Role Added to U.S. Trade Agency in Draft Bill  U.S. lawmakers unveiled draft legislation that would give
the International Trade Commission the lead role in fighting
foreign websites trafficking in illegal content and counterfeit
goods.  The draft bill, released yesterday by Senator Ron Wyden, an
Oregon Democrat, and Representative Darrell Issa, a California
Republican, is meant as an alternative to Hollywood-backed anti-
piracy legislation under consideration by the House and Senate.  Those measures pit the movie and music industries, which
want a stronger crackdown on online piracy, against  Google Inc. (GOOG) ,
Facebook Inc. and other Web companies that say the bills may
ensnare legitimate websites and threaten the growth of the U.S.
technology industry.  The draft bill released by Wyden and Issa, called the
Online Protection and Enforcement of Digital Trade Act, lets
U.S. intellectual-property owners petition the trade agency to
investigate foreign websites linked to piracy.  Under the bill, the commission may issue cease-and-desist
orders against foreign websites that “primarily” and
“willfully” engage in copyright infringement. Those orders
could be used to force U.S.-based payment and advertising
companies to stop providing services to such sites, according to
the draft.  The Wyden-Issa proposal contrasts with Hollywood-backed
anti-piracy bills that were introduced this year and have
multiple co-sponsors from both parties. Those measures would let
the U.S. Justice Department seek court orders forcing Internet-
service providers, search engines, payment services and
advertising networks to block or cease business with foreign
websites linked to piracy.  The Hollywood-backed measure in the House, the Stop Online
Piracy Act, also would give intellectual-property owners,
through private action and in court, the ability to push U.S.
payment processors and online-advertising services to stop doing
business with foreign websites.  Representative Lamar Smith, a Texas Republican and chairman
of the House Judiciary Committee, has said he plans to hold a
committee vote before year-end on the Stop Online Piracy Act,
which he introduced.  Google, Facebook and other Web companies said in a Nov. 15
letter that the House and Senate measures would create “new
uncertain liabilities” for Internet companies and asked
lawmakers to seek “more targeted ways” to combat “rogue”
websites in other countries.  NetCoalition, a technology-industry group representing
Google,  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)  and EBay Inc., supports having the ITC
handle copyright and trademark-infringement cases against
foreign websites, Markham Erickson, the group’s executive
director, said in an interview this week. The Washington-based
group’s members include Bloomberg LP, the parent company of
Bloomberg News.  Studio executives have expressed concern the trade
commission isn’t equipped to take on enforcement.  The alternative bill from Wyden and Issa is still in draft
form and may be introduced as legislation within a week,
Jennifer Hoelzer, a spokeswoman for Wyden, said in an interview.
The draft bill has been posted on a website to solicit comments
and feedback.  The agency has the power to block imports of products found
to infringe intellectual-property rights. It’s at the center of
patent battles over smartphone technology and is investigating
allegations of unfair trade practices by China in the solar-
panel industry.  For more copyright news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  Coca-Cola’s Secret Formula Finds New Home in Downtown Atlanta  Coca-Cola Co. (KO) , the world’s largest maker of soft drinks,
moved its closely guarded formula from a bank vault to a tourist
attraction in downtown Atlanta, the Atlanta Journal-Constitution
 reported .  The recipe went from one of  SunTrust Inc. (STI) ’s banks to the
newly built “Vault of the Secret Formula” at  the World of
Coca-Cola  exhibit, according to the newspaper.  The 125-year-old formula belonging to Atlanta-based Coca-
Cola had been housed at SunTrust since 1925, the newspaper
reported.  Although the new vault will be visible to the public, its
size, security details and cost will be as closely guarded a
secret as the formula itself, the Journal-Constitution said.  ‘Bachelor’ Producers Sue ‘Reality Steve’ Over Program Spoilers  The producers of “The Bachelor” reality television
program sued the Texas-based operator of a “spoiler” website
for trying to disclose secrets about the program.  “Spoilers” are information that reveal a plot or
program’s outcome in advance of its conclusion.  In the complaint filed Dec. 6 in federal court in  Los
Angeles , Burbank, California-based NZK Productions Inc. and
Horizon Alternative Television Inc. accused Stephen Carbone of
revealing “non-public information regarding events that
transpired on the Bachelor series episodes prior to their
broadcast.”  “The Bachelor” and its spin-off “Bachelorette,” which
are broadcast on  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s ABC network, feature either a
male or female principal character who, over the course of the
series, selects a potential marriage partner from among 25
contestants selected by the producers. The identity of the
chosen person -- who is given the “final rose” -- isn’t
revealed until the final show of the series.  According to the complaint, Carbone has contacted
participants, casts and crew members of “The Bachelor” and
induced them to breach their confidentiality agreements. He then
allegedly posted the information on the RealitySteve.com
website.  The producers claim Carbone offered at least one
participant $2,500 to reveal information about the show.
Although Carbone was sent a cease-and-desist letter in August,
and a second in November, he has continued to solicit
confidential information from participants in the program,
according to court papers.  Carbone posted a notice on his website referring all
inquiries to his counsel, Brad Kizzia of Dallas-based Brown Fox
Kizzia & Johnson PLLC. He also posted a link to a letter Kizzia
sent to the producers on his behalf, denying the allegations in
the complaint.  The producers asked the court to order Carbone to stop
soliciting non-public information about the show in advance of
its broadcast and quit offering participants and employees money
for the secret information. Additionally, they seek money
damages, and awards of attorney fees and litigation costs.  NZK Productions and Horizon Alternative Television are
represented by Tina Wong and Linda M. Burrow of Caldwell, Leslie
& Proctor PC of Los Angeles.  The case is NZK Products Inc., v. Stephen Carbone, 2:11-
cv-10118-GHK-E, U.S. District Court, Central District of
California (Los Angeles).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 