-- 
HSBC Sues MF Global Over $850,000 of Gold

-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r   a n d   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 
2011-12-09T22:58:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/hsbc-sues-mf-global-brokerage-over-stored-gold-silver-bars-1-.html
An  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  unit sued the MF
Global Inc. brokerage trustee to establish whether he or another
person is the rightful owner of gold bars worth about $850,000
and silver bars underlying contracts between the brokerage and a
client.  Five gold bars and 15 silver bars underlie eight Comex
contracts between the brokerage and its client Jason Fane of
Ithaca, New York, the unit of London-based HSBC said in a court
filing yesterday. Both parties have asserted claims to the bars,
creating difficulties for HSBC, which is storing them, the bank
said. HSBC asked a judge to decide who the rightful owner is.  “HSBC has received conflicting instructions regarding
ownership and disposition of the property,” it said.
“Accordingly, HSBC is exposed to multiple liabilities with
respect to the disposition of the properties.” The unit is HSBC
Bank USA National Association.  Bullion is selling for about $1,717 an ounce on the Comex
in  New York , up about 21 percent this year, as investors bought
the metal to protect their wealth from  Europe ’s escalating debt
crisis, and reached a record $1,923.70 in September. Treasuries
returned 9.3 percent, a Bank of America Corp. index shows.  ‘Bars Are Mine’  “These bars are mine,” Fane said in an e-mail today. “We
had a letter from HSBC that they were on the loading dock to be
shipped to our warehouse contractor when there was some action
taken by a third party to stop or delay shipment.”  The trustee, James Giddens, expects this “relatively minor
and not unusual dispute” to be successfully resolved, his
spokesman,  Kent Jarrell , said in an e-mail.  Fane wrote HSBC after the bankruptcy, asking the bank to
transfer the bars to his account at Brink’s, according to a copy
of his letter filed in court. The trustee wrote HSBC saying the
gold and silver was “customer property,” and the bank
shouldn’t turn it over to Fane, HSBC said in the filing. Brink’s
provides vaults and other services for the safekeeping of
valuables.  The judge handling the bankruptcy said today that in
January he would address the matter of distributing physical
goods, such as gold and silver bars, after lawyers for some
customers said they couldn’t get their share of the payouts
because bars can’t be broken into pieces.  According to Fane’s letter, the five Comex gold contracts
are for an average of 99 ounces of each.  Account Transfers  Giddens, who is liquidating the brokerage, has transferred
about 38,000 commodity accounts to other firms. Three transfers
of collateral made and pending will give commodity customers
more than $4 billion of their assets, according to court
filings.  The parent company’s Oct. 31 bankruptcy filing, the eighth-
largest in U.S. history, listed assets of $41 billion.  Jon Corzine , the former co-chief executive officer of Goldman Sachs
Group Inc., quit as MF Global’s CEO on Nov. 4.  The brokerage case is Securities Investor Protection Corp.
v. MF Global Inc., 11-02790, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of New York ( Manhattan ). The parent’s bankruptcy case
is MF Global Holdings Ltd., 11-bk-15059,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court ,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan). The HSBC case is HSBC
Bank USA National Association v. Giddens et al., 11-02924-mg,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net ;
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  