-- 
Schroeder Said to Quit TNK-BP Board Amid Shareholder Tensions

-- B y   A n n a   S h i r y a e v s k a y a   a n d   T o r r e y   C l a r k
-- 
2011-12-09T18:26:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/schroeder-said-to-quit-tnk-bp-board-amid-shareholder-tensions.html
Ex-German Chancellor  Gerhard Schroeder  and former Corus Group Plc Chairman James Leng
resigned from  TNK-BP ’s board amid strained relations between  BP
Plc (BP/)  and its Russian billionaire partners, a person with
knowledge of the decision said.  Schroeder and Leng had served as independent directors on
TNK-BP’s board since January 2009, when a previous shareholder
battle was resolved.  Potential claims against the rival shareholders following
this year’s failed $7.8 billion alliance with OAO Rosneft were
presented at today’s board meeting in Brussels, the person said,
declining to be named because the talks are private. No official
reason was given for their departure, they said.  The board includes four directors each from BP and AAR, and
three independent directors. AAR represents  Alfa Group , co-owned
by  Mikhail Fridman , who is also CEO of the venture; Len Blavatnik’s Access Industries and  Viktor Vekselberg ’s Renova
Group. Alexander Shokhin, president of the business lobby
Russian Union of Industrialists, is the third independent
director.  TNK-BP received a report from two law firms assessing the
venture’s chances of filing claims for potential damages of
“billions” of dollars from BP arising from the U.K. explorer’s
collapsed deal with state-owned Rosneft, people familiar with
the matter said Dec. 7.  The deal, which included a potential swap of stakes in BP
and Rosneft and an Arctic exploration venture in the Kara Sea,
collapsed after a challenge from AAR, which said the venture has
the right to pursue opportunities for BP in  Russia .  No motion was made on the potential claims, although a vote
is possible next year, the person said.  The board also approved an additional dividend of $1.25
billion, raising payouts for this year to a record, one person
said.  TNK-BP’s and AAR’s press services declined to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Torrey Clark in Moscow at 
 tclark8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  