-- 
Serbian Opposition Protests EU Candidacy as Talks Delayed

-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c   a n d   M i s h a   S a v i c
-- 
2011-12-09T12:50:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/serbian-opposition-to-rally-against-candidacy-as-eu-mulls-delay.html
Serbian opposition parties called for
an immediate halt in President  Boris Tadic ’s policies pushing
the Balkan nation toward the European Union.  Supporters of the Serbian Radical Party, whose leader
Vojislav Seselj is standing trial at The Hague-based United
Nations war crimes tribunal for former  Yugoslavia , burned an EU
flag in front of the president’s office in Belgrade at a rally
today, demanding an end to Serbia’s application to the bloc.  Serbia’s bid to become an official candidate for EU
membership will probably be delayed to March because of
continued tensions with  Kosovo , the onetime province that
declared independence in 2008, according to a draft EU summit
statement today.  “The only thing worse than being accepted as an EU
candidate is the extension because it gives Brussels more time
to try to disintegrate our country in the next three months,”
said Dragan Todorovic, one of the party leaders, as a police
cordon protected the president’s office in central Belgrade.
“The question is whether the EU will exist in three months.  The EU decision is due to be announced in the afternoon and
Tadic will address the nation later in the day, his press office
said.  ‘Ready to Surrender’  The Radicals accuse Tadic of ‘‘being ready to surrender 15
percent of Serbian territory, all enterprises and banks, lower
pensions and do whatever the European Union demands for the
candidacy,’’ the party said on its website.  In an article posted on his website yesterday, Tadic said
‘‘ Serbia  could plunge into the darkness of nationalism if left
outside the EU.’’  Backers of opposition parties including the Serbian
Progressive Party, led by Tomislav Nikolic, and the Democratic
Party of Serbia of former Serbian Prime Minister Vojislav
Kostunica re-erected roadblocks yesterday in the north of the
breakaway province of Kosovo, state-run Tanjug newswire said.  Local Serbs first erected roadblocks in July after
Albanian-dominated Kosovo declared a trade ban on Serbian goods,
seeking to gain control of cross-border trade in the province’s
Serb-populated north.  NATO Peacekeepers  Serbs have maintained the roadblocks since and occasionally
clashed with the troops of the North Atlantic Organization
Treaty, who try to ensure free access to checkpoints.  Tadic’s ruling  Democratic Party  made Serbia’s EU candidacy
its policy priority after the victory in 2008 elections. They
face elections in the spring.  Analysts in Belgrade, including Vladimir Todoric of the New
Policy Centre, said attaching conditions to the candidacy ‘‘is
unprecedented” as “you either grant the candidacy or don’t.”  “Such a decision is damaging and short-sighted,” Todoric
told state-broadcaster RTS today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   Misha Savic in Belgrade at 
 msavic2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  