-- 
Shale Gas Mergers in Central Australia Set to Increase, CBA Says

-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 
2011-12-09T05:59:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/shale-gas-mergers-in-central-australia-set-to-increase-cba-says.html
Developers of liquefied natural gas
projects in  Australia ’s Queensland state and power utilities are
likely to acquire shale resources in the central part of the
country,  Commonwealth Bank of Australia  said.  Mergers are set to shift from the coal-seam gas business on
the east coast to the shale gas industry in Australia’s Cooper
Basin following Arrow Energy Ltd.’s deal to acquire  Bow Energy
Ltd. (BOW) , Commonwealth Bank of Australia analysts, including Luke Smith in Sydney, predicted in a Dec. 7 report. Global  oil
companies  will also be among those scrambling for shale
resources in Australia, the analysts forecast.  Shale gas resource holders in Australia’s Cooper Basin
include  Santos Ltd. (STO) ,  Beach Energy Ltd. (BPT) ,  Senex Energy Ltd.  and
 Drillsearch Energy Ltd. (DLS) , according to the report.  “With the CSG players now largely consolidated, the next
focus of consolidation is likely to be the Cooper shale resource
holders,” the analysts wrote.  Australia “appears poised to commercialize its shale gas
resources on a large scale,” the U.S. Energy Information
Administration said in April.  BG Group Plc (BG/) , the U.K. natural gas
producer, said earlier this year it would extend its shale
exploration plans to Australia with partner Drillsearch, while
 ConocoPhillips (COP)  also plans to look for shale gas in the country.  BG, Santos and ConocoPhillips are developing coal-seam gas-
to-LNG projects in Queensland state, on the east coast of
Australia. ConocoPhillips plans a $20 billion LNG venture on the
Queensland coast with Sydney-based partner  Origin Energy Ltd. (ORG)   To contact the reporter on this story:
James Paton in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  