-- 
Shipping Fuel Levy Blocked by U.S. at UN Talks, Greenpeace Says

-- B y   K i m   C h i p m a n
-- 
2011-12-09T10:01:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/shipping-fuel-levy-blocked-by-u-s-at-un-talks-greenpeace-says.html
The U.S.,  China  and  India  oppose
efforts to use charges on shipping fuel to funnel money into a
United Nations climate aid fund, according to Greenpeace’s
Martin Kaiser.  The Obama administration and Basic group of negotiating
countries that also includes South Africa and  Brazil  say funds
must come from national budgets rather than charges on shipping
fuels, Kaiser, head of international climate politics for
Greenpeace, said in an interview today.  A draft UN proposal at talks in Durban, South Africa,
called for funds raised by actions to be taken by the
 International Maritime Organization  to cut maritime fuel
emissions to be channeled into both the UN’s mooted Green
Climate Fund and into providing compensation to developing
nations whose companies are affected by the extra shipping
costs.  The IMO is considering an emissions-trading system or
global levy as a way to lower emissions blamed for  climate
change .  The draft proposal released in Durban earlier this week
marked the first potential private source of income for the
fund, which  Christiana Figueres , the UN diplomat leading the
discussions, has said is a key outcome the negotiations ending
today need to agree on. Industrialized nations have pledged to
raise $100 billion a year by 2020 to help vulnerable nations
adapt to climate change and reduce emissions.  “Given the financial crisis and budgetary crisis of many
industrialized countries, the only way to fill up the climate
fund is through this mechanism,” Greenpeace’s Kaiser said.  “There’s a broad alliance saying it has to come from
national budgets rather than from reliable mechanism but given
the financial crisis and the budgetary crisis of many
industrialized countries, the only way to fill up the green
climate fund is through” this mechanism.  US lead negotiator Todd Stern yesterday declined to comment
on the issue of shipping fuels and climate finance proposals in
Durban. He said he is optimistic progress will be made on
establishing the fund countries agreed to at UN talks last year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kim Chipman in Durban,  South Africa  via 
 kchipman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  