-- 
Lawmaker Fined $300 for Beating Senator Senseless: Lewis Lapham

-- B y   L e w i s   L a p h a m
-- 
2011-12-10T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/slavery-enthusiast-clubbed-senator-senseless-got-fined-300-lewis-lapham.html
In the run-up to the Civil War,
violence between pro- and anti-slavery forces flared up
repeatedly, especially in places like the  Kansas  Territory.  (To listen to the podcast, click  here .)  In May 1856 Charles Sumner of  Massachusetts  made a speech
in the Senate about “Bleeding Kansas.” He condemned the “rape
of a Virgin Territory” and attacked Senator Andrew Butler of
South Carolina for taking as his mistress, “the harlot,
Slavery.”  Two days later, as Sumner sat writing at his desk in the
Senate chamber, Butler’s nephew, Representative Preston Brooks,
attacked him with a thick, gold-headed cane.  Attempting to rise, Sumner was knocked down and trapped
under the desk, bolted to the floor, where the relentless
assault continued. Finally, blinded by his own blood, Sumner
ripped the desk from the floor and staggered up the aisle.  Other senators tried to stop the attack, but  South Carolina 
Representative Laurence Keitt held them off with a pistol. Even
after Sumner lapsed into unconsciousness, Butler kept up the
savage pummeling until his cane broke.  Sumner did not return to the Senate for 3 years. Keitt was
censured while Brooks was expelled from the House of
Representatives and fined $300. Supporters sent him dozens of
new canes, and voters promptly returned him to Congress.  I spoke with  Tony Horwitz , author of “Midnight Rising:
 John Brown  and the Raid That Sparked the Civil War,” on the
following topics:  1. Southern Power  2. Abolitionist Hero  3. Guns & Money  4. Bloody Rebellion  5. Brown’s Prophecy  To buy this book in North America, click  here .  ( Lewis Lapham  is the founder of  Lapham’s Quarterly  and the
former editor of Harper’s magazine. He hosts “The World in
Time” interview series for Bloomberg News.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Lewis Lapham in New York at 
 lhl@laphamsquarterly.org .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 