-- 
Amazon Price-Check App Is Attack on Small Stores, Snowe Says

-- B y   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a
-- 
2011-12-09T21:52:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/snowe-asks-amazon-to-halt-price-check-promo.html
Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  should end its price-
checking promotion because it gives consumers an incentive to
gather price data from small retailers and leave stores without
spending money, said Senator  Olympia Snowe .  The world’s largest online retailer is offering a 5 percent
discount to entice users to try a new mobile application that
compares prices with physical retailers. The app, called Price
Check, allows shoppers to look up Amazon’s prices by scanning
products at a store using their phones.  “Amazon’s promotion -- paying consumers to visit small
businesses and leave empty-handed -- is an attack on Main Street
businesses that employ workers in our communities,” Snowe, a
Maine Republican, said in a  statement  yesterday. “Small
businesses are fighting everyday to compete with giant
retailers, such as Amazon, and incentivizing consumers to spy on
local shops is a bridge too far.”  Amazon is aiming to draw more online purchases from the
more than 95 percent of U.S. consumers who still shop in stores,
ratcheting up rivalry with traditional retailers. The Seattle-
based company estimates revenue will rise to $16.5 billion to
$18.7 billion in the fourth quarter -- growth of 27 percent to
44 percent, respectively, compared with a year earlier.  The app is intended for customers who are comparing prices
in “major” retail chain stores, Amazon said today in an e-
mailed statement, adding that it also includes prices from
third-party sellers.  Qualifying Products  “The goal of the Price Check app is to make it as easy as
possible for customers to access product information, pricing
information, and customer reviews, just as they would on the
Web,” Amazon said.  Customers who download the app and enable the location
feature will see the 5 percent discount, or as much as $5 off,
on as many as three qualifying products, including electronics,
toys, music, sporting goods and DVDs, the company said in a
statement Dec. 6.  Oren Teicher, chief executive officer of the American
Booksellers Association, said that his organization was
“disappointed” by the app, according to a  statement  posted
yesterday on its website.  “We could call your $5 bounty to app-users a cheesy
marketing move and leave it at that,” Teicher said. “In fact,
it is the latest in a series of steps to expand your market at
the expense of cities and towns nationwide, stripping them of
their unique character and the financial wherewithal to pay for
essential needs for schools, fire and police departments, and
libraries."  Amazon rose 1.3 percent to $193.03 at the close in  New
York . The shares have gained 7.2 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Kucera in  San Francisco  at 
 dkucera6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  