-- 
Solar Catamaran Heads for Final Stretch of Record Global Voyage

-- B y   N a t a l i e   O b i k o   P e a r s o n
-- 
2011-12-09T09:15:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/solar-catamaran-heads-for-final-stretch-of-record-global-voyage.html
A New Age catamaran laden with 38,000
solar cells and 8.5 tons of lithium batteries is headed for the
final stretch of a world-first: circling the globe solely on sun
power.  The MS Turanor, its  rooftop of panels  extended wide like
wings with tapered twin hulls piercing the waves, pulled out of
Mumbai’s port two days ahead of schedule this week on security
and weather concerns. It’s off  Pakistan  today, heading toward
the Strait of Hormuz, a chokepoint for one-fifth of the world’s
traded oil supplies, as the vessel aims to finish its 25,000-
mile circuit in  Monaco  by May.  The boat, which almost looks like a giant bird ready to
take flight, has two motors that run quietly and electronically
from the batteries. The Turanor is meant to show sun-powered
travel is no dream, said its French skipper, Erwann Le Rouzic.  “The message isn’t to use only solar for everything but to
use more of it,” Le Rouzic said. “People still think solar
doesn’t work but we’re using it to go around the world.”  The catamaran and its  SunPower Corp.  crystalline panels
have performed almost flawlessly, said Christian Ochsenbein, the
engineer of the four-member crew. The panels, installed just as
they would be on any building rooftop or solar park, haven’t
been affected by salt or corrosion during their 14 months at
sea, he said.  Immo Stroeher, owner of the 15 million-euro ($20 million)
vessel who has served as a board member for German panel makers
 Q-Cells SE (QCE)  and  Solon SE (SOO1) , says any commercial application for the
multihull vessel that was built in Kiel,  Germany , is secondary.  Fume-Free Travel?  Stroeher does see a market for silent, fume-free transport
for water taxis, tourism in delicate ecosystems like the
Galapagos Islands and  Australia ’s Great Barrier Reef, and for
small-scale fishing vessels that don’t need to travel fast.  Renewable energy-powered transport in shipping, the sixth-
largest source of greenhouse-gas emissions, accounting for
almost 3 percent of carbon-dioxide discharges that contribute to
 climate change , may not be as improbable as it sounds.  Tokyo-based Nippon Yusen, owner of the world’s second-
largest fleet, is spending 70 billion yen ($901 million) over
five years on emissions control. Its NYK Super Eco Ship 2030
could emit 69 percent less than existing carriers by using a
combination of liquefied natural gas-powered fuel cells, sails
and 31,000 square meters of solar panels, according to its
website.  Lesson in Efficiency?  Other shipping lines like A.P. Moeller-Maersk A/S and China
Cosco Holdings Co. are cutting speeds and examining new designs
to help reduce emissions ahead of new energy-efficiency rules
that take effect in 2013. The  United Nations ’ shipping agency’s
rules aim to slash  carbon emissions  from commercial ships in
half by 2025.  The Turanor’s crew says navigating the boat is a lesson in
efficiency. The  lithium-ion batteries  only store enough power
for about 500 miles or three days of travel at about 10 knots.
They’ve learned to adjust their speed and navigation to maximize
the distance traveled with the amount of energy available.  “Our boat is like a very small planet,” says Ochsenbein.
“If we spend too much, we run out and everything stops, the
lights, the fridge, the navigation system. It’s the same with
our world. If we use too much, it’ll be game over.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Obiko Pearson in  Mumbai  at 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at   landberg@bloomberg.net . 