-- 
Southern Union Holders Approve Energy Transfer Takeover Bid

-- B y   M i k e   L e e
-- 
2011-12-09T21:11:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/southern-union-holders-approve-5-3-billion-energy-transfer-bid.html
Southern Union Co. (SUG)  shareholders
approved a $5.3 billion takeover by  Energy Transfer Equity LP (ETE) ,
ending a bidding contest for the Houston-based pipeline company.  About 98 percent of voting shareholders approved the deal,
Southern Union said in a statement today. Holders have the
option to receive either $44.25 in cash or one Energy Transfer
partnership unit, with a maximum of 60 percent of shares paid in
cash, according to terms of the agreement.  Energy Transfer, based in  Dallas , made its first bid for
Southern Union in June and raised its price twice to fend off
counteroffers from  Williams Cos. (WMB)  Energy Transfer may discuss
selling some of Southern Union’s 15,000 miles (24,000
kilometers) of natural-gas lines to Tulsa, Oklahoma-based
Williams, Chief Executive Officer Kelcy Warren said.  “There are assets that may be more valuable to Williams
than they are to us,” he said in phone interview today.  Energy Transfer likely will keep Southern Union’s  Texas 
pipelines and its 50 percent interest in Citrus Corp., owner of
the Florida Gas Transmission system, Warren said. The company’s
Panhandle Eastern and Trunkline systems, which connect Texas to
the U.S. Midwest, are “not in the same tier as Citrus and the
West Texas assets,” Warren said.  Energy Transfer predicts $100 million in savings in two to
three years by combining the companies. That may include job
cuts, Warren said.  Missouri Approval  The purchase, which the companies expect to close in the
first quarter of next year, still requires approval from the
Missouri Public Service Commission, where Southern Union owns a
gas utility. Agency staff said on Dec. 6 they will make a
recommendation on the deal by Jan. 6.  Southern Union rose 0.9 percent to $42 at the close in  New
York . Energy Transfer gained 2.1 percent to $38.59 and Williams
climbed 1.7 percent to $31.65.  The takeover was the biggest announced pipeline purchase of
the year until October, when Kinder Morgan Inc. agreed to buy  El
Paso Corp. (EP)  for $21 billion, according to Bloomberg data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Lee in Dallas at 
 mlee326@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  