-- 
Spectrum’s Fusilev Doesn’t Face Threat From Generics, CEO Shrotriya Says

-- B y   M o l l y   P e t e r s o n
-- 
2011-12-09T21:29:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/spectrum-s-fusilev-doesn-t-face-generic-threat-shrotriya-says.html
Spectrum Pharmaceuticals Inc. (SPPI) ’s
colon-cancer drug Fusilev won’t face generic competition until
the shot’s patent protection expires in eight years, Chief
Executive Officer Rajesh Shrotriya said.  Spectrum declined 5.1 percent to $13.83 at the close in  New
York , the biggest single-day drop in a month. Earlier today, the
 Food and Drug Administration  said an undisclosed rival  applied 
to sell a copy of Fusilev, the Irvine, California-based
company’s top-selling product.  While generic-drug makers often challenge patents years
before they expire “so they can be ahead in line,” Spectrum’s
patent protection for Fusilev is “rock solid and it is good
through Dec. 31, 2019,” Shrotriya said today in an interview.  Fusilev accounted for 43 percent of Spectrum’s sales last
year, earning $32 million. Revenue from the drug may more than
triple to $112 million this year, according to the average
estimate of two analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. The drug, an
injection known chemically as levoleucovorin, first won FDA
approval in 2008 for patients with a bone tumor called
osteosarcoma.  Fusilev has an additional layer of protection from generic
competition through 2018 under the FDA’s “orphan drug” program
because it treats patients with the rare bone cancer, Shrotriya
said. The program grants marketing exclusivity to drugs for
illnesses that affect fewer than 200,000 people in the U.S.  Wider Use Approved  The agency also cleared the drug for wider use in April for
patients with advanced  colon cancer . The FDA had earlier taken
steps to make Fusilev available to colon-cancer patients amid a
shortage of leucovorin, a generic drug that had been the
standard treatment.  “Fusilev sales should continue to benefit through 2012
from supply disruptions of leucovorin,”  Jason Kantor , an
analyst at  RBC Capital Markets  in  San Francisco , said today in a
note to clients.  Fusilev is a purer compound than leucovorin, so it’s
effective at half the dosage, according to Spectrum’s  Fusilev
website .  “We have made ample supplies available,” Shrotriya said.
“We want to make sure colorectal cancer patients do not go
without treatment. That has been their problem and challenge
during the shortage.”  A generic-drug maker submitted an  application  on Oct. 26 to
sell a copy of Fusilev, the FDA said today on its website,
without disclosing the company’s identity.  When a generic-drug maker files such an application, the
company is certifying that its product doesn’t infringe any
valid patents. The maker of the brand-name treatment then has a
set period of time to sue to block the FDA approval process from
proceeding for 30 months or until the litigation is completed,
whichever comes first.  Generic-drug makers who are the first to file such patent
challenges are later entitled to market their copies, once
approved, for six months without competition from other copycat
versions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Molly Peterson in Washington at 
 mpeterson9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net  