-- 
Summit to Save Euro, Part 5, Debuts in Brussels: Caroline Baum

-- B y   C a r o l i n e   B a u m
-- 
2011-12-09T00:00:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/summit-to-save-euro-part-5-debuts-in-europe-commentary-by-caroline-baum.html
On Feb. 15, 1999, Alan Greenspan,
 Robert Rubin  and Larry Summers were featured on the  cover  of
Time magazine as “The Committee to Save the World.”  Greenspan, then Federal Reserve chairman, and Rubin, the
Treasury secretary, were smiling. And why not? This “free-market
Politburo on economic matters,” as Time described the troika,
had steered the  U.S. economy  through the Asian financial crisis
in 1997 and  Russia ’s default and the near-collapse of hedge fund
Long-Term Capital Management in 1998 seemingly unscathed.  Now it’s  Angela Merkel ’s and Nicolas Sarkozy’s turn.
Earlier this week, the chancellor of Germany and the president
of  France  laid the groundwork for today’s European Union Summit
to Save the Euro, the fifth such gathering in 19 months, by
agreeing to greater central control over individual countries’
budgets. This will entail amending  European Union treaties  --
subject to approval by the legislatures of all 27 countries, not
just their executives meeting now in Brussels. In some
countries, it may require a referendum, which is every
politician’s worst nightmare.  No wonder some analysts are skeptical that the summit can
succeed where previous ones have failed.  “These plans for fiscal union may be part of the process
for avoiding the next fiscal crisis in Euroland, but they do
nothing to address the current one,” says  Carl Weinberg , chief
economist at High Frequency Economics in Valhalla, New York.
“It’s a prenuptial agreement.”  It may not have the authority of a prenup. Haven’t we seen
this movie before, at least the trailer? It was called the
 Stability and Growth Pact .  More Perfect Union  The 1997 SGP was designed to maintain budgetary discipline,
with rules adopted from criteria set out in the 1992 Maastrict
Treaty as a prerequisite for joining the European Monetary
Union. Failure to comply with the prescribed metrics, such as a
maximum 3 percent deficit-to-GDP ratio and 60 percent debt-to-
GDP, was supposed to result in sanctions.  Guess how many member countries exceeded the limits? Guess
how many were sanctioned?  If you answered “lots” and “none,” you are correct.  There were plenty of  extenuating circumstances  under which
countries running excessive deficits could escape sanctions:
things like “unusual circumstances” (war, acts of God, death in
the family?) or a prolonged recession. The SGP even established
a  protocol  for the excessive-deficit procedure.  As a practical matter, the holes in the SGP were big enough
for countries like Greece to slip through. When the two big
cheeses,  Germany  and France, came up short in 2003, the Council
of the European Union suspended the SGP, only to reintroduce it
in 2005 with a more “flexible” framework.  Now, in order to form a more perfect union, the 27 EU
countries (Merkel will settle for the 17 that use the euro) will
have to submit their budgets to unelected bureaucrats in
Brussels, who will do what, exactly, with countries whose
deficits and debts exceed the prescribed limits?  In an open letter to European Council President  Herman Van Rompuy , Merkel and Sarkozy agreed on a “framework of
prevention,” including balanced-budget rules and “automatic
consequences” for violators, unless, of course, “exceptional
circumstances” apply.  Merkel was apparently convinced of the merits of protecting
private investors because she conceded that bondholders should
not be forced to take a loss in the case of any sovereign debt
restructurings, as they did with  Greece .  Taken at face value, this commitment means there will be no
sovereign defaults, all bonds will be paid at par at maturity,
so let’s go out and buy the high-yielding bonds of  Italy ,
Portugal and  Spain  because they’re really German bunds in
disguise!  ECB Disappoints  That’s apparently what happened. Led by Italy, whose new
Cabinet approved an austerity package, European bonds rallied
last week, no doubt driven by short-covering in the event the
summit pulls a rabbit out of a hat. Italy’s bonds retraced some
of the gains when the  European Central Bank  failed to commit to
purchase  government bonds  in amounts sufficient to cap yields.  As expected, the ECB lowered its  benchmark rate  by 0.25
percentage point to 1 percent yesterday. At a  news conference 
after the meeting, ECB President  Mario Draghi  announced
additional temporary measures, including unlimited three-year
loans to banks and easier collateral requirements, to help meet
the banking system’s liquidity needs.  There has been less talk about measures to address the
solvency questions battering  Europe ’s banks. Merkel and Sarkozy
agreed to fast-track a permanent rescue fund to next year, but
financial markets will want something concrete, not another
palliative that restores confidence for a week or a month.  Europe’s answer, no doubt, will be another summit.  Not to worry. Even the Committee to Save the World had to
be reconstituted in 2008, less than a decade after its
glorification on the cover of Time. Both the world and the euro
are proving resistant to quick fixes.  ( Caroline Baum , author of “Just What I Said,” is a
Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Caroline Baum in  New York  at 
 cabaum@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net . 