-- 
Swinton’s Bow-Shooting Son Targets Hamster; Spy Games: Movies

-- B y   R i c k   W a r n e r
-- 
2011-12-10T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/swinton-s-bow-shooting-son-targets-hamster-le-carre-s-spies-rick-warner.html
As a baby, Kevin cries so loudly and
so often that his mother, Eva, welcomes the sound of a
jackhammer drowning out his screams.  As a child, he splatters his mom’s cherished maps with a
paint gun, torments his baby sister and deliberately soils his
pants. As an adolescent, he’s suspected of killing the family’s
pet hamster and mutilating his sister’s eye with drain cleaner.  Eva recalls all those painful moments as she tries to
figure out why her son became a mass murderer in “ We Need to
Talk About Kevin ,” a skin-crawling drama with a bravura
performance by  Tilda Swinton .  Based on Lionel Shriver’s award-winning novel, Lynne Ramsay’s film is about a mother’s attempt to retrace the roots
of madness. Racked by guilt, ostracized by her neighbors and
estranged from her husband (a subdued John C. Reilly) after
their teenage son commits a Columbine-type massacre at his high
school, Eva (Swinton) withdraws into the cocoon of her
ramshackle house and mind-numbing office job.  The film is a stark departure from the book, where the
story unfolds through letters Eva writes to her husband. Ramsay,
who co-wrote the script with Rory Stewart Kinnear, has scrapped
the literary approach in favor of a stripped-down series of
anecdotes relayed in brief flashbacks, dreams and up-to-date
events.  Father in Denial  Kevin -- effectively played at different stages by Rocky
Duer, Jasper Newell and Ezra Miller -- is a ticking time bomb.
But Eva finds it impossible to connect with the odd boy who
treats her with disdain while openly favoring his see-no-evil
father, who acts like Kevin is “John-Boy” Walton.  Though the time-traveling can be disorienting, it’s a
powerful way to get inside Eva’s jumbled mind. The film is
really more about her than Kevin, whose obsession with the bow-
and-arrow he gets as a Christmas gift from his dad foretells the
bloody  rampage  to come.  Swinton’s anguished expressions and zombie-like movements
reflect a woman baffled by her predicament and unable to change
it.  During a prison visit at the end of the film, Eva asks her
son why he did it. He has no answer, and neither do we.  “We Need to Talk About Kevin,” from Oscilloscope
Laboratories, is playing in New York and  Los Angeles  for a one-
week Oscar qualifying run. Rating: ***1/2  ‘Tinker, Tailor’  If you’ve seen the acclaimed TV miniseries “Tinker,
Tailor, Soldier, Spy” starring Alec Guinness as master British
spy George Smiley, you might wonder why anyone would make
another version of John le Carre’s Cold War novel.  I’m wondering myself after watching Tomas Alfredson’s
precise but ponderous  remake  with  Gary Oldman  taking over the
Smiley role.  The film about the hunt for a Soviet mole in the U.K.’s
Secret Intelligence Service (dubbed “the Circus”) is deftly
constructed, handsomely photographed drama featuring fine
performances by Oldman, John Hurt, Tom Hardy,  Colin Firth , Toby Jones, Mark Strong and other British stars.  But the story is so complex and crammed with so many
characters and subplots that it’s better suited to the
miniseries format, which broke it down into digestible episodes.  It’s simply too much to absorb in one 128-minute sitting --
even if you’ve read the book and seen the TV adaptation.  “Tinker, Tailor, Soldier, Spy,” from Focus  Features , is
playing in  New York  and Los Angeles. Rating: **1/2  ‘Knuckle’  They’re the Irish version of the Hatfields and McCoys,
feuding families that pass their hatred on from generation to
generation. Instead of guns, though, they fight with their
fists.  The decades-long battle between the Joyces and the Quinn
McDonaghs is chronicled in “ Knuckle ,” a raw documentary about
a brutal lifestyle practiced by some Gypsy-like clans known as
Irish Travelers.  Filmmaker Ian Palmer spent 12 years following the two
related families as they settle disputes with unsanctioned,
bare-knuckle bouts that include biting, head-butting and name-
calling. Blood is shed and money is exchanged -- there’s heavy
betting on the outcomes -- but the enmity doesn’t abate.  Palmer films many of the fights -- which usually take place
in remote fields between men with primitive boxing skills -- and
records the combatants as they badmouth their rivals.  The origin and length of the feud are fuzzy, though some
say it was fueled by a 1992 killing in  England . By now, it
hardly matters. The hate is as furious as it is puzzling.  “Knuckle,” from Arc Entertainment, is playing in New
York, Los Angeles and Austin,  Texas . Rating: ***  (Rick Warner is the movie critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his
own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Rick Warner in New York at 
 rwarner1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 