-- 
Syrian Forces Kill 43 Protesterse, Children, Activist Says

-- B y   M a s s o u d   A .   D e r h a l l y
-- 
2011-12-10T12:29:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/syrian-forces-open-fire-on-protesters.html
Syrian security forces fired on
protesters demanding the ouster of President Bashar al-Assad,
killing at least 43 people since yesterday, a human-rights
activist said.  At least 12 people, including two children, were killed in
the central city of Homs, while a woman and a 12-year-old girl
died in Daraa, in the south, where the uprising against Assad
started nine months ago, Rami Abdel Rahman, head of the  Syrian
Observatory for Human Rights , said in an e-mailed statement from
 London . Two were killed today in Homs and several wounded, the
group said.  Two children were among at least 18 people killed in the
suburbs of the capital Damascus, while civilians were also shot
in Hama, the northern province of Idlib, and the southern
village of Inkhil, according to the organization. On Dec. 8, 29
were killed, mainly in Homs, Mahmoud Merei, head of the Arab
Organization for Human Rights, said in a phone interview from
Damascus yesterday.  The U.S. is concerned that the Syrian regime is preparing
“something large scale” against protesters in Homs and
elsewhere, State Department spokeswoman  Victoria Nuland  said in
 Washington  yesterday. The U.S., the European Union and the  Arab
League  are increasing economic and political pressure on Assad
to end violence that risks tipping Syria into a civil war as
soldiers defect and take up arms against the government.  More Than 4,000 Killed  The  United Nations  estimated on Dec. 1 that more than 4,000
people have been killed since the uprising against Assad began
in March, inspired by movements that toppled leaders in Tunisia,
Egypt and  Libya . Tens of thousands have been arrested and more
than 14,000 are reported to be in detention, the UN said.  “I cannot believe that he has not killed more than 4,000
people,” UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon said yesterday while
visiting  Kenya . “All the credible information is that more than
4,000 people have been killed by the government force.”  The UN’s top human-rights official,  Navi Pillay , told
reporters in  New York  yesterday that, in addition to the
civilian casualties, “I acknowledge that almost 1,000 of
President Assad’s security forces have also been killed in this
conflict and this is why I am alerting the world that, as you
have more and more defectors from the security forces, this may
well develop into a fully-fledged civil war.”  Assad’s Responsibility  It was the first time UN High Commissioner for Human Rights
Pillay publicly recognized Assad’s figures on the number of
military casualties.  Syria’s opposition said Dec. 8 that Assad can’t escape
responsibility for the killing of protesters and should quit to
spare the country further bloodshed.  The president, who denied in an ABC News interview this
week that he gave orders to kill civilians, “has forgotten that
he’s the commander-in-chief of the armed forces,” Samir Nashar,
a member of the executive bureau of the Syrian National Council,
said in a phone interview. “It’s strange that a leader of a
nation says he doesn’t know what’s taking place. If that is the
case, then let him step down and relieve the country and the
people.”  Assad told ABC that he doesn’t “own” the country’s
security forces, dismissed the UN’s estimate of the number
killed, and asked for the organization to send “concrete
evidence” to support allegations that  Syria  has committed  war
crimes , which he called a “distortion of reality.”  Out of Context  He attributed violence against protesters to “mistakes
committed by some officials” rather than a policy of repression
by force.  Jihad Makdissi, a Syrian foreign ministry spokesman, said
that the president’s quotes were taken out of context. “The
objective is to demonize Syria,” he told reporters according to
a broadcast on Al Arabiya television.  The Arab League said this week that it will maintain
economic sanctions on Syria, rebuffing a demand by Assad’s
government to remove the measures as one of several conditions
for admitting Arab monitors. The U.S. and EU have also imposed
sanctions. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  met with the
Syrian National Council in Geneva on Dec. 6.  Assad told ABC that he’s not concerned about sanctions,
which he said haven’t isolated Syria. The president said Dec. 8
while receiving a delegation of Lebanese Druze leaders that
Syria “is able to overcome the current events” and won’t
change its policies, the state-run Syrian Arab News Agency said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Massoud A. Derhally in Beirut, Lebanon at 
 mderhally@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  