-- 
RMT Union Seeks Details of News Corp. Operative Following Leader Bob Crow

-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 
2011-12-09T12:53:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/u-k-union-seeks-details-of-news-corp-tabloid-detective-following-boss.html
News Corp. (NWSA)  was asked to reveal who at
its News of the World tabloid hired an ex-policeman to follow
the leader of Britain’s transportation union after surveillance
practices were analyzed at a judge-led inquiry into the press.  The  Rail, Maritime and Transport Union  said today it wrote
to lawyers for News Corp.’s U.K. publishing unit asking who
sought the covert surveillance of General Secretary  Bob Crow  and
whether techniques such as phone hacking were also used.  The inquiry, a government response to the five-year-old
phone-hacking scandal at the now-defunct tabloid, has heard
evidence from celebrities, authors and crime victims who said
they were mistreated by the U.K. press in its quest for scoops.
London-based News International has admitted having people
followed, including lawyers for phone-hacking victims.  The union, with more than 80,000 members, is “demanding
information on the surveillance operation,” the group said in a
statement. The union said Crow’s name is on the surveillance
list of private investigator Derek Webb, who was hired by News
International to follow dozens of people, including politicians,
actors and a member of Britain’s royal family.  The union’s letter comes three days after England soccer
player  Peter Crouch  sued the company, adding to dozens of
lawsuits filed earlier by public figures alleging their phones
were hacked. Police have said more than 5,000 people may have
been targeted and potential victims are still being contacted by
detectives.  ‘Trawling’  The transport union said it gave evidence to Judge Brian Leveson outlining details of improper news-gathering techniques,
such as reporters “trawling” through garbage cans at its
national conference last year and harassment of union officials
and their families.  The same investigator followed U.K. Member of Parliament
 Tom Watson , the union said. Watson, who is on a committee of
lawmakers investigating News Corp.’s phone-hacking, has compared
News International Chairman  James Murdoch  to an organized-crime
boss and called for his resignation.  The union also said data about it was obtained illegally by
another investigator, Stephen Whittamore, and made available for
sale to the Mail on Sunday newspaper, published by  Daily Mail &
General Trust Plc (DMGO) , as early as 2002.  A message left with News International’s press office
wasn’t returned. Oliver Lloyd, a spokesman for DMGT, didn’t
immediately respond to an e-mail seeking comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  