-- 
U.K. House Prices Unchanged as Increase in Transactions Supports Values

-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 
2011-12-09T00:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/u-k-property-values-unchanged-in-november-acadametrics-says.html
U.K. house prices were unchanged in
November as an increase in transactions helped support values,
Acadametrics Ltd. and LSL Property Services Plc said.  The average price of a home in England and  Wales  was
220,043 pounds ($343,800) last month, the groups estimated in an
e-mailed report in  London  today. The number of transactions rose
4.5 percent on the month. From a year earlier, values were down
0.7 percent.  The  Bank of England  kept its target for bond purchases
unchanged yesterday and its  benchmark interest rate  at a record
low of 0.5 percent as European officials prepared to meet on a
strategy for the region’s debt crisis. Acadametrics said the
increase in transactions may be partly due to homebuyers with
“substantial” deposits taking advantage of low interest rates
to buy property.  “The resilience of property prices indicates that mortgage
lenders and property buyers have not so far been spooked by the
gloomy news emerging from the  euro zone ,” David Newnes,
director of LSL Property Services, said in the statement.  On the month, five of 10 regions tracked showed increases,
led by a 0.6 percent gain in London. There was no change in
prices in the South East, and the rest declined.  The number of transactions in November was estimated at
60,600, which compares with 49,383 six months ago. Acadametrics
said the increase has been fueled by the buy-to-let markets and
it remains to be seen if the euro-area debt crisis and the
threat of job losses “will have a dampening effect on this
pattern of growth.”  Europe Talks  European leaders started talks in Brussels last night and
meetings will continue today amid rising concern on the future
of the common currency and economic union. Bank of England
Governor  Mervyn King  said last week the debt turmoil was
starting to look like a systemic crisis.  The Bank of England held its so-called  quantitative-easing
target  at 275 billion pounds yesterday and said it will keep the
program “under review.” The  European Central Bank  lowered its
key rate to 1 percent, matching a record low, and offered banks
unlimited cash for three years to boost lending.  Acadametrics and LSL combine initial transaction data from
the U.K. Land Registry and results from other price measures for
their index of values.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  