-- 
EU Fails to Withdraw Airbus Aid After WTO Ruling, U.S. Says

-- B y   E r i c   M a r t i n
-- 
2011-12-09T19:42:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/u-s-says-eu-hasn-t-withdrawn-airbus-subsidies-after-wto-ruling.html
The European Union has failed to halt
government aid for  Airbus SAS (EAD)  to build aircraft, including the
A380, after the  World Trade Organization  ruled the subsidies are
illegal, U.S. Trade Representative  Ron Kirk  said.  Kirk today asked the EU to start talks to resolve the
dispute and sought authority to impose $7 billion to $10 billion
in counter-measures. While the WTO can’t force nations or
companies to scrap illegal aid, it can authorize sanctions for
failure to comply with rulings.  WTO judges in Geneva ruled in June 2010 that EU nations
including  Spain , the U.K.,  France  and  Germany  provided illegal
subsidies to Airbus in the form of launch-aid loans,
infrastructure support and equity infusions that had an adverse
effect on Chicago-based  Boeing Co. (BA)  The EU said on Dec. 1 that it
had complied with the ruling.  “The WTO clearly found that every single grant of launch
aid to Airbus, for every single aircraft that company produced,
was a WTO-inconsistent subsidy that caused unfair adverse
effects to U.S. industry and jobs,” Kirk said in a statement.
The U.S. “cannot accept anything less than an end to this
subsidized financing.”  Boeing, which has said Airbus received $18 billion in
illegal aid -- a figure the EU rejects -- said it was
disappointed that the company and European officials failed to
comply and praised U.S. efforts to remove all illegal government
subsidies to Airbus.  ‘Must Stop Now’  “Despite the very clear WTO ruling, EADS/Airbus and
European governments have failed to remove outstanding
subsidies,” Boeing said in a statement. “This illegal
subsidization of Airbus products -- plane after plane -- is
unsustainable and must stop now.”  Stefan Schaffrath, a spokesman for Toulouse, France-based
Airbus, dismissed Boeing’s comments.  “Boeing has made a lot of claims and requests since the
beginning of this dispute, and none of them proved to be true,”
he said in an e-mailed statement. “Calling for sanctions is
just another one of those empty claims. It is time for the WTO
to review and assess the implementation presented by the EU.
Airbus is confident it has addressed WTO demands in a
comprehensive manner.”  WTO judges concluded in March that Boeing received at least
$5.3 billion in illegal U.S. support, unfairly tilting the $70
billion civil-aviation industry.  The EU’s compliance report was submitted to the U.S. and
the WTO on Dec. 1 as part of the seven-year legal battle over
aid to Airbus and Boeing, the world’s two biggest commercial
planemakers.  In an interview at Bloomberg’s headquarters in  New York  on
Nov. 30, EU Trade Commissioner Karel De Gucht said the body is
dealing with subsidies “on all models that are the topic of
this litigation.”  “We are comfortable that this is a substantive response to
the requirements that the WTO put on us,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Martin in Washington at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  