-- 
U.S. Seeks to Speed Deployment of Afghans to Replace NATO in Pullout Plan

-- B y   V i o l a   G i e n g e r
-- 
2011-12-09T20:22:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/u-s-seeks-to-speed-deployment-of-afghans-to-replace-nato-forces.html
The U.S.-led military coalition in
Afghanistan is seeking to enable a steady pace of troop
withdrawals after September by bolstering the capabilities of
the Afghan army and police.  President  Barack Obama ’s top military adviser, Army General
Martin Dempsey, said the U.S. military is reviewing how to
proceed after the first stage of a drawdown is completed in
September toward a NATO goal of handing over full responsibility
for security throughout Afghanistan by the end of 2014.  Dempsey, who is chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, said
top commanders are examining ways to speed up the training and
deployment of Afghan forces. The coalition plans to have 352,000
army and police trained by October.  Asked about reports that the top U.S. and NATO commander in
Afghanistan wants to keep the 68,000 American forces that will
remain after September until Dec. 2014, Dempsey said that’s
based on the mission as it stands today.  “If missions change, if we establish additional
milestones, if we reassess and make any changes, then the
commander will” determine the troop levels he needs
accordingly, Dempsey said at a forum held by the Atlantic
Council in  Washington .  The higher-level development of skills such as command and
control, organization and logistics occurs mostly after basic
training, in Afghan units partnered with coalition units, said
Brigadier General Carsten Jacobson, a German Army commander who
is the top spokesman for the coalition in Afghanistan.  ‘On Their Own’  “That gives them the confidence and the expertise so that
they can operate on their own,” Jacobson said today in a
telephone interview from coalition headquarters in Kabul.  Those Afghan units can then be deployed more widely,
relieving coalition forces, based on factors such as security,
the level of corruption and the strength of the local government
and police in an area, Jacobson said.  Obama announced in July that the U.S. would remove this
year the first 10,000 of the 33,000 troops added in the past
year, with the remainder exiting in the first nine months of
2012. The strength of  Afghanistan ’s own army and police will
determine how easily Obama can keep his pledge to continue
reducing U.S. forces in Afghanistan at a steady pace.  The coalition in recent weeks began handing over the first
of 18 areas to Afghan control under the second phase of a
handoff of security responsibility. Once that’s completed, about
50 percent of the population will be secured by Afghanistan’s
own army and police.  Loya Jirga  Coalition commanders were heartened by how the Afghans
secured a recent Loya Jirga, or meeting of community leaders
from throughout the country, held in Kabul to discuss future
relations with the U.S. and others in the coalition, Jacobson
said.  “There were numerous attempts” at attacks by insurgents,
Jacobson said. “They succeeded in securing it without any
serious incidents, so they are getting better. The only thing is
we have to be certain that the handover is in responsible
chunks.”  The 18 locations contain some areas that are riskier than
the seven provinces and districts that made the transition this
year, in the first stage of the drawdown, according to Afghan
and U.S. officials including Jacobson.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Viola Gienger in Washington at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at 
 Msilva34@bloomberg.net . 