-- 
U.S. Will Halt Subsidies for Early Retiree Health Coverage

-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 
2011-12-09T21:27:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/u-s-subsidies-for-early-retiree-health-insurance-to-end-dec-31.html
A $5 billion program to help
companies such as  AT&T Inc. (T)  pay health premiums for
retirees under age 65 will end because it’s almost out of
money, the U.S. said.  Claims to the reinsurance program filed after Dec. 31
will be rejected, the U.S. said in a notice today. The
Obama administration said in February that money for the
subsidies would last through the end of fiscal 2012. A
total of $4.5 billion has been paid out as of today, the
U.S. said.  The program “has significantly benefited employers
across the country,” the government said in a statement.  A trust fund for retired members of the United Auto
Workers union received $387 million from the program
through Dec. 2, more than any other organization. AT&T was
paid $214 million and  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ)  got $163
million.  Two retirement systems in Ohio for public employees
and teachers received a combined $256 million. Similar
systems for public employees or teachers in California,  New
Jersey , Kentucky,  New York  and  North Carolina  were also
among the top 10 beneficiaries, records show.  Republicans in Congress have criticized the effort as
a giveaway of taxpayer dollars to profitable businesses and
unions.  Retirees’ Coverage Costs  “This program is a microcosm of the fundamental,
underlying problems with the president’s partisan health
spending law,” said Antonia Ferrier, a spokeswoman for
Senator Orrin Hatch, Republican of Utah, in an e-mail.  Recipients must use money from the program to pay the
cost of retired workers’ health insurance, said Bennett
Blodgett, a spokesman for the Center for Consumer
Information and Insurance Oversight. The agency oversees
the program, which was created by the 2010 health-care law.  The government said in its statement that more than 5
million people have benefited from the program.  The percentage of large companies providing early
retirees with insurance fell from 66 percent in 1988 to 29
percent in 2009, according to the  Kaiser Family Foundation ,
a nonprofit research organization based in  Menlo Park ,
 California .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Wayne in Washington at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net  