-- 
Trade Gap in U.S. Shrank in October to Lowest This Year

-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 
2011-12-09T16:18:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/u-s-trade-deficit-shrinks-to-lowest-this-year.html
The trade  deficit  narrowed in October
to the lowest level of the year, reflecting a drop in imports
that will help give the  U.S. economy  a lift.  The gap shrank 1.6 percent to $43.5 billion, smaller than
projected, from $44.2 billion in September, Commerce Department
figures showed today in Washington. Purchases from overseas fell
to the lowest level since April, due almost entirely to a plunge
in demand for petroleum.  Imports of capital goods, like computers and aircraft, and
 consumer goods  climbed, showing spending by American companies
and households is keeping the economy growing. Exports to China
and South and Central America reached records, indicating demand
from developing nations that is benefiting companies like  Dow
Chemical Co. (DOW)  may cushion the U.S. from any slowdown in Europe.  “We are seeing some resilience in U.S. demand,” said  John Herrmann , a senior fixed-income strategist at State Street
Global Markets LLC in  Boston , who projected a gap of $43.6
billion. “Outside of Europe, demand is holding up in the face
of this uncertainty. U.S. exports are going to remain in pretty
good shape next year.”  Another report today showed confidence among consumers rose
in December to a six-month high, more than forecast. The Thomson
Reuters/University of Michigan preliminary  sentiment index 
increased to 67.7 this month from 64.1 at the end of November.
The gauge averaged 89 in the five years leading up to the
recession that began in December 2007 and ended in June 2009.  Stocks rose after European leaders agreed to boost a rescue
fund and tighten budget rules to stem the region’s debt crisis.
The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index climbed 1.4 percent to 1,251.36
at 11:15 a.m. in  New York .  Treasury securities  fell, sending the
yield on the benchmark 10-year note up to 2.01 percent from 1.97
percent late yesterday.  Survey Results  The  median  forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of 80
economists projected the deficit to rise to $43.9 billion from a
previously reported $43.1 billion in September. Estimates ranged
from deficits of $40.3 billion to $46 billion. The government
revised the September gap up to $44.2 billion.  Imports decreased 1 percent to $222.6 billion from $224.8
billion in the prior month. The value of crude oil purchases
dropped to $26 billion, the lowest level since February, from
$28.3 billion.  Excluding petroleum, the trade shortfall widened to $19.1
billion from $17.6 billion in September.  Exports fell 0.8 percent to $179.2 billion, the second-
highest on record, reflecting a drop in gold shipments after
they surged in September. Overseas sales of capital goods,
including drilling equipment and generators, climbed to a
record, as did foreign purchases of petroleum products.  Boosting Growth  After eliminating the influence of prices, which are the
numbers used to calculate gross domestic product, the trade
deficit shrank to $44.2 billion from $45.9 billion. October’s
reading compares with a third-quarter average of $46 billion,
indicating trade may contribute to growth in the last three
months of the year.  Trade added 0.5 percentage point to economic growth in the
July-to-September quarter. The economy expanded at a 2 percent
annual rate in the period.  The  trade gap  with  China  was little changed at $28.1
billion, as both imports and exports climbed. Sales to  Japan 
rose to the highest level since 1997.  The dollar has fallen 11 percent since a post-recession
peak in June 2010 against the currencies of six major trade
partners as tracked by IntercontinentalExchange Inc.’s Dollar
Index. The drop makes American goods cheaper abroad and is
spurring manufacturing, which expanded in November at the
fastest pace in five months, according to the  Institute for
Supply Management .  Export Demand  Manufacturers benefiting from overseas demand include Dow,
the largest U.S. chemical maker. The Midland, Michigan-based
company is prepared for “slower and jagged” global growth next
year, and “exports have actually stood fairly strong for Dow”
in  Asia , according to Chief Financial Officer William Weideman.  “The U.S. and Western  Europe  will continue to see slow
growth for the next several quarters due to high unemployment,
weak construction markets, and lower  consumer confidence  due to
the sovereign debt concerns,” Weideman said in a Dec. 6
conference call with investors. “This will be offset by ongoing
resilience in the emerging geographies.”  U.S. exports, a driver of the expansion, will advance in
2012 even as a sovereign-debt crisis pushes Europe into
recession, according to  Joseph Carson , director of global
economic research at AllianceBernstein LP. Faster growth in
developing markets will help offset a slowdown in the euro area,
whose share in exports has dwindled to 13 percent.  Restocking Inventories  Imports also may keep climbing as gains in  consumer
spending , which accounts for about 70 percent of the economy
encourage companies to replenish shelves. Inventories at
wholesalers rose in October by the most in five months as
distributors moved to bring stockpiles in line with demand,
Commerce Department figures showed yesterday.  China’s trade surplus with the U.S. remains an irritant in
relations between the world’s two largest economies. President
 Barack Obama  last month renewed pressure on China’s foreign-
exchange policy and trade practices, saying “enough’s enough”
on what the U.S. views as too-slow appreciation of the yuan.  China sees an increase in domestic costs and a slowdown in
overseas demand putting “severe” pressure on its exports next
year, a sign policy makers may have little appetite to allow
faster gains in its currency. Premier  Wen Jiabao ’s embrace of
higher wages, along with a jump in land and raw-materials prices
and a stronger yuan, are restraining shipments, the Commerce
Ministry said on Dec. 7.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in  Washington  at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  