-- 
U.S. Universities Feast on Federal Student Aid: Postrel

-- B y   V i r g i n i a   P o s t r e l
-- 
2011-12-09T00:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/u-s-universities-feast-on-federal-student-aid-virginia-postrel.html
The public is in a foul mood over
increasing college costs and student debt burdens. Talk of a
 “higher education bubble”  is  common  on the contrarian right,
while the Occupy Wall Street crowd is calling for a strike in
which in which ex-students  refuse to pay off their loans .  This week, President  Barack Obama  held a  summit  with a
dozen higher-education leaders “to discuss rising college costs
and strategies to reduce these costs while improving quality.”
The administration  plans  to introduce some policy proposals in
the run-up to the presidential campaign.  Any serious policy reform has to start by considering a
heretical idea: Federal subsidies intended to make college more
affordable may have encouraged rapidly rising tuitions.  It’s not as crazy as it might sound.  As veteran education-policy consultant Arthur M. Hauptman
notes in a recent  essay : “There is a strong correlation over
time between student and parent loan availability and rapidly
rising tuitions. Common sense suggests that growing availability
of  student loans  at reasonable rates has made it easier for many
institutions to raise their prices, just as the mortgage
interest deduction contributes to higher housing prices.”  It’s a phenomenon familiar to economists. If you offer
people a subsidy to pursue some activity requiring an input
that’s in more-or-less fixed supply, the price of that input
goes up. Much of the value of the subsidy will go not to the
intended recipients but to whoever owns the input. The classic
example is  farm subsidies , which increase the price of farmland.  Increasing Salaries  A 1998 article in the American Economic Review explored
another example: federal research and development subsidies.
Like farmland, the supply of scientists and engineers is fairly
fixed, at least in the short run. Unemployed journalists and
mortgage brokers can’t suddenly turn into electrical engineers
just because there’s money available, and even engineers and
scientists are unlikely to switch specialties. So instead of
spurring new activity, much of the money tends to go to increase
the salaries of people already doing such work. From 1968 to
1994, a 10 percent increase in R&D spending led to about a 3
percent increase in incomes in the subsidized fields.  “A major component of government R&D spending is windfall
gains to R&D workers,” the paper concluded. “Incomes rise
significantly while hours rise little, and the increases are
concentrated within the engineering and science professions in
exactly the specialties heavily involved in federal research.”  The  study’s author  was Austan Goolsbee, then and now a
professor at the  University of Chicago  but until recently the
chairman of the president’s  Council of Economic Advisers .  Goolsbee did similar  research , with similar results, on the
effects of investment tax credits for capital equipment. Much of
the benefit of such subsidies, he found, goes not to the company
buying the new equipment but to the manufacturers who make it. A
10 percent investment tax credit raises equipment prices by 3.5
percent to 7 percent.  Like the scientists and engineers who benefit from R&D
subsidies, the workers who make capital equipment also capture
many of the subsidies’ benefits. Their  wages  go up, Goolsbee
found, by 2.5 percent to 3 percent on average and as much as 10
percent, depending on the workers’ particular characteristics.  Goolsbee declined a recent request to comment on the
subject, but the parallels to higher education are hard to miss.  In the short-term, the number of slots at traditional
colleges and universities is relatively fixed. A boost in
student aid that increases demand is therefore likely to be
reflected in prices rather than expanded enrollments. Over time,
enrollments should rise, as they have in fact done. But many
private schools in particular keep the size of their student
bodies fairly stable to maintain their prestige or institutional
character.  Soaring Enrollments  The new breed of for-profit institutions has grown much
faster than its nonprofit competition. Traditional private
colleges expanded their  enrollments  27 percent from 1999 to
2009, an increase of about 664,000 students, while for-profit
private colleges grew 478 percent, by almost a million students.  Figuring out exactly what’s going on is tricky, because
colleges price discriminate, offering steep discounts to some
students while charging list prices to others. Treating
published tuition as the real price of a college education is
like believing the sticker price on a used car.  Some of the most elite schools, which could theoretically
jack up their prices the most, face the most pressure from
alumni and others to use their ample financial resources to
extend more student aid.  At the most selective private schools, as defined by the
 College Board , federal grants and tax benefits for the average
student are indeed lower than at less-selective schools, both as
a percentage of all aid and in absolute dollars. These selective
institutions’ own grants to students are much larger than
elsewhere. Yet even after all this aid, they have the highest
net prices: an average of $16,577 net tuition and fees (not
including room, board and other expenses), compared with $10,823
for moderately private selective schools.  On the whole, it seems that universities are like the
companies making capital equipment. If the government hands
their customers the equivalent of a discount coupon, the
institutions can capture at least some of that amount by raising
their prices -- especially when demand for their product is
increasing independent of aid, because a college degree promises
to pay off in higher wages. They can then pay their employees
more or simply not economize as they might otherwise have to do.
Federal aid may also allow institutions to shift fundraising
efforts away from drumming up scholarships and toward raising
money for buildings, new programs or big-name professors.  Inflated Prices  This doesn’t mean that colleges capture all the aid in
higher tuition charges, any more than capital-equipment
companies get all the benefit of investment tax credits. But it
does set up problems for two groups of students in particular.
The first includes those who don’t qualify for aid and who
therefore have to pay the full, aid-inflated list price. The
second encompasses those who load up on loans to fill the gaps
not covered by grants or tax credits only to discover that the
financial value they expected from their education doesn’t
materialize upon graduation.  That’s the situation many young people find themselves in
today, which is one reason for their anger. The other is a
widespread feeling, which the recession has intensified, that
higher education is unfairly insulated from the everyday
competitive pressures most people have to cope with. Instead of
having to find ways to operate more efficiently and deliver
ever-more value without raising costs, the way private-sector
managers do, college administrators seem able to pass higher and
higher bills on to their customers and the public.  A good chunk of the educated public has decided that
college educators are decadent and lazy. Many are positively
 lusting  to see higher education get its Detroit-style
comeuppance.  This attitude is unfortunate and often unfair, but it’s the
direct result of decades of federal policies. Any strategy to
reduce college costs needs to look beyond traditional subsidies
to remove some of the insulation that stifles innovation and
feeds public resentment.  (Virginia Postrel is a Bloomberg View columnist. She is the
author of “The Future and Its Enemies” and “The Substance of
Style,” and is writing a book on glamour. This is the first of
a two-part series on the economics of higher education. The
opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Virginia Postrel in  Los Angeles  at  vp@dynamist.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Tobin Harshaw at   tharshaw@bloomberg.net . 