-- 
U.S. Money Funds Cut French Bank Debt by 68% in November

-- B y   R a d i   K h a s a w n e h   a n d   A l b e r t o   F u e r t e s
-- 
2011-12-09T13:57:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/u-s-prime-money-funds-cut-holdings-of-french-bank-debt-by-68-in-november.html
The eight largest prime U.S. money-
market mutual funds cut holdings in French banks by 68 percent
in November, shifting investments to Swiss, Swedish, Canadian
and Japanese banks.  French bank holdings declined by $11.7 billion to $5.56
billion, according to an analysis of fund disclosures by the
Bloomberg Risk newsletter. The eight funds have reduced French
bank debt by $76.8 billion in the past 12 months.  The decline in short-term lending has forced French banks
to increase their borrowing from the  European Central Bank  more
than four-fold over the last four months, and adds to woes at
lenders seeking to meet tighter  capital requirements . European
Union banks must raise 114.7 billion euros ($152.8 billion) as
part of measures to respond to the region’s sovereign-debt
crisis, the European Banking Authority said yesterday.  “The ECB’s open market operations have been a vital source
of funding for banks in the euro zone as the sovereign-debt
crisis has intensified,” Jonathan Glionna, an analyst at
 Barclays Capital  Group in London, said in a report published on
Dec. 7.  Moody’s Investors Service today cut the long-term debt
ratings for French banks BNP Paribas SA, Societe Generale SA and
 Credit Agricole SA (ACA) , citing the funding constraints and
deteriorating economic conditions. The banks’ short-term
ratings, which apply to money-fund holdings, were affirmed at
Prime-1.  Turning to ECB  Standard & Poor’s  on Dec. 7 placed ratings of European
banks, including Paris-based BNP Paribas,  Societe Generale (GLE)  and
Groupe BPCE, as well as Montrouge-based  Credit Agricole , on
watch for a possible downgrade amid a similar review of 15
countries in the region.  Societe Generale, France’s second-biggest bank, in November
agreed to sell $600 million of U.S. commercial property loans to
Macquarie Group Ltd., people familiar with the matter said last
month.  French banks borrowing through the main and long-term
refinancing operations of the ECB reached 100.6 billion euros in
October, compared with 22.3 billion euros at the end of June,
according to figures from the Banque de France, France’s central
bank. Banks across  Europe  raised 656 billion euros through ECB
lending through open market operations on Dec. 6, approaching
the highest level in over a year, according to data from
Barclays Capital.  Switzerland’s Gain  Holdings by U.S. money funds in  BNP Paribas (BNP) , France’s
largest bank by assets, fell $8.85 billion in November, or 67
percent. Holdings of debt issued by Societe Generale declined
$2.37 billion, or 89 percent, and paper held by Credit Agricole,
the third-largest French bank, fell by $517 million, or 39
percent.  Debt issued by Natixis, France’s fourth-largest bank, and
parent company BPCE SA, in Paris, was not among holdings by the
funds surveyed.  In total, the top four French banks have seen their money-
market funding decline by 93 percent compared with a year ago.  That $76.8 billion decline in funding has benefited banks
in Switzerland, Sweden, Canada and Japan, the data show.
Holdings in the largest banks in those countries have increased
by $55 billion over the same period.  Swedish banks  Svenska Handelsbanken AB (SHBA) ,  Nordea Bank AB (NDA) ,
 Skandinaviska Enskilda Banken AB (SEBA)  and  Swedbank AB (SWEDA) , all based in
Stockholm, attracted a 27 percent increase in investment in
November, the largest percentage rise among the countries seen
as safe havens. Swiss banks UBS AG and Credit Suisse Group AG
had the largest increase compared with a year ago, rising by 160
percent, or $17.2 billion.  Sovereign Ratings  The moves show a bias in favor of financial institutions
outside the euro zone, as the continuing sovereign crisis
threatens country ratings. S&P this week put 15 of the 17
European Union member nations on negative watch following
concern over a resolution to the crisis. The rating company said
the move could affect bank ratings also.  The funds surveyed -- the largest U.S. money-market funds
eligible to purchase corporate debt -- were Fidelity Cash
Reserves, JPMorgan Prime Money Market Fund, Vanguard Prime Money
Market Fund, Fidelity Institutional Money Market Portfolio,
Fidelity Institutional Prime Money Market Portfolio, BlackRock
TempFund, Wells Fargo Advantage Heritage Money Markets Fund and
Federated Prime Obligations Fund.  The figures include repurchase agreements that are backed
by government collateral.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Radi Khasawneh in  London  at 
 rkhasawneh1@bloomberg.net ;
Alberto Fuertes in London at 
 afuertes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  