-- 
UBS, Citigroup May Be Penalized in Japan on Tibor Probe, Commission Says

-- B y   T a k a h i k o   H y u g a
-- 
2011-12-09T09:50:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/ubs-citigroup-face-punishment-in-japan-for-tibor-breach-watchdog-says.html
UBS AG (UBS)  and  Citigroup Inc. (C)  may be
penalized in Japan for attempting to influence the Tokyo
interbank offered rate, the country’s securities watchdog said.  The  Securities and Exchange Surveillance Commission 
recommended that Japan’s Financial Services Agency punish the
local brokerage units of UBS and Citigroup, the watchdog said in
a statement in Tokyo today. Employees of the local operations
repeatedly asked bankers to change the rates they submit for
setting Tibor to gain an advantage, it said.  Citigroup, the third-biggest U.S. lender by assets, is part
of a global probe by regulators into whether some of the world’s
largest banks manipulated the  interest rates  at which they
borrowed from each other. In  Japan , apart from the Tibor inquiry,
New York-based Citigroup is facing potential penalties for
compliance violations at its local banking unit.  Both Zurich-based UBS and Citigroup lacked internal
controls to deal with the employees’ actions, the commission
said today. It didn’t elaborate on the kinds of penalties sought.  There is no evidence that the Tibor rate was manipulated
following the actions, an SESC official said at a news
conference today, speaking on condition of anonymity in
accordance with the organization’s policy.  Libor Probe  Citigroup’s Japanese brokerage unit, Citigroup Global
Markets Japan Inc., “has started working diligently to address
the issues raised,” the company said in an e-mailed statement.  Eiko Noda, a Tokyo-based spokeswoman for UBS, wasn’t
immediately available to comment.  The U.S.  Justice Department  and the Securities & Exchange
Commission may be investigating whether banks colluded to
artificially reduce the London interbank offered rate, or Libor,
a person with knowledge of the inquiry said in March. The probe
came to light after UBS,  Switzerland ’s biggest bank, said it
received subpoenas from U.S. and Japanese regulators.  UBS said on Oct. 25 that it has been granted conditional
leniency or immunity from authorities, including the  U.S.
Department of Justice , that are investigating whether Yen Libor
and Euroyen Tibor were manipulated.  Barclays Plc (BARC)  has also said
it’s cooperating with U.S. and British market watchdogs.  Citigroup, led by Chief Executive Officer  Vikram Pandit 
since 2007, has been asked to make employees available to
testify as witnesses before the U.K. Financial Services
Authority, two other people briefed on the plans said in March.
Deutsche Bank AG, Bank of America Corp. and JPMorgan Chase & Co.
were also included in the request, the people said.  Tibor Rates  Tibor rates are set daily by the country’s banks through
the Japanese Bankers Association, a trade group. Citigroup
joined the pool of banks used to set the rates in April 2010.  Libor rates, a benchmark for more than $350 trillion of
financial products worldwide, are set by the British Bankers’
Association. They are based on data from banks reflecting how
much it would cost them to borrow from each other for various
periods of time.  Citigroup has already attracted the attention of Japanese
regulators. The FSA is preparing to penalize its Citibank Japan
Ltd. unit for failing to fully explain product risk to retail
customers, two people with knowledge of the situation said this
month. Darren Buckley, chief executive officer of the unit, may
step down as soon as this month to take responsibility for the
breach, the people said on condition of anonymity.  Japan’s SESC was established in Japan in 1992 after a
series of financial scandals to ensure fair transactions in
securities and financial  futures markets , according to its
website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Takahiko Hyuga in  Tokyo  at 
 thyuga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  