-- 
UN Offset Market Likely to Continue in Absence of Any Kyoto Deal

-- B y   A l e s s a n d r o   V i t e l l i
-- 
2011-12-09T12:07:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/un-offset-market-likely-to-continue-in-absence-of-kyoto-deal.html
The United Nations carbon market, the
world’s second largest, is likely to continue even if countries
fail to agree to a second round of emission-cutting targets at
UN-sponsored climate talks in Durban,  South Africa .  The UN’s Clean Development Mechanism, or CDM, allows
developed countries and their industries to reduce emissions at
lower cost by investing in projects that cut  greenhouse gases  in
poorer countries. In return they earn credits called Certified
Emission Reductions that they may use to comply with mandatory
carbon reduction targets.  The mechanism was established in 1997 by the  Kyoto
Protocol , and some countries in Durban are trying to explicitly
link its continuation past 2012 to a decision by  Europe  and
other  developing countries  to take on more emission-cutting
pledges after the first commitment period ends next year.  One of the options in draft text that was being negotiated
into the early hours of today insists that the continuation of
the CDM should be “contingent upon the establishment of
quantified emissions limitation and reduction commitments by
Parties included in Annex I to the Convention.”  Lawyers tracking the talks in Durban are confident the CDM
can continue to generate credits even if rich countries fail to
agree an extension to the protocol.  “The CDM will cruise through this,” Alex Sarac, legal
director at  DLA Piper LLP , said in an interview. “The only
people that want to stop it are Bolivia and  Venezuela .”  ‘Larger Issue’  The issue of whether the CDM should continue is a political
rather than technical matter that shouldn’t be discussed by a
group that is mandated to agree purely technical measures
related to the operation of the mechanism, Sarac said.  “The second commitment period of the Protocol is a larger
issue. It doesn’t belong in the text on guidance to the CDM
Executive Board,” Sarac said.  Dirk Forrister, principal at Forrister Advisory, said the
proposal is being used to push developed countries into taking
on binding commitments after 2012.  “The CDM is the only leverage that developing countries
have against the EU,” said Forrister, a former climate adviser
under President  Bill Clinton . “They all say CDM access is at
risk, but I’m not sure.”  The CDM was worth $1.5 billion last year, according to the
 World Bank . Offset credits issued under the CDM can be used for
compliance by companies in the EU emissions trading system, the
world’s largest, even if Kyoto limits are not extended. From
2013 the EU will accept only new offset projects based in least-
developed countries and the use of credits linked to some
industrial gases will be banned.  Political Discussion  A political discussion over the future of the CDM may take
place when the high-level meetings convene later today. Earlier
this week, leading negotiators underlined their view that the
mechanism should be linked to a second Kyoto commitment.  If the Kyoto emissions limits expire, there’s no reason to
maintain the CDM,  Su Wei ,  China ’s lead negotiator, said last
week in Durban.  “We can’t imagine that if there’s no second commitment
period, there would be a continuation for the clean development
mechanism,” Su said in a joint interview with Bloomberg and two
other news organizations Nov. 29. “If there are no targets to
implement, what is the utility of having the CDM mechanism?”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alessandro Vitelli in Durban, South Africa at 
 avitelli1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  