-- 
UniCredit, Monte Paschi Must Raise $15 Billion as Crisis Hurts Bond Assets

-- B y   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i
-- 
2011-12-09T00:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/unicredit-monte-paschi-must-raise-15-billion-as-crisis-hurts-bond-assets.html
UniCredit SpA (UCG)  and  Banca Monte dei
Paschi di Siena SpA (BMPS)  must raise a combined 11.2 billion euros
($15 billion), the most among Italian banks, after the spread of
the region’s debt crisis hurt the value of their bond holdings.  The European Banking Authority told Italy’s top five
lenders they have to boost capital by 15.4 billion euros, up
from 14.8 billion euros estimated in the previous round of
stress tests in October. The current stress tests include the
value of sovereign bond holdings through the end of the third
quarter and UniCredit and Monte Paschi saw their capital needs
increase after some European sovereign bonds tumbled.  UniCredit will need 8.0 billion euros ($11 billion) in
additional capital, the second most among European banks after
Banco Santander SA, and up from 7.4 billion euros previously
estimated in October, the EBA said yesterday. Monte Paschi’s
shortfall rose to 3.3 billion euros from 3.1 billion euros, the
two lenders said in separate statements.  Italian lenders are facing higher costs of funding as
contagion from the sovereign debt crisis spread to  Italy  last
month, pushing the yield on the country’s 10-year bond above the
7 percent threshold that led  Greece , Ireland and  Portugal  to
seek bailouts. European leaders are demanding the region’s banks
bolster their capital to protect against possible losses after
financial firms agreed to take writedowns on their Greek bonds.  UniCredit’s Goal  UniCredit said its plan to raise 7.5 billion euros through
a share sale in January and the inclusion of 2.4 billion euros
of convertible and subordinated hybrid equity-linked securities,
known as CASHES, in its core Tier 1 calculations will allow it
to exceed the capital targets set by EBA. The Milan-based bank’s
core Tier 1 capital will rise to 9.4 percent after the measures
are implemented, higher than the 9 percent goal set by the EBA
for June.  Unione di Banche Italiane ScpA (UBI)  said it needs 1.4 billion
euros and  Banco Popolare SC (BP)  2.7 billion euros. For both lenders
the authority requested about 100 million less than estimated in
October.  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP) , the country’s No. 2 bank, is the only
Italian bank under review that doesn’t need additional capital,
the regulator said.  Monte Paschi and Banco Popolare said that the core Tier 1
target is “not appropriate” for national banks that primarily
focus on  consumer lending . They asked the EBA to delay and lower
the goal for consumer lenders. The current rules may crimp
lending activity, hurting the real economy, they said.  Regional Needs  The EBA estimated capital needs at 114.7 billion euros, 8
billion euros more than previously estimated, for the banks in
the region. It gave them until Jan. 20 to submit money-raising
plans to national supervisors. Banks that fail to raise enough
capital in the market will first tap national governments,
falling back on the European Financial Stability Facility rescue
fund only as a last resort.  Italian sovereign bonds handed investors a loss of 4.2
percent in the three months to September, while Portuguese notes
fell 1.1 percent and German bunds jumped 7.9 percent, according
to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European Federation of
Financial Analysts Societies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  