-- 
Turkish Trial Sparks Protest Charging Erdogan With Court Bias

-- B y   E m r e   P e k e r
-- 
2011-12-09T12:13:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/turkish-trial-sparks-protest-charging-erdogan-with-court-bias.html
Turkish lawmakers and activists are
protesting a trial they say shows Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  is politicizing the judiciary to silence dissent.  Hundreds demonstrated under snowfall outside the main
courthouse in Ankara as it began hearing the case of 28 people
charged with offenses including membership of a terrorist group
and harming state property. The defendants were protesting
against the death of a retired teacher at an Erdogan election
rally in May, saying it was caused by excessive police violence.  Protests began in the northwestern city of Bursa and
Trabzon in the northeast earlier this week, with students
cutting their hair in a gesture of solidarity with a jailed
activist who had his head shaved in prison. Lawmakers Safak
Pavey, from the main opposition Republican People’s Party or
CHP, and Sirri Sureyya Onder from the pro-Kurdish Peace and
Democracy Party have cut their hair to signal support. Several
other parliamentarians attended the trial.  Opposition parties are accusing the judiciary of
implementing a government crackdown on dissent that uses anti-
terrorism laws to raid pro-Kurdish politicians, arrest student
protesters and imprison people over alleged coup plots without
charging them. The prosecution is seeking prison terms of as
long as 42 years and six months for the defendants in today’s
trial, Hurriyet newspaper  reported , citing the indictment.  Erdogan’s  Justice and Development Party , or AKP, is turning
 Turkey  into an “open prison,” said Sezgin Tanrikulu, CHP’s
deputy chairman. “The AKP doesn’t let any protest against
itself go unpunished,” he said yesterday in a  statement  posted
on the party’s website.  Bullhorns, Banned Books  The government rejects the accusation. Turkey now follows
the principle of separation of powers, in contrast to past
administrations by parties including the CHP that left courts
“under the hegemony of political powers,” Deputy Chairman
Huseyin Celik said Nov. 30.  Prosecutors said criminal items and evidence found on the
defendants include umbrellas, bullhorns, banned books, posters
of leftist Turkish revolutionaries executed in the 1970s and
checkered Arab headscarves known as keffieh, Hurriyet said.  Their protest followed the death of Metin Lokumcu after
police assaulted demonstrators with pepper spray during
Erdogan’s rally in the Black Sea town of Hopa before the June 12
elections. Security forces said the premier’s bus was attacked.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emre Peker in Ankara at 
 epeker2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden in Dubai at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 