-- 
Valero to Fund Majority of Mascoma’s Michigan Biofuel Plant

-- B y   A n d r e w   H e r n d o n
-- 
2011-12-09T23:03:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/valero-to-fund-majority-of-mascoma-s-biofuel-plant-in-michigan.html
Valero Energy Corp. (VLO) , an independent
U.S. oil refiner that owns ten corn-based ethanol plants, agreed
to provide the majority of financing for a Mascoma Corp. plant
in Michigan that will convert wood to ethanol.  Mascoma expects construction on the the $232 million plant
to begin within six months and  to be complete by the end of
2013, the Lebanon, New Hampshire-based biofuel company said
today in a statement.  The agreement follows Valero’s May deal to finance a plant
in  Louisiana  that will convert animal fats and cooking oil into
fuel. The company is seeking technologies that may have
applications at its corn ethanol factories, said  Bill Day , a
spokesman for the San Antonio-based oil company.  The Mascoma “project is appealing to Valero because it
will be the first, or one of the first, commercial-scale
cellulosic ethanol plants,” Day said today in an e-mail. “We
will look at the possibility of adding cellulosic production to
our existing corn-ethanol plants.”  The Mascoma plant, in Kinross on  Michigan ’s upper
peninsula, also is funded by about $50 million in grants from
the U.S. Department of Energy and the state of Michigan. It will
initially produce 20 million gallons (76 million liters) of fuel
a year and may eventually double that.  Modified Yeasts  Valero is planning to incorporate genetically modified
yeasts that Mascoma developed into its ethanol production,
Mascoma said today in a filing. Valero’s plants represent about
8 percent of U.S. ethanol production capacity.  Mascoma’s modified yeasts create enzymes needed to break
down plant-based sugars and also ferment them into ethanol. This
combines two biological processes into one and eliminates the
need to buy enzymes for ethanol production, cutting production
costs in a laboratory test by 1 cent to 2 cents a gallon,
according to the filing.  Valero may partner with Mascoma to develop additional
cellulosic ethanol plants, including its next commercial
facility planned for  Alberta ,  Canada , and has an option to
expand production in Kinross to 80 million gallons a year,
according to the statement.  Valero will build and operate the Kinross plant and sell
the fuel produced there. Mascoma will receive royalties.  Mascoma announced Sept. 16 plans to raise as much as $100
million in an initial share sale.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Herndon in  San Francisco  at 
 aherndon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  