-- 
Vale Beijing Ore Carrier Has External Leak, Surveyor Says

-- B y   M i c h e l l e   W i e s e   B o c k m a n n
-- 
2011-12-09T16:38:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/vale-beijing-ore-carrier-has-external-leak-ship-surveyor-says.html
The Vale Beijing, the  iron-ore 
carrier damaged while loading its first cargo in Brazil, has an
external leak, meaning sea water is entering part of the ship,
classification society Det Norske Veritas said.  The vessel must be moved for a second time so divers can
determine the leak’s size and type, Aage Andreas Enghaug,
spokesman for Oslo-based DNV, said by phone.  STX Pan Ocean Co. (028670) ,
located in Seoul, owns the ship and is leasing it to Rio de
Janeiro-based  Vale SA (VALE3) , the world’s biggest iron-ore producer.  The Vale Beijing is one of the world’s six largest
commodity ships and part of a class of 35 vessels being built at
Asian yards. Vale is spending more than $8 billion on the fleet
to lower freight costs to  China , its fastest-growing market in
 Asia . The country is the world’s largest steel producer, and
iron ore is a raw material for making the alloy.  DNV, which issued certificates saying the Vale Beijing was
safe to operate after it was built and entered service just over
two months ago, has specialists at the ship. The society
monitors compliance with design and structural rules for
vessels.  Vale referred calls to STX Pan Ocean. Sean Park, a
spokesman for the South Korean company, declined to comment from
 Rio de Janeiro . The ship has a cracked ballast tank, an area
between cargo holds and the hull that is filled with water when
vessels are empty to keep them stable, STX Pan Ocean said in a
prior statement. The carrier can be repaired and continue
operating, the company said, adding it’s too soon to assess the
cause of the incident.  ‘Serious’ Leak  The leak started as the Vale Beijing, able to carry 400,000
metric tons of iron ore, had loaded 260,000 tons, Jose Carlos Martins, Vale’s head of iron ore and strategy, said at a Dec. 7
investor presentation in  London . He called the incident
“serious” and said Vale was unaware of the cause.  The design of Vale Beijing, built by Jinhae, South Korea-
based  STX Offshore & Shipbuilding Co. (067250) , differs from the other
five vessels in service, which were constructed elsewhere,
Martins said. He said he was confident in the structural
integrity of those carriers, which started trading as of April.  China  was the destination for 45 percent of Vale’s ore in
the third quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Wiese Bockmann in London at 
 mwiesebockma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  