-- 
Vampires, Ghosts Haunted Max Beckmann During U.S. Exile: Review

-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   H i c k l e y
-- 
2011-12-09T00:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/vampires-ghosts-haunted-max-beckmann-during-u-s-exile-catherine-hickley.html
A self-portrait by  Max Beckmann ,
called “The Liberated Man,” shows him escaping his chains as a
door opens to let glaring yellow light into his cell.  The lurid gleam illuminates the green-tinged pallor of his
haggard, careworn face. Beyond the barred window is only
darkness. Painted in 1937 after Beckmann fled Frankfurt for
Amsterdam, it’s clear this new freedom is unreliable, even
illusory. Beckmann, condemned as “degenerate” by the Nazis,
didn’t feel safe in exile in the occupied  Netherlands .  Ten years later, leaving  Europe  for the U.S., Beckmann
experienced a true escape, from war, misery and isolation to a
new world he had long dreamed of, comparatively unburdened by
past horrors. He first taught in  St. Louis  and later went to New
York, where he lived until his death.  It was a productive three years, as an exhibition at the
Frankfurt  Staedel Museum  reveals. “Beckmann & Amerika” is well
worth catching before it ends on Jan. 8, 2012. It’s one of three
major Beckmann shows in Europe this year: Basel’s  Kunstmuseum  is
showing his landscapes, while Leipzig’s  Museum der Bildenden
Kuenste  is displaying his portraits (both through Jan. 22.)  Beckmann was established as one of the great artists of the
era by the time he got to the U.S. His position has since become
even more deeply entrenched. The Staedel -- Beckmann lived in
Frankfurt for 20 years and taught at the Staedel art school --
has devoted an entire room to the artist in its newly fitted
permanent exhibition of modern art.  Exotic Birds  In those years in America, Beckmann painted mythological
themes, still lifes, some landscapes, interiors and portraits.
He documented new experiences and friendships, yet his work is
haunted by the past and his dreams. It’s laced with
idiosyncratic symbols like fish and exotic birds.  The freshness, even innocence, that Beckmann found in the
U.S. shows in the portraits of new friends with wholesome,
optimistic faces. Perry T. Rathbone, the director of the  Saint
Louis Art Museum , radiates openness and vigor. The pose of
gangling Walter Barker, a student and assistant of the artist,
is one of carefree languor and awkward youthful grace.  Beckmann embraced his new life. Yet a European darkness
weighs heavily -- in the bold black lines of a window frame
dividing a landscape; in the blood spurting from the neck of a
decapitated gorgon; in a vampire’s deadly kiss.  Gaunt Cheeks  It also lurks in the troubled, closed faces of fellow
Europeans who appear sporadically, like ghosts at a party. In a
1946 portrait, Beckmann’s  New York  dealer Curt Valentin is
depicted with a furrowed brow and gaunt cheeks, shifty eyes and
grimly set lips. He looks conspiratorial. Like Beckmann, he has
seen a lot of the world and learned to protect himself from it.  There are memories, too -- the triptych “Beginnings” is a
personal compendium of defining childhood influences -- an organ
grinder, an upside-down Puss in Boots, a globe showing America
and an art-loving uncle.  Some of Beckmann’s finest works are these huge, complex
triptychs painted in his final years. He died in 1950,
collapsing from a heart attack while walking near Central Park
on his way to an exhibition.  “Argonauts” came to him in a dream and was completed the
day before he died. Evoking the themes of art and music with a
centerpiece suggesting the start of an adventure, it’s an
optimistic self-epitaph.  “Beckmann & Amerika” is at the Staedel Museum in
 Frankfurt  through Jan. 8, 2012. Information:
 http://www.staedelmuseum.de .  (Catherine Hickley writes for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Catherine Hickley in Berlin at 
 chickley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 