-- 
Vivendi Lenders Said to Demand Interest Increase on $1.3 Billion Financing

-- B y   P a t r i c i a   K u o
-- 
2011-12-09T14:55:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/vivendi-lenders-said-to-demand-interest-increase-on-1-3-billion-financing.html
Vivendi SA (VIV) , owner of the world’s
largest video-game maker, is being asked by lenders to increase
the interest margin of a new  credit line , according to three
people with knowledge of the deal.  Banks are demanding the Paris-based company pay interest of
90 basis points on money it borrows under the five-year 1
billion-euro ($1.3 billion) facility, said the people, who
didn’t want to be identified because talks are private. It
offered a margin of 75 basis points.  French companies are rushing to refinance as Europe’s
spreading sovereign crisis endangers  France ’s top credit rating.
Deals from Carrefour SA and Alstom SA last month pushed the
amount of French loans to $92 billion this year, compared with
$49 billion a year earlier, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The average premium to benchmark rates paid by high-grade
issuers in  Europe  is 91.6 basis points, up from 84.4 basis
points between January and July, the data show.  Banks also asked for higher fees to give Vivendi access to
the funds. The company had offered to pay a 15 basis-point fee
to start drawing funds under the facility, 20 basis points to
use more than one-third, and 30 basis points to use more than
two-thirds, the people said. Banks are demanding 30 basis points
to lend one-third and 50 basis points for two-thirds.  Jean-Louis Erneux, a spokesman for Vivendi, declined to
comment.  Vivendi is seeking the financing for its business and to
refinance credit facilities, said the people. A 1 billion-euro
five-year loan signed last year pays an initial interest margin
of 55 basis points, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. A
basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  Banco Santander SA, Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd,
 Barclays Capital , BNP Paribas SA, Citigroup Inc., Credit
Agricole CIB, Credit Mutuel-CIC, Deutsche Bank AG, Goldman Sachs
Group Inc., HSBC Holdings Plc, Natixis, Nomura Holdings Inc.,
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc and Societe Generale SA are
among lenders in last year’s deal, according to Bloomberg data.  Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings rank Vivendi at BBB.
Moody’s Investors Service rates it at Baa2.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Kuo in London at 
 pkuo2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  