-- 
Volvo Said Ready to Name BP’s Svanberg as Chairman Next Week

-- B y   B r i a n   S w i n t
-- 
2011-12-09T13:22:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/volvo-may-appoint-bp-s-svanberg-as-chairman.html
Volvo AB (VOLVB) , the world’s second-largest
maker of commercial vehicles, is expected to appoint  BP Plc ’s
Carl-Henric Svanberg as chairman, according to a person with
knowledge of the matter.  Volvo is ready to make an announcement as soon as Dec. 12,
the person said, declining to be identified before an official
statement is issued. Svanberg would replace Louis Schweitzer,
who will turn 70 next year.  BP, where Svanberg has been chairman since January 2010,
said earlier this week it would be happy for Svanberg to serve
at both companies. The appointment at Gothenburg-based Volvo
would mark a return to  Sweden  for Svanberg, a Swedish national
and the former chief executive officer of Ericsson AB.  “There’s been some debate amongst BP shareholders about
whether they’re happy with this,” said Colin McLean, chief
executive officer of SVM Asset Management Ltd. in Edinburgh,
which has about 700 million pounds ($1 billion) of assets under
management including BP shares. “I don’t think there will be
immediate pressure on him to leave BP, but the role probably
does need someone with more specific industry experience.”  Volvo spokesman Marten Wikforss declined to comment. A BP
spokesman also declined to comment.  Svanberg, contracted to work at BP three days a week,
attracted criticism in the U.S. after the Gulf of Mexico oil
spill last year that cost CEO  Tony Hayward  his job. After a
meeting with President  Barack Obama  at the White House, he said
BP cares about the “little people” affected by the disaster.  Macondo Trial  The trial that will determine BP’s liability in the spill
starts on Feb. 27 in  New Orleans .  “As shareholders, we would be concerned about BP’s chair
taking on another chairmanship role,” said  Julie Tanner ,
director of socially responsible investing for New York-based
Christian Brothers Investment Services Inc., in an e-mailed
response to questions. “There is a substantial amount of work
ahead for the chair of BP that requires his undivided
attention.”  Swedish newspaper  Svenska Dagbladet  reported last week that
Svanberg was in the running to become Volvo chairman after an
agreement between the truckmaker’s two largest shareholders,
Renault SA and investment fund  Industrivarden AB. (INDUA)   Boost Profitability  At Volvo, Svanberg would oversee CEO Olof Persson’s push to
increase profitability. Volvo had an operating margin last year
of 6.9 percent of sales, compared with 19 percent for Scania AB,
the truckmaker with the industry’s highest margins, Bloomberg
data shows.  “When Carl-Henric Svanberg is in the company, one of the
major challenges for them will be to be as strong in a market
downturn as their rivals,” said Morten Imsgard, an analyst at
Sydbank A/S in Aabenraa, Denmark, with an “overweight” rating
on Volvo’s shares.  BP has added four people to its board since the Gulf of
Mexico spill last year. Brian Gilvary will become the fifth new
member when he becomes chief financial officer on Jan. 1.  “Svanberg has to stay on for now, you can’t create a
vacuum,” said  Christine Tiscareno , an equity analyst at
 Standard & Poor’s  in  London . “But eventually, in a year or so,
he may go because people didn’t like him and I don’t think he
was particularly happy here, either. If he leaves, I don’t think
it will be a negative or disruptive.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Swint in London at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  