-- 
European CEOs Move Cash to Germany In Case of Euro Breakup

-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i   a n d   R i c h a r d   W e i s s
-- 
2011-12-09T08:21:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/wary-european-ceos-move-cash-to-germany-to-protect-against-breakup-risk.html
Grupo Gowex (GOW) , a Spanish provider of
Wi-Fi wireless services, is moving funds to Germany because it
expects  Spain  to exit the euro. German machinery maker  GEA Group
AG  is setting maximum amounts held at any one bank.  “I don’t trust Spain will remain in the  euro zone ,” said
Jenaro Garcia, founder and chief executive officer of Madrid-
based Grupo Gowex, which provides Wi-Fi access in 15 countries.
“We moved our cash and deposits to Germany because Spain will
come back to the peseta.”  European companies spent billions preparing for the  euro 
when it was introduced in 2000 by 11 countries. Contingency
planning for an unraveling of the currency involves cutting
investment, moving money to  Germany , transferring headquarters
to northern  Europe  from southern, and even going out of
business, according to interviews with more than 20 executives.  The Bundesbank, Germany’s central bank, registered capital
inflows of 11.3 billion euros ($15 billion) from non-banks in
September, according to the breakdown of its  current account 
published Nov. 9. That helped transform a deficit of 47.3
billion euros in Germany’s balance of other capital flows in
August to a surplus of 700 million euros in September.  In another bid to end the debt crisis, European leaders
added 200 billion euros to their warchest and tightened anti-
deficit rules in what they called a “fiscal compact” at a
meeting in Brussels. European stocks dropped and the euro was
little changed as the plan disappointed some investors.  From  Greece  to  Italy   “How do you control an explosion in a controlled way?”
 Fiat SpA (F)  Chief Executive Officer  Sergio Marchionne  told
reporters in Brussels on Dec. 2. “That’s a contradiction in
terms. This will be an implosion of some size with potentially
disastrous consequences.”  Companies switched gears from preparing for a possible exit
by Greece to some sort of currency breakdown after Italian Prime
Minister Silvio Berlusconi’s government collapsed and 10-year
Italian bond yields rose past 7 percent in November.  “A couple of weeks ago I would never have thought about
having conversations on the probability of the euro
disappearing, but now there is more speculation on such a
scenario,”  Wolters Kluwer NV (WKL)  CEO Nancy McKinstry said in a Nov.
29 interview at the company’s headquarters outside Amsterdam.  The board of Wolters Kluwer, Europe’s largest tax and legal
publisher with offices in  Frankfurt , Milan,  London  and Phoenix,
has spent more time on scenario planning, she said.  Tapping Reserves  “We obviously have plans in place if something happens,”
 ABB Ltd. (ABBN)  CEO  Joe Hogan  said in Zurich on Dec. 1. “They can
never be as robust as you’d want them to be but we certainly are
prepared if there is a crisis.”  The Swiss engineering company “updated what we would do”
in the past few weeks, Hogan said. “We just keep updating and
making our plan more and more detailed.’  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG , the world’s largest maker of
luxury cars, has honed its plans developed following the 2009
financial crisis and is prepared to act if markets dive, Chief
Financial Officer Friedrich Eichiner said in November.  The Munich-based carmaker’s response would include reducing
production by as much as 30 percent and using its banking unit
to directly tap central bank reserves. The company also has
reduced its leasing portfolio to manage risks in case used car
values decline.  Companies outside the euro region are doing just as much
preparation as those inside. U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer
 George Osborne  said yesterday he’s seen studies suggesting a
collapse of the euro would lead to a “very significant” drop
in U.K. economic output.  Spreading the Risk  Kingfisher Plc (KGF) , Europe’s largest home-improvement retailer,
has considered plans for the possibility of a collapse of the
euro region and will focus on cash generation to account for
that possibility, Chief Executive Officer Ian Cheshire said.  The London-based company would start with a focus on
working capital and making sure planned capital-spending
projects reflect the level of uncertainty, Cheshire said in an
interview on Dec. 1. It would probably also stop chasing
unprofitable sales or market share with promotions, and focus on
cash margins instead.  Top of the list of concerns among companies is the collapse
of one or more financial institutions in Europe. Executives say
they’re already moving money around to avert that risk.  ‘Survival Mode’  “We are more careful about investment decisions,” said
Juerg Oleas, CEO of GEA, a machinery maker based in Dusseldorf.
“We have internally defined maximum amounts that we place with
a single bank.”  K+S AG , Europe’s biggest potash supplier, said the company
is assessing the counter-party risk of the banks it works with
and, should they reach predetermined thresholds, stop the flow
of any new funds into that institution.  “We spread our risk by defining maximum amounts that we
allocate to individual bank or issuers of commercial paper and
spread our funds broadly among many different parties,” said
K+S spokesman Michael Wudonig.  Juan Jose Nieto, chairman of  Service Point Solutions SA (SPS) , a
Barcelona-based document-management company, said he would move
the company’s headquarters to the U.K. or Scandinavia in the
event of a euro breakup.  “We’ve had to reinvent our business in the last few years
because of the crisis,” he said in an interview. “We’re in
survival mode. What’s happening in Greece and Italy not only
affects banks but also companies like us.”  To contact the reporters on this story
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Heather Harris at   hharris5@bloomberg.net  