-- 
When Obama’s Music Stops, Class Warfare Starts: Michael Kinsley

-- B y   M i c h a e l   K i n s l e y
-- 
2011-12-09T00:00:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/when-obama-s-music-stops-class-warfare-starts-michael-kinsley.html
“This isn’t about class warfare,”
President  Barack Obama  said this week, in his  speech  at a high
school in Osawatomie,  Kansas .  But in fact, the president dived into many of the themes
that have been urged on him by left-wing class warriors: the
disappearing middle class, “the breathtaking greed of a few,”
“insurance companies that jacked up people’s premiums with
impunity,” “mortgage lenders that tricked families into buying
homes they couldn’t afford,” and so on. We can’t “go back to
business as usual”: a universally endorsed principle at all
times.  As Thomas Frank pointed out in his 2004 book, “ What’s the
Matter With Kansas ,” conservatives thrived for many years by
stoking the fires of popular resentment against (usually
unnamed) elitists who sneer at religion, pursue bizarre sexual
practices, join the ACLU but diss the Boy Scouts, burn the flag
in their spare time, and so on. Then conservatives cried “class
war” when liberals tried, with little success, to redirect the
populist rhetoric against its more traditional targets of
bankers,  Wall Street  and big business CEOs.  For ordinary voters, it was a great bait-and-switch.
Recruited for the cultural class war, they found themselves
fighting the economic one -- but on the wrong side, the side of
the bankers and businessmen.  But just lately, because of the financial crisis of 2008,
the scandals that went with it and growing  income inequality ,
financial class-war arguments are gaining more traction and the
cultural class war has almost disappeared. When you’ve been laid
off and your kids have moved back into your house after college
because they can’t find a job either, you start to lose interest
in whether the National Endowment for the Arts is financing
smutty pictures.  Muddled Categories  My problem with Obama’s speech is that the president
muddles together a variety of very different categories. There
are out-and-out crooks and shysters. There are clever financiers
who manipulated the rules and took advantage of loopholes -- and
ought to be thoroughly ashamed of themselves -- but did nothing
illegal. There are the very, very rich -- the notorious 1
percent, or 1 percent of 1 percent -- who have benefited from
changes in the economy that they may or may not have had any
control over. Then there are the affluent -- annual income of
$250,000 or more a year is as good a benchmark as any -- who,
before the recession, were doing better and better for reasons
no one was entirely sure of.  Below these people in the Obama taxonomy is the great
middle class, whose members just want to work hard and be
rewarded with sufficient means to raise their families, own a
house and send their kids to college. Below them, although not
dwelt upon, are the genuinely poor: the homeless, single mothers
on welfare, old folks with chronic diseases, and -- an oft-
forgotten group -- people who went as far as their energy and
talents could take them in the approved American manner, only
that turned out to be not very far. (Off to the side and
surprisingly unmentioned by the president are the holy men and
women of American capitalism, small-business owners. They, of
course, are deserving of every tax break and, by definition, can
do no wrong.)  For every group Obama takes to task, he also has a “to be
sure” passage in which he tries to make clear that he’s not
talking about you. But if you listen to the music, not the
words, you might well think otherwise. A wish to raise taxes on
top-bracket taxpayers doesn’t prove that you “hate the rich” or
that you’re trying to stoke the fires of class warfare. It
doesn’t mean you define an income of $250,000 as “rich.” It
simply means that you believe that the people who’ve been most
fortunate in this country are in the best position to contribute
more to solving its financial problems. But this distinction is
hard to maintain if you’re simultaneously suggesting that there
is something ill-gotten about most rich people’s gains.  People really resent this. I have a friend, a banker, who
voted for Obama in 2008 but senses that he is being picked on
unfairly. Which he is. And he is not pacified by reminders that
Obama’s grandmother was a banker, as charming and surprising to
some as that may be.  Crooks and Affluent  Fairness to bankers may not seem like the most pressing
issue on the justice agenda. But in addition to being unfair,
conflating actual crooks and the innocent affluent makes it hard
to claim that raising their taxes isn’t punishment for some form
of misbehavior. Taxes are not a punishment; they are a source of
necessary revenue. But if you tie them to the financial scandal,
they sound pretty punitive.  A second big problem with Obama’s philosophy, as revealed
in this speech, is really the biggest economic problem facing
the U.S. in general. That is, the middle-class sense of
entitlement. This is an odd moment in the history of the
American economy. We need more  government spending  (or tax cuts)
to spur us out of the doldrums, but we also need less government
spending (or tax increases) to prevent national bankruptcy or at
best a long period of stagnation.  The official, or semiofficial, game plan is to spend our
way out of the danger of recession, and then slam on the brakes
and reverse course. The first part is easy, even pleasant; the
second part is hard to imagine.  In Obama’s speech, he went into great detail about the
first part -- the spending part, the part about how unfair life
has been to the middle class -- and somehow forgot to mention
the second part -- the savings part, the part about how the
middle class is going to have to fork over like everyone else to
get us out of this jam (because the middle class is almost
everybody). Eating dessert first is great fun, but green beans
lie ahead, as a really great speech would have reminded us.  ( Michael Kinsley  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Michael Kinsley at  mkinsley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Francis Wilkinson at 
 fwilkinson1@bloomberg.net . 