-- 
Gingrich Uses Fog of Words to Cloud Our Memory: Jonathan Alter

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   A l t e r
-- 
2011-12-09T00:03:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/will-newt-s-way-with-words-erase-our-memory-commentary-by-jonathan-alter.html
Newt Gingrich  is back in contention
for the Republican presidential nomination partly because he
understands the power of words, the pervasiveness of amnesia,
and the dark art of making them work together.  It’s still hard to imagine Gingrich as president. He’s
likely to blow himself up before next November. But the scary
thing for Democrats is that Gingrich grasps these subtextual
forces better than they do. It makes him a less predictable and
possibly more dangerous opponent than  Mitt Romney  in the general
election.  Gingrich helped Republicans seize control of the  House of
Representatives  in 1994 with the help of “key words” tested by
pollster Frank Luntz, who designed the “Contract with America.”  In 1990, Gingrich’s political action committee, GOPAC, put
out an audio cassette with advice for Republican candidates.
Gingrich followed up with a famous memo to Republicans called
“ Language: A Key Mechanism of Control ”:  “As the tapes have been used in training sessions across
the country and mailed to candidates we have heard a plaintive
plea: ‘I wish I could speak like Newt.’ That takes years of
practice. But, we believe that you could have a significant
impact on your campaign and the way you communicate if we help a
little.”  Gingrich’s list of “Optimistic, Positive Governing Words”
included “common sense,” “courage,” “liberty,” “strength” and
“vision.”  The list of what the congressman called “Contrasting Words”
included “bosses,” “greed,” “lie,” “pathetic” and, of course,
“taxes.”  An Orwellian Approach  The party internalized Gingrich’s message and for two
decades has run linguistic circles around Democrats, turning
inheritance taxes into “death taxes” and efforts to advise
seniors on living wills into “death panels.” When it comes to
demonizing the other side, nothing works like the Grim Reaper.  As critic and law professor Stanley Fish has pointed out,
Republicans are also expert at stealing phrases like “individual
rights” and “color blind” from the civil-rights movement and
using them to win arguments on racial issues.  I’m not suggesting that Democrats ape the Republicans’
Orwellian approach and begin twisting words to imply the
opposite of the truth, as  Karl Rove  did this week with an ad
making it seem as if  Elizabeth Warren  favored bank bailouts that
hurt the middle class. But the president could bring up his
language game.  At a recent Bloomberg View lunch with  David Axelrod  of the
Obama campaign, a group of journalists got a glimpse of the
yawning language gap between the parties.  Hendrik Hertzberg of the  New Yorker  pointed out that it was
a Democrat in the Carter administration, Donna Shalala, who in
1979 first began calling Social Security and Medicare
“entitlements” instead of “insurance,” the term favored by
President  Franklin D. Roosevelt . Talk about a self-inflicted
wound for Democrats. For all the years since, these programs
have sounded like something for spoiled seniors.  When asked why the Obama administration continued to use
the word, Axelrod didn’t have an answer. Nor could he explain
why Democrats keep using the arid and unconvincing word
“infrastructure.”  The day before, President  Barack Obama  had delivered an
important speech in Kansas on the middle class where he at last
laid out a progressive philosophy of governance. Linking his
economic philosophy to  Theodore Roosevelt , a great Republican
president also once derided as a socialist, was smart politics.  But not smart enough. Unfortunately for Democrats, Obama is
much better at sweet-sounding paragraphs than words and
metaphors that linger in the mind. Shorn of such words, his
speeches tend to evaporate quickly or be covered inaccurately.  In this case, many accounts called Obama’s Kansas address
“populist,” which it was not. If he intended to evoke a populist
from 100 years ago, he would have mentioned William Jennings
Bryan -- not TR. And Roosevelt’s speech in Osawatomie,  Kansas ,
in 1910 included the slogan “ The New Nationalism ”; Obama’s in
the same place in 2011 contained no slogan or frame or memorable
line for an amnesiac public to hang on to.  Words are Weapons  It’s easy to say that sound bites and slogans won’t fix the
economy. But what is that sentence you just read? It’s a sound
bite we’re likely to hear soon from Gingrich and other
Republicans, who understand that in politics words are weapons.
Used with cunning, they can quickly transform how voters view
their candidates.  You might think Gingrich’s long history of hypocrisies
would do him in. But Americans are busy and often can’t keep
their own lives straight, much less hold politicians accountable
for their behavior of many years earlier. Why would swing voters
have longer memories of Gingrich’s years as a scoundrel than
Republicans do? Besides, shamelessness is a wonderful way to fog
memory -- especially if matched with biting language that
distracts voters from the real choices before them.  So it won’t be easy for Obama to smash Gingrich in the
mouth next fall for the long-ago sin of inventing modern smash-
mouth politics. In that insult game, where Obama is betting on
memory and Gingrich on amnesia, it would be no contest.  ( Jonathan Alter  is a Bloomberg View columnist and the
author of “The Promise: President Obama, Year One.” The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Jonathan Alter at  alterjonathan@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 