-- 
Wilmar Beats China’s Cofco to Buy Australia’s Proserpine Sugar After Vote

-- B y   Y u r i y   H u m b e r
-- 
2011-12-09T02:25:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/wilmar-beats-china-s-cofco-to-buy-australia-s-proserpine-sugar-after-vote.html
Wilmar International Ltd. (WIL) , the
world’s largest palm oil processor, obtained a majority of
creditor votes for its A$120 million ($122 million) purchase of
Proserpine Sugar Mill, beating an approach from Cofco Ltd.  The creditors of the Australian mill today approved the
deal, the terms of which include Wilmar taking on Proserpine’s
operating costs and “certain critical expenditure” since Oct.
31, the Singapore-based company said in a statement. The
approval means creditors of Proserpine, a cooperative that went
into voluntary administration, will be repaid before Christmas,
according to Wilmar.  The approval came even as  China ’s Cofco increased its
counter-bid for the mill to A$128 million last month. Wilmar is
expanding its sugar business after diversifying into the
sweetener last year to meet demand in Indonesia and  India  and
rely less on the Chinese cooking oil market, where it has a 50
percent share.  “We will hit the ground running next week and do our best
to ensure the mill is ready for the start of the 2012 season,”
Ian Glasson, chief executive officer of Wilmar’s sugar unit
Sucrogen Ltd., said in the statement. The Singapore-listed
company will work with growers to expand Proserpine, he said.  Wilmar fell 0.6 percent to S$5.07 in Singapore trading at
9:44 a.m. local time, compared with the 0.9 percent decline in
the benchmark Straits Times Index.  The purchase will boost Sucrogen’s milling capacity by 2
million metric tons to 17 million tons and increase its raw
sugar production by 10 percent to 2.2 million tons, according to
OCBC Investment Research Ltd. analyst  Carey Wong . It will also
strengthen Wilmar’s position in the Mackay central region, where
it already has raw sugar production and refining, Wong said.  Wilmar became the world’s eighth-largest sugar producer
last year after paying A$1.75 billion for Sucrogen, its biggest
acquisition.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yuriy Humber in Tokyo at 
 yhumber@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net . 