-- 
Women Push for Greater Gender Awareness in Climate Change Talks

-- B y   K i m   C h i p m a n
-- 
2011-12-09T14:13:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/women-push-for-greater-gender-awareness-in-un-s-climate-talks.html
Former Irish President Mary Robinson
says United Nations  climate change  talks need to start getting
politically incorrect about women.  The UN Framework Convention on Climate Change, the body
that’s led climate treaty negotiations for two decades, has seen
an influx of women leaders over the past three years, yet little
progress has been made when it comes to raising the gender issue
and giving women a bigger role throughout the scope of the
process, according to Robinson.  “There’s a reluctance of individual women to bring out the
gender dimension, partly because it’s so obvious,” Robinson
said in an interview in Durban, South Africa, where more than
190 countries are trying to reach new agreements to fight global
warming today. “They feel it’s expected of them and then become
inhibited and don’t do it.”  While the UNFCCC 10 years ago called for improvement in the
“gender balance” within the group, “it’s not happening,”
Robinson said.  The technology executive committee formed last year, for
example, has 18 men and two women. A board focused on funds for
adaptation to climate change, a critical issue for women
worldwide, has 12 men and four women.  Advocates for stronger focus on women’s issues within the
climate talks say their mission is twofold: to influence
negotiations with more of a woman’s perspective, and to
highlight the need for more focus on helping women grappling
with the droughts, food shortages and rising coastlines linked
to climate change.  ‘Uphill Struggle’  “We are still in an uphill struggle trying to explain why
this issue is so critical to the overall discussion we are
having on climate change,” Melanne Verveer, U.S. ambassador-at-
large for global women’s issues, said in an interview in Durban.
‘The majority of women are dealing with energy issues, fuel
issues, food security issues. They are severely impacted by all
of this. They are most vulnerable and the most burdened.’’  Negotiators trying to strike new deals in Durban are stuck
over issues including establishing a Green Climate Fund and
raising $100 billion a year by 2020 to help poor nations shift
to low-emissions energy sources and combat the effects of global
warming.  It’s crucial women have access to the funds, said Robinson,
whose foundation bearing her name has pushed for a “troika
plus” of women’s leaders within the climate talks.  ‘No Good’  “The $100 billion is no good unless it’s also accessible
and it’s not too complicated,” she said.  Women also are critical within the climate talks because of
their inherent inclination to seek agreement, according to Edna Molewa,  South Africa ’s lead negotiator.  “If any party is unhappy, it’s a recipe for disaster,”
she said in an interview in Durban. “Women pay attention to
those kinds of details. We are always massaging and bringing
negotiations back from the brink.”  Christiana Figueres, the UN diplomat leading the
discussions, agrees.  “I guess I’m biased because I’m a woman, but I feel that
women have a greater tendency to look for the common ground and
to really listen to each other just because that’s in our DNA,”
she said in an interview. “We are the ones who bear the
children and we’re very sensitive to the state of the future of
this world.”  Former South Korean Prime Minister Han Seung-soo, now
chairman of the Global Green Growth Institute in  Seoul , says
women can have a soothing effect on often tense negotiations.  “Not just in climate change, women play a much calmer role
in major policy issues domestically as well as
internationally,” he said in an interview in Durban. “They are
more sensitive to the issues as well, so their role in the
future should be expanded.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kim Chipman in Washington at 
 kchipman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  