-- 
Tyson, Poultry Group Say USDA Rule Will Boost Costs for Industry

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   C a m p b e l l
-- 
2011-12-09T01:12:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-09/tyson-poultry-group-say-usda-rule-will-boost-costs-for-industry.html
The National Chicken Council and
 Tyson Foods Inc. (TSN) , the largest U.S. processor, said a rule issued
today by the  U.S. Department of Agriculture  that regulates
processors would boost costs for the industry.  The so-called GIPSA  rule , issued after more than a year of
debate, implements provisions from the 2008 farm bill intended
to protect livestock producers and poultry growers, the USDA
 said . Among the changes, companies must provide “reasonable
notice” to growers on any suspension of the deliveries.  “We are disappointed that the final rule still includes
provisions estimated to cost the chicken industry as much as
$55.5 million annually,”  Mike Brown , the president of the
National Chicken Council, said in an e-mailed statement. “This
is especially burdensome on an industry that has struggled
financially in the face of this difficult economic climate and
record-high costs of production.”  Congress put restrictions on the USDA from implementing
some portions of the rule that had been proposed earlier this
year, the department said. The rule doesn’t include “highly
controversial” sections, including provisions on undue
preferences and unfair practices, according to the American Meat
Institute, a Washington-based trade group. The provision on
“undue or unreasonable preference” would have implemented
criteria on producers receiving different treatment from
companies, the USDA said.  “From the outset, we agreed with others that the GIPSA
rule originally proposed in 2010 was bad for farmers, processors
and consumers,” Gary Mickelson, a Tyson spokesman, said in an
e-mail. “The original proposal went far beyond the direction
Congress gave USDA in the 2008 Farm Bill. As a result, Congress
had to intervene to correct the course USDA had so zealously
taken.”  The issued rule has criteria on additional capital
investment and provisions on a “reasonable” period of time to
fix a breach of contract and arbitration. Today’s measure helps
provide “fairness and transparency in the marketplace,”
Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack said in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Campbell in  New York  at 
 ecampbell14@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net . 