-- LabCorp Sues U.S. Over $31.7 Million Contract
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g   a n d   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 2012-09-21T16:23:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-21/labcorp-sues-u-s-over-31-7-million-contract.html
Laboratory Corp. of America
Holdings  sued the U.S., saying a $31.7 million contract for
laboratory-testing services was improperly rejected by the
Department of Veteran Affairs.  The department “erroneously programmed” a computer system
to stop accepting bids an hour before a publicized deadline,
 LabCorp (LH)  said in the complaint filed yesterday with the U.S.
Court of Federal Claims in  Washington .  “Because the VA refused to accept bids by any other means,
such as e-mail, fax, or hand-delivery, LabCorp was divested of
all opportunity to submit its proposal prior to the close of the
solicitation,” according to court papers.  Jo Schuda , a spokeswoman for the VA, didn’t immediately
return a phone call and e-mail seeking comment on the complaint.  Bids were supposed to be submitted on May 31 by 2 p.m.
Central Standard Time, a deadline the company had confirmed with
a VA contract specialist, LabCorp said. LabCorp attempted to put
in its bid 57 minutes before the deadline and was rejected
because the VA’s system stopped accepting bids at 2 p.m. Eastern
Time, according to the complaint.  In June, LabCorp filed a pre-award protest with the
Government Accountability Office challenging the VA’s refusal to
accept its bid. The GAO denied the protest on Sept. 13,
prompting the complaint.  LabCorp, based in Burlington,  North Carolina , is asking a
judge to bar the VA from evaluating proposals or proceeding to
award a contract until it has accepted the company’s bid.  The case is Laboratory Corp. of America v. U.S., 12-622,
U.S. Court of Federal Claims (Washington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net ;
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  