-- Abramovich Demands Answers After Chelsea Blows Lead: Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-09-21T06:28:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-21/abramovich-demands-answers-after-chelsea-blows-lead-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of
soccer stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet
links.  Abramovich Inquest  Chelsea owner  Roman Abramovich  demanded answers from the
players and coaching staff after the Blues blew a two-goal lead
against Juventus in their opening Champions League match, the
 Daily Mail reported .  The Russian billionaire arrived unannounced at the team’s
training ground yesterday with director Eugene Tenenbaum and
another executive to discuss the performance, the Mail reported.  Wilshere Returns  Arsenal midfielder  Jack Wilshere  returned to full training
with the club after 14 months out with ankle, foot and knee
injuries, the  Daily Telegraph reported .  Manager  Arsene Wenger  is confident of including Wilshere,
who hasn’t played since August 2011, in his first-team plans
next month, the newspaper added.  Hodgson Warning  England manager  Roy Hodgson  said the Premier League’s new 1
billion-pound ($1.6 billion) annual television rights deal will
damage the national team by making it harder for English players
to get regular starts, the  Independent reported .  “You could say the league is already wealthy and now
that’s going to double,” Hodgson was cited as saying. “You are
going to get 70 million pounds, going up to 100 million if you
are successful. You won’t have many English players who are
going to get a chance.”  Monkey Chants  Tottenham manager Andre Villas-Boas urged UEFA to
investigate allegations that Lazio fans racially abused  Jermain Defoe  and  Aaron Lennon  with monkey chants during last night’s
Europa League scoreless draw in London, the  Telegraph reported .  “I didn’t hear anything, and it is for the authorities to
follow any kind of investigation,” the newspaper cited Villas-
Boas as saying. “UEFA are very active in this kind of
situation, and the overall objective is to kick racism out of
football.”  Agger Talks  Liverpool opened formal contract talks with defender  Daniel Agger , who was the subject of a 20 million-pound bid from
Manchester City last month, the  same newspaper reported .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  