-- Adecco Rebuilds U.S. After Taking Eye Off Most Lucrative Market
-- B y   P a t r i c k   W i n t e r s   a n d   L e i g h   B a l d w i n
-- 2012-09-21T10:25:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-21/adecco-rebuilds-u-s-after-taking-eye-off-most-lucrative-market.html
Adecco, the world’s biggest
supplier of temporary workers, is rebuilding its U.S. presence
after “missing the boat” in the lucrative computer-staffing
market, Chief Executive Officer Patrick De Maeseneire said.  Adecco has struggled to keep up with the American market
since doubling its global information-technology staffing sales
to $800 million by acquiring U.S.-based MPS Group Inc. for $1.2
billion in 2010.  The focus on integrating MPS meant Adecco had its “eye off
the market,” De Maeseneire said yesterday in an interview in
Paris. “It didn’t let us hire the additional resources we
needed in our IT business on time to cope with the market
growth. We missed the boat there.”  While the U.S. business is Adecco’s second biggest behind
 France  by sales, it yields more operating income, Chief
Financial Officer Dominik De Daniel told  Bloomberg News  at an
investor day in Paris. After a series of disappointing results,
Adecco’s top executives in May toured the U.S., where some of
the 70 branch managers were underperforming, and fired the
manager of the American IT staffing unit, he said.  “We had a top-line growth issue,” said De Maeseneire.
“We really dug into the details.”  Now that Adecco has a “good footprint in the U.S., we
really need to attack the small and medium-sized accounts,” De
Daniel said. “The share of profit from the U.S. will increase
in the mid term,” with growth driven by the automotive and
technology industries, he said.  Acquisition Freeze  Any U.S. expansion certainly won’t come through takeovers.
De Daniel used yesterday’s investor day to announce a two-year
freeze on purchases after Adecco spent $216 million on career-
transition adviser Drake Beam Morin Inc. last year and 90
million euros ($117 million) on  Japan ’s VSN Inc. in January. The
company won’t begin evaluating any potential acquisitions for at
least 18 months, De Daniel said.  Instead, Adecco is spending 400 million euros on a share
buyback announced in June. On Sept. 18, the company sold 100
million Swiss francs ($107 million) of additional bonds to fund
the purchase. Adecco has so far bought back 1.2 million shares,
and aims to complete the buyback next year, De Daniel said.  Adecco traded at 48.19 francs at 11:27 a.m. in Zurich,
giving the company a market value of 9.12 billion francs.  In France, which yielded 27 percent of sales in the second
quarter compared with 19 percent from the U.S., Adecco is
cutting 15 percent of branches and 530 full-time employees, said
Alain Dehaze, head of the company’s French unit, in a Sept. 19
presentation to investor.  Those cuts, and merging some Adecco branches with those of
its unit Adia SA, will bring 45 million euros in savings, he
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patrick Winters in Zurich at 
 pwinters3@bloomberg.net ;
Leigh Baldwin in Zurich at 
 lbaldwin3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mariajose Vera at 
 mvera1@bloomberg.net  