-- Adidas Cuts Reebok Revenue Forecast; Brand Damps Growth
-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 2012-09-21T12:01:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-21/adidas-cuts-reebok-revenue-forecast-brand-dampens-growth.html
Adidas AG (ADS) , the world’s second-
biggest sporting-goods maker, lowered its 2015 forecast for
sales at the  Reebok  brand, taking the shine off increased
revenue goals in all other parts of the business.  Reebok’s sales in 2015 will be about 2 billion euros ($2.6
billion), the Herzogenaurach, Germany-based company said today,
down from a forecast of 3 billion euros made in November 2010.
Adidas cited the loss of a contract to supply National Football
League apparel, revised reporting of ice hockey-related license
sales and a focus on profitability.  Reebok has weighed on  Adidas’s growth  since it was acquired
in 2006. Sales at the brand declined in each of the three years
after the acquisition, while the discovery of “commercial
irregularities” at Reebok in  India  caused the sporting-goods
maker to cut its guidance for wholesale revenue this year.  Nike
Inc. (NKE)  replaced Reebok as the NFL’s apparel supplier this year.  “It seems that they are reducing the overall ambition of
the brand,” Sebastian Frericks, an analyst at Bankhaus Metzler
in  Frankfurt , said of Reebok. While a cut in the forecast had
been expected, it was bigger than anticipated, he said.  ‘No Doubt’  Adidas  fell  as much as 3 percent in Frankfurt trading and
was down 1 percent at 64.91 euros as of 2 p.m.  Adidas Chief Executive Officer  Herbert Hainer  said last
month he has “no doubt” Reebok will grow again in 2013 and he
doesn’t have any plans to sell the brand. Hainer plans to reduce
the brand’s store base and will introduce new products in the
second half of the year and next year, he said.  “Hainer is really committed to the brand so I don’t see
him giving up on his strategy and selling,” Frericks said. “It
would also be difficult to sell. The big competitors would
probably not be interested and a financial investor wouldn’t be
interested either given the current profitability.”  Adidas named Chief Marketing Officer Matt O’Toole global
head of Reebok last week as it seeks to restore growth at the
U.S. fitness brand as soon as next year. O’Toole will report to
Erich Stamminger, the Adidas board member responsible for global
brands.  Brand Reorganization  The retailer changed the structure of Reebok’s brand
organization to focus on “building measurable and sustainable
categories, rather than the approach of the last few years on
product pillars,” Hainer said in a speech to investors in
Carlsbad,  California  yesterday.  Revenue from the Adidas brand will be 12.8 billion euros by
2015, the company also said today, up 5 percent from a November
2010 projection of 12.2 billion euros.  The company’s other businesses, including TaylorMade-Adidas
Golf, will reach their 2015 goals this year, Adidas also said.
Sales at the units, which also include Rockport and Reebok-CCM
Hockey, will be 2.2 billion euros by 2015, up from its original
2010 forecast of 1.8 billion euros, Adidas said, keeping its
goal for total 2015 revenue of 17 billion euros.  The company said it expects to add about 1 percentage point
a year to operating  margin,  which it forecasts will approach 8
percent this year and increase to about 11 percent by 2015.  The sales target “doesn’t look too aggressive anymore, but
the margin target is still pretty aggressive, which is what
matters,” said  Joerg Frey , an analyst at M.M. Warburg in
Hamburg.  Growth in sales of the Adidas brand will be led by record
soccer revenue, growth in basketball and an “unprecedented”
pipeline of running products, the company said.  Adidas sport-style sales are expected to increase to 3.9
billion euros by 2015, compared with a previous forecast of 3.7
billion euros, led by growth at the NEO brand, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Cruz in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  