-- Akin ‘Rape’ Comment Shows His Real Views, McCaskill Says
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r
-- 2012-09-21T17:30:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-21/akin-rape-comment-shows-his-real-views-mccaskill-says.html
Republican Representative Todd Akin’s assertion that “legitimate rape” rarely leads to
pregnancy “opened the window to his views for Missourians,”
Democratic Senator  Claire McCaskill  said today.  Speaking at a debate with Akin in Columbia, Missouri,
McCaskill said his Aug. 19 remarks “say a lot about how he
views things,” noting that she supports providing access to
emergency contraception for rape victims and Akin doesn’t.  “That’s where Missourians should pay attention,”
McCaskill said.  Akin downplayed the significance of his remarks, saying the
election is “not about words.” He has apologized for the
comments he made in a television interview and vowed to stay in
the race to unseat McCaskill, who is finishing her first term in
the Senate.  “It’s about two different voting records that are the
exact opposite,” he said. “I don’t believe that this election
overall is about talk. It’s really about two visions of what
America is.”  Akin’s comments have reshaped the Missouri Senate race.
Republicans had been counting on McCaskill’s seat as one of four
they must pick up to win control of the Senate in the Nov. 6
election.  The remark prompted calls from party leaders, including
presidential nominee  Mitt Romney , for Akin to leave the race.
Romney called the comments about rape “outrageous.”  Staying In  Akin has said that he will continue his campaign, though
the  National Republican Senatorial Committee  and Crossroads GPS,
a nonprofit group that former George W. Bush political adviser
 Karl Rove  helped to create, have said they won’t spend money on
the contest as long as Akin is the nominee.  “We’re done,” Senator  John Cornyn  of  Texas , the
committee’s chairman, said yesterday. “Candidates matter, and
the campaign they run matters. So it’s not purely a matter of
money.”  Speaking at an Aug. 30 donor breakfast at the  Republican
National Convention  in Tampa, Florida, Rove joked that Akin
might be “found mysteriously murdered.” Rove later called Akin
and apologized.  Following Akin’s comments, McCaskill has led in a pair of
statewide polls. Earlier in the year she consistently trailed
Akin.  A St. Louis Post-Dispatch/Mason-Dixon poll conducted Aug.
22-23 showed McCaskill with a nine-percentage-point lead. A
Public Policy Polling survey conducted Aug. 28-29 showed the
race essentially tied, with Akin trailing McCaskill by one
percentage point.  Under  Missouri  law, candidates have until Sept. 25 to leave
a race with a judge’s permission. Akin had until Aug. 21 to
withdraw from the race without needing a court order.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  