-- American Flight Delays Add Risk of Travelers Booking Elsewhere
-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 2012-09-21T20:12:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-21/american-flight-delays-add-risk-of-travelers-booking-elsewhere.html
American Airlines (AAMRQ)  flight delays
stretched into a seventh day as pilots continued reporting
higher numbers of mechanical issues, raising the prospect that
passengers will begin switching to other carriers.  Pilots are taking a “conservative mindset” in asking that
any potential mechanical questions be resolved before flying,
Tom Hoban, a spokesman for the  Allied Pilots Association , said
today in an interview. American has cited those requests as a
reason for turmoil in its schedule since Sept. 14.  American’s 48 percent on-time arrival rate since Sept. 16
trails the 87 percent at  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  and 83 percent at
 United Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL) , according to FlightStats.com,
an industry data provider. The slowdown follows American’s
voiding of its pilots’ contract last week and imposition of new
terms to help the AMR Corp. unit restructure in bankruptcy.  “If it goes on for a day or two, people work around it,”
George Hamlin, president of Hamlin Transportation Consulting in
Fairfax, Virginia, said in an interview. “If it persists or get
worse, then the booking away will begin in earnest and, once
gone, it’s difficult to get back.”  American apologized to top-tier members of its frequent-
flier program in an e-mail today, after posting a similar
message on its website earlier this week.  Michael Trevino , a
spokesman, declined to comment on whether passengers would move
to other airlines from Fort Worth, Texas-based American.  The airline canceled 550 flights from Sept. 14 through
Sept. 23 and cut capacity through October by as much as 2
percent in response. American also has added maintenance,
reservation and airport workers to provide more reliable
service, Trevino said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  