-- American Realty Capital Trust Sued for Realty Income Deal
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2012-09-21T20:47:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-21/american-realty-capital-trust-sued-for-realty-income-deal.html
American Realty Capital Trust Inc.
was sued in  New York  state court by shareholders over the
company’s $1.9 billion acquisition by  Realty Income Corp. (O) 
announced this month.  The Carol L. Possehl Living Trust, a shareholder of New
York-based American Realty Capital Trust, filed the lawsuit
yesterday in New York State Supreme Court in  Manhattan , seeking
class-action status, according to documents.  The proposed acquisition price of $12.21 a share, about
2 percent more than American Realty Capital Trust’s closing
share  price  the day before the transaction was announced, is
unfair and deprives shareholders of a 6 percent dividend yield
on the stock, the trust said in its complaint.  “While ARCT shareholders are losing their equity interests
in ARCT for an unfair price, Realty Income is receiving
substantial benefits from the proposed acquisition at a bargain-
basement price,” the trust said in its complaint.  American Realty Capital Trust is aware of lawsuits that
have been filed in  Maryland  and New York concerning the proposed
merger and will respond to the suits “in due course,” the
company said in a statement.  “ARCT’s management continues to believe that the proposed
merger is in the shareholders’ best interests,” the company
said.  Company Spokeswoman  Tere H. Miller, a spokeswoman for Realty Income, didn’t
immediately reply to a voice-mail message seeking comment on the
lawsuit.  The proposed deal will add 501 properties to Realty
Income’s portfolio, bringing its holdings to more than
3,250 buildings, John Case, the Escondido, California-based
company’s chief investment officer, said in a statement
announcing the deal.  The transaction would increase rental revenue from tenants
with higher credit ratings, such as FedEx Corp. and Walgreen
Co., and allow Realty Income to diversify by reducing revenue
from retail real estate to 77 percent from 86 percent.  The case is the Carol L. Possehl Living Trust v.  American
Realty Capital Trust Inc. (ARCT) , 653300/2012, New York State Supreme
Court, New York County (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York
at   cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 