-- American Pilots Seek to Suspend Contract Rejection
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2012-09-22T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-21/american-pilots-seek-to-suspend-contract-rejection.html
Pilots for  AMR Corp. (AAMRQ) ’s  American
Airlines  asked a U.S. bankruptcy judge to suspend his order
allowing the carrier to throw out their labor contract and
impose cost cuts while their appeal is considered.  The decision by U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Sean Lane in
Manhattan allowing AMR to reject the contract will cause
“irreparable harm” to pilots, the Allied Pilots Association
said in a court filing yesterday.  American won Lane’s approval on Sept. 4 to impose work rule
and other changes as it restructures after pilots rejected a
final contract offer. The union has appealed the decision to
U.S. District Court in Manhattan and is asking Lane to stay his
order while the appeal is considered.  American “will implement an array of dramatic changes to
pilots’ terms and conditions of employment that may evade
effective redress, even if APA prevails on its appeals,” the
union said in court papers.  American is clashing with pilots over the contract as it
seeks to cut labor costs following its November bankruptcy
filing. It was able to reach consensual deals on concessions
with flights attendants and work groups represented by the
Transport Workers Union, including mechanics.  Bruce Hicks , a spokesman for Fort Worth, Texas-based
American, said granting the union’s request would delay savings
the airline needs.  ‘Cost Savings’  “We don’t believe a stay is necessary or appropriate,” he
said in an e-mailed statement. “If granted, it would undermine
the implementation of the cost savings the judge has already
determined is necessary for this company to successfully
restructure.”  The pilots rejected a final cost-cutting contract offer in
in August and won a temporary victory when Lane denied
American’s request to impose contract terms. After the airline
revised the proposal, Lane approved the rejection.  The bankruptcy case is In re AMR Corp., 11-15463,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York (Manhattan). The
appeal is  Allied Pilots Association  v. AMR Corp., 12-04376, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David McLaughlin  in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  