-- Lan Kwai Fong to Build Retail Project in China’s Wuxi City
-- B y   K e l v i n   W o n g
-- 2012-09-21T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-21/lan-kwai-fong-to-build-retail-project-in-china-s-wuxi-city.html
Lan Kwai Fong Holdings Ltd. , the
developer of Hong Kong’s iconic stretch of bars and restaurants,
will expand into Wuxi,  China , as the nation’s growing middle
class demands more entertainment choices.  The developer signed a memorandum of understanding with the
city government yesterday to jointly build a 140,000 square
meter (1.5 million square feet) retail and restaurant complex,
Chairman  Allan Zeman  said in a phone interview. The project will
be the Hong Kong-based company’s third in mainland China.  Lan Kwai Fong is seeking to expand in so-called second-tier
cities in the country, where per-capita disposable  income  for
urban households almost doubled in the last six years. The
company, which has properties in Chengdu and Hainan Island, is
also in talks to develop projects in cities including Qingdao,
Ningbo and Chongqing, Zeman said.  “Those in the second-tier cities have money and cars, but
they also want to enjoy their lifestyle,” said Zeman, 64.  “If
you look at cities like Qingdao, when we go for dinner with the
government officials, they ask if we actually want to go out;
but there’s no place to go.”  Zeman declined to say how much the company will invest in
the Wuxi project. The project will have 40,000 square meters of
bars and restaurants, 60,000 square meters of shops and 40,000
square meters of hotels and serviced apartments, he said.  Hamburger Joint  Hong Kong ’s Lan Kwai Fong, in the center of the former
British colony’s central business district, has more than 100
restaurants and bars, not all controlled by the company. Zeman
said in December the company plans to raise as much as $800
million to fund its China expansion and may consider a public
offering.  The original  Lan Kwai Fong  in Hong Kong started in the
1980s with a restaurant that served hamburgers, according to the
company’s website. The stretch is now an after-work hangout for
white-collar workers.  A two-year redevelopment plan, which includes adding a 28-
story building with terraces on every floor for smokers, who are
banned from lighting up indoors, is scheduled to be completed by
2013, Zeman said in a January interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kelvin Wong in Hong Kong at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  