-- AngloGold Strike Starts as S. Africa Mine Unrest Spreads
-- B y   C a r l i   C o o k e
-- 2012-09-21T11:16:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-21/anglogold-strike-starts-as-s-africa-mine-unrest-spreads.html
South African labor unrest in the
platinum industry spread to  AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. (ANG) , the world’s 
third-largest gold producer, halting a second gold mine after
 Gold Fields Ltd. (GFI) ’s KDC West was stopped 13 days ago.  The strike at Kopanang started late yesterday and no
demands have been made by workers,  Alan Fine , a spokesman for 
Johannesburg-based AngloGold, said by phone.  Miners mainly on the country’s platinum belt northwest of
Johannesburg have bypassed conventional wage-talk routes through 
labor unions, starting illegal pay strikes and protests that 
have left at least 46 dead since Aug. 10.  Lonmin Plc (LMI)  workers, 
who halted the Marikana mine for six weeks, secured pay rises 
of more than four times the August inflation rate of 5 percent.  Anglo American Plc (AAL) ’s platinum unit, the world’s largest
producer of the metal, had set an ultimatum for workers to
return by late Sept. 20. Miners stayed away after the company
said a voluntary suspension of its Rustenburg operations ended
Sept. 18. Spokeswoman Mpumi Sithole said today a statement will
be issued later.  “Lonmin’s headline pay settlement is the new benchmark for
mineworkers, and unions are hard-pressed to control the
negotiations in this more militant and potentially violent
stoppage,” Fairfax I.S. Plc said in a note today. “The stakes 
are very high as failure to reach an agreed deal could result 
in strike-related intimidation, violence and fatalities.”  Wage Review  Impala Platinum Holdings Ltd. (IMP) , the second-largest producer
of the metal, said it’s undertaking a “full review” of wages
as workers made fresh pay demands after the company boosted
wages in April as part of a deal that ended a six-week strike at
its Rustenburg operation, the world’s largest platinum mine, in
January and February.  At AngloGold, the strike is currently confined to a single 
mine, the company said in a statement. AngloGold produces about 
32 percent of its gold in  South Africa , where mining accounts 
for about 8.8 percent of gross domestic product.  Work stoppages this year have cost the continent’s largest
economy 4.5 billion rand ($543 million) in lost output, South
African President  Jacob Zuma  said in Johannesburg on Sept. 16.
The nation produces 75 percent of the world’s platinum.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carli Cooke in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  