-- Appaloosa Said to Hold USAirways, AMR Stakes Amid Talks
-- B y   B e t h   J i n k s ,   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n   a n d   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2012-09-21T20:30:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-21/appaloosa-said-to-hold-usairways-amr-stakes-amid-talks.html
Appaloosa Management LP has
positioned itself to benefit from a possible merger between
bankrupt AMR Corp. and  US Airways  Group Inc. after taking stakes
in both airlines, three people familiar with the matter said.  While the hedge fund run by  David Tepper  isn’t lobbying for
a tie-up, it favors consolidation and may opt later to push for
a deal, said one of the people, who asked not to be identified
because the matter is private. Appaloosa is US Airways’ top
shareholder and has amassed AMR debt that could be converted to
equity in a Chapter 11 restructuring, court records show.  Owning US Airways stock and AMR debt gives the $15 billion
investment firm an opening to sway both sides of a potential
combination that would form the world’s largest airline. AMR
dismissed the idea of a merger for months before agreeing in May
to weigh options besides its stand-alone bankruptcy-exit plan.  With a strategy like Appaloosa’s “you either insure you
win or that you don’t lose by being on both sides of a deal,”
Fred Lowrance, an Avondale Partners LLC analyst in Nashville,
 Tennessee , said today in an interview. “No matter the outcome
it’s going to be positive for one of them.”  The stakes are part of Appaloosa’s bet on an industry
rebound as  consumer spending  recovers and fuel costs drop, one
of the people said. Its holdings as of June 30 included stock in
 United Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL)  and  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL) , the
only U.S. carriers bigger than AMR’s  American Airlines .  Backing Consolidation  Appaloosa has supported airline mergers because past
combinations have boosted shares, the person said. The firm has
shared that view in discussions with executives at Tempe,
Arizona-based US Airways and with others, the person said.  US Airways Chief Executive Officer Doug Parker began
pressing for a merger in January, while  Fort Worth , Texas-based
AMR has resisted. AMR holds the exclusive right to offer a
reorganization plan through year-end, so US Airways hasn’t made
a formal bid.  US Airways declined to comment on Appaloosa, said Ed Stewart, a spokesman. Mike Trevino, an AMR spokesman, said the
airline doesn’t discuss “the actions of investors.” Two calls
to Appaloosa for comment this week weren’t returned.  Merger speculation has helped  Short Hills , New Jersey-based
Appaloosa and other investors in US Airways stock and AMR debt.
US Airways, the fifth-biggest U.S. airline, has more than
doubled this year. The shares slipped 0.1 percent to $10.67 at
the close in  New York  as most U.S. carriers declined.  Bonds Gain  AMR’s $460 million of 6.25 percent convertible notes due
October 2014 traded at 67.75 cents on the dollar at 2:14 p.m.
New York time, compared with 17.75 cents after the airline’s
Nov. 29 bankruptcy filing, according to Trace, the bond-price
reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  Appaloosa has “identified this as probably the last major
round of airline consolidation,” said Avondale’s Lowrance, who
has a market outperform rating on US Airways. “They know
airlines well, and want to be a part of it.”  The firm has looked to a bankrupt company for returns
before. Appaloosa agreed to buy the former  Delphi Corp. (DLPH)  out of
court protection before backing out of a $2.55 billion agreement
in 2008, saying the auto-parts supplier failed to meet terms of
their accord. Delphi later sued Appaloosa and the parties
reached an undisclosed settlement.  Largest Shareholder  Appaloosa added 2.27 million US Airways shares as of June
30, filings show, raising its ownership to 12.9 million shares,
or about 8 percent. Appaloosa also bought claims at AMR from
Citigroup Inc. tied to aircraft leases, bankruptcy documents
show. The hedge fund holds additional AMR debt the firm isn’t
required to disclose and is one of the larger debt holders, the
people familiar with the matter said.  Besides AMR and US Airways, Appaloosa also owned at least
2.9 percent of United, 1.1 percent of Delta and 0.3 percent of
 JetBlue Airways Corp. (JBLU) , according to regulatory filings as of
June 30.  Other US Airways shareholders also have bought  AMR (AAMRQ)  debt.  Marathon Asset Management LP, US Airways’ fifth-largest
equity investor, owns special facilities revenue bonds issued to
finance AMR’s acquisition, construction and improvement of
airport facilities, court papers show.  Shares, Debt  Cyrus Capital Partners LP, another US Airways shareholder,
owns AMR debt as well. Cyrus is among a group of 12 creditors
that is negotiating with AMR about potential financing for its
bankruptcy restructuring. Cyrus’s holdings include $37.9 million
of the 6.25 percent notes and $71.6 million of 7.5 percent notes
due in March 2016, court papers show.  AMR debt holders began organizing at least as far back as
May into groups outside its unsecured creditors committee to
determine whether the bankrupt carrier or US Airways would offer
the best return. Joining such ad hoc groups gives the unsecured
debt holders more leverage since they aren’t part of the panel
created by the  bankruptcy court  to represent all AMR creditors.  Last month, an AMR creditor group including JPMorgan Chase
& Co., Claren Road Asset Management LLC, Pentwater Capital
Management LP and King Street Capital Management LP said it was
interested in providing financing for the company’s
restructuring.  Some individual bondholders have met with US Airways to
review their plan for a merged carrier, and one ad hoc group in
June agreed with AMR CEO  Tom Horton ’s request that they study
his stand-alone plan before reviewing US Airways’ merger
proposal, people familiar with the matter said at that time.  While Horton initially said he wanted the airline to leave
bankruptcy independently and then consider mergers, he later
agreed to consider potential tie-ups while under court
protection. AMR in July sent agreements for an exchange of
confidential financial and operational data to US Airways and
other potential partners it didn’t name publicly.  Parker has said US Airways is the only partner that can
solve AMR’s network weaknesses, including boosting market share
along the U.S. East Coast and Midwest and adding hub airports
that would connect passengers to more cities across the country.  The case is In re AMR Corp., 11-15463,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Beth Jinks in New York at 
 bjinks1@bloomberg.net ;
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net ;
 David McLaughlin  in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  