-- Apple Copied 68-Year-Old Swiss Clock Design, Railway Says
-- B y   T h o m a s   M u l i e r   a n d   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2012-09-21T16:31:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-21/apple-copied-68-year-old-swiss-clock-design-rail-operator-says.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s new iOS 6 operating
system infringes a trademarked design for clocks in Swiss rail
stations, according to state-owned railway operator  SBB .  The updated software, introduced this month by Apple,
includes a clock icon with black and red hands that uses an  SBB 
design created in 1944, Reto Kormann, a spokesman for the Swiss
rail operator, said by telephone today.  SBB, which has allowed companies such as watchmaker
 Mondaine Watch Ltd.  to use the design under a license, said that
it’s in discussions with Cupertino, California-based Apple about
a license or a settlement that would allow the phonemaker to use
the image, and expects to resolve the issue in the next few
days, Kormann said.  “The money isn’t in the front of our interests because we
are proud that Apple took an SBB design,” Kormann said. “If we
have a cooperation agreement between two good brands, that’s a
win-win.”  The disputed design appears only on the iPad and isn’t on
the iPhone, said Adam Howorth, a spokesman for Apple in London.
He had no further comment immediately.  Samsung Conflict  Separately, Apple has been embroiled in patent battles with
smartphone maker  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  in courts across four
continents after Apple accused the South Korean company of
copying its devices last year. Apple lost a ruling against
Samsung in  Germany  regarding claims that Galaxy devices
infringed on Apple’s touch-screen technology, according to a
court spokesman today.  A federal jury in  San Jose ,  California , on Aug. 24 found
Samsung copied the iPhone and iPad and awarded Apple more than
$1 billion in damages. A week later in Japan, Apple lost a suit
as a Tokyo judge ruled that Samsung smartphones and a tablet
didn’t infringe on an Apple invention for synchronizing music
and video data with servers.  The iPhone 5, which also uses the iOS 6 operating system,
went on sale today and may sell more than 10 million devices in
its opening weekend, Piper Jaffray Cos. analyst  Gene Munster  has
predicted.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Thomas Mulier in Geneva  at 
 tmulier@bloomberg.net ;
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  