-- Hardee’s Owner’s CEO Says 2012 IPO Unlikely as Costs Rise
-- B y   L e s l i e   P a t t o n
-- 2012-09-21T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-21/hardee-s-owner-ceo-says-2012-ipo-unlikely-as-costs-rise.html
CKE Inc. (CK) , owner of the Hardee’s and
Carl’s Jr. fast-food chains, plans to delay an initial public
offering until after the presidential election as rising health-
care and commodity costs deter investors.  An IPO is “unlikely in 2012,” Chief Executive Officer
 Andrew Puzder  said yesterday in a telephone interview. During
the company’s August roadshow with investors, “there was
concern about our costs going up and our inability to increase
prices,” he said.  “People were saying, ‘How are you going to deal with the
increased costs of Obamacare at the same time you’re dealing
with the increased cost of commodities and the economy kind of
in the ditch?’” Puzder said. The company has answers, including
selling less-expensive meats, such as turkey, and hiring more
part-time workers to cut health-care expenses, he said.  CKE, based in Carpinteria,  California , said in a U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission filing in August that it was
delaying its public offering due to market conditions. The
company had earlier this year filed for an IPO to sell about
13.3 million shares priced at $14 to $16 each on the  New York 
Stock Exchange under the symbol CK.  Other restaurant operators recently have cited uncertainty
around costs associated with President  Barack Obama ’s health-
care overhaul.  McDonald’s Corp. (MCD)  in July said additional health-
care costs may be $10,000 to $30,000 for each of its 14,000 U.S.
stores. Jamie Richardson, vice president of White Castle System
Inc., said in July that it will be hard to predict health-care
expenses.  Costs Double  With Obama’s Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act,
health-care costs for CKE would likely more than double to about
$30 million a year, Puzder said. The hamburger seller probably
would decrease  capital spending  and raise menu prices because of
the higher expenses, he said.  CKE’s revenue rose 3 percent to $308.6 million in the three
months ended Aug. 13, while net income was $1.77 million,
compared with a net loss of $2.23 million a year earlier, the
company said in a statement Sept. 18. It has recently attempted
to draw customers with a $6 Memphis BBQ burger topped with fried
onions.  Apollo Global Management LLC (APO) , based in New York, took CKE
private in 2010 for about $1.01 billion. There are about 3,279
Hardee’s and Carl’s Jr. locations, of which 73 percent are
franchised.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leslie Patton in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  