-- Argentina Biofuel Price Won’t Restore Producers’ Profits
-- B y   S t e p h a n   N i e l s e n
-- 2012-09-21T19:37:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-21/argentina-biofuel-price-won-t-restore-producers-profits.html
Argentina ’s expected price increase
next week for biodiesel won’t be enough to appease producers
that shut their plants after the country cut prices 15 percent
last month, according to grains brokerage J.J. Hinrichsen SA.  The new rate distributors pay for biodiesel will probably
be about 4,660 Argentine pesos ($994) a ton, making it hard for
small producers to operate profitably after prices rose for
soybean oil that’s used as a feedstock, Thomas Hinrichsen, who
runs J.J. Hinrichsen in Buenos Aires, said today in a telephone
interview.  The government reduced prices in August to guarantee a
cheap supply of local biodiesel for  YPF SA (YPF) , the  oil company  it
nationalized from  Spain ’s  Repsol SA (REP)  in April that buys about
two-thirds of the country’s domestically consumed output, Matias
Stengel, Argentina regional manager at ED&F Man Holdings Ltd.,
said today in a telephone interview.  “YPF is a now a state-controlled company,” Stengel said.
Before the YPF takeover, “the bill for biodiesel was paid by”
 oil companies  such as Repsol, Exxon Mobile Corp. and Royal Dutch
Shell Plc. “Now it will be paid by the government.”  Lowering the price cuts expenses for YPF while driving down
profits for producers. At 4,660 pesos a ton, “smaller plants
would find it difficult to survive,” Stengel said. The
government is not seeking to undermine the entire industry and
will probably announce a higher price that’s adequate to support
producers, he said.  Biodiesel currently sells for 4,405 pesos a ton, down from
5,196 pesos in July.  Export Duties  President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner  announced Sept. 19
a new formula for calculating biodiesel prices, and cut to 19.1
percent the export tariff that’s partly aimed at ensuring
adequate local supplies. Argentina imposed a 24 percent export
duty on the fuel in August. The rate will now be revised every
15 days.  Argentina is the world’s largest exporter of soybean
biodiesel and mixes 7 percent of the fuel with regular diesel.  “The August price killed the domestic market,” Stengel
said. “They want to create a new, flexible way of maintaining a
cheap price that’s good enough for the industry to survive.”  The price cut was especially hard on small producers that
don’t make their own  soybean oil , Ariel Scaparro, president of
the biodiesel company Biocombustibles & Energias Alternativas
ALS SA, said in a telephone interview.  ‘Impossible’ Price  There are 17 small and mid-sized biodiesel producers in
Argentina, which “need a price over 5,200 pesos to cover their
costs,” Scaparro said. The August rate cut “has made it
impossible to continue for most companies.”  Biocombustibles & Energias, based in Buenos Aires, may stop
construction on its first two refineries and may scrap plans to
build two more because they won’t be profitable at the current
price, he said.  “There’s been a U-turn of policy regarding the
government’s treatment of biodiesel,” Scaparro said. “The
industry is on the verge of closing.”  YPF, based in  Buenos Aires , didn’t reply to phone messages
and e-mail today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephan Nielsen in  Sao Paulo  at 
 snielsen8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  