-- Argentine Growth Halts as Fernandez Tightens Controls
-- B y   E l i a n a   R a s z e w s k i
-- 2012-09-21T20:10:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-21/argentine-growth-slumps-as-fernandez-tightens-controls.html
Argentine President Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner’s efforts to stem capital outflows and
extend her control over South America’s second-largest economy
has brought growth to a standstill.  Gross domestic product  was unchanged in the second quarter
from a year earlier and shrank 0.8 percent from the first
quarter, the national statistics agency reported today.
Economists had forecast year-on-year growth of 0.5 percent,
according to the median estimate of 10 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg. This was the first time GDP hasn’t grown annually
since a 0.3 percent contraction in the third quarter of 2009.  “The government’s policies have halted growth because they
led to lack of confidence and of investments,” said  Walter Molano , head of sovereign research for  emerging markets  at BCP
Securities in Greenwich,  Connecticut , an investment bank that
focuses on developing nations. “Argentina could have easily
continued growing 7 percent or 8 percent for years.”  Since her re-election in October, Fernandez, 59, has banned
most purchases of foreign currency, restricted  imports  and
nationalized  YPF SA (YPF) , the country’s biggest oil producer. While
those policies have eroded business confidence and investment, a
drought in the U.S. that has pushed up soybean prices may
provide some relief for the world’s third-largest producer of
the oilseed.  Budget Forecasts  Argentina, which has expanded an average 7.8 percent a year
since 2003, will grow 2.5 percent in 2012 and as much as 5
percent next year, Molano said. Fernandez’s government forecasts
growth will accelerate to 4.4 percent in 2013 from 3.4 percent
in 2012, according to the 2013 budget.  The Argentine government has defended its record and says
growth will rebound.  “The engines of economic growth next year will be a boost
in domestic consumption and in investment,” Economy Minister
Hernan Lorenzino told lawmakers when he presented the 2013
budget yesterday. “Argentina’s economy continues growing in an
international economic context in which some important regions
in the world are in recession.”  Emerging-market stocks rose, paring the first weekly
decline this month, as gains in commodities lifted producers and
investors speculated losses were excessive given central bank
stimulus measures.  Emerging Markets  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index rose 0.8 percent to
1,006.40 at 4:03 p.m. in  New York , trimming this week’s loss to
0.8 percent. India’s benchmark gauge jumped to a one-year high
and the rupee rallied the most among major currencies on tax
cuts that added to policy reforms last week.  In the U.K., the government posted its biggest August
budget deficit on record, heaping pressure on Chancellor of the
exchequer  George Osborne  as the recession hits  tax revenue  and
pushes up spending on welfare.  Argentina’s Fernandez tightened import restrictions in
February to boost the country’s narrowing  trade surplus  and
bolster  central bank reserves . With Argentina locked out of
global credit markets since its $95 billion default in 2001,
Fernandez has tapped the bank’s holdings since 2010 to help pay
the nation’s foreign debt. She plans to use $8 billion of
reserves for the same purpose next year.  The import restrictions led to shortages of foreign-made
parts, forcing manufacturers such as  Fiat Spa (F) ’s local unit to
trim production. Fernandez also tightened controls on dollar
purchases in a bid to slow capital outflows, which accelerated
to $21.5 billion in 2011 from $11.4 billion the previous year.  Kirchner Remembered  In April, Fernandez, who succeeded her late husband  Nestor Kirchner  in December 2007, seized control of YPF from Spain’s
Repsol SA, blaming lack of investment by her country’s biggest
oil company for a doubling of fuel imports in 2011. During her
first term, she expropriated $24 billion of private pension
savings and nationalized Aerolineas Argentinas SA, the nation’s
flagship airline.  Since Kirchner’s death in October 2010, Fernandez has
always worn black at public appearances and often cries when she
refers to him in her speeches. Governors and lawmakers who
support her have named avenues, public squares and a soccer
championship after Kirchner.  The slowing economy has prompted Argentines to curb
purchases, according to Juan Dumas, head of the country’s shoe
manufacturers association.  “We are facing the slowest growth of the past four years
as consumers have become more cautious about spending,” Dumas
said in a telephone interview from  Buenos Aires . “The country’s
economy is facing a freeze that we haven’t seen in previous
years.”  Shoe Sales  Sales by the shoe industry will grow 10 percent this year
after expanding 14 percent in 2011, Dumas said.  A drought that reduced corn and soybean harvests, two of
the country’s biggest exports, and a slowdown in demand from
 Brazil , its main trade partner, also undermined the expansion.  Soybean output fell 18 percent to 40 million tons while
corn production dropped 14 percent to 19.8 million tons after a
drought during the growing season was followed by rainstorms at
harvesting time, according to the Buenos Aires Cereals Exchange.  Encouraged by this year’s surge in soybean prices and
abundant pre-planting rains, Argentine farmers may reap a record
harvest next year. The  U.S. Department of Agriculture  said on
Sept. 13 that soybean production will rise to 55 million tons
from the crop to be gathered from March, while corn output will
increase to 28 million tons.  Farm Exports  Argentina is the world’s biggest exporter of  soybean oil ,
the second of corn and the third of soybeans. Agriculture
generates more than half the country’s export revenue.  Forecasts that a boom in farm production coupled with
soaring commodity prices will lift government revenue and spur
2013 growth helped Argentina’s government dollar debt return 35
percent since June 1, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co’s EMBI
Global Index. In the first five months of this year, bonds fell
15 percent as investors shied away from the country’s inflation
and Fernandez’s tightening grip of the economy.  The extra yield that investors demand to hold Argentine
dollar bonds instead of  U.S. Treasuries  fell 22 basis points to
844, or 8.44 percentage points, the highest in  South America 
after  Venezuela , at 4:08 p.m. in New York, according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co.’s EMBIG index. The spread has widened from as low as
784 on March 19, a month before the announcement on YPF seizure.  Weakest Currency  The peso, whose rate is managed by the central bank, has
weakened 8.2 percent this year, the most of any currency in the
region. In the unregulated market, in which investors buy assets
locally in pesos and sell them abroad for dollars, the peso has
dropped 26 percent.  Sputtering growth has led to a drop in  consumer confidence ,
which fell in six of the first eight months of this year,
including a 1.9 percent decline in August from July, according
to a poll released on Aug. 23 by Buenos Aires-based Torcuato Di
Tella University. Confidence in the government fell in August
for a third consecutive month, according to the poll.  Fernandez’s policies to encourage domestic consumption by
boosting wages and increasing public spending is fueling the
fastest inflation in the region, said Claudio Loser, a former
Western Hemisphere director for the  International Monetary Fund 
who now runs Washington-based Centennial Group research company.  Wage Rises  Wages rose an average 25 percent in the 12 months to July
31, official data show. Fernandez also boosted handouts to poor
families and retirees’ pensions.  Government spending  rose 33
percent in the first seven months of this year while revenue
rose 30 percent, according to the  Economy Ministry .  “The government believes the central bank has to help
growth by injecting liquidity to the market, so there’s no
independent entity to control inflation,” Loser said in a
telephone interview from Buenos Aires. “Argentina has suffered
a significant loss in competitiveness due to inflation and a
slowdown in economic activity.”  Argentina’s inflation data has been under question since
early 2007, when Kirchner replaced senior staff at the national
statistics agency. Last year the government fined more than a
dozen researchers as much as 500,000 pesos ($107,000) each for
reporting inflation rates that were higher than official data.  To avoid fines, economists now share their research with
opposition lawmakers, who release a monthly report based on the
data. The September report said prices rose 24 percent in August
from a year earlier. Two days later, the statistics agency said
annual inflation was 10 percent.  This week, the IMF gave the country until Dec. 17 to
respond to concerns about the quality of its inflation and
economic growth data. If the deadline is missed, the board can
issue a declaration of censure, a warning that has never been
used and which means sanctions may be applied if the concerns
aren’t addressed.  According to the 2013 budget proposal, consumer prices will
rise 10.8 percent next year after a 10.7 percent increase in
2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eliana Raszewski in Buenos Aires at 
 eraszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  