-- As Occupy Wall Street Fades, Powerful Ideas May Live On
-- B y   T h a i   J o n e s
-- 2012-09-21T16:26:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-21/as-occupy-wall-street-fades-powerful-ideas-may-live-on.html
Two  Occupy Wall Street  slogans
merit close scrutiny. The first -- “We are unstoppable! Another
world is possible!” -- is a popular chant, heard in every recent
protest march. The second -- “The only solution is world
revolution” -- is featured prominently on posters, picket signs
and websites.  These mottos permeated this week’s demonstrations
commemorating the one-year anniversary of the group’s takeover
at Zuccotti Park in New York. Both call for transformative
social change, displaying an optimism undeterred by the dashed
hopes of revolutions past.  This confidence is rooted in the exuberant triumphs of last
autumn, when tens of thousands of Occupiers engaged in civil
disobedience and protests in dozens of countries, and focused
the world’s attention on their concerns. For two months at
Zuccotti Park and elsewhere, the services usually associated
with government and industry -- food, medicine, security, even
libraries -- were ably provided by cooperative organization.
Occupiers invented new practices of governance, such as the
human microphone and the general assembly, and established an
innovative financing network.  It is hard to imagine that such a tiny model could serve as
a blueprint for a global system, without losing its essential
democratic spirit. History is littered with so many failed
utopias that the notion itself has become anathema. Yet the
ideas Occupy pushed into the public consciousness, rooted in
anarchist history and theory, have a long and powerful precedent
-- and may prove more durable, and more influential, than the
movement itself.  The Commune  In the 19th century, radicals had an occupation of their
own to look to for inspiration: the Paris Commune. For two
months, beginning in March 1871, working people seized control
of governance in the French capital. They coordinated a vastly
larger space than Zuccotti Park, and they did so in the midst of
a desperate war. With Emperor Napoleon III’s armies captured or
destroyed, and Prussian forces nearing the suburbs of Paris,
French leaders decided to surrender. But the people themselves
refused, ousting timid officials and choosing to defend their
city.  Besieged and bombarded, with fading hopes of relief,
Parisians rushed to build a new society. Improvised committees
set up schools, distributed food and clothing, and instituted an
array of democratic reforms. Elected delegates received nominal
salaries and could be recalled at any time. Women were promised
equal pay; marriage laws were liberalized.  Even as they were raising barricades against inevitable
attack, Parisians took time to pronounce their ideals to the
world. In their many declarations, they urged other communities
to establish their own autonomous collectives, with power over
taxes and expenditures, policing and education, and the
distribution of goods and services. At the vision’s core stood
“the absolute guarantee of individual freedom and freedom of
conscience.”  Assault by reactionary French forces came in May. After a
week of street fighting, the commune was destroyed. In the
following days, as many as 50,000 communards were executed.  The experiment ended tragically. But its short-lived
success had offered proof that working people could govern a
metropolis along democratic lines, and the ordeal of Paris soon
became a cornerstone of radical thought. For decades, it was
studied by everyone, from  Karl Marx  to his anarchist rival,
Mikhail Bakunin. Almost anything one needed to know about
creating revolutionary institutions, they believed, could be
gleaned from the experiences of the Paris commune.  Lessons of Paris  Peter Kropotkin, a Russian aristocrat who abandoned
privilege for a life in anarchism, derived an elaborate
blueprint for the future based on the lessons of Paris.
Believing that the commune had failed because the inhabitants
were unable to feed themselves, he foresaw a  Europe  divided into
large, autonomous regions. Each would be capable of growing its
own food and manufacturing the basic goods necessary to thrive.
Industries would be scattered “so as to bring the factory amidst
the fields,” a visionary ecological idea that he thought would
not only reduce pollution but allow individual workers to divide
their energies between “brain work and manual work.”  Writing on the eve of World War I, he imagined a post-
capitalist society consisting of dozens, even hundreds, of
independent socialist collectives, each essentially similar to
those in Paris or Zuccotti Park. “These communes,” he predicted,
“would federate to constitute nations in some cases, even
irrespectively of the present national frontiers.” Each district
would be unique. One might possess mineral deposits and another
might support extensive fisheries. Goods could be distributed
between them by railways and shipping routes, with the workers
of these transportation networks themselves organized into an
industry-wide commune.  These weren’t mere visions. At crucial moments in the past
century, local democratic organizations have undertaken the
functions of governance. Municipal collectives appeared
repeatedly during general strikes. In 1919, Seattle unions shut
down the city’s shipping and steel facilities. Workers took over
the city government, ran the utilities, and provided food and
policing. The only vehicles allowed on the streets were those
sanctioned by the strike committees. During the Spanish Civil
War in the 1930s, anarchist collectives governed large sections
of Catalonia, while fielding formidable, democratically
regulated militias in the fight against fascist armies.  Short-lived and fragile, these experiences all shared the
basic principles -- exemplified by democratic decision-making,
individual self-fulfillment and opposition to capitalism -- that
were cherished by the Occupiers at Zuccotti Park. Taken
together, they fall far short of a global revolution, but at the
very least they prove that another world is possible.  (Thai Jones is an assistant professor of history at the
Bard College MAT Program and the author of “More Powerful Than
Dynamite: Radicals, Plutocrats, Progressives, and  New York ’s
Year of Anarchy.” The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more Echoes columns  online .  To contact the writer of this post: Thai Jones at
 tjones@bard.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this post: Timothy Lavin
at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 