-- Ascent to Ship Solar IPhone 5 Case in December, CEO Says
-- B y   E h r e n   G o o s s e n s
-- 2012-09-21T20:35:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-21/ascent-to-ship-solar-iphone-5-case-in-december-ceo-says.html
Ascent Solar Technologies Inc. (ASTI) , the
U.S. solar company that fell the most on record yesterday, will
ship a sun-powered charging case for  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone 5 in
December as it continues its transition to consumer electronics,
Chief Executive Officer Victor Lee said.  The company is pursuing a “total paradigm shift” to focus
on selling products to consumers instead of developers of large-
scale solar  power plants , said Lee, who was hired as CEO of the
Thornton, Colorado-based company in February.  A watt of solar cells installed on a consumer device sells
for more than a watt installed on a rooftop, insulating the
company from thinning margins as prices for photovoltaic panels
fall, Lee said in an interview yesterday.  “By going downstream we are actually going up the entire
value chain,” Lee said.  The company’s shares fell a record 29 percent yesterday
after it said it will raise about $11 million in a secondary
offering. Ascent was unchanged at $1.20 at the close today in
 New York .  The funds will help Ascent expand its distribution network
and promote its solar chargers, Lee said. He is also executive
director of Shenzhen, China-based TFG Radiant Investment Group
Ltd., which owns 39 percent of Ascent.  Lee dates the company’s shift to consumer electronics to
June, when Ascent announced its first solar charging case for
Apple’s iPhone 4 model. Those products began shipping this month
and he expects the company to be profitable by the third quarter
of 2013, with consumer products generating as much as 80 percent
of revenue.  Ascent hasn’t reported a profitable quarter since it went
public in 2006, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg. The
company is also pursuing aerospace, transportation and off-grid
applications for its solar products.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ehren Goossens in New York at 
 egoossens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  