-- Asian Stocks Rise as iPhone 5 Debut Boosts Tech Shares
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2012-09-21T10:28:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-21/asian-stocks-rise-as-investors-back-economic-stimulus.html
Asian  stocks  rose, all but erasing
the  regional benchmark index ’s first weekly decline in three
weeks, as the debut of  Apple (AAPL)  Inc.’s iPhone 5 boosted technology
shares and energy companies advanced on higher crude prices.  Samsung Electronics Co., which gets 9 percent of its sales
from Apple, gained 1.2 percent in  Seoul  as the latest iPhone
went on sale.  Inpex Corp. (1605) ,  Japan ’s No.1 energy explorer,
advanced 2 percent as crude rebounded from a 7.2 percent drop in
the past four days.  GrainCorp Ltd. (GNC)  rose 1.2 percent as JPMorgan
Chase & Co. advised buying shares of eastern Australia’s largest
grain handler.  The MSCI  Asia  Pacific Index climbed 0.8 percent to 123.56
as of 5:16 p.m. in Tokyo, paring to less than 0.1 percent this
week’s drop. It fell yesterday by the most in two months as
economic data in Japan and China disappointed investors and on
expectations of a disappointing U.S. unemployment report.  “When you have catalysts such as the iPhone 5 coming out,
that certainly helps prop things up” in the technology sector,
Timothy Moe, a Hong-Kong-based strategist at Goldman Sachs Group
Inc., told Bloomberg TV. “The market has lagged” in Asia.
“Our outlook is one of tempered optimism. It’s right to pay
attention to what’s happened in the policy actions in the U.S.
and Europe, but growth is not as good as one would have liked,
so we need to be a bit more sober in our expectations.”  The  MSCI Asia Pacific index (MXAP)  has climbed 8.4 percent this
year as central banks in Europe, the U.S. and Japan took action
to stimulate economic growth. That compares with a 16 percent
increase on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index through yesterday
and a 12 percent gain on the  Stoxx Europe 600 Index. (SXXP)  The Asian
benchmark traded at 12.7 times estimated earnings compared with
14.1 for the  S&P 500  and 12.1 for the Stoxx Europe 600 Index.  U.S. Futures  Futures on the S&P 500 advanced 0.2 percent today. The
gauge slid yesterday for the third time in four days as data
from in the U.S., China, Europe and Japan increased concern that
a global economic slowdown is worsening. A report showed more
Americans than forecast filed unemployment claims last week.  Japan’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  and Australia’s S&P/ASX
200 Index both rose 0.3 percent. Taiwan’s Taiex increased 0.4
percent and Singapore’s Straits Times advanced 0.5 percent.  South Korea’s Kospi Index added 0.6 percent, led by
Samsung, which accounts for 17 percent of the index by
weighting. Apple is poised for a record iPhone 5 debut and may
not be able to keep up with demand as customers lined up in
Sydney, Tokyo and New York to pick up the latest model of its
top-selling product. Samsung gained 1.2 percent to 1.3 million
won.  IMF Forecast  The  International Monetary Fund  will cut economic forecasts
for the global economy “by a few decimal points,” a fund
official said yesterday. The most recent IMF forecast, released
in July, projected 2012 global growth of 3.5 percent. The fund
cut its estimate for next year to 3.9 percent, from an April
forecast of 4.1 percent.  “The global economy has weakened, we are shaving off our
forecast for global growth by a few decimal points,” Khor Hoe
Ee, an assistant director in the IMF’s Asia and Pacific
Department, said on a conference call with reporters. At the
same time, “we expect the global economy to recover gradually
over the next year.”  Inpex gained 2 percent to 488,500 yen.  Cnooc Ltd. (883) , China’s
largest offshore energy explorer, increased 0.6 percent to
HK$15.74. Oil rose in New York, rebounding from a four-day drop,
as investors speculated that the biggest weekly decline in more
than three months was exaggerated.  China Slowdown  Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index climbed 0.7 percent and the
Shanghai Composite gained 0.1 percent. China’s economic slowdown
is part of government policy and the country has the tools to
avert a severe downturn, Australian Treasurer Wayne Swan said in
a speech today.  Graincorp advanced 1.2 percent to A$8.82 in Sydney as
JPMorgan advised buying the shares, citing the stock’s 11
percent slump in the past month. “The reduction in the share
price is overdone,” Stuart Jackson, a Sydney-based analyst at
JPMorgan, wrote in a report today.  Sharp Corp. (6753)  jumped 5 percent to 212 yen on a Mainichi
newspaper report that Japan’s largest maker of liquid-crystal
displays is in investment talks with  Intel Corp . for a possible
capital tie-up. “There is no truth to the report,” Heihachiro
Ochiai, a Sharp spokesman in  Osaka , said by phone today.  Among declining shares,  Banpu Pcl (BANPU)  lost 8.6 percent to 404
baht after the Thai Civil Court ordered Thailand’s biggest coal
producer to pay 31.7 billion baht ($1 billion) as compensation
to its partner in a power project in  Laos .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  