-- Stock Rally Fades With Apple as Euro, Greek Bonds Climb
-- B y   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2012-09-21T20:49:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-21/asian-stocks-pare-weekly-decline-as-won-gains-oil-copper-climb.html
Gains in U.S.  stocks  faded by the
end of the session as  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  trimmed its advance and
financial shares slumped. The euro and Greek bonds advanced.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index lost less than 0.1 percent
to 1,460.15 at 4 p.m. in  New York   after gaining  as much as 0.5
percent. The euro appreciated 0.1 percent to $1.2983 and Greek
10-year rates fell below 20 percent for the first time since
March. Oil rose, trimming the biggest weekly loss in more than
three months. Ten-year Treasury yields lost one basis point to
1.75 percent, erasing earlier gains.  Apple, the largest company by market value, ended the day
up 0.2 percent after rallying as much as 0.9 percent in morning
trading as the company began selling its iPhone 5.  S&P 500 
financial shares lost 0.3 percent and were the biggest drag on
the index among 10 industries. Futures and options contracts
expire today, a process known as quadruple witching, and
investors also prepared for S&P’s quarterly index rebalancing.  “The market is trying to catch its breath,”  Alan Gayle , a
senior strategist at RidgeWorth Capital Management in Richmond,
 Virginia , which oversees about $47 billion, said in a telephone
interview. “We’ve had a pretty good run and, in the absence of
incremental news, investors are resetting their portfolios.”  Trading of S&P 500 companies was 55 percent higher than the
30-day average. The index ended the week down 0.4 percent and is
up 16 percent this year, having climbed last week to the highest
level since 2007.  Fund Flows  Global equity funds lured the largest weekly inflows this
year, Citigroup Inc. said, after the U.S. Federal Reserve
unveiled another round of quantitative easing and the  European
Central Bank  pledged to buy bonds to contain the debt crisis.  McDonald’s Corp., AT&T Inc., General Electric Co. and Exxon
Mobil Corp. lead gains in the  Dow Jones Industrial Average ,
while Coca-Cola Co., Alcoa Inc. and Cisco Systems Inc. were
among the worst performers. The Dow slipped 17.46 points to
13,579.47 and lost 0.1 percent this week.  Expedia Inc. rallied 4 percent after the stock was rated
buy in new coverage at Cantor Fitzgerald LP. Darden Restaurants
Inc. climbed 4.6 percent after the world’s largest casual dining
chain operator reported earnings that topped estimates amid
improving sales at  Olive Garden .  The U.S. is the most attractive stock market because of the
strength of corporate balance sheets, low interest rates and
valuations, said billionaire investor  Michael Price , president
of MFP Investors LLC, who made his reputation as a value
investor in the 1980s by buying shares of beaten-down lenders
and running some of the best-performing U.S. mutual funds.  ‘Place to Invest’  “With these interest rate levels and our PEs and our cash
on the balance sheets and America being the place to invest in
the world, where else do you want to go?” Price said in a
“Bloomberg Surveillance” interview with  Tom Keene  and Sara
Eisen.  “I think it’s very early for European stocks.”  The S&P 500, the benchmark gauge of U.S. equities, trades
for about 14.9 times its companies’  reported earnings , compared
with an average price-to-earnings multiple of about 16.3 since
1954.  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  rose 0.5 percent, trimming this
week’s decline to less than 0.1 percent. Vedanta Resources Plc
climbed 3 percent and Swiss Life Holding AG gained 2.4 percent.  European policy makers will unveil a financial bailout
program for  Spain  as early as next week, the Financial Times
said.  Greek Yields  Greek 10-year yields slid 62 basis points to 19.93 percent.  A report of  Greece ’s progress by the so-called troika of
inspectors from the euro area, ECB and  International Monetary
Fund  won’t be delayed until after the U.S. election, a Greek
finance ministry official said. The official, who asked not to
be identified, spoke as Finance Minister Yannis Stournaras began
a meeting on budget plans with the officials in  Athens  today.  The S&P GSCI gauge of 24 commodities rose 0.9 percent,
paring the drop for this week to 4.4 percent, the first weekly
decline since July. Gains today were led by natural gas, coffee
and wheat. Oil for November delivery advanced 0.5 percent to
$92.89 a barrel in New York. Wheat gained 2 percent after
Russia’s Economy Minister Andrei Belousov said the nation may
consider limiting grain exports if domestic prices keep rising.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  increased 0.8 percent,
paring its first weekly drop this month.  India ’s Sensex rallied 2.2 percent after the government
changed tax rules on overseas loans, extending policy reforms
announced last week, and the third-biggest party pledged to
support the government. The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index of
mainland companies increased 1 percent. Turkey’s benchmark gauge
jumped 1.3 percent led by Turkiye Is Bankasi AS as the country’s
biggest bank by assets cut provisions for bad loans.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  