-- Assad Says His Government to Prevail, Blasts Gulf Nations
-- B y   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r
-- 2012-09-21T12:31:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-21/assad-says-his-government-to-prevail-blasts-gulf-nations.html
Syrian President Bashar al-Assad
said his government won’t fall and that dialogue alone is the
way out of the 18-month uprising, al-Ahram al-Arabi reported.  The Egyptian magazine said the Syrian president granted it
an interview at his office in the Rawda neighborhood of
Damascus. Syria’s information minister, Omran al-Zoubi, said
Assad hadn’t given a formal interview to any Egyptian media.  Zoubi told Syria’s state television today that the
president had a chat with nine reporters representing Egyptian
media on an undisclosed date. No one took notes or recorded the
meeting and the al-Ahram al-Arabi reporter wrote the comments
from memory, according to Zoubi, adding that the magazine may
have published some comments that Assad didn’t say.  Al-Ahram al-Arabi cited Assad as saying that the Libyan
model, where the North Atlantic Treaty Organization’s
intervention led to the toppling of long-time leader  Muammar Qaddafi , won’t be repeated in Syria. He also lashed out at
neighboring  Turkey  and said the Gulf nations of  Qatar  and  Saudi
Arabia  are financing and arming terrorist groups.  “They think that with their money, they can buy geography,
history and a regional role,” Assad was quoted as saying.  Turkish Loss  Turkey, once a close ally, has “lost a lot” by siding
with the opposition, the Syrian president said, according to al-
Ahram al-Arabi. “They’re now facing problems with the
opposition,” he was quoted as saying. “Turkey is paying the
price of policies that only” benefit the political group that
runs the Turkish government.  Turkey’s relations with Syria collapsed when Prime Minister
 Recep Tayyip Erdogan  backed Syria’s rebels. That gave Kurdish
militants more freedom to operate over a 911-kilometer (566-
mile) border where Turkey and Syria had previously staged joint
exercises. There are almost daily attacks on soldiers and police
in the bloodiest phase of confrontation between Turkey and the
militants in more than a decade.  Assad admitted to mistakes and corruption in the country,
which he said the government is fighting, the magazine said.  Regional Threat  United Nations special envoy Lakhdar Brahimi, who was
appointed to revive the UN’s peace effort in Syria, warned in an
interview with Al Arabiya television last night that the Syrian
crisis could spread regionally if the bloodshed isn’t contained.  “You cannot lock the Syrian crisis inside the Syrian
borders indefinitely,” he said in Paris. “If it continues, it
will melt and infect neighboring countries and turn into an
international crisis.”  More than 26,000 people have died since the conflict in
 Syria  began in March 2011, according to the Syrian Observatory
for  Human Rights . The activist group said on its  website  that
about 250 people were killed yesterday, including 55 in the
province of Aleppo and at least 30 who died in an air raid on a
gas station in Reqqa.  The U.K.-based observatory also said three activists
including Abdelaziz al-Khayer, who was a political prisoner for
14 years, were kidnapped late yesterday near the Damascus
international airport.  Brahimi said he hasn’t yet had time to formulate a plan to
end the violence. “Putting together a plan that has a real
chance at being implemented will take time,” he said.  He said that after the “great work” of his predecessor
 Kofi Annan  fizzled, “the situation cannot bear another
failure.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donna Abu-Nasr in Beirut at 
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  