-- Aussie Dollar Gains on Fed Support, Euro Crisis Progress
-- B y   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o
-- 2012-09-21T06:54:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-21/aussie-set-for-biggest-drop-in-5-weeks-on-growth-woes.html
Australia ’s dollar rose versus most
major peers on prospects the U.S. Federal Reserve will support
growth and  Europe  is progressing toward a resolution of its debt
crisis, boosting demand for higher-yielding assets.  The so-called Aussie gained against its U.S. and Japanese
counterparts after Minneapolis Fed President  Narayana Kocherlakota  said the central bank should hold rates at around
zero until unemployment drops below 5.5 percent and the
Financial Times said European Union authorities are discussing a
new rescue for  Spain . Australia’s currency headed for a weekly
decline after an International Monetary Fund official said the
organization will cut its forecasts for the global economy.  “We’re getting much closer to a formal Spanish bailout and
that kind of reduces some of the tail risk associated with the
European outlook,” said  Jonathan Cavenagh , a Singapore-based
currency strategist at  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  Kocherlakota’s
comments “have clearly helped sentiment as well. That’s
definitely going to be supporting the Aussie in the near-term,”
he said.  The Australian dollar rose 0.3 percent to $1.0465 at 4:50
p.m. in Sydney. It bought 81.80 yen, 0.2 percent higher than
yesterday’s close. Its New Zealand counterpart, nicknamed the
kiwi, added 0.1 percent to 82.96 U.S. cents and was little
changed at 64.84 yen.  Weekly Decline  The Aussie has fallen 0.8 percent against its U.S. peer
this week. New Zealand’s kiwi dollar has risen 0.1 percent since
Sept. 14 after gaining 2 percent in the previous five-day
period.  Australia’s 10-year note yield rose six basis points to
3.29 percent.  New Zealand ’s two-year swap rate, a fixed payment
made to receive floating rates, added four basis points to 2.73
percent.  As long as inflation doesn’t exceed 2.25 percent, the Fed
“should keep the fed funds rate extraordinarily low,”
Kocherlakota said yesterday, reversing his view in May that the
Fed may need to raise rates this year or next.  The U.S. central bank said this month it will start a third
round of asset purchases and pledged to keep its target for
overnight loans between banks close to zero until at least the
middle of 2015. The announcement came after European Central
Bank  Mario Draghi  said Sept. 6 policy makers agreed to an
unlimited bond-purchase program.  Spain Bailout  Spanish and EU authorities are discussing plans to trigger
ECB bond purchases, the Financial Times reported, citing
unidentified officials involved in discussions. The plan will be
announced on Sept. 27 and will focus on structural reforms to
the Spanish economy requested by the EU, rather than new taxes
and spending cuts, the newspaper said yesterday.  Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  is scheduled to meet
his Italian counterpart  Mario Monti  today in  Rome .  The Aussie declined 2.6 percent in the past month, the
worst performance among the 10 developed-nation currencies
tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. New Zealand’s
dollar gained 0.1 percent.  Khor Hoe Ee, an assistant director in the IMF’s Asia and
Pacific Department, said yesterday the fund is lowering its
global growth forecast “by a few decimal points.” The most
recent IMF estimate, released in July, predicted 2012 global
expansion of 3.5 percent. It lowered the projection for next
year to 3.9 percent, from an April forecast of 4.1 percent.
Officials are due to release new forecasts Oct. 9.  Data yesterday showed a  composite index  for manufacturing
and services industries in the euro area dropped to a three-year
low, while a factory output gauge in  China  signaled contraction
for an 11th month.  In a speech in Sydney today, Australian Treasurer Wayne Swan said China’s economic slowdown has been engineered by the
nation’s leaders, who are able to adjust policies to alleviate a
severe downturn. China is Australia’s largest trading partner
and New Zealand’s second-biggest export destination.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristine Aquino in Singapore at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  