-- Bananas in Latin America Crunch as Fyffes Plans to Raise Prices
-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n   a n d   N a t h a n   G i l l
-- 2012-09-21T08:08:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-21/bananas-in-latin-america-crunch-as-fyffes-plans-to-raise-prices.html
Bananas, the world’s most-traded
fruit, are getting more expensive after Latin American rains
that were 60 percent above normal in  Ecuador  curbed output.  Exports from Ecuador, the world’s biggest shipper, may drop
10 percent this year, said Eduardo Ledesma, executive director
of the Ecuadorean Banana Exporters’ Association. Rain damaged
crops especially in Los Rios, the top producing province, he
said. While Ecuador’s export prices have dropped 16 percent from
a record in March, they are still 35 percent higher than the 10-
year average, International Monetary Fund data show.  Banana exports rose to the highest in at least a decade
last year, making it the most-traded fruit ahead of citrus,
apples and pears, according to the  World Trade Organization .
Dublin-based  Fyffes Plc (FFY)  said this month it plans to raise prices
because of higher fuel and fruit costs.  “Supply is relatively tight at the moment,” said Seamus
Keenan, company secretary at Fyffes,  Europe ’s biggest banana
supplier. “That’s to a large extent driven by some issues in
Ecuador and  Colombia , mainly weather issues.”  Ecuador declared a state of emergency in five provinces in
March after above-average rainfall in the coastal region and
southern Andean foothills washed away roads and houses and
damaged more than 34,000 hectares (84,000 acres) of crops,
including the top three banana producing regions in Los Rios,
Guayas and El Oro.  Babahoyo Rain  Rainfall in Babahoyo, the capital of Los Rios province, was
60 percent higher than average in the seven months through
August, according to data from Ecuador’s National Meteorology
and Hydrology Institute in Quito. The region received 2.59
meters (8.5 feet) of rainfall in the February to August period,
while the historical average is 1.62 meters, according to the
agency known as Inamhi.  Latin American supplies were down “rather significantly”
in the first quarter, David A. DeLorenzo, the chief executive
officer of  Westlake Village , California-based Dole Food Co.,
said on a conference call July 19. Low prices paid to farmers
may crimp world supplies, he said.  Fyffes ranks globally behind Dole, Chiquita Brands
International Inc. and Fresh Del Monte Produce Inc., it said in
a Sept. 3 statement. Keenan declined to comment on the size and
timing of the price increase.  Banana Trade  World  production  totaled 102.03 million metric tons in
2010, worth about $28.35 billion, according to the  United
Nations . Ecuador’s exports at 5.156 million tons accounted for
30 percent of global trade.  Ecuador produced 7.931 million tons of bananas in 2010,
accounting for about 7.8 percent of world output, according to
the UN’s Food & Agriculture Organization. The Latin American
country’s harvest was the world’s fourth largest, after  India ,
 China  and the  Philippines .  Fyffes distributes 51 million cases of bananas annually,
about one third of leader Dole Food’s 154 million cases,
according to a Sept. 3 presentation on the company’s website.
Fyffes started in 1888 and gets most of its bananas under long-
term contracts with third party producers. A case weighs 40
pounds and holds about 100 bananas.  Precipitation in Ecuador and  Costa Rica  has been
near-to-above-normal in the past 30 days, and the pattern may
continue through November, Dale Mohler, a senior meteorologist
with AccuWeather Inc., said by telephone yesterday from  State
College ,  Pennsylvania . Costa Rica is  Latin America ’s third-
largest banana exporter after Ecuador and Colombia, according to
the WTO.  Demand Rebounds  Export prices for Ecuador’s bananas rose 1.1 percent in
July, the biggest increase since they climbed to a record in
March, IMF data show. Demand tends to rebound during Northern
Hemisphere fall and winter months because of declining
competition from locally grown fruit, helping to support prices,
said Keenan of Fyffes.  European wholesale bananas were about $1.04 a kilogram (2.2
pounds) in the week ended Aug. 26, 14 percent higher than a year
earlier, according to data from the European Commission, the
bloc’s regulatory arm. U.S. retail prices are little changed
this year at 59.5 cents a pound after climbing 26 percent since
2004, Bureau of Labor Statistics data show.  Export prices in Ecuador during July were $966.85 a ton,
down from a record $1,151.43 in March, IMF data show. Ecuador
shipped 137.16 million cases in the first six months of this
year, 10 percent less than in the same period a year earlier,
according to the exporters group.  Wet weather “has considerably affected the plants,”
Ledesma, of the exporters group, said Sept. 5 by phone from the
coastal city of Guayaquil. “The excess of rain and the current
cold climate keep the fruit from ripening and reaching the right
grade.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Whitney McFerron in London at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net ;
Nathan Gill in  Quito  at 
 ngill4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  