-- Barbour Says Romney Must Turn Focus to Obama’s Failings to Win
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 2012-09-22T04:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-21/barbour-says-romney-must-turn-focus-to-obama-s-failings-to-win.html
While  Mitt Romney  still can defeat
 Barack Obama , he must shift the focus of the last six weeks of
the race to the president’s “policies, the failures of those
policies, and what Romney would do to get the country back on
the right track,” former Mississippi Governor  Haley Barbour 
said.  “As long as the campaign coverage is about process, about
polling, any time it’s not about jobs and the economy, and about
serious policy and the results of policy, that’s bad for
Romney,” said Barbour, who is helping raise money for American
Crossroads, the super-political action committee co-founded by
 Karl Rove , the former chief political adviser to President
 George W. Bush .  Romney has “got to get the campaign back on the real
issues that Americans talk about at the dinner table -- jobs,
the economy,” Barbour said in an interview on Bloomberg
Television’s “Political Capital With  Al Hunt ,” airing this
weekend.  The Republican presidential nominee is trying to get his
campaign back on track after his comment that 47 percent of
Americans are government-dependent and see themselves as
“victims,” secretly recorded at a Florida fundraiser in May,
was published this week. His remarks take the focus off Obama,
Barbour said.  ‘Made a Mistake’  “It is not correct that 47 percent of Americans are on
means-tested  entitlements , on welfare,” he said. “Many, many
of those people are retired military” or recipients of Social
Security benefits. Romney, Barbour said, should have said, “I
made a mistake on that number” and moved on.  “That’s the real state of play,” he said. “Why? Not
because people love Mitt Romney. They don’t know very much good
about Mitt Romney. But they know Obama’s policies don’t deserve
to be re-elected.”  Former President  Bill Clinton , in an interview taped with
 CNN ’s Fareed Zakaria to air tomorrow, said Romney’s comment on
the 47 percent of Americans who don’t pay income taxes being
trapped in a cycle of dependency “puts a heavier burden on him
in the debates, to talk about what he meant” next month.  “The 47 percent, those that are adults, they do pay
taxes,” Clinton said, according to a transcript provided by
CNN. “They pay Social Security taxes. They pay Medicare taxes.
They pay state and local taxes.” And whenever “you have a
recession this deep, spending goes up on things like
unemployment and food stamps and Medicare,” he said.  Akin Candidacy  Looking beyond the presidential campaign to Senate races on
the Nov. 6 ballot, Barbour said Democrats had fielded “some of
their best” candidates in  Virginia  and  North Dakota . Still, he
predicted the Republicans will win in those states.  He defended his call for Representative Todd Akin of
 Missouri  to drop out as the Republican candidate challenging
Senator  Claire McCaskill , a Missouri Democrat.  Akin said in an Aug. 19 television interview that
“legitimate rape” rarely results in pregnancy. He has declined
calls to drop out from party leaders, including Romney, a former
Massachusetts governor.  Barbour said he couldn’t pick Akin “out of a line-up with
the Spice Girls” and that his concern is strategic. With Senate
Majority Leader  Harry Reid  and other Democrats wanting Akin to
stay in because they see his candidacy weakening Republicans,
Barbour said, “I just don’t want us having Harry Reid’s
favorite Republican running against Claire McCaskill.”  Campaign Cash  Barbour also downplayed the notion that campaign cash will
be the deciding factor in the November election.  Obama raised $84.8 million last month, while Romney raised
$66.6 million and borrowed an additional $20 million secured by
general-election campaign donations.  “My view has always been, you’ve got to have enough
money,” Barbour said. “Necessarily spending the most money is
not the point. Both of them will have plenty of money.”  Obama has raised a total of $441.3 million for his re-
election to $283.6 million for Romney. The figures are based on
disclosures filed Sept. 20 with the  Federal Election Commission .  Including national political parties and allied super-PACs,
however, Romney entered September with more cash to spend on his
side than Obama, $165 million to $101 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Talev in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  