-- Batista Said to Negotiate Sale of OSX to Sete Brasil
-- B y   C r i s t i a n e   L u c c h e s i
-- 2012-09-22T03:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-21/batista-said-to-negotiate-sale-of-osx-to-sete-brasil.html
Brazilian billionaire  Eike Batista 
is in talks to sell his shipbuilding business,  OSX (OSXB3)  Brasil SA, to
Sete Brasil Participacoes SA in exchange for a stake in the
startup oil-rig operator, according to two people with direct
knowledge of the matter.  OSX would combine with Sete Brasil to provide services to
 Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4) , said the person, who asked not to be
identified because the negotiations are private. OSX, based in
 Rio de Janeiro , has a market capitalization of 3.6 billion reais
($1.8 billion). Talks are in an early stage and may not result
in a deal, the people said.  Sete Brasil plans to spend about $27 billion by 2020
building deep-water drilling vessels that will be rented by
Petroleo Brasileiro in so-called pre-salt fields off Brazil’s
southern coast. The reservoirs are under about 6,500 feet (1,981
meters) of water and beneath 16,400 feet of sub-sea bedrock,
sand and salt. Petrobras, as the state-controlled  oil company  is
known, is developing the region, which holds at least 50 billion
barrels of oil.  Sete Brasil Chief Executive Officer Joao Ferraz said on
Sept. 19 that the company was close to raising 3.7 billion reais
in additional capital, boosting its total equity to 11.3 billion
reais.  Banco BTG Pactual SA’s private-equity funds invested $1
billion in Sete Brasil, more than doubling their stake in the
oil-rig operator to 30 percent, four people with direct
knowledge of the deal said in August.  EIG Global  EIG Global Energy Partners LLC, a Washington-based private-
equity firm, also invested in the Rio de Janeiro-based company
as part of the 5.4 billion reais capital increase, the people
said.  Officials at EBX Group, which owns OSX, declined to comment
and asked not to be named in accordance with company policy. A
Sete Brasil official said its directors aren’t currently
negotiating a merger or acquisition with any other companies.  BTG, Banco Santander Brasil SA and  Banco Bradesco SA (BBDC4)  all
held 13.7 percent stakes in Sete Brasil before the capital
increase. Santander’s holding declined to 6.9 percent, while
Bradesco, which didn’t buy additional stock, had its
participation reduced to about 3 percent, the people said.  Pension funds Petros and Funcef each held 19.2 percent
before the capital increase, while Previ and Valia, which are
also pension funds, had 10 percent and 5.5 percent,
respectively. Petrobras held the remaining 5 percent and is
keeping its stake.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cristiane Lucchesi in  Sao Paulo  at 
 clucchesi5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Rick Green  at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net  