-- BCE-Rogers Biggest Losers From Hockey Lockout
-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r   a n d   K a t i a   D m i t r i e v a
-- 2012-09-21T13:41:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-21/bce-rogers-biggest-losers-from-hockey-lockout.html
BCE Inc. (BCE)  and  Rogers Communications
Inc. (RCI/B)  have the most to lose from the National Hockey League
lockout as revenue dries up from their newly acquired  Toronto
Maple Leafs  franchise, the most profitable among 30 teams.  The two companies completed the C$1.32 billion ($1.35
billion) purchase of Maple Leaf Sports & Entertainment Ltd. last
month and may lose a whole season from the disruption. While the
team hasn’t won the championship  Stanley Cup  trophy since 1967,
the franchise had revenue of $193 million and operating  profit 
of $82 million last year, tops in the league and almost double
its closest competitor, the  New York Rangers .  “If all teams were like the Leafs, making stinking amounts
of money, we wouldn’t have this problem, so certainly Rogers’
and BCE’s pain is greater than those owners whose teams are
marginal,” said Iain Grant, president of The SeaBoard Group, a
Toronto-based telecommunications research firm.  Rogers and BCE,  Canada ’s No. 1 and No. 2 wireless carriers,
respectively, face lost ticket, merchandising and television
advertising revenue if the season doesn’t begin on Oct. 11 as
planned. The league has already scrapped exhibition games that
were scheduled for September.  Both Montreal-based BCE and Rogers, headquarted in Toronto,
have been adding sports teams and specialty broadcasters to
provide content for smartphones, iPad tablets, computers and
digital televisions. BCE Chief Executive Officer George Cope
spent almost C$8 billion in cash and debt over the past two
years buying media companies including CTV, owner of the TSN
network and Maple Leaf Sports, to feed his so-called four-screen
strategy.  Four Screens  Cope’s plan is designed to capitalize on the sport’s iconic
position in hockey-obsessed Canada. TV viewership of  Sidney
Crosby ’s gold-medal winning goal in overtime against the U.S. at
the 2010 Winter Olympics was the biggest TV audience in Canadian
history, peaking at 22 million in a country of 34.5 million
people. Cope has said the surge in Canadian wireless data
traffic after the Crosby goal convinced him the four- screen
plan was the right approach.  The lockout may cost BCE and Rogers C$25 million to C$50
million a quarter each, said Graydon Ebert, who specializes in
corporate and commercial law at Barriston Law LLP in Barrie,
Ontario. “Because they are the teams that draw a lot of the
revenue, I’m sure the companies would rather have them
playing,” he said.  BCE and Rogers each acquired a 37.5 percent stake in Maple
Leaf Sports on Aug. 22 and together control the company, which
also owns the Toronto FC soccer team. BCE owns a minority stake
in the  Montreal Canadiens , which has won more Stanley Cups than
any other team and is third in the league in profit and revenue.  Costs Drop  NHL owners locked out their players on Sept. 16 for the
second time in seven seasons in a dispute over revenue sharing.
In the previous lockout, the 2004-05 season was completely lost.
The owners want to cut players’ share of the league’s revenue to
47 percent from 57 percent because only 12 of the 30 NHL teams
made money last year, according to a  Forbes study .  The league’s total revenue, buoyed by a 10-year, $2 billion
television contract with  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s NBC, swelled to an
estimated record $3.2 billion last season from $2.2 billion in
2006, according to the NHL.  To be sure, a lockout means owners don’t have to pay player
salaries or the costs of broadcasting games, which can run as
much as C$60,000 a match, Vancouver-based Tom Mayenknecht, a
sports business commentator at the Sport Market radio show, said
in a phone interview.  After the 2004-2005 season was canceled, former BCE CEO
 Michael Sabia  told analysts the lockout cost the company pay-
per-view revenues while helping “a little bit on the operating
costs side” at its GlobeMedia unit.  Ted Rogers  A month earlier, Rogers founder and then CEO Ted Rogers
said its Sportsnet unit saw “significant production cost
reductions” because of the NHL lockout.  Advertising sales would decline about C$30 million at BCE
this fiscal year based on the C$12.7 million, or 16 percent drop
at TSN and the C$14.8 million, or 16 percent drop at French-
language RDS during the last lockout, said Adam Shine, an
analyst at National Bank Financial, in a note yesterday.
Sportsnet, owned by Rogers, saw ad sales contract C$11.8
million, or 29 percent, in fiscal 2005.  However, BCE’s conventional networks and other speciality
services could see “at least” $30 million in shifted ad
dollars from the Canadian Broadcasting Corp., which airs Hockey
Night in Canada and experienced a 22 percent decline in revenue
in 2005, Shine said.  Better Deal  BCE had net income of C$2.57 billion on revenue of C$19.5
billion while Rogers made C$1.56 billion from sales of C$12.4
billion in 2011. BCE has risen 13 percent and Rogers 7 percent
in the past 12 months,  compared  with a 2.1 percent rise for the
Standard & Poor’s/TSX composite index. BCE was little changed at
C$43.07 at 9:38 a.m. in Toronto, while Rogers rose 8 cents to
C$39.66.  “Long term, the lockout will only make their investment a
better deal as it will surely reduce owner operating costs,”
said  Neal Pilson , president of Pilson Communications and the
former president of  CBS Sports .  A canceled NHL season would force BCE and Rogers to rely on
filling their 20,000-seat  Air Canada (AC/B)  Centre with concerts and
the  National Basketball Association ’s  Toronto Raptors , which
they also own.  BCE’s Mark Langton declined to comment on the potential
impact of a long-term NHL work stoppage. Rogers doesn’t have any
comment on the impact of the lockout, said spokeswoman Patricia
Trott.  “Like fans everywhere, we hope that players and the league
can come to a speedy resolution,” she added.  Flex Muscles  Pat Park, a spokesman for the Toronto Maple Leafs, said
season ticket holders can choose to be refunded monthly should
games be canceled and receive 1 percent interest, or they can
leave their money in an account and earn 5 percent interest.  The impact of a prolonged lockout on BCE and Rogers may
ultimately be more symbolic than financial, said SeaBoard
Group’s Grant. Vancouver-based  Telus Corp. (T) , Bell and Rogers’
biggest wireless competitor, has been the best performer of the
three stocks over the past 12 months with a 20 percent rise, and
has made a point of saying it doesn’t need to own content to
make money for its shareholders.  “They had the chance of doing some really interesting
things this season and flexing their muscles to Telus,” said
Grant. “It’s a lost opportunity.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net ;
Katia Dmitrieva in  New York  at 
 edmitrieva1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  