-- Bearish Treasury Bets Hit a Record Amid Inflation Concern
-- B y   C e c i l e   V a n n u c c i ,   I n y o u n g   H w a n g   a n d   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 2012-09-21T07:53:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-21/bearish-treasury-bets-hit-a-record-amid-inflation-concern.html
Options traders are paying record
prices to protect against swings in long-term U.S. Treasuries
relative to stocks amid concern inflation will accelerate.  Implied volatility , the key gauge of options prices, for
contracts with an exercise level closest to the  iShares Barclays
20+ Year Treasury Bond Fund (TLT)  has climbed to 16.65, compared with
13.85 for the  SPDR S&P 500 ETF Trust (SPY) , according to three-month
data compiled by Bloomberg. The ratio between the two ETFs
reached 1.24 on Sept. 14, the highest since at least 2005.  The Treasuries fund, which includes bonds maturing in 20
years or more, fell the most since July 2009 last week, while
U.S. equities rallied after the  Federal Reserve  pledged to keep
monetary policy accommodative even when the economy strengthens,
increasing inflation concerns. The Fed’s  preferred measure  of
the market’s expectation of price increases has risen to 2.8
percent, near the highest in 13 months.  “Treasuries don’t offer a whole lot of value here,” Bret Barker, a portfolio manager at Los Angeles-based TCW Group Inc.,
which manages about $128 billion, said in a Sept. 18 phone
interview. “The Fed is going to be in ease mode even longer
than the market expected, and as such inflation expectations are
rising. The open-ended purchasing caught the market off guard.”  The central bank said last week that it will expand its
holdings of long-term securities with open-ended purchases of
$40 billion of mortgage debt a month, without a limit on the
total or duration. The Fed also extended its near-zero interest
rate policy until 2015 to support economic growth and bring down
an  unemployment rate  stuck above 8 percent since February 2009.  Inexpensive Puts  The announcement prompted investors to reduce bearish bets
for stocks. The cost of puts on the U.S. equity benchmark fell
to the cheapest level in more than three years relative to calls
on Sept. 14, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  More bearish options on the Treasuries ETF traded than
bullish ones last week. Puts on the bond fund changed hands an
average of 80 percent more than calls last week, the biggest
weekly volume gap in almost a month, the data show.  The Fed’s favored bond-market gauge of inflation
expectations increased to 2.8 percent on Sept. 18, above the
central bank’s 2 percent goal. The five-year, five-year forward
break-even rate shows how much traders anticipate consumer
prices will rise during a period of five years starting in 2017.  Consumer Prices  The cost of living in the U.S. climbed in August by the
most in more than three years, reflecting a surge in fuel costs.
The 0.6 increase in the consumer-price index was the biggest
since June 2009 and followed no change in the previous month,
the Labor Department reported on Sept. 14.  “Effectively what the Fed has said is, ‘We are going to
buy whatever we need to buy in order to ensure economic
growth,’” Wayne Lin, a  money manager  at Baltimore-based Legg
Mason Inc., said on Sept. 19 by phone. His firm oversees $636
billion. “That kind of puts a floor on the equity market.”  The Treasury fund has returned 34 percent, compared with an
86 percent rally in the S&P 500 ETF since Nov. 25, 2008, when
the Fed committed as much as $800 billion to help resuscitate
lending.  Treasuries may still be an attractive investment in a low-
growth environment, according to Wasif Latif, vice president of
equity investments at USAA Investments in  San Antonio .  Hedge
funds  and large speculators have raised bullish positions in 10-
year Treasury notes to the  highest  since March 2008, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Expensive Debt  U.S. government securities are hovering at the most
expensive levels ever, according to a model created by
economists at the Fed that includes expectations for  interest
rates , growth and inflation. The 10-year term premium was
negative 0.86 percent yesterday and reached a  record low  of
negative 1.02 percent on July 24.  A negative reading indicates investors are willing to
accept yields below what’s considered fair value.  “We’re not living in an environment where people are
buying Treasuries for the yield,” Latif said in an interview at
Bloomberg’s headquarters in  New York  on Sept. 19. His firm
oversees about $50 billion. “From a yield perspective,
Treasuries are overpriced, but from a safety perspective, where
else are people going to go?”  Bank of America Corp. Merrill Lynch’s MOVE Index, which
measures volatility based on prices of over-the-counter options
on Treasuries maturing in two to 30 years, rose 3.8 percent to
59.70 yesterday. The Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility
Index, or  VIX (VIX) , as the benchmark gauge for S&P 500 equity
derivative prices is known, climbed 1.4 percent to 14.07.
 Europe ’s VStoxx Index, which measures the cost of Euro Stoxx 50
Index option prices, fell 3.4 percent to 19.43 at 9:51 a.m. in
 Frankfurt  today.  Bearish Options  The ratio of outstanding puts to sell the Treasury fund
versus calls to buy  increased  4.6 percent since its Aug. 16 low
to 1.7-to-1 on Sept. 18, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Among
the 10 most-owned options, eight were  bearish , and October $122
puts had the largest open interest, the data show.  “Investors right now are greatly underestimating the risk
in U.S. bonds,”  Stephen Smith , lead  fund manager  at Brandywine
Global Investment Management, which oversees $40 billion of
debt, said at a discussion in New York hosted by American Beacon
Advisors on Sept. 19. “The recovery is still weak, but we are
growing, and the reality is: the downside in  U.S. debt  is much
worse than the upside.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cecile Vannucci in Amsterdam at 
 cvannucci1@bloomberg.net ;
Inyoung Hwang in New York at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net ;
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net ;
Dave Liedtka at +1-212-617-8988 or
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  