-- Brazil’s Real Posts Weekly Loss on Mantega; Swap Rates Decline
-- B y   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a   a n d   J o s u e   L e o n e l
-- 2012-09-21T21:28:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-21/brazil-real-heads-for-weekly-loss-on-mantega-swap-rates-fall.html
Brazil’s real posted its first
weekly drop in September as Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  said
the government may impose taxes on financial transactions to
curb speculative foreign investment.  Mantega said in  London  that the government may act to
weaken the real after the  Federal Reserve  announced last week a
third round of stimulus. Possible steps Brazil could take
include “measures of taxing financial operations,” he said.  “The market is watching the central bank because there is
always the possibility of intervention,” Jose Carlos Amado, a
currency trader at Renascenca DTVM Ltda. in Sao Paulo, said in a
phone interview. “If dollars start coming in, they may
intervene in the  spot market .”  The real depreciated 0.5 percent this week. It declined 0.1
percent to 2.0231 per dollar today. Swap rate contracts maturing
in January 2014 fell two basis points, or 0.02 percentage point,
to 7.78 percent.  Mantega said  Brazil ’s interest rates will continue to be
low, with more room for cuts, and the Fed’s open-ended plan to
purchase assets is stimulating currency wars.  “It is very natural that countries defend themselves from
the actions that do not necessarily bring them direct economic
benefit,” Mantega said. “If there is a great inflow of
American currency, we will either have to increase our reserves
or intervene in markets.”  The central bank has auctioned $5.7 billion in four reverse
currency swaps between Sept. 12 and Sept. 17 in a bid to protect
the currency from a dollar weakened by the Fed’s QE3.  The bank has cut the benchmark rate by 5 percentage points
since August 2011 to a record-low 7.5 percent, in the biggest
rate cuts among G-20 nations. Policy makers will keep the key
rate at 7.5 percent before raising 25 basis points as soon as
March, trading in swap rates show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gabrielle Coppola in  Sao Paulo  at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net ;
Josue Leonel in São Paulo at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Brendan Walsh at 
 bwalsh8@bloomberg.net  