-- Brazil Government to Fight State Pay-Television Tax Increase
-- B y   C a r l a   S i m o e s
-- 2012-09-21T20:37:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-21/brazil-government-to-fight-state-tax-increase-on-pay-tv-carriers.html
Brazil ’s federal government will
lobby against a proposal by state-level officials to more than
double taxes on pay-television services from companies such as
 America Movil SAB (AMXL)  and  DirecTV. (DTV)   Communications Minister  Paulo Bernardo  said yesterday he’ll
seek to convince state finance secretaries to drop plans to
raise the so-called ICMS tax on cable and satellite services to
25 percent from 10 percent. Such an increase would hurt industry
growth, Bernardo said in an interview in Brasilia.  America Movil  is relying on demand for pay-TV services to
boost its business in Brazil, its second-biggest market behind
 Mexico , as its mobile-phone unit’s expansion slows. Its shares
 fell  the most in more than three months yesterday after a state
official said finance secretaries may increase the tax.  “The Brazilian pay-TV market has been the one bright spot
in America Movil’s Brazilian operations,” said Kevin Smithen,
an analyst at Macquarie Capital USA Inc. in  New York , in a phone
interview yesterday. “Increased regulation and taxation could
have an impact on the growth trajectory in that business.” He
has the equivalent of a buy rating on America Movil shares.  America Movil’s Brazilian pay-TV revenue climbed 26.6
percent last quarter from a year earlier, compared with a 2.4
percent decline in the wireless business. Shares in the company,
controlled by billionaire  Carlos Slim , rose 0.9 percent to 16.31
pesos at the close in Mexico City after sliding 2 percent
yesterday, the biggest decline since June 1.  Vote Scheduled  Confaz, the board that brings together state finance
secretaries, plans to vote on the tax proposal Sept. 28, Claudio
Trinchao Santos, the group’s coordinator, said in an interview
Sept. 19. Raising the rate to 25 percent would match the tax
assessed for phone services, he said.  An increase would take advantage of expected growth in the
pay-TV market and prevent phone companies from arguing that they
should pay only 10 percent when selling combinations of video,
voice and Internet service, he said.  America Movil, which gets 32 percent of Brazilian sales and
8 percent of overall revenue from pay-TV in the South American
country, may decide to absorb much of the tax increase to
maintain growth, Michel Morin, an analyst at Morgan Stanley in
New York, said yesterday in a research note.  Consumer bills may increase 22 percent if the tax increase
is approved as companies pass along the cost to customers, Joao Rezende, president of the nation’s telecommunications regulator,
said yesterday in an interview in Brasilia.  Already Benefiting  State governments are already benefiting from pay-TV’s
growth, Bernardo said. Pay-TV subscriptions will more than
double by 2014, reaching 50 percent of Brazilian households, he
said.  “That will increase  tax revenue  for the states,” Bernardo
said. “We have high taxes already, and consumers are the ones
that pay the price. It’s terrible news at a time when we’re
trying to cut taxes.”  Brazilian pay-TV subscriptions will jump to 17 million by
the end of the year from 12.7 million in 2011, according to
estimates from Anatel, as the telecommunications agency is
known. By 2018, Anatel expects 35 million subscribers. The tax
increase would force Anatel to revise those projections, Rezende
said.  Biggest Carriers  America Movil, through its Embratel and Net Servicos units,
has 55 percent of Brazilian pay-TV subscribers, followed by El
Segundo, California-based DirecTV, with 30 percent, according to
data from Anatel. DirecTV fell 0.1 percent to $52.31 in New
York.  Oi SA (OIBR4) , the phone carrier based in  Rio de Janeiro , dropped
3.5 percent to 8.11 reais in Sao Paulo trading, while Telefonica
Brasil SA, controlled by Madrid-based  Telefonica SA (TEF) , gained 0.2
percent to 44.64 reais.  A Telefonica Brasil representative declined to comment
yesterday, while officials at Oi and America Movil didn’t return
phone and e-mail messages.  “The clients are the ones who will pay for the tax
increase,” Bernardo said. “The company will pass it through on
their accounts. That means growth and also investments will be
hindered.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Simoes in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 csimoes1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  