-- Bridgewater’s Dalio: Euro Will Survive Region’s Crisis
-- B y   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k
-- 2012-09-21T14:59:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-21/bridgewater-s-dalio-says-euro-will-survive-region-s-debt-crisis.html
Ray Dalio , the billionaire investor
who runs the world’s largest hedge fund, said the euro will
“likely” stay together because austerity measures deterring
growth will be balanced by European Central Bank intervention.  “Restructuring of debt and austerity are deflationary, and
they are negative for growth,” Dalio, founder of Bridgewater
Associates LP, said in an interview with CNBC aired today. “The
printing of money is inflationary and positive for growth. The
policy by  Mario Draghi  and the ECB is a policy to achieve
balance of those things.”  Yields on Spanish and Italian bonds have fallen from their
July highs after Draghi, the ECB’s president, said this month he
would buy government debt to help make borrowing costs for
European countries sustainable. Dalio, whose Westport,
Connecticut-based firm manages about $130 billion, said
countries in southern Europe will probably suffer through a
“managed depression” that lasts as long as 15 years.  Dalio, 63, also said it’s more likely that countries in
northern Europe, such as  Germany , will leave the euro currency
bloc than indebted countries in the south.  The U.S. Federal Reserve’s third round of asset purchases
since the 2008 financial crisis, announced this month, is
representative of the fact that the central bank can’t lower
 interest rates  to stimulate the economy, Dalio said. He called
QE3, known as quantitative easing, the “new interest rate.”  All investors should hold some gold in their portfolio,
said Dalio, adding that billionaire  Warren Buffett  is making a
“big mistake” by saying he won’t hold the metal.  Dalio said his biggest fear for financial markets is that
an economic meltdown will trigger social unrest.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Westbrook in 東京 at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  