-- HCA Seen Losing Revenue as Kaiser Makes Push for Patients
-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 2012-09-21T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-21/hca-seen-losing-revenue-as-kaiser-makes-push-for-patients.html
Kaiser Permanente, the California-
based health-care behemoth, is moving east. In a bid to shake up
the East Coast market, Kaiser will compete for emergency-room
patients with  HCA Holdings Inc. (HCA) , the largest for-profit hospital
chain in the U.S.  Kaiser has completed four of five “multi-specialty
centers” in the Washington area, at a cost of about $2 billion.
The facilities will test the market for patients that might
otherwise go to emergency rooms to receive treatment for routine
matters such as broken bones or ear infections.  The move by Kaiser, a nonprofit with $48 billion in
yearly revenue, is part of a broader shift toward stand-alone 
medical centers that are less expensive for patients and 
insurers than ERs. They are growing by about 300 a year, 
according to the  Urgent Care Association of America . The 
proliferation of these centers is a worry for hospitals, 
which rely on emergency room income from privatelyinsured 
patients to help make ends meet.  “When you pull out privately insured individuals from
emergency departments, the people who end up going are people
who don’t have access to other services,” said  Jesse Pines , an
associate professor of emergency medicine and health policy at
George  Washington  University in Washington.  For Kaiser, “it makes a lot of sense,” Pines said in a
telephone interview. “But it will horribly increase the
uncompensated and under-compensated care burden of local
emergency departments.”  Insured Customers  About  85 percent  of patients who use ERs nationally are
insured. In affluent northern Virginia, where Kaiser has one of
its facilities, many patients are people with insurance who need
acute care faster than it can be provided by their doctors,
often at odd hours. These patients also prefer, given a choice,
to avoid emergency rooms overflowing with patients lining up to
be admitted to the hospital for major health problems.  Kaiser provides health insurance and care, through a system
of hospitals and physician organizations in the western U.S. Its
larger centers will have surgical suites, exam rooms, imaging
technology, pharmacies and even eye exams.  It’s not the first time Kaiser has dipped its toe in the
East Coast market. The nonprofit operated health plans in  North
Carolina  and the Northeast for much of the 1990s before pulling
out after reporting $881 million in operating losses in 1997 and
1998.  Now, though, the direction of health-care reform
increasingly favors aspects of Kaiser’s management strategies.  Fee-for-Service  Most U.S. doctors and hospitals are paid on a  fee-for-
service system , in which they make money for every service they
perform. The more services and the more involved each service,
the more they’re paid.  Conversely,  Kaiser  is a health maintenance organization, or
HMO, that pays doctors salaries and coordinates care to limit
costs.  “What they are known for is being the leaders in what we
often refer to now as integrated health care,” said Alain Enthoven, a professor at  Stanford University ’s Center for Health
Policy who has consulted for Kaiser since 1973. “What Kaiser’s
trying to do is prevent people from needing emergency care by
giving them high-quality care on an outpatient basis.”  Removing people who don’t need critical care from costly
ERs “creates efficiencies for the entire health-care system,”
said Bernard Tyson, president and chief operating officer of
Oakland, California-based  Kaiser Permanente , in an interview.
“Historically, and around the country, many of the ERs are
jammed with people who could be appropriately cared for in other
care sites.”  200,000 Patients  Still, there are times -- for instance, for someone
suffering a heart attack -- when Kaiser tells its health-plan
members that it’s more appropriate to go to a hospital emergency
room than one of their centers, Tyson said.  In 2011, the Kaiser center in Washington located blocks
from the U.S. Capitol served almost 200,000 patients, said Che
Parker, a spokesman for the company. That level of success is
pushing the company to begin expanding the effort with similar
facilities in the Atlanta area.  Centers like Kaiser’s also have several regulatory
advantages over hospitals. For instance, they aren’t covered by
a federal law requiring they take all patients, no matter their
insurance, and they don’t have to acquire a “certificate of
need,” an often time-consuming process needed for most hospital
construction.  Refusing Care  While Parker said Kaiser’s centers won’t refuse care to
anyone, Mark Foust, a spokesman for HCA  Virginia , said, “it
remains to be seen if Kaiser does that or not.”  HCA recognizes “the need and the obligation to treat all-
comers to our emergency room,” said Foust, whose HCA unit runs
12 hospitals in the state.  HCA is fighting back. In an effort to attract  patients , the
for-profit hospital chain is advertising the wait times at their
emergency rooms. The ads are running online and on roadside
signs.  The website for HCA’s Reston Hospital Center in northern
Virginia, which sits 10 miles from the Kaiser center in Tyson’s
Corner, noted yesterday that patients waited  just 16 minutes 
before being seen by a nurse. A little further south, the
Spotsylvania Regional Medical Center has a billboard on
Interstate 95 with a digital clock that provides the ER wait
time.  Foust declined to say how much HCA’s ERs earn for their
hospitals. Nationally, Nashville, Tennessee-based HCA operates
163 hospitals that generated $32.5 billion in  revenue  in 2011,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Pines, who heads George Washington University’s Center for
Health Care Quality, said that the existence of clinics like
Kaiser’s may serve to drive up national health-care spending by
creating more demand for  health services .  It’s “like building roads,” he said. “People will use
it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Wayne in Washington at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  