-- California Gasoline Rises on October Trading, Maintenance
-- B y   L y n n   D o a n
-- 2012-09-21T20:19:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-21/california-gasoline-rises-on-october-trading-maintenance.html
Spot gasoline in  California  gained
against futures for the first time in three days as the prompt-
delivery contract rolled into October and refineries prepared to
shut units for maintenance.  Phillips 66 (PSX) ’s 139,000-barrel-a-day  Los Angeles  refinery
plans to shut the hydrocracker around Oct. 5 for about six weeks
of work, a person with direct knowledge of the schedule said
Sept. 6.  The Houston-based company’s 76,000-barrel-a-day Rodeo
refinery was also expected to perform maintenance on a
hydrocracker this month, a delay from August, a person familiar
with operations at the plant said Aug. 9.  California-blend gasoline in Los Angeles, now trading for
October delivery against November gasoline futures on the  New
York Mercantile Exchange , gained 1.5 cents to a premium of 36
cents a gallon at 1:51 p.m. East Coast time, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. The same fuel in San Francisco rose 2 cents to
42.5 cents a gallon above futures.  California-blend, or CARB, diesel in Los Angeles increased
1 cent to 12 cents a gallon above heating oil futures on the
Nymex. The fuel in San Francisco dropped 1.5 cents to 6 cents a
gallon over futures.  Phillips 66’s Los Angeles refinery is starting units after
a Sept. 15 power failure and expected to have all equipment
online by the end of the week,  Rich Johnson , a spokesman at the
company’s headquarters in Houston, said by e-mail yesterday.  Portland Gasoline  Regular, 87-octane gasoline in  Portland ,  Oregon , a
benchmark for the U.S. Northwest, rose for the fifth straight
day, increasing 3.5 cents to a premium of 28.5 cents a gallon
above gasoline futures. That’s the highest level for the fuel
since Sept. 5.  BP Plc (BP/) ’s 234,000-barrel-a-day Cherry Point refinery in
Washington state reported a process unit upset yesterday, a
notice to the Northwest Clean Air Agency showed. The plant was
operating normally today, according to a person familiar with
operations there.  Low-sulfur diesel in Portland dropped 4.5 cents to 5 cents
a gallon above Nymex heating oil futures.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lynn Doan in  San Francisco  at 
 ldoan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  