-- Canadian Doctors Reach for Heineken to Boost Returns
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2012-09-21T16:08:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-21/canadian-doctors-reaching-for-heineken-to-boost-stock-returns.html
Investment managers for  Canada ’s
doctors are buying international stocks with strong links to
faster-growing  emerging markets , such as Dutch brewer  Heineken
NV (HEIA) , to boost returns.  Heineken earns more than half its revenue in emerging
markets while avoiding the “impediments” of direct investment
in countries with unclear legal rules, said William R. Horton Jr., chief investment officer with MD Physician Services Inc.,
which helps manage C$22 billion ($22.5 billion) of assets for
doctors and their family members.  Horton has boosted equity holdings to 60 percent of a
typical 10-year portfolio from a 57 percent benchmark while
cutting back on  Canadian stocks  in favor of U.S. and
international securities, he said in an interview yesterday at
Bloomberg’s Ottawa newsroom. That decision was based in part on
 International Monetary Fund  figures showing Canada and other
advanced economies may grow at about one-third the pace of
emerging markets in the next five years, Horton said.  “It’s looking at where the value is going to be extracted
from in a two-speed economy,” he said. “We are looking at
Canada as being highly dependent” on slower-growing developed
economies, he said.  Heineken, based in Amsterdam,  earned  57 percent of its
revenue outside of western  Europe  last year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The shares rose 2 percent to 46.08 euros
in Amsterdam today.  Earning Revenue  Horton also cited New York-based cosmetics maker  Avon
Products Inc. (AVP)  as a similar company because it earns about half
its revenue in  Latin America , adding that “the  stock  hasn’t
done well lately.” Avon shares rose 1.7 percent to $16.26 at
12:02 p.m. in  New York , and have generated an 18.6 percent loss
over the past year.  MD Physician Services is owned by the Canadian Medical
Association and uses outside companies to execute trades under
strategy guidelines that Horton oversees.  The company reviews its strategies each quarter, Horton
said. Canadian  stocks  now represent about 26 percent of a
standard portfolio instead of the regular 27 percent, while
total stock holdings have increased, he said. The latest
reallocation last week also gave an “overweight” position to
Canadian corporate bonds, Horton said, without elaborating.  The Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite  Index (MXEF) , Canada’s primary
stock  gauge , climbed 3.9 percent this year, compared with a 4.7
percent advance for the Bank of America Merrill Lynch Canada
Corporate Index, which tracks about C$320 billion of domestic,
investment-grade company debt.  Equity Returns  The Standard and Poor’s 500 Index is up 16 percent in 2012
and the MSCI Emerging Markets Index has gained 10 percent.  Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney  will have to take into
account his global colleagues’ policies in deciding when to
follow through on his inclination to raise borrowing costs,
Horton said. Higher rates can reduce bond returns.  The idea of “looking at national decisions in an
international or global context is growing, and that’s what he
will be doing,” Horton said. Carney is the only Group of Seven
central banker who has said he may tighten  monetary policy .  MD Physician Services’ typical client has a portfolio of
about C$1.5 million, Horton said. It was established to help
doctors invest without being distracted by market volatility.
While Horton says he has great flexibility in how the money is
invested, he said there’s one “hard and fast constraint” on
all of their investment managers: “They can’t own tobacco
stocks.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa  at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  