-- Canada Dollar Falls Versus Major Peers on Slowing Global Growth
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2012-09-22T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-21/canada-dollar-in-1st-weekly-decline-this-month-on-slowing-growth.html
Canada’s dollar declined for the
first time in four weeks against its U.S. counterpart as oil
tumbled and concern increased that the global economy may be
slowing, damping investor appetite for higher-yielding assets.  The currency fell against the majority of its 16 most-
traded peers as Canada’s inflation rate unexpectedly slowed for
a second month, dimming the outlook for higher  interest rates .
Canada’s dollar declined on Sept. 20 the most in eight weeks
after economic reports from the U.S.,  Europe  and  China  indicated
growth may be slowing. Canada’s gross domestic product is
forecast to grow at 0.1 percent pace in July, down from 0.2
percent in June, according to a Bloomberg survey due Sept. 28.  “The global backdrop is in a precarious spot,” Mazen Issa, Canada macro strategist at  Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD) ’s TD
Securities, said yesterday in a phone interview. “Growth is
expected to slow in the second half of the year, and so far the
data in July has been reaffirming that that is the case.”  Canada’s currency, nicknamed the loonie for the image of
the aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, fell 0.5 percent this week to
97.64 cents per  U.S. dollar  in Toronto. One Canadian dollar buys
$1.0242.  The loonie declined with crude-oil futures, which dropped 6
percent to $93.04 per barrel in New York, the biggest slump
since the five days ended May 4.  Canadian  government bonds  rose, with the yield on the 10-
year benchmark note falling 12 basis points, or 0.12 percentage
point, to 1.85 percent.  Inflation Rate  The  consumer price index  rose 1.2 percent in August from a
year ago compared with a 1.3 percent gain the prior month,
 Statistics Canada  said yesterday from Ottawa. The core rate,
which excludes eight volatile products, increased 1.6 percent
after a July gain of 1.7 percent. Economists surveyed by
Bloomberg forecast that the total rate would stay at 1.3 percent
and core inflation would be 1.5 percent.  Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney  on Sept. 5 held his key
lending rate at 1 percent, where it’s been since September 2010,
the longest unchanged period since the 1950s. Carney reiterated
that an increase “may become appropriate” as domestic spending
props up an economic recovery restrained by weak global demand
for exports.  The loonie declined as euro-area services and manufacturing
output fell to a 39-month low in September and China’s
manufacturing probably contracted for an 11th month. An index of
U.S. leading economic indicators slid in August and
manufacturing in the Philadelphia region shrank for a fifth
straight month in September.  Negative ‘Deluge’  “There’s been a deluge of negative economic reports coming
out from the major industrial centers,” Ravi Bharadwaj, a
market analyst in  Washington  at Western Union Business
Solutions, a unit of  Western Union Co. (WU) , said yesterday in a
telephone interview. “Broader views don’t seem to be suggesting
that an eccentric pro-risk position is prudent.”  The difference in the number of wagers by  hedge funds  and
other large speculators on an advance in the Canadian dollar
compared with those on a drop, known as net longs, rose to
111,881 contracts in the five days ended on Sept. 18, up from
net longs of 101,860 a week earlier, according to Commodity
Futures Trading Commission data compiled by Bloomberg.  Canada’s dollar has declined 0.8 percent this month, the
third most among 10 developed-nation currencies tracked by
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes, after the
greenback’s 2.2 percent drop and the Australian dollar’s 2.5
percent tumble. The euro has advanced 2.2 percent to lead
gainers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in  New York  at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  