-- Canada Inflation Slows 2nd Month in August on Natural Gas
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2012-09-21T14:11:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-21/canada-inflation-slows-2nd-month-in-august-on-natural-gas.html
Canada ’s  inflation  rate
unexpectedly slowed for a second month in August and a key price
measure tracked by policy makers was the lowest in more than a
year, indicating little pressure for  Bank of Canada  Governor
 Mark Carney  to raise  interest rates .  The  consumer price index  rose 1.2 percent in August from a
year ago compared with a 1.3 percent gain the prior month,
Statistics Canada said today from Ottawa. The  core  rate, which
excludes eight volatile products, increased 1.6 percent after a
July gain of 1.7 percent. Economists surveyed by Bloomberg
forecast that the total rate would stay at 1.3 percent and core
inflation would be 1.5 percent.  Carney said earlier this month he may raise interest rates
as the economy moves to full output next year, and that
inflation would return to its 2 percent target over the next 12
months. Economists surveyed by Bloomberg have cut their growth
and inflation forecasts this month, while another report today
showed that wholesale sales fell a faster-than-expected 0.6
percent in July.  “Inflation isn’t that pressing a concern for the Bank of
Canada,” said Mazen Issa, Canada macro strategist at Toronto-
Dominion Bank’s TD Securities unit. Carney’s inclination to
raise interest rates will remain, he said, because “the
economic recovery is still well advanced in Canada” compared
with other major countries.  Pared Gains  The Canadian dollar pared gains after the report. It
strengthened 0.2 percent to 97.47 cents per  U.S. dollar  at 9:55
a.m. in Toronto. One Canadian dollar buys $1.0260.  Government
bonds  were little changed, with benchmark 10-year yields holding
steady at 1.86 percent and two-year yields falling one basis
point to 1.14 percent.  Natural gas  costs dropped 14 percent in August from a year
earlier,  Statistics Canada  said, while other energy costs rose,
including a 2.2 percent gain for gasoline.  Mortgage interest costs declined by 1.8 percent and women’s
clothing costs declined by 3.4 percent, according to the report.
Food costs rose, including a 5.7 percent increase for meat and a
2.2 percent advance in restaurant meals.  Companies such as grocery-store chain Sobeys Inc. are
predicting that inflation will remain modest because consumers
aren’t willing to bid up prices. “The market is extremely
competitive right now,” Chief Executive Officer Marc Poulin
said on a Sept. 13 earnings call, where he reported retail
prices were little changed for its fiscal first quarter.  Weak Data  Other reports this month have shown a record trade deficit,
falling factory sales, and declines in labor productivity and
building permits. Today’s data makes it more likely the central
bank will modify its language about interest rate increases at
the Oct. 23 announcement, said  Derek Holt , Scotiabank’s vice-
president of economics in Toronto.  “The Bank of Canada’s 2 percent inflation target is being
undershot by a fair margin,” and its forecast about the economy
reaching full output “is looking increasingly unlikely,” Holt
said in a note to clients.  The central bank sets interest rates to keep inflation at
the 2 percent midpoint of a 1 percent to 3 percent target range.  On a monthly basis, total  inflation  rose 0.2 percent in
August and the core rate rose 0.3 percent. Economists surveyed
by Bloomberg predicted that both monthly rates would advance by
0.3 percent.  Seasonally adjusted inflation rose 0.4 percent in August
from July, the first gain in four months, and the adjusted core
rate rose 0.3 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  