-- Carlyle-Backed Infotech’s Sales Growth to Slow
-- B y   S h a r a n g   L i m a y e
-- 2012-09-21T05:38:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-21/carlyle-backed-infotech-s-sales-growth-to-slow.html
Infotech Enterprises Ltd. (INFTC) , an
Indian software services provider backed by an affiliate of the
 Carlyle Group , expects sales growth to slow this year as
customers defer spending amid a weak U.S. recovery and the
 Europe  debt crisis.  Revenue in dollar terms for the year that started April 1
may rise 14 percent, Chairman and Managing Director B.V.R. Mohan Reddy said in an interview, cooling from a 24 percent gain in
the previous 12 months. The U.S. accounts for 60 percent of
earnings, while 30 percent comes from Europe for the company
that counts the  Boeing Co. (BA)  and  Pratt & Whitney  among clients for
engineering design software solutions.  “Both the U.S. and Europe are not in the best of shapes
and the demand has come down,” Reddy said in the southern
Indian city of Hyderabad, where Infotech is based. “The amount
spent on research and development by our customers has
definitely shrunk in size.”  Global spending on  information technology  may rise 3
percent in 2012 to $3.6 trillion this year,  Gartner Inc.  said in
a July 9 report, versus 7.9 percent last year. Reports this week
showed euro-area services and manufacturing output fell to a 39-
month low in September as leaders in the bloc struggled to
reverse the region’s slide into a recession. A gauge of leading
U.S. economic indicators fell and more Americans than forecast
filed unemployment claims.  The National Association of Software & Services Companies,
an Indian lobby group, expects the nation’s industry to grow
between 11 percent and 14 percent this year.  First Carlyle Ventures bought 10 percent of Infotech from
the open market in July. Infotech is in talks with manufacturing
sector companies, in which First Carlyle is a stakeholder, for
deals, Reddy said.  Shares of Infotech have surged 63 percent in the past year,
compared with a 9 percent gain in the benchmark  Sensitive Index (SENSEX) 
in the same period, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
stock was little changed at 196 rupees as of 10:07 a.m. in
Mumbai.  Infosys Ltd. (INFO) , India’s second-largest software exporter, cut
its sales forecast in July for the year ending March 31 after
first-quarter profit missed estimates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sharang Limaye in Hyderabad at 
 slimaye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Arijit Ghosh at   aghosh@bloomberg.net  