-- CFTC ‘Mad Rush’ Makes Swaps Rules Inconsistent, O’Malia Says
-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 2012-09-21T20:10:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-21/cftc-mad-rush-leads-to-inconsistent-swaps-rules-o-malia-says.html
The U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission is overreaching in its Dodd-Frank Act rulemaking,
undermining efforts to provide certainty to the swaps market,
according to  Scott O’Malia , a Republican commissioner.  The CFTC has taken shortcuts and reached inconsistent
outcomes on regulations including those for market-information
databases and the international reach of the new rules, O’Malia
said in remarks prepared for delivery today at the University of
Notre Dame  Business Law Forum  in  Indiana . The agency should
release guidelines for implementing the rules, he said.  “In a mad rush to implement the rules, the commission
quite often forgets to make sure that all these rules should
work together to achieve the overall objectives of enhancing
transparency and reducing systemic risk,” O’Malia said. “It’s
not easy to comply with regulations when the goal posts are
constantly moving.”  The CFTC and Securities and Exchange Commission are writing
regulations for the global swaps market after largely
unregulated trades helped fuel the 2008 credit crisis. Dodd-
Frank, the 2010 financial-regulation overhaul, is designed to
have most swaps guaranteed by central clearinghouses and traded
on exchanges or other venues to increase transparency.  Current Timeline  The CFTC is working to complete many of the regulations by
the end of the year. Under the current timeline, swap dealers
probably will register with regulators by January.  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,  Bank of America  Corp.,
 Citigroup Inc. (C)  and  Morgan Stanley (MS)  controlled 96 percent of cash
and derivatives trading for U.S. bank holding companies as of
March 31, according to the Office of the Comptroller of the
Currency.  The CFTC probably will release a series of no-action
letters and exemptive relief from rules before some begin to
take effect Oct. 12, according to Jill E. Sommers, the other
Republican commissioner on the five-member panel. “There are a
very long list of compliance problems,” she said today at a
Security Traders Association conference in Washington.  Questions about rules already completed as well as those
surrounding a mandate to guarantee swaps at clearinghouses are
being considered by the CFTC, Sommers said. Rules governing
trading facilities that have yet to be completed and “may not
actually even come until next year,” she said.  O’Malia renewed his request that the agency produce
guidelines for implementing swaps rules.  “I urge the commission and the  National Futures
Association  to provide clear and consistent guidelines for
applicants to follow,” he said.  Inconsistent Outcomes  The CFTC has reached inconsistent outcomes in the process
for registering swap data repositories because agency employees
have adjusted rules after they have been approved by
commissioners, O’Malia said. Employees have shifted and sped up
requirements for how quickly data must be reported to the
public, according to a letter from  CME Group Inc. (CME)  to the agency.  “When CME asked to see these new directives in writing to
ensure there was no miscommunication, division staff advised
they did not have, and we should not expect to receive, a
written confirmation of these new directives,” Timothy R.
Elliott,  executive director  and associate general counsel at
CME, said in the letter.  Deadlines Looming  O’Malia said he is frustrated that rules are being adjusted
after they have been approved and with deadlines looming. “If
that is what has transpired, I can assure you this is not good
government,” he said.  The CFTC has approved two databases, DTCC Data Repository
LLC and ICE Trade Vault LLC, to collect information on interest-
rate, credit, energy and other swaps to improve access for the
public and regulators.  There are three or four additional applications to become
swap data repositories, CFTC Chairman  Gary Gensler  said in a
telephone interview yesterday.  The agency has also published a vague set of guidelines for
the international scope of its rules that applied
“unprecedented regulatory reach” and also “trample on foreign
regulatory authority,” O’Malia said.  The CFTC’s June proposal could lead to conflicts between
regulators, according to letters submitted to the agency by
overseas regulators. Letters were sent by the U.K.’s Financial
Services Authority, European Commission, European Securities and
Markets Authority, Financial Services Agency in  Japan , the  Bank
of Japan (8301) , Bank of  France  and Swiss Financial Market Supervisory
Authority.  The Hong Kong Monetary Authority, Monetary Authority of
 Singapore  and the Comissao de Valores Mobiliarios,  Brazil ’s
national securities regulator also submitted letters.  Confused Objective  “This rule couldn’t do more to confuse the objective of
coordinated global oversight,” O’Malia said. The CFTC should
re-draft the regulation and release it as a formal rule proposal
instead of interpretive guidance, he said.  Bart Chilton, one of three Democrats at the CFTC, said the
agency should quickly complete regulations for governing
conflicts-of-interest at clearinghouses and trading platforms.  “The time has come, and we need to get a final rule out
there that does what I’ve been talking about: make sure that
banks don’t put their own interests in front of their
customers,” Chilton said in a remarks prepared for delivery at
the  Hard Assets Investment Conference  in  Chicago .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Silla Brush in  Washington  at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  