-- Chesapeake Demoted Top Lawyer Who Defended CEO’s Loans
-- B y   J o e   C a r r o l l
-- 2012-09-21T20:13:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-21/chesapeake-demoted-top-lawyer-who-defended-ceo-s-loans.html
Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK)  demoted the
lead counsel who defended Chief Executive Officer Aubrey McClendon’s use of private stakes in company-operated natural-
gas wells to obtain more than $800 million in personal loans.  In the first executive reshuffling since Chesapeake
stripped McClendon of the chairman’s role and replaced more than
half its directors in June, General Counsel Henry J. Hood was
replaced as head of Chesapeake’s legal department by James R.
Webb, the Oklahoma City-based company said in a statement today.  Webb, a partner at the McAfee & Taft law firm, has been
working for Chesapeake on a contract basis as chief legal
counsel for the past four months, according to the statement.
Hood will retain oversight of the company’s land and regulatory
departments, Chesapeake said.  “This does seem like a demotion for Henry Hood,”  Philip Weiss , an analyst at Argus Research Corp. in  New York , said in
an e-mailed statement today. “Based on what we see here, he’s
seen his responsibilities scaled back.”  Hood issued a statement on April 18 that said Chesapeake
directors were “fully aware” of the existence of the personal
loans McClendon obtained to finance his share of expenses for
private stakes in thousands of company wells.  On April 26, Chesapeake backtracked, saying in a statement
that although the board was “generally aware” of the CEO’s
loans, it hadn’t vetted the arrangements.  The directors announced an internal review of McClendon’s
personal transactions the same day. Jim Gipson, a Chesapeake
spokesman, didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail or voice mail
left at his office outside of regular business hours today.  Chesapeake fell less than 1 percent to $19.36 a share at
the close in in New York.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joe Carroll  in Chicago at 
 jcarroll8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  