-- China Investment Seen Failing to Secure Growth Rebound This Year
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-09-21T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-21/china-investment-seen-failing-to-secure-growth-rebound-this-year.html
China ’s economic  slowdown  may
persist into next year amid a lack of funding for approved
infrastructure projects, according to an academic adviser to the
nation’s central bank.  Expansion will be 7.3 percent to 7.4 percent in the fourth
quarter and 7 percent to 7.5 percent in the first half next
year, Song Guoqing, a Peking University professor, said
yesterday in a brief interview in Beijing. He reiterated a July
forecast of 7.4 percent third-quarter growth that was lower than
most economists’ projections then and is now in the middle.  Further deceleration in the world’s second-largest economy
may complicate the Communist Party’s once-a-decade handover of
power, set to begin this year. A private survey showing China’s
manufacturing may contract for an 11th month in September sapped
investor  confidence  this week after a previous boost from the
government publicizing approvals for road and subway projects.  “There is no hard evidence now to say that there will be a
rebound soon,” said Song, an adviser to the People’s Bank of
China since March. “Accelerating project approvals is just one
part of pushing up investment. The more important condition is
money. So far, I don’t see data showing massive money flows into
these projects.”  China’s  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  slid 4.6 percent this
week, the most since the week ended Oct. 21, 2011, after a
report on manufacturing signaled a contraction and escalating
tensions with  Japan  threatened trade.  Slowing Inflation  Inflation is likely to moderate this month after
accelerating to a 2 percent pace in August, Song said.  “In general, China’s inflation is likely to be 2 percent
in the coming months,” he said. “The fresh round of
quantitative easing in the U.S. will have little effect on
China’s price situation.”  Song’s GDP view is consistent with the 7.4 percent median
estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News Sept. 11-18
for third-quarter growth. His projections are more pessimistic
for what comes next, with analysts forecasting 7.7 percent
growth in the fourth quarter and 7.9 percent in the first three
months of 2013, based on median estimates.  Last month, the median estimate for third-quarter growth
was 7.9 percent in a Bloomberg News survey.  “It’s very hard to say that the first quarter of next year
will be the bottom,” Song said. “That time may come even
later.”  Monetary Restraint  Data for the past two months point to a deepening slowdown
in the world’s second-biggest economy after growth decelerated
to a three-year-low of 7.6 percent last quarter. Even so, the
central bank has held off from easing after cutting  interest
rates  in June and July and lowering lenders’ reserve requirement
ratio three times from November to May.  Yuan Gangming, an economist with the  Chinese Academy of
Social Sciences , said in an interview this week that the
nation’s slowdown may last longer than during the global
financial crisis because of worsening external demand and
limited lending to smaller companies.  Growth may slow for a ninth straight period to below 7
percent in the first quarter, said Yuan, who formerly headed
CASS’s Office of Macroeconomic Research in the Institute of
Economics. He forecast 7.4 percent expansion in the third
quarter and 7.2 percent in the last period of the year.  “The slowdown will definitely extend into the first
quarter of next year,” said  Yuan , 58, who advises the
government without being directly involved in policy making.
“That will provide a good starting point for the new generation
of leadership to make a turnaround, because things can’t get
worse.”  --Zhou Xin. With assistance from Nathaniel Espino in Beijing.
Editors: Scott Lanman, Paul Panckhurst  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhou Xin in Beijing at 
 xzhou68@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  