-- China Slowdown Seen Longer Than in Crisis by State Economist
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-09-21T03:27:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-21/china-slowdown-seen-longer-than-2009-by-government-researcher.html
China ’s economic slowdown may last
longer than during the global financial crisis because of
worsening external  demand  and limited lending to smaller
companies, a state researcher said.  Growth may slow for a ninth straight period to below 7
percent in the first quarter, Yuan Gangming, an economist with
the  Chinese Academy of Social Sciences , said in an interview
Sept. 19 in Beijing. Yuan, who formerly headed CASS’s Office of
Macroeconomic Research in the Institute of Economics, forecast
7.4 percent expansion in the third quarter and 7.2 percent in
the last period of the year.  The slowdown may pressure new leaders of the Communist
Party, set to be named this year in a once-a-decade power
handover, to step up stimulus efforts. A report yesterday showed
China’s manufacturing may contract for an 11th month, and  Yuan 
said the central bank has been too focused on controlling
 inflation  at the expense of growth.  “The slowdown will definitely extend into the first
quarter of next year,” said Yuan, 58, who advises the
government without being directly involved in policy making.
“That will provide a good starting point for the new generation
of leadership to make a turnaround, because things can’t get
worse.”  The Shanghai Composite Index rose 0.5 percent as of 11:14
a.m. local time, paring the benchmark’s steepest weekly drop
since October.  Stimulus Package  With the 2008 crisis, China enacted a 4 trillion yuan ($586
billion at the time) stimulus and opened up bank lending to
revive expansion. Year-over-year growth, after decelerating for
seven quarters, bottomed at 6.2 percent in the first quarter of
2009 and accelerated to 11.9 percent a year later.  Economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News  this month, in
contrast with Yuan, see growth rebounding next quarter. The
median estimates for expansion were 7.4 percent for the third
quarter, 7.7 percent in the fourth quarter and 7.9 percent in
the first period of 2013.  Data for the past two months point to a deepening slowdown
in the world’s second-biggest economy after growth decelerated
to a three-year-low of 7.6 percent last quarter. Even so, the
People’s Bank of China has held off from easing after cutting
interest  rates  in June and July and lowering lenders’ reserve
requirement ratio three times from November to May.  Policy Paralysis  The Communist Party has yet to announce a date for the
congress this year that will start the process of the leadership
handover. Lu Ting, chief  Greater China  economist at Bank of
America Corp., said this month that the nation had “policy
paralysis” as a result of the pending transition.  Yuan, who also teaches at  Tsinghua University  in Beijing,
said unsustainable local-government spending plans will also
contribute to the slowdown.  “China’s medium and small-sized businesses are finding it
increasingly hard to borrow money from banks -- the most
fundamental part of the economy is suffering,” Yuan said.  The nation’s target for 14 percent growth in the M2  money
supply  this year is helpful to keep inflation in check yet too
low to accommodate accelerated growth, Yuan said.  The U.S. Federal Reserve’s decision last week to start a
third round of large-scale asset purchases “may not necessarily
lead to big capital inflows into China,” Yuan said. “If the
markets in the  United States  are performing better than China’s,
why should investors bother to come to China?”  Stock Gauges  The U.S. benchmark Standard & Poor’s 500  Index (SHCOMP)  is up about
22 percent in the past year while China’s Shanghai Composite
Index has dropped 17 percent.  Banks and brokerages cutting their gross domestic product
forecasts this month include UBS AG, Morgan Stanley and Barclays
Plc, who predict growth will sink to a 22-year low of 7.5
percent this year.  Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao , who pledged last week to employ
monetary and fiscal policies to spur growth, has accelerated
infrastructure-project approvals while refraining from
introducing a stimulus package on the scale of the one during
the financial crisis.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Xin Zhou in Beijing at 
 xzhou68@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  