-- China’s Stocks Rise, Paring Biggest Weekly Decline in Year
-- B y   W e i y i   L i m
-- 2012-09-21T07:45:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-21/china-s-stock-futures-drop-on-property-bank-dividend-concerns.html
China’s stocks  rose, paring the
benchmark index’s steepest five-day drop in almost a year, on
speculation this week’s losses were excessive.  Jiangxi Copper Co. and Yanzhou Coal Mining Co. led a
rebound for materials and energy producers.  China  Cosco Holdings
Co., the world’s largest operator of dry-bulk ships, jumped the
most in two weeks as container shipping rates rose.  Industrial &
Commercial Bank of China (601398)  Ltd., the nation’s biggest lender, fell
0.5 percent after the China Securities Journal said the
government may cut the dividend payout ratio of listed banks.  “There could be a short rebound after reaching lows but
it’s not sustainable,” said Wu Kan, Shanghai-based  fund manager 
at Dazhong Insurance Co., which oversees $285 million. “We need
to see better economic numbers and more policy loosening.”  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  rose 0.1 percent to 2,026.69
at the close. The gauge slid 4.6 percent this week, the most
since the week ended Oct. 21, 2011, after a report on
manufacturing signaled a contraction and escalating tensions
with  Japan  threatened trade.  The CSI 300 Index added 0.1 percent to 2,199.06 today while
the  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of Chinese companies
traded in  Hong Kong  rose 0.8 percent. The  Bloomberg China-US 55
Index (CH55BN) , the measure of the most-traded U.S.-listed Chinese
companies, dropped 1.6 percent in  New York .  The Shanghai Composite had fallen 7.9 percent this year
amid speculation concern the government isn’t introducing
stimulus policies fast enough to counter the slowdown in the
economy. The gauge is valued at 9.3 times estimated earnings,
compared with the average of 17.5 since Bloomberg began
compiling the weekly  data  in 2006.  Commodity Producers  The measure’s relative strength index is at 36.6. The RSI
measures how rapidly prices have advanced or declined during the
specified time period. Some analysts see a reading of less than
30 as a signal to buy.  Gauges of material and energy stocks were among the three
biggest gainers on the CSI 300 index, adding 1.2 percent and 0.9
percent respectively. Jiangxi Copper, the biggest producer of
the metal, gained 0.6 percent to 22.02  yuan , paring a loss to
4.8 percent for this week. Yanzhou Coal Mining Co. advanced 0.7
percent to 17.58 yuan, trimming a five-day drop to 6.8 percent.  Guangzhou Automobile Group Co., which has joint ventures
with Toyota Motor Corp. and Honda Motor Co., gained 1.1 percent
to 5.34 yuan, paring a weekly loss to 9.3 percent.  Japan Dispute  Honda President Takanobu Ito said today the automaker was
able to reopen its factories in China, though it hasn’t fully
recovered due to parts procurement and safety concerns.  Japan’s purchase last week of the islands triggered
protests and attacks on Japanese businesses in China, straining
ties between  Asia ’s two biggest economies. U.S. Assistant
Secretary of State  Kurt Campbell  said yesterday islands at the
heart of a dispute between Japan and China fall under an
American defense pact with Japan, while urging the sides to
resolve the standoff via diplomacy.  China Cosco surged 6 percent to 4.07 yuan, the most in two
weeks. The Baltic Dry Index, a measure of commodity shipping
costs, rose 4.6 percent to 755 yesterday. China Cosco was
upgraded to neutral from sell amid monetary easing in U.S. and
Japan, as well as a likely improvement in the operating
environment in the first quarter, Bank of Communications Co.
said in a report yesterday.  Policy Outlook  A Chinese manufacturing survey released yesterday pointed
to an 11th month of contraction, supporting the case for
increased stimulus. The preliminary reading was 47.8 for a China
purchasing managers’ index by HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit
Economics, compared with a final level of 47.6 last month.  The Chinese central bank has left benchmark  interest rates 
unchanged since July on concern that inflation is accelerating
even as economic growth drops to a three-year low. Policy makers
have also kept bank reserve requirements at 20 percent since
May, and have allowed money-market rates to surge before the
week-long National Day holiday starting Oct. 1.  China’s slowdown may last longer than during the global
financial crisis because of worsening external demand and
limited lending to smaller companies, a state researcher said.  Growth may slow for a ninth straight period to below 7
percent in the first quarter, Yuan Gangming, an economist with
the  Chinese Academy of Social Sciences , said in an interview
Sept. 19 in Beijing.  Suning Appliance Co., which sells household appliances,
fell 6.2 percent to 6.05 yuan after Shenyin & Wanguo Securities
said air-conditioner output and sales fell in August.  Gree
Electric Appliances Inc. (000651)  slid 0.5 percent to 20.39 yuan.  China may lower the dividend payout ratio of listed banks
to help them retain more profits for use as capital, the China
Securities Journal reported, citing unidentified people.  ICBC lost 0.5 percent to 3.66 yuan. China Construction Bank
Corp., the second-biggest lender, declined 0.3 percent to 3.87
yuan.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  