-- China Money Rate Sees Biggest Weekly Increase Since February
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-09-21T08:51:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-21/china-money-rate-set-for-biggest-weekly-increase-since-february.html
China ’s overnight money-market rate
had the biggest weekly advance in seven months on speculation
banks are hoarding cash to meet quarter-end requirements.  The one-day repurchase rate climbed to a seven-month high
even after the central bank stepped up offerings of reverse-
repurchase agreements to add funds to the financial system. The
People’s Bank of China issued a total of 235 billion  yuan  ($37.3
billion) of the contracts this week, compared with 132 billion
yuan in the five days ended Sept. 14, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  “The cash crunch may get even worse next week,” said Chen Lan, a bond analyst in Shanghai at Guotai Junan Securities Co.,
the nation’s biggest brokerage by revenue. “But the central
bank’s reverse-repo operations may help ease the shortage.”  The one-day  repo  rate, which measures interbank funding
availability, rose 161 basis points, or 1.61 percentage points,
in the week to 4.29 percent in  Shanghai , according to a weighted
average compiled by the National Interbank Funding Center. That
was the biggest five-day increase since February. The rate
climbed 28 basis points today.  The central bank will auction 40 billion yuan of six-month
deposits on Sept. 25 on behalf of the  finance ministry ,
according to a statement on its website yesterday.  The one-year interest-rate swap, the fixed cost needed to
receive the floating seven-day repurchase rate, gained one basis
point this week to 3.25 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. It rose two basis points today.  The yield on the 2.95 percent government bonds due August
2017 dropped two basis points this week to 3.28 percent,
according to the Interbank Funding Center. The yield fell one
basis point today.  -- Judy Chen . Editors: Simon Harvey, Anil Varma  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Judy Chen in Shanghai at 
 xchen45@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  