-- Cinemark Sued on Behalf of Victims of Movie Shooting
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t   a n d   J e f f   K a s s
-- 2012-09-22T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-21/cinemark-sued-on-behalf-of-victims-of-movie-shooting.html
A  Cinemark Holdings Inc. (CNK)  unit was
accused of failing to take security precautions in a lawsuit
filed behalf of victims of the July 20 theater shooting in
Aurora, Colorado, in which 12 people were killed.  James Holmes is accused of opening fire on the audience at
a midnight screening of “The Dark Knight Rises.” Holmes, who
studied neuroscience at the  University of Colorado -Denver, is
charged in state court in Centennial with 24 counts of first-
degree murder for the 12 people killed in the shooting. First-
degree murder can carry the death penalty in Colorado.  Before the shooting, Cinemark had information about
previous disturbances at the theater, including at least one
shooting as well as assaults and robberies, according to two
complaints filed yesterday in federal court in Denver. Cinemark,
though expecting large crowds, failed to provide security
personnel for the midnight premier of the movie, according to
the complaints.  “The gunman made one or more trips from his car through
the open exterior door” of the movie auditorium, “bringing his
arsenal and ammunition through that open door,” according to
one of the complaints. “Throughout that time, no employee or
security personnel contacted him, deterred him, monitored him or
stopped him from that re-entry.”  James Meredith, a spokesman for Plano, Texas-based
Cinemark, didn’t immediately return a call after regular 
business hours yesterday seeking comment on the lawsuits.  Holmes Notebook  Prosecutors yesterday dropped a bid to view the contents of
a notebook Holmes sent to a psychiatrist just before the
shooting. Holmes’s lawyers had argued that the notebook was
subject to patient-doctor privilege and couldn’t be viewed by
prosecutors.  Deputy Arapahoe County District Attorney Rich Orman told
Judge William Sylvester yesterday that any decision on the
question would probably trigger an appeal that would delay the
case “for a long time.”  Also yesterday,  Colorado  Governor John Hickenlooper said
Ken Feinberg will serve as special master to oversee
distribution of money donated to the Aurora Victim Relief Fund.  Feinberg served the same role in administering the federal
Sept. 11 Victim Compensation Fund of 2001, in which he contacted
people who qualified to file a claim, evaluated applications,
and determined appropriate compensation and disseminated awards,
according to the statement.  The cases are Nowlan v. Cinemark, USA, Inc., 12-cv-02517,
and Traynom v. Cinemark, USA, Inc. 12-cv-02514, U.S. District
Court, District of Colorado (Denver).  The criminal case is People v. Holmes, 12-cr-01522, 18th
Judicial District Court, Colorado (Centennial).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  