-- Clegg Seeks More U.K. Tax on Unearned Wealth, Top-End Property
-- B y   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 2012-09-22T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-21/clegg-to-urge-more-u-k-tax-on-unearned-wealth-top-end-property.html
U.K. Deputy Prime Minister  Nick Clegg  called for higher taxes on the most expensive properties
and unearned wealth at the start of his Liberal Democrat party’s
annual conference.  Clegg told the conference in Brighton on  England ’s south
coast last night that he wants to “go further” in increasing
taxes on the “very rich” while cutting taxes for the poor. The
Liberal Democrats have lost support since breaking a pre-
election pledge not to raise university tuition fees, something
Clegg apologized for on Sept. 19. A pop single satirizing that
apology, remixing his words to music, entered the Top 40 iTunes
downloads yesterday.  “I want to reward people who put in a proper shift, not
those who sit on a fortune; people for whom a bonus means a few
extra quid at Christmas, not a million-pound windfall,” Clegg
said. “It’s just wrong that people on low and middle incomes
who work hard and play by the rules are taxed so much while
Russian oligarchs pay the same council tax as some people do on
a family home.”  With the conference being held under the slogan “Fairer
tax in tough times,” party members will be asked on Sept. 25 to
vote on a motion calling for “increasing taxes on unearned
income and wealth,” as Clegg seeks to emphasize differences
with Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s  Conservative Party , which
leads the coalition government.  ‘Different Priorities’  “It is no secret that we have different priorities to our
coalition partners,” Clegg told party activists. “I can do my
bit around the Cabinet table, but most of the seats at that
table are occupied by Conservatives, not Liberal Democrats. So I
need you to do your bit the old-fashioned way: getting out there
and campaigning.”  The Independent newspaper quoted Clegg as saying in an
interview published yesterday that he would block any plans by
Tory Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  to save 10
billion pounds ($16 billion) by concentrating on reducing
welfare spending.  “That’s totally unacceptable to me,” Clegg was cited as
saying.  “In these next rounds of savings it is vitally, vitally
important that the burden of those is, and is seen to be, fairly
shared,” Chief Secretary to the Treasury  Danny Alexander  told
Liberal Democrat activists in Brighton yesterday. “We expect as
part of this process there will be measures to ensure the
wealthiest in society are making a contribution commensurate
with their means. That is the only way we can get through this
process and make the further decisions which we absolutely have
to make for the good of this country.”  Trident Alternative  Clegg appointed Alexander yesterday to take charge of the
party’s search for an alternative nuclear deterrent to the
current Trident submarine-based system. “I am more determined
than ever to find the right alternative to such a monumentally
expensive replacement for a Cold War deterrent,” Clegg said.  Support for the  Liberal Democrats  has dropped to 10 percent
or less in recent opinion polls from more than 23 percent in the
2010 election.  The  conference  lasts until Sept. 26, when it will be closed
by a keynote speech from Clegg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Penny in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  