-- Clinton Said to Plan Removing MEK From Terrorism List
-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e   a n d   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 2012-09-21T19:18:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-21/clinton-said-to-plan-removing-mek-from-terrorism-list.html
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton 
will notify Congress today that she intends to take the Iranian
dissident group Mujahedin-e-Khalq, or MEK, off a list of
terrorist organizations, a State Department official said.  A decision will be formally announced before Oct. 1, a
second department official said today. The officials spoke on
the condition of anonymity pending notification of Congress.  The action will be well-received by Congress, where some
lawmakers have advocated delisting for years, while it may spark
an angry response from the Iranian government, which has alleged
the group has worked to assassinate its nuclear scientists
in tandem with  Israel .  The MEK was formed in 1965 to resist the Shah of  Iran .
After the Shah’s fall in 1979, the group broke with the
revolutionary Islamic government and began attacking the regime
from  Iraq . The U.S. put the organization on its terrorism list
in 1997 for alleged involvement in the killing of six Americans
in Iran in the 1970s. The MEK also had made a failed attempt to
kidnap the U.S. ambassador to Iran in 1971.  The organization says it disarmed in 2003, following the
U.S. invasion of Iraq, and has lobbied the U.S. government since
then to be removed from the list of terror organizations.  The group has employed prominent figures from both
political parties to argue its cause in  Washington  and overseas.
It denies Iran’s claim that the MEK was involved in attacks on
Iranian nuclear scientists.  ‘Right Decision’  Republican Representative Dana Rohrabacher of California
praised Clinton’s “right decision” to delist the MEK, which he
said has “worked with the U.S. military since 2003 to help
gather intelligence on  Iran’s nuclear program .”  Iran may seek to exploit the decision, said  Trita Parsi ,
president of the Chicago-based National Iranian-American
Council.  “This is not a positive development in any way, shape or
form, and I am very fearful that the Iranian government will
significantly benefit from this,” Parsi said in an interview
today. “It gives them an opportunity to portray the  United
States  as an enemy of the Iranian people by cozying up” to a
group that is “widely disliked by the Iranian public.”  Clinton is notifying Congress under the pressure of a
federal court order requiring her to make a decision on whether
to change the MEK designation by Oct. 1. She had said that her
decision to delist the group would be guided partly by how
peacefully the group’s approximately 3,000 followers left their
Iraqi camp, which previously served as a base for paramilitary
strikes against Iran with support from then-Iraqi leader  Saddam Hussein .  Followers Relocate  Group members are now in the final stages of moving from
Camp Ashraf to Camp Liberty, a former U.S. base near the Baghdad
airport, before being permanently relocated to other countries
by the  United Nations .  Delisting the MEK will expedite the relocation process, and
“allow our friends and allies to accept these refugees,”
Rohrabacher, chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Subcommittee
on Oversight and Investigations, said in a statement today.  “The MEK are Iranians who desire a secular, peaceful, and
democratic government,” he said. “Nothing threatens the mullah
dictatorship more than openness and transparency.”  In a 2008 petition to be removed from the terrorist rolls,
MEK said that although it had engaged in terrorist actions in
the past, it had ended its military campaign against the Iranian
regime, renounced violence, surrendered its arms to U.S. forces
in Iraq and shared intelligence with the U.S. government
regarding Iran’s nuclear program.  On Jan. 7, 2009, Secretary of State  Condoleezza Rice  denied
the petition. The court granted the MEK’s request for a review
of that decision on July 16, 2010, saying that “due process
protections” hadn’t been followed.  The European Union lifted its terrorist designation of MEK
in 2008, five years after MEK says it disarmed.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net ;
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  