-- Clint’s Grump; Gyllenhaal’s Good Cop; Acting Up: Movies
-- B y   G r e g   E v a n s   a n d   C r a i g   S e l i g m a n
-- 2012-09-22T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-21/clint-s-grump-gyllenhaal-s-good-cop-acting-up-movies.html
Clint Eastwood  tosses an easy one
across the plate with “ Trouble With the Curve ,” a predictable
baseball dramedy with no wild pitches.  Eastwood, his growls and grimaces moving finally into a
crotchety “ On Golden Pond ” phase, plays Gus Lobel, an old-
school scout for the  Atlanta Braves  who disdains all things
“Moneyball.”  He sneers at the “Interweb.” A computer, he says, “can’t
look into a kid’s eyes.”  Actually, Gus is having similar problems, his vision
blurred with the onset of macular degeneration. His diagnosis,
and the prospect of an impending forced retirement, spurs a
visit from his concerned but resentful daughter Mickey ( Amy Adams ).  A lawyer about to make partner on the condition that she
win next week’s big case, Mickey ditches work for a few days to
join Gus on a scouting trip.  Will she make partner? Will she resolve the longstanding
bitterness over her childhood consignment to relatives and
boarding schools by her widowed dad? And will she dump her
“perfect on paper” boyfriend for the puppyish new scout
( Justin Timberlake ) who reveres Gus?  You’ll probably guess the answers long before this film’s
seventh inning stretch.  Great Bench  Directed by Eastwood’s longtime producing partner Robert
Lorenz, “Curve” has a winning roster of supporting players --
particularly  John Goodman  as Gus’s protective supervisor and
Matthew Lillard as a scheming, computer-using rival.  But Randy Brown’s formulaic script is so one-dimensional
that we know where every ball will land. The loutish high school
batting phenom (Joe Massingill) might as well hit the showers as
soon as he starts bragging about endorsement deals.  Mickey’s comeuppances on the road to redemption are harder
to take. Here’s a woman who risks her career to babysit a fully
functioning father and then is castigated by the men in her life
as work-obsessed and cold when she dares to check her
Blackberry.  Even a scout with failing vision should see what’s wrong
with that.  “Trouble With the Curve,” from  Warner Bros. Pictures , is
playing across the U.S. Rating: **1/2 (Evans)  Buddy Movie  “ End of Watch ” starts out as a standard buddy movie. It’s
more, and better, than that.  Following  Jake Gyllenhaal  and Michael Pena as good-guy cops
on patrol along the rough streets of South Central in  Los
Angeles , it becomes something like a Platonic ideal of its type.  Gracefully written and directed by David Ayer, who did time
on those streets as a kid, “End of Watch” proceeds by
episodes, with the tone changing every couple of minutes or so.  Brian Taylor  (Gyllenhaal) and Mike Zavala (Pena) hunt for
the missing babies of crackhead parents, run into a burning
building to save more children, discover a roomful of dead
torture victims and fall into the sights of a Mexican cartel.  In a funny encounter near the beginning, Zavala is so riled
by the mouth on a trash-talking thug that he takes off his gun
belt and the two of them whale away at each other. They both
come out satisfied.  But the best scenes by far are the ones in the patrol car,
with the partners ragging on each other, gossiping, telling
stories and, when the talk turns to women, getting real. (Zavala
is married; Taylor wants to be.)  The movie is so unembarrassed about letting them love each
other that it feels neither homoerotic nor homophobic --
Gyllenhaal isn’t doing penance for “ Brokeback Mountain .”  Nothing feels forced. Under a surface jagged with hand-held
camera work and the constant possibility of violence, “End of
Watch” is full of heart. It makes you think there really might
be heroes out there.  “End of Watch,” from Open Road Films, is playing across
the U.S. Rating: **** (Seligman)  Pink Triangles  Pink triangles blossomed in  Lower Manhattan  during the
spring of 1987, as posters bearing the slogan “Silence =
Death” heralded a movement that began with an occupation of
 Wall Street  and changed the course of an epidemic.  First-time director David  France ’s remarkable documentary
“ How to Survive a Plague ” chronicles the formation, work and
impact of Act-Up, the AIDS Coalition to Unleash Power.  The Greenwich Village group emerged -- erupted, really --
seven years into the crisis, with nearly 20,000 Americans dead
and President  Ronald Reagan  still mum on the subject.  National Sweep  With a trove of amateur footage shot mostly by Act-Up
participants, France assembles a point-by-point history that
conveys national sweep along with the intimate inner workings of
a movement that was often as fractious as it was devoted.  France, a veteran  New York  journalist who began covering
AIDS before it had a name, introduces us to an unforgettable
collection of front-line combatants. Chief among them: Larry Kramer (the Act-Up founder who, in one remarkable scene,
silences a loud, contentious meeting by repeatedly shouting
“Plague!”) and Peter Staley, a closeted HIV-positive bond
trader would become the public voice of the Act-Up movement.  Educating itself on medical arcana and byzantine drug
protocols, Act-Up focused on a simply stated mission impossible:
To convince the hidebound Federal Drug Administration and Big
Pharma to speed up the process for testing, approving and
releasing AIDS medications.  The film concludes with the arrival of life-saving protease
inhibitors in 1996. In a powerful reveal, France shows us the
film’s heroes as they are today, a roster of survivors that’s
both heartening, and too short.  “How To Survive a Plague,” from Sundance Selects, is
playing in New York and select cities. Rating: ***** (Evans)  ( Greg Evans  and  Craig Seligman  are critics for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions
expressed are their own.)  Muse highlights include  Jeremy Gerard  on theater and New
York  weekend .  To contact the writers on the story: Greg Evans at
 gregeaevans@yahoo.com . and Craig Seligman at
 cseligman@mindspring.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 