-- Coal Era Beckons for Europe as Carbon Giveaway Finishes
-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 2012-09-21T19:16:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-21/coal-era-beckons-for-europe-as-carbon-giveaway-finishes.html
European utilities are poised to
add more coal-fired power capacity than natural gas in the next
four years, boosting emissions just as the era of free carbon
permits ends.  Power producers from EON AG to  RWE AG (RWE)  will open six times
more coal-burning plants than gas-fed units by 2015, UBS AG said
in a Sept. 5 research note. Profits at coal-fired power stations
may more than double by then, according to a Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. report published on Sept. 13.  The new stations, replacing atomic and aging fossil fuel-
based plants, will boost demand for emission permits because
coal-fired generators need twice as many credits as gas users
under climate protection rules. The price of UN credits may
rebound 73 percent by the end of next year from an all-time low
on Sept. 18, according to the Euro Carbon Macro Fund in
Luxembourg, which manages about $32 million.  “The economics for coal are near the best we’ve seen in
five years,” Laurent Segalen, a director at ECMF, said
yesterday in an interview from  London . Buying UN credits for
2013, after they plunged almost 80 percent in the past year, is
“an amazing bargain,” he said.  UN offsets, known as Certified Emission Reductions, for
next year had their biggest weekly decline through Sept. 14,
losing 29 percent of their value. Credits for delivery in 2013
gained 1.9 percent today to 2.10 euros ($2.73) a metric ton, on
the ICE Futures  Europe  exchange in London. European Union
permits for next year fell 2.9 percent to 7.46 euros.  World’s Biggest  Carbon is falling as the European Commission seeks to fix a
glut of permits through 2020 in the world’s biggest greenhouse-
gas market by traded volume. This year’s supplies have been
inflated by credits that the European regulator has banned and
need to be handed in by emitters before May.  “The outlook for CERs will improve in the second half of
next year,”  Matthew Gray , an analyst and trader at Jefferies
Group Inc. in London, said by phone Sept. 19. Prices may rise to
2.25 euros by December 2013, he said.  CERs will probably climb to 3 euros in the same period,
said Segalen, whose fund has gained 18 percent since its
inception in January last year. They may struggle to rise above
that,  Trevor Sikorski , a director of European energy markets
research at Barclays Plc in London, said yesterday by phone.  Utilities will add as much as 10,600 megawatts of new coal
plants in seven central European countries in the next four
years, compared with 1,600 megawatts of new natural-gas
capacity, Patrick Hummel, a UBS analyst in Zurich, said in the
report. Generators will retire 3,400 megawatts of stations
burning coal in the same period, he said. A thousand megawatts
can supply power to about 2 million European homes.  Boom Years  “The buildout has nothing to do with low carbon prices,”
Hummel said by e-mail on Sept. 14. “All these projects were
already decided and kicked off several years ago, during the
boom years of the utilities sector.”  The  next-year German power  price, the regional benchmark,
has fallen 47 percent since exceeding 90 euros a megawatt-hour
in July 2008, according to broker prices compiled by Bloomberg.
It closed at 48.11 euros yesterday.  Coal plants can boost profit 58 percent by using UN offsets
instead of EU permits for as much as 20 percent their compliance
needs, according to a Bloomberg clean-dark spread calculator,
which takes the cost of the fuel, power and carbon into account.
German profits based on prices for next year will reach 15.69
euros a megawatt-hour with a CER, compared with 9.96 euros using
an EU permit. Stations burning natural gas make a loss under
both scenarios, the calculations show.  Goldman Sachs  Northwest Europe’s coal-fed capacity will rise 4.6 percent
next year to 68,000 megawatts and 3 percent to the same level
for gas-fired power stations, Deborah Wilkens, an analyst at
Goldman Sachs in London, said in the report last week. Capacity
will drop after 2013 for both fuels and margins at coal-fired
plants may rise as high as 26 euros by 2015, she said.  UBS’s estimates for new coal plants show that  Connie Hedegaard , Europe’s climate commissioner, needs to succeed in
her attempt to fix the glut in the region’s cap-and-trade system
to protect the reputation of carbon markets, Mark Owen-Lloyd, a
trader at Leap Trading Ltd. in London and formerly at EON, said
on Sept. 11 by phone.  Hedegaard in July proposed to withhold an unspecified
amount of carbon permits temporarily from auctions planned in
the three years starting in 2013. They would be returned to the
market later this decade.  “The worry is her plan to delay supply will merely move
the problem to five years down the track,” Owen-Lloyd said.  Isaac Valero-Ladron, a spokesman for Hedegaard, did not
immediately comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  