-- Coal States Crucial in Battle for Control of Congress
-- B y   D e r e k   W a l l b a n k
-- 2012-09-22T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-21/coal-states-crucial-in-battle-for-control-of-congress.html
For Republicans in the U.S. House,
the math is simple: Keep the coal seats, stay in power.  The very last piece of legislation the House voted on
yesterday before leaving for the campaign trail is called the
Stop the War on Coal Act of 2012. It’s a combination of five
bills, four of which the House has passed in one form or
another. All four have have gone nowhere in the Senate.  The bill, H.R. 3409, would block any federal regulation
that could harm the coal mining industry for at least a year
while delaying, rolling back or adding layers of scrutiny to
dozens more regulations.  “This is about laying out a road map for the future,”
said Representative Glenn Thompson, a Pennsylvania Republican
whose district includes coal mines. If Republicans retain the
House, he said, expect to see more coal bills when the new
Congress takes over in January.  A look at the electoral map shows why the Republican
majority made support for the coal industry’s priorities one of
its priorities.  For Democrats to retake the House, they must win a net of
25 seats.  The  top 12 coal-producing states , each of which account for
at least 2 percent of the nation’s coal, include 24 competitive
House districts, according to state coal production data
compiled by Bloomberg and House election ratings from the
nonpartisan Cook Political Report.  Coal-State Lawmakers  Republicans hold 19 of those 24 House seats.  Two of the remaining five, held by Democrats, are open
seats. The others are represented by Nick Rahall, whose southern
West  Virginia  district includes the Spruce No. 1 mine owned by
 Arch Coal Inc. (ACI) ; Mark Critz, whose southwestern Pennsylvania
district includes Quecreek, known for a 2002 coal-mine accident;
and Ben Chandler, whose central Kentucky district includes the
headquarters of the Kentucky Coal Association.  Rahall, Critz and Chandler all voted for the bill. Among
the companies lobbying for it was St. Louis-based  Peabody Energy
Corp. (BTU) , the largest U.S. coal producer by volume.  Representative Mike Quigley, an Illinois Democrat, said the
bill, which was passed by a vote of 233-175, has nothing to do
with policy and everything to do with Republicans communicating
to constituents before Election Day.  ‘Let’s Message’  “This is ‘Let’s message to our core constituency with
legislation we know has no chance of passing,’”  Quigley said
in an interview.  The voters in coal country “tend to be blue-collar,”
 Jennifer Duffy , a political analyst with the Cook Political
Report in Washington, said in a telephone interview.  Duffy said that message -- coal equals jobs, and less coal
equals fewer jobs -- is being played across coal-producing
states, especially in West Virginia, where in some towns the
options for employment range from working in the coal industry
to working at a job supported by the coal industry.  Long the mainstay of U.S. power generation, coal has been
losing ground to natural gas after new reserves of that  fossil
fuel  drove prices down to 10-year lows earlier this year.  Alpha Natural Resources Inc. (ANR)  of Bristol, Virginia, the No.
2 coal producer by volume, said this week that it will reduce
annual production by 16 million tons, about 16 percent of 2011
output, and eliminate 1,200 jobs through early 2013. The company
is among producers that have cut or plan to cut output this year
after some power stations switched to using natural gas, and
prices dropped for metallurgical, or coking, coal used to make
steel.  Rahall’s Fight  A good test of the potency of the Republicans’ message will
be Rahall’s re-election race in  West Virginia , the second-
largest coal state.  Rahall said he committed to voting for the Republicans’
five-part bill before he had read the 80-page measure. “Let me
put it this way: Anything that harms our coal industry I have
and will continue to oppose,” he said in an interview.  In fact, Rahall didn’t need to hear the end of a question -
- “Is there a war on coal?” -- before almost shouting “Yes!”  “Who’s fighting it? I’m fighting it,” Rahall said.
“Who’s conducting it? The EPA.”  The Environmental Protection Agency issued proposed rules
this year that would effectively preclude the construction of
new coal-fired  power plants  that don’t have expensive carbon-
capture and storage technology.  Front Lines  Speaking on the House floor, Rahall said he knows “quite
possibly better than anyone else” in the House “how the
regulatory arm of government can wreak havoc on the people we
represent.”  “The real front lines of this war on coal are not here in
Washington,” he said. “They run through the hills and hollows
of southern West Virginia. And the true soldiers in this war are
our coal miners who simply want to do their jobs and earn an
honest living to provide for their families.”  The vigor of Rahall’s argument may make a difference as he
goes after a 19th term in the House.  When Republicans convened a press conference at the Capitol
this morning, they had some laid-off miners on hand, including
Franklin Kinchen of Drawdy, West Virginia, who said he is a
United Mine Workers member out of work since May 1, when his job
ended at a  Patriot Coal Corp. (PCXCQ)  mine.  Tiny’s Vote  Kinchen, a large man with a beard, a buzz cut and the
nickname “Tiny,” described himself as eager to vote against
President  Barack Obama . Yet he’s sticking with another Democrat,
Rahall, who delivered a stemwinding speech on the House floor
yesterday in support of the coal bill.  “I’ve never been prouder to have him as my
representative,” Kinchen said.  Republicans are running a candidate, Rick Snuffer, who is
just as enthusiastic about coal and who doesn’t share a
political party with Obama.  Obama, who has threatened to veto the coal bill, has become
so unpopular in West Virginia that 40 percent of the Democratic
primary vote went to an unknown who turned out to be a prisoner
in  Texas . Voters may have to be willing to ticket-split -- as
Kinchen is for Rahall -- to win re-election.  The Cook Political Report’s rating has Rahall favored in
the race.  “If he loses,” Duffy said, “coal is why.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Derek Wallbank in  Washington  at 
 dwallbank@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katherine Rizzo at 
 krizzo5@bloomberg.net  