-- Colombia Bond Yields Rise Most This Month on Interest-Rate View
-- B y   A n d r e a   J a r a m i l l o
-- 2012-09-21T19:13:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-21/colombia-yields-hold-near-two-week-high-on-interest-rate-outlook.html
Colombia ’s peso bond yields rose
the most in September as investors pared bets policy makers will
cut borrowing costs after a report showed the economy grew in
the second quarter faster than forecast.  The yield on Colombia’s 6 percent peso-denominated debt due
in April 2013 increased five basis points, or 0.05 percentage
point, to 4.73 percent, according to the central bank. That is
the biggest advance since Aug. 29. The yield was up nine basis
points for the week.  “There’s no pressure to cut  interest rates  at the next
meeting,” said Daniel Lozano, the head analyst at Serfinco SA
brokerage in Bogota. “The bond curve is flattening as people
see the central bank keeping rates unchanged at least for a few
more months.”  Colombia’s economy grew 4.9 percent in the second quarter
from a year earlier, the national statistics agency said
yesterday. The median forecast of 29 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg was for growth of 4.2 percent.  The central bank cut the target rate in August for a second
straight month, lowering it by a quarter-percentage point to
4.75 percent. Banco de la Republica will next decide on monetary
policy on Sept. 28.  The peso depreciated 0.2 percent to 1,798.35 per  U.S.
dollar , paring its rally in 2012 to 7.8 percent. The currency is
down 0.3 percent this week.  Colombia’s economy may see Asia-like growth of 6 percent to
7 percent “for decades” if the government strikes a peace deal
with Marxist rebels in soon-to-begin negotiations, Finance
Minister  Mauricio Cardenas  said.  A deal with guerrillas of the Revolutionary Armed Forces of
Colombia, or FARC, may open the country’s eastern plains to
Brazilian-style agribusiness and divert tax revenue from
security and defense spending to more productive use, Cardenas
said in an interview at his Bogota office.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Jaramillo in Bogota at 
 ajaramillo1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Brendan Walsh  at 
 Bwalsh8@bloomberg.net  