-- Colombia Finance Chief Sees Asia-Like Growth If Rebels Disarm
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w   a n d   C h r i s t i n e   J e n k i n s
-- 2012-09-21T05:11:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-21/colombia-finance-chief-sees-asia-like-growth-if-rebels-disarm.html
Colombia ’s economy could see Asia-
like growth of 6 percent to 7 percent “for decades” if the
government strikes a peace deal with Marxist rebels in soon-to-
begin negotiations, Finance Minister  Mauricio Cardenas  said.  An eventual deal with guerrillas of the Revolutionary Armed
Forces of Colombia, or FARC, could open the country’s eastern
plains to Brazilian-style agribusiness, and divert  tax revenue 
from security and defense spending to more  productive uses ,
Cardenas said in an interview in his Bogota office.  “My bet is that if anything is going to grow faster in
Colombia with the end of the conflict, it’s going to be
agricultural production,” the 50-year-old Cardenas said in an
interview 17 days after being sworn in as finance chief. “We’re
talking about  palm oil , soybeans, rubber, sugarcane, things like
that.”  The  FARC  surprised many Colombians Sept. 4 by agreeing to
sit down with President  Juan Manuel Santos ’ government next 
month, in Oslo, for the first talks in a decade aimed at ending 
 Latin America ’s longest-running armed conflict. A U.S.-funded 
crackdown has already improved security for oil and mining 
companies across much of the Andean nation, helping lure
record foreign  investment  that’s allowed Colombia to overtake
 Argentina  as  South America ’s second-biggest economy.  War, Implications  While a peace dividend would spur growth and investment
even further, the economy can still grow at an “outstanding”
long-term pace of 4.5 percent to 5 percent even if the talks
fail, Cardenas said.  “I don’t want to give the impression that our success and
the good momentum of the Colombian economy hinges on good
results in that process,” said Cardenas, who served as Santos’
mining minister before switching jobs as part of a Cabinet
shake-up. “It would be a nice thing to have, it will add to
economic growth, but we already have outstanding economic
growth.”  Cardenas’ comments came the same day the national
statistics agency reported that economic growth accelerated in
the second quarter.  The FARC have been waging war on the Colombian state for
nearly five decades, leaving large parts of the Andean nation
off-limits for investors.  Agriculture has been held back more than energy and mining
by the guerrillas, since oil facilities are more localized and
easier to protect than farms, Cardenas said.  ‘Locomotives’  The talks come as the FARC step up attacks on oil workers,
pipelines and energy towers this year to try to derail what
Santos says is one of the country’s growth “locomotives.”  Attacks on  oil  pipelines more than quadrupled to 88 in the
first seven months of the year, from 20 in the same period in
2011, according to government statistics, even after the Santos
government tracked down and killed the FARC’s top two
commanders.  University of California , Berkeley-educated Cardenas was
appointed to his post on Aug. 23 and took over the  finance
ministry  this month from Juan Carlos Echeverry. Cardenas was
best man at Echeverry’s wedding, and says he shares many of his
friend’s views on economics.  Before being appointed as minister of mines and energy last
year, Cardenas had served as director of the Latin America
Initiative at The  Brookings Institution  beginning in 2008.  The economy Echeverry left him grew 4.9 percent in the
second quarter from a year earlier, the national statistics
agency said yesterday, faster than Brazil and  Mexico , while
lagging behind Chile and  Peru .  Over the last decade, Colombia’s economy had an annual
average growth rate of 4.5 percent.  Rate Horizon  Even though annual growth in the second quarter exceeded
the forecasts of all 29 analysts surveyed Bloomberg, Cardenas
says there are “good reasons” for the central bank to continue
to cut interest rates to offset the global slowdown.  More  interest rate  cuts would also help curb the peso’s
appreciation as the U.S. Federal Reserve’s third round of
quantitative easing weakens the dollar, Cardenas said.  At the same time, retail sales and industrial production
reports for July, published by the statistics agency on Sept.
19, both came in below the median estimates of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg.  Sales rose 1.3 percent, below the 3.6 percent forecast,
while output grew 1.5 percent, lower than the estimate of all
but two of 20 economists’ forecasts.  Peso, Ecopetrol  The central bank cut interest rates by a quarter point at
each of its last two policy meetings, citing the weak global
economy, which has cut demand for the country’s commodities
exports. In Colombia the finance minister sits on the central
bank’s seven-member policy committee.  The central bank will hold its  benchmark interest rate  at
4.75 percent at its September policy meeting next week,
according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg survey of 14
analysts.  The Colombian peso has strengthened 8.1 percent this year,
the biggest gain of the 31 most traded tracked by Bloomberg,
behind the  Mexican peso , Chilean peso and the Hungarian forint.  Cardenas said the Treasury will continue to intervene in
foreign exchange markets to reinforce the central bank’s daily
dollar purchase program and weaken the peso.  The Petroleum Stability Fund will also buy an additional
$500 million by the end of the year, taking its total holdings
to close to $1 billion in savings abroad, to reinforce the
central bank’s dollar purchase program.  The government wants to weaken the peso to help the country’s
manufacturing sector, which is one of the government’s main
worries, Cardenas said.  The government won’t present a bill to Congress this year
to allow it to sell a stake in  Ecopetrol SA (ECOPETL) , Colombia’s largest
oil company, Cardenas said.  “We will not be pushing that bill this year, we have other
priorities,” he said. “It’s not that we’re ruling that out
permanently, but it’s not a pressing issue for us.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Bristow in Brasilia at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net ;
Christine Jenkins in Bogota at 
 cjenkins28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  