-- Companies that Invest in Sustainability Do Better Financially
-- B y   G e r r i t   H e y n s
-- 2012-09-21T00:16:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-21/companies-that-invest-in-sustainability-do-better-financially.html
     It's a common misperception that responsible or
sustainable investments are all in the hug yourself, warm
feeling, good intention category, the inevitable consequence
of which is diminished investment return.  Nothing could be
further from the truth.  In the past decade, investor demand has increased
transparency and communication, creating a large and growing
pool of data on corporate sustainability. With this, objective
decision-making can happen. Analysis of the data shows two
important relationships:  Resource efficient companies — those that use less energy
and water and create less waste in generating a unit of
revenue — tend to produce higher investment returns than their
less resource-efficient rivals.  Resource-efficient companies also display high levels of
innovation and entrepreneurship, pushing core value metrics
above the average large cap global business.  What these findings suggest is that an investment
strategy based on resource efficiency not only produces
returns in excess of global benchmarks, it also identifies
management teams that are forward thinking, aware of the
economic imperatives brought about by resource constraint.
Just the kinds of companies a responsible investment manager
would put clients' money into.  And while a global portfolio constructed around a
resource efficiency metric will certainly include less
well-known global firms like Lundin Petroleum and Shire
Ltd, it will mostly be comprised of household names. The data
on sustainability shows that companies like
Boeing, BMW, UPS, and L'Oreal are highly resource efficient in
their respective industries.  Resource efficiency, therefore, is not just some
nice-to-have quality. It is a leading indicator of economic
performance and one that every investment manager should be
tracking. It's about time that the financial community woke up
to this fact and started to take advantage of the data.  Gerrit Heyns is a partner at Osmosis Investment
Management in London  Visit www.bloomberg.com/sustainability for the latest
from Bloomberg News about energy, natural resources and global
business.
 