-- Corporate Credit Swaps in U.S. Little Changed After Index Shift
-- B y   P e t e r   R a w l i n g s
-- 2012-09-21T16:40:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-21/corporate-credit-swaps-in-u-s-little-changed-after-index-shift.html
A measure of corporate credit risk
was little changed as the new version of the index began its
second day of trading amid reports that  Italy  and Spain won’t
voluntarily seek bailouts unless bond yields surge.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses on company debt or to speculate on
creditworthiness, decreased 0.4 basis point to a mid-price of
95.9 basis points at 12:14 p.m. in  New York . Swaps tied to
 Darden Restaurants (DRI)  Inc., the world’s largest casual-dining chain
operator, fell to the lowest since July 11.  The swaps index, which typically falls as investor
confidence improves and rises as it deteriorates, was little
changed as an Italian government official said no nation will
voluntarily accept conditions imposed for aid. Italian and
Spanish 10-year bond yields have dropped more than 1 percentage
point since Aug. 2 when European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  first indicated the bank would purchase debt of
distressed euro-region nations.  “We’re going through a period of relatively low volatility
after the big push higher in risk assets and tighter in
spreads,” Jon Duensing, the Boulder, Colorado-based head of
corporate credit at money manager Smith Breeden Associates, said
in a telephone interview. There needs to be a catalyst to
justify a move in valuations, so “market participants are
keeping one eye on  Europe , particularly Spain and Italy, to see
what they may do with bailout assistance.”  Index Roll  The measure rose 10.7 basis points yesterday as banks,
 hedge funds  and other money managers shifted trades into a new
version of the index. The composition of companies in the
benchmark is updated every six months, changing the value of the
underlying securities.  Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  Contracts tied to Darden Restaurants declined 18.5 basis
points to 145 basis points as of 11:30 a.m. in New York,
according to data provider CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill
Cos. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately
negotiated market. The  Orlando , Florida-based restaurant chain
operator beat analysts’ estimates of its fiscal first-quarter
earnings, helped by better-than-expected same-store sales at
 Olive Garden , the company’s largest brand.  The U.S. two-year interest-rate swap spread, a measure of
stress in credit markets, fell by the most in a week, decreasing
0.38 basis point to 13 basis points. The measure falls when
investors favor assets such as corporate bonds and rises when
they seek the perceived safety of  government securities .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Rawlings in New York at 
 prawlings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  