-- Czech Koruna Snaps Four-Day Retreat on Spanish Bailout Optimism
-- B y   K r y s t o f   C h a m o n i k o l a s
-- 2012-09-21T15:56:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-21/czech-koruna-snaps-four-day-retreat-on-spanish-bailout-optimism.html
The koruna gained after four days
of losses as a report said European officials are discussing a
Spanish bailout, increasing appetite for riskier assets.  The Czech currency strengthened 0.3 percent to 24.848 per
euro by 5:46 p.m. in  Prague . The advance pared the koruna’s
losses this week to 2 percent, the worst among major emerging-
market peers tracked by Bloomberg, followed by a 1.7 percent
drop for  Poland ’s zloty.  Stocks and commodities climbed and most developing-nation
currencies appreciated on speculation this week’s declines were
overdone as central banks from the U.S. to  Japan  added stimulus.
The Financial Times reported Spanish and European Union
officials are working on plans to trigger the  European Central
Bank ’s unlimited and sterilized bond purchases.  “The koruna is benefiting from a fairly positive market
mood and the fact that, compared with Poland, the Czech National
Bank doesn’t have that much space for rate cuts,” David Sykora,
the chief currency trader at CSOB AS in Prague, said in e-mailed
comments today.  Traders in money markets expect the CNB, which cut its main
 interest rate  to a record-low 0.5 percent in June, to lower the
benchmark by at least another quarter point, based on nine-month
forward-rate agreements, or FRAs, trading 35 basis points  below 
the Prague interbank offered rate. Polish FRAs of same maturity
are trading 100 basis points, or 1 percentage point, below the
Warsaw interbank rate, showing expectations for rate reductions
to 3.75 percent from 4.75 percent by June next year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Krystof Chamonikolas in Prague at 
 kchamonikola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  