-- David Koch on Romney; Valentino, Anne Hathaway: Scene NYC
-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 2012-09-21T13:42:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-21/david-koch-on-romney-valentino-anne-hathaway-scene-nyc.html
At New York City Ballet’s fall gala
last night, billionaire  David Koch  talked about his support of
 Mitt Romney .  “The best thing he can do is do really well in the debates,
he has had enough practice,” Koch said in a custom-made
burgundy-colored velvet jacket by the House of Maurizio.  The question he’d like the candidates to answer: “‘What
can be done to balance the budget?’ It’s absolutely terrifying.
We know with mathematical certainty that without mass reduction
in federal spending we’ll go the way of Greece.”  As he spoke, a guest approached. “Thank you for what you
do for this country. God bless,” said the man in a tuxedo.  Koch continued on his train of thought. “I think Romney
will be a lot better at bringing the deficit under control.
Otherwise the country will crash into bankruptcy,” he said.  Koch, a major donor to the Romney campaign, has a net
estimated worth of $38 billion according to the  Bloomberg
Billionaires Index .  He put up $100 million to renovate  New York City Ballet ’s
theater at  Lincoln Center , which is named after him.  “I’ve been coming here to see the ballet since the
1960s,” Koch, 72, said. “When I had the opportunity to put up
the money to renovate, it was in my sweet spot. I love being a
philanthropist. I like to do things that help lots of people.”  He said he’s on a dozen medical boards and likes to be able
to help friends find the right doctor or treatment when they
become ill.  Rubies, Wine  A more cheerful subject: the Burmese rubies his wife was
wearing, made by Prince Dimitri of  Yugoslavia . They were in
paisley shaped earrings with diamonds and pearls.  “My husband gave me a ruby necklace and I wanted something
more creative,” Julia Koch said of the rubies’ origins.  Koch also discussed his taste in alcohol. His preferred
cocktail is a vodka and tonic but he found himself holding his
and his wife’s glasses of champagne at one point during the
party.  “I’m not a big champagne drinker. I like very fine wine,”
he said. “Red Burgundy, red Bordeaux and white Burgundy.”  Then he hoisted his champagne glass before joining his
wife: “Here’s to you!”  The event raised $3 million for the ballet, which had
operating expenses of $61.6 million in the fiscal year ending
June 30, 2011.  Enter Valentino  The evening honored the designer Valentino who made his
stage entrance down a ramp out of a 1940s movie set. It was
reminiscent of the triumphant appearance after a runway show,
which it was.  Valentino received his standing ovation flanked by 20
dancers wearing his creations in “Bal de Couture,” a ballet
made for the event by  Peter Martins , ballet master in chief.  Until then, Valentino sat in the front row of the First
Ring, joined by actress  Anne Hathaway  and model Iman. Nearby sat
Roger Altman, chairman of Evercore Partners Inc., Barry Diller,
IAC/InterActiveCorp chairman, and Peter Brant, chairman and
chief executive officer of White Birch Paper Co.  Also in the house: Oaktree Capital Management LP’s
chairman,  Howard Marks , and his son, Blue Ridge Capital LLC’s
analyst Andrew Marks.  Meryl Streep ,  Claire Danes  and others appeared in a video
tribute to Valentino. “Sublime,”  Gwyneth Paltrow  said to
describe him. “Tan,” Rita Wilson quipped.  Hathaway’s laughter echoed through the house just as the
performance of Balanchine’s “Rubies” was about to begin.  “I was just overjoyed,” said Hathaway in gray lace
Valentino. “I got to feast on enough beauty to last me a long
while.”  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amanda Gordon in  New York  at 
 agordon01@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net  