-- Diageo Said to Be in Advanced Talks for United Spirits Stake
-- B y   G e o r g e   S m i t h   A l e x a n d e r ,   R u t h   D a v i d   a n d   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 2012-09-21T15:20:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-21/diageo-said-to-be-in-advanced-talks-for-united-spirits-stake-1-.html
Diageo Plc (DGE) , the world’s biggest
distiller, is in advanced talks to buy a stake in billionaire
Vijay Mallya’s  United Spirits Ltd. (UNSP) , four people with knowledge
of the matter said.  The two companies may announce a deal by next month, said
one of the people, who asked not to be identified as the talks
are confidential. Mallya, who owns 28 percent of  India ’s second-
largest maker of alcoholic beverages by market value, will
remain a United Spirits shareholder, the people said.  As part of the deal, which is yet to be finalized, Diageo
may get the right to appoint a majority of United Spirits’s
 board members , including the chairman, one person said. Mallya
is currently chairman of United Spirits, the maker of McDowell’s
whiskey. United Spirits shares have doubled this year, giving
the company a market value of 130 billion rupees ($2.4 billion).  “The real attraction here for Diageo is to acquire a large
platform in local spirits which will allow it to capture the
lion’s share of growth of Scotch in India,”  Ian Shackleton , an
 analyst  at Nomura in  London , wrote today. “With talks underway
to reduce tariff barriers on Scotch in India, we see the profit
upside could be enormous,” he said. The Indian market for
spirits was $3.9 billion in 2011, Nomura estimates.  Mallya, 56, needs money to help finance his  Kingfisher
Airlines Ltd. (KAIR) , which is struggling with losses and a cash
shortage. He gave 59 billion rupees of guarantees last year to
Kingfisher’s lenders, according to the company’s annual report.
The carrier needs $600 million in the next two months, industry
consultant CAPA Centre for Aviation said in August.  Diageo Acquisitions  Diageo has made acquisitions including  Turkey ’s Mey Icki
raki brand as part of its push to expand in  emerging markets  and
cash in on booming economies that are increasing the number of
people with disposable income to spend on  consumer goods . Its
talks in 2009 to take a minority stake in United Spirits
collapsed after the Indian distiller said Diageo’s offer wasn’t
at a fair value.  “There’s no proposal of this nature before the board of
United Spirits,” company spokesman Prakash Mirpuri said in an
e-mailed response. Rowan Pearman, a spokeswoman for Diageo,
declined to comment on the transaction.  United Spirits’ shares were up 5.5 percent at 993.7 rupees
at the close of trading in Mumbai. Diageo was little changed in
London trading, giving the company a market value of about 43
billion pounds ($69.9 billion).  United Spirits’s  profit  in the three months ended June 30
rose 5.3 percent to 1.45 billion rupees. Sales increased 6.3
percent, the company said.  Scotch Portfolio  Diageo already distributes its brands in India through its
own network, and sales grew 24 percent in the country in the
year through June 30, the company said, driven by “strong
momentum across the scotch portfolio.” Diageo introduced a
locally made whiskey, Rowson’s Reserve, last year to compete
with other local brands owned by United Spirits and competitor
Pernod Ricard SA, and sells  Johnnie Walker  there.  Mallya has been seeking new financing for Kingfisher as it
struggles under a debt pile after posting at least five straight
annual losses. The airline has cut two-thirds of services,
grounded planes and halted international flights in a bid to
reverse losses. India’s Commerce Minister  Anand Sharma  announced
Sept. 14 that overseas airlines may be allowed to buy as much as
49 percent of domestic carriers.  To contact the reporters on this story:
George Smith Alexander in Mumbai at 
 galexander11@bloomberg.net ;
Ruth David in London at 
 rdavid9@bloomberg.net ;
Clementine Fletcher in London at 
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  