-- Digital Domain Sale Opposed by Officials in Florida City
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2012-09-21T21:50:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-21/digital-domain-sale-opposed-by-officials-in-florida-city.html
Digital Domain Media Group Inc. (DDMGQ) ,
the special-effects company that collected millions of dollars
in cash and land from taxpayers before filing bankruptcy, should
be barred from selling any public property, the Florida city
where the company is based said in a court filing.  Officials from Port St. Lucie are concerned that an auction
of the company’s assets that began today may include computers
and other property that are actually owned by the city through a
lease agreement. Beginning in 2010, the town sold $40 million of
revenue bonds to help build a 150,000-square-foot digital
animation studio, gave the company $10 million and provided 15.5
acres of land on which the studio was built.  The last cash payment to the company came in February. A
few months later the company fired 250 people who worked at the
studio and filed bankruptcy.  “Port St. Lucie finds it difficult to believe that the
debtors’ prior management was unaware of its financial condition
when it accepted the February incentive payment,” the city said
in court papers filed today in  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in
Wilmington, Delaware.  Funding Commitments  Digital Domain has operations in Florida, California,
Canada, India, China and  Abu Dhabi . The company filed for
bankruptcy last week with plans to hold an auction for most of
its assets, including an investment in “Ender’s Game,” the
science-fiction movie starring  Harrison Ford  that is scheduled
to be released next year.  The company also received funding commitments from the
state of Florida and a land grant from the city of  West Palm
Beach . Both the state and West Palm Beach also filed papers
asking the  bankruptcy court  to ensure that no public property be
sold at the auction.  Julie Miller, a spokeswoman for the company, declined to
comment.  Digital Domain blamed its bankruptcy on a cash crisis that
hit less than a year after the company went public.  The company, which counted former Miami Dolphins football
star  Dan Marino  among its investors, had assets of $205 million
and debt of $214 million as of June, according to Chapter 11
papers.  The case is In re Digital Domain Media Group Inc.,
12-12568, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware
(Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  