-- Draghi Plan Helping Only Those Who Don’t Need It: Euro Credit
-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 2012-09-21T11:08:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-21/draghi-plan-helping-only-those-who-don-t-need-it-euro-credit.html
The  European Central Bank ’s plan to
buy bonds is proving more successful at keeping borrowing costs
for France and  Belgium  near record lows than persuading
investors to lend to  Spain  and  Italy  for less.  Spain’s three-year yield  is back up to 3.83 percent after
dipping to 3.37 percent on Sept. 7, the day after ECB President
 Mario Draghi  detailed his proposal to buy unlimited debt for
countries that agree to economic conditions in return for help.
Since then, investors have lost 0.1 percent on Spanish debt
repayable in three year or less, and made 0.1 percent on Belgian
notes with similar maturities. The cost of insuring French debt
against default has declined 24 percent, almost twice the 13
percent drop in Italian default-swap costs.  “What Draghi has done has been beneficial to some degree,
but there’s still skepticism in the market because Spain hasn’t
taken the final step and asked for help,” said Adrian Owens at
GAM Ltd. in London, which oversees $62 billion. “It doesn’t
change the fact Spain still has a huge problem to tackle. France
and Belgium are seen as a safer play.”  Spanish two-year notes yield 3.13 percent today, compared
with 0.24 percent on French securities. Italy’s two-year
borrowing cost of 2.18 percent is more than six times higher
than Belgium’s 0.35 percent rate.  Stand Aside  The ECB program “sounds aggressive and the market rallied
initially because investors don’t want to stand in the way,”
said  John Wraith , a fixed-income strategist at Bank of America
Merrill Lynch in London. “And then they realize they are not
standing in the way of anything. There is a process to go
through first. My view is that Spain will not voluntarily do it
unless the market forces it to.”  Spain has also underperformed Ireland, praised by European
Union leaders for its economic reforms. Irish bonds handed
investors a 4.6 percent gain since the ECB announcement, triple
the Spanish bond gain of 1.5 percent, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch indexes. Italian securities gained 1.7
percent. Ireland sold bonds in July, returning to longer-term
 capital markets  for the first time in almost two years.  The sovereign debt turmoil started in 2009 after  Greece ’s
newly elected socialist government said the nation’s budget
deficit was twice as big as previous leadership had disclosed.
Since then, Greece, Ireland,  Portugal , Spain and Cyprus have
sought external aid. Spain has already asked for as much as 100
billion euros ($130 billion) for its banks. Italy and Spain
won’t request bailouts unless a new surge in bond yields leaves
them shut out of markets as no government will voluntarily
accept conditions imposed for the aid, Gianfranco Polillo,
undersecretary of finance said in an interview yesterday.  Testing Times  “There is a decent chance that even if Spain agrees to a
program, there will be periods and reviews that it doesn’t meet
its conditions,” said Nick Eisinger, a sovereign analyst with
Fidelity Investment in  London , which oversees $1.6 trillion.
“If that happens, the market will start speculating as to
whether the ECB will stop bond purchasing. There are still
enormous macro challenges in  Europe  and the growth outlook
continues to deteriorate.”  Spain is in its second recession in three years, while its
24.6 percent  unemployment rate  is Europe’s biggest. The debt
crisis has also pushed the whole euro region to the brink of
recession, with ECB forecasts showing the economy shrinking 0.4
percent this year.  Bond Sales  Yields on Spanish bonds rose even after the country managed
to sell 4.8 billion euros of 3-year notes and 10-year bonds
yesterday, the most since January. The 10-year yield added 8
basis points to 5.77 percent, after topping 6 percent earlier
this week for the first time since the ECB announcement. The
yield fell 6 basis points to 5.71 percent.  Draghi said earlier this month that driving down borrowing
costs for countries willing to submit to a program of economic
discipline is justified because rising yields hamper the ECB’s
ability to channel  low interest rates  to all of its 17
economies, leaving the region at risk of a deeper economic
slump.  “If you ask what has changed, the answer is not much,”
said Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s Wraith. “The measure may
remove near-term risk, but the fundamental picture remains the
same. I’m not saying you should be playing games with the ECB as
they obviously meant what they said, but there is a process to
go through first. I suspect the market will keep testing Spain’s
resolve.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Gilbert  at 
 magilbert@bloomberg.net  