-- E-House Tops Biggest Loss in Two Months: China Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o   a n d   L e o n   L a z a r o f f
-- 2012-09-21T20:48:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-21/e-house-tops-biggest-loss-in-2-months-on-growth-china-overnight.html
Chinese stocks traded in New York
posted their first weekly decline in September and  E-House China
Holdings Ltd. (EJ)  slumped on concern a slowdown in the world’s
second-largest economy will extend into next year.  The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded
Chinese shares in the U.S. added 0.7 percent to 91.88 at the
close of trading yesterday, paring its loss this week to 2.2
percent. Internet real estate agent service provider E-House
sank 17 percent this week as  SouFun Holdings Ltd. (SFUN) , China’s
largest property information website, posted its biggest weekly
retreat in a month.  China Telecom Corp. (CHA)  and  China Unicom (Hong
Kong) Ltd. (CHU)  declined more than 5 percent for the week after
growth in mobile-service users slowed.  The economic slump may persist into next year amid a lack
of funding for approved infrastructure projects, central bank
adviser Song Guoqing said yesterday. His comment echoed a
forecast by  Yuan  Gangming, an economist at the Chinese Academy
of Social Sciences, who said Sept. 19 that expansion may slow
for a ninth quarter to below 7 percent in the first three months
of 2013.  “We’re still underweighting the market, and I suspect it
will tread water for a little while,” John-Paul Smith, Deutsche
Bank AG’s emerging-market strategist, said by phone from London
yesterday. “The underlying trend in the economy still looks to
be fairly negative.”  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund , the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., gained 0.7 percent to $34.75
yesterday, trimming its weekly slump to 1.3 percent. The
 Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  was little changed at 1,460.15 as
 Apple Inc. (AAPL)  started selling the iPhone 5 and a report said
European officials will unveil a bailout plan for Spain.  Economic Growth  China will grow 7.3 percent to 7.4 percent in the fourth
quarter and 7 percent to 7.5 percent in the first half of next
year, Song, a Peking University professor, said in an interview
in Beijing. He reiterated a July forecast of 7.4 percent for
third-quarter growth.  “There is no hard evidence now to say that there will be a
rebound soon,” Song said.  China’s  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  slid 4.6 percent this
week, the most since the week ended Oct. 21, 2011, after
escalating tensions with Japan threatened trade and a
preliminary reading of a manufacturing index by HSBC Holdings
Plc and  Markit Economics  signaled output may shrink for an 11th
month in September.  E-House, a provider of property agency services, fell to
$4.67 after its biggest weekly decline since May.  Youku Tudou Inc. (YOKU)  , a video website that completed its
merger with Tudou Holdings Inc. on Aug. 23, tumbled 11 percent
to $18.57 in a week when The People’s Bank of China said it aims
to emphasize price stability, raising concern it won’t make an
additional cut in interest rates following those made in June
and July.  Federal Reserve  The U.S. Federal Reserve’s third round of monetary easing
reduces the options for China’s policy makers as it may add to
inflationary pressure on the world’s second-largest economy,
Industrial Securities Co. said in a Sept. 17 report.  Suntech Power Holdings Co. (STP) , the world’s largest solar-panel
maker, gained 5.9 percent to $1.08 yesterday as the New York
Stock Exchange warned the Wuxi, China-based company that it may
be delisted from the market. Trading volume was twice the
stock’s three-month daily average, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The NYSE said the average closing price of Suntech’s
ADRs was below $1 for 30 consecutive days as of Sept. 10,
triggering a delisting warning.  China Eastern Airlines Co. (CEA) , the nation’s second-largest
carrier by passenger numbers, declined 2.2 percent yesterday to
$15.35 as Citigroup analyst Vivian Tao said in an investor note
that cancellations may rise during Golden Week, the national
holiday that begins in early October, after Chinese tourists
broke off as much as 40 percent of reservations to Japan.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in  New York  at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net ;
Leon Lazaroff in New York at 
 llazaroff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  