-- Hedge Funds, Credit Cards, Trading Review: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2012-09-21T12:37:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-21/hedge-funds-leader-credit-card-rule-trading-review-compliance.html
The world’s largest hedge-fund
advocacy group has named a former U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission official its chairman as the $2.1 trillion industry
grapples with increased regulation.  Kathleen Casey , who stepped down as a Republican SEC
commissioner last year, was appointed non-executive chairman of
the Alternative Investment Management Association, the London-
based lobbying group said in an e-mailed statement yesterday.
She replaces Todd Groome, a former  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  executive
and adviser to the  International Monetary Fund , whose term
expired.  Casey, 46, takes the post as global regulators implement
rules ranging from restrictions on who can invest in hedge funds
in Europe to U.S. requirements that funds undergo routine  SEC 
inspections and disclose their leverage and investments to the
government. European watchdogs are also considering whether to
stiffen oversight of so-called shadow banking, a term that
describes all financing activities not performed by banks.  From 2006 through 2011, Casey served as one of the five SEC
officials who vote on whether to adopt new regulations for the
finance industry and to punish individuals and companies for
violations of securities laws. Her tenure coincided with the
meltdown of the U.S. housing market that led to the collapses of
Bear Stearns Cos. and Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in 2008.  The resulting global financial crisis prompted the U.S.
Congress to approve the 2010 Dodd-Frank Act, which increased
regulation of banks and hedge funds.  Casey last year voted against a rule mandated by Dodd-Frank
that requires hedge funds to register with the SEC. The rule
passed 3-2 with Democratic SEC commissioners supporting it and
Republicans in opposition.  AIMA  has 1,300 corporate members ranging from hedge funds
to accounting firms and prime brokerage units at banks. Casey’s
term as chairman lasts for two years.  Compliance Policy  Cordray Says CFPB to Propose Changes on Credit for Working Moms  The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau will propose
changes to regulations that critics have charged could bar stay-
at-home mothers from obtaining credit cards, its director,
 Richard Cordray , said yesterday.  Cordray said at a hearing of the House Financial Services
Committee that the agency will engage in rulemaking on the topic
and would propose the rule before Congress reconvenes after the
election. It could affect major credit card issuers such as
 Capital One Financial Corp. (COF) ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Bank of
America Corp.   The plans stem from an effect of the Credit Card
Accountability, Responsibility and Disclosure Act of 2009, which
governs how card issuers consider applications from non-working
spouses.  The  Federal Reserve , which wrote the first regulations
under the law, stated that a card issuer may not determine a
customer’s ability to repay by relying on income or assets of a
person who is not liable for the debt unless the applicant has
an ownership interest on the other person’s assets or income.  Members of Congress have argued the rule could limit the
ability of stay-at-home mothers to get credit. Cordray said he
largely agreed with their assessment.  Cities Weighing Mortgage Seizures Get Washington’s Attention  U.S. regulators and lawmakers are seeking ways to keep
local governments from using the power of eminent domain to
seize mortgages, citing concern about the potential cost to
taxpayers, investors and homebuyers.  The issue, the subject of a Mortgage Bankers Association
symposium yesterday, has gained attention in Washington after
the city of Chicago and California’s San Bernardino County said
they would consider confiscating home loans and cutting
borrowers’ debt. No community has taken the step so far.  MBA president and chief executive officer  David Stevens 
said at the symposium that the potential of eminent domain would
have a “direct and profound impact” on the housing market,
deterring investors because of concern over “arbitrary
writedowns.”  The federal government is positioned to wield broad power
in the debate because it owns or guarantees 90 percent of U.S.
mortgages through government-sponsored enterprises and the
 Federal Housing Administration . Alfred Pollard, general counsel
of the Federal Housing Finance Agency, regulator of  Fannie Mae 
and Freddie Mac, said at the symposium, “there is a federal
interest here.”  Pollard is leading an effort by the FHFA to determine
whether Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac should intervene to
discourage loan confiscations. In addition, a bill introduced
last week in Congress would bar Fannie Mae,  Freddie Mac , the
Veterans Administration and the FHA from guaranteeing or buying
loans in communities that seize mortgages.  Local governments, whose tax bases are being eroded by
foreclosures in the wake of the mortgage crisis, say they are
being forced to act because lenders and federal officials have
failed to find solutions for troubled borrowers.  For more, click here.  EU Targets Money Funds in Bid to Strengthen Shadow Bank Rules  Money-market funds may face tougher rules as part of a
European Union bid to prevent so-called shadow banks from
causing another financial crisis, according to draft EU
documents obtained by  Bloomberg News .  The EU may seek to regulate some types of shadow banks to
make sure their solvency receives the same scrutiny as that of
regular banks, according to documents prepared by EU staff who
work on financial-services issues. Other measures could include
limits on large exposures and tighter rules on transactions
between a holding company and its subsidiaries, according to the
papers.  This could mean forcing money-market funds with a fixed
share value to switch to a floating-value system. EU financial
officials “in particular discussed that regulatory approach,”
according to the EU documents, written in preparation for a
Sept. 14-15 meeting of finance ministers and central bankers in
Nicosia, Cyprus.  The European Commission plans to publish draft rules for
shadow banks in November. A policy document reflecting
preparations for that initiative showed that policy makers seek
to strengthen supervision while preserving “a useful channel of
financial intermediation” that can help the economy while the
financial crisis limits the amount of funding that banks can
provide.  For more, click here.  U.K. Seeks Rejection of EU Bid to Scale Back Bank Liquidity Rule  The U.K. urged lawmakers to block European Commission
proposals for applying a Basel bank liquidity rule, saying they
may hamper efforts to bolster the banking system, according to a
document obtained by Bloomberg News.  The commission’s compromise plan “significantly weakens”
the standard, according to the U.K document, which was sent to
members of the European Parliament. The U.K. recommends
“rejecting” the proposal.  The measure, known as a liquidity coverage ratio, or LCR,
would oblige banks to hold enough easy-to-sell assets to survive
a 30-day credit squeeze. The requirement was included by the
Basel Committee on Banking Supervision in an overhaul of bank
rules that was agreed on following the collapse of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc.  The commission this week submitted a revised text on how
the EU should apply the LCR in a bid to advance negotiations
with governments and legislators on a draft bank law to
implement the Basel rules in the bloc. The compromise plan would
scale back reporting on whether they meet the liquidity
requirement, according to a copy of the proposals.  The Basel committee has said that banks should report to
regulators on how well they measure up to the LCR even before
the standard becomes binding in 2015.  For more, click here.  Special Section: Electronic Trading  NYSE Executive Urges Assessment of 2007 Stock Trading Overhaul  U.S. regulators and securities professionals should re-
examine rules implemented in 2007 that transformed stock trading
in the U.S., according to a  NYSE Euronext (NYX)  executive.  The proliferation of venues where investors can buy and
sell shares, advances in trading speed spurred by computers, and
the use of increasingly complex orders by high-frequency firms
warrant a coordinated assessment, Joseph Mecane, head of U.S.
equities at NYSE Euronext, said Sept 19 at a conference. The
analysis should focus on Regulation NMS, the set of rules meant
to foster competition and speed trading in shares listed on the
New York Stock Exchange, he said.  The Senate Banking Committee was scheduled to hold hearings
yesterday on electronic trading. Last week, the Big Board, owned
by NYSE Euronext, agreed to pay $5 million to settle Securities
and Exchange Commission charges that it sent price and other
data to feeds used by brokers and high-frequency companies
faster than it did to the public.  The SEC should arrange a “series of market structure
roundtables to discuss a lot of these items as an industry and
to have a holistic recommendation or series of legislative
changes coming out of these issues,” Mecane said. “Each of
these items is interrelated. I don’t think they get addressed,
largely because you can’t address them in isolation.”  Buy and sell orders for U.S. equities are executed on 13
stock exchanges, several alternative venues, more than 40 dark
pools and through other broker-dealer systems.  Scrutiny of equity infrastructure has increased this year
after a series of computer malfunctions raised questions about
the stability of modern market structure.  For more, click here.  Congress Must Be Ready to Act on High-Speed Trading, Reed Says  U.S. Senator  Jack Reed , a Democrat from Rhode Island, said
Congress must be ready to act on the issue of high-speed
trading.  “We’ve had some wake-up calls,” Reed, who is chairman of
the  Senate Securities, Insurance and Investment Subcommittee ,
told Bloomberg Law’s Lee Pacchia.  While it’s encouraging that the SEC is looking into high-
speed trading, Congress must also examine the issue, Reed said.  “If it’s clear by the evidence that we have to take steps
then we should be prepared to take those steps,” Reed said.
Congress must also be ready if regulators ask for more
legislative authority, he said. Lawmakers must look closely to
ensure fairness, transparency, confidence in markets and protect
against systemic risk, he said.  Reed’s panel held a hearing on Capitol Hill on computerized
trading.  Separately, European Central Bank Governing Council member
Ewald Nowotny said on Sept. 13 that high-frequency trading
should be banned.  Markets Should Be Less Speed Obsessed, Brooks Says  “We suggest any regulatory proposals be aligned with a
goal of making the markets simpler, more transparent and less
focused on speed,” Andrew Brooks, head of equity trading at  T.
Rowe Price Associates (TROW) , told the Senate Banking Committee panel
in a hearing on computerized trading.  The time is right to “step back to examine market
structure and how it impacts all investors,” Brooks said in
prepared testimony.  “There are currently over 1,000 order types to express
your buy and sell interest and we suggest that a simplified
model may be more efficient for all investors”.  High-frequency trading came under regulatory scrutiny after
flash crash in May 2010, when about $862 billion was erased from
stock values in 20 minutes before prices recovered.  Rebates for Stock-Market Orders Should Be Stopped, Themis Says  Eliminating a practice known as maker-taker pricing, in
which an exchange charges some firms to trade and gives rebates
to those providing orders, will make trading more fair for
investors, according to Sal Arnuk, a partner at Themis Trading
LLC.  High-frequency trading, in which computer algorithms are
used to buy and sell stocks in fractions of a second, accounts
for about half of equity trading volume, Arnuk said on Bloomberg
Television’s “Market Makers” program with  Erik Schatzker  and
 Stephanie Ruhle .  “It’s a game of pick up the rebate,” he said. “Race to
zero in speed, be first in line to pick up the exchange rebates,
have the best cutting-edge algo. The combination of this is
what’s caused the systemic risk in the marketplace especially
over the last few years.”  Compliance Action  French Regulator Seeks to Fine OFI Over Madoff, Echos Says  Paris-based asset manager OFI AM was questioned yesterday
by the French market authority,  Les Echos  reported.  OFI AM is accused of not having carried out the necessary
due diligence linked to investments in funds managed by  Bernard
Madoff , and of having failed to respect statutory investment
ratios, the newspaper reported.  The French markets watchdog is asking for a 500,000-euro
($650,000) fine for OFI AM and a 60,000-euro fine for each of
its two managers at the time, according to Les Echos.  OFI AM’s lawyers said that the asset manager was a victim
of Madoff and that it respected all regulatory procedures, the
newspaper said.  Courts  Cosmo’s 25-Year Sentence Upheld in $413 Million Ponzi Scheme  Nicholas Cosmo’s 25-year prison sentence for running a $413
million Ponzi scheme was upheld by a federal appeals court in
New York.  Cosmo, owner of Agape World Inc. and Agape Merchant Advance
LLC, pleaded guilty in 2010 to fraud charges in connection with
a scheme in which he promised to use investor money to make
short-term loans.  Only about $30 million of the investors’ funds were
actually used to make the loans, and victims’ losses totaled
about $195 million, the government said.  Cosmo pleaded guilty to a single federal charge of mail
fraud in 1999 and was sentenced to serve 21 months in prison and
pay $177,000 in restitution. He was also ordered to undergo
“extensive gambling therapy” while in prison, according to
court records.  Bruce Bryan, a lawyer for Cosmo, didn’t return a call
seeking comment on the appeals court’s ruling.  The case is U.S. v. Cosmo, 11-cv-4506, U.S. Court of
Appeals for the Second Circuit (Manhattan).  Madoff Investors Get $2.5 Billion After Almost Four Years  Bernard L. Madoff’s investors were mailed checks totaling
about $2.5 billion, almost four years after the Ponzi scheme
operator was arrested.  Traders said anticipation of the payment, which many
investors see as the last for a while, has spurred sales of
Madoff claims in recent weeks.  Irving H. Picard, who is liquidating the con man’s firm,
said checks for the second distribution from a customer fund
were mailed Sept. 19 to people with approved claims. He has
previously paid investors $336 million from the fund, now
standing at $7.3 billion, according to his website.  The Securities Investor Protection Corp., which hired
Picard and pays his fees, compensated investors for $803 million
in losses after the Madoff brokerage collapsed.  The three payments satisfy half of the current Madoff
accounts whose claims he has allowed, he said. The average check
mailed yesterday was for about $2 million, Picard said in a
statement.  Prices of larger claims have climbed steadily to 70 cents
on the dollar from 67 cents in July, said  Joseph Sarachek ,
managing director of claims trading at CRT Capital Group LLC,
which buys and sells distressed debt. One $80 million claim,
which he tried to buy, traded for 70 cents, he said.  Madoff is serving a 150-year prison sentence after pleading
guilty to fraud.  The Madoff liquidation case is Securities Investor
Protection Corp. v. Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities
Inc., 08-01789, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New
York (Manhattan). The criminal case is U.S. v. Madoff, 09-
cr-00213, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 