-- Lehman Unit Held Liable for Failed CDOs Sold to Australian Towns
-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 2012-09-21T06:54:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-21/lehman-unit-held-liable-for-failed-cdos-sold-to-australian-towns.html
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s
Australian unit must repay three towns that invested in failed
securities backed by U.S. subprime mortgages, a judge ruled. The
lawsuit’s sponsor said the case is the first of its kind to
complete a trial.  Lehman’s unit “engaged in misleading and deceptive
conduct,” Federal Court Justice Steven Rares said. The unit
“is liable to compensate the councils for their losses,” he
said in issuing the decision in Sydney today, more than a year
after the trail’s conclusion.  Grange Securities Ltd., which was bought by Lehmans,
invested the towns’ money in securities whose value collapsed
along with the U.S. housing market. The synthetic collateralized
debt obligations in 2008 played a role in the worst financial
crisis since the Great Depression, as world-wide credit froze
and the $330 billion market for auction-rate securities
collapsed.  The damage from the failures of complex derivatives
extended from Wingecarribee, a town southwest of Sydney, to
 Alabama ’s Jefferson County, which filed for bankruptcy last year
and  Harvard University , which paid hundreds of millions of
dollars to cancel interest rate swaps.  The three Australian towns that invested A$37.3 million
($39 million) in securities sold by Grange sued in 2009 to
recover their losses. Today’s decision signals that about 70
councils, church groups and charities in  Australia  which made
similar investments may be more likely to recover about A$200
million.  AAA Ratings  The towns and organizations have claimed the securities
were sold with the safest  credit rating , AAA, which didn’t
reflect their actual risk.  “It really depends on what they were told about the
product,” Moira Saville, a partner specializing in class
actions at King & Wood Mallesons in Sydney, said ahead of the
ruling.  Wingecarribee , about 140 kilometers (90 miles) southwest of
Sydney, sued to recover A$21.4 million, claiming Grange ignored
explicit instructions to avoid CDOs. Two other towns, the West
Australian city of Swan and Parkes Shire Council, northwest of
Sydney, claimed to have lost A$15.9 million on their
investments.  “It’s the first time that a claim against an investment
bank has gone through a full trial,” said  John Walker ,
executive director of  IMF (Australia) Ltd. (IMF) , which funded the
litigation.  Seeking Fees  Grange, which became Lehman Brothers Australia, bought
synthetic collateralized debt obligations on behalf of clients
to collect fees and commissions that were greater than it would
have earned from investing in term deposits for the customers,
the towns have claimed.  Lehman Brothers Australia appointed a voluntary
administrator under the country’s bankruptcy laws on Sept. 26,
2008, nine days after Lehman Brothers Holdings, the fourth-
biggest investment bank in the world, filed for the biggest
bankruptcy in U.S. history.  U.S. lawmakers had accused ratings companies of mishandling
their assessments of mortgage-backed securities, at the heart of
the 2008 financial crisis, and Congress sought to reduce their
influence as part of the Dodd-Frank Act of 2010.  Unions in the U.S. won a $40 million settlement in a
lawsuit in which they claimed people associated with Lehman
misrepresented the credit quality of billions of dollars worth
of mortgage pass-through certificates. U.S. District Judge  Lewis
Kaplan  in  New York  approved the settlement in June.  Investment Assurances  Douglas Neville, financial services manager at
Wingecarribee’s shire council, testified in March, 2011, that he
received assurances the council’s money would only be invested
in floating rate notes and felt “betrayed” when he found out
in July 2007 much of the money was put into CDOs.  Grange “had very wide powers” under an agreement signed
by Wingecarribee’s council for investment decisions, the
company’s lawyer John Sheahan said at the trial. The Lehman unit
followed the agreement in buying the CDOs, he said.  The synthetic collateralized debt obligations, which invest
in credit default swaps or other non-cash assets linked to pools
of debt comprising mortgages,  car loans  or credit card payments,
weren’t the type of investments municipalities were allowed to
make by law, Tony Meagher, the lawyer for the towns, said before
today’s ruling.  “We only wanted to invest in floating rate notes. No
CDOs,” Neville, who has worked for Wingecarribee for 30 years,
testified. “These were community funds. We could not put them
at risk.”  The trial in Sydney federal court began March 2, 2011, and
concluded on June 9, 2011, with post-trial submissions and
motions carrying through to February.  The case is Between Wingecarribee Shire Council and Lehman
Brothers Australia Ltd. NSD 2492/2007. Federal Court of
Australia (Sydney).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  