-- Lehman Unit Liable for Failed CDOs Sold in Australia
-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 2012-09-21T14:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-21/lehman-unit-liable-for-failed-cdos-sold-in-australia.html
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s
Australian unit is liable for losses three towns incurred from
buying failed securities, a judge ruled. The lawsuit’s sponsor
said the case is the first of its kind to complete a trial.  Lehman’s unit “engaged in misleading and deceptive
conduct,” Federal Court Justice Steven Rares said issuing his
decision in Sydney yesterday.  Grange Securities Ltd., which was bought by Lehman,
invested the towns’ money in securities whose value collapsed
along with the U.S. housing market. The synthetic collateralized
debt obligations, or SCDOs, in 2008 played a role in the worst
financial crisis since the Great Depression, as world-wide
credit froze and the $330 billion market for auction-rate
securities collapsed.  Damage from the failures of complex derivatives extended
from Wingecarribee, a town southwest of Sydney, to  Alabama ’s
Jefferson County, which filed for bankruptcy last year and
 Harvard University , which paid hundreds of millions of dollars
to cancel interest rate swaps.  “An SCDO is a sophisticated bet,” Rares said in his
judgment. “They have many risks.”  The three Australian towns that invested A$37.3 million
($39 million) in the securities sold by Grange sued in 2009 to
recover their losses. Yesterday’s decision signals that about 70
councils, church groups and charities in Australia which made
similar investments may be more likely to recover about A$200
million.  Creditors Plan  The towns’ suit was opposed by PPB Advisory, liquidators of
the Lehman unit.  “We may, or may not, appeal,” Marcus Ayres, a partner at
PPB, said in a phone interview following the  ruling .  The liquidators plan to propose a settlement to creditors
in the first quarter of 2013, Ayres said, and will use the
judge’s decision as guidance in developing the repayment plan.  PPB has reached an agreement in principle to settle a
dispute over $300 million of collateral related to Lehman
Brothers Holding’s so-called Dante program of credit-linked
notes, Ayres said.  U.K. courts ruled investors who bought the notes, including
Lehman  Australia ’s customers, must be paid, rather than the
money going to the parent company. A U.S. Bankruptcy Court judge
disagreed and froze the assets.  The settlement, once completed, will mean Lehman creditors
in Australia, will get “substantially” more back, Ayers said.
He declined to be more specific.  AAA Rating  The towns and organizations have claimed the securities
were sold with the safest  credit rating , AAA, which didn’t
reflect their actual risk.  Australian towns have also sued Standard & Poor’s Corp. for
giving its highest rating to derivative-linked notes and
claiming the ratings company misled investors. A decision in the
case is pending.  Yesterday’s ruling is seen as a step forward in the S&P
litigation and may result in more lawsuits in  Europe ,  John
Walker , executive director of  IMF (Australia) Ltd. (IMF)  which paid
for the lawsuits, told reporters in Sydney.  He said IMF has agreed to fund a claim against S&P in the
Netherlands and is looking at lawsuits in Germany and  France . No
lawsuits have been filed in Europe yet, Walker said.  Wingecarribee , about 140 kilometers (90 miles) southwest of
Sydney, sued to recover A$21.4 million, claiming Grange ignored
explicit instructions to avoid CDOs. Two other towns, the West
Australian city of Swan and Parkes Shire Council, northwest of
Sydney, claimed to have lost A$15.9 million on their
investments.  Fees, Commissions  “This is the first occasion that there has been a judge
that has dealt with the issue substantially,” Walker said.  Grange, which became Lehman Brothers Australia, bought
synthetic collateralized debt obligations on behalf of clients
to collect fees and commissions that were greater than it would
have earned from investing in term deposits for the customers,
the towns have claimed.  Lehman Brothers Australia appointed a voluntary
administrator under the country’s bankruptcy laws on Sept. 26,
2008, nine days after Lehman Brothers Holdings, the fourth-
biggest investment bank in the world, filed for the biggest
bankruptcy in U.S. history.  Rares said because Grange is in liquidation, he can’t order
it to make any payments.  The ruling means the towns will probably recoup three or
four times more than PPB had offered as a settlement, Walker
said.  Floating Rate  Douglas Neville, financial services manager at
Wingecarribee’s shire council, testified in March, 2011, that he
received assurances the council’s money would only be invested
in floating rate notes and felt “betrayed” when he found out
in July 2007 much of the money was put into CDOs.  Grange “had very wide powers” under an agreement signed
by Wingecarribee’s council for investment decisions, the
company’s lawyer John Sheahan said at the trial. The Lehman unit
followed the agreement in buying the CDOs, he said.  The synthetic collateralized debt obligations, which invest
in credit default swaps or other non-cash assets linked to pools
of mortgages,  car loans  or credit card receivables, weren’t the
type of investments municipalities were allowed to make by law,
Tony Meagher, the lawyer for the towns, said before the ruling.  The case is Between Wingecarribee Shire Council and Lehman
Brothers Australia Ltd. NSD 2492/2007. Federal Court of
Australia (Sydney).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  