-- Emerging Stocks Rise on Spain Aid Report; Rupee Jumps on Tax Cut
-- B y   I a n   S a y s o n   a n d   S r i d h a r   N a t a r a j a n
-- 2012-09-21T15:51:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-21/emerging-stocks-rise-on-bets-losses-excessive-samsung-advances.html
Emerging-market stocks rose, paring
the first weekly decline this month, as a report saying European
officials will unveil a bailout plan for Spain fueled demand for
commodity producers.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets   Index (VXEEM)  increased 0.9 percent to
1,007.68 by 11:10 a.m. in New York, trimming this week’s loss to
0.6 percent. Brazil’s Bovespa stock index rose for a second day.
Russia’s ruble snapped a four-day decline as oil pared its
biggest weekly drop in three months. India’s benchmark gauge
jumped to a one-year high and the rupee rallied on tax cuts that
added to policy reforms last week.  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) 
gained 1.2 percent in Seoul.  Global equity funds lured the largest weekly inflows this
year after the  Federal Reserve  and the  European Central Bank 
announced plans to buy bonds to support growth, according to
Citigroup Inc. Spanish Economy Minister Luis de Guindos is in
talks with European Commission authorities to facilitate a new
bailout program, the Financial Times reported, citing
unidentified officials involved in the discussions.  “What’s happening with Spain talking to EU introduces a
positive sentiment in the market, because if Spain asks for aid,
it can potentially unlock ECB action,”  Sebastien Barbe , the
head of emerging markets research and strategy at Credit
Agricole CIB, said by phone from Paris today. “You have quite
good opportunities in emerging markets and markets just want to
be sure that improvements in Europe are going to be effective.”  ETF Gains  The iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index exchange-traded
fund, the  ETF (EEM)  tracking developing-nation shares, increased the
most this week, gaining 0.6 percent. The Chicago Board Options
Exchange Emerging Markets ETF Volatility Index, a measure of
options prices on the fund and expectations of price swings,
slid 4.4 percent.  The Bovespa rose 0.5 percent as Petroleo Brasileiro gained
0.4 percent. Cia. de Transmissao de Energia Eletrica Paulista
rose 6.4 percent. This is the second time the stock has gained
more than 6 percent this week after Goldman Sachs raised the
stock to buy on Sept. 17.  Stock funds attracted $17 billion in the week ended Sept.
19, while about $3.2 billion was invested in emerging funds,
Citigroup analysts wrote in a report today, citing data compiled
by EPFR Global.  Ruble Strengthens  The ruble gained 0.6 percent against the dollar and the
rand strengthened 0.9 percent. The Standard & Poor’s GSCI gauge
of 24 raw materials climbed 0.8 percent. Oil jumped 1.4 percent,
snapping a four-day decline. Nickel, lead and zinc rose more
than 0.5 percent. Russia is the world’s largest energy exporter,
while metals and other commodities accounted for 45 percent of
South Africa’s exports in 2011, according to government data.  MSCI’s developing-nations measure  has rallied 6.4 percent
this month, beating a 4.8 percent advance by the MSCI World
Index of developed-country shares. The emerging-market gauge
trades for 11.3 times estimated earnings, compared with the MSCI
World’s average multiple of 13.5.  The BSE India  Sensitive Index (SENSEX)  surged 2.2 percent, its
highest close since July 25, 2011. The rupee strengthened 1.7
percent against the dollar. Today’s tax cuts come after Prime
Minister  Manmohan Singh  last week ended a 14-month freeze on
diesel prices and opened retailing and aviation industries to
foreign investments.  ‘Economic Reform’  “This move by the  Finance Ministry  is welcomed by the
market as the government is showing firm commitment in economic
reform and rules out uncertainty over potential policy
reversal,” Societe Generale SA strategists, including Wee-Khoon Chong in  Hong Kong , wrote in an e-mailed note today.  Reliance Capital Ltd. (RCAPT)  climbed 10 percent to the highest
since April 3 in Mumbai.  Reliance Infrastructure Ltd. (RELI)  jumped 9.7
percent and GMR Infrastructure Ltd. rallied 11 percent.  The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index added 1 percent in
Hong Kong. South Korea’s Kospi index climbed 0.6 percent.  Samsung Electronics, the world’s largest maker of
televisions and mobile phones, posted its biggest gain in a
week. The stock, the  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF) ’s biggest
 member , slumped 2.1 percent yesterday, the most in two weeks.  China Cosco Holdings Co., the world’s largest operator of
dry-bulk ships, gained 3.8 percent. The Baltic Dry Index, a
measure of commodity shipping costs, rose 4.6 percent yesterday
to its highest close since Aug. 13.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ian Sayson in Manila at 
 isayson@bloomberg.net ;
Sridhar Natarajan in New York at 
 snatarajan15@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net ;
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  