-- Emerging Stocks Rise on Spain Aid Report; Rupee Jumps on Tax Cut
-- B y   I a n   S a y s o n   a n d   S r i d h a r   N a t a r a j a n
-- 2012-09-21T22:30:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-21/emerging-stocks-rise-on-spain-aid-report-rupee-jumps-on-tax-cut.html
Emerging-market stocks rose, paring
the first weekly decline this month, as a report saying European
officials will unveil a bailout plan for Spain fueled demand for
commodity producers.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  increased 0.8 percent to
1,006.60 by 5:41 p.m. in New York, trimming this week’s loss to
0.7 percent. India’s  benchmark  gauge jumped to a one-year high
and the rupee rallied on tax cuts that added to policy reforms
last week. Markets in Chile, Turkey and South Korea also gained.
Russia’s ruble snapped a four-day decline as oil pared its
biggest weekly drop in three months.  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) 
gained 1.2 percent in Seoul.  Global equity funds lured the largest weekly inflows this
year after the  Federal Reserve  and the European Central Bank
announced plans to buy bonds to support growth, Cambridge,
Massachusetts-based EPFR said in an e-mail. Spanish Economy
Minister Luis de Guindos is in talks with European Commission
authorities to facilitate a new bailout program, the Financial
Times reported, citing unidentified officials involved in the
discussions.  “What’s happening with Spain talking to EU introduces a
positive sentiment in the market, because if Spain asks for aid,
it can potentially unlock ECB action,”  Sebastien Barbe , the
head of  emerging markets  research and strategy at Credit
Agricole CIB, said by phone from Paris today. “You have quite
good opportunities in emerging markets and markets just want to
be sure that improvements in Europe are going to be effective.”  ETF Gains  The iShares MSCI Emerging Markets  Index (VXEEM)  exchange-traded
fund, the  ETF (EEM)  tracking developing-nation shares, increased the
most this week, gaining 0.2 percent. The Chicago Board Options
Exchange Emerging Markets ETF Volatility Index, a measure of
options prices on the fund and expectations of price swings,
slid 5.3 percent.  The BSE India  Sensitive Index (SENSEX)  surged 2.2 percent, its
highest close since July 25, 2011. The rupee strengthened 1.7
percent against the dollar. Today’s tax cuts come after Prime
Minister  Manmohan Singh  last week ended a 14-month freeze on
diesel prices and opened retailing and aviation industries to
foreign investments.  ‘Economic Reform’  “This move by the Finance Ministry is welcomed by the
market as the government is showing firm commitment in economic
reform and rules out uncertainty over potential policy
reversal,” Societe Generale SA strategists, including Wee-Khoon Chong in Hong Kong, wrote in an e-mailed note today.  Reliance Capital Ltd. (RCAPT)  climbed 10 percent to the highest
since April 3 in Mumbai.  Reliance Infrastructure Ltd. (RELI)  jumped 9.7
percent and GMR Infrastructure Ltd. rallied 11 percent.  The Bovespa slipped 0.6 percent amid concern stimulus
measures in the U.S. and Europe might not be enough to boost a
Brazilian recovery, dimming the outlook for the country’s raw-
material exports. Petroleo Brasileiro SA,  Brazil ’s state-
controlled oil company and Vale SA, the world’s biggest iron-ore
producer, fell by one percent or more.  Stock funds attracted $17 billion in the week ended Sept.
19, while about $3.2 billion was invested in emerging funds,
EPFR Global said.  Ruble Strengthens  The ruble gained 0.7 percent against the dollar and the
rand strengthened 0.3 percent. The Standard & Poor’s GSCI gauge
of 24 raw materials climbed 0.9 percent. Oil jumped 1.1 percent
to $92.89 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , snapping
a four-day decline. Nickel, lead and zinc rose more than 0.5
percent. Russia is the world’s largest energy exporter, while
metals and other commodities accounted for 45 percent of South
Africa’s exports in 2011, according to government data.  MSCI’s developing-nations measure  has rallied 6.3 percent
this month, beating a 4.6 percent advance by the MSCI World
Index of developed-country shares. The emerging-market gauge
trades for 11.3 times estimated earnings, compared with the MSCI
World’s average multiple of 13.5.  The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index added 1 percent in
Hong Kong.  South Korea ’s Kospi index climbed 0.6 percent.  Samsung Electronics, the world’s largest maker of
televisions and mobile phones, posted its biggest gain in a
week. The stock, the MSCI Emerging Markets Index’s biggest
 member , fell 2.5 percent for the week, the most this month.  China Cosco Holdings Co., the world’s largest operator of
dry-bulk ships, gained 3.8 percent. The Baltic Dry Index, a
measure of commodity shipping costs, rose 4.6 percent yesterday
to its highest close since Aug. 13.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ian Sayson in Manila at 
 isayson@bloomberg.net ;
Sridhar Natarajan in New York at 
 snatarajan15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net ;
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  