-- Endesa Seeks Investor Support on $8 Billion Fundraising Revamp
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2012-09-21T13:27:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-21/endesa-seeks-investor-support-on-8-billion-fundraising-revamp.html
Spain ’s  Endesa SA (ELE)  sought investor
support for an $8 billion plan that would sell stock in  Enersis
SA (ENERSIS) , its affiliate in  Latin America , and transfer stakes it owns
in 12 companies to the unit.  The proposal “makes sense” because it will simplify the
organizational structure and put its investments in the region
into Enersis, Endesa said in a presentation to analysts released
in a filing to the Securities and Exchange Commission yesterday.
Endesa, a unit of  Enel SpA (ENEL)  of  Italy , owns 60.6 of Enersis.  The stakes being transferred account for Endesa’s share of
the capital that Santiago, Chile-based Enersis is seeking to
raise by selling new shares to its existing shareholders.
Minority shareholders would inject the remaining 39.4 percent in
cash, according to the presentation.  The proposal will simplify the corporate structure of
Endesa’s holdings in the regions, Endesa said. Enersis already
participates in the management of nine of the 12 companies in
which it would receive stakes from its parent. Those include
Endesa’s Brazilian unit,  Colombia ’s Emgesa SA and Codensa SA,
and  Brazil ’s  Ampla Energia e Servicos SA (CBEE3)  and Ampla Investimentos
e Servicos, Endesa said.  “Putting everything under the same vehicle makes sense
from many points of view,” Endesa said in the filing. “The
transaction aims at reinforcing Enersis as the only investment
vehicle of Endesa in the region.”  Transfer of the 12 stakes will boost net income at Enersis
by about $323 million, 56 percent of it in Brazil and about a
third in Colombia, Endesa said.  The plan to sell shares was announced on July 26, and led
to the biggest decline in Enersis stock since May 2003.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  