-- Tesla’s Musk Sidesteps 2012 Model S Sales Target
-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n   a n d   B e t t y   L i u
-- 2012-09-22T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-21/tesla-s-musk-sidesteps-2012-model-s-goal-sees-20-000-in-2013.html
Elon Musk, co-founder and chief
executive officer of  Tesla Motors Inc. (TSLA) , declined to confirm that
the electric-car maker will be able to meet its initial delivery
target for Model S sedans this year.  Tesla, which began building the luxury cars in June in
Fremont,  California , will deliver 20,000 of the sedans next year
and achieve a gross margin of more than 20 percent, Musk said
yesterday in a Bloomberg Television interview on “In the Loop
with  Betty Liu .”  The company in July said it was confident of delivering
5,000 Model S cars this year. Musk wouldn’t comment on that goal
yesterday, saying that “I need to be very hesitant about
talking about any near-term metrics for Tesla.”  The carmaker, which counts  Daimler AG (DAI)  and  Toyota Motor
Corp. (7203)  as customers and investors, has set a goal of becoming
profitable by as early as next year from sales the $57,400 Model
S and Model X sport-utility vehicle due in late 2013. Tesla is
trying to balance investor demands to expand its business as
quickly as possible while also avoiding quality problems and
delays that have hit rechargeable vehicle competitors including
Fisker Automotive Inc.  “Should the company not meet the 5,000-unit goal, that
will have some negative impact on revenue in the fourth
quarter,” said Alan Baum, principal of auto-industry forecaster
Baum & Associates in West Bloomfield,  Michigan . That may not be
an immediate concern for Tesla’s customers, he said.  Tesla ‘Supporters’  “People that are buying this vehicle now are supporters of
the company, so to some extent whether the volume is 5,000 or
4,000 or even 3,000 this year, it doesn’t really matter,” Baum
said yesterday. “In the longer term, it’s more important that
the product be thought of positively. The last thing the company
needs is to disappoint buyers. They haven’t yet and they don’t
intend to.”  Along with starting production ahead of schedule in June,
and producing at least 20,000 vehicles next year, the South
African-born Musk said he’s confident of Tesla’s future
profitability.  “The third thing is that we would achieve a gross margin
in excess of 25 percent,” he said. “Of those three things, I
stand by those.”  Since June, there have been “no recalls, no fires, no
anything” in terms of assembly problems, Musk said. “First
impressions matter.”  U.S. Loans  Fisker, a maker of luxury plug-in hybrid cars backed by
U.S. government loans, said last month it planned to recall all
of its $103,000 Karma sedans to fix a flawed cooling fan linked
to a California fire. Fisker’s battery supplier,  A123 Systems
Inc. (AONE) , recalled flawed packs in March.  Tesla has said has said it plans to begin repaying the
Energy Department loan it received in 2009 late this year. The
company, which sold shares to public for the first time in 2010,
continues to study additional fundraising steps including a
secondary share offering, Musk said yesterday, without
elaborating.  Musk also declined to elaborate on the current production
pace at  Palo Alto , California-based Tesla’s factory. Musk, 41,
said in a Twitter post on  Sept. 16  that the rate had risen to
100 vehicles a week.  “Demand is not a problem for Tesla,” he said. “Probably
the biggest reason people don’t put down a reservation for our
cars is they have to wait too long to get it.”  Separately, Tesla said yesterday in a  statement  on its
website that it’s adding 10 more stores this year, including one
that was scheduled to open yesterday at the Roosevelt Field Mall
in  Garden City ,  New York . The new stores will give Tesla 24
North American outlets and 34 worldwide, the company said. The
company is scheduled to unveil its “supercharger” system on
Sept. 24 at its design studio in Hawthorne, California.  Tesla fell 2.8 percent to $30.02 at the close yesterday in
New York. The  shares  have gained 5.1 percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in  Los Angeles  at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net ;
Betty Liu in New York at 
 bliu17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  