-- Lesotho Water System That Supplies Johannesburg to Shut
-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 2012-09-21T12:58:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-21/lesotho-water-system-that-supplies-johannesburg-to-shut.html
Lesotho ’s Highlands water system,
which supplies water from the mountainous kingdom to the  South
Africa  province that includes Johannesburg and the capital
Pretoria, will shut the next two months for maintenance work.  Gauteng province, South  Africa ’s industrial hub, gets part
of its water supplies from the system. The Highlands tunnels
must be inspected at least every decade, which requires they be
drained completely, meaning no water flows through to the Vaal
River system, Cabinet spokeswoman Phumla Williams said.  “The total volume of water scheduled to be transferred to
the Vaal system will however still be transferred,” she said
today in Pretoria. Water transfers in recent months were
increased to make up for the two-month shutdown and provide a
storage buffer to the Vaal dam. “The assurance of water supply
to the Gauteng area will therefore not be negatively impacted,”
the spokeswoman said.  Most of the country’s big companies and the stock exchange
are in Johannesburg. Gauteng also has auto plants, gold mines
and steel mills.  AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. (ANG) , Africa’s largest gold
producer, and German automaker Bayerische Motoren Werke AG have
operations in Gauteng.  Lesotho and South Africa, Africa’s biggest economy, plan a
second phase of the Highlands project, costing 7.3 billion
maloti ($886 million), that’s due to be completed in 2017. The
project includes building a 165-meter-high (541-foot) dam in
Lesotho and additional tunnels through its mountain passes.  South Africa’s Department of Water Affairs is discussing
contingency plans with municipalities along the Liebenbergsvlei
and Caledon rivers should water supplies be disrupted as a
result of decreased flows from Lesotho, Williams also said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Cohen in  Cape Town  at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at   nseria@bloomberg.net  