-- EU Proposes to Allow Wine Producers to Manage Planting Rights
-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 2012-09-21T17:12:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-21/eu-proposes-to-allow-wine-producers-to-manage-planting-rights.html
The European Union’s regulatory arm
proposed to allow wine producers to manage planting rights for
vineyards after restrictions on expanding grape area are
scrapped at an EU level.  The plan would mean those involved in making wines with a
protected designation of origin, such as producer organizations,
would control vine planting, according to an e-mailed copy of a
speech today by Jose Manuel Silva Rodriguez, the European
Commission’s director general for agriculture.  EU ministers agreed in 2008 to end planting rights as of
Jan. 1, 2016, though  member states  can extend curbs on expansion
until 2018. The 27-nation EU produced 59 percent of the world’s
wine last year, according to the International Organisation of
Wine and Vine, or OIV.  “The main idea is that the management of planting should
involve the professionals themselves, which would require an
active participation of the major economic actors in the wine
industry,” Silva said, according to the speech.  France  last year called for wine-planting rights to be
maintained, while a report this year by the European
Parliament’s Agriculture Committee said the rights should be 
kept at least until 2030.  The commission also proposed a safeguard clause that would
allow member states or the EU to freeze vine planting in case
predetermined thresholds are exceeded, according to the speech.  “This mechanism would be aimed at avoiding any rapid
vineyard expansion that could cause a deterioration of the
market situation,” Silva said.  As part of the new system, existing restrictions at a
national or regional level would have to go to avoid distortion
of competition between EU countries, according to the speech.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  