-- EU’s Barnier Sees No German Resistance to ECB Oversight Plan
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n ,   B r i a n   P a r k i n   a n d   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2012-09-21T09:03:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-21/eu-s-barnier-sees-no-german-resistance-to-ecb-oversight-plan-1-.html
The European Commission is
confident it can secure German backing for plans to hand the
European Central Bank oversight powers over all banks in the
euro area, the bloc’s financial services chief said.  “There’s no German resistance,”  Michel Barnier  said in an
interview following meetings in Berlin yesterday, adding that
there is an urgent need for the euro area to put the new system
in place. “It’s a realistic proposal. We think a decision can
be taken, should be taken, before the end of the year.”  German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  led criticism of
the euro region’s rush toward common bank oversight at a meeting
of European Union finance ministers in Cyprus last week. EU
leaders called for the single supervisor in June as a condition
for allowing euro-area banks direct access to the 500 billion-
euro ($650 billion) permanent bailout fund, the European
Stability Mechanism.  “From the first day, the  European Central Bank  as a
supervisor should have the right to look closely into the
activities of any bank and see where there may be problems,”
Barnier said through a translator. It should have “the right to
step in, to call up to  Frankfurt  a bank that might be causing
difficulties.”  ‘Sizeable Apparatus’  Spain , in the early stages of a bank bailout of as much as
100 billion euros, would benefit if the new system is in place
fast enough to take over capital injections into Spanish
lenders.  Euro leaders in June “underlined urgency, and they’re
right,” Barnier said.  Schaeuble has cautioned against acting hastily to set up
the supervisor, saying it will take time to build the “sizeable
apparatus” required for the ECB to oversee more than 6,000
euro-area financial institutions. He has also said that banks
posing broad risks should move to the new system first.  Barnier said he wouldn’t seek to challenge the
“diversity” of the European banking system.  “We are very fortunate,” he said. “We have very big
banks, universal banks, which have international dimensions:
Deutsche Bank, BNP, Barclays,” he said. “We have national
banks, regional banks, savings banks, mutual banks. This
diversity is a chance for us, it’s a richness. There’s nothing
in our text that will put that into question.”  ‘Normal and Legitimate’  France , Spain,  Italy  and the commission are pressing for
speedy action to put the new system in place.  It’s “normal and legitimate” that  Germany  should have
questions and doubts about aspects of the proposals, Barnier
said. “That’s why in the discussion of the proposed legislation
process there will be compromises,” he said.  “The German banks don’t have anything to be afraid of,”
Barnier said. “I know it’s not a small savings bank or mutual
bank that caused the crisis.”  Barnier said it’s clear that some non-euro countries “want
to be part” of the new supervisory system to boost the
stability of their banks.  “What they’re asking is how they can be integrated, will
they be allowed to sit at the table, will they have the right to
vote and so on -- legitimate questions,” he said. “We have to
find the right legal mechanisms to do that and we’re working on
it with the ECB.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net ;
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  