-- Euro Strengthens Amid Spanish Bailout Speculation; Dollar Falls
-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2012-09-21T21:09:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-21/euro-pares-gain-versus-dollar-yen-on-spain-bailout-speculation.html
The euro gained against the dollar
and yen after Italian and Spanish leaders agreed to keep working
to stabilize regional financial markets.  The 17-nation currency was buoyed earlier amid speculation
Spanish and European Union officials were working on plans to
trigger European Central Bank bond purchases to boost Spain’s
economy. The  Dollar Index (DXY)  declined after Atlanta Federal Reserve
Bank President  Dennis Lockhart  said the central bank may
undertake further monetary stimulus. Canada’s dollar rallied
amid gains in stocks and crude oil, the nation’s largest export.  “We expect Spain to come request aid at some point, but it
will just take a while,” said  Mary Nicola , a New York-based
currency strategist at BNP Paribas SA. “We see there is further
downside to go on the dollar. You had a slew of Fed speakers
reiterating the policy that they put in place.”  The common European currency added 0.1 percent to $1.2980
at 5 p.m.  New York  time, and fell 1.1 percent this week. The
shared currency was little changed at 101.46 yen.  Japan ’s
currency was rose 0.1 percent to 78.17 per dollar.  The shared currency has fallen 0.8 percent in the past week
versus nine developed-nation currencies tracked by the Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The dollar has gained 0.5 percent
and the yen has advanced 0.8 percent.  Less Stress  Stress in the European financial markets is easing,
reaching the least since July 2007, according to Bloomberg’s
Euro Area Financial Conditions Index. The index rose to zero
this week for the first time since 2007 after averaging minus
2.8 during the past year.  “Euro-dollar has served as a barometer for how confident
investors are in Spain putting its finances on a better path,”
said  Joe Manimbo ,  a market analyst in Washington at Western
Union Business Solutions, a unit of  Western Union Co. (WU)  “The
euro’s gain means that investors are less fearful for Spain’s
immediate future.”  European governments “need to proceed toward a full
accomplishment of economic and monetary union and create
conditions for growth and the creation of jobs,” according to a
statement from Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti ’s office
following a meeting with his Spanish counterpart Mariano Rajoy
in Rome today.  The Dollar Index was little changed at 79.387, after
falling as much as 0.5 percent. The greenback declined against
higher-yielding counterparts after Lockhart, who votes on
monetary policy this year, said in a speech in Atlanta that the
central bank may act beyond its plan to buy mortgage-backed
securities if the labor market doesn’t show signs of greater
strength.  Monetary Stimulus  Fed Chairman  Ben Bernanke  said Sept. 13 the U.S. central
bank will keep adding stimulus to the economy. The Fed announced
it will buy $40 billion of mortgage bonds a month to pump money
into the economy and boost employment.  The highest yield premium for China’s bonds over  U.S. debt 
in five months will add to pressure for appreciation in the
 yuan . One-year notes yielded 273 basis points more than
Treasuries yesterday, the most since April, after the  spread 
widened 64 basis points this quarter.  The yuan breached 6.3 per dollar yesterday, a level policy
makers had been defending all this year. The fixing has been
kept weaker than 6.3 since May 11 and was 6.3426 per dollar
today.  Canada’s currency was little changed at 97.64 cents per
dollar, after gaining as much as 0.4 percent.  The nation’s consumer price index rose 1.2 percent in
August from a year ago, compared with a 1.3 percent gain the
prior month,  Statistics Canada  said today from Ottawa. The core
rate, which excludes eight volatile products, increased 1.6
percent after a July gain of 1.7 percent. Economists surveyed by
Bloomberg forecast that the total rate would stay at 1.3 percent
and core inflation would be 1.5 percent.  Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney  said earlier this month
he may raise  interest rates  as the economy moves to full output
next year, and that inflation would return to its 2 percent
target during the next 12 months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  