-- European Stocks Gain on Spain Bailout Speculation
-- B y   N a m i t h a   J a g a d e e s h
-- 2012-09-21T15:52:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-21/european-stock-futures-gain-on-spain-bailout-speculation.html
European stocks  rose to a one-week
high after a report said that policy makers will next week
unveil an economic reform program for Spain that will allow the
country to seek a bailout.  Novo Nordisk A/S (NOVOB)  climbed 1.3 percent after UBS AG advised
investors to buy the shares.  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  gained 2 percent
after Barclays Plc raised its price target on the stock. Elan
Corp. increased 2 percent after the company named a new chief
operating officer.  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  advanced 0.5 percent to 275.78
in  London , the highest since Sept. 14. The gauge has  rallied 18
percent  from this year’s low on June 4 as central banks from
 Europe  to the U.S. added stimulus measures to bolster the global
economy.  “Spain is the most critical country because all its
economic actors -- individual companies, banks and states -- are
indebted,” said Pierre Mouton, a portfolio manager who helps
oversee $6 billion at Notz Stucki & Cie. in Geneva. “There’s
market speculation of a bailout, though the official line is
still that  Spain  won’t seek one. If the bond spreads widen
again, that will accelerate a bailout process.”  Futures and options contracts on equities indexes expired
today, in a process known as quadruple witching. The volume of
shares changing hands on the Stoxx 600 companies was 72 percent
higher than the average of the past 30 days, data compiled by
Bloomberg showed.  Spain Aid  Spanish Economy Minister Luis de Guindos is in talks with
European Commission authorities to facilitate a new bailout
program that will be presented Sept. 27, the Financial Times
reported, citing unidentified officials involved in the
discussions. The plan will focus on structural measures sought
by the EU and not on new taxes or spending cuts, the FT said.  Any additional conditions attached to an aid program for
Spain will be “light,” as the current measures undertaken by
the government are “sizable,” UniCredit SpA economist Tullia Bucco wrote in a note.  Deputy Prime Minister Soraya Saenz de Santamaria said this
week that the Mediterranean nation will consider seeking a
bailout if the conditions imposed are acceptable.  Italy  and Spain won’t request aid unless they are unable to
borrow from the market because of rising bond yields, Gianfranco
Polillo, Italy’s undersecretary of finance said in an interview
in  Rome  yesterday.  The yield on Spain’s 10-year bonds fell two basis points
this week to 5.76 percent. It rose above the 6 percent mark in
intraday trading earlier in the week.  Fed Rates  In the U.S., the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis
President Narayana Kocherlakota yesterday said the country’s
central bank should hold  interest rates  near zero percent until
unemployment drops below 5.5 percent. He reversed his view in
May that the Fed may need to raise rates this year or the next.  National benchmark indexes advanced in 13 of the 18
western-European markets.  Germany ’s DAX gained 0.8 percent,
 France ’s CAC 40 added 0.6 percent and the U.K.’s FTSE 100 was
little changed.  Novo Nordisk climbed 1.3 percent to 917 kroner after UBS
raised the rating on the shares to buy from neutral.  Vodafone added 2 percent to 178.45 pence after Barclays
increased its share-price target to 200 pence from 195 pence and
reiterated a buy recommendation.  Elan rose 2 percent to 8.70 euros. Hans Peter Hasler will
take over as chief operating officer from Oct. 1, the company
said late yesterday. Hasler is currently the chairman of HBM
BioVentures AG.  Imagination, Devgen  Imagination Technologies Group Plc (IMG)  added 3.9 percent to
531.5 pence, paring a 13 percent loss seen in the four days
through yesterday, after JPMorgan Chase & Co. listed it as one
of the companies that will benefit from the product cycle of the
iPhone 5 in the next 12 to 18 months. Apple Inc. began selling
its latest version of the iPhone today.  Devgen (DEVG)  NV soared 69 percent to 15.89 euros, the biggest
rally since it sold shares to the public in June 2005, after
Syngenta AG offered to buy the company for 16 euros per share.
That’s a 70 percent-premium to yesterday’s closing price of 9.43
euros.  Rhoen-Klinikum AG (RHK)  jumped 3.6 percent to 15.13 euros after
Manager Magazin reported that Sana Kliniken AG was preparing a
bid for the German hospital operator.  Mediobanca SpA (MB) , Italy’s biggest publicly traded investment
bank, gained 3.3 percent to 4.21 euros after UBS AG raised its
share-price target to 4.1 euros from 3.5 euros and kept a
neutral rating. Equita SIM SpA raised the target to 4.9 euros
from 4.4 euros and retained a buy recommendation.  Opap SA,  Greece ’s biggest gambling company, slid 2.3
percent to 4.20 euros after Credit Suisse Group AG lowered its
rating on the shares to underperform, the equivalent of sell,
from outperform, a rating similar to buy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Namitha Jagadeesh in London at 
 njagadeesh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  