-- European Stocks Are Little Changed This Week
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   M o r g a n
-- 2012-09-21T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-21/european-stocks-are-little-changed-this-week.html
European stocks  were little changed
this past week, near their highest valuation since 2010, amid
speculation that the rally in equities has overshot the outlook
for corporate earnings and the region’s economy.  SSAB AB sank 11 percent after forecasting an operating loss
because of falling demand for strip steel. Opap SA plunged 19
percent after  Greece ’s government reached an agreement with the
European Commission to increase taxes on the company.  Telenet
Group Holding NV (TNET)  surged 15 percent after Liberty Global Inc.
made a $2.5 billion offer to buy the remaining shares that it
doesn’t already own.  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  slipped 0.1 percent to 275.78
this week, following two weeks of gains. The gauge has still
surged  18 percent  from this year’s low on June 4 as European
Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said that he would do
everything to protect the euro and speculation mounted that the
 Federal Reserve  would announce a third round of bond purchases.  “If you cut through this week’s noise, what was very
disturbing was the divergence in the purchasing managers’ index
figures between  France  and Germany which shows that Europe is
diverging into an A and a B team, with France joining the B team
with Italy and  Spain ,” said Peter Garnry, an equity strategist
at Saxo Bank A/S in Copenhagen.  The Stoxx 600’s rally this year pushed the gauge’s
 valuation  to 12.3 times the estimated earnings of its
constituent companies on Sept. 14, its highest multiple since
December 2010, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  French Manufacturing  A survey on Sept. 20 showed that  France’s manufacturing
industry  will contract this month more than economists had
forecast. The measure, which is based on a PMI, showed a
preliminary reading of 42.6 for September, less than the  median
economist estimate  of 46.4 in a Bloomberg News survey.  A separate release the same day showed that Germany’s
manufacturing index will shrink this month less than predicted.
The PMI for  Europe ’s largest economy climbed to 47.3 from 44.7.
That beat the average estimate for a reading of 45.2. A figure
below 50 signals that the industry contracted.  The Stoxx 600 rebounded on Sept. 21, limiting its decline
for the week, after the Financial Times reported that Spain and
the European Commission have discussed a package of reforms
needed to obtain a bailout for the country.  Bailout Conditions  Spain’s Economy Minister Luis de Guindos has held talks
with the commission about a series of structural reforms that
will be unveiled on Sept. 27, the FT reported, citing
unidentified officials involved in the discussions. The European
Union needs Spain to meet specific conditions before it can
proceed with a bailout of the country.  Deputy Prime Minister Soraya Saenz de Santamaria said this
past week that the Mediterranean nation will only consider
asking for a bailout if it finds the EU’s conditions acceptable.  The yield on  Spain’s 10-year bonds  dropped three basis
points to 5.76 percent this past week, while  Germany ’s 10-year
bund yields slipped 11 basis points to 1.60 percent.  In  China , a report showed that the manufacturing industry
in the world’s second-biggest economy may contract in September
for the 11th consecutive month. A PMI compiled by HSBC Holdings
Plc and Markit Economics had a preliminary reading of 47.8.  SSAB tumbled 11 percent, its biggest weekly retreat in 13
months. The Swedish steelmaker forecast a third-quarter
operating loss of 700 million kronor ($107 million) including a
one-off provision of as much as 60 million kronor for an
efficiency-improvement program.  ThyssenKrupp, Salzgitter  ThyssenKrupp AG,  Germany’s largest steelmaker , fell 7.4
percent and Salzgitter AG, the  country’s second-biggest
steelmaker , lost 7.2 percent. A gauge of Europe’s commodity
companies dropped 4.1 percent, the biggest weekly retreat of the
19 industry groups in the Stoxx 600.  Opap sank 19 percent after Greece’s gambling monopoly
announced that the  finance ministry  agreed to impose a 30
percent tax on gross profit through Oct. 2020 and a 10 percent
surcharge on winnings. Pantelakis Securities analyst, Paris Mantzavras, wrote in a note that the charges may cut the
company’s earnings per share by as much as 40 percent.  Telenet surged 15 percent, its biggest weekly gain in
almost four years. Liberty Global, the John Malone-led cable-TV
company, offered to buy 49.6 percent of the Belgian business.
Englewood, Colorado-based Liberty will give Telenet investors 35
euros a share.  Vestas Wind Systems A/S soared 12 percent as SEB Enskilda
AB said on Sept. 17 that Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Ltd. may
agree to share technology or buy a stake in the Danish wind-
turbine maker. The Nordic investment bank said that  Japan ’s
growing interest in renewable energy has increased the
likelihood of a deal with Vestas.  Acciona, Heineken  Acciona SA rose 14 percent after the renewable energy and
water provider won wastewater treatment contracts in  Mexico  and
 Costa Rica . The Alcobendas, Spain-based company valued the
contract to build and maintain the El Caracol wastewater plant
near Mexico City at 764 million Mexican pesos ($60 million). The
contract runs for 23 years.  Heineken NV gained 9.1 percent after companies owned by
Thai billionaire Charoen Sirivadhanabhakdi gave their support
for the Dutch brewer’s $4.6 billion bid for Fraser & Neave
Ltd.’s 40 percent stake in  Asia Pacific Breweries Ltd. (APB)   Charoen’s Thai Beverage Pcl and TCC Assets Ltd. will back
Heineken’s bid after the lager company, which runs APB in a
venture, agreed not to make a competing offer for F&N.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Morgan in Frankfurt at 
 jmorgan157@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  