-- Ex-Lloyds Security Chief Gets 2 ½ Years Jail in Fraud Case
-- B y   J e r e m y   H o d g e s
-- 2012-09-21T13:15:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-21/ex-lloyds-security-chief-gets-2-years-jail-in-fraud-case-1-.html
Lloyds Banking Group Plc’s (LLOY)  former
head of digital banking fraud and security was sentenced to two-
and-a-half years in jail for submitting false invoices totaling
more than 2.4 million pounds ($3.9 million).  Jessica Harper, 50, was sentenced to half of a five-year
term by a judge in London today. She gave the money to family
and friends, including helping some people buy houses.  The fraud at the U.K’s second-biggest state-backed lender
is another blow to London’s reputation as a financial center,
which has been tarnished by separate revelations that banks
rigged the London Interbank Offered Rate and sold inappropriate
derivatives to small business customers.  “You were a senior employee in the bank in a position with
a high degree of trust at a time when Lloyds was substantially
supported by a lot of taxpayers’ money following difficulties
sustained by the bank in the financial crisis,” Judge Deborah Taylor said at the hearing.  Harper in August pleaded guilty to submitting fake invoices
between 2007 and 2011 and then laundering the proceeds,
prosecutors said. Her lawyer, Carol Hawley, argued for a reduced
term, arguing that her client confessed and her actions weren’t
motivated by greed.  “There is no evidence to support her living an extravagant
lifestyle,” Hawley said. “There was no sophistication, this
was a simple fraud.”  ‘All Consuming’  Harper, who submitted 93 false invoices, has repaid 709,000
pounds, prosecutors said in court. The chances of her paying
back the full amount are “unrealistic,” they said.  The proceeds of the fraud bought houses for Harper’s family
and financial aid for friends. She had a long history of charity
work, Hawley said.  “You disregarded your duties out of a sense of entitlement
to take other people’s money for your own benefit and that of
your family,” Taylor said.  Harper, who was earning about 60,000 pounds a year, told
investigators she deserved the money given the hours she worked.  “She was working under a huge amount of pressure and for a
long period of time,” Hawley said. “She describes that period
of her life when work became all-consuming. She still today
struggles to explain the reason behind her behavior.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeremy Hodges in  London  at 
 jhodges17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  