-- Ex-President James Looted Arts Club, N.Y. Says in Suit
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2012-09-21T18:04:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-21/ex-president-james-looted-arts-club-n-y-says-in-suit.html
Aldon James, former president of
the  National Arts Club , was accused in a lawsuit by the  New York 
attorney general of abusing his position to obtain apartments
and go on personal shopping sprees at the club’s expense.  James exercised “nearly absolute control” over the club’s
operations and misused his power to benefit himself and his
brother, Attorney General Eric Schneiderman said in a complaint
in New York State Supreme Court.  James deprived the club of $1.5 million in rental income
and used $250,000 in club funds for personal expenses, including
purchases at antique shops, meals and car service, Schneiderman
said in a statement today about the lawsuit.  “For James, the National Arts Club was his: he lived
there, he ran it, he had no life outside it, and he considered
himself therefore entitled to do with the club’s property as he
pleased,” the state said in the complaint.  The National Arts Club, located on Gramercy Park South in
 Manhattan , was founded in 1898 and promotes public interest in
the arts. James was ousted as president in March 2011, according
to the complaint.  Gerald Shargel , James’s lawyer, said his client served the
club well as president and will fight the state.  “Any claim that Aldon James misappropriated money is
absurd,” Shargel said today in a phone interview.  State’s Accusations  The state said that James, his brother John and club member
Steven Leitner each leased an apartment at the club for below-
market rent, and James used his power to obtain for the three of
them personal use of as many as eight club apartments as well as
offices, board room and other club spaces for no rent.  James bought clothes, accessories and artwork at the club’s
expense and charged it for meals, according to the complaint.
The charges amounted to $250,000 from 2006 to March 2011.  The state seeks to require James to make restitution and
prevent James from serving as officer, director or trustee of
any New York charitable organization.  Schneiderman sued under his authority to oversee not-for-
profit organizations in New York, according to the complaint.  The case is State of New York v. James, New York State
Supreme Court, New York County (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David McLaughlin  in New York
at   dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 