-- Texas Outperforms AAA States With U.S. Defense Cuts: Muni Credit
-- B y   D a v i d   M i l d e n b e r g
-- 2012-09-21T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-21/texas-outperforms-aaa-states-with-u-s-defense-cuts-muni-credit.html
Looming U.S. defense-spending cuts
that threaten almost 160,000 Texas jobs are unlikely to halt a
municipal-bond rally that’s beating seven other top-rated states
tracked by  Standard & Poor’s .  Texas bonds have returned 6.22 percent this year through
Sept. 19, outperforming states that have a top general-
obligation rating from Standard & Poor’s or Moody’s Investors
Service and whose performance is tracked by S&P. Florida ranks
second with 6.16 percent, followed by  Delaware  at 5.17 percent.  Across-the-board federal cuts aimed at reducing the  U.S.
debt , scheduled for as soon as January, may cost about 99,000
jobs in Texas through Defense Department-related reductions,
plus 60,000 from other agencies, according to  Stephen Fuller , a
public policy professor at  George Mason University  in Virginia.
Even so, the diversity of the nation’s second-biggest economy
shields it from cutbacks and lures bond investors, said  John Bonnell  at USAA Investments in  San Antonio .  “There is a lot of demand for almost everything in
Texas,” said Bonnell, an assistant vice president of mutual
fund portfolios at USAA, which manages about $50 billion. “The
 credit quality  in Texas is very strong.”  Picking Winners  Texas state and local debt is beating the 5.9 percent gain
in the $3.7 trillion municipal market this year, S&P data show.
Bond investors handed Texas Governor  Rick Perry , a Republican
who has been in office since 2000, a win last month, when he
sold $9.8 billion of one-year notes at a lower relative
borrowing cost than  California . Both sales had S&P’s highest
short-term grade.  Texas  borrowed at a yield of 0.23 percent, or 0.04
percentage point above AAA one-year munis, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. In California’s sale last month of $10 billion
of notes maturing in May and June, the extra yield was at least
0.17 percentage point.  For general-obligation debt, Texas has a top rating from
Moody’s and one step lower from S&P. California’s S&P rating is
A-, lower than any state. As municipal interest rates sank to
45-year lows this year, investors have bought California
securities for their higher yields.  Shrinking Penalty  Bonds of the most-populous state have returned 6.8 percent
this year, beating Texas. Investors demanded as little as 0.26
percentage point this week to own 10-year debt of California
issuers rather than borrowers from Texas, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. It was the smallest yield penalty for California
since 2008.  While U.S. states face automatic spending reductions and
the scheduled expiration of tax cuts from the presidency of
Republican  George W. Bush , Texas has several attributes in its
favor, said Robert Dye, chief economist at Comerica Inc. in
 Dallas .  The second-most-populous state and biggest U.S. oil-
producer, Texas benefits from crude futures prices that have
risen about 18 percent from a nine-month-low in June; a
population that is younger than the U.S. average; and policies
that limit state spending, Dye said. The rate of job growth in
the Houston and Austin areas will probably be double the
national average this year and next, while Dallas and San
Antonio are also outpacing the U.S., he said.  No. 3  “Even if the economy weakens more than expected, I think
we’ll see a similar pattern as in 2008 and 2009 when Texas was
last in the recession and first out,” Dye said.  Only California and  Virginia  stand to lose more jobs than
Texas from the federal spending cuts, according to Fuller’s July
study, which was prepared for the Aerospace Industries
Association. The reductions would cost California about 225,000
workers, compared with about 208,000 in Virginia.  The jobless rate in Texas was 7.2 percent in July, compared
with the 8.3 percent national average. California’s was 10.7
percent and Virginia’s 5.9 percent.  Automatic reductions in federal spending, including
defense, would begin Jan. 2 unless Congress acts, after
lawmakers failed last year to cut deficits by at least $1.2
trillion over a decade. The White House on Sept. 15 estimated
fiscal 2013 cuts would amount to $109.3 billion, equally drawn
from defense and non-defense programs.  Lawmakers don’t plan to address the issue in earnest until
after the Nov. 6 presidential election.  Less Vulnerable  Compared with top-rated states, Texas is less vulnerable to
defense-industry cuts, according to a report this month by
Michael Zezas, a municipal strategist at Morgan Stanley in New
York.  Texas’s military employment as a percentage of total jobs
ranks 23rd at 1.3 percent, compared with more than 2.5 percent
in  Alaska ,  Hawaii ,  North Carolina  and Virginia, the report said.  The impact “is not a great enough magnitude to take down
the state,” said Ray Perryman, an independent economist in
Waco, Texas, and former professor at Baylor University. “If you
were to close every base and hospital in San Antonio, certainly
that would have an impact, but that’s very unlikely.”  In trading yesterday, the  yield  on benchmark tax-free debt
due in 10 years was little changed at about 1.78 percent,
according to a Bloomberg Valuation index. The  interest rate  set
a record low of 1.63 percent in July.  Following are pending sales:  NEW YORK CITY plans to borrow a combined $1.2 billion of
general-obligation bonds this month and next to refund debt and
finance capital projects, according to the city’s Office of
Management and Budget. The sales include both fixed-rate and
variable-rate debt. (Added Sept. 21)  MASSACHUSETTS plans to issue $1.6 billion of general-
obligation debt via competitive sale as soon as next week, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. The debt will finance capital
projects. (Updated Sept. 20)  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Mildenberg in Austin, Texas, at 
 dmildenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  