-- Texas Seeks to Unblock Purge of Deceased From Voter Rolls
-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 2012-09-22T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-21/texas-seeks-to-unblock-purge-of-deceased-from-voter-rolls-1-.html
Texas  asked a state judge to
dissolve a temporary court order blocking a purge of as many as
77,000 “possibly dead” people from voter rosters in one of
several courtroom battles leading up to the Nov. 6 election.  “Texas has long had in place statutes that mandate a
voter’s registration should be canceled by a county registrar
when it is determined that a voter is deceased,” Texas Attorney
General  Greg Abbott  said in a filing yesterday in state court in
Austin. “This matter concerns the integrity of voter
registration in Texas.”  Four voters sued Texas Secretary of State Hope Andrade on
Sept. 19 to block implementation of a voter-verification
campaign that they said would remove them and possibly thousands
of other still-living Texans from voter lists before the
November presidential election.  Judge Tim Sulak blocked Andrade from directing county voter
registrars to carry out the voter purge the same day the lawsuit
was filed.  Voter registrars in Dallas County and Harris County, which
includes Houston, had balked at completing the purge. Harris
County Voter Registrar Don Sumners said he was concerned the
state’s dead-voter list was inaccurate and that hundreds of
voters contacted his office to refute reports of their deaths
after getting notices their registrations would be canceled.  The lawsuit is among multiple court battles over voting
rules, particularly in swing states, including Florida,  Ohio ,
 Pennsylvania  and  Wisconsin , where Republican and Democratic
presidential campaigns see the possibility of victory.  Pennsylvania Suit  In Pennsylvania this week, the state Supreme Court set
aside for further review a ruling allowing the state to enforce
a law requiring voters to have photo identification, which the
 American Civil Liberties Union  has argued was aimed at keeping
likely Democratic voters away from the polls. The lower court
set a hearing on the review for Sept. 25.  Voter cases are also under way in  Alabama ,  South Carolina 
and  Tennessee .  Lawsuits filed over Florida voting rules include at least
two challenging a law ostensibly designed to purge noncitizens
from voter lists, which opponents say would disenfranchise new
citizens as well.  A federal judge last month blocked enforcement of a new
 Florida  law restricting voter-registration activities. A
different federal judge in Florida this week heard arguments
challenging the state’s 2011 law cutting back early voting days
as biased against blacks.  30 Days  The Texas voters who sued have no right to challenge the
state simply because they were notified that their voter
registrations would be canceled within 30 days if they didn’t
prove they were alive, Abbott said in yesterday’s filing.  “Each voter who receives such a notice is simply asked to
provide the relevant county registrar with information
demonstrating the voter remains eligible to vote,” Abbott said.
“This entire suit should be dismissed.”  In the alternative, Abbott asked Sulak to dissolve his
restraining order and allow county registrars to continue
investigating voters who are so-called “weak” matches with the
U.S. Social Security Administration’s master death list. Voters
aren’t challenging removal of “strong” matches between
election rosters and the national database, only weak ones that
lack a complete match between a voter’s full name, birthday and
a nine-digit Social Security number.  Voters’ Challenge  Abbott also said the state court judge lacked authority to
preside over the voters’ challenge under the U.S. Voting Rights
Act because only federal courts may oversee such matters. The
state initially filed a notice of its intent to move the lawsuit
to federal court early yesterday, and later withdrew that
notice, Abbott said in the filing.  “The voters clearly have standing to sue,” David
Richards, the voters’ lawyer, said in a phone interview. “If
you follow the state’s logic, then no one would have standing to
ever do anything.”  Richards said the U.S.  Supreme Court  has ruled that state
courts can hear challenges under the Voting Rights Act.  The case is Moore v. Morton, D-1-6N-12-002923, District
Court, Travis County, Texas (Austin).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Romano in  New York  at 
 mromano6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  