-- Facebook Agrees to Delete EU Facial-Recogniation Data
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 2012-09-21T15:19:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-21/facebook-agrees-to-delete-eu-facial-recogniation-data.html
Facebook Inc. (FB)  agreed to delete data
collected from users within the European Union for its facial-
recognition feature by Oct. 15, the Irish privacy regulator
 said .  The owner of the biggest social-networking site has faced
several European reviews over concerns a facial-recognition
program that automatically suggests people’s names to tag in
pictures breaches privacy rights.  Facebook Ireland “agreed to delete collected templates for
EU users by Oct. 15” and to seek regulator consent “if it
chooses to provide the feature to EU users again,” the Irish
Office of the Data Protection Commissioner said in the
 conclusions to a review  today.  Data-protection regulators from the 27-nation EU have been
looking into Facebook’s facial-recognition feature. Norway’s
data-protection regulator said in August it was reviewing how
the feature worked and what information Facebook was storing.
Earlier this year, a group of regulators known as the EU’s
 Article 29  Data-Protection Working Party,  said  people must
consent to the use of their images.  The Irish audit “is part of an ongoing process of
oversight, and we are pleased that, as the data-protection
commissioner said, the latest announcement is confirmation that
we are not only compliant with European data-protection law, but
we have gone beyond some of their initial recommendations,”
Facebook said in an e-mailed statement.  Hamburg Order  The Commissioner for Data Protection in Hamburg,  Germany ,
today issued an “administrative order” that Facebook can only
create and store biometric profiles with the consent of users,
including existing ones, for its facial recognition feature.  The continued retention of user biometrics “is now fully
dealt with as Facebook is agreeing to delete all such data” by
Oct. 15,  Gary Davis , Ireland’s deputy data-protection
commissioner, said today. “From that date, there will be no
data processed in the EU in relation to this feature.”  Data protection is currently policed by separate regulators
across the EU. The bloc’s executive body wants to simplify the
system so companies deal with only one data-protection regulator
in the region.  The company’s progress on “a wide range of best-practice
improvements” was reviewed as part of on-site audits by the
Irish regulator in May and July. An agency  report  in December
urged Facebook to increase transparency and controls on using
personal data for advertising and to delete user data sooner.  The Irish agency today said Facebook had demonstrated “a
constructive approach” in responding to its recommendations.  Reviewing Compliance  Facebook Ireland provides service to the  Palo Alto ,
California-based company’s users outside the U.S. and  Canada ,
according to the agency, which in 2011 began reviewing
Facebook’s compliance with Irish and EU data-protection rules.  The German watchdog in August  resumed  a separate probe into
the social network’s facial-recognition features after
suspending it two months earlier pending the Irish audit.  Johannes Caspar, the Hamburg regulator, said in a phone
interview today that Facebook must comply with German law,
regardless of any agreement with the Irish regulator. He added
that his office hadn’t been told of the agreement with the Irish
agency and that if Facebook’s concessions to the Irish are
enough to fulfill the Hamburg order, “then all is fine.”  The Irish data regulator’s capabilities were put to the
test last year when an Austrian law student made 22 complaints
about Facebook’s compliance with EU privacy rules, such as the
company keeping photos on its servers after they’d been deleted.
The Irish agency conducted the investigation because Facebook’s
European headquarters are located in Dublin.  The agency said today’s report “does not involve formal
decisions by the office on the complaints it has received in
relation to” Facebook Ireland. “The audit has taken account of
the substantive issues raised in these complaints and it can be
expected that at least some of these issues will have been dealt
with to the satisfaction of the complainants.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Bodoni in Luxembourg at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  