-- Fed’s Bullard Opposed to Tying Policy to Rate of Unemployment
-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 2012-09-21T01:05:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-21/fed-s-bullard-opposed-to-tying-policy-to-rate-of-unemployment.html
Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis
President  James Bullard  said he opposes tying monetary policy to
a target for the unemployment rate, which he believes isn’t the
best measure of job-market health.  “I have warned the committee against using specific
numbers on unemployment,” Bullard said to reporters today after
a speech in South Bend, Indiana, referring to the  Federal Open
Market Committee .  “Unemployment is a fickle variable,” he said. “It can go
up and down because of labor-force participation changes as has
happened in recent years and even the most recent unemployment
report,” he said. “We would be better served by taking an
overall approach to labor-market conditions and assessing the
situation that way.”  Minneapolis Fed President  Narayana Kocherlakota  said today
in a speech that the central bank should hold  interest rates  at
around zero until unemployment drops below 5.5 percent. The
comment aligned him with the FOMC’s decision last week to
continue purchasing bonds until labor markets “improve
substantially.”  European unemployment has been elevated because of changes
in the structure of the labor market, Bullard said. Policy
makers “would still be waiting” if they had tied policy to a
low level of joblessness.  Bullard said he opposed the FOMC decision last week to
begin a third round of asset purchases. The  U.S. economy  is
expanding at about a 2 percent rate in the second half and will
probably to accelerate to more than 3 percent growth next year,
he said.  Bullard joined the St. Louis Fed’s research department in
1990 and became president of the regional bank in 2008. His
district includes all of  Arkansas  and parts of Illinois, Indiana,
Kentucky, Mississippi, Missouri and Tennessee.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Matthews in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  