-- Feinberg, Skadden, Cooley, A&O, Kirkland: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2012-09-21T15:15:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-21/feinberg-skadden-cooley-a-o-kirkland-business-of-law.html
Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP, the defunct
 law firm , filed a list last night showing how much each of 444
former partners will pay in the proposed $71.5 million
settlement. The hearing to approve the settlement began
yesterday in  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in Manhattan and continues
today.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Martin Glenn has more on his plate
than deciding whether to approve the settlement that generated
opposition from some former partners and the official committee
representing ex-partners. Glenn will also rule on a request by
some former partners to appoint a Chapter 11 trustee to take
control of Dewey’s liquidation away from the firm.  The official partners’ committee wants Glenn to appoint an
examiner before a settlement is approved. Glenn is also
scheduled to rule on whether the firm’s exclusive right to
propose a Chapter 11 plan should be extended.  The largest contribution toward the settlement, $3.5
million, would be made by Berge Setrakian. The second largest,
$3.37 million, is from Ralph Ferrara. In third place is  Jeffrey
Kessler , at $1.99 million. The fourth spot is occupied by John
Schwolsky $1.68 million, followed closely by Alexander Dye and
 Michael Gross , both at about $1.66 million.  Others offering to contribute more than $1 million are
Richard Climan, Lejb Fogelman, Bruno Gattai, Lawrence Hill, and
Morton Pierce. Partners contributing between $750,000 and $1
million are Camille Absousleiman, John Klauberg, Timothy Moran,
Chris Sioufi, Stefano Speroni, Gordon Warnke, Gavin Watson, and
James Woods.  The smallest contribution is $5,000.  If approved by the court, the partners may pay less. They
all receive a 5 percent deduction if partners collectively
contribute more than $70 million. They also stand to receive
deductions for collecting client billings. For details on the
settlements, click here for the Aug. 30 Bloomberg bankruptcy
report.  Dewey has two official committees, one for unsecured
creditors and the other for former partners. The firm once had
1,300 lawyers before liquidation began under Chapter 11 in May.
There was secured debt of about $225 million and accounts
receivable of $217.4 million at the outset of bankruptcy, the
firm said. The petition listed assets of $193 million and
liabilities of $245.4 million as of April 30.  The case is In re Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP, 12-12321, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Penn State to Bring in Law Firm Feinberg Rozen for Victims  Feinberg Rozen LLP, the law firm of  Kenneth Feinberg , who
oversaw pay at seven bailout recipients for the  U.S. Treasury 
and ran the Sept. 11 victim fund, was hired by  Pennsylvania
State University  to settle personal-injury claims with victims
of the Jerry Sandusky sex-abuse scandal, the  Associated Press 
reported.  The firm declined to confirm the report when contacted by
 Bloomberg News .  In an interview Sept. 18 at Bloomberg LP’s headquarters in
New York,  Penn State  President Rodney Erickson said that the
university is working with outside lawyers and plans to announce
a process that will result in the settlement of “ideally all”
of the civil cases so that “victims will not have to be dragged
through a long litigation process.” The money will come from
insurance policies and funds set aside from interest on internal
loans, Erickson said.  “We certainly haven’t forgotten about Mr. Sandusky’s
victims,” Erickson said. “We want to make sure that we do the
right thing in terms of providing a just outcome for them.”  The 157-year-old university has been under intense scrutiny
since the November indictment of Sandusky, a former assistant
football coach, for the sexual abuse of 10 boys over a 15-year
period. Sandusky was convicted by a jury in June of 45 criminal
counts. The scandal and coverup tarnished Penn State’s image,
and a university-commissioned investigation concluded that fear
of bad publicity and a “culture of reverence” for the football
program steered the school’s handling of the allegations.  The $6.5 million university-commissioned probe by  Louis Freeh , a former federal judge and director of the  Federal Bureau
of Investigation , found that school officials ignored numerous
red flags involving Sandusky for more than a decade.  For more, click here.  Deals  BASF Buys Becker for $1 Billion to Boost Crop Protection  Skadden Arps Slate Meagher & Flom LLP and Cooley LLP
advised on  BASF SE (BAS) ’s agreement to buy Becker Underwood Inc. for
$1.02 billion.  The deal marks Kurt Bock’s first major acquisition as chief
executive officer with a move into biological seed treatments.
Skadden advised Becker, while Cooley represented BASF.  Cooley’s partners on the deal included Mike McGrail, Miguel
Vega, Jon Rivinus, David Walsh, Erich Veitenheimer, Adam Ruttenberg, Francis Fryscak and Kevin King.  The Skadden team was led by New York mergers and
acquisitions partners Ken Wolff and Eileen Nugent.  BASF will create a business unit called Functional Crop
Care to encompass the Ames, Iowa-based business, which is
forecast to generate $240 million in  sales  in the year through
September, the German chemical maker said yesterday in a
statement. Norwest Equity Partners is exiting the asset after
eight years.  Becker will feed BASF’s plans to grow in biological crop
care as well as animal nutrition as the Ludwigshafen-based
company moves away from commoditized  products  such as plastics.
Demand for seed treatment is “rapidly growing” as farmers look
to science to improve yields and fight pests, BASF said.  “This will strengthen BASF’s own seed treatment activities
and create a global leader,” Laurent Favre, an analyst at Bank
of America Merrill Lynch, said in a note. The “valuation is
punchy, but in line with previous deals.”  For more, click here.  Simpson Thacher Advises on Japan Airlines’ $8.4 Billion IPO  Simpson Thacher & Bartlett LLP advised the international
managers for  Japan Airlines Co. (9201) ’s 663 billion-yen ($8.4 billion)
initial public offering.  The Simpson Thacher team for the transaction included Tokyo
corporate partners Alan Cannon and David Sneider. In New York,
partner Robert Holo assisted on tax matters. Daiwa  Capital
Markets  Europe, Bank of America Corp.’s Merrill Lynch and Morgan
Stanley were lead managers for the international offering, the
firm said in a statement.  The airline was priced at five times forecast earnings in
the IPO, less than half the level that larger rival  All Nippon
Airways Co. (9202)  trades at.  It plans to expand international capacity by 25 percent
over five years as it introduces 45 new  Boeing Co. (BA)  787 aircraft.
The planes may be used to open new routes in Southeast Asia,
President Yoshiharu Ueki said in an interview before the re-
listing.  “We’ve totally restructured and we’ve changed our
mentality” Ueki said. “That will allow us to keep on making
profits.”  The airline is predicting a profit of 130 billion yen this
fiscal year, compared with 40 billion yen at ANA. It has
benefited from tax credits against past writedowns, which have
prompted complaints from opposition lawmakers.  For more, click here.  News  New Lawyers in New York Required to Provide 50 Hours of Pro Bono  Aspiring lawyers in New York will be required to provide 50
hours of pro bono work a year, according to a new requirement
handed down by New York Court of Appeals Chief Judge Jonathan Lippman.  The rule affects every applicant to the New York bar as of
January 2015, which means it includes current first- and second-
year students.  This requirement is the first of its kind in the country,
said the New York Law Journal, which cited Lippman as saying he
hoped the rule will spread to other states.  For the New York Law Journal article,  click here.   Moves  Allen & Overy Strengthens U.S. Energy and Infrastructure Team  Allen & Overy LLP hired Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer LLP
partners Kent Rowey and Dolly Mirchandani, who will join the
global energy and infrastructure practice in New York.  Rowey was the head of energy and infrastructure for the
Americas at Freshfields, Allen & Overy said. Both lawyers
represent infrastructure investors, developers, operators and
financiers.  With their addition, Allen & Overy’s U.S. based energy and
infrastructure team has more than 30 lawyers, including nine
partners.  “This high profile addition demonstrates our ongoing
commitment to both our clients and the U.S. market,” Gareth
Price, global co-head for energy, said in a statement.  Allen & Overy has about 2,800 attorneys in 42 offices
worldwide.  Katten Hires Former Federal Prosecutor Rosensaft in New York  Michael M. Rosensaft, a former federal prosecutor joined
Katten Muchin Rosenman LLP’s litigation practice as a partner.  Rosensaft represents businesses and individuals in white-
collar criminal and regulatory enforcement matters, corporate
internal investigations, and complex civil litigation with an
emphasis on insurance and health-care fraud litigation.  Rosensaft was an assistant U.S. attorney in New York, where
he investigated and prosecuted criminal cases involving
terrorism, international  money laundering , export violations,
bribery of foreign officials, narcotics trafficking,
RICO/organized crime, murder, bank and wire fraud and computer
crimes, the firm said.  Katten has more than 600 attorneys in locations across the
U.S. and in London and Shanghai.  Patent Litigator Joins Gibson Dunn’s Dallas Office  Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher LLP hired litigator Tracey Davies
who joined the firm’s Dallas office as a partner. She was
previously at Vinson & Elkins LLP, the firm said.  Davies focuses her practice on patent litigation and
strategic IP counseling, including strategic patent portfolio
development and management, licensing and strategic
partnerships, branded versus generic pharmaceutical matters, and
other transactions that maximize IP value.  Gibson Dunn has more than 1,000 lawyers in 17 offices in
the U.S., Europe, the Middle East, Asia and  South America .  McKenna Long Hires Real Estate Attorney from Alston & Bird  Christina Braisted Rogers joined McKenna Long & Aldridge
LLP’s Atlanta office as a partner in its real estate practice.
She was previously with  Alston & Bird LLP .  Rogers’s practice focuses on the representation of
institutional real estate investors, including pension fund
advisers, real estate investment trusts and construction lenders
and borrowers. She also has experience in acquisition,
disposition, joint venture, financing and leasing transactions.  McKenna Long has more than 575 attorneys and public policy
advisers in 13 offices in the U.S. and Brussels.  Aletheia General Counsel Rejoins O’Melveny in Los Angeles  O’Melveny & Myers LLP said that Jorge deNeve is rejoining
the firm from Aletheia Research & Management Inc., where he was
senior vice president and general counsel.  DeNeve will be in O’Melveny’s  Los Angeles  office as counsel
and will be a member of the white-collar defense and corporate
investigations practice.  DeNeve has experience in SEC compliance and enforcement,
having previously served as a staff attorney in the enforcement
division of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission’s Los
Angeles regional office.  At Aletheia, an  investment adviser , deNeve was responsible
for advising the firm’s management on its legal matters and
supervising outside litigation counsel on pending legal
proceedings.  O’Melveny has about 800 lawyers in 15 offices worldwide.  SEC Enforcement Lawyer Rejoins Shearman & Sterling in Washington  Shearman & Sterling LLP said Mark Lanpher will rejoin the
firm as counsel in the securities and white-collar enforcement
practices in Washington on Sept. 24.  Lanpher worked as assistant chief litigation counsel in the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission’s Division of
Enforcement in Washington, where he played a leadership role in
major SEC enforcement cases and settlements, the firm said.  Before joining the SEC, Lanpher was a prosecutor in the
U.S. attorney’s office in New York. He began his career at
Shearman & Sterling as a capital markets associate in Toronto
before going into government work.  Shearman & Sterling LLP has about 900 lawyers in 20 offices
worldwide.  Litigation  UBS Ignored Limits on Profitable Trades, Adoboli Lawyer Says  Kweku Adoboli’s lawyers said  UBS AG (UBSN)  had a culture that
overlooked trading limits and other rules as long as employees
made money.  Adoboli lawyer Charles Sherrard said the bank became “more
aggressive in terms of its desire to make profits” in 2011,
while cross-examining one of Adoboli’s former bosses at a fraud
trial in London yesterday.  “The culture, practice at the bank you were working for,
didn’t matter as long as you were making money,” Sherrard said
to Ron Greenidge, who oversaw UBS’s exchange-traded-funds desk
until April of last year.  Adoboli, 32, is on trial charged with fraud and false
accounting over unauthorized trades that lost $2.3 billion.
Adoboli admitted he risked $5 billion on Standard & Poor’s 500
futures and a further $3.75 billion in the German futures
market, Greenidge said in testimony yesterday.  Risk limits for the bank’s ETF desk were agreed on orally
and could be exceeded, Greenidge said. The only written risk
limits were “at a very high level,” Greenidge testified.  Greenidge, who worked at UBS for 19 years, said yesterday
he was dismissed for gross misconduct because of Adoboli’s
trades. He said he felt the bank was making him a scapegoat.  Adoboli has denied the charges against him and the former
trader’s lawyers have said he is looking forward to providing
the jury with his own account of what happened.  Sherrard read out Adoboli’s performance reviews from 2009
written by Greenidge, which said the trader needed a better
balance between work and other activities. Greenidge said
Adoboli was a “great ambassador for the ETF product” and had
outstanding performance that year.  Adoboli was arrested on Sept. 15, 2011, after confessing in
an e-mail to accruing losses during “the aggressive sell-off”
in July and early August resulting from the “escalation of the
euro-zone crisis,” prosecutors have said.  Greenidge said that from 2008 until April 2011, he never
received a flag in his daily risk report for the ETF desk for
any of Adoboli’s trades.  For more, click here.  Facebook Asks Panel to Consolidate IPO Suits in New York  A lawyer for  Facebook Inc. (FB)  asked a panel of federal judges
to consolidate lawsuits by investors over the company’s initial
public offering.  “We’re glad to be in New York and we’d like to stay
here,” Andrew Clubok, a partner at Kirkland & Ellis LLP, told a
seven-judge panel meeting yesterday in Manhattan.  The judges, on the  U.S. Judicial Panel on Multidistrict
Litigation , heard arguments on Facebook’s request to move more
than 40 suits by investors who claim they lost money on
Facebook’s IPO to a single judge in New York. They didn’t say
when they will rule on the request.  In addition to Facebook, investors sued  Nasdaq OMX Group
Inc. (NDAQ) , the exchange on which Facebook’s shares are traded;  Morgan
Stanley (MS)  & Co., the lead underwriter;  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ; and
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)   Some investors blame trading errors by  Nasdaq  for their
losses. Others claim Facebook, based in Menlo Park, California,
failed to disclose revised revenue projections in the days
leading up to the first day of public trading on May 18.  The case is In re Facebook Inc. IPO Securities and
Derivative Litigation, MDL 2389, U.S. Judicial Panel on
Multidistrict Litigation (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in New York at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 