-- Forint May Drop as Chances of Aid Deal Fall, Citigroup Says
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2012-09-21T09:15:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-21/forint-may-drop-as-chances-of-aid-deal-fall-citigroup-says-1-.html
The forint and Hungary’s local-
currency bonds may slump as the probability of an aid deal with
the  International Monetary Fund  and the European Union declines,
Citigroup Inc. said.  “It remains unclear when or even whether a deal will
eventually be signed,”  Luis Costa  and Wike Groenenberg, London-
based economists at the bank, wrote in a research report dated
yesterday. “We see limited value in Hungarian assets now.”  Hungary, the most indebted eastern EU member, requested aid
in November to shore up its finances. Negotiations for a loan of
about a 15 billion euros ($19 billion) were delayed because
Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  resisted legal and economic
conditions set by the IMF and the EU. The government may break
its pledge not to sell Eurobonds before an IMF deal and such
issuance would be negative for the forint and local debt,
Citigroup said.  The forint pared its depreciation this week to 0.4 percent
after gaining 0.1 percent to 282.44 per euro by 10:14 a.m. in
Budapest. The currency has strengthened 11.5 percent this year,
the most worldwide, helped in part by expectations of an aid
deal.  Yields on the government’s benchmark five-year notes were
little changed at 6.857 percent, compared with a year-low of
6.825 percent reached on Sep. 14.  Hungary ’s  central bank , which last month trimmed its
benchmark rate by 25 basis points to 6.75 percent, will continue
“gradual” interest rate cuts, with the next reduction possible
in the coming week, the Citigroup analysts said, citing meetings
with officials in Budapest this week. Expectations for one
percentage point of cuts in the next 12 months looks “roughly
fair,” the analysts said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  