-- Fox Television Stripper Fine Lawsuit Dropped by U.S.
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g   a n d   T o d d   S h i e l d s
-- 2012-09-21T22:33:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-21/fox-television-stripper-fine-lawsuit-dropped-by-u-s-.html
The U.S. government abandoned a
lawsuit against  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Fox network over its refusal to pay
indecency fines for a 2003 broadcast of “Married by America”
that featured strippers.  The  Justice Department , in a filing today in federal court
in  Washington , said without elaboration that it was voluntarily
dismissing the case. On July 23, the department said the Federal
Communications Commission was evaluating its enforcement
policies, including how to proceed in the case after a U.S.
 Supreme Court  ruling a month earlier.  “In the wake of the Supreme Court’s decision in Fox v.
FCC, the commission is reviewing its indecency enforcement
policy to ensure the agency carries out Congress’s directive in
a manner consistent with vital First Amendment principles,” FCC
Chairman  Julius Genachowski  said today in an e-mailed statement.  The Supreme Court ruled June 21 that the FCC didn’t give
“fair notice” before it took action against Fox Television
Stations Inc. for allowing expletives on awards shows in 2002
and 2003, and against ABC-affiliated stations for showing a
scene with a naked woman on the drama “NYPD Blue” in 2003.  The FCC in 2004 sought to fine 169 Fox-owned stations and
affiliates for the episode of “Married by America,” in which
strippers’ breasts were electronically obscured.  Viewer Complaints  On Feb. 22, 2008, the agency said the fine would apply only
to stations named in viewer complaints, rather than all that
aired the program. The Justice Department sued in April 2008
after the FCC rejected an appeal from Fox, seeking $7,000
against each of five Fox stations.  “Fox’s view has consistently been that the FCC’s fine had
no foundation within the law, and we are grateful that the DOJ
and FCC have now dropped the case,” Dan Berger, a spokesman for
Fox, said in an e-mailed statement.  He said Fox will ask the FCC to dismiss its underlying
forfeiture order in the case so that “Fox affiliates who paid
the fine upfront do not unfairly suffer any negative
consequences related to their broadcast licenses in the
future.”  Charles Miller , a Justice Department spokesman, didn’t
immediately respond to an e-mail seeking comment on the filing.  The FCC hasn’t brought new broadcast indecency cases since
the Democrats took office in 2009, following two Republican
chairmen.  “I have directed the Enforcement Bureau to focus its
resources on the strongest cases that involve egregious
indecency violations,” Genachowski said today. “We also will
continue to reduce the backlog of pending indecency
complaints.”  The case is U.S. v. Fox Television Stations Inc., 08-
cv-00584, U.S. District Court,  District of Columbia 
(Washington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net ;
Todd Shields in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 