-- Fox, Dish Face Off Over Ad-Free Primetime TV Service
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2012-09-22T02:19:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-21/fox-dish-to-face-off-over-ad-free-primetime-television-service.html
News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Fox Broadcasting unit
asked a federal judge to block  Dish Network Corp. (DISH) ’s ad-free
primetime television service, which the networks say threatens
their business.  U.S. District Judge Dolly Gee in Los Angeles heard
arguments today on Fox’s bid to halt Dish’s PrimeTime Anytime
and AutoHop features while it proceeds with its copyright-
infringement lawsuit filed in May. The judge took the request
under submission without indicating when she would issue a
decision.  Fox Broadcasting Co.,  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s NBCUniversal and  CBS
Corp. (CBS)  separately sued Dish, the No. 2 U.S. satellite-television
provider, claiming the service will destroy the “advertising
supported ecosystem” that provides free, over-the-air primetime
television. Dish sued the networks in  New York , seeking a court
ruling that it isn’t infringing copyrights.  Richard Stone, a lawyer for Fox, said at the hearing that
other distributors, including  DirecTV (DTV) , the largest U.S.
satellite-television provider, will be forced to follow suit if
Dish’s ad-free primetime television service isn’t blocked.  “It will grow like a brushfire if it isn’t stopped,”
Stone said.  The Dish service will devalue commercial time during Fox’s
programs in the eyes of advertisers, the lawyer said. The
service also directly competes with Fox’s own distribution of
ad-free programs through  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iTunes and through
Amazon.com Inc., Stone said.  Plain ‘Theft’  “This is theft of programming, plain and simple,” Stone
told the judge.  Annette Hurst, a lawyer for Dish, said Fox was trying to
undo the 1984 Supreme Court ruling in the Sony Betamax case that
allowed consumers to copy programs for later viewing. There was
no way to distinguish between Dish’s AutoHop and fast forwarding
through commercials for legal purposes, Hurst said.  “This is not A Clockwork Orange” where viewers can be
forced with their eyes pried open to watch commercials, Hurst
said, referring to the 1971 Stanley Kubrick film.  Dish, based in Englewood,  Colorado , introduced its Hopper
digital video recorder in March. It can record all the major
networks’ primetime shows and store them for eight days after
their initial broadcast. AutoHop, introduced in May, allows
viewers, with the touch of a button, to skip all the commercials
on recorded shows automatically, without having to fast-forward
through them.  Undermining Advertising  Fox said in in its Aug. 22 request for an injunction that
“PrimeTime Anytime and AutoHop cut the legs out from under the
advertiser-supported broadcast television business model.”  Dish said in its complaint that the AutoHop feature lets
subscribers watch primetime shows commercial-free the day after
they are recorded, not on the night when they’re first shown on
television.  Dish’s new service might affect the television networks’
ability to borrow money, with AutoHop having “broad negative
credit implications across the television industry,” Neil Begley, an analyst for Moody’s Investors Service, said in a May
25 report cited by Fox in its filing.  The case is Fox Broadcasting v.  Dish Network , 12-4529, U.S.
District Court, Central District of California ( Los Angeles ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in Los Angeles at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 