-- Jim Furyk Holds One-Stroke Tour Championship Lead, Woods Falters
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 2012-09-22T04:01:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-21/furyk-leads-tour-championship-with-woods-three-shots-back.html
Jim Furyk  holds a one-shot lead
over  England ’s  Justin Rose  entering today’s third round of the
Tour Championship after shooting nine birdies yesterday in the
final event of golf’s U.S. PGA Tour season.  Furyk is at 7 under par in the tournament at East Lake Golf
Club in Atlanta. Fellow Americans Bubba Watson and Bo Van Pelt
are tied for third at 5 under.  The 2003 U.S. Open champion, Furyk opened his second round
with seven consecutive scores of three, including five birdies.  “I was just having fun writing three on the card,” Furyk,
42, whose last PGA Tour victory came at the 2010 Tour
Championship, told reporters. “I was marveling. I’ve never seen
a card that pretty. It was obviously a fun day.”  The tournament caps a four-event playoff series and awards
a $10 million bonus to the FedEx Cup points champion in addition
to the $1.4 million tournament winner’s share. Furyk entered the
event ranked 18th in the playoff standings and is unlikely to
win the overall title even with a victory.  Along with other scenarios, Furyk would need points leader
Rory McIlroy to finish 12th or worse and second-ranked  Tiger Woods  to finish fifth or worse. Any player among the top five in
the standings can win the title with a victory. McIlroy and
Woods are followed by Americans  Nick Watney ,  Phil Mickelson  and
 Brandt Snedeker  in the standings.  Woods, who entered the second round tied for the lead with
Rose, shot 3-over 73 yesterday, tying for the third-worst round
of the day. He had four birdies, five bogeys and a double bogey
to fall to 12th place.  “I didn’t play very good,” Woods said. “It was a
struggle all day.”  Furyk was the day’s top performer with a 6-under 64. After
finishing his opening nine holes in 6 under par, Furyk faltered
down the stretch with bogeys on two of his final three holes. He
missed a par putt from less than five feet on the 18th green for
his third bogey of the round.  ‘Bad Taste’  “That always leaves a bad taste in your mouth,” Furyk
said. “But all in all, I’m in good spirits.”  Woods had back-to-back bogeys on holes 11 and 12, where he
missed a 3-foot par putt, and ended his day with a par on the
18th after bogeys on the two previous holes.  McIlroy, a 23-year-old from  Northern Ireland  who has won
three of his past four U.S. events including the  PGA
Championship , is tied for seventh at 3 under after a 2-under 68.  “I’m only four shots back,” said McIlroy, who is playing
in the event for the first time. “So I’ve still got a good
chance going into the weekend.”  Mickelson was paired with McIlroy in the second round and
is tied for 16th at even par after scores of 69 and 71.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Buteau in Atlanta  at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  