-- Generic-Drug Fee Plan at FDA Caught Up in Budget Impasse
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2012-09-21T19:14:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-21/generic-drug-fee-plan-at-fda-caught-up-in-budget-impasse.html
A $300 million program to speed
U.S. reviews of generic drugs made by  Mylan Inc. (MYL) ,  Teva
Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA)  and other companies may not start
as planned on Oct. 1 because of a budget impasse in Congress.  The industry’s deal with the  Food and Drug Administration 
to pay user fees for the first time was to mimic long-standing
arrangements for brand-name drugs and medical devices. The snag
for generics is that because their program is new, lawmakers
must pass legislation authorizing the FDA to collect the money,
Donald Beers, associate chief counsel for drugs at the agency,
said today at a meeting in  Silver Spring ,  Maryland .  While Congress has been working on a fix, most lawmakers
are preparing to leave Washington this week and not return until
after the Nov. 6 elections. The fees were part of legislation
passed in June that was meant to help the FDA clear a backlog of
2,700 generic-drug applications and cut review times for copycat
medicines to 10 months from an average of almost three years.  “This is an extraordinary law that has enormous
consequences,” Ralph Neas, chief executive officer of the
Generic Pharmaceutical Association, said in a phone interview.
“We cannot allow implementation to be delayed.”  In addition to accelerating reviews, the fees would allow
more frequent FDA inspections of factories outside the U.S.,
which supply 80 percent of the nation’s drug ingredients. Such
overseas facilities are inspected once every nine years on
average now, compared with every 30 months for domestic plants,
a 2010 Government Accountability Office  report  found.  ‘Slower Pace’  While the FDA is prepared to start the program on time, the
resources to do so will be harmed if Congress doesn’t act, said
Mary Beth Clarke, acting director of the office of executive
programs in the FDA’s Center for Drug Evaluation and Research.  “It will proceed, it just will proceed at a slower pace,”
Clarke said.  The legislation passed in June would have the companies pay
 $1.6 billion  in fees through 2017, including $300 million in the
fiscal year starting Oct. 1.  Without a budget agreement, the FDA can only require the
industry to pay $50 million of the $300 million for fiscal 2013,
Debbee Keller, a Republican Party spokeswoman for the House
Energy and Commerce Committee, said in an e-mail.  ‘Taken Aback’  Neas’s group, the lead lobbying organization in  Washington 
for generic-drug makers, has volunteered to pay the FDA fees for
2013 regardless of whether the agency has the authority to
collect, as long as there are assurances the money will be used
for the negotiated program, Neas said.  “I think officials were taken aback,” he said. “That
isn’t something they hear. We think the law is so important, so
needed and so many patients, so many consumers, so many
Americans will benefit if this law is implemented.”  The FDA can spend the money the manufacturers voluntarily
hand over, Christopher Kelly, a spokesman for the agency, said
in an e-mail.  The House passed a bill Sept. 19 that changes certain
payment deadlines in the generic user fee program so the FDA can
collect all of the fees, Keller said. The Senate hasn’t yet
taken up the bill.  Kristen Orthman, a spokeswoman for Senate Majority Leader
 Harry Reid , a Democrat from  Nevada , didn’t return a request for
comment on the Senate’s plans for the bill.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  