-- Genworth Says Defending Credit Rating Costlier Than Cut
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2012-09-21T21:26:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-21/genworth-ceo-says-downgrade-would-have-minimal-impact-btig-says.html
     Sept. 21 (Bloomberg) -- Genworth Financial Inc. acting
Chief Executive Officer Martin Klein said defending the firm’s
investment-grade status at Moody’s Investors Service may be more
harmful than a cut to junk, according to BTIG LLC.  “Klein indicated that the cost of taking action to stave
off a Moody’s downgrade may be more detrimental to shareholders
than accepting the possibility” the rating will be lowered,
 Mark Palmer , an analyst at BTIG LLC, wrote in a research note
today that was based on a meeting with the leader of the
Richmond, Virginia-based company.  The cost of protecting against the company’s default
climbed and the stock posted the biggest decline in the 24-
company  KBW Insurance Index. (KIX)  Moody’s began a review of the
rating in June and has said Genworth can help avert a downgrade
by separating its unprofitable mortgage-insurance unit from the
rest of the firm. Klein said in August that there were obstacles
to isolating the mortgage-guaranty business.  Genworth also sells  life insurance  and long-term care
coverage. The company is rated Baa3 by Moody’s, the lowest of 10
investment-grade levels.  “It’s better for Genworth that its investors understand
what this means and, if the event were to occur, that it’s not
the end of the world,” Palmer said in a phone interview
discussing the possibility of a downgrade. “This is a company
that’s doing an awful lot of contingency planning right now.”  Genworth dropped 2.9 percent to $5.66 at 4:15 p.m. in  New
York . The insurer has fallen 14 percent this year, while the
index has gained 12 percent.  Credit Swaps  Contracts protecting against the company’s default for five
years increased 0.4 percentage point to 3.3 percent upfront as
of 4:47 p.m., according to data provider CMA, which is owned by
McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the
privately negotiated market. That’s in addition to 5 percent a
year, meaning it would cost $330,000 initially and $500,000
annually to protect $10 million of Genworth’s debt.  Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower
fails to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted
debt. The contracts, which investors use to hedge against losses
on corporate debt or to speculate on creditworthiness, decline
as investor confidence improves and rise as it deteriorates.  Klein said a downgrade wouldn’t cause “any meaningful
movement in our bond spreads,” Palmer wrote. The CEO told the
analyst that derivative-trading and sales to retail clients
occur at subsidiaries with higher ratings, according to the
note.  Klein became acting CEO at Genworth after Michael Fraizer
resigned May 1 following a decision to shelve an initial public
offering of the firm’s Australia mortgage-insurance unit. Klein
said in August that a strategic review of the firm’s businesses
is complete, and declined to discuss details of the analysis.  The analyst said he spoke with Klein for about an hour
yesterday. Al Orendorff, a spokesman for Genworth, confirmed the
meeting occurred.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  