-- Xstrata Said to Delay Glencore Reply on Board, Management
-- B y   F i r a t   K a y a k i r a n   a n d   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h
-- 2012-09-21T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-21/glencore-xstrata-get-one-week-extension-for-takeover-decision.html
Xstrata Plc (XTA) , the largest exporter
of utility-grade coal, delayed its response to a 21.6 billion-
pound ($35.1 billion) takeover bid by  Glencore International Plc (GLEN) 
to resolve issues over management and the board at the new
company, according to people familiar with the situation.  The surprise delay to a response due Sept. 24 buys time for
the two sides to determine who will take a seat on the combined
board vacated by Xstrata Chief Executive Officer  Mick Davis ,
said the people, who asked not to be identified as the talks are
private. Glencore CEO Ivan Glasenberg said Sept. 7 he’d take the
top job after the deal, reversing a plan for it to go to Davis.  “They are clearly struggling,” Charles Newsome, London-
based investment director at  Investec Plc (INVP) , said in an interview
with Bloomberg Television. “It’s a difficult deal for them to
pull off because of the way it is structured. I’ve been quite
uncomfortable with this all the way along.”  Xstrata is now due to respond to Baar, Switzerland-based
Glencore’s revised all-share proposal by 7 a.m. in London on
Oct. 1, Xstrata said yesterday in a statement. The companies
jointly sought the extension, according to the statement.  “To simply drag it out another week adds yet more opacity
to an already pretty murky situation,” Paul Gait, an analyst at
Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. in  London , said by phone.  Xstrata shareholders are probably “increasingly
disillusioned that their interests are really being protected,”
he said. “The extension just means a week more of uncertainty,
in which more things could go wrong.”  Qatar Holding  Glencore, seeking to create the world’s fourth-biggest
mining company, was forced to boost its offer for Xstrata after
investors said they would vote against the initial proposal. It
increased its offer to 3.05 of its shares for each one in
Xstrata on Sept. 7 after investors including 12 percent
shareholder Qatar Holding LLC called for a higher bid.  Xstrata dropped after yesterday’s announcement and closed
down 4.2 percent at 1,005 pence in London. Glencore declined 1.7
percent to 362 pence.  “The extension was requested to enable Xstrata’s
independent non-executive directors to take full account of
feedback from consultation with key Xstrata shareholders,” the
Zug, Switzerland-based company said in yesterday’s statement.  As few as 16.5 percent of Xstrata shareholders can block
the deal because Glencore is barred from voting its Xstrata
stake of 34 percent.  Glasenberg Assurances  Xstrata has discussed Glencore’s proposal with its
investors, including whether provisions intended to retain
managers with intimate knowledge of its mines and other assets
are sufficient, according to a person with knowledge of the
meetings.  Glasenberg last week gave assurances to Xstrata’s
independent directors about retaining the key staff to run the
mining businesses, according to the person.  The board of the combined company was to have included
Davis, Glasenberg and a further four non-executive directors
from each company. Under the terms of the revised offer,
Glasenberg plans to lead the group within six months of the
deal’s completion, scrapping the original proposal that Davis
hold the position for about three years.  Under both the initial and revised takeover proposals,
Xstrata Chairman  John Bond  would hold the same post in the
combined company.              Xstrata shareholders  Standard Life Plc (SL/)  and Fidelity
Worldwide Investment objected to $278 million of retention
payments originally proposed for Xstrata executives as part of
the takeover.  Glencore said Sept. 10 it asked Xstrata’s board to consider
whether there were any changes it wished to propose to the
payments, which include 28.8 million pounds in shares of the
combined group to Davis over three years. Glencore said that day
it was “content” with Xstrata’s request that its senior
management and employees get retention and incentive payments.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Firat Kayakiran in London at 
 fkayakiran@bloomberg.net ;
Jesse Riseborough in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  