-- Glitnir Creditors Back Composition Deal, Winding-Up Head Says
-- B y   O m a r   R .   V a l d i m a r s s o n
-- 2012-09-21T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-21/glitnir-creditors-back-composition-deal-winding-up-head-says.html
Glitnir Bank hf ’s winding-up
committee said creditors in the failed Icelandic lender support
plans to strike a composition agreement and hand the bank over
to its bondholders.  Once creditors have reviewed the proposed deal, “a meeting
will be held with the creditors and if the creditors agree with
the terms, the company will be formally handed over to them,”
Steinunn Gudbjartsdottir, head of the bank’s winding-up
committee, told Reykjavik-based Vidskiptabladid TV late
yesterday. Though creditors have yet to give their formal
approval for such a plan, the winding-up committee’s proposal
“is supported” by the bank’s bondholders, she said.  Glitnir was the first of Iceland’s three biggest banks to
fail four years ago, precipitating the collapse of the island’s
financial system and sending the krona down as much as 80
percent against the euro offshore.  Kaupthing Bank hf ,  Landsbanki
Islands hf  and Glitnir defaulted on $85 billion, compared with
Iceland’s 2009 gross domestic product of $12 billion.  As of June 30, Glitnir’s assets stood at 862 billion kronur
($6.98 billion), according to the bank’s first-half report. The
lender had liabilities of 2.5 trillion kronur. Glitnir’s bonds
are trading at 25.5 cents on the euro, according to data
available on the website of  H.F. Verdbref .  “As soon as the composition agreement is approved, and if
it is approved, creditors can expect to receive payments from
the estate” of Glitnir, Gudbjartsdottir said.  Following the collapse of the three banks, Iceland’s
government transferred domestic accounts to state-created
lenders Arion Banki, Islandsbanki and Landsbankinn. Creditors in
Kaupthing were subsequently handed an 87 percent stake in Arion,
while creditors in Glitnir received a 95 percent stake in
Islandsbanki. The government holds 81.33 percent in
Landsbankinn, while its creditors own the rest.  Iceland’s government said yesterday it is seeking to pass a
bill allowing it to sell its stakes in the three banks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Omar R. Valdimarsson in Reykjavik 
 valdimarsson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net . 