-- GM Reaches Four-Year Labor Accord With CAW Following Ford
-- B y   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r
-- 2012-09-21T14:19:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-21/gm-reaches-four-year-labor-accord-with-caw-following-ford-deal.html
General Motors Co. (GM)  and the Canadian
Auto Workers reached a tentative four-year labor agreement last
night, avoiding a strike and leaving Chrysler Group LLC as the
last of the major U.S. automakers without a union deal.  The agreement will “create or maintain” 1,750 jobs and
calls for GM to invest C$675 million ($692 million) in its
Canadian plants, Jim Stanford, a union economist, said at a news
conference in Toronto.  The accord is subject to a ratification vote by CAW
members. GM, based in  Detroit , represents about 5,600 workers in
Ontario in these talks, including those from a vehicle-assembly
factory in Oshawa that makes the Chevrolet Impala and the
Cadillac XTS, as well from a plant that produces V-8 and V-6
engines.  The deal comes after the CAW reached a tentative labor
agreement at  Ford Motor Co. (F)  on Sept. 17 that mostly eliminated
cost-of-living raises in favor of bonuses and won 600 new jobs.
The union indefinitely extended a strike deadline that day with
GM and Chrysler for more time to bargain an accord that matched
terms of the Ford accord.  Under the extension, the CAW said it would keep bargaining
until progress faltered. The union said it would then provide 24
hours’ notice before striking.  “Now we have Ford establishing the pattern, we have
General Motors accepting the pattern, and tomorrow we go to work
with Chrysler,” union President  Ken Lewenza  said at last
night’s news conference.  Lump-Sum Payments  Lewenza said that GM matched lump-sum payments that
Dearborn, Michigan-based Ford agreed to make. In the Ford deal,
workers will get C$2,000 lump-sum payments in lieu of raises and
a C$3,000 ratification bonus.  The GM accord also calls for the company’s consolidated
assembly line in Oshawa, Ontario, which had been set to close
June 2013, to be extended another year, and the company’s flex
plant in Oshawa to add a third shift of 900 workers to help
build the Chevrolet Impala, Lewenza said.  Rules guaranteeing that temporary workers can only be
employed during peak employment periods, such as when new models
go into production, will be more strictly enforced, the union
president said. An engine and transmission plant in St.
Catherines, Ontario, southwest of Toronto, will get 100 new
jobs, he said.  The negotiations were “candid and constructive, reflecting
the challenges facing Canadian manufacturers,” David Wenner,
general director of labor relations for GM’s Canadian unit, said
in a statement. GM declined to comment on details of the accord.  Ford, Chrysler  Made-in-Canada vehicles accounted for 15 percent of its
U.S. sales this year through August, according to researcher
Autodata Corp.  CAW-represented employees at Ford are scheduled to vote on
ratification of that agreement this weekend. The CAW needs to
finalize language on the GM accord and a vote schedule wasn’t
announced at the news conference.  The union now turns to Chrysler, which is majority owned by
 Fiat SpA. (F)  The CAW said in a statement yesterday it was making
“gradual progress” with the Auburn Hills, Michigan-based
automaker. At last night’s press conference, Lewenza said the
company needed “to get serious.” Chrysler hasn’t made a
counterproposal to terms of the Ford accord yet, he said.  “We look forward to continuing our discussions with the
CAW,” LouAnn Gosselin, a Chrysler spokeswoman, said in an e-
mail after the GM-CAW agreement was reached.  Speaking before the GM deal was announced, Jerry Dias, the
union president’s assistant, said Chrysler was waiting to see
the GM deal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Altstedter in Toronto at 
 aaltstedter@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jacqueline Thorpe at 
 jthorpe23@bloomberg.net ;
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  