-- Google Shuts Music Search in China to Refocus Products
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-09-21T06:46:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-21/google-shuts-music-search-in-china-to-refocus-products.html
Google Inc. (GOOG) , which pulled its
search engine from  China  in 2010, has decided to shutter another
of its remaining services in the world’s largest Internet
market: a three-year-old music service.  Users of the Google Music Search service in China have
until Oct. 19 to download their stored playlists, Taj Meadows, a
Tokyo-based Google spokesman, said in a phone interview today.  The music service was launched in March 2009, less than a
year before Google in January 2010 said it was no longer willing
to comply with government regulations to self-censor Web
content. The latest closure may benefit  Baidu Inc. (BIDU) ’s competing
Baidu Ting online offering.  “Google’s music service was a positive force for the
promotion of licensed music in China,” Kaiser Kuo, a spokesman
at Beijing-based Baidu, said in e-mailed comments. “At Baidu,
we’ll continue the push for music services that respect
intellectual property, ensuring that artists and labels are
rewarded while satisfying the needs of listeners.”  Since pulling out of the search market, the music service
had been one of the few remaining offerings on the  Mountain
View , California-based company’s China-based landing page, along
with its translation service, an experimental group deal
aggregating service, and a page for consumer product listings.  “This is part of an ongoing effort across Google to bring
greater focus to our portfolio of products,” Meadows said.
“Our goal is to simplify and improve the Google experience for
our users and to devote more resources to high impact
products.”  As of today, users opening the  page for the music service 
get a one line message that reads: “Google Music Search service
has been turned off, please log in before Oct. 19 and download
your saved playlist.”  In a  Chinese-language Google blog  hosted in  Hong Kong , the
company said the impact of the music service “was not as high
as we expected.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  