-- Li & Fung Drops as Wal-Mart Option to Buy Unit Terminated
-- B y   E l e n i   H i m a r a s   a n d   M i c h e l l e   Y u n
-- 2012-09-21T10:15:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-21/li-fung-drops-as-wal-mart-option-to-buy-unit-terminated.html
Li & Fung Ltd. (494) , the largest
supplier of clothes and toys to retailers, fell the most in two
weeks in Hong Kong trading after an agreement giving  Wal-Mart
Stores Inc. (WMT)  the option to purchase a unit was terminated.  Li & Fung  dropped  2.6 percent, the most since Sept. 4, to
HK$12.20 after announcing a new arrangement with the world’s
biggest retailer that supersedes one made in January 2010. The
new agreement also allows for Li & Fung to provide design and
replenishment services to Wal-Mart.  The outsourcer set up Direct Sourcing Group Pte in 2010 to
supply goods to Wal-Mart, now the world’s second-biggest company
by sales. The deal would allow Hong Kong-based Li & Fung to act
as a buying agent for $2 billion of goods in the first year, it
said then. Yesterday’s agreement will last for five years with
an option for a two-year extension, it said.  “The termination of the  call option  indicates that Wal-
Mart itself is not giving enough orders to DSG to make it very
profitable,” Gabriel Chan, a Hong Kong-based analyst at Credit
Suisse, said in a phone interview today. “The only reason why
someone would give up a call option without any compensation is
that the call option is deeply out of the money and not expected
to be in the money any time soon.”  ‘Technical’ Changes  Today’s  share-price  decline extended the stock’s slide this
year to 15 percent,  compared  with a 12 percent climb for the
benchmark  Hang Seng Index. (HSI)   Wal-Mart canceled “much of a deal” for Li & Fung to
supply its international stores and will move to buy more goods
directly from factories, the Wall Street Journal reported today,
citing people close the company it didn’t name.  “There are no substantive changes to the buying agency
agreement,” Li & Fung said in an e-mailed reply to questions
today. “Most of the changes are technical” and allow its unit
“to focus its efforts and on specific departments and
categories and become much more efficient,” the company said.  Wal-Mart has said it “never anticipated exercising the
call option” on Direct Sourcing Group and no payment was made
to terminate it, Li & Fung said.  Ebru Sener Kurumlu, an analyst at JPMorgan, said the deal
“removes the uncertainty around ownership” of Li & Fung unit
Direct Sourcing. The new deal allows Direct Sourcing to focus on
categories where “Wal-Mart really needs Li & Fung’s
expertise,” said Sener, who has a neutral rating on the Hong
Kong-based company’s shares.  Li & Fung will continue to be a primary supplier for Sam’s
Club in the U.S. through its Direct Sourcing Group Pte. unit and
provide buying-agency services to Wal-Mart’s U.S. operations and
in some of its international markets, it said.  “This is positive not only for revenue streams but also
for margins as distribution is traditionally a higher-margin
business,” Vineet Sharma, an analyst at Barclays Plc in  Hong
Kong , said in a note to clients yesterday.  Li & Fung reported in August first-half core operating
profit fell 22 percent to $221 million as U.S. consumers curb
spending amid a slower economy.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eleni Himaras in Hong Kong at 
 ehimaras@bloomberg.net ;
Michelle Yun in Hong Kong at 
 myun11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  