-- Li & Fung Unit Serving Wal-Mart to Be Profitable in 2012
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   W o n g   a n d   F r a n k   L o n g i d
-- 2012-09-24T10:04:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-21/li-fung-unit-serving-wal-mart-to-be-profitable-in-2012.html
Li & Fung Ltd. (494)  said its unit
supplying  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  will be profitable this year and
that the retailer ended an option to buy the subsidiary because
it had become “comfortable” with the relationship.  Li & Fung’s business with Bentonville, Arkansas-based Wal-
Mart is “better than ever,” said  Bruce Rockowitz , chief
executive officer of Li & Fung, the world’s largest supplier of
clothes and toys to retailers. The supplier dropped 2.6 percent
in  Hong Kong  trading Sept. 21 after announcing the day before
that Wal-Mart canceled an option to buy its Direct Sourcing
Group Pte. unit. Li & Fung fell 1 percent to HK$12.08 in Hong
Kong today.  The subsidiary has been supplying Wal-Mart with at least $2
billion of goods annually, Rockowitz said in a Sept. 21
telephone interview. “The size of the business and
profitability of the business is growing, and better now than
ever,” he said. The subsidiary broke even in the first half,
will make a profit in the second and be “very profitable” in
2013, he said.  Direct Sourcing Group was set up two years ago when the
outsourcer’s relationship with Wal-Mart was new, Rockowitz said.  “They thought they needed a call option -- just in case it
doesn’t go well, they can buy it back,” Rockowitz said. “They
were comfortable after the first year that they didn’t need it
anymore.”  Business Opportunities  “We have a good relationship and there are still
opportunities for business,”  Scott Price , head of Wal-Mart’s
 Asia  operations, said in a Sept. 21 interview.  Rockowitz said a Wall Street Journal report that said Wal-
Mart canceled “much of a deal” for Li & Fung to supply its
international stores and will move to buy more goods directly
from factories was “not true.” The newspaper cited people
close to the company it didn’t identify.  Chad Tendler, a spokesman with Dow Jones & Co. in Asia, the
owner of the Wall Street Journal, said the company “stands by
our original reporting and the accuracy of the information
provided to us by sources.”  Li & Fung has dropped 16 percent this year in Hong Kong
trading,  compared  with a 12 percent climb for the benchmark  Hang
Seng Index . The stock last year slumped 37 percent after more
than tripling in the decade through 2010.  Higher Margins  In an investor conference today, Rockowitz said the supply
unit to Wal-Mart doesn’t need fresh investment.  “We can actually leverage a lot of existing set-ups within
Li & Fung,” he said. “The heavy-lifting and investments have
been done.”  The new agreement allows for Li & Fung to provide higher-
margin design and replenishment services to the world’s largest
retailer, Rockowitz said in the interview.  “This is positive not only for revenue streams but also
for margins as distribution is traditionally a higher-margin
business,” Vineet Sharma, an analyst at Barclays Plc in Hong
Kong, said in a note to clients dated Sept. 20.  Li & Fung said it will continue to be a primary supplier
for Sam’s Club in the U.S. through Direct Sourcing Group and
will provide buying-agency services to Wal-Mart’s U.S.
operations and in some of its international markets. The accord
is for five years with an option for a two-year extension and
beyond, with no break-out clause, Rockowitz said.  First-half core operating  profit  fell 22 percent to $221
million as U.S. consumers curbed spending amid a slower economy,
the Hong Kong company reported in August.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephanie Wong in Hong Kong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net ;
Frank Longid in Hong Kong at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bret Okeson at 
 bokeson@bloomberg.net  