-- Microsoft Deploys College-Kid Cool in Windows 8 Apps Race: Tech
-- B y   D i n a   B a s s
-- 2012-09-21T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-21/microsoft-deploys-college-kid-cool-in-windows-8-apps-race-tech.html
Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  is forging a future
in tablets with students like Joe Shapiro, a computer science
major who had never crafted applications for the company’s
Windows software until he won an internship to try it out.  Shapiro, a senior at  Brown University , spent the summer in
the Foundry paid internship program at Microsoft’s  New England
Research & Development Center , known as NERD. He helped build a
commuter-transit app, Catch It, that should be available for
download later this month in the online store for Windows 8, the
new tablet-friendly version of Microsoft’s flagship operating
system. And, crucial to Microsoft’s ambitions, he plans to make
more apps.  Microsoft, the world’s largest software maker, designed
Windows 8 for touch-screen technology included in the company’s
first tablet, Surface, and other devices coming this year. To
gain share in tablets, a market expected by DisplaySearch to
reach $66.4 billion in 2012, Microsoft needs enough apps to
challenge the more than 200,000 available for  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPad.  “The apps ecosystem is probably the single most important
factor in a customer’s experience,” said Al Hilwa, an analyst
at market researcher IDC. “It dictates what books you read,
what music you listen to, what movies you see, what social
activities you take part in. Problem is, you can’t have half a
million apps overnight.”  Interns, also deployed to write prototype apps for the
Windows 8 preview last year, produced six apps through Foundry,
generating enough interest among computer science students for
the company to make the pilot program permanent. Using student
recruits is one way Microsoft can woo app developers who are
used to building programs for mobile phones and tablets, where
the company has little and no share, respectively.  ‘College Struggle’  “Microsoft has struggled to get college kids interested in
developing for Windows,” said Wes Miller, an analyst at
Directions on Microsoft, who is based in Kirkland,  Washington .  Luring programmers before graduation is particularly
critical for recruitment in the U.S., which lags behind
countries such as India and  China  in its ability to crank out
qualified engineers. The U.S.  ranks 23rd  among developed nations
in the percentage of students with undergraduate degrees in
science or engineering who are employed in related fields, the
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development reported
last year. The report analyzed employment trends for people age
25 to 34.  Like their counterparts already in the workforce, student
developers have focused programming efforts on apps for Apple’s
iOS software, which powers the iPad, and  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android
operating system, used in an array of handheld devices,
including  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) ’s Kindle.  Microsoft’s version of the Surface tablet that is most
comparable to the iPad won’t be able to run older Windows apps,
forcing developers to start from scratch.  ‘Playing Catch-Up’  Windows 8 is the first Microsoft operating system that will
work on computers running chips based on  ARM Holdings Plc (ARM) 
technology. These chips are widely used in mobile devices,
including the iPad. The ARM-based products will run only apps
designed specifically for the new version of Windows -- and none
of the programs already available for Microsoft software on
machines made for  Intel Corp. (INTC) ’s chips.  “Microsoft is definitely playing catch-up with respect to
the global app marketplace,” said David Hilal, an analyst at
FBR Capital Markets, in an interview. “Their challenge is a
chicken-and-egg problem. They need to get more users for their
apps to entice developers, but they need better apps to attract
more users.”  Enter NERD interns to help fill the void. This summer’s
group of 21 interns produced three apps already in the Windows
store, and two more that are expected to follow soon.  Intern-Built  One of the intern-built apps is Trackage, which enables
users to locate packages shipped by  FedEx Corp. (FDX) ,  United Parcel
Service Inc. (UPS) , the U.S. Postal Service and LaserShip Inc. using a
single app rather than having to go to each service’s website
separately. Another, Never Late, is an alarm clock app.  Inkarus is a physics game in which users collect gears and
feathers to help a chubby penguin build a flying machine that
must steer clear of things like antigravity fields and
rainstorms.  The NERD building, located in Cambridge’s Kendall Square,
lets Microsoft maintain a base near the  Massachusetts Institute
of Technology  and  Harvard University  as well as offices
belonging to Google,  VMware Inc. (VMW)  and other biotechnology and
venture capital firms.  Parts of the facility, which also houses a research lab and
some of Microsoft’s Office employees, was designed by Ray Ozzie,
former chief technology officer at the company. Intern desks
have stunning views of the  Charles River . Walls are adorned with
banners from an advertising campaign Microsoft ran in places
such as  Boston ’s subway, with lines like “Softwayah” -- or
software pronounced with a Boston accent.  Shapiro’s App  The app that Shapiro and two other students built for
Boston public transit may be available in Microsoft’s online
store by the end of the month. Shapiro, now well-versed in
Microsoft’s C# programming language, wants to make more.  “I’m a completely C# convert now,” Shapiro said. “I
never want to go back.”  Another intern-made app, FaceReel, also awaits approval. It
uses facial-recognition software to generate videos out of a set
of images -- think of it as a way to create a birthday or 50th-
anniversary video without all the complicated editing or
PowerPoint work.  FaceReel was made by a team that included Jancarlo Perez
and Jasmine Huynh, students at MIT who, like Shapiro, hadn’t
worked on apps for Windows prior to the internship. They, too,
plan to develop Windows apps again.  Perez described the Windows 8 development environment as
“fast and fluid,” echoing the oft-repeated phrase Microsoft
executives have used to describe the program.  App Exposure  NERD interns who later opt for a career making apps for
Microsoft may find it’s easier to get exposure for their work
because the field isn’t as crowded as it is for apps built for
Apple or Google operating systems, said Hilal, the FBR analyst.  “As an app developer, you take a little bit of a leap of
faith today with Microsoft,” Hilal said. “You can get a lot of
downloads with Apple, but there’s a lot of competition.”  Beyond fostering a desire to work at Microsoft, NERD aims
to create a devoted group of Windows 8 converts who will spread
their enthusiasm among fellow computer science majors and design
students.  “Because Windows 8 is pre-release, it’s been so exciting
to get my hands on it before other people have been able to,”
said Emily Lin, a media arts and sciences major at  Wellesley
College , who served as the designer on the Catch It team. “When
I tell my friends, they say, ‘That’s so cool that you are
getting to develop on Windows 8.’ ”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dina Bass in Seattle at 
 dbass2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  