-- IGB REIT Surges in Trading Debut: Kuala Lumpur Mover
-- B y   G a n   Y e n   K u a n
-- 2012-09-21T09:11:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-21/igb-reit-surges-in-trading-debut-kuala-lumpur-mover.html
IGB Real Estate Investment Trust (IGBREIT) ,
owner of two of  Kuala Lumpur ’s largest shopping malls, advanced
in its trading debut, overtaking Pavilion Real Estate Investment
Trust to become Malaysia’s biggest REIT by market value.  The  stock  rose 11 percent to 1.39 ringgit at the close in
Kuala Lumpur from its initial public offering price of 1.25
ringgit per share. This boosted its market value to 4.7 billion
ringgit ($1.5 billion), compared with 4.1 billion ringgit at
 Pavilion REIT (PREIT) , another shopping mall owner.  IGB REIT, an arm of Malaysian property developer IGB Corp.,
has “plenty of opportunities for growth,” Alia Arwina Izyani Azani, an analyst at  RHB Capital Bhd. (RHBC) , wrote in a report today,
initiating the coverage with an outperform call and a so-called
fair value of 1.43 ringgit. This means RHB expects its return to
exceed the benchmark FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI Index by more than
5 percentage points over the next six to 12 months.  Palm-oil producer  Felda Global Ventures Holdings Bhd. (FGV) 
jumped as much as 20 percent on its June debut in Kuala Lumpur
after raising $3.3 billion in the world’s second-largest initial
share sale this year. Hospital operator  IHH Healthcare Bhd. (IHH) 
gained as much as 14 percent on its first day of trading in July
after raising $2 billion.  IGB REIT was today’s most active stock on the Kuala Lumpur
stock exchange with 236 million shares traded. The  FTSE Bursa
Malaysia KLCI Index (FBMKLCI)  fell 0.1 percent. The trust raised 837.5
million ringgit in its share sale after pricing units at the top
of its marketed range.  Profit Forecast  The trust owns the Gardens Mall and Mid Valley Megamall in
Kuala Lumpur, which it acquired from  IGB Corp. (IGB)  subsidiary
 KrisAssets Holdings Bhd. (KRIS)  It will generate distributable income
of 108.7 million ringgit this year, rising to 230.5 million
ringgit in 2013, according to its listing prospectus.  IGB REIT expects to include Southkey Megamall, which is
being developed by IGB Corp. in the southern state of Johor,
into its portfolio by late 2015, the Star reported on its
website today, citing IGB REIT Management Sdn. Chief Executive
Officer Antony Barragry.  “Overall, we are positive on IGB REIT due to its well-
known assets, the significant growth prospects for the Gardens
Mall, and its strong management team,” RHB’s Alia said.  Astro Malaysia Holdings Bhd. (ASTRO) , the country’s largest pay-TV
broadcaster, is joining a resurgence in IPOs in Kuala Lumpur
where the benchmark index rose to a record earlier this month.
It’s seeking to raise as much as 4.6 billion ringgit, three
people with knowledge of the matter said Sept. 19.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gan Yen Kuan in Kuala Lumpur at 
 ykgan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  