-- Liikanen Says ECB Council Decisions Should Be More Transparent
-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w   a n d   K a s p e r   V i i t a
-- 2012-09-21T11:25:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-21/liikanen-says-ecb-council-decisions-should-be-more-transparent.html
European Central Bank Governing
Council member Erkki Liikanen said he’d be in favor of
publishing the minutes of policy meetings to increase
transparency.  “The ECB is relatively open in the way that after a
meeting, the president will come out to say what was decided and
answer questions,” Liikanen, who heads  Finland ’s central bank,
told reporters after a parliamentary meeting in Helsinki today.
“My idea is to take one step forward and also describe the
conversation, what each member has said.”  The discussion about increasing transparency gained
momentum after ECB President  Mario Draghi  announced unlimited
bond purchases in August and said Bundesbank President Jens Weidmann had voted against the plan. Draghi is open to
publishing minutes of council meetings, an initiative supported
by the Bundesbank and the Finnish central bank, German newspaper
the  Sueddeutsche Zeitung  reported on Sept. 19.  “It could be a summary, it could include names, I don’t
take a definitive stand on the form right now,” Liikanen said
today. “The idea is plainly to take a step toward transparency
and openness. It would help people to understand decisions
better as justifications would be readily available.”  Italian Prime Minister Mario Monti today welcomed the ECB’s
push for greater transparency and said it will curb public
statements from dissenting governors.  Weidmann’s Criticism  Weidmann has criticized the ECB’s bond-purchase plan in
speeches and interviews, arguing it’s tantamount to printing new
money to finance governments.  Liikanen said the ECB’s new program, dubbed Outright
Monetary Transactions, wasn’t made for only one country.  “We’re not making a program for the needs of a single
country,” Liikanen said. “It will cover the whole  euro zone  if
needed.”  Liikanen also said that bank bailouts must remain a “rare
exception” and excessive risk taking as a result of banks’
“implicit backing” from governments “must stop.”  A European Commission working group on possible bank
structure rules, which Liikanen heads, will present its
proposals “in less than two weeks,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net ;
Kasper Viita in Helsinki at 
 kviita1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  