-- India Cuts Tax on Overseas Borrowing to Lure Capital Flows
-- B y   U n n i   K r i s h n a n   a n d   A n u r a g   J o s h i
-- 2012-09-21T10:32:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-21/india-lowers-tax-on-overseas-borrowing-to-lure-capital-inflows.html
India slashed taxes on overseas
borrowings by local companies, stepping up a policy revamp to
revive investment inflows. Stocks and the rupee climbed.  The so-called withholding  tax , a levy on interest earned by
overseas investors in foreign-currency bonds, loans issued by
Indian companies was cut to 5 percent from 20 percent, the
 Finance Ministry  said in a statement in New Delhi today. The
reduction will be applicable for three years, effective July 1,
according to the statement.  “Reduction in withholding tax will lower costs for
companies, especially infrastructure borrowers, by up to two
percentage points,” Jayesh Mehta, the Mumbai-based managing
director at the Indian unit of Bank of America Corp., said in a
phone interview. “The measure will encourage more borrowings
abroad by Indian companies.”  Finance Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram is seeking to
regain investor confidence and revive growth in  Asia ’s third-
largest economy. Today’s measures follow government’s decision
last week to increase diesel prices to reduce its subsidy burden
and allow foreign investment in industries including retail,
aviation and power exchanges.  The rupee strengthened 1.8 percent to 53.4063 per dollar as
of 3:57 p.m. in Mumbai, while the BSE  India  Sensitive Index rose
2.2 percent, the biggest gain among Asian benchmark stock
indexes. The yield on the 10-year bonds due June 2022 rose to
8.17 percent from 8.16 percent earlier.  ‘Low-Cost Fund’  The government wants to lure foreign capital in order to
bridge the current-account shortfall which widened to a record
$21.8 billion in the three months ended March, fueling the slide
in the currency. The rupee has gained 3.7 percent since Sept.
13, the day government announced an increase in fuel prices.  “It is to attract low-cost funds into India for
investment,” Chidambaram told reporters at a news conference.
“Funds are available at a very low cost overseas and  interest
rates  are extremely low abroad.”  Former Finance Minister  Pranab Mukherjee , in his budget
speech on March 16 lowered the withholding tax for only
infrastructure companies to 5 percent to help fund the
construction of roads, ports and power plants. The latest
proposal will be for all companies.  The government also today announced a plan which gives
retail investors, with an annual income of less than 1 million
rupees ($18,709), a tax rebate of 50 percent if they invest as
much as 50,000 rupees in equities, according to the statement.
The investment, which is permitted in mutual funds and  exchange
traded funds , will be locked-in for three years.  About 25 million Indian households invest directly or
indirectly in the  capital markets , according to a survey in July
2011 by the National Council of Applied Economic Research,
compared with a population of over 1.2 billion.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Unni Krishnan in  New Delhi  at 
 ukrishnan2@bloomberg.net ;
Anurag Joshi in Mumbai at 
 ajoshi53@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  