-- Indian Finance Ministry Said to Expect 5.3% Budget Gap
-- B y   U n n i   K r i s h n a n
-- 2012-09-21T11:10:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-21/indian-finance-ministry-said-to-expect-5-3-budget-gap-this-year.html
India  lowered a levy on overseas
borrowing to spur capital inflows, stepping up efforts to revive
a faltering economy, and signaled the  budget deficit  may be
contained at about 5.3 percent of gross domestic product.  A tax on interest paid by local companies to lenders abroad
has been cut to 5 percent from 20 percent, the  Finance Ministry 
said today. The ministry expects the  fiscal gap  in the year that
began April 1 to exceed the 5.1 percent goal set in March by 0.2
percentage points, two officials with knowledge of the matter
said, asking not to be identified as the projection isn’t public.  The rupee and stocks surged after the  tax cut , which
follows an increase in diesel prices to pare fuel subsidies and
moves to allow more foreign investment, ending months of policy
inaction. The deficit forecast is smaller than estimates by
Citigroup Inc. and Crisil Ltd.,  Standard & Poor’s  local unit,
which predict the gap will widen from last year’s 5.8 percent.  “The full thrust of the government’s actions seems to be on
regaining investor sentiment,” said Rupa Rege Nitsure, economist
at state-owned  Bank of Baroda  in Mumbai. “Even though these
steps are coming late in the day, what is now critical is that
they don’t go back on them.”  The rupee strengthened 1.7 percent to 53.4575 per dollar as
of 3:39 p.m. in Mumbai, while the  BSE India Sensitive Index (SENSEX)  rose
2.2 percent. The yield on the 10-year bonds due June 2022 fell
to 8.16 percent from 8.17 percent earlier.  No Reversal  The reduction in the withholding tax will be applicable for
three years, effective July 1, 2012, the Finance Ministry said
in a statement in New Delhi.  The government raised diesel tariffs on Sept. 14 for the
first time in over a year, the same day it opened industries
including retail and aviation to more overseas investment. Prime
Minister  Manmohan Singh  is trying to avert a credit-rating
downgrade and revive growth with a burst of policy changes.  The overhaul won’t be reversed, the officials said, even
after the largest political ally in the ruling coalition said it
would quit in protest at the steps. The 14 percent diesel-price
rise, forthcoming auctions of mobile-phone permits and planned
share sales by state companies should avert a wider budget gap,
the officials said.  “Even after the measures announced last week, there are
huge risks to the deficit from higher subsidies and a revenue
shortfall due to slowing growth,” said Suvodeep Rakshit, an
economist at Kotak Securities Ltd. in Mumbai. “I am not too
confident about the budget estimates.”  Borrowing Program  The government must curb subsidies to avoid exceeding its
2012-2013 borrowing target of 5.69 trillion rupees ($107
billion), both the officials said. The administration will
probably retain that goal at a meeting due this month to outline
the borrowing schedule for the second half of the financial year,
one of the officials said.  Singh is trying to trim a subsidy bill for food, fuel and
fertilizer by 12 percent to 1.9 trillion rupees in the year
through March 2013. The government had set a budget-deficit
target of 5.1 percent of GDP for the year in the budget released
in March. Citigroup predicts a shortfall of 5.9 percent and
Crisil forecasts 6.2 percent.  The government intends to raise at least 350 billion rupees
from an auction of mobile-phone permits and about 300 billion
rupees from the sale of shares in state-owned companies, one of
the officials said. An increase in diesel excise duty last week
will garner 160 billion to 170 billion rupees, the official said.  The  Reserve Bank  of India has signaled that curbing the
budget shortfall is pivotal to increasing room for  interest-rate 
cuts to bolster economic expansion, which weakened to a nine-
year low of 6.5 percent in 2011-2012.  The prime minister’s Congress party-led cabinet allowed
overseas retail chains such as Wal-Mart Stores Inc. to open
stores in India under last week’s revamp, triggering strikes
across the nation yesterday on concern family-run stores, the
backbone of the retail market, will be forced out of business.  Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings reduced the outlook on
India’s credit rating to negative from stable earlier this year,
bringing the nation a step closer to junk status.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Unni Krishnan in  New Delhi  at 
 ukrishnan2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  