-- German 10-Year Bunds Pare Weekly Gain on Spain Bailout Reports
-- B y   D a v i d   G o o d m a n   a n d   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a
-- 2012-09-21T15:36:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-21/italian-bonds-set-for-3rd-weekly-gain-as-official-rules-out-aid.html
German 10-year bunds declined,
paring their biggest weekly advance in almost a month, after a
report said euro-region policy makers will unveil a financial
bailout program for Spain as early as next week.  Italian 10-year securities dropped, even as a senior
government official said the nation won’t request external aid
unless increased borrowing costs restrict its access to bond
markets. Spanish Economy Minister Luis de Guindos is in talks
with European Commission authorities to facilitate a new rescue
program that will be presented on Sept. 27, the Financial Times
reported, citing unidentified officials involved in the
discussions.  “The news that talks between EU authorities and Spain are
going on in the background has led to an improvement in risk
appetite,” said  Brian Barry , an analyst at Investec Bank Plc in
 London . “Positive newsflow from the periphery overnight has
resulted in the bid for safe-haven assets tapering back.”  Germany ’s 10-year yield climbed two basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, to 1.6 percent at 4:33 p.m. London time. It
has dropped 11 basis points this week, the most since the five-
day period ending Aug. 24. The 1.5 percent security due in
September 2022 fell 0.195, or 1.95 euros per 1,000-euro ($1,303)
face amount, to 99.13.  German bonds returned 2.5 percent this year through
yesterday, according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the
European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. Spanish
securities added 1.4 percent, while Italy’s earned 16 percent.  Positive Returns  The bonds of every euro-region nation tracked by the EFFAS
indexes have recorded positive returns this quarter through
yesterday. German bunds were the worst performers with a 0.5
percent gain, the indexes show.  European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  unveiled
details of the ECB’s asset-purchase plan on Sept. 6, saying
activation was dependent on countries asking for help. The
 Federal Reserve  said on Sept. 13 it would buy mortgage
securities to bolster the recovery, while the  Bank of Japan (8301) 
unexpectedly added 10 trillion yen ($128 billion) to its
stimulus program on Sept. 19.  The ECB has reduced the risk “of a euro-zone breakdown and
has led to a sharp tightening of peripheral bond yields,” said
Elwin de Groot, a senior market economist at Rabobank Nederland
in Utrecht. “We’ve also seen many global central banks increase
monetary policy stimulus. These can be seen as creating a tide
that lifts all boats.”  Structural Measures  The plan for  Spain  will focus on structural measures long
sought by the EU, not new taxes or spending cuts, though the
European Commission may still request more austerity measures to
meet existing budget targets, the Financial Times said.  Spanish 10-year yields were little changed at 5.77 percent.
The rate climbed eight basis points yesterday as the nation sold
4.8 billion euros of debt due in 2015 and 2022.  “There won’t be any nation that voluntarily, with a
preemptive move, even if rationally justified, would go to an
international body and say, ‘I give up my national
sovereignty,’” Gianfranco Polillo, Italy’s undersecretary of
finance, said in an interview in  Rome  late yesterday. “I rule
it out for  Italy  and for any other country.”  Italy’s 10-year yield added six basis points to 5.05
percent. The rate has risen three basis points this week.  Volatility on French bonds was the highest in euro-area
markets today, followed by  Greece , according to measures of 10-
year or equivalent-maturity debt, the spread between two-year
and 10-year securities and credit-default swaps.  Greek 10-year bonds advanced, pushing the yield on the
securities below 20 percent for the first time since March 29.  The yield dropped 58 basis points to 19.96 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net ;
 David Goodman  in London at 
 dgoodman28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  