-- Japanese Stocks Advance as Investors Buy Defensive Shares
-- B y   N o r i e   K u b o y a m a   a n d   M a s a a k i   I w a m o t o
-- 2012-09-21T06:42:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-21/japan-stocks-rise-led-by-miners-energy-on-commodities.html
Japanese  stocks  rose, after
yesterday falling the most in three weeks, as utilities and
other defensive shares climbed amid concern recent global
stimulus won’t be enough to buoy growth.  Electric Power Development (9513)  Co. jumped 4.1 percent after
SMBC Nikko Securities Inc. recommended buying the utility’s
stock.  Japan Tobacco (2914)  Inc. rose 2.9 percent on optimism its
pharmaceutical unit may develop an effective treatment for
dialysis patients.  Sharp Corp. (6753)  soared 5 percent on a report the
loss-making electronics company is in investment talks with
 Intel Corp .  The  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  climbed 0.3 percent to
9,110.00 at the 3 p.m. close in  Tokyo  after yesterday closing
down 1.6 percent, the most since Aug. 31. The gauge ended the
week down 0.5 percent. The broader  Topix (TPX)  Index rose 0.3 percent
to 756.38, with three shares rising for every two that fell.  “Investors are waiting to see whether all of this stimulus
is going to have an impact on the economy itself,” said Ryota Sakagami, chief strategist at SMBC Nikko Securities in Tokyo.
“If all we get is a market flooded with liquidity, we’ll see
the yen continue to rise and gains in exporters erode.”  The Topix has advanced 5.2 percent since Sept. 6 after the
 European Central Bank  started a global wave of easing,
announcing unlimited bond purchases to curb the debt crisis. The
 Bank of Japan  announced more asset purchases this week following
the  Federal Reserve  adding a third round of quantitative easing.  Defensive Stocks  Defensive shares, including those of railways and food
companies, have been some of the weakest performers among the
Topix’s 33 industry groups since the ECB added stimulus this
month. The gauge’s land transport index has risen 1.4 percent in
the period, while food shares have gained 1.8 percent. In the
same span, oil and coal producers surged 14 percent.  “When you get this much stimulus, stocks are going to rise,
even in a bad global economy,” said Seiji Iwama, who manages
about 45 billion yen at Daiwa SB Investments Ltd., a unit of
Daiwa Securities Group Inc. in Tokyo. “Stocks sensitive to the
global economy were bought for a few days, so today it’s
defensives. That’s the cycle.”  Utilities gained the most among the Topix’s 33 industry
groups today. Electric Power Development, also known as J-Power,
jumped 4.1 percent to 1,981 yen. The shares rose after SMBC
Nikko Securities boosted the company’s equity rating to
outperform from neutral, citing lower risks at its Ohma nuclear
plant, construction of which was halted after the Fukushima
disaster.  Trade Minister  Yukio Edano  signaled he has no plans to stop
construction of nuclear reactors that have already been approved,
the Nikkei newspaper reported on Sept. 16. Chubu Electric Power
Co. climbed 4.4 percent to 1,011 yen, while Kyushu Electric
Power Co. soared 4.6 percent to 589 yen.  Japan Tobacco  Japan  Tobacco rose 2.9 percent to 2,336 yen after unit
Torii Pharmaceutical Co. produced positive results in a phase 3
study of its treatment for dialysis patients, raising optimism
the drug will be approved in Japan, according to Keryx
Biopharmaceuticals, Torii’s U.S. partner.  Sharp, Japan’s largest maker of liquid-crystal displays,
gained the most on the Nikkei 225. The electronics company
surged 5 percent to 212 yen after the Mainichi newspaper
reported it may agree to at least 30 billion yen in investment
from Intel, the world’s largest semiconductor producer.  Energy companies gained after crude oil for November
delivery today gained in New York as investors speculated that
the biggest weekly decline in more than three months was
exaggerated.  Energy Shares  Inpex Corp., the nation’s biggest oil explorer, gained 2
percent to 488,500 yen. Japan Petroleum Exploration Co. climbed
1 percent to 3,195 yen.  The  price  of shares on the Topix stood at 0.9 times book
value, compared with 2.3 times for the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index and 1.5 times for the Europe Stoxx 600 Index. A number
less than one means that companies can be bought for less than
the value of their assets.  Futures on the  S&P 500 Index  added 0.3 percent today. The
gauge slid yesterday as more Americans than forecast filed
unemployment claims and manufacturing in the Philadelphia region
contracted for a fifth month.  -- Editors:  Jim Powell , Jason Clenfield  To contact the reporters on this story:
Norie Kuboyama in Tokyo at 
 nkuboyama@bloomberg.net ;
Masaaki Iwamoto in Tokyo at 
 miwamoto4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  