-- Japan Air Cuts China Flights Amid Islands Spat; Shares Fall
-- B y   K i y o t a k a   M a t s u d a   a n d   C h r i s   C o o p e r
-- 2012-09-21T04:54:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-21/japan-air-cuts-china-flights-amid-islands-spat-shares-fall-2-.html
Japan Airlines Co. (9201)  cut flights to
China as a dispute over uninhabited islands in the  East China
Sea  spurs travel boycotts and street protests. The carrier’s
shares, which relisted on the stock market this week, tumbled.  The airline will reduce services to Beijing and Shanghai
starting Oct. 10 until Oct. 27, it said by e-mail today. A total
of 12,000 seat reservations from September to November have been
canceled, said Sze Hunn Yap, a spokeswoman at JAL. All Nippon
Airways Co. has no immediate plans to cut flights, Ryosei Nomura, a spokesman, said by phone.  Japan  Air  fell  as much as 4.8 percent in  Tokyo  trading,
dropping below its initial public offering price for the first
time since returning to the stock exchange two days ago after an
$8.4 billion initial public offering.  China  Southern Airlines
Co. and other Chinese carriers have also pared services to Japan
amid a boycott that prompted the cancellation of as much as 40
percent of planned trips to Japan last week by Chinese
holidaymakers, according to Citigroup Inc.  “The announcement that JAL is cutting China flights
triggered a surge in selling that added to an already weak
showing in the morning session,” said Takashi Hiroki, chief
strategist at Monex Securities in Tokyo.  The carrier  dropped  3.4 percent to 3,660 yen as of 1:43
p.m. in Tokyo. The IPO was priced at 3,790 yen. ANA rose 0.6
percent to 177 yen.  Japanese companies have also closed shops and factories in
China because of safety concerns and protests sparked by the
spat over the sovereignty of the islands, known as Diaoyu in
Chinese and Senkaku in Japanese.  Cancellation rates for vacations in Japan may increase
further ahead of weeklong Chinese holidays starting Oct. 1,
Citigroup analysts Vivian Tao and Rigan Wong said in a note
today. The effect on Chinese carriers will be “manageable,”
they said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kiyotaka Matsuda in Tokyo at 
 kmatsuda@bloomberg.net ;
 Chris Cooper  in Tokyo at 
 ccooper1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net . 