-- JPMorgan Whale Loss Leads U.S. Bank Revenue Lower, OCC Says
-- B y   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g
-- 2012-09-21T15:42:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-21/jpmorgan-swaps-loss-leads-bank-trading-revenue-lower-occ-says.html
The trading loss at  JPMorgan Chase
& Co. (JPM)  helped cut revenue from cash and derivative positions at
U.S. commercial banks by 73 percent, compared with a year ago,
the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency said.  “While both normal seasonal weakness and reduced client
demand played a role, it was clearly the highly publicized
losses at JPMorgan Chase that caused the sharp drop in trading
revenues,” Martin Pfinsgraff, deputy comptroller for credit and
market risk, said today in a statement. Commercial banks had $2
billion in trading revenue for the second quarter, the
Washington-based regulator said.  The agency said its main measure of credit risk in
derivatives markets, the so-called net current credit exposure,
rose 9 percent, or $32 billion, to $410 billion.  JPMorgan, based in  New York , lost $5.8 billion on credit-
default swaps trades in the first six months of the year. About
$3.7 billion of that came in the second quarter, according to
Pfinsgraff, which caused the bank to post a $420 million trading
loss.  The biggest U.S. bank by assets is facing regulatory
scrutiny and criminal probes over losses in the Chief Investment
Office, which Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon  pushed in
recent years to make bigger and riskier bets with the bank’s
money. The loss, which Dimon said stemmed from positions that
were “poorly monitored,” prompted calls from Congress for
tighter bank regulation and triggered criminal investigations by
the  U.S. Department of Justice  and  Federal Bureau of
Investigation .  The trades in question, made by a CIO group that included
Bruno Iksil, nicknamed the London Whale because his positions
grew so large, were on portions of credit-swap indexes, people
familiar with the transactions have said. Tranches allow
investors to wager on varying degrees of risk among a pool of
companies. Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower
fails to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted
debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Leising in New York at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Alan Goldstein  at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 