-- Junk-Bond Fund Deposits Soar to Highest This Year as ETFs Lead
-- B y   L i s a   A b r a m o w i c z
-- 2012-09-21T15:44:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-21/junk-bond-fund-deposits-soar-to-highest-this-year-as-etfs-lead.html
Investors funneled the second-
biggest amount of cash ever and the most this year into  high-
yield  bond funds as the  Federal Reserve ’s announcement of new
stimulus measures pushed them toward riskier assets.  Junk-debt funds recorded $3.63 billion into the funds in
the week ended Sept. 19, the greatest volume since the $4.76
billion of inflows in the period ended Oct. 26, according to
data compiled by EPFR Global. Exchange-traded funds that buy
junk notes attracted 40 percent of all U.S. flows, the data
show.  The Fed’s plan to expand its holdings of long-term
securities to suppress borrowing costs has spurred bond buyers
to seek returns from riskier debt. More institutional investors
are directing money to ETFs as unprecedented demand for the
notes makes it more difficult to quickly amass the bonds,
according to  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) ’s Matthew Tucker.  “The biggest growth area that we’ve seen over the past 12
months has been in institutional players who trade in the fixed-
income space,” said Tucker, head of iShares Fixed Income
Strategy team at BlackRock Inc. “Bonds are so scarce, it’s
creating a lot of challenges with smaller players in the market
with them actually accessing securities.”  BlackRock’s high-yield  ETF (HYG) , the biggest of its kind,
increased its assets by $402 million this week, while  State
Street Corp. (STT) ’s  fund , the second biggest, boosted its holdings by
$163 million, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  $32 Billion  The five-year-old industry of junk-bond ETFs, listed on
exchanges and brokered like stocks, has  expanded  by 57 percent
this year to include almost $32 billion of assets among the five
largest funds, Bloomberg data show. This week’s inflows to all
high-yield funds builds on a record $55.9 billion reported this
year through Sept. 12, EPFR data show.  While borrowers are selling speculative-grade notes in the
U.S. at an unprecedented pace, most of the proceeds are going
toward paying off existing debt, resulting in little growth in
the pool of available bonds. About 61 percent of  junk bonds  were
issued for refinancing purposes this year compared with 58
percent during the period in 2011, according to an Aug. 31
JPMorgan Chase & Co. report.  Junk-bond buyers are accepting the lowest yields ever after
the Fed’s announcement of a third round of quantitative easing
as they seek a reprieve from a fourth year of near-zero  interest
rates . Yields on junk bonds in the U.S. sank to a record 6.95
percent on Sept. 19, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch
index data.  ‘Hold Yields’  European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  pledged in
July to do “whatever it takes” to save the euro from the
region’s fiscal crisis. Draghi announced an agreement on Sept. 6
for an unlimited bond-buying program to lower borrowing costs in
the region and fight speculation of a currency breakup.  “The macro-economic environment is like one we’ve never
seen before,” said Brian Kinney, State Street’s global head of
fixed-income beta solutions. “There’s a strong commitment by
those central banks to hold yields low until there are signs of
recovery.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Abramowicz in  New York  at 
 labramowicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  