-- KB Home Reports Surprise Quarterly Profit as Sales Jump
-- B y   P r a s h a n t   G o p a l
-- 2012-09-21T20:37:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-21/kb-home-reports-surprise-quarterly-profit-as-sales-jump.html
KB Home (KBH) , the Los Angeles-based
homebuilder that targets first-time buyers, surged the most in
almost four years after the company reported an  unexpected 
quarterly profit.  Net income for the three months through August was $3.3
million, or 4 cents a share, compared with a loss of $9.6
million, or 13 cents, a year earlier, the company said today in
a statement. The average of 17  estimates  in a Bloomberg survey
was for a loss of 15 cents a share.  KB Home benefited from tax and insurance-related gains, as
well as higher sales amid a U.S. housing market recovery.
Confidence among homebuilders climbed to the highest level in
more than six years, the  National Association of Home
Builders/Wells Fargo  sentiment index showed this week. Single-
family housing  starts  rose in August to the fastest annual rate
since April 2010, the Commerce Department said Sept. 19.  “The company confirmed that the pace and breadth of the
housing market gained momentum over the summer,” Stephen Kim,
an analyst with Barclays Plc in  New York , said in a note to
clients today. “We continue to be believe that 2012 is proving
to be the beginning of a sustained housing recovery.”  KB Home jumped 16 percent to $15.26, the biggest gain since
November 2008. The stock has climbed 127 percent this year,
compared with an 87 percent increase in the  Standard & Poor’s
Supercomposite Homebuilding Index. (S15HOME)   Revenue Gains  KB Home’s revenue in the fiscal third quarter jumped 16
percent from a year earlier to $424.5 million. Home deliveries
rose 7 percent to 1,720, with 13 percent fewer communities at
the end of the quarter. The average selling price of a house was
$245,100, up 8 percent from a year earlier and 5 percent from
the previous three months.  KB Home is seeing “dramatic improvement” in  California ,
where strengthening in the coastal markets is spreading inland
to  Sacramento , the Central Valley and east of  Los Angeles ,
Mezger said. The West Coast is the company’s largest  market .  “Our West Coast region is a true engine of growth and
profit for KB Home,” Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
 Jeffrey Mezger  said on a conference call with analysts.  The results included an insurance recovery of $16.5 million
and benefit of $10.7 million tied to the resolution of a federal
income tax audit. Excluding one-time items, the company had a
loss of 12 cents a share, according to Megan McGrath, an analyst
at MKM Partners LLC, and Stephen East, an analyst with
International Strategy & Investment Group LLC.  Order Growth  The company’s orders rose 3 percent from a year earlier to
1,900 homes. That number was disappointing, said McGrath, based
in Stamford,  Connecticut . Orders for 15 publicly traded
homebuilders, including KB Home, jumped 27 percent from a year
earlier in the second quarter, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg Industries.  The profit was KB Home’s first since the end of 2011.
Competitors such as  D.R Horton Inc. (DHI) ,  Toll Brothers Inc. (TOL) , and
 Lennar Corp. (LEN)  have recorded at least four straight quarters of
profits.  “They’re improving but the whole group is improving even
faster,” East, based in Saint Charles, Missouri, said in a
telephone interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Prashant Gopal in New York at 
 pgopal2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  