-- Kuoni to Exit Southern Europe, Dutch Tour Operating Units
-- B y   T h o m a s   M u l i e r
-- 2012-09-21T08:01:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-21/kuoni-to-exit-southern-europe-dutch-tour-operating-units.html
Kuoni Reisen Holding AG (KUNN) ,
 Switzerland ’s largest travel company, rose to a one-month high
on optimism the disposal of smaller tour-operating businesses
will leave the remaining company with better growth prospects.  The stock gained as much as 3.5 percent to 269 Swiss
francs, the highest intraday price since Aug. 22. The shares
were up 2.3 percent at 266 francs as of 9:51 a.m. in Zurich.  Kuoni will shut or sell unprofitable units in countries
such as Italy and  Spain  with combined annual revenue of about
300 million Swiss francs ($322 million), the Zurich-based
company said today in a statement. The measures will probably
reduce earnings before interest and taxes this year by about 80
million Swiss francs, Kuoni said.  This “will pave the way to unveil the attractiveness of
the remaining core business from 2013 onwards,” Patrick Hasenboehler, an analyst at Bank Sarasin, wrote in a note to
investors. He has a buy recommendation on the stock.  The planned exit reduces a profit forecast Kuoni made Aug.
23 that was below analysts’ estimates at the time. The stock
fell 8.7 percent that day after the company said it expected
full-year earnings before interest, tax and amortization
exceeding 130 million francs and Ebit of more than 90 million
francs.  In addition to Italian and Spanish businesses, units slated
for disposal are in the Netherlands,  Belgium  and  Russia . Kuoni
also plans to exit Octopustravel, an online hotel reservation
company.  “Management has now the possibility to restore its
credibility,” Jean-Philippe Bertschy, an analyst at Bank
Vontobel, wrote in a note to clients. He has a buy
recommendation on the stock.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Mulier in Geneva at 
 tmulier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Risser at 
 drisser@bloomberg.net  