-- Natural Gas to Fall as U.S. Inventories Expand, Survey Says
-- B y   N a u r e e n   S .   M a l i k
-- 2012-09-21T18:47:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-21/natural-gas-to-fall-as-u-s-inventories-expand-survey-says-1-.html
Natural-gas futures will drop next
week on speculation that a government report will show the
biggest inventory increase in 11 months while moderating weather
cuts fuel demand, a Bloomberg survey showed.  Five of 11 analysts, or 45 percent, forecast that futures
on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange will decline through Sept.
28. Four, or 36 percent, said prices will stay the same and two
said they will rise. Last week, 58 percent of participants said
gas would decline through Sept. 21.  U.S. stockpiles may expand by about 80 billion cubic feet
in the week ending Sept. 21, said  Gene McGillian , an analyst and
broker at Tradition Energy in  Stamford ,  Connecticut . That would
be above the five-year average gain of 76 billion for the week
and the  biggest increase  since the week ended Oct. 21, Energy
Department data show.  “We are not quite to the heating season and this time of
the year we cap off some pretty good builds,” said Gordy Elliott, a risk-management specialist at INTL FC Stone LLC in
 St. Louis Park ,  Minnesota . “I am a little negative here. We
have comfortable weather. We are past the point where we have to
generate a lot of electricity.”  Temperatures in much of the eastern U.S. were below average
this week and will be normal or lower over the next 15 days,
according to MDA EarthSat Weather in Gaithersburg,  Maryland .  The high in Boston on Sept. 28 may be 58 degrees Fahrenheit
(14 Celsius), 10 below normal, and Houston may be 5 below the
usual reading at 81 degrees, according to AccuWeather Inc. in
 State College , Pennsylvania.  Electricity generators account for 36 percent of U.S. gas
consumption, department data show.  Supply Report  Inventories in the week ended Sept. 14 rose by 67 billion
cubic feet to 3.496 trillion, the Energy Department said
yesterday. A surplus narrowed to 8.6 percent above the five-year
average for the week, down from 61 percent at the end of March,
as an unusually hot summer spurred demand from power plants.  Gas for October delivery fell 5.8 cents, or 2 percent, to
$2.885 per million Btu this week on the New York exchange, the
second decline in three weeks. Futures are down 3.5 percent this
year.  The gas survey has correctly forecast the direction of
prices 49 percent of the time since its June 2004 introduction.  Bloomberg’s survey of  natural-gas  analysts and traders asks
for an assessment of whether Nymex natural-gas futures will
probably rise, fall or remain neutral in the coming week. This
week’s results were:  RISE   FALL   NEUTRAL  2      5      4  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naureen S. Malik in New York at 
 nmalik28@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net  