-- Netherlands House Prices Drop 8% for a Second Consecutive Month
-- B y   M a r t i j n   v a n   d e r   S t a r r e   a n d   M a u d   v a n   G a a l
-- 2012-09-21T10:29:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-21/netherlands-house-prices-drop-8-for-a-second-consecutive-month.html
House prices  in the Netherlands,
the euro area’s fifth-biggest economy, declined by 8 percent for
a second straight month as uncertainty persisted about further
cutting back of mortgage-tax breaks.  Prices fell 8 percent in August from a year ago, after a
falling the same amount in July, which was the biggest drop
since the index started in 1995, national statistics agency CBS,
based in  The Hague , said on its website today.  Values have fallen almost 16 percent from a 2008 peak and
the Dutch economy will probably shrink 0.5 percent this year.
 Consumer confidence  in June reached its lowest level in nine
years. The Dutch Liberal and Labor Parties are seeking to form a
cabinet after winning a majority in parliament during general
elections on Sept. 12.  One of the key discussions to a form a government will be
about  tax deductions  for mortgages, Benoit Petraque, an analyst
at Kepler Capital Markets in Amsterdam, said in a Sept. 17 note.
The public is eager to see some change in deductibility,
Petraque said. The Liberals oppose any changes, while Labor
favors reform, he added.  House prices will continue to drop in 2012 and 2013, Dutch
government planning agency CPB said on Sept. 18. The plunge from
the 2008 peak was partly caused by expectations a mortgage
interest tax break will be reduced, the agency said.  As of next year, the interest payments on new mortgages can
only be deducted from taxable income if the loan is fully paid
within 30 years. The change was part of a budget agreement
reached between the caretaker government of Liberal Prime
Minister  Mark Rutte  and the opposition in April.  Cabinet Formation  The Liberals and Labor, which didn’t back the accord, will
be able to change budget policy if they succeed in forming a
cabinet as they jointly hold 79 of 150 seats in parliament’s
lower house.  The Netherlands’ mortgage debt is among the world’s
highest, amounting to 110 percent of gross domestic product,
according to the central bank. A 500 billion-euro ($650 billion)
difference between outstanding loans and retail savings at banks
makes lenders reliant on market funding, it said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Martijn van der Starre in Amsterdam at 
 vanderstarre@bloomberg.net ;
Maud van Gaal in Amsterdam at 
 mvangaal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Mariajose Vera at 
 mvera1@bloomberg.net ;
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  