-- New York Delays Fracking Decision to Review Effect on Health
-- B y   F r e e m a n   K l o p o t t
-- 2012-09-21T16:04:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-21/new-york-delays-fracking-decision-to-review-effect-on-health-1-.html
New York  Governor  Andrew Cuomo ’s
administration is delaying a final decision on fracking to study
its effects on health.  The state in 2010 stopped gas drilling by hydraulic
fracturing so regulators could conduct an environmental review
and develop rules. Cuomo this year said he expected a decision
by the environmental conservation department by about September.  Yesterday, department Commissioner Joseph Martens said
Health Commissioner Nirav Shah will analyze the practice.
Environmental groups pressed the state to use outside analysts
for such a review, an idea that Martens said he rejected because
they would probably be biased.  “I want to make sure that we have done the most thorough
review possible, especially when it comes to public health
concerns,” Martens said in a statement e-mailed yesterday. “In
addition, I want to ensure that the department has the most
legally defensible review so that when the department issues its
final determination on this matter, protracted litigation is
avoided.”  Cuomo, a 54-year-old Democrat who has been mentioned as a
potential presidential candidate in 2016, has been under
pressure from energy companies and some localities to allow
drilling to encourage the type of economic development seen in
fracking states from  Wyoming  to  Pennsylvania . New York’s
unemployment rate was 9.1 percent in August, above the national
average of 8.1 percent.  Price Slide  It may already be too late for New York to cash in on the
boom that led natural-gas companies to spend $20 billion on
leases, drilling rigs and royalty payments in Pennsylvania from
2008 to 2010, and the $5 billion in additional economic output
that  Ohio  is forecast to get by 2014.  Since New York began developing gas-drilling rules in July
2008, natural gas prices have plunged by about 80 percent.
 Talisman Inc. (TLM) , a Calgary-based company that has about 250,000
acres under lease in New York, has said it’s unlikely to be an
active driller in the state until prices rebound.  The state doesn’t have much longer to decide. It must rule
by the end of November or risk reopening the public-comment
period by requesting an extension, according to  Tom West , an
industry lobbyist in  Albany .  “I’m sure they don’t want to do that,” West said in a
telephone interview yesterday.  Marcellus Shale  About 80,000 messages were sent to the conservation
department during the last public-comment period as
environmental groups staged protests.  Fracking, in which millions of gallons of chemically
treated water and sand are forced underground to break up shale
rock and free trapped gas, has been blamed for damaging water
sources. The federal Environmental Protection Agency is studying
the effects on drinking water.  New York sits on the northern edge of the Marcellus Shale,
which may hold enough natural gas to supply the U.S. for two
decades, according to Terry Engelder, a geosciences professor at
 Pennsylvania State University .  Fracking already has been banned in more than 20 New York
towns, according to Karen Edelstein, a geographic information-
systems consultant in Ithaca.  Anschutz Exploration Corp.  and
Cooperstown Holstein Corp., a dairy farm, have appealed
decisions by New York judges that upheld bans on oil and gas
drilling in two towns.  Cuomo has said local governments should maintain the right
to block drilling.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Freeman Klopott in Albany, New York, at 
 fklopott@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  