-- New York Giants Beat Panthers 36-7 for 2nd NFL Win in Five Days
-- B y   D e x   M c L u s k e y
-- 2012-09-21T04:40:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-21/new-york-giants-ease-to-36-7-win-over-carolina-panthers-in-nfl.html
The  New York Giants  scored on each
of their opening four drives as they eased to a 36-7 win against
the host  Carolina Panthers , their second success in five days in
the  National Football League .  Giants quarterback Eli Manning threw a first-quarter
touchdown pass to Martellus Bennett and Andre Brown had two 1-
yard rushing scores last night for New York at Bank of America
Stadium in  Charlotte ,  North Carolina .  “We talked about getting a fast start,” Manning told the
NFL Network in a televised interview. “First drive, we get the
ball, go 80 yards, get a touchdown. That was a great start. It
set the tempo for the whole game and we kept it going.”  After the Giants began defense of their Super Bowl title
with a home loss to the  Dallas Cowboys , Manning on Sept. 16
recovered from three interceptions to pass for 510 yards and
three touchdowns in a 41-34 defeat of the  Tampa Bay Buccaneers .
Manning’s passing total was the eighth highest in NFL history
and three yards short of Phil Simms’s franchise record.  Last night, Manning completed 27 of 35 pass attempts for
288 yards, one touchdown and no interceptions. Carolina’s
second-year quarterback, Cam Newton, the reigning NFL Offensive
Rookie of the Year, went 16-for-30 for 242 yards, no touchdowns
and three interceptions. The Giants had 405 total offensive
yards, while Carolina gained 327 yards.  The Giants took three minutes, 18 seconds to score last
night as Manning found tight end Bennett with a 14-yard
touchdown pass to round off an 80-yard, eight-play opening
drive. It was Manning’s fifth scoring pass of the season.  Lawrence Tynes  added a 47-yard field goal on the Giants’
second possession for the only other first-quarter score.  Second Touchdown  New York got another touchdown on its third possession 2:52
into the second quarter to make it 17-0. The drive ended with
Brown’s second touchdown of the season.  Tynes then added a 49-yard field goal to make it 20-0 at
halftime.  The Panthers were booed from the field as New York finished
the first half with 287 offensive yards while limiting the home
team to 135 yards.  The jeering continued as the second half got under way. Joe
Adams collected the kickoff for Carolina, only for New York’s
Spencer Paysinger to strip the ball and recover the fumble. Four
plays later, Tynes made it 23-0 with a field goal from 30 yards.  The Panthers broke through on their sixth possession as
Newton leaped for a 1-yard touchdown to cap a 12-play, 66-yard
drive, before Tynes tacked on another three points for  New York 
with a 36-yard field goal.  Boley’s Interception  Newton began the fourth quarter with a 16-yard pass to Greg Olsen and gave up 13 of those yards when he was sacked on the
next play. Two plays later, on third and 22, Newton’s pass was
picked off by linebacker Michael Boley.  Eight plays later, the Giants converted Newton’s error into
seven more points as Brown dived into the end zone for his
second touchdown of the night.  After Carolina’s Adams dropped a punt to give New York
possession on the Panthers’ 19-yard line, Tynes completed the
scoring with his fifth field goal of the night, from 27 yards.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dex McLuskey in Dallas  at
 dmcluskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 