-- NFL Reaches Agreement With Time Warner on NFL Network, RedZone
-- B y   S c o t t   S o s h n i c k
-- 2012-09-22T04:01:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-21/nfl-said-to-have-deal-with-time-warner-for-nfl-network-redzone.html
The National Football League and
 Time Warner (TWC)  Cable Inc. ended a nine-year impasse by reaching an
agreement that will make the league-owned NFL Network and
RedZone Channel available to millions more U.S. homes.  The multiyear accord was announced yesterday in a joint
statement from the league and Time Warner, which had been the
only major cable provider without NFL Network.  Financial terms of the contract weren’t disclosed.  “We’re delighted to have reached an agreement for NFL
Network and NFL RedZone that provides a good value to our
customers,” said Melinda Witmer, executive vice president and
chief video and content officer for New York-based Time Warner
Cable, the second-largest U.S. cable company with about 12
million subscribers.  The channels will debut in Time Warner and Bright House
Networks homes beginning tomorrow, with full launch before Sept.
27, when NFL Network is scheduled to show the  Cleveland Browns 
at Baltimore Ravens.  Bright House Networks is the nation’s sixth-largest cable
provider.  The agreement comes about a month after the most-watched
U.S. sports league reached agreement with  Cablevision Systems
Corp. (CVC)  to carry the two channels.  “It was inevitable,” cable television consultant Lee Berke said in a telephone interview. “Once the other carriers
have it, then it would’ve put Time Warner at a competitive
disadvantage.”  NFL Network will be placed on digital basic, while RedZone
will be placed on Sports Pass, which includes NHL Network and
 Tennis Channel .  NFL Network airs 13 primetime regular-season games this
season, up from eight last season. RedZone is a game-day network
that shows touchdowns and important plays inside the 20-yard
line.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Soshnick in  New York  at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  