-- NYC Best: Paul Rudd, Brooklyn Books, Bon Iver, Met Opera
-- B y   Z i n t a   L u n d b o r g
-- 2012-09-22T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-21/nyc-best-paul-rudd-brooklyn-books-bon-iver-met-opera.html
Indie folk band Bon Iver rocks out
Radio City  Music Hall  this weekend.  After grabbing a pair of 2012 Grammy Awards, the group is
touring in support of its self-titled album.  Justin Vernon can go from thoughtful yearning to full-on
flash in a single song, and he’s brought an 8-piece band that
can definitely keep up.  At RCMH, 1260 Sixth Ave. Information: +1-212-247-4777;
 http://www.radiocity.com .  Also in town: “I’ll Be Your Mirror,” curated by Greg
Dulli of the Afghan Whigs together with All Tomorrow’s Parties,
the traveling music festival.  The lineup includes Frank Ocean, the Antlers, the
Dirtbombs, Hot Snakes and Quintron and Miss Pussycat, as well as
comics Hannibal Buress, Janeane Garofalo and Kurt Braunohler.  For the literary set, Lapham’s Quarterly editors will be on
hand to consider a pair of books also chosen by Greg Dulli.  Runs through Sept. 23 at Pier 36, 299 South St.
Information:  http://www.illbeyourmirror.com .  Visit  Christopher Columbus  in his new living room.  Tatzu Nishi has erected a contemporary space with flat-
screen TV high up where Columbus has perched on his granite
column since 1892.  Climb up for a close-up.  “Tatzu Nishi: Discovering Columbus” runs through Nov. 18
at Broadway and Eighth Ave. Information: +1-212-223-7800;
 http://www.publicartfund.org .  Andy Warhol ’s Brillo boxes, Campbell’s Soup cans and celebs
like Marilyn and Mao are in the spotlight at the Metropolitan
Museum of Art.  Such improbably different artists as  Cindy Sherman ,  Jeff Koons  and  Gerhard Richter  were all influenced by the wigged
Popmaster. Warhol’s preoccupations -- the elevation of the
commonplace, the worship of celebrity, sex and gender identity,
the recycling of pre-existing sources -- are all now cultural
touchstones.  “Regarding Warhol: Sixty Artists, Fifty Years” runs at
the Met, 1000 Fifth Ave. through Dec. 31. Information: +1-212-
535-7710;  http://www.metmuseum.org .  Saturday Matinee  Paul Rudd  is back onstage in “Grace,”  Craig Wright ’s
darkly comic tale of a couple of fundamentalist Christians who
plan to open a motel chain inspired by the Bible: “Where would
Jesus stay?”  Kate Arrington plays his wife, Ed Asner is a cantankerous
exterminator while Michael Shannon gets to be the voice of
reason as a bitter scientist.  In previews at the Cort Theatre, 138 W. 48th St., for an
Oct. 4 opening. Information: +1-212-239-6200;
 http://www.graceonbroadway.com .  Stop by  Joe Allen  for meatloaf and a glass of Cabernet.  At 326 W. 46th St. Information: +1-212-581-6464  Saturday Night  The New York Philharmonic inaugurates its fall season with
“The Rite of Spring,” Stravinsky’s propulsive paean to the
life force.  The impeccable Leif Ove Andsnes joins  Alan Gilbert  for
Beethoven’s Third Piano Concerto.  Also on the program, Gyorgy Kurtag’s mini concerto
“...quasi una fantasia...,” with instrumentalists playing from
the back of the hall.  At  Avery Fisher Hall , Lincoln Center. Information: +1-212-
875-5656;  http://nyphil.org .  Sunday  Hear Pete Hamill, Joyce Carol Oates and Colson Whitehead,
along with about 280 other writers, discuss their work at the
7th annual Brooklyn Book Festival.  Head down to Borough Hall Plaza and wander through the
booths of large and small publishers, then listen to a panel
about money in fiction, the perils of middle school or how to
publish your own book, among many other topics.  Information:  http://www.brooklynbookfestival.org .  Sunday Matinee  The New York City Ballet’s fall season gets under way with
a celebration of Balanchine and Stravinsky.  The composer wrote music to order for the choreographer’s
Greek trio inspired by classical themes: sunny “Apollo,”
mournful “Orpheus” and the cerebral “Agon.”  Don’t miss Robert Fairchild as the young god Apollo
discovering art for the first time.  David H. Koch Theater, Lincoln Center. Information: +1-212-
496-0600;  http://www.nycballet.com .  Sit outside and people watch at Cafe Fiorello with a
pepperoni arugula thin-crust pizza.  At 1900 Broadway. Information: +1-212-595-5330.  Looking Ahead  Jewels, stars, decolletage -- it’s opening night at the
Metropolitan Opera on Monday.  For the second year in a row,  Anna Netrebko  gets the gala
spotlight, this time as the rich and seductive Adina in
Donizetti’s “L’Elisir d’Amore.”  Matthew Polenzani and Mariusz Kwiecien vie for her
affections in the new production directed by  Bartlett Sher .  The performance will be shown live on big screens in
Lincoln Center Plaza and Times Square.  At the Met Opera, Lincoln Center. Information: +1-212-362-
6000;  http://www.metoperafamily.org .  (Zinta Lundborg is an editor for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include  Lewis Lapham ’s  podcast  and  Greg
Evans  on  film .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zinta Lundborg at 
 zlundborg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 