-- Obama Hits Romney on Medicare as Ryan Vows ‘Honest Answers’
-- B y   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n   a n d   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r
-- 2012-09-21T21:23:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-21/obama-trades-barbs-with-ryan-on-medicare-in-pitch-to-seniors.html
President  Barack Obama  accused
Republicans of threatening the future of Social Security and
Medicare while Republican vice presidential candidate  Paul Ryan 
said only he and  Mitt Romney  are offering “honest answers”
about how to preserve the programs.  Obama and Ryan today addressed the biggest U.S. advocacy
group for senior citizens as they made appeals for the votes of
a constituency that traditionally goes to the polls on Election
Day at a higher proportion than other groups.  The president, speaking via satellite to a gathering of
AARP in New Orleans, pledged to keep both programs solvent for
current and future recipients and promised that over the next
decade the average Medicare beneficiary will save $5,000 as a
result of his health-care law.  He said Republican criticism of the measure, passed by
Congress “hasn’t been completely on the level” and that a plan
Ryan has pushed for as House Budget Committee chairman would
replace Medicare with a “voucher that wouldn’t keep up with
costs.”  Ryan, speaking in person to the group in  New Orleans 
following Obama’s appearance, drew some boos from the audience
when he said he and Romney, the Republican presidential nominee,
would work to repeal the health-care law.  Law Repeal  “The first step to a stronger Medicare is to repeal
Obamacare, because it represents the worst of both worlds,”
Ryan said. Responding to the boos, he said, “I had a feeling
there would be mixed reaction, so let me get into it.”  He said the law “weakens Medicare for today’s seniors and
puts it at risk for the next generation.”  Obama and Romney kept up their recent exchanges over who
can break the political deadlock in  Washington  during separate
campaign appearances later in the day. Romney repeated his claim
that Obama has been ineffective as a leader, with Obama
responding that his challenger would let Washington insiders
dominate government.  AARP claims more than 37 million members. In an election
that both campaigns forecast will be close, Obama and Romney are
seeking an edge with every constituency. Medicare and  Social
Security , which primarily benefit those 65 years of age and
older, are key issues with older voters.  In a dozen battleground states, including Florida and
 Virginia , voters said they have more faith that Obama will
preserve Medicare than Romney by 50 percent to 44 percent,
according to a USA TODAY/Gallup Poll. The Sept. 11-17 poll of
1,096 registered voters has a margin of error of plus or minus 4
percentage points.  Medicare Impact  The health-care law championed by Obama is one of the
central points of debate in the campaign. The Patient Protection
and Affordable Care Act scales back payments to Medicare
Advantage plans, an alternative to traditional Medicare. It also
slows the growth of Medicare payments to hospitals and other
health-care providers. Seniors’ benefits weren’t reduced in the
legislation.  The nonpartisan  Congressional Budget Office  projects that
Medicare spending will reach $887 billion in 2020, up from $499
billion in actual spending in 2009.  Ryan, a U.S. representative from  Wisconsin , has produced a
budget blueprint that would convert Medicare to a voucher plan,
a proposal that has drawn scorn from seniors’ groups, including
the AARP, because it would end Medicare as a defined-benefit
program.  While the current law plows its projected savings back into
subsidies to help low-income individuals buy insurance, the Ryan
plan counts the money toward  debt reduction .  ‘Clear Choices’  “We respect all the people in this country enough to talk
about the clear choices we face on Medicare, Social Security,
the economy, and the kind of country our children will
inherit,” Ryan said today. “Our plan keeps the protections
that have made Medicare a guaranteed promise for seniors
throughout the years.”  Ryan, as he has before, attacked the health-care law that
passed Congress in 2010 for funneling $716 billion “out of
Medicare to pay for a new entitlement we didn’t even ask for.”  Obama rejected Ryan’s contention that the law takes $716
billion out of Medicare.  “What we did was, we went after waste and fraud and
overcharging by insurance companies for example. Those savings
do come out to $716 million dollars,” Obama said.  Campaign Rallies  Obama afterward spoke in front of a rally where again
reminded his audience of the Sept. 17 release of the video of
Romney’s remarks to donors in which he said 47 percent of
Americans are government-dependent “victims” who don’t pay
federal income taxes.  “I don’t believe we can get very far with leaders who can
write off half the nation as a bunch of victims,” Obama said.
“I don’t see a lot of victims in this crowd today.”  In  Las Vegas , Romney repeated that Obama has raised “the
white flag of surrender” on reviving the economy and making
progress on legislation, keying off a statement the president
made yesterday about changing Washington from the outside.  “Over history there have been people that have changed
Washington from the outside,” Romney told donors at the Red
Rock casino in Las Vegas. “This president has not done that.”  In Virginia, Obama derided Romney’s statement that he would
change things from the inside.  “What kind of inside job is he talking about?” Obama
asked. “Is it the job of rubberstamping the top-down, you’re-
on-your-own agenda of this  Republican Congress ? Because if it
is, we don’t want it.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Julianna Goldman  in Woodbridge, Virginia, at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net ;
Kate Andersen Brower in Washington at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  