-- Obama Panel’s Deficit Plan Should Be Basis for Deal, McCain Says
-- B y   J e f f   B l i s s
-- 2012-09-21T04:01:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-21/obama-panel-s-deficit-plan-should-be-basis-for-deal-mccain-says.html
U.S. Senator  John McCain  said a
proposal by President  Barack Obama ’s debt commission should form
the basis of a deal to balance the nation’s budget, joining a
growing number of lawmakers who back reviving the plan.  While McCain, an  Arizona  Republican who lost to Obama in
the 2008 presidential election, said he doesn’t endorse the
panel’s recommendation to cut deficits by raising some taxes, he
would negotiate a compromise “with everything on the table.”  “Everybody knows what the solution is, and that’s Simpson-
Bowles,” he said in an interview with Bloomberg Television’s
 Peter Cook  on the new program “Capitol Gains.” “We are
prepared to support it as an outline.”  The debt commission -- led by former Republican Senator
 Alan Simpson  of Wyoming and Erskine Bowles, White House chief of
staff under President  Bill Clinton  -- called for cutting
individual and corporate tax rates. It also favored reducing
Social Security benefits and Medicare, raising the gas tax and
cutting federal discretionary spending.  The panel’s plan, released in 2010, didn’t win enough
support among commission members to be sent to Congress for a
vote. A group of senators, including  Lamar Alexander , a
Tennessee Republican, and Michael Bennet, a Colorado Democrat,
said they want to offer their own plan based on the commission’s
recommendations during the lame-duck session of Congress after
the Nov. 6 election.  Fiscal Cliff  Without a budget compromise, the U.S. faces a so-called
fiscal cliff in January, when $1.2 trillion in automatic
spending cuts over 10 years will start and the George W. Bush-
era tax cuts will expire. Democrats propose letting tax cuts
expire for top earners, while Republicans want spending
reductions instead of more  tax revenue .  McCain said Congress and the administration shouldn’t wait
to begin talks because some defense contractors may be legally
bound to notify workers of potential firings as early as Nov. 1.  “We are begging the White House to sit down with us and
try and avoid” defense-spending cuts, he said. “So far, no
answer.”  Should the spending cuts be allowed to take effect, the
biggest hit would be to the Defense Department, with $52.2
billion in fiscal 2013. The  Department of Health  and Human
Services would receive the next largest cut, at $6.6 billion.
The departments of Education and  Homeland Security  would each
lose $3.7 billion, followed by Housing and Urban Development
with $3.6 billion, according to a Bloomberg Government analysis.  ‘Great Rip-Offs’  Rather than raising taxes, McCain said he favored closing
tax loopholes, such as subsidies for the ethanol industry,
calling them “one of the great rip-offs in American history.”  Obama needs to do more to encourage a compromise, McCain
said.  “Nobody’s ready to step forward so far. And I say, as a
partisan, it does require some presidential leadership,” he
said.  McCain also faulted Obama for what he called a lack of
command over foreign policy as U.S.-led forces suffer repeated
attacks from Afghan troops or infiltrators,  Iraq  becomes less
stable and Iran continues to enrich uranium potentially to build
a nuclear bomb.  Obama’s refusal to arm rebels opposed to Syrian President
Bashar al-Assad is the “grossest lack of leadership that I have
seen of a president of the United States,” said McCain, who was
first elected to the Senate in 1986 and has four years left in
his term.  Romney Comments  McCain also reproached members of his own party for
criticizing the tone and direction of Republican presidential
nominee Mitt Romney’s campaign as a series of recent national
polls show Obama ahead of the former Massachusetts governor.  This week, Romney had to explain secretly recorded remarks
to donors in which he described 47 percent of Americans as
government-dependent “victims” who don’t pay federal income
taxes and won’t vote for him. Republican lawmakers, including
Senator  Dean Heller  of Nevada and Senator  Scott Brown  of
Massachusetts, have questioned the remarks.  “Everybody’s free to comment, but why would Republicans
now try to harm a Republican candidate?” he said. “I’ve never
been able to get that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Bliss in Washington at 
 jbliss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  