-- Boehner: Obama Win Wouldn’t Alter Republican Tax Stance
-- B y   R o x a n a   T i r o n   a n d   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2012-09-21T16:52:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-21/obama-win-wouldn-t-change-republican-tax-position-boehner-says.html
U.S. House Speaker  John Boehner 
said he and fellow Republicans will oppose any tax increases as
part of negotiations to reduce the  budget deficit  if President
Barack Obama wins re-election on Nov. 6.  “Why would I ever be for something like that? I’m not,”
Boehner told reporters in Washington today. Boehner said tax
increases could endanger about 700,000 jobs.  Some Republicans, including Senators Saxby Chambliss of
Georgia and  Lamar Alexander  of Tennessee, have been negotiating
with Democrats on budget plans that would include higher
revenue. Others, such as Senator Jim Demint of South Carolina,
have said Republicans would be under pressure to cut a deal with
Obama to avoid defense cuts.  Boehner, an Ohio representative, spoke as House members are
preparing to leave Washington to campaign. When Congress returns
after the Nov. 6 election, it will be facing a $607 billion
fiscal cliff of automatic tax increases and spending cuts set to
take effect in January.  House Republicans  have passed bills that would avert most
of the automatic changes. One would prevent the spending cuts to
defense programs by finding savings elsewhere in the budget.
Another would extend all of the expiring income-tax cuts and
begin a process for overhauling the U.S.  tax code .  “Our goal is to have  tax reform  and entitlement reform,”
Boehner said. He said that the proposals would probably take
“parallel paths.”  ’Debt Problem’  “It’s important for our country to fix our debt problem
and to have a tax code that’s competitive in the worldwide
economy,” he said.  Obama has said he won’t agree to extend the tax cuts for
top earners, leaving the parties at a stalemate. Talks between
Obama and Boehner over a deficit-reduction deal broke down in
2011 in part because of the divide over  tax policy .  Republicans want Obama to relent and support extending all
of the tax cuts, as he did in 2010 in the face of slow economic
growth and after Democrats lost seats in Congress in the midterm
election.  “Nobody knows what the mood of President Obama will be the
day after the election, and we’ll find out the day after the
election,” said Representative Pat Tiberi, an  Ohio Republican 
and senior member of the House Ways and Means Committee.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Roxana Tiron in Washington at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net ;
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  