-- Lockhart Says More Fed Easing May Be Needed if Jobs Stall
-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 2012-09-21T18:17:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-21/lockhart-says-more-fed-easing-may-be-needed-if-jobs-stall.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta
President  Dennis Lockhart  said the central bank may ease beyond
its current plan to buy mortgage-backed securities if the labor
market doesn’t show signs of greater strength.  “MBS purchases will continue until we see a better
employment situation,” Lockhart said today in a speech in
Atlanta. “If we do not see improvement, more action may be
taken. And inflation will be monitored closely and kept near 2
percent.”  Lockhart, who votes on monetary policy this year, supported
the Federal Open Market Committee’s Sept. 13 decision to expand
its holdings of securities with open-ended purchases of $40
billion in mortgage debt each month. The Fed, led by Chairman
 Ben S. Bernanke , aims through a third round of quantitative
easing to boost growth and reduce 8.1 percent unemployment.  “I hope the resolve of the FOMC is clear,” Lockhart said
in a speech to the Atlanta Institute of Internal Auditors. “A
stronger overall pace of recovery is central to improvement in
the labor market.” The committee needed to act because of
“discouraging conditions of slowing growth and still high
unemployment with meager recent progress in bringing it down.”  The Fed said last week that economic conditions would
probably warrant holding the target interest rate near zero
through at least mid-2015, extending a previous date of late
2014. Low  interest rates  will remain appropriate for a
“considerable time” after growth strengthens, the central bank
said.  Near Zero  Lockhart told reporters after his speech he was skeptical
about a proposal made yesterday by Minneapolis Fed President
 Narayana Kocherlakota  that the central bank should hold interest
rates at around zero until unemployment drops below 5.5 percent.  “My comment on that is 5.5 percent is much closer to
current measures of full employment,” Lockhart said. “I am not
so sure that it will not be appropriate to begin the process of
tightening before we would get to what we would consider full
employment. I don’t want to rule out that could be the case.”  One option for additional Fed action would be purchases of
 Treasury securities , though such a step isn’t desirable now,
Lockhart said to reporters. “Taking stock of the situation will
be appropriate early next year,” he said.  U.S. stocks rose, paring the week’s loss for the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index, as investors watched for developments on
Europe’s debt crisis and Apple Inc. started selling the iPhone
5. The  S&P 500  rose 0.2 percent to 1,463.48 at 2:15 p.m. in  New
York .  Not Enough  Lockhart said the economy has been expanding at a rate of
less than 2 percent recently, not enough to reduce unemployment
significantly. Gross domestic product climbed at a 1.7 percent
annual rate in the second quarter, down from 2 percent in the
first quarter and 4.1 percent in the fourth quarter of last
year.  The Atlanta Fed official said the choice of mortgage-
backed-securities for purchases was well timed because the
housing market is starting to show improvement.  “By maintaining downward pressure on  mortgage rates  and by
encouraging growth of mortgage-financed purchase activity, sales
activity in the Southeast and nationwide should accelerate, and
upward pressure on  home prices  should contribute to  consumer
confidence ,” he said. “The policy action should have positive
sector-specific effects with spillover to general conditions.”  Some “headwinds” remain, Lockhart said, including the
 European debt crisis  and the so-called fiscal cliff, the $600
billion of tax increases and spending cuts that will kick in
automatically at the end of the year unless Congress acts.  The  Congressional Budget Office  said in an Aug. 22 economic
report that fiscal tightening of that magnitude could cause a
recession.  Lockhart, a former Georgetown University professor, has led
the Atlanta Fed since 2007. The regional bank is responsible for
Alabama, Florida, Georgia, and portions of Louisiana,
 Mississippi  and Tennessee.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Matthews in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  