-- Oil Trims Biggest Drop Since June as Losses Considered Excessive
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2012-09-21T12:37:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-21/oil-trims-biggest-drop-since-june-as-losses-considered-excessive.html
Oil advanced in  New York  as
optimism that central bank stimulus will revive the global
economy fanned speculation that crude’s biggest weekly decline
in more than three months was excessive.  November futures rose as much as 1.3 percent after front-
month prices slid 7.2 percent in the four days through
yesterday, when the October contract expired. The Financial
Times reported that Spanish and European Union officials are
working on plans to trigger bond purchases by the  European
Central Bank . Standard & Poor’s 500 Index futures advanced 0.3
percent.  “Oil is caught between the pull of excess supply over the
next few months, and the push of quantitative easing and hopes
for an improvement in growth from the various stimulative
programs,” said Guy Wolf, a strategist at London-based
commodities broker Marex Spectron Group Ltd. “We think it is
likely to remain volatile for a while longer.”  Crude for November delivery advanced as much as $1.23 to
$93.65 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  and was at $93.57 at 1:28 p.m. London time. It climbed
12 cents yesterday to $92.42. The October contract expired at
$91.87, down 11 cents. Front-month prices are down 5.5 percent
this week, the biggest decline since the period ended June 1.  Brent oil for November settlement climbed $1.27 to $111.30
a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. The
European benchmark grade’s premium to West Texas Intermediate
was at $17.73, compared with $17.61 yesterday.  Bollinger Band  New York crude has technical support after settling below
the lower Bollinger Band at $92.55 a barrel the past two days.
The last time it closed below the band on June 21, oil gained 12
percent over the next eight trading sessions.  “We should see a 30 percent to 50 percent recovery of the
crude price drop in short order,” said  Phil Flynn , a senior
market analyst at the Price Futures Group in  Chicago . “When you
see an unexpected sharp price drop like that, you normally see a
peak to valley move about $10 from high to low and then the
buyers come in,”  Investors may be buying oil to hedge against inflation
after central banks announced stimulus measures, said Torbjoern Kjus, an Oslo-based senior oil analyst with  DNB ASA (DNB) , in an
interview in Singapore. The European Central Bank announced an
unlimited bond-purchase program Sept. 6 and the U.S. Federal
Reserve pledged a third round of debt-buying Sept. 13.  Inflation Fear  “People start to fear inflation and that’s positive for
 oil prices ,” said Kjus. “When the central banks increase
liquidity, there’s more money seeking excess returns. That’s
also a reason to buy oil.”  New York crude may decline next week after reports from
 Asia , Europe and  North America  fueled concern that global
economic growth is slowing, according to the Bloomberg survey.
Thirteen of 27 analysts, or 48 percent, forecast oil will drop
through Sept. 28. Seven respondents predicted that futures will
gain and seven said there will be little change in prices.  The oil market is sufficiently supplied, and additional
crude is coming from Saudi Arabia,  Canada  and the U.S., the
 International Energy Agency ’s executive director, Maria van der Hoeven, said yesterday in Madrid.  A fire at a fuel-storage tank at Petroleos de Venezuela
SA’s El Palito refinery should be put out today, according to
the country’s President  Hugo Chavez . A second tank blaze was
extinguished yesterday.  The fires were triggered by lightning that struck a seal on
the tanks at 7:30 p.m. on Sept. 19 during a rainstorm, Oil
Minister  Rafael Ramirez  said in a telephone call aired on state
TV. Trucks used foam to extinguish the second fire, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ann Koh in Singapore at 
 akoh15@bloomberg.net 
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  