-- Oil Rises on Central Bank Stimulus Optimism
-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2012-09-21T19:18:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-21/oil-rises-on-central-bank-stimulus-optimism.html
Oil advanced as optimism that
central bank stimulus will revive the global economy pared
crude’s biggest weekly decline in more than three months.  Futures rose 0.5 percent and stocks gained as a report said
European officials will unveil a bailout plan for  Spain . Crude
climbed to an intraday high of $100.42 a barrel Sept. 14 on
measures by the  Federal Reserve  and the  European Central Bank  to
bolster economic growth.  “The pressures that pushed us to $100 are still in the
market,” said  Gene McGillian , an analyst and broker at
Tradition Energy in Stamford,  Connecticut . “There’s been a
great deal of stimulus added.”  Crude oil for November delivery increased 47 cents to
settle at $92.89 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange ,
the first gain in five days. The October contract expired at
$91.87 yesterday. The front-month price is down 6.2 percent this
week, the biggest drop since June 1.  Brent oil for November settlement climbed $1.39, or 1.3
percent, to end the session at $111.42 a barrel on the London-
based ICE Futures Europe exchange. The European benchmark
grade’s premium to West Texas Intermediate traded in New York
was at $18.53.  The Fed said on Sept. 13 that it would make additional
purchases of debt in a third round of so-called quantitative
easing. The central bank announced it will expand its holdings
of long-term securities with open-ended purchases of $40 billion
of mortgage debt a month and that it will probably hold the
federal funds rate near zero “at least through mid-2015.”  ECB President  Mario Draghi  said Sept. 6 that the central
bank was ready to buy unlimited quantities of short-dated
government bonds of nations signed up to rescues.  European Bailout  Spanish Economy Minister Luis de Guindos is in talks with
European Commission authorities to facilitate a new bailout
program that will be presented Sept. 27, the Financial Times
reported, citing unidentified officials involved in the
discussions. The plan will focus on structural measures sought
by the EU and not on new taxes or spending cuts, the FT said.  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  and the  Dow Jones
Industrial Average  advanced 0.1 percent. The euro climbed as
much as 0.6 percent to $1.3048. A stronger euro and weaker U.S.
currency bolster the appeal of dollar-denominated raw materials
as an investment.  “Oil is caught between the pull of excess supply over the
next few months, and the push of quantitative easing and hopes
for an improvement in growth from the various stimulative
programs,” said Guy Wolf, a strategist at London-based
commodities broker Marex Spectron Group Ltd. “We think it is
likely to remain volatile for a while longer.”  Technical Support  New York crude has technical support after settling below
the lower Bollinger Band at $92.55 a barrel the previous two
days. The last time it closed below the band on June 21, oil
gained 12 percent over the next eight trading sessions.  The oil market is sufficiently supplied and more crude is
coming from  Saudi Arabia ,  Canada  and the U.S., the  International
Energy Agency ’s executive director, Maria van der Hoeven, said
yesterday in  Madrid .  “It’s going to be difficult to sustain this rally,” said
 Tim Evans , an energy analyst at Citi Futures Perspective in New
York. “The balloon lost a lot of air earlier this week and the
bulls are trying to see if they can do anything to revive it.”  Oil in New York may decline next week, according to the
Bloomberg survey. Thirteen of 27 analysts, or 48 percent,
forecast oil will drop through Sept. 28. Seven respondents
predicted that futures will gain and seven said there will be
little change in prices.  Futures decreased 3.5 percent on Sept. 19 after the Energy
Department said U.S. crude supplies rose  8.53 million barrels 
last week, the biggest gain since March.  Fuel Demand  U.S. fuel demand in August dropped to the lowest level for
the month in 15 years as weakness in the economy curbed
consumption of diesel and gasoline, the  American Petroleum
Institute  said. Total deliveries, a measure of use, dropped 4.3
percent to 18.6 million barrels a day last month from a year
earlier, the industry-funded group said today in a report.  “I don’t think you have fresh bullish fundamental news,”
Evans said. “The inventory build this week and API report for
August aren’t bullish at all.”  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 375,364
contracts as of 3:17 p.m. Volume totaled 511,329 contracts
yesterday, 5.8 percent lower than the average of the past three
months. Open interest was 1.57 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets in  New York  at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net . 