-- Honda to Double Auto Sales Over 5 Years Led by Small Cars
-- B y   A n n a   M u k a i ,   Y u k i   H a g i w a r a   a n d   M a   J i e
-- 2012-09-21T06:17:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-21/honda-plans-to-double-auto-sales-over-5-years-led-by-small-cars.html
Honda Motor Co. (7267) ,  Japan ’s third-
biggest carmaker, plans to double sales in five years, driven by
demand for small cars such as the Fit compact and new models in
 emerging markets  including China and  India .  Honda is targeting to sell 6 million vehicles annually by
March 2017, up from 3.1 million last fiscal year, President
Takanobu Ito said today. The maker of the Accord sedan will
introduce 10 new and refreshed models in China by 2016, and a
diesel car in India in the year ending March 2014, he said.  “To reach sales of 6 million units, our Fit compact will
be very important and be the leader in volume sales,” Ito said
at a briefing at the Tokyo-based automaker’s headquarters. “In
terms of volume sales, our Brio compact, which we expect to
expand sales of in emerging markets, will be the next biggest.”  Honda, recovering from last year’s natural disasters that
hobbled supply chains in Japan and  Thailand , is banking on a
broadened lineup to bolster sales in emerging markets. The
company is also counting on lower priced compact models such as
the Fit to support sales in Japan as government subsidies come
to an end.  “The target seems feasible, and looks like a target that
will match global growth,”  Satoru Takada , a Tokyo-based auto
analyst at Toward the Infinite World Inc., a securities research
company, said by telephone. “It also shows that small vehicles
will be Honda’s focus.”  Worldwide Sales  Global sales of passenger vehicles, excluding trucks and
buses, will climb to 100.3 million units in 2017, a 27 percent
increase from this year, according to estimates by industry
researcher IHS Automotive.  Honda fell 0.4 percent to 2,612 yen as of 2:33 p.m. in
Tokyo trading, compared with the 0.7 percent gain for Japan’s
Nikkei 225 Stock Average.  Honda will build the new Fit, its  best seller  in Japan this
year, and another compact model at a Mexico factory slated to
open in the spring of 2014, Ito said. The company will introduce
a new sports car in Japan in 2013 and redesigned versions of its
luxury Acura brand in the next three years, he said.  Ito said Honda hasn’t fully recovered in  China , where it
reopened factories after anti-Japan protests eased. There are
still safety concerns and problems with parts procurement, he
said, without being more specific. The automaker’s plans for the
world’s largest vehicle market remain unchanged, Ito said.  Angry mobs attacked dealerships and smashed Japanese cars
in Chinese cities after tensions between China and Japan flared
up over ownership of a group of islands. A Honda Civic was set
ablaze in front of a dealership in  Shanghai  on Sept 13.  Honda targets expanding deliveries of motorcycles to 25
million units by March 2017 from 15 million in the period ended
March this year, Ito said. The world’s largest motorcycle maker,
which is developing a super sports bike, plans to produce large
two-wheelers in Japan next year for sale to  North America , and
strengthen sales in  Brazil , he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna Mukai in Tokyo at 
 amukai1@bloomberg.net ;
Yuki Hagiwara in Tokyo at 
 yhagiwara1@bloomberg.net ;
Ma Jie in Tokyo at 
 jma124@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  