-- Monte Paschi Stake in Spoleto Close to Being Sold as Offers Made
-- B y   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i
-- 2012-09-21T13:35:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-21/monte-paschi-stake-in-spoleto-close-to-being-sold-as-offers-made.html
Banca Popolare di Spoleto SpA ’s
main investor is close to selling the stake owned by  Banca Monte
dei Paschi di Siena SpA  after  Italy ’s third-biggest bank forced
its partner to buy the shares for 73 million euros ($95
million.)  “We have received seven, eight offers to buy the 26
percent stake owned by Monte Paschi that will allow us to meet
the terms of the investor agreement,” said Giovannino Antonini,
chairman of Spoleto Credito e Servizi Società Cooperativa, the
biggest investor in Pop. Spoleto. “We will announce the new
partner replacing Monte Paschi by October 15th,” he said in a
phone interview today.  Monte Paschi is disposing of its holding in the bank as
part of a plan to boost capital by selling non-strategic assets.
The Siena, Italy-based bank sent a letter to SCS last month to
dissolve their agreement, according to an Aug. 6 statement from
Monte Paschi. SCS is required to purchase the stake or identify
a buyer for the shares within six months from the date of the
accord’s termination, Monte Paschi said in the statement.  SCS is seeking a buyer because the company doesn’t have
enough cash to buy it, Antonini said. The company has received
offers from a couple of Italian lenders, three French and Swiss
investment banks, as well as pension funds and insurers, he
said, declining to give more details.  SCS, which owns 51 percent of Popolare di Spoleto, will
keep the majority stake, Antonini said. Banca Popolare di
Spoleto, which posted a net income of 1.48 million euros in the
first half, has a market value of 56 million euros. The stock
gained as much as 11 percent in Milan before being halted at
12:17 p.m.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  