-- MorphoSys Chief Says MOR103 Drug Data Makes Deal More Likely
-- B y   E v a   v o n   S c h a p e r
-- 2012-09-21T12:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-21/morphosys-ceo-says-arthritis-drug-data-makes-deal-more-probable.html
MorphoSys AG (MOR)  has better chances of
finding a partner for its experimental arthritis drug after
favorable results from a clinical trial, Chief Executive Officer
Simon Moroney said.  The compound, named MOR103, would be the first proprietary
compound for the Martinsried, Germany-based biotech company,
which develops biological drugs for companies such as  Roche
Holding AG (ROG)  and  Novartis AG. (NOVN)   The mid-stage trial showed that the drug improved symptoms
in 68 percent of patients with rheumatoid arthritis by 20
percent, according to results published yesterday. MorphoSys
shares rose as much as 16 percent in Frankfurt today and traded
14 percent higher at 22 euros as of 12:50 p.m.  “We are very excited by what we are seeing,” Moroney said
in a telephone interview. “After four weeks, which is a short
time, we saw a very strong response.”  The substance is designed for patients who can no longer
tolerate standard therapies such as steroids, ibuprofen or drugs
such as  Abbott Laboratories (ABT) ’ Humira and  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) ’s
Remicade.  Symptoms Retreat  The study, which primarily aimed to establish the drug’s
safety, followed 96 patients with a mild to moderate form of the
disease. Patients who received the treatment saw their symptoms
retreat by 20 percent, as measured by the ACR score, a widely
accepted efficacy measure. The study did not show drug-related
serious adverse advents, MorphoSys said.  “The results demonstrate the compound’s potential to
become an important new drug in an area of unmet medical need,”
Olav Zilian, an analyst at Helvea SA in Geneva, said in a note
to clients.  The findings give MOR103 an edge over  AstraZeneca Plc (AZN) ’s
experimental mavrilimumab compound, which works in a similar
fashion, Zilian said.  The search for a partner could take six to nine months,
Moroney said, with the next clinical trial starting by mid-2013.
Should later trials confirm yesterday’s results, MOR103 may in
time be as competitive as Remicade or Humira, the CEO said.  Humira was approved for treatment of rheumatoid arthritis
in 2002. It generated about $8 billion in sales last year for
Abbott.  In rheumatoid arthritis, immune cells start attacking the
tissue that lines joints, leading to inflammation, according to
the American College of Cardiology’s website. At least 1.3
million U.S. adults suffer from the condition.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eva von Schaper in Munich at 
 evonschaper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  