-- Total Seeks Forties Oil; Vitol Sells Urals Crude at Lower Price
-- B y   S h e r r y   S u
-- 2012-09-21T16:25:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-21/total-seeks-forties-oil-vitol-sells-urals-crude-at-lower-price.html
Total SA failed to buy  North Sea 
Forties crude at a higher price than yesterday’s bid. Vitol
Group sold Russian Urals blend in northwest  Europe  at a bigger
discount to Dated Brent than the previous trade.  Nigeria,  Africa ’s largest oil producer, plans to cut
October exports of Akpo crude to one cargo from three in
September, a loading program obtained by  Bloomberg News  showed.  North Sea  Total failed to buy Forties for Oct. 13 to Oct. 17 loading
at 10 cents a barrel more than Dated Brent, 5 cents higher than
its bid yesterday, according to a Bloomberg survey of traders
and brokers monitoring the Platts trading window.  Reported crude trading typically occurs during the Platts
window, which ends at 4:30 p.m. London time. Before the session,
Forties loading in 10 to 25 days was 9 cents less than Dated
Brent, compared with a discount of 26 cents yesterday, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Brent for November settlement traded at $110.73 a barrel on
the ICE Futures Europe exchange in London at the close of the
window, up from $108.95 yesterday. The December contract was
$110.04, a discount of 69 cents to November.  Forties cargo F1001 was delayed by three days to load on
Oct. 6 to Oct. 8, according to two people with knowledge of the
shipping schedule. This brings total deferrals to four.  “Some shipments of Forties oil from the North Sea will be
delayed in October because production has not normalized quite
as quickly as planned,”  Carsten Fritsch , a Frankfurt-based
analyst at Commerzbank AG said today in a report.  Mediterranean/Urals  Vitol sold 100,000 metric tons of Urals for loading on Oct.
1 to Oct. 5 to Eni SpA at $1.55 a barrel less than Dated Brent
on a delivered basis to Rotterdam, the survey showed. This
compares with a discount of $1.40 for the last deal on Sept. 18.  Urals was at 98 cents a barrel less than Dated Brent for
delivery in the Mediterranean, unchanged from yesterday, data
compiled by Bloomberg showed.  West Africa  The Akpo field will shut for one month of planned
maintenance from Oct. 22, two traders with knowledge of the
matter said on Aug. 20, declining to be identified because the
information is confidential.  Nigeria  will export three lots of Amenam, two of Yoho and
one Pennington, separate plans showed. Shipments are for 950,000
barrels to 1 million barrels each. The shipping schedules of
Escravos and Erha grades are not yet available.  Indian Oil Corp. bought from Total SA 1 million barrels
each of Nigerian Qua Iboe and EA crudes for November loading,
said three traders who asked not to be identified because the
information is confidential.  Hindustan Petroleum Corp. is seeking to buy crude for
loading in November, said two traders who participate in the
market. The tender closes on Sept. 25, and offers are valid
until the following day.  Cameroon plans to double exports of Kole crude for loading
in October to two cargoes of 800,000 barrels each, according to
a loading program.  Qua Iboe was unchanged at $1.74 a barrel more than Dated
Brent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sherry Su in  London  at 
 lsu23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  