-- Total’s Low-Profit Projects Cost Too Much, Bank of America Says
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2012-09-21T14:22:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-21/total-s-low-profit-projects-cost-too-much-bank-of-america-says.html
Total SA (FP) ,  Europe ’s third-largest
energy company, is spending too much on low-profit oil and gas
projects as it pursues expansion, Bank of America Corp. said.  “Total’s management team has an unhealthy obsession for
growth that is leading the company to spend huge sums of money
on low-profitability projects,” Matthew Yates, an analyst at
Bank of America in  London , wrote in a report published today.
“Poor execution has the potential to destroy a lot of value.”  Total Chief Executive Officer Christophe de Margerie has
pledged to step up the search for oil and gas while at the same
time buying and selling assets to boost output and curb exposure
to European refining. The strategy has seen Total move into so-
called frontier nations including French Guiana and  Kenya , while
continuing to invest in large production projects in Kazakhstan,
Canada and  Australia , where high costs have weighed on returns.  The transition to more expensive, complex projects at the
Paris-based explorer, which plans to  spend  about $95 billion
through 2015, is “going to be one of the most profound in the
sector over the coming year,” the bank said. De Margerie will
give an update on strategy at a London investor day on Sept. 24.  Anastasia Zhivulina, a spokeswoman for Total, couldn’t
immediately comment on the Bank of America report.  Total rose 0.1 to 40.865 euros as of 4:20 p.m. in Paris
trading. The shares have climbed 13 percent since the company
raised its quarterly dividend on July 27.  Asset Sales  Concerns that Total can’t afford the higher payout could be
eased by an announcement at the investor day to sell more
assets, Theepan Jothilingam, an analyst at Nomura International
Plc, said in a report this week. “The absence of new news may
imply the shares have run too far too fast.”  Total is counting on the start of about 30 projects through
2015 after production setbacks this year.  Total’s crude output fell 2 percent in the second quarter
after a U.K. North Sea gas leak prompted the shutdown of the
Elgin and Franklin platforms in March, while production in
Nigeria and Yemen was also disrupted. The company expects
volumes to rise by an average of 2.5 percent a year from 2012 to
2015.  Europe’s largest oil companies are Royal Dutch Shell Plc
and BP Plc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  