-- House Ethics Committee to Report on Probe of Lawmaker
-- B y   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 2012-09-21T21:06:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-21/house-ethics-committee-to-report-on-probe-of-lawmaker.html
The House Ethics Committee’s
outside counsel recommended no further investigation of
allegations that California Democrat Maxine Waters helped a
struggling bank in which her husband held stock obtain a
government bailout in 2008.  “The evidence in the record does not support a knowing
violation of the ethics rules or any other standard of conduct”
by Waters,  Billy Martin , a  Washington  lawyer hired by the panel,
told the committee at a public hearing.  Martin presented conclusions of his investigation to the
panel, which met as Congress prepared to leave Washington until
after the Nov. 6 election.  Martin’s “review is now complete” and the panel is
“prepared to accept” his recommendation pending the outcome of
the hearing, Virginia Republican Bob Goodlatte, the committee’s
acting chairman, said in an opening statement. The panel made no
announcement of any decision after a closed-door session.  Exoneration by the ethics panel would boost Waters’s
chances to succeed Massachusetts Representative  Barney Frank  as
the ranking Democrat on the Financial Services Committee after
he retires this year. She is also in line, by seniority, to be
chairwoman of the panel if Democrats win a House majority in the
election.  In 2010, the committee began its investigation into
allegations that Waters, 74, had brought discredit to the House
by helping OneUnited Bank of Boston obtain $12 million from the
Troubled Asset Relief Program.  The charges against Waters weren’t revived after the newly
elected Congress took office in 2011. Martin was initially hired
to review alleged misconduct by ethics panel staff lawyers, who
have since moved to other jobs. He then examined evidence
against Waters and her chief of staff, Mikael Moore, to
determine whether to reopen the investigation.  Insufficient Evidence  At today’s hearing, Martin told the panel there was
insufficient evidence regarding Waters or Moore. Martin said
there wasn’t “clear and convincing” evidence that Moore, who
is Waters’s grandson, knowingly violated House rules by helping
OneUnited get the government bailout.  Still, Martin said investigators are “troubled” by
inconsistencies in Moore’s testimony that raise “substantial
issues of credibility.” He recommended that the panel consider
whether “it was appropriate” to make a move against Mr. Moore
short of formal action. That could take the form of a letter of
reproval from the panel’s chairman and top Democrat.  Martin said he couldn’t “conclusively determine” whether
Moore sent e-mails to help OneUnited get government assistance
before or after Waters told him not to assist the bank.  Goodlatte said the panel had drafted a letter of reproval
against Moore.  ‘Important Step’  Waters should be exonerated of wrongdoing because evidence
shows that she “took the important step” of instructing Moore
“not to specifically assist OneUnited,” Martin said. The
investigation found that there is no “clear and convincing”
evidence that she “failed to supervise her staff,” he said.  Martin also reviewed evidence that Waters had called then-
Treasury Secretary  Henry Paulson  to request a meeting on behalf
of minority banks that were hurt by the government takeover of
 Fannie Mae (FNMA)  and  Freddie Mac .  The evidence showed that when Waters called Paulson, “she
believed she was acting on behalf of all minority banks” in the
National Bankers Association, a Washington-based trade group,
and not only OneUnited, Martin said.  Paulson didn’t attend the Sept. 9, 2008, meeting between
Treasury officials and two OneUnited executives, according to
committee documents.  OneUnited Bank  OneUnited had sought government assistance in September
2008 because it held “substantial investments” in  Fannie Mae 
and Freddie Mac, according to the committee’s 2010 statement of
alleged violations by Waters. Without a government financial
bailout, OneUnited stock owned by Waters’s husband, Sidney
Williams, would have been worthless, the committee alleged.  The shares were worth almost $352,000 in June 2008 and
their value dropped to $175,000 four months later, after federal
regulators had placed Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac in a
conservatorship, the committee said. OneUnited received $12
million from TARP, plus $17 million in private investment.  The two-year investigation was delayed by allegations that
two former staff lawyers had improperly leaked information about
the Waters’ case to Republican lawmakers. Martin concluded that
none of the panel’s members was biased by the leaks. Still,
House Speaker  John Boehner , an  Ohio Republican , appointed six
acting members to oversee the Waters inquiry.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Rowley in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  