-- Panetta Lifts Ban on New Zealand Ship Visits to U.S. Ports
-- B y   G o p a l   R a t n a m
-- 2012-09-21T04:32:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-21/panetta-lifts-ban-on-new-zealand-ship-visits-to-u-s-ports-2-.html
U.S. Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta 
lifted a ban on New Zealand naval ship visits to the U.S.
imposed in response to a 1987 law prohibiting port stops by
nuclear-armed and powered vessels.  The change will promote better military ties between the
two countries, Panetta said today alongside New Zealand Defense
Minister Jonathan Coleman during a visit to Auckland.  U.S. policy has been modified “to allow the U.S. secretary
of defense to authorize individual visits to  Department of
Defense  or Coast Guard facilities,” Panetta said. The U.S. also
removed “bureaucratic obstacles to talks between defense
officials and restrictions on exercises.”  Panetta arrived here from  China  as part of an Asia trip as
the U.S. makes plans to execute a so-called military rebalancing
strategy that places greater emphasis on the Asia-Pacific
region, where China has been exercising greater influence than
in the past because of its growing economic and military power.  Defense ties between the  New Zealand  and the U.S. have been
moribund since the Pacific nation passed a law in 1987 that
banned nuclear-armed and powered ships from entering its ports.
The law damaged military and political ties and ended New
Zealand’s involvement in a defense treaty with the U.S. that
included  Australia .  New Zealand’s policy of prohibiting nuclear ship visits
won’t change, Coleman told reporters, adding that the U.S. is
“very accepting” of the restrictions.  Relationship Thaws  “We are not getting hung up about turning the clock back
to 1986,” Coleman said. Ties between the two sides are “very,
very good and we are enjoying the benefits of that
relationship.”  The relationship has thawed since 2000, assisted by New
Zealand sending troops to Iraq and  Afghanistan , U.S. defense
officials traveling with Panetta said. Ten New Zealand troops
have died in Afghanistan, including the country’s first female
combat death.  New Zealand already participates in the Rimpac naval
exercise off the coast of  Hawaii  -- the world’s largest
international maritime exercise. It’s also part of an informal
group of five nations including the U.S., U.K.,  Canada , and
Australia that share intelligence information.  “I want to do everything possible to fully cooperate in
this friendship,” Panetta told reporters. “We are embarked on
establishing a new era in relations between the U.S. and New
Zealand.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gopal Ratnam in Washington at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  