-- Pena Nieto Says He Wants Mexican Congress to Pass Labor Bill
-- B y   N a c h a   C a t t a n
-- 2012-09-21T19:20:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-21/pena-nieto-says-he-wants-mexican-congress-to-pass-labor-bill-1-.html
Mexican President-elect Enrique Pena Nieto urged Congress to pass a labor bill that would ease
the hiring and firing of workers, throwing his support behind a
measure that his party had blocked in the past.  The bill, which supporters say will boost employment, was
presented by outgoing President  Felipe Calderon  on Sept. 1 and
is due for a lower house vote by the end of the month. The
initiative would “modernize” Mexico’s workforce, according to
an e-mailed statement by Pena Nieto’s transition team. Pena
Nieto also said he’d present legislation allowing state and
municipal governments to play a larger role in tax collection.  Pena Nieto of the  Institutional Revolutionary Party , or
PRI, takes office on Dec. 1. He ran his campaign on a ticket of
economic overhauls, including labor measures that his party has
prevented from advancing during Calderon’s term. Pena Nieto’s
support means the bill has a greater chance of passing, said
Jose Antonio Crespo of the Center for Economic Research and
Teaching.  “It would increase employment and help regulate the vast
informal economy,” Crespo said. “Many employers would have
less fear of hiring someone knowing that if the worker doesn’t
do well he can be fired. This bill has been stalled for about 30
years.”  Mexican law makes it difficult for companies to fire
workers and to hire them part-time or on a trial basis, which
leads firms to delay hiring decisions.  Clauses to improve union transparency may not remain in the
final draft of the bill, as many unions with ties to the PRI
will lobby against it, Crespo said.  Mexico ’s gross domestic product has  expanded  an average 1.9
percent a year under Calderon, about half the pace of  Brazil .
Mexico’s growth rate has overtaken that of  Latin America ’s
largest economy in the past two years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nacha Cattan in Mexico City at 
 ncattan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  