-- Pennsylvania Grandmothers Star in Global Fracking Debate
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2012-09-21T21:48:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-21/pennsylvania-grandmothers-star-in-global-fracking-debate.html
Two grandmothers in tiny Franklin
Forks,  Pennsylvania , have become unlikely celebrities in the
international debate over the safety of hydraulic fracturing for
natural gas.  Shelly DePue, who has four gas wells on her farm west of
town, says fracking is safe and an economic boon. Tammy Manning,
who lives across fields and forested hills a mile away, blames
nearby gas drilling including DePue’s wells for threatening the
health of her family.  “It’s important that people in the next town, and the next
state, know what the problem is,” Manning, 44, said in an
interview at her home in northeastern Pennsylvania. “If we
don’t talk, we’re part of the problem.”  Their neighborhood drama is taking on greater importance as
each has embraced the media spotlight to make her case. DePue
starred in an industry-funded film, “ Truthland ,” made to
defend gas drilling. Manning addressed a  rally  of fracking
opponents outside an industry conference in Philadelphia
yesterday.  The debate in Franklin Forks, just 10 miles (16.1
kilometers) from the  New York  line, is drawing interested
visitors. Officials, citizens, scientists and lawyers from New
York, which is considering ending a de facto moratorium on
fracking, visit in droves. Yesterday New York Governor  Andrew
Cuomo ’s administration announced it was delaying a decision on
ending that ban to study fracking’s public-health impacts.  Foreign Visitors  Other visitors include film crews and citizens from  South
Africa ,  Poland ,  France  and  Canada . They often take a bus tour
across the region, including stops at the Manning home and
outside DePue’s gate, with local activists Vera Scroggins or
Rebecca Roter.  The foreign visitors all say: “Our country is watching
what happens,”  Roter  said in an interview.  Meanwhile DePue, a 55-year-old dairy farmer with four
children and one grandchild, has toured with her film,
addressing crowds and critics in towns in Pennsylvania,  Ohio  and
as far away as Syracuse, New York.  She says activists should look at their own use of gasoline
and electricity, and try to square that with their criticisms of
natural gas. And the gas drilling is providing a boost to the
long-foundering local economy.  “If we didn’t have these royalty checks coming in, we
couldn’t keep the farm,” DePue said in an interview. “When you
stop and weigh the inconveniences, they are temporary.”  Those inconveniences are piling up for some neighbors.  State Regulators  Over the past year, Pennsylvania state regulators have
called the local gas driller,  WPX Energy Inc. (WPX) , in to test water
sources in town and vent four wells that had dangerous levels of
methane. The state forced the local deli, Heavenly Angels, to
post a sign saying its water contained arsenic, and issued a
series of violation notices against WPX for its drilling work.
Among those violations was one for “failure to properly cement
intermediate casing” in a well on the DePue property,  according 
to a state report.  State regulators also have begun an investigation of
whether the gas company is to blame for residents’ water woes,
according to Colleen Connolly, a spokeswoman for the
 Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection .  In response to the state water tests and complaints of
residents, WPX tested its wells and homes closest to its
drilling operations and found no leaks or other issues, Susan
Oliver, a community relations representative for the company,
said in an interview.  ‘Shallow Methane’  The water wells state regulators tested “had the shallow
methane consistent with Franklin Forks” and the nearby  Salt
Springs  park, she said. The company is providing fresh-water
deliveries to three homes with contamination trouble, because
“they are our neighbors,” she said.  Matthew and Tammy Manning house four generations of family
members at their home in the center of town. When they moved
into the house under a rent-to-own arrangement in 2011, the
water posed no issue, they said. They signed a purchase
agreement in June.  On Dec. 6, “I flushed the toilet and the water came in a
dark gray,” Tammy Manning said. They looked outside at their
well, and the water “was  shooting out  with force.”  State Regulators  The Mannings called state regulators, who first asked WPX
to investigate. WPX sent out Jerry Washo, vice president of
Resource Environmental Management Inc., a contractor in nearby
Montrose. When Washo came to their home, he waved a testing wand
near the water coming out of their sink faucet, examined the
methane levels and told the Mannings not to use their stove and
to open the windows in their bathroom whenever showering so that
the gas wouldn’t build up and explode, Tammy Manning said.  Washo declined to comment.  Oliver, the WPX representative, said the tests Washo took
found “negligible” levels of methane in the home, and nothing
dangerous. Subsequent state tests showed the water had 59
milligrams of methane per liter. The state asks water-well
owners to take action if the methane in their well is more than
7 milligrams per liter, because it can be dangerous, according
to Connolly. The Mannings didn’t test the water before fracking
began late last year.  Experts differ on the cause of the Mannings’ woes.  Water Database  Brian Oram, a professional geologist compiling a database
of water conditions in the county, said spiking methane levels
can be explained naturally by saline water or natural-gas seeps,
which pre-date gas drilling in the area by centuries.  Robert Poreda, an earth and environmental sciences
professor at the University of Rochester, said his researchers
have made their own analysis in Franklin Forks and found
evidence that the gas seeping into the water table there is from
the Marcellus Shale, indicating an impact from gas drilling and
not natural causes.  Even if it isn’t Marcellus gas, shoddy well design or
drilling practices can push shallower gas and related pollutants
into the aquifer, activists say.  For the  Mannings , another tester told them to let their
faucet drip constantly in order to prevent the methane from
building up in the well and erupting. That caused another issue.  Their five-year-old granddaughter slept in the bedroom
above the kitchen sink. Soon after they began letting the faucet
drip, she was frequently waking up and vomiting. When methane is
present at high concentrations, it can displace oxygen in the
air, causing nausea, according to a Pennsylvania state health
fact sheet.  Lawsuit Filed  The Mannings sued WPX in U.S. District Court in
Pennsylvania in April, and the case is pending.  Meanwhile, a  swimming  and fishing spot in the creek out
back of the house is empty, as parents have warned their
children against swimming amid the periodic bubbles of methane.  “I’ve fished this hole since I was 13 years old,” Matthew
Manning said as he watched the gas bubbles escape from the water
one afternoon. “I’ve never seen anything like this.”  Not everyone is convinced. Heavenly Angels, across the road
from the Mannings, has a bustling business of sales in
sandwiches and soft drinks to gas-industry workers. Owner Lisa
Payne dismisses any connection between the arsenic and other
contaminants in her water and WPX’s drilling.  And she sells a t-shirt that encapsulates the  views  of many
supporters of the industry: “Susquehanna County: Lighting our
water on fire since 1795.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  