-- Pennsylvania Judge Urged by ACLU to Bar Voter ID Law
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 2012-09-21T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-21/pennsylvania-judge-urged-by-aclu-to-bar-voter-id-law.html
The  Pennsylvania  judge who last
month upheld a law requiring voters to have photo identification
was urged by the  American Civil Liberties Union  to bar
enforcement of the statute without further review.  The state Supreme Court this week returned the case to
Commonwealth Judge Richard E. Simpson, ordering a further
assessment of whether all eligible voters will be able to obtain
acceptable ID if the law is upheld. Simpson ruled Aug. 15 after
a trial that plaintiffs including the ACLU didn’t prove the law
would disenfranchise voters.  “The Supreme Court has set a high standard for avoiding a
preliminary injunction that respondents have no possibility of
meeting,” the ACLU and advocacy groups said in a filing
yesterday in state court in Harrisburg, Pennsylvania.  A majority of the state  Supreme Court  said Sept. 18 that
the state wasn’t living up to the law’s requirement that it
provide “liberal access” to alternate forms of ID. The four-
justice majority asked Simpson to submit a supplemental opinion
on the availability of alternate IDs by Oct. 2 and to block
enforcement of the law if there is a chance of voter
disenfranchisement.  Simpson has scheduled additional arguments for Sept. 25.  ‘Predictive Judgment’  The Pennsylvania case is among multiple court battles over
voting rules, particularly in swing states, including  Florida ,
Ohio and  Wisconsin , where Republican and Democratic presidential
campaigns see the possibility of victory.  Voter cases are also under way in  Alabama ,  South Carolina 
and  Tennessee .  Lawsuits filed over Florida voting rules include at least
two challenging a law ostensibly designed to purge noncitizens
from voter lists, which opponents say would disenfranchise new
citizens as well.  A federal judge last month blocked enforcement of a new
Florida law restricting voter-registration activities. A
different federal judge in Florida on Sept. 19 heard arguments
challenging the state’s 2011 law cutting back early voting days
as biased against blacks.  Texas officials on Sept 19 were temporarily barred by a
state judge from ordering county election officials to purge
presumably dead voters from registration rolls because the
initiative may violate the election code.  The ruling came in a lawsuit filed by four voters who were
told they would be purged from voter-registration lists as
deceased. They asked state court Judge Tim Sulak in Austin to
stop the state from striking about 77,000 names, arguing the
plan violates state and federal law.  Democratic Voters  Enacted in March, the Pennsylvania law requires voters to
present a state-issued ID, or an acceptable alternative such as
a military ID, to cast a ballot. Opponents of the law said
probable Democratic voters, such as the elderly and the poor,
are those least likely to have a valid ID by election day. The
Pennsylvania Department of State on Aug. 27 began offering new
ID cards on last month as a last resort for those unable to
obtain a valid substitute.  The state has issued only 9 percent of the minimum number
of IDs it estimates are needed, the ACLU said this week. Simpson
should issue a preliminary injunction even if state officials
assure the court that the procedures put in place since last
month will be “liberalized,” the ACLU said.  “The Supreme Court was not satisfied that ‘a mere
predictive judgment based primarily on the assurances of
government officials’ would be enough to avoid the entry of a
preliminary injunction,” the ACLU said.  The case is Applewhite  v. The  Commonwealth of
Pennsylvania , 330 MD 2012, Commonwealth Court of Pennsylvania
(Harrisburg)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  