-- Philippines to Draw Up Shariah-Compliant Stocks List
-- B y   I a n   S a y s o n
-- 2012-09-21T08:18:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-21/philippines-to-draw-up-shariah-compliant-stocks-list.html
The  Philippine Stock Exchange (PSE)  is
drawing up a list of Shariah-compliant equities to attract the
nation’s Muslim investors and $1.2 trillion of investible funds
in the  Middle East .  The exchange is holding consultations and workshops with
the Al-Amanah Islamic Investment Bank of the Philippines,
government agencies and the  Asian Development Bank  on standards
for Shariah-compliant stocks, Leo Quinitio, head of the bourse’s
capital-markets development division, said in an interview.  “There’s a large pool of investible funds in the Middle
East that invest only in Shariah-compliant stocks or companies
that meet Muslim doctrines,” Quinitio said in Manila yesterday.
“We are working on this and hopefully by the first half we will
have a list.”  The Philippine Stock Exchange has sought to introduce new
products, including real estate investment trusts and  exchange
traded funds , to boost trading in Asia’s 12th-largest stock
market. The nation’s equities have a market value of $209
billion, or about equal to  Nestle SA (NESN) ’s capitalization, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg,  Trading on the Philippine stock exchange has  averaged  5.86
billion pesos ($141 million) a day this year, 22 percent more
than 2011’s average, the data show. The Dow Jones Islamic Market
World  Index (DJIM)  of companies that meet Islamic guidelines has surged
13 percent this year, outpacing an 8.3 percent gain by the MSCI
Asia Pacific Index.  No Alcohol  Quinitio said Muslims are restricted from investing in
companies that violate Shariah doctrines, which forbid the
engagement in activities deemed unethical such as gambling,
production of alcohol and armaments. There are also restrictions
on interest-related income, he said.  Apple Inc., Exxon Mobil Corp. and PetroChina Co. are the
three biggest Shariah-compliant companies by market value that
Muslims can invest in, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Drawing up a list of Shariah-compliant stocks can be “very
difficult,” according to Abdul Jalil Abdul Rasheed, chief
executive at Kuala Lumpur-based Aberdeen Islamic Asset
Management.  “One of the challenges is how detailed do they want the
standards to be and this can make the work intensive,” Rasheed
said. “Do you want it to be 100 percent compliant or have a
tolerance level of say 5 percent of earnings come from non-halal
business? The other challenge is do you want the financing of
the business to be shariah-compliant as well?”  Overseas Buying  The Philippine exchange is working with the National
Commission for Muslim Filipinos to form a Shariah advisory
council, Quinitio said.  “There are no signs so far that investors’ interest in the
 Philippines  has waned,” he said. “The market is enjoying a
good momentum.”  Overseas investors bought a net $2.19 billion of Philippine
equities this year to Sept. 20, compared with $1.33 billion of
purchases for all of 2011. The benchmark  Philippine Stock
Exchange Index (PCOMP)  has rallied 21 percent this year and closed at a
record on July 5 amid optimism about the nation’s economic
growth prospects.  The $1.3 trillion Shariah-compliant finance industry is
expanding globally at an average annual rate of 15 percent,
according to a June report from Malaysia’s Securities
Commission. The Islamic Financial Services Board in  Kuala Lumpur 
predicts the market will reach $2.8 trillion by 2015.  Islamic assets account for about 1 percent of global
financial market, according to a  March 2012  publication of the
UK  Islamic Finance  Secretariat. The largest centers remain
concentrated in Malaysia and the Middle East, including Iran,
 Saudi Arabia , United Arab Emirates, Kuwait, Bahrain and Qatar,
according to the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian Sayson in Manila at 
 isayson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  