-- Pound Rises to One-Year High on Bets U.K. Economy Will Improve
-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 2012-09-21T15:53:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-21/pound-rises-to-one-year-high-on-bets-u-k-economy-will-improve.html
The pound rose to the strongest
level in more than a year against the dollar on speculation the
U.K. economy is poised to recover from recession while the
 Federal Reserve  expands monetary easing.  Sterling extended a seventh week of gains versus the
greenback, the longest run since December 2004, after a
government report showed the U.K.  budget deficit  was less than
economists forecast in August. The Fed said last week it would
buy $40 billion of mortgage bonds a month to pump money into the
economy to cap U.S. borrowing costs. U.K. 10-year bonds fell for
the first time in five days.  “We’ve had three quarters of negative growth and we think
that’s coming to an end now,” said  Steven Saywell , head of
currency strategy for  Europe  at BNP Paribas SA in  London . “The
key factors we think are going to drive the U.K. economy are
exports and investment.” At the same time, the Fed’s bond
purchases are weakening the dollar, he said.  The pound appreciated 0.2 percent to $1.6251 at 4:48 p.m.
London time after rising to $1.6309, the strongest level since
August 2011. The currency has risen 0.2 percent this week.
Sterling was little changed at 79.96 pence per euro.  The  U.K. budget  deficit excluding government support for
banks was 14.4 billion pounds last month, the  Office for
National Statistics  said in London. The median of forecasts in a
Bloomberg survey was for a shortfall of 15 billion pounds.  Budget Deficit  The pound was also supported as investors favored the U.K.
currency amid speculation U.S. lawmakers are failing to address
the nation’s growing budget deficit. America faces a so-called
fiscal cliff in January, when $1.2 trillion in automatic
spending cuts over 10 years will start and the George W. Bush-
era tax cuts will expire.  The British government is attempting to impose the largest
budget reduction since World War II through spending cuts and
tax increases.  “There is an underlying enthusiasm to buy the pound
against the dollar, largely because the dollar is undergoing a
market reappraisal as the threat posed by the U.S. fiscal cliff
comes into sharper relief,” said  Daragh Maher , a currency
strategist at HSBC Holdings Plc in London. “For now, the market
appears content to reward pound for the simple fact that the
U.K. government has a plan to deal with the deficit, whereas in
the U.S. we still await any such initiative.”  Monthly Gain  The pound has appreciated 0.9 percent in the past month,
according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes, which track
10 developed-market currencies. The euro strengthened 2.3
percent and the dollar slid 2.3 percent.  Ten-year gilts pared a weekly advance as speculation
European officials are making progress in containing the debt
crisis, damped demand for safer assets.  Spanish Economy Minister Luis de Guindos and European
authorities are discussing structural measures to be included in
a plan to be presented on Sept. 27, the Financial Times
reported, citing officials involved in discussions.  “Gilts are weighed down a bit by some optimism in the
euro-zone on  Spain , that they’re readying a package that then
might make them apply” for a bailout, said  Marc Ostwald , a
fixed-income strategist at Monument Securities Ltd. in London.  The  10-year gilt  yield climbed four basis points, or 0.04
percentage point, to 1.84 percent. The 1.75 percent bond due in
September 2022 fell 0.345, or 3.45 pounds per 1,000-pound face
amount, to 99.23. The yield has still dropped 13 basis points
this week.  Gilts returned 2.7 percent this year through yesterday,
according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European
Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. German bunds gained
2.5 percent and  U.S. Treasuries  earned 1.7 percent.  The Debt Management Office sold a combined 3 billion pounds
of 28-, 91- and 182-day bills today.  -- Editors: Nicholas Reynolds, Mark McCord  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  