-- Premier League Begins Tender to Sell Soccer Rights in Americas
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2012-09-21T12:43:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-21/premier-league-begins-tender-to-sell-soccer-rights-in-americas.html
The Premier League opened the
bidding for broadcasters looking to show soccer’s richest league
in the Americas from 2013 as the English competition takes
advantage of growing U.S. interest in the sport.  England’s top division expects the sale for five
territories -- the U.S.,  Canada , South and Central America, the
Caribbean and Brazil -- to be completed in about a month.  Executives from teams including Manchester United and
Liverpool forecast an increase on the 1.4 billion pounds ($2.3
billion) the league makes from overseas broadcasters under the
current three-year contract. In June, the Premier League
announced a 70 percent increase in the domestic rights after
 British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY)  and  BT Group Plc (BT/A)  agreed to
pay 3.02 billion pounds for three years of games in the 2013-14
to 2015-16 seasons.  The bidding for the U.S. rights, which are held by Fox
Entertainment Group, may attract offers from Walt Disney Co.’s
ESPN unit and Qatar-backed BeIn Sport among the possible
bidders. The U.K.’s Daily Mail reported Comcast Corp.’s NBC
Sports may also try to acquire the rights. ESPN currently
sublicenses some games from Fox.  Qatar-owned BeIn Sport started English and Spanish-language
channels in the U.S. in August. The broadcaster earlier this
year started in  France , where it owns rights including the
domestic league,  Champions League  and European soccer
championship.  Interest in soccer is growing in the U.S., where a quarter
of the Premier League’s owners are based. American viewers for
this year’s European Championship doubled, according to event
organizer UEFA, and a study by ESPN showed soccer to be the
nation’s second-favorite sport after professional football among
18-24 year olds.  Rogers Sportsnet currently holds the rights in Canada, Fox
Latin broadcasts matches in South and Central America and IMC
shows games in the Caribbean. The tender is the first time the
Premier League is selling exclusive rights in Brazil, which will
host the next  World Cup  in 2014.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tariq Panja in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  