-- Price Bullish on J.C. Penney on Pent-Up Demand: Tom Keene
-- B y   T o m   K e e n e   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2012-09-21T14:20:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-21/price-bullish-on-j-c-penney-on-pent-up-demand-tom-keene.html
Billionaire investor  Michael Price 
said he’s bullish on  J.C. Penney Co. (JCP)  because the U.S. retailer
is “doing all the right things” and will benefit from rising
demand among U.S. shoppers.  J.C. Penney shares, which tumbled 11 percent yesterday,
will rally amid a rebound in  consumer spending  when concerns
about the global economy subside, said Price, president of MFP
Investors LLC. He said the retailer is trading for about half of
its “intrinsic value.” He also likes Citigroup Inc. shares
because they’re the cheapest among large U.S. banks, he said.  “As the economy improves and as uncertainty from our
election and China and all the European issues go away, American
consumers have enormous pent-up demand,” Price said in a
“Bloomberg Surveillance” interview with  Tom Keene  and Sara Eisen. “It’s very early for European stocks.”  The U.S. is the most attractive stock market because of the
strength of corporate balance sheets, low interest rates and
valuations, according to Price, who made his reputation as a
value investor in the 1980s by buying shares of beaten-down
lenders and running some of the best-performing U.S. mutual
funds.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index has rallied 16 percent this
year and last week closed at the highest level since 2007 after
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  announced a third round
of asset purchases to boost economic growth. The U.S. equity
benchmark trades for about 14.9 times its companies’ reported
earnings, compared with an average multiple of 16.8 from the
past decade.  Election Results  Price said that the outcome of the U.S. presidential
election will help ease uncertainty among business owners who
are holding off on major purchases until tax and government
policies are clearer.  J.C. Penney dropped the most in four months yesterday after
Chief Executive Officer  Ron Johnson ’s showcase of the stores’
new layout failed to inspire confidence in his remake of the
110-year-old retailer. The stock has lost 27 percent of its
value this year.  Shares of the Plano, Texas-based retailer trade at 1.4
times its  book value , below the average ratio since 1987 of 1.9,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Citigroup will have the ability to pay “nice” dividends
in the future, said Price. The New York-based lender has a
dividend yield of 0.12 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The bank trades at 7.7 times reported earnings,
almost half the multiple for financials in the  S&P 500 .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tom Keene in  New York  at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  