-- Principal Bets on Commercial Property as Bond Yields Fall
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r   a n d   S u s a n n a   P a k
-- 2012-09-21T20:17:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-21/principal-bets-on-commercial-property-as-bond-yields-fall.html
Principal Financial Group Inc. (PFG) , the
seller of  life insurance  and retirement products, said it’s
turning to real estate to increase investment income as near
record-low yields pressure returns from bonds.  “The  debt market  is very strong, the equity market is
growing” in commercial property, Chief Investment Officer Julia Lawler said in a presentation to investors today. “The
fundamentals continue to improve, largely because there’s a lot
of supply constraints.”  Principal expanded its commercial mortgage-loan portfolio
to  $9.2 billion  as of June 30 from $8.8 billion six months
earlier. The loans are about 14 percent of the Des Moines, Iowa-
based company’s invested assets.  Insurers are seeking alternatives to bonds after the
 Federal Reserve  vowed to maintain  interest rates  near record
lows to stimulate the  U.S. economy . The yield on the 10-year
Treasury has dropped to 1.75 percent from 3.29 percent at the
end of 2010.  Lower interest rates may decrease operating earnings by as
much as $70 million, based on the third-quarter review of
actuarial assumptions, the company said today in a regulatory
filing. The insurer slipped 1.4 percent to $27.92 at 4 p.m. in
New York trading, cutting its gain this year to 14 percent.  The Equal-Weighted U.S. Composite Index of commercial
property increased 5.9 percent in July from a year earlier as a
smaller ratio of sales were distressed, CoStar Group Inc. said
last week. Relative yields on senior top-rated securities backed
by commercial mortgages fell 1.77 percentage points in the past
year to 1.19 percentage points more than Treasuries, according
to a Barclays Plc  index .  ‘Great Performer’  Lawler said her firm has profited by acquiring real estate
and attracting new tenants.  “We opportunistically buy distressed properties, lease
them up and sell them,” she said. “It’s been a great performer
for us.”  Principal is also looking to emerging-market debt to boost
returns, she said. Dollar-denominated emerging market government
bonds pay 2.94 percentage points more than U.S. Treasuries,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zachary Tracer in  New York  at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net ;
Susanna Pak in New York at 
 Spak10@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  