-- Rand Gains First Time in 3 Days on Stimulus Plans; Yields Fall
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 2012-09-21T14:13:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-21/rand-strengthens-first-day-in-three-on-stimulus-yields-decline.html
The rand gained for the first time
in three days as stocks and commodities rallied on speculation
losses this week were overdone after central banks added
stimulus and  Europe  headed toward resolving its debt crisis.  The rand added 0.8 percent to 8.2430 a dollar as of 3:55
p.m. in Johannesburg, paring its decline this week to 0.4
percent. Yields on 6.75 percent bonds due March 2021 dropped 6
basis points, or 0.06 percentage point, to 6.62 percent, the
lowest closing price since Sept. 11.  Global equity funds lured the largest weekly inflows this
year after the U.S. Federal Reserve and the  European Central
Bank  announced monetary stimulus measures,  Citigroup Inc. (C)  said.
The Financial Times reported that Spanish and European Union
officials were working on plans to trigger ECB bond purchases.
The euro area is South Africa’s biggest regional trading
partner, taking about 25 percent of its exports.  “The mood is much better” after the rand’s decline to a
one-week low yesterday,  John Cairns  and Josina Solomons,
currency strategists at Rand Merchant Bank in Johannesburg,
wrote in e-mailed comments. “Global equities recovered
nicely,” supporting currencies, including the rand.  Emerging-market stocks gained, paring the weekly loss on
the  benchmark  MSCI emerging market index. The Standard & Poor’s
GSCI  index  of raw materials advanced for a second day and prices
of metals including copper, platinum and gold rose. Metals and
other commodities account for 45 percent of South Africa’s
exports, according to government data.  ‘Accommodative Policy’  Bonds gained after the South African  Reserve Bank  yesterday
left its benchmark  interest rate  unchanged and said it would
maintain an “accommodative policy” to bolster growth,
prompting investors to add to bets on a second rate cut.  The bank unexpectedly cut its benchmark repo rate by 50
basis points to 5 percent on July 19, citing concern about the
impact of slowing global growth on South Africa’s economy.  “Bonds are firming, tracking the rand,” Ian Cruickshanks,
head of strategic research at  Nedbank Group Ltd. (NED)  in
Johannesburg, wrote in e-mailed comments. “The Reserve Bank’s
decision to hold interest rates steady and leave the door open
for possible further easing ahead is adding to market support.”  Forward-rate agreements starting in six months dropped
three basis points to 4.79 percent, or 29 basis points below the
Johannesburg Interbank Agreed Rate, indicating that traders are
pricing in almost a 60 percent chance of another 50 basis-points
cut in the next six months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  