-- Treasuries Recover Most of Losses That Followed Fed
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r   a n d   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 2012-09-21T21:24:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-21/treasuries-head-for-gain-as-officials-warn-of-challenges.html
Treasuries regained most of the
losses posted after the  Federal Reserve  announced more stimulus
as traders bet slowing global growth will make it difficult for
policy makers to reach their goal of lowering unemployment.  Yields on benchmark 10-year notes dropped 11 basis points
this week, putting them below the level reached just before the
Fed said on Sept. 13 it would keep borrowing rates unchanged
into 2015 and buy mortgage securities. Prices fluctuated earlier
today as speculation European leaders were making progress on
the region’s debt crisis reduced the refuge appeal of  U.S. debt .  “We’ve seen a reversal after the substantial selloff as the
market has come back to the reality that we still have a slowing
global economy and ongoing European issues, which has kept the
Treasury market bid,” said  Christopher Sullivan , who oversees
$2 billion as chief investment officer at United Nations Federal
Credit Union in New York.  Yields on  10-year notes  dropped one basis point, or 0.01
percentage point, for the day to 1.75 percent at 5 p.m. New York
time, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices, after rising
earlier as much as three basis points. They touched 1.72 percent
yesterday, the lowest since Sept. 13. The 1.625 percent security
due in August 2022 rose 3/32, or 94 cents per $1,000 face
amount, to 98 27/32.  Benchmark 10-year notes  yielded  1.76 percent on Sept. 12,
the day before the Fed announced a third round of bond purchases
to spur economic growth. The yields rose to a four-month high of
1.89 percent on Sept. 14.  Thirty-year bond  yields dropped 15 basis points this week.
They were little changed today at 2.94 percent, after rising
earlier as much as four basis points.  Bet Reversal  Hedge-fund managers and other large speculators reversed
from a net-long position to a net-short position in 30-year bond
futures in the week ended Sept. 18, according to U.S. Commodity
Futures Trading Commission data. Speculative  short positions , or
bets prices will fall, outnumbered long positions by 72
contracts on the Chicago Board of Trade.  Last week, traders
were net-long 20,088 contracts.  The long-bond yields traded today at their 200-day moving
average of 2.94 percent after briefly reaching below it
yesterday. The average is seen by some traders as a barrier to
further decreases.  Treasuries rose for the first week this month as a gauge of
manufacturing in the  New York  area tumbled to a three-year low
in September and purchasing-manager indexes showed both Chinese
and euro-area manufacturing contracted. Another report showed
manufacturing in the Philadelphia area shrank for a fifth
straight month.  Inflation Bets  The  gap  between 10-year yields and Treasury Inflation
Protected Securities, an indicator of trader expectations for
inflation over the life of the debt, known as the 10-year break-
even rate, narrowed this week the most in a year as traders
scaled back bets the Fed’s latest stimulus will lead to rising
consumer prices.  The yield  difference  decreased 15 basis points on the week,
the most since Sept. 23, 2011. It was 2.50 percentage points
today, after climbing to 2.73 percentage points on Sept. 17, the
most since May 2006.  Volatility was at almost the lowest level since May. Bank
of America Merrill Lynch’s MOVE index, which measures price
swings based on options, was at 59.6 basis points today, after
sliding Sept. 19 to 57.5 basis points, the least since May 7. It
touched a 2012 high of 95.4 basis points on June 15. The average
over the past decade is 100.3 basis points.  Swap Rates  The gap between 10-year interest-rate swap rates and
similar-maturity Treasury rates was 1.4 basis points, after
narrowing yesterday to minus 0.06 basis point, the first time
since September 2010 that yields on the swaps fell below those
on Treasuries. A negative reading indicates increased demand for
investments outside the Treasury market.  Investors use swaps to exchange fixed and floating
interest-rate obligations. The difference, the gap between the
fixed component and the Treasury rate, is a gauge of investor
demand for higher-yielding assets. The spread is usually
positive because investors demand more yield to compensate for
the risk of a swap, a transaction between banks, than they do to
lend to the U.S. government.  Ten-year yields rose earlier from a one-week low amid
speculation Spanish and European Union officials were working on
plans to trigger European Central Bank bond purchases to boost
 Spain ’s economy.  European Governments  European governments “need to proceed toward a full
accomplishment of economic and monetary union and create
conditions for growth and the creation of jobs,” according to a
statement from Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti ’s office
following a meeting with his Spanish counterpart,  Mariano Rajoy ,
in  Rome  today.  Italian and Spanish 10-year bond yields have dropped more
than 1 percentage point since ECB President  Mario Draghi  first
signaled Aug. 2 the bank would buy debt of distressed euro-bloc
nations in tandem with EU’s bailout funds to curb the 17-nation
region’s financial turmoil.  While Monti championed the EU bond-buying plan, the ECB’s
insistence on imposing conditions on any aid has left him and
Spain’s Rajoy reluctant to seek a bailout, a requirement.  “The market will be looking at headline risk out of
 Europe ,” said Justin Lederer, an interest-rate strategist at
Cantor Fitzgerald LP in New York, one of 21 primary dealers that
trade with the Fed.  The U.S. central bank said Sept. 13 it would purchase $40
billion of mortgage-backed bonds a month to spur economic growth
and reduce unemployment until the recovery is well-established.  ‘More Action’  Fed Bank of Atlanta President  Dennis Lockhart  said the
central bank may ease beyond its current plan to buy mortgage-
backed securities if the labor market doesn’t show signs of
greater strength. The  unemployment rate  has been stuck above 8
percent for 43 consecutive months.  “MBS purchases will continue until we see a better
employment situation,” Lockhart said today in a speech in
Atlanta. “If we do not see improvement, more action may be
taken. And inflation will be monitored closely.”  The Fed is also swapping shorter-term Treasuries in its
holdings with those due in six to 30 years to hold down
borrowing costs. It bought $1.8 billion of Treasuries today
maturing from November 2022 to February 2031 as part of the
program, according to Fed Bank of New York’s  website .  The Treasury plans to auction $35 billion of two-year notes
Sept. 25, the same amount of five-year debt the next day and $29
billion of seven-year securities Sept. 27.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net ;
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  