-- Redbox-Verizon Streaming to Challenge Netflix by Year-End
-- B y   C l i f f   E d w a r d s   a n d   M i c h a e l   W h i t e
-- 2012-09-22T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-21/redbox-verizon-streaming-to-start-in-time-for-christmas.html
Coinstar Inc. (CSTR) ’s Redbox and  Verizon
Communications Inc. (VZ) , providing details of their challenge to
 Netflix Inc. (NFLX) , will offer subscription streaming, movie sales and
rentals by Christmas, along with DVDs from the local kiosk.  Redbox Instant by Verizon, being tested in the homes of
about 500 Verizon employees, initially will focus solely on
newer movies that have been available for sale and rental, Eric
Bruno, Verizon’s vice president of strategy and planning for
consumer and mass business markets, said yesterday in an
interview.  The venture, 65 percent owned by Verizon, will battle
Netflix and  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  for the growing number of consumers
who watch movies and television shows online and on devices like
Apple Inc.’s iPhone. The U.S. market for subscription streaming
rose fivefold to $1.1 billion in the first half of 2012 from a
year earlier, according to data from the Hollywood studio-backed
Digital Entertainment Group.  Verizon and Bellevue, Washington-based Coinstar are focused
on a streaming network “that can stand on its own against
Netflix, against Amazon,” Bruno said.  Netflix, based in  Los Gatos , California, had 24 million
U.S. customers of its $7.99 a month subscription streaming
service as of June 30, by far the largest competitor. Amazon,
the Seattle-based online retailer, offers free two-day shipping
and access to 25,000 movies and TV shows for $79 a year. It
doesn’t disclose its subscribers.  Online Rentals  Redbox Instant was announced earlier this year. In addition
to a monthly subscription and an allotment of DVDs from
Coinstar’s almost 40,000 kiosks, it will offer a la carte movie
rentals online and purchases for download, Bruno said.  Customers will be able to download titles to mobile
devices, game consoles and set-top boxes through an application
that will be available at  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s app store,  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s
Android store and other marketplaces, he said.  While there’s no specific date, the venture is targeting a
start to the service between late November and mid-December,
after a short period of initial public testing, Bruno said.
Coinstar has previously said that the service is targeted to
start before year-end.  Coinstar and Verizon will pay content providers based on
the number of subscribers, similar to traditional cable-TV
systems, rather than a set payment, Bruno said. Netflix has paid
a set amount for streaming rights to movies over a specific
period of time, a model that increases the pressure to attract
new subscribers.  Redbox Instant hasn’t announced pricing. In August,
Coinstar Chief Executive Officer Paul Davis said the venture
will focus on “value” pricing.  Coinstar rose 1.3 percent $46.52 yesterday in New York. It
has gained 1.9 percent this year. Verizon, based in New York,
climbed 0.3 percent to $45.64 and has added 14 percent in 2012.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cliff Edwards in  San Francisco  at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net ;
Michael White in  Los Angeles  at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  