-- Republican Party ‘Cranks’ Threatening Growth, Swan Says
-- B y   E d w a r d   J o h n s o n
-- 2012-09-23T01:51:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-21/republican-party-cranks-threatening-growth-swan-says.html
(Corrects quote in second paragraph of story published
Sept. 21.)  Australian Treasurer Wayne Swan
said “cranks and crazies” in the U.S.  Republican Party  are
threatening economic growth as Congress remains deadlocked on
tax increases and spending cuts set to take effect in January.  “Global markets are watching the positioning of hardline
elements of the Republican Party for signs that they will
dangerously block reasonable attempts at compromise,” Swan said
in a speech in Sydney today. “Let’s be blunt and acknowledge
the biggest threat to the world’s biggest economy are the cranks
and crazies that have taken over a part of the Republican
Party.”  U.S. lawmakers are deadlocked over how to resolve the so-
called fiscal cliff, the combination of more than $600 billion
in automatic tax increases and spending cuts that will go into
effect next year if Congress does nothing.  Ben S. Bernanke , the
chairman of the  Federal Reserve , has said the issue is one of
the main sources of risk for the  U.S. economy .  Republicans led by the anti-tax Tea Party movement wrested
control of the U.S. House of Representatives from Democrats in
the 2010 mid-term election, picking up 63 seats for their
biggest gain in 72 years. The movement’s clout was evident in
primary races earlier this year in Indiana and Texas, where
establishment-backed Republican officials were defeated by
candidates eschewing political compromise.  “With the world watching, it is imperative that the  U.S.
Congress  resolve an agreement to support growth in the short
term,” said Swan, who is also deputy prime minister.  ‘Calculated Insult’  Australia’s opposition coalition, leading the governing
 Labor Party  in opinion polls before elections due next year,
today criticized Swan’s comments on the Republican Party as a
“calculated insult,” the Australian newspaper reported.  “He is showing reckless disregard for the debt burden the
U.S. faces,” the newspaper cited  Julie Bishop , the opposition
foreign affairs spokeswoman, as saying. “It was a calculated
insult to the elected representatives of our key ally.”  Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  defended Swan’s comments when
asked by reporters whether they would affect her government’s
ability to work with the Republicans if presidential nominee
 Mitt Romney  wins office.  “What happens in the U.S. economy matters to the world
economy,” Gillard said today in Sydney. “The treasurer’s been
making appropriate comments about potential risks to the global
economy.”  Swan’s foray into U.S. politics comes after he depicted New
Jersey last month as a down-trodden place where workers get
“thrown on the scrap heap of life” -- prompting a backlash
from state officials.  Bruce Springsteen  “If I could distill the relevance of  Bruce Springsteen ’s
music to Australia it would be this: Don’t let what has happened
to the American economy happen here,” Swan said in an Aug. 1
speech in Melbourne. “Don’t let Australia become a down-under
version of New Jersey, where the people and the communities
whose skills are no longer in demand get thrown on the scrap
heap of life.”  Tom Kean, the top Republican in the New Jersey state
legislature, hit back at Swan’s comments at the time, saying
they were down to “the electoral silly season.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edward Johnson in Sydney at 
 ejohnson28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  