-- Troika Calls Week’s Truce in Haggling Over Greek Budget
-- B y   M a r c u s   B e n s a s s o n ,   N a t a l i e   W e e k s   a n d   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s
-- 2012-09-21T21:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-21/troika-calls-week-s-truce-in-haggling-over-greek-budget.html
Greece and representatives of the
country’s international lenders agreed to take a week-long break
from inconclusive talks to carve out an 11.5 billion-euro ($14.9
billion)  budget-cut  package that’s key to receiving aid funds.  The  International Monetary Fund , the European Commission
and the  European Central Bank  said in a joint statement their
mission to Athens for financial talks will take a “brief
pause” and “expects to return to Athens after about a week.”  “The mission has had productive discussions with the
authorities since early September and has made good progress
during this period,” said the group, known as the “troika,”
yesterday. A Greek finance ministry official said he hoped that
the package will be finalized before the troika’s return.  Prime Minister Antonis Samaras has struggled for two weeks
to broker an agreement with the troika and his coalition
partners on a package that will include more than 7 billion
euros of cuts to wages, pensions and benefits in a country
battling a fifth year of  recession  and with nearly a quarter of
the workforce unemployed.  Greece ’s two biggest unions plan to
hold a 24-hour general strike on Sept. 26.  The troika, representing the international lenders in
Greece’s bailout package, have already said some of the
reductions don’t go far enough, repeatedly forcing all parties
back to the negotiating table.  Greece’s Credibility  Samaras said he is confident that his coalition government
will hold together and build the domestic political backing he
has said is necessary to restore Greece’s credibility and keep
the country in the euro.  “We are absolutely decided,” Samaras said yesterday on
the sidelines of a conference in  Rome . “This is a deal that is
not simply party oriented, it’s nation oriented.”  The package needs to be presented at a Sept. 28 meeting of
euro-area finance ministry officials, a Greek Finance Ministry
official said. Finance ministers from the 17-nation group are
expected to decide on the budget measures on Oct. 8.  Greek 10-year bonds advanced, pushing the yield on the
securities below 20 percent for the first time since March 29.
The yield dropped 62 basis points, or 0.62 percentage points, to
19.93 percent yesterday.  Samaras’ plans were rejected Sept. 20 for the third time in
less than two weeks by Democratic Left leader Fotis Kouvelis and
Pasok leader  Evangelos Venizelos , the junior partners in the
coalition.  ‘Attacking’ Greece  “The troika must stop attacking Greek society,” said
Kouvelis. “The troika must understand there are limits.”  A Finance Ministry official said the same day 9.5 billion
euros of the package had been agreed upon, with 6.5 billion of
that coming from cuts in pensions, wages and benefits. An
increase in the  retirement age  to 67 from 65 will be worth 1
billion euros.  Kouvelis said, however, there was no final agreement on any
measures. A new meeting of the coalition party leaders will be
held next week, he said.  With his New Democracy party holding 128 of the Greek
Parliament’s 300 seats, Samaras relies on Pasok’s 33 seats and
the Democratic Left’s 17 to secure parliamentary approval of any
pledge made to international lenders.  Agreement from the troika is imperative to allow the
release of a 31 billion-euro payment that is designed primarily
to recapitalize the nation’s banks in a bid to boost liquidity
in a cash-starved economy.  Austerity Measures  Venizelos called for a “total” package to be presented to
parliament including a condition that underpins the formation of
the coalition government: that austerity measures be spread over
four years rather than two.  International lenders to Greece held back funds pledged
under two rescue packages totaling 240 billion euros in the wake
of elections in May and June, which derailed reforms, halted
state-asset sales and stoked concerns about the nation’s future
in the euro area.  The votes increased support for the opposition Syriza
party, which has vowed to renege on all pledges made to the EU
and IMF. Syriza would have a narrow lead over  New Democracy  if
elections were held now, a Metron Analysis poll for Ependytis
newspaper showed.  Syriza would get 27.7 percent of the votes compared with
the 26.9 percent it got in June, according to the survey of
1,002 people. New Democracy would get 26.1 percent compared with
29.7 percent in the June vote, it showed.  Greek Commitments  More than 57 percent of those polled said the country
shouldn’t keep to pledges made in exchange for the bailout as
the policies have failed, compared with 40 percent who said it
should stick to its commitments.  European leaders have told Samaras the country must show it
is implementing commitments made earlier this year to secure a
second rescue package before there can be any discussion on
easing the terms of the program. As part of that second package,
private sector investors agreed to take a 53.5 percent loss in
the face value of their Greek bond holdings, reducing the
country’s debt by about 100 billion euros, the largest debt
restructuring in history.  German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  ruled out more
financial help for Greece, saying the last bailout stretched
international creditors to their limits.  Schaeuble told reporters in Berlin yesterday that he’s
“convinced that we went to the limit of what’s economically
justifiable with the second Greek program.” It was “very
difficult” to put it together under existing rules and
questioning it won’t instill confidence.  He said he doesn’t want to speculate whether Greece needs
another reduction of its debt because that would unsettle
financial markets. “The conditions for the payment of the next
tranche are clearly defined,” Schaeuble said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Marcus Bensasson in Athens at 
 mbensasson@bloomberg.net ;
Natalie Weeks in Athens at 
 nweeks2@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Petrakis in  Athens  at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Foxwell at 
 sfoxwell@bloomberg.net  