-- Romanian Entrepreneur Diaconescu Wins Oltchim Stake Auction
-- B y   A n d r a   T i m u   a n d   I r i n a   S a v u
-- 2012-09-21T15:38:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-21/romanian-entrepreneur-diaconescu-wins-oltchim-stake-auction-1-.html
Romanian media entrepreneur Dan
Diaconescu won a bidding contest for a majority stake in  Oltchim
SA (OLT)  today, as the country seeks to meet pledges to  international
lenders by the end of this month.  Diaconescu, 44, a politician who owns broadcaster OTV, will
pay about 203 million lei ($59 million) for the government’s
54.8 percent stake in the chemical company, Remus Vulpescu, who
heads the  Economy Ministry ’s state-asset sales agency, told
reporters in Bucharest today. The other bidders were Germany’s
PCC SE, a minority shareholder in Oltchim and Romanian companies
Aisa Invest SA and Chimcomplex SA.  “We plan to sign the purchase contract on Monday,”
Vulpescu said. “We are counting on the offer’s accuracy and on
a fast payment.”  Romania pledged to sell its holding in Oltchim and a
minority stake in  Transgaz SA (TGN) , the country’s natural-gas grid
operator, by the end of this month to get the International
Monetary Fund’s approval to unlock the next tranche of its
precautionary accord.  Romania  also needs to cut overdue local
authority debt and increase natural gas prices, the fund’s
Mission Chief Erik de Vrijer said on Aug. 14.  Arpechim Refinery  The buyer will also have the option to purchase  OMV Petrom
SA (SNP) ’s Arpechim refinery after negotiating terms with Romania’s
biggest oil company.  OMV AG (OMV) , Petrom’s majority owner, signed an
accord to sell the Arpechim refinery to Oltchim’s buyer, Prime
Minister Victor Ponta said on Sept. 18.  “We are counting on the state to help us acquire the
Arpechim refinery and develop Oltchim,” Diaconescu said.  Romania had also planned to sell about 250 million euros
($325 million) in Oltchim debt and debt to power supplier
 Electrica SA  of 150 million euros, according to Vulpescu. None
of the buyers submitted bids for debt to the state.  Chimcomplex filed a bid for the debt to Electrica of 202.6
million lei which was rejected because it was lower than the
minimum price, Vulpescu said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andra Timu in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net ;
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  