-- Physician Reports Romney Is ‘Vigorous Man’ in Good Health
-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2012-09-21T20:32:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-21/romney-in-excellent-physical-health-his-doctor-says-in-letter.html
Mitt Romney  is a “vigorous man who
takes excellent care of his personal physical health,” his
doctor said in a  letter  released today by the Republican
presidential nominee’s campaign.  Dr. Randall Gaz of  Massachusetts General Hospital  in  Boston 
also said he knows of “no physical impairments that should
interfere” with Romney serving as president.  Romney, 65, has a resting pulse around 40 beats per minute,
which was one of the factors that led his doctor to describe him
as someone who “appears years younger” than his age.  “His slow, resting, regular heart rate in the 40s is most
likely related to his past intensive exercise and regular
running,” wrote Gaz, who has been Romney’s doctor since 1989.  Romney -- whose height is 6 feet 1 1/2 inches -- weighs 184
pounds and his  blood pressure  is 130 over 80, according to Gaz.
Optimal blood pressure is considered to be below 120 over 80.  The former Massachusetts governor is allergic to penicillin
and takes a low dose of aspirin and the cholesterol medication
Lipitor on a daily basis, the doctor wrote.  “He totally abstains from drinking any alcoholic
beverages, and does not use any tobacco products or illicit
drugs,” the doctor wrote in the letter dated Aug. 25.  That’s in keeping with Romney’s Mormon faith, which
discourages the use of alcohol or tobacco.  High-Fiber Diet  Romney “eats a high-fiber diet with abundant fruits and
vegetables and minimizes intake of high cholesterol foods and
concentrated sweets,” according to Gaz, who has treated Romney
since 1989.  Earlier today, the Republican nominee’s campaign released
his 2011 federal tax returns, showing he and his wife, Ann, paid
a 14.1 percent federal tax rate on $13.7 million of income. The
couple makes most of their income from investing an estimated
$250 million fortune, and much of that income is taxed at a top
rate of 15 percent, rather than the top rate of 35 percent that
applies to wages.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John McCormick  in Chicago at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  