-- Romney Says His Stumbles Don’t Mean Campaign Needs a Turnaround
-- B y   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n   a n d   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 2012-09-22T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-21/romney-says-his-stumbles-don-t-mean-campaign-needs-a-turnaround.html
Republican presidential nominee
 Mitt Romney  said his campaign doesn’t need an overhaul even
though he’s trailing President  Barack Obama  in critical swing
states and has come under fire from members of his own party
over recent stumbles.  “It doesn’t need a turnaround,” Romney said in an
interview for CBS’s “60 Minutes” program. “We’ve got a
campaign which is tied with an incumbent president.”  An excerpt from the interview, scheduled for broadcast
tomorrow, was released by the network yesterday. Obama also has
been interviewed for the program.  “There are some days we’re up. There are some days we’re
down,” Romney said of poll results.  Romney has been criticized by some Republicans as well as
Democrats for his initial response to the fatal attack on the
U.S. consulate in  Libya  and his remarks to donors, secretly
recorded in a video, in which he said 47 percent of Americans
are government-dependent “victims” who don’t pay federal
income taxes.  Obama has used the Romney comments in campaign speeches
since the video was leaked on the Internet.  “That’s not the campaign. That was me, right?” Romney
said in the “60 Minutes” interview. The campaign organization
is doing a “very good job. But not everything I say is elegant.
And, and I want to make it very clear, I want to help 100
percent of the American people.”  Deriding Romney  At a rally in  Virginia  yesterday, Obama derided Romney’s
statement that he would change things from the inside.  “What kind of inside job is he talking about?” Obama
asked to laughter from his audience. “Is it the job of
rubberstamping the top-down, you’re-on-your-own agenda of this
 Republican Congress ? Because if it is, we don’t want it.”  At an appearance in  Las Vegas , Romney again said Obama has
raised “the white flag of surrender” on the economy and making
progress on legislation, keying off a statement the president
made the day before about changing  Washington  from the outside.  “Over history there have been people that have changed
Washington from the outside,” Romney told donors at the Red
Rock casino. “This president has not done that.”  Social Security  Earlier, Obama accused Republicans of threatening the
future of Social Security and Medicare while Republican vice
presidential nominee  Paul Ryan  said only he and Romney are
offering “honest answers” about how to preserve the programs.  Obama and Ryan addressed the biggest U.S. advocacy group
for senior citizens as they made appeals for the votes of a
constituency that traditionally goes to the polls on Election
Day at a higher proportion than other groups.  The president, speaking via satellite to a gathering of
AARP in  New Orleans , pledged to keep both programs solvent for
current and future recipients and promised that over the next
decade the average Medicare beneficiary will save $5,000 as a
result of his health-care law.  He said Republican criticism of the measure passed by
Congress “hasn’t been completely on the level” and that a plan
Ryan has pushed as House Budget Committee chairman would replace
Medicare with a “voucher that wouldn’t keep up with costs.”  Ryan, speaking in person to the group in New Orleans
following Obama’s appearance, drew boos from the audience when
he said he and Romney would work to repeal the health-care law.  Law Repeal  “The first step to a stronger Medicare is to repeal
Obamacare because it represents the worst of both worlds,” Ryan
said. Responding to the boos, he said, “I had a feeling there
would be mixed reaction, so let me get into it.”  He said the law “weakens Medicare for today’s seniors and
puts it at risk for the next generation.”  AARP claims more than 37 million members. In an election
that both campaigns forecast will be close, Obama and Romney are
seeking an edge with every constituency. Medicare and  Social
Security , which primarily benefit those 65 years of age and
older, are key issues with older voters.  In a dozen battleground states, including Florida and
Virginia, voters said they have more faith that Obama will
preserve Medicare than Romney by 50 percent to 44 percent,
according to a USA TODAY/Gallup Poll. The Sept. 11-17 poll of
1,096 registered voters has a margin of error of plus or minus
four percentage points.  Medicare Impact  The health-care law championed by Obama is one of the
central points of debate in the campaign. The Patient Protection
and Affordable Care Act scales back payments to Medicare
Advantage plans, an alternative to traditional Medicare. It also
slows the growth of Medicare payments to hospitals and other
health-care providers. Seniors’ benefits weren’t reduced in the
legislation.  The nonpartisan  Congressional Budget Office  projects that
Medicare spending will reach $887 billion in 2020, up from $499
billion in actual spending in 2009.  Ryan, a U.S. representative from  Wisconsin , has produced a
budget blueprint that would convert Medicare to a voucher plan,
a proposal that has drawn scorn from seniors’ groups, including
the AARP, because it would end Medicare as a defined-benefit
program.  While the current law plows its projected savings back into
subsidies to help low-income individuals buy insurance, the Ryan
plan counts the money toward  debt reduction .  “We respect all the people in this country enough to talk
about the clear choices we face on Medicare, Social Security,
the economy and the kind of country our children will inherit,”
Ryan said. “Our plan keeps the protections that have made
Medicare a guaranteed promise for seniors throughout the
years.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Julianna Goldman  in Washington at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net ;
Lisa Lerer in Washington at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  