-- Romney Should Highlight Work With Troubled Companies, Thoma Says
-- B y   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e
-- 2012-09-21T16:00:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-21/romney-should-highlight-work-with-troubled-companies-thoma-says.html
Republican presidential candidate
 Mitt Romney , facing political attacks for investing in companies
that later filed for  bankruptcy protection , should speak more
about his experience saving distressed companies, said Carl Thoma, managing partner at Thoma Bravo LLC.  “He could have done a lot more leading with how he’s
worked with troubled companies and turned them around and how he
did that with the Olympics,” Thoma, who co-founded Chicago-
based buyout pioneer Golder Thoma & Co. in 1980 and now runs
Thoma Bravo with five other partners, said in an interview Sept.
19 at Bloomberg’s headquarters in  New York . “This whole
election has centered around attacking each other.”  Romney, who co-founded Boston-based Bain Capital LLC in
1984 and ran the firm for 15 years until leaving to manage the
2002 Winter Olympics, has faced attacks for his role in
investments that were followed by job losses at companies such
as Dade International, American Pad & Paper LLC and KB Toys Inc.
Bain said in a March letter to investors it has increased
revenue at portfolio companies by an aggregate $105 billion
during its ownership, creating “hundreds of thousands of jobs”
in the process.  Thoma, 63, said he’s given more money to political
campaigns this year than he did in the rest of his life
combined. He gave $2,500 to Romney and $61,600 to the national
Republican senatorial and congressional committees, according to
OpenSecrets.org, and has donated to Republican and Democratic
congressional candidates.  Latest Fund  While Thoma and other private-equity executives, including
 Blackstone Group LP (BX)  President  Tony James  and billionaire
investor  Wilbur Ross , have said their investors ask more
questions due to the election scrutiny, Thoma’s firm faced few
roadblocks in raising its latest fund. Thoma Bravo Fund X closed
in February with $1.25 billion after about half-a-year of active
fundraising with a target of $1 billion.  “For about 90 percent of our limited partners, it’s
business as usual,” said Thoma, whose firm specializes in
investing in software, education and financial-services
companies. “Some like to know whether you’re creating jobs and
how you go about making money. I think everybody is a bit
sensitive to that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Devin Banerjee in New York at 
 dbanerjee2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  