-- Rory McIlroy’s Northern Ireland Homes Goes on Sale for $3.26M
-- B y   C o l m   H e a t l e y
-- 2012-09-21T14:04:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-21/rory-mcilroy-s-northern-ireland-homes-goes-on-sale-for-3-26m.html
Rory McIlroy, the world’s top
golfer, has put his Northern Ireland home on sale for 2 million
pounds ($3.26 million), complete with four greens, a driving
range, limestone floors and five en-suite bedrooms.  McIlroy, 23, is selling the two-story  house , 15 miles
south-east of Belfast, because he is spending more time in the
U.S., said the selling agent, Michael Rodgers. The house
includes five reception rooms and a tennis court. The greens,
added by McIlroy after buying the house, are laid with grass
consistent with both the U.S. and European professional courses,
Rodgers said.  “It is a stunning house, it is very bright, the finish is
beautiful with limestone floors, white oak floors, it is the
very best of fittings,” Rodgers said in a phone interview
today. “I understand his time is simply not his own, he is
spending a lot of time in America, he doesn’t have time for it
any more.” The house went on sale this week.  McIlroy, who bought the house in 2009, won the  U.S. Open 
last year and the U.S. PGA last month, returning him to the top
of the rankings.  “I have really enjoyed living here,” McIlroy says on the
website advertising the house for sale in Moneyreagh, county
Down. “The house has always been busy with friends and family
and has suited us on all occasions. When I get time.”  McIlroy’s management agents, Horizon Sports Events, didn’t
immediately reply to an email seeking comment.  “Already we’ve had a couple of genuine and strong enquries
for the house,” said Rodgers. “There will be local interest,
other U.K. interest and possibly interest from America.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Colm Heatley in  Belfast  at 
 cheatley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Douglas Lytle at 
 dlytle@bloomberg.net  