-- Russian Grain-Export Curb Concern Is Seen Unfounded by Union
-- B y   M a r i n a   S y s o y e v a
-- 2012-09-21T16:30:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-21/russian-grain-export-curb-concern-is-seen-unfounded-by-union.html
Following are comments by Alexander Korbut, vice president of  Russia ’s Grain Union, on concern that
the country’s government might impose curbs on cereal exports
after a drought.  Korbut spoke by phone today from Moscow after Economy
Minister Andrei Belousov said the government may consider
limits. Deputy Prime Minister  Arkady Dvorkovich  was later cited
by news agency Interfax as saying there were no such plans.  “The economy minister’s position simply stemmed from the
fact that his ministry is in charge of consumer-price inflation.
That is why they comprehend any price increase as a red flag,
because grain can take the rest of prices up by a chain. That is
why it provoked such an alarm.  “De facto, Belousov announced his ministry’s position. The
rest of institutions, including the central bank and the
 agriculture ministry , don’t have such a position.  “It is more important that Dvorkovich reacted very
quickly. Dvorkovich said definitely that the curbs are not
regarded in principle, so the news has been outdated
substantially in the moment when it appeared.  “The fears, which appeared automatically at once, are not
quite grounded. So rumors about Russian grain exports’ death
have been greatly exaggerated.  “The  exchange rate  can become the more substantial export
stopper now. A low U.S. dollar rate at very moderate price
growth is a normal economic stopper of exports.  “But I think exports will be very high in September,
around 3 million metric tons. Later activity is not as obvious.
Exports will be active in October, but less than in September.”  On potential ways to stabilize grain prices in Russia:  “If the government wishes to regulate prices, only local
regulation is necessary and it can be carried out with the use
of state grain stockpiles. But these interventions are not very
rational now. If they are carried out, it will happen no earlier
than December.  “The state may announce that it will sell stocks and will
give price thresholds for these sales, thus showing indirectly
to market participants that it’s ready to use this mechanism,
pouring some cold water on hot heads.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marina Sysoyeva in Moscow at 
 msysoyeva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  