-- Russia Seen Running Low on Grain to Export in November by ODA
-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 2012-09-21T15:57:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-21/russia-seen-running-low-on-grain-to-export-in-november-by-oda.html
Russia  will have little grain left
to export in November and wheat prices already reflect the lack
of supply, according to Alexandre Marie, a wheat analyst at
Bourges, France-based farm adviser Offre & Demande Agricole.  Economy Minister Andrei Belousov said today Russia may curb
grain shipments should prices keep rising. Following are
comments Marie made by phone. Milling wheat for November
delivery traded at 262.75 euros ($341.28) a metric ton by 5:48
p.m. on NYSE Liffe in Paris.  “They’re confronted with a dilemma. On the one hand, they
have to manage inflation in the country to protect purchasing
power. At the same time, they have the World Trade Organization
rules that interdict an embargo. An embargo seems unlikely.
However, they could put in measures to limit exports. They could
also do nothing and see if the market regulates itself.  “They have to preserve their image and at the same time
manage inflation. Nobody wanted to buy” after the end of a 10-
month ban on grain exports imposed by Russia in 2010.  “We see that  Egypt  accelerated its purchases. They saw the
losses in the  Black Sea , and they were able to pick up some
Russian wheat at a bargain. I think that’s ended and the market
will now open for  Europe , particularly  France , in the coming
months. Afterwards the U.S. will take over the baton.”  “In November there won’t be much left to sell. If there’s
no limit on exports, the market will regulate itself
progressively, and we’re already seeing that.  “The market has already understood that Russia doesn’t
have a lot of potential. If they come with an export limit, it
could provide some support, but it’s not going to get us to 300
euros,” Marie said, referring to the price of Paris milling
wheat.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  