-- Russia May Curb Grains Exports to Control Domestic Prices
-- B y   S t e p a n   K r a v c h e n k o   a n d   M a r i n a   S y s o y e v a
-- 2012-09-21T17:10:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-21/russia-may-curb-grains-exports-to-control-domestic-prices.html
Russia , the third-largest wheat
exporter last season, may curb grain shipments should prices
keep rising, Economy Minister Andrei Belousov said. Wheat jumped
as much as 2.2 percent before paring gains after Interfax
reported that Deputy Prime Minister  Arkady Dvorkovich  as saying
there were no such plans.  The country in 2010 banned overseas sales for almost a year
after drought decimated the grain crop. The price of the
benchmark Chicago wheat contract more than doubled by February
2011 as Ukraine introduced export quotas. Russia’s government
will make a decision in the fall, Belousov told reporters today
at a conference in the southern city of Sochi.  “We are simply obliged to protect the domestic market, and
we can have no illusions about that,” he said. “We won’t allow
any surges in grain or food prices.”  Export restrictions are “not expedient” and would cause a
surge in international grain prices, Interfax later cited
Dvorkovich as saying. He said Sept. 11 in London Russia may sell
cereals from state stockpiles to control prices. The government
plans to discuss whether to start such sales at a meeting next
week, Dvorkovich said today, as reported by the  Prime   news
agency .  Stockpiled Grain  There is no reason to limit exports as suggested by
Belousov because the government has other methods to regulate
the market, Deputy Agriculture Minister Ilya Shestakov  said 
today, as reported by Prime. Shestakov said Sept. 6 at a
conference selling grain from stockpiles is one such tool.  Wheat for December delivery rose as high as $8.9925 a
bushel on the Chicago Board of Trade after Belousov’s comments.
The contract was up 1.9 percent at $8.96 by 6:07 p.m. London
time. The grain advanced 37 percent this year, leading gains in
the Standard & Poor’s GSCI gauge of 24 commodities, which added
3 percent.  Crop prices surged since June as U.S. farmers contended
with their worst drought since 1956 and heat waves withered
plants across southern  Europe . Global wheat production will drop
about 5 percent to 658.7 million metric tons this season,
according to the  U.S. Department of Agriculture . Russia’s
harvest will fall 31 percent to 39 million tons, it estimates.  Export Duty?  Prices for fourth-grade milling wheat in Russia rose 19
percent in the European part of the country since July 1,
according to data from Moscow-based researcher  SovEcon . The
government may consider a duty on exports in November or
December, Arkady Zlochevsky, head of the country’s Grain Union,
said Sept. 18. The group represents the nation’s biggest
producers and traders.  Restrictions would discourage farmers from increasing
output in the future, Pavel Skurikhin, president of Russia’s
Grain Producers’ Union, said in an e-mailed statement today.  Belousov’s warning “could push many people to sell grain
more quickly and not to delay sales,” Dmitry Rylko, general
director of the Institute for Agricultural Market Studies, said
by phone in Moscow today. The economy minister’s remarks were
perceived as “irrelevant” for exports, said Andrei Sizov Jr.,
managing director at SovEcon.  The minister’s comments stemmed from concern about
potential food-cost inflation after grain prices rose this
season, said Alexander Korbut, vice president of the Grain
Union. The government can restrain prices by selling from state
cereal stocks without limiting exports, according to Korbut.  Shipment Forecast  “Rumors about Russian grain exports’ death have been
greatly exaggerated,” he said.  Russian wheat exports slumped to 3.98 million tons in the
2010-11 season, when the ban was in place, from 18.56 million
tons a year earlier, USDA data show. Global sales slid to 132.5
million tons, a three-year low. The agency anticipates 8 million
tons of wheat shipments from Russia in the current 2012-13
season, ranking the nation fifth globally after the U.S.,
 Australia ,  Canada  and the 27-nation European Union.  Agriculture Minister Nikolai Fedorov said Sept. 19 Russia
would harvest 72 million to 73 million tons of grain, compared
with a June forecast of about 85 million tons. Exports may be 10
million to 14 million tons, he said, against a July estimate of
as much as 20 million tons. Foreign sales reached a record 27.2
million tons in the 2011-12 season after a 94.2 million-ton
harvest, government statistics show.  Farmers harvested 63 million tons of grain from 76 percent
of the planted area in 2012-13 as of Sept. 19, Fedorov said.
That was down from 77 million tons a year earlier, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stepan Kravchenko in Moscow at 
 skravchenko@bloomberg.net ;
Marina Sysoyeva in Moscow at 
 msysoyeva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  