-- Ryanair Says Revolutionary Antitrust Offer Should Win Aer Lingus
-- B y   F i n b a r r   F l y n n   a n d   K a r i   L u n d g r e n
-- 2012-09-21T16:43:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-21/ryanair-says-revolutionary-antitrust-offer-should-win-aer-lingus.html
Ryanair Holdings Plc (RYA)  Chief
Executive Officer  Michael O’Leary  said  Europe ’s biggest discount
airline has offered a “revolutionary” package of remedies to
help win antitrust approved of its bid for  Aer Lingus Group Plc. (AERL)   Ryanair’s bid should be approved by European Commission
regulators if their decision follows the same principles that
led to the approval of deals including BA parent  International
Consolidated Airlines Group SA (IAG) ’s acquisition of BMI, O’Leary
said in an interview at the company’s annual investor meeting.  The EC last month began a full probe of Ryanair’s 694
million-euro ($902 million) bid for Aer Lingus, in which it
already has a 29.8 percent stake. An initial review showed the
two Dublin-based airlines were direct rivals on a large number
of European routes, the regulator said on Aug. 29.  “If the commission turns down this remedies package then we
would have to seriously consider exiting our investment in Aer
Lingus, which will without question result in Aer Lingus being
broken up,” O’Leary said. “If we get rid of our investment the
government will be facing a share price of about 60 cents.”  Aer Lingus rose 1.8 percent today to close at 1.05 euros in
Dublin, 25 cents below Ryanair’s offer price of 1.30 euros. The
stock has added 65 percent this year following the takeover bid.  Ryanair, which has added 23 percent in 2012 for a market
value of 6.43 billion euros, said Sept. 4 it could exit all 46
Dublin routes that overlap with Aer Lingus to help win approval
for the acquisition. The airline’s proposals are so favorable
that “multiple airlines” have expressed an interest in competing
at airports including Dublin, Cork, Shannon and Knock, he said.  O’Leary said that “nobody else wants to buy Aer Lingus,”
and that Abu Dhabi-based shareholder  Etihad Airways  has made no
offer for Ryanair’s stake. Should a bid be forthcoming it would
be considered, he said, just as would any “very generous offer”
for Ryanair itself.  European Union regulators blocked Ryanair’s bid for Aer
Lingus in 2007, saying a combination would allow the discount
airline to dominate 35 routes and control 80 percent of the
market in Dublin. Ryanair lost a 2010 appeal of the merger ban.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Finbarr Flynn in Dublin at 
 fflynn3@bloomberg.net ;
Kari Lundgren in London at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  