-- Samsung Heavy Industries Leads Tripling in Won Bond Sales
-- B y   C y n t h i a   K i m
-- 2012-09-21T03:01:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-21/samsung-heavy-leads-tripling-in-won-bond-sales-as-economy-slows.html
South Korean companies almost
tripled won-denominated bond sales this week to the most since
July, bolstering cash amid signs of slowing economic growth.  Samsung Heavy Industries Co., the world’s second-biggest
shipbuilder, and discount chain store E-Mart Co. led 1.92
trillion won ($1.7 billion) of issuance, up from 650 billion won
last week, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It was the
busiest period since the week beginning July 16, the data show.  Asia ’s fourth-largest economy will expand 3 percent this
year, down from a June forecast of 3.25 percent, according to
the  International Monetary Fund  today, which called for more
fiscal and monetary measures to shore up growth.  Europe ’s debt
crisis is curtailing demand for the  exports  that make up about
half of the country’s economy, with shipments falling in August
for the second-straight month.  “Companies need to get more cash because growth is
faltering,” said Lee Hwa Jin, a credit analyst at Kiwoom
Securities Co., the nation’s biggest stock broker by trade
volume. “Issuance this week is unlikely to be for new
investments, but for smooth cash management. That’s the trend at
the moment.”  Yields on three-year AA- rated corporate bonds declined
four basis points this week to 3.32 percent, according to the
Korea Financial Investment Association’s benchmark index.
 Interest rates  on AA rated U.S. company notes dropped four basis
points to 2.12 percent, Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes
show.  Samsung Heavy  Samsung Heavy sold 300 billion won of 3.25 percent three-
year bonds and 200 billion won of 3.34 percent securities due in
September 2017, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
ship maker paid 4.39 percent to sell five-year debt in February,
the data show.  South Korean shipyards have boosted bond sales as a move
away from building container and commodity vessels toward more
time-consuming drill ships and offshore units leaves them
waiting longer to get paid. Hyundai Heavy Industries Co. and
Samsung Heavy are the second- and third-biggest issuers of
corporate bonds in the Korean market this year, behind  Korea 
Electric Power Corp., data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “The funds will be used to build offshore projects on our
order book,” according to an e-mailed statement from Samsung
Heavy today. “We took advantage of the low interest rates on
domestic bonds and raised a bit more than we need.”  E-Mart Offering  E-Mart sold 300 billion won of bonds due September 2017,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The notes, which were
priced to yield 3.22 percent, will refinance existing debt,
Hwang Jong Soon, a public relations official for E-Mart said in
a telephone interview yesterday.  The discount store operator last sold debt in January with
a sale of 400 billion won of three-year bonds that were priced
to yield 3.76 percent, Bloomberg-compiled data show.  Korea’s  gross domestic product  rose 2.3 percent in the
second quarter from a year earlier, the slowest pace in almost
three years.  Korea Development Institute , the state-funded
researcher, cut its growth forecast for this year to 2.5 percent
from 3.6 percent on Sept. 17 and warned the nation should
prepare for a prolonged period of “low” expansion.  The  Bank of Korea  unexpectedly left borrowing costs
unchanged in September in its second surprise decision this
quarter as it opted to preserve policy room in the event of a
deeper slowdown.  Won Weakens  Governor Kim Choong Soo and his board kept the benchmark
seven-day repurchase rate at 3 percent last week after a cut in
July, even as the central bank warned that growth momentum
appears to be slackening. Economists had expected the central
bank to leave rates on hold in July and reduce them this month,
according to Bloomberg News surveys.  The won lost 0.1 percent this week to 1,118.63 per dollar
at 11:19 a.m. in  Seoul , according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The  Kospi (KOSPI)  index of stocks declined 0.3 percent, while  South
Korea ’s government bonds rose, pushing the three-year yield down
three basis points to 2.84 percent.  SK Gas Co., Kumho Petro Chemical Co. and LG Fashion Corp.
are among companies planning bond sales, according to
preliminary data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Companies have been waiting in the wings to see if the
central bank would cut rates before selling debt,” said Park
Cheong Ho, a credit analyst at Dongbu Securities Co. “Sales
will be active for the next few months now because companies
want to boost liquidity amid waning economic growth.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cynthia Kim in Seoul at 
 ckim170@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  