-- Sanofi, Kweichow Moutai, Microsoft: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2012-09-21T11:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-21/sanofi-kweichow-moutai-microsoft-intellectual-property.html
A patent dispute between Actavis
Group HF and Paris-based  Sanofi (SAN)  over a drug to treat diabetes
and hypertension was referred to a European Union court by a
London judge.  Actavis, owned by Iceland-based private equity firm Novator
EHF, wants to sell a generic version of Sanofi’s Aprovel
treatment, according to a written ruling by Judge Richard Arnold
yesterday. Aprovel, also sold as Avapro, generated 1.3 billion
euros ($1.7 billion) in sales in 2011, according to Sanofi’s
annual report.  Sanofi and the drug’s distributor Sanofi Pharma Bristol-
Myers Squibb SNC argue that, although Aprovel’s patent expired,
their right to exclusively sell the product is covered by a
supplementary protection certificate.  The issue is unclear and should be referred to the  European
Court  of Justice, Arnold said.  The referral to the European court to determine the meaning
of rules covering supplementary protection certificates will be
made shortly, Sanofi spokeswoman Marisol Peron said in an e-
mail.  Actavis spokesman Frank Staud said in an e-mail the
certificate was invalid and the company sought to have it
revoked by the European court.  “Actavis is confident” the court will decide in its
favor, he said.  The case is Actavis Group PTC EHF & Anr v. Sanofi-Aventis,
 High Court  of Justice,  Chancery Division , HC12C02525.  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Moutai’s ‘National Liquor’ Mark Opposed by Other Distillers  Five Chinese distillers objected to Kweichow Moutai Co.’s
application to register “national liquor” as a trademark in
China, the Global Times  reported .  They submitted a petition to the Trademark Office of the
State Administration for Industry & Commerce, stating that
permitting Moutai to register the mark would permit unfair
competition, Global Times reported.  Granting the registration also would harm the government’s
reputation, the distillers said, according to Global Times.  Separately, Fenjiu Group of Shanxi, China, said in an Aug.
6 filing with the trademark office that the Moutai products
weren’t good enough to “represent or symbolize the whole
nation,” Global Times reported.  Vandy Halts Use of ‘12th Man’ After Texas A&M Complains  One lesson learned by incoming freshman at  Vanderbilt
University  this year is that trademarks of other schools need to
be respected, the Inside Vandy student news service  reported .  T-shirts worn by Vanderbilt students in the annual Freshman
Run that read “12th Man Tailgate: Class of 2016” were found to
have infringed a trademark registered to  Texas A&M University ,
the news service reported.  The “12th man” mark dates back to 1922 when a  Texas A&M 
student was called from the stands to play for the school’s
short-handed football team, Inside Vandy reported.  While Vanderbilt didn’t recall the t-shirts, once it was
informed of the infringement, the school removed about 30
references to “12th man” that were used in calendars, videos
and photos related to the event, according to the news service.  ‘Rape Nation’ Stickers May Infringe University’s Trademarks  A man seen on security-camera footage placing “rape
nation” stickers in the University of Montana’s school colors
around Missoula, Montana, is a potential defendant in a
trademark infringement action by the school, the Missoulian
newspaper  reported .  The sticker uses a stencil of a bear paw print that is the
same as the university’s logo, the director of the school’s
trademark and licensing office told the Missoulian.  The federal departments of education and justice are
investigating reports of sexual assaults at the school, some of
which involve athletes, the newspaper reported.  In addition to trademark infringement, the placer of the
stickers also faces a possible criminal-mischief charge, police
told the Missoulian.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Microsoft Said to Ask China to Stop Piracy at Four State Firms  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  asked China to stop the alleged use of
pirated versions of its Office software by China National
Petroleum Corp. and three other state-owned companies, three
people familiar with the situation said.  The world’s biggest software company filed its complaint
against CNPC, China Post Group, China Railway Construction Corp.
and  Travelsky Technology Ltd. (696)  last month to a government panel
led by Vice Premier  Wang Qishan , said the three people, who
asked not to be identified because the filing isn’t public.
Microsoft alleged that more than 40 percent of Office and
Windows server client software used by CNPC, parent of China’s
largest company by value, is unlicensed, the people said.  Microsoft spokesman Charles Shen said he didn’t immediately
have any information on the filing.  Liu Weijiang , a Beijing-
based spokesman at CNPC, said the company hadn’t heard about
Microsoft’s complaints. Liu declined to comment on whether CNPC
used pirated versions of the Office software.  Xu Zhaohui, who is in charge of hardware and software for
 China Post , said Microsoft’s allegations were “inaccurate.”
The company, which delivers mail, received a complaint from
Microsoft within the past month and has sent a written response,
Xu said by telephone yesterday.  Microsoft alleges that 84 percent of China Railway
Construction’s Office software is unlicensed along with 97
percent of its Windows server client software, according to the
complaint, the people said.  Those estimates “greatly exaggerated” the use of
unlicensed software by China Railway Construction, the company
said in an e-mailed response supplied by Kevin Mao, an outside
public relations representative for the listed unit.  Calls to the Travelsky headquarters number listed on its
website weren’t answered.  Microsoft Chief Executive Officer  Steve Ballmer  met Wang in
Beijing in May, and the vice premier pledged to crack down on
software piracy, the official Xinhua News Agency reported at the
time.  China’s illegal software market was worth almost $9 billion
last year, compared with a legal market of less than $3 billion,
according to the annual report of the  Business Software Alliance 
released in May.  In its complaint, Microsoft also alleges that almost all of
Travelsky’s Office software is unlicensed, with 93 percent of
China Post’s coming from pirated versions, the people said.  The allegations were based on Microsoft’s own estimates and
calculations, the people said.  China agreed during December 2010 meetings with U.S.
officials in Washington to take steps to counter losses from
piracy for software companies. Wang, who led that Chinese
delegation, was named head of a panel created in November with
responsibility for ensuring the protection of intellectual-
property rights.  ‘Avatar’ Copyright Infringement Case Dismissed in Los Angeles  A federal judge in  Los Angeles  threw out a copyright
infringement case against filmmaker  James Cameron  and News
Corp’s 20th Century Fox unit.  The suit, filed in January by a Los Angeles writer, accused
Cameron and the studio’s blockbuster film “Avatar” of
infringing copyrights to a children’s story. “Avatar” is the
highest-earning film of all time, according to the
worldwideboxoffice.com website.  Elijah Schkeiban claimed in his court papers that a third
party passed along his self-published “Bats and Butterflies”
screenplay to the “Avatar” producers.  He said there were many similarities in plot, sequence of
events, themes, characters, moods, settings, time and place.  U.S. District Judge Manuel Real disagreed, finding that
Schkeiban failed to demonstrate that Cameron and the studio
actually had access to “Bats and Butterflies.”  The judge granted the defendants’ motion to dismiss the
suit on Sept. 17.  The case is Schkeiban v. Cameron, 12-cv-00636, U.S.
District Court, Central District of California (Los Angeles).  For more copyright news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  Penn State Fights to Keep Operations Secret After Sandusky  Pennsylvania State University  is standing fast against
efforts to open its records to public scrutiny as it overhauls
its administration after the Jerry Sandusky child-sex case,
President Rodney Erickson said.  Erickson, a former provost who took over as president when
President  Graham Spanier  resigned in November, said making the
university disclose documents and communications to the public
raises “issues related to our research,” because of  trade
secrets  and proprietary information it gets from working with
private industries. He also said many donors want their gifts
kept secret.  Lawmakers and Republican Governor Tom Corbett, who sits on
the school’s Board of Trustees, say they want to make it subject
to all the provisions in the state’s Right-to-Know law, which
permits people to seek e-mails, contracts and other records from
government institutions. While almost all U.S. public
universities are subject to such statutes,  Penn State  was
excluded when Pennsylvania overhauled its law in 2008.  Pennsylvania, Delaware and Alaska are the only three states
that exclude public universities from open records laws,
according to Terry Mutchler, executive director of
Pennsylvania’s Office of Open Records.  Penn State, which was established by the legislature in
1855 and got about $280 million in state support last year, has
been assailed for a culture of secrecy. Investigators found
university leaders sought to protect the football program by
covering up allegations more than a decade ago that Sandusky, a
former assistant football coach, sexually abused children on
campus. A grand-jury report last year revealed the scandal,
leading to perjury charges against two administrators, the
resignation of President Graham Spanier and firing of football
coaching legend  Joe Paterno .  While Erickson said in an interview this week that the
president’s office has been made more open and accountable to
the university’s Board of Trustees, the university opposes
legislation filed in Harrisburg that would extend all of the
provisions of the open records law. Instead, it supports a
proposal by Senate Majority Leader Dominic Pileggi that would
subject campus police to the law while also increasing
disclosure of how the university spends state funding.  Pileggi, a Republican elected in 2002, sponsored the
overhaul of Pennsylvania’s Right-to-Know law in 2008, which made
it easier for the public to get internal information from
government agencies. Penn State opposed its inclusion, with the
former president testifying that it would have a “profound
negative impact.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 