-- Schaeuble Says Greek Program On Limits of What’s Possible
-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 2012-09-21T14:25:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-21/schaeuble-says-greek-program-on-limits-of-what-s-possible.html
German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  ruled out more financial help for  Greece , saying the
last bailout stretched international creditors to their limits.  Schaeuble, 70, speaking to reporters in Berlin today, said
that he’s “convinced that we went to the limit of what’s
economically justifiable with the second Greek program.” It was
“very difficult” to put it together under existing rules and
questioning it won’t instill confidence.  Schaeuble said he doesn’t want to speculate whether Greece
needs another reduction of its debt because that would unsettle
financial markets. “The conditions for the payment of the next
tranche are clearly defined,” Schaeuble said.  Greek Prime Minister Antonis Samaras is struggling to reach
agreement with his coalition partners on an 11.5 billion-euro
($14.9 billion) budget-cut package that’s key to receiving
international aid funds.  While “nobody wants Greece to leave the euro,” that
doesn’t detract from the fact “Greece has to adhere to and
implement the second program,” Schaeuble said. He reiterated
that he’ll await the report of the so-called troika of
inspectors from the European Commission, the  European Central
Bank  and the  International Monetary Fund  who have been locked in
talks for two weeks with Finance Minister Yannis Stournaras on
carving out savings.  The second Greek program is “ambitious,” and the Greek
people should be shown “great respect” for what they have
already undertaken, Schaeuble said. While he believes the verbal
declarations of Greece’s leaders, “we can’t go by the
subjective assumptions, we have to stick to the facts.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  