-- Sharp Rises After Report of Tie-Up Talks With Intel: Tokyo Mover
-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u
-- 2012-09-21T01:47:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-21/sharp-rises-after-report-of-tie-up-talks-with-intel-tokyo-mover.html
Sharp Corp. (6753) , the Japanese
electronics maker renegotiating a stake sale to Foxconn
Technology Group, rose in  Tokyo  trading after the Mainichi
newspaper said it was in talks with  Intel Corp. (INTC)  for a possible
capital tie-up.  The shares jumped as much as 8.4 percent to 219 yen, the
biggest gain since Sept. 4, and traded at 211 yen as of 10:30
a.m. in Tokyo.  Japan ’s benchmark Nikkei 225 Stock Average
climbed 0.3 percent.  Sharp, Japan’s largest maker of liquid-crystal displays,
may agree with  Santa Clara , California-based Intel as early as
next month to receive at least 30 billion yen ($383 million)
from the world’s largest semiconductor maker, the Mainichi
newspaper reported, without citing anyone. The companies may
collaborate in the smartphone business, the report said.  “There is no truth to the report,” Heihachiro Ochiai, a
Sharp spokesman in  Osaka , said by phone today.  Chuck Mulloy , a
spokesman for Intel, said the company doesn’t comment on
speculation or rumors.  Sharp’s September 2013 convertible bonds gained 4.8 percent
to 66 yen per face value of 100 yen as of 10:30 a.m., heading
for the biggest daily gain since Aug. 17.  “Sharp’s financing issue has been the center of attention
and the report led to an expectation that may improve,” said
Hideki Yasuda, an  analyst  at Ace Securities Co. in Tokyo.
“Nevertheless, even if the report is true, the amount reported
isn’t enough to solve Sharp’s debt problem. The rally probably
won’t last.”  Job Cuts  The maker of Aquos televisions has been renegotiating terms
for the proposed stake sale to Taipei-based Foxconn after Osaka-
based Sharp widened its full-year loss forecast eightfold in
August, triggering a slide in its shares. Foxconn agreed with
Sharp in March to invest 67 billion yen for a 9.9 percent stake
in the TV maker at 550 yen a share.  Sharp President Takashi Okuda is cutting 5,000 jobs and has
put up properties as collateral to raise funds as the company
projects a second consecutive annual loss. The company plans to
return to profit next fiscal year with the help of job cuts and
cost reductions, Okuda told employees last week.  The company is considering a target of 30 billion yen net
income for the year starting April 1,  Kyodo News  reported,
without citing anyone.  Sharp is working on a contingency plan to present to banks
as the company faces a deadline for repaying debt, it said Sept.
7. The electronics maker has turned to its lenders for financial
support as commercial papers come due and after  Standard &
Poor’s  and Moody’s Investors Service cut its  credit ratings  to
junk.  The company had 706 billion yen of short-term debt maturing
within 12 months and 314 billion yen in long-term debts at the
end of June, according to its latest quarterly financial
statement. Sharp’s cash and near-cash stood at 218 billion yen
at the time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  