-- Singh Vows to Continue Policy Push as Ruling Coalition Splinters
-- B y   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n   a n d   A n d r e w   M a c A s k i l l
-- 2012-09-21T18:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-21/singh-vows-to-continue-policy-push-as-ruling-coalition-splinters.html
Indian Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  vowed to unveil more policy changes to spur growth, saying
last week’s biggest opening to foreign investment in more than a
decade would restore confidence in the economy.  In a rare prime-time speech to the nation yesterday, a
resurgent Singh challenged claims made during a nationwide
strike Sept. 20 that the decisions to welcome foreign retail
chains and raise  diesel prices  would hurt the poor. Only rapid
growth would generate millions of jobs the country needs and
ensure revenue for health and education spending, he said.  “The time has come for hard decisions,” Singh said in the
15-minute speech from his office that was broadcast by state
television. “We need to do more, and we will do more,” he
said, drawing parallels with 1991 when as finance minister he
engineered the opening of  India ’s failing economy.  Singh’s burst of policy making following almost two years
of legislative paralysis comes as he bids to revive an economy
growing at near its slowest place in three years, and restore
public support for an administration mired in allegations of
corruption and incompetence.  The defense of his agenda also comes as the ruling Congress
party is maneuvering to shore up support for the governing
coalition after its largest ally, the Trinamool Congress, quit
in protest, saying allowing foreign retailers to enter the
country would harm small shopkeepers.  While the government is now about 24 seats short of a
parliamentary majority, the exit of a party that had opposed a
raft of proposals, together with a pledge of support from a key
regional group, helped propel Indian shares to their highest
close in 14 months yesterday.  Rupee Surge  The rupee surged to its strongest level in four months as
the government reduced tax on local companies’ overseas
borrowing and confidence in the government’s ability to remain
in power grew.  “The prime minister and Congress leadership must be
feeling relieved as Trinamool was an obstacle to reforms since
the beginning,” said Satish Misra, a political analyst at the
Observer Research Foundation in New Delhi. “The government
becomes relatively free to take hard policy decisions.”  Six Trinamool ministers yesterday handed Singh their
resignations and informed President  Pranab Mukherjee  the party
was ending support to the ruling alliance, Trinamool lawmaker
Saugata Roy said.  Singh, Finance Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram and
Congress party chief  Sonia Gandhi  may have judged that parties
unlikely to perform well in snap elections or who fear handing
victory to rivals are unlikely to try to topple the government
and may even vote in favor of further economic liberalization.  ‘Support Clear’  The leader of one of those groups signaled his backing.  “Our support is clear,” Mulayam Singh Yadav, the leader
of the Samajwadi Party, the third-largest party in Parliament,
told reporters yesterday. “We will not let communal forces come
to power,” he said, referring to his bitter opponent -- and
Singh’s chief adversary -- the Hindu-nationalist  Bharatiya
Janata Party . The Samajwadi Party would continue to oppose the
retail policy, Yadav said.  “After three years of rule from which it doesn’t have much
to show, the government is willing to risk everything to get
these laws passed,” said P. Phani Sekhar, a  fund manager  at
 Angel Broking  Ltd. based in  Mumbai . “It is now do or die for
the government.”  Singh’s Congress party-led government for the first time
published the rules allowing foreign investment in industries
including multibrand retail, aviation, broadcasting and power
exchanges, making them effective immediately, according to a
 statement  Sept. 20.  BJP Fear  In a series of full-page advertisements in the country’s
leading newspapers yesterday, the government defended the
decision to allow the entry of foreign retail chains, saying it
will benefit farmers and consumers. The steps will help create
10 million jobs, develop cold-chain infrastructure, and reduce
wastage of food and vegetables that rot before reaching stores,
the commercials said. Singh made the arguments in his speech.  The Samajwadi Party, which draws support from the Muslim
community in  Uttar Pradesh  and supported the nationwide strike
against the new retail policy, will be concerned that an
election in the next few months would bring the BJP to power,
according to Angel Broking’s Sekhar.  “Many of the other political parties may want to pull the
rug from under the feet of the government, but not yet,” he
said. “That helps buy Congress time to turn things around.”  Mayawati’s Bahujan Samaj Party, which has 21 lawmakers in
the lower chamber, was routed in this year’s assembly elections
in Uttar Pradesh, the country’s most populous state, and is
unlikely to want to face voters again so soon. Lawmakers from
her party will take a call on whether to continue to offer
outside support to the ruling coalition at a meeting Oct. 10.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bibhudatta Pradhan in  New Delhi  at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew MacAskill in New Delhi at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  