-- Slovenia's Economy to Shrink 2% as Exports Ease in Europe
-- B y   B o r i s   C e r n i
-- 2012-09-21T07:55:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-21/slovenia-s-economy-to-shrink-2-as-exports-ease-in-europe.html
Slovenia’s  economy  will contract
more than previously estimated as exports to  Europe  slow and
consumption falters, the government’s economic institute said.  Gross domestic product will shrink 2 percent this year
compared with a 0.9 percent contraction forecast in March, the
institute said in a statement before a press conference in the
capital Ljubljana today. GDP is expected to shrink 1.3 percent.  Slovenia’s economic outlook is worsening as demand for its
exported goods falters and domestic consumption drops following
austerity measures by the government in Ljubljana and others in
Europe. Exacerbating the outlook are the ailing banks in the
euro region, which rely on funding from the  European Central
Bank , continue to lower lending and need fresh capital.  The government has increased its estimate for the bank
recapitalization cost to 5 billion euros ($6.5 billion), Finance
Minister Janez Sustersic said yesterday. Slovenia will guarantee
as much as 4 billion euros to transfer bad loans to an agency,
while banks, including Nova Ljubljanska Banka d.d. and  Nova
Kreditna Banka (KBMR)  Maribor d.d. are set to receive a direct capital
injection of as much as 1 billion euros, according to Sustersic.  Banks in the former Yugoslav nation are at the center of
investors’ concern that the country may be the next in line to
ask for an international bailout. Slovenia’s borrowing costs
have eased since August, when they surpassed the 7 percent
threshold, a mark that forced Ireland and  Portugal  to seek
financial assistance from its euro peers.  Slovenia still aims to cut the  budget deficit  to 3.5
percent by the end of the year from its 6.4 percent level at the
end of 2011, Sustersic said. By the end of next year the target
is to lower the gap below 3 percent, he said.  The government uses the institute’s forecast to prepare the
budget spending.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  