-- Small Caps Rule Bovespa as Stimulus Skips Vale: Corporate Brazil
-- B y   M a r i s a   C a s t e l l a n i ,   J o s u e   L e o n e l   a n d   N e y   H a y a s h i
-- 2012-09-21T14:01:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-21/small-caps-rule-bovespa-as-stimulus-skips-vale-corporate-brazil.html
Brazilian small-cap shares are
surging to their most expensive level in three years relative to
the Bovespa index as government stimulus sparks rallies in
stocks from education company  Anhanguera Educacional
Participacoes SA (AEDU3)  to bus maker  Marcopolo SA. (POMO4)   The  BM&FBovespa Small Cap (SMLLBV)  index rose 23 percent this year,
more than twice the main stock measure’s 8.9 percent gain. The
rally helped push shares in the index to 1.59 times their book
value this month, up from a three-year low of 1.33 in June and
the highest compared with the Bovespa since February 2009. The
index contains stocks with a combined market value of less than
15 percent of the total market capitalization of all publicly
traded Brazilian companies.  Government stimulus from tax cuts on appliances to
increased infrastructure investment is fueling a recovery that
is benefiting small-cap companies more than their larger peers.
Consumer stocks  account  for 30 percent of the small-cap index,
almost three times as much as their share of the Bovespa.
Commodities producers, which are being hurt by slowing demand
from  China , account for 43 percent of the benchmark’s  weighting .  “We look at the domestic market as the main factor to
allocate our resources,” said Herculano Alves, the head of
equities at BRAM Bradesco Asset Management, which manages 279
billion reais ($137.8 billion) in  Sao Paulo , including small-cap
stocks such as Marcopolo and Anhanguera. “The economy isn’t
growing overseas, and here we have growth in credit and wages.”  Top Performer  Minerva SA,  Brazil ’s third-largest beef producer, was the
best performer among the small-cap gauge’s 71 members this year,
jumping 116 percent. Marcopolo has added 70 percent, and
Anhanguera rallied 62 percent.  Brazil’s economy in July expanded at the fastest pace in
almost a year, the central bank said. The economic activity
index, a proxy for gross domestic product, rose 2.34 percent
from a year earlier after rising 0.99 percent in June, according
to data released on Sept. 14. The forecast was for a 2.1 percent
expansion, according to the median estimate of 23 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg.  Anhanguera’s competitor,  Kroton Educacional SA (KROT3) , has jumped
89 percent this year. Education companies are benefiting from
the government’s decision to expand the student-loan program
known as FIES, which gives graduates as many as three times the
number of years taken to get a college degree to pay the debt,
said Alves.  ‘Good Expectations’  In addition to recent acquisitions made by the company,
“there are good expectations in general for the educational
sector, which is helping the perception of the company’s
stock,” Kroton Investor Relations Director Carlos Lazar said in
an e-mailed statement. Anhanguera declined to comment.  While small caps rally, gains among stocks with the
heaviest weightings on the Bovespa, such as oil company  Petroleo
Brasileiro SA (PETR4)  and iron-ore producer  Vale SA (VALE3) , are being limited
by the slowdown in China, Brazil’s top trading partner, which
pushed commodities lower, said  Pedro Galdi , head strategist at
SLW Corretora.  Petrobras, as Brazil’s state-run oil company is known, has
added 7 percent this year. The producer in the second quarter
reported its first  loss  in 13 years. Vale, the world’s largest
iron-ore miner, has declined 0.7 percent. Both companies are
based in Rio de Janeiro.  Vale’s press office declined to comment.  Cars, Buses, Trucks  Caxias do Sul, Brazil-based Marcopolo has benefited as the
government steps up purchases of vehicles and cuts payroll taxes
to bolster the recovery in  Latin America ’s largest economy,
Carlos Zignani, director of institutional relations at
Marcopolo, said in an interview.  Brazil added 6.6 billion reais to money set aside this year
to purchase buses, tractors, trucks and other equipment, Finance
Minister  Guido Mantega  said in June.  “Small-cap stocks have benefited from Brazil’s plans to
increase investments in infrastructure, boosting companies that
operate with ports, railroads and logistics,” Galdi said by
phone from Sao Paulo.  The government’s policy to boost Brazil’s domestic market
should keep pushing small-cap stocks higher, even now that the
Bovespa index trades at cheaper valuations, Bradesco’s Alves
said.  “If we think Brazil will grow 3.5 percent to 4 percent in
2013, those companies should continue to do well,” Alves said.
“What’s the better option, to put money in fixed income, with
 interest rates  falling, or to invest in a company that’s
expanding?”  Still Cheap  While the small-cap index is expensive when compared with
the Bovespa, the Brazilian gauge for companies with lower market
capitalization is still cheap when compared with similar
measures in the U.S. and  Europe , Alves said.  Stocks in Brazil’s small-cap index trade at an average of
20.8 times analysts earnings’ estimates for this year, compared
with a ratio of 24.9 for the  S&P 600 Small Cap (SML)  index in the U.S.
and 29.4 for the  FTSE Small Cap (SMX)  index in the U.K. The Bovespa
trades at a ratio of 20.5 times its earnings estimates and 1.25
its book value, a measure of a company’s net worth calculated by
taking the value of assets and subtracting the value of
liabilities.  ‘More Risky’  The small-cap index will outperform the Bovespa for the
next three years, as the outlook for the Brazil’s growth
improves while the global economy struggles to rebound, said
Roberta Kosaka, who manages small-cap funds at Banco Itau BBA
SA.  “If we look at the Brazilian economy, things have improved
a lot in the past 10 years,” Kosaka said by phone from Sao
Paulo. “The outlook for Brazil in the next three years is
positive, while for the world, if it’s not catastrophic, it’s
more risky.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Marisa Castellani in Sao Paulo at 
 mcastellani7@bloomberg.net ;
Josue Leonel in Sao Paulo at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net ;
Ney Hayashi in Sao Paulo at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Brendan Walsh  at 
 bwalsh8@bloomberg.net ;
Jessica Brice at 
 jbrice1@bloomberg.net  