-- Smith Cancels Battery-Powered Truck Offer on Valuation
-- B y   A n d r e w   H e r n d o n   a n d   P h i l i p   L a g e r k r a n s e r
-- 2012-09-21T01:56:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-21/smith-cancels-battery-powered-truck-offer-on-valuation.html
Smith Electric Vehicles Corp. (SMTH) , the
maker of battery-powered commercial trucks, scrapped an $80
million initial public offering after failing to get a high
enough valuation.  The company and existing owners had offered 4.45 million
shares for $16 to $18 apiece. Smith announced it was pulling the
Nasdaq Stock Market IPO today and said it will “pursue private
financing opportunities.”  Smith says its vehicles have lower operating costs than
diesel-powered trucks and will appeal to customers seeking a
cost-effective alternative to fossil fuels, including Coca-Cola
Co., PepsiCo Inc., FedEx Corp. and the U.S. military. The Kansas
City, Missouri-based company was seeking to follow the June 2010
debut of  Tesla Motors Inc. (TSLA) , the maker of electric  sports cars 
that’s since almost  doubled  in value.  “We received significant interest from potential
investors, however, we were unable to complete a transaction at
a valuation or size that would be in the best interests of our
company and its existing shareholders,” Bryan Hansel, Smith’s
chief executive officer, said in a Business Wire statement.  Smith is focused on the U.S., Europe and China, where there
are about 6 million medium-duty trucks on the road,  Hansel said
during the company’s IPO roadshow. Smith sells medium-sized
trucks to fleet operators with “predictable daily service
routes” that won’t exceed their range, according to a filing.  UBS AG, Deutsche Bank AG and Barclays Plc were managing the
offering.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Herndon in  San Francisco  at 
 aherndon2@bloomberg.net ;
Philip Lagerkranser in  Hong Kong  at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  