-- Sonaecom’s Almeida Says a Merger With Zon Would Make Sense
-- B y   H e n r i q u e   A l m e i d a
-- 2012-09-21T16:07:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-21/sonaecom-s-almeida-says-a-merger-with-zon-would-make-sense.html
Sonaecom SGPS SA (SNC) , owner of
 Portugal ’s smallest mobile-phone operator, rose the most in more
than two years in Lisbon after an executive said a merger with
 Zon Multimedia SGPS SA (ZON) , the country’s biggest-cable television
provider, would be good for both sides.  The companies are “completely complementary,” Sonaecom
Deputy Chief Executive Officer Miguel Almeida said today in an
interview. “For the past four years we have defended” the idea
of a merger. “I don’t know if it will happen one day.”  Sonaecom  gained  7.3 percent, the biggest advance since June
2, 2010, to close at 1.4 euros in Lisbon.  Zon rose  9.2 percent,
the most since January 2011, to 2.384 euros.  While Sonaecom and Zon aren’t holding talks at the moment,
it would make sense to merge Sonaecom’s Optimus mobile-phone
unit with Zon’s cable-television business to create a bigger
player in Portugal, Almeida said in Oporto, where he was
attending a conference for small- and mid-cap companies.  “It makes sense for the market, as it would create an
operator with a different level of scale,” the executive said.
“It makes sense for shareholders because the deal would add
value” for both companies.  Zon’s Chief Executive Officer  Rodrigo Costa  and Chief
Financial Officer Jose Pedro Pereira da Costa, who were also
attending the conference, declined to comment on a possible
merger.  “I have absolutely no comment to make,” Costa said.  Zon’s biggest shareholder is Angolan investor Isabel dos
Santos, with a 28.8 percent stake. Sonae, a Portuguese retailer
that controls Sonaecom, last year formed a partnership with dos
Santos’s Condis unit to open a chain of hypermarkets in  Angola .  Zon was spun off from  Portugal Telecom SGPS SA (PTC)  following
Sonaecom’s failed bid for the former national phone monopoly.
Sonaecom competes with Portugal Telecom’s TMN mobile unit and
 Vodafone (VOD)  for mobile customers in Portugal. Zon also competes
with Portugal Telecom’s Meo cable unit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henrique Almeida in Lisbon at 
 halmeida5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  