-- Sotheby’s Agrees Joint Venture for Auction House in China
-- B y   F r e d e r i k   B a l f o u r   a n d   S c o t t   R e y b u r n
-- 2012-09-21T13:56:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-21/sotheby-s-agrees-joint-venture-for-auction-house-in-china.html
Sotheby’s (BID)  has signed a 10-year
joint-venture agreement to form the first international auction
house in  China , the company said.  Sotheby’s will be investing $1.2 million to take an 80
percent stake in the venture with state-owned  Beijing Gehua
Cultural Development Group , pending government approval, the New
York-based company said today in an e-mailed news release.  Until now, international auction houses have not been
allowed to hold sales inside China. The venture comes at a time
when Beijing is moving to clean up the auction industry that is
fraught with fakes, smuggling and non-payment among its more
than 1,000 auction houses.  “China and its growing class of collectors has been the
single most attractive growth market for the company,”  Kevin Ching , the chief executive of Sotheby’s  Asia , said in the
release.  The joint venture, called Sotheby’s (Beijing) Auction Co.
Ltd., plans to take advantage of the new Tianzhu Free Trade Zone
in Beijing being developed by Gehua.  Sotheby’s may also hold sales outside the free-trade zone
and is free to partner with other entities, according to a
filing with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  Booming Market  Gehua has also partnered with Swiss logistics group
 Euroasia Investment SA  to build a $100 million tax-free storage
facility next to Beijing Capital International Airport to tap
the booming Chinese art market.  Christie’s International has licensed its trademark to
Beijing-based auction house  Forever . The London-based auction
house does not hold sales in China itself.  Last year, China overtook the U.S. to become the world’s
largest art and antiques market, said a report published by the
Netherlands-based European Fine Art Foundation.  Auctions in mainland China,  Hong Kong , Macau and  Taiwan 
raised 9.8 billion euros ($12 billion) in 2011, said the report.  In a separate development, China Guardian Auctions Co.
Ltd., the country’s oldest auction house, will be holding its
first sales in Hong Kong.  The company’s inaugural auction at the Mandarin Oriental
Hong Kong on Oct. 7 will include more than 300 Chinese ink
paintings and 40 pieces of classical furniture. The 1922 work
“Album of Mountains and Rivers” by Qi Baishi is estimated at
HK$16 million ($2 million) to HK$26 million.  Government-owned Guardian (founded 1993) and Poly
International are China’s two biggest auction houses, according
a report published by the European Art Foundation in March.  With demand from Chinese collectors contracting in 2012,
both houses are keen to attract wealthy international clients.
China Guardian opened an office in  New York  in December 2011 and
has said it has plans to establish a similar presence in  London .  (Frederik Balfour is a reporter-at-large for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . Scott Reyburn writes
about the art market for Muse. Opinions expressed are their
own.)  Muse highlights include  Mark Beech  and Farah Nayeri on
arts,  Lewis Lapham  on history and Zinta Lundborg’s New York
weekend.  To contact the writers on the story:
Frederik Balfour in Hong Kong at 
 fbalfour@bloomberg.net  or on Twitter @frederikbalfour;
Scott Reyburn in London at  sreyburn@hotmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 