-- Standard Chartered Signs $340 Million N.Y. Probe Accord
-- B y   G r e g   F a r r e l l
-- 2012-09-21T17:38:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-21/standard-chartered-signs-340-million-n-y-probe-accord.html
Standard Chartered Plc (STAN)  signed a
consent order completing a $340 million agreement struck last
month with  New York ’s banking regulator involving wire transfers
on behalf of Iranian clients.  Under the accord, the London-based bank also agreed to
install a monitor for two years, according to a statement today
from  Benjamin Lawsky , head of the New York Department of
Financial Services. Lawsky said his agency will “continue to
work with our federal and state partners on this matter.”  Regulators including the  U.S. Treasury , the Federal Reserve
Bank, the  Justice Department  and the Manhattan district attorney
continue to work on a comprehensive agreement involving the
transfers, which involved $250 billion over a six-year period.  The bank “continues to engage with the other U.S. agencies
on their review of the Group’s historical U.S. sanctions
compliance,”  Standard Chartered  said today in a separate
statement, referring to itself as “the Group.” Standard
Chartered said it “cannot predict when this review and these
discussions will be completed or what the outcome will be and
therefore potential liabilities cannot be reasonably quantified
at this point.”  As part of the agreement, the bank will hire people in its
New York branch to oversee and audit anti-money-laundering
procedures.  August Order  On Aug. 6, Lawsky, 42, issued an order accusing Standard
Chartered of helping Iran launder about $250 billion in
violation of federal laws. One analyst estimated that the loss
of the bank’s New York license could result in a 40 percent drop
in  earnings . Standard Chartered generates almost 90 percent of
its profit and revenue in Asia, Africa and the  Middle East .  The settlement amount is the largest ever paid to an
individual regulator as part of a money-laundering accord. In
June, ING Bank NV agreed to pay $619 million to settle similar
allegations. That sum was split evenly between the federal
government and the Manhattan district attorney’s office.  The DFS was created in 2011 when New York’s Banking
Department and Insurance Department were abolished, with their
functions and authority transferred to the new regulator, under
Lawsky. The agency has the power to issue regulations, as well
as investigate and fine financial services companies. It may
also probe alleged criminal activity and refer its findings to
the state’s attorney general for prosecution.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Greg Farrell  in New York at 
 gregfarrell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  