-- Statoil Seeking Shale Oil Opportunities in Australia, China
-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 2012-09-21T02:28:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-21/statoil-seeking-shale-oil-opportunities-in-australia-china.html
Statoil ASA (STL) , Norway’s largest oil
and gas producer, is searching for a second shale partner in
Australia following a deal with Canada’s  PetroFrontier Corp. (PFC)  and
is also considering acquisitions of explorers.  “We are actively looking for new opportunities in
Australia,” Atle Rettedal, Statoil’s senior vice president for
new ventures, said in an interview in the Northern Territory
capital of Darwin, where he attended an industry conference.
Statoil also is interested in shale opportunities in countries
including Argentina and China, Rettedal said.  Statoil,  ConocoPhillips (COP) , Hess Corp.,  BG Group Plc (BG/)  and
 Mitsubishi Corp. (8058)  have agreed to fund shale exploration campaigns
through partnerships in Australia. Statoil in June agreed to
invest as much as $200 million in a drilling program in the
Northern Territory’s Southern Georgina Basin with PetroFrontier.  Stavanger, Norway-based Statoil is expanding
internationally and into so-called unconventional resources as
output from aging fields off its home country’s coast declines.
The company, which operates about 80 percent of Norway’s oil and
gas production, plans to boost output to at least 2.5 million
barrels of oil equivalent a day in 2020 from about 2 million
barrels currently.  “If we make another move in Australia, it should happen in
the coming year,” Rettedal said yesterday. “This is the window
of opportunity. It’s not something that will happen five years
from now. It’s happening now.”  Shale Risk  The company spent $4.4 billion acquiring Brigham
Exploration Co. in December to enter the Bakken and Three Forks
shale areas in the U.S. Also in the U.S., Statoil bought assets
in the Marcellus formation in 2008 and formed a venture with
 Talisman Energy Inc. (TLM)  in the Eagle Ford formation in 2010.  Making shale oil and gas investments in stages is
preferable, though purchasing a company in Australia is a
possibility as well, Rettedal said.  “It’s perfectly feasible that we could do that,” Rettedal
said, referring to acquisitions. “When it comes to shale
exploration, we have a preference for doing it stepwise because
there is a risk. You are making a qualified bet.”  Global energy companies such as Statoil are trying to tap
what Australia’s government estimates is almost 400 trillion
cubic feet of potential shale gas resources.  Santos Ltd. (STO) ,  Beach
Energy Ltd. (BPT) ,  Senex Energy Ltd. (SXY)  and  AWE Ltd. (AWE)  are among Australian
explorers holding shale acreage.  Obstacles to Production  Australian shale explorers may be a decade away from
producing oil and gas on a large scale because of obstacles
ranging from a lack of drilling equipment to higher labor and
infrastructure costs, Wood Mackenzie Ltd. said in May.  “Large-scale shale production in  Australia , that will take
time,” said Rettedal, who cited access to infrastructure in the
country’s remote fields as one of the main challenges for the
industry. “You might be right if you said 10 years.”  Statoil agreed to acquire as much as 65 percent of
PetroFrontier’s interests in four existing exploration blocks,
plus two pending permits. The venture may drill as many as 20
wells by 2017 in three phases, according to the company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Paton in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  