-- State-Owned Firms Threatens Security: Canada Spy Agency
-- B y   A n d r e w   M a y e d a
-- 2012-09-21T15:28:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-21/state-owned-firms-may-threaten-security-canada-spy-agency-says.html
Foreign investment by some state-
owned enterprises may represent a threat to  Canada ’s natural
security, the country’s spy agency warned in its annual report.  “While the vast majority of foreign investment in Canada
is carried out in an open and transparent manner, certain state-
owned enterprises and private firms with close ties to their
home governments have pursued opaque agendas or received
clandestine intelligence support for their pursuits here,” the
Ottawa-based Canadian Security Intelligence Service said in its
annual  report  released yesterday.  “When foreign companies with ties to foreign intelligence
agencies or hostile governments seek to acquire control over
strategic sectors of the Canadian economy, it can represent a
threat to Canadian security interests,” the intelligence agency
said in the report, without citing any countries or companies.  Investment by Chinese state-owned companies in Canada’s
energy industry has become a contentious issue among lawmakers
returning from a three-month summer break this week as Prime
Minister Stephen Harper’s government reviews a $15.1 billion bid
by China’s  Cnooc Ltd. (883)  for Calgary-based  Nexen Inc. (NXY)   Foreign state-owned companies may “exploit that control in
an effort to facilitate illegal transfers of technology or to
engage in other espionage and other foreign interference
activities,” the agency said.  Canada always takes security into account when it
negotiates trade and investment agreements, Trade Minister Ed Fast said today when asked about the CSIS report. “In fact, it
would be our top priority to make sure Canada remains safe and
secure,” he told reporters in Ottawa.  While Canada welcomes foreign investment, the government is
“also looking for a level playing field,” he said. “We look
for a balancing of opportunities as we engage with our key trade
partners around the world.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Mayeda in Ottawa at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  