-- Sudan Refugees Face Disease in Camps in South Sudan
-- B y   J a r e d   F e r r i e
-- 2012-09-21T08:02:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-21/sudan-refugees-face-disease-in-camps-in-south-sudan.html
Civilians fleeing fighting and
hunger in  Sudan  are living in overcrowded camps in neighboring
South Sudan where they face worsening outbreaks of disease,
flooding and poor sanitation, international aid agencies said.  Hepatitis E has killed at least 16 people in recent weeks
in camps sheltering 106,000 refugees in Maban County in South
Sudan’s Upper Nile state that  Oxfam  called “ticking time
bombs” in an e-mailed statement today. “Conditions are dire
and survival remains a struggle,” the International Committee
of the Red Cross said. People drink polluted water on the ground
because clean supplies are scarce, it said in a  statement .  “It’s flat land, it’s flood-prone and then the water just
kind of sits there,” Teresa Ongaro, a spokeswoman for the
United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, said yesterday by
phone in Juba,  South Sudan ’s capital. “People defecate in the
open and don’t wash their hands if they’re sharing the
handwashing facilities.”  Oxfam said new camps need to be built to ease the
overcrowding and accommodate 60,000 more refugees who are
expected to cross the border in the coming months.  “These refugees have struggled to survive a year of
hell,” Pauline Ballaman, head of Oxfam’s emergency response in
Maban, said in the statement. “The Maban camps alone are not an
answer to the crisis -– there is simply not enough groundwater
to sustain so many people, and now heavy rains have left people
wading through mud to get basic services.”  Conflict Zones  Oxfam also urged the Sudanese government to honor its
pledge last month to let aid into the conflict zones in  Blue
Nile  and oil-rich Southern Kordofan states so the outflow of
refugees would slow.  The civilians have fled more than a year of armed clashes
in the two states that started after President Umar al-Bashir’s
government tried to disarm soldiers who fought during a two-
decade civil war alongside the forces of South Sudan, which
gained independence in July last year.  The two countries, locked in a series of disputes since the
south’s independence, are negotiating oil and border security
issues in  Addis Ababa , the Ethiopian capital.  The UN World Food Programme has drawn up plans to provide
food aid to half a million people in both government- and rebel-
held areas in Southern Kordofan and Blue Nile, Amor Almagro, a
spokeswoman in Khartoum, Sudan’s capital, said yesterday. It’s
waiting for permission from Bashir’s government.  “For our part, we have done what was expected of us,” she
said by phone. “We are ready as soon as access is granted, but
we are waiting for that.”  Sudanese Foreign Ministry spokesman al-Obeid Murawih didn’t
answer four calls seeking comment yesterday and today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jared Ferrie in Juba, South Sudan at 
 jferrie1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  