-- Sugary Drinks Linked to Increased Genetic Risk of Obesity
-- B y   S h a n n o n   P e t t y p i e c e
-- 2012-09-22T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-21/sugary-drinks-linked-to-increased-genetic-risk-of-obesity.html
Sugary soda may increase the effect
of genes putting people at risk for obesity, according to one of
several studies analyzing how the drinks influence weight gain.  People genetically predisposed to obesity were more likely
to gain weight from the beverages than those without the traits,
according to the study, published yesterday in an  New England
Journal of Medicine  edition that focused on the issue. Other
research showed that sports drinks were associated with added
pounds among adolescents and that switching to a diet soda from
a sugary one may help kids control their weight.  One in three U.S. adults and 17 percent of children are
obese. Sugary beverages are the largest single caloric food
source in the country, according to an editorial that
accompanied the studies. This month,  New York  City limited the
cup size that restaurants can use for sugary drinks and schools
nationwide have banned the beverages.  “It is important to begin to create publishable studies to
support what everyone knows,” said Steven Safyer, chief
executive officer of Montefiore Medical Center in New York, who
has worked to curb obesity. “We are in the eighth inning of the
worst  public health  crisis that we have encountered in
decades.”  Obesity costs the country about $147 billion a year in
health-care expenses, according to the  Centers for Disease
Control and Prevention.  If the U.S. stays on the current course,
it could increase health costs $66 billion a year by 2030,
according to a report earlier this week by the Trust for
America’s Health and Robert Wood Johnson Foundation.  Feeling Full  Safyer said soda is particularly harmful when it comes to
obesity because it doesn’t make people feel full, eliminating
the normal triggers that stop people from eating.  Parents should also be concerned about sports drinks, said
 Alison Field , an associate professor in epidemiology at the
 Harvard School of Public Health  and an associate in medicine at
Children’s Hospital Boston. Teenagers gained about 3.5 pounds
more than their peers for each sports drink they consumed daily,
according to research Field presented yesterday at the  annual
meeting  of the Obesity Society in  San Antonio ,  Texas .  “I don’t think all parents realize sports drinks are
unhealthy,” Field said. “I’m a marathon runner, even I don’t
consume 32 ounces of sports drinks when I’m running 26 miles.”  The study, funded with a grant from the  National Institutes
of Health , relied on self-reported  surveys  from about 10,000
boys and girls ages 9 to 16, taken every two years beginning in
2004. Field’s findings looked at results in a smaller set of
about 4,000 of the oldest teenagers from 2008 to 2011.  Peer Review  “It is important to recognize that this is an abstract
that was presented at a conference -- not a peer-reviewed,
published study -- and we know, and science supports, that
obesity is not uniquely caused by any single food or beverage,”
the American Beverage Association said in a statement.  The group also said that national guidelines limit the
consumption of sports drinks by high school athletes to 12-ounce
containers with no more than 100 calories.  To look at the connection between genetic risk and obesity,
researchers from  Harvard School of Public Health  analyzed
databases of more than 30,000 people to compare their
consumption of sugary drinks with their genetic predisposition
for becoming obese. Risk was based on mutations to 32 genes
associated with body mass index.  A person is considered obese when their BMI is 30 or
greater, which would be 215 pounds for someone five feet, 11
inches tall.  Higher Risk  The obesity risk for those who drank more than one sugary
drink a day was about twice as high as those who had less than
one serving a month, said Lu Qi, an assistant professor at the
Harvard school in  Boston  and the senior author on the study.  The researchers didn’t look at the link between genetic
risk factors and other types of foods. The finding, though,
provides evidence that genes and diet may mutually influence
each other, Qi said in a statement.  “This study provides strong evidence that there is a
significant interaction between an important dietary factor,
intake of sugar-sweetened beverages, and a genetic-
predisposition score, obesity and the risk of obesity,” said
Sonia Caprio, a pediatrician at the Yale School of Medicine in
 New Haven ,  Connecticut , in an editorial in the journal
accompanying the studies.  In a separate report, researchers gave school children
either an artificially sweetened or sugar-sweetened beverage
with 104 calories for an 18-month period. Those given the
higher-calorie drink gained about 2 pounds more than the sugar-
free group.  Coca-Cola Co. (KO) ’s chief scientific and regulatory officer
Rhona Applebaum said soda has been unfairly targeted as the
cause of the obesity epidemic in the U.S. She said there are
many factors that are linked to weight gain and that drinks
containing sugar can be a part of a healthy and balanced diet.  “Obesity is too complex to say it is the soft drinks and
let’s be done with it. It is not that simple,” said Applebaum
in a telephone interview. “I believe all food and beverages can
fit into an active and healthy lifestyle.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shannon Pettypiece in New York at 
 spettypiece@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  