-- Suntech Seeks to Boost U.S. ADR Price After New York Warning
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   M a r t i n
-- 2012-09-21T20:30:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-21/suntech-plans-to-boost-stock-price-after-warning-from-new-york.html
Suntech Power Holdings Co. (STP) , the
world’s largest solar-panel manufacturer, is seeking to boost
the price of its American depositary receipts after receiving a
warning that they may be delisted from the New York Stock
Exchange.  The average closing price of Suntech’s ADRs was below $1
for 30 consecutive days as of Sept. 10, triggering a delisting
warning, the Wuxi, China-based company said today in a
statement. Suntech has six months from the notice to regain
compliance and notified the exchange it will “cure this
deficiency within the prescribed time frame,” without saying
what steps it plans to take.  The company has few options, according to Pavel Molchanov,
an analyst at Raymond James & Associates in Houston  “Suntech is drowning under $2 billion in debt with a
market cap that’s just a tenth of that,” Molchanov said today
in an interview. “Any restructuring of that debt will make
their equity worthless.” He has a rating equivalent to a sell
on the ADRs.  Other large Chinese solar panel manufacturers may face the
same issue.  JA Solar Holdings Co. (JASO)  has closed below $1 for the
last 17 trading sessions, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  A delisting is an unappealing prospect for solar module
makers, said Ramesh Misra, an analyst at National Securities
Corp. in New York, said today an e-mail.  Bankability Proxy  “Getting delisted is not an option for any of these
companies,” he said. ADR prices are “viewed as a proxy for the
bankability of the module” and the manufacturers’ ability to
arrange financing from investors.  Companies aren’t permitted to conduct reverse splits on
ADRs, a common way to raise the price of equities, said Rob Stone, an analyst at Cowen & Co. in  Boston . They may change the
ratio of the underlying shares, which has a similar effect, and
shareholders generally approve of such measures. “It’s in their
interest to stay listed,” he said.  Suntech’s ADR, each worth one ordinary share, gained 5.9
percent to $1.08 at the close in  New York .  The company’s market value has declined 51 percent this
year to $195 million. Suntech has 16 sell ratings and nine
holds, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg. The company
hasn’t had a buy rating since May.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Martin in New York at 
 cmartin11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  