-- Super Rugby Gets Australia-Only Start to Suit 2013 Lions Tour
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-09-21T04:59:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-21/super-rugby-gets-australia-only-start-to-suit-2013-lions-tour.html
The 2013 Super Rugby competition
will have two Australia-only rounds to accommodate the British &
Irish Lions tour of the country.  The southern hemisphere’s elite provincial rugby
competition will start Feb. 15 with the Melbourne Rebels hosting
the Western Force. The  Queensland Reds  visit the ACT Brumbies
the following day in the opening weekend’s other game,
tournament organizer  South Africa , New Zealand and  Australia 
Rugby said today.  Australian teams will take a break when the Wallabies play
the Lions in Tests on June 22, June 29 and July 6. Because those
dates aren’t aligned with the June window set aside for
international matches in South Africa and New Zealand, SANZAR
staggered the rest periods.  “While the Lions tour obviously added an element of
complexity when it came to designing the Super Rugby draw,
SANZAR has worked through that process and come up with elegant
solutions,” Australian Rugby Union Managing Director John O’Neill said in an e-mailed statement.  Australian Conference teams will also dominate round 17 on
June 7 and 9, with the following two weekends featuring only
teams from the  New Zealand  and South African conferences.  The playoffs are  scheduled  to start July 19 with the
qualifiers and the semifinals set for the following weekend. The
final will take place on Aug. 3.  The Lions, a combined team from the U.K. and Ireland that
tours every four years, will play all five Australian Conference
teams during their 10-game trip, which opens June 1 against the
Barbarians in  Hong Kong . Their first match in Australia is June
5 against the Force in Perth.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  