-- Sweden May Raise Deficit to 3% If Crisis Deepens, Borg Says
-- B y   J o h a n   C a r l s t r o m
-- 2012-09-21T09:39:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-21/sweden-may-raise-deficit-to-3-if-crisis-deepens-borg-says-1-.html
Sweden  is prepared to increase its
 budget deficit  to as much as 3 percent of output to support its
banks and stimulate economic growth should the  European debt
crisis  escalate, Finance Minister  Anders Borg  said.  The government may spend between 0.5 percent and 1 percent
of  gross domestic product  on demand-inducing measures, including
household tax cuts and local government aid, and the same share
in assistance to banks. Lower tax income and higher unemployment
benefit payouts may sap public finances by another 0.5 percent
to 1 percent, Borg said in a speech today at  Swedbank AB (SWEDA)  in
Stockholm.  Should Sweden have to implement such measures, the country
will still have strong enough public finances so that interest
rate spreads won’t rise in a “serious way,” Borg said. “We
will then raise the deficit to perhaps 2 percent to 3 percent,
but all other countries should have larger ones so that we
still, in relative terms, are the stable country.”  Borg yesterday presented a stimulus budget for 2013 as
eroding demand for its exports from  Europe  undermines growth in
the economy, saying Sweden has “significant safety margins”
should the economic crisis in deepen in Europe where countries
are cutting spending to reduce debt. Sweden sells about half of
its output abroad, of which about 70 percent go to Europe.  Roads, Railways  The Nordic country will post a 0.3 percent deficit of GDP
this year and a shortfall of 0.6 percent in 2013, Borg said
yesterday. He announced about 23 billion kronor ($3.5 billion)
of spending mainly on roads, railways, research and lower
company taxes to improve long-term competitiveness in the
Swedish economy.  The government estimates next year’s budget initiatives
will boost growth by 0.4 percentage points and raise employment
by 17,000 jobs in 2014. Sweden’s central bank last week cut its
 main lending rate  for a third time since December to 1.25
percent as the economy slowed more than estimated last quarter
amid weakening European export demand.  Borg’s budget draft was criticized by the social democrat-
led opposition for not being fiscally conservative enough
because of the expected deficits this year and in 2013.  “When we have have low activity, we need to lean against
the wind,” Borg said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johan Carlstrom in  Stockholm  at 
 jcarlstrom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  