-- Swire Properties CEO Sees Strong Rent Growth in China
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-09-21T01:33:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-21/swire-properties-sees-strong-rent-growth-in-china-ceo-says.html
Swire Properties Ltd. (1972) , the Hong
Kong landlord whose tenants include Time Warner Inc., said
rental income from China will be “very strong” in the next few
years as it opens more properties and leasing prices rise.  Gross rental income from mainland China almost tripled in
the first half of the year, a trend that will continue, Chief
Executive Officer Martin Cubbon said in an interview with
Bloomberg Television in Beijing yesterday. The company is also
able to charge higher rents as some tenants have opted to stay
longer after the landlord offered them relatively competitive
leasing terms as properties opened, Cubbon said.  “For a number of years we’ll see very strong growth,”
Cubbon said without giving estimates. “We’ve faced intense
competition as anyone who does business in China, and we now see,
if you like, light at the end of the tunnel.”  Improved performance at retail complex Sanlitun Village in
Beijing and a first-time contribution from Taikoo Hui in the
southern city of Guangzhou helped boost the company’s underlying
 profit  by 3.8 percent, it said last month. While Swire
Properties has committed about 12 billion  yuan  ($1.9 billion)
with partners for two developments in Chengdu and  Shanghai ,
total investment will exceed that in the next couple of years as
the company finds new projects, Cubbon said.  Office rents in Beijing, Shanghai and Chengdu, where most
of Swire Properties’ five major commercial mixed-use projects on
the mainland are, climbed as much as 3 percent in August amid a
supply shortage, according to a Sept. 14 report from Centaline
Group.  China Contributions  Including the Sanlitun Village, opened in 2008, the 99-room
luxury hotel Opposite House in the capital’s Chaoyang district
and Taikoo Hui, projects in mainland China will account for
about a third of Swire Properties’ total assets, the company has
said.  China  investments contributed about 15 percent of gross
rental income in the first half, according to Bloomberg
calculations based on company figures.  “It appears to be a wise strategy to focus on the first-
tier cities for commercial property in this environment,” Ji
Feng, a Shanghai-based analyst at Centaline Group, parent of
China’s biggest real estate brokerage, said by phone. “There’s
always demand there even when the economy is doing poorly, while
there’s typically oversupply in second- and third-tier cities.”  The Hong Kong developer is scheduled to open a 6.4 billion
yuan retail and office project in the western Chinese city of
Chengdu in early 2014, a joint development with Sino-Ocean Land
Holdings Ltd., and another retail, office and hotel complex in
Shanghai in 2016.  The shopping mall in the 1.9 million-square-feet Indigo in
northeast Beijing, opened in March, was 83 percent leased as of
June 30 while the  office space  was 73 percent occupied, the
company said.  --Stephen Engle and Zhang Dingmin. Editors: Andreea Papuc,
Tomoko Yamazaki  To contact the Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Dingmin in Beijing at 
 Dzhang14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  