-- Swiss Stocks Advance on Spain Bailout Report
-- B y   P e t e r   L e v r i n g
-- 2012-09-21T16:01:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-21/swiss-stocks-advance-on-spain-bailout-report.html
Swiss stocks  advanced to an 18-
month high following a report that  Spain  and the European
Commission have discussed a package of reforms needed to obtain
a bailout for the country.  Transocean Ltd. climbed 2.5 percent after Petroleo
Brasileiro SA pledged to support the Swiss rig operator’s legal
battles after last November’s oil spill. Kuoni Reisen Holding AG
rose 1.2 percent after Switzerland’s largest travel company
announced it will shut or sell smaller, unprofitable tour-
operating businesses in countries such as Italy and Spain.  The  Swiss Market Index (SMI)  increased 0.8 percent to 6,605.82 at
the close in Zurich, its highest level since March 2011. The
equity benchmark rose 0.7 percent this week, its third
consecutive weekly advance. The gauge has  rallied 16 percent 
from this year’s low on June 4 as central banks in the U.S.,
 Japan  and the euro area opted for further stimulus. The broader
Swiss Performance Index added 0.7 percent today.  “Spain asking for a bailout is the prerequisite for  Mario
Draghi ’s plan to work,” said Henrik Drusebjerg, a senior
strategist at Nordea Bank AB in Copenhagen, where he helps
oversee $220 billion. “The  European Central Bank  won’t start
buying bonds to bring down yields unless a country asks to be
helped first.”  Spain’s Economy Minister Luis de Guindos has held talks
with the commission about a series of structural reforms that
will be unveiled on Sept. 27, the Financial Times reported,
citing unidentified officials involved in the discussions. The
European Union would need Spain to meet specific conditions
before proceeding with a full bailout of the country.  Bailout Conditions  Deputy Prime Minister Soraya Saenz de Santamaria said this
week that the government will only seek a bailout if it finds
the conditions acceptable.  Italy and Spain won’t request aid unless they are unable to
borrow from the market because of rising bond yields, Gianfranco Polillo, Italy’s undersecretary of finance said in an interview
in  Rome  late yesterday.  The  Swiss National Bank  said the outlook for the sales
growth of Switzerland’s companies remains “cautiously
optimistic in all industries.” The central bank cited the
results of a quarterly survey. The SNB said “the main source of
concern about future developments continues to be the
uncertainty surrounding the  European debt crisis .”  Transocean rose 2.5 percent to 43.40 Swiss francs after
Petrobras’s Chief Executive Officer, Maria das Gracas Foster,
said  Brazil ’s state-run oil producer will support Transocean.  Petrobras “doesn’t want to consider” losing the Swiss
company and its rigs, the CEO said at an oil conference in Rio
de Janeiro. Petrobras needs the eight rigs from Transocean to
meet its production targets, she said.  Kuoni Reisen  Kuoni (KUNN)  added 1.2 percent to 263 francs after saying it will
shut or sell smaller tour-operating units, which have combined
annual revenue of about 300 million francs ($322 million). The
measures will probably reduce  earnings before interest and taxes 
this year by 80 million francs, Kuoni said.  “Kuoni no longer wants to run these activities” and will
consider selling part or all of the businesses, possibly to
their management, or closing them, it said.  Weatherford International Ltd. (WFT) , the Swiss-based oil
services company, dropped 2.1 percent to 11.85 francs. SIX Swiss
Exchange said it has started an investigation into the company
over possible breaches of rules governing the disclosure of
management transactions.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Peter Levring in Copenhagen at 
 plevring1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  