-- Syngenta to Buy Biotech Seedmaker Devgen for $523 Million
-- B y   P a t r i c k   W i n t e r s
-- 2012-09-21T13:33:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-21/syngenta-agrees-to-buy-biotech-rival-devgen-for-523-million-1-.html
Syngenta AG (SYNN)  agreed to buy  Devgen (DEVG) 
for about 403 million euros ($523 million) as the Swiss maker of
agrochemicals extends a move into seed products based on
biotechnology.  Investors of the Belgian hybrid-rice seedmaker will get 16
euros a share, Basel-based Syngenta said. The price is 70
percent higher than Devgen’s closing price yesterday. The asset
will have a “very significant impact” on Syngenta’s $500
million rice business, Chief Operating Officer Davor Pisk said
in an interview today.  Syngenta, the world’s largest agrochemical maker, is
matching  BASF SE (BAS)  and  Bayer AG (BAYN)  with the purchase of a
biotechnology company. Devgen offers rice traits that have been
engineered to resist disease, as well as other formulas for crop
protection. For Syngenta Chief Executive Officer Mike Mack, it’s
a bet that Devgen’s technology can be rolled out to eclipse
research costs that have so far erased profit.  The Swiss manufacturer is paying a “hefty premium” of 14
times estimated 2013 sales, and “the payback will take many
years,” Patrick Rafaisz, an analyst at Bank Vontobel AG in
Zurich, said in a note.  Syngenta  rose  as much as 0.9 percent to 347.50 Swiss francs
and was trading up 0.4 percent at 3:25 p.m. in Zurich. The stock
has gained 26 percent this year, valuing the company at 32.2
billion francs ($34.6 billion). Devgen soared as much as 68
percent to 15.88 euros and was 67 percent higher in Brussels.  Current ‘Flavor’  “Biopesticides and seeds are flavor of the month,” and
“if you don’t have a position in a certain technology, you are
going to be locked out,” Anton Ticktin, a partner with the
Valence Group investment bank in  London , said in a phone
interview. “We definitely see there is M&A going forward in
this area.”  Syngenta management will give an overview of its strategy
and outlook to investors and analysts on Sept. 24 at a capital
markets day to be held in  India . Devgen already has a presence
in that Asian country, as well as in  Indonesia  and the
 Philippines .  The deal follows BASF’s announcement yesterday that it
plans to buy Becker Underwood Inc. for $1.02 billion as Kurt Bock makes his first major acquisition as chief executive
officer with a move into biological seed treatments.  ‘Serious’ Bayer  Bayer, which this year purchased AgraQuest for $425
million, has “gotten serious” about investing in rice and
wheat, Sandra Peterson, head of the Leverkusen, Germany-based
company’s crop-protection unit, said in an interview yesterday.  Syngenta’s offer for Devgen is at a “very attractive and
fair price,” and the Swiss company isn’t aware of competing
bids, Pisk said.  Major  shareholders  with about 48 percent of the Ghent-based
Devgen’s stock support the deal, Syngenta said. Credit Suisse
advised Syngenta on the transaction.  Devgen’s RNAi crop protection business, in which Syngenta
invested 22 million euros in May, is still at the research and
development stage and has no commercial revenue, Pisk said. The
business makes sprays which kill worms that attack carrots and
potatoes.  Sales at Devgen totaled 25.5 million euros last year. The
operating loss amounted to 6.3 million euros as earnings were
burdened by research and development costs.  “We don’t expect in the next couple of years for Devgen to
have a high share of our total rice business, but it will grow
significantly over the mid-term,” Pisk said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Winters in Zurich at 
 pwinters3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  