-- U.K.’s FTSE 100 Posts Weekly Drop; Xstrata Shares Tumble
-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 2012-09-21T16:34:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-21/u-k-stocks-advance-amid-speculation-of-spanish-bailout.html
The U.K.’s  FTSE 100 Index (UKX)  closed
little changed, capping the benchmark gauge’s first weekly
decline this month.  Xstrata Plc and  Glencore International Plc (GLEN)  fell as the
companies requested a one-week extension for directors to decide
on the commodity trader’s $35 billion takeover offer.  Vedanta
Resources Plc (VED)  and  Evraz Plc (EVR)  paced advancing shares as metal
prices climbed. Pearson Plc rose the most in five months after
Exane BNP Paribas upgraded the publisher.  The FTSE 100 slipped 2.02 points, or less than 0.1 percent,
to 5,852.62 at the close of trading in  London . The gauge erased
an earlier advance of as much as 0.6 percent as options on the
index expired in a process known as witching. The broader FTSE
All-Share Index was also little changed, while Ireland’s ISEQ
Index climbed 0.6 percent.  “Options expiry day has produced a burst of volatility,”
said  David Jones , chief market strategist at IG in London.
“This is a small hiccup when compared to the general strength
we have seen in equities markets of late.”  The FTSE 100 climbed to the highest level since March on
Sept. 14 after unprecedented economic stimulus from the  European
Central Bank  and the  Federal Reserve  boosted investor
confidence. The gauge has slipped 1.1 percent this week as data
on Chinese factory output, U.S. jobless claims and euro-area
services and manufacturing heightened concern about the strength
of the global economy.  ‘Remain Bullish’  “We remain bullish on European equities into the year
end,” Graham Bishop, an equity strategist at Exane in London,
wrote in a report today. “Valuations remain attractive, policy
easing should underpin growth and participation should rise as
investors move on from the ‘wait-and-see’ approach.”  Stocks climbed earlier today after the Financial Times
reported that Spanish Economy Minister Luis de Guindos is in
talks with European Commission authorities to facilitate a new
bailout program that will be presented Sept. 27.  The plan is said to focus on structural measures sought by
the European Union, not new taxes or spending cuts, according to
the newspaper which cited unidentified officials involved in the
discussions.  The volume of shares changing hands in FTSE 100 companies
was 59 percent greater than the 30-day average today, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Xstrata, Glencore  Xstrata Plc (XTA)  dropped 4.2 percent to 1,005 pence with the
number of shares changing hands five times more than the three-
month average. Glencore fell 1.7 percent to 362 pence.  The companies were granted a one-week extension from the
U.K. takeover panel to rally support for Glencore’s takeover
offer. Xstrata said it made the request to enable directors to
take account of feedback from key shareholders. The largest
exporter of thermal coal is now due to respond to Glencore’s
revised all-share proposal by 7 a.m. London time on Oct. 1.  “They are clearly struggling,” Charles Newsome,
investment director at Investec Plc, said in an interview with
Bloomberg Television. “It’s a difficult deal for them to pull
off because of the way it is structured. I’ve been quite
uncomfortable with this all the way along.”  National Grid Plc (NG/)  fell 1.1 percent to 686.5 pence as
JPMorgan Chase & Co. lowered its recommendation for the utility
to underweight from neutral, citing regulatory hurdles in the
next six months.  HMV Group Plc (HMV)  sank 8.9 percent to 2.78 pence after the
music and video-games retailer reported a 12 percent drop in
same-store sales in the first half. The company said its core
markets experienced “significant” declines.  CPP Falls  CPP Group Plc (CPP) , a U.K. company that provides protection
against credit-card and identity theft, plunged 20 percent to
19.5 pence, the lowest since its initial public offering in
March 2010.  CPP is seeking to reorganize itself through a “scheme of
arrangement” process to enable it to meet probable compensation
claims of tens of millions of pounds from customers who may have
been mis-sold products, Sky news reported on its website. The
company declined to comment, Sky said.  Among advancing shares, Vedanta, the metals and mining
company controlled by billionaire  Anil Agarwal , rallied 3
percent to 1,086 pence. Evraz gained 4.3 percent to 271.9 pence
after falling 11 percent the previous four days.  Randgold
Resources Ltd. (RRS)  gained 1.1 percent to 7,520 pence.  Pearson (PSON)  jumped 3 percent to 1,217 pence, the biggest gain
since April. Exane upgraded the publisher to outperform, the
equivalent of a buy recommendation, from neutral and raised its
price estimate for the shares by 21 percent to 1,450 pence,
citing growth opportunities at the company’s international
education business.  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  climbed 2 percent to 178.45 pence as
Barclays Plc reiterated its overweight  recommendation  on the
mobile-phone company and raised its share-price estimate by 2.6
percent to 200 pence.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  