-- U.S. Silica Open to Buying Mines to Meet Fracking Demand
-- B y   D a v i d   W e t h e
-- 2012-09-21T20:32:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-21/u-s-silica-open-to-buying-mines-to-meet-fracking-demand-growth.html
U.S. Silica Holdings Inc. (SLCA) , the
nation’s second-largest provider of hydraulic fracturing sand,
is considering buying additional mines as it faces increasing
demand for the material from energy producers.  U.S. Silica has sold out of its fracking sand for the rest
of the year and expects demand to increase as much as 20 percent
a year, Chief Executive Officer Bryan Shinn said today in a
telephone interview. The company, which plans to open its 14th
plant in the first quarter, may need to buy new mines because
the sand that works best for fracking can mainly be found in
 Illinois ,  Wisconsin  and  Minnesota , he said.  “We want to continue to grow and add capacity,” Shinn
said today in a telephone interview. “But I think as an
industry, it’s going to be a challenge to be able to do that and
meet the oil and gas demand.”  U.S. Silica, based in Frederick,  Maryland , sells the sand
to oil and natural-gas producers who inject it with water and
chemicals into wells to gain access to the fossil fuels. The
company, which began supplying oil and gas producers in about
2008, also sells sand that ends up in everything from toothpaste
to the glass on  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone, Shinn said.  “Even though we’re a 112-year-old industrial minerals
company, we have the growth curve of a tech startup,” he said.
“We’re going to grow earnings by those targets more than 50
percent this year.”  Add Capacity  An increase in the demand for fracking sand was one of the
reasons the company began trading publicly in January. U.S.
Silica has fallen 18 percent since its debut. The company fell
1.6 percent to $14 at the close in  New York .  In many of the potential properties U.S. Silica has
considered buying in the past, the costs were too high and the
operations were spread too far.  “We’ve gotten, over the last couple of years, all kinds of
pitches from companies who’ve bought property or are in some
phase of construction,” Shinn said. “We see a lot of
candidates. Certainly if we find the right one, we’d think
seriously about it.”  Demand for fracking sand is expected to increase by 7.5
percent in 2013 to about 56 million tons, Senjit Sarkar, a
project leader at  PacWest Consulting Partners  in Houston, said
today in an e-mail. Supplies of sand are likely to increase by
almost 25 percent next year, he wrote.  Prices for fracking sand are expected to fall by a range of
5 to 7 percent in the next year, according to the e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Wethe in Houston at 
 dwethe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  