-- U.S. Asks Russia for ‘Dignified’ Closing of Aid Agency Next Year
-- B y   S t e p a n   K r a v c h e n k o   a n d   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 2012-09-21T10:14:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-21/u-s-asks-russia-for-dignified-closing-of-aid-agency-next-year.html
The U.S. is asking  Russia  to permit
a “dignified” end to activities by aid agency  USAID  next year,
U.S. Ambassador in Moscow,  Michael McFaul , said after the
Russian authorities reiterated an Oct. 1 closing deadline.  “We are in negotiations with the Russian government about
the timing,” McFaul said in an interview today at an investment
forum in the Black Sea resort of Sochi. “We would like to do
this in an orderly and dignified way. We think it will take at
least a year and by next summer we’ll be able to phase out all
of our grants and all of our employees.”  President  Vladimir Putin , who is cracking down on the
opposition and nongovernmental groups after facing the biggest
protests since he came to power in 2000, has repeatedly accused
the U.S. of seeking to interfere in his country’s politics.
Russia ordered USAID to cease all activities by Oct. 1,
criticizing it for sponsoring civil-society groups and seeking
to influence elections.  “We are sticking to our position that the decision taken
by a sovereign state must be fully implemented,” Alexander Lukashevich, a spokesman at the Russian Foreign Ministry, said
yesterday. “We will insist that all activities of the agency
must cease on Russian territory by Oct. 1.”  In a letter to Russian Foreign Minister  Sergei Lavrov , U.S.
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  requested an extension of the
deadline until May, the Moscow-based Kommersant newspaper
reported yesterday.  ‘Foreign Agents’  USAID, previously known as the U.S. Agency for
International Development, has financed NGOs in Russia including
 Golos , a vote-monitoring group, and Memorial, a human-rights
organization. Such aid has been in doubt since Russia’s passage
of legislation requiring groups that receive aid from abroad to
register as “foreign agents” and submit to tighter
restrictions.  The agency, which had an annual budget of $50 million in
Russia, provides more than half of Golos’s budget, according to
Grigory Melkonyants, deputy director of the vote-monitoring
group.  Russia’s decision means that 13 U.S. diplomats on the USAID
staff will have to leave the country and the jobs of 60 Russian
nationals who work for the agency will be affected, according to
a U.S. official who asked not to be identified discussing
diplomatic communications.  Russia in 2008 forced the British Council, a U.K.
government cultural body, to close all offices outside Moscow
after the main successor agency to the Soviet-era KGB called in
local staff for questioning.  Then-President Dmitry Medvedev, now prime minister, later
said the body was engaged in espionage. Russia also tightened
controls over NGOs financed by the West after U.S.-backed
opposition leaders came to power in neighboring Georgia and
 Ukraine  in 2003 and 2004.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stepan Kravchenko in Sochi at 
 skravchenko@bloomberg.net ;
 Henry Meyer  in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  