-- U.S. Says Disputed Islands Covered by Japan Defense Treaty
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-09-21T08:19:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-21/u-s-says-disputed-islands-covered-by-defense-treaty-with-japan.html
U.S. Assistant Secretary of State
 Kurt Campbell  said islands at the heart of a dispute between
 Japan  and  China  fall under an American defense pact with Japan,
while urging the sides to resolve the standoff via diplomacy.  “We want to focus more on issues associated with the
maintenance of peace and stability and less on the particular
details of this very complex and challenging matter,” Campbell
told a hearing of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee’s East
Asian and Pacific Affairs subcommittee yesterday. He said the
islands fall under a treaty which obligates the U.S. to defend
Japan if it’s attacked.  The U.S. doesn’t take a position on the sovereignty of the
islands, known as Diaoyu in Chinese and Senkaku in Japanese,
Campbell said. His comments echoed those of Secretary of State
 Hillary Clinton , who said in 2010 that the islands fall under
“mutual treaty obligations” with the Japan government.  Japan’s purchase last week of the islands triggered
protests and attacks on Japanese businesses in China, straining
ties between  Asia ’s two biggest economies. In a meeting with
U.S. Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  this week, Chinese Defense
Minister Liang Guanglie said his government reserves the right
to take further action in the worst diplomatic crisis between
the two countries since 2005.  “We have stated very clearly that we want this issue to be
resolved peacefully through dialogue between Japan and China,”
Campbell said. The U.S. is concerned “by recent demonstrations,
and frankly the potential for the partnership between Japan and
China to fray substantially in this environment,” he said.  Competing Claims  China claims that it’s owned the islands for centuries,
while Japan argues it took administrative control of them in
1895, lost control of them after World War II and had the
islands returned to it by the U.S. in 1972. The dispute sparked
demonstrations across China, including at the Japanese embassy
in Beijing and the consulate in  Shanghai . Japanese retailers
yesterday reopened stores in China as protests waned.  China is committed to solving disputes over territory and
maritime rights peacefully, Vice President  Xi Jinping  said in a
speech at the China-Asean Business and Investment Summit in
southern China today.  At the same time, China will defend its sovereignty and
territorial integrity, Xi said.  Japanese Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  said today the
country must be firm “without being provocative or being
provoked” on territorial issues.  Trips Canceled  Chinese tourists canceled between 30 and 40 percent of
trips to Japan last week, Citigroup analyst Vivian Tao said in a
note. Cancellations may rise during the week-long holiday in
China that starts Oct. 1, and the impact on airlines is
“negative, but manageable,” Tao said in the note.  “China-Japan business relations have obviously been
affected by Japan’s purchase of the Diaoyu Islands,” Chinese
Foreign Ministry spokesman Hong Lei said in Beijing today.
“Japan should face squarely the realities and correct its
mistakes.”  Panetta said Sept. 19 in Beijing that China must move
beyond the “deep wounds” caused by Japan in World War II in
addressing present-day issues such as the island dispute. He
also said the Japan-U.S. alliance shouldn’t be viewed by China
as American support for the Japanese point of view on the island
standoff.  Former Australian Prime Minister  Kevin Rudd , a Chinese-
speaking former diplomat, today during a visit to  Singapore  said
he is concerned about “the capacity for escalation” in the
dispute.  “Calm heads are necessary, restraint is necessary and I’m
optimistic that leaders on both sides in  Tokyo  and Beijing will
be able to manage this,” Rudd told reporters.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Nicholas Wadhams in Beijing at 
 nwadhams@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  