-- UBS’s London Traders Riskier Than U.S., Adoboli Boss Says
-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o
-- 2012-09-21T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-21/ubs-s-london-traders-riskier-than-u-s-adoboli-boss-says.html
UBS AG (UBSN) ’s London traders took more
risks than their counterparts in other countries, the former
manager of the bank’s exchange-traded-funds desk testified at
Kweku Adoboli’s fraud trial.  John DiBacco, who worked in  New York , said that during an
interview after Adoboli’s arrest last year, he said that he was
“surprised” at the large positions traders in the British
capital were taking. He took over responsibility for the ETF
desk in April 2011 and imposed intraday trading limits of $100
million and $50 million overnight, he testified yesterday at the
Adoboli’s London criminal trial. He said he was unaware that was
double the prior levels.  DiBacco said that he talked to Adoboli and other traders
frequently and had to approve any transactions that exceeded
their limits. He sought to lower risk on the team and said he
recalled a time in August 2011 when he told Adoboli he wanted
“no risk” because the market was too volatile.  Adoboli, 32, is charged with fraud and false accounting
over unauthorized trades on which UBS lost $2.3 billion. The
former trader admitted risking $5 billion on Standard & Poor’s
500 futures and a further $3.75 billion in the German futures
market shortly before he was arrested in September last year,
another former manager testified.  “There was a lot of risk-taking happening in  London  that
was of a proprietary nature and not strictly for facilitation of
clients,” DiBacco said in the interview after Adoboli’s arrest,
referring to risking the bank’s money. “There is a culture that
was risk-seeking and not risk-averse.”  Three Years  DiBacco, who took over the ETF desk from Ron Greenidge and
was fired by UBS after 13 years at the bank, said that he had no
idea that Adoboli had been faking transactions for as long as
three years.  When DiBacco read Adoboli’s e-mail confession, he said he
had to read it twice because he “didn’t believe it.” Greenidge
testified earlier this week that his initial reaction to the e-
mail was, “this can’t be true.”  DiBacco said he was asked to resign after Adoboli was
arrested. He refused and was fired in January, receiving a
letter from UBS saying he didn’t “ensure the ETF desk had
adequate supervision” and didn’t investigate the performance
“when it showed very substantial increases in revenue, despite
the fact that the results were questioned” by the market-risk
department.  “I do not agree that I failed,” DiBacco said, as the trial 
concluded its first week of testimony.  Greenidge testified this week that he was dismissed for
gross misconduct after the unauthorized trading was uncovered
and that he felt the bank had made him a scapegoat for the loss.  Charles Sherrard, a lawyer for Adoboli, said that UBS
became “more aggressive in terms of its desire to make
profits” in 2011, while cross-examining Greenidge Sept. 20.
Sherrard cited e-mails from Adoboli telling managers about
positions he had that exceeded trading limits.  UBS would have turned a blind eye to the fake trades if
Adoboli had made money, Sherrard said this week. Greenidge
disagreed and said Adoboli would have been fired regardless of
the profit or loss if the fictitious trades were discovered.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lindsay Fortado in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  