-- Otis Seeks 10% Growth Wooing China After Escalator Death
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-09-21T12:32:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-21/united-technologies-opens-elevator-plant-targeting-western-china.html
United Technologies Corp. (UTX)  expects
Chinese orders at its Otis elevator unit to grow at least 10
percent next year as the business wins customers back following
a fatal escalator accident in Beijing.  “What we are booking for next year is very good,”
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Louis R. Chenevert said
today in an interview in Chongqing, China. “I am optimistic we
will see double-digit order growth for next year.”  United Technologies opened a new plant in Chongqing today,
boosting its presence in a country that accounts for about half
of worldwide elevator sales. Otis’s global head of strategy has
moved to  Shanghai  as the company repairs its reputation after
last year’s accident in the capital city’s subway system.  About 30 people fell and one person died when an upward-
bound escalator at a Beijing Zoo station exit abruptly changed
direction in July 2011. The city suspended purchases of the
company’s escalators after an investigation blamed faulty parts
for the malfunction.  China ’s equipment orders at Otis, the parent company’s
third-biggest business, tumbled 13 percent in the second quarter
after dropping 9 percent in the previous three months.  Additional causes of the decline were China’s slowing
economic growth and a price increase Otis adopted last year amid
rising costs for rare-earth components, Chief Financial Officer
Greg Hayes said yesterday at the Citi Global Industrials
conference in  Boston .  China’s GDP  China’s gross domestic product expanded 7.6 percent in the
second quarter from a year earlier, the smallest gain in three
years and the sixth quarterly deceleration. Growth may cool to
7.4 percent this quarter, based on the median estimate of 23
economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News  from Sept. 11 to Sept. 18.  The new factory, operating under the Xizi Otis brand, will
build the Gen2 line of elevators targeting 20- to 40-story
buildings in the region, Chenevert said today. The plant, which
has an initial capacity to build 15,000 units a year, will help
the company pare transportation costs as it caters to  central
and western provinces that account for 40 percent of its sales
in the country.  “There’s a lot of momentum embedded in the passion of
Chinese here to adopt higher-standard of living,” he said.
“They want their apartment, they want their cars, they want
their air conditioning. This presents a lot of opportunities.”  United Technologies  also opened a “high-rise center of
excellence” in Shanghai and streamlined the unit’s management
structure, with China CEO Tom Vining now reporting directly to
Otis President Pedro Baranda.  Hangzhou Metro  The moves are showing signs of paying off, Chenevert said
Sept. 13 at the Morgan Stanley Industrials & Autos Conference in
 New York . The Hangzhou Metro ordered 299 escalators and 50
elevators from Otis for the first phase of its second line, the
company said June 18 in a statement.  Otis is on pace to regain an 18 percent to 19 percent share
of the Chinese market by the end of this year, about the same
level as before the Beijing subway accident and up from 11
percent at the end of the first quarter, Hayes said at the
conference in Boston.  United Technologies’ $16.5 billion Goodrich Corp.
 acquisition , which closed in July after approval by U.S.,
European and Canadian regulators, will be a “strong driver”
for the company’s earnings next year, Chenevert said today.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Jasmine Wang in  Hong Kong  at 
 jwang513@bloomberg.net ;
Tim Catts in New York at 
 tcatts1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  