-- Universal Wins EU Approval to Buy EMI After Selling Labels
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e   a n d   K r i s t e n   S c h w e i z e r
-- 2012-09-21T14:13:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-21/universal-wins-eu-approval-to-buy-emi-s-recorded-music-business.html
Vivendi SA (VIV) ’s  Universal Music Group 
won European Union approval to take over the recorded-music
business of EMI Group, after pledging to sell about a third of
EMI assets to cut the combined group’s market share.  Among divestments,  Universal Music  will sell the Parlophone
music label, home to Coldplay and  David Bowie , as well as Black
Sabbath’s record company Sanctuary, and the Chrysalis label,
home to  Depeche Mode , the European Commission said in a
statement today. Universal will also avoid favorable terms for
any new digital music deals in  Europe  for 10 years.  EU approval comes almost a year after Universal Music
agreed to buy London-based EMI’s recorded unit from  Citigroup
Inc. (C)  for 1.2 billion pounds ($1.95 billion), effectively ending
more than 80 years of business at EMI, most famously known as
the record label of The Beatles. The takeover cuts the number of
major  record companies  to three, as the industry faces
challenges including illegal downloading and fewer CD sales.  “The very significant commitments proposed by Universal
will ensure that competition in the  music industry  is
preserved,” EU Competition Commissioner  Joaquin Almunia  said in
the statement.  Assets to be sold will reduce EMI revenue by 30 percent and
that of the combined group by about 10 percent, a person
familiar with the matter said today. The deal creates 100
million pounds in savings, said the person who asked not to be
identified because the matter is private.  Potential Bidders  Universal Music offered concessions because of EU concerns
that the transaction could give Universal “excessive market
power” and enable it to impose higher prices and more onerous
licensing terms on digital music providers. The value of
divestments may be as much as 350 million euros ($456 million),
and potential buyers such as BMG Rights and Warner Music Group
have already lined up, a person familiar with the matter said
this month.  Universal’s market share in Europe is now below 40 percent,
Almunia said at a press conference in Brussels today. He added
that “two-thirds of the divestiture should go to one buyer”
smaller than Universal.  Pink Floyd, Beatles  Under the concessions package, Universal Music would also
forfeit  Pink Floyd  and retain rights to The Beatles. EMI  France ,
EMI’s classical music labels, Mute, and EMI’s 50 percent-stake
in the Now! music compilations are also included in the
divestments which cover worldwide rights for digital and
physical music.  Universal will drop so-called most-favored nation clauses
in any new or renegotiated contract that require digital
customers to extend to Universal preferential terms given to its
rivals.  “It was looking difficult at one stage, but we now have
two-thirds of EMI on a global basis and we’ll grow the company
having gotten over this difficult negotiation,” Vivendi
spokesman Simon Gillham said by phone today.  While Universal Music will sell more assets than initially
thought would be required, it now has 31 percent of market share
worldwide, Gillham said. Vivendi has already paid 1 billion
pounds of the 1.2 billion-pound price tag for EMI, he said.  The U.S. Federal Trade Commission is next to decide on the
takeover.  Asset Sales  In Europe, Universal must sell the assets to record
companies or businesses with a proven track record in the music
industry, such as music publishers, the Brussels-based agency
said. Regulators want the sales to allow the emergence of a
strong competitor to Universal, the EU said. Universal cannot
reacquire the assets or re-sign any artists for 10 years.  Impala, a group of independent record labels, said today
the proposed divestments don’t go far enough to curb Universal’s
improved market position.  Citigroup sold EMI’s publishing division in a separate
transaction for $2.2 billion to a  Sony Corp (6758) .-led group. That
purchase was cleared by EU regulators in June. Citigroup seized
EMI from  Guy Hands ’s private equity firm, Terra Firma Partners
Limited, in February 2011 after it failed to meet loan terms.
Hands bought EMI in 2007.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net .
Kristen Schweizer in London at 
 kschweizer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 