-- Uponor Drops as Danske Says Sell on Housing: Helsinki Mover
-- B y   K a s p e r   V i i t a
-- 2012-09-21T09:53:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-21/uponor-drops-as-danske-says-sell-on-housing-helsinki-mover.html
Uponor Oyj (UNR1V)  fell for a fourth day
this week in Helsinki trading after Danske Bank A/S said clients
should sell the stock because the Finnish maker of plumbing
systems will suffer from a weak European housing market.  Uponor declined as much as 5.4 percent and lost 3.2 percent
to 8.6 euros at 12:20 p.m. in the Finnish capital. The shares of
the Vantaa, Finland-based company have lost 4.4 percent this
week, heading for the worst weekly performance since the
beginning of August.  A lack of European construction projects has hurt Uponor
earnings as the sovereign debt crisis weakens demand.  Eurozone
construction confidence  declined 4.6 points to minus 33.1 in
August from the previous month, according to the European
Commission. The figure has been negative since November 2007.  “Despite a positive outlook in the U.S., we believe
Uponor’s exposure to European new housing volumes is too high at
the current valuation,” Ari Jaervinen, an analyst with Danske,
said in today’s note. “The sales outlook is weakening in the
Nordics and raw material pressure could tighten again towards
end-2012.”  Jaervinen lowered Danske’s recommendation on to sell from
hold and cut a share price estimate to 8 euros from 8.5 euros.  Separately, Uponor and KWH Group Oy today said they plan to
combine their infrastructure businesses, focusing on northern
 Europe . The new entity will be named Uponor Infra Oy and
ownership will be split at 55.3 percent going to Uponor and 44.7
percent to KWH.  The joint venture, which will be consolidated to Uponor’s
financial statements, had combined net sales of 384 million
euros ($500 million) last year, according to a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kasper Viita in Helsinki at 
 kviita1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net  