-- Turkish Military Officers Jailed for Erdogan Coup Plot
-- B y   S e l c a n   H a c a o g l u
-- 2012-09-21T16:18:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-21/turkish-military-officers-jailed-for-erdogan-coup-plot-2-.html
A Turkish court jailed 330 military
officers, including serving and retired generals and admirals,
for as long as 20 years on charges of plotting to topple Prime
Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan ’s government in 2003.  The court near Istanbul convicted ex-air force chief Halil
Ibrahim Firtina, former navy chief Ozden Ornek and general Cetin
Dogan, who commanded the 1st Army, and imprisoned them for 20
years each, the state-run Anatolia agency said, citing today’s
court decision. Ten other ex-admirals and ex-generals, one of
whom was elected to parliament, as well as one colonel, got 18
years in jail, it said.  “I guess the Turkish military have finally been ‘tamed’
and have come under civilian control,” Timothy Ash, head of
emerging market research at Standard Bank Group Ltd., wrote in
an e-mailed note today. “The bigger question I guess is what
impact all this is having on morale in the armed forces.”  Erdogan declined to comment before seeing a detailed
account of the court decision. “Our wish was that a just
decision come out,” he said in televised remarks in Ankara.
“The process is not over. It is subject to appeal.”  Under Control  Erdogan’s government, which has roots in an Islamist
movement banned from politics in 2007, has curbed the staunchly
secular military’s sway over politics since coming to power in
November 2002 to put it under civilian rule as in the West.
Prosecutors also put two surviving leaders of a 1980 military
coup on trial.                      The lira rose 0.2 percent to 1.7954 per dollar at 6:10 p.m.
in Istanbul. The stock and bond markets were closed.  The convictions come as the army tackles a surge in 
attacks by the autonomy-seeking Kurdistan Workers' Party, or 
PKK, and violence along  Turkey 's border just inside  Syria .  The court convicted a total of 330 defendants, state
television said. Thirty-four people were found innocent of
charges of involvement in the alleged coup plot. The court
postponed the ruling about one final defendant until after
hearing his final remarks.  Coup Trigger  The defendants denied charges of “attempting to topple the
government by force” by planning to bomb major mosques, stir
chaos and trigger a military coup.  A total of 365 defendants have stood trial in the so-called
Sledgehammer case since December 2010. The arrests of dozens of
senior generals marked the highest-profile crackdown ever on
Turkey’s military since it established the nation state in 1923.  The military’s chief of staff along with the commanders of
the navy, the army and the  air force  resigned in 2011 in
reaction to the arrests. The government then quickly promoted
General Necdet Ozel as the new head of the armed forces.  The military said last year that the case is based on
documents presented to a military seminar where scenarios of how
to handle internal strife were discussed.  Hundreds more suspects, including soldiers, politicians and
journalists, still face charges in a separate case, dubbed
“Ergenekon,” also investigating an alleged conspiracy aimed at
overthrowing the government.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcan Hacaoglu in Ankara at 
 shacaoglu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  