-- Vietnam Five-Year Bonds Gain as Bank Concerns Ease; Dong Steady
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-09-21T09:08:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-21/vietnam-five-year-bonds-gain-as-bank-concerns-ease-dong-steady.html
Vietnam ’s five-year bonds rose for
the first time in nearly four weeks as concerns eased over
instability in the nation’s financial industry following the
resignation of three executives at Asia Commercial Bank. The
dong was unchanged.  The board at ACB, Vietnam’s biggest bank that isn’t owned
by the government, approved the departures of Chairman Tran Xuan
Gia and two vice-chairmen on Sept. 18, the lender said in a
statement yesterday. The arrest of the bank’s co-founder Nguyen Duc Kien on Aug. 20 for allegedly “conducting business
illegally” triggered a spate of deposit withdrawals and a surge
in the  overnight interbank deposit rate . The gauge rose 0.1
percentage point to 3.1 percent today, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “Banks were worried in the last few days about  ACB (ACB)  but
today they see there are no bank runs, there’s a little bit more
confidence,” said Nguyen Duy Phong, a Ho Chi Minh City-based
analyst at Viet Capital Securities.  The  yield  on benchmark five-year bonds fell two basis
points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 9.98 percent, according to
a daily fixing rate from banks compiled by Bloomberg. That is
the biggest decline since Aug. 27. Yields have risen 10 basis
points this week, the most since the period ended Aug. 24.  The dong traded at 20,870 per dollar as of 3:28 p.m. in
Hanoi, unchanged from yesterday, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The currency has declined 0.1 percent this week.  The  State Bank  of Vietnam set its  reference rate  at 20,828,
unchanged since Dec. 26, according to its website. The currency
is allowed to trade up to 1 percent on either side of the rate.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nick Heath in Hanoi at 
 nheath2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  