-- Volcker Says Fed Can Maintain Stimulus With Inflation Low
-- B y   C r a i g   T o r r e s
-- 2012-09-21T22:01:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-21/volcker-says-fed-can-maintain-stimulus-with-inflation-low.html
Former  Federal Reserve  Chairman
 Paul Volcker  said the U.S. central bank can channel record
stimulus into the economy so long as it stays true to its pledge
to keep inflation low.  “The massive provision of credit by the Federal Reserve
can continue for a while alongside the fiscal deficit, so long
as the commitment to maintain  price stability  over time is
respected,” Volcker said in remarks prepared for a speech today
to the ICAS conference in Gleneagles, Scotland. “There is no
significant inflationary pressure at present.”  The Fed panel that sets interest rates announced a third
round of quantitative easing Sept. 13, committing to $40 billion
in monthly purchases of mortgage-backed securities. The  Federal
Open Market Committee  said the buying would continue “if the
outlook for the labor market does not improve substantially.”  While Fed chairman from 1979 to 1987, Volcker raised
 interest rates  to as high as 20 percent to tame an annual
inflation rate approaching 15 percent.  The former Fed chairman called on political leaders in the
U.S. to find agreement on fiscal policy and lead the global
economy back to growth.  “We know the stakes are enormous,” Volcker said to the
Institute of Chartered Accountants of Scotland. “Given the
situation in Europe and Japan -- and growing doubts about growth
in China and elsewhere in the emerging world -- it is only the
United States that in the short run can lead the world into a
pattern of more solid -- and lasting -- growth.”  Volcker’s  New York  office provided  Bloomberg News  with a
text of his remarks by e-mail.  “The aim should be to cut the current fiscal deficit in
half during the life of the new administration,” Volcker said,
referring to the U.S.  The former Fed chairman predicted Europe’s common currency
would survive its current crisis.  “The often stated sense of commitment among European
leaders is genuine,” Volcker said. “There seems to be an
instinct among European populations to stick with the Euro.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Craig Torres in Washington at 
1984 or  ctorres3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  