-- Volksbanken Says Owners May Have to Merge Under Pact
-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 2012-09-21T12:03:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-21/volksbanken-says-owners-may-have-to-merge-under-pact.html
Oesterreichische Volksbanken AG (VBPS)  may
have gained the upper hand over its owners under an agreement
reached when local credit cooperatives asked Austria to rescue
their central institute earlier this year.  Volksbanken, majority-owned by the 62 local lenders, is now
linked to them in a cross-guarantee pact that the government
demanded in return for the bailout. The deal allows Volksbanken
to give the local lenders instructions including to combine
their businesses, Stephan Koren, the bank’s new chief executive
officer, told journalists yesterday.  “If we’re saying we need to work as cost efficient as
possible, there will have to be mergers,” Koren said about
discussions he’ll lead with his local owners. While he can’t
give direct orders, Koren has “instruments to exert pressure”
when banks miss internal targets or violate risk-management
rules set centrally, Koren said.  Austria  in February agreed to partially nationalize
Volksbanken in the lender’s third bailout since 2008. The
country has more banks, bank branches and bank employees per
capita than most euro-area countries, leading to increased
competition, higher costs and lower margins in the domestic
business, according to the central bank. The last major merger
between two Austrian banks was Bawag’s purchase of PSK, which
was completed in 2005. Most of the country’s big banks, such as
 Erste Group Bank AG (EBS) ,  Raiffeisen Bank International AG (RBI)  and
 UniCredit SpA (UCG) ’s Bank Austria, have operations in eastern Europe,
which bolster profits at home.  Talks about possible mergers between some of Volksbanken’s
owners are under way and may also lead to a lower number of
branches, Koren said. The local cooperative banks have 550
branches in Austria. Volksbank Wien AG,  Volksbank Salzburg eG ,
 Volksbank Vorarlberg eG  and Volksbank Tirol Innsbruck-Schwaz AG
are among the biggest of Volksbanken’s local owners.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  