-- Wal-Mart May Open India Retail Stores Within Two Years
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   W o n g   a n d   M a l a v i k a   S h a r m a
-- 2012-09-23T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-21/wal-mart-in-talks-with-bharti-after-india-eases-rules.html
Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) , the world’s
largest retailer, is in talks with partner Bharti Enterprises
Pvt. about opening retail outlets in  India  after the government
eased rules for foreign ownership in multibrand store chains.  It will take Wal-Mart, which operates 17 wholesale  outlets 
in India in a tie-up with billionaire Sunil Mittal’s Bharti
Enterprises, 12-18 months to open retail outlets in the world’s
second-most populous country,  Scott Price , head of Wal-Mart’s
Asia operations, said in a Sept. 21 interview in Hong Kong.  The change in rules that now allow overseas supermarket
chains to own as much as 51 percent in local ventures gives Wal-
Mart an advantage over foreign competitors such as  Carrefour SA (CA) 
because of the U.S. company’s ties with its local partner. Wal-
Mart formed a joint venture in 2007 for wholesale stores and has
been building a supply chain and logistics network in the
country.  The company has been in dialogue on “the next steps,”
Price said. “We will continue with the discussions with them as
we try to understand the conditions of what they mean.”  It’s a “natural progression” to initiate talks with Wal-
Mart for investment in  Bharti Retail  and in “front-end”
stores, Rajan Bharti Mittal, managing director of Bharti
Enterprises, said in a statement. Bharti Retail, operator of a
chain of stores, is a fully owned subsidiary of Bharti
Enterprises, according to its website.  $100 Million Investment  The retailer, based in Bentonville,  Arkansas , can meet the
minimum $100 million investment set by the government and the
requirement for overseas companies to spend at least 50 percent
of that on back-end infrastructure within three years, Price
said.  India’s government on Sept. 14 decided to allow foreign
companies to invest in multibrand store chains after limiting
them to wholesale stores and outlets that sell a single brand.  The companies will compete for a market that  Technopak
Advisors Pvt ., a consultant based at Gurgaon, near  New Delhi ,
estimates will expand to $725 billion in 2017, from $505 billion
this year.  Stores opened by these companies will only be allowed in
states where the local government gives its consent and in
cities with a  population  of more than 1 million people. In
states where there are no such cities, the local government may
choose where the stores may be set up, India’s government said.  States Approval  Wal-Mart doesn’t expect getting approval from states to be
a major hurdle in expanding in India and is counting on local
administrations appreciating the benefits foreign retailers will
bring, according to Price.  “The restrictions will become unnecessary in the future,”
said Price. “India has huge opportunity to improve its
infrastructure that the government itself has identified as
priority, and modern retail is proven to help that process.”  Wal-Mart owns a 50 percent stake in the wholesale-venture
with Bharti. Closely held Bharti runs its own chain of more than
186 Easyday stores including supermarkets.  Bharti Airtel Ltd. (BHARTI) ,
India’s largest mobile phone carrier, is a part of the Bharti
group.  The U.S.-based retailer has yet to decide on the formats
the company will use for its retail foray, according to Price.  “I can see that Easyday as a small supermarket has an
opportunity to grow,” he said.  Seven-Year Debate  International retailers have been setting up wholesale
operations to gain a foothold in India, where policy makers had
been debating the ownership rules for retail for at least seven
years. Carrefour, the world’s second-largest retailer, currently
operates two wholesale stores in the country, while  Germany ’s
 Metro AG (MEO)  has 11.  Tesco Plc (TSCO)  has a franchise agreement with  Trent Ltd. (TRENT) ,
India’s third-largest retailer, and helps manage wholesale
operations for Trent’s Star Bazaar hypermarkets.  Wal-Mart’s existing joint venture in India buys fresh
produce directly from about 1,200 farmers in the northern Indian
state of Punjab and helps them improve their yield through
better farming techniques,  Raj Jain , president of Wal-Mart’s
India business said in an interview in June 2011.  Still, Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  will have to overcome
political opposition to the change in rule. The announcement
came nine months after the government was forced to reverse a
similar decision made in November after lawmakers forced
repeated adjournments of parliamentary proceedings.  Mamata Banerjee , leader of the Trinamool Congress, on Sept.
18 announced that her party would withdraw its ministers from
Singh’s cabinet. Six Trinamool Congress ministers submitted
their resignations to Singh after the party withdrew its support
to the ruling coalition.  The opposition also called a day-long strike in India
yesterday, causing shops and businesses across the country to
remain closed, to protest the government move to allow foreign
investment in retail and a 14 percent increase in diesel prices.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephanie Wong in  Hong Kong  at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net ;
Malavika Sharma in New Delhi at 
 msharma52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  