-- Weatherford Surges in Last Minute of Trading to Close 4% Higher
-- B y   I n y o u n g   H w a n g
-- 2012-09-21T21:56:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-21/weatherford-surges-in-last-minute-of-trading-to-close-4-higher.html
Weatherford International Ltd. (WFT) 
surged in the last seconds of trading as a wave of buy orders
swept into U.S. markets, even after Swiss stock regulators said
earlier in the day they were investigating the company.  Weatherford opened at $13.20 and didn’t go above $13.29
until the last minute of trading. More than 4,500  trades 
representing 12.6 million shares occurred above that price as
the stock jumped as high as $13.66 and closed at $13.54, up 4.2
percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Shares
executed at the ask price outnumbered others by more than 11-to-
1, suggesting the transactions were initiated by buyers.  “There very well may have been a large order out there,
but I can’t confirm that,” Trey Stolz, a New Orleans-based
analyst at Iberia Capital Partners LLC, said in an e-mail.
“There have also been so many weird things going on with
algorithm-driven trading that it’s almost impossible to tell
exactly what may have happened.”  SIX Swiss Exchange Ltd. said today it has started an
investigation in the  oil services company  over possible breaches
of rules governing the disclosure of management transactions.  While the stock may have declined earlier on the report of
the Swiss exchange probe, “as the day went along, people
realized it was not really new news and a buyer stepped in,”
Stephen Gengaro, a New York-based analyst at Stern Agee & Leach
Inc., said by e-mail.  Trading today came amid the expiration of equity futures
and options contracts, a process known as quadruple witching,
and S&P’s quarterly index rebalancing. About 8.4 billion shares
changed hands, 37 percent more than the three-month daily
average.  Geneva-based Weatherford rallied 54 cents to $13.54 in New
York trading today after earlier falling as much as 3.1 percent.
About 42.3 million shares of the company changed hands, more
than triple the  three-month average .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Inyoung Hwang in  New York  at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  