-- World Leaders Gather at UN as Arab Spring Turns Perilous
-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n
-- 2012-09-21T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-21/world-leaders-gather-at-un-as-arab-spring-turns-perilous.html
When world leaders last flew to  New
York  for the opening of the UN General Assembly session, fallen
Libyan dictator  Muammar Qaddafi  was a doomed man on the run,
Egyptian democracy protesters in Cairo’s Tahrir square had
prevailed and Syrians were struggling to be next.  A year later, the mood is darker. In Libya, the weakness of
the post-Qaddafi government was demonstrated when gunmen
attacked the U.S. consulate in Benghazi, killing four Americans
including the ambassador. The long-suppressed Muslim Brotherhood
dominates Egyptian politics, a development being closely watched
by  Israel  and the U.S. In Syria, what began as a non-violent
uprising has degenerated into a sectarian war claiming some
20,000 lives as diplomacy stalls and President Bashar al-Assad
fights for his survival.  “The bloom has come off the rose,” said  Charles Kupchan ,
a professor of international affairs at  Georgetown University .
“The initial reaction was excessive optimism that we were at
the beginning of liberal democracy in the  Middle East  and that
is not how the region has played out.”  Making their debut at the 193-member General Assembly are
the new leaders of young governments in the so-called Arab
Spring nations who came in to deliver economic results and now
must also address anti-Western sentiment trigged by an anti-
Islam video that enraged their Muslim electorate.  The setting of the gathering, the  United Nations 
headquarters in New York, serves as a reminder of the world
body’s failure to stop the killing of civilians in Syria. After
dominating the  Security Council ’s time for more than a year, a
third and final veto by Russia in July buried the matter.  ‘Period of Unease’  “We are living through a period of unease,” UN Secretary-
General Ban Ki-moon said at the opening of the 67th session of
the General Assembly on Sept. 18. “We are also seeing incidents
of intolerance and hatred that are then exploited by others.
Voices of moderation and calm need to make themselves heard at
this time.”  Egyptian President Mohamed Mursi, the Muslim Brotherhood’s
candidate, will be in New York for four days as will the leaders
of Libya, Yemen and Tunisia -- the other countries that cast
away the old guard.  The legacy of those revolutions, the role of the  Arab
League  in handling regional conflicts and humanitarian aid to
Syria will be the topics on the sidelines of what is the UN’s
busiest week.  Whether there will be results is another matter. Western
diplomats said on condition of anonymity that there is no chance
of a breakthrough on Syria, and not just because of Russia’s
opposition. With a U.S. election two months away, there is
little appetite for another U.S. military foray after Libya.  Home-Grown Revolutions  Two things have stumped policy makers, one diplomat said,
speaking anonymously because diplomacy is private. One is the
spread of violence in the region and the other is the success of
political Islam as a consequence of toppling of autocratic
regimes.  “These are home-grown revolutions and outside actors have
very little influence,” said Kupchan, who worked at the
National Security Council under President  Bill Clinton  and is
now a senior fellow at the Council of Foreign Relations.  The Arab Spring is the start of a 30-year transition,
according to a senior Western diplomat speaking on condition of
anonymity. Islamist governments can either be moderated by being
in power or, if they are unsuccessful in delivering what people
want, they get voted out, the official said.  The UN speeches are scheduled to begin on Sept. 25, with
Brazil’s President  Dilma Rousseff  kicking the day off, followed
by President  Barack Obama , swinging through town for less than
24 hours without scheduling any bilateral meetings in that time.  Annual Surprise  Palestinian Authority President  Mahmoud Abbas , whose quest
for statehood dominated last year’s proceedings, will be back
with lowered expectations. This time, in his speech, he plans to
ask for a less controversial upgrade of Palestinian status at
the UN that falls short of recognition of sovereignty.  Each year holds a surprise. One development few would have
predicted 12 months ago was the political awakening in Myanmar.
Thein Sein, the retired general behind the country’s emergence
from five decades of isolation, will deliver his first speech as
president.  Iranian President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad  is set to make his
annual appearance at the podium, an event typically featuring
anti-semitic declarations that prompt Western delegates to walk
out of the hall in protest.  Still, it’s his country’s nuclear program rather a renewed
verbal assault on Israel that will draw the most attention.  ‘Red Zone’  Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu , who will address
the assembly a day later, has said that  Iran ’s effort to develop
nuclear weapons is now in a “red zone” and is urging a tougher
stance from the Obama administration.  “We will not engage in an endless process of negotiations
that fail to produce any results,” U.S. Ambassador to the UN
Susan Rice yesterday told a Security Council meeting on nuclear
sanctions against Iran. “We must therefore remain clear and
united in seeking resolution of the international community’s
concerns regarding  Iran’s nuclear program . Time is wasting.”  Officials from the U.S. and the  International Atomic Energy
Agency  in Vienna have said that Iran has stepped up its efforts
to enrich uranium to about 20 percent, though there’s no
evidence that it’s moved to the 90 percent that’s needed to make
nuclear weapons. Iran says its nuclear program is intended only
for civilian purposes.  There are no limits to how much a leader can talk once he’s
holding court at the UN.  Fidel Castro  holds the Guinness Book of Records mark with
his 1960 speech at General Assembly: four hours and 29 minutes.  Octogenarian  Robert Mugabe , Zimbabwe’s dictator since 1980,
used to rival Qaddafi when it came to anti-colonial tirades. One
of the last standing dictators, Mugabe is scheduled to be back
this year.  -- Editors: Terry Atlas, Michael Shepard  To contact the reporter on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson in United Nations at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  