-- WTO Scales Back 2012 World Trade-Growth Forecast to 2.5%
-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m   a n d   J e n n i f e r   M .   F r e e d m a n
-- 2012-09-21T12:10:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-21/wto-scales-back-2012-world-trade-growth-forecast-to-2-5-.html
The  World Trade Organization  cut
its forecast for commerce growth this year to 2.5 percent as the
euro-region debt crisis drags down the global economy and the
U.S. slows, WTO Director-General Pascal Lamy said.  The WTO, based in Geneva,  scaled back  the forecast five
months after predicting that trade in manufactured goods would
expand 3.7 percent this year. International commerce grew a
less-than-expected 5 percent in 2011. The WTO also lowered its
forecast for trade growth in 2013 to 4.5 percent from 5.6
percent.  “The main reason for growth slowing down is, of course,
Europe,” Lamy said in  Singapore  today. “We also know the U.S.
is lower than expected,  Japan  is not in great shape.”  Europe ’s crisis, now in its third year, has scuppered the
WTO’s hopes for an export-led recovery and threatens to kindle
efforts by governments to protect their domestic industries by
imposing trade-restrictive measures. Global commerce gained 0.3
percent in the second quarter from the first or 1.2 percent at
an annualized rate.  The WTO calculates intra-European trade as international
commerce, “so if Europe slows down more than the rest, intra-
European trade, which is a big quantity, 30, 35 percent of
international trading volume, has a big impact on the numbers,”
Lamy told reporters.  China, Japan  Signs also suggest growth is easing in  emerging markets 
that have been driving global expansion.  China , the world’s
largest exporter of goods, said shipments abroad rose 7.1
percent in the first eight months, putting the nation at risk of
missing a goal for 10 percent expansion of trade this year.
Japan’s exports fell 5.8 percent in August from a year earlier.  The WTO said today that it sees global gross domestic
product rising 2.1 percent this year and 2.4 percent in 2013.
Developing economies and those in the  Commonwealth of
Independent States , which comprises the former Soviet States
except for the three Baltic Republics and Georgia, will pace
that expansion, with 4.9 percent growth this year and 5.2
percent next year, according to the WTO.  The  International Monetary Fund  predicted in July that the
world economy would grow 3.5 percent in 2012 and 3.9 percent in
2013. The IMF will reduce its forecasts “by a few decimal
points” on Oct. 9, an assistant director in the fund’s Asia and
Pacific Department said on Sept. 20.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer M. Freedman in Geneva at 
 jfreedman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net ;
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  