-- Yankees Extend AL East Lead to One Game With Win Over Blue Jays
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2012-09-21T04:20:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-21/yankees-extend-al-east-lead-to-one-game-with-win-over-blue-jays.html
Nick Swisher  capped a seven-run
fourth inning with a grand slam as the New York Yankees defeated
the Toronto Blue Jays 10-7 to extend their lead to one game over
the Baltimore Orioles in the American League East.  The Yankees, who won their fifth straight Major League
Baseball game while completing a three-game sweep of the Blue
Jays, improved to 86-63. The Orioles (85-64) were idle last
night and are in a tie with the Oakland Athletics for the AL’s
two wild cards. Oakland topped the Detroit Tigers 12-4
yesterday.  Manager  Joe Girardi  said the Yankees have become more aware
of their AL East competitors since they lost their 10-game
division lead in July. The Orioles have won four straight games
as they try to keep pace with the Yankees.  “It’s impossible not to see the scoreboard,” Girardi
said. “You look at the outfielders, where they’re positioned,
and you look at the infielders, where they’re positioned, and
there’s the scoreboard.”  The  Blue Jays  had a 2-0 lead after Kelly Johnson hit a run-
scoring double in the second and Colby Rasmus scored in the
third when Moises Sierra was hit by a pitch with the bases
loaded at Yankee Stadium.  New York’s Ichiro Suzuki hit a solo home run in the third
to make it 2-1.  Suzuki then drove in  Russell Martin  and  Curtis Granderson 
with a double for the first runs in the fourth.  Derek Jeter  then
hit a run-scoring single and Swisher blasted his third grand
slam of the season, off reliever Brad Lincoln, to make it 8-2 in
favor of the Yankees.  Home Run  Sierra moved the Blue Jays within four runs with a two-run
homer in the top of the fifth before Jayson Nix had a run-
scoring double and Jeter drove home Nix in the bottom of the
inning to make it 10-4.  The Blue Jays added three runs, including Johnson’s 15th
home run of the season, in the eighth inning.  Phil Hughes  improved to 16-12 after allowing four runs on
four hits while striking out nine in five innings.  David Robertson  earned his second save, striking out three in the
ninth inning.  Aaron Laffey (3-6) surrendered five runs on two hits and
five walks in three innings to take the loss.  The Yankees begin a three-game home series against the
Athletics tonight while the Orioles host the Boston Red Sox in
the first of three contests.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  