-- YIT Chief Plans European Acquisitions as Russian Sales Advance
-- B y   K a s p e r   V i i t a
-- 2012-09-21T15:35:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-21/yit-chief-plans-european-acquisitions-as-russian-sales-advance.html
YIT Oyj (YTY1V) ’s chief executive officer
said growth at Finland’s biggest residential developer will rise
on Russian housing and as the company increases maintenance
income in German-speaking Europe by making acquisitions.  “We have immense opportunities in  Russia ,” CEO Juhani Pitkaekoski said in an interview at the company’s headquarters
in Helsinki. “A growing middle class brings large demand,
specifically in the apartment types that we’re focusing on.”  Increasing the volume of business will improve efficiency
and potential profitability in Russia, Pitkaekoski said.
Prospects for improving the quality of housing in Russia mean
the company has a target for growth “significantly” exceeding
10 percent in the region, he said.  “The need exists because the existing housing stock is old
and not very comfortable or energy-efficient,” he said. “A lot
is dependent on the price of oil.”  YIT reiterated long-term targets today, including revenue
growth of more than 10 percent annually. For this year, the
company has forecast revenue level with 2011. Last year, YIT had
sales of 4.38 billion euros ($5.69 billion), including 292.2
million euros from Russia and 629.5 million euros from  Germany ,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The company will “probably” increase its revenue guidance
during the third quarter, Sauli Vilen, an analyst at equity-
research company Inderes Oy, said in a note on Sept. 18.
“Domestic and Russian housing trade has been good despite
uncertainty and building services demand has been steady.”  The company will hold a capital markets day in Aachen,
Germany, on Sept. 25.  Acquisition Strategy  “In central European building services, acquisitions are
inevitable; organic growth there is too slow for our targets,”
Pitkaekoski said. “There’s no chance of entering  Switzerland 
without acquisitions. In  Austria , we are scanning targets but
are able to grow organically.”  YIT’s building services unit includes the design and
installation of heating, plumbing, cooling and safety systems.  Germany’s relatively new housing stock creates a good
opportunity to increase the share of maintenance, even as some
larger projects have been postponed pending investment decisions
by customers, Pitkaekoski said.  “The maintenance business is interesting as the share of
technical building systems has doubled, maybe even tripled, from
20 years ago,” he said. “The more technology there is, the
more interesting it is to us.”  Smaller Projects  The company has taken measures to prepare for a dip in
housing demand and is better prepared than before the euro-zone
crisis began, Pitkaekoski said.  “Our project sizes are smaller than before the crisis, we
have about 350 million euros” of committed credit lines “and
our cash reserves are stronger,” he said. “So far, the
recessions have been short and our business is long term.”  The company’s roots go back to 1912, when a Swedish
engineering business entered the Russian market by establishing
a subsidiary in the Grand Duchy of  Finland , then part of the
Russian empire, according to YIT’s website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kasper Viita in Helsinki at 
 kviita1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net  