-- 
‘Limitless’ Debuts as Top Film With $18.9 Million in Sales

-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e   a n d   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 
2011-03-21T20:54:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/-limitless-is-top-weekend-film-with-19-million-rango-stays-in-second.html
“Limitless,” a thriller from
Relativity Media LLC about a mind-expanding drug, opened in
first place in U.S. and Canadian theaters over the weekend with
box-office sales of $18.9 million.  “Rango,” the  Johnny Depp  animated comedy, held at second
place with $15.1 million, Hollywood.com Box-Office said today in
a statement. “Battle: Los Angeles,”  Sony Corp. (6758) ’s special-
effects thriller about an alien invasion, fell to third from
first with $14.5 million. “The Lincoln Lawyer,” from  Lions
Gate Entertainment Corp. (LGF) , opened in fourth with $13.2 million.  “We thought ‘Battle: Los Angeles’ would top the weekend,”
 Paul Dergarabedian , president of the box-office division of
Hollywood.com, said in a telephone interview. “It’s an action
movie appealing to teen males, and they all rushed to see it
opening weekend. I thought it would do better.”  Revenue for the top 12 films this weekend fell 9.7 percent
to $103.4 million, Hollywood.com said, as new films failed to
match the appeal of “Alice in Wonderland” and “Diary of a
Wimpy Kid,” the box-office leaders a year earlier. Domestic
box-office sales this year have fallen 20 percent to $2.02
billion. Attendance is down 21 percent.  Business Is ‘Soft’  “Even compared to normal years, business continues to be
soft,”  Brandon Gray , president of Box Office Mojo, said in a
telephone interview. “The main thing is this is a product-
driven industry and the product has been lacking in appeal.”  “Limitless” stars  Bradley Cooper  as an aspiring author
who takes an experimental drug that enables people to use 100
percent of their minds. Robert De Niro co-stars as a business
mogul who wants to use the writer’s new intellect to increase
his fortune.  “Bradley Cooper had been sort of an unknown quantity as a
leading man,” Dergarabedian said. “This proves Cooper may be
the leading man for the moment. And Relativity Media did a
fantastic job of advertising this movie.” He said pre-opening
estimates for the box-office gross were in the “low-to-mid
teens.”  Relativity, the studio releasing “Limitless,” is closely
held and independent.  “Rango” features Depp as a chameleon who tries to clean
up the Wild West town of Dirt. It marks another collaboration of
the actor and director Gore Verbinski, who oversaw Depp in
Disney’s successful “Pirates of the Caribbean” series. The
film, from  Viacom Inc. (VIA/B) ’s Nickelodeon and Paramount divisions,
has collected sales of $92.3 million in three weeks.  Saving Los Angeles  “Battle: Los Angeles” features Aaron Eckhart as a Marine
who leads a platoon trying to save the survivors of an alien
attack.  Michelle Rodriguez  and Bridget Moynahan co-star in the
film, which has taken in $60.5 million in two weeks.  Sony’s  Columbia Pictures  spent an estimated $100 million
making the movie, according to the  Internet Movie Database .  “The Lincoln Lawyer” stars Matthew McConaughey as a
lawyer who works out of a black Lincoln sedan. His life takes a
dangerous turn after he is hired to defend a Beverly Hills man
accused of rape.  Lions Gate  sold about 190,000 discounted tickets to the
film through the e-mail service Groupon Inc., the Los Angeles
Times reported on March 18. Users paid $6, with the studio
making up the difference in the usual price charged by theaters,
the newspaper said.  The science-fiction comedy “Paul,” also new for the
weekend, had sales of $13 million for  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s  Universal
Pictures  to take fifth place. In the film, an alien named Paul
escapes from a U.S. military base. Simon Pegg and Nick Frost
play two slackers who try to return him to his space ship. Seth Rogen provides the voice for the computer-generated Paul.  The amounts below are based on actual ticket sales for
March 18-20.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael White in  Los Angeles  at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net ;
Don Jeffrey in New York at 
 djeffrey1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  