-- 
Abu Dhabi Shares Gain on Saudi Spending, Libya Intervention

-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 
2011-03-21T08:28:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/abu-dhabi-shares-gain-on-saudi-spending-libya-intervention.html
  Abu Dhabi  shares advanced for a
second day on optimism government spending in Saudi Arabia will
aid a regional economic recovery, after protests in Bahrain were
contained and as allied forces stalled Libyan troops.     First Gulf Bank PJSC (FGB) , a lender controlled by Abu Dhabi’s
ruling family, gained a third day and  National Bank of Abu Dhabi
PJSC (NBAD) , the  United Arab Emirates ’ second-biggest bank by assets,
climbed 3.1 percent. The  ADX General Index (ADSMI)  increased 0.5 percent
to 2,614.15, the highest intraday level since March 16, at 12:11
p.m. in Abu Dhabi. The measure has slumped 4.5 percent since
Tunisia’s Zine El Abidine Ben Ali was ousted by a popular
movement on Jan 14. Saudi Arabia’s Tadawul All Share Index was
little changed after rallying 4.5 percent yesterday.  Plans to increase spending in Saudi Arabia have helped
boost local shares and “will continue to be the main driver for
U.A.E. companies that have presence in Saudi,” said Nabil Farhat, partner at Abu Dhabi-based Al Fajer Securities. “In the
Gulf Cooperation Council, the situation in Bahrain is
contained” in that country.  Demonstrators across the Middle East, including Yemen,  Libya  and Bahrain are demanding civil rights, higher living
standards and the removal of entrenched regimes. Saudi Arabia’s
King Abdullah on March 18 announced the construction of 500,000
houses at a cost of 250 billion riyals ($66.7 billion) and
raised the value of individual mortgages provided to nationals
to 500,000 riyals from 300,000 riyals to quell protests in the
kingdom. The new package comes after the announcement of $36
billion in spending on Feb. 23.  GCC Forces  Bahrain’s King Hamad bin Isa Al Khalifa said the country
foiled a foreign plot to subvert security and stability after
the government accused  Iran  of "interference." The nation
declared a three-month state of emergency on March 15 after
troops from  Saudi Arabia , Iran’s main regional rival, and other
Gulf states arrived to support the administration. The role of
the military force in Bahrain is to protect the security of GCC
nations and there is no timeline for withdrawal, said Abdul Rahman al-Attiyah, the group’s secretary-general.  In Libya, allied officials said two days of strikes by
missiles and warplanes have effectively grounded Muammar Qaddafi’s air force, halting his advances into the rebel
stronghold of Benghazi, Libya’s second-biggest city. Oil climbed
as the air strikes threatened to prolong a supply outage in
North Africa’s third-biggest producer.  First Gulf Bank increased 2.2 percent to 16.2 dirhams.
National Bank of Abu Dhabi was headed for its biggest gain since
Feb. 2, climbing to 11.75 dirhams.  The  Bloomberg GCC 200 Index (BGCC200)  rose 0.3 percent. Bahrain’s BB
All Share Index gained less than 0.1 percent. Oman’s  MSM30 Index (MSM30) 
advanced 0.2 percent and Qatar’s gauge increased 0.4 percent.
Kuwait’s measure climbed 0.7 percent. Dubai’s gauge retreated
0.4 percent after surging 2.6 percent yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  