-- 
African Union Panel Is Denied Permission to Land in Libya

-- B y   W i l l i a m   D a v i s o n   a n d   O u d a a   M a r o u f
-- 
2011-03-21T15:34:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/african-union-negotiating-committee-is-denied-permission-to-land-in-libya.html
The  African Union  said a panel
established to negotiate a solution to the crisis in  Libya  was
denied entry into the North African country.  Representatives from South Africa, Uganda, the Republic of
Congo, Mali and Mauritania had planned to travel to Libya
yesterday to meet officials from Muammar Qaddafi’s government
and rebels opposed to his rule.  The panel “requested the required permission for the
flight carrying its members to Libya” to comply with a  United
Nations  Security Council resolution that imposed a no-fly zone
on Libya, the Addis Ababa, Ethiopia-based organization said in
an e-mailed statement yesterday. “The committee was denied
permission.”  The AU didn’t say who denied the panel permission. AU Peace
and Security Commissioner Ramtane Lamamra didn’t answer three
calls to his mobile phone today seeking comment.  The U.S., U.K. and  France  on March 19 launched missiles and
airstrikes at targets in Libya to halt attacks on rebel-held
towns in the east of the country. The coalition ordered Qaddafi
to withdraw his forces from major cities after weeks of fighting
that has left hundreds dead in the bloodiest of popular
uprisings to have swept the Middle East this year.  Sideshow  “Steps by the AU condemning the violence and marshalling a
mediation panel are now a sideshow alongside the actions of the
wider international community,” Nana Ampofo, a partner and
political analyst at London-based Songhai Advisory, said in an
e-mailed note.  The AU has opposed any form of foreign military
intervention in Libya, though the three AU members on the UN
Security Council,  Nigeria ,  South Africa  and Gabon, voted in
favor of the no-fly zone.  The AU Commission will hold a meeting in Addis Ababa on
March 25 with representatives from the League of Arab States,
the Organization of the Islamic Conference, the European Union
and the United Nations to discuss ways of resolving the crisis
in Libya, it said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
William Davison in Addis Ababa at 
 wdavison3@bloomberg.net ;
Marouf Oudaa in Nouakchott at 
 moudaa@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Richardson at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 