-- 
AIG, Three Others Will Pay $27 Million in Antitrust Suit

-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 
2011-03-21T22:33:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/aig-three-other-insurers-to-pay-27-million-in-antitrust-suit.html
American International Group Inc. (AIG) ,
the bailed-out insurer, is one of four insurance companies that
will pay a total of $27 million to resolve a lawsuit claiming
they improperly sold excess casualty policies.  AIG, Liberty Mutual Holding Co., Travelers Cos., Inc. and
 XL Group Plc (XL)  agreed to settle the case with buyers of insurance
policies sold from 1998 through 2004. Five other insurers agreed
to settle a related set of claims over non-excess casualty
policies.  “We are pleased to have reached an agreement to resolve
this matter,” said company spokesman Mark Herr in an e-mailed
statement. “Through this settlement, AIG brings an end to
another long-standing lawsuit about events from many years
ago.”  Zurich Financial Services AG (ZURN) , the largest Swiss insurer,
and Arthur J. Gallagher & Co., an insurance broker, previously
settled the case pending in federal court in Trenton,  New
Jersey . Zurich, based in the Swiss city of the same name, agreed
to pay $121.8 million to clients and $30 million in attorneys’
fees. Gallagher, based in Itasca,  Illinois , agreed to pay $28
million to clients and $8.9 million in attorneys’ fees.  The case was inspired by a 2004 regulatory probe by  Eliot Spitzer , then the New York attorney general, of a conspiracy by
brokers and insurers to stifle competition.  The company used fake quotes to steer clients to favored
insurers in exchange for hidden fees, Spitzer said in his suit.
Marsh & McLennan Inc. settled with him in 2005 by agreeing to
pay $850 million to customers across the U.S. Some 70,000
clients, including more than 90 percent of the largest, accepted
the compensation.  Spitzer won $3 billion in settlements over sales and
accounting practices from insurers including AIG, Travelers, and
Hartford Financial Services Group Inc. and brokers including Aon
Corp. and Willis Group Holdings Ltd., all of which were named in
the customer lawsuit.  The case is In Re Insurance Brokerage Antitrust Litigation,
04-5184, U.S. District Court, District of New Jersey (Trenton).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Voreacos in  Newark , New Jersey, at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 