-- 
Taiwan’s New Home Sales Tax May End Seven-Year Rally in Property Market

-- B y   C h i n m e i   S u n g
-- 
2011-03-21T01:46:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/taiwan-s-home-tax-may-curb-seven-year-property-rally-fubon-polaris-say.html
  Taiwan ’s plan to impose a tax on
home sales may cap seven years of gains after earlier measures
failed to stop increases in housing prices that climbed to a
record, Fubon Securities Co. and Polaris Securities Co. said.  Home prices in the capital Taipei may be unchanged this
year, while those in the surrounding areas may fall as much as 5
percent from a year earlier, said Terry Liu at Fubon Securities
and James Huang at Polaris Securities, both in Taipei.  Taiwan,  Hong Kong ,  China  and  Singapore  are struggling to
ease speculation in their real estate markets after home prices
posted further gains in spite of measures including taxes and
restrictions on second mortgages. Taiwan’s Cabinet this month
approved a proposal by the  finance ministry  on a 15 percent tax
on residential properties sold within a year after purchases.  “A lot of speculators will want to dump their holdings
before July, and as the time gets near, they will also lower
prices,” Huang said. “The cost of mortgages remains low
despite the expectations of further tightening this year.”  The proposed tax also includes a 10 percent levy on homes
sold within two years. The plan was sent to parliament for
approval before it can be implemented on July 1, Finance
Minister Lee Sush-der said in a parliament session last week.  The Taiex Construction Index, which tracks 36 developers
and construction companies, lost 20 percent this year, the most
among 28 industry measures on the benchmark index.  More Effective  Central Bank Governor Perng Fai-nan said on March 10 the
tax proposal will be more effective in curbing property
speculation than raising borrowing costs.  Home prices  in Taipei
rose 12.2 percent last year to a record, according to Dave Chiou,
an analyst at Citigroup Inc.  The central bank is due to meet March 31 to debate whether
to join neighbors from China to  South Korea  in raising borrowing
costs this year, after increasing them in three steps last year
to try to avert a property bubble. Policy makers are set to
raise borrowing costs 0.125 percentage point to 1.75 percent at
their quarterly meeting on March 31, Huang said.  The monetary authority in December capped second-home
mortgages in Taipei at 60 percent of the purchase price, from 70
percent in June, and restricted loans using land as collateral
to 65 percent of the real estate value.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chinmei Sung in Taipei at 
 csung4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  