-- 
Ringgit Advances on Easing Nuclear Risk in Japan; Bonds Drop

-- B y   D a v i d   Y o n g
-- 
2011-03-21T08:33:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/malaysia-s-ringgit-strengthens-on-easing-nuclear-risk-in-japan.html
Malaysia’s ringgit gained for a
fourth day as the risk of radiation leaks from a nuclear power
plant in  Japan  eased, improving the outlook for  Asia ’s second-
largest economy.  The currency headed for its longest winning streak in a
month on speculation the central bank will allow more
appreciation or raise  interest rates  to fight inflation.
Malaysia will require its banks to set aside twice as much in
reserves from April 1 as it grapples with rising prices. The
Group of Seven nations sold yen on March 18 to calm currency
markets roiled in the aftermath of Japan’s largest earthquake on
record.  “The G-7 action is giving a positive signal to the market
and tempers the risk of an economic slowdown,” said Nik M. Khairul, a treasury dealer at Asian Finance Bank Bhd. in  Kuala
Lumpur . “The focus is back on efforts to tackle inflation in
the region” which could benefit currencies, he said.  The ringgit strengthened 0.4 percent to a one-week high of
3.0385 per dollar as of 4:20 p.m. in Kuala Lumpur, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s also the biggest gain since
March 1.  Japan accounted for 10 percent of Malaysian exports last
year, according to data published by the Southeast Asian
nation’s trade ministry. Only Singapore and  China  bought more.  Bank Negara Malaysia lifted the statutory reserve
requirement ratio to 2 percent from 1 percent on March 11, with
the rise taking effect on April 1.  Bonds Decline  Inflation in  Southeast Asia ’s third-largest economy
accelerated 2.7 percent in February from a year earlier,
compared with 2.4 percent in January, according to the median
estimate of economists in a Bloomberg News survey. The
statistics department will report on March 25.  Ten-year notes fell for a second day, lifting yields from
near a two-month low, on concern faster inflation will erode
demand for the safest securities.  The yield on the 4.16 percent note due July 2021 increased
4 basis points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 4.03 percent,
according to Bursa Malaysia. The price dropped 0.35, or 3.5
ringgit per 1,000 ringgit face amount, to 101.1  The  finance ministry  is scheduled to auction Shariah-
compliant notes maturing in September 2014 in the next two
weeks, according to its sales calendar.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Yong in  Singapore  at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 