-- 
Malaysia Stock Movers: Hock Seng Lee, MISC, Scomi Engineering

-- B y   B a r r y   P o r t e r   a n d   B e r n i   M o e s t a f a
-- 
2011-03-21T09:26:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/malaysia-stock-movers-misc-notion-vtec-scomi-engineering.html
Shares of the following companies
had unusual moves in Malaysia trading. Stock symbols are in
parentheses, and prices are as of the 5 p.m. close in Kuala
Lumpur.  Malaysia’s  FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI (FBMKLCI)  Index rose 4.99 points,
or 0.3 percent, to 1,508.88, gaining for a second day.  Sarawak-based construction companies:  Encorp Bhd. (ENCO)  
jumped 12 percent to 91 sen, the most since October 2009.  Cahya
Mata Sarawak Bhd. (CMS)   rose 3.9 percent to 2.69 ringgit and  Hock Seng Lee Bhd. (HSL)   gained 2.3 percent to 1.81 ringgit.  The shares rose ahead of elections in Malaysia’s eastern
state of Sarawak. Investors should use the polls to accumulate
shares of construction companies in the state as some major
contracts may be awarded in coming weeks, Wong Chew Hann, an
analyst at Maybank Investment Bank Bhd. said in a report today,
citing Hock Seng Lee as the top pick.    MISC Bhd. (MISC)  , the world’s biggest owner-operator of
liquefied natural gas tankers, rose 1.3 percent to 7.94 ringgit.
Parent company Petroliam Nasional Bhd. said it may ship more LNG
to Japan following the country’s earthquake and tsunami.    Notion VTEC Bhd. (NVB)  , a metal processor and tools
maker, advanced 6 percent to 1.96 ringgit, the most since Jan.
7. The company said it will manufacture camera body mounts for
Nikon Corp. following damage to some of the Japanese company’s
plants in this month’s earthquake and tsunami. This may
contribute as much as 60 million ringgit ($19.7 million) to
annual sales, according to an exchange filing.    Scomi Engineering Bhd. (SEB)  , a builder and engineering
group, jumped 9.4 percent to 93 sen, the biggest advance since
Dec. 6. The company may win a $782 million monorail project in
Brazil with its local partners, the Edge weekly newspaper
reported on March 19, citing unidentified people familiar with
the matter. Kanesan Velupillai, a spokesman at the company,
couldn’t be reached when called at his office.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Barry Porter in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 bporter10@bloomberg.net ;
Berni Moestafa in Jakarta at 
 bmoestafa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  