-- 
Alfa, Metalloinvest Boost Loans as Russia Benefits From Oil Surge, Turmoil

-- B y   K a r e n   E e u w e n s
-- 
2011-03-21T10:17:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/alfa-metalloinvest-boost-loans-as-russia-benefits-from-oil-surge-turmoil.html
  Alfa Bank , OAO Metalloinvest and
Vnesheconombank are pushing loan volumes in  Russia  to the
highest since 2008, even as U.S. firms cancel deals in the
aftermath of Japan’s worst-ever earthquake and ballooning oil
prices amid war in  Libya  and uprisings across the Middle East.  Russian borrowers are seeking as much as $5.5 billion of
syndicated loans, bringing total deals this quarter to $12.7
billion, the most in three years, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Almost $14 billion of loans were made to the region
in the comparable period in 2008, the data show.  The country’s economy is benefiting from a surge in oil,
its biggest export earner, as continued unrest in the Gulf push
the commodity to $102.63 a barrel as of 8:37 a.m. in  London , up
12.3 percent since the start of the year. The Micex Index of 30
Russian stocks advanced for a fourth day to 1,759.73, heading
for the longest winning streak in two months.  “Today Russia is lucky,” Ronald Freeman, who sits on the
board of companies including steelmaker OAO Severstal and
investment bank Troika Dialog, said at the Bloomberg Link Hedge
Fund Conference in London on March 17. “There’s turbulence in
the Middle East, tragedy in Japan. Russia is an energy safe
haven with massive reserves. Stable cash flows, political
stability and long-life reserves are bringing people back to
Russia.”  Undercutting Sberbank  Alfa Bank, Russia’s biggest private lender, is seeking a
syndicated loan for as much as $300 million, its first in three
years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The Moscow-based
lender follows state-owned Vnesheconombank and VTB Group in
approaching international banks for new loans.  Vnesheconombank, Russia’s development bank known as VEB,
offered to pay initial interest of 130 basis points over the
London interbank offered rate on a new $2 billion three-year  term loan , according to data compiled by Bloomberg. This is 20
basis points lower than the 150 basis-point interest margin
negotiated by state-owned OAO Sberbank for a similar deal in
December. VTB may also seek to undercut Sberbank’s pricing on a
new three-year loan of as much as $2 billion, three people in
talks with the Moscow-based bank said March 3.  Metalloinvest, Russia’s biggest iron ore producer, wants to
shave a percentage point from its borrowing costs, according to
Bloomberg data. The Moscow-based company agreed to pay initial
interest of 300 basis points over the London interbank offered
rate on a new $1.2 billion five-year pre-export loan, compared
with an initial interest margin of 400 basis points on the $1.6
billion loan it’s replacing, which was signed in 2008, Bloomberg
data show.  Aggressive Bidding  Interest margins on loans to Russian borrowers fell 6
percent to an average of 301 basis points during the past six
months, according to Bloomberg data.  “There continues to be strong demand for high-quality
emerging market assets,” said David Pepper, head of Central and
Eastern Europe, Middle East and Africa loan syndications at
WestLB AG in London. “So long as primary deal flow remains
sluggish pricing is likely to continue to tighten as banks
compete aggressively on the mandates for the better-quality
names.”  Borrowers in Europe and Russia have so far proved more
resilient than their U.S. peers to market shocks including
explosions in  Japan ’s Fukushima atomic plant following a
magnitude-9.0 earthquake on March 11 and political upheaval in
the Middle East. The U.S., U.K. and  France  attacked military
targets in Libya over the weekend.  U.S. companies including Asurion Corp., the Nashville-based
provider of wireless handset insurance, Toys “R” Us Inc., the
world’s biggest toy retailer, and Chantilly-based engineering
firm Tasc Inc. cancelled $10.4 billion of leveraged loan deals
last week. So far, no European deals have been pulled, according
to Bloomberg data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Eeuwens in London 
 keeuwens@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net . 