-- 
Allies May Not ‘Completely Destroy’ Libyan Forces, Ham Says

-- B y   B r e n d a n   M c G a r r y
-- 
2011-03-21T23:59:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/allies-may-not-completely-destroy-libyan-forces-ham-says.html
The U.S.-led military operation in
Libya may not “completely destroy” the Libyan forces loyal to
 Muammar Qaddafi  or provide close air support to the rebels, the
top U.S. general said.  “There is no intent to completely destroy the Libyan
military,” Army General Carter Ham, commander of U.S. Africa
Command, told reporters at the Pentagon via teleconference from
his headquarters in Stuttgart,  Germany . “The mission is to
protect civilians. We have no mission to support opposition
forces if they were to engage in offensive operations.”  Coalition aircraft were expanding enforcement of the no-fly
zone over Libya, Ham said.  The coalition struck a command-and-control facility near a
Qaddafi compound in Tripoli. Qaddafi himself isn’t a target and
it’s possible that Qaddafi remains in power, Ham said.  “I could envision that as a possible situation, at least
for the current mission that I have,” Ham said on Qaddafi
staying in power.  “I have no mission to attack that person,” he said. “We
are not seeking his whereabouts or anything like that.”  The opening volley of Operation Odyssey Dawn included 124
 Raytheon Co. (RTN)  Tomahawk cruise missiles fired from U.S. and U.K.
destroyers and submarines,  Boeing Co. (BA)  satellite-guided  JDAM 
bombs dropped from B-2 stealth bombers and laser-guided GBU-12
 Paveway  II bombs dropped from AV-8B Harrier jump jets. Paveways
are made by Raytheon and  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)   Aerial Armada  At least 19 U.S. aircraft participated in the strikes,
including three  Northrop Grumman Corp. (NOC)   B-2  stealth bombers, four
Boeing  F-15 E fighters, eight Lockheed Martin  F-16 CJ fighters and
four Boeing  AV-8B  Harriers. The campaign also included Boeing
 EA-18G  Growlers.  The attacks targeted early warning radars, communication
centers and surface-to-air missile sites in and around Tripoli
and Misrata, aircraft hangers at the Ghardabiya airfield, and an
armored convoy south of Benghazi.  U.S. and British forces in the past day fired an additional
12 Tomahawk  cruise missiles  at Libyan military targets from
warships in the Mediterranean, according to Ham.  The first two days of attacks prevented Qaddafi’s forces
from advancing on the rebel-held city of Benghazi, Ham said. The
mission is currently focused on extending the no-fly zone from
Benghazi toward Brega, Misrata and Tripoli, he said.  Coalition Sorties  The coalition flew between 70 and 80 sorties today, with
more than half conducted by non-U.S. aircraft, Ham said.  France ,
 Spain , Italy, Denmark and the U.K. enforced the no-fly zone over
Benghazi, and coalition vessels patrolled the coast, he said.  The French aircraft carrier  Charles de Gaulle  and the
Italian carrier Giuseppe Garibaldi have joined the coalition’s
armada in the  Mediterranean Sea  off the coast of Libya.  “We have not observed Libyan military aircraft operating
since the beginning of coalition military operations,” Ham
said. “Libyan naval vessels have returned to or have remained
in port.”  The U.S.-led mission is being coordinated by Navy Admiral
Samuel Locklear aboard the command and control ship  USS Mount
Whitney . That will shift to a multinational headquarters as soon
as possible, Ham said. Planning to transfer command is under way
and mustn’t disrupt combat operations or put air crews at risk,
he said.  “We will accomplish that transition as expeditiously as
possible,” he said.  There are no plans to deploy U.S. ground forces in  Libya ,
Ham said. “There are no American boots on the ground,” he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brendan McGarry in Washington at 
 bmcgarry2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  