-- 
Allies Expand Libya No-Fly Zone as Strikes Force Halt in Loyalist Attacks

-- B y   B r e n d a n   M c G a r r y   a n d   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 
2011-03-21T19:54:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/allies-expand-libyan-attacks-as-qaddafi-vows-to-repel-christian-states-.html
Allied forces are expanding their
air campaign over Libya after strikes forced fighters loyal to
leader  Muammar Qaddafi  to halt their attacks against the rebel
stronghold of Benghazi.  President  Barack Obama  said the U.S. expects to hand over
military leadership to allies within days once the initial phase
-- knocking out air defenses to support the no-fly zone -- is
complete.  The most recent military actions “are focused on extending
the no-fly zone southward, then westward from Benghazi,”
General Carter Ham, the U.S. commander for combat operations
against Libya, said in Stuttgart,  Germany .  “There is no intent to completely destroy the Libyan
military,” Ham, who heads the U.S. Africa Command, told
reporters at the Pentagon via teleconference. “The mission is
to protect civilians. We have no mission to support opposition
forces if they were to engage in offensive operations.”  Rebel forces pushed out of Benghazi toward the outskirts of
the city of Ajdabiya, which is surrounded by pro-Qaddafi forces,
the  Associated Press  reported today.  U.K. Foreign Secretary  William Hague  today refused to rule
out the possibility that U.K. special forces will be deployed as
the allied mission grows, saying only that there would be no
occupation of the country. Coalition forces used elite soldiers
in  Afghanistan  to target tanks and other heavy weapons for
precision air attacks.  Oil Prices  The allied bombardment, which began March 19, moved oil
markets today as fighting threatened to prolong supply
disruptions. Crude oil for April delivery increased $1.26 to
$102.33 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange .  Obama, speaking in Santiago,  Chile , said the U.S. will hand
over the military leadership role “in a matter of days, not a
matter of weeks.”  The option of having the North Atlantic Treaty Organization
take charge may hinge on reservations expressed by Turkish Prime
Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan .  Both Britain and  France  supported giving leadership to
NATO, which requires unanimous approval from its 28 member
countries, including  Turkey . Italian foreign minister Franco Frattini said that unless NATO takes control of the operation,  Italy  would “reflect” on its decision to permit use of its
bases launching the attacks.  Arab Politics  Complicating matters, Arab League allies, who called for
the no-fly zone, may not want to operate under NATO’s
leadership, U.S. Defense Secretary Robert Gates said at a news
conference yesterday.  The coalition ordered Qaddafi to pull his forces back from
major cities after weeks of fighting that has left hundreds dead
in the bloodiest of the popular uprisings to have swept the
Middle East this year.  Russian Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  criticized the allied
attacks as a “medieval call for a crusade,” an inflammatory
phrase in Muslim nations that Russian President  Dmitry Medvedev 
dismissed as “unacceptable.” Their conflict came a year before
the next presidential election, in which both men have said they
may run.  Allied air power forced Qaddafi’s loyalists to pull back
from Benghazi after recapturing almost all the towns they lost
during the uprising. The coalition, which includes the U.S., the
U.K. and France, wiped out Libyan air defenses with  Raytheon Co. (RTN) 
Tomahawk cruise missiles while allied jets hit airfields and
some of Qaddafi’s tanks.  Libyan Targets  A cruise missile smashed into Qaddafi’s residential
compound, knocking down half of a three-story administrative
building, the AP reported. It wasn’t immediately known if there
were any casualties, the agency said.  “I’m not going to get drawn into the detail of who might
be targeted because I don’t think it is right,” Hague told BBC
Radio 4’s “Today” program when asked if the UN resolution
barred attacks on Qaddafi. “I don’t think in a conflict and the
enforcement of the UN resolution, to give people all the details
of what might or might not be targeted, is wise.”  U.S. Defense Secretary  Robert Gates  said yesterday the
campaign should be limited to the terms of the resolution rather
than being broadened to target Qaddafi directly.  Qaddafi’s Life  The chief of Britain’s defense staff, General David Richards, said Qaddafi can’t be directly targeted.  “It’s not allowed under the UN resolution and it’s not
something I want to discuss further,” Richards told BBC News
television today.  Regarding the possible deployment of special forces, Hague
said that “circumstances can arise when these sorts of things
happen. It would be foolish to exclude it.”  The British military launched new strikes on Libyan targets
overnight.  “For a second time, the U.K. has launched guided Tomahawk
land attack missiles from a Trafalgar-class submarine in the
Mediterranean as part of a coordinated coalition plan to enforce
the resolution,” the chief U.K. spokesman, Major General John
Lorimer, said in an e-mailed statement early this morning.  U.S. Vice Admiral Bill Gortney said  Spain ,  Belgium , Denmark
and Qatar have joined the coalition. The U.S., the U.K., France,
Italy and  Canada  have at least 25 ships off the coast of  Libya .  Spanish Fighters  Two Spanish fighters and a refueling aircraft undertook
their first mission as part of the coalition, the Spanish
Defense Ministry said.  Attacks have been “highly successful,” Lorimer said.  “Although they claimed a cease-fire yesterday, there is no
evidence” of a change of policy from Qaddafi, Lorimer said.
“Opposition sources are saying that Qaddafi is removing forces
from Benghazi and targeting elsewhere.”  A United Nations resolution passed on March 17 permits
“all necessary measures” short of an occupation to protect
civilians from violence. Western leaders haven’t said what
they’ll do if the no-fly zone fails to force Qaddafi to comply.  Unrest continued in Yemen today, as some army leaders and
diplomats abandoned the regime of President Ali Abdullah Saleh,
three days after a crackdown that left dozens dead.  Military officers including Mohammed Ali Muhssein,
commander of the eastern region, and Hamid al-Qushaibi, head of
an armored brigade, have “announced their support for the
revolution,” said Mohammed al-Sabri, an opposition leader.
Dozens of army and internal security officials, including three
generals, have joined protesters calling for an end to Saleh’s
rule three-decade rule, al-Jazeera television reported.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brendan McGarry in Washington at 
 bmcgarry2@bloomberg.net ;
Kitty Donaldson in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  