-- 
Allies’ Lack of Exit Plan Risks Splitting Libya, Qaddafi Staying

-- B y   L e o n   M a n g a s a r i a n
-- 
2011-03-21T00:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/allies-lack-of-exit-plan-risks-dividing-libya-with-qaddafi-keeping-power.html
Allied military leaders said the
attack on Libya may end without dislodging  Muammar Qaddafi ,
highlighting the risk of splitting the country and the absence 
of a clear exit strategy.  Admiral Mike Mullen, chairman of the U.S. Joint Chiefs of
Staff, and British Defense Secretary Liam Fox said Qaddafi’s
ouster wasn’t the aim of the campaign, whose stated goal is to
protect civilians from a potential onslaught.  “It’s like someone rushing to action in the movies -- It
looks good but it doesn’t work in real life,”  Jan Techau ,
director of the  Carnegie Endowment for International Peace  in
Brussels and a former analyst at the NATO Defense College in  Rome , said in an interview. “You can’t have an exit strategy
without having goals, and we don’t know what the goals are in  Libya .”  The coalition ordered Qaddafi to withdraw his forces from
major cities after weeks of fighting with rebels that has left
hundreds dead in the bloodiest of popular uprisings to have
swept the Middle East this year. Mullen said a no-fly zone was
in place as Qaddafi vowed to repel allied forces.  The priority is to stop Qaddafi “brutalizing” his own
people and not to implement “regime change,” Fox told the  BBC ’s “Politics Show” in  London  yesterday, adding that the
Libyan leader could well “hunker down” and remain in the
country.  Mullen said “the goals of this campaign right now again
are limited and isn’t about seeing” Qaddafi go. Asked in an NBC
“Meet the Press”  interview  yesterday if the mission could be
accomplished with Qaddafi still in power, Mullen said: “That’s
certainly potentially one outcome.”  Dividing Country  The conflict might lead to the division of Libya, the
holder of Africa’s biggest oil reserves, between liberated parts
and Qaddafi-ruled territory, said Volker Perthes, director of
the  German Institute for International and Security Affairs  in
Berlin.  “There’s an historic analogy to this: The no-fly zones set
up in northern  Iraq  after the first  Gulf War  which allowed the
Kurds to set up an autonomous region,” Perthes said.    Iraqi Kurdistan  achieved virtual independence after the
first Gulf War in 1991, when the U.S. established a no-fly zone
over the area that lasted until the 2003 invasion of Iraq.  With Libya being pounded by Tomahawk Cruise missiles and
bombing runs by U.S., French, British and Canadian jets, choking
off Qaddafi’s finances and oil exports may be the quickest way
to force out the Libyan leader.  ‘Decisive Screws’  “Cash and oil are the decisive screws that can be
tightened to ratchet up pressure on the regime,” Perthes, whose
institute advises the German government, said in a telephone
interview.  “If this happens, it’s a matter of months and not years,”
Perthes said. “Qaddafi needs dollars to pay mercenaries from
Mali or  Niger . They want cash, not transfers to Swiss accounts.
If the boycott holds, the Libyan currency will sink and won’t be
accepted.”  In the 1999  Kosovo  War, it took 78 days of air strikes by
NATO forces to bring about Serbia’s withdrawal from Kosovo,
General Sir  Mike Jackson , Britain’s former military chief, said
in a Sky News interview.  “Cutting off Qaddafi’s oil and money is absolutely
crucial,” Shada Islam, a Middle East and Asia expert at the
 Friends of Europe  policy-advisory group in Brussels, said in a
telephone interview. “This can’t just be a military
operation.”  Oil Output  Shokri Ghanem, the chairman of Libya’s National Oil Corp.,
said March 19 that Libyan oil production has slumped to less
than 400,000 barrels a day and “could reach a halt.” Daily
supply from  Africa ’s third-largest producer was 1.58 million
barrels in January, according to the Paris-based  International
Energy Agency .  The  United Nations Security Council  last month voted to
freeze the assets of Qaddafi and key aides. The European Union
earlier this month extended sanctions against Qaddafi’s regime
to the Libyan Investment Authority and the central bank. The
Bank of  Italy  on March 14 took control of Banca UBAE SpA, the
Rome-based trade-financing bank owned by Libya’s central bank.
UBAE had 3.1 billion euros ($4.4 billion) of deposits at the end
of 2009.  President  Barack Obama  and the leaders of France, the U.K.
and other Western nations have said that Qaddafi must go. The
Arab League backed the no-fly zone imposed on Libya, and Qatar’s
leader said today it will deploy its jets with the allies.  Qaddafi’s Response  “If Qaddafi’s forces begin to roll back and the rebels
advance, then, potentially, that is a process that could drive
Qaddafi from power,”  Anthony Cordesman , senior defense analyst
at the Center for Strategic and International Studies in  Washington , said in a telephone interview on March 19.  If ground forces hold, he said, “then it gets to be a lot
harder, and the question is, can some combination of the rebels
and allied air power drive Qaddafi out of the capability of
using his forces, and eventually from power, or will the U.S.
have to go from providing these command and control and
intelligence assets, and striking at surface-to-air missiles, to
a much more direct form of intervention? At this point none of
us know.”  Qaddafi reacted with defiance to the strikes vowing his
country would become hell for the “monsters” attacking it.  “We will not leave our oil to America or  France  or Britain
or the enemy Christian states that are aligned now against us,”
the Libyan leader, who has ruled since 1969, said on state
television yesterday. “We will not leave our land. We will
fight for every inch of our land and liberate every inch of
it.”  Jackson, the British general, said he didn’t think there
was much chance of “Qaddafi throwing in the towel.”  “There may be action taken against him from within Libya
itself,” Jackson said in the Sky News television interview.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Leon Mangasarian in Berlin at 
 lmangasarian@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  