-- 
Malone's Liberty Global Agrees to Buy Kabel BW From EQT for $4.5 Billion

-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d   a n d   R a g n h i l d   K j e t l a n d
-- 
2011-03-21T18:50:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/malone-s-liberty-global-agrees-to-buy-kabel-bw-from-eqt-for-4-5-billion.html
U.S. billionaire  John Malone ’s
 Liberty Global Inc. (LBTYA)  cable operator agreed to buy Germany’s Kabel
Baden-Wuerttemberg GmbH for about 3.16 billion euros ($4.5
billion), trumping offers from private equity firms.  The purchase price for Germany’s third-largest cable
television operator excludes transaction costs, Liberty Global
said in a statement today. The deal, subject to regulatory
approval, may be completed in the second half.  Kabel BW is Malone’s second such German acquisition in less
than two years to benefit from demand for broadband  Internet
access  via cable. Liberty agreed to buy Unitymedia, Germany’s
second-largest cable operator, in November 2009, to extend its
reach in an industry where revenue may increase by more than 30
percent in Europe by 2014 from about 19 billion euros in 2010,
according to IHS Screen Digest.  “Liberty is already invested in Germany with Unitymedia,
so they have an eye on eventually merging it with Kabel BW,”
said Will Draper, a London-based analyst at  Banco Espirito Santo
SA (BES)  Investment Bank. “What Liberty sees is a market with medium-
term growth, whether or not they succeed in consolidating.”  CVC Capital Partners Ltd. and Hellman & Friedman LLC also
participated in the bidding process, according to four people
familiar with the talks. The people requested anonymity as the
talks were confidential. EQT decided against an initial public
offering on concerns that markets are too volatile in the wake
of the Japanese earthquake, tsunami and nuclear crisis, the
people said.  Growth Markets  “This transaction provides us with further access to one
of the fastest-growing cable markets in Europe,” Liberty Chief
Executive Officer Mike Fries said. The deal is “aligned with
our strategy of acquiring world class cable operations that are
accretive from a value and growth perspective.”  Liberty Global said the purchase price is equivalent to
about 8.1 times its estimate for 2011 earnings before interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortization under the IFRS
international accounting standard.  Manuel Kohnstamm, Liberty Global’s managing director of
public policy, said he’s confident about receiving regulatory
approval to combine Kabel BW’s operations with Unitymedia.  “We think we have a strong case to present, markets have
moved on and competition has intensified and Deutsche Telekom is
a formidable competitor, also in the TV space,” Kohnstamm said
in a telephone interview today.  EQT bought Heidelberg-based Kabel BW in 2006 from
Blackstone Group LP, EQT said in a separate statement today.
Since then, sales and Ebitda more than doubled, according to the
statement.  Boost Growth  Having lagged behind the rest of Europe in offering premium
television, Internet and telephony services, German cable
companies are expected to outperform European-wide market
growth, according to Guy Bisson, an analyst at IHS Screen
Digest. Demand for such services is allowing cable companies to
boost growth and bring in profit with so-called triple-play
services that combine television, Internet and telephony.  Liberty was advised by  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and
Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer LLP. EQT was advised by JPMorgan
Chase & Co., Deutsche Bank AG as well as Ernst & Young LLP,
 Hengeler Mueller , Cravath, Swaine & Moore LLP, and Clifford
Chance LLP.  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) , Germany’s former telephone monopoly,
said today that it will use some of the proceeds from its
planned $39 billion sale of its U.S. mobile unit to AT&T Inc. to
expand its broadband offerings in Europe.  “Cable is a fabulous technology asset for high-speed
broadband and can offer much higher triple play that can be
achieved with copper,” said Banco Espirito Santo’s Draper.
“Cable will keep growing at a much higher rate in terms of
profit and revenue than copper.”  Unitymedia Deal  Attempts to consolidate the German cable market failed in
the past.  Kabel Deutschland , which was separated from Deutsche
Telekom in 2003, scrapped a plan to buy Kabel BW and
Unitymedia’s Ish GmbH and Iesy eKabel Hessen GmbH units in 2004
because German antitrust regulators indicated they wouldn’t
approve the deal. The companies argue their push into broadband
and telephony means that they should be regulated as telecom
companies rather than television distributors.  Liberty Global paid about 2 billion euros and assumed 1.5
billion euros in debt to acquire Unitymedia. Kabel BW and
Unitymedia together serve about 12.4 million homes and 7 million
customers in the German states of Hesse and North Rhine-
Westphalia, making Germany the company’s largest European
market, Liberty said today.  Germany ’s largest cable operator, Kabel Deutschland, has
risen 69 percent since listing on the stock exchange in March
last year. Liberty Global has risen 16 percent this year, for a
market value of about $9.8 billion.  Revenue From Europe  Liberty, which has 3 billion euros available for
acquisitions, would be “opportunistic” about buying cable
assets in Western Europe as it seeks to bulk up, Fries said last
month. The company would like to stay focused on Western
European markets, such as  Switzerland ,  Austria , the  Netherlands ,
Germany and  Belgium , he said.  Eighty percent of Liberty Global’s revenue comes from
Europe, and two-thirds of that comes from four countries,
Belgium, Netherlands, Switzerland and Germany, Fries said. In
Central-Eastern  Europe , the company operates in five countries.  Kabel BW plans to immediately issue about 2.25 billion
euros in new debt financing to recapitalize, Liberty said today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Kirchfeld in Frankfurt at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net ;
Ragnhild Kjetland in Frankfurt at 
 rkjetland@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net ;
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  