-- 
MAN SE Targets 2011 Revenue, Profit Growth on Truck Demand

-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n   a n d   A n d r e a s   C r e m e r
-- 
2011-03-21T08:28:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/man-se-targets-2011-revenue-profit-growth-on-truck-demand.html
  MAN SE (MAN) , Europe’s third-largest
maker of commercial vehicles, said earnings will rise this year
as customers expand truck fleets in  Germany  and  Brazil  and the
global economic recovery continues.  Revenue will advance by 7 percent to 10 percent in 2011 and
the operating margin for the year will increase by at least one
percentage point from the 7.1 percent recorded in 2010, Munich-
based MAN said today in a statement.  European heavy-truck sales surged 65 percent in January,
the eighth consecutive monthly gain, the  European Association of
Automobile Manufacturers  said Feb. 25. Increasing deliveries are
also boosting profit at MAN’s rivals  Volvo AB (VOLVB)  and  Scania AB. (SCVB)  MAN
is the biggest truckmaker in Brazil, where it bought the
commercial-vehicle operations of  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  in 2009 and
introduced models under its own brand last year.  “The heavy-truck market is poised for further strong
recovery in Europe and solid momentum in Brazil,”  Daniel Schwarz , a Frankfurt-based analyst at Commerzbank AG who
recommends holding MAN stock, said before results were
published. The truck manufacturer “is well positioned to
participate in the upswing.”  MAN rose as much as 2.4 percent to 83 euros and was up 1.8
percent as of 9:27 a.m. in Frankfurt trading. That pared the
stock’s decline this year to 7.3 percent.  Return to Profit  Fourth-quarter net income totaled 342 million euros ($484
million) compared with a year-earlier loss of 472 million euros,
MAN said in its  annual report . Profit missed the 499 million-
euro average of six analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.
Full-year net income attributable to MAN shareholders was 713
million euros versus a 270 million-euro loss in 2009. Earnings
were less than the average estimate of 750 million euros.  Earnings before interest, taxes, one-time items and asset
revaluations in the quarter more than doubled to 307 million
euros from 126 million euros. Revenue gained 29 percent to 4.18
billion euros, and new orders jumped 55 percent to 4.09 billion
euros. The manufacturer is proposing a dividend of 2 euros a
share. The annual shareholders meeting, which will vote on the
2010 payout, is set for June 27.  “The outlook is very positive and is backed up by an order
intake that’s stronger than expected,” said Frank Biller, an
analyst at Landesbank Baden-Wuerttemberg in Stuttgart with a
“buy” recommendation on MAN. “The high dividend proposal vouches
for the board’s optimism that 2011 is going to be a good year.”  Chinese Models  MAN and its Chinese partner Sinotruk   Hong Kong ) Ltd. plan
to sell a new series of heavy vehicles targeted at emerging
markets starting in 2011. The German truckmaker will also raise
production capacity in Brazil by 14 percent to 82,000 units this
year and begin making its own vehicles in  Russia  in 2012.  The German manufacturer is 29.9 percent-owned by Volkswagen
after the carmaker, Europe’s biggest, bought the stake to help
Scania fend off MAN’s hostile bid four years ago. VW also took a
controlling stake in the Soedertaelje, Sweden-based company in
2008.  Talks between MAN and Scania on ways to cooperate and
possibly combine are being held up by bribery investigations at
MAN’s Ferrostaal factory-construction venture, Ferdinand Piech,
the supervisory board chairman of both MAN and VW, said on Feb.
28. MAN and Scania are “the right partners,” MAN Chief
Executive Officer Georg Pachta-Reyhofen said today.  Ferrostaal  MAN sold a 70 percent stake in Ferrostaal to Abu Dhabi’s
International Petroleum Investment Co. in 2008 to focus on
trucks,  diesel engines  and turbo machinery. IPIC has refused
since then to buy MAN’s remaining 30 percent holding because of
the ongoing legal dealings.  The German company is “still open to quickly resolving the
ownership matter at Ferrostaal” with IPIC, but “an agreement
will not be at any price,” it said in today’s statement.  The truckmaker delayed publication of its 2010 results by
three weeks from March 1 to allow more time for talks with IPIC
about a possible sale of MAN’s remaining Ferrostaal stake, two
people familiar with the matter said last month.  Prosecutors in Munich have been investigating Ferrostaal
since 2009 to find out whether the Essen, Germany-based company
bribed officials to win contracts, including submarine orders in
southern  Europe .  Volkswagen and MAN are examining options to cooperate on
building light commercial vans weighing as much as 7 metric
tons, Wolfgang Schreiber, head of VW’s van operations, said
March 16. The two companies haven’t agreed yet on any details,
he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cornelius Rahn in Munich at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net ;
Andreas Cremer in Berlin at 
 acremer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  