-- 
Arab League Committed to Libya No-Fly Zone, Moussa Says

-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n   a n d   M a r i a m   F a m
-- 
2011-03-21T12:12:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/arab-league-committed-to-libya-no-fly-zone-moussa-says-1-.html
The  Arab League  remains committed
to  United Nations ’ efforts to enforce a no-fly zone in  Libya  and
urged coalition forces to make protecting civilians a priority
for the operation, Secretary General Amr Moussa said.  “The Arab League decisions have been announced and we are
committed to them,” Moussa said at a press conference with UN
Secretary General Ban Ki-Moon in Cairo. “We respect the Security
Council resolution and have no contradiction with this
resolution, especially since it stated that there be no invasion
or occupation of Libyan lands.”  Ban praised the Arab League for its continued support,
saying it was critical for the international community to remain
united. “We need one global voice” to sustain the no-fly zone,
he said.  The Arab League’s support for a no-fly zone was decisive in
getting the  Security Council  to support the idea, Ban said at
the press conference. Media reports have indicated that some
Arab League members have been reconsidering their backing since
coalition aircraft began bombing Libyan military targets.  Talks are under way for an emergency meeting of Arab League
nations to discuss the situation in Libya, the Egyptian
government-owned Middle East News Agency reported yesterday,
citing Moussa as saying. Moussa said his remarks were
misinterpreted.  Ban also condemned violence in Yemen after press reports
that 20 people were killed when the army clashed with Houthi
rebels. He also warned about spreading unrest in  Bahrain .  The secretary general was forced to drop plans to walk
through Tahrir Square -- the scene of massive demonstrations
last
month that toppled President  Hosni Mubarak  -- before flying to
Tunis. Ban was turned back after he left the press conference
and was surrounded by a group of about 40 pro-Qaddafi
demonstrators chanting “Down, Down USA!” and waving their fists
at the secretary general.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson in Rome at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net ;
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  