-- 
Harvard’s Ferguson Praises West as China Roars Ahead: Books

-- B y   J a m e s   P r e s s l e y
-- 
2011-03-21T00:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/harvard-s-ferguson-praises-rise-of-the-west-as-china-surges-ahead-books.html
  Niall Ferguson , a prolific
purveyor of financial history, is nothing if not
counterintuitive.  As markets swooned in 2008, the Harvard professor
published “The Ascent of Money,” a paean to bankers and
credit. As  Greece  struggled to elude debt default in 2010, he
brought us “High Financier,” a biography of  Siegmund Warburg , promoter of European economic integration.  Now we get “Civilization,” a brawny study of how the
West came to dominate the globe over 500 years. This might
sound like an odd theme to trumpet amid China’s relentless
rise and America’s descent into financial purgatory. In truth,
the timing makes it a must read.  Ferguson is aware that the West risks going the way of  Rome . Civilizations, he argues, are complex and asymmetrically
organized systems: Operating between order and disorder, they
can look stable then suddenly collapse, like a sand castle.
The Incas were crushed in less than a decade, he notes; Ming
China slid into anarchy almost as fast. The French Bourbons,
the Ottoman Sultans and the British Empire -- all came unstuck
with surprising rapidity.  So it’s good to be reminded that Western civilization as
a whole has gone from strength to strength since the late 15th
century, when a throng of small European states rose to
dominate the world. If we can explain how that happened -- and
why others are assiduously copying Western methods today -- we
might shape a prognosis for the West’s future, Ferguson says.  ‘Killer Apps’  The West rose, he argues, because it developed six
overpowering advantages as its rivals grew weak. These
“killer apps,” as he calls them, were competition, science,
property rights, medicine, the consumer society and the work
ethic.  To drive the point home, Ferguson takes us on an
ambitious and engaging tour, showing Portuguese sailors
rounding the Cape of Good Hope, conquistadors plundering Latin
America, and Britons reaching North America as indentured
servants. He recalls  George Washington ’s property speculation
and Frederick the Great’s disdain for regal trappings: To him,
a crown was “a hat that let the rain in.”  By “competition,” Ferguson means the decentralization
of political and economic life that motivated hundreds of
competing European states to seek opportunities in distant
lands, invent military technologies and break financial
barriers. Ships became flying fortresses, Italians
experimented with new forms of  government borrowing , and the
Dutch cooked up joint-stock companies. It was “divide and
rule” with a twist.  “Being divided themselves,” Ferguson writes,
“Europeans were able to rule the world.”  Rifled Barrels  Across  Europe , rulers promoted science to safeguard
national interests. Thus Frederick the Great was quick to
commission a German translation of a groundbreaking work on
ballistics by Benjamin Robins of the East India Company.
Though born a Quaker, Robins recommended that gun barrels
should be rifled and bullets egg-shaped.  Chinese and Islamic innovators, who gave us breakthroughs
including  movable type  and algebra, were meanwhile stifled as
their civilizations turned inward -- the one banning oceanic
voyages, the other demolishing an Istanbul observatory.  Ferguson is at his best when exploring how property
rights bolster economic success. Here we find a cogent
explanation for why  North America  became a powerhouse while
Latin America labored under poverty and inequality. Iberians
came as elites bent on extracting gold; Britons arrived as
settlers hungry for land and imbued with powerful ideas about
how people should rule themselves -- through property rights
protected by representative government.  French Bloodletting  On medicine, Ferguson is less persuasive, partly because
his chapter on the subject digresses. We get some 20 pages on
the French Revolution -- a bloodletting that says too little
about the triumph of science over disease. He also dwells on
the pseudoscience of eugenics, notably  Germany ’s gruesome
experiments on natives in the concentration camps of South-
West Africa. (The Reichskommissar of the colony was Heinrich
Ernst Goering, father of Hermann.)  The author slips back into his narrative groove with the
birth of the consumer society -- the magical spot where worker
and consumer become one and the same -- and the work ethic,
the Protestant marriage of hard labor and thrift.  As German sociologist Max Weber assumed, Protestant
countries did tend to grow faster than Catholic ones after the
Reformation. Why? One explanation lies in how Protestantism
encouraged literacy (for reading Scripture) and printing. This
gave a fillip to human capital and scientific study.  Protestantism is, curiously, now mushrooming in  China ,
home to the world’s biggest Bible printer, Ferguson says. That
may offer a clue to the West’s future.  “The biggest threat to Western civilization is posed not
by other civilizations,” he concludes, “but by our own
pusillanimity -- and by the historical ignorance that feeds
it.”  Has China become more Western than the West?  “Civilization: The West and the Rest” is from  Allen
Lane  in the U.K. (402 pages, 25 pounds). It will be published
by Penguin Press in the U.S. in November.  (James Pressley is a book critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
James Pressley in Brussels at 
 jpressley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 