-- 
Harvard Isn’t Worth It Beyond Mom’s Party Chatter: Amity Shlaes

-- B y   A m i t y   S h l a e s
-- 
2011-03-21T23:00:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/harvard-isn-t-worth-it-beyond-mom-s-party-talk-commentary-by-amity-shlaes.html
Anxious families awaiting April
college admission news are living their own March Madness.  Their insanity is captured in Andrew Ferguson’s new book,
“Crazy U: One Dad’s Crash Course in Getting His Kid Into
College” ( Simon & Schuster ). He describes the vanity of a
desperate mother at a cocktail party who is dying to announce
her daughter’s perfect SAT scores:  “‘We were really surprised at how well she did,’ the
mother would say, running a finger around the rim of her glass
of pink Zinfandel.  Her eyes plead: Ask me what they were, just please please
ask.”  And you know Mom won’t relent there. She wants an
admissions letter from a fancy  school  as well. Such parents
justify their ambitions on three old assumptions that recent
research rates a “B” or a “C” -- not an “A.”  The first of these presumed truths is that the SATs are
just this month’s hurdle, followed by getting a college
transcript with a perfect 4.0 to get the perfect job.  Grades can matter, especially for those students and
parents who live for the next round of applications to graduate
or professional schools. But there’s a problem with the grade
emphasis. Math or science graduates earn more than students
majoring in the humanities.  Cost Analysis  A  National Bureau of Economic Research   paper  this month
shows that a significant portion of kids are open to the idea of
entering those more lucrative fields when they arrive at
college. Then, when they don’t earn A’s in math or the sciences,
they retreat to humanities majors -- not out of laziness but
concern they cannot do the work.  The second fallacy is that debt accumulated for college is
always a good investment. In coming weeks many parents will
wrestle with the choice between sending their kids to an elite
school or enrolling at a less prestigious one offering lower
tuition or a larger grant package. Many parents go for the name,
on the theory that the returns will offset the higher costs.  But debt can ruin a child’s good name, and problems tied to
college loans are far wider than default rates convey.
“Delinquency,” a new  study  of 1.8 million student borrowers by
the nonprofit Institute for Higher Education Policy, found that
for every defaulter on college debt, there are two borrowers who
are behind in payments. These delinquents see their credit
ratings drop or suffer other negative consequences.  Productivity Study  The third misconception is that a top university
affiliation is always and forever more valuable.  In 2006, E. Han Kim and Adair Morse of the  University of
Michigan , along with Luigi Zingales, then of Harvard, looked at
research productivity in economics and finance faculty who had
connections to the top 25 universities in their fields.  They  found  that those who were affiliated with a name
school in the 1970s produced more, and more original, work, but
that that effect declined in the 1980s and weakened further in
the 1990s. Some of the cleverest, most useful papers come from
the non-Harvards, non-Yales and non-Chicagos.  Another recent paper squelches the notion that a name
university leads to higher earnings over the long run. This
study,  published  by the National Bureau of Economic Research in
January, compared Israeli pre-professional students who had
similar scores on college entrance exams. Some of the students
attended the more prestigious Hebrew University while others
enrolled at the less prestigious, and more expensive, College of
Management Academic Studies.  Scores Matter  Initially, Hebrew University graduates earn more for lower
grades than do College of Management grads. Then, within several
years, the differential disappears. Those old entrance-exam
scores matter more than the school’s name in the longer run,
conclude authors Kevin Lang of  Boston University  and Erez
Siniver of the College of Management Academic Studies.  A twist on this theme comes from a  study  by Stacy Dale of
Mathematica Policy Research and Alan Krueger of Princeton (not
that that matters!). They found that the prestige of a
university is less important than the student’s test scores and
the fact that he or she aimed high when applying to colleges.  So why do parents go mad in March? One answer is love for
their children. Another is the pathology of college narcissism.
Parents want the rear-window decal on the car for themselves.
They want it so bad they ignore inputs from scholars at the very
universities they hold in such high esteem.  Peer through the narcissistic fog, and you can see the
desperate cocktail mom is correct to be proud of those scores.
It’s even a good thing that her little genius applies to, say,
Dartmouth, which saw record applications this year. And if
Dartmouth sends back the e-mail equivalent of the dreaded thin
envelope, the little genius still has a fine future. For Mom, it
may be too late.  ( Amity Shlaes , a senior fellow in economic history at the
 Council on Foreign Relations  and author of “The Forgotten Man:
A New History of the Great Depression,” is a Bloomberg News
columnist. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Amity Shlaes at  amityshlaes@hotmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  