-- 
Asian Currencies Rise as G-7 Intervention Seen Damping Global-Growth Risk

-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o   a n d   D a v i d   Y o n g
-- 
2011-03-21T08:45:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/asian-currencies-rise-as-g-7-intervention-seen-damping-global-growth-risk.html
Asian currencies gained, led by the  Singapore dollar  and the Malaysian ringgit, on speculation the
Group of Seven nations’ efforts to curb the yen’s rally will
stabilize markets and boost demand for emerging-market assets.  The yen weakened for a second day after the G-7 issued a
joint statement on March 18 saying it would join  Japan  in
concerted intervention in foreign-exchange markets. The currency
reached a postwar high of 76.25 on March 17 on speculation
Japanese companies and investors were repatriating funds after
the country’s biggest earthquake on record.  India , China,  South
Korea ,  Thailand  and Indonesia have all boosted  interest rates 
this year to combat rising prices.  “The G-7 action is giving a positive signal to the market
and tempers the risk of an economic slowdown,” said Nik M. Khairul, a treasury dealer at Asian Finance Bank Bhd. in  Kuala
Lumpur . “The focus is back on efforts to tackle inflation in
the region” which could benefit currencies, he said.  The Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia Dollar Index climbed for a
third day, up 0.2 percent to 116.50 as of 4:10 p.m. in  Hong
Kong . The Singapore dollar gained 0.6 percent to S$1.2684
against the greenback, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The ringgit strengthened 0.4 percent to 3.0388 and the
Philippine peso advanced 0.4 percent to 43.553.  China’s yuan reached a 17-year high after policy makers
raised banks’ reserve requirements for a third time this year on
March 18. Consumer prices climbed 4.9 percent in February and
January from a year earlier, according to official data. Prices
are likely to increase at a rate of less than 4 percent in 2011,
the official Xinhua news agency reported over the weekend,
citing former central bank adviser Fan Gang.  Ringgit Rises  The yuan strengthened 0.11 percent to 6.5621 per dollar
after reaching 6.5617 earlier, the strongest level since  China 
unified official and market exchange rates at the end of 1993.  “The reserve-rate increase eases suspicion that China may
use the Japan earthquake as an excuse not to allow faster
appreciation,” said  Sean Callow , a senior currency strategist
at Westpac Banking Corp. in Sydney. “The move also shows
Chinese authorities remain confident about its growth prospects
and concerned with its inflation level.”  The ringgit rose for a fourth day, posting its longest
winning streak in a month, on speculation the central bank will
allow more gains or raise interest rates to stem rising prices.  Inflation in Southeast Asia’s third-largest economy
accelerated 2.6 percent in February from a year earlier,
compared with 2.4 percent in January, according to the median
estimate of economists in a Bloomberg News survey. The
statistics department will report the data on March 25.  Indonesian Growth Forecast    Indonesia ’s rupiah advanced to its strongest level in
almost four years after the central bank said economic growth in
the first quarter may beat its forecast. The rupiah strengthened
0.4 percent to 8,733 per dollar.  Gross domestic product may increase 6.6 percent in the
three months through March, compared with an earlier estimate of
6.4 percent, Deputy Governor Hartadi Sarwono said last week. The
currency rose for a second day after U.S. Energy Secretary
Steven Chu said the Obama administration believes the worst of
Japan’s nuclear crisis is over.  “Recent comments by Indonesian officials that gross
domestic product may beat the initial forecast has set a
positive backdrop for the rupiah,” said Joanna Tan, an
economist at Forecast  Singapore  Pte. “There’s also positive
developments in Japan.”  Elsewhere, the Thai baht strengthened 0.1 percent to 30.300
per dollar. South Korea’s won rose 0.2 percent to 1,124.80 and
Taiwan’s dollar gained 0.1 percent to NT$29.572.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net ;
David Yong in Singapore at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  