-- 
Nikkei Futures, Nuclear Stocks Advance as Progress Made on Reactor Crisis

-- B y   K a n a   N i s h i z a w a   a n d   L u   W a n g
-- 
2011-03-21T20:53:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/asian-nuclear-related-shares-surge-on-signs-of-progress-at-fukushima-plant.html
Stocks in industries affected by
Japan’s worst earthquake on record rallied from Sydney to
Toronto amid signs the country is making progress bringing the
crisis at a stricken nuclear plant under control.  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average futures rose in U.S. trading,
indicating the benchmark may gain when Japan’s markets resume
trading after a public holiday yesterday. Contracts expiring in
June changed hands at 9,540 in Chicago as of 5:25 a.m. Tokyo
time, up more than 4.7 percent from the closing levels of 9,110
in  Singapore  and 9,130 in Osaka, Japan, on March 18. Tokyo
Electric Power Co., owner of the Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant,
climbed 18 percent in U.S. trading after saying it connected a
power cable to the No. 3 and 4 reactors at the plant.  “The way the Japanese market has fallen, if it was an
emerging market, I’d be in there buying because it’s a great
opportunity,” said  Mark Mobius , executive chairman of Templeton
Asset Management’s Emerging Markets Group. “I think they’re
definitely going to recover. They will come back very strong.”  The Nikkei 225 Stock Average tumbled 10 percent to 9,206.75
last week following the March 11 quake and tsunami on concern
the worst nuclear accident in 25 years would worsen. The
combined drop of 16 percent on March 14 and March 15 was the
biggest over two days since the 1987 crash. The MSCI  Asia 
Pacific Excluding Japan Index, which fell 1.7 percent last week,
gained 1.4 percent yesterday.  Uranium Stocks  Uranium producers surged worldwide. Canada’s  Cameco Corp. (CCO) 
climbed 7.4 percent to C$31.09.  Extract Resources Ltd. (EXT) , an
Australia-listed company developing a uranium project in
 Namibia , surged 14 percent to A$8.01. Paris-based  Areva SA (CEI) , the
world’s largest maker of nuclear reactors, added 4.1 percent to
31.41 euros.  In U.S. trading, Tokyo Electric climbed 18 percent to
$16.50. Toyota Motor Corp., Japan’s biggest automaker, advanced
2.7 percent to $83.75.  Japanese Prime Minister Naoto Kan said he can see “light
at the end of the tunnel” even as smoke at two reactors
hampered efforts to restore cooling systems at the troubled
Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear plant.  Kan said progress was being made in restoring power to
reactors No. 1 and No. 2, while  Tokyo Electric  said it had
connected No. 3 and No 4. Minutes later, state broadcaster NHK
said engineers were evacuated as gray smoke was seen billowing
from reactor 3. Water temperatures in ponds containing spent
nuclear fuel had retreated below boiling point, the government
said March 20.  Rebuilding Effort  “The government and the industry are taking positive steps
to deal with the situation, and the rebuilding effort is going
to be rather huge,” said Nicholas Reitenbach, an international
portfolio manager at Wilkinson O’Grady & Co. in  New York . “As a
result, Japanese stocks will probably find a lot of buying.”
Wilkinson, which oversees $2.1 billion, bought stocks in Japan
last week, Reitenbach said.  The Bank of  Japan  poured a record 5 trillion yen ($183
billion) into the world’s third-biggest economy on March 14 as
the strongest earthquake in the nation’s history triggered a
plunge in stocks and surge in credit risk.  Fiscal stimulus is projected to kick in mid-year, with
Kan’s government likely to assemble a package to rebuild roads,
housing and utilities that is forecast at 5 trillion yen ($61
billion) or higher by Nomura Holdings Inc., Morgan Stanley and
 Barclays Capital .  Japan Orders  “The reality is there will be need for steel, for
construction equipment,” Reitenbach said. “Asia will be
getting orders from Japanese companies.”  China Green Holdings Ltd., an agricultural-products
supplier that got 19 percent of fiscal 2010 sales from Japan,
rose 4.1 percent to HK$5.36 in  Hong Kong  after some food was
found to have elevated radiation levels.  Ta Ann Holdings Bhd. (TAH) , a
Malaysian timber company, increased 4.7 percent to 6 ringgit in
Kuala Lumpur on expectation demand from Japan will increase as
the nation rebuilds.  Korean Air Lines Co., South Korea’s largest carrier, jumped
4.5 percent to 60,400 won in Seoul. Mapletree Logistics Trust,
which received 19 percent of revenue from Japan, climbed 3
percent in Singapore.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kana Nishizawa in Tokyo at 
 knishizawa5@bloomberg.net ;
Lu Wang in New York at 
 lwang8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  