-- 
Asian Stores, Eateries Drop Japan Food on Radiation Fears

-- B y   F r e d e r i k   B a l f o u r
-- 
2011-03-21T11:14:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/asian-hotels-stores-restrict-japanese-food-imports-after-radiation-found.html
Stores and restaurants across  Asia 
dropped Japanese food from shelves and menus as the nation’s
government halted spinach shipments and told residents around a
stricken nuclear plant not to drink tap water.  The shipments will be stopped “for the time being,” even
though contamination levels in Japanese food were not harmful,
Chief Cabinet Secretary Yukio Edano said today at a briefing.    Mandarin Oriental International Ltd. (MAND)  joined  Shangri-La Asia
Ltd. (69)  in withdrawing Japanese fresh food from its kitchens. Lotte
Shopping Co., South Korea’s biggest retailer, plans to halt
sales of some fish from  Japan  starting tomorrow, Nah Geun Tae, a
company spokesman, said by phone today.  Workers at the nuclear plant in Fukushima prefecture raced
to repair damaged reactors after bringing down temperatures of
pools holding spent fuel rods in the worst atomic disaster in 25
years. Higher-than-normal radiation was found in spinach and
milk samples from Fukushima and neighboring Ibaraki prefectures,
“but not at levels harmful to human health,” Edano said
yesterday.  Sushi restaurants and hotels, including Shangri-La Asia’s
luxury chain and  London ’s Zuma and Roka Japanese restaurants,
said last week they stopped buying fresh produce from Japan
because of fears of possible contamination.  Cathay, Marriott    Cathay Pacific Airways Ltd. (293) ,  Hong Kong ’s biggest carrier,
is serving meals prepared in the Chinese city on its flights
from Japan to Hong Kong, Chief Executive Officer Tony Tyler said
March 18. Marriott International Inc.’s JW Marriott Hotel in
Hong Kong has stopped ordering food from Japan, spokeswoman
Fiona Szeto said.  City’super , a Hong Kong supermarket chain, isn’t buying
food from Fukushima prefecture and will look into revising its
policy on imports from Japan today, said Emily Wong, a
spokeswoman.  Concerns over possible radiation contamination of Japanese
food may benefit some Australian food companies, said Richard Rains, chief executive officer of Sanger Australia Pty., which
exports about 35,000 metric tons of beef to Japan yearly.  “It’s still early days to know how much it will help but
we think it will help us,” he said by phone today. “People
will need to get their protein from somewhere.”  Hilton Hotels  In  Manila , Tsukiji restaurant owner Malu Gamboa said her
brother is in  Australia  to look for alternative sources for food
such as Wagyu beef. About a third of her clientele are Japanese,
she said.  Some of Hilton Worldwide Inc.’s hotels in Asia have stopped
buying fresh or raw food from Japan and are starting to buy from
alternative suppliers outside Japan, including the  Philippines ,  Indonesia , Scotland and Australia, said Celina Low, a
spokeswoman.  Mandarin Oriental’s hotels will use non-Japanese suppliers
to substitute Japanese produce, and its flagship Hong Kong
location has already “taken the sensible precaution to
temporarily suspend all food imports from Japan until the
situation stabilizes,” said Sally DeSouza, a spokeswoman. The
chain has 26 locations worldwide, according to its website.  A.S. Watson  Four shipments of vegetables imported from Japan in the
past 24 hours were found to have “acceptable” levels of
radiation, Gabriel Leung, Hong Kong’s undersecretary for Food
and Health, said yesterday. They didn’t include spinach. Hong
Kong has screened all shipments of food from Japan for radiation
contamination since March 12.  Taiwan said yesterday it detected radiation on vegetables
from Japan that was within acceptable limits. The government
widened food checks to include 179 items, the island’s Atomic
Energy Council said in a statement on its website today.  A.S. Watson Group (HK) Ltd. ,  Hutchison Whampoa Ltd (13) ’s retail
arm with 230 food stores in Hong Kong including PARKnSHOP and
Great supermarkets, will follow the Hong Kong government’s
advice on food safety, Kelvin Chu, a spokesman, said in an e-
mail.  Of 10 shoppers questioned in  Tokyo  today, only one said
they were “worried a bit” about the safety of produce
available in the capital.  “Customers haven’t told me to stop serving food from
Fukushima prefecture,” said Isao Masuda, a 48-year-old
restaurant owner.  $6 Billion Exports  Shinsegae Co., which runs department and discount stores in
South Korea, will continue to sell Japanese fish that pass the
country’s safety tests, even as “logistical problems” halted
some imports, said Hwang Jong Soon, a company spokesman.  Japan exported 481 billion yen ($6 billion) worth of food
last year, accounting for 0.7 percent of total exports,
according to data on the  Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and
Fisheries  website. In 2009, more than 70 percent of Japan’s food
exports went to Hong Kong, the U.S.,  China , Taiwan and  South
Korea , according to the Japan External Trade Organization.  Six prefectures most heavily affected by the March 11
magnitude-9.0 earthquake and subsequent tsunami accounted for 28
percent of Japan’s 8.48 million tons of rice production last
year, according to the agricultural ministry figures. Fukushima
prefecture accounted for 5 percent.  Japan exported 200,000 metric tons of rice for the year
ended October 2010, according to the  U.S. Department of
Agriculture .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Frederik Balfour in Hong Kong at 
 fbalfour@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net  