-- 
Assessing Japanese Nuclear Fallout May Take Six Months, EEA Says

-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 
2011-03-21T12:56:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/assessing-japanese-nuclear-fallout-may-take-six-months-eea-says.html
Power, natural gas and carbon
traders may have to wait six months to determine whether the
crisis at  Japan ’s Fukushima reactor was serious enough to slow
nuclear projects worldwide,  EEA Fund Management Ltd . said.  Assessing how much radioactivity was released and where it
went may take three to six months, said Simon Shaw, chairman of
London-based EEA,  investment adviser  to carbon-credit developer
Trading Emissions Plc.  Carbon prices may rise more quickly this year to at least
18 euros ($25.50) a metric ton following the incidents in Japan,
Shaw said today by phone. Power from damaged or closed nuclear
reactors, including seven in Germany, will likely need to be
replaced by fossil fuels or renewables, Shaw said. “Emissions
prices have to be higher.”  Carbon-dioxide allowances jumped 9.5 percent last week, the
most since April 2009. They traded as high as 17.76 euros a ton
on March 16, the highest since December 2008. Power utilities
buy carbon permits to match forward sales of electricity
generated from fossil fuels.  Permits for December fell 0.5 percent today to 17.13 euros
on the ICE Futures Europe exchange in London as of 10:54 a.m.  It’s unclear how many fewer nuclear plants will now be
built, Shaw said. “Greater demand for fossil fuels means higher
emissions,” he said. “My view in the U.K. is I don’t expect
them to change their nuclear policy.” In  Germany , there may be
fewer nuclear-plant life extensions, he said.  Japan’s Worst Earthquake  Stocks in industries affected by Japan’s worst earthquake
on record climbed today amid signs the country is making
progress bringing the crisis at a stricken nuclear plant under
control. Extract Resources Ltd., an Australia-listed company
developing a uranium project in  Namibia , surged 14 percent.
German-traded shares of Tokyo Electric Power Co., owner of the
stricken Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear plant, climbed 3 percent in  Frankfurt .  “The worst-case-scenario has been avoided in the ongoing
nuclear crisis,” said Yoshihiro Ito, chief strategist at Okasan
Online Securities Co.    United Nations  overseen Certified Emission Reduction
credits for December rose 11 percent last week to 13.12 a ton on
ICE. They fell to 13 euros today.  “Below 15 euros for CERs, it’s questionable whether the
carbon price is having a suppressing effect on emissions,” Shaw
said. “This year and next year you would see much stronger
prices anyway,” because of recovering European factory output
and higher electricity demand, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  