-- 
AT&T Haunted by IPhone Network Load in T-Mobile Merger

-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 
2011-03-21T20:55:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/at-t-may-be-haunted-by-iphone-network-load-in-t-mobile-merger.html
AT&T Inc. (T) ’s integration of its $39
billion acquisition of  T-Mobile USA  Inc. may be slowed down by a
network already overloaded by users of Apple Inc.’s iPhone, a
Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. analyst said.  The deal announced yesterday will give AT&T new airwaves
for its planned high-speed, fourth-generation network. T-
Mobile’s subscribers, who are now using those airwaves, will
eventually be moved to AT&T’s network, the Dallas-based company
said on a conference call today.  “That’s probably the most ambitious piece of this,” said
 Craig Moffett , an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein in New York
who rates AT&T “market perform” and doesn’t own the shares.
“That network is already struggling and has been ever since
they landed the iPhone, so that network isn’t ready to dump a
bunch of T-Mobile customers onto it.”  AT&T  expects  $7 billion in integration costs over the next
three years, said John Stankey, president of AT&T Business
Solutions. To free up capacity on the 3G network, used by iPhone
customers, for T-Mobile users, AT&T will have to wait until
subscribers move to the planned 4G network, a process that may
take three to five years, Moffett said.  AT&T was the only U.S. carrier selling the iPhone until
 Verizon Wireless  got the device this year. The smartphone, which
downloads music, videos and accesses the Internet, clogged
AT&T’s network in some markets, causing dropped calls and
hurting customers’ satisfaction ratings.  Integration Plan  Following the deal’s closing, which AT&T said may take a
year, the combined company will update its towers to allow
customers to use their second- and third-generation phones
across both networks, Stankey said. The higher-speed, 4G long-
term-evolution network that AT&T plans to build will cover 95
percent of the U.S., the executive said.  All subscribers will see the benefits from the larger
network -- which will increase the number of cell sites in the
overcrowded New York and San Francisco markets by as much as 35
percent -- within two years, Stankey said. The companies use the
same network technologies, which makes the integration easier,
he said.  “This is an optimal combination,” Stankey said during the
conference call, referring to the technologies. “These things
let us plan with more certainty, and it means benefits come
faster and the benefits are larger than with any other option.”  AT&T’s agreement to buy T-Mobile USA from Bonn-based
 Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE)  would create the largest U.S. mobile-phone
company. The customer transition aside, the integration should
be less difficult compared with other acquisitions AT&T has
made, analysts including Moffett said.  ‘Highly Complex’  “No merger is easy, but this probably would be easier than
most,” Moffett said. “You’re still talking about consolidation
of two relatively large companies, with very different cultures,
each with their own retail store presence, each with their own
brand image and customer base. Putting the two of them together
is a highly complex task.”  AT&T and T-Mobile in the U.S. use the GSM standard to
deliver mobile phone and data service. GSM is widely available
in more countries worldwide than the CDMA standard used by
Verizon Wireless and  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)   The fact that AT&T and T-mobile use GSM and operate on
similar frequencies will make the transition easier than some of
AT&T’s past deals, said Charles Golvin, an analyst at Cambridge,
Massachusetts-based Forrester Research Inc.  ‘Same Network Technology’  “I don’t want to trivialize it, however the two companies
do use the same network technology,” Golvin said in an
interview. “A T-Mobile phone will work on AT&T’s network
today.”  AT&T rose 32 cents, or 1.2 percent, to $28.26 at 4 p.m. in
New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The stock has
declined 3.8 percent this year. Deutsche Telekom jumped 11
percent to 10.67 euros in Frankfurt trading, the biggest gain
since October 2008.  AT&T bought BellSouth Corp. in 2006 for more than $80
billion. The company renamed BellSouth’s Cingular Wireless to
AT&T and was forced to agree to price caps, market divestitures
and other conditions to appease regulators.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Amy Thomson in  New York  at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom in New York at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  