-- 
AT&T Deal May Get a Year of Regulatory Scrutiny Even With Disposal Pledges

-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n ,   S a r a   F o r d e n   a n d   T o d d   S h i e l d s
-- 
2011-03-21T20:23:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/at-t-has-to-fend-off-scrutiny-to-win-nod-for-unthinkable-t-mobile-bid.html
AT&T Inc. (T) ’s $39 billion purchase of
 T-Mobile USA , the biggest acquisition worldwide in almost a
year, may take a year to gain regulators’ approval even if the
carrier pledges to sell assets and expand rural coverage.  The acquisition would push AT&T past its largest rival,
 Verizon Wireless , to become the biggest U.S. mobile-phone
carrier. AT&T and T-Mobile combined have 39 percent of the
market, according to research firm EMarketer Inc.  The  U.S. Federal Communications Commission  and consumer
groups may be concerned the deal will reduce competition and
consumer choices, pushing up prices. AT&T anticipates regulators
will require it to divest wireless spectrum and subscribers as a
condition for approval, said a person with knowledge of the
situation. A failure to complete the deal would mean AT&T may
need to pay to a breakup fee of $3 billion and some spectrum,
said two people with knowledge of the matter.  “AT&T-T-Mobile is apt to be scrutinized more thoroughly
than any other merger to date by the Obama administration,”
said Jeffrey Silva, an analyst with Medley Global Advisors LLC
in  Washington . “The FCC is expected to come under heavy
pressure from consumer advocates, public interest groups and
congressional Democrats to block the deal.”  The combination of the second-largest wireless carrier with
the fourth-largest is “unthinkable,”  Gigi Sohn , president of
 Public Knowledge , a Washington-based advocacy group, said in a
statement. “We know the results of arrangements like this --
higher prices, fewer choices, less innovation.”  Rural Networks  AT&T, based in  Dallas , could also be required to build out
more rural networks or provide data roaming to rural carriers,
increasing the reach of  Internet access  in the U.S., a goal by
President Barack Obama’s administration, said  Roger Entner , an
analyst at Recon Analytics LLC in  Boston .  Robert Kenny, a spokesman for the FCC, and Gina Talamona, a
spokeswoman for the  Justice Department , which may also
scrutinize the deal, declined to comment. Cecelia Prewett, a
spokeswoman for the Federal Trade Commission, another agency
that reviews acquisitions, also declined to comment.  AT&T rose 32 cents to $28.26 at 4 p.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading. The stock has declined 3.8 percent
this year. Deutsche Telekom jumped 11 percent to 10.67 euros in
Frankfurt trading, the biggest gain since October 2008.  ‘Terminator’  AT&T CEO Randall Stephenson said the company had been in
discussions with Deutsche Telekom for about three months. He
didn’t say where talks took place or between whom, specifically.
He said AT&T had done its own review and determined that it was
likely to get regulatory approval before it proceeded with
extensive talks with Deutsche Telekom. The companies said
completing the deal may take a year.  The history of AT&T goes back to 1875, when Alexander Graham Bell invented the telephone. The company became the
parent of the Bell system, which offered U.S. phone service as a
monopoly. The Justice Department broke up AT&T in 1984 into
eight so-called Baby Bells, including one that’s grown into what
is now AT&T.  “AT&T was broken up and now it’s back with a vengeance,”
said Bert Foer, president of the American Antitrust Institute, a
Washington-based non-profit researcher that challenges what it
sees as abuses of concentrated economic power. “We have to
decide if we’re happy with the idea of going back to
monopolistic treatment of the telecom industry. AT&T has come
back to monopolistic power just like the Terminator.”  Dwarfing Sprint  In addition to surpassing Verizon Wireless, AT&T could
leave  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)  as a far weaker No. 3 player in the
industry, said  Rebecca Arbogast , an analyst for Stifel Nicolaus
& Co. in Washington. Sprint also held talks with Deutsche
Telekom about buying T-Mobile, people with knowledge of the
matter said this month.  “The question is whether the government will be satisfied
with other ways to maintain competition in the wireless industry
and let this deal go through,” Arbogast said.  The  Free Press , a media reform group in Washington, said
the concentration of the market will lead to higher prices and
fewer choices for users and urged regulators to reject the deal.  The FCC said last year concentration is rising among U.S.
mobile-telephone providers, a conclusion that AT&T Senior Vice
President Robert Quinn in a statement called “a dramatic
break” from precedent. The FCC under Chairman Julius Genachowski, a Democrat, has increased scrutiny of wireless
carriers for actions such as exclusive contracts with handset
makers and fees that may thwart competition.  Spectrum Crunch  Commissioner Michael Copps, a Democrat, said last year that
wireless industry concentration had “skyrocketed,” a
circumstance he said “should flash a bright caution light for
this commission.”  The U.S. House Judiciary Committee said today it will hold
a hearing on the acquisition. The committee will look into
possible anticompetitive impacts from the combination,
Representative  Lamar Smith , a Texas Republican who heads the
panel, said in a statement.  The potential scrutiny from regulators would have to be
weighed against the benefit of delaying a possible exhaustion of
available mobile-phone spectrum, said Larry Freedman, a partner
at law firm Edwards Angell Palmer & Dodge LLP, which focuses on
telecommunications. By combining, AT&T and T-Mobile would be
able to share resources, including airwaves.  IPhone Effect  “One of the interesting things that’s going to help them
at the FCC is the compatibility of the networks,” Washington-
based Freedman said in an interview. “The spectrum crunch would
be alleviated because you have complementary networks and the
ability to use each other’s spectrum. That could be viewed as a
positive.”  With video-capable devices such as Apple Inc.’s iPhone
gaining in popularity, the carriers have said they expect their
current spectrum allocations to last for another three or four
years. President Obama proposed last year almost doubling the
airwaves available for smartphones, laptops and other wireless
devices to meet demands for mobile broadband services.  Still, the spectrum benefit alone is unlikely to be enough
to convince regulators the acquisition won’t harm the industry.  “It is unlikely that AT&T would attempt a deal that they
knew would fail; however, we can’t see how they would get this
through without massive divestitures and concessions,”  Jonathan Chaplin , an analyst at Credit Suisse Group AG in  New York , said
in a note. “We have never seen a deal with more regulatory risk
be attempted in the U.S.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Amy Thomson in New York at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net ;
Sara Forden in Washington at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net ;
 Todd Shields  in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  