-- 
AT&T Cash, Breakup Fee Were Said to Clinch T-Mobile USA Over Sprint Nextel

-- B y   S e r e n a   S a i t t o   a n d   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n
-- 
2011-03-21T20:33:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/at-t-cash-breakup-fee-were-said-to-clinch-t-mobile-usa-over-sprint-nextel.html
AT&T Inc. (T)  beat out  Sprint Nextel
Corp. (S)  with a $39 billion offer for T-Mobile USA after agreeing
to pay mostly cash and a higher-than-average breakup fee, said
three people with knowledge of the matter.  AT&T stepped up talks in past weeks to reach an agreement
with  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) , T-Mobile USA’s owner, said the people,
who declined to be identified because the negotiations were
private. Sprint had discussed paying a lower price for T-Mobile
USA and couldn’t agree with Deutsche Telekom on a valuation, the
people said.  Sprint and Deutsche Telekom had been holding on and off
discussions about a stock transaction that would give the Bonn-
based company a major stake in the combined entity, the people
said. AT&T, the second-biggest U.S. wireless provider, clinched
the deal by paying about $25 billion in cash for  T-Mobile USA 
and offering a $3 billion breakup fee, according to the people.
The next step will be clearing regulatory hurdles.  “The breakup fee was very important to us in the
negotiations,” Deutsche Telekom Chief Financial Officer
Timotheus Hoettges said on a conference call today. “In the
intensive discussions, with lawyers, economists, we concluded
that we could be optimistic that we could get regulatory
approval.”  Deutsche Telekom, which will also get a stake in Dallas-
based AT&T, pushed for a bigger cash component in the deal, one
person said. Sprint, which was unaware that Deutsche Telekom was
also talking to AT&T, learned yesterday that the German company
was selling the unit to its rival, said one of the people.  Industry Altered  Bill White , a spokesman for  Overland Park , Kansas-based
Sprint, declined to comment on the company’s involvement. A
combination of AT&T and T-Mobile would result in two companies
controlling almost 80 percent of the U.S. wireless market for
contract subscribers, Sprint said in a statement.  “The combination of AT&T and T-Mobile USA, if approved by
the  Department of Justice  and Federal Communications Commission,
would alter dramatically the structure of the communications
industry,” Sprint said. “The DOJ and the FCC must decide if
this transaction is in the best interest of consumers and the
 U.S. economy  overall, and determine if innovation and robust
competition would be impacted adversely and by this dramatic
change in the structure of the industry.”  AT&T anticipates regulators will require it to divest
subscribers or wireless spectrum, or both, as a condition to
approving the purchase of T-Mobile USA, two people said.  Breakup Fee  Deutsche Telekom was engaged in talks about the future of
T-Mobile USA with five different parties at the same time over
the last couple of months, CFO Hoettges said on the conference
call, without offering details. He said the agreement to sell
the unit to AT&T was the best solution.  The German company started talking with advisers about its
options more than a year ago and concluded that a strategy to
keep T-Mobile independent in the U.S. wasn’t going to generate
the most  shareholder value , one person said. Deutsche Telekom
and its advisers also weighed potential partnerships with
Clearwire Corp. and LightSquared Inc., the person said.  AT&T Chief Executive Officer Randall Stephenson said the
company had been in discussions with Deutsche Telekom for about
three months.  “We studied this thing extensively over the last few
months and we’re very confident it will be approved,”
Stephenson said in an interview yesterday. “Very few deals
offer this kind of synergy.”  Code Names  The companies used automotive-themed code names as they
worked on the deal: AT&T was Tesla, Deutsche Telekom was Daimler
and T-Mobile was Mercury, one person said.  Knowing the deal would face regulatory obstacles, Deutsche
Telekom negotiated for AT&T to pay the $3 billion and give it
rights to some wireless spectrum if the deal can’t be completed,
the people said. The reverse breakup fee is about 7.5 percent of
the total purchase price, while the typical fee in takeovers is
often closer to 3 percent.  AT&T offers T-Mobile USA a network that is more compatible
than Sprint’s and plans to expand its high-speed wireless
technology as part of the purchase. AT&T will offer the service
to an additional 46.5 million people, helping achieve an FCC
goal of making broadband available more widely, the company
said.  Deutsche Telekom and AT&T’s boards approved the deal
yesterday and put out a press release hours later.  AT&T was advised by  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , Greenhill & Co.
and Evercore Partners Inc. on the deal. Morgan Stanley, Deutsche
Bank AG, and Credit Suisse Group AG are advising Deutsche
Telekom.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  advised Sprint.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Serena Saitto in  New York  at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Jennifer Sondag  at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net . 