-- 
AT&T’s T-Mobile Purchase May Crimp Margins for Ericsson, NSN

-- B y   D i a n a   b e n - A a r o n   a n d   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l
-- 
2011-03-22T15:17:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/at-t-s-t-mobile-purchase-may-crimp-margins-for-ericsson-nsn.html
AT&T Inc. (T) ’s $39 billion agreement
to buy  T-Mobile USA  from  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE)  may spell fewer
orders and thinner margins for Ericsson AB and other
telecommunications-equipment suppliers.  “Any merger of this magnitude would mean some capex will
be pushed back short term on uncertainty,” said Haakan Wranne,
an analyst with Swedbank in  Stockholm . “And when two operators
merge into one, the capex cake will not grow long-term.”  The purchase, the largest in the wireless industry since
2004, will result in as much as $40 billion in savings,
including on network overlap and spectrum purchases, AT&T said.
For equipment suppliers such as Ericsson, Nokia Siemens Networks
and Alcatel-Lucent SA, the combined company to create the U.S.’s
biggest mobile-phone operator will have the buying power to
demand lower prices on infrastructure equipment.  “The merged company may discuss ways to squeeze suppliers
a bit more,” said Thomas Langer, an analyst at WestLB in
Dusseldorf,  Germany . “Margins are somewhat higher in the U.S.
to begin with.”  The proposed deal comes amid a rebound in demand for
equipment makers after the economic slump in 2009 and last year
cut into sales. Bandwidth-hogging devices such as  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s
iPhones and iPads and handsets based on Google Inc.’s Android
with access to videos and games are driving operators to beef up
their networks.  AT&T invested $20.3 billion in its network in 2010,
including fourth-generation LTE wireless spectrum costs, while
T-Mobile  cut  spending to $2.8 billion in 2010 from $3.7 billion.  U.S. Revenue  Ericsson, the world’s largest maker of wireless phone
networks, can’t speculate on the effect of the deal, Ilyana Guzman Reyes, a spokeswoman for the Stockholm-based company,
said by e-mail. Nokia spokesman Ben Roome declined to comment on
the purchase, as did Alcatel-Lucent spokeswoman Alix Cavallari.  Ericsson derived 24.3 percent of its revenue from  North
America  last year as it integrated assets bought from Nortel
Networks Corp. The U.S. was its biggest market by sales for the
last two years. The Swedish company’s operating margin was
unchanged last year at 12 percent.  “For infrastructure vendors, we see continued
consolidation or challenges for weaker players as their customer
base shrinks in number and increases in negotiating leverage,”
said Rajeev Chand an analyst at San Francisco-based investment
bank, Rutberg & Co.  Investment Questions  Ericsson is one of two primary suppliers for AT&T’s
wireline access products and services. AT&T last year chose
Ericsson and Paris-based Alcatel-Lucent as preferred suppliers
for its fourth-generation network. Both have also built third-
generation systems for the company.  “We can say that AT&T and T-Mobile are significant, valued
and long-standing customers of Alcatel-Lucent,” said Cavallari.  North America accounted 36 percent of Alcatel-Lucent’s
revenue last year, making it the company’s biggest market.
Alcate-Lucent, which had an adjusted operating margin in 2010 of
1.8 percent, expects that to rise to more than 5 percent of
sales this year.  Nokia Siemens Networks, the joint venture between Espoo,
Finland-based  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  and Germany’s  Siemens AG (SIE) , is a supplier
to both companies and has been working with T-Mobile on
increasing data transmission speeds in its third-generation
network, spokesman Roome said by e-mail.  Brightpoint, Crown Castle  Ericsson rose 0.9 percent to 77 kronor in Stockholm as of
4:11 p.m. after dropping 0.6 percent yesterday. Alcatel-Lucent
dropped as much as 2.3 percent in Paris today. The effect of the
transaction was more pronounced on smaller companies more
reliant on T-Mobile USA and AT&T for business.  Brightpoint Inc. (CELL) , a wholesaler of mobile phones, fell as
much as 3.5 percent to $10.33 in  New York  on concern the deal
will result in a loss of business from T-Mobile USA.  American
Tower Corp. (AMT)  rose 3.1 percent. The U.S. operator of mobile phone
towers leases antenna space to both T-Mobile and AT&T.  Crown Castle International Corp. (CCI)  shares rose 1.6 percent.
The Houston-based company said yesterday it generates about 6
percent of revenue from the 4,000 towers it leases to T-Mobile
that are on the same site as AT&T.  “We view carrier consolidation and the increased buying
power it represents as negative for wireless device vendors and
infrastructure suppliers,” Oppenheimer & Co. analysts led by
New York-based Ittai Kidron wrote in a report.  4G Coverage  AT&T said March 20 that it would expand its fourth-
generation network plans to serve an additional 46.5 million
U.S. residents, bringing its 4G coverage to 294 million people.
The company said the acquisition will increase its
infrastructure investment in the U.S. by more than $8 billion
over seven years.  “That’s something they say in order to make it easier to
get the approval from authorities rather than something one
should view as a materially larger capex in total over time,”
said Swedbank’s Wranne.  Deutsche Telekom Chief Financial Officer Timotheus Hoettges
said the company will maintain investments at planned levels.  “Until the closing of the deal, we remain competitors in
the U.S. market and we will stick to the strategy that we
presented in January,” he said on a conference call. On Jan.
20, T-Mobile USA said it plans to add $3 billion to sales by
2014 by offering customers the “best” data plans over rivals.  Contracts  T-Mobile USA, which accounted for a quarter of Deutsche
Telekom’s revenue, signed contracts with Ericsson and Nokia in
2006 to build its third-generation network in the U.S. It didn’t
disclose the amount of the contracts although it earlier said it
would spend 2.1 billion euros ($3 billion) on the third
generation network. The company hasn’t announced a 4G network.  AT&T and T-Mobile use the GSM family of standards in their
networks, making it easier to integrate their networks and
handset retail offerings.  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S) , which also had
been in talks with T-Mobile for a possible merger, had an
incompatible CDMA-based network requiring different equipment.  “A big merger is not usually a time for capex to peak, so
they may use the brakes somewhat in the U.S. market, with some
catch-up once the transaction is completed,” Langer said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Diana ben-Aaron in Helsinki at 
 dbenaaron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root in Paris at   vroot@bloomberg.net  