-- 
AT&T Sees Handheld 3-D Drawing Gamers With LG Thrill Device

-- B y   G r e g   B e n s i n g e r
-- 
2011-03-21T20:04:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/at-t-bets-on-handheld-3-d-to-draw-gamers-with-lg-thrill-device.html
AT&T Inc. (T) , the wireless carrier
bidding to acquire  T-Mobile USA , introduced a smartphone with
3-D technology from  LG Electronics Inc. (066570)  to draw new customers
interested in wireless gaming.  The LG Thrill, as the device is known, allows users to view
content in three-dimensional format without the glasses familiar
to old time movie-goers, said David Christopher, Dallas-based
AT&T’s chief marketing officer for wireless. It also records
video in 3-D and uses  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android software.  “The whole industry is working on 3-D right now,” said
Christopher, in a telephone interview. “We’re right at the
sweet spot for 3-D, a lot of games are being created for that
format.”  AT&T, the second-largest U.S. wireless provider, has been
stocking its store shelves with new devices after the  Apple Inc. (AAPL) 
iPhone became available for the first time on Verizon Wireless
last month. The carrier said in January it plans at least 20 new
devices this year.  “3-D, 4-D, 4G, this all shows how difficult it’s getting
for manufacturers to differentiate their products in this
marketplace where there’s a new handset every day, it seems,”
said Michael Gartenberg, a San Jose, California-based analyst
for research firm Gartner Inc. “There’s going to be a high bar
for 3-D content that’s worth displaying on a screen the size of
your palm.”  The Thrill is part of Seoul-based LG’s push to quadruple
smartphone sales this year. The company said in January it
expected 30 million smartphone deliveries in 2011, as it seeks
to lift its money-losing handset unit.  Other Devices  Among other devices it plans to unveil, AT&T will introduce
the  HTC Corp. (2498)  HD7S smartphone, its fourth smartphone using
 Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s Windows Phone 7 software. The handset, which
has a 4.3 inch (11 centimeter) screen, will be available within
the next few weeks.  AT&T is introducing the devices ahead of the  Cellular
Telecommunications Industry Association ’s annual International
CTIA Wireless show in Orlando,  Florida , which runs tomorrow
through Thursday. The company said pricing for the smartphones
won’t be made public until closer to their release dates, though
it did not disclose an exact timeframe.  AT&T said yesterday it had agreed to buy T-Mobile from
Deutsche Telekom AG in a cash-and-stock transaction valued at
about $39 billion. The deal, which is subject to regulatory
approval, would combine the second- and fourth-largest wireless
providers.  AT&T rose 32 cents, or 1.1 percent, to $28.26 at 4 p.m. in
New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares have
fallen 3.8 percent this year.  Verizon Wireless , co-owned by Vodafone Group Plc and
Verizon Communications Inc., is the largest U.S. mobile carrier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Bensinger in New York at 
 gbensinger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net  