-- 
Latest Reactor Status at Japan’s Stricken Fukushima Nuclear Plant: Table

-- B y   N a o k o   F u j i m u r a
-- 
2011-03-21T09:11:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/latest-reactor-status-at-japan-s-stricken-fukushima-nuclear-plant-table.html
The following is the latest  status 
of each nuclear reactor at Tokyo Electric Power Co.’s crippled
Fukushima Dai-Ichi  power plant .  Cooling pools holding spent-fuel rods atop the plant’s six
reactors were below 100 degrees Celsius (212 Fahrenheit), the
boiling point of water, Japan Defense Minister Toshimi Kitazawa
said last night in a news conference. The company said it needs
to replace power components at reactors 1, 2, 3 and 4.  No. 1: The temperature outside the reactor’s pressure vessel
fell to 385 degrees Celsius, as of 3 a.m. from 400 degrees as of
3 a.m. yesterday, Hikaru Kuroda, an official in Tokyo Electric’s
nuclear management department, said today. The reactor was
damaged on March 12 by a hydrogen explosion that destroyed the
building’s walls. The reactor is rated level five in terms of
threat on an  international  scale of 1-7.  No. 2: The temperature outside the reactor’s pressure vessel
fell below 160 degrees Celsius, as of 3 a.m., Kuroda said.
Workers reconnected a 1.5-kilometer (1 mile) power cable on
March 19 to the unit. A March 15 explosion may have damaged the
containment chamber. The reactor is rated a level-five threat.  No. 3: Smoke was seen rising from the building of the reactor at
about 3:55 p.m. local time. Workers were evacuated from the
building, spokesman Kaoru Yoshida said. Workers connected a
power cable to the No. 3 and 4 reactors. The temperature inside
the reactor dropped below 200 degrees Celsius, the Fukushima
plant operator said earlier today. The Japanese Self Defense
Force and firefighters have doused a total of 3,742 metric tons
of water on the reactor since March 17, the government agency
said in a  statement . A March 14 explosion damaged the unit’s
fuel cover. The reactor is rated a level-five threat.  No. 4: Japanese Self Defense Forces have sprayed a total of 255
tons of water toward the reactor building since yesterday. A
fire broke out in the pond containing spent-fuel rods. The
nuclear agency said March 17 there may be no water in the
cooling pool. It’s rated four in terms of threat. This reactor
was undergoing maintenance when the earthquake hit.  No. 5: The reactor achieved cold shutdown at 2:30 p.m. local
time yesterday when the temperature fell below 100 degrees
Celsius yesterday, Megumi Iwashita, Tepco spokeswoman, said. The
unit was idle for maintenance before the earthquake.  No. 6: The reactor achieved cold shutdown at 7:27 p.m. when the
temperature fell below 100 degrees Celsius yesterday, Iwashita
said. A backup generator was fixed March 19, according to a
company press release. The unit was idle for maintenance before
the earthquake.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naoko Fujimura in Osaka at 
 nfujimura@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net  