-- 
Atomic Agency Meets on Fukushima, Scrutinizes Watchdog’s Crisis Response

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   T i r o n e
-- 
2011-03-21T11:24:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/atomic-agency-meets-on-fukushima-scrutinizes-watchdog-s-crisis-response.html
Top powers at the United Nations
nuclear watchdog are meeting today to discuss the Fukushima
crisis even as emergency officials struggle to understand the
full scope of the world’s worst atomic disaster in 25 years.  The  International Atomic Energy Agency ’s 35-member board of
governors has convened its first extraordinary meeting since
December 2009, when IAEA Director General Yukiya Amano was
elected to his post. Amano reported on his March 19 meeting with
Japan’s Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  and senior atomic officials
about the steps being taken to control radiation leaking from
the Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear complex.  “The agency’s role in nuclear safety may need to be re-
examined, along with the role of our safety standards,” Amano
said in a statement from Vienna. “The responsibility of the
IAEA is to provide authoritative and validated information as
quickly as possible, but doing this under the current
arrangements inevitably takes time and has limitations.”  The first opportunity to begin evaluating the IAEA’s
emergency response will come next month at a conference in
Vienna, he said.  The agency, set up in 1956 to spread safe atomic energy,
has been critical of  Japan ’s information sharing. Data about the
accident by Tokyo Electric Power Co. have been slow in coming
and incomplete, prompting the Japanese government to set up a  task force  to share information.  Need for Speed  “It should be professional and responsible,” Vladimir Asmolov, deputy head of  Russia ’s state nuclear company Rosatom
Corp. and a veteran of the emergency response to the 1986
Chernobyl disaster, said by telephone yesterday. “Instructions
from the managing team to the people directly involved in the
response need to be fast above all.”  Under IAEA rules, Japan must authorize officials inside the
agency to share information about the reactors so assessments
can be made about potential radiation hazards and how much time
will be needed for the fuel inside to cool down.  As of March 16, IAEA safety officials didn’t have precise
data about the composition of the fuel in the reactors or the
age of the fuel loads, Deputy Director Denis Flory said. Japan
authorized the IAEA’s safeguards unit to release some
information about the Fukushima site “several days ago,”
spokesman Graham Andrew said yesterday. He wouldn’t elaborate.  ‘Full Support’  Amano said he “encouraged the Japanese authorities to
further improve the provision of information to the agency”
when he met with them on March 19. “I pledged our full support
and conveyed offers of assistance to Japan. Prime Minister Kan
expressed his strong commitment to ensuring the highest
transparency in information sharing,” he said.  The IAEA, which is running an around-the-clock emergency
response unit to support Japanese authorities, has also
experienced information missteps, reporting incorrect data and
contradicting Japan’s own damage assessments.  Diplomats inside closed briefings at the agency have
pressed the IAEA to increase the transparency and quality of the
information it shares, three officials who were present said on
condition of anonymity because the meetings weren’t public. IAEA
members want the organization to assess data independently from
inside Japan rather than just to “verify its accuracy,” as
Amano described the agency’s role in a March 18 press briefing.  The IAEA has a permanent office in  Tokyo , where inspectors
record the fuel levels in Japanese atomic facilities. Knowing
the age and fuel mixtures inside the reactors can help officials
assess damage and mitigate new risks.  Chernobyl Reactor  While the IAEA is quick to point out that the Fukushima
breakdown is nothing like Chernobyl because the two reactors
were built to different designs and won’t emit radiation in the
same way, they may have reinforced findings derived from a 2005
investigation into the Ukraine accident.  The factors behind the Chernobyl meltdown “were all
driven, in a sense, by a lack of international cooperation,”
according to IAEA findings on the meltdown in September 2005.
“The Chernobyl accident revealed a sharp disparity in nuclear
design and operational safety standards.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Tirone in Vienna at 
 jtirone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  