-- 
Australia’s Swan Rejects Reports Government Opposes ASX-Singapore Merger

-- B y   S h a n i   R a j a   a n d   G e m m a   D a l e y
-- 
2011-03-21T06:26:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/australia-s-swan-rejects-reports-government-opposes-asx-singapore-merger.html
Australian Treasurer Wayne Swan
today dismissed newspaper reports quoting unnamed government
sources saying his government may reject  Singapore Exchange
Ltd. (SGX) ’s  proposed takeover of the nation’s main bourse operator.  “I have no idea where those reports have come from,” Swan
told ABC radio today, responding to reports in the Sydney
Morning Herald and Australian Financial Review. A final decision
on the merger would be based on “the evidence before me” and
“a thorough consideration of all the issues.” ASX’s shares
dropped 1.8 percent in Sydney.    Singapore Exchange  and  ASX Ltd. (ASX)  submitted their merger
proposal to  Australia ’s Foreign Investment Review Board on March
11 to create what they say will be the world’s fifth-largest
listed exchange company. The deal faces opposition from some
lawmakers who oppose Australian capital markets being run from  Singapore .  The government was just going through the motions and would
not approve the takeover even if the  Foreign Investment Review
Board  says it can go ahead, according to the newspaper reports
and a person with knowledge of the issue, who spoke to Bloomberg
on the condition of anonymity because Singapore Exchange’s bid
for ASX is still being reviewed by regulators.  Singapore Exchange, which runs the city’s securities and
derivatives market, offered to buy ASX on Oct. 25 in a cash and
share deal then valued at A$8.4 billion ($8.4 billion), a 42
percent premium to ASX’s share price, and worth A$7.4 billion at
the March 18 close of trading in Australia.  ‘Xenophobic’  The bid, which won approval from Australia’s competition
regulator on Dec. 15, still requires the support of Swan, the  Reserve Bank  of Australia, the  Australian Securities &
Investments Commission  and parliamentarians, several of whom
have opposed the sale. The minority Labor government led by
Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  needs the support of four
independent or Greens lawmakers to pass legislation.  “The government won’t stick it’s neck out on something it
knows won’t get through this parliament, why would it?”  Nick Economou , a political scientist at Melbourne-based  Monash
University , said in a telephone interview. “It’s a purely
symbolic gesture from them and they’re just going through the
motions. Australia has a very xenophobic or nationalistic
attitude to the ASX and the government will respond to that.”  Newspaper Reports  The Sydney Morning Herald reported at the weekend that
Australia’s government is unlikely to support the merger, citing
a person it didn’t identify. The government’s disposition is to
reject the merger, regardless of any FIRB recommendation, the
person said, according to the newspaper.  The Financial Review today reported that political
opposition to the deal was growing, citing unnamed government
sources predicting that it will fail to win parliamentary
approval.  The Singapore bourse offered on Feb. 15 to give more board
seats to Australians as a way of subverting political opposition
to the takeover on national interest grounds.  “Existing Australian regulatory sovereignty will be
preserved under the merger proposal, and there will now be an
equal number of Australian and Singaporean citizens on the
board,” ASX spokesman Matthew Gibbs told Bloomberg News in an
e-mail today.  ‘Dynamic Forces’  The proposed combination received a boost last month when  Europe ’s Deutsche Boerse AG and  NYSE Euronext (NYX)  agreed to merge,
and after London Stock Exchange Group Plc said it would buy
Canada’s TMX Group Inc., increasing pressure on rival exchanges
to expand.  These foreign merger announcements “underscore the dynamic
forces driving developments in global exchanges,” ASX’s Chief
Executive Officer Robert Elstone said in a Feb. 17 statement
accompanying the company’s first-half earnings result, which met
analyst estimates. He has also said global exchange mergers are
an “inevitable” feature of globalization.  Even if the takeover wins all regulatory approvals in
Australia, laws amending the Corporations Act will need to be
passed in both houses of Australia’s parliament. Parliament will
need to approve a bill that removes ASX’s foreign ownership cap
to make way for the takeover.  ASX’s shares dropped 1.8 percent to A$34.18 as of the 4:10
p.m. close of Sydney trading, extending their decline this year
to 9.3 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shani Raja in Sydney at 
 sraja4@bloomberg.net ;
Gemma Daley in Canberra at 
 gdaley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 