-- 
Bahrain, Oman Refineries Running as Planned Amid Demonstrations

-- B y   A n t h o n y   D i P a o l a   a n d   A y e s h a   D a y a
-- 
2011-03-21T09:09:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/bahrain-oman-refineries-running-as-planned-amid-demonstrations.html
Bahrain’s and Oman’s oil refineries
continued to operate as planned amid anti-government protests in
the  Persian Gulf states , officials at the two nations’ fuel-
processing plants said. Exports weren’t interrupted, they said.  Bahrain Petroleum Co., operator of the kingdom’s only
refinery, is proceeding with planned maintenance during military
curfews and police crackdowns in the island nation, three
company officials said by telephone today. They asked not to be
identified by name, citing company policy.  Three officials from Oman’s state-owned oil processor said
its 85,000 barrel-a-day Mina al Fahal refinery in Muscat and the
116,400 barrel-a-day facility at the port of Sohar were both
running at full capacity. The officials aren’t authorized to
speak with media and asked not to be named.  Middle East states are being shaken by anti-government
protests that have spread from Tunisia and  Egypt  over the last
three months. Demonstrators in states including Bahrain and Oman
have demanded more political representation, better pay and
improved employment prospects.  Bahrain declared a three-month state of emergency on March
15 after troops from Saudi Arabia and other Arab Gulf states
arrived to support the kingdom’s Sunni monarch in suppressing
demonstrations. In Oman protesters have occupied a traffic
circle in the port city of Sohar. Citizens have also
demonstrated at government buildings in the capital of Muscat.  A hydrocracker at Bahrain’s 267,000 barrel-a-day refinery
is offline for maintenance through the end of this month,
reducing capacity at the plant to 190,000 to 200,000 barrels a
day, one of the officials said. Bapco, as the company is known,
is receiving reduced oil flows through a pipeline from  Saudi
Arabia  since it needs less crude, the official said.  About 90 percent of Bapco employees went on strike last
week in response to a police crackdown on demonstrations and
production “has really been affected,” Sayed Salman, the
general secretary of Bahrain’s Federation of Trade Unions, said
in an interview in Manama yesterday. About 80 percent of Bapco
employees are now back at work and there have been no delays in
the maintenance program, a refinery spokesman said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anthony DiPaola in  Abu Dhabi  at  adipaola@bloomberg.net ;
Ayesha Daya at 
 adaya1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Stephen Voss  on   sev@bloomberg.net . 