-- 
Bank of America’s Bad Loans Stalled U.S. Approval of Dividends, KBW Says

-- B y   H u g h   S o n
-- 
2011-03-21T19:49:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/bank-of-america-bad-loans-may-have-delayed-plan-to-raise-payout-kbw-says.html
Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , the biggest
U.S. lender by assets, must resubmit plans for a dividend
increase to the  Federal Reserve  because the regulator probably
found fault with the firm’s capital, according to KBW Inc.  The bank faces too many unknowns about soured mortgages for
the Fed to allow a significant increase to payouts until 2012,
 Frederick Cannon , director of research at KBW in New York, wrote
in a note released late yesterday. Bank of America said March 18
that it would resubmit a dividend proposal in the second half of
this year.  “The Fed likely did not agree with Bank of America’s
capital plan,” Cannon wrote. “While Bank of America’s capital
is sufficient for a bank that is now operating at a profit, the
capital levels were simply too far behind peers.”  Bank of America is the only U.S. lender among the largest
four that didn’t announce it was boosting payouts after the Fed
finished a review of the companies’ financial health and capital
plans last week. The  Charlotte , North Carolina-based bank needs
Fed approval before making a “modest” increase to its penny-a-
share dividend, Chief Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan  said
this month.  All banks that asked to raise dividends in 2011 were to be
informed by today whether the Fed objected, the regulator said
in a March 18 report. Those who failed could submit a revised
plan as early as April, the Fed said. Firms including Bank of
America, which had a 64-cent quarterly payout until 2008,
slashed dividends during the financial crisis as loan losses
piled up to conserve capital.  Fed Guidelines  The lender “did not request approval for a second-quarter
dividend increase,” said  Jerry Dubrowski , a Bank of America
spokesman. The company “continues to work with the Fed,” he
said, declining to comment on reasons the firm has to file
another request.  The Fed’s guidelines regarding its capital review make it
clear that the regulator objected to some aspect of Bank of
America’s plan, Cannon said today in a telephone interview.  “My reading was that ‘maybe’ wasn’t an option for the Fed;
either they concurred or they objected to something,” he said.  The ruling was probably a disappointment for Bank of
America managers, Cannon wrote in the note. KBW has a “market
perform” rating on the company, which Cannon said may boost its
dividend to 10 cents a share in the second quarter of 2012.  Fed examiners told some bank executives to reduce or delay
plans for returning capital to shareholders, people with
knowledge of the process said last week. The people declined to
identify specific institutions.  Bank of America’s disclosure “raises the question whether
the Fed is comfortable with the plan that the company submitted,
or whether the Fed asked Bank of America to resubmit its capital
plan” later to monitor their results for several more quarters,
said John McDonald, a Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. analyst, today
in a research note. He has an “outperform” rating on the bank.  The lender accepted $45 billion of U.S. bailout funds as
regulators became concerned that its purchase of Merrill Lynch &
Co. in January 2009 would destabilize Bank of America and the
financial system. The money has since been repaid.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugh Son in  New York  at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net  