-- 
German Stocks Slide; Metro, BMW Shares Decline as Rational Gains

-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 
2011-03-22T17:06:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/basf-biotest-brenntag-and-metro-german-equity-market-preview.html
German stocks fell, led by declines
in  Metro AG (MEO)  and carmakers, as investors speculated that the
European Union’s leaders will fail to find an immediate solution
to the region’s debt crisis.  Metro, Germany’s biggest retailer lost 4.7 percent after
saying the global economic growth on which its forecasts depend
may be curbed by Arab revolts and the Japanese earthquake.
 Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW)  and  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  led European
carmakers lower.  Solarworld AG (SWV)  retreated 4.7 percent as
Jefferies Group Inc. downgraded the stock.  Rational AG (RAA)  advanced
after proposing to increase its dividend.  The benchmark  DAX Index (DAX)  slipped 0.5 percent to 6,780.97 at
the 5:30 p.m. close in Frankfurt. Last week, the gauge tumbled
the most in 10 months after  Japan ’s March 11 earthquake and
subsequent tsunami damaged cooling systems at an atomic power
plant, causing the worst nuclear accident since Chernobyl. The
index had gained 4.6 percent over the previous three trading
days. The broader  HDAX Index (HDAX)  slid 0.6 percent today.  “The DAX looks a little bit tamed today,” said Anita Paluch, a sales trader at ETX Capital in London. “The list of
decliners is led by Metro that despite the good numbers fell as
the presented outlook for growth in sales was rather gloomy
given the situation in Japan and the Middle East.”  EU finance chiefs settled yesterday on how to enable a
permanent rescue fund to lend 500 billion euros ($710 billion)
as of 2013, while remaining divided over how to get the current
stopgap fund to its full capacity. The yield on the Irish two-
year note surged 88 basis points to 10.13 percent as of 1:41
p.m. in  London , after reaching 10.18 percent, the most since
2003, when Bloomberg began collecting the data.  Portugal ’s Government  Portugal’s government may collapse tomorrow as the
country’s parliament votes on a plan for fiscal austerity
measures, JPMorgan Chase & Co. economist Nicola Mai said in a
note e-mailed to investors.  Tokyo Electric Power Co. plans to restore power to the
buildings housing the plant’s first four nuclear reactors. The
utility needs to restart power before it can switch on the
cooling systems. Reactors 5 and 6 were shut down before the
earthquake and suffered little damage.  U.S. Defense Secretary  Robert Gates  said that the intensity
of the military campaign in  Libya  will soon ease after America,
the U.K. and  France  imposed a no-fly zone on Muammar Qaddafi’s
regime, enabling rebels to push out of their stronghold in
Benghazi in the east.  Metro, BMW Fall  Metro slid 4.7 percent to 47.74 euros, the lowest price
since October. Debt crises confronting EU countries weigh on the
economic outlook, Chief Executive Officer Eckhard Cordes said
today at a press conference in Dusseldorf,  Germany .  Adjusted earnings before interest and taxes may increase 10
percent in 2011, after gaining 19 percent in 2010, the company
said. Underlying sales should rise by 4 percent, compared with
Metro’s medium-term forecast of more than 6 percent growth.  BMW, the world’s biggest maker of luxury cars, lost 1.5
percent to 54.59 euros, the first decline in four days.
Volkswagen,  Europe ’s largest carmaker, dropped 1.6 percent to
109.65 euros. European carmakers posted the worst performance
among 19 industry groups in the benchmark Stoxx Europe 600 Index
today, falling 1.5 percent.  SolarWorld slumped 4.7 percent to 9.89 euros as Jefferies
downgraded the solar-cell manufacturer to “hold” from “buy.”  Rational increased 1.6 percent to 160 euros, the highest
price in more than two weeks. The world’s largest supplier of
automated cookers to caterers proposed a record payout to
shareholders after 2010 revenue rose to its highest ever.
Shareholders will get a 43 percent increase in dividend payments
to 9 euros a share.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Cruz in  Frankfurt  at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  