-- 
BBVA Covered Bond Yield Spread Spain’s Lowest in Year

-- B y   E s t e b a n   D u a r t e   a n d   B e n   M a r t i n
-- 
2011-03-23T15:56:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/bbva-s-covered-bond-yield-spread-is-lowest-for-spain-in-a-year.html
(Corrects BBVA bond spread in second paragraph of story
published March 21.)  Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA) 
will price 2 billion euros of covered bonds at the lowest yield
premium in a year for a Spanish issuer of the loan-backed debt.  Spain ’s second-largest bank is selling the four-year
securities at a spread of 155 basis points more than the
benchmark swap rate, according to a banker involved in the
transaction. That’s the tightest gap since Ibercaja offered a
115 basis-point premium on a 500 million-euro issue in April,
according to UniCredit SpA data.  Investors are reducing the risk premium on Spanish debt as
the country’s banks work to a September deadline of increased
regulatory  capital requirements . Spain has taken unprecedented
measures to avoid following Greece and Ireland into a bailout,
implementing the deepest budget cuts in at least three decades.  “Sentiment around Spain has improved considerably since
January as the government gives signs of fixing the problems of
the financial sector,” said Leef Dierks, a London-based analyst
at Morgan Stanley. “Covered bonds from the country’s bigger
banks have started benefitting from demand from traditional
government bond investors seeking a yield pickup.”  Covered bonds are backed by mortgages or public-sector
loans. They differ from asset-backed securities in that the
collateral backing the debt remains with the borrower, which is
liable if the assets aren’t sufficient.  Banco Espanol de Credito SA (BTO) , a retail banking unit of Banco
Santander SA, is also offering 600 million euros of covered
bonds at a spread of 190 basis points, according to a banker
involved in the deal.  The banks are selling the debt as covered bond spreads
narrow across  Europe . Investors demand an extra yield of 119
basis points relative to swaps to buy the debt, down from a peak
this year of 137 on Jan. 21, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch’s EMU Covered Bonds Index.  -- Editors: Andrew Reierson, Michael Shanahan  To contact the reporter on this story:
Esteban Duarte in Madrid at 
 eduarterubia@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  