-- 
Belarus Likely to Devalue as Reserves Dwindle, Danske Bank Says

-- B y   J a s o n   W e b b
-- 
2011-03-21T16:40:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/belarus-likely-to-devalue-as-reserves-dwindle-danske-bank-says.html
  Belarus  is likely to devalue its
ruble as it runs out of foreign reserves because of an
“intolerable” current-account deficit, according to Danske
Bank A/S.  The former Soviet republic’s attempts to seek a loan from  Russia  will not succeed in maintaining the value of the
Belarusian ruble, Sanna Kurronen, a Helsinki-based analyst at
the bank, wrote in a research note today.  “The situation seems to be escalating rapidly,” Kurronen
wrote. “We see no other reasonable alternative but for a
devaluation against the currency basket.”  The country’s foreign reserves were at $2.9 billion in
December, down 33 percent from a year earlier, while its
current-account deficit was 15.6 percent of GDP last year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. In comparison,  Greece ’s
current-account deficit reached 15.3 percent of GDP in the third
quarter of 2008, and began 2010 at 12.2 percent before the
country had to turn to the European Union for a rescue loan.  Belarus asked Russia and its other former Soviet partners
for loans totaling $3 billion, Russian Finance Minister Alexei Kudrin said on March 15.  No one answered the telephone at Belarus’s central bank
today. The Natsionalnyi Bank Respubliki Belarus said on March 15
that it has no plans for a “sharp”  currency devaluation .  The Belarusian ruble will be allowed to fluctuate within 8
percent of 1,057.04 rubles, the value of its target basket at
the start of the year, the bank said March 15. The basket is
divided equally into dollars, euros and Russian rubles.  The central bank devalued its currency by about a fifth in
January 2009. The Belarusian ruble was quoted at 3,020 to the
dollar today, unchanged from March 18.    Standard & Poor’s  cut its assessment on Belarusian debt one
step to B, five steps below investment grade, from B+, on March
14.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jason Webb in London at 
 jwebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  