-- 
Benin’s Constitutional Court Confirms President Boni Yayi First-Round Win

-- B y   S e r g e - D a v i d   Z o u e m e   a n d   J a s o n   M c L u r e
-- 
2011-03-21T17:13:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/benin-s-constitutional-court-confirms-president-boni-yayi-first-round-win.html
Benin ’s Constitutional Court said
provisional results showed President Thomas Boni Yayi won a
second term in office in the West African nation’s March 13
election.  Opposition candidates may file protests and final results
will be released this week, Robert Dossou, head of the court,
told reporters today in the commercial capital, Cotonou. If
confirmed, Boni Yayi, who won more than 53 percent in the
provisional results announced by the court, would avoid a runoff
vote against opposition leader Adrien Houngbedji, who obtained
36 percent.  Five of the 11 members of the  electoral  commission
contested provisional results the board released on March 18,
according to the panel’s vice president, Jerome Alladaye.
Houngbedji rejected the results, saying in a statement on
broadcaster LC2 that he had won the election and his victory was
“stolen” by the ruling party.  “There is a lot of anger surrounding these elections and
the way they were administered,” said Kissy Agyeman-Togobo, a
West Africa political analyst at London-based  Songhai Advisory ,
in a phone interview today.  Houngbedji will lodge a complaint with the court, Alain
Adihou, a spokesman for the opposition leader’s campaign, said
by phone.  Opposition Meets  Third-place finisher Abdoulaye Bio Tchane, whose campaign
rejected the results on March 19, is meeting with other
opposition candidates to coordinate a response to the court’s
announcement, his spokesman, Rene Dossa, said in a phone
interview today.  Boni Yayi, a former head of the  West African Development
Bank,  won the presidency in 2006 by defeating Houngbedji and 20
other candidates. In the first-round election that year, Boni
Yayi obtained 35.6 percent, while Houngbedji took 24.2 percent.
Boni Yayi won the runoff in a landslide, with 74.5 percent.  Boni Yayi’s bid for a second term had been marred by the
collapse of a 156 billion CFA franc ($338 million)  Ponzi scheme 
and opposition threats to boycott the twice-delayed election.
Boni Yayi, who fired Interior Minister Armand Zinzindohoue for
his role in the scheme, has denied any wrongdoing.  Boni Yayi’s apparent first-round win “is something people
didn’t expect because he lost a lot of popularity with the Ponzi
scheme,” Agyeman-Togobo said.  Editors: Karl Maier,  Emily Bowers .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Serge-David Zoueme in Cotonou via Accra at 
   zsergedavid@bloomberg.net ;
Jason McLure in Accra at 
 jmclure@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 