-- 
BG, EDF, ING, Metro, Parmalat, Sanofi: European Equity Preview

-- B y   C e c i l e   V a n n u c c i
-- 
2011-03-21T00:14:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/bg-edf-ing-metro-parmalat-sanofi-european-equity-preview.html
The following companies’ shares may
have unusual moves in European trading. Stock symbols are in
parentheses.  The Stoxx  Europe  600 Index gained 0.2 percent to 267.63.
The Stoxx 50 Index dropped 0.3 percent to 2,507.65. The Euro
Stoxx 50 Index, a benchmark for nations using the euro,
increased 0.2 percent to 2,792.61.    Assicurazioni Generali SpA (G)  :  Italy ’s biggest insurer
said it has always acted with transparency toward the market and
all shareholders, rebutting comments made by Vice Chairman  Vincent Bollore  to  Corriere della Sera . Bollore told the
newspaper he wanted greater transparency on investments in
Eastern Europe and  Russia . The shares fell 0.3 percent to 14.7
euros.    Barclays Plc (BARC)  : The London-based lender told the
U.K. Treasury that it may move its headquarters to the U.S. if
the government proceeds with plans to break up banks, the Sunday
Times said. The stock fell 0.5 percent to 282.1 pence.    BG Group Plc (BG/)  : The U.K.’s third-largest natural-gas
producer predicts that the Brazilian deepwater oil discoveries
Lula and Iracema together hold more than 10 billion barrels of
oil, exceeding the estimates of state-controlled Petroleo
Brasileiro SA, Folha de S. Paulo said on its website. BG dropped
1.4 percent to 1,499 pence.  Brisa-Auto Estradas de  Portugal  SA: (BRI PL): Portugal’s
biggest toll-road operator expects toll revenue at its main
concession to increase 2 percent to 3 percent this year,
according to a company presentation. The shares jumped 4.6
percent to 4.99 euros.    Credit Agricole SA (ACA)  : The French bank has become the
biggest investor in  Spain ’s Bankinter SA, with a 24.7 percent
stake, compared with its previously published 23 percent stake,
El Confidencial reported, citing a prospectus for the bank’s
convertible shares. Credit Agricole’s stock fell 0.5 percent to
11.22 euros.    Criteria CaixaCorp SA (CRI)  : CaixaBank, the banking
business of La Caixa savings bank that will be absorbed by its
listed holding company Criteria, plans to boost its market share
in Spain to 15 percent by 2014 from 10 percent now, El Pais
said, citing comments to investors by La Caixa Chief Executive
Officer Juan Maria Nin. Criteria shares rose 0.7 percent to
4.917 euros.    Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE)  : AT&T Inc. agreed to buy T-
Mobile USA from Deutsche Telekom in a cash-and-stock offer
valued at about $39 billion, a combination that would create the
largest mobile-phone company in the U.S.  The deal may give Deutsche Telekom an 8 percent stake in
the Dallas-based carrier, which will add a Deutsche Telekom
executive to its board of directors. The shares of Bonn-based
Deutsche Telekom dropped 1.3 percent to 9.59 euros.    Diageo Plc (DGE)  : The owner of Smirnoff vodka is
considering a $2 billion offer for Jose Cuervo SA, the tequila
label in which it owns the international distribution rights,
the Sunday Times reported, without saying where it got the
information. The stock rose 0.4 percent to 1,143 pence.  E.ON AG (EOAN GY): A report in today’s Die Welt newspaper
said that  Germany ’s four nuclear plant owners will take five
more reactors temporarily offline by May to add to the seven
already offline under a government safety review. The combined
move would remove 75 percent or 15,000 megawatts of nuclear
power generation from Germany’s grid, the newspaper said. The
shares of E.ON dropped 1.5 percent to 20.94 euros.  Electricite de  France  SA (EDF FP):  Europe’s biggest power
generator said GIE Intra, which is mostly owned by EDF, will
send robots to  Japan  to help with the nuclear crisis. The robots
are able to replace human workers in radioactive areas, the
company said. The stock fell 1.7 percent to 27.46 euros.    Fondiaria-Sai SpA (FSA)  : lender  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  
may underwrite a capital increase of over 460 million euros for
Fondiaria and take a stake of 7 percent in the Italian insurer,
 Il Sole 24 Ore  said, without saying where it got the
information. Fondiaria rose 2.8 percent to 7.05 euros. UniCredit
added 0.4 percent to 1.73 euros.    Interpump Group SpA (IP)  : Chairman Giovanni Cavallini
told Il Sole 24 Ore that 2011 sales will meet analyst forecasts
of about 470 million euros. The world’s biggest maker of high-
performance pumps is also planning to grow in Latin America, he
told the newspaper. Shares fell 0.7 percent to 5.66 euros.    ING Groep NV (INGA)  : General Electric Co. is among
companies to have expressed interest to the biggest Dutch
financial-services group about a takeover or merger with its
U.S. online bank, according to a person with knowledge of the
matter. ING rose 0.6 percent to 8.661 euros.    Omega Pharma (OME)  NV: Belgium’s biggest supplier of
pharmacy products isn’t seeking to make any big acquisitions,
Chief Executive Officer Marc Coucke told L’Echo in an interview.
The shares gained 5 cents, or 0.1 percent, to 32.10 euros.    Parmalat SpA (PLT)  : Italian confectionery maker Ferrero
SpA favors Italian ownership of Parmalat, an official for
Ferrero said by phone. The comments followed a report in the
 Financial Times  saying Ferrero may buy a stake in Italy’s
largest dairy company, joining a battle for control against
France’s Groupe Lactalis.  Separately, Parmalat said Groupe Lactalis submitted a list
of candidates for the board. The shares rose 4 percent to 2.60
euros.    Sanofi-Aventis SA (SAN)  : The French drugmaker said it
received approval from the European Commission for Jevtana, a
treatment for advanced second-line prostate cancer. The stock
fell 0.3 percent to 47.12 euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cecile Vannucci in New York at 
 cvannucci1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  