-- 
Barry Bonds Jury to Hear Opening Statements in Perjury, Obstruction Trial

-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o   a n d   R o b   G l o s t e r
-- 
2011-03-22T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/bonds-will-face-jury-with-nurse-student-warehouse-worker-in-perjury-case.html
Barry Bonds ’s perjury trial, to be
heard by an eight-woman, four-man jury that includes a data
center engineer at  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) , two nurses and a business
college student, is scheduled for opening statements today.  Bonds, 46, who holds Major League Baseball records for
career and single-season home runs, faces four counts of perjury
and one count of obstruction of justice for telling a 2003 grand
jury he didn’t knowingly take performance-enhancing drugs. The
trial in federal court in San Francisco is expected to last as
long as four weeks.  Jury selection was completed yesterday in a five-hour court
session attended by Bonds, his four attorneys and federal
prosecutors. The jurors, who range in age from 19 to 68, include
a retired cashier and a client services administrator at money
management firm Dodge & Cox. The Amazon.com engineer is a former
Air Force helicopter pilot in  Vietnam .  “Athletes shouldn’t use steroids, that’s about it,” one
selected juror, a 19-year-old business-college student, said in
one of her answers in a questionnaire that was filled out by
about 100 potential jurors called for the case.  U.S. District Judge  Susan Illston  has ordered that juror
names remain sealed until after the trial is over. Jurors’
occupations and other details were listed on the questionnaires
made public yesterday.  Federal prosecutors and Bonds’s attorneys agreed yesterday
morning that 38 of the potential jurors should be dismissed
based on their responses in the three-page questionnaire.  ‘Barry Bonds Fan’  Thirty-six potential jurors then were questioned by Illston
and lawyers for both sides before the 12 jury members and two
alternates were selected. When Assistant U.S. Attorney Matt Parrella asked the 36 potential jurors who was a fan of the  San
Francisco  Giants, Bonds’s former team, about a third of them
raised their hands.  One member of the jury pool had been dismissed earlier
because he said on the questionnaire that he couldn’t be
objective about the facts of the case.  “I’m a Barry Bonds fan and I’m a huge S.F. Giants fan.
It’s my life,” he wrote. “I don’t know if I could judge Mr.
Bonds after providing me with so much entertainment. It’s an
intimate relationship.”  Some of those rejected from the panel said they had already
determined that Bonds was guilty.  “I was angry to hear of cheating in baseball,” a 43-year-
old woman wrote. “I don’t like millionaire athletes who cheat
by using steroids, then lie about it.”  Trainer to Appear  Illston has ordered  Greg Anderson , Bonds’s former trainer,
to appear in court to say whether he’ll testify for the
government. Anderson’s attorney, Mark Geragos, said March 1 that
Anderson, who prosecutors allege gave Bonds steroids, will
refuse to testify.  Illston told Anderson she intends to send him to jail if he
won’t take the stand. Anderson, who pleaded guilty to
distributing steroids in 2005, spent more than a year in jail on
civil contempt charges after he refused to testify before the
federal grand jury investigating Bonds.  Bonds  holds the major league career record with 762 home
runs and the single-season record with 73 home runs in 2001.  The trial was postponed for two years as federal
prosecutors unsuccessfully appealed a ruling that barred them
from using as evidence certain documents they say show that
Bonds tested positive for steroid use.  Giambi as Witness  Government attorneys may call former New York Yankee Jason Giambi and other baseball players to testify that they received
steroids from Anderson, according to court documents.  The maximum sentence for each of the counts Bonds faces is
10 years in prison and a $250,000 fine. Bonds, who was first
charged in November 2007, has pleaded not guilty.  The case is U.S. v. Bonds, 07-00732, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of  California  (San Francisco).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net ;
Rob Gloster in San Francisco at 
 rgloster@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this report:
David E. Rovella at 
 drovella@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  