-- 
U.K.’s FTSE 100 Retreats; WPP, BHP, Rio Tinto Shares Decline

-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 
2011-03-22T16:54:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/bp-cairn-energy-forth-ports-u-k-irish-equity-market-preview.html
U.K. stocks retreated for the first
time in four days as British inflation rose more than forecast
and oil surged amid concern that unrest is spreading in the
Middle East and North Africa.  WPP Plc (WPP) , the world’s largest advertising company, fell 1.8
percent after Exane BNP Paribas downgraded the shares. BHP
Billiton Ltd. and  Rio Tinto  Group led a decline in mining
companies.  Cairn Energy Plc (CNE)  rose 2 percent after reporting
record sales in 2010.  The benchmark  FTSE 100 Index (UKX)  slipped 23.38, or 0.4 percent,
to 5,762.71 at the 4:30 p.m. close in London. The gauge has
fallen 5.4 percent from this year’s high on Feb. 8 as  Libya ’s
ruler Muammar Qaddafi sought to quash a revolt aimed at ending
his 41 years in power, sending  oil prices  surging, and  Japan 
battled to stop its Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear power plant from
leaking radiation following the March 11 earthquake. The  FTSE
All-Share Index (ASX)  also slid 0.4 percent today, while Ireland’s
ISEQ Index lost 0.2 percent.  “Traders remain highly sensitive to any push higher in
crude oil prices,” said Joshua Raymond, a markets strategist at
City Index Ltd. in London. “Today’s data piles yet more
pressure on the  Bank of England  to hike interest rates, placing
them in an incredibly tough position on the eve of tomorrow’s
Budget.”  A report today showed U.K. inflation accelerated more than
economists had predicted to the fastest pace in more than two
years in February, adding pressure on the Bank of England to
increase its benchmark interest rate.  George Osborne’s Budget  Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne will close tax
loopholes used mostly by the wealthy to raise revenue by about 1
billion pounds ($1.6 billion) a year in his budget tomorrow, a
person with knowledge of the plans said. Implementation of a
fiscal program, including plans to slash more than 300,000
public-sector jobs over four years, begins fully next month, at
a time when unemployment has risen to 8 percent after the
economy contracted in the fourth quarter.  Oil traded near the highest price in more than a week as
the airstrikes threatened to prolong a supply disruption.  Irish and Greek two-year notes fell and the cost of debt
insurance surged after European Union finance chiefs late
yesterday set terms for a permanent rescue fund to lend 500
billion euros ($710 billion) from 2013. They remain divided over
how to get the current stopgap fund to its full capacity.  Separately, the  Portuguese government  forecast that the
economy will contract this year as investment declines and it
cuts spending to narrow its  budget deficit .  Japan’s Nuclear Plant  In Japan, Tokyo Electric Power Co. said it plans to restore
power to the buildings housing the plant’s first four nuclear
reactors. The utility needs to restart power before it can
switch on the cooling systems. Reactors 5 and 6 were shut down
before the earthquake and suffered little damage.  WPP lost 1.8 percent to 757 pence as Exane lowered its
stance on the shares to “neutral” from “outperform,” saying
that the premium investors need to pay to buy the stock relative
to its peers is no longer justified.  BHP Billiton , the world’s biggest mining company, slipped
1.3 percent to 2,275 pence. Rio Tinto, the third-largest,
dropped 1.1 percent to 4,013.5 pence. Xstrata Plc, the fourth-
biggest copper producer, declined 1.4 percent to 1,374.5 pence.  Cairn Energy rose 2 percent to 428 pence. The oil explorer
said revenue for the year jumped to $1.6 billion from $234
million in 2009 as the completion of a pipeline from the Mangala
field boosted production.  Petropavlovsk Plc jumped 3.1 percent to 1,046 pence after
the miner of gold in  Russia  reported a 36 percent increase in
reserves of the metal.  Punch Taverns Plc (PUB)  gained 2.3 percent to 75.3 pence as the
U.K. operator of more than 6,700 pubs said it plans to sell
almost half of its 6,000 leased outlets and split the business
in two as it struggles with rising debt and declining profit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in  London  at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  