-- 
BP Investors’ Lawsuits Must Be Filed in U.K., Company Claims

-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s   a n d   A l l e n   J o h n s o n   J r .
-- 
2011-03-21T22:26:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/bp-wants-some-lawsuits-claiming-mismanagement-thrown-out-filed-in-britain.html
BP Plc (BP/)  asked a  Texas  judge to throw
out lawsuits by some institutional investors on the grounds that
their claims that company mismanagement caused the Gulf of
Mexico oil spill should be tried in British courts.  Investors sued London-based BP’s board and management last
year, alleging they pursued cost-cutting over safety and
disregarded “red flags” that could’ve prevented the explosion
of the Deepwater Horizon, which sank while drilling a BP well
off the Louisiana coast.  Eleven workers were killed in the accident, and more than
4.1 million barrels of crude spilled into the Gulf, exposing BP
to hundreds of lawsuits and billions of dollars in government
fines, clean-up and restoration costs.  The investors’ suit, a so-called derivative claim brought
on behalf of the company, is combined with other shareholder
actions before a U.S. judge in Houston. Lawsuits seeking
compensation for economic and personal injuries from the spill
are consolidated before a different U.S. judge in  New Orleans .  “A shareholder of a company organized under English law
cannot pursue a derivative claim on behalf of that company
without first obtaining judicial permission from the English
High Court,” Thomas Taylor, BP’s lead lawyer in the investors’
litigation, said in a motion filed today in federal court in
Houston.  Not ‘Unexpected’  The BP investors, which include the Louisiana Municipal
Police Employees’ Retirement System, don’t claim they’ve
“obtained or even sought such permission,” Taylor said in the
filing. Thus, the judge is required to dismiss the action, he
claimed.  Lewis Kahn, one of the lead attorneys for investors in this
track of the litigation, said BP’s position “was not
unexpected.”  “We’re aware of the argument, and we don’t think it is
meritorious,” Kahn said in a brief telephone interview today.
He declined to comment further until he could read BP’s filing.  BP spokesman  Daren Beaudo  had no immediate comment on
today’s filing.  The case is In Re: BP Shareholder Derivative Litigation,
4:10-cv-03447, U.S. District Court, Southern District of Texas
(Houston).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com ;
Allen Johnson Jr. in New Orleans at 
 allenmct@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 