-- 
Brazil’s Tim Gains on Takeover Speculation After AT&T Deal

-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i
-- 
2011-03-21T19:14:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/brazil-s-tim-gains-on-takeover-speculation-after-at-t-deal.html
  Tim Participacoes SA (TCSL4) , the Brazilian
unit of  Italy ’s largest phone company, rose the most in three
weeks on speculation the AT&T Inc. transaction may spur
additional industry takeovers.  Preferred shares of Rio de Janeiro-based Tim gained 1.7
percent to 6.48 reais at 3:10 p.m. New York time. Earlier, the
stock rose as much as 3.9 percent, the most intraday since March
3. The Bovespa index fell 0.1 percent to 66,809.63.  Deutsche Telekom AG yesterday agreed to sell its wireless
unit T-Mobile to AT&T for $39 billion to create the largest U.S.
mobile-phone company. Brazilian investors are now betting Tim
may be an acquisition candidate, said Rosangela Ribeiro, an
analyst at SLW Corretora brokerage, which rates Tim shares
“buy.”  “This type of news is enough to trigger the stock,” said
Ribeiro in a telephone interview. “Even if there’s no concrete
information about a takeover bid for Tim, most investors see the
company as the next in line for an acquisition.”  Tim is  Brazil ’s third-biggest mobile phone company, with
25.3 percent of the market, according to the telecommunications
regulator, Anatel. Since Tim is focused only on wireless
services in Brazil, it’s more likely to be a target among
competitors that offer services including landlines and cable
television, Ribeiro said.  Under Brazilian securities regulations, holders of voting
shares would receive at least 80 percent of the price offered to
controlling shareholders under a purchase. No such law applies
to preferred shares. The voting shares rose as much as 7.1
percent today.  An official with an external public relations firm, who
asked to remain anonymous in accordance with company policy,
declined to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ney Hayashi in  Sao Paulo  at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulous@bloomberg.net  