-- 
Bristol-Myers Skin-Cancer Drug Awaits FDA Action Worth $1 Billion in Sales

-- B y   R o b e r t   L a n g r e t h
-- 
2011-03-22T20:08:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/bristol-myers-skin-cancer-drug-extends-survival-in-trial.html
In 1996,  James Allison , a
California researcher, uncovered a way in mice to unleash the
body’s disease-fighting immune system against cancer. While he
was certain the approach could lead to a new kind of treatment
against human tumors, he was unable at first to convince drug
companies to pursue the idea.  “I hit a wall for a couple of years,” Allison, now at
 Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center  in New York, said in an
interview. “They thought the immune system could never take
care of a big mass of tumors.”  Now, a skin-cancer drug based on the concept is close to
getting U.S. clearance for its developer,  Bristol-Myers Squibb
Co. (BMY)  If the  Food and Drug Administration  approves the drug,
called ipilimumab, by its scheduled March 26 deadline, it would
become the first marketed medicine proven to extend survival in
metastatic melanoma, skin cancer that has spread and is
generally lethal.  The drug would also be the first in a new class of immune-
boosting medicines able to treat an array of tumors. Instead of
directly destroying tumor cells or disrupting their ability to
grow like most cancer drugs, these treatments remove molecular
brakes that prevent immune system cells from attacking cancer.  Ipilimumab sales in melanoma could reach $925 million by
2017, said  Seamus Fernandez , an analyst at Leerink Swann & Co.
in  Boston  “It’s not a stretch to say this would be a multi-
billion dollar class” if the drug works in common forms of the
disease such as prostate and  lung cancer , he said. “Bristol is
way ahead of everyone on the immunotherapy front.”  Approval Probable  Tony Butler , an analyst with  Barclays Capital , said
ipilimumab had an “80 percent to 90 percent probability of
approval.” Bristol-Myers shares may decline 5 percent to 8
percent if there is a significant delay in getting the drug
cleared, he said in an interview.  The FDA approval would be for patients who have failed
other treatments. Yesterday, the company reported a study
showing the drug also extended life as an initial therapy.  Bristol-Myers rose 29 cents, or 1.1 percent, to $26.29 at
4:01 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The
shares have declined less than 1 percent in the last 12 months.  The American Cancer Society  reports that 68,000 Americans
develop melanoma and 8,700 die from it each year.  ‘Huge’ Potential  “The potential is huge” for ipilimumab-style drugs, Thomas
Lynch, director of the  Yale Cancer Center  in  New Haven ,
 Connecticut , said in a telephone interview. Bristol-Myers’s
treatment may “pave the way for a whole series of drugs” that
prompt the immune system to destroy tumors, he said.  Bristol-Myers is testing ipilimumab in two trials in
advanced prostate cancer patients, and plans to begin a final-
stage trial in lung cancer later this year. It is testing five
other immune-enhancing cancer drugs for multiple myeloma, kidney
cancer, and other tumors.  One drug, called anti-PD-1, shrunk or stabilized tumors in
8 of 16 kidney cancer patients, researchers reported at a
medical conference earlier this year  “Ipilimumab for us is only the tip of the iceberg,” Renzo Canetta, a Bristol-Myers vice president for research, said in a
March 16 speech at a Barclays health-care conference in Miami.  The company declined to make executives available prior to
the FDA decision. The agency delayed its initial Dec. 25
decision on the drug until March 26.  Survival Data  In a trial of 676 melanoma patients who had failed other
treatments, patients who received ipilimumab lived a median of
10 months, versus 6.4 months for patients in a control group,
according to results published in the New England Journal of
Medicine in August.  Doctors involved in the test said there are patients living
on the drug for years.  “I have treated 250 patients with ipilimumab and at least
25 percent are alive two to five years after starting the
therapy,” Anna Pavlick, of the melanoma program at the  NYU
Langone Medical Center  in  New York , said in an interview.
Normally, they would succumb to the disease within three to six
months, she said.  While there are drugs approved in the U.S. for skin cancer
that has spread throughout the body, including the chemotherapy
agent dacarbazine and interleukin-2, neither has been proven to
prolong survival.  Los Angeles resident Susan Reed was 46 when a mole on her
back turned red. By the time her doctor removed it in early
2007, the melanoma had spread to her lymph nodes. By June 2008,
it metastasized into three inoperable tumors in her left lung.  ‘Unbelievably Frightening’  “It was the most devastating thing I have ever
encountered,” Reed, who is married with three teenage children,
said. “You Google melanoma and every article that comes up is
unbelievably frightening. I just couldn’t imagine I would not be
there to watch them graduate from high school.”  With few options,  Antoni Ribas , an oncologist at  University
of California , Los Angles, enrolled Reed into a trial of
ipilimumab in September 2008. By December, her tumors started to
shrink and have continued to get smaller since then, she said.  “It has saved my life,” said Reed, who gets one 90-minute
infusion every three months, and says she has not experienced
any side effects. “I feel so lucky.”  Ipilimumab is the result of two decades of research into
the role of the immune system in combating cancer. It began when
immunologist Allison was at University of California, Berkeley,
and started looking at a molecule called  CTLA-4  that is involved
in controlling T-cells the body uses to attack and kill cells
infected with viruses and bacteria.  New Theory  Some researchers thought CTLA-4 acted as a gas pedal to
turn on the immune system’s T-cells.  Allison showed in 1995
that CTLA-4 did the opposite; it worked as a brake, preventing
T-cells from rampaging out of control and destroying healthy
cells.  Allison said he realized that blocking CTLA-4 might help
treat cancer by allowing T-cells to remain active long enough to
seek out and destroy a tumor. He made an antibody designed to
turn off CTLA-4 and asked a researcher to test it in mice.  “Even in my own lab there were people who thought it
wouldn’t work,” Allison said in an interview at his Memorial
Sloan-Kettering office. He was amazed by the results, published
in Science in March 1996. “The mice that got the antibody were
alive; the ones that didn’t were completely dead,” he said.  Little Interest  The University of California patented the concept and
Allison tried for two years to get a large biotechnology or drug
company interested. “They couldn’t get their arms around the
idea,” he said. Rights to the approach ended up with a biotech
company called Medarex, which made a human version of the
antibody and started testing it in cancer patients in 2000.  Bristol-Myers, which had been studying CTLA-4’s role in
various diseases, formed a partnership with Medarex in 2005 and
bought the company for $2.4 billion in 2009. Allison, a former
consultant for Bristol-Myers, said he would receive a royalty if
the drug is approved.  “Innumerable” melanoma drugs have failed in trials, NYU’s
Pavlick said. It looked like ipilimumab would suffer the same
fate when a 2007 study failed to reach its goal of proving the
drug shrank tumors in more than 10 percent of melanoma patients.  One reason for the difficulty is ipilimumab’s novel
mechanism, Allison said. While it primes the immune system to
attack tumors, it doesn’t trigger the attack directly. It may
take months for an immune system response to build up. After
starting the therapy, some patients’ tumors continue to grow,
and only later start to shrink, according to research reports.  Ipilimumab caused immune-related side effects including
itchy skin and colon inflammation, researchers have reported. In
the Phase 3 trial, 12 patients died from treatment-related side
effects.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Langreth in New York at 
 rlangreth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale in New York 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  