-- 
British Bonds Best as Cameron Austerity Makes BOE Pause With U.K. Slowdown

-- B y   P a u l   D o b s o n ,   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e   a n d   E m m a   C h a r l t o n
-- 
2011-03-21T16:48:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/british-bonds-best-as-cameron-austerity-makes-boe-pause-with-u-k-slowdown.html
U.K. bonds are generating the
biggest gains in the government debt market as Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s austerity plan postpones growth in favor of
fiscal health.  Of the 26 sovereign debt markets tracked by Bloomberg/EFFAS
indexes, none have done better than gilts the past six weeks,
after producing the biggest monthly losses in January except for
South Africa. They have returned 2.9 percent since Feb. 4,
including reinvested interest, beating the 1.9 percent surge in
U.S. Treasuries and 0.4 percent advance in German bunds,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes.  Cameron is braving protests and rising unemployment to push
through the biggest spending cuts since World War II and close a
deficit that grew to 11.1 percent of gross domestic product in
the fiscal year ended March 2010. The reward for taxpayers is
lower borrowing costs as the price investors pay for credit-
default swaps tied to U.K. debt drops.  Fitch Ratings  affirmed
the nation’s top AAA grade on March 14.  “In the long-term, it’s what the market was asking for,”
said Ihab Salib, a money manager who specializes in
international debt at Pittsburgh-based Federated Investors Inc.,
which oversees more than $350 billion.  Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  will present his
budget in two days, almost a year after Cameron’s Conservatives
joined with the Liberal Democrats, Britain’s third-biggest
political party, to form a government with the intention of
reducing the nation’s debt and preserving its top  credit rating .
The Conservatives ended 13 years of Labour rule in the May 6
election, when former Prime Minister  Gordon Brown  was defeated.  Declining Debt Sales  Gilt sales in the next fiscal year will drop to 162 billion
pounds ($264 billion) from the record 227.6 billion during
fiscal 2009/2010, according to the median estimate of 15 of the
20 primary dealers of U.K. debt in a Bloomberg survey.  Cameron has stuck to the fiscal measures in the face of the
highest unemployment since 1994, student riots protesting
increased university tuition fees and a rise in the so-called
misery index to a 17-year high. The gauge, devised by economist
Arthur Okun, combines inflation, which is accelerating at the
fastest pace in more than two years, and joblessness.  “People are realizing the realities that come behind that
kind of program, and it’s not all that good,” Federated’s Salib
said of Cameron’s cuts to spending.  The Plan  The government plans to shrink the  budget deficit  to 1.9
percent of GDP by April 2015 from 10 percent this year and slash
more than 300,000 public-sector jobs. Last week U.K. lawmakers
voted down a Labour attempt to force the government to reverse
an increase in value-added tax on road fuel.  “The strong budgetary consolidation effort and declining
fiscal risks arising from the U.K. financial sector support the
stable outlook on the U.K.’s AAA ratings,” Fitch analyst Maria
Malas-Mroueh in London said in a March 14 statement.  Yields on the 3.75 percent gilt maturing in September 2020
fell 12 basis points last week to 3.51 percent. Germany’s 2.5
percent bunds due January 2021 rose, sending the yield down
three basis points to 3.19 percent, while the yield on the 3.625
percent Treasury note of February 2021 was 13 basis points, or
0.13 percentage point, lower at 3.27 percent on March 18.  The 10-year gilt yield was two basis points higher at 3.53
percent as of 4:24 p.m. in  London  today.  ‘Incredibly Challenging’  Longer-term gains are coming with short-term pain.
Austerity measures may limit U.K. growth to 1.5 percent this
year, the Paris-based Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development said March 16, cutting its estimate from 1.7
percent. That compares with 3.1 percent for the U.S. and 2.6 for
Germany, according to separate surveys of more than 10
economists by Bloomberg News.  The U.K.’s FTSE 100 Index of stocks lost 1.9 percent this
year, compared with a 3.3 percent jump in the Standard & Poor’s
500 Index and a gain of 2.2 percent in the MSCI World Index.  The U.K. is “incredibly challenging,” Carl McPhail, chief
executive officer of Weymouth, England-based budget fashion
retailer New Look Group Ltd., said March 16 on a panel at a
Retail Week conference in London. “Economic uncertainty is
affecting everyone,” Richard Brasher, U.K. CEO of Tesco Plc,
the nation’s largest retailer, said then.  Inflation accelerated to a 4 percent rate in January from a
year earlier, the fastest pace since November 2008, the Office
for National Statistics said Feb. 15. A report tomorrow may show
the rate in February climbed to 4.2 percent, according to the
median forecast of 32 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Yield Forecasts  That’s stepping up pressure on Bank of England Governor  Mervyn King  to raise  interest rates , threatening the gilts
rally. King said earlier this month that while boosting rates
too soon would be a “futile gesture,” there is still a
“perfectly reasonable case for doing it now.”  Gilts handed investors a loss of 1.98 percent in January,
according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European
Federation of Financial Analysts Societies, as investors added
to bets policy makers would increase rates for the first time
since July 2007. Only South African debt fared worse, losing
2.01 percent.  Ten-year gilt yields will end the year at 4.11 percent,
according to a weighted average of 16 economist forecasts
compiled by Bloomberg. Bunds will be at 3.54 percent, while
Treasuries will climb to 3.93 percent, forecasts show.  For now, the bond and currency markets are focused on the
prospects for improvement in the U.K.’s fiscal position.  Default Swaps  “There might be one Bank of England move this year, but
certainly not as many as three so the 10-year is reasonable
value at 3.5 percent,” said Robin Marshall, director of fixed-
income in London at Smith & Williamson Investment Management,
which oversees $20 billion. Thirty-year gilt yields at 4.5
percent “look a screaming buy,” he said. The yield was 4.26
percent at the end of last week.  While the pound has depreciated 1.4 percent over the past
six months, it is up 1.9 percent this year, based on Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Indexes that measure the performance of the
world’s 10 most-widely traded currencies against each other.  Credit-default swaps insuring U.K. debt for five years fell
to 54.6 basis points last week from 73.5 basis points at the end
of 2010, according to CMA prices. That’s about the same as for
German contracts, which dropped to 43.7 from 59.3. Swaps for  U.S. debt  rose to 41.9 from 41.5.  The contracts typically fall as investor confidence in a
borrower improves and rises as it deteriorates. A basis point on
a swap protecting 10 million euros ($14 million) of debt from
default for five years is equivalent to 1,000 euros a year.  ‘On Their Side’  With the U.K. austerity program being implemented, “we
still look to be in a position where fiscal credibility is on
their side and if they produce a budget that shows they are
pressing ahead then that’s good news for investors in gilts,”
said  Sam Hill , a fixed-income strategist at  RBC Capital Markets 
in London.  Bond investors also appreciate the U.K.’s insulation from
the euro-area debt crisis. While the government is helping fund
November’s bailout of Ireland, it isn’t participating in the
region’s 440 billion-euro aid program, the European Financial
Stability Facility.  The European Union and  International Monetary Fund  had to
bail out  Greece  and Ireland last year, and bond prices show
Portugal may be next. The yield on Portugal’s benchmark 10-year
bond has closed above 7 percent every day since Feb. 4. Greece
needed a rescue within 17 days of its yields breaching 7 percent
on April 6, while Ireland sought aid about a month after it
climbed above that level in October.  ‘Clear Political Will’  “There is very clear political will for the euro project
to stay alive and that probably means  Germany  and France have to
pay for it,” said Peter Geikie-Cobb, a money manager at Thames
River Capital, part of London-based F&C Asset Management Plc,
which oversees more than $160 billion of assets. “On a relative
basis, gilts will probably outperform core  Europe .”  U.K. 10-year bond yields fell below similar-maturity French
debt this month for the first time since October 2009 after
European Central Bank President Jean-Claude Trichet said on
March 3 he may raise borrowing costs in April. The yield spread
over bunds narrowed to 32 basis points on March 18, also the
least since October 2009, as EU leaders said they would bolster
the region’s bailout programs.  The ECB is “keeping pressure on the  bond market  so maybe
gilts have potential to outperform,” said Werner Fey, a  fund
manager  at Frankfurt Trust Investment GmbH in Frankfurt, which
oversees about 6.5 billion euros of debt. Rising yields on the
securities of peripheral euro-region nations such as Portugal
and Greece may weigh on bunds relative to gilts, he said.  Extended Rally  Gilts are extending a rally from last year, when they
handed investors a 7.6 percent return, the Bank of America
Merrill Lynch indexes show. That beat a 6.2 percent increase for
German debt and a 5.9 percent advance for Treasuries.  Britain’s decreasing debt sales underscore the nation’s
efforts to cut the deficit, while President Barack Obama and
U.S. lawmakers negotiate over borrowings.  Germany plans to sell 302 billion euros of  government
securities  this year, a 6.5 percent reduction from its post-
World War II peak of 323 billion euros in 2009. Debt issuance in
the U.S. climbed to $2.25 trillion last year from $2.11 trillion
in 2009.  “We are further down our consolidation path than the U.S.,
which makes us a more attractive asset,” said  Stuart Thomson , a
Glasgow-based portfolio manager at Ignis Asset Management, which
oversees about $121 billion. “The U.K. is the weakest of the
major industrialized economies at the moment, which should make
bonds attractive. We like gilts, they are a good buy.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Paul Dobson in London at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net ;
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net ;
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  