-- 
Buffett Says Apple’s ‘Wonderful Future’ Not as Predictable as Coca-Cola’s

-- B y   J u n   Y a n g
-- 
2011-03-21T05:13:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/buffett-says-less-sure-about-outlook-for-apple-than-coca-cola.html
  Warren Buffett  said he’ll probably
prolong his aversion to electronics makers such as  Apple Inc. (AAPL) 
because their business prospects are harder to predict than
companies such as  Coca-Cola Co. (KO)   “We held very few in the past and we’re likely to hold
very few in the future,” the billionaire chairman of  Berkshire
Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  said in Daegu,  South Korea , today, referring to
electronics makers. Coca-Cola, based in Atlanta, is “very easy
for me to come to a conclusion as to what it will look like
economically in five or 10 years, and it’s not easy for me to
come to a conclusion about Apple,” he said.  The comments by the world’s third-richest man come as
electronics makers worldwide scramble to assess damages from the
March 11 earthquake and tsunami in  Japan  that killed more than
8,000 people. Japanese companies, including  Toshiba Corp. (6502) ,
supply 20 percent of the world’s technology products, including
40 percent of components and 19 percent of chips, according to
CLSA Ltd. estimates.  Buffett, 80, arrived in Daegu yesterday to attend a
ceremony for a new factory being built by TaeguTec Ltd., a South
Korean company partly owned by his Iscar Metalworking Cos. unit
that makes cutting tools. He canceled his scheduled trip to
Japan this week after the earthquake.  Still, Buffett said the drop in Japanese stocks following
the earthquake presents a buying opportunity.  Buying Opportunity  “If I owned Japanese stocks, I would certainly not be
selling them because of the events of the past 10 days or so,”
Buffett said. “Something out of the blue like this, an
extraordinary event, really creates a buying opportunity.”  Apple, the Cupertino, California-based maker of the iPhone
and iPad, last year overtook Microsoft Corp. as the largest
technology company by market value. The 8.6 percent stake in
Coca-Cola is Omaha, Nebraska-based Berkshire Hathaway’s biggest
equity holding, followed by  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  and  American
Express Co. (AXP) , according to regulatory data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Even though Apple may have the most wonderful future in
the world, I’m not capable of bringing any drink to that
particular party and evaluating that future,” Buffett said. “I
simply look at businesses where I think I have some
understanding of what they might look like in five or 10
years.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jun Yang in Seoul at 
 jyang180@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net ;
Brett Miller at 
 bmiller30@bloomberg.net  