-- 
Billionaire Buffett Says South Korea a ‘Hunting Ground’ for Acquisitions

-- B y   J u n   Y a n g   a n d   B o m i   L i m
-- 
2011-03-21T05:37:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/buffett-says-south-korea-is-acquisition-hunting-ground-u-s-more-likely.html
  Warren Buffett  said  South Korea  is
a “hunting ground” for acquisitions after his  Berkshire
Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  committed to more than $35 billion in takeovers
mainly in the U.S. in the past two years.  Buffett, 80, said while his familiarity with the U.S. makes
it the most likely place for a transaction, he is looking for
big deals around the world.  “Large companies appeal to me and  Korea  has a number of
large companies obviously, so it’s a hunting ground,” he told
reporters today in the South Korean city of Daegu, where
Berkshire owns tool-making company TaeguTec Ltd. through its
Israeli unit Iscar Metalworking Cos. “We hope we find a
wonderful business in Korea.”  Berkshire’s cash holdings rose to $38.2 billion as of Dec.
31, prompting Buffett to tell investors two months later that
his “elephant gun has been reloaded.” The Omaha, Nebraska-
based company agreed this month to pay about $9 billion for
engine-additive maker  Lubrizol Corp. (LZ)  and last year bought
railroad Burlington Northern Santa Fe for $26.5 billion.  “Buffett would be interested in South Korean companies
that can create synergy effects with operations of companies he
has already invested in,” said Chang In Whan, president of
Seoul-based KTB Asset Management Co., which oversees the
equivalent of $11 billion. “There are quite a few South Korean
companies that are still relatively cheap even with the
likelihood to grow globally.”  Posco Stake  Shipbuilding, chemical and steelmaking businesses could
interest Buffett, said Chang, without naming any companies.  Berkshire holds 4.6 percent of Pohang, South Korea-based
steelmaker Posco, according to the former’s 2010 annual report.
Buffett said today he’s invested more than $1 billion in the
company.    Posco (005490) , the third-biggest steelmaker by output, was
“ridiculously cheap” when Buffett first looked at in 2002 or
2003, he said during a previous trip to South Korea in 2007.  Buffett owns shares of some small-capitalization companies
in South Korea, he said today, without naming any.  Posco shares rose 1.2 percent to 508,000 won at 2:09 p.m.
in  Seoul , extending their gain this year to 4.3 percent. The
stock has advanced fourfold since the start of 2003.  The benchmark Kospi index rose 0.8 percent, trimming its
decline in 2011 to 2.6 percent.  Buffett is scheduled to meet South Korean President  Lee Myung Bak  later today in Seoul and to leave the country tomorrow.  He canceled his scheduled trip to  Japan  this week after the
March 11 earthquake. Still, Buffett said the drop in Japanese
stocks following the temblor presents a buying opportunity.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jun Yang in Seoul at 
 jyang180@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  