-- 
California Judge Orders Delay of Carbon-Market Rules to Study Alternatives

-- B y   S i m o n   L o m a x
-- 
2011-03-21T23:32:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/california-judge-orders-delay-of-carbon-market-rules-to-study-alternatives.html
A  California  judge ordered state
environmental officials to stop work on carbon cap-and-trade
regulations until alternative approaches, such as a carbon tax,
are fully studied.  The  California Air Resources Board  violated state law when
it approved a December 2008 plan that laid the groundwork for
the trading program, Judge Ernest Goldsmith said in a March 18
ruling obtained today. The plan failed to analyze alternatives
that might be better than a cap-and-trade program, he said.  The “important alternative” of a carbon tax got a “scant
two paragraphs” of discussion in the plan, he said. The public
should have been told “not only why cap-and-trade was chosen,
but also why the alternatives were not,” Goldsmith said. The
judge’s order blocks the environmental agency from working on
carbon regulations until it studies the alternatives.  California’s cap-and-trade regulation seeks a 15 percent
cut in  greenhouse gases  from  power plants , refineries,
factories, cars and trucks by 2020. The program, similar to the
federal cap-and-trade system President Barack Obama failed to
get through Congress last year, is scheduled to start in 2012.  The Air Resources Board voted 9-1 in December to move ahead
with the program, in which companies would buy and sell a
declining number of allowances to release carbon dioxide, a
greenhouse gas that scientists have linked to global warming.  The Air Resources Board plans to appeal Goldsmith’s ruling,
Stanley Young, an agency spokesman, said in an e-mail. The
decision may slow programs besides cap-and-trade such as
“efforts to improve  energy efficiency , establish clean car
standards and develop low carbon fuel regulations,” he said.  ‘First Step’  The  Center on Race, Poverty & the Environment  and other
advocacy organizations sued the board, arguing its global-
warming rules don’t do enough to clean up poor, polluted
neighborhoods. Goldsmith’s ruling is the “first step” in
forcing the agency to abandon cap-and-trade, Alegria De  La Cruz ,
the center’s legal director, said today in a telephone
interview.  “Cap-and-trade isn’t the right choice for California,”
she said. The judge’s ruling requires state officials “to look
at the big picture again,” she said.  The advocacy group’s criticisms of the regulations are
“unfounded,” Young said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Lomax in Washington at 
 slomax@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Geimann at 
 sgeimann@bloomberg.net  