-- 
Cameron Leaves Open Targeting Qaddafi in Clash With U.K.'s Military Chief

-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n   a n d   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 
2011-03-21T17:54:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/cameron-leaves-open-targeting-qaddafi-in-clash-with-u-k-s-military-chief.html
Prime Minister  David Cameron  left
open the possibility of targeting Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi ,
clashing with his military chief who said it’s barred by the
United Nations resolution authorizing the campaign.  The resolution “is limited in its scope and it does not
provide legal authority for action to bring about Qaddafi’s
removal from power by military means,” Cameron’s spokesman,
Steve Field, said in London today. “There is a second question
beyond that which is ‘what is a legitimate target?’ We have been
very clear that all our targets will be legitimate targets but
we are not going to get into further detail than that.”  The statement counters comments earlier today made by the
head of the U.K.’s armed forces, who said Qaddafi could not be
targeted under the UN resolution.  “It’s not allowed under the UN resolution and it’s not
something I want to discuss further,” General David Richards
told BBC television. “We’re cautiously optimistic that we’re on
track to achieve the goals that have been set us.”  Under the UN Security Council resolution passed March 17,
forces led by Britain,  France  and the U.S. are permitted to
enforce a no-fly zone to prevent Qaddafi attacking his own
civilian population.  Attorney General Dominic Grieve, who provides the
government with its military advice, is present at meetings
discussing the legality of targets, Field said.  The U.K. is leaving open the possibility of targeting
Qaddafi personally if he is seen to be putting civilian lives at
risk.  Field pointed to comments by U.K. Foreign Secretary  William Hague  that it “all depends on how people behave,” when asked if
Qaddafi could be a target. Hague added, “we have to take account
of the presence of civilians in an area.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in  London  at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net  or
Thomas Penny in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  