-- 
Campari to Spend More on Promotion After 2010 Revenue Increases

-- B y   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 
2011-03-21T16:40:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/campari-to-spend-more-on-promotion-after-2010-revenue-increases.html
  Davide Campari-Milano SpA (CPR) , the
maker of Wild Turkey bourbon, said it will increase promotional
expenditure next year even as the cost of commodities used to
make and package its products rises.  Spending on advertising and promotions relative to sales
will increase to about 18 percent in 2011 from 17.5 percent last
year, Chief Executive Officer Bob Kunze-Concewitz said today on
a conference call. The company “will be able to absorb” the
increase and is “pretty much hedged right now for at least
three quarters” of the commodities it needs this year, he said.  Increasing investment in promotion and “caution on input
costs means consensus numbers could see some slight downward
reductions,” Simon Hales, an analyst at Evolution Securities in  London , wrote in an e-mail today.  Brewers and distillers are facing soaring costs for
commodities including glass and sugar, which may lead them to
raise prices. More expensive inputs won’t have a “huge impact”
on Campari’s margins, Kunze-Concewitz said. The company can
"rework our pricing scheme" if input-cost pressure continues
into 2012, he added.  Campari shares slid as much as 2.2 percent, after gaining
2.9 percent earlier in the day. They fell 1.1 percent to 4.45
euros at the 5:30 p.m. close of trading in Milan.  Organic Sales Increase  Campari said today that full-year sales excluding
acquisitions advanced 8.4 percent as drinkers in  Europe  bought
more spirits, including its Aperol aperitif.  Overall revenue rose to 1.16 billion euros ($1.65 billion),
compared with the 1.14 billion-euro average estimate of 21
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Earnings before interest and
taxes, excluding some items, advanced to 272.8 million euros, an
8.8 percent increase on a so-called organic basis, Campari said
in a statement.  Increased profits were aided by “a very nice mix effect,”
Kunze-Concewitz said, as well as lower input and production
costs.  The company, which got 34 percent of sales from its home
market of  Italy  and another 24 percent from the rest of Europe,
said that demand in Germany and Russia aided increased sales in
the region. Companies including Campari are facing a sluggish
consumer environment in western Europe as governments’ efforts
to rein in budget deficits restrict spending.  Full-year net income rose to 156.2 million euros from 137.1
million euros a year earlier.  ‘Positive’ Trends  “In 2011 we expect market conditions to be consistent with
the second half of 2010, with the group’s key brands continuing
to experience positive consumption momentum,” the CEO said in
the statement. “We are cautiously, though reasonably,
optimistic about our full-year and medium-term prospects.”  Sales of spirits, which now total 75 percent of Campari’s
revenue, grew 9.8 percent in organic terms, with Aperol sales at
constant exchange rates jumping 36 percent as drinkers in  Germany , Italy and  Brazil  bought more of the spirit. Skyy vodka
sales rose 2.8 percent on the same basis as “strong price
competition” in the U.S. restricted growth.  The company has about 200 million euros of cash and could
“comfortably spend another 500 million euros on acquisitions”
financed by debt. Kunze-Concewitz said on the conference call.
“We could do more if we wanted.” He declined to discuss
whether the company was considering buying Stock Spirits Group,
a central European drinks company.  “We don’t comment on rumors in the market. Having said
that, there’s a lot happening in the overall spirits industry
and obviously we’re watching it with interest,” he said.
“Making acquisitions is in our DNA and we will continue to do
so and have the means to do so.”  The company announced today that it had acquired 80 percent
of Vasco CIS, a spirits and wine importer and distributor based
in Moscow, for 6.4 million euros. Vasco will form the basis for
a Russian commercial platform, Campari said, predicting  Russia 
will provide about 4 percent of the group’s sales by 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clementine Fletcher in London 
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 