-- 
Canadian Currency Strengthens Most in Seven Weeks Amid Gains in Crude Oil

-- B y   A l e x a n d r a   H a r r i s
-- 
2011-03-21T21:15:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/canadian-currency-strengthens-for-third-straight-day-as-crude-oil-advances.html
Canada ’s dollar gained the most in
almost seven weeks versus its U.S. counterpart as crude oil, the
nation’s biggest export, rose on renewed concern turmoil in
North  Africa  and the Middle East may disrupt supplies.  The currency, known as the loonie for the image of the
aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, advanced versus most major peers
amid speculation the Group of Seven nations’ efforts to curb the
yen’s strength will stabilize markets and boost demand for
assets linked to growth. Japan made progress cooling nuclear
reactors at a crippled power plant. Global stocks gained.  “The market seems to have realized that the Canadian
dollar is another currency to play on the back of rising
commodity prices, particularly oil,” said Michael O’Neill,
managing director at Toronto-based Knightsbridge Foreign
Exchange Inc.  The Canadian currency appreciated 0.7 percent to 97.78
cents per  U.S. dollar  at 5 p.m. in Toronto, from 98.43 cents on
March 18. It gained as much as 0.9 percent, the biggest intraday
jump since Feb. 1, to touch 97.50 cents. One Canadian dollar
purchases $1.0227.  The loonie dropped 0.7 percent over the past month in a
basket of 10 developed-nation currencies tracked by the
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes. The yen gained
0.2 percent, while the greenback lost 2.1 percent.  Canada’s dollar advanced against the yen for a second day,
appreciating 1.2 percent to 82.86 as Japanese Prime Minister
 Naoto Kan  said he can see “light at the end of the tunnel” to
the crisis at the Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear plant north of
 Tokyo . The damage resulted from a record earthquake 10 days ago.  ‘Verge of Stabilizing’  Radiation containment units at the reactors are intact and
the situation at the plant “is on the verge of stabilizing,”
Bill Borchardt, executive director for operations at the U.S.
Nuclear Regulatory Commission, said at a meeting of the agency
in Rockville,  Maryland .  The yen surged to 77.16 per Canadian dollar on March 17,
its strongest level in almost two years, amid speculation
Japanese investors were bringing home overseas assets to pay for
rebuilding after the deadly temblor. G-7 nations, including
Canada, agreed that day to jointly intervene to stabilize the
yen. Central banks intervene by selling or buying currencies to
influence prices.  Crude oil for April delivery increased as much as 2.3
percent today to $103.35 per barrel in New York as allied air
strikes in  Libya  threatened to prolong a supply constriction in
Africa’s third-biggest producer. The commodity later traded at
$102, up 0.9 percent.  Commodities Gain  The Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index of raw materials increased
0.6 percent. Raw materials account for about half of Canada’s
export revenue. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index gained 1.5
percent, and the  MSCI World (MXWO)  Index of equities rose 1.6 percent.  “We’re seeing risk come back to the markets tentatively,”
said  Shaun Osborne , Toronto-based chief currency strategist at
Toronto-Dominion Bank.  The loonie gained for a third day versus the U.S. dollar
before Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  presents his  budget 
tomorrow. Prime Minister Stephen Harper’s government could fall
if its fiscal plan is voted down. The most contentious issue is
Flaherty’s plan to maintain reductions in corporate tax rates.  A House committee recommended the Harper government be
found in contempt of Parliament for its refusal to fully
disclose the cost of initiatives that include the corporate tax
cuts,  Canadian Press  reported. The recommendation could trigger
a non-confidence vote this week, the news service said.  ‘Shrugging Off’ Politics  “The Canadian dollar has rallied on the back of stronger
 oil prices  and a return to risk as the market is shrugging off
potential political risks surrounding tomorrow’s federal budget
announcement and potential contempt-of-Parliament charges to be
levied against the ruling Conservative Party,” John Curran, a
senior vice president in Toronto at CanadianForex Ltd., an
online foreign-exchange company, wrote in a note to investors.  Canadian  government bonds  fell, pushing the yield on the
two-year note up eight basis points, or 0.08 percentage point,
to 1.68 percent. The price of the 1.75 percent security maturing
in March 2013 dropped 15 cents to C$100.13. The yield on the 10-
year benchmark increased five basis points to 3.21 percent.  Retail sales rose 1 percent in January, after unexpectedly
declining 0.2 percent the previous month, according to the
median forecast of 23 economists in a Bloomberg News survey
before  Statistics Canada  reports the data tomorrow.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexandra Harris in  New York  at 
 aharris48@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robert Burgess at   bburgess@bloomberg.net  