-- 
Cantor Backs Cisco, Apple Call for Tax Break on Offshore Profit

-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 
2011-03-21T21:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/cantor-backs-cisco-apple-call-for-tax-break-on-offshore-profit.html
House Majority Leader Eric Cantor
said multinational companies should receive a reduced  tax rate 
for bringing home profits they are holding outside the U.S.,
even before Congress embarks on an overhaul of the tax code.  Cantor’s remarks place him on the side of companies
including  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO) ,  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) , which
are mounting a lobbying campaign to call for a repeat of a 2004
law that allowed companies to bring home profits held offshore
that haven’t been subject to U.S. taxation.  “I propose that we allow U.S. multinational companies to
bring back almost $1.2 trillion in overseas profits at a lower
tax so they can invest in our economy here at home,” Cantor
said, according to prepared remarks of a speech on innovation he
is delivering today at the Hoover Institution in Stanford,
California. He did not offer a detailed proposal.  Cantor, a Virginia Republican, called for a repatriation
holiday to become law before an overhaul of the  tax code . That
position places him at odds with the administration of President
Barack Obama. Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner  has said
repeatedly that the status of profits held offshore should be
considered as part of a broader examination of tax policy.  The top U.S. corporate tax rate of 35 percent is higher
than that in most industrialized countries. Also, the U.S.
requires companies to pay U.S. taxes on income they earn around
the globe, after providing credits for taxes paid to other
governments.  Defer Taxation  Companies can typically defer taxation by keeping the money
overseas. That can limit their ability to use the money to pay
dividends or make domestic investments.  Many Democrats, including North Dakota Senator  Kent Conrad ,
oppose another one-time repatriation tax break. They say it
would remove some of the political support for broader corporate
tax changes and that the prospect of future holidays would
encourage companies to move more profits and investment out of
the U.S.  In the speech, Cantor also said that he supports lowering
the top corporate tax rate “to at least 25 percent,” as part
of a “fundamental  tax reform .” That target matches the goal
set last week by Representative Dave Camp of Michigan, chairman
of the House Ways and Means Committee.  The Obama administration has expressed interest in
corporate tax changes that would lower the tax rate and broaden
the corporate tax base.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  