-- 
Asia Week’s $300 Million in Artworks Spotlights Canopy of 500,000 Pearls

-- B y   K a t y a   K a z a k i n a
-- 
2011-03-21T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/mcconaughey-keeps-his-shirt-on-rogen-s-alien-curses-smokes-rick-warner.html
Two 17th-century Japanese
folding screens on sale in  New York  this week offer a view
untouched by earthquake and tsunami.  “Waves and Rocks,” attributed to Hasegawa Togaku,
depicts frothy waters pounding steep rock formations. It
was executed with ink on gold leaf and carries an asking
price of $1 million to $1.3 million.  Offered by  Leighton  R. Longhi Inc. Oriental Fine Arts
gallery as part of an exhibition organized by the  Japanese
Art Dealers  Association, it’s one of the highlights of  Asia
Week . New York’s biggest annual gathering of Asian art has
almost 135 dealers and five auction houses selling more
than $280 million of art -- according to Bloomberg
calculations -- spanning 5,000 years.  “People are coming in droves,” said  Carlton Rochell ,
chairman of the planning committee for Asia Week New York
2011.  More than 100 collectors from  China  are planning to
attend Sotheby’s auctions, said Henry Howard-Snyed, vice
chairman of Asian art.  “There’s a perception among Chinese collectors that
America is a treasure trove of fresh property,” said
Michael Plummer, a principal of New York-based  Artvest
Partners  LLC. “It’s very prestigious, has good provenance
and there’s a better chance that the works are authentic
because they have been in the same hands for years.”  Plummer didn’t expect the turmoil in the Middle East
or the devastation in Japan to affect turnout.  “The stock market responds immediately to world
events,” he said. “Historically, the art market responds
six months to a year later.”  Jade Vessel  Here are some highlights:    Sotheby’s (BID) , five sales: Among 33 lots consigned by the
descendants of Robert Elliot Tod, the standout is an 18th-
century  cylindrical pot  for brushes made from a single
piece of celadon jade and carved in deep relief with a
scene of boys playing in a garden. It has an estimate of
$300,000 to $400,000.  The auction house expects to sell as much as $45
million, double its tally of a year ago. The top item is a
glittering 19th-century Indian canopy, featuring 200
diamonds, at least 500,000 pearls, and 700 rubies, emeralds
and sapphires set in gold. The estimate is $3 million to $5
million.  Christie’s International , six sales: Among the top
lots is a pair of 400-year-old Japanese folding screens,
with a high estimate of $4 million. Titled  “Southern
Barbarians Come to Trade,”  each 12-foot-wide screen
comprises six panels. The barbarians are Portuguese. The
auctioneer expects a tally of about $64 million, up from
$60 million last spring.  Bonhams Donation  Bonhams , two sales: Here, too, the spotlight is on a
pair of screens, these attributed to Sakai Hoitsu (1761-
1821) and depicting blue and white iris blossoms. The
presale estimate is $60,000 to $80,000. The auction house,
which expects to raise $3 million, will donate 5 percent of
the buyer’s premiums from its international Japanese sales
this spring to the relief efforts in  Japan .  Eskenazi : The London-based gallery, which has set up
shop temporarily on the ground floor of the  Ukrainian
Institute of America , is offering a 23-pound jade water
buffalo. The 17th-century Chinese beast has an asking price
of $1.5 million.  Sebastian Izzard LLC Asian Art : Also at the Ukrainian
Institute of America, this gallery has an early-19th-
century silk scroll by Katsushika Hokusai that features a
geisha cradling a kitten in the folds of her robes. The
work is offered for more than $500,000. The artist is best
known for his print  “The Great Wave at Kanagawa.”   Sydney L. Moss : The star at this London-based outfit,
showing at  Alexandre Gallery  in the  Fuller Building , is the
fierce Japanese warrior-monk  Benkei . The lacquered, 12-
inch-tall sculpture features wood inlay by Ogawa Haritsu,
known as Ritsuo (1663-1747). The figure sports ornate armor
and holds a gold conch shell to his lips. He will come to
your house for no less than $500,000.  (Katya Kazakina is a reporter for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed
are her own.)  To contact the reporter of this story:
Katya Kazakina in New York at 
 kkazakina@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 