-- 
CfC Stanbic of Kenya Returns to Profit on Investment Income

-- B y   E r i c   O m b o k
-- 
2011-03-21T12:19:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/cfc-stanbic-of-kenya-annual-profit-surges-as-investment-income-jumps-96-.html
  CFC Stanbic Holdings Ltd. (CFCB) , a Kenyan
financial-services holding company, returned to profit last year
as rising equity prices led to a jump in investment income.  Profit attributable to shareholders was 1.6 billion
shillings ($18.9 million), or 5.86 shillings a share, compared
with a loss of 59.9 million shillings, or 0.22 shillings a
share, a year earlier, the Nairobi-based company said in a
statement today. Non-interest revenue leaped 96 percent to 5.97
billion shillings, it said.  “The rise in investment income can be attributed to the
rebound of listed equities at the Nairobi Stock Exchange and
yields realized from tradable bonds in the secondary  debt
market ,“ Managing Director Kitili Mbathi said in response to e-
mailed questions.    Kenya ’s benchmark NSE-20 index advanced 37 percent last
year. At the same time, bank earnings have risen as accelerating
economic expansion spurs loan growth and demand for other
financial services. The industry’s combined pretax profit surged
46 percent to 66 billion shillings in the 11 months through
November on increased credit and higher income from fees and
commissions, the  Central Bank  of Kenya said on Feb. 11.  “After the first half it started becoming predictable that
they were going to report good figures in 2010, so most
investors had already factored in the profit,” Francis Mwangi,
an analyst at Nairobi-based African Alliance, Securities Ltd.,
said by phone.  CFC Stanbic shares declined 2 percent to 77.5 shillings at
the close of trade today in Nairobi. The stock has risen 2.7
percent this year, outperforming a 10 percent decline in the
benchmark NSE-20 index over the same period.  Divisions  CfC Stanbic Holdings is the parent company of CfC Stanbic
Bank Ltd., Kenya’s fourth-biggest lender by assets, and CfC
Stanbic Financial Services Ltd., the nation’s third-largest
investment bank.  The company’s insurance units, CfC Life Assurance Ltd. and
Heritage Insurance Co., will trade separately on the  Nairobi
Stock Exchange  from April 21 under a new holding company, Cfc
Insurance Holdings Ltd.  “The earnings outlook for the group is quite optimistic,”
Mbathi said. “The anticipated upturn in the Kenyan economy
raises the demand for financial services which form the back
bone of economic growth.”  Standard Bank Group Ltd.,  Africa ’s biggest lender, owns
41.4 percent of CFC Stanbic.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Ombok in Nairobi at 
 eombok@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Richardson at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 