-- 
Chilean Peso Gains Second Day as Japan Progress Buoys Emerging Currencies

-- B y   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d
-- 
2011-03-21T17:19:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/chilean-peso-climbs-as-japan-nuclear-progress-buoys-emerging-currencies.html
  Chile ’s peso appreciated for a
second day as global stocks and emerging-market currencies
climbed on signs  Japan  is making progress in bringing a stricken
nuclear plant under control.  The peso strengthened 0.1 percent to 480.85 per U.S. dollar
from 481.35 on March 18. Most of the 25 emerging-market
currencies tracked by Bloomberg gained against the dollar today.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index posted its biggest three-day
gain since July and the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index advanced as
much as 1.7 percent. Japanese Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  said
progress was being made in restoring power to two of the failed
reactors at the Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear plan.  “This is a risk-on day and  Asia  and Latin America will
perform well,” said Flavia Cattan-Naslausky, a currency
strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in Stamford,  Connecticut . “The Japanese story seems to be better, which is
positive. There may also be an indirect positive effect on the
peso because of the rates story in Chile.”  Chile’s peso gained 1.1 percent against the U.S. dollar on
March 18, a day after the central bank raised its benchmark
lending rate by half a percentage point to 4 percent, exceeding
economists’ forecast.  The peso’s gain offset a deterioration in Chile’s terms of
trade as copper futures fell and the price of oil rose. Copper
is Chile’s biggest export and oil its biggest import. Copper for
May delivery fell 1.3 percent to $4.284 a pound in New York. The
price of a barrel of West Texas crude oil for April delivery
increased as much as 2.3 percent to $102.3 a barrel.  Currency Purchase  Chile’s central bank bought $50 million today at an average
of 479.47 pesos per  U.S. dollar , according to a statement on its
website. The bank is buying $12 billion in U.S. currency this
year as part of a plan to weaken the peso.  UBS AG recommended that investors bet the Chilean peso will
beat the  Mexican peso  as the central bank raises  interest rates .
Taking a position against the Mexican peso, rather than the U.S.
dollar, would offset the risk from a deterioration in global
markets that could cause Latin American currencies to weaken
against the dollar, UBS said.  “Monetary tightening should continue for the next few
months, and authorities should be much more welcoming of some
appreciation of the peso to contain the external shock from
higher commodity prices,”  Stamford , Connecticut-based
strategist Alvaro Vivanco wrote in a note to clients. “We find
the recent underperformance of the Chilean peso unwarranted and
would expect a quick recovery.”  Peso Bets  Foreign investors increased bets against the peso in the
Chilean forwards market to $3 billion on March 17 from $2.8
billion on March 16, according to central bank data. That’s the
biggest position against the South American currency since
August last year.  The yield on a basket of Chilean central bank 10-year bonds
in pesos fell two basis points to 6.45 percent today. The yield
on the bonds has fallen from a two-year high of 7 percent on
Feb. 11. The yield on similar bonds sold by the government has
declined to 6.5 percent today from 6.95 percent on Feb. 11.  One- and two-year swap rates rose as traders priced in
further central bank interest-rate increases. The one-year rate
rose five basis points to 5.4 percent. The two-year rate gained
11 basis points to 5.69 percent. It increased 12 basis points on
March 18.  Chilean inflation-linked interest-rate swap yields may rise
following last week’s surprise half-point increase by the
central bank, according to BNP Paribas SA.  Sao Paulo-based strategist  Diego Donadio  recommended paying
five-year inflation-linked swaps, betting that the rate rises to
3 percent from 2.25 percent today. The rate rose to 2.26 percent
as of 12:52 p.m.  New York  time.  The central bank is set “to promote a much faster than
expected normalization of real rates,” he wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sebastian Boyd in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  