-- 
Citigroup Will Reinstate Dividend at 1 Cent a Share, Split Stock 1-for-10

-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e   a n d   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 
2011-03-21T20:17:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/citigroup-will-reinstate-dividend-at-1-cent-a-share-split-stock-1-for-10.html
Citigroup Inc. (C) , the U.S. bank that
received the largest taxpayer bailout, said it would reinstate a
dividend at 1 cent per share in the second quarter after a
planned 1-for-10 reverse split of its common stock.  Citigroup, which hasn’t paid a quarterly dividend since
2009 because of the financial crisis, will exchange 1 new share
for every 10 of common stock after the close of trading on May
6, the New York-based bank said today in a statement.  “It puts some make-up on the black eye they have,” said
David Knutson, a credit analyst with Legal & General Investment
Management, which oversees about $85 million of Citigroup bonds.
“They’re doing it for the same reason why people put up
billboards on the sides of highway. It’s advertising, it’s
marketing.”  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  and  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS)  were among six lenders that disclosed more than $16.2
billion in share buybacks and $5.4 billion of annualized
dividend increases on March 18, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The banks made their announcements after learning
they passed a Federal Reserve review of their financial health.  Citigroup fell 7 cents, or 1.5 percent, to $4.43 at 4:15
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares
are down 6.3 percent this year, after rising 43 percent in 2010.  ‘A 2012 Thing’  Chief Executive Officer  Vikram Pandit  said last October
that the bank wouldn’t return capital to shareholders until
2012. On a Jan. 18 call with analysts, he said that returning
capital to shareholders, either through a dividend or a share
buyback, was “a 2012 thing.”  “Citi is a fundamentally different company than it was
three years ago,” Pandit, 54, said in today’s statement. “The
reverse stock split and intention to reinstate a dividend are
important steps as we anticipate returning capital to
shareholders starting next year.”  JPMorgan, led by CEO  Jamie Dimon , said last week it would
increase its dividend to 25 cents a share from 5 cents and
authorized a $15 billion stock repurchase. Wells Fargo, the
fourth-largest U.S. bank by assets, authorized the repurchase of
200 million shares and increased its dividend to 12 cents.  The nation’s biggest banks were required to submit capital
plans to the central bank, some of which included requests for
dividend increases.  Regulators’ ‘Blessing’  “It’s a blessing from the regulators,” said  Jason Goldberg , an analyst with Barclays Plc. “From Citi’s
standpoint, the fact that they got to return to a dividend,
while very modest, is somewhat symbolic that the handcuffs are
slowly coming off.”  A 1-cent quarterly dividend would produce an annualized
dividend yield of 0.09 percent based on a reverse split
conducted at the March 18 share price. That would be the third-
lowest among Standard & Poor’s 500 Index companies that pay a
dividend, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Citigroup, which reported a profit of $10.6 billion for
2010, will pay $87 million to shareholders for the three final
quarters of this year, according to  Shannon Bell , a spokeswoman
for the bank.  The stock will still trade under the ticker C, and no
fractional shares will be issued in connection with the reverse
split, the bank said.  Shares Circulating  Citigroup has almost three times as many outstanding shares
as any other company in the  S&P 500 , according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. The bank has about 29 billion shares, which will
be reduced to approximately 2.9 billion by the reverse split.  At last year’s annual meeting, the U.S. Treasury Department
supported a reverse stock split, “which will address the fact
that the company has a much larger number of shares outstanding
than is necessary to ensure adequate trading liquidity,” the
department said at the time.  The U.S. government completed the sale last year of its 7.7
billion common shares, which it obtained after converting a
preferred stake acquired through a $45 billion bailout of the
bank during the financial crisis.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Moore in New York at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net ;
Donal Griffin in New York at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 