-- 
Colonial Pipeline Adds Capacity, Plans Further Expansions

-- B y   P a u l   B u r k h a r d t
-- 
2011-03-21T18:52:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/colonial-pipeline-adds-capacity-plans-further-expansions-1-.html
Colonial Pipeline Co., which
operates the largest line linking U.S. Gulf Coast refiners and
East Coast markets, said it finished an expansion that will add
24,000 barrels a day of capacity and plans more.  Along with upgrades to be finished in the next few months,
about 100,000 barrels a day will be added between Greensboro,  North Carolina , and New York Harbor, increasing capacity by 14
percent, according to a company statement.  “These improvements will help relieve allocations in the
short term while better addressing customers’ long-term needs,”
Chief Executive Officer Tim Felt said in the statement.  The company is also building a 218,000-barrel storage tank
in Linden, New Jersey, and is expanding capacity on its C1
delivery line that runs to Perth Amboy by 50,000 barrels a day,
Felt said in comments to reporters at a  National Petrochemical
and Refiners Association  conference in  San Antonio .  The company is also proposing projects to increase the
shipping rate of main lines between Houston and Greensboro,
which would add more than 140,000 barrels a day over the next 12
to 24 months, according to the release.  The company is open to additional expansions, he said.
“We’re going to see what the market absorbs and if customers
want more we would expand accordingly,” Felt said, referring to
the overall system.  Deliveries to the U.S. Northeast and the Linden,  New
Jersey , storage hub “have been brisk,”  Steve Baker , a Colonial
spokesman, said in an e-mail March 15. Colonial froze
nominations for the first three shipping cycles of 2011 and the
line has been allocated ever since, he said.  Colonial delivers 2.3 million barrels per day of refined
petroleum products, according to the company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Burkhardt in New York at 
 pburkhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  