-- 
Commodities Gain for Fourth Day as Oil, Gold Buoyed by Middle East Turmoil

-- B y   C h a n y a p o r n   C h a n j a r o e n
-- 
2011-03-21T08:53:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/commodities-gain-for-fourth-day-as-oil-gold-buoyed-by-middle-east-turmoil.html
Commodities gained for a fourth day,
led by oil and precious metals, as military intervention in  Libya  renewed concerns that Middle East unrest may spread and
disrupt fuel supplies.  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot Index of 24 commodity
futures increased as much as 1.5 percent and was up 1.3 percent
at 710.94 as of 3:37 p.m. in Singapore. Crude oil rose as much
as 2.3 percent today, while gold climbed for a fourth day and
copper gained.  “The market is refocusing on issues in the Middle East,”  Ben Westmore , an analyst at National Bank of Australia Ltd. in  Melbourne , said today by phone. “Supply issues seem not to be
going away in the short term.”  Commodities measured by the index gained 0.2 percent last
week, even after  Japan ’s worst recorded earthquake, tsunami and
ensuing nuclear crisis prompted its worst daily loss since July
2009 on March 15. Sentiment will likely stay fragile as the
situations in Japan and the Middle East remain “fluid,” Stefan Graber, a Credit Suisse Group AG analyst, said today in a report.  Crude oil rose 1.9 percent to $103.02 a barrel, taking this
year’s advance to almost 13 percent. Immediate-delivery bullion
added 0.6 percent to $1,427.88 an ounce, about 1.2 percent below
the record $1,444.95 reached on March 7.  Allied officials said attacks by the U.S., U.K.,  Italy  and  France  have grounded Muammar Qaddafi’s air force and driven back
his offensive against the rebel stronghold at Benghazi. Tomahawk
missiles were fired at Libyan targets and fighter jets patrolled
the skies.  Nuclear Crisis  “Geopolitical tensions in Libya lifted safe-haven
demand,”  Mark Pervan , head of commodity research at ANZ Banking
Group Ltd., wrote in a note today.  In Japan, temperatures at all six spent-fuel storage pools
at the crippled Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear complex are below
boiling point, indicating efforts to cool fuel rods may be
working. U.S. Energy Secretary Steven Chu said the Obama
administration believes the worst of the crisis is over.  It may take five years for Japan to rebuild after the
earthquake and tsunami, which killed at least 8,450 people and
destroyed thousands of buildings, the  World Bank  said in a
report today. Japan is the world’s largest importer of corn and
the third-largest user of crude oil.  Net-Longs Decline  In the week ended March 15, an index of managed-money net-
long positions, or wagers on rising prices, in 18 commodities
tumbled 14 percent from a week earlier to 1.27 million U.S.
futures and options contracts, government data compiled by
Bloomberg show. That’s the biggest drop since the week ended
June 29, and the smallest level of net-long holdings since
August.  “The situation in Japan prompted a lot of investors to
take profits after a fairly good run in commodities,” said  Brian Hicks , who helps manage $3 billion at U.S. Global
Investors in  San Antonio .  Copper gained 0.4 percent to $9,550 a metric ton on the
London Metal Exchange.  “Demand from  China  remains firm, judging from indicators
like Chinese industrial production and the manufacturing PMI
survey,” said Credit Suisse’s Graber.  China’s manufacturing expanded at a rate of 52.2 in January,
according to the China Federation of Logistics and Purchasing. A
reading above 50 indicates expansion.  Spot platinum gained for a third day, adding as much as 0.8
percent to $1,736.80 an ounce. Palladium advanced 1.2 percent to
$739.75.  Wheat for May delivery climbed 1.5 percent to $7.335 a
bushel on the Chicago Board of Trade, while corn for delivery in
the same month gained 1.5 percent to $6.94 a bushel.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chanyaporn Chanjaroen in  Singapore  at 
 cchanjaroen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  