-- 
Congressional Republicans Ask Obama to Explain Military Action in Libya

-- B y   K a t a r z y n a   K l i m a s i n s k a
-- 
2011-03-21T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/congressional-republicans-ask-obama-to-explain-military-action-in-libya.html
Congressional Republicans called on
President  Barack Obama  to more fully explain the goal of the
allied military action in Libya and how it will be accomplished.  “Before any further military commitments are made, the
administration must do a better job of communicating to the
American people and to Congress about our mission in Libya and
how it will be achieved,” House Speaker  John Boehner , an Ohio
Republican, said in a statement yesterday.  The U.S. and allied forces hit Libya’s air-defense systems
and created a no-fly zone over the country, according to Admiral
Mike Mullen, chairman of the U.S. Joint Chiefs of Staff. The  United Nations Security Council  on March 17 authorized the use
of “all necessary measures” to protect Libyan civilians.  “With respect to the actions that we’ve taken right now
and the military actions it is absolutely important to have
great clarity on what that is and I think that we have done
that,” Tom Donilon, Obama’s national security advisor, told
reporters yesterday. “We look forward to working quite directly
with Speaker Boehner and all the members of Congress who have
responsibility here on this as we go forward.”  Waited Too Long  Arizona Senator  John McCain , senior Republican on the Armed
Services Committee, said he supported the strike though he
believed Obama waited too long.  “I think with significant air assets, we can have a really
big impact,” McCain said on CNN’s “State of the Union.”  “I’m glad we are finally doing something,” Senator
Lindsey Graham, a South Carolina Republican and a member of the
same committee, said on the “Fox News Sunday” program. “I
don’t know what finally got the president to act, but I’m very
worried that we’re taking the backseat rather than a leadership
role.”  Senator Richard Lugar of  Indiana , the top Republican on the
Foreign Relations Committee, said the U.S. needs to learn more
about the opposition to Qaddafi.  “We really have not discovered who it is in  Libya  that we
are trying to support,” Lugar said on CBS’s “Face the Nation”
show. “Obviously, the people who are against Qaddafi, but
who?”  “We had better get this straight from the beginning, or
there’s going to be a situation in which war lingers on, country
after country, situation after situation, all of them on a
humane basis, saving people,” Lugar said.  Limited Mission  Mullen yesterday described the mission as “limited” and
said the U.S. will pass the leadership of the mission to
coalition members within a few days. He declined to speculate on
whether it would end only with Qaddafi’s ouster.  “How this ends from the political standpoint, I just can’t
say,” Mullen said on CNN. “I think the pressure will continue
to build on him.”  Vice Admiral William Gortney, at a briefing later at the
Pentagon, told reporters that Qaddafi was not on the targeting
list of the coalition. “We are not going after Qaddafi,” he
said, adding it was possible Qaddafi would be hit if he visited
a military installation.  The turmoil in North Africa and the Middle East, triggered
by the revolt that ousted President Zine El Abidine Ben Ali in  Tunisia  on Jan. 14, led to the removal of President  Hosni Mubarak  in  Egypt , as well as protests in  Saudi Arabia  and  Syria ,
and an uprising against the Sunni monarchy in Bahrain.  Senate Foreign Relations Committee Chairman  John Kerry , a
Massachusetts Democrat, said on NBC yesterday that the U.S. has
an interest in demonstrating “to Tunisians, to Egyptians, to
others who are moving towards this awakening that the rest of
the world is not going to stand by while people are slaughtered
by somebody who’s lost all legitimacy to be able to govern.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katarzyna Klimasinska in Washington at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 