-- 
Cooler-Than-Normal Weather Forecast for Northeastern U.S.

-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 
2011-03-21T18:59:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/cooler-than-normal-weather-forecast-for-northeastern-u-s-.html
The U.S. Midwest and Northeast have
a good chance for cooler-than-normal weather through the end of
the month, forecasters are predicting.  Commodity Weather Group, the U.S. Climate Prediction Center
and MDA Federal Inc.’s EarthSat Energy Weather are forecasting
cooler than normal temperatures in their 6- to 10-day outlooks.  CWG and EarthSat, both based in  Maryland , confine the
cooling to the Midwest, Northeast and California, while the
 climate center prediction , issued yesterday, covers the northern
U.S., a large area west of the  Rocky Mountains  and the U.S.
South to the east of the Mississippi, with the exception of most
of Florida.  The federal agency’s 8- to 14-day forecast predicts a
higher-than-normal chance that the area east of the Mississippi
will be cool.  Yesterday, the normal average temperature in  New York ’s
Central Park and in Philadelphia was 44 degrees Fahrenheit (6.6
Celsius), according to the  National Weather Service . In Boston
it was 40 degrees, 48 at Washington’s Reagan National Airport,
39 in Chicago and Cleveland, and 47 in  St. Louis .  In its 11- to 15-day forecast, CWG said it will be cool
across the northern Midwest from Minnesota to the U.S.
Northeast. EarthSat calls for a much narrower band in its 11- to
15-day forecast, confining the cooling to primarily coastal
regions from Virginia to Maine and Nova Scotia.  CWG is predicting higher-than-average temperatures from
Texas north into Idaho, a retreat from the Friday forecast, when
it called for warming all the way to Canada. EarthSat calls for
the warming to be concentrated in the Southwest.  “The various models are in generally good agreement that
below- to much-below-normal temperatures impact the Midwest and
the East in the final days of March, but there are some
disagreements in the South and West,” according to a statement
from CMG.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in  Boston  at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  