-- 
Corporate, Sovereign Credit Swap Indexes Roll Into New Series

-- B y   A b i g a i l   M o s e s
-- 
2011-03-21T08:25:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/corporate-sovereign-credit-swap-indexes-roll-into-new-series.html
The latest series of indexes
measuring the cost of protecting against default on corporate
and sovereign bonds started trading today.  Gauges of credit-default swaps on companies in Europe,  Asia 
and  Australia  rolled into their 15th series, while trading in
the new series of  Japan ’s index was postponed until March 28.
The 16th run of the Markit CDX North America Investment-Grade
Index opens later today and the region’s high-yield index starts
next week. The fifth series of Markit’s iTraxx SovX Indexes of
sovereign credit also opened today.  The Markit iTraxx Crossover Index of credit-default swaps
on 40 companies with mostly high-yield credit ratings cost 369.5
basis points at 8 a.m. in London, according to JPMorgan Chase &
Co. That compares with 390 basis points on the previous series,
linked to 50 companies, at the close March 18.  The Markit iTraxx  Europe  index of 125 companies with
investment-grade ratings cost 101.75 basis points, compared with
99.75 last week. The Markit iTraxx Financial Index of swaps on
the senior debt of 25 banks and insurers cost 134 and the
subordinated index cost 243 basis points.  New series of credit-default swap benchmarks are created
every six months when companies are added or dropped depending
on their ratings, cost of protection and ease of trading.  London-based Markit Group Ltd., which administers the CDX
and iTraxx indexes, changed the rules to reflect trading volumes
published by the Depository Trust & Clearing Corp., which runs a
central repository for the market, instead of a dealer poll.  Ten of the 11 companies removed from Europe’s high-yield
index were not replaced because too few companies meet the new
standards. Eight companies changed in the investment-grade
indexes and two in the financial gauges.  Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange
for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
borrower fail to adhere to its debt agreements. A basis point on
a credit-default swap contract protecting 10 million euros
($14.2 million) of debt from default for five years is
equivalent to 1,000 euros a year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Abigail Moses in  London  at 
 Amoses5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Paul Armstrong  at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  