-- 
Credit Suisse May Beat Asia Wealth Inflow Goal, Berchtold Says

-- B y   N e t t y   I s m a i l   a n d   H a s l i n d a   A m i n
-- 
2011-03-21T01:44:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/credit-suisse-may-beat-asia-wealth-inflow-target-amid-encouraging-2011.html
  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  may exceed a
2012 target for asset inflows at its wealth business in  Asia 
after an “encouraging” start to this year, the head of the
company’s private bank said.  The Zurich-based bank said in September 2009 it’s targeting
35 billion Swiss francs ($38.9 billion) to 45 billion francs in
net new client money in the Asia-Pacific region by 2012. The
devastation caused by Japan’s strongest earthquake won’t derail
inflows, said Walter Berchtold, chief executive officer of
Credit Suisse’s private banking business.  “The region has a lot of growth, and growth in wealth
management is coming predominantly outside of Japan,” Berchtold
said in an interview in Singapore on March 18.  The number of millionaires in the Asia-Pacific region rose
26 percent to 3 million in 2009, matching  Europe  and almost
overhauling  North America ’s 3.1 million, according to a report
published in June by Capgemini SA and Merrill Lynch & Co. Wealth
in the region, excluding Japan, is expected to grow at twice the
global rate, the  Boston Consulting Group  said in June.  Credit Suisse,  Switzerland ’s second-biggest bank, has added
18.5 billion francs of wealth assets in the region since June
2009, bringing the total to 78.5 billion francs last year.  “Most global wealth managers are banking on double digit
growth from Asia,” said Sebastian Dovey, managing partner at
Scorpio Partnership, a London-based firm that provides research
to the wealth-management industry. “This will help, in their
view, their lagging operations in mature markets.”  Quarterly Dip  Credit Suisse may exceed the target if its wealth business
in the region continues to grow at about 20 percent a year, said
Zurich-based Berchtold, 49. The bank attracted net new assets of
1.5 billion francs in the Asia-Pacific region in the last three
months of 2010, the lowest quarterly level in the past two years,
according to the firm.  “It is more to do with seasonal cyclicality but I’m
confident we can recover from that,” he said. The inflow of new
client money this year has been “encouraging” after a record
12.4 billion francs in net new assets in Asia in 2010, he said.  Credit Suisse ranks fifth worldwide in  wealth management ,
which typically caters to clients with at least $1 million to
invest, according to a  survey  by Scorpio Partnership.  “Growth in private banking is very well spread across the
Asia-Pacific region, from all markets,” Berchtold said.  Australia  is one of the onshore markets leading the growth of
Credit Suisse’s domestic private banking business in Asia
“because of the commodity boom,” he said.  Continuing in Japan  Credit Suisse has put in place “assistance measures” for
employees as Japan copes with the worst nuclear accident since
Chernobyl and destruction from the nation’s strongest earthquake
and a tsunami. The firm started building its domestic private
banking business in the country two years ago and has about 60
staff there, including relationship managers. Across all banking
divisions, it has about 600 employees in  Japan  in total.  “For Credit Suisse, we are continuing our business
operations in Japan,” Berchtold said. “We are maintaining a
very close dialogue with regulators, market authorities, peer
banks and global and regional management in the bank.”  The bank also continues to monitor “workplace safety-
related issues,” said. “The safety of our employees is
paramount,” Berchtold said.  Credit Suisse expects a net increase of 160 relationship
managers globally this year, adding to the 4,200 managers at the
end of last year, according to the firm. Hiring costs will
“most likely” rise this year, Berchtold said.  Swiss private banks may find their expansion plans hindered
by a shortage of relationship managers with the ability to
attract new assets, according to KPMG.  Boosting Margins  Credit Suisse aims to increase the pretax profit margin at
the wealth management division to 35 percent in coming years,
from 29.5 percent in 2010, by focusing on costs, Berchtold said.  “We will have to constantly reallocate resources if the
revenues are not coming through,” he said. “If markets come
back, margins will go back up again towards 35 percent.”  Global margins of 35 percent would be higher than Scorpio
Partnership’s industry benchmark for key performance indicators,
Dovey said.  “However, the underlying issue is to determine what type
of business has to be done to achieve this margin and whether
that is sustainable,” he said. “The cost of growth in some
regions is placing a big squeeze on the margins.”  Clients in Asia still “have a lot of cash” in their
accounts that needs to be invested, Berchtold said. Investors
remained cautious last year, investing in “less complex, lower-
margin products,” Credit Suisse said in its latest financial
report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Netty Ismail in  Singapore  
 nismail3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  