-- 
Dazzling Pillars of Light Brighten Desert in Heinz Mack Show

-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   H i c k l e y
-- 
2011-03-21T00:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/dazzling-pillars-of-light-illuminate-desert-in-zero-artist-s-bonn-show.html
White-haired, wrinkled and wiry,
Heinz Mack is raking a patch of sand in a Bonn museum, the
sleeves of his checked shirt rolled up to the elbow.  “This is harder than it looks,” says Mack, who had just
turned 80 and was putting together a birthday retrospective
that opened at the  Art and Exhibition Hall of the Federal
Republic of Germany  on March 18. “The sand isn’t quite dry.
You’d never have that problem in the desert.”  Mack should know. He took his first trip to the Sahara in
1955 and has visited frequently since, drawn to the sun and
space. His light sculptures dazzle against sweeping orange
sandscapes and blue skies in photos hung on the wall. They
have an extraterrestrial look, compounded by a younger Mack
appearing in one wearing a tin foil, reflective suit.  Together with Otto Piene, Mack founded the “Zero”
artists’ group in 1957, with the goal of finding a new
starting point for art after World War II. Collaborators
included  Lucio Fontana , Yves Klein, Piero Manzoni and Jean Tinguely.  Mack’s work features motors and rotors, bright lights,
the desert, mirrors, foil and stelae of wood or light. His
paintings are abstract bursts of color on canvas -- except for
a few that are black. I ask him why someone attracted to light
painted, for example, “Black Rotation” in 1956.  “These works arose in a time when I was in a crisis,”
Mack says. “The serious question was ‘is there any sense in
doing painting in the traditional European sense?’ During the
1950s, I met Klein, Fontana, and others and we had long talks
-- what can happen after this art?  “It was a radical and very exciting development, an
attempt to see the world in a new way,” he says.  Market Recognition  In recent years, his art has gained value, fetching
prices higher than $300,000. He lets drop that a work sold at
 Art Basel Miami Beach  for $385,000. Mack is proud of the
recognition from the art market, and says it will help
conserve his work.  “As I am 80, I couldn’t wait another 50 years for
this,” he says. “These works have a value and I don’t want
them to be endangered. So the more they cost, the more they
are likely to be looked after -- it is a kind of insurance.”  His art is owned by 136 museums, and it is easy to see
how it has influenced younger contemporary artists such as
Olafur Eliasson, who also works with light and motors.  Recognition has been a long time coming. Mack remembers
when just a handful of people were interested in his work.  “It took a very long time,” he says, dropping a few
phrases of English into our German discussion. “Everyone said
-- this doesn’t work, they are absolutely crazy kids.”  Apple Budget  He remembers, with frustration, going to the desert on
such a limited budget that the cameraman, who also kept the
accounts, would write down how many apples each person ate and
ran out of film to shoot his sculptures in the perfect light.  “I am the very first artist in western  Europe  who
started Land Art,” an art movement that arose in the U.S. and
involves integrating art into the landscape, Mack says. “At
that time, the term didn’t exist. The Americans began with it
at the same time and practiced it in the Californian desert.  “I did some interesting experiments,” Mack says. “The
desert has no borders, no topographic features to help you
orientate. You can see as far as the eye can see, but the
space goes beyond that. I went there because I wanted to do
monumental sculptures that you can’t show in the confines of a
museum.”  Mack’s rotors are the most mesmerizing pieces in the Bonn
show: Under a molded plexiglass cover, a motor rotates a
wooden, reflective disc relief. The refracted light on the
plexiglass and the movement beneath gives the illusion that
the discs are shimmering under water diffused by sunshine.  The artist is getting tired and wants his lunch, but I’m
eager to know how he planned those discs after I tried and
failed to imagine the mathematics and physics it would require
to predict the effect.  “You can’t,” he says, already on his way to the museum
canteen. “It’s intuition.”  “Heinz Mack, Light - Dream - Color” is at the Art and
Exhibition Hall of the Federal Republic of  Germany  through
July 10. Information:  http://www.bundeskunsthalle.de .  (Catherine Hickley writes for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are her
own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Catherine Hickley in Berlin at 
 chickley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 