-- 
Deal Volume to Drive U.S. Commercial Real Estate Recovery, PWC Survey Says

-- B y   R e b e c c a   M c C l a y
-- 
2011-03-21T20:35:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/deal-volume-to-drive-u-s-commercial-real-estate-recovery-pwc-survey-says.html
U.S. commercial property sales will
climb during the next three years as increased investor
confidence drives a recovery in all segments of the market, a
report by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP said.  Buyers, encouraged by job growth and rising business and
consumer optimism, will jump into the market before  interest
rates  move higher and competition pushes up prices of office,
industrial, multifamily and retail properties, according to the
quarterly survey of real estate investors by the company’s New
York-based unit.  “As investors become more confident about the long-awaited
recovery of the industry, they are eager to get deals done,”
Mitch Roschelle, a partner at PricewaterhouseCoopers, said in a
statement. “This bodes well for the industry.”  Commercial real estate prices surged 19 percent in 2010,
the second-biggest gain on record, according to an index from
the  Massachusetts  Institute of Technology Center for Real Estate
in Cambridge, Massachusetts. Transactions for commercial
properties may increase 40 percent to $135 billion this year,
Chicago-based Jones Lang LaSalle Inc., the second-largest
publicly traded broker, said last month.  Strong competition among buyers and low interest rates will
continue to boost returns for sellers in nearly all the survey’s
regions, the PricewaterhouseCoopers report said. Overall
capitalization rates, which decline when property prices rise,
decreased in 27 of 31 office markets. Most investors polled
expect cap rates for all sectors to hold steady or decline in
the next six months.  Office Space  A lack of new office space and decreasing vacancy rates
will pull 86 percent of U.S. markets off the bottom by the end
of 2012, even as investors remain concerned about unemployment,
the survey said. The U.S. jobless rate was 8.9 percent in
February, the lowest in two years. Office markets expected to
remain in recession through 2012 include  Chicago ,  Las Vegas ,  Los
Angeles  and Tampa,  Florida .  Most industrial markets will improve during the next two
years, with 86.2 percent expected to be in recovery by 2012 as
tenant demand increases. The survey defines recovery as a phase
of tightening market conditions and a shift in supply and demand
balance leading to reduced vacancy rates, more balanced rental
growth and a stabilization of overall cap rates.  The multifamily sector has led the recovery, driven by
tougher lending restrictions and limited homebuying
opportunities that have increased demand for apartments,
according to the report. About 30 percent of multifamily stock
will be in an expansion phase through 2014, a period of robust
rental growth and decreasing overall cap rates, the survey
showed.  Retail properties, bogged down by inconsistent growth in
 consumer spending , will probably lag behind. The sector is
expected to pull out of recession in 2013, when 77.1 percent of
retail stock should be in recovery, according to the survey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rebecca McClay in New York at 
 rmcclay@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  