-- 
Wells Fargo CEO Stumpf Says U.S. Limit on Debit-Card Fees ‘Make No Sense’

-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 
2011-03-21T21:33:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/debit-card-fee-curbs-make-no-sense-defy-economics-wells-fargo-ceo-says.html
Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  Chief Executive
Officer  John Stumpf  said limits on fees charged to merchants for
debit-card transactions “make no sense” and distort free-
market economics.  “What’s next?” Stumpf, 57, wrote in his  annual letter  to
shareholders of the San Francisco-based bank. “Will the
government require car dealers to sell a new vehicle for $5,000
or grocers a gallon of milk for 50 cents?”  The Federal Reserve rule, required as part of the Dodd-
Frank Act approved last year by Congress and signed by President
 Barack Obama , would cap the fee card networks can charge
merchants at 12 cents per transaction, replacing a formula that
averages 1.14 percent of the purchase price. Issuers including
 Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  in Charlotte,  North Carolina , and New
York-based  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  could lose $12 billion in annual
revenue under the change, scheduled to be implemented July 21.  Banks fought passage of the legislation and are working
with lawmakers to derail it. Senator Jon Tester, a Montana
Democrat, is the chief sponsor of a bill that would delay the
rule for two years, and Representative Shelley Moore Capito, a
West Virginia Republican, introduced a similar measure.  “Banks should be fairly compensated for the value that
 debit cards  create for merchants and their customers by reducing
fraud risk and the cost of carrying cash or handling checks,”
Stumpf wrote. “An 80 percent cut in this fee wouldn’t even
enable us to cover the cost of providing the service.”  JPMorgan’s Halt  JPMorgan, the second-largest U.S. bank, cited the lost
revenue from the proposed cap in deciding to stop offering
debit-card rewards for almost all its customers in July. The
company is mailing letters to consumers announcing the change,
said  Tom Kelly , a spokesman for the bank. It’s not clear whether
a two-year delay on the cap would change the bank’s plans, Kelly
said.  Debit interchange generated about $16 billion in revenue
for the industry in 2009, according to the Fed. Central bank
officials have until April to decide what the cap will be.  Stumpf also said in the letter that Wells Fargo  “didn’t
always measure up”  in the way it dealt with mortgage
foreclosures.  In October, Wells Fargo said it would submit supplemental
affidavits to courts in about 55,000 foreclosure cases after
finding some didn’t meet requirements. The bank has forgiven
$3.8 billion in principal and hired 10,000 employees to work
with late borrowers, Stumpf wrote.  Pension Funds  Attorneys general  in all 50 states are investigating the
foreclosure practices at the company and other mortgage firms.  Pension funds holding more than 16 million Wells Fargo
shares have called for an independent review of the bank’s
internal controls related to modifications, foreclosures and
securitizations, the company said in a regulatory filing.  Wells Fargo shareholders will vote on the proposal at the
company’s annual meeting on May 3. It would require the board to
share its findings by the end of September. The funds represent
the New York Board of Education Retirement System and New York
City teachers, firefighters and police, among others.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dakin Campbell in  San Francisco  at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  