-- 
Deutsche Telekom Surges on $39 Billion U.S. Sale to AT&T

-- B y   R a g n h i l d   K j e t l a n d
-- 
2011-03-21T17:17:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/deutsche-telekom-shares-surge-on-its-39-billion-t-mobile-usa-sale-to-at-t.html
  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE)  shares surged
the most since 2008 after the company agreed to sell its U.S.
wireless unit to  AT&T Inc. (T)  for $39 billion, a price that
exceeded analyst expectations and allows it to slash debt.  “T-Mobile USA’s standing within the Deutsche Telekom
business had veered dramatically in recent years from the star
performer to an isolated and increasingly problematic black
sheep,” said  Thomas Wehmeier , principal analyst at Informa
Telecoms & Media. “The sale of the unit helps Deutsche Telekom
to recoup the value sunk into the business.”  Deutsche Telekom said late yesterday it will use the
proceeds to slash debt by about 13 billion euros ($18.4
billion), expand in  Europe  and invest in its local broadband
business. The company, which retains  T-Mobile USA ’s almost $16
billion in debt as part of the AT&T deal, will funnel about 5
billion euros into share buybacks.  Chief Executive Officer Rene Obermann had been considering
options for the business, including a possible deal with Sprint
Nextel Corp., as the unit struggled to compete with larger
rivals. The company held negotiations with five different
companies about the future of T-Mobile USA, Chief Financial
Officer Timotheus Hoettges said on a conference call today.  Deutsche Telekom shares rose 11 percent to 10.67 euros in
Frankfurt trading. AT&T climbed 1.4 percent to $28.32 at 1:14
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.  ‘Great Price’  The German company managed to negotiate a “great price,”
said Saeed Baradar, a telecommunications sales specialist at  Societe Generale  in  London . The deal values the business at
seven times earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization, compared with an industry average of 5.5 times in
Europe, he said.  Deutsche Telekom, which entered the U.S. a decade ago under
then-CEO Ron Sommer by staking $28.5 billion on VoiceStream and
Powertel, was considering options for T-Mobile USA after the
unit reported profit declines in four of the past five years.
Europe’s biggest phone company trailed rivals in the U.S. in
building out a third-generation mobile network and missed out on
being able to sell  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone.  Excluding the U.S., almost 80 percent of the Bonn-based
company’s revenue comes from Europe, and investors say Deutsche
Telekom should use some of the proceeds to expand in emerging
markets.  ‘Leftover Money’  “First they will reduce debt, and do share buybacks, and
they will have some leftover money,” Ulf Moritzen, who helps
manage about 1.1 billion euros at Aramea Asset Management in
Hamburg, including Deutsche Telekom shares, said in an
interview. “I hope they use the money to find other emerging
markets.”  Deutsche Telekom’s acquisition strategy won’t change and
the company will remain “very restrictive with regards to large
acquisitions,” CFOHoettges said today. He said the company
doesn’t have Africa or  Asia  on its “radar for acquisitions.”  Instead, the company will invest in wireless Internet, home
networks and cloud-computing services, he said. “And the deal
will improve all key indicators, such as earnings per share,  cash flow  per share, margin, debt ratio,” the CFO said. “Our
debt obligations will be 30 percent lower after this
transaction.”  Deutsche Telekom had net debt of 42.3 billion euros at the
end of 2010.  Dividend Policy  Deutsche Telekom said it won’t change its dividend policy
and still aims to pay out 3.4 billion euros in the years 2010 to
2012.  In January, the company still talked about winning U.S.
clients back.  Philipp Humm, the unit’s chief executive, said in a
 presentation  to investors in  New York  that the unit’s sales will
be increased by offering customers the “best” data plan and
the “best” fourth-generation network.  T-Mobile USA’s net income fell 7.9 percent to $1.35 billion
last year, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The unit saw annual
customer growth slow to 10 percent from more than 40 percent
between 2002 and 2008. In 2010, it had a 0.2 percent net
customer loss and the share of high-margin customers slipped to
78 percent from 89 percent in 2003.  AT&T Stake  “Removing T-Mobile USA will take away some of the growth
potential,” said Mark Newman, chief research officer of Informa
Telecoms & Media. The company doesn’t have the same mix of
operations in mature and emerging markets as European rivals  France Telecom SA (FTE) , Vodafone Group Plc and Telefonica SA, he
said.  The future U.S. business of Deutsche Telekom will consist
of a stake of up to 8 percent in AT&T, which will create
America’s largest mobile-phone company with the T-Mobile USA
deal. Deutsche Telekom CEO Obermann will join Dallas-based
AT&T’s board of directors.  Deutsche Telekom expects to get about $600 million in
dividend payments a year for its stake in AT&T.  “We’ll continue to benefit from the growth in the U.S.
market,” CFO Hoettges said today.  Deutsche Telekom also said that is not in talks anymore to
sell U.S. wireless towers as they are part of T-Mobile USA. On
Feb. 25, the company said it planned to approach the market for
buyers of these towers in the second quarter, and a sale could
fetch “low single-digit billion” U.S. dollars.  ‘Less Risk’  Credit Suisse analysts say the AT&T deal is preferable to a
tie-up with  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S) , the U.S.’s third-biggest
operator. Deutsche Telekom held talks about selling T-Mobile USA
to Sprint in exchange for a stake in the combined entity and the
companies hadn’t been able to agree on the valuation of the
business, people with knowledge of the matter said earlier this
month.  “T-Mobile USA was probably worth $25 billion on a
standalone basis,” Credit Suisse analysts  Jonathan Chaplin , Tom Champion and Nick Karzon said. “This gets Deutsche Telekom $15
billion in value in a deal that carries substantially less risk
than a Sprint deal.”  Deutsche Telekom started T-Mobile USA after buying
VoiceStream and Powertel. Deutsche Telekom issued 1.02 billion
shares and paid $4.23 billion in cash to VoiceStream’s owners,
while Powertel holders got 148 million Deutsche Telekom shares,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg and T-Mobile USA.  The yield premium on Deutsche Telekom’s 500 million euros
of 4.5 percent notes due 2030 narrowed 5 basis points to 168
basis points, according to pricing data compiled by Bloomberg.
That’s the tightest spread since March 4, the data show.  Spreads on AT&T’s 1.1 billion pounds of 7 percent notes due
2040 were unchanged at 122 basis points, Bloomberg data show.
Its 1.25 billion euros of 6.125 percent debt maturing in 2015
were also little changed at 120 basis points, the data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ragnhild Kjetland in Frankfurt at 
 rkjetland@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel in London at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  