-- 
Deutsche Telekom Ends Decade-Long U.S. Foray With Sale to AT&T

-- B y   R a g n h i l d   K j e t l a n d
-- 
2011-03-21T00:14:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/deutsche-telekom-ends-decade-long-u-s-foray-with-sale-to-at-t.html
Two months ago,  Deutsche Telekom
AG (DTE) ’s head of the U.S. told investors in  New York  that its
wireless unit there was “ready to turn the business around”
with the “best” fast Internet network to win back customers.
Yesterday, it decided to sell instead.  The sale of T-Mobile USA, which generates about a quarter
of the German company’s sales, to  AT&T Inc. (T)  in a deal valued at
about $39 billion, deals a blow to the expansion plans of
Deutsche Telekom Chief Executive Officer Rene Obermann.
Excluding the U.S., almost 80 percent of the Bonn-based
company’s revenue comes from  Europe .  “Without the USA, Deutsche Telekom is looking like a
slightly narrow-focused European player,” Mark Newman, chief
research officer of Informa Telecoms & Media, said in an
interview. “The key question is if Deutsche Telekom is going to
be looking for acquisitions in other parts of the world, in
which case where? There are no cheap acquisitions anymore.”  Deutsche Telekom said late yesterday it will use the
proceeds to slash debt by about 13 billion euros ($18.4
billion), expand in Europe and invest in its local broadband
business. The company, which retains  T-Mobile USA ’s almost $16
billion in debt as part of the AT&T deal, will funnel about 5
billion euros into share buybacks.  The sale gives the company a “strengthened balance sheet
that we can put towards our strategy and investing in growth
fields like intelligent networks, smart grids, Internet
solutions for the health and automotive sector,” Deutsche
Telekom spokesman Stephan Broszio said by phone.  VoiceStream Purchase  Deutsche Telekom, which entered the U.S. a decade ago under
then-CEO Ron Sommer by staking $28.5 billion on VoiceStream and
Powertel, was considering options for T-Mobile USA after the
unit reported profit declines in four of the past five years.
Europe’s biggest phone company trailed rivals in the U.S. in
building out a third-generation mobile network and missed out on
being able to sell  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone.  Even after those setbacks, Obermann earlier this year
explained the benefits of having a U.S. division by pointing out
that “in the U.S. we have $50 of revenues per user per month.
That compares to $30 in Western Europe.”  In January, the company still talked about winning U.S.
clients back.  Philipp Humm, the unit’s chief executive, said in a
 presentation  to investors in New York that the unit’s sales will
be increased by offering customers the “best” data plan and
the “best” fourth-generation network.  Losing Share  The decision to exit the U.S. shows that Deutsche Telekom
wasn’t able or willing to put in the investment necessary to
build a faster network and catch up, analysts said.  Deutsche Telekom’s position in the U.S. is “completely
unsustainable as they’re losing clients and market share and
need to invest about $10 billion for a fast new network,”
Espirito Santo analyst Will Draper said earlier this month.  T-Mobile USA’s net income fell 7.9 percent to $1.35 billion
last year, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The unit saw annual customer growth slow to 10 percent from
more than 40 percent between 2002 and 2008. In 2010, it had a
0.2 percent net customer loss and the share of high-margin
customers slipped to 78 percent from 89 percent in 2003. About
56,000 customers abandoned T-Mobile USA last year, while Sprint,
AT&T and Verizon Wireless all boosted their counts.  Deutsche Telekom had said it aimed to add $3 billion to
sales by 2014 in the U.S. and was considering partnerships to
buy wireless spectrum for the next generation network.  AT&T Stake  “Removing T-Mobile USA will take away some of the growth
potential,” Informa’s Newman said. The company doesn’t have the
same mix of operations in mature and emerging markets as
European rivals  France Telecom SA (FTE) , Vodafone Group Plc and
Telefonica SA, he said. The German company’s eastern European
operations don’t have the same growth potential compared with
other emerging markets, according to Newman.  Deutsche Telekom shares have fallen 61 percent since the
Voicestream purchase was completed on May 31, 2001. Vodafone
dropped 18 percent in that period, Telefonica rose 8.8 percent
and  France Telecom  slumped 73 percent.  The future U.S. business of Deutsche Telekom will consist
of a stake of up to 8 percent in AT&T, which will create
America’s largest mobile-phone company with the T-Mobile USA
deal. Deutsche Telekom will also add an executive to the Dallas-
based company’s board of directors.  Some analysts say that the AT&T transaction makes sense as
it hands the company a chunk of cash for a struggling business
and allows Deutsche Telekom to benefit from the growth in the
U.S. at least to some extent.  “Strategically it is a good deal for Deutsche Telekom as
T-Mobile USA was struggling as an independent company,” Ameet
Shah, a partner at PRTM in  London , said in an interview. “They
were able to crystallize value, while keeping exposure to the
U.S. market with the stock portion.”  Better Than Sprint?  Credit Suisse analysts say the AT&T deal is also preferable
to a tie-up with  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S) , the U.S.’s third-biggest
operator. Deutsche Telekom held talks about selling T-Mobile USA
to Sprint in exchange for a stake in the combined entity, people
with knowledge of the matter said earlier this month. The
companies hadn’t been able to agree on the valuation of T-Mobile
USA, the people said.  “T-Mobile USA was probably worth $25 billion on a
standalone basis,” Credit Suisse analysts  Jonathan Chaplin , Tom Champion and Nick Karzon said. “This gets Deutsche Telekom $15
billion in value in a deal that carries substantially less risk
than a Sprint deal.”  Deutsche Telekom started T-Mobile USA after buying
VoiceStream and Powertel. Deutsche Telekom issued 1.02 billion
shares and paid $4.23 billion in cash to VoiceStream’s owners,
while Powertel holders got 148 million Deutsche Telekom shares,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg and T-Mobile USA.  Regulatory Scrutiny  The deals were completed on May 31, 2001, when Deutsche
Telekom closed at 24.60 euros a share. That put the price tag
for the two companies at $28.5 billion, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  The acquisition of T-Mobile USA would allow AT&T, now the
second-largest U.S. wireless operator, to add 34 million
customers and surpass  Verizon Wireless  as the largest in the
country. The deal, the largest in the wireless industry since
2004, may face regulatory scrutiny because it combines the
second- and fourth-largest wireless providers.  The agreement has been approved by the boards of directors
of both companies, Deutsche Telekom said in a statement.  It’s the largest takeover to be announced in the wireless
industry worldwide since 2004, when Sprint agreed to merge with
Nextel Communications Inc., and the sixth-largest mobile-phone
deal of all time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ragnhild Kjetland in Frankfurt at 
 rkjetland@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel in London at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  