-- 
ECB Signals Japan's Earthquake Won't Deter It From Raising Rates in April

-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g   a n d   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 
2011-03-22T12:00:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/ecb-officials-signal-they-re-on-track-for-interest-rate-boost-next-month.html
European Central Bank officials
indicated the economic uncertainty caused by Japan’s earthquake
may not deter them from raising  interest rates  next month.  ECB Executive Board member Gertrude Tumpel-Gugerell and
Governing Council member Yves Mersch both said yesterday that
“strong vigilance” is necessary to keep a lid on inflation, a
phrase the central bank uses to signal a rate increase is
imminent. ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  also told the
European Parliament he has “nothing to add” to his March 3
remarks, when he said policy makers may raise the benchmark rate
from a record low of 1 percent at their next meeting in April.  The euro rose above $1.42 for the first time since November
and  government bonds  declined as investors increased bets on
higher ECB borrowing costs. Those bets had been pared in the
wake of the devastating March 11 earthquake and tsunami in
 Japan , which damped economic sentiment globally.  “Obviously the current assessment could change depending
on events going forward but for now, the signals from the ECB
have been pretty clear and back up the early March ‘heads up’
for a hike on 7 April,” said  Ken Wattret , chief euro-area
economist at BNP Paribas SA in London.  ECB Executive Board member Juergen Stark said that, given
the “heightened uncertainty” caused by events in Japan, “I
cannot make any commitment for the ECB” on an April rate
increase, according to the text of a March 18 interview with
Nikkei newspaper published by the ECB today. Still, “there are
good reasons to normalize the monetary policy stance” and the
situation in the euro area “has not changed” in the short
term, he said.  Inflation Risks  “The risks to medium-term price developments are tilted to
the upside,” Tumpel-Gugerell said yesterday in a speech in
Salzburg,  Austria . “Against this background, strong vigilance
is, of course, necessary and we are monitoring the situation
closely,” she said, adding the ECB is “ready and determined to
take appropriate action” if needed.  Inflation in the 17-member euro-area accelerated to 2.4
percent in February and has been in breach of the ECB’s 2
percent limit since December.  “It is crucial at this stage to avoid that the recent rise
in inflation translates into broad-based second-round effects,
for instance via price-setting or higher wages,” Trichet said.
“Such effects would give rise to broad-based inflationary
pressures over the medium term.”  ‘Ready to Act’  ECB council member  Mario Draghi , who economists say is the
frontrunner to succeed Trichet when his eight-year terms ends on
Oct. 31, said in a speech in Milan that the central bank will
act in a “firm and timely manner” to control inflation and
that policy makers have to “remain vigilant in safeguarding
 price stability .”  Mersch, another potential candidate to succeed Trichet,
said the ECB “stands ready to act in a resolute manner and at
the appropriate time.”  Tumpel-Gugerell said the surge in  oil prices  above $100 a
barrel is a “cause for concern.”  The ECB’s latest forecasts, which show inflation averaging
1.7 percent next year, “do not take into account the recent
oil-price hikes and are based on the assumption that wage
pressures will remain subdued,” she said.  At the same time, “all available forecasts indicate that
the gradual recovery of economic activity in the euro area is
likely to continue,” Tumpel-Gugerell said. “There are a number
of positive signals” and “the overall economic situation is
actually rather favorable.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gabi Thesing in  London  at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Black in Frankfurt 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  