-- 
Hedge Funds Slash Bullish Commodity Bets Most in Eight Months

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   C a m p b e l l   a n d   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 
2011-03-21T19:54:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/hedge-funds-slash-bullish-commodity-bets-most-in-eight-months.html
Hedge funds  cut their bullish bets
on commodities by the most for any week since June as  Japan ’s
nuclear crisis threatened the global economic recovery.  In the week ended March 15, an index of managed-money net-
long positions, or wagers on rising prices, in 18 commodities
tumbled 14 percent from a week earlier to 1.27 million U.S.
futures and options contracts, government data compiled by
Bloomberg show. That’s the biggest drop since the week ended
June 29, and the smallest net-long holdings since early August.  The Thomson/Reuters Jefferies CRB Index touched a one-month
low on March 16 as Japan, the world’s third-largest economy,
fought to contain the risk of a nuclear crisis following an
earthquake and tsunami that killed thousands. Before the temblor
struck on March 11, the CRB gauge had jumped 6.5 percent in
2011, outperforming equities and bonds.  “The situation in Japan prompted a lot of investors to
take profits after a fairly good run in commodities,” said
 Brian Hicks , who helps manage $3 billion at U.S. Global
Investors in  San Antonio . “This is a short-term headwind for
further upside in commodities. We’re still going to see
industrialization and urbanization in emerging markets.”  Copper will average $4 a pound this year, and crude oil
won’t dip below $90 a barrel, while other commodity prices
including corn and wheat will remain elevated, Hicks said.
Investors will buy gold to hedge against inflation as developed
countries keep  interest rates  low to spur growth, he said.  Funds May Return  Hedge funds may return to the commodity markets in the next
few weeks and ramp up bullish bets, said Jeff Bauml, a senior
vice president at R.J. O’Brien & Associates, a broker in  New
York .  In the week ended March 15, the CRB tumbled 6.4 percent
amid growth concerns. In the next three days, the gauge
rebounded 3.8 percent. The CRB gauge rose 0.6 percent to 353.24
at 2:52 p.m. in New York, after touching 354.44, the highest
since March 10.  “There’s renewed confidence,” Bauml said in a telephone
interview.  Hedge funds cut bullish bets on corn futures and options
traded in Chicago by 17 percent in the week ended March 15, the
most since June 2010, data from the U.S. Commodity Futures
Trading Commission show. Managers slashed net-long positions in
cattle by 8.7 percent to 89,540 futures and options contracts,
the lowest since July, the government data show.  “There’s concern that we might have Japan, in the short-
term, not buying corn,” said  Christian Mayer , a market analyst
at Northstar Commodity Investments Co. in  Minneapolis . “There
were some people just liquidating everything.”  ‘Too Carried Away’  The selling may not be over, said Troy Vetterkind, the
owner of Vetterkind Cattle Brokerage in Chicago.  “There’s still more liquidation to come,” he said. “The
cattle market got too carried away to the topside. You’re going
to see more money leave.”  Global food costs rose to an all-time high in February, the
 United Nations  said. The higher prices contributed to riots in
North Africa and the Middle East that toppled leaders in Egypt
and  Tunisia .  Before today, corn soared 82 percent in the past year on
the  Chicago  Board of Trade, while wheat climbed 48 percent.
Cattle jumped 17 percent in the past 12 months on the Chicago
Mercantile Exchange and touched a record $1.18 a pound on March
9.  The rally in grains was fueled by adverse weather that
damaged global crops. Cattle and hogs gained as higher feed
costs limited supplies and the global economic recovery boosted
demand for meat in emerging economies.  “In the end, we’re still in a corn market that needs to
ration demand,” Mayer of Northstar said. “I wouldn’t be
surprised if people got back” into the markets, he said.  Managed-money positions include hedge funds, commodity-
trading advisers and commodity pools. Analysts and investors
follow changes in speculator positions because such transactions
may reflect an expectation of a shift in prices.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elizabeth Campbell in Chicago at 
 ecampbell14@bloomberg.net ;
Whitney McFerron in Chicago at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  