-- 
Medvedev Clashes With Putin as Premier Slams Libya ‘Crusade’

-- B y   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a ,   A n t o n   D o r o s h e v   a n d   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 
2011-03-21T17:53:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/medvedev-clashes-with-putin-after-premier-slams-libya-effort-as-crusade-.html
Russian President  Dmitry Medvedev 
dismissed as “unacceptable” Prime Minister Vladimir Putin’s
description of Western-led attacks on Libya as a “crusade,”
marking their first public foreign-policy dispute.  Putin, who spoke amid a visit to  Russia  by U.S. Defense
Secretary  Robert Gates , said the UN resolution and resulting
allied offensive amounts to a  “medieval call for a crusade.”  “It’s unacceptable to use terms that effectively lead to a
clash of civilizations like the crusades,” Medvedev said at his
residence outside Moscow, without mentioning Putin by name.
“Otherwise things could end far worse than what’s happening
now.”  The clash came a year before the next presidential
election, in which both men have said they may run. Putin
criticized last week’s  United Nations   resolution  that authorized
military action by the U.S. and its allies.  “Under  Bill Clinton  they bombed Yugoslavia and Belgrade.
Bush sent troops into  Afghanistan  and under completely false
pretenses, they sent troops to  Iraq  and liquidated the entire
Iraqi leadership,” Putin said today on a visit to Votkinsk in
central Russia. “Now it’s Libya’s turn, under the pretext of
protecting the civilian population.”  Russia, which could have vetoed the resolution as a
permanent member of the UN Security Council, abstained, a
decision that Medvedev defended today while regretting civilian
casualties caused by the allied campaign.  “I don’t consider this resolution to be wrong, and in fact
I consider that it broadly reflects our view of what is
happening in  Libya , although not across the board,” Medvedev
said. “That’s why we didn’t use our right of veto.”  Constitutional Ban  Putin, a 58-year-old former KGB colonel, handed over the
presidency in 2008 to Medvedev, 45, because of a constitutional
ban on serving more than two consecutive terms. Putin hasn’t
ruled out standing for election as president in March 2012,
while an adviser to Medvedev, Igor Yurgens, said in January that
the prime minister shouldn’t return to the Kremlin because he
would risk triggering popular unrest.  Putin’s reaction may signal that he wasn’t fully satisfied
with how Medvedev handled the decision to abstain on the Libyan
resolution, said  Fyodor Lukyanov , an analyst at the Council on
Foreign and Defense Policy in Moscow. The president as head of
state formally has the final say on foreign policy.  ‘Foreign Policy Mistake’  “It seems as though Putin wasn’t fully informed about this
decision and is irritated that Russia made what he considers a
foreign policy mistake,” said Lukyanov.  The dispute also highlights the differences between the two
men, with Putin adopting a nationalist stance that is likely to
play well with Russian voters, said  Olga Kryshtanovskaya , a
sociologist who studies Russia’s elites.  Medvedev, a trained lawyer who is more accommodating to the
U.S. and other Western powers, “is earning plaudits on the
international stage, while Putin is earnings plaudits inside the
country,” Kryshtanovskaya said.  “The Russian population backs Putin’s view that the U.S.
is guilty of imperialism,” she said. Medvedev, as head of
state, formally has the final say on foreign policy.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lyubov Pronina in Moscow at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net 
Anton Doroshev in Votkinsk, Russia, at 
 adoroshev@bloomberg.net 
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Torrey Clark at 
 tclark8@bloomberg.net 
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  