-- 
Egypt Default Risk Drops Fifth Day as Referendum Passed, Trading to Resume

-- B y   A h m e d   A   N a m a t a l l a
-- 
2011-03-22T17:04:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/egypt-stock-exchange-closed-for-seven-weeks-amid-unrest-to-open-march-23.html
Egypt ’s default risk dropped for a
fifth day, the longest stretch of losses since April, after
voters approved a constitutional referendum and the government
agreed to resume equity trading for the first time in seven
weeks.  The cost of protecting Egyptian bonds against default for
five years fell 19 basis points, or 0.19 percentage point, to
352.5, according to CMA prices in  London . The contracts climbed
to as high as 442.3 on Jan. 31, just after the stock market shut
and protests to unseat former President  Hosni Mubarak  grew.  Investors perceive increased stability in Egypt after
voters backed changes to the constitution March 19, paving the
way for parliamentary and presidential elections by year-end, in
the Arab country’s first referendum since Mubarak’s ouster last
month. The cabinet, meeting yesterday in Cairo as dozens of
investors demonstrated outside with placards that read
“Enough!” and “Our livelihood has been ruined,” agreed to
open the bourse tomorrow.  “We have surpassed an important milestone which is the
referendum, which means the environment is more stable and more
conducive to opening the stock market,” said Wael Ziada, the
head of research at Cairo-based EFG-Hermes Holding SAE.  Gulf Stocks Up  London-traded shares of Orascom Telecom Holding declined
from a one-month high, falling 5.7 percent to $3.15 at the 3:40
p.m. close.  Orascom Construction Industries (ORSD) , Egypt’s biggest
publicly traded builder, lost 4.5 percent to $35. Telecom Egypt
global depositary receipts soared 13 percent to $11.50, while
EFG Hermes Holding SAE lost 5.5 percent in London. Stocks in the
 Persian Gulf  have climbed 4.5 percent this month, based on the
Bloomberg GCC 200 Index.  Egypt’s “market should have opened a long time ago,” said
Mohamed Radwan, the head of international sales at Cairo-based
Pharos Holding for Financial Investments. “But this week is
better because of the positive movements in the GDR market, Gulf
markets and also after a successful referendum.”  Egypt’s cabinet said in a statement it will open the stock
market after taking “all necessary measures” to “ensure the
safe opening and smooth trading of the bourse.” The cabinet
also announced the appointment of Mohamed Abdel Salam, head of
the state-run clearing house, to supervise the stock exchange
for six months, replacing Khaled Seyam, who resigned.  Plunge on Uprising  The stock market has been closed since the end of trading
Jan. 27 after the benchmark EGX 30 Index plunged 16 percent that
week amid the uprising that toppled Mubarak. Orascom
Construction London-traded shares are down 7 percent since the
local market shut, while Orascom Telecom lost 3.1 percent.
Telecom Egypt, 80 percent owned by the government, has lost 16
percent over the same period.  The stock market in Cairo will be governed by rules
approved during the closure, including a 10 percent limit on
daily equity moves and a halt to intraday and margin trading. In
addition, brokerages needing financial support will have partial
access to an emergency fund.  The exchange’s scheduled opening tomorrow makes its removal
from the MSCI Emerging Markets Index less likely, Frank Nielsen,
executive director for equity and applied research at MSCI Inc.,
said in an interview yesterday.  MSCI Deadline  “If the stock exchange opens on Wednesday that will be
great news,” Nielsen said. “That certainly would make it less
likely that it would be downgraded.”  The opening will fall on the 38th business day since its
closure. If the market is closed 40 business days or more MSCI
may begin investor talks to determine whether to remove Egypt
from the emerging markets index, Nielsen said March 2.  “The MSCI deadline should not be overlooked, but more
importantly, decisions going forward have to be reasonable,
transparent and consistent with the emerging markets status, or
there’s the risk of being downgraded,” EFG-Hermes’ Ziada said.  Egypt’s default swaps traded last year as low as 185 in  New
York  in May. Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in
exchange for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent
should a government or company fail to adhere to its debt
agreements.  Finance Minister Samir Radwan forecasts economic growth of
4 percent this fiscal year, down from the pre-crisis estimate of
6 percent, after the revolt that toppled Mubarak curtailed
factory production and deterred tourists.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ahmed A Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Laura Zelenko at 
 lzelenko@bloomberg.net  