-- 
El Bulli Prepares to Close With 48-Course Blockbuster Menu

-- B y   R i c h a r d   V i n e s
-- 
2011-03-21T00:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/el-bulli-prepares-to-close-with-48-course-blockbuster-menu-richard-vines.html
Chef Ferran Adria served up 40
courses of culinary magic when I last ate at El Bulli in 2007,
from the gin-fizz aperitif where the froth was hot and thick
to raspberries that dissolved on contact with a spoon.  He has ramped things up a bit since then at El Bulli,
which has won the  World’s Best Restaurant  title five times and
where some diners have tried for years to get a reservation.  “You will eat 48 dishes tonight,” Adria said in a March
10 interview at the restaurant, which sits on a hillside
overlooking the Mediterranean, sun glinting on the water.
“It’s the maximum. It’s impossible to get more.”  El Bulli, in northern  Spain , closes for good on July 30
and will open in 2014 as an institute of culinary creativity.
Meals will be served to outsiders only when the chefs need
guinea pigs and those piggies will be there by invitation.  Until now, Adria has spent half the year creating dishes
at his workshop in Barcelona and the other half serving them
to customers at El Bulli, which is reached by a winding road
from the town of Roses. He’s dispensing with the restaurant
because he wants to spend more time being creative, like an
artist abandoning exhibitions to focus on making art. Does he
feel sorry to disappoint people who want to try his food?  Table Life  “We can’t do anything,” he said. “Only a few people
can come here. You are here because we have been in contact
for many years but a person I don’t have a relationship with,
it’s different. I’m going to  New York  this month and everyone
will be telling me they want to come to El Bulli and I’ll be
suffering. I’m tired of people telling me this. My life is a
table. In the foundation, no one will tell me that.”  (Adria will be in New York as global brand ambassador for
Madrid-based  Telefonica SA (TEF) ,  Europe ’s second-largest phone
company. Telefonica will provide the technology and research-
and-development capacity for the El Bulli Foundation.)  “We won’t have reservations,” Adria, 48, said. “Who
will come? It doesn’t matter. Everybody will want to come and
every year we will have different guests. If we need feedback,
we will get it. If we don’t, we don’t have to have it. Our
priority is creativity. That is our challenge.”  I’ve interviewed Adria four times over the years: He is
softly spoken, polite and watches your reaction closely when
he speaks to you. He simultaneously projects a personal
modesty and a pride in what he has achieved with his team.
I’ve long known not to ask him for a table, so I was happy
that he invited me to El Bulli when we previously met in  London  on Oct. 25. Even with an invitation, the first
available table was for March 10.  (While it’s Bloomberg’s policy to pay for meals, El Bulli
refused to accept payment from guests of the chef.)  Sequences  “The last two or three years, we’ve got the idea to
express ourselves through the whole menu, not certain
dishes,” Adria said. “The most important thing is the
sequences: five or six dishes that are about the same product
or culture that make up a mini-menu. We’re sure this will
become a trend in the gastronomic world. The problem is that
you have to have a very, very long menu. If you don’t, it
won’t make sense.”  The menu started with pina colada, only instead of being
a drink in a glass, it was cotton candy with freeze-dried
pineapple and spheres of rum that exploded in your mouth. It
was followed by a mojito in the form of a baguette and then a
martini glass of fizzy almond foam.  Blackberry Risotto  Highlights included a cookie oozing olive oil; ham and
rose wonton; and a dish of “caviar” that was made from
hazelnut and hazelnut paste made with caviar. There was a
macaroon that was made of parmesan, and cod that was in fact
just the crispy skin. Blackberry risotto with game-meat sauce
anyone? The squeamish probably wouldn’t have wanted the glass
of crimson liquid described as “hare’s blood” that was
served with hare.  The sequences included seafood, truffles, game and
Japanese cuisine. (Adria said he first traveled to  Japan  in
2002 although diners told him his style was Japanese long
before then.)  You end the meal sipping coffee or drinks on an outdoor
terrace overlooking the sea, which is handy for smokers. Most
of the other diners were Spanish. While the dining room was
quiet, the atmosphere wasn’t reverential. Eating is about
enjoyment.  That’s why it’s so hard to say if a meal at El Bulli is
the best in your life: Your most memorable meal is likely to
be when you are happiest. At El Bulli, you are dazzled by
Adria’s creativity and daring, impressed by his command of
flavors and technical mastery and seduced by his spirit of
adventure and fun.  Chef’s Pals  Even if Adria never cooks for you, you are likely to eat
dishes that show his influence. In the U.K., he’s friends with  Heston Blumenthal  of the Fat Duck and he also mentioned Nuno Mendes at Viajante and Jason Atherton of  Pollen Street Social .  “It’s a shame more people couldn’t come here,” Adria
said. “In the future, when you eat a long tasting menu, you
will remember El Bulli. We’re sad and we’re happy. We’re sad
because it’s not going to continue and we’re happy because
we’ve changed ideas. The most important thing is the
philosophy and the world has to recognize that is El Bulli,
not Ferran Adria.”  (Richard Vines is the chief food critic for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Richard Vines in London at 
 rvines@bloomberg.net  or Richardvines on
 http://twitter.com/Richardvines .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at 
 mbeech@bloomberg.net . 