-- 
Telekom Austria Places Sole Bid for Telekom Srbija Stake

-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c   a n d   M i s h a   S a v i c
-- 
2011-03-21T16:37:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/telekom-austria-bids-for-government-s-telekom-srbija-stake-person-says.html
Telekom Austria AG (TKA)  placed the sole
bid for Serbia’s 51 percent stake in national phone company
Telekom Srbija AD, risking a rejection as the offer fell short
of government demands.  The Austrian phone company, which runs mobile networks in
seven east European nations, offered as much as 950 million
euros ($1.34 billion) in cash and 450 million euros in committed
investments over the next three years, it said in a statement
from Vienna announcing the conditional offer.  The bid is less than the 1.4 billion euros in cash Serbia
said it needs to bolster the economy, trim the budget gap and
steer the Balkan country closer to the European Union. Telekom
 Austria  acknowledged the bid “does not comply” with  Serbia ’s
“unconditional minimum price.”  The government, under pressure
by protesting employees to cancel the sale, has said failure
would force it to sell more debt to meet budget needs.  “Being the only offer, it seems to be a less-than-ideal
scenario for Serbia,” said Carlos Winzer, a telecommunications
analyst at Moody’s Investors Service in  Madrid .  If the sale is approved, Telekom Austria will gain access
to almost all of Serbia’s landline network and about 60 percent
of its mobile-phone market. It’s already the third-biggest
mobile-phone operator in Serbia, with its Vip Mobile, launched
in 2007, with a market share of 14 percent, or 1.4 million
customers, according to the telecommunication company’s website.  Telekom Austria rose 1.3 percent to 10.18 euros at the 5:30
p.m. close of trading in Vienna. It erased gains of as much as
3.2 percent after the bid was announced.  Expansion Strategy  It decided last year to combine its fixed-and mobile-phone
units in Austria to reduce costs and also bought two cable
operators in  Bulgaria  in September and is said to be the leading
bidder to buy B.net Hrvatska d.o.o. in  Croatia , two people with
knowledge of the sales process said last month.  The offer “compares favorably to a share buyback with
respect to cash flow generation per share,” Telekom Austria
said in the statement. The offer is “conditional to merger
control clearance in Serbia resulting in a market
consolidation.”  The deal would be less favorable for Serbia, which has been
drafting plans for a Eurobond sale later this year should it
fall through. Serbia has relied on a 3 billion-euro bailout loan
from the  International Monetary Fund  since mid-2009 to offset
external liquidity pressures amid capital flight triggered by
the global financial turmoil that hurt the country in late 2008.  ‘Negative News’  “At first glance, I think it’s negative news” for the
nation’s currency, the dinar, said Nordea chief currency
strategist Elisabeth Andreew. The dinar was priced at 103.026 to
the euro at 5:20 p.m. in Belgrade, down from 102.952 at 12:30
p.m.  “The government will think for a few days but probably
reject this and wait and try to look for other solutions.
They’ll probably have to look at selling Eurobonds,” she said.  Serbian Deputy Finance Minister Vuk Djokovic said at a
press conference today in Belgrade the government’s working
group will take five days to analyze the offer and announce its
decision on March 28.  The other six companies that registered for the sale were
 Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) ,  France Telecom SA (FTE) , America Movil SAB,
 Orascom Telecom Holding SAE (ORTE)  through Weather Investments SpA,
 VimpelCom Ltd. (VIP)  and Turkcell Iletisim Hizmetleri AS.  Serbian Holdings  Telekom Srbija, 20 percent owned by  Greece ’s Hellenic
Telecommunications Organizations AS, has almost 4 million fixed-
line users and 7.7 million mobile-phone clients.  It owns M:Tel in Montenegro and Telekom Srpske in the Serb
half of Bosnia-Herzegovina, where it controls 40 percent and 26
percent of the respective mobile-phone markets.  At least 2,000 employees marched through downtown Belgrade
two days ago demanding that the company, which had $165.3
million in net earnings in 2009 and runs operations in three
countries, remain majority owned by the state.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at   gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at  jagomez@bloomberg 