-- 
Emirates Makes Manchester Mideast Hub, Challenging BA’s Heathrow Strategy

-- B y   S t e v e   R o t h w e l l
-- 
2011-03-21T18:23:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/emirates-makes-manchester-mideast-hub-as-ba-sticks-to-heathrow.html
Emirates, Qatar Airways Ltd. and
Etihad, the biggest Arab carriers, are pouring capacity into the
north English city of Manchester to win Asian traffic as British
Airways funnels passengers via its crowded  London  Heathrow hub.  Emirates, the largest international carrier, said March 9
it would add a third daily flight to Dubai starting May 1 after
existing services featuring an Airbus SAS A380 superjumbo were
consistently full. The announcement came within days of Qatar
and Etihad saying that routes from  Abu Dhabi  and Doha will go
double daily from Aug. 1 and June 1, respectively.  British Airways scrapped long-haul flights from Manchester
in 2008, opting to route people through Heathrow, Europe’s
busiest airport, on nine daily shuttles. The U.K. company says
it has no plans to revise the model, even though 13 scheduled
carriers including Delta Air Lines Inc., Continental Airlines
and Singapore Airlines Ltd. offer  long-haul services  from the
airport, which claims a catchment of 20 million people.  “Our clients prefer flying from Manchester, so we’re very
pleased with the new routes,” said Irene Hulme, who runs Travel
by Design, a specialist in luxury trips to  Australia ,  Asia  and
 North America  based in Alderley Edge, 5 miles from the airport.
“People think twice about going via Heathrow. On some routes
you can have a very long wait, which they find frustrating.”  Growth Target  Manchester was the busiest British airport outside London
in 2010, attracting 17.6 million passengers, or 8.4 percent of
the national total. That compares with 22 million in 2005,
before the reduction in service by BA and U.K. rival British
Midland or BMI, now owned by  Deutsche Lufthansa AG. (LHA)  Heathrow
handled 65.9 million passengers last year.  The airport, privately managed on behalf of its owners, the
10 boroughs of Greater Manchester county, estimates it will
boost passenger numbers 4 percent this year, Chief Executive
Officer Charlie Cornish said in an interview last month.  The Gulf carriers are targeting northern  England  as part of
a growth splurge aimed at challenging British Airways and other
carriers specializing in long-distance transfer traffic.  Emirates is building up a  fleet  of 90 A380s with a total of
45,000 seats as it seeks to direct price-sensitive passengers
through Dubai, while Qatar has orders for 178 jetliners worth
$35 billion and Etihad has 100.  New Planes, Lounges  Passengers have been lured by newer aircraft appearing on
routes out of Manchester, Hulme of Travel by Design said.
Emirates and Etihad also offer first-class seats on flights from
the city, and both have their own premium lounges there.  The  superjumbo service  from Manchester -- the first in the
world serving a regional city -- has been a top performer for
Emirates, with the 517-seat plane flying full within two months
of its introduction in September, the company said when
announcing the third daily trip, which will be operated by a
237-seat  Airbus A330 .  Etihad’s addition of a second daily flight from August
marks the ramp-up of an earlier plan to switch to 10 services a
week, and  Qatar Airways  is adding capacity in Manchester as it
terminates its service to  London Gatwick , the secondary hub for
British Airways, which has four daily shuttles there.  ‘Attractive Option’  Emirates, which also operates to Dubai from regional
airports in Glasgow and Newcastle upon Tyne, from which British
Airways serves only London, and Birmingham, where BA has no
flights, as well as from Heathrow, said capacity growth at
Manchester shows that flying via modern hubs in the Middle East
has become an “attractive option” for European travelers.  “The addition of a third daily flight indicates strong
regional demand, but also reflects our commitment to regional
gateways,” Salem Obaidalla, the carrier’s senior vice president
for commercial operations in  Europe  and  Russia , said by e-mail.  Unlike British Airways, which is strongest on North
Atlantic routes and which recently merged with Iberia of  Spain ,
adding connections to Latin America, the Gulf carriers are
focused on faster-growing markets in Asia. Qatar Airways said
when announcing its extra Manchester frequency that the route
taps demand from populations living in and around the city for
travel via Doha to  India ,  Pakistan ,  Bangladesh  and  Sri Lanka .  Manchester Airport Managing Director Andrew Harrison said
that while the exit of British Airways had led to “a little bit
of negativity” from people who wanted to be able to fly long-
haul with the national “flag carrier,” the expansion of the Gulf
operators had filled the void, with Qatar’s switch from Gatwick
especially encouraging and suggesting airlines are pursuing a
“north and south strategy” for U.K. routes.  ‘New Friends’  “We’ve always been a ‘non-aligned’ airport in terms of
airline customers and that served us well when BA took the
decision to retreat to London,” Harrison said in an interview.
“We valued their business but we had to make new friends.”  Among other long-haul carriers serving Manchester,  Finnair
Oyj (FIA1S)  offers two flights a day and regards northern England as a
“key market” as it seeks to establish Helsinki, the capital city
of a nation with just 5 million people, as a hub for travel to
northeast and southeast Asia from Europe, Fredrik Charpentier,
the company’s U.K. sales chief, said today in an interview.  “People are discovering that it’s easier if you use an
uncrowded hub like Helsinki,” he said. “Our challenge is
spreading the word, because there are still a lot of people who
look to Heathrow because that’s where you used to go from.”  Finnair serves nine Asian destinations including Beijing,
Seoul and  Tokyo  via the shortest possible “great circle” route,
with transfer times in Helsinki of as little as 35 minutes.  Better Positioned  “The East is the market of growth and it’s where Emirates
and Etihad are positioned,” said Peter Morris, an analyst at
aviation consultant Ascend. “There is more connectivity out of
the U.K. on Emirates to Asia and the Middle East than at BA.”  Still, re-establishing Manchester as a hub would probably
be prohibitively expensive, London-based Morris said, while
 Willie Walsh , CEO of International Consolidated Airlines Group
SA, BA’s parent company, said the carrier isn’t concerned.  “We’ve flown international flights from Manchester in the
past but they weren’t profitable, so today we fly to Heathrow,”
Walsh, who ran British Airways until January, said in an
interview. “If the Middle Eastern carriers want to fly there
and it’s a market we’re not serving directly, that’s
competition. I have no complaints.”  IAG shares rose 1.7 percent today in London. Finnair fell
0.2 percent. The three main Gulf carriers aren’t listed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steve Rothwell in London at 
 srothwell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  