-- 
Here’s When $12 Million for Nothing Is a Deal: Scott Soshnick

-- B y   S c o t t   S o s h n i c k
-- 
2011-03-21T23:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/here-s-how-12-million-for-nothing-is-a-deal-commentary-by-scott-soshnick.html
The  New York Mets , at long last,
had enough of pitcher Oliver Perez, who committed the cardinal
sin of sports when he placed himself ahead of his team.  The cash-strapped Mets doled out $12 million just to make
the lousy left-hander go away. It was money well spent, even for
these owners, the Wilpons, who in the face of a Bernie Madoff-
related lawsuit are trying to raise capital by selling a
minority share of the team.  It isn’t often in professional sports, where things like
salary caps and luxury taxes dictate spending, when money for
nothing is considered a win for the givers. This was one of
those times.  Wisely spent because the Mets, trying to overhaul their
roster and reverse their fortunes, can’t afford to have an
ineffective and sulking malcontent hanging around the clubhouse,
where selfishness has a way of spreading.  Professional sports teams, led by ownership, have to
establish an identity. Ownership has to make clear what it
expects. Better yet, what it demands from not only players, but
executives, too.  The Mets have a new general manager and manager, one who
values enthusiasm and hustle. It would have been unfair, not to
mention counterproductive, to saddle all that’s new with the old
problem of what to do with the man who goes by Ollie.  The worst part of this is that Perez had a chance to make
it right, to prove that he was appreciative of all those
millions the team committed to his promise of becoming a
dominant pitcher.  Team Spirit  Perez, though, chose to stand for everything that’s wrong
in professional sports. He chose the letter of the collective
bargaining law instead of the spirit of team and togetherness.  The 29-year-old  Perez  had a 3-9 record over the past two
seasons after signing a three-year, $36 million contract in
2009. He was 0-3 in seven starts last season before losing his
place in the starting rotation. He was ineffective as a
reliever, too.  That’s when management went to Perez and asked him to
accept an assignment to the minor leagues, where he could pitch
every fifth day with the hope of finding the kind of form and
confidence that prompted the Mets to make such an investment in
the first place.  Only Perez said no, which, according to the collective
bargaining agreement was his right. He chose to sit around the
bullpen, occupying a roster spot, pitching only in mop-up
situations because the manager had no confidence in his ability
to register outs.  Not the Issue  Money wasn’t the issue. The Mets had to pay Perez wherever
he pitched.  A few athletes -- not all of them baseball players --- come
to mind when thinking of Perez, who, we can only hope, doesn’t
get another chance in an industry where too many get more
chances than they deserve.  You have to wonder if Perez knows anything about the rise,
fall and rise of  Cliff Lee , who joined the Phillies during the
offseason as a free agent.  Maybe Perez turns on his television during the postseason
and sees the finished product. It’s a safe bet that he knows
nothing of July 2007, when Lee, with the Indians, was booed off
the mound in  Cleveland  after giving up nine hits, eight runs --
seven of them earned -- in four-plus innings against the  Red
Sox .  After the game, reporters asked Lee a simple question.
What’s wrong?  “It seems like everything,” he said. “I’ve got to figure
a way out of this.”  Too Good  Lee knew what Perez doesn’t -- that the majors are no place
to find yourself. The opposing players are just too good.  The Indians sent Lee to the minors, which was just what he
needed.  Lee won the  Cy Young Award , not to mention the Comeback
Player of the Year Award, the following season.  More recently we heard from Kansas City Royals pitcher Gil Meche, who chose to retire, leaving $12 million on the table,
rather than sit on the bench and collect a paycheck that he said
he didn’t deserve.  Meche told the  New York Times  he wanted to earn it.  “Making that amount of money from a team that’s already
given me over $40 million for my life and for my kids, it just
wasn’t the right thing to do,” he told the paper.  Remember, no one asked Perez to give up the money -- just
his spot on the roster for the benefit of the team.  And lastly there’s basketball’s Hasheem Thabeet, a
millionaire draft pick who didn’t sulk for a moment when the
 Memphis Grizzlies  sent him to the minors. All Thabeet talked
about was getting better and getting back.  “I’m willing to learn,” said Thabeet, whose new team, the
 Houston Rockets , sent him to the minors yesterday. “That’s what
separates me from all the characters.”  The Mets need character, not characters. And $12 million is
a small price to pay for it.  ( Scott Soshnick  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Scott Soshnick in New York at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  