-- 
U.K. Merger Fees to Become Public Under Proposed Deal Rules

-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o
-- 
2011-03-21T13:30:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/merger-fees-should-be-published-u-k-takeover-panel-proposes.html
The U.K. merger regulator proposed
changes to its rules that would seek to protect takeover targets
from protracted bid periods and to make deal fees public to
increase transparency.  British merger procedures should be altered to give
takeover targets more control during deals, to reduce advantages
for hostile bidders and to increase competitive bids, the
Takeover Panel said today.  “Shareholders should be entitled to be provided with
information as to how much of the company’s money is being spent
by the directors in relation to the offer, and that advisory
fees are likely to account for a significant proportion of that
expenditure,” the London-based panel said.  The agency started a review of the nation’s takeover law
last year after  Kraft Foods Inc. (KFT) ’s acquisition of Cadbury Plc
provoked an outcry from politicians. In October, the regulator
said it had concluded that the rules should be altered to reduce
the “tactical advantage” of hostile bidders for U.K.
companies.  The maximum and minimum fees, including incentives and
success awards, paid to deal advisers by both buyers and targets
should be disclosed, the panel said. That includes fees for deal
advisers on financing arrangements, and corporate broking as
well as input from lawyers, accountants, management consultants
and public relations professionals.  Adviser’s Fees  “The disclosure of an adviser’s fees may give an
indication of the degree to which the adviser may have an
incentive to persuade its client to pursue a particular course
of action,” the panel said.  The regulator also said that a buyer’s financial
information and the financing of a bid should be disclosed.  The watchdog proposed banning measures in most
circumstances that reduce the likelihood of a successful
counterbid, such as so-called inducement fees. The fees, meant
to encourage a bidder to complete a takeover, are paid by a
target company to the bidder if the deal isn’t completed.  The panel is seeking to cut down on “virtual bid”
periods, where a buyer states that it is considering making an
offer without doing so, by requiring it to state a firm
intention on whether it will make a bid within a four-week
period from when the potential buyer is named publicly.  ‘Bidder’s Existence’  “There have clearly been market representations to the
panel that early identification of a bidder’s existence may be
unhelpful and may lead to less bids being made,” said Paul Whitelock, a corporate finance lawyer at Norton Rose LLP in  London . “But the panel has not been persuaded by the arguments,
opting instead for transparency and that tactical advantages for
bidders are removed”  The panel is also seeking to improve the “quality of
disclosure” by buyers regarding their intentions for employees
of a takeover target, and allow for employee representatives at
the target to express their views on a bid.  The panel is asking for responses to the proposals by May
27, and will then publish a final response statement that will
include the amendments to the Takeover Code. Firms will have at
least a month from then to implement the new rules, the
regulator said.  “Since the proposed amendments should not require the
introduction of major systems changes, the code committee does
not believe that it will be necessary for there to be a lengthy
transitional or implementation period,” the panel said.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Lindsay Fortado in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net . 