-- 
Merkel, Sarkozy Punished by Voters Questioning Their Leadership

-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a   a n d   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t
-- 
2011-03-21T11:27:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/merkel-sarkozy-punished-by-voters-questioning-their-leadership.html
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and
French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  suffered setbacks in state and
local elections that risk undermining the remainder of their
terms leading  Europe ’s two largest economies.  Merkel’s coalition dropped votes in an eastern German
region yesterday as support for the anti-nuclear Greens surged
to a record, underscoring the challenge she faces in state
elections in Baden-Wuerttemberg in six days. Sarkozy’s party
trailed the opposition Socialists in the first round of French
local council elections.  Both leaders are struggling for voter support as the two
allies split over military intervention in  Libya  and seek to
lock in a strengthened system to stem Europe’s debt crisis at a
March 24-25 summit in Brussels. Two days later, Merkel faces
elections in two states including Baden-Wuerttemberg, where her  Christian Democratic Union  is defending a nearly six-decade hold
on power, and the French finish voting in the last ballot before
next year’s presidential race.  Merkel “panicked” in the Japanese nuclear crisis by
temporarily halting the extension of nuclear power she pushed
through against protests in  Germany , said  Daniel Gros , head of
the Brussels-based Center for European Policy Studies. “That
doesn’t project the image of someone who’s in command.”  Voters in Saxony-Anhalt, the second of seven regional
ballots in Germany this year, gave Merkel’s CDU 32.5 percent
support, compared with 36.2 percent it won at the last vote in
2006, according to preliminary official results. The Greens won
7.1 percent, double the 2006 tally. The Free Democrats, Merkel’s
coalition partner, failed to clear the 5 percent threshold for
retaining seats.  Election Bellwether  As the biggest party, the CDU may opt to continue its local
coalition with the  Social Democrats , the main opposition party
nationally, which took 21.5 percent. Even so, the decline in
support may be a bellwether for Baden-Wuerttemberg, said Hans- Juergen Hoffmann, head of the Psephos polling company.  Germany’s refusal to join airstrikes on Libya reflected
“wavering and indecision” by Merkel, along with the “mixed
signals” on nuclear power, Hoffmann said by phone.   Japan ’s
nuclear catastrophe has stirred German angst about nuclear
energy with full force and we’ll very likely see the Greens
score from it in all this month’s elections.”  Polls indicate a neck-and-neck race between the Christian
Democrat-led state coalition and the opposition Social Democrats
and Greens in Baden-Wuerttemberg, home to companies such as
Porsche AG and SAP AG. Neighboring Rhineland-Palatinate state,
governed by Social Democrat Kurt Beck, also votes on March 27.  Socialists Lead  In  France , the Socialist Party won 25.1 percent of the
seats in play in the general councils, which oversee the regions
known as departments, the Interior Ministry said. Sarkozy’s
Union for a  Popular Movement  won 17.1 percent and Marine Le Pen’s anti-immigration National Front had 15.3 percent. One-
third of the departmental assemblies are up for election.  Dissatisfaction with Sarkozy rose to the highest level
since his election almost four years ago in an Ipsos institute
poll published March 14. Sixty-eight percent of respondents
disapproved of Sarkozy’s leadership, 5 percentage points more
than in February, the survey for Le Point magazine said. His
approval rating dropped three points to 31 percent.  Unemployment of almost 10 percent and government policies
on immigration and Islam prompted a “sanction vote” against
Sarkozy, Pascal Perrineau, an analysts at the Paris-based
 Cevipof  political studies institute, told  France Info  radio.  As his party urges UMP supporters to turn out for the
second round of voting on March 27, Sarkozy may be falling
victim to his failures to follow through on domestic policies,
Gros said in a phone interview.  “Sarkozy really has power as president, and he promised to
do many things but he didn’t,” he said. “He tried 10,000
different things on the domestic front and each time he pushed a
little bit, then gave up.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net ;
Helene Fouquet in Paris at 
 hfouquet1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  