-- 
Mersch May Become ECB Contender as Former Gymnast Taps German Price Angst

-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i   a n d   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 
2011-03-21T10:02:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/mersch-may-be-ecb-contender-as-ex-gymnast-taps-german-price-angst.html
Yves Mersch lost out on the  European Central Bank ’s vice presidency last year. He could
still move to  Frankfurt : as ECB President.  Luxembourg’s central banker, an art-loving former gymnast
with a penchant for colorful glasses, may become a compromise
candidate for the top ECB job after the frontrunner, Germany’s  Axel Weber , withdrew from the race last month, said economists
at ABN Amro Bank NV and Royal Bank of  Scotland  Group Plc. The
current favorite,  Italy ’s  Mario Draghi , must overcome the stigma
of a prime minister embroiled in a sex scandal and his country’s
poor track record of containing inflation.  The decision on who will replace  Jean-Claude Trichet  at the
ECB’s helm when his eight-term term expires on Oct. 31 may rest
with  Germany , Europe’s largest economy, which hasn’t occupied a
top European post since 1967. With Weber’s surprise exit leaving
Chancellor Angela Merkel without an obvious candidate, Germany’s
preference for an inflation-fighting ECB president in the
Bundesbank mould may play into Mersch’s hand.  “Mersch stands a good chance as a compromise candidate if
Germany decides not to field its own candidate,” said  Nick Matthews , a senior economist at Royal Bank of Scotland in  London . “Mersch offers a similar viewpoint as Weber, and would
therefore appeal to the Bundesbank traditionalists. At the same
time, he has the diplomatic skills that Weber was said to be
lacking.”  ECB Veteran  Mersch declined to comment on whether he’s interested in
Trichet’s job during a press conference in  Luxembourg  today. In
the central bank’s quarterly report, he said “strong
vigilance” is needed to stem inflation risks, indicating he
supports raising ECB interest rates next month.  Mersch, 61, is one of the longest-serving members of the
ECB’s now 23-strong Governing Council, having been there since
the bank’s inception in 1998. He is also Luxembourg’s first
central bank governor. Prior to the introduction of the single
currency on Jan. 1, 1999, his country, with just over 500,000
inhabitants, was in a monetary union with neighboring Belgium.  A lawyer rather than an economist by training, Mersch is a
former head of Luxembourg’s Treasury and had stints working at
the  International Monetary Fund  and  United Nations  in the late
1970s and early 1980s. His international experience may help him
forge consensus among ECB policy makers from the euro area’s 17
nations.  ‘Not Afraid’  “He’s not afraid to express his view and can also accept
that others may not share the same view,” said Pierre Gramegna,
director general of the Luxembourg Chamber of Commerce, who has
known Mersch since the early 1980s. “He’s at ease as a speaker
and does this always very well, whether in English, French or
German.”  Married with two children, Mersch frequently speaks at
conferences across  Europe . A lack of time means he had to give
up gymnastics, a sport he says he avidly pursued until the age
of 45. He now walks 20 minutes to work every day to keep fit.  A pride in his home country is not only evident in his
support of Luxembourg artists, two of whom have their work
displayed in the central bank’s entrance hall. Mersch has
glasses that reflect the colors of the Luxembourg flag, a red
pair, a white pair and a blue pair, with a fourth one in green.  Mersch revealed his ambition to win a top ECB post when he
threw his hat in the ring for the vice presidency last year,
losing out to  Portugal ’s Vitor Constancio.  Northern Hawk  That decision could now work in his favor as politicians
may not want to team two southern Europeans at the ECB’s helm,
said Matthews. In the same way, Mersch’s reputation as an
inflation-fighting hawk would contrast with Constancio’s more
dovish, growth-supporting stance, he said.  Former German Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder threw his weight
behind Mersch last month, telling the Handelsblatt newspaper he
would “be in favor of a representative of a small, stability
oriented country like Luxembourg” succeeding Trichet.  Germany’s choice will also need  France ’s blessing, which
may work in Mersch’s favor, said Astrid Lulling, a Luxembourg
member of the European Parliament. “As a Luxembourger, he
understands both the German and French mentality,” she said.  Lulling rejected the suggestion that Luxembourg can’t
provide the next ECB president because it already holds a high-
ranking European post as chair of the group of euro-area finance
ministers. Jean-Claude Juncker’s term in that role comes up for
renewal next year and since the next ECB president takes over in
November, there would only be a short overlap, she said.  Draghi’s Credentials  Draghi’s experience as head of the Financial Stability
Board, where he helped to rewrite global financial rules, make
him the most qualified candidate to succeed Trichet, investors
from RAB Capital Plc, Sturgeon Capital LLP and Signet Group said
at the Bloomberg Link Hedge Funds conference in London last
week.  Heads of state, who convene at a summit in Brussels on
March 24, haven’t indicated when they will make a decision on
Trichet’s successor.  Ireland’s Paddy Power Plc is offering odds of 8 to 1 on
Mersch getting the job. The favorite is Draghi, followed by
Erkki Liikanen from  Finland , the bookmakers said.  “By rights the job should go to the best candidate, which
is Draghi,” said  Nick Kounis , chief European economist at  ABN
Amro  in Amsterdam. “But the discussions are never just about
personal attributes. The doubts about Draghi open the doors to a
number of compromise candidates.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephanie Bodoni in Luxembourg at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net ;
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  