-- 
Tesoro May Buy Midwest, West Coast Refineries, CEO Goff Says

-- B y   B r a d l e y   O l s o n
-- 
2011-03-21T19:48:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/tesoro-may-buy-midwest-west-coast-refineries-ceo-goff-says.html
Tesoro Corp. (TSO) , the largest
independent refiner on the West Coast, is interested in buying
plants in the Midwest and western U.S., as the refining industry
consolidates, according to its chief executive officer.  “The East Coast is not a part of the business that fits
us, the  Gulf Coast  really doesn’t fit us, so that kind of leaves
the rest of the country from the mid-continent to the West as
potential opportunities,” CEO Gregory Goff said in an interview
at the National Petrochemical and Refiners’ Association annual
meeting in San Antonio today.  Tesoro, based in San Antonio, operates seven North American
refineries that can process about 694,000 barrels of crude oil
daily, according to Bloomberg data.  Oil companies  from London-based BP Plc to El Dorado,
Arkansas-based  Murphy Oil Corp. (MUR)  have announced plans to sell
refineries to focus on production. The capacity for sale in the
U.S. could reshape the independent refining industry as
companies attempt to acquire those assets, Goff said.  The two BP plants for sale in Texas City, Texas, and
Carson,  California , exceed the total capacity of Tesoro’s
network, with the ability to process a combined 741,000 barrels
of crude oil daily, according to Bloomberg data.  New contenders from mergers and spinoffs, like
HollyFrontier Corp. and Marathon Petroleum Corp. will have
larger market capitalizations than Tesoro, according to
Bloomberg data.  ‘Exciting Times’  Smaller companies may see a more challenging environment,
Goff said.  “In any industry that’s very driven by high fixed costs
and is somewhat capital intensive, there are advantages to a
certain type of scale to run in that business,” he said. “The
next few years are going to be interesting and exciting times
from a structural standpoint in the industry. There’s a lot
going on.”  The most likely acquisition target for Tesoro would be a
refinery in the  Rocky Mountains , said Ann Kohler, an analyst at
CRT Capital Group in Stamford,  Connecticut , who rates Tesoro
shares a “buy” and owns none.  Tesoro already owns two California refineries, so the
company would face difficulties attempting to buy BP’s Carson
plant due to potential antitrust concerns, she said in a phone
interview. Other refineries for sale in the Midwest, such as
Murphy’s Superior, Wisconsin, plant, would not be attractive
because the company does not have retail capabilities there,
Kohler said.  Largest Penalty  Goff, 54, became CEO the month after an April 2 chemical
blast at the company’s Anacortes,  Washington , refinery killed
seven workers, making it the deadliest U.S. refinery accident
since 2005.  Washington regulators in October fined the company $2.39
million, the largest penalty in state history for workplace
safety violations. The Washington Department of Labor and
Industries found that the company could have prevented the
accident. Tesoro has disputed that assertion.  Independent refiners purchase the crude that they process.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bradley Olson in  San Antonio  at 
 bradleyolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  