-- 
MetLife’s $3 Billion Hotel-Mortgage Portfolio Rebounds, Beating Apartments

-- B y   N a d j a   B r a n d t   a n d   A p r i l   L e e
-- 
2011-03-21T17:26:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/metlife-s-3-billion-hotel-mortgage-portfolio-rebounds-beating-apartments.html
  MetLife Inc. (MET) , the largest U.S. life
insurer, said it is financing hotels after loans in the lodging
industry rebounded more strongly than apartment mortgages.  “Our strategy is to invest in very high quality,
destination-type hotels and that’s proven to be a good
diversifier and investment for us, and the portfolio’s performed
very well,” Senior Managing Director Robert Merck said today at
the UBS Asset Gathering Conference in  Boston . “Hotels have
basically come back stronger even than apartments.”  The rebound in U.S. business and leisure travel is helping
investors including New York-based MetLife, which has about $3.1
billion in  hotel loans . Revenue per available room, or revpar,
in the top 25 U.S. markets rose to $68.89 in the first two
months of this year from $62.90 in 2010, according to  Smith
Travel Research Inc.  of Hendersonville,  Tennessee .  Higher turnover rates have allowed hotels to benefit as the
market improves faster than other property types, Merck said.  Morgans Hotel Group Co. (MHGC)  in October won extensions for loans
backed by its Hudson New York hotel in  Manhattan  and the
Mondrian Los Angeles, helped by investors’ confidence in the
industry, President Marc Gordon said in November.  “A lender can see exactly how the hotel does
operationally” because rooms need to be resold every day,
Gordon said. That may provide investors with better direction
than on properties with multiyear leases, he said.  Hotel Sales  MetLife has about 8.2 percent its commercial mortgages in
hotels. The portfolio also includes financing for industrial,
retail and apartment properties. MetLife invests policyholder
funds before paying claims and has total investments of more
than $450 billion, including corporate bonds and  government
securities .  Hotel sales and acquisitions in the Americas are expected
to jump as much as 25 percent this year, buoyed by real estate
investment trusts and foreign investors seeking to deploy cash,
Jones Lang LaSalle Hotels said in January.  Transactions may total $13 billion this year, according to
the London-based company. Volume was about $10.5 billion in
2010, almost five times the previous year’s levels.  Yields in commercial real estate are attractive compared
with corporate bonds that have similar risk, Merck said. New
Zealand timber and Brazilian farming properties are among the
markets where Merck’s real estate- and agricultural-investing
unit has identified opportunities, he said. The insurer plans to
reduce its holdings of debt issued by financial firms, MetLife
said in a March 10 investor presentation. The company owned
$160.7 billion of corporate bonds as of Dec. 31.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nadja Brandt in  Los Angeles  at 
 nbrandt@bloomberg.net ;
April Lee in New York at 
 Alee355@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at   kwetzel@bloomberg.net ;
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  