-- 
EU Carbon Prices Poised for Further Gains, Barclays Says

-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   A i r l i e
-- 
2011-03-21T17:24:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/eu-carbon-poised-for-measured-movement-updwards-barclays-says.html
Higher prices for European Union
carbon dioxide permits may be sustainable following Germany’s
decision to halt its oldest reactors, according to  Barclays Plc. (BARC)   “The reaction of the market was swift, and although prices
have seen some modest correction, the prices look like they are
now at a higher level that will be sustained,”  Trevor Sikorski ,
a London-based analyst at  Barclays Capital  said today in a
research note. “We do see the market as being ripe for a more
measured movement upwards in the coming weeks.”  EU emissions permits for December jumped 9.5 percent last
week and traded at the highest in two years on speculation that
a meltdown at  Japan ’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant would force
European utilities to use of more CO2-intensive fossil fuels.
They fell as much as 2 percent today as officials with the U.S.
Nuclear Regulatory Commission said the plant “is on the verge
of stabilizing.”    Germany ’s decision to halt its seven oldest reactors and
speculation that demand for liquefied natural gas will increase
in Japan spurred higher prices for emissions permits, Sikorski
said. The EU trading program will have 450 million tons of spare
allowances for the years through 2012, even with a permanent
suspension of the reactors, he said. Still, “prices can rise in
the face of utility buying.”  Utilities that still need to buy permits were unlikely to
have bought them all in the last few days, Sikorski said.  “There is more incremental buying to come” he said. The
annual round of purchasing power contracts will further increase
buying emissions permits, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catherine Airlie in London at 
 cairlie@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  