-- 
European Finance Chiefs Unveil Debt-Fighting Tool in Face of ECB Criticism

-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r   a n d   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 
2011-03-22T00:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/european-finance-chiefs-unveil-debt-fighting-tool-in-face-of-ecb-criticism.html
European finance ministers
announced new steps to fight the debt crisis, running into
European Central Bank criticism for doing too little to prevent
budget shocks from threatening the euro.  Finance chiefs settled on how to enable a permanent rescue
fund to lend 500 billion euros ($710 billion) as of 2013, while
remaining divided over how to get the current stopgap fund up to
its full capacity of 440 billion euros.  “We now have a comprehensive strategy to strengthen the
foundations of the euro area and to restore confidence in euro-
area sovereign bond markets,” European Union Economic and
Monetary Commissioner  Olli Rehn  told reporters after a meeting
of EU finance ministers in Brussels yesterday.  Europe ’s full package to stamp out the debt crisis fell
short of the original ambitions, dropping proposals to enable
debt buybacks or relieve the central bank of the task of
purchasing distressed countries’ bonds. As the ECB pivots from
debt-crisis management to its main mission of combating
inflation, it grumbled that governments haven’t given the
current and future rescue funds enough versatility.  Refusal to let the funds buy bonds on the market is “not
in line with what we’ve recommended,” ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  told a  European Parliament  committee in Brussels
yesterday. “I continue to consider secondary-market
interventions as a helpful tool. The ECB supports the largest
possible recourse.”  Secondary Market  The ECB’s purchases of 77.5 billion euros of bonds on the
secondary market built a firewall against the spread of the
crisis from  Greece  and Ireland, the first two countries to fall
back on joint EU-International Monetary Fund aid packages.  “Trichet is repeating himself,” said  Luxembourg  Prime
Minister Jean-Claude Juncker, the chairman of yesterday’s
meeting. “I wouldn’t say that I was in total disagreement with
him.”  Germany, the biggest contributor to last year’s 177.5
billion euros in aid for Greece and Ireland, insisted on
flanking the support measures with a toughening of sanctions
against runaway budget deficits that have gone unenforced since
the euro’s debut in 1999.  The new rules, together with monitoring of macroeconomic
imbalances such as current-account deficits, are set to go
before the European Parliament after approval by finance
ministers last week.  Billionaire investor  George Soros  said the result will be a
“two-speed” economy dominated by northern European exporting
powers such as Germany while southern Europe lags.  ‘Two-Speed Europe’  The reforms will “set in stone a two-speed Europe,” Soros
wrote in the  Financial Times  yesterday. “This will generate
resentments that will endanger the European Union’s political
cohesion.”  Yesterday’s discussions, the last before a March 24-25
leaders summit to endorse the anti-crisis package, were limited
to the fund to be set up in 2013, known as the European
Stability Mechanism.  The ESM will draw on 80 billion euros of paid-in capital
and 620 billion euros of callable capital, enabling it to lend
500 billion euros. Countries with per capita gross domestic
product below 75 percent of the European average -- currently
Estonia and  Slovakia  -- will pay less for 12 years.  The future aid facility will charge 200 basis points more
than its funding costs to lend for up to three years, tacking on
an extra 100 basis points for longer-term loans. Finance
ministers confirmed that the ESM will enjoy preferred creditor
status and will follow IMF case-by-case standards for deciding
whether to require private bondholders to share the costs of
bailouts.  ‘Sustainable’ Debt  Investors in countries with debt deemed “sustainable”
will be encouraged to hold bonds to maturity, according to an
ESM term sheet. A country with “unsustainable” debt will
“engage in active negotiations in good faith with its creditors
to secure their direct involvement.”  Future aid will be cheaper than the 5 percent rate set for
Greece and 5.8 percent for Ireland last year. Greece has since
won a 1 percentage-point reduction and longer repayment period,
while Ireland is pressing for a better deal.  Divisions persisted over boosting the fund operating until
2013 to its full potential of 440 billion euros. Juncker said
his “personal guess” is that the method, to be decided by
June, would be increased guarantees. Most of the burden would
fall on the euro area’s six AAA-rated countries:  Germany ,
 France , the Netherlands, Luxembourg,  Austria  and Finland.  Greek Phase  Set up last May at the height of the Greek phase of the
crisis, the stopgap fund, known as the  European Financial
Stability Facility , is only able to lend around 250 billion
euros due to collateral rules to underpin its AAA credit rating.  Domestic politics dogs the plan to strengthen the safety
net, which requires approval of parliaments in all 17 euro-zone
nations. On the political defensive at home after setbacks in
regional elections, German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  has taken a
hard line on bailouts.  Merkel two days ago suffered the second regional bruising
in a month when her party stumbled in the eastern state of
Saxony-Anhalt. More state elections loom on March 27 in
Rhineland-Palatinate and Baden-Wuerttemberg, where her  Christian
Democratic Union  is struggling to cling to a near-six-decade
hold on power.  The next country to face a national election is  Finland ,
home to the anti-euro “True Finns” party that polls show will
come in second in the April 17 balloting, potentially giving it
a stake in government.  ‘Political Backlash’  “Watch the national ratification process,”  Gilles Moec ,
an economist at Deutsche Bank AG in  London , said in an e-mailed
research note. “It is in Finland that the political backlash
could be the fiercest.”  As  Portugal  tries to escape the fate of Greece and Ireland,
its minority government is battling on two fronts: to win
opposition support for new budget cuts and to deflect blame in
case the political deadlock over more austerity leaves an aid
package as the only way out.  The leader of the main opposition party,  Pedro Passos Coelho , called for savings while rejecting the government’s
method for slicing of 0.8 percent of GDP out of the budget in
2011, 2.5 percent in 2013 and 1.2 percent in 2013.  “If we open a political crisis at this moment it will
create great difficulties for our country to access financial
markets,” Portuguese Finance Minister Fernando Teixeira dos Santos said yesterday. “A political crisis would push the
country to fall in the arms of external aid.”  Portugal’s 10-year bonds now yield 413 basis points more
than German bonds. The spread, a reflection of the risk of
lending to the  Portuguese government , peaked at 484 basis points
on Nov. 11.  To contact the reporters on this story:
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Stearns in Brussels at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  