-- 
European Stocks Jump as Japan Nuclear Crisis Eases; Deutsche Telekom Gains

-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 
2011-03-21T17:48:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/european-stock-index-futures-rally-after-biggest-weekly-slump-since-july.html
European stocks rose, sending the
Stoxx  Europe  600 Index to the biggest three-day gain since July,
as Japan’s atomic crisis eased and U.S. officials said its
allies are in full control of Libya’s airspace following two
days of airstrikes.    Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE)  jumped 11 percent after AT&T Inc.
agreed to buy  T-Mobile USA  from the German phone company for $39
billion.  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  and  Hellenic Telecommunications
organization SA (HTO)  surged more than 3 percent.  ING Groep NV (INGA)  gained
3.6 percent as General Electric Co. was said to be among
companies looking at the Dutch firm’s U.S. online bank.  The Stoxx 600 climbed 1.8 percent to 272.33 at the 4:30
p.m. close in  London , extending its three-day rally to 3.9
percent. The gauge tumbled the most in eight months last week
after Japan’s March 11 earthquake damaged cooling systems at an
atomic power plant, causing the worst nuclear accident since
Chernobyl.  “There seems to be some relief as the Japanese situation
looks a little better and the allied forces are now in the
Middle East,” said Kevin Lilley, a  fund manager  who helps
oversee about $2 billion at Royal London Asset Management. “I
still believe in the global recovery trade.”    Japan  Crisis  Japanese Prime Minister Naoto Kan said he can see “light
at the end of the tunnel” as workers at the troubled Fukushima
Dai-Ichi nuclear plant reconnected power to two of the failed
reactors. Billionaire investor  Warren Buffett  said the
earthquake is a buying opportunity and he won’t sell his
Japanese shares as the nation’s future hasn’t been changed
because of the temblor.  “I think with each passing hour, each passing day, things
are more under control,” U.S. Energy Secretary Steven Chu said
on the “Fox News Sunday” program. “And so, step by step, they
are making very good progress.”  Since reaching a 2 1/2-year high on Feb. 17, Europe’s Stoxx
600 has lost 6.5 percent amid increasing political unrest in the
Middle East and North Africa.  The U.S., U.K. and France said two days of strikes by
missiles and warplanes in Libya had effectively grounded Muammar Qaddafi’s air force, halting his advances into the rebel
stronghold of Benghazi, the nation’s second-biggest city.  U.S. Defense Secretary Robert Gates said the coalition
isn’t targeting the Libyan leader himself, while Vice Admiral
Bill Gortney told reporters at the Pentagon yesterday that
Libya’s military had not flown an aircraft in two days.  Benchmark Indexes  National benchmark indexes rose in all of the 18 western
European markets, except Denmark. France’s  CAC 40 Index (CAC)  advanced
2.5 percent, the U.K.’s FTSE 100 increased 1.2 percent and  Germany ’s DAX jumped 2.3 percent.  Deutsche Telekom soared 11 percent to 10.67 euros, the
biggest gain since October 2008. AT&T agreed to buy T-Mobile USA
to create America’s largest mobile-phone company, trumping
Sprint Nextel Corp.’s effort to acquire the business.  The deal would allow AT&T, currently the second-largest
U.S. wireless operator, to add about 34 million customers and
surpass Verizon Wireless. The acquisition is the biggest in the
wireless industry since 2004.  Vodafone Plc, the world’s largest mobile-phone operator,
climbed 3.6 percent to 176 pence, the biggest increase since May
2010. The AT&T deal cuts the number of mobile-phone operators in
the U.S., benefitting Vodafone’s joint venture with Verizon
Communications Inc., according to analysts including Robin Bienenstock at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.  OTE Gains  Hellenic Telecommunications climbed 5.8 percent to 8.24
euros, the highest price since May. Deutsche Telekom, which owns
a 30 percent stake in  Greece ’s biggest phone company, has an
option to acquire shares if the Greek government sells down its
holding.  ING gained 3.6 percent to 8.97 euros after a person with
knowledge of the matter said GE has had an initial discussion
about buying parts of ING Direct to add to the GE Capital unit.
The person spoke on the condition of anonymity because the talks
are private.  Oddo & Cie. raised its recommendation for the biggest Dutch
financial-services company to “buy” from “add.”    Taylor Wimpey Plc (TW/)  rose 3.5 percent to 41.27 pence after
Credit Suisse Group AG upgraded the U.K.’s second-largest
homebuilder by volume to “outperform” from “neutral.”    Essar Energy Plc (ESSR)  dropped 7.3 percent to 440.4 pence after
the Indian oil refiner and power plant operator said it incurred
delays in gaining approval for the development of some domestic
coal blocks. The company, which today reported an 11 percent
increase in full-year net income, also said it’s investing $9.58
billion to help increase its power generation capacity in  India 
more than sevenfold by 2014.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  