-- 
Ex-UBS Banker Poteroba Sentenced to 22 Months Prison for Insider Trading

-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 
2011-03-21T19:55:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/ex-ubs-banker-igor-poteroba-is-sentenced-to-22-months-for-insider-trading.html
Igor Poteroba, a former  UBS AG (UBSN) 
investment banker who pleaded guilty to  insider trading , was
sentenced to 22 months in prison.  U.S. District Judge Paul A. Crotty in Manhattan also
ordered Poteroba to pay a $25,000 fine and to serve three years
of supervised release after his prison term. In December,
Poteroba, 37, pleaded guilty to one count of conspiracy to
commit  securities fraud  and three counts of securities fraud.  “This activity was done repeatedly, over an extended
period of time,” Crotty said before passing sentence.  Poteroba has agreed to forfeit the $465,000 in proceeds
from his insider trading. Crotty said today he will probably be
deported to his native  Russia .  Poteroba, who worked in UBS Securities LLC’s Global
Healthcare Group in  New York , was charged and arrested in March
2010 along with Alexei Koval, a Chicago man who allegedly traded
on the information. Poteroba was accused of leaking tips about
potential mergers and acquisitions involving six public
companies to Koval and a third, unidentified person.  The judge said Poteroba’s 22-month term includes the year
he already spent in a federal lockup since his arrest.
Poteroba’s lawyers argued that his time already served was an
appropriate term. Prosecutors urged Crotty to sentence him to as
long as 37 months.  “I made some very bad mistakes and made many bad
decisions,” Poteroba told Crotty.  Koval pleaded guilty in January. His sentencing is
scheduled for May 24.  The case is U.S. v. Poteroba, 10-mag-00562, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 