-- 
Cordero Says Mexico’s 2011 GDP May Expand Up to 5% on Domestic Consumption

-- B y   L a u r a   P r i c e   a n d   T h o m a s   B l a c k
-- 
2011-03-22T06:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/mexico-s-2011-gdp-may-grow-up-to-5-on-domestic-consumption-cordero-says.html
Mexico ’s government is raising its
forecast for growth this year, betting that rising domestic
demand will allow the economy to maintain momentum after the
strongest expansion in a decade last year.  Latin America’s second-biggest economy will expand 4
percent to 5 percent this year after 5.5 percent growth in 2010,
Finance Minister  Ernesto Cordero  said during a speech at the
 London School  of Economics yesterday.  A recovery of U.S. manufacturing has helped spur Mexican
exports and job growth, which is driving domestic consumption.
Exports rose 23 percent to $79.7 billion in the last three
months ending in January and the country added 52,000 formal
jobs in the first six weeks of 2011, President Felipe Calderon
said in a Feb. 17 speech.  Cordero said his ministry was reviewing its forecast that
the economy would expand 4 percent this year. “I’m sure we will
make it higher,” he said in an interview with Bloomberg
Television yesterday.  Stronger domestic growth has led economists to boost their
estimates for 2011 growth, and the  Finance Ministry ’s forecast
is at the low end, Cordero said in the interview. Credit Suisse
Group AG raised its estimate to 4.4 percent on March 17.  “Manufacturing continues to be the main driver of economic
activity in Mexico,” said  Bertrand Delgado , an economist with
Roubini Global Economics in  New York , who has a forecast of 4.5
percent growth for Mexico this year. “It also seems that
general demand has been improving.”  Growth, Trade  After shrinking 6.1 percent in 2009 on the back of a U.S.
recession, Mexico’s economy in 2010 rebounded to post its
fastest expansion in 10 years while adding more than 730,000
jobs.  “The overview for the Mexican economy this year and next
year is quite good and we believe that we are going to have a
very good rally in terms of economic growth for the next
years,” Cordero said in the interview.  After ending 2010 at 4.4 percent, Cordero said he sees
consumer price inflation of 2 percent to 4 percent this year.
The central bank kept its benchmark lending rate at 4.50 percent
for a 17th straight meeting on March 4.  Mexico is seeking to sell more goods to Latin America and
 Asia  to reduce its dependence on the U.S., which buys about 80
percent of the country’s exports.  Last year, Mexico exported $229.7 billion to the U.S., a 30
percent gain from 2009, according to the U.S. Commerce
Department.  Oil, Peso  Higher crude prices don’t benefit Mexico as much as other
major oil exporting nations because higher energy costs can damp
U.S. growth, Cordero said.  Mexico imports gasoline and sells it at subsidized prices,
which hurts Mexico’s finances when oil rises. The currency also
appreciates as crude increases, giving the country fewer pesos
per barrel of exports, he said.  “There is a relation between the oil prices and the
appreciation of the currency because of the way the budget is
constructed,” Cordero said in his speech at the LSE. “So
there’s an automatic mechanism that balances the windfall in  oil
prices .”  Cordero ruled out directly intervening in the  currency
markets  to stem the appreciation of the peso, which has gained 3
percent against the dollar this year, the best performance
against the dollar among the seven major Latin American
currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  The Finance Ministry may raise the amount and frequency of
its auctions of dollar options to increase international
reserves, he said. Sales of dollar options are now $600 million
a month. The increased amount wouldn’t be so much “that it
would affect the market in Mexico,” he said.  The peso strengthened for a third day, appreciating 0.6
percent to 11.9870 per dollar yesterday from 12.0527 on March
18.  An increase in the amount of dollar options has “always
been in the cards” if the currency continues to strengthen
against the dollar, Delgado said. The amount may be boosted if
the peso moves suddenly to 11.50 pesos or 11 pesos to the
dollar, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laura Price in London at 
 lprice3@bloomberg.net 
 Thomas Black  in Monterrey at 
 tblack@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  