-- 
Farmers Demand Compensation as Atomic Accident Curbs Vegetable, Milk Sales

-- B y   F i n b a r r   F l y n n   a n d   J a e   H u r
-- 
2011-03-21T08:52:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/farmers-demand-compensation-as-atomic-accident-curbs-vegetable-milk-sales.html
  Japan ’s farmers urged the
government to prevent a public food scare by clarifying which
crops may be contaminated by a stricken nuclear plant.  Radiation exceeding government limits was detected in milk
and spinach produced close to the Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant,
which was damaged by Japan’s March 11 earthquake and tsunami.
Engineers have yet to cool all of the reactors to safeguard them
from further radiation leaks.  "Unless the authorities are clear about the levels of
contamination in produce and regions, there are going to be
harmful rumors," said Toshihiko Baba, a spokesman for the
 Central Union of Agricultural Co-operatives , which represents
more than 4.8 million farmers. "If they need to order a stoppage
in shipments of some products, they should do so instead of
leaving us to make that decision."  Japan is asking officials in 47 prefectures to test
agricultural produce, seafood and drinking water for radioactive
elements that could be harmful to humans. The Tohoku region
devastated by this month’s quake and subsequent tsunami accounts
for more than a quarter of the country’s rice production,
government figures show.  Japan’s  Ministry of Health , Labor and Welfare has set safe
limits for radiation in various food products, measured in
Becquerel, a gauge of the strength of radioactivity in materials
such as Iodine-131 and Cesium-137.  Contaminated Spinach  The prescribed safe limit for I-131 in vegetables is set at
2,000 Becquerel (Bq) per kilogram and 500 Bq/kg for radioactive
cesium. The highest reading reported on the ministry’s website
so far has come from a sample of spinach collected on March 18
from Hitachi city, 97 kilometers (60 miles) south of the plant.
The spinach, which didn’t enter the food chain, contained 27
times the safe limit of radiation.  Fukushima produced 436,600 metric tons of rice in 2008, the
nation’s fourth-largest crop and 5.2 percent of the total
harvest, Yoshiyo Sawada, an official at Fukushima prefecture’s
farm products safety distribution division, said by phone today
from  Fukushima City . The prefecture’s rice production was
445,700 tons in 2010, according to government data.  Farmers are also demanding the government compensate them
for any lost revenue caused by either contamination or rumors,
Baba said.  Contaminated produce including milk has been found in five
prefectures, according to today’s Asahi Shimbun.  "I worry about radiation’s impact on food," said Haruka
Sekiguchi, 78, as she shopped at a Life supermarket in  Tokyo ’s
Nakano district. "I won’t buy spinach and milk. I am checking
all labels on vegetables before I buy them."  To contact the reporters on this story:
Finbarr Flynn in Tokyo at 
 fflynn3@bloomberg.net ;
Jae Hur in Tokyo at 
 jhur1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Teo Chian Wei at 
 cwteo@bloomberg.net  