-- 
FIFA Candidate Says Soccer Body’s Reputation at Risk Going Into Election

-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 
2011-03-21T21:00:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/fifa-candidate-says-soccer-body-s-reputation-at-risk-going-into-election.html
The man challenging  Sepp Blatter 
for soccer’s top job said the sport needs to prove it’s clean
after corruption allegations overshadowed World Cup bidding last
year.  Mohamed Bin Hammam, head of the Asian soccer federation, is
trying to oust Blatter, who has been  FIFA  president for 13
years. Soccer’s governing body had to fight accusations of
corruption as recently as December’s vote for the host countries
for the 2018 and 2022 World Cups. Two members of its decision-
making body and other officials were suspended following an
investigation of media reports that votes could be bought.  “The world has heard a lot about corruption in FIFA,” Bin
Hammam, a Qatari, said in an interview yesterday in Paris. “I
hope both Mr. Blatter and myself will prove to the world that we
are democratic, we are fair, we are sticking to our principles
and our regulations.”  Bin Hammam , 61, declared his candidacy last week. He’ll
take on Blatter, a 75-year-old Swiss national who’s run soccer
since 1998 and who was last challenged in 2002. The deadline for
candidatures is midnight on March 31, and FIFA’s 208 national
associations will be polled June 1 in Zurich.  The presidency of FIFA is one of the most powerful
positions in world sports. The four-yearly World Cup is worth
billions of dollars and is sport’s most-watched competition.
Politicians including  Russia ’s Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin ,
U.K. Premier David Cameron and the Emir of Qatar were among
those that lobbied FIFA members for the right to host the
tournament in December. Russia won the right to host the 2018
 World Cup , while Qatar will hold the 2022 event.  Ties  Bin Hammam, who became a millionaire in the  construction
industry , helped fund the 1998 campaign that brought Blatter to
the presidency. He says he decided to run after talking to
soccer officials, including some of the heads of the sport’s six
regional bodies, presidents of national federations and top-
ranking executives.  “People think it’s too long for Mr. Blatter and the change
is going to benefit FIFA,” Bin Hammam said in Paris, where he’s
traveled to attend the annual congress of European soccer’s
governing body, UEFA. “I don’t think Mr. Blatter can beat me
easily and I don’t think I can beat him easily.”  Blatter, who’s been with FIFA since the 1970s, hasn’t
commented on his rival’s candidature, and didn’t respond today
to e-mailed requests for comments. Bin Hammam said he traveled
to FIFA’s Zurich headquarters earlier this month to tell Blatter
“face to face” about his intention to stand.  ‘Fair Competition’  “I promise you he didn’t kick me out of his office,” said
Bin Hammam, smiling. “I hope it’s a fair competition and that
we remain friends whether I win or he wins.”  In his election manifesto Blatter’s rival said he’d double
the $250,000 each national association receives from FIFA, which
had revenue of more than $4 billion between 2007 and 2010. He’s
also promised to replace the 24-member FIFA executive committee
with a 41-member FIFA Board in an effort to reduce the power of
individual officials and improve the organization’s standing.  “The name of FIFA, the image of FIFA is always under
criticism,” he said. “Few people taking huge decisions which
affect millions and millions in the world. So maybe by expanding
this, putting in place transparent committees will calm people’s
views and give trust again to FIFA.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in Paris via the London newsroom
at   tpanja@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 