-- 
Gasoline, Heating Oil Futures Gain on Airstrikes Against Libya

-- B y   B a r b a r a   P o w e l l
-- 
2011-03-21T19:57:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/gasoline-heating-oil-futures-gain-on-air-strikes-against-libya.html
Gasoline and heating oil gained as
airstrikes against Libyan military targets boosted crude  oil
prices  and increased concerns about supply disruptions.  Futures advanced after the U.S., U.K. and French officials
said missile and aircraft strikes have grounded Muammar Qaddafi’s air force and coalition members debated how far they
can take military action against his regime. Futures also gained
as government forces killed protesters in Syria and Yemen,
indicating regional unrest is spreading.  “The market is reacting to the upside on oil on the
concerns in the Middle East,” said  Phil Flynn , vice president
of research at PFGBest in  Chicago . “ Libya  is the headline
everyone is talking about, but it’s also Syria and Yemen that
keep the risks high.”  Gasoline futures for April delivery added 4.8 cents, or 1.6
percent, to settle at $2.9974 a gallon on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange , the highest settlement since March 10.  Libyan oil production halted by the country’s civil war is
likely to remain suspended the rest of  2011, according to
JPMorgan Chase & Co., Bank of America Merrill Lynch and Barclays
Plc. Oil supplies from  Africa ’s third-largest producer collapsed
from 1.6 million barrels a day in January to a “trickle” as of
last week and may be halted for months because of international
sanctions, the  International Energy Agency  estimates.  Syrian security forces have killed five people and injured
dozens of others since March 18 during protests in the southern
town of Daraa,  Human Rights Watch  said. Government forces fired
on demonstrators and used tear gas to break up a public
gathering in the town yesterday, HRW said on its  website .  Yemen Unrest  Yemeni President Ali Abdullah Saleh faced a growing
internal revolt as some army leaders joined ministers and
diplomats in abandoning his regime three days after it cracked
down on protesters, killing dozens.  Gasoline’s discount to heating oil narrowed as Sunoco Inc.
shut an alkylation unit at its Philadelphia refinery after a
fire March 18. The 355,000-barrel-a-day refinery, which also has
a crude unit shut, supplies the East Coast, including New York
Harbor, the delivery point for heating oil and gasoline futures.  Gasoline “is probably being driven by refinery problems in
Philadephia and some seasonal influence,” said  Tom Knight , vice
president of trading and supply at Truman Arnold Cos. in
Texarkana,  Texas .  The gap between the products shrank to 5.51 cents from 7.49
cents March 18. Heating oil’s premium over gasoline had jumped
sixfold to 15.35 cents March 16 from 2.53 cents March 10, the
day before a 9.0-magnitude temblor and a tsunami struck  Japan .  Japanese Refineries  JX Nippon Oil & Energy Corp. resumed operations at its
Negishi refinery today, bringing back two crude units able to
process a combined 270,000 barrels a day of crude, the company
said through a spokesman. The temblor disrupted about 1.3
million barrels a day of the country’s plants, or 29 percent of
the total, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Three plants with a combined capacity of 630,000 barrels
per day remain shut, said JPMorgan analysts led by  Lawrence
Eagles , head of commodities research in  New York , in a research
note today.  U.S. supplies of gasoline probably fell 2 million barrels
last week, according to the median estimate of 13 analysts in a
survey by Bloomberg news. Gasoline stockpiles shrank 4.17
million barrels to 225 million in the week ended March 11, the
lowest level in nine weeks, according to Energy Department data.  “Gasoline inventories have been declining and we’re moving
into the gasoline season,” said  Andy Lipow , president of Lipow
Oil Associates LLC in Houston.  Distillate Supplies  Inventories of distillates, including heating oil and
diesel probably declined 1.5 million barrels, according to the
survey. The department is scheduled to report last week’s
stockpiles on March 23.  Heating oil for April delivery advanced 2.82 cents, or 0.9
percent, to settle at $3.0525 a gallon on the exchange.  Oil futures rose, with  Brent crude  for May settlement
advancing $1.03 to $114.96 a barrel on  London ’s ICE Futures
Europe exchange and Nymex April-delivery crude gaining $1.26 to
$102.33.  Regular gasoline at the pump, averaged nationwide, rose 0.1
cent to $3.549 a gallon yesterday, AAA said on its website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Barbara J Powell in Dallas at 
 bpowell4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  