-- 
Gem Diamonds Rises After Confirming It's In Talks With Lucara About Merger

-- B y   T h o m a s   B i e s h e u v e l
-- 
2011-03-21T20:21:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/gem-diamonds-rises-after-confirming-it-s-in-talks-with-lucara-about-merger.html
Gem Diamonds Ltd. (GEMD) , a producer of
the precious stones in southern  Africa , climbed in London
trading after saying it’s in talks with  Lucara Diamond Corp. (LUC)  on
a possible merger. Lucara gained in Toronto.  Gem Diamonds advanced 14.2 pence, or 5.3 percent, to 284.2
pence, taking its gain this year to 13 percent.  “These discussions are at a very early stage and there can
be no certainty the contemplated merger will occur,” London-
based Gem said today in a statement. Gem and Lucara are valued
at about $640 million and $415 million, respectively.  Lucara is “in regular contact and in discussions with many
companies in the diamond sector, one of which is Gem,” the
Vancouver-based company said in a separate statement. “No
discussions are at an advanced stage with any company.”  Diamond producers are seeking new reserves as dwindling
output fails to match emerging-market demand. Global prices of
rough, or unpolished, diamonds rose 26 percent in 2010, beating
pre-recession highs, after supplies fell and gem dealers rebuilt
stockpiles. A merger would give Lucara access to Gem’s  Letseng 
mine in  Lesotho , while Gem would gain entry to Lucara’s adjacent
 Mothae  venture. The two also have projects in Botswana.  “On paper, a merger between the two companies would appear
to make sense as both have assets in Lesotho and Botswana and
both would probably like to build scale,” Des Kilalea, a
London-based analyst at RBC Capital Markets Ltd., wrote in a
note today. “The difficult issues will be agreement on
valuation and the structure of management.”  ‘Growth Opportunities’  The companies have been in talks since February on a
possible all-share deal and signed a confidentiality accord,
three people with knowledge of the discussions said last week.  “It is no secret that Gem has been looking at growth
opportunities, both acquisitive and organic, and Lucara seems a
sensible fit given the geographies of the key projects,” Louise Collinge, a London-based analyst at Evolution Securities Ltd.,
said today in a note to investors.  Lucara rose 7 cents, or 6.3 percent, to C$1.19 in Toronto.  Mining companies have announced $528.9 million of diamond
mergers and acquisitions over the past year, with the largest
acquirers being British and Canadian. In the largest deal,
London-traded  Petra Diamonds Ltd. (PDL)  agreed in January to buy  South
Africa ’s Finsch mine from  De Beers  for $210 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Biesheuvel in London at 
 tbiesheuvel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net  