-- 
Gerdau to Sell Up to $2.5 Billion of New Stock; Shares Plunge in Sao Paulo

-- B y   P e t e r   M i l l a r d   a n d   J e s s i c a   B r i c e
-- 
2011-03-21T18:57:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/gerdau-to-sell-up-to-2-5-billion-of-new-stock-shares-plunge-in-sao-paulo.html
  Gerdau SA (GGBR4)  plans to sell as much as
4.2 billion reais ($2.5 billion) of stock, boosting speculation
that Latin America’s largest steelmaker may buy a stake in a
Brazilian rival. Gerdau’s voting stock fell the most in more
than nine months.  The company aims to raise 3.8 billion reais to 4.2 billion
reais in a primary offering of common and preferred shares in
Brazil and abroad on or about March 23, Gerdau said today in a
regulatory filing. Metalurgica Gerdau SA, which controls  Porto
Alegre , Brazil-based Gerdau, and Gerdau BG Participacoes SA also
plan to sell existing preferred shares in a secondary offering.  Investors are speculating Gerdau may buy part of Usinas
Siderurgicas de Minas Gerais SA, Bank of America Corp. and
JPMorgan Chase & Co. said in e-mails to clients on March 14.
Today’s announcement may rekindle bets on a stake acquisition,
said Marcelo Varejao, an analyst at Socopa Corretora in  Sao
Paulo .  “This strengthens market rumors that Gerdau may possibly
buy Usiminas,” he said in a telephone interview. “Outside of
this, Gerdau has no need to increase its capital.”  Proceeds from the sale of a much as 68 million common
shares and 203.8 million preferred shares will be used to fund
investments, Gerdau said in a separate statement. The company’s
controlling shareholders will use funds from the secondary
offering to “exercise their priority rights” in the primary
sale. Gerdau didn’t specify which stock class will be acquired.  Gerdau Declines  Gerdau’s voting stock fell 4.4 percent to 16.15 reais at
2:35 p.m. New York time in Sao Paulo trading, after earlier
dropping as much as 5.3 percent, the biggest decline since June
4. Preferred shares fell as much as 4.6 percent to 20.32 reais.  The common shares of Usiminas, as  Brazil ’s second-largest
steelmaker is known, rose 2.5 percent to 30 reais in Sao Paulo.
The stock, which earlier climbed as much as 4.2 percent, has
surged 40 percent this year, compared with a 2.7 percent drop
for Brazil’s benchmark Bovespa index.  Gerdau’s press office confirmed the press release and
declined to provide additional details. An official at an
outside press agency representing Usiminas, who asked not to be
identified because of internal policies, couldn’t immediately
comment. The company also said in the statement it may exercise
an over-allotment option.  Carmakers, Builders  A stake in Usiminas would help Gerdau expand into the flat-
steel business for the car industry, said Luiz Augusto Pacheco,
an analyst at Omar Camargo Corretora in Curitiba, Brazil. Gerdau
makes so-called long-steel products that are mainly used in the  construction industry , he said.  “If they can buy Usiminas it would be a good deal,”
Pacheco said in a telephone interview. “Usiminas makes more
flat steel for refrigerators and cars. They would complement
each other well.”  Nippon Steel Corp. said Feb. 18 it will retain control of
Usiminas together with its local partners, following speculation
that Cia. Siderurgica Nacional SA, Brazil’s third-biggest
steelmaker, may challenge the group. Nippon, Votorantim
Participacoes SA and Camargo Correa SA together own 53.7 percent
of Usiminas.  CSN said in January it held about 5 percent of each class
of Usiminas’s stock and may further increase its stake to a
level that could alter the competitor’s management or control
structure.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jessica Brice in Sao Paulo at 
 jbrice1@bloomberg.net .  Peter Millard in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 Pmillard1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  