-- 
German Bonds Decline as Japan Cools Damaged Reactor Before Trichet Hearing

-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a   a n d   P a u l   D o b s o n
-- 
2011-03-21T16:39:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/german-bonds-drop-as-japan-makes-progress-on-reactor-before-trichet-speech.html
German government bonds fell,
pushing the 10-year yield to the highest in a week, as  Japan ’s
nuclear crisis eased, curbing demand for the safest assets.  The 10-year yield rose for a third day. European Central
Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said he has “nothing to
add” to a March 3 statement in which described the ECB’s
monetary policy stance as one of “strong vigilance.”  Germany ’s
finance ministry today reported an almost 10 percent jump in  tax
revenue  in February and said indicators of sentiment signal the
economy will “gather steam again” this year. Greek bonds rose,
pushing the 10-year yield to the lowest in two weeks. Germany,
the Netherlands and  France  sold bills today.  “A lot will depend on risk appetite, and if we continue to
see a recovery, bund yields will go higher,” said  Karsten Linowsky , strategist at Credit Suisse Group AG in Zurich. “The
underlying fundamental picture for the German economy is still
looking good and this could drive bund yields higher.”  Ten-year bund yields rose six basis points to 3.25 percent
as of 4:11 p.m. in  London , the most since March 14. The 2.5
percent security due January 2021 fell 0.455, or 4.55 euros per
1,000-euro ($1,416) face amount, to 93.825. Yields on two-year
notes advanced 10 basis points to 1.73 percent.  Stock Recovery  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index climbed 1.7 percent, its third
straight gain. It tumbled the most in eight months last week
after Japan’s March 11 earthquake damaged cooling systems at an
atomic power plant, causing the worst nuclear accident since
Chernobyl.  Japanese Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  said progress is being
made in restoring power to reactors at the earthquake-damaged
Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant. There is “light at the end of the
tunnel,” Kan said today before meeting a crisis response team
in  Tokyo .  German notes and bonds fell on March 18 after Trichet
reiterated policy makers may raise the benchmark rate from a
record low of 1 percent when they convene in April. He was
speaking to lawmakers in Brussels today, also telling them that
that it is “extremely important” that policy makers deliver  price stability .  Euribor futures dropped, sending the yield on the contract
expiring in December up four basis points to 2.08 percent, which
indicates that traders may be adding to bets for higher
borrowing costs from the ECB.  The ECB needs to show “strong vigilance” to prevent
upside risks to the inflation outlook from materializing,
council member  Yves Mersch  wrote in a quarterly report published
today by the Luxembourg Central Bank, which he heads. Euro-area
inflation accelerated to 2.4 percent last month and has been
above the ECB’s 2 percent limit since December.  Greek Yield  “It’s essential that the recent rise in inflation doesn’t
lead to a general inflationary trend in the medium term,”
Mersch wrote. “Strong vigilance is needed to contain upside
risks to price stability.”  Policy makers are “ready and determined to take
appropriate action in good time,” Executive Board member
Gertrude Tumpel-Gugerell said in a speech in Salzburg,  Austria ,
today. “The risks to medium-term price developments are tilted
to the upside,” she said.  The yield on the Greek 10-year note dropped two basis
points to 12.26 percent after reaching the lowest since March 4.
The yield on similar-maturity Irish securities increased eight
basis points to 9.60 percent. Italian 10-year paper yielded 4.72
percent, from 4.68 percent at the end of last week.  Belgian bonds declined as the country canceled a debt
auction scheduled for March 28.  Belgium  is selling 5 billion
euros of bonds due June 2017, according to a statement from the
Belgian Debt Agency.  The yield on the nation’s 10-year bonds increased seven
basis points to 4.14 percent. That left the extra yield, or
spread, that investors demand to hold the securities instead of
similar bunds up two basis points at 90 basis points.  German  government bonds  have handed investors a loss of 1.4
percent so far this year, compared with a return of 0.8 percent
for Treasuries, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch
indexes.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Dobson in London at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  