-- 
Germany Plans Reunification-Style Speed to Build Grids for Cleaner Energy

-- B y   B r i a n   P a r k i n   a n d   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t
-- 
2011-03-21T10:17:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/germany-plans-reunification-style-speed-to-build-grids-for-cleaner-energy.html
Germany may accelerate power-line
projects to transmit more renewable energy to consumers after  Japan ’s nuclear disaster rattled voters in  Europe ’s biggest  electricity market .  The Economy Ministry is preparing to use fast-track powers
last exercised in 1990 when a newly united Germany had to build
transportation infrastructure as fast as possible to replace
crumbling roads in the east and improve connections in the
country, according to a ministry document obtained by Bloomberg
News. Control over power grids would be taken by  Chancellor
Angela Merkel ’s government from states and local councils.  “The scale of the challenge is comparable with
infrastructure needs after reunification,” according to the
document, an outline for a draft to be presented to the cabinet
in two days. Power storage sites will be exempted from paying
grid fees for 20 years rather than the current 10.  Merkel last week froze a plan to extend the lives of
nuclear stations after explosions at Japan’s Fukushima plant
reignited German concerns over reactor safety. Her party lost
votes in a state election yesterday. While Germany wants to help
replace reactors with wind parks off the northern coast,
building  power lines  to transmit power to industrial energy
users in the south can be slowed by local approval processes.  The country needs to construct at least 3,400 kilometers
(2,100 miles) of power lines, according to the German Energy
Agency, a think tank owned by  Allianz SE , Deutsche Bank AG, DZ
Bank AG, KfW Group and the German government.  Health Concerns  That may cost 9.7 billion euros ($13.7 billion) using
currently employed technology or as much as 29 billion euros if
transmission companies must lay cables underground because of
opposition to overhead lines by local people on health concern,
the researcher known as Dena said in a  study  in November.  The chancellor’s coalition also will establish a legal
framework for the construction of transnational power lines to
help meet a European Union goal of integrating the electricity
market in the region, according to the document.  Germany’s largest power generators,  E.ON AG (EOAN) ,  RWE AG (RWE) ,  EnBW
Energie Baden-Wuerttemberg AG (EBK)  and Vattenfall AB, were ordered by
state and federal governments last week to halt reactors in the
country for three-month safety checks at the seven oldest
nuclear plants.  That move “definitely increased” the risk to the
country’s power grid, especially in the north, Johannes Teyssen,
chief executive officer of Dusseldorf-based E.ON, said. E.ON,
RWE and EnBW switched off five reactors last week, four of which
were in central or southern Germany.  Nuclear Extension  Merkel last year agreed to extend the life of Germany’s
nuclear reactors in return for receiving 15 billion euros from
their owners to help build the grids. The plan also commits the
four main utilities to pay a nuclear tax from this year through
2016 of 2.3 billion euros annually.  Another 5 billion euros was earmarked for offshore wind
parks. The steps cumulatively aim to speed  Germany ’s target of
generating 80 percent of energy from renewable means by 2050.  Germany has low-, medium- and high-voltage power grids. The
high-voltage networks that transmit power over long distances
are operated by RWE, EnBW, TenneT Holding BV and Elia System
Operator SA.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net ;
Nicholas Comfort in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net ;
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  