-- 
Gerson Lehrman Hires Lobbyists Amid Scrutiny of Expert Networks

-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u
-- 
2011-03-21T22:00:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/gerson-lehrman-hires-lobbyists-amid-scrutiny-of-expert-networks.html
Gerson Lehrman Group Inc., the
consulting firm that uses computer software to connect investors
to a network of about 250,000 specialists in fields such as
medicine and real estate, has hired two firms to lobby lawmakers
as so-called expert networks face regulatory scrutiny.  Elmendorf Ryan LLC, based in  Washington , was hired to lobby
for Gerson Lehrman on “issues relating to financial services
and expert networks,” according to a March 17 registration in
congressional records. Clark & Weinstock Inc. was enlisted to
“monitor financial services regulation,” according to records.
Both registrations were effective Feb. 1.  Companies similar to Gerson Lehrman have multiplied in the
past decade as disclosure rules and restrictions on analysts
hampered Wall Street research departments. Gerson Lehrman, the
largest expert network firm, accounted for 60 percent of
industry revenue last year, according to Integrity Research.  Expert networks have come under increased scrutiny in the
wake of a criminal investigation of alleged  insider trading 
involving employees of  Mountain View , California-based Primary
Global Research LLC.  Vin Weber, who served in Congress as a Minnesota
Representative, will represent Gerson Lehrman for Clark &
Weinstock, along with Ed Kutler and Paul Lobo, according to the
records. Steven Elmendorf and Robert Cogorno signed on from
Elmendorf Ryan.  Phone calls to Weber and Elmendorf weren’t immediately
returned. Colleen Rubart, a spokeswoman for Gerson Lehrman,
declined to comment.  Gerson Lehrman has a marketing partnership with Bloomberg
LP, the parent of Bloomberg News.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Gallu in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 