-- 
Global Carbon Credits Die as Smart Money Embraces India’s RECs

-- B y   B e n   S i l l s
-- 
2011-03-22T10:41:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/global-carbon-credits-die-as-smart-money-sees-profits-trading-india-s-recs.html
Vibhav Nuwal was once an
enthusiastic supporter of the global carbon market. The 32-year-
old Indian-born banker started in September 2009 developing
carbon credits to target investors in Europe and Japan for
Mumbai-based private-equity fund Managing Emissions. Less than a
year later, he quit his job, convinced that the  United Nations ’
failure to broker a global agreement to reduce greenhouse-gas
emissions meant the carbon credit market was effectively dead.  Now, Nuwal has set up a business helping companies that
earn incentives from renewable-energy projects under a new
Indian government program. Nuwal says that in the absence of a
global consensus, investors are more likely to channel funds
into incentive programs in local markets such as India, where
they can make three times as much as they do selling credits
under the global, UN-sponsored plan, Bloomberg Markets reports
in its May issue.  “There is a base being built for a really strong local
economy around this,” says Nuwal, a former JPMorgan Chase & Co.
investment banker. “Carbon is getting more and more difficult.
A significant amount of the business that is done in the carbon
space should shift.”  Nuwal’s decision is one more sign that the consensus
eventually reached 14 years ago by 193 nations and the European
Union in Kyoto, Japan, may have cracked beyond repair.  The plan ,
which introduced greenhouse-gas restrictions to support the
development of a global carbon market, is breaking down as the
U.S. and  China  grapple over how, when and to what extent they
can reduce pollution.  ‘Plan B’  With the two biggest economies blocking progress on
emissions, global temperatures last year matched the record
highs of 2005 while droughts and flooding wrecked harvests from
Karachi to Rio de Janeiro. Today, the price of carbon languishes
at less than half the level Deutsche Bank AG says is needed to
meet the UN’s aims for controlling global warming. Officials and
investors say local initiatives like Nuwal’s may offer the best
chance of both slowing emissions and making money from the
process.  “People are moving on to Plan B,” says John O. Niles,
director of San Diego-based Tropical Forest Group, a nonprofit
lobbying organization. “That means taking what we can get
wherever we can get it.”  The latest casualties of the death of the Kyoto plan may be
the companies and executives who bet their careers and their
capital that credits to release carbon into the environment
would become a globally traded commodity to rival the $21
trillion market in crude oil. So far, the carbon market is a
comparative blip on the landscape. Banks and brokers traded 93
billion euros ($128 billion) of carbon credits last year,
according to Bloomberg New Energy Finance.  ‘Not Enough Investment’  “All the people I’ve seen who went into carbon trading
have failed and moved out,” says Jason Kennedy, chief executive
officer of London-based headhunter Kennedy Associates. “There’s
not enough volume, not enough pay and not enough investment.”  Even some pilot programs are being shut down.  IntercontinentalExchange Inc. closed its voluntary carbon-
trading platform on the Chicago Climate Exchange on Jan. 31,
while JPMorgan Chase shut down carbon credit origination at
several offices and fired staff after acquiring EcoSecurities
Group Plc, the biggest offset developer. The Geneva-based
International Emissions Trading Association says its membership
has declined about 16 percent since the international divisions
emerged at the 2009 annual climate summit held in Copenhagen.  High Hopes  There was little anticipation of such a failure in December
1997, when UN members, after 11 days of talks in Kyoto -- Japan ’s
former imperial capital -- agreed to reduce emissions in rich
countries by 5 percent from 1990 levels. Those nations, listed
in Annex I of the Framework Convention on  Climate Change ,
pledged to reduce emissions of the six key greenhouse gases that
scientists say are largely responsible for changes in the
Earth’s atmosphere: carbon dioxide, methane, nitrous oxide,
hydrofluorocarbons, perfluorocarbons and sulphur hexafluoride.  Developing countries, including China, didn’t face carbon
limits and could sell credits to Western nations if they reduced
their own emissions.  “Addressing global warming is a long-term challenge, and
the Kyoto agreement is a vital turning point,” then-Vice
President  Al Gore  said in  Washington  following the conclusion of
the summit.  Carbon Market Dream  Yet the U.S., then the world’s biggest polluter, turned
away from the deal. President  Bill Clinton , who pushed for
carbon trading to be included in the treaty, never submitted it
for ratification, judging that he couldn’t muster the 67 votes
required to get the treaty approved by the Senate. Clinton’s
successor,  George W. Bush , supported the carbon-trading concept
during the 2000 campaign and then reversed his position a year
later, after taking office.  The dream of a global carbon market was already showing
cracks in 2002, by the time the then-15 nations of the EU
ratified the  Kyoto Protocol . With the U.S. on the sidelines,
 London  became the carbon-trading capital when EU allowances were
introduced in 2005 at about 15 euros. The securities, which
allow polluters to emit the equivalent of 1 ton of carbon
dioxide, doubled within a year as the booming economy and the
run-up in  oil prices  spurred companies to cover their
liabilities.  Obama’s Promise  Barack Obama’s election in 2008 revived hopes for a real
global carbon market after he pledged to make climate change a
priority for the U.S. As a candidate, Obama supported cap and
trade -- a system in which companies can buy and sell a
gradually declining number of emission permits. The plan would
allow cleaner organizations to profit by selling their credits
to more polluting enterprises. Yet in office, Obama focused his
legislative efforts on passing changes to the health-care system.  “After all these years, what we can say is there is a
strong cultural resistance in the U.S. to a move to cap
carbon,” says  Emmanuel Fages , a Paris-based analyst at Orbeo, a
carbon-trading joint venture between Societe Generale SA and
Rhodia SA. “Whatever the excuses, whatever the context, they
just don’t manage to pass any constraining carbon cap into law.
They cannot.”  When Obama arrived at the climate change summit held in
Copenhagen in December 2009, carbon traders were optimistic
about securing a global deal. Almost two-thirds of respondents
expected an agreement at the meeting, according to a 2009 survey
of 3,319 market participants conducted from Jan. 20 to Feb. 15,
2009, by Oslo-based Point Carbon.  China, U.S.  Instead, Obama clashed with Chinese Premier Wen Jiabao over
energy financing, pollution-reduction goals and the verification
of emission cuts.  “Ten years ago, you would have said by 2010 carbon will be
a global commodity just like all the other commodities, fungible
across different regimes,” says Jon Anda, vice chairman of UBS
AG’s securities unit in Stamford, Connecticut, who runs the
firm’s environmental business. “We didn’t get any of that.”  Today, carbon trading remains a backwater of the global
commodities market, and it’s not even included in the benchmark
Dow Jones UBS Commodity Index. Without demand from institutional
investors spurred by global limits on emissions, the price of
carbon has languished compared with the fossil fuels that policy
makers are aiming to marginalize.  Investors trade two main families of carbon emissions: EU
permits, which allow companies to vent gases in  Europe , and UN
credits that represent avoided emissions in developing countries.
The price of UN carbon credits fell 6.9 percent from the
beginning of the Copenhagen climate talks in December 2009 to
March 21.  Japan Earthquake  That compares with a 66 percent gain in northern European
steam coal over the same period and a 50 percent rise in Brent
crude. EU carbon futures for December delivery traded at 15.77
euros in London on March 10, about where they started six years
ago, before the earthquake in Japan. The carbon futures price
rose to 16.85 euros on March 21, after the quake and subsequent
tsunami triggered a radiation leak at a nuclear plant north of
 Tokyo  and spurred Germany to review its atomic energy program.  While carbon trading is stalled, the world remains on
course for potentially catastrophic climate shifts. If
governments manage to limit emissions in line with existing
rules, average global temperatures will likely rise about 4
degrees Celsius by 2100, according to  the Climate Scoreboard , a
model built by a team led by John Sterman of Massachusetts
Institute of Technology.  Environmental Danger  That would melt the Siberian permafrost and flood an extra
150 million people a year, mainly in Asia, while corn and wheat
yields would fall 40 percent at low latitudes, according to the
 Met Office , Britain’s weather tracking organization.  India ’s renewable-energy-trading program offers investors a
way to engage with the problem while multiplying the returns
they would make on carbon. Under the plan, power distributors
have to source up to 14 percent of their energy from renewable
sources or buy Renewable Energy Certificates, known as RECs,
from wind farm and solar park operators to cover the shortfall.
If they don’t, state energy regulators will purchase the
certificates and bill the companies.  India, which the Paris-based International Energy Agency
says will be the world’s third-biggest power consumer by 2035
behind China and the U.S., has imposed a minimum price of 1.5
rupees ($0.03) per kilowatt-hour for the RECs to guarantee a
certain return for investors. That’s almost three times what
developers earn from UN credits, Nuwal says. He expects
companies to be able to register, earn and sell RECs in about
five months compared with delays of as much as three years in
the UN program.  ‘Big Gulp’  Nuwal, along with his Bangalore-based partner, Vishal
Pandya, planned to set up a business to steer companies and
investors through the process. Before they could start, he had
to get the plan past his wife, who had just given birth to their
first child, a son named Parth.  “I had to take a really big gulp,” he says.  To test the market, Nuwal sent out a newsletter to about
700 potential clients about the RECs business he wanted to set
up, and to avoid alerting his employers, he used his wife’s e-
mail and mobile phone number for the contact.  “For the next five days, her phone didn’t stop ringing,”
he says. “That’s what convinced her there was a market. She
said, ‘Go and quit.’” ‘  The Nuwals’ optimism contrasted with the mood in Cancun,
Mexico, where delegates gathered for the annual climate summit
in November last year, with American reluctance forcing other
rich nations to abandon Kyoto, when its emission limits expire
next year.  Cancun Revelation  As delegates approached the meeting at the Moon Palace
Resort on Nov. 29, passing signs warning of alligators lurking
in the ponds of the hotel garden, Hideki Minamikawa, Japan’s
wiry, bespectacled chief negotiator, settled into his desk
between Jamaica and Jordan in the main meeting room. An hour
into  the opening session , he removed the headphones that piped
in the translations, adjusted his microphone and effectively
declared the Kyoto treaty unworkable.  “The Kyoto Protocol can never be an effective vehicle in
tackling global warming in the coming years,” Minamikawa said.  The statement sent shockwaves through the conference.
“There was absolute consternation,” says  Pablo Solon ,
Bolivia’s ambassador to the UN, who witnessed Japan’s reversal.  “We had come to Cancun to discuss what a second Kyoto
period would involve, not whether there was going to be one.”  The repercussions from that shift are being felt around the
world as pilot emissions-trading programs falter and policy
makers look for alternative approaches.  Regional Plan  In the U.S., permits in the  Regional Greenhouse Gas
Initiative , which limits emissions across 10 Northeastern states,
slumped to a record low in December after officials issued more
permits than companies needed to cover their greenhouse-gas
output.  Plans for a similar program in the West have been scaled
back after five states failed to pass the necessary laws,
leaving  California  to plow on alone.  Japanese climate policy is moving toward mechanisms that
generate profits for companies rather than impose costs on them.
The government is looking to claim credit for reducing
greenhouse-gas emissions by exporting JFE Steel Corp.’s and
Nippon Steel Co.’s energy-efficient technology to plants in the
Philippines and India.  Chinese policy is geared toward exporting low-carbon
technology to the West rather than lowering its own emissions,
UBS’s Anda says, even as China plans to introduce limited cap-
and-trade systems in eight cities. Similar programs in Australia
and  South Korea  remain at the planning stage.  Range of Initiatives  Meanwhile in Delhi, Nuwal’s company,  REConnect Energy
Solutions Pvt. , is already helping clients produce credits for
the market that began trading in March. Nuwal and his partner
project that revenue at the company will rise to $3 million by
2013, up from a projected $750,000 this year.  “The carbon market has metastasized into a huge range of
climate finance initiatives around the world,” says Marc Stuart,
co-founder of EcoSecurities, the carbon credit developer bought
by JPMorgan Chase in 2009. “These things don’t lead to tradable
securities.”  Stuart now runs his own investment firm called Allotrope
Ventures, which backs projects that earn a return through
emission reductions without generating credits. Among his
investments: an intelligent power-management system for
apartment buildings and office blocks.  European officials are sticking to their plans for
extending carbon trading within the EU. The Emissions Trading
Scheme has been in operation since 2005 and covers 11,000 energy
and manufacturing companies across 30 countries -- the 27 EU
members plus Iceland, Liechtenstein and Norway.  Third Phase  Airlines will be included in the program next year, with
aluminum makers and petrochemical companies included in the
third phase of the program, which is scheduled to run from 2013
to 2020. In the third phase, the EU will auction most permits
instead of allocating them free to polluters.  The European ETS accounted for most of the global carbon
market last year, with about 80 billion euros of permits traded,
according to BNEF. Without a global deal to restrain companies
in the U.S. and China, that trade adds another burden onto
Europe’s struggling economy while emissions leak out into the
atmosphere through other jurisdictions, Fernando Albertos de
Benito, assistant director of development at oil company  Repsol
YPF SA (REP) , said at a Jan. 19 seminar in Madrid.  The state of the market is a far cry from the urgency of
the late 1990s.  “The science demands that we act,” Clinton said ahead of
the Kyoto summit. “We owe it to our children.”  As Nuwal builds the business he hopes will help provide
both a secure financial future and a more stable environment for
his own child, it’s local policy makers in India rather than UN
diplomats who are providing the outlet for his entrepreneurial
spirit.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Ben Sills at 
 bsills@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  