-- 
GM, Ford, Chrysler May Seek to Put More Autoworker Pay at Risk

-- B y   K e i t h   N a u g h t o n   a n d   T i m   H i g g i n s
-- 
2011-03-21T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/gm-ford-chrysler-may-seek-to-put-more-autoworker-pay-at-risk.html
U.S. automakers may seek to start
providing as much as 15 percent of union workers’ compensation
in performance bonuses and lump-sum payments, emulating how
their Japanese counterparts and salaried employees are paid.    General Motors Co. (GM) ,  Ford Motor Co. (F)  and Chrysler Group LLC
may try to avoid granting annual raises to their 107,000 hourly
employees as they negotiate new contracts with the  United Auto
Workers  this year, said  Sean McAlinden , chief economist for the
Center for Automotive Research. Instead, the companies may offer
bonuses totaling as much as $10,000 a year that would partially
depend on meeting productivity and quality goals.  UAW President  Bob King , who convenes the union’s bargaining
convention in Detroit tomorrow, has said he is open to new forms
of profit sharing. If workers agree to put more of their pay at
risk, it could mark the biggest shift in compensation practices
since former UAW President Walter Reuther won wage guarantees
for laid-off autoworkers in the 1950s.  “Bob is on the cusp of setting a revolutionary new design
for compensation in the  auto industry ,” said McAlinden, a
former autoworker who is based in  Ann Arbor , Michigan. “It fits
with Bob’s goal of sharing in the success of the companies.”  The issue of variable pay may be discussed at the
quadrennial bargaining convention, where more than 1,200 UAW
officials will set strategy for this year’s contract talks. The
UAW’s four-year agreements with GM, Ford and Chrysler expire in
September. King didn’t respond to a request for comment.  Workers’ Concessions  King has said workers must be rewarded for the $7,000 to
$30,000 in concessions they each made since 2005 to help the
automakers survive. Workers gave up raises, bonuses and cost-of-
living adjustments, and the UAW agreed to a two-tier wage system
in which new hires earn about $14 an hour, half the amount paid
to senior production workers.  UAW Vice President Jimmy Settles, who leads bargaining with
Ford, said the union hopes to recover all it surrendered.  “We always look for everything -- plus,” he said March 17
at an event at a Ford factory in Wayne,  Michigan . “We’re going
to negotiate smart. We’re not going to cut our nose off and
spite our faces.”  Neither King nor Settles condemned the $56.5 million stock
award Ford granted Chief Executive Officer Alan Mulally this
month for reviving the Dearborn, Michigan-based automaker, which
earned $9.28 billion in the last two years after $30.1 billion
in losses from 2006 through 2008.  “I’m going to look at it on the upside and say I know they
compensated them very well at the top, so I feel that they’re
going to compensate us at the bottom very well,” Settles said.  Profit-Sharing Checks  Ford this month paid its 40,600 hourly workers profit-
sharing checks averaging $5,000, the most since 2000. GM, which
earned $6.17 billion last year after reorganizing in bankruptcy
in 2009, has said it will give record profit-sharing checks
averaging $4,300 to its 45,000 hourly workers. Chrysler, which
also reorganized in 2009 and lost $652 million last year, is
paying its union workers an average bonus of $750.  “With these profit-sharing checks, it’s the hope of all
three automakers that they are making a down payment on a more
incentive-based pay system,” said  Harley Shaiken , a labor
professor at the University of California-Berkeley. “There’s
nothing like that check to show that it can be done.”  Autoworkers may receive another check of as much as $5,000
in the second half of the year as a “signing bonus” to ratify
a new contract with more performance-based pay, McAlinden said.
The contracts may call for two such payments a year, one that is
guaranteed and the other dependent upon profitability and
workers achieving productivity and quality goals, he said.  Japanese Workers  Japanese autoworkers receive as much as 40 percent of their
compensation in bonuses tied to performance, McAlinden said.
Salaried workers at GM, Ford and Chrysler receive 10 percent to
15 percent of their pay in bonuses, he said.  “Our compensation, part of it, is variable, and really it’s
paying against performance,” said  Mark Fields , Ford’s president
of the Americas, who received stock awards worth $4.66 million
this month under Ford’s long-term incentive plan. “It all comes
down to a discussion around what does it mean to be competitive?
When you can be competitive in every element of your business,
the business succeeds, and everybody should share in that.”  Jodi Tinson, a Chrysler spokeswoman, and Kim Carpenter, a
GM spokeswoman, declined to comment.  It may be difficult to convince autoworkers who sacrificed
raises to continue to forgo annual improvements to base pay in
favor of bonuses, said Gary Chaison, a professor of industrial
relations at Clark University in Worcester,  Massachusetts .  Seeking ‘Predictability’  “Western workers don’t like to have a significant part of
their compensation depend upon something unpredictable,”
Chaison said. “Workers want to know what they’re making in
order to plan, and that requires predictability, while variable
pay implies flexibility.”  King will be under pressure from workers to return to the
old formula of annual raises, Chaison said. The UAW leader also
will be pressed by the companies to keep labor rates competitive
with Asian and European automakers.  “He’s got to walk a fine line,” Chaison said.  After enduring plant closings and job cuts for the last
decade, workers are seeking stability and guarantees of new work
coming into factories, the UAW’s Settles said.  “Our membership wants longevity,” Settles said. “We want
long-term security, and we’re going to be trying to move toward
that.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Keith Naughton in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 knaughton3@bloomberg.net ;
Tim Higgins in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  