-- 
Goldman Sachs’s Sherwood Said to Be Named Partnership Committee Chairman

-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 
2011-03-22T04:00:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/goldman-sachs-s-sherwood-said-to-be-named-partnership-committee-chairman.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  named
Michael S. Sherwood, a London-based vice chairman, as chairman
of the firm’s partnership committee, replacing President Gary D. Cohn in the role, said a person who has seen the memo announcing
the change.  The memo, sent to employees from Chief Executive Officer
Lloyd C. Blankfein and Cohn, said that Edith W. Cooper, Goldman
Sachs’s head of human  capital management , will continue to be
vice chair of the panel, according to the person, who asked not
to be named because the communication wasn’t public.  Goldman Sachs, the fifth-biggest U.S. bank by assets, has
maintained the committee as a vestige of the firm’s 130 years as
a partnership before going public in May 1999. The group
oversees personnel issues, including recruitment, development
and the firm’s partnership elections every two years. In
November, Goldman Sachs promoted 110 people to partner, up from
94 in the previous round.  Stephen Cohen , a spokesman at Goldman Sachs in  New York ,
said he couldn’t comment.  Sherwood, a 45-year-old Briton, joined Goldman Sachs in
1986 and became a partner in 1994. He was  promoted  to vice
chairman in February 2008 at the same time as Hong Kong-based J. Michael Evans, and kept his role as co-chief executive officer
of Goldman Sachs International.  Business Standards  The appointment of Sherwood, who rose through the ranks of
the fixed-income department like Blankfein, 56, and Cohn, 50,
comes after Evans was named last year to co-chair the firm’s
business standards committee with E. Gerald Corrigan. Evans, 53,
joined Goldman Sachs in 1993 in  equity capital markets , which is
part of  investment banking .  Blankfein created Goldman Sachs’s business standards
committee last May after the firm was sued by the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission over a 2007 mortgage-linked
investment. The firm paid $550 million to settle the suit in
July, and the committee issued a  report  on Jan. 11 with 39
recommendations for how the firm could improve its practices.  Sherwood wasn’t a member of the business standards
committee.  Business Insider reported his appointment on its website
earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Harper in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 