-- 
Goldman Sachs, Madoff, HP, BGC, Lehman, IBM in Court News

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n   a n d   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 
2011-03-21T12:13:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/goldman-hsbc-madoff-hp-bgc-lehman-ibm-3m-in-court-news.html
Ex  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) 
Director  Rajat Gupta  sued the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission, claiming an administrative action for insider
trading it filed against him bars him from a jury trial.  Gupta, 62, said the SEC should have filed a lawsuit in
federal court instead. He denied the agency’s claims that he
gave tips to Galleon Group LLC co-founder Raj Rajaratnam.  The SEC filed the action March 1, alleging Gupta tipped the
hedge fund manager about Berkshire Hathaway Inc.’s $5 billion
investment in Goldman Sachs, about the New York-based bank’s
quarterly earnings and earnings at Procter & Gamble Co., where
Gupta was also a director.  “Gupta denies all allegations of wrongdoing and stands
ready to mount a defense against each and every one of the
commission’s charges,” his lawyer,  Gary Naftalis , said in the
complaint filed March 18 in Manhattan federal court.  In filing his lawsuit, Gupta seeks a jury trial, to have
the SEC barred from seeking civil penalties against him and a
court order keeping it from pursuing administrative claims.  Under SEC rules, Gupta isn’t allowed a jury trial in an
administrative action, or the right to use federal court rules
on discovery, which require the exchange of evidence with the
government, Naftalis said.  Florence Harmon, an SEC spokeswoman, declined to
immediately comment.  Gupta’s name has been mentioned almost daily at the
criminal insider trading trial of Rajaratnam, which began March
8 in Manhattan. The hedge fund manager is accused of earning $45
million by using illegal tips from traders, corporate insiders,
and others including Gupta, the former worldwide director of
McKinsey & Co. Rajaratnam, 53, faces as many as 20 years in
prison if convicted on the most serious charges.  The case is Gupta v. SEC, 11-cv-1900, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  Lawsuits/Pretrial  HSBC Was Told About Madoff ‘Fraud Risks’ in Two  KPMG  Reports    HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) , Europe’s biggest lender, was warned
twice by auditors that entrusting as much as $8 billion in
client funds to  Bernard Madoff  opened it up to “fraud and
operational risks.”  KPMG LLP told the London-based bank about the risks in 2006
and 2008 reports. The firm was hired to review how Madoff
invested and accounted for the funds, for which HSBC served as
custodian. KPMG reported 25 such risks in 2006, and in 2008
found 28, according to copies of the reports obtained by
Bloomberg News.  Twenty-five “fraud and related operational risks were
identified throughout the process whereby Madoff LLC receive,
check and account for client funds,” KPMG said in the 56-page
report dated Feb. 16, 2006. The limited controls in place “may
not prevent fraud or error occurring on client accounts if
management or staff at Madoff LLC either override controls or
undertake activities where appropriate controls are not in
place,” according to the report.  A 66-page KPMG report dated Sept. 8, 2008, cited 28 risks
and described them in the same words as the 2006 document.  Irving H. Picard, the trustee liquidating Bernard L. Madoff
Investment Securities LLC, sued HSBC and a dozen feeder funds
for $9 billion in December in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in
Manhattan. The suit was partly based on the KPMG reports and
alleges the bank knew of concerns Madoff’s business was a fraud
and didn’t protect investors. KPMG’s reports haven’t been made
public. Picard has filed more than $50 billion in so-called
clawback suits to compensate victims.  HSBC confirmed hiring KPMG in 2005 and 2008 to review
Madoff’s firm, adding it now believed Madoff had tricked the
auditors. “It appears from U.S. government filings that Madoff
and his employees foiled these reviews by, among other things,
providing forged documentation to KPMG,” the bank said in an e-
mailed statement.  “KPMG did not conclude in either of its reports that a
fraud was being committed by Madoff,” HSBC said. “HSBC did not
know that a fraud was being committed and lost $1 billion of its
own assets as a victim.”  HSBC Spokesman Patrick Humphris, KPMG spokesman Mark
Hamilton and Amanda Remus, a spokeswoman for Picard’s lawyers
Baker & Hostetler LLP, all declined to confirm the authenticity
of the reports obtained by Bloomberg.  For more, click here.  Hurd Letter in HP Lawsuit Must Be Unsealed, Judge Says    Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  was ordered by a judge to release most
of a letter about Chairman Mark Hurd’s involvement with
contractor Jodie Fisher, the relationship that led to his
departure from the company.  Delaware Chancery Court Judge Donald Parsons Jr. ruled
March 17 in Wilmington that Hurd hadn’t shown good cause why the
letter should be kept secret. HP has 10 days to file a mostly
public version of the letter, giving Hurd “ample time” to
appeal, Parsons said. Several narrow portions of the letter will
remain sealed, the judge said.  “Whether or not to seal a document allegedly containing
confidential information does not turn on whether its disclosure
would cause embarrassment,” Parsons said in the 70-page ruling
in a lawsuit by shareholder Ernesto Espinoza.  Hurd, 54, had argued that he should have a say in
Espinoza’s demand for company books and records because the
letter, sent by lawyer Gloria Allred on Fisher’s behalf, was
personal and his alone.  “We are disappointed with the court’s ruling and will
appeal the matter,” Hurd’s lawyer, Amy Wintersheimer, said in
an e-mailed statement.  “We believe the letter, which was
clearly marked ‘confidential,’ should remain that way.”  Hurd is now a co-president of software maker  Oracle Corp. (ORCL)   Hurd resigned as HP’s chairman and chief executive officer
on Aug. 6 after a company investigation determined that he
violated its standards of business conduct. Palo Alto,
California-based HP said it didn’t find that Hurd had violated
its sexual-harassment policy.  The company’s decision to grant Hurd a severance package
valued at as much as $40 million prompted Espinoza to sue HP on
Nov. 18. In his sealed complaint, Espinoza seeks company books
and records as part of an investigation into possible wrongdoing
by directors.  The case is Espinoza v. Hewlett-Packard Co., CA6000,
Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  Citic Pacific Must Give Police Lawyers’ Letters, Judge Rules  Citic Pacific Ltd., which delayed reporting a potential
HK$14.7 billion ($1.9 billion) loss, must turn over records of
legal advice to Hong Kong police it got before disclosing a
failed derivatives bet, a judge ruled.  Hong Kong’s Department of Justice said it suspects the
steelmaker and property developer defrauded four banks when it
sought financing without disclosing losses on currency bets.  Based on a review of six documents being contested, “there
is a prima facie case of the existence of both a conspiracy to
defraud” and of directors or officers of the company making
false statements, Hong Kong High Court Judge Alan Wright said in
a ruling March 18.  Citic Pacific’s wrong-way bets on the Australian dollar in
2008 prompted a bailout from its parent Citic Group, backed by  China ’s cabinet, and the resignation of its chairman Larry Yung.  Wright dismissed Citic Pacific’s bid to block police access
to the documents and delayed implementing the order until April
1 to give the company an opportunity to file an appeal. False
statements made by officers or directors of a company with the
intent to deceive creditors carries a maximum sentence of 10
years in jail.  Citic Pacific is reviewing the judgment “and considering
its response,” the company said in an e-mailed statement.  Paul Shieh, a lawyer representing Citic Pacific, argued at
a hearing last week that the company could have had “entirely
proper, innocuous, and relevant considerations” in relation to
the delayed disclosure.  The case is  Citic Pacific Ltd. (267)  and Secretary of Justice,
Commissioner of Police, HCMP 767/2010 in Hong Kong’s Court of
First Instance.  Christie’s Wins Dismissal of Koch’s Counterfeit Wine Suit  Christie’s International Plc won dismissal of a lawsuit
filed by billionaire collector William Koch that claimed the
auction house “induced” him into buying counterfeit wine.  The complaint was filed last year in Manhattan federal
court. Koch, who lives in Florida, claimed London-based
Christie’s has sold counterfeit wine “for many years.”  U.S. District Judge Barbara Jones, in New York, on March 18
granted Christie’s motion to dismiss Koch’s suit, which included
claims of fraud, civil conspiracy and aiding and abetting.  Jones said in her ruling that while Koch said he was
injured by Christie’s “misrepresentations,” she concluded he
also knew that the bottle “was counterfeit prior to making the
purchase.”  Koch alleged in his suit that he bought a bottle of 1870
Lafite for $4,200 at a Christie’s auction in order to prove that
it was counterfeit. The judge rejected Koch’s arguments in his
lawsuit. Koch has filed lawsuits against others claiming they
sold him counterfeit wine that allegedly belonged to Thomas
Jefferson and was marked “Th.J.”  While Koch didn’t claim in this lawsuit that Christie’s had
sold him the counterfeit Jefferson wines, he alleged that
Christie’s “had previously auctioned other Th.J. bottles”
owned by German wine dealer and former pop music manager Hardy
Rodenstock. Koch claimed he was “induced” into buying them
from Rodenstock because Christie’s had described the wines
“positively” in auction catalogues when the wines were sold in
the 1980s.  Koch also sued Rodenstock in 2006 over the wines. A default
judgment was entered against Rodenstock in that case last year.  Jones rejected Koch’s claim that if Christie’s had
disclosed that the bottle was counterfeit “Koch would never
have needed to spend $4,200 to purchase the bottle,” saying he
was no longer acting as a reasonable consumer.  “We have great respect for Mr. Koch but have always
believed his claims were without merit and are therefore
grateful for the court’s decision affirming this,” Christie’s
spokesman Toby Usnik said in an e-mail statement.  In the lawsuit, Koch claimed that because Christie’s has
inspected so many wine cellars and bottles of wine, it knew how
to identify counterfeit wine.  “Christie’s also has unique access to facts and
circumstances that might call into question the authenticity of
specific wines it handles,” Koch alleged in the complaint.  Koch has filed other wine-related suits. In 2007, he sued
Scarsdale, New York-based Zachys Wine Auctions. In 2008, he sued
Chicago Wine Co., Chicago-based Julienne Importing Co. and New
York auction house Acker Merrall & Condit, accusing them of
selling him fakes.  The case is Koch v. Christie’s, 10-cv-2804, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Mets Owners Face New Claims in $1 Billion Madoff Fraud Lawsuit  The trustee liquidating Bernard Madoff’s defunct firm filed
new claims against the owners of the New York Mets, saying they
“chose to look the other way” and invest with the con man
after repeated warnings of fraud.  Trustee Irving Picard revised a $1 billion lawsuit filed in
December to add a claim that the baseball team’s owner, Sterling
Equities Inc., and Madoff created a fraudulent letter agreement,
as part of Sterling’s purchase of the Mets’ broadcast rights
from  Cablevision Systems Corp. (CVC)  in 2004, according to a filing
March 18 in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Manhattan.  “The amended complaint sheds more light on the deep
dependency of the Sterling business organization on the
continuation of the Madoff fraud and certain knowledge of
indicia of fraud by the Sterling partners,”  David Sheehan ,
counsel to Picard, said in a statement.  Picard claims that after Madoff’s fraud was disclosed
publicly in December 2008, Sterling Equities restructured its
debt in a manner that attempted to block the trustee from
recovering assets on behalf of Madoff victims, according to the
statement.  The new complaint, at 373 pages, adds eight pages to the
original complaint, which was filed under seal in December and
made public in February.  “The amended complaint is the latest chapter in the work
of fiction created by the trustee,” team Chairman Fred Wilpon
and President Saul Katz said in a statement. “We will pursue a
vigorous legal defense that will set the record straight and
vindicate us.” Wilpon and Katz said the trustee concocted his
allegations against them to force a settlement.  “Let us be very clear: we did not know that Madoff was
engaged in a fraud,” Katz and Wilpon said in an e-mailed news
release. “There were no red flags and we received no
warnings.”  In the amended complaint, Picard claims that, as the
deadline for closing the Cablevision broadcast rights buyout
deal approached, Sterling took a $54 million, no-interest bridge
loan from Madoff, creating a fraudulent letter agreement falsely
characterizing it as an investment by Madoff’s wife, Ruth
Madoff.  David Cohen, general counsel for the Mets, said in an e-
mailed statement that the $54 million “represented funds the
Sterling partners had invested with Madoff, as the trustee
acknowledges. As the trustee also acknowledges, that money was
never used -- and in fact was returned the next day --because
the necessary funds were received from Sterling’s lenders by the
buyout deadline, and were used to fund the buyout.”  The case is Picard v. Katz, 10-AP-5287, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Citibank Sued for $1.3 Billion by Lehman Brokerage Trustee  A  Citigroup Inc. (C)  unit was sued by  Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc. (LEHMQ) ’s brokerage trustee, who is seeking $1.3 billion for the
bankrupt company’s creditors.  More than $1.3 billion in cash and other assets now held by
Citibank and affiliates should go to creditors, said the
trustee, James Giddens, in a lawsuit filed in Manhattan
bankruptcy court March 18. The trustee claims that Citibank has
no right to keep a $1 billion deposit given to it for foreign-
exchange settlement services.  Another $700 million was given to Citibank as a pledge by  Barclays Plc (BARC)  as security for the same foreign-exchange
settlements the week the Lehman parent filed for bankruptcy,
Giddens said. Lehman filed Sept. 15, 2008 and the brokerage,
Lehman Brothers Inc., liquidated four days later.  The trustee asked a judge to rule that Citibank willfully
violated the “automatic stay” provision of the bankruptcy law
when it seized the $1 billion deposit on Sept. 19, 2008, which
forbids such transfers, Giddens said.  The brokerage trustee’s suit is one of many in bankruptcy
courts, after creditors seize deposits to compensate them for
pending losses on their loans. The banks argue that under
commercial banking laws they had a right to set off the deposits
against money still owed. Using bankruptcy law, debtors try to
take back the deposits.  Citigroup said earlier this month it could face demands by
Lehman for $3 billion in funds taken around the time of the
Lehman brokerage’s liquidation.  “The trustee’s effort to recover these monies is
unjustified and without merit, and Citi will vigorously defend
its right to recover its losses,” Citigroup spokeswoman
Danielle Romero-Apsilos said.  Lehman benefited from Citibank’s extension of credit to it
amid panic provoked by its bankruptcy filing, and Citibank
suffered more than $1 billion in losses for helping Lehman, she
said. The money that the Lehman brokerage trustee wants to claw
back was used by Citibank to partly cover losses, she said.  The main case is In re Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., 08-
13555, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan). Giddens’s suit is Lehman Brothers Inc. v. Citibank
NA, 11-01681, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New
York (Manhattan).  For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  Trials/Appeals  BGC Says Tullett Asking for ‘Massively Inflated Sum’    BGC Partners Inc. (BGCP)  said inter-dealer brokerage competitor  Tullett Prebon Plc (TLPR)  is seeking a “massively inflated sum” after
it won a lawsuit accusing BGC of poaching 10 traders.  There is “a great deal of hyperbole” regarding Tullett’s
losses, Andrew Hochhauser, a lawyer for BGC, told a  London  court
March 18 at a hearing to determine damages. Tullett hired
“senior hands” as replacements for the brokers within six
months, Hochhauser said. The 10 traders were prevented from
working for BGC for a year while the lawsuit was pending.  “This was not a mass exodus,” Hochhauser said. “This is
a claim where 10 brokers left Tullett Prebon in an office that
employs some 600 employees on 55 desks.”  The court last year ruled that BGC participated in a
conspiracy to poach Tullett brokers. March 17, a lawyer for
Tullett said BGC owes “substantial” damages. Tullett and BGC
are keeping the figures private and won’t state them in court,
Tullett lawyer Daniel Oudkerk told Judge Raymond Jack.  Tullett is seeking to recoup lost profits, legal fees,
“wasted management time,” the cost of steps “to safeguard its
interests” and the gardening-leave pay to brokers while the
lawsuit was ongoing, Oudkerk said.  Tullett “asks the court to look at the desks’ performance
in 2008 and to assume” that those results would have continued,
Hochhauser said. “That is a defective and unreliable
approach.”  The case is Tullett Prebon Plc v. BGC Brokers LP,
HQ09X01241, High Court (London).  Singapore Investors Appeal Ruling on Lehman-Related Losses  A group of 213 investors in Singapore, in a bid to recoup
S$18 million ($14 million) in losses tied to Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc., urged the city’s appeal court to overturn a
ruling that dismissed their claim.  DBS Bank Ltd., which sold credit default swaps linked to
Lehman, had inconsistencies in the investment’s prospectus and
pricing statement, the investors said in their appeal filed
March 14. Singapore-based DBS, Southeast Asia’s biggest bank,
had declared the investments to be worthless after Lehman
collapsed in 2008.  The inconsistency stemmed from “an obvious clerical
error,” Judge Lee Seiu Kin said in a Dec. 10 ruling, dismissing
the lawsuit. Statements on how the investment value would be
calculated in a credit event, such as Lehman’s collapse, weren’t
meant to be comprehensive, mathematical formulae and were
instead general descriptions, Lee said in his decision.  “While DBS insists on holding us to the strict terms of
the contract, they seek to avoid liability by relying on what
they call a clerical error,” the group, represented by lawyer
Siraj Omar, said in an e-mailed statement March 18. DBS had sold
its DBS High Notes 5 as a safe, low-risk investment, lulling the
investors into having a “false sense of security,” the group
said.  The appeal is scheduled to be heard in the week of May 23.  Jenny Lee, a DBS spokeswoman, said the bank doesn’t comment
on legal matter in progress.  The case is Soon Kok Tiang and Others v. DBS Bank Ltd.
CA6/2011 in the Singapore Court of Appeal.  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  Verdicts/Settlement  IBM Said to Pay $10 Million to Settle SEC Bribery Claims    International Business Machines Corp. (IBM)  agreed to pay $10
million to settle accusations by the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission that it gave cash and gifts to Chinese and
South Korean officials in exchange for computer contracts,
according to a person with direct knowledge of the settlement.  The company will pay $5.3 million in disgorgement, $2.7
million in interest and a penalty of $2 million to settle a
lawsuit filed March 18 in federal court in Washington. The SEC
alleged the bribes, which included travel and entertainment,
occurred from 1998 through 2009 in violation of the Foreign
Corrupt Practices Act.  The improper payments were made by employees at three
subsidiaries of Armonk, New York-based IBM, as well as LG IBM PC
Co., a joint venture between the company and LG Electronics
Inc., according to the lawsuit.  The SEC said cash payments to South Korean officials from
1998 to 2003 totaled $207,000. In China, the IBM employees
created “slush funds” at local travel agencies that were used
to pay for overseas excursions by Chinese government officials.  IBM spokesman Ed Barbini said he couldn’t immediately
comment on the lawsuit or settlement.  The case is SEC v. International Business Machines Corp.,
11-cv-00563, U.S. District Court, District of Columbia
(Washington).  3M Agrees to Pay $12 Million to Settle Discrimination Suit    3M Co. (MMM) , the maker of products including Scotch tape and  Post-it Notes , agreed to pay as much as $12 million to settle an
age discrimination lawsuit.  Under the agreement, which is subject to approval by the
Ramsey County District Court in St. Paul, Minnesota, 3M will
resolve the claims of about 7,000 members of the class
represented by the lawsuit.  The proposed settlement “provides a reasonable resolution
that allows the company to avoid ongoing investments in time and
legal fees,” Marschall Smith, 3M general counsel, said in a
statement. “We believe the resolution will allow the company
and our employees to focus on growing our business and serving
our customers.”  The plaintiffs, all employed by 3M in Minnesota, claimed
that the company systematically discriminated against workers
over the age of 46 from 2001 to 2005. Management perceived older
workers as “less able or willing to accept and apply new
business methodologies adopted by the company,” according to
the complaint.  The case is Clifford L. Whitaker v. 3M Co., 62-C4-04-
012239, Ramsey County District Court (Minnesota).  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  Litigation Departments  Goldman, Law Firms Hire U.K. Lawyers for Bribery Act Work  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and U.S. law firms are luring
lawyers away from the U.K. fraud prosecutor as companies prepare
to comply with the world’s “most draconian” anti-bribery law.  The U.K. Ministry of Justice has said it will introduce new
proposals as soon as next week, leaving companies scrambling to
hire lawyers to help prepare compliance plans. Under the law,
U.K. companies without adequate controls to prevent corruption
may be prosecuted if a bribe is paid by third parties on their
behalf anywhere in the world, even if officials didn’t know.  Kwadjo Adjepong, who worked on the Serious Fraud Office’s
probe into the collapse of London hedge fund Weavering Capital,
joined Goldman Sachs as a vice president in its compliance
department last month, SFO spokesman David Jones said. Covington
& Burling LLP, White & Case LLP and Arnold & Porter LLP have
also hired lawyers from the SFO as the Bribery Act creates work
for firms preparing compliance plans.  Washington-based Arnold & Porter in February said it  hired 
Kathleen Harris, the former head of the SFO fraud business
group, as a partner in its London office. Charlie Monteith, a
senior policy adviser and the head of assurance at the agency,
left for New York-based White & Case.  Another former SFO prosecutor, Matthew Cowie, who oversaw
an investigation of BAE Systems Plc, left in June to join the
U.S. law firm Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom.  For more, click here.  For the latest litigation department news, click here.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net ;  Ellen Rosen  in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net  