-- 
Goldman Sachs Still Planning Principal Investments, BofA’s Moszkowski Says

-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 
2011-03-21T14:36:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/goldman-sachs-still-planning-principal-investments-bofa-s-moszkowski-says.html
  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , the
fifth-biggest U.S. bank by assets, will continue making
principal investments with the firm’s own money because
executives don’t think the so-called Volcker rule prevents the
practice, a Bank of America Corp. analyst said.  The analyst,  Guy Moszkowski , published a note to investors
today after meeting last week with four Goldman Sachs executives
in  Hong Kong . New York-based Goldman Sachs doesn’t think U.S.
legislation passed last year that bans proprietary trading and
limits holdings in  hedge funds  and private-equity funds
precludes buying stakes in companies and other assets,
Moszkowski wrote.  “The market interpretation of Volcker rules is that this
will be off-limits ahead, but GS believes that many such
investments will remain permissible, and will be closing on a
‘meaningful’ one in  China  shortly,” Moszkowski’s note said.  On March 11, the China Insurance Regulatory Commission
approved AXA Life Ltd.’s sale of a stake in Taikang Life
Insurance Co. to buyers including Goldman Sachs, according to a
statement on the Chinese regulator’s website. Goldman will get a
12.02 percent stake in Taikang Life Insurance, the statement
said. The value of the stake hasn’t been disclosed.  Moszkowski said that Goldman Sachs’s return on equity, a
measure of how well it reinvests capital, will exceed what
investors expect if the firm is still allowed to invest on its
own behalf. Yusuf Alireza, head of Goldman Sachs’s securities
division in Asia, told Moszkowski that principal investments
have historically been “one of the key drivers of  Asia 
earning.”  Effect on ROE  “If the firm can indeed continue to take on these
principal investments, we believe that ROE can well exceed
what’s currently priced into the shares,” Moszkowski wrote. The
shares, which closed at $159.96 on March 18, “discount a long-
term ROE of not more than 11 percent.”  The stock advanced $1.50, or 0.9 percent, to $161.46 at
10:03 a.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.
Moszkowski rated the shares “neutral.”    Michael DuVally , a spokesman for Goldman Sachs, declined to
comment.  Goldman Sachs in January changed the way it reports
financial results, creating a division called Investing and
Lending. Investing and Lending contributed 19 percent of Goldman
Sachs’s 2010 revenue, making it the second-largest division on
that basis after institutional client services, or sales and
trading, according to Goldman Sachs’s annual 10-K filing with
the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  Local Offerings  The firm’s executives in Asia also said Goldman Sachs needs
to improve its ability to offer local products to local clients
in key markets, the note said. The firm has applied for banking
licenses in  India  and China and, while the firm’s executives
think the India license could be granted in three to six months,
Goldman Sachs has waited for years for its China banking
license, the note said.  Moszkowski speculated that Goldman Sachs could try to speed
the process by acquiring a small, weak Chinese lender. Goldman
Sachs “would be providing a service to the Chinese banking
authorities by taking a problem off their hands, in exchange for
which it would be able to take over an existing bank license.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Harper in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 