-- 
Google Fined Record $142,000 by France for Street View Privacy Violations

-- B y   H e a t h e r   S m i t h
-- 
2011-03-21T11:49:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/google-fined-by-french-privacy-agency-for-street-view-violations.html
  Google Inc. (GOOG)  was fined a record
100,000 euros ($142,000) for violations of French privacy rules
by its Street View mapping service, the country’s data
protection regulator said today.  Google’s infractions included collecting passwords and e-
mails transferred wirelessly, the  National Commission for
Computing and Civil Liberties  said today in a statement. CNIL,
as the regulator is known, levied its highest fine ever because
of the gravity of breaches and “the economic advantages Google
gained from these violations,” according to the statement.  Google has been targeted by data-protection authorities in
the European Union for its Street View program, which lets users
click on maps to see photographs of roadsides. The European
Commission, the EU’s executive agency, plans more harmonized
data protection rules across the 27-nation region. The  U.S.
Federal Trade Commission  closed a probe in October after Google
said it would improve its safeguards.  Google is “profoundly sorry for having mistakenly
collected payload data from unencrypted WiFi networks,” Peter Fleischer, the  Mountain View , California-based company’s global
privacy counsel, said in an e-mailed statement. “As soon as we
realized what had happened, we stopped collecting all WiFi data
from our Street View cars and immediately informed the
authorities.”  Latitude Mapping Service  Google has two months to appeal CNIL’s penalty. While
Google stopped collecting personal data transmitted by WiFi, the
regulator criticized the company for continuing to use WiFi for
its Latitude mapping service.  Google can delete the data now that the regulator has
concluded the investigation, according to the company’s
statement.  The French authority has the power to fine first-time
offenders as much as 150,000 euros. Google’s fine topped a
45,000-euro penalty  levied  on Credit Lyonnais SA, part of Groupe
Credit Agricole, in 2006, according to the agency’s website.  Google has sought to reconcile with French regulators on
numerous fronts, negotiating deals with French publishers,
musicians, screenwriters, playwrights, directors and other
artists to ensure rights-holders are compensated when users of
its services like YouTube access their works. In October, it
settled an investigation by  France ’s competition regulator into
advertising for traffic navigation sector.  Privacy regulators continue to review the Street View
service in countries including Germany and  Switzerland , where
hearings took place in February over whether Google’s changes
were sufficient.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heather Smith in Paris at 
 hsmith26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 