-- 
Google Questioned by SEC Over Earnings in Low-Tax Countries

-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k   a n d   J e s s e   D r u c k e r
-- 
2011-03-21T21:53:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/google-questioned-by-sec-over-earnings-in-low-tax-countries-1-.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  received questions from
the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission in December about
earnings in other countries that may have reduced the company’s
tax bill, according to regulatory filings released today.  SEC officials asked Google for “disclosures to explain in
greater detail the impact on your effective income tax rates and
obligations of having proportionally higher earnings in
countries where you have lower statutory tax rates,” according
to a Dec. 2  letter .  The company responded to the requests for information, the
filings show. The SEC said in a Feb. 3 letter that it had
completed its review of Google’s filings, and has “no further
comments at this time on the specific issues raised.”  Google, owner of the world’s most-popular search engine,
has used a strategy that has gained favor among some U.S.
companies to reduce taxes. Google cut its income taxes by $3.1
billion over three years by shifting the bulk of foreign profits
to Ireland, then the Netherlands and eventually to no-tax
 Bermuda , according to regulatory filings in the U.S. and abroad.  The tax-cutting strategy, involving a pair of techniques
known as the “Double Irish” and the “Dutch Sandwich,” helped
cut the company’s income-tax rate to 2.4 percent on the profits
it attributed to its foreign subsidiaries during the three-year
period, filings show. The statutory corporate income tax rate in
the U.S. is 35 percent.  Google rose $15.44 to $576.50 at 4 p.m.  New York  time on
the Nasdaq Stock Market. The shares have declined 2.9 percent
this year.  Overseas Profits  U.S. multinational corporations had more than $1 trillion
in profits stashed in overseas subsidiaries on which they had
paid no U.S. income tax as of the end of 2009, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  John Nester , a spokesman with the SEC, said the agency has
no further comment on the exchange with Google. The company,
based in  Mountain View ,  California , declined to comment on the
correspondence beyond the filings.  The SEC was seeking information on aspects of Google’s
taxes stemming from its international operations, including more
detail on how lower taxes overseas affect the company’s
effective tax rate. It also asked for terms of an agreement with
the  Internal Revenue Service  dictating how much Google charges a
foreign unit for licensing. Companies with valuable intellectual
property, like Google, are able to move rights to that property
into low-tax jurisdictions overseas, cutting their tax bills.
The lower taxes on earnings they classify as foreign can result
in a significant boost to earnings.  Determining Tax Rates  In the Dec. 2 letter from the SEC’s Division of Corporation
Finance, the agency asked Google to better explain the
relationship between foreign and domestic tax rates, and asked
how the company determines the impact from its foreign
operations on its overall effective tax rate. Google, in a
return letter, disclosed the calculation it uses to determine
the impact on its tax rate from lower-taxed foreign earnings.  The SEC asked Google to make public a copy of its 2006
accord with the IRS signing off on a 2003 licensing agreement
between Google and its Irish subsidiary, Google Ireland
Holdings. That arrangement, known as an “advance pricing
agreement” or APA, dictated how much the Irish unit would pay
the U.S. parent for the rights to Google’s intangible property
in  Europe , Middle East and  Africa .  Pricing Agreement  Transactions like the one covered by the APA -- called a
“buy in” -- mean foreign profits based on intangible property
developed in the U.S. get attributed to an offshore subsidiary
based in a low-tax jurisdiction instead of to the parent
company. Payments made under such deals help generate taxable
income for the U.S. parent corporation, giving companies an
incentive to set the price as low as possible.  In a hearing last July before the House Ways and Means
Committee, former U.S. Treasury Department economist Martin A. Sullivan called on the committee to reopen an older
congressional investigation into the APA program.  In a Dec. 13 response to the SEC from Mark Fuchs, Google’s
vice president for finance and chief accountant, the company
requested “confidential treatment” for the letter and terms of
the agreement, which would exempt it from requests to the SEC
under the Freedom of Information Act.  In a Dec. 29  response , the SEC wrote it was reviewing
Google’s assertion that the APA shouldn’t be public.  Domestic Profit  Google did agree to more explicitly break out its pretax
income from domestic operations. The company also said it would
add language that “substantially all of the income from foreign
operations was earned by an Irish subsidiary.”  In November, Wayne Carnall, the chief accountant of the
SEC’s Corporation Finance Division, said the agency was
examining tax disclosures made by public companies, particularly
the portions that divide up foreign and domestic earnings and
tax obligations, according to trade publication Tax Notes.  In a response to a question about its overseas earnings,
Google said it couldn’t estimate the potential tax bill from
repatriating earnings to the U.S., and said it has no plans to
repatriate those earnings.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 Bwomack1@bloomberg.net ;
Jesse Drucker in New York at 
 jdrucker4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  