-- 
Google Says Chinese Government Blocking Gmail Service

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-03-21T08:35:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/google-says-chinese-government-blocking-gmail-service.html
  Google Inc. (GOOG) , the world’s largest
Internet search company, said China’s government is blocking its
Gmail service, after users reported trouble accessing the site.  Users of Gmail in China have had difficulty accessing
accounts, sending e-mail and using other features of the service
for the past two weeks. The landing page for the Web mail
service is still visible to local  Internet users .  “There is no technical issue on our side,”  Mountain View ,
California-based Google said in an e-mailed statement today.
“We have checked extensively. This is a government blockage
carefully designed to look like the problem is with Gmail.”  China, the world’s largest Internet market with 457 million
Web users, bans pornography, gambling and content critical of
the ruling Communist Party. It already blocks Google’s YouTube
site as well as social-networking websites run by Facebook Inc.
and Twitter Inc. Google moved its search-engine service out of
mainland China last year and redirected users to  Hong Kong  to
avoid having to comply with the country’s Web censorship rules.  “They will try to become more aggressive gradually,”
Charles Mok, chairman of the Hong Kong branch of the Internet
Society, said of China’s censors in an interview today. “Some
things that were allowed or let go before, they gradually will
clamp down on.”  ‘Tool of U.S.’  Li Wufeng, chief of the Information Office Internet Affairs
Bureau of China’s State Council, or cabinet, didn’t return a
call to his office today. In a March 11 interview after Gmail
users began reporting problems in China, Li said he regularly
uses Gmail and that he was not experiencing the issues reported
by other users of the service in China.  Google is “a tool of U.S. expansionism and hegemony,”
according to a March 4 opinion piece posted on the website of
the People’s Daily, a publication affiliated with China’s ruling
Communist Party.  Google is “playing its political cards in China” after
helping disseminate subversive content that led to disorder in
Middle Eastern countries, according to the piece, written by a
person identified as Zheng Yan.  The search-engine company has denied that the U.S.
government meddles in its business decisions.  Google’s statement on China’s blockage was reported earlier
by the  Guardian newspaper .  Losing Ground  Google has been losing search-engine market share in China
to Baidu Inc. since January 2010, when the U.S. company said it
was no longer willing to self-censor content in its Chinese
service in line with local rules. The decision was prompted by
cyber-attacks on Google’s systems that the company said
originated from China, including breaches of the Gmail accounts
of some human-rights activists.  Two months later, Google shut its Google.cn service and
redirected users to its Hong Kong site. China renewed Google’s
Internet license in July after the U.S. company stopped
automatically redirecting users and put in place a page that
requires users to opt for the alternative service.  Google’s share of China’s search-engine market fell to 19.6
percent in the fourth quarter from 21.6 percent three months
earlier, research company Analysys International said in
January. Baidu’s China market share rose to 75.5 percent from 73
percent, the researcher said.  Google isn’t alone in drawing more scrutiny from China’s
censors in recent weeks.  Witopia Inc. , a U.S.-based  Internet
service  that allows users to circumvent the Chinese government’s
Web filters, notified customers on March 17 that its service had
been blocked in China the previous week.  Witopia Blocked  “We mostly provide service to expats and travellers
working and doing business in China,” Witopia Chief Executive
Officer Bill Bullock said an e-mail to customers in China.
“People who simply want to communicate with family and friends
back home using Facebook and Twitter. Not exactly
revolutionaries.”  Witopia’s service in China was disrupted on March 11,
Bullock’s note said. In language filled with references to the
science-fiction television show “Star Trek,” Bullock vowed to
provide customers in China with a solution to the new filters.
Witopia didn’t respond to requests for comment.  “The Klingon Empire scored a couple solid hits on the USS
Enterprise,” Bullock said in the March 17 e-mail. “As far as
the state of the Enterprise, with regards to  China , impulse
power is restored, the warp drive and deflector shields are
coming back online and, given a little time, we’ll be engaging
our shiny new cloaking device.”  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  