-- 
Greece’s Forthnet to Cut Jobs, Refinance Debt, CEO Says

-- B y   T o m   S t o u k a s
-- 
2011-03-21T12:15:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/greece-s-forthnet-to-cut-jobs-refinance-debt-ceo-says-1-.html
  Forthnet SA (FORTH) , a Greek Internet,
telecommunications and pay-TV provider, plans to cut jobs and
refinance debt to ensure growth and help offset  Greece ’s
economic slump, Chief Executive Officer Panos Papadopoulos said.  “My ambition right now is to continue Forthnet’s growth
story, while taking more initiatives to cut and stabilize
costs,” Papadopoulos said in an interview in  Athens  on March
17. “That growth has to be financed.”  Greece’s economic slowdown, now in its third year, has
damped profit for companies and curbed investment and spending.  Forthnet said March 15 that losses more than doubled in
2010 to 86.8 million euros ($123 million), the sixth consecutive
year the company had loss after investing in a fiber-optic
network and pay-television services. Sales rose to 409.8 million
euros from 377 million euros with 100,000 households signing up
for the company’s telecom and pay-TV package.    Hellenic Telecommunications Organization SA (HTO) , the country’s
biggest phone operator and Forthnet’s main rival, last month
said it will cut 120 jobs at its mobile-phone unit and curb
overtime to save 32 million euros this year as sales decline.  Economic Crisis  The economic crisis in Greece, where Forthnet has most of
its business, makes it difficult to forecast when the company
might post a profit, Papadopoulos said. He added that Forthnet
has completed most infrastructure investments including the
fibre-optic network and the 2008 purchase of Greek and Cypriot
pay-TV company NetMed NV for 490 million euros.  “We have made most of the  capital expenditures  we needed
up to now,” he said. “Based on what we have seen in the last
year, we are well positioned in the market to grab as much as we
can in growth and customer numbers to exploit all these
investments.”  Forthnet is in talks with lenders to push back loan
payments due this year and 2012, Papadopoulos said. The company
wants to arrange 100 million euros in bond loans to pay 90
million euros of principal repayments maturing in 2011 and 2012.
Repayment of the new bond loan would begin at the end of 2013
and extend to 2017, he said.  Details of cost-cutting efforts, including layoffs, are due
to be announced in mid-May, he added.  Consolidation in the telecommunications sector would be
“good for the whole industry,” said Papadopoulos, who has
worked for Forthnet for the past 20 years and who became CEO
last month. The company is 40 percent owned by  Emirates
International Telecommunications LLC , the telecom investment arm
of  Dubai Holding .  In November, exploratory talks between Forthnet and  Hellas
Online SA (HOL) , a Greek telecom and internet services provider, aimed
at possible cooperation were discontinued.  “We are still open to hear and to discuss anything that
could create extra value for our shareholders,” Papadopoulos
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Stoukas in Athens at 
 astoukas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  