-- 
Guangdong Nuclear, CLP Say Japan Crisis Spurring Safety Reviews, Checks

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-03-21T05:29:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/guangdong-nuclear-clp-say-japan-crisis-spurring-safety-reviews-checks.html
  China  Guangdong Nuclear Power Group
Co., the majority owner of the  Daya Bay plant  near Hong Kong, is
conducting safety checks on its power stations, including those
under construction, following the  Japan  nuclear crisis.  The country’s second-biggest atomic plant operator is also
reviewing locations for future projects, China Guangdong Nuclear
said in a statement on its website dated March 19.  CLP Holdings
Ltd. (2) , Hong Kong’s largest power producer and owner of 25 percent
of the Daya Bay plant, is reviewing future nuclear investment on
the mainland, the company said in an e-mailed statement today.  Japan is racing to prevent a reactor meltdown at Fukushima
Dai-Ichi power station whose cooling systems were knocked out by
a magnitude-9 earthquake and tsunami on March 11. China,
planning to build more nuclear reactors than any other country,
said on March 16 it has suspended approval of all new atomic
projects until a safety review is carried out.  “We are reviewing the implications on any new investment,
taking into account the Fukushima accident, as well as the
relevant national policy on the mainland,” CLP said.  There will be no change to operations at Daya Bay, 50
kilometers (31 miles) from  Hong Kong , spokeswoman Anthea Cheng
said in a phone interview.  Routine checks showed the power station was operating
normally, Hong Kong Nuclear Investment Co., the unit of CLP that
owns 25 percent of Daya Bay, said on March 18.  CLP rose 1.5 percent to HK$60.85 in Hong Kong trading at
the midday break, compared with the 1.2 percent gain in the
benchmark  Hang Seng Index .  Daya Bay  The Japanese disaster has stoked global concerns on nuclear
plant safety. Lawmakers in Hong Kong have raised queries about
Daya Bay after Hong Kong Nuclear Investment said on Nov. 16 a
small radiation leak in a contained area of the plant was
discovered on Oct. 23.  The leak was classified by state-controlled China Guangdong
Nuclear as the least serious on a scale of one to seven set by
the  International Atomic Energy Agency  and posed no danger to
the environment or public health.  Daya Bay began operations in 1994 and uses newer
pressurized water reactors that have greater safety features
than the boiling-water reactors used at the 40-year-old
Fukushima plant, Hong Kong Nuclear Investment said on March 18.  Hong Kong’s government has scheduled a “comprehensive”
nuclear safety exercise for early next year, according to a
 statement  released on March 19. The government said it carries
out exercises at least once a year to check the ability of
departments to deal with any emergency at Daya Bay.  Yangjiang Project  The Hong Kong government is proposing that half of the
city’s electricity come from nuclear power by 2020 to reduce
greenhouse gas emissions. About a quarter now comes from Daya
Bay in neighboring  Guangdong province . The plant is CLP’s only
nuclear venture and generates about 4 percent of the group’s
electricity, according to a statement on Feb. 24.  CLP signed a cooperation agreement with China Guangdong
Nuclear in July to take a 17 percent stake in the Yangjiang
atomic plant about 220 kilometers west of Hong Kong due to start
producing electricity in 2013. The project is still under
discussion, according to today’s CLP statement.  China is building at least 27 reactors and has 50 more
planned, World Nuclear Association  data  show. China Guangdong is
conducting feasibility studies on 25 reactors with capacity
totaling more than 28,000 megawatts, the company said.  China National Nuclear Corp., the country’s largest atomic
plant operator,  said  on March 17 that it started safety checks
at the company’s plants across the nation on March 16.  --John Duce in Hong Kong and Winnie Zhu in  Shanghai . With
assistance from  Wang Ying  in Beijing. Editors: Ryan Woo, Tan Hwee Ann.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Duce in Hong Kong at 
 Jduce1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 