-- 
Liberty Global Said to Be Near to Buying Germany’s Kabel-BW for $4 Billion

-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d ,   R a g n h i l d   K j e t l a n d   a n d   A n n e   C h a s s a n y
-- 
2011-03-21T12:27:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/liberty-said-to-near-deal-on-kabel-bw-as-cvc-hellman-exit.html
U.S. billionaire  John Malone ’s  Liberty Global Inc. (LBTYA)  cable operator is close to purchasing
Germany’s Kabel Baden-Wuerttemberg GmbH, trumping offers from
private equity firms, said four people familiar with the talks.  CVC Capital Partners Ltd. and Hellman & Friedman LLC
dropped bids for Germany’s third-largest cable television
operator, said the people, who requested anonymity as the sale
is confidential. Liberty may pay more than 3 billion euros ($4.3
billion), and an agreement with owner EQT Partners may be
announced as early as today, two of the people said.  Buying Kabel BW would mark Malone’s second German cable
acquisition in less than two years, as he taps demand for
broadband  Internet access . Liberty agreed to buy Unitymedia,
Germany’s second-largest cable operator, in November 2009, to
extend its reach in an industry where revenue may increase by
more than 30 percent in Europe by 2014 from about 19 billion
euros in 2010, according to IHS Screen Digest.  “Liberty is already invested in Germany with Unitymedia,
so they have an eye on eventually merging it with Kabel BW,”
said Will Draper, a London-based telecoms analyst at  Banco
Espirito Santo SA (BES)  Investment Bank. “What Liberty sees is a
market with medium-term growth, whether or not they succeed in
consolidating.”  Seeking Billions  Spokespeople for Liberty and CVC declined to comment, and
Kabel BW and Hellman & Friedman couldn’t be immediately reached
for comment. The Wall Street Journal reported previously that
Liberty was closing in on a deal to buy Kabel BW.  EQT, the private-equity firm partly owned by  Sweden ’s
Wallenberg family, had sought at least 3 billion euros, or 10
times earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization, a person familiar with the matter said this month.  Liberty paid 12 times Ebidta and 3.5 times revenue for
Unitymedia, its biggest deal to date, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. Kabel BW’s 2010 Ebitda was 316 million euros, on
sales of 563 million euros.  EQT decided against an initial public offering on concerns
that markets are too volatile in the wake of the Japanese
earthquake, tsunami and nuclear crisis, the people said.  European Laggard  Having lagged behind the rest of  Europe  in offering premium
television, Internet and telephony services, German cable
companies are expected to outperform European-wide market
growth, according to Guy Bisson, an analyst at IHS Screen
Digest. Demand for such services is allowing cable companies to
boost growth and bring in profit with so-called triple-play
services that combine television, Internet and telephony.    Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) , Germany’s former telephone monopoly,
said today that it will use some of the proceeds from its $39
billion disposal of its U.S. mobile unit to  AT&T Inc. (T)  to expand
its broadband offerings in Europe.  “Cable is a fabulous technology asset for high-speed
broadband and can offer much higher triple play that can be
achieved with copper,” said Draper, the analyst. “Cable will
keep growing at a much higher rate in terms of profit and
revenue than copper.”  Failed Attempts  Attempts to consolidate the German cable market failed in
the past.  Kabel Deutschland Holding AG (KD8) , which was separated from
Deutsche Telekom in 2003, scrapped a plan to buy Kabel BW and
Unitymedia’s Ish GmbH and Iesy eKabel Hessen GmbH units in 2004
because German antitrust regulators indicated they wouldn’t
approve the deal. The companies argue their push into broadband
and telephony means that they should be regulated as telecoms
companies rather than television distributors.  Liberty Global paid about 2 billion euros and assumed 1.5
billion euros in debt to acquire Unitymedia and it has
previously identified Kabel BW as a possible takeover target.  Germany’s largest cable operator,  Kabel Deutschland , has
risen more than 65 percent since listing on the stock exchange
in March last year. Liberty Global shares have risen 15 percent
this year, for a market value of about $9.8 billion.  Liberty, which has 3 billion euros available for
acquisitions, would be “opportunistic” about buying cable
assets in Western Europe as it seeks to bulk up, Chief Executive
Officer Mike Fries said last month. The company would like to
stay focused on Western European markets, such as  Switzerland ,  Austria ,  Netherlands ,  Germany  and  Belgium , he said.  Eighty percent of Liberty Global’s revenue comes from
Europe, and two-thirds of that comes from four countries,
Belgium, Netherlands, Switzerland and Germany, Fries said. In
Central-Eastern Europe, the company operates in five countries.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Kirchfeld in Frankfurt at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net ;
Ragnhild Kjetland in Frankfurt at 
 rkjetland@bloomberg.net ;
Anne-Sylvaine Chassany in Paris at 
 achassany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net ;
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  