-- 
Libya Political Bounce for Cameron, Sarkozy May Be Short-Lived

-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n   a n d   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t
-- 
2011-03-21T00:01:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/libya-campaign-political-bounce-for-cameron-sarkozy-may-be-short-lived.html
Any political bounce for U.K. Prime
Minister  David Cameron  and French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  as
they head the international drive against Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi  may ebb the longer the military campaign lasts.  “Cameron and Sarkozy are political animals, and they know
they can bank on this war for domestic needs,” Bruno Cautres,
an analyst at Cevipof, a Paris-based political research center,
said in a telephone interview. “But it’s hard to say if they
will keep the support for more than a few weeks. It could turn
on them.”  For now, the two may need the momentum to clear obstacles
at home. Cameron is enacting the deepest budget cuts since World
War II and Sarkozy is heading into an election year with polls
showing he’s the least popular president since the founding of
the Fifth Republic in 1958.  The fate of Cameron’s predecessors as wartime leaders
underscores the range of potential outcomes. Margaret Thatcher’s
victory in the 1982 war against  Argentina  over the Falkland
Islands helped her re-election bid the following year.  Tony Blair  quit in the middle of his third term as the war in Iraq
eroded his support.  “Foreign policy tends to unite a country,” Mark Wickham- Jones, professor of politics at Bristol University in western  England , said in a telephone interview. “This conflict should
give Cameron a successful pay-off but the domestic problems are
not going to go away.”  Cameron, whose government publishes its second budget March
23, plans to slash more than 300,000 public-sector jobs over the
next four years as government forecasters predict weaker growth,
higher unemployment and more borrowing, analysts say.  U.K. Cuts  Under deficit-slashing plans Cameron drew up in 2010,
Britain’s defense ministry was forced to reduce its budget by 8
percent over four years. The cuts include the ordering of fewer,
cheaper planes for one new  aircraft carrier  and the possible
mothballing of a second, which would carry only helicopters.
Defense Secretary Liam Fox has said as many as 11,000 members of
the armed forces face losing their jobs.  Defense Procurement Minister Peter Luff said March 8
further cuts this year were in the offing.  With his troops still battling the Taliban in  Afghanistan ,
Cameron “is vulnerable to the charge British forces are
overstretched in Libya and not properly equipped,”  Andrew Hawkins , chairman of London-based polling company ComRes Ltd.,
said in a telephone interview. “Ask the public what budgets
they think should be protected and defense is right up there
alongside the police and the NHS,” the National Health Service.  No-Fly Zone  Cameron and Sarkozy were the most vocal advocates of a no-
fly zone over  Libya  to protect civilians as Qaddafi turned the
tide in the bloodiest of popular uprisings in the Middle East
this year.  A United Nations resolution passed March 17 permits “all
necessary measures” short of an occupation to protect civilians
from the fighting, which has left hundreds dead. Qaddafi vowed
yesterday to repel allied forces pounding military installations
in his country for a second day as the U.S. called the opening
phase of the operation “very effective.”  The bombing campaign followed a summit convened by Sarkozy
in Paris, underlining the role he has sought to play. It’s not
the first time he has pushed for military action in the Middle
East. He bucked his predecessor Jacques Chirac’s opposition to
the U.S.-led war in  Iraq .  Marine Le Pen  With unemployment still close to 10 percent and polls
showing him trailing potential Socialist opponents and anti-
immigration campaigner Marine Le Pen, Sarkozy has been counting
on international policy to give him a boost, Cautres said.  France ’s presidency of the Group of 20 nations this year,
though, has yet to yield any political benefits.  And even if Qaddafi is ousted and Sarkozy gets the credit,
it may not do much for poll ratings that have sunk below 25
percent, said  Steven Fielding , director of the Centre for
British Politics at Nottingham University. He says the link
between military and electoral success is overrated.  “Look at the first Gulf War. It was short, they won, there
weren’t many casualties, and it was generally thought to be a
good war. And  George Bush  still lost to  Bill Clinton ,” he said.
“Winston Churchill couldn’t win an election in 1945, at the end
of World War II. That should settle the question.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net ;
Helene Fouquet in Paris at 
 hfouquet1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net . 