-- 
Libya Conflict to Bolster Tankers as U.S. Turns to Persian Gulf

-- B y   A l a r i c   N i g h t i n g a l e
-- 
2011-03-21T09:31:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/libya-conflict-to-bolster-tankers-as-u-s-turns-to-persian-gulf.html
The uprising against Libyan ruler  Muammar Qaddafi  may boost supertanker earnings above 2010 levels
as U.S. oil refineries are forced to increase imports from the
Middle East, Arctic Securities ASA said.  Demand for very large crude carriers, or VLCCs, could rise
as much as 6 percent as  Europe  takes a greater share of West
African and Algerian oil, forcing U.S. refiners to import more
from the  Persian Gulf , Arctic head of equities Ivar Larsen wrote
in an e-mailed report today. That would entail longer-distance
deliveries that effectively cut vessel supply.  “Given that this effect could be there for a year, we
could see a market that’s better than last year,” Larsen said
by phone. Tanker earnings “could surprise on the upside,”
according to the note.  Returns from supertankers on the industry’s benchmark Saudi
Arabia-to-Japan route have been above what Frontline Ltd., the
biggest operator, requires to make a profit on only 10 days this
year, according to data from the company and the  Baltic Exchange 
in London.  Libyan oil output has fallen to less than 400,000 barrels a
day, about a quarter of production before the crisis, and may
stop, Shokri Ghanem, chairman of Libya’s National Oil Corp.,
said on March 19. Italy’s  Eni SpA (ENI) , the biggest foreign oil
company in Libya, evacuated the last of its expatriate staff
after the United Nations authorized military action.  So far this year, rents on the Saudi Arabia-to-Japan route
have been 66 percent below the corresponding period in 2010,
declining 23 percent to $22,678 a day last week, according to
the Baltic Exchange. Of the 24 analysts following Frontline,
half recommend selling the company’s shares.  The Libya effect could lift overall VLCC utilization rates
above 92 percent this year from about 90 percent in 2010, Larsen
wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alaric Nightingale in  London  at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  