-- 
Libyan Rebel Council Forms Oil Company to Replace Qaddafi’s

-- B y   B i l l   V a r n e r
-- 
2011-03-22T09:17:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/libyan-rebel-council-sets-up-oil-company-to-replace-qaddafi-s.html
Libyan rebels in Benghazi said they
have created a new national oil company to replace the
corporation controlled by leader  Muammar Qaddafi  whose assets
were frozen by the United Nations  Security Council .  The Transitional National Council released a statement
announcing the decision made at a March 19 meeting to establish
the “Libyan Oil Company as supervisory authority on oil
production and policies in the country, based temporarily in
Benghazi, and the appointment of an interim director general”
of the company.  The Council also said it “designated the Central Bank of
Benghazi as a monetary authority competent in monetary policies
in  Libya  and the appointment of a governor to the Central Bank
of Libya, with a temporary headquarters in Benghazi.”  The Security Council adopted a resolution on March 17 that
froze the foreign assets of the Libyan National Oil Corp. and
the  Central Bank  of Libya, both described in the text as “a
potential source of funding” for Qaddafi’s regime.  Libya holds Africa’s largest oil reserve. Output has fallen
to fewer than 400,000 barrels a day,  Shokri Ghanem , chairman of
the National Oil Corp., said on March 19. The country produced
1.59 million barrels a day in January, according to estimates
compiled by Bloomberg. Exports may be halted for “many months”
because of sanctions and unrest, the International Energy Agency
said.  ‘Extended Shutdown’  Brent crude  for May settlement on the London-based ICE
Futures Europe exchange fell 0.3 percent to $114.62 as of 8:50
a.m. It surged to a 2 1/2-year high of $119.79 on Feb 24 as
geopolitical tensions spread throughout the Middle East and
North  Africa .  The European benchmark will average $109 a barrel this
year, up from a previous forecast of $98, on expectations of an
“extended shutdown” of Libyan oil supplies, Societe Generale SA
said in a monthly review dated yesterday.  The statement by the Transitional National Council also
said the rebels would “urgently prepare a file on the referral
of Qaddafi and his gang and his associates involved in the
killing of Libyans to the International Criminal Court.”  The  Security Council  referred allegations of human rights
violations by the Qaddafi regime to the court in a resolution
adopted on Feb. 26.  The statement said the council would begin choosing
ambassadors to foreign countries.  The UN said yesterday that Deputy Ambassador  Ibrahim Dabbashi ,
who broke with the regime last month and said he was then
representing the rebels, was no longer Libya’s accredited
ambassador. Ambassador Mohammed Shalgham, who also broke with
the regime, similarly lost his accreditation when Qaddafi
appointed former UN General Assembly President Abdussalam Treki
as envoy to the world body.  Treki hasn’t presented his credentials yet to Secretary-
General Ban Ki-moon, a prerequisite for officials taking the
post.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bill Varner at the  United Nations  at 
 wvarner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  