-- 
Life Insurer Lobby Met Fed to Discuss Dodd-Frank Capital Rules

-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 
2011-03-21T20:53:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/life-insurer-lobby-met-federal-reserve-to-discuss-dodd-frank-capital-rules.html
Federal Reserve  Board staff met
with the American Council of Life Insurers as the trade group
pushes its proposal to exclude the industry from new  capital
requirements  designed for U.S. banks.  ACLI representatives led by Senior Vice President Julie
Spiezio met with Fed staff earlier this month to discuss “the
challenges of applying a bank-centric capital framework” on
insurance companies through the Dodd-Frank law that overhauled
the financial industry last year, the central bank said in a
 statement  on its website.  MetLife Inc. (MET)  and  Prudential Financial Inc. (PRU) , the biggest
U.S. life insurers, use the ACLI to promote their agendas in
 Washington . Dodd-Frank, designed to prevent a repeat of the 2008
financial crisis, subjects insurers to greater federal scrutiny.
The ACLI is pressing the Fed to exclude insurers from some bank
rules and instead rely on capital-adequacy calculations provided
by the industry’s state regulators.  “In addition to being highly inappropriate, it makes no
regulatory sense to apply these bank rules to insurers,”
Spiezio said in a Feb. 14  letter  to regulators including Fed
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke . “The liabilities and obligations of
the two types of entities are very different, and so their
capitalization and reserving requirements must be very different
as well.”  During the March 8 meeting, the ACLI discussed Dodd-Frank’s
so-called Volcker Rule, which prohibits banks from betting their
capital for their own accounts, and the Collins Amendment, a
provision that bars lenders from counting trust-preferred
securities as part of their capital cushions, according to the
Fed.  MetLife Chief Executive Officer Robert Henrikson, 63,
praised the ACLI in October for its work in shaping new rules
and urged executives of rival carriers to continue to press
regulators as Dodd-Frank gets implemented. The ACLI represents
companies that account for more than 90 percent of the assets
and premiums of the life insurance and annuity industry,
according to its website.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Frye in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net ; 