-- 
New Zealand to Grow 1.0% in 2011; Quake Rebuild to Lift 2012 GDP, IMF Says

-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 
2011-03-21T21:32:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/imf-sees-new-zealand-economic-growth-of-1-0-in-2011-up-to-4-0-in-2012.html
New Zealand ’s economy will grow 1
percent this year before earthquake rebuilding boosts the
expansion to 4 percent in 2012, the  International Monetary Fund 
said.  The damage from the September and February temblors is
estimated at NZ$15 billion ($11 billion), or 7.5 percent of
gross domestic product, the Washington-based IMF said as part of
an annual review of the country’s economy. The Rugby  World Cup 
later this year and higher trade will help propel growth, it
said.  The  Reserve Bank  of New Zealand’s half percentage-point cut
in the official cash rate to 2.5 percent this month was
appropriate, the fund said. The rate could be lifted
“relatively quickly” should inflation pressures mount because
a shift in recent years to floating-rate mortgages makes
consumers more sensitive to higher  interest rates , it said.  “Monetary policy will need to be tightened when it becomes
clear that the recovery is under way,” the IMF said in the
statement posted on its website. “The RBNZ needs to guard
against medium-term inflation expectations becoming anchored at
too high a level.”  The quakes destroyed homes and businesses in Christchurch,
the nation’s second-biggest city, and surrounding South Island
regions that make up about 15 percent of the national economy.
Prime Minister John Key yesterday said the government will curb
spending because its  budget deficit  will be wider than expected.  ‘Scope to Cut’  The central bank “has scope to cut the policy rate and
provide liquidity support for banks if necessary” should
domestic growth or global financial markets falter, the fund
said.  “Reflecting the impact of the earthquakes and slower-than-
expected economic recovery, we project the 2011 fiscal deficit
to reach 9 percent of GDP,” the IMF said. “We assume the
earthquakes increase public expenditure in the current year by
NZ$6.5 billion.”  The IMF said the government should target returning to a
 budget surplus  by 2015 to protect itself against future shocks
and reduce debt.  “We encourage the government to take concrete measures to
control spending and thereby strengthen the credibility of
budget plans,” it said. There is scope to reduce payments to
middle-income families, to rationalize  capital spending  and
improve the efficiency of public services, the fund said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  