-- 
Iraq Seeks Foreign Investment in Agriculture to Boost Output

-- B y   N a y l a   R a z z o u k   a n d   K a d h i m   A j r a s h
-- 
2011-03-21T16:05:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/iraq-seeks-foreign-investment-in-agriculture-to-boost-output-1-.html
  Iraq  is seeking foreign investment
in agriculture to help the country become self-sufficient in
grains within three years.  “We are offering incentives for farmers to speed up the
process and we welcome foreign investors,” Agriculture Minister
Ezzeddin al-Dawla told reporters in  Baghdad  today.  Surging food costs and rising unemployment have helped spur
protests across northern  Africa  and the Middle East, toppling
leaders in Tunisia and  Egypt . Iraq wants to curb dependence on
oil revenue, while agriculture has the potential to employ half
the country’s jobless, Prime Minister Nuri al-Maliki said at the
conference. Iraq has the world’s fifth-biggest oil reserves.  Iraq supplies about half of its grain needs currently, the
prime minister said. “Within a limited period and at a small
cost, Iraq’s agriculture has made significant progress,” he
said, adding that the government will offer loans for projects.  The country will import 4.91 million metric tons of grain
in the year through June, the  United Nations ’ Food and
Agriculture Organization said Feb. 4. Iraq’s national grain
production will total 4 million tons, the  FAO  said.  The Grain Board of Iraq signed 12 contracts in February to
buy 850,000 tons of wheat from the U.S. and  Australia , Director
General Muthana Jabbar said March 9. Iraq tendered for another
100,000 tons of any origin with a bidding deadline of March 26,
according to a document posted on the board’s website today.  Iraq plans to build up stockpiles of wheat in the next six
months, while wheat produced locally will come to market at the
end of April, Jabbar said, without estimating output figures.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nayla Razzouk in Amman at 
 nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net ;
Kadhim Ajrash in Dubai at 
 kajrash@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on 
 sev@bloomberg.net  