-- 
J&J, Polycom, Facebook, Harry Potter: Intellectual Property

-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 
2011-03-21T11:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/j-j-polycom-facebook-harry-potter-intellectual-property.html
The U.S. government and  Johnson &
Johnson (JNJ)  each filed patent-infringement lawsuits against  Teva
Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA)  to block sales of a generic
version of the HIV medicine Prezista.  Teva is seeking permission from the U.S. Food and Drug
Administration to market a copy of Prezista, which is sold by
J&J’s Tibotec unit. The government wants to block approval until
a patent it owns and licenses to J&J expires in 2019, according
to a complaint filed March 15 in federal court in  Newark ,  New
Jersey . Tibotec sued on March 16 in the same court, claiming
infringement of two patents expiring in 2015 and 2026.  Prezista, known by the chemical name darunavir and first
approved by regulators in 2006, is a protease inhibitor given
with other HIV medicines. It’s designed to block infected cells
from making new copies of the virus. U.S. sales of Prezista rose
32 percent to $401 million last year, making it New Brunswick,
New Jersey-based J&J’s fastest-growing pharmaceutical product.  The government’s patent 7,470,506, issued to the National
Institutes of Health and the University of  Illinois , is licensed
to Tibotec and covers a way to use Prezista so there is less
likelihood that drug resistance will develop.  The proposed generic versions, “if utilized in treatment
according to their proposed indications, will infringe” the
patent, the U.S. and university said in their lawsuit.  Denise Bradley, a spokeswoman for Petah Tikva, Israel-based
Teva, said the company had no comment. Such lawsuits are common
to clarify patent rights while the FDA separately considers the
generic-drug applications.  Tibotec sued Lupin Ltd. and Mylan Inc. in November,
claiming infringement of the 2026 patent and seeking a court
order to prevent them from selling copies of the medicine.  The government case is U.S. v. Teva Pharmaceuticals Inc.,
11cv1461, and the Tibotec case is Tibotec Inc. v. Teva
Pharmaceuticals USA Inc., 11-cv1509, both U.S. District Court,
District of New Jersey (Newark).  Apple, PayPal, Victoria’s Secret Targeted by Cordance Patent  Apple Inc.,  EBay Inc. (EBAY) ’s PayPay Unit, and Limited Brands
Inc.’s Victoria’s Secret unit were sued for infringing a patent
that is also subject of a case against Amazon.com Inc.  In a complaint filed March 14 in federal court in
Wilmington,  Delaware ,  Cordance Corp.  of Sammamish,  Washington 
accused the three companies of infringing patent 6,757,710.
Cordance sued Amazon in the same court in August 2006, claiming
the Seattle-based Internet retailer infringed three patents for
online shopping. In August 2009 a jury found that Amazon didn’t
infringe two of the patents and determined that the third --
which is subject of the new case -- was invalid.  Cordance appealed and U.S. District Judge May Pat Thygne
found claims in the disputed patent to be valid. Her ruling is
now under appeal to the Washington-based court that hears
appeals of patent cases.  In the new case, Cordance and co-plaintiff Efficent Online
Purchasing LLC of Newport Beach,  California , claim that online
purchasing methods each company uses infringed the patent.  It
asked the court for orders against further infringement, and for
awards of money damages, attorney fees and litigation costs.  Cordance is represented by  Karen E. Keller  and  John W. Shaw 
 Young Conaway Stargatt & Taylor LLP  of Wilmington.  The case is Efficient Online Purchasing LLC v.  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ,
1:11-cv-00222-UNA, U.S. District Court, District of Delaware
(Wilmington).  The earlier patent case is Cordance Corp. v.
Amazon.com Inc., 1:06-cv-00491-MPT, U.S. District Court,
District of Delaware (Wilmington). The appeal is Cordance Corp.
v. Amazon.com Inc, 10-01545, U.S. Court of Appeals for the
Federal Circuit.  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Polycom Claims Repair Service, Parts Supplier Infringe Marks  Polycom Inc., the world’s largest stand-alone maker of
videoconferencing equipment, sued two companies that repair and
produce telecom replacement equipment for trademark infringement
and is seeking $2 million in damages for each infringed mark.  According to the complaint filed March 17 in federal court
in Houston, D&S communications Inc., of Elgin, Illinois, and
Dynamic Voice Data Inc., of Stafford, Texas, are using the
Polycom marks without authorization.  Polycom claims that D&S is holding itself out as an
authorized Polycom repair vendor and is using counterfeit parts
made by Dynamic Voice Data. Included in the complaint are color
photos of Polycom products sent to D&S for repair, showing what
the Pleasanton, California-based company said are fake parts,
some bearing markings from Dynamic Voice Data.  The public is confused by these two companies’ actions,
Polycom claims, and websites the two companies operate use its
marks without authorization. Polycom says the two companies are
deliberately infringing the marks and that its reputation and
goodwill are damaged by their actions.  It asked the court to bar both companies from any
unauthorized use of the Polycom marks, and for an order for the
destruction of all infringing promotional materials.
Additionally, it seeks an award of the profits the two companies
derived from their alleged infringement and asked the court to
triple those amounts.  Additionally, Polycom requests damages of up to $2 million
per infringed mark, and awards of litigation costs and attorney
fees.  Neither D&S nor Dynamic Voice Data responded immediately to
e-mails requesting comment.  Polycom is represented by  John C. Cain , and  William D.
Raman  of Austin’s  Wong Cabello Lutsch Rutherford & Bruccculeri
LLP .  The case is  Polycom Inc. (PLCM)  v. D&S Communications Inc., 4:11-
cv-01018, U.S. District Court, Southern District of Texas
(Houston).  Web-Name Expansion May Cost Companies Millions to Defend Brands  Large companies may have to spend millions of dollars to
protect their brands under a proposal that would generate
hundreds more Internet domain names beyond dot-com and dot-org,
an industry group said.  The  Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers , an
international nonprofit organization that manages the Internet’s
global address system, is considering a plan to allow
applications for new Web suffixes that may include dot-bank,
dot-movie, dot-music, dot-eco and dot-love.  Such an expansion may prompt large companies to acquire
more Web addresses to keep their brands from being hijacked by
others, costing $746 million, or $500,000 per individual
company, according to the Coalition Against Domain Name Abuse,
an industry group in Washington whose members include  Wells
Fargo & Co. (WFC) ,  Morgan Stanley (MS) , and  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)   “The proposal that is on the table could allow for a
proliferation of websites that could confuse customers and make
it difficult for them to determine which ones are legitimate and
which are not,” Beverly Butler, a Wells Fargo spokeswoman, said
in an interview. “Depending on how many dot-banks, dot-moneys,
dot-whatever, we would have to protect our brands and our
product names. It would be legal costs and time.”  Morgan Stanley and Hewlett-Packard declined to comment.  ICANN, based in Marina del Rey, California, is reviewing
the domain-name proposal. The organization said the expansion
could help spark new business models and competition on the Web.  The application guidebook for domain names under
consideration by ICANN envisions trademark protections,
including a database of trademarks, dispute resolution systems,
and pre-emptive blocks for trademark holders, Pritz said.  ICANN oversees 21 generic, top-level domain names. If the
expansion plan is approved, the organization has said it may
initially produce hundreds of applications, which would
represent an unprecedented expansion of the Internet domain-name
system.  The debate is increasing over ICANN’s role in managing the
global Internet. The nonprofit organization, which was tapped in
1998 by the U.S. Commerce Department to oversee the domain-name
system, is facing calls from governments worldwide for a larger
role in policy making.  ICANN’s contract with the U.S. government is due to expire
in September. The Commerce Department has asked for public
comment on the group’s performance, and U.S. Assistant Secretary
of Commerce Lawrence Strickling called in a speech at the San
Francisco meeting last week for ICANN to “do more to engage
governments.”  ICANN has authorized small numbers of new domain names in
the past, but none has approached the dominance of dot-com,
which accounts for 71 percent of all Web registrations since
2001.  Last year, dot-com had 89.2 million address registrations,
dot-net had 13.5 million, and dot-org had 8.3 million. All three
are so-called “legacy domains” that were created in 1985
before the formation of ICANN. The next most popular domains
were dot-info with 6 million registrations in 2010 and dot-biz
with 2 million.  The remainder of existing domain names didn’t top a million
registrations, and the least popular, dot-museum, had 553.
Registrations for dot-gov, dot-mil and dot-edu are not
disclosed.  Large brands are not asking for additional domain names,
said Alan Drewsen, executive director of the International
Trademark Association, whose board of directors includes  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  and PepsiCo Inc.  ICANN’s proposed domain-name expansion may increase the
potential for “typosquatting,” the practice of registering
Internet addresses that target people’s typing mistakes with
misspellings of brand-name sites, according to a Bloomberg
analysis. Such Web sites typically have little or no content,
and derive revenue from visitors who inadvertently arrive at the
sites and click on advertisements.  Jobs Action-Figure Maker Halts Sale of Mark Zuckerberg Toy    China ’s MIC Gadget, which offered an action figure of Apple
Inc. founder Steve Jobs until his Cupertino, California-based
objected, has run into the same situation with a figure
depicting another tech giant.  The store’s website shows a listing for a  Mark Zuckerberg
action figure  selling for $69.90. The founder of the Facebook
Inc. social media site is depicted wearing a brown hooded
sweatshirts, jeans and sandals, and is shipped with two
different acrylic signs he can hold. One says “like” and the
other “poke,” both of which are commonly exercised Facebook
functions.  The figure, which is described by MIC as “the most
friendly toy” we’ve ever seen, is  listed as discontinued .
According to the  Digital Spy website , MIC was sent a cease-and-
desist letter by a Beijing law firm representing Facebook.  MIC may try to make an end run around the cease-and-desist
notice or at least try to poke fun at the Palo Alto, California-
based company’s infringement allegations. After it received a
similar notice from Apple’s lawyers about the Steve Jobs figure,
it posted what it called “The Phenomenal Pineapple CEO Action
Figure (Ninja Edition).”  That listing is for the Jobs figure Apple found
objectionable, altered by being hooded Ninja-style, holding
Ninja stars in his hand instead of an iPhone. The ad copy notes
that the Pineapple CEO is presently on medical leave “and his
body will get stronger with his Ninja training.” That figure is
 sold out , according to the MIC website.  MIC , whose company name stands for “Made in China,
according to its website, mainly sells accessories for Apple’s
iPads and iPhones.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Harry Potter Author Loses Bid to End U.K. Willy the Wizard Case  J.K. Rowling, the world’s richest author, and her
publishers lost a bid to dismiss a U.K. lawsuit alleging she
copied part of a children’s book about a wizard when writing
“Harry Potter and The Goblet of Fire.”  The case against  Bloomsbury Publishing Plc (BMY)  deserves further
argument even though it has “poor” prospects of success,
Justice David Kitchin ruled March 18 at the High Court in  London . The judge ordered the claimant to post a security bond
to pay the publisher’s costs if the lawsuit fails.  The estate of deceased English author  Adrian Jacobs  sued
Bloomsbury in London in June 2009, alleging part of his 1987
book, “The Adventures of Willy the Wizard: No. 1 Livid Land,”
was plagiarized by Rowling. In October Kitchin previously
declined to dismiss the case.  The estate claims that Jacobs used concepts and themes such
as wizard prisons, wizard hospitals and wizard colleges before
Rowling did. The year of wizard contests in the book was similar
to a central theme of “The Goblet of Fire,” the estate
claimed.  The two authors also shared an agent,  Christopher Little ,
who manages the Harry Potter brand worldwide, according to the
estate.  Bloomsbury referred media calls to Rowling’s spokeswoman,
Nazneen Nawaz, who didn’t immediately return a call for comment.
Rowling has called the claims “unfounded” and “absurd.”  The case is Paul Gregory Allen v. Bloomsbury Publishing
Plc, case no. 09-1979, High Court of Justice, Chancery Division
(London).  For more copyright news, click here.  IP Moves  King & Spalding Expands IP, Technolgy-Licensing Practice  King & Spalding LLP hired Richard C. Hsu for its IP and
technology-licensing practice, the Atlanta-based firm said in a
statement.  Hsu , who joins from Atlanta’s Kilpatrick Townsend LLP, has
also previously practiced at the Venture Law Group. He also
served as general counsel of Cyrano Sciences Inc.  He has worked with life science, semiconductor, medical
device, electronics/software and financial services companies.
Hsu is resident in the firm’s Silicon Valley office.  Hsu has an undergraduate degree in engineering and applies
science from the California Institute of Technology and a law
degree from Columbia University.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 