-- 
J&J Duped South Carolina Doctors Over Risperdal, Lawyer Says

-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y   a n d   G a r y   H e n d e r s o n
-- 
2011-03-21T21:38:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/j-j-duped-south-carolina-doctors-over-antipsychotic-risperdal-lawyer-says.html
Johnson & Johnson executives
deceived  South Carolina  doctors about the safety of the
antipsychotic drug Risperdal, and the drugmaker should be held
liable for that deception, a lawyer said.  J&J made misleading claims about Risperdal’s health risks
and effectiveness in a letter to more than 7,000 South Carolina
doctors and that violated consumer protection laws, John
Simmons, a lawyer for the state, said in closing arguments of
the trial of a lawsuit seeking at least $360 million in
penalties.  The drugmaker, based in  New Brunswick ,  New Jersey , used
“unfair and deceptive acts” in a marketing campaign designed
to dupe doctors into signing off on Risperdal for mental-health
patients, Simmons told jurors today.  The state’s case centers on drug-safety claims that J&J and
its Ortho-McNeil-Janssen Pharmaceuticals unit made in November
2003 correspondence to 700,000 doctors across the U.S.,
including 7,200 in South Carolina. The U.S.  Food and Drug
Administration  responded with a warning letter saying J&J made
false and misleading claims that minimized the potentially fatal
risks of diabetes and overstated the drug’s superiority to those
from competitors.  J&J contends the state hasn’t proved the company set out to
mislead doctors about Risperdal or started a “spin campaign”
to bolster sales of the drug,  Steven J. Pugh , one of the
drugmaker’s lawyers, said in his closing statement.  Fall in Sales  South Carolinians with mental-health issues “have
benefited from Risperdal,” Pugh said. “You haven’t heard that
anyone in South Carolina has been harmed by Risperdal.”  Risperdal’s global sales peaked at $4.5 billion in 2007 and
declined after the company lost patent protection. It generated
$3.4 billion in sales in 2008, or 5.4 percent of J&J’s total
sales, according to company filings. Sales of the drug fell to
$527 million last year, according to a January earnings report.  Risperdal Consta, the long-acting version of the
antipsychotic drug, generated $1.5 billion in sales last year
for  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) , officials said this month.  Under South Carolina’s unfair trade practices law, if
jurors decide Johnson & Johnson deceived doctors about Risperdal
in the 2003 letter, the company can be fined as much as $5,000
for each letter. Judge Roger Couch will decide the financial-
penalty issue after jurors hand down their decision.  Third Jury Trial  The case is the third of about 10 state lawsuits to be
considered by jurors over J&J’s Risperdal marketing campaigns.
In June, J&J won dismissal of  Pennsylvania ’s suit alleging the
company hid the drug’s diabetes risk and tricked regulators into
paying millions more than they should have for the medicine.  A Louisiana jury ordered the drugmaker in October to pay
$257.7 million in damages to that state for making misleading
claims about Risperdal’s safety. A judge later added $73 million
in legal fees to the award.  A West Virginia judge in a 2009 non-jury trial awarded
$3.95 million, finding the company misled doctors about the
risks and benefits of Risperdal. The state dropped its Risperdal
claim after J&J won an appeal, company officials said in
February.  J&J’s Risperdal letter to doctors was part of a campaign to
protect billions of dollars in sales of the antipsychotic drug
and showed a lack of concern for the safety of South Carolina
patients who took the drug, Simmons said.  The drugmaker set up a “spin machine” to deceive doctors
about the drug and hid studies casting doubt on the medication’s
safety and effectiveness, the lawyer said. “It was all about
the money,” he added.  ‘Send a Message’  “You have the power to send a message to these companies
that you can’t hide stuff,” Simmons said. “Tell them, no
unethical, immoral conduct in South Carolina.”  The Risperdal letter in the state’s crosshairs isn’t a
proper basis for the attorney general’s claims that the
drugmaker violated  consumer-protection laws , Pugh countered.  The FDA warned J&J in 2004 to correct some things in the
letter, but never formally sanctioned the drugmaker for sending
it out, the lawyer added.  “The November 2003 letter was true then and it’s true
now,” Pugh said. Risperdal is different from other
antipsychotic medicines and “doctors needed to know that,” he
added.  Jurors will begin deliberating the case tomorrow.  The case is State of South Carolina v. Janssen
Pharmaceuticals, 2007-CP-4201438, Circuit Court for Spartanburg
County, South Carolina (Spartanburg).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net ;
Gary Henderson in Spartanburg, South Carolina at
 wgaryh@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 