-- 
Jaczko’s Call on Fukushima Radiation Plucks U.S. Regulator From Obscurity

-- B y   J i m   E f s t a t h i o u   J r .   a n d   S i m o n   L o m a x
-- 
2011-03-21T16:35:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/jaczko-s-call-on-fukushima-radiation-plucks-u-s-regulator-from-obscurity.html
Investors seeking some direction on
the potential severity of  Japan ’s nuclear crisis got it from a
person most probably hadn’t heard of until last week.  “We believe that the secondary containment has been
destroyed and there is no water in the spent-fuel pool,”
Gregory Jaczko, chairman of the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory
Commission, said at a congressional hearing on March 16. “We
believe that radiation levels are extremely high.”  Stocks fell from the U.S. to  Russia , with the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index ending the day down 2 percent. Currencies
including the Australian dollar and Indonesian rupiah also fell,
along with crude oil and copper. Market commentaries for an
array of investments cited Jaczko’s remarks.  Japan’s nuclear crisis has thrust the agency that regulates
U.S. atomic power plants into the spotlight. Policy makers and
financial markets alike are listening to its chairman, a 40-
year-old native of upstate  New York  who associates say has been
one of the most aggressive advocates of nuclear safety on the
five-member commission.  Some lawmakers “probably might have had trouble telling
you what NRC stood for” before the crisis in Japan, said Kevin
Cook, a former senior Republican aide on the House
Appropriations Committee. “Now it’s taken a much higher
profile,” Cook, now a Prescott, Arizona-based energy
consultant, said in an interview.  Fifty Miles  On the same day he testified to Congress, Jaczko briefed
President  Barack Obama  on conditions at the Fukushima Dai-Ichi
nuclear plant. Based on his assessments, the U.S. Embassy in
Japan ordered that American citizens stay 50 miles (80
kilometers) from the reactor complex. Japanese officials had
ordered an evacuation to about 12 miles away.  While the  Associated Press  said Japanese officials denied
that the cooling pond at one of the reactors had dried up, a
condition that could cause spent fuel rods to ignite and release
radiation, Jaczko stood by his comments then, and again
yesterday on C-Span.  “I really can’t say that I have views on nuclear power or
the nuclear industry,” he said. “I have views on nuclear
safety.” His conclusion was based on reports from NRC experts
on the scene, he said.  Attention on Jaczko and his commission will continue this
week, starting with a public briefing on Japan today at the
agency’s headquarters in Rockville,  Maryland , north of downtown
Washington. Hearings are scheduled on reactor safeguards on
March 24.  No ‘Stern Taskmaster’  The crisis at the Japan plant may be “on the verge of
stabilizing,” Bill Borchardt, the NRC’s executive director of
operations, said at today’s briefing.  The NRC, created by Congress to regulate nuclear safety in
1974, hasn’t been as vigilant as its chairman might wish, said
Representative Dennis Kucinich, an Ohio Democrat.  “He impresses me as someone who wants to do the right
thing and of course the NRC has a tradition of not so much being
a stern taskmaster of the industry,” Kucinich said.  Jaczko, who declined through a spokesman to be interviewed,
was nominated to the NRC in 2005 by President  George W. Bush  and
named chairman by President Barack Obama in 2009. He earned a
bachelor’s degree in physics and philosophy at  Cornell
University  in Ithaca, New York, before completing a doctorate in
physics at the  University of Wisconsin  at Madison, according to
the NRC.  Before joining the NRC, Jaczko was science adviser to
current Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat,
and worked for Representative  Edward Markey , a Massachusetts
Democrat and critic of nuclear power.  Losing Side  Jaczko has been on the losing side of NRC votes to
strengthen safety measures, said Edwin Lyman, a physicist and
expert on nuclear plant design at the Cambridge, Massachusetts-
based Union of Concerned Scientists.  Greater exposure as a result of the crisis in Japan may
translate into more pressure from Congress as the NRC prepares
to rule on new nuclear reactor designs this year, Lyman said.  Last year, Jaczko ordered the NRC’s staff to stop
considering a proposed nuclear waste repository at Yucca
Mountain,  Nevada , a move that angered Republican lawmakers who
say he overstepped his authority. Reid, Jaczko’s former boss,
was a vocal critic of the Yucca Mountain plan.  The NRC is “under tremendous pressure on the Hill as well
as from industry to accelerate licensing actions,” Lyman said
yesterday on a conference call with reporters.  Quake, Tsunami  Jaczko said on C-Span yesterday that the NRC should be able
to complete its review of failures at the crippled Fukushima
plant before reaching a decision on new reactor licenses in the
U.S. He compared the commission’s work to its review of security
measures at nuclear plants after the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks,
which led to a requirement that operators add backup equipment
to cool reactors and spent fuel pools.  “We think we have programs in place that would deal with
the kinds of situations that we’re seeing in Japan,” he said on
C-Span.  The crisis at the Fukushima plant began after it was struck
March 11 by an earthquake and tsunami. The natural disasters
knocked out backup generators needed to power systems to keep
cool reactor fuel and spent nuclear fuel stored on site.  There are about 100 similar storage pools at about 60 sites
in the U.S., said Robert Alvarez, a senior scholar at the
Institute for Policy Studies and a former policy adviser to the
U.S. Energy Department.  Major Test  A major test of the NRC will be how the agency addresses
the issue of spent fuel storage, Alvarez said. Jaczko, who
Alvarez characterized as “a straight shooter,” may end up in
the minority, he said.  “Even though he’s chairman, there are other commissioners
and he’s just one vote,” Alvarez said in an interview. “In
order to fill seats on that commission, you have to get the OK
from the nuclear industry.”  Nuclear plant operators had misgivings about Jaczko when he
joined the NRC and then became chairman, Kai Anderson, who
served with Jaczko on Reid’s staff, said in an interview. Jaczko
was considered an “aggressive regulator,” said Anderson, now a
lobbyist at Cassidy & Associates in  Washington .  “He’s going to be the best thing that’s happened to them
in the last couple of decades because he’s actually a real
regulator,” Anderson said. “If Greg Jaczko tells me
something’s safe, I believe him.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Efstathiou Jr. in New York at 
 jefstathiou@bloomberg.net  and Simon Lomax in Washington at  slomax@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net . 