-- 
Japanese Bonds Fall Most in Five Weeks on Stocks, Nuclear Plant Progress

-- B y   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a
-- 
2011-03-22T06:45:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/japan-s-bonds-may-fall-a-second-day-as-nuclear-crisis-eases-yen-weakens.html
Japanese bonds fell the most in
five weeks as a weaker yen boosted stocks and optimism the
nuclear threat is being stabilized reduced demand for the safety
of government debt.  Longer-maturity bonds led losses on concern the government
will need to issue more debt to pay for reconstruction as the
nation rebuilds after its worst earthquake. Economic and Fiscal
Policy Minister  Kaoru Yosano  said bond sales, cuts to other
spending and tax measures may pay for reconstruction, adding it
would be undesirable to tap public pension funds.  “Stocks and the yen are stabilizing and coming back to
good levels, causing bonds to be sold,” said Akio Kato, team
leader for Japanese debt in Tokyo at Kokusai Asset Management
Co., which runs the $33 billion Global Sovereign Open fund.
“Reconstruction efforts will increase the nation’s debt burden,
which is negative for super long-term bonds.”  The 10-year yield rose 3.5 basis points to 1.245 percent as
of 3:44 p.m. in Tokyo at Japan Bond Trading Co., the nation’s
largest interdealer debt broker. The 1.3 percent security due
March 2021 dropped 0.314 yen to 100.488 yen. The drop in yield
was the most since Feb. 16  Ten-year bond futures for June delivery fell 0.34 to 139.40
at the afternoon close on the  Tokyo  Stock Exchange. Twenty-year
yields gained three basis points to 2.045 percent.  The yen has weakened to 80.90 per dollar after surging to a
post-World War II high of 76.25 on March 17. The Nikkei 225
Stock average advanced 4.4 percent today after Japanese markets
were shut yesterday for a public holiday.  ‘Signs of Stabilization’  “Markets including the foreign-exchange sector are showing
signs of stabilization, and that’s against Japan’s bonds,”
 Kazuhiko Sano , chief strategist at Tokai Tokyo Securities Co.,
wrote in a research note today. “Losses in bond futures may
widen, depending on gains in stocks.”  The Group of Seven intervened to weaken the yen on March 18,
saying in a statement that member nations would “provide any
cooperation” with  Japan .  Barclays Capital  and RBS Securities Inc.
estimate the G-7 sold about 2 trillion yen ($24.7 billion). A
stronger currency hurts the competitiveness of Japanese
exporters.  Japan has been battling for 12 days to prevent a meltdown
at the Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear plant, which was damaged by
the March 11 quake and tsunami. Tokyo Electric Power Co. expects
to restore power to parts of the building housing the most
damaged reactors, 1 through 4, by the end of today, Teruaki Kobayashi said at a news conference in Tokyo.  Extra Funds  The  Bank of Japan  added 2 trillion yen to the financial
market today in a one-day operation, bringing the total of
emergency funds pumped into the system to 40 trillion yen since
March 14. The BOJ increased liquidity to ensure the banks have
sufficient funds after the March 11 earthquake set off a global
rout in stock markets.  Finance Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  said today the government
is undecided on the size of the rebuilding package and will need
to assess the damage first.  Japan’s debt is set to reach 210 percent of gross domestic
product in 2012, the highest among countries tracked by the
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development.  The  Finance Ministry  will sell 2.6 trillion yen of two-year
notes on March 24. The previous two-year sale on Feb. 24 drew
bids for 3.7 times the amount on offer, compared with a bid-to-
cover ratio of 5.33 at the January sale.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yoshiaki Nohara in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net . 