-- 
Japan Economy V-Shaped Rebound Depends on End to Blackouts

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   A n s t e y   a n d   M a y u m i   O t s u m a
-- 
2011-03-22T11:05:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/japan-economy-s-v-shaped-rebound-from-quake-depends-on-end-to-blackouts.html
Japan  is likely to see a rebound in
the second half of this year after a blow that will be
determined by the magnitude of electricity disruptions caused by
the earthquake and tsunami, a survey of economists showed.  Banks are split on whether the nation will slip into a
recession, with Mizuho Securities Co. saying that’s “almost
certain,” and  Barclays Capital  not seeing a single quarter of
contraction. Annualized growth will trough at 0.4 percent in the
second quarter, the median forecasts of nine economists surveyed
by Bloomberg News show.  “The hits to the electricity supply and extent of the hits
to the supply chain are making it harder to analyze,” said
 Michael Buchanan , chief Asia-Pacific economist at Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. in Hong Kong, who previously worked at the
 International Monetary Fund . The longer it takes to restore
electricity, the bigger the damage, he said.  At stake for Japan’s trading partners is a resumption in
exports of components and equipment used in the assembly of
goods abroad, such as silicon wafers, liquid-crystal displays
and electric machinery. Supply disruptions could result in an
increase in business costs as companies opt to hold bigger
inventories, according to Moody’s Analytics.  Regional Impact  For now, the economic impact outside Japan is likely to be
limited, Buchanan said, adding that last week’s rally in
government debt across the region may fade. He recommended bets
on higher yields on five-year South Korean government debt. The
bonds yielded 4.10 percent at today’s close, compared with the
average of 4.30 percent since the start of the year.  Prime Minister Naoto Kan yesterday said there’s “light at
the end of the tunnel” in the nation’s battle to avert a
nuclear meltdown at a crippled power plant, which threatened a
deeper shock to the nation’s consumers.  Economists at companies including Macquarie Capital
Securities have yet to produce fresh gross domestic product
projections in the aftermath of Japan’s record magnitude-9
earthquake and ensuing tsunami. The government hasn’t estimated
the economic damage caused by the disaster, which devastated
northeast areas of the country.  Government Plans  Finance Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  told reporters today the
government is undecided on the size of the rebuilding package
and will need to assess the damage first. Economic and Fiscal
Policy Minister  Kaoru Yosano  said that bond sales, cuts to other
spending and tax measures could pay for reconstruction, adding
that it would be undesirable to tap public pension funds.  The catastrophe killed at least 8,649, wrecked thousands of
buildings and forced companies from Honda Motor Co. to Hitachi
Ltd. to suspend factories. Tokyo, which saw a limited physical
impact, has been affected by an uncounted exodus of people to
 Osaka  and abroad, with consumers still in the city stockpiling
items from batteries to noodles.  “Even though panic buying of daily necessities may well
prove a temporary boost to demand, the level of economic
activity will be lower” because of fears of radiation from the
power plant and electricity shortages, Deutsche Bank AG
economists Mikihiro Matsuoka and Seiji Adachi wrote in a March
18 report.  Japan’s economy contracted in the fourth quarter, and
officials previously saw a rebound in January to March. Deutsche
Bank analysts now see a second straight drop in GDP, with a
return to growth in April to June. “Estimates are highly
unreliable at best,” they warned.  Tokyo Electric  Tokyo Electric Power Co. began rolling blackouts of Tokyo
and surrounding areas after the disaster, with exact outages
decided on a daily basis.  “The efficiency of global logistics chains is being
challenged,”  Matt Robinson , an economist at Moody’s Analytics
in Sydney, wrote in a note yesterday. “The result could be a
shift towards greater inventory levels in future” that pushes
up costs, he wrote.  Among the variables for Japan’s economy: the blow to
consumer and business confidence from a slide in stocks and
appreciation in the yen, which undermines exporter
competitiveness. The  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average has tumbled 7.9
percent since the March 11 earthquake. It rose 4.4 percent to
9,608.32 at the close today in Tokyo.  Lost Wealth  “A lot of wealth was lost as a result of the disaster,
including the drop in share prices, and this will be a minus for
the economy in the medium to long term,” said  Susumu Kato ,
chief economist for Japan in Tokyo at Credit Agricole CIB and
CLSA, who sees three straight quarters of GDP decline.  Japan’s currency has gained 2.5 percent since the quake,
limited by the Group of Seven’s coordinated intervention to sell
yen on March 18. It was little changed at 80.95 per dollar at 11
a.m. in  London .  Morgan Stanley MUFG Securities Co. analysts led by  Robert Feldman  in  Tokyo  wrote in a note today that second quarter GDP
will shrink at an annualized pace of 6 percent to 12 percent,
depending on damage to the northeast and extent of disruptions
to the electricity and distribution system. Policy makers will
probably implement “several” spending packages of 10 trillion
yen or more, they wrote.  “Initially the economy is likely to enter a steep
recession,” Morgan Stanley said. The economy will contract by 1
percent to 3 percent in 2011, with next year’s outcomes ranging
from a 1 percent shrinkage to 3 percent growth, the note said.  After Kobe  The fillip provided by private and public investment in the
aftermath of the 1995 Kobe earthquake helped the economy
accelerate for two years after three years of near zero growth.
World Bank staff said yesterday that it may take five years for
Japan to rebuild, and cited private estimates for the damage
wrought ranging from $122 billion to $235 billion.  One possibility: the calamity mobilizes policy makers to
address long-standing challenges such as the need to rein in
Japan’s fiscal deficit, and spurs corporate leaders to ramp up
investment, according to economist Simon Wong.  “It’s hard to predict -- these types of events tend to
lead to something totally unforeseen,” said Wong, a former  Hong
Kong  Monetary Authority economist who now works at Standard
Chartered Plc in Hong Kong.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mayumi Otsuma in Tokyo at 
 motsuma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  