-- 
Japan Reconstruction After Earthquake May Last Five Years, World Bank Says

-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m
-- 
2011-03-21T06:23:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/japan-may-take-five-years-to-rebuild-after-quake-tsunami-world-bank-says.html
The  World Bank  said it may take
five years for  Japan  to rebuild after this month’s earthquake
and tsunami, which killed at least 8,450 and destroyed thousands
of buildings.  “If history is any guide, real gross domestic product
growth will be negatively affected through mid-2011,” the
Washington-based lender’s staff said in a report today. “Growth
should though pick up in subsequent quarters as reconstruction
efforts, which could last five years, accelerate.”  Japanese Prime Minister  Naoto Kan ’s government plans to
compile a supplementary budget to pay for reconstruction, which
the finance minister said is unlikely to be unveiled by month-
end. The central bank last week injected record one-day
liquidity to maintain stability in the nation’s money markets,
and authorities also led coordinated sales of yen with Group of
Seven counterparts on March 18.  World Bank staff cited private estimates for the damage
wrought that range from $122 billion to $235 billion. The damper
on the economy will have a “modest short-term impact on the
region,” with trade and investment flows disrupted, according
to the report. The automotive and electronics industries are
likely to be most affected, it added.  Bond Yields  The World Bank said that the 1995 Kobe earthquake and its
aftermath may help gauge events following the March 11
magnitude-9 temblor and the ensuing tsunami. Liquidity
injections by the  Bank of Japan  and appreciation in the yen, as
traders abandon the so-called carry trade amid speculation
overseas funds will be repatriated for reconstruction, are
“combining to create downward pressure on bond yields,”
according to the report.  The carry trade refers to investors borrowing in yen and
shifting the funds into higher-yielding currencies. Japan’s
benchmark government bond yields are the world’s lowest.  The yen appreciated to 76.36 per dollar on March 17,
surpassing its post-World War II peak of 79.75 reached in April
1995. Yields on benchmark 10-year bonds touched a two-month low
last week as the central bank said it will buy more government
debt to lower borrowing costs.  “A temporary growth slowdown in Japan will have a modest
short-term impact on the region,” according to the  World Bank 
report. “Disruption to production networks, especially in
automotive and electronics industries, could continue to pose
problems. At this stage, it is unclear how the disaster will
affect Japanese outward foreign direct investment, but it may
dent the pace of overseas investment as the country’s focus
turns inward on reconstruction.”  Global Impact  The impact of Japan’s strongest earthquake on record may
hurt global economic growth, Singapore’s Finance Minister
Tharman Shanmugaratnam said in the city-state today.  Japan’s financial systems are functioning without
disruption and the impact of this month’s earthquake may not be
as big as imagined, Naoko Ishii, the country’s deputy vice
minister of finance for international affairs, said in a
conference in  Singapore  today. Japan is “deeply committed” to
its international financing programs, she said.  “The actual damage to the actual economic activities in the
region is severe,” Ishii said. “When it comes to the overall
economic impact of Japan, however, it may not be as large as we
imagined. GDP share of the three most-affected regions is 4
percent of the Japanese total GDP and that region is not
necessarily sitting in the industrial heartland.”  Fragile Sentiment  Police said more than 8,400 people died and about 13,000
are still missing after the disaster, which triggered a nuclear
crisis in Japan.  Reconstruction activities will offset the effects of the
March 11 temblor, Ishii said. Business and consumer sentiment is
understandably fragile, as the threat of radiation leak from a
damaged nuclear plant could affect the way of life, she said.  “Private insurers are likely to bear a relatively small
portion of the cost, leaving a substantial part to be borne by
households and the government,” World Bank staff said in the
report. The cost to the insurers range from $14 billion to $33
billion, they said, citing an estimate by AIR World.  A power shortage after the quake forced companies such as  Sony Corp. (6758)  and  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  to halt production. South
Korean firms are facing higher prices for memory chips, in part
because Japan accounts for up to 36 percent of global production
and that production is now disrupted, while Thai exporters of
cars report that current supplies of components imported from
Japan will last through April, the World Bank said.  Debt Costs  A rising yen may increase debt-servicing costs for East
Asian nations, the lender said in the report, adding that about
one-quarter of developing East Asia’s long-term debt is
denominated in the Japanese currency, ranging from about 8
percent in  China  to about 60 percent in  Thailand .  “A one percent appreciation in the Japanese yen translates
into a $250 million increase in annual debt servicing on yen-
denominated liabilities held by East Asia’s developing
countries,” the lender said.  Developing East Asia, which excludes Japan,  Hong Kong ,  Taiwan ,  South Korea , Singapore and  India , will expand 8.2
percent this year, World Bank staff said in the semiannual East
Asia and Pacific Economic Update report today. The region grew
9.6 percent in 2010, it estimated.  Policy makers across the East Asian region need to tighten  monetary policy  to keep inflation expectations from escalating,
according to the report. Governments should also let their
discretionary fiscal stimulus packages lapse, it said.  Monetary Policy  Asian central banks from China to Thailand and South Korea
have raised  interest rates  this year as a jump in crude  oil
prices  escalates the danger of inflation in a region that’s led
the global economic rebound. Policy makers are juggling
containing inflation and protecting growth as higher energy
prices reduce consumers’ purchasing power and increase the costs
of doing business.  “Evidence that price shocks are not temporary is now
plentiful,” the World Bank staff said in the report.
“Inflation has become the key short-run challenge for the
authorities in the region, complicated by a surge in portfolio
capital inflows and rapidly increasing food and commodity prices.
Price shocks are affecting  core inflation  that could trigger a
wage-price spiral.”  Some Asian currencies and stock markets have surged in the
past year as the U.S. Federal Reserve’s quantitative easing
helped spur investments into the region’s assets, forcing policy
makers to battle capital flows that risk creating asset bubbles.  “Currency appreciation -- especially with the pause since
late 2010 -- has not hampered the recovery, although exporters’
margins have been affected,” the World Bank said. “Exchange
market intervention has limited the extent to which nominal
exchange rates across the region have strengthened, but that has
been largely offset by higher inflation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  