-- 
Japan’s Farmers Say Government Must Provide Clarity to Prevent Food Scare

-- B y   F i n b a r r   F l y n n   a n d   F r e d e r i k   B a l f o u r
-- 
2011-03-21T13:04:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/japan-s-farmers-say-government-must-provide-clarity-to-prevent-food-scare.html
Farmers said  Japan  isn’t doing
enough to clarify which crops may be contaminated by radiation
from a stricken nuclear plant and prevent a food scare as the
government said there are no immediate health risks.  Radiation exceeding government limits was detected in milk
and spinach produced close to the Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant,
which was damaged by Japan’s March 11 earthquake and tsunami.
Engineers have yet to cool all of the reactors to safeguard them
from further radiation leaks. The  Central Union of Agricultural
Co-operatives  is demanding the government compensate them for
any lost revenue caused by either contamination or rumors.  “People should not overreact and behave calmly as experts
say there is no possibility of an impact on health,” Chief
Cabinet Secretary Yukio Edano said at a press briefing in  Tokyo 
today. “The limit levels are figures that may possibly affect
health if you keep eating products with such levels for the rest
of your life.”  The government will analyze monitoring information from
various locations and implement additional restrictions if
necessary, Edano said.  “As for the restriction of shipments, we are taking all
possible measures to ensure that the appropriate compensation
will be made,” Edano said. “Fundamentally, the primary
responsibility is on Tokyo Electric as it stems from the nuclear
disaster. If it can’t compensate fully, the central government
will secure them.”  Tokyo Electric Power Co. runs the Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant.  Farmers Demand Clarity  “Unless the authorities are clear about the levels of
contamination in produce and regions, there are going to be
harmful rumors,” said Toshihiko Baba, a spokesman for the
Central Union of Agricultural Co-operatives, which represents
more than 4.8 million farmers. “If they need to order a
stoppage in shipments of some products, they should do so
instead of leaving us to make that decision.”  Asian countries are screening Japanese imports, and Taiwan
said yesterday it detected radiation on vegetables that was
within acceptable limits. Stores and restaurants across  Asia 
dropped Japanese food from shelves and menus as the nation’s
government halted spinach shipments and told residents around a
stricken nuclear plant not to drink tap water.  Shipments will be stopped “for the time being,” Edano said
at a briefing today.  Japan is asking officials in 47 prefectures to test produce,
seafood and drinking water for radioactive elements to prevent
consumption of tainted grains, milk, vegetables, meat and eggs,
Kumiko Tanaka, an official at the  Ministry of Health, Labor and
Welfare , said March 18.  Demand Drops    Mandarin Oriental International Ltd. (MAND)  joined  Shangri-La Asia
Ltd. (69)  in withdrawing Japanese fresh food from its kitchens. Lotte
Shopping Co.,  South Korea ’s biggest retailer, plans to halt
sales of some fish from Japan starting tomorrow, Nah Geun Tae, a
company spokesman, said by phone today.  Sushi restaurants and hotels, including Shangri-La Asia’s
luxury chain and  London ’s Zuma and Roka Japanese restaurants,
said last week they stopped buying fresh produce from Japan
because of fears of contamination.  Marriott International Inc.’s JW Marriott Hotel in  Hong Kong  has stopped ordering food from Japan, spokeswoman
Fiona Szeto said. Hong Kong supermarket chain City’super isn’t
buying food from Fukushima prefecture and will look into
revising its policy on imports from Japan today, said Emily Wong,
a spokeswoman.  Rice Region  The Tohoku region devastated by this month’s quake and
subsequent tsunami accounts for more than a quarter of the
country’s rice production, government figures show.  The health ministry has set safe limits for radiation in
various food products, measured in Becquerel, a gauge of the
strength of radioactivity in materials such as Iodine-131 and
Cesium-137.  The prescribed safe limit for I-131 in vegetables is set at
2,000 Becquerel (Bq) per kilogram and 500 Bq/kg for radioactive
cesium. The highest reading reported on the ministry’s website
so far has come from a sample of spinach collected on March 18
from Hitachi city, 97 kilometers (60 miles) south of the plant.
The spinach, which didn’t enter the food chain, contained 27
times the safe limit of radiation.  Fukushima produced 436,600 metric tons of rice in 2008, the
nation’s fourth-largest crop and 5.2 percent of the total
harvest, Yoshiyo Sawada, an official at Fukushima prefecture’s
farm products safety distribution division, said by phone today.  Information Exchange  Food safety regulators from at least six countries plan to
share data and monitor the situation in Japan, where some
radiation contamination has been reported,  David Crowe , a  New
Zealand  agriculture ministry spokesman, said by telephone today.  Representatives from food agencies in Japan, the U.K.,  Canada ,  Australia  and New Zealand discussed the situation in
Japan on a regular conference call on March 18 and agreed to
exchange information, Crowe said.  “I worry about radiation’s impact on food,” said Haruka
Sekiguchi, 78, as she shopped at a Life supermarket in Tokyo’s
Nakano district. “I won’t buy spinach and milk. I am checking
all labels on vegetables before I buy them.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Finbarr Flynn in Tokyo at 
 fflynn3@bloomberg.net ;
Frederik Balfour in Hong Kong at 
 fbalfour@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Teo Chian Wei at   cwteo@bloomberg.net ;
Frank Longid at   flongid@bloomberg.net  