-- 
Japan Quake May Cost Life Insurers $4.9 Billion, Moody’s Says

-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 
2011-03-21T20:38:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/japan-quake-tsunami-could-cost-life-insurers-4-9-billion-moody-s-says.html
Japan’s worst earthquake on record
may cause as much as 400 billion yen ($4.9 billion) in claims
for life insurance companies, Moody’s Investors Service said.  “Life insurers with exposure to the region will be
impacted by increased death claims, higher accident and health
benefits, and lower revenues,” Neil Strauss, an analyst for
Moody’s, said today in a research report. “Our view is that the
companies will sustain moderate, but manageable, levels of
losses.”  MetLife Inc. (MET)  and  Prudential Financial Inc. (PRU) , the biggest
U.S. life insurers, bought businesses in Japan in the past year
to expand in the world’s second-largest market.  Hartford
Financial Services Group Inc. (HIG) , which halted sales in the country
in 2009, continues to support existing customers there. In 2009,
life insurance sales in Japan were  $399 billion , or about 17
percent of the global total, according to Swiss Reinsurance Co.  “The domestic life insurers with greater market share will
be more meaningfully impacted than the better-diversified
international companies operating in Japan,” Strauss said.
“Our current views are based on a baseline scenario that
excludes the occurrence of a significant release of radioactive
material impacting a broad area of  Japan  for an extended period
of time.”  The 9.0-magnitude temblor and ensuing tsunami on March 11
killed at least 8,450 people, destroyed thousands of buildings
and crippled a nuclear power plant, causing radiation leaks.  The disaster probably won’t prompt downgrades to insurer
ratings, Strauss said. The low end of Moody’s claims-cost range
is 300 billion yen.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Frye in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  