-- 
Japan’s Nuclear Crisis May Be ‘Landmark’ for LNG Tanker Orders, Mirae Says

-- B y   K y u n g h e e   P a r k
-- 
2011-03-21T00:57:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/japan-s-nuclear-crisis-may-be-landmark-for-lng-tanker-orders-mirae-says.html
Renewed concerns about atomic power
triggered by an earthquake and nuclear crisis in  Japan  may spur
orders for $202 million liquefied-natural gas tankers already in
short supply, according to Mirae Asset Securities Co.  “The earthquake is a landmark event for the shipbuilding
industry,” Lee Sokje, a Seoul-based Mirae analyst, said today.
“Demand for LNG is going to grow as a source of alternative
energy, which could lead to a shortage of vessels. There’s
already not a lot available.”  Only 10 new LNG tankers have been ordered worldwide in the
past three years, creating the smallest backlog among major
commercial-vessel types, according to Mirae.  China ,  Germany , the
U.K. and Switzerland are among countries to have delayed or
reviewed nuclear plans as engineers try to prevent a meltdown at
the Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant north of  Tokyo  following the March
11 magnitude-9 temblor.  A pick-up in tanker demand will likely benefit Hyundai
Heavy Industries Co., Samsung Heavy Industries Co. and other
South Korean yards, the builders of about 90 percent of gas
carriers completed since 2000, according to Mirae. LNG tankers
are used to haul gas that has been chilled into liquid form to
consumers in the U.S.,  Europe  and Japan, the world’s biggest
user of the fuel, from producers such as Qatar and  Australia .  “LNG stands to benefit significantly from what’s happened
in Japan,”  Neil Beveridge , an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein &
Co., said in a Bloomberg TV interview last week. “As the world
builds less nuclear it will need alternative fuels and LNG is
really going to be the key fuel.”  California’s power blackouts in 2001 were followed by
orders for 214 gas carriers over the next six years as
governments sought to diversify energy supplies, Mirae’s Lee
said.  Order Backlog  At the beginning of the month, the global order backlog for
LNG tankers stood at 26, able to carry a combined 3.6 million
cubic meters of gas, according to  Clarkson Plc , the world’s
largest shipbroker. That’s equivalent to 7 percent of the
current global fleet. The backlog was 26 percent for  oil
tankers , 29 percent for  container ships  and 49 percent for dry-
bulk ships.  Shipping lines may be quick to order LNG tankers as
contracts for container ships and offshore drilling structures
mean that yards have few slots available before 2014, Mirae’s
Lee said. A new 160,000 cubic-meter LNG vessel costs about $202
million, down from a peak of $250 million in 2008, according to
Clarkson.  Order Pickup  LNG-tanker sales were already expected to climb this year
as shipping lines prepare for the start of production at new gas
fields. South Korea’s Ministry of  Knowledge Economy  in January
forecast a 75 percent increase in global orders this year.  Nippon Yusen K.K., Japan’s largest shipping line by sales,
ordered an LNG carrier from Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Ltd.
earlier this month, which is due for delivery in 2014.  Chevron
Corp. (CVX) ’s A$43 billion ($43 billion) Gorgon development,
Australia’s largest resources investment, is scheduled to begin
liquefying gas for export the same year.  Japan, which depends on imported fuel for most of its
needs, consumed 35 percent of the world’s LNG in 2009, according
to BP Plc.    Woodside Petroleum Ltd. (WPL) , based in Perth, Australia, is due
to start exports from its A$14 billion Pluto LNG field in
September. Qatar, the world’s biggest LNG exporter, may boost
its production capacity by as much as 10 million tons from 77
million tons, Energy Minister Abdullah al-Attiyah said in
December.  Qatar Gas Transport Co. last year received the last of 54
LNG tankers it had ordered from Hyundai Heavy, Samsung Heavy and
Daewoo Shipbuilding & Marine Engineering Co., the world’s three
largest shipyards.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kyunghee Park in Singapore at 
 kpark3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  