-- 
Japan Radiation Release Long-Term Problem, France’s ASN Says

-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 
2011-03-21T13:12:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/japan-radiation-release-long-term-problem-france-s-asn-says-1-.html
The release of radiation from the
crippled Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear power plant will be a
problem for  Japan  for years to come, according to the French
nuclear watchdog.  “We are at the beginning of the post-accident phase,”
Andre-Claude Lacoste, head of the Paris-based Autorite de Surete
Nucleaire, said at a press conference in Paris today. “Japan
will have to deal with the consequences of this accident for
decades.”  Radioactive contamination, which has been “significant,”
could spread to as far as 100 kilometers (62 miles) around the
site, he said. Japan’s Chief Cabinet Secretary Yukio Edano said
radiation levels found in Japanese food aren’t harmful while
distribution of spinach and milk will be limited after samples
had higher-than-normal radiation levels.  At the stricken nuclear plant 135 miles north of  Tokyo 
owned by Tokyo Electric Power Co., workers were evacuated from
reactor No. 3 after smoke was seen rising from the roof of the
building at around 5 p.m. today, the nuclear safety agency said.
Temperatures of pools holding spent fuel rods have cooled in the
past 24 hours, indicating the effect of thousands of tons of sea
water sprayed over the reactors since the March 11 earthquake
and tsunami, which knocked out cooling systems and water pumps.  Making Progress  The French watchdog appeared to be less upbeat about the
situation at Fukushima than Japanese authorities. Japanese Prime
Minister  Naoto Kan  said he could see “light at the end of the
tunnel” as Tepco said it had connected power to No. 3 and No. 4
reactors and was making progress in connecting reactors No. 1
and No. 2.  “The situation is not changing much,” Lacoste said,
adding that he would consider the atomic installation
“stabilized” when a lasting cooling system has been put in
place to replace “emergency measures” of dousing reactors and
spent-fuel pools with seawater from helicopters and fire trucks,
which is adding to radioactive contamination.  Getting power connected to the site is a “positive” step
and doesn’t provide guarantees that cooling systems will work,
Lacoste said.  “What is the state of the pumps and cooling circuits? This
will take more time to determine,” he said. “We are far from
reestablishing the cooling system.”  “Extremely low” radioactivity from the Japanese site will
reach mainland France March 23 and won’t pose any risk to public
health, according to the French organization. The level will be
between 1,000 and 10,000 less than what reached the country
following the 1986 Chernobyl nuclear accident.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  