-- 
Japan Early Election ‘Won’t Be Possible’ as Kan Battles Post-Quake Crisis

-- B y   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a   a n d   J o h n   B r i n s l e y
-- 
2011-03-22T07:18:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/japan-early-election-won-t-be-possible-as-kan-battles-post-quake-crisis.html
None of Japanese Prime Minister
 Naoto Kan ’s four predecessors lasted more than a year in office.
He may be set to avoid a similar fate as the country’s strongest
earthquake and a nuclear crisis rule out the likelihood of an
early election.  Dissolving the parliament, or Diet, “won’t be possible for
some time” given the need for national unity, said Kozo Yamamoto, a lawmaker for the opposition Liberal  Democratic Party .
“There’s no way the Diet can be dissolved,” said  Hiroshi
Kawaguchi , a member of the ruling Democratic Party of Japan.
Both spoke in interviews yesterday.  Kan was fighting for his political life before the March 11
temblor and tsunami struck, facing questions over a political
donation and hamstrung by his failure to get opposition
lawmakers to approve the sale of deficit-financing bonds. Now
the opposition has agreed to join him in a rebuilding effort
that will cost at least 5 trillion yen ($62 billion), according
to economists’ projections.  “They’re not going to worry about an election for months to
come, not in 2011,” said  Gerald Curtis , a professor of Japanese
politics at  Columbia University  in  New York . “This government as
it stands has to manage an immediate catastrophe.”  Coalition Proposal Rejected  The opposition’s newfound cooperation doesn’t extend to
uniting with the DPJ government and a prime minister who took
office only last June.  LDP leader Sadakazu Tanigaki on March 19 rejected an
invitation from Kan to join the cabinet as vice prime minister
for reconstruction. Yamamoto and legislator Hiroyuki Hosoda, a
former LDP secretary-general, said the idea of a coalition
government would only complicate the decision-making process.  “Opposition parties have said they will fully cooperate on
quake measures, so there’s no need to join the cabinet,” Hosoda
said.  Kan’s party signaled last week it was willing to compromise
on campaign promises in order to secure funding for the
reconstruction effort. DPJ secretary general Katsuya Okada said
the government needed to review spending pledges such as for
childcare handouts and toll-free highways.  ‘Deep Breath’  Rather than trying to draw in the opposition, Kan, 64,
should focus on soliciting their ideas and formulating a
strategy to speed up  Japan ’s recovery, Curtis said.  “What the crisis needs is not a grand coalition, it needs
an agreement on policy direction,” he said. “Kan has to take a
deep breath and figure out how to build a bipartisan approach.”  Nor is political wrangling gone for good, said  Kirby Daley ,
a Hong Kong-based senior strategist with Newedge Group’s prime
brokerage business.  “Political infighting in Japan is taking a back seat, for
obvious reasons,” he said. “The administration has six to
eight weeks before it will be politically viable for the
opposition to begin applying serious pressure again.”  Reconstruction Estimates  The  World Bank  yesterday said reconstruction efforts may
take five years. Barclays Capital analysts estimated the
reconstruction budget at 5 trillion yen to 7 trillion yen in a
March 18 research note. Nomura Holdings Inc. assumed 6 trillion
yen in new spending during the fiscal year starting April 1.
Morgan Stanley economist Takehiro Sato predicted “10 trillion
yen or so,” noting it will take time to gauge the scope of
what’s needed.  Japan’s  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average rose 4.4 percent today,
spurred by the progress in stabilizing the crippled Fukushima
Dai-Ichi nuclear plant, after tumbling 10 percent last week. The
yen was little changed against the dollar. The stock market was
closed yesterday for a holiday.  Tokyo Electric Power Co. yesterday said it was making
progress in getting power to reactors at the plant, prompting
Kan to say he could see “light at the end of the tunnel.” The
company today said damaged fuel rods at the facility in
northeastern Japan have released five kinds of radioactive
material and contaminating nearby seawater.  Rising Death Toll  The death toll from the disaster rose to 9,079 as of noon
today, with a further 12,645 people missing, according to the
 National Police Agency . The number of people evacuated from
their homes fell to 338,522, down from almost 400,000 last week.  Hours before the quake struck, Kan was fending off
questions in parliament over a donation that may have been made
by a non-Japanese resident, the same alleged violation that
prompted his foreign minister’s resignation earlier this month.  Even before the campaign finance accusations surfaced, Kan
was fighting calls for an early election as he tried to persuade
opposition lawmakers to authorize 44.3 trillion yen in
 government bonds  for the budget beginning in April to finance
the world’s largest public debt. Moody’s Investors Service in
February lowered Japan’s debt rating outlook on concern over
political gridlock, after  Standard & Poor’s  cut the rating in
January.  Soliciting Help  Since the quake, Kan has solicited help from former DPJ
leaders, including  Ichiro Ozawa , who was indicted in January for
his role in a campaign finance scandal. Ozawa was suspended from
the DPJ for the duration of his trial, provoking a backlash from
lawmakers loyal to him.  Kawaguchi, who is close to Ozawa, criticized Kan for trying
to bring Tanigaki into the Cabinet. At the same time, he said
the political landscape had changed and it was possible the
current parliament would last until elections for the Diet’s
lower house must be held in the second half of 2013.  “The DPJ bears the responsibility of responding to this
unprecedented once-in-a-thousand-year crisis,” he said.  While there was political impasse over the budget before
the earthquake, politicians “are now working even harder to
find an agreement for facilitating helping those who are
affected by the disaster,”  Susumu Kato , chief economist for
Japan at Credit Agricole CIB and CLSA in  Tokyo , and associate
Yoshiro Sato wrote in a March 16  research note . The idea that
Kan will dissolve the Diet by June isn’t realistic, they said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Takashi Hirokawa in Tokyo at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  