-- 
Millions of Japanese in Tsunami-Hit Region Face Cold Weather, Lack Water

-- B y   S t u a r t   B i g g s   a n d   K a t h l e e n   C h u
-- 
2011-03-23T06:38:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/japanese-aid-efforts-improving-as-devastated-communities-fight-to-survive.html
Millions of Japanese in regions hit
by the tsunami and 9.0 earthquake 12 days ago remain without
water as the government restores communications to remote towns
and villages in freezing weather.  While about 90 percent of  highways  damaged by the temblor
are open to the public, according to a United Nations  report ,
temperatures in northeastern Japan dropped as low as minus 4.3
degrees Celsius (24.3 degrees Fahrenheit) this morning. About
875,000 households, or roughly 2 million people, are without
water, the UN said.  “The situation is improving,” Filipe Ribeiro, general
director of Doctors Without Borders, said in a telephone
interview today after returning from the partially destroyed
village of Minamisanriku in Miyagi prefecture. “But from the
victim’s perspective it’s not enough.”  In Kesennuma, a Miyagi fishing village, Yayeko Komatsu, 53,
said some water and electricity was restored on March 20, though
the outskirts remain without services. Looking out onto a port
area where the tsunami reduced buildings to twisted metal scraps,
she said many residents who survived may never return.  ‘Too Dangerous’  “A lot of people are saying they don’t want to come back
and rebuild here,” she said, explaining she was in a fish-
processing plant when the earthquake struck and workers began
shouting to evacuate. “They say it’s too dangerous.”  Rescue workers came to pluck survivors from low-lying areas
by helicopter three days after the quake, she said. She made it
to higher ground in her car on roads clogged with other escaping
motorists.  Police in the prefecture, where the  death toll  is at 5,607,
are still looking for survivors as they gather corpses, Yuzuru
Honda, a police spokesman said by telephone yesterday.  “We will continue our effort to look for the living while
there is still a chance,” he said.  Miyagi officials have said they may need to relocate entire
communities.  Sendai , a city of 1 million, has compiled an extra
budget of 17.7 billion yen ($220 million) as it struggles to
restore gas and water supplies.  Rising Casualties  The overall toll from the disaster rose to 9,408 as of noon
today, with a further 14,716 people missing, according to the
 National Police Agency  in Tokyo. More than 268,000 people were
in shelters as of last night, according to government statistics.  Rain and snow has complicated efforts to reach remote area
and at times grounded helicopters, Ribeiro said. Still, most
evacuation centers have heating, though workers are struggling
to improve sanitary conditions, he said.  Japan  resumed fuel shipments to affected areas on March 21,
with Sendai Shiogama Port receiving its first vessel since the
disaster, according to the transport ministry. A lack of fuel
because of damaged ports and gas stations had hampered initial
relief efforts, the UN said.  In the Iwate town of Ofunato, Yoriko Sugawara, 57, walks
about 1 kilometer (0.62 miles) to a neighbor’s house each
morning where there is a natural well. She cooks foods that can
be stored for days to conserve water, she said.  “It was chaos inside the house,” she said of the falling
bookshelves and television after the March 11 quake struck.
“And that was only the beginning.”  Talking to Shelters  In addition to water there is still no electricity in parts
of the prefecture, spokesman Kazuhiko Asukagawa said by phone
today. Coordinating among 373 regional shelters is difficult
because landlines are down, he said.  “We can only communicate by sending people on foot or by
car or by relying on a small number of satellite phones,” he
said. “With people desperate to know the status and whereabouts
of their family members who could be in different shelters it
makes communication a big challenge.”  Some of the housing facilities need heaters and fuel to
cope with the cold, he said. Tomorrow’s forecast is for snow,
according  Japan Meteorological Agency .  Tokyo  Electric said today lights are on in the control room
at Fukushima Dai-Ichi’s reactor No. 3, while some lights are on
at reactor No. 4. Reactors No. 5 and 6 are already supplied with
electricity. Engineers have been unable to connect power to the
No. 2 reactor because of high radiation readings, a spokesman
for the Japan Nuclear and Industrial Safety Agency said today.  Radiation Released  Tokyo officials today advised not to give the city’s tap
water to infants after iodine exceeding recommended levels was
found at a water-treatment facility. Five kinds of radioactive
materials released by damaged fuel rods have been detected in
the sea, Tokyo Electric said in a report on its website.  Levels of Iodine-131, which increases the risk of thyroid
cancer, were 127 times higher than normal in a sample of
seawater, the company said. Seawater readings showed Cesium-134
was 25 times normal and Cesium-137 was 17 times higher, and
cobalt has also been detected,  Tokyo Electric  said.  Four quakes of 5-magnitude or greater struck eastern Honshu,
Japan, today within an hour starting at 7:12 a.m. local time,
according to the U.S. Geological Survey  website . There was no
impact on the Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant itself, the Japan Nuclear
and Industrial Safety Agency said in a statement.  Hot Meals  The 83,165 evacuees remaining in  Fukushima  have received
supplies though they want more hot meals, Eiichi Yamada, a
spokesman for the prefecture’s disaster headquarters said. They
also want updates on radiation levels, he said.  “Now we are facing a new challenge on how to compensate
farmers affected by radiation,” he said. “We cannot even
assess how much it will cost as contamination may spread from
milk and spinach and other leafy vegetables to seafood.”  Japanese authorities have barred the export of milk and
vegetables from the four areas affected by the plant’s radiation.
The U.S. Food and Drug Administration yesterday issued an  Import
Alert  barring shipments of milk and fresh produce from those
regions.  Japan agriculture ministry said yesterday it would check
farmland, including rice paddies, for radioactive contamination.
About 1,200 evacuees from  Fukushima prefecture , who lived
closest to the nuclear plant, have been moved to a relocation
center north of Tokyo, the  Saitama Super Arena .  In Kesennuma, resident Kiyoshi Igari, 65, was fishing near
the sea when the earthquake struck. He returned by bicycle to
the third floor of an apartment building about a minute before
the wave carried burning tanker ships and cars kilometers inland,
he said. Few structures near his apartment complex remain.  “There are lots of people here who love it as a hometown
and will want to rebuild,” he said. “What people need is low-
cost housing and they need it fast.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stuart Biggs in Kesennuma at 
 sbiggs3@bloomberg.net ;
Kathleen Chu in Osaka at 
 kchu2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  