-- 
Japan Reactor Containment Intact, Crisis ‘Stabilizing,’ U.S. Agency Says

-- B y   J i m   E f s t a t h i o u   J r .   a n d   S i m o n   L o m a x
-- 
2011-03-21T21:30:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/japan-reactor-containment-intact-crisis-stabilizing-nrc-says.html
Radiation containment units at
 Japan ’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear reactors are intact and the
situation at the plant “is on the verge of stabilizing,” a
U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission official said.  Pools of water used to prevent fuel rods from overheating
at units 3 and 4 are stabilizing,  Bill Borchardt , executive
director for operations, said today at a commission meeting in
Rockville, Maryland. Japanese Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  said
progress is being made in restoring power to reactors No. 1 and
No. 2, and plant owner  Tokyo Electric Power Co . said it had
restored electric power to No. 3 and No. 4.  “Containment at units 1, 2 and 3 appear to be
functional,” Borchardt said. “The fact that offsite power is
close to being available for use at plant equipment is perhaps
the first optimistic sign that things could be turning around.”  The nuclear regulator plans a review of all 104 U.S.
reactors to assess safety after the 9.0 magnitude earthquake and
tsunami on March 11 disabled cooling systems at the six-reactor
Fukushima plant. Explosions, fires and radiation leaks led to
the worst nuclear disaster in a quarter century.  “I don’t see a significant weakness” with the ability of
U.S. reactors to withstand natural disasters such as earthquakes
and tsunamis, Borchardt said today.  The NRC plans a 90-day review of reactor safety to assess
preparations at the U.S. plants and will publish the findings,
Borchardt said. A report on the NRC’s initial findings would be
released after 30 days, he said.  Safeguards Reviewed  After the NRC’s 90-day review, the agency may require extra
safeguards at U.S. plants if needed, Borchardt said. The NRC
will keep studying Japan’s nuclear crisis looking for possible
actions to boost U.S. reactor safety, he said.  “We have an obligation to the American people to undertake
a systematic and methodical review of the safety of our own
domestic nuclear facilities in light of the natural disaster and
the resulting nuclear situation in Japan,” NRC Chairman  Gregory Jaczko  said today.  The agency’s plan is “probably the best way to deal with
this situation,”  David Lochbaum , director of nuclear safety at
the Cambridge, Massachusetts-based Union of Concerned
Scientists, said today on a conference call with reporters. A
cause for the failures at the Fukushima plant hasn’t been
determined and “it would be difficult for the NRC to jump to
the right answers from what they know today,” Lochbaum said.  Radiation Reach  Obama administration officials have said radiation from the
Japanese plant won’t reach the U.S. They’ve also downplayed the
risk of a similar crisis at U.S. nuclear plants.  Japan’s earthquake occurred in a “subduction zone,” where
one tectonic plate is pushed under another, the NRC said in a
 statement  on its website. Such regions produce the biggest
temblors. The U.S. has one subduction zone, off the coasts of
northern California, Oregon and Washington state, the NRC said.  Energy Northwest ’s Columbia Generating Station near
Richland, Washington, is the only U.S. nuclear plant near this
subduction zone. Its location, 225 miles (362 kilometers) from
the coast, shields the plant from powerful earthquakes and
tsunamis that may occur in the zone, according to the NRC.  Nuclear reactors built close to the coast in Southern
California are near “slip faults” that produce quakes with
magnitude less than Japan’s 9.0, Energy Secretary  Steven Chu 
said yesterday on CNN’s “State of the Union” broadcast.  “You simply don’t get nines from those kinds of faults,”
Chu said.  Diablo Canyon  PG&E Corp. ’s Diablo Canyon seaside nuclear plant in
earthquake-prone California has been built to withstand “all
environmental hazards in the region,” including a tsunami and
an earthquake of as much as 7.5 magnitude, said Kory Raftery, a
PG&E spokesman.  U.S. nuclear plants are built to withstand the “maximum
credible” natural disasters for their location, including
earthquakes and tsunamis, according to the NRC.  New York Governor  Andrew Cuomo , a Democrat, has called for
 Entergy Corp .’s Indian Point nuclear plant to be closed. The
plant is about 24 miles north of New York City.  New York Lieutenant Governor  Robert Duffy  is scheduled to
meet tomorrow with NRC officials to discuss the plant’s safety,
according to a statement from Cuomo’s office.  While the Indian Point plant is safe, the NRC may “look at
whether this reactor should remain” after Japan’s nuclear
emergency, which prompted U.S. officials to recommend a 50-mile
evacuation zone for Americans near the Fukushima site, Chu said.  Entergy’s Indian Point plant “is safe and designed with a
margin of safety beyond the strongest earthquake anticipated in
the area,” Chanel Lagarde, a Entergy spokesman, said in an e-
mail. The utility company is “fully supportive” of the meeting
between New York and NRC officials, Lagarde said.  “We strongly believe that knowing the facts will answer
the questions on the public’s minds,” Lagarde said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jim Efstathiou Jr . in New York at 
 jefstathiou@bloomberg.net ;
Simon Lomax in Washington at 
 slomax@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Steve Geimann  at 
 sgeimann@bloomberg.net  