-- 
Kan Sees ‘Light at End of Tunnel’ as Fukushima Reactors’ Smoke Slows Work

-- B y   Y u j i   O k a d a   a n d   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a
-- 
2011-03-21T22:47:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/japan-s-nuclear-crisis-eases-as-spent-fuel-pools-cool-below-boiling-point.html
Japanese Prime Minister  Naoto Kan 
said he can see “light at the end of the tunnel” even as smoke
at two reactors hampered efforts to restore cooling systems at
the troubled Fukushima Daiichi nuclear plant.  Tokyo Electric  Power Co. evacuated engineers and halted
work after smoke was seen billowing from the No. 3 unit, Hitoshi
Emukai, a Tokyo-based spokesman at the utility, said yesterday.
White smoke seen later at the No. 2 reactor is likely steam,
said Naoki Tsunoda, another company spokesmen.  Kan’s optimistic statements are the strongest yet from a
Japanese official amid the world’s worst nuclear crisis in 25
years. The battle to prevent a meltdown entered its 12th day as
reports of radiation contamination at sea and on land multiplied.
Cooler temperatures in pools holding spent fuel rods are the
result of thousands of tons of seawater sprayed over the
reactors since the March 11 earthquake and tsunami damaged the
cooling systems.  “While we haven’t reached the point where we can say we’ve
gotten out of this crisis situation, it can be said that we can
see the light at the end of the tunnel,” Kan said at a meeting
of his crisis response team in  Tokyo .  Firefighters have sprayed seawater on the reactor buildings
from fire engines in attempts to refill storage pools and
prevent fuel rods from overheating and releasing more radiation.  Regulators in  Japan  and the U.S. said not covering the hot
plutonium rods could cause them to catch fire and release
radioactive pollution if exposed to air.  Death Toll Rises  Nikkei 225 Stock Average futures expiring in June jumped
2.9 percent to 9,440 in  Singapore  after Tokyo Electric said it
connected a power cable from reactor 3 to 4, and Kan said
progress was being made restoring power to units 1 and 2.
Japan’s markets were closed for a public holiday yesterday.  The death toll from the nation’s worst postwar disaster
rose to 8,805 as of 9 p.m. local time yesterday with 12,654
people missing, according to the  National Police Agency  in Tokyo.
The earthquake and ensuing tsunami devastated the country’s
northern coastline and forced hundreds of thousands to evacuate.  “We are at the beginning of the post-accident phase,”
Andre-Claude Lacoste, head of the Paris-based Autorite de Surete
Nucleaire, a watchdog group, said at a press conference in Paris
yesterday. “Japan will have to deal with the consequences of
this accident for decades.”  Produce Concerns  The Japanese government is risking a food scare by failing
to clarify where produce is contaminated and stopping some
shipments, said Toshihiko Baba, a spokesman for the Central
Union of Agricultural Co-operatives in Japan, which represents
more than 4.8 million farmers. Radiation levels found in food so
far aren’t harmful, Chief Cabinet Secretary Yukio Edano said.  Japan’s nuclear safety agency said the nation will limit
distribution of spinach and milk after samples from the area
near the plant 135 miles (220 kilometers) north of Tokyo were
found to have higher-than-normal radiation levels. Spinach
sampled at Hitachi, 97 kilometers south of the plant, contained
27 times the government limits for Iodine-131, according to the
health ministry. That spinach won’t enter the food chain.  “Food-borne radiation will last longer than airborne
radiation,” Gregory Hartl, a spokesman for the  World Health
Organization  in Geneva, said in an interview. “Even smaller
amounts of radiation in food could potentially be more dangerous
because you ingest it.”  Consumers’ Dilemma  Japan’s limits are based on assumptions about how much
contaminated food a person may eat, Edwin Lyman, a specialist on
nuclear materials for the Union of Concerned Scientists in
 Washington , said in a press call.  “It will be a dilemma for a lot of consumers in Japan,”
Lyman said. “People are going to have to understand the basis
for those limits.”  Japanese officials will have to perform triage on farmland
-- closing some areas entirely, monitoring some for radiation
and labeling some as safe, said Kenneth Bergeron, a former
nuclear scientist at  Sandia National Laboratory  in  Albuquerque ,
 New Mexico .  “Japan is going to have to put in place a very extensive
monitoring system to make sure that every batch of produce that
might come out of this area is monitored,” Bergeron said.  Asian countries are screening Japanese imports, and  Taiwan 
yesterday detected radiation on vegetables that was within
acceptable limits. Stores and restaurants across  Asia  dropped
Japanese food from shelves and menus.  Radiation Levels  Tokyo Electric reported radioactivity levels today above
allowable limits in seawater sampled near the plant at 2:30 p.m.
local time, Kyodo News reported. Rain, or the seawater that
crews are using to cool the plant, may have washed contaminants
into the sea,  Kyodo News  said.  Fuel shipments at Sendai Shiogama Port have resumed and
roads to the worst-hit areas reopened, adding to signs the
crisis may be passing its peak.  Radiation containment domes at the reactors are intact and
the situation at the plant “is on the verge of stabilizing,”
the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission’s Bill Borchardt said.  “The fact that offsite power is close to being available
for use at plant equipment is perhaps the first optimistic sign
that things could be turning around,” Borchardt, executive
director for operations, said at a meeting at the agency’s
headquarters in Rockville,  Maryland .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yuji Okada in Tokyo at 
 yokada6@bloomberg.net ;
Tsuyoshi Inajima in Tokyo at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Patrick Chu at 
 pachu@bloomberg.net  