-- 
Japanese Stock Futures Rise as Nuclear Crisis Eases; Australia Shares Gain

-- B y   A k i k o   I k e d a   a n d   S a t o s h i   K a w a n o
-- 
2011-03-21T23:35:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/japanese-stock-futures-rise-as-nuclear-crisis-eases-australia-shares-gain.html
Japanese  stock futures  rose as the
country made progress in stabilizing reactors at a crippled
nuclear plant. Australian stocks climbed.  American depositary receipts of Toyota Motor Corp., Honda
Motor Co. and Nissan Motor Co.,  Japan ’s top three carmakers,
jumped more than 5 percent from the closing share price in Tokyo
on March 18. Japanese markets were closed for a public holiday
in Japan yesterday. Macquarie Group Ltd., Australia’s largest
investment bank, gained 2.2 percent in Sydney today.  Futures on Japan’s Nikkei 225 Stock Average expiring in
June closed at 9,505 in Chicago yesterday, compared with 9,130
in Osaka, Japan, on March 18. They were bid in the pre-market at
9,500 in Osaka at 8:05 a.m. local time. Australia’s S&P/ASX 200
Index gained 0.2 percent today. New Zealand’s NZX 50 Index
increased 0.5 percent in Wellington.  The  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  plunged 10 percent last week on concern the
effects of the earthquake and devastated reactors will hurt a
recovery in the world’s third-largest economy.  “The nuclear issue has calmed,” said  Fumiyuki Nakanishi ,
a strategist at Tokyo-based SMBC Friend Securities Co. “People
focused on low valuations will probably buy stocks.”  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index were little
changed today. The index gained 1.5 percent yesterday as concern
eased that Japan will suffer a nuclear meltdown and after AT&T
Inc. agreed to buy  T-Mobile USA  for $39 billion.  Damaged Reactors  Japanese Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  said yesterday he can see
“light at the end of the tunnel,” even as smoke at two
reactors hampered efforts to restore cooling systems at the
troubled Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear plant, which was damaged
following an earthquake and tsunami on March 11.  Tokyo Electric Power Co., which operates the plant, said
yesterday it connected a power cable from reactor 3 to 4 and Kan
said progress was being made restoring power to units 1 and 2.  Billionaire investor  Warren Buffett  said the record
earthquake is a buying opportunity and he won’t sell his shares
in Japan. Buffett canceled a trip this week to Japan to visit a
factory owned by Iscar Metalworking Cos.’s Tungaloy Corp. in
Fukushima prefecture, the site of the worst nuclear accident in
25 years. Buffett’s Berkshire Hathaway Inc. owns 80 percent of
Iscar, a maker of cutting tools.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index lost 5.5 percent this year
through yesterday, compared with a gain of 3.2 percent by the
 S&P 500  and a drop of 1.3 percent by the Stoxx Europe 600 Index.
Stocks in the Asian benchmark are valued at 13.1 times estimated
earnings on average, compared with 13.4 times for the S&P 500
and 11 times for the Stoxx 600.  Crude oil for April delivery increased 1.2 percent to
$102.33 a barrel in  New York  yesterday, the highest settlement
since March 10, as allied airstrikes in Libya threatened to
prolong a supply disruption in Africa’s third-biggest oil
producer and on concern that escalating turmoil may curtail
Middle East shipments.  Libya’s crude output has fallen to a quarter of pre-crisis
levels and may stop entirely, the chairman of the Libyan
national  oil company  said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Akiko Ikeda in  Tokyo  at 
 iakiko@bloomberg.net ;
Satoshi Kawano in Tokyo at 
 skawano1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at   ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 