-- 
JPMorgan Will Cease Debit-Card Rewards Program Because of Proposed Fee Cap

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   O d y
-- 
2011-03-21T16:58:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/jpmorgan-will-cease-debit-card-rewards-program-because-of-proposed-fee-cap.html
  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  will stop
offering debit-card rewards for almost all of its customers in
July to reduce losses from a proposed cap on interchange fees.  The company is mailing letters to customers announcing the
change, said  Tom Kelly , a spokesman for the bank. New York-based
JPMorgan said in November it would end rewards for new customers
in February, while keeping programs for existing clients.  “Congress recently enacted a new law known as the Durbin
Amendment that significantly impacts debit cards,” said one of
the company’s letters to customers. “As a result of this law,
we will be changing our debit rewards program.”  The Durbin Amendment is part of the Dodd-Frank Act
financial overhaul enacted last year, that caps debit-card swipe
fees to help merchants who said they were powerless to negotiate
rates with payment networks  Visa Inc. (V)  and  MasterCard Inc. (MA)  The
Federal Reserve has until April to decide what the cap will be
before being implemented July 21, 2011.  The Fed proposed capping debit-interchange fees at a flat
12 cents a transaction in December, compared with the current
formula that averages 1.14 percent of the purchase price or
about 44 cents. Such a cap would cost JPMorgan, the second-
largest U.S. bank by assets behind  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , about
$1.3 billion in lost revenue annually, according to a Feb. 15
investor presentation.  Customers will continue to earn rewards through July 19,
and points accrued through that date will not expire, according
to the letter. Debit cards with annual fees won’t be assessed as
of July, Kelly said. The bank’s credit-card rewards programs
will not be affected, he said.  Banks Lobbying  Banks lobbied against the proposed cap on debit
interchange, which generated about $16 billion in revenue for
the industry in 2009, according to the  Federal Reserve .  Senator Jon Tester, a Montana Democrat, is the chief
sponsor of a bill that would delay the rule for two years.
Representative Shelley Moore Capito, the West Virginia
Republican who is chairman of the House Financial Services
subcommittee on financial institutions, introduced a similar
measure.  It’s not clear whether a two-year delay on the cap would
change the company’s plans, Kelly said.  The bank’s move was reported March 20 by American Banker.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Ody in New York 
 eody@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Rick Levinson  at   rlevinson2@bloomberg.net . 