-- 
JPMorgan Widens M&A Lead Over Goldman Sachs With $39 Billion T-Mobile Deal

-- B y   Z a c h a r y   R .   M i d e r   a n d   B r e t t   F o l e y
-- 
2011-03-21T19:05:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/jpmorgan-beats-goldman-sachs-in-finding-t-mobile-transaction.html
  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  extended its
market-share lead over  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  in mergers
advice after  AT&T Inc. (T)  beat out Sprint Nextel Corp. to buy  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) ’s U.S. wireless unit for $39 billion.  Already first in Bloomberg’s ranking of advisers by dollar
value of transactions announced since Jan. 1, JPMorgan’s role
with AT&T on the T-Mobile USA deal boosted the New York-based
bank’s tally to $159 billion. Goldman Sachs, which advised
Sprint Nextel in talks with T-Mobile, dropped to third with
$96.1 billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Ranks are important,” said Neal Stoughton, a professor
of financial services at the University of New South Wales in
Sydney. “If you hire an adviser, you’re seeking someone who can
have success. JPMorgan is competing very aggressively.”  The acquisition is a sign of life for dealmaking in the
telecommunications industry, where the more than $500 billion of
takeovers struck in both 1999 and 2000 were followed by a decade
with an average of $175 billion a year, Bloomberg data show.
Telecom deals made up 8 percent of the merger market last year,
compared with 18 percent in 2000.  JPMorgan stands to earn fees of about $20 million from
committing to provide AT&T a $20 billion, one-year unsecured
loan as part of the transaction, according to estimates by New
York-based research firm Freeman Consulting. The loan-
arrangement fee could become “significantly higher” if AT&T’s
credit rating is negatively affected by the deal, said Freeman.  Loan Fee  Freeman estimates AT&T may also pay fees of as much as $65
million to its three advisers: JPMorgan and boutique advisory
firms Greenhill & Co. and  Evercore Partners Inc. (EVR)   New York-based Greenhill’s team included founder Robert Greenhill, Gil Ha and Lawrence Chu. The JPMorgan bankers were
Andy O’Brien, James Woolery, Kurt Simon, Anwar Zakkour and
Thomas Cassin. Evercore’s team included founder Roger Altman,
Eduardo Mestre and Dan Mendelow.  Deutsche Telekom’s advisers,  Morgan Stanley (MS) ,  Deutsche Bank
AG (DBK)  and  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) , may earn as much as $60 million
in advisory fees, according to Freeman. The transaction helped
Morgan Stanley, Deutsche Telekom’s lead banker, overtake Goldman
Sachs to win the No. 2 spot in Bloomberg’s merger league tables
since Dec. 31, with $135 billion of transactions, Bloomberg data
show. Morgan Stanley garnered the top spot in global M&A
advisory in 2009 and 2010, the data show.  Morgan Stanley bankers advising Deutsche Telekom included
Jean Abergel and Dirk Notheis in Europe and Robert Eatroff, Adam Shepard and James Murray in the U.S.  Deutsche Bank, Credit Suisse  Deutsche Bank’s team was led by Armin von Falkenhayn and
Philipp Meier-Scherling in Europe and David Pearson and Don
Birchenough in the U.S. Credit Suisse bankers included Luigi de Vecchi, Jeff Murphy and Ken Oliver Fritz in Europe and John Trousdale and Mark Simonian in the U.S.  Goldman Sachs, based in  New York , held the top spot in
global M&A advisory every year from 2001 to 2008, Bloomberg data
show. Connie Ling, a spokeswoman at Goldman Sachs in Hong Kong,
declined to comment.  Excluding transfers of government assets, the AT&T deal is
the largest takeover proposed anywhere in the world since BHP
Billiton Ltd., the world’s largest mining company, offered $40
billion for Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan last August. BHP’s bid
was blocked by the Canadian government.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zachary R. Mider in New York at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net ;
Brett Foley in  London  at 
 bfoley8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Jennifer Sondag  at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net . 