-- 
Junk Bond Sales Slow as Investors Withdraw Cash: New Debt Alert

-- B y   T i m   C a t t s
-- 
2011-03-21T09:36:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/junk-bond-sales-decline-as-investors-pull-cash-from-funds-new-issue-alert.html
Issuance of high-yield, high-risk
corporate bonds is falling as investors in funds that hold the
debt withdrew money for first time in more than three months.  Junk-bond funds had outflows of $802 million in the week
ended March 16, the first period of withdrawals since Dec. 1 and
the largest since June 2, said Cameron Brandt, the director of
research at Cambridge, Massachusetts-based EPFR Global.  Companies sold $2.45 billion of speculative-grade bonds
last week, compared with $5.64 billion during the period ended
March 11, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Investors are
concerned the economic recovery may falter after Japan struggled
to contain radiation leaks at a nuclear plant damaged in last
week’s earthquake and tsunami and unrest roiled the Middle East.  “There was a change in mentality as people shift away from
riskier assets,” said  Adrian Miller , a fixed-income strategist
at Miller Tabak Roberts Securities LLC in  New York . “You got to
a point where it looked like the world was going to end and
these reactors were going to blow up and the Libya situation was
intensifying.”  Japan’s 9.0-magnitude earthquake and the tsunami that
followed damaged the Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear plant, causing a
crisis that Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  called “very grave” on
March 19. Deposits into funds investing in junk bonds slowed
while Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi ’s forces struck back against
rebels, prompting two days of missile and aircraft attacks by
the U.S., the U.K. and  France .  Junk-Bond Spreads  The extra yield investors demand to own  junk bonds  widened
14 basis points last week to 502 basis points, after narrowing 8
basis points on March 18, according to the Bank of America
Merrill Lynch High Yield Master II index. Absolute yields
climbed 3 basis points to 7.45 percent for the week, the index
data show.  High-yield, or junk, bonds are ranked below Baa3 by Moody’s
Investors Service and less than BBB- by  Standard & Poor’s . A
basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  Boart Longyear Group sold $300 million of 10-year notes on
March 18 in the day’s only U.S. corporate bond offering. Moody’s
assigned the debt a grade of Ba2 while S&P rated it BB-, one
step lower.  Companies issued $11.2 billion of debt in the U.S. last
week, compared with $35.9 billion during the period ended March
11, the day the earthquake and tsunami struck  Japan , according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Spreads on investment-grade debt narrowed 2 basis points on
March 18 to 155 basis points, 4 basis points wider for the week,
while yields rose 0.7 basis point for the day and narrowed 6
basis points for the week to 3.95 percent, according to the Bank
of America Merrill Lynch U.S. Corporate Master Index.  The following is a description of at least $450 million of
pending sales of dollar-denominated bonds in the U.S.  High Yield  ADS TACTICAL, a provider of equipment to the U.S.
Department of Defense, plans to sell $275 million of seven-year
senior secured notes that will be noncallable for four years,
according to a person familiar with the transaction. Proceeds
will be used to refinance existing indebtedness and to fund an
equity distribution to shareholders, said the person, who
declined to be identified because terms aren’t set. The issue is
a debut offering, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  YANLORD LAND GROUP LTD., a Singapore-based developer of
properties in  China , hired HSBC Holdings Plc, JPMorgan Chase &
Co. and Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc for a dollar bond sale,
according to a Singapore stock exchange statement.  SI ORGANIZATION INC., the former Lockheed Martin Corp. unit
once known as Enterprise Integration Group, may sell $175
million of senior subordinated notes, according to S&P. The
proceeds may be used with $340 million of bank debt and $370
million of new common stock to pay for its acquisition by
Veritas Capital, S&P said.  Offerings in Pipeline  KEYCORP, Ohio’s second-biggest bank, plans to sell debt to
help repay a U.S. bailout after a Federal Reserve review of the
company’s capital strength, the Cleveland-based company said in
a statement distributed by PR Newswire. The lender also plans to
sell $625 million of stock, it said.  SUNTRUST BANKS INC., the Atlanta-based bank, plans to sell
$1 billion of debt to help repay $4.85 billion of US bailout
funds, it said in a statement distributed by PR Newswire.
SunTrust also plans to sell $1 billion of stock, it said in the
statement.  SUNAC CHINA HOLDINGS LTD., a developer based in Tianjin,
postponed a series of investor credit meetings after it hired
Goldman Sachs Group Inc., Deutsche Bank AG and Standard
Chartered Plc to help it with a sale of dollar bonds, according
to a person familiar with the offering. The five-year notes may
be rated B+ by Standard & Poor’s, said the person, who declined
to be identified because terms aren’t set.    DELONG HOLDINGS LTD. (DLNG) , a Singapore-listed Chinese
steelmaker, may attempt to sell dollar bonds in the “second
half” if it gets lower  interest rates , Chairman Ding Liguo said
in an interview in Beijing while attending the National People’s
Congress. The company canceled a planned sale of the debt on
Feb. 15 after meeting investors. “We aim to cut the bond’s
coupon rate to 10 percent from 14 percent,” he said. The sale
is “subject to our need for capital in a planned acquisition,”
he said, without saying how much the company wanted to raise.    ASTON RESOURCES LTD. (AZT) , the Australian mineral exploration
company, is considering selling bonds in the U.S. to help raise
funds to develop its Maules Creek coal project in New South
Wales, Chief Executive Officer Todd Hannigan said at a business
luncheon in Sydney March 3. Aston may raise $300 million to $500
million, he said.  MONGOLIA is planning its first sale of sovereign bonds,
seeking about $500 million, to establish a benchmark that would
help companies from the resource-rich nation located between
China and  Russia  raise funds from credit markets. The sale will
“probably” take place in 2011, pending parliament’s approval,
Vice Minister of Finance Ganhuyag Chuluun Hutagt said March 3 in
an interview in Ulan Bator.  BAA LTD., the owner of  London ’s Heathrow airport, said it
plans to sell bonds in dollars for the first time this year as
it seeks to fund the renovation of  Europe ’s biggest hub. The
company is owned by  Spain ’s Ferrovial SA.  THE PHILLIPINES plans to sell dollar bonds this year as
part of its 2011 borrowing program, Finance Secretary Cesar Purisima said Feb. 9 in Manila. The country is sticking to a
plan to narrow the  budget deficit  to 3.2 percent of gross
domestic product, Purisima said in an interview.  AVG TECHNOLOGIES, the Czech maker of internet security
software, plans to sell bonds to U.S. investors to raise money
for dividends and acquisitions, said Siobhan MacDermott, AVG’s
Prague-based investor relations officer, in an interview Feb.
10. The producer of a free antivirus program that competes with
McAfee Inc. and Symantec Corp. is seeking to raise $300 million
of debt, MacDermott said.  TATA STEEL LTD.,  India ’s biggest producer of the alloy,
plans to sell $500 million of debt by the middle of this year,
CNBC-TV18 news channel reported, without saying where it got the
information.  RODOPA EXPORTACAO DE ALIMENTOS & LOGISTICA LTDA, a
Brazilian beef producer, may sell as much as $100 million in
five-year bonds in the second half of this year or early next
year, Chief Executive Officer Sergio Longo said Feb. 4 in an
interview at the company’s headquarters in Sao Paulo.  (Added Feb. 8. See  http://www.tatuibi.com.br/ )  GAIL LTD., a government-run gas distributor in India, may
sell $200 million of dollar-denominated bonds, Finance Director
Raj Kumar Goel said in  New Delhi .  PT SULFINDO ADIUSAHA, an Indonesian company which makes
chlorine and chemicals, hired Barclays Plc and Standard
Chartered Plc to help it sell five-year, fixed-rate dollar
bonds, according to a person familiar with the matter.  INKIA ENERGY, a unit of Israel Corp., may sell bonds in the
U.S. to finance expansion of its electricity generation
business, according to a spokesman for the holding company. The
company plans to raise $250 million from the sale and is in
discussions with several foreign banks, Calcalist reported Jan.
9, without saying where it obtained the information.  AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP, the insurer rescued by the
U.S. government, is contemplating a new debt sale, a person
familiar with the matter said. The firm hasn’t considered a
timeline for when it might sell more bonds, said the person, who
declined to be identified because the terms aren’t set. AIG sold
$2 billion of bonds Dec. 1 in its first offering since it was
rescued by the U.S. government in 2008.  PTT EXPLORATION & PRODUCTION PCL, Thailand’s only listed
oil and gas explorer, plans to sell bonds denominated in
dollars, according to a person familiar with the transaction.
PTT Exploration hired Barclays Plc to manage the sale, said the
person, who declined to be identified because terms aren’t set.
Barclays is arranging a U.S. dollar-denominated medium-term note
program for the company, the person said.  AL BARAKA BANK EGYPT ESC, a unit of Bahrain-based  Albaraka
Banking Group (BARKA) , may sell dollar-denominated Islamic bonds in the
second half of 2011, the bank’s chairman said Sept. 29. The bank
hasn’t decided on the size of the bond, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Catts in New York at 
 tcatts1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 