-- 
Kasich’s $100 Million for Ohio Jobs May Start Employment Race

-- B y   M a r k   N i q u e t t e
-- 
2011-03-21T04:00:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/kasich-s-100-million-for-ohio-jobs-may-start-employment-race.html
Ohio Governor  John Kasich  wants to
use about $100 million in annual liquor profits to retain and
recruit businesses, a sum that may ignite a jobs race among
states also hungry for employment.  Kasich’s two-year, $55.5 billion budget proposal calls for
using profits from the state’s wholesale liquor distribution to
fund  job-creation  and retention by JobsOhio, a private,
nonprofit entity the Legislature created last month at Kasich’s
behest to replace the Ohio Department of Development.  The estimated revenue stream would be larger than similar
arrangements in Michigan, Kentucky and  California , and it would
be one of the biggest such dedicated funding sources in the
U.S., said  Jeff Finkle , president and chief executive of the
4,500-member  International Economic Development Council  in  Washington .  “It’s a very big number,” Finkle said in a telephone
interview. “You may see some other states using the argument,
‘This is what Ohio is doing. We need to do it.”  U.S. state budget deficits may reach $112 billion in the
next fiscal year, and governors are pushing job initiatives to
boost their economies. Ohio has lost 610,000 jobs during the
past decade, a 10.9 percent decline, according to  U.S. Bureau of
Labor Statistics . Only Michigan had a deeper drop during the
period, 17.8 percent. Ohio’s February unemployment rate was 9.2
percent, compared with 8.9 percent for the nation as a whole.  ‘Compete and Win’  Transferring the liquor-distribution enterprise to JobsOhio
will allow “revenue growth where we can actually go out there,
compete and win against other states,” Kasich, 58, a Republican
who took office in January, told reporters during a March 15
budget briefing.  “That’s huge,” said Nancy Sidhu, chief economist of  The
Los Angeles County Economic Development Corp. , when told of  Ohio ’s plans for a $100 million funding source.  The state Legislature would have to approve Kasich’s
proposal as part of the budget due by June 30, and the exact sum
for JobsOhio hasn’t been determined, Kristi Tanner, assistant
director of the Department of Development, said in a telephone
interview.  JobsOhio will be led by an eight-director board appointed
by Kasich, who will be chairman. Under the plan, it will acquire
the state liquor-distribution system for as long as 25 years for
a price to be negotiated, according to budget documents. Ohio
doesn’t have government-run liquor stores; it buys and
distributes alcohol to retailers.  Opaque Model  Cleveland-based  Policy Matters Ohio , a nonprofit research
organization, and  Good Jobs First , a Washington-based center
that tracks economic-development deals, oppose private entities
that seek jobs on government’s behalf. They say the model lacks
accountability and transparency, and they’re skeptical about
whether using liquor profits to fund JobsOhio is the best deal
for taxpayers.  “It’s using one form of privatization to finance
another,” Philip Mattera, research director for Good Jobs
First, said in a telephone interview.  Ohio’s open meetings and public-records laws don’t apply to
JobsOhio. After Democratic lawmakers complained about
transparency last month, the bill creating the agency was
changed to require the board to conduct public meetings, prepare
an annual report and make certain other records public.  Buying In  The agency would issue private bonds to pay the state at
least $500 million for foregone liquor profits and use $700
million to pay off state bonds now backed by alcohol money,
according to budget documents released by the governor’s office.  Profits averaged $221.9 million annually during the past
three fiscal years, according to the Ohio Department of
Commerce. The state expects about $100 million would be
available each year for development work after debt-service
payments on the new bonds, Tanner said.  The liquor profits may allow JobsOhio to take an equity
position in companies for a return that can be reinvested in
other projects, she said.  In 2004, the state made two loans totaling $20 million to  First Solar Inc. (FSLR)  of Tempe,  Arizona , to encourage the company to
expand a plant in Perrysburg, Ohio, near Toledo. Had the state
been able to use $2 million of that for an equity stake, the
investment would be worth $150 million today, Tanner said.  Steady Money  The key is a revenue stream that doesn’t fluctuate with the
budget, said Mark Kvamme, a Silicon Valley venture capitalist
who agreed to be Kasich’s development director this year for a
$1 salary and now is director of job creation.  “When the economy is going down, you have less money to
invest in job creation,” Kvamme told reporters during a March
15 briefing. “That’s the time you need it the most.”  Development entities including the  Michigan Economic
Development Corp.  and the  Northern Kentucky Tri-ED  also use
dedicated funding in lesser amounts than what Ohio is proposing.  Five Indian casinos in  Michigan  pay about $36 million a
year from a tax on their revenue for development, which is less
than 20 percent of the Michigan Economic Development Corp.’s
budget, spokesman Michael Shore said in a telephone interview.  Northern Kentucky Tri-ED gets about $1.8 million a year
from a 3 percent tax on car rentals at the Cincinnati/Northern
Kentucky International Airport and from agencies in Boone,
Kenton and Campbell counties, which accounts for about 75
percent of the group’s budget, Dan Tobergte, president and chief
executive, said in a telephone interview.  The Los Angeles County Economic Development Corp.  uses an
endowment funded by proceeds from land sales to help pay
operational costs, Sidhu said. She declined to disclose the
amount, although she said it is less than $100 million a year.  A private entity needs a dedicated funding source for long-
term sustainability,  Donald E. Jakeway , president and chief
executive of the Brooks Development Authority in  San Antonio ,
said in a telephone interview. He has overseen both public and
private models as head of both the Ohio Department of
Development and the Michigan Economic Development Corp.  “If it’s going to be private, you need to have something
that will support the activity rather than the state’s general
fund,” Jakeway said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Niquette in  New York  at 
 mniquette@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  