-- 
Kenya’s Central Bank Is Expected to Hold Key Rate Tomorrow, Survey Shows

-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 
2011-03-21T10:48:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/kenya-s-central-bank-is-expected-to-hold-key-rate-tomorrow-survey-shows.html
Kenya’s central bank  will probably
keep its benchmark interest rate at a record low tomorrow as it
looks to boost economic growth, even as inflation accelerates
and the shilling weakens.  The bank’s  monetary policy committee  will hold the rate at
5.75 percent, according to all four economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News. The committee, chaired by Central Bank of  Kenya 
Governor Njuguna Ndung’u, will probably announce the decision
after midday in Nairobi, the capital, tomorrow.  Inflation accelerated for a fourth straight month to 6.5
percent in February, above the government’s 5 percent goal, as
food and fuel costs rose, while the shilling weakened to a 17-
year low against the dollar as oil imports increased. That may
not be enough to trigger a rate increase as the government looks
to lift the economic growth rate to as much as 8 percent within
two years.  Higher rates would “trickle down the system, and growth
targets would then not be met,” Duncan Kinuthia, head of fixed
income at Nairobi-based Bank of Africa, said by phone today.
“There will be a neutral stance.”  The maximum retail price for regular gasoline in the
capital Nairobi rose 2.8 percent to 100.9 shillings ($1.19) as
of March 15, from the previous month, after  oil prices  surged.
Food costs rose 1.7 percent last month and may increase further
amid expectations at the Kenyan Meteorological Department for
lower and poorly distributed rainfall over Kenya during the
March to May rainy season that may curb  food production .  ‘No Panic’  The bank “will want to communicate a message that
everything is normal and there is no reason to panic,” Robert Bunyi, managing director of Nairobi-based Mavuno Capital, said
by phone today. “There is a sense of nervousness in the market”
because of the weakening shilling and rising inflation rate, he
said.  Kenyan President Mwai Kibaki on March 4 urged banks and
other financial institutions to lower lending rates to
“reasonable levels” and support economic expansion after the
central bank’s cuts over the past two years failed to convince
commercial lenders to extend cheaper credit to their clients.
The average loan rate fell to 14.03 percent in January from
14.22 percent two years earlier.  Growth in East  Africa ’s largest economy advanced to 5.4
percent last year, from 2.6 percent in 2009, and will probably
expand by 6.5 percent to 8 percent over the next two years,
according to the government.  Tomorrow’s meeting will be the final for the nine-member
committee that formulates Kenya’s monetary policy, whose term
ends on April 30. The government can name four new external
members to the Monetary Policy Committee, though some panellists
may be requested to stay on the team for “continuity,” member
Sheila M’Mbijjewe said on March 15.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at   smcgregor5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 