-- 
Kenya Credit Unions Expect 20% Growth This Year on Bank-Beating Loan Rates

-- B y   E r i c   O m b o k
-- 
2011-03-21T11:50:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/kenya-credit-unions-expect-20-growth-this-year-on-bank-beating-loan-rates.html
Kenyan credit unions, which account
for almost a third of savings in East  Africa ’s biggest economy,
expect deposits to swell by 20 percent this year, drawn by their
offer of cheaper lending rates than commercial banks.  Savings held by the cooperatives, which are owned by their
depositors, stand at 225 billion shillings ($2.7 billion), said
Carilus Ademba, chief executive officer of the  Sacco Societies
Regulatory Authority . That amount has been growing at an average
of 20 percent annually for the past five years, Ademba said in
an interview from Nairobi, the capital.  “Savings will grow by the same level this year,” he said on
March 18. “People like the fact that they offer lower lending
rates than the banks.”  Kenyan savings cooperatives currently offer loans at 12
percent. That compares with the average 14.03 percent provided
by commercial lenders, according to Central Bank of Kenya, which
has cut official  interest rates  eight times since December 2008,
partly to encourage lenders to reduce their borrowing costs.
This month, President Mwai Kibaki said banks should lower rates
to “reasonable levels” of about 5 percent to 6 percent to help
boost economic growth.  Credit unions are able to grow their client base faster
than banks in Kenya because of their informal structure and
easier access to rural areas, where most people don’t have
access to financial services, Ademba said.  Savings and Credit Cooperatives, or saccos, account for
about 31 percent of gross savings in Kenya, according to the
 African Confederation of Cooperative Savings and Credit
Associations , or Accosca.  African Growth  Savings mobilized by saccos in Africa are projected to have
grown to $4.53 billion in December 2010 from $4.44 billion a
year earlier, George Ombado, head of the Nairobi-based
organization, said in a phone interview on March 4. This year,
the amount is forecast to grow 3.5 percent, he said.  With a membership of 3.8 million people at the end of
December 2010,  Kenya  had approximately 5,000 registered saccos
compared with 3,996 a year earlier, Ombado said. About 230 of
those have front-office service activities, of FOSA, which means
they can take deposits and provide loans, while the remaining
ones only offer credit facilities, he said.  “There has been improved governance of saccos, so there is
increased confidence from the public to save more,” Ombado said.  Licenses  Following enacting of new regulations in June 2010, saccos
operating a FOSA have to apply for licenses by June 17,
according to Ademba. So far, SASRA, as the Kenyan regulator is
known, has received more than 90 applications and granted seven
licenses on March 4, Ademba said.  The new regulations are meant to improve the levels of
financial management, use of technology and investment
decisions.  “Sacco’s in Kenya with 16 billion shillings in assets
previously had no prudential supervision, while a bank with 4
billion shillings is heavily regulated,” Ademba said. “With 31
percent of national savings if there is a crisis in saccos it
may spill over to the entire financial sector.”  Over the next one or two years, Accosca plans to lobby more
African countries to adopt regulations that will boost the
growth of saccos across the continent, Ombado said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Ombok in Nairobi at 
 eombok@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Richardson at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 