-- 
KNOC to Buy Stake in Texas Shale-Oil Block, Kazakh Explorer for $2 Billion

-- B y   S u n g w o o   P a r k   a n d   J i m   P o l s o n
-- 
2011-03-22T00:59:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/knoc-to-buy-stake-in-texas-shale-oil-block-kazakh-explorer-for-2-billion.html
Korea National Oil Corp. agreed to
buy a stake in a Texas shale-oil block from  Anadarko Petroleum
Corp. (APC)  for $1.55 billion, the second-largest purchase of U.S. oil
and natural-gas fields this year, as Asian companies increase
access to U.S. reserves.  South Korea ’s state-owned energy company, known as KNOC,
will pay Anadarko’s drilling costs in the Maverick basin block
this year after the deal closes, in exchange for a 23.67 percent
stake, according to an e-mailed statement from the South Korean
government yesterday. KNOC will pay 90 percent of Anadarko’s
drilling costs in the block after this year, the Woodlands,
Texas-based company said in a statement.  The deal allows Anadarko to boost funding to exploit more
reserves, building on the sale of assets in the northeastern U.S.
last year to  Japan ’s Mitsui & Co. for $1.5 billion in drilling
and development costs. KNOC is switching focus from buying
companies to investing in fields to secure supplies for an
economy that relies on imports for almost all its oil needs.  “South Korea needs to keep buying these sorts of energy
assets,” said Yoo Young Kuk, an oil and chemicals analyst with
KTB Investment & Securities Co. in Seoul. “The global supply of
oil and gas is likely to tighten and prices for the assets will
rise, given demand from emerging economies including  China .”  Anadarko rose $3.51, or 2.7 percent, to $79.98 at the close
of trading on the  New York  Stock Exchange. The stock has
advanced 13 percent during the past 12 months.  Jefferies & Co. and Deutsche Bank AG advised Anadarko on
the sale, according to Anadarko’s statement.  “Cash is Cheap”  The deal shows Anadarko is branching out further into
dealings with Asian companies, said  Fadel Gheit , an analyst at
Oppenheimer & Co. in New York.  Asia “is where the money is,” said Gheit, who has a
“market perform” on Anadarko shares and owns none. “These
people have enormous amount of U.S. dollars and cash is cheap.”  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) ’s $4.75 billion bid for Arkansas gas
operations from  Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK)  was the largest purchase
of U.S. oil and gas assets announced this year according to
Bloomberg data.  The KNOC stake includes 80,000 net acres in the Eagle Ford
shale that produce 75 percent oil, and 16,000 acres in the
Pearsall Shale that produce gas, the South Korea company said.
Shale formations consist of dense rock that can be broken apart
to release oil and gas.  Producing Fields  KNOC said in February it plans to invest as much as $4
billion in overseas oilfields this year to secure supplies. The
company plans to raise daily output by 60,000 barrels to 240,000
barrels by the year end.  The shale block in  Texas  holds the equivalent of 491
million barrels of oil and is producing 28,000 barrels a day,
South Korea’s Ministry of  Knowledge Economy  said in an e-mailed
statement. Anadarko’s holding in the block will fall to 47.33
percent from 71 percent after the deal, according to the
statement.  KNOC Chief Executive Officer Kang Young Won said in October
he will focus on investing in producing fields rather than
buying companies, after completing a hostile takeover of
Scotland’s  Dana Petroleum Plc (DNX)  for 1.8 billion pounds ($2.9
billion) last year.  The South Korean company also acquired 95 percent of Altius
Holdings Inc. for $515 million last week, the ministry said in
the e-mailed statement.  The two acquisitions may boost KNOC’s output by 16,500
barrels a day, the ministry said. Altius Holdings owns four oil
blocks in  Kazakhstan  with reserves totaling 56.9 million barrels,
the South Korean ministry said. Altius is the Kazakh arm of
Arawak Energy, a unit of closely held commodity trader Vitol
Group.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sungwoo Park in  Seoul  at 
 spark47@bloomberg.net ;
Jim Polson in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net ;
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  