-- 
Korean Won Rises, Reversing Loss, as Japan Nuclear Risk Easing

-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 
2011-03-21T06:50:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/korean-won-weakens-on-concern-strikes-against-qaddafi-to-boost-oil-prices.html
South Korea’s won rose, reversing
earlier losses, as gains in the stock market helped offset
concern rising  oil prices  will slow global economic growth.  The benchmark Kospi stock index advanced for a fourth day
as neighboring  Japan  had some success cooling reactors at the
earthquake-damaged Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant. The U.S., U.K. and
France launched cruise missiles and airstrikes at targets in
Libya at the weekend, spurring renewed speculation oil supplies
may be disrupted.  “Stocks are up; that’s why the Korean won is gaining a
little bit,” said Ko Yun Jin, a currency trader at Kookmin Bank
in Seoul. “We are looking at two things: Japan and the Middle
East for financial stability, not only for the Korean won but
also the global markets.”  The won advanced 0.2 percent to 1,124.80 per dollar at the
3 p.m. close in  Seoul , according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
It earlier fell as much as 0.2 percent today. Crude rose 2
percent to $103.13 per barrel in  New York .  Foreign investors bought more Korean stocks that they sold
for a third day, according to exchange data. Using a helicopter
with infrared equipment, officials determined that the pools
atop the Japanese nuclear plant’s six reactors were below 100
degrees Celsius (212 Fahrenheit), the boiling point of water,
Japan Defense Minister Toshimi Kitazawa said.  Ten-year  government bonds  fell for a fourth day, with the
yield on the 5 percent note due June 2020 increasing four basis
points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 4.50 percent, according to
prices from Korea Stock Exchange.    South Korea  sold 1.6 trillion won ($1.4 billion) of 10-year
notes at a yield of 4.5 percent at an auction today, the
Ministry of Strategy and Finance said. Investors bid to buy 5.84
trillion won of treasuries, or 3.65 times the amount on offer,
the ministry said on its website.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 