-- 
Natural Gas Futures Fluctuate on Conflicting Technical Signals

-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   B u u r m a
-- 
2011-03-21T19:29:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/natural-gas-drops-as-mild-u-s-weather-may-limit-demand-boost-iventories.html
Natural gas futures fluctuated in  New York  as traders tried to interpret conflicting technical
price signals.  Gas moved in a range of 11.4 cents as intraday prices rose
above the 50-, 100- and 200-day moving averages, indicating the
market may rise. Meanwhile, futures have failed to climb above
the bottom of an “expanding wedge” price pattern, suggesting
the market may decline, analysts with Kase & Company Inc. in
Albuquerque, New Mexico, said in a note to clients.  “The market has come a very long way in a very short
amount of time, and we might get a bit of a pullback,” said  Stephen Schork , president of the Schork Group Inc. energy
advisory company in Villanova, Pennsylvania. “For now, though,
this market looks like it still has legs.”  Natural gas for April delivery fell 0.7 cent to settle at
$4.161 per million British thermal units on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange . Futures have dropped 5.5 percent this year.  Last week, gas prices rose to the highest in six weeks amid
speculation that the loss of nuclear power generation in Japan
after the country’s worst earthquake on record would reduce
liquefied natural-gas imports to the U.S.  Gas prices advancing above the key moving averages is “an
automatic buy signal,” said  Mike Fitzpatrick , a partner with
the Kilduff Group in New York.  Expanding Wedge  Gas futures were in a “bearish expanding wedge” from Oct.
25 through early February, the Kase analysts said. During that
time, gas prices followed a pattern of rising, falling and then
climbing beyond the previous rally’s high. Since March 18,
futures have tested the bottom of the wedge but failed to remain
above it, indicating prices may fall, Kase said.  “Prices don’t belong up here,” said  Mike Rose , the
director of energy trading at Angus Jackson Inc. in  Fort
Lauderdale ,  Florida . “The fleeting moments of winter that we
have left aren’t enough to burn much gas.”  MDA Federal Inc.’s EarthSat Energy Weather forecast mostly
normal temperatures for the continental U.S. from March 31
through April 4. The low temperature in New York on March 31 may
be 47 degrees Fahrenheit (8 Celsius), 8 above normal, according
to AccuWeather Inc. in  State College , Pennsylvania. The low in  Chicago  may be 41 degrees, 6 above normal.  About 52 percent of U.S. households use natural gas for
heating, according to the Energy Department.  Gas inventories have been rising relative to the five-year
average since Feb. 18. Stockpiles may end the winter heating
season on March 31 at 1.549 trillion cubic feet, according to
the  Energy Department .  Gas futures volume in electronic trading on the Nymex was
272,967 as of 2:45 p.m., compared with the three-month average
of 300,000. Volume was 322,738 on March 18. Open interest was
908,572 contracts. The three-month average open interest is
873,000.  The exchange has a one-business-day delay in reporting open
interest and full volume data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Buurma in New York at 
 cbuurma1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  