-- 
New York City May Need $600 Million in Additional Budget Cuts, Page Says

-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 
2011-03-21T20:21:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/new-york-city-may-need-additional-600-million-cuts-budget-director-says.html
New York City  may need to cut
spending by $600 million more because the state Legislature is
unlikely to approve aid and other measures anticipated in a
preliminary financial plan, Budget Director Mark Page said.  Page said Mayor  Michael Bloomberg , whose $65.6 billion
budget eliminated a $2.4 billion deficit partly by cutting 6,166
of 75,000 teacher positions, may have to slash another 2 percent
from schools and uniformed services, and 4 percent from other
agencies. The budget also calls for closing 20 firefighting
companies.  The budget director, who traveled to Albany, the state
capital, last week to lobby for more aid, told the City Council
Finance Committee today that he “didn’t come back feeling
good” about the meeting.  New York ’s revenue, like that of other U.S. cities this
year, has run below 2008  levels  while costs of pensions, health
care and operations continue to rise, making 2011 “the toughest
year yet for local governments,” Moody’s Investors Service said
March 16 in a report.  Although Bloomberg opposes extending an income tax
surcharge on the state’s highest earners that’s scheduled to
expire Dec. 31, Page said the mayor would still support a budget
that retained it.  Albany Three  Democratic Governor  Andrew Cuomo  and state Senate Majority
Leader  Dean Skelos , a Republican from Rockville Centre, reject
the tax, while Democratic Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver of
 Manhattan  has favored it.  The state must close a $10 billion gap in its $132.5
billion budget, for which Cuomo has proposed spending reductions
for Medicaid and local school aid, and firing 9,800 state
workers unless they agree to $450 million in savings.  “The mayor’s position is that if a millionaire’s tax was
part of an overall budget deal in  Albany , he wouldn’t oppose
it,” Page said.  Bloomberg last week said keeping the tax would “drive
business out” of the state and “not be a good strategy right
now.”  Marc LaVorgna , the mayor’s spokesman, said Bloomberg
hasn’t changed his position on the issue and that Page misspoke.  Bloomberg’s budget relied on $400 million in unrestricted
aid and a law abolishing $200 million in supplemental annual
payments to retired police and firefighters. State lawmakers
have shown little interest in the proposal to end those benefits
or increase funding to the city, Page said.  “It doesn’t seem to be moving,” he said.  Opposed to Teacher Cuts  Council members opposed the mayor’s reductions to the
teachers, 4,666 of whom would be fired. Councilman  Robert Jackson , chairman of the Education Committee, called the plan
“unacceptable.” It would cost about $300 million to retain
more than 4,000 teachers, Page said.  Several council members told Page they would prefer that
the administration take money from a $2.5 billion  trust fund 
Bloomberg created in 2006 to pay future health benefits. Others
called upon the administration to reduce its contracts with
private consultants to fund the teaching jobs.  The mayor is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News
parent Bloomberg LP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Goldman in New York at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  