-- 
New York, NRC Set to Meet About Indian Point Plant Safety

-- B y   D a n   H a r t   a n d   E d w a r d   K l u m p
-- 
2011-03-21T14:14:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/new-york-nrc-to-meet-about-indian-point-nuclear-plant-safety.html
  Entergy Corp. (ETR) ’s Indian Point
nuclear-power plant needs tighter regulation because of its
proximity to  New York City , a member of the Union of Concerned
Scientists said before a meeting between state officials and
U.S. regulators to discuss the facility.  “Indian Point is special,” Edwin Lyman, a physicist with
the group, said on a conference call with reporters yesterday.
It is one of “a handful of plants in the U.S. with extremely
high population densities within 50 miles and we’ve always said
those should get additional regulatory attention.”  The U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission should re-examine
its assumptions about safety, especially for plants in densely
populated areas, said Lyman, whose 250,000-member organization
advocates responsible treatment of the environment.    New York  Lieutenant Governor Robert Duffy and other state
officials will meet with the commission to discuss how an
earthquake might affect Indian Point, Governor  Andrew Cuomo 
said. The plant is about 24 miles (38 kilometers) north of New
York City, whose more than 8 million residents make it the most
populous in the U.S.  Cuomo last week expressed surprise at reports that the
plant, which opened in 1962, was the most vulnerable to an
earthquake of all U.S. nuclear facilities. Regulators have been
concerned after  Japan ’s struggles to avert a disaster at a power
plant crippled last week by a tsunami and the 9.0 magnitude
temblor off the northeastern coast.  Gauging Danger  The March 22 gathering was set up by the White House at
Cuomo’s request, the governor’s office said in an e-mailed
statement. It will include Howard Glaser, director of New York
state operations, the statement said. The gathering will be in
Washington, said  Josh Vlasto , a Cuomo spokesman.  The meeting is intended to determine Indian Point’s
earthquake vulnerabilities, preparedness and risk assessment,
according to the statement. Rich Bamberger, a spokesman for the
governor, could not immediately say where the meeting would be.  U.S. nuclear power plants that store thousands of metric
tons of spent atomic fuel pose risks of a crisis like the one
unfolding in Japan, where crews are battling to prevent a
meltdown of stored fuel, nuclear safety experts said.  U.S. nuclear plants had an estimated 63,000 metric tons
(138.9 million pounds) of spent fuel stored on site as of
January 2010, according to a report from the NRC. About 2,000
metric tons a year is expected to be added to that total, the
NRC said.  ‘Should Be Closed’  The reactors supply 25 percent of the power used by the
city and suburban Westchester County. They are designed to
withstand at least a magnitude 6 earthquake, said Jerry Nappi, a
plant spokesman. A magnitude 7 earthquake in the region is
possible, based on the features of two identified  fault lines  in
the area, according to scientists at  Columbia University ’s
Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory.  Cuomo said in a March 16 press conference in  Albany  that
while he was New York’s attorney general, he’d concluded Indian
Point shouldn’t have been issued a new license and “should be
closed.”  An emergency plan for the evacuation of about 320,000
people within a 10-mile radius of the plant is evaluated every
two years by the  Federal Emergency Management Agency , according
to Nappi. The plan was approved last year.  “You cannot move that many people in the amount of time
required because there aren’t that many roads,” said Paul
Gallay, executive director of  Riverkeeper Inc. , an environmental
watchdog group based in Ossining, New York, that says the
evacuation plan isn’t adequate.  Liner Leak  Separately, the NRC has been aware of a leak in the liner
of a refueling cavity at Indian Point since 1993 and yet allowed
the plant to continue operating, according to a  report  by the
Union of Concerned Scientists.  The liner was installed to prevent leaking of radioactive
material during an earthquake and the chances of that equipment
fulfilling its safety function is “nil,” the report said.  “We believe Indian Point is capable of withstanding the
most significant historical earthquake for that area,” said
Neil Sheehan, a spokesman for the NRC.  To contact the reporters on this story:  Dan Hart  in  Washington  at 
 dahart@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Klump in Houston at 
 eklump@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Theo Mullen at 
 tmullen11@bloomberg.net  