-- 
New York Fed’s Dahlgren Overhauls Bank Supervision to Beef Up Oversight

-- B y   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   a n d   B r a d l e y   K e o u n
-- 
2011-03-21T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/new-york-fed-s-dahlgren-overhauls-bank-supervision-to-beef-up-oversight.html
The  Federal Reserve Bank  of  New
York , which oversees some of the largest U.S. financial firms,
has reorganized its bank supervision group to strengthen its
oversight capabilities.  The division has been renamed the Financial Institution
Supervision Group, in a nod to the Fed’s expanded authority
under the Dodd-Frank Act, according to the New York Fed’s
website. The Dodd-Frank Act, signed into law by President  Barack Obama  in July, gave the Fed authority for overseeing non-bank
financial firms deemed “too big to fail” because their
collapse might pose a risk to the financial system.  “Some of this is about changing a mindset internally, as
well as reflecting externally that we have a broader mandate now
under Dodd-Frank,” Sarah Dahlgren, who became head of the group
on Jan. 1, told Bloomberg News on March 18 when asked about the
changes. “We’re going to have to increase resources.”  The New York Fed oversees firms including  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM)  and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , both of New York, and is
slated to gain responsibility for non-bank companies in its
district such as Fairfield, Connecticut-based  General Electric
Co. (GE) ’s  GE Capital  unit. Keith Sherin, GE’s chief financial
officer, said on a Jan. 21 earnings call that the Fed would
become GE Capital’s regulator “sometime in the first half of
this year.”  Risk Management  The Fed bank has moved specialists from the supervision
group’s risk management function to its relationship management
teams, according to two people familiar with the reorganization
who declined to be identified because the changes haven’t been
made public officially. The relationship management teams are
responsible for covering specific institutions, such as  Citigroup Inc. (C) , while the risk analysts provide “cross-
institutional analyses,” according to the New York Fed’s
website.  The risk analysts will relocate from the New York Fed’s 33
Liberty Street headquarters in downtown  Manhattan  to on-site
locations at the financial firms, increasing the number of on-
site staff and giving the risk analysts better access to the
institutions, according to the two people familiar.  The New York Fed has also created a new senior supervisory
officer role within the relationship management teams. The
senior supervisory officers will act as a liaison between the
regulators and senior management of the financial institutions,
and will also focus on piecing together the firms’ business
strategy, revenue sources and risk management.  In addition, the New York Fed created new so-called
business line specialists on the relationship management teams.  Money-Losing Strategy  Citigroup, which in the years prior to the crisis was the
biggest bank supervised by the New York Fed, embarked on its
ultimately money-losing strategy of expanding in subprime-
mortgage-backed securities in 2005 on the recommendation of an
outside consultant, former trading chief Thomas Maheras told the
Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission.  Citigroup had to get a $45 billion federal bailout in late
2008. According to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.,
Citigroup’s biggest banking subsidiary,  Citibank NA , had to get
“open-bank assistance,” on Nov. 23, 2008, a label applied to
banks that have to get government aid to avoid failing.  “This is really part of taking the lessons learned from
the crisis and trying to fit those into what we need to do
differently in light of the changes under Dodd-Frank,” said
Dahlgren, 47, who previously ran the New York Fed’s Special
Investments Management Group since it was formed in January 2010
to oversee assets acquired by the bank during the financial
crisis.  ‘The Vision’  “We laid out the vision and now we’re in the process of
developing and implementing it, including on the staffing
side,” Dahlgren said.  The largest U.S. banks have grown larger since the financial
crisis, and the number of “too-big-to-fail” banks will
increase by 40 percent over the next 15 years, according to the
Bloomberg Government Study “Too-Big-to-Fail Banks Get Bigger
After Dodd-Frank.”  The Fed said March 18 that some of the 19 largest U.S.
banks will be able to restart dividend payments, buy back shares,
or repay government capital after “significant improvement” in
their capital positions and the economy. The 19 banks have
increased common equity by more than $300 billion from the final
quarter of 2008 through the end of 2010, the Fed said in a paper
released last week in  Washington  on its most recent review of
bank capital.  The Fed’s stress tests are part of a move toward higher
standards for capital and risk management mandated by U.S.
legislators and international regulatory accords.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Caroline Salas in New York at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net ;
Bradley Keoun in New York at 
 bkeoun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  