-- 
New Look Said to Have Ousted Chief Executive McPhail After Sales Declined

-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 
2011-03-21T14:46:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/new-look-ceo-mcphail-and-chairman-gildersleeve-leave-u-k-fashion-retailer.html
New Look Group Ltd., the closely
held U.K. fashion retailer which postponed an initial public
offering last year, ousted Chief Executive Officer Carl McPhail
after sales slumped, two people familiar with the matter said.  McPhail and non-executive Chairman John Gildersleeve
resigned today, the company said in a statement. Tom Singh, who
founded New Look in 1969 and still owns 23 percent of the
shares, will become interim executive chairman while a search
for replacements is carried out, the London-based retailer said.  Senior management at New Look were informed this morning of
the change by private-equity owners Permira Advisers LLP and  Apax Partners  Worldwide LLP, according to one of the people, who
declined to be identified because the matter is private. Same-
store sales at  New Look  fell 9.1 percent in the 15 weeks ended
Jan. 8. The U.K. market is still “incredibly challenging,”
McPhail said last week at the Retail Week conference in London.  “They have underperformed quite significantly and they
were by far the worst performer for all clothing retailers over
Christmas,” said Ramona Tipnis, an analyst at Shore Capital.
Same-store sales at  Marks & Spencer Group Plc (MKS) , the largest U.K.
apparel retailer, rose 2.8 percent in the 13 weeks ended Jan. 1.  New Look postponed plans for an initial public offering
last year and said in January that it was still “open minded”
about a possible return to a public listing.  Declining Sales  The board changes may be related to the declining sales and
the “unlikely” prospect of an IPO, Tipnis said.  McPhail, 46, joined New Look from Selfridges in June 2001
and succeeded Phil Wrigley as CEO in April 2008.  Gildersleeve, 66, “had recently indicated his intention to
retire,” New Look said in the statement.  Permira and Apax Partners each own about 28 percent of New
Look, while management holds about 16 percent, according to
company filings. Other than Singh’s stake, the remainder is
split among smaller investors.  Barbara Horspool, New Look’s design director, last month
moved to young-fashion chain Oasis, owned by Aurora Fashions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Shannon in  London  at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  