-- 
NFL Owners Oppose Player Bid to Block Lockout During Bargaining Talks

-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 
2011-03-21T20:36:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/nfl-owners-oppose-player-bid-to-block-lockout-during-bargaining-talks.html
National Football League owners
voiced opposition to a bid by 10 NFL players for an order
blocking a lockout during collective bargaining, saying the
federal court lacks jurisdiction over the dispute.  Only the  National Labor Relations Board  has the authority
to resolve the fight, the 32-team league said today in papers
submitted to U.S. District Judge Susan Richard Nelson in  St.
Paul ,  Minnesota .  “The jurisdictional bar applies as long as this case
‘involves or grows out of’ a labor dispute, a test that is
clearly satisfied here,” according to the owners' argument.  Quarterbacks  Tom Brady ,  Peyton Manning  and  Drew Brees  led
the group that sued the league on March 11 after negotiations to
craft a new contract collapsed and the National Football League
Players Association said it no longer would function as a union.
League policies violate U.S antitrust laws, the players said.  Owners declared a lockout hours later, shutting down the
most-watched and wealthiest U.S. sport at midnight.  During the lockout, players won’t be paid, and teams can’t
practice, sign new players or make trades. The NFL draft of
college players is still scheduled to begin April 28.  “There’s nothing unexpected in these papers,” players’
attorney Jeffrey L. Kessler said today in a telephone interview.  “We obviously disagree,” said Kessler, an attorney in New
York-based Dewey & LeBoef LLP.  Players’ Response Coming  The players will file a response explaining their position,
he said. Nelson set a March 28 deadline for the answer.  The owners voted in 2008 to end the NFL’s collective-
bargaining agreement with players on March 3, saying the deal
didn’t account for costs such as building stadiums. The deadline
was extended until March 11 as owners and players met with a
mediator.  Areas of dispute include the division of $9 billion in
annual revenue, extending the season to 18 games from 16, a
rookie salary cap and health care for players.  “There is going to be a labor agreement,” NFL Vice
President  Jeff Pash  said today at a press conference in  New
Orleans , site of the league’s spring meeting. The Players
Association is “continuing to function as a labor
association,” he said.  “We believe they intend to negotiate a collective
bargaining agreement with us, and we believe let’s get over the
folderol and let’s get to it,” he said.  The case is Brady v. NFL, 0:11-639, U.S. District Court,
District of Minnesota (St. Paul).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew M. Harris in Chicago
at   aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net  