-- 
NIH Spending Imperiled by Republicans Ignoring Gingrich Pleas

-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   D o d g e
-- 
2011-03-21T04:00:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/nih-spending-imperiled-by-republicans-ignoring-gingrich-pleas.html
When  House Republicans  took power
in 1995 determined to cut spending in a battle that shut down
the U.S. government, then-House Speaker  Newt Gingrich  was
persuaded to spare the  National Institutes of Health .  Gingrich not only reconsidered his party’s proposed cuts
to the NIH budget after hearing concerns from business
executives and Nobel laureates, he later supported a bipartisan
move to double the research center’s funding over five years.  For Republicans who took control of the House this year,
those concerns aren’t resonating, and the NIH lacks a
Republican champion. House Republicans are now pressing for a
$1.6 billion, or 5.2 percent, spending cut to the center in
Bethesda,  Maryland , which includes the  National Cancer
Institute  and other medical-research facilities.  Former Representative John Porter, a Republican who helped
lead the 1995 move to boost  NIH  funding, and other critics say
the cuts will hurt U.S. competitiveness and medical advances
and underline the danger of across-the-board budget reductions.  “I’d call it, frankly, mindless,” said  Porter , 75.
Biomedical research “provides the kind of high-tech, high-
paying jobs that we really want for our children and
grandchildren. This is where we really make a difference in the
lives of people all over the world.”  Porter, who oversaw the research center’s funding while on
the House Appropriations Committee and is now on  the board  of
the NIH foundation, said he fears lawmakers don’t understand
the importance of the money in fighting disease or that much of
it goes to institutions in their districts.  Gingrich Backs NIH  Gingrich, 67, who’s considering a 2012 presidential run,
also objects to any NIH cuts. “We should be spending more, not
less, on science,” said his spokesman, Rick Tyler. In a
Washington Post op-ed last month, Gingrich wrote that his party
decided to be “smart rather than cheap” in making cuts.  “We realized that cutting spending in areas that produce
long-term savings was destructive to the goal of a sustainable
balanced budget,” he wrote.  The  budget for the NIH , the largest public funder of
biomedical research in the world, rose to almost $31 billion in
2010 from $11.3 billion in 1995.  The investment has paid off, said Mark McClellan, a former
Medicare administrator under Republican President  George W. Bush  who leads the Engelberg Center for Health Care Reform at
the  Brookings Institution  in Washington.  “The increases in funding in the past decade have been
very helpful for achieving a lot of progress towards genomics,
towards more personalized medicine and progress in a lot of
areas that have tremendous potential to improve health,” he
said.  ‘Blunt Instrument’  Still, McClellan said he understands the pressure to
address the deficit that leads to a “blunt instrument”
approach to budget cutting.  “This all highlights why we need a better budget process
than simply across-the-board cuts,” he said.  Public-sector researchers, who get about 70 percent of
their funding from the U.S. government, contributed to the
discovery of as many as 1 in 5 medicines approved by the U.S.
Food and Drug Administration between 1990 and 2007, according
to a  study  published last month in the New England Journal of
Medicine.  “People didn’t realize that,” said Ashley Stevens, a
senior research associate at Boston University School of
Management who led the study. Many of the treatments were for
cancer and infectious diseases.  ‘Seed Corn’  In 2008, global sales of those drugs totaled $103 billion,
or about 13 percent of the pharmaceutical market, Stevens said.  Medicines that had their roots in public-sector research
include New York-based  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) ’s nerve pain remedy Lyrica,
and the rheumatoid arthritis treatment Remicade, sold by  New
Brunswick , New Jersey-based  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  and Merck & Co.
of Whitehouse Station,  New Jersey , Stevens said. Remicade is
the second- biggest product for Merck and the top-selling drug
for J&J.  “Publicly funded research is the seed corn of the
economy, and you really want to keep planting your seed corn
and not eat it,” Stevens said.  John Castellani, president of the  Pharmaceutical Research
and Manufacturers of America , which represents drugmakers such
as Pfizer and  Amgen Inc. (AMGN) , said concerns about fiscal policy and
sustaining research funding are both important.  “We want to make sure that it continues at a level that
we can get the work done that needs to be done,” he said of
the NIH funding.  ‘Thoughtfully Crafted’ Cuts  Senator  Jeff Sessions , the top Republican on the Budget
Committee, said he backed  doubling the NIH budget  from 1998 to
2003 and “would hate to cut a dime.”  “But I don’t think that we’re going to devastate our
research in America if it had to take a small reduction,” the
Alabama lawmaker said in a March 11 interview for Bloomberg
Television’s Political Capital with  Al Hunt . “There’s just
nothing that can be avoided.”  House Republicans’ proposed cuts to the NIH “were very
thoughtfully crafted so as to have no effect on biomedical
research,” said House Appropriations Committee Chairman Hal Rogers of  Kentucky . There would still be almost 9,000 new
competitive grants awarded even with the reductions, he said.  Robert Alpern, the dean of the Yale School of Medicine in
New Haven, Connecticut, sees it differently, saying prolonged
cuts would have a “devastating” effect on research in the U.S.    China  Gaining  “If you look in labs today, more and more of the
successful researchers are coming from other countries,” he
said. “China is starting to pull them back, and they are going
after the best ones. If the U.S. decides they aren’t going to
fund biomedical research, these people won’t stay.”  House Republicans passed a spending plan for the rest of
this fiscal year that cuts $61 billion and includes the NIH
reduction as part of an effort to roll back spending to 2008
levels. Freshman Republicans who campaigned on promises to rein
in spending insisted on bigger cuts than party leaders
originally proposed. The plan was rejected in the Democratic-
controlled Senate, and lawmakers have passed temporary measures
as they work on a longer-term compromise.  “The funding for biomedical research has always been
bipartisan,” said Representative Rosa DeLauro, a Connecticut
Democrat and cancer survivor who sits on the Appropriations
Committee. “In the current environment, we would never have
been able to fund the human genome project.”  Lobbying Congress  Advocacy groups fighting diseases such as cancer and
Parkinson’s are pressing members of Congress to restore
biomedical research funding.  A nationwide network of volunteers for the  American Cancer
Society Cancer Action Network  will be making calls and meeting
with lawmakers across the country when members return to their
districts this week, said Chris Hansen, president of the
Washington-based group.  “I think they’ll get the message,” Hansen said. “We are
going to keep the pressure on. The issue is too important not
to.”  Members of the  Parkinson’s Action Network  held 250
meetings with lawmakers and staffers in  Washington  in one day
earlier this month.  “There are so many diseases for which cutbacks in
biomedical research would be devastating,” said  Amy Comstock
Rick , the group’s chief executive. “I don’t think it’s a given
that NIH is protected at all. And that scares me.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catherine Dodge in Washington at 
 cdodge1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  