-- 
Nomura Hires Sherlund, Former Top-Ranked Analyst at Goldman

-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s   a n d   D i n a   B a s s
-- 
2011-03-21T18:10:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/nomura-hires-sherlund-top-ranked-tech-analyst-while-at-goldman.html
Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604)  hired Richard Sherlund, a former  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  software analyst and
Galleon Group LLC money manager, as the New York-based head of
research for U.S. technology companies.  Sherlund, 56, will join the U.S. unit of  Japan ’s biggest
brokerage as a managing director, according to a statement from
the Tokyo-based brokerage. He was most recently chief executive
officer of New York-based Ketchem Creek Capital Management LP,
which invests in technology companies, the statement said.  “Tech is one of the hottest areas right now,”  Jeanne Branthover , a managing director at Boyden Global Executive
Search in New York. “It’s an area of extreme growth and every
single company is focused on it, so the people that do what he
does are more in demand than ever.”  Nomura has expanded its workforce in the Americas to 2,300
from 1,800 since 2009 and said last year that it plans to offer
research for 600 companies in the U.S. in a bid to boost revenue
from the world’s biggest equity market. Nomura got 11 percent of
revenue from the Americas in the fiscal year ended in March
2010, almost double the 5.7 percent share the year before,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Nomura hired  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ’s Ciaran O’Kelly in July
2009 as head of equities for the Americas and Bank of America’s
 Michael Rietbrock  as head of U.S. equity research in March 2010.
Sherlund will report to Rietbrock.  Top Ranking  Sherlund, the top-ranked software analyst by Institutional
Investor magazine from 1989 through 2005, left Goldman Sachs in
2007 after 25 years to become a manager of technology stocks at
Galleon, which is now at the center of the largest crackdown on
hedge-fund insider trading in U.S. history. He left Galleon in
2008, HFMWeek said that year. Sherlund declined to comment on
his employment at Galleon, according to Jonathan Hodgkinson, a
Nomura spokesman.  Ketchem Creek is closing, HFMWeek said last week, citing
sources familiar with the company who it didn’t name.  Raj Rajaratnam, Galleon’s co-founder, was arrested for
 insider trading  in 2009 and is on trial in Manhattan federal
court. The Sri Lankan-born money manager is accused of making
$45 million from tips leaked by corporate insiders and hedge
fund traders. He says his trades were based on legitimate
research and denies wrongdoing.  Bill Gates   Sherlund, the analyst assigned by Goldman to follow
Microsoft when the investment bank managed the software maker
initial public offering 25 years ago, enjoyed unique access to
co-founder Bill Gates. Gates regularly invited Sherlund for one-
on-one dinners during the analyst’s early years of coverage.  “Rick’s the axe on Microsoft,” money manager  Philip Orlando  said in an April 2000 interview. Orlando is now the New
York-based chief equity market strategist at Federated Investors
Inc., which manages $341.3 billion.  Sherlund spends summers prospecting for gold in  Alaska , the
 Wall Street Journal  reported in November 2007. The annual ritual
takes him to Fairbanks, Alaska, and then on a three-hour drive
on a gravel road to Ketchem Creek, where he and his father,
stepmother, brother and nephews help dig for gold while his wife
and sons relax at Nantucket, the Journal reported.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Kearns in  New York  at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net ;
Dina Bass in Seattle at 
 dbass2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  