-- 
Novartis Wins EU Regulatory Approval for Gilenya MS Pill

-- B y   E v a   v o n   S c h a p e r
-- 
2011-03-21T07:19:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/novartis-wins-eu-approval-for-gilenya-multiple-sclerosis-pill.html
  Novartis AG (NOVN)  won European
approval to sell its multiple sclerosis medicine Gilenya for
patients with active or severe forms of the disease.  The  European  Commission cleared the treatment for use
against the relapsing-remitting form of multiple sclerosis,
Basel, Switzerland-based Novartis said in a statement today.
Doctors can prescribe the drug as the second choice of treatment
for patients with an active form of the disease who’ve used beta
interferon, or as the first drug for those with a rapidly
evolving form of the disease.  The decision excludes some patients, giving the drug a
smaller part of the European market than it has in the U.S.
Gilenya won U.S. approval as the first choice for use in all
patients with relapsing-remitting MS last year, raising hopes
for some of the millions of patients who suffer from the disease
and rely on injections for symptom relief. The Novartis tablet
may earn as much as $2.9 billion a year worldwide through 2017,  Joshua Schimmer , a Leerink Swann analyst, wrote in a note dated
Feb. 4.  “Gilenya is the first approved therapy for MS that offers
significant efficacy in a capsule, which for many patients will
come as a welcome additional option,”  Hans Peter Hartung , head
of the department of neurology at Heinrich-Heine University in
Duesseldorf,  Germany , said in the statement.  The pill costs about $48,000 annually in the U.S.  The European Medicines Agency’s Committee for Medicinal
Products for Human Use recommended Jan. 21 that Novartis be
granted approval to market the drug.    Merck KGaA (MRK) ’s Rebif and  Biogen Idec Inc. (BIIB) ’s Avonex are both
beta interferons, as is Novartis’s own Extavia.  MS affects about 2.5 million people worldwide, many of whom
have trouble sticking with current therapies because they’re
difficult to use or have side effects, according to the  National
Multiple Sclerosis Society , a New York-based patient group.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eva von Schaper in Munich at 
 evonschaper@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at   pserafino@bloomberg.net  