-- 
Novartis’s $48,000 Pill Spurs U.S. Price Increases for Older MS Treatments

-- B y   E v a   v o n   S c h a p e r   a n d   N a o m i   K r e s g e
-- 
2011-03-21T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/novartis-s-48-000-pill-spurs-u-s-price-increases-for-ms-drugs.html
The prices of multiple sclerosis
medicines have risen as much as 39 percent since last year, even
as competition intensified with the introduction of the first
pill to treat the disease.  Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA)  said it raised the
price of its MS drug, Copaxone, to about $42,300 a year, a 39
percent jump since January 2010. In September,  Novartis AG (NOVN)  won
approval for Gilenya, pricing it even higher at $48,000, in part
because it’s the first drug in pill form, while the other
treatments must be injected or infused. As analysts say Gilenya
will take a significant share of the market, charging more for
the older therapies is a way to keep revenue steady when unit
sales erode.  The cost of the MS drugs, which patients generally take for
life, now rivals that of cancer medicines such as  Roche Holding
AG (ROG) ’s $50,000-a-year Avastin. The MS treatments may be out of
reach for patients who don’t have insurance or don’t qualify for
help from the companies, at a time when governments worldwide
are seeking to rein in health-care spending.  “It’s just a crazy situation,” said Brenda Lakatos-
Shaffer, a 45-year-old MS patient in  Dallas  who counsels
Medicare beneficiaries for the  National Multiple Sclerosis
Society , in an interview. “Not only is having MS absolutely
horrible, and you have the crazy side effects and quality of
life with these medicines, but then you see the prices go up.”  Teva and  Biogen Idec Inc. (BIIB) , which makes the Tysabri and
Avonex drugs, responded with their own price increases as the
companies sought to generate more revenue before Gilenya wins
significant market share.  Gilenya’s Premium  Novartis, based in  Basel ,  Switzerland , was able to demand a
premium for Gilenya because it frees patients from injections,
Fabian Wenner, an analyst with UBS AG in Zurich, said in an
interview. The pill’s monthly cost was initially between $800
and $1,200 higher than existing drugs, according to prices from
the website  DestinationRx.com .  Gilenya’s pricing reflects the company’s research costs and
the advance in treatment it offers patients, said  Eric Althoff ,
a Novartis spokesman, in September. He didn’t respond to
requests by phone and e-mail last week for additional comment.  Avonex, sold by Weston, Massachusetts-based Biogen, had a 6
percent price increase in December, according to a March 7 note
by RBC Capital Markets analysts who cited IMS Health Inc. data.
Total prescriptions for Avonex have declined 4 percent since
Gilenya entered the market, the RBC analysts said.  Shannon Altimari, a spokeswoman for Biogen, said the
company doesn’t disclose historical pricing information.  ‘Competitively Priced’  Copaxone’s price rose 9.9 percent in January 2010, 9.9
percent in May, and 14.9 percent in January 2011, Teva said. The
medicine costs about $3,524 a month based on the wholesale
acquisition price, according to  Petah Tikva , Israel-based Teva.
That’s about $42,300 a year. DestinationRx lists the annual cost
at about $45,046.  “Copaxone is competitively priced relative to other
relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis therapies,” Teva said in
an e-mailed statement. “The current price reflects the
product’s value.”  Biogen’s Tysabri costs about $3,566 a month, or $42,788 a
year, while Avonex’s price is $37,544, according to Biogen. The
U.S. company markets Tysabri with Dublin-based Elan Corp.  “Biogen Idec and Elan are committed to new and existing
patients having access to Tysabri” for approved uses, Elan said
in an e-mailed statement. The companies said they have programs
to assist patients with their out-of-pocket costs for the
medicines.  Further Increases  The wholesale price for Bayer AG’s Betaseron is $37,294 a
year, according to the Leverkusen, Germany-based company.  Merck
KGaA (MRK) , based in Darmstadt,  Germany , said the wholesale cost of
its Rebif drug is $36,825 a year. Both companies said they also
offer patient assistance programs.  The prices may rise further, Leerink Swann & Co. analysts
said in a Feb. 7 note to clients. A doctor Leerink interviewed
“is unaware of the levels at which point the insurers may start
to push back and sees room for additional increases,” the
analysts said.  The MS treatments are part of a burgeoning category known
as specialty drugs, which are designed for diseases that have
enormous effect on people’s lives, such as MS or cancer, said
Jacqueline Kosecoff, chief executive officer at Prescription
Solutions, the pharmacy benefits manager owned by UnitedHealth
Group Inc.  “Many have enormous promise but they are very, very
expensive,” Kosecoff said in an interview. “How can society
provide an opportunity for people to take advantage of them and
not be buried by the cost?”  Injected or Infused  MS causes the immune system to attack the insulating tissue
around nerve fibers. This stops nerve cells from sending
signals, sapping patients’ energy, blurring their vision and
slowly robbing them of mobility, balance and coordination.  The disease affects about 2.1 million people worldwide,
many of whom have trouble sticking with injected or infused
therapies because they’re difficult to use or have side effects,
according to the MS Society, a New York-based patient group.  “People are frustrated, hoping for medical treatment that
will really help, and yet everything is just out of reach,”
said Kathleen Wilson of Eugene,  Oregon , who founded MSWorld, a
patient message board with more than 45,000 members, in an
interview.  Some MS patients qualify for coverage through Medicare, the
U.S. health insurance program for the elderly and disabled.
Medicare enrollees may pay about $600 a month out of their own
pockets for an injection that costs $1,600 to $2,400 a month,
said Lakatos-Shaffer, the Dallas-based patient counselor. Most
Medicare patients she advises have limited incomes, keeping
disease-modifying drugs out of reach even with government help.  $700 a Month  “I would talk to clients who would be getting, let’s say,
$700 a month from Social Security because they couldn’t work,”
Lakatos-Shaffer said. “They’d have $700 a month for living
expenses and their drugs.”  Doctors predicted that Novartis’s Gilenya will imperil
sales of all MS drugs in the coming 12 months, Citigroup Inc.
analysts including Yaron Werber said in a Feb. 8 note to
clients, which was based on a survey of neurologists who treat
MS patients.  The doctors expected Biogen’s Tysabri will be hurt more
than Avonex will, probably because those with a severe form of
MS wouldn’t be put on Avonex, Werber said in an interview.  Novartis booked $13 million of Gilenya sales last year, the
company said in January. The medicine may earn between $60
million and $70 million in the first quarter of this year,
according to  Michael Yee , an analyst with RBC.  Market Leaders  Copaxone, Teva’s best-selling drug, brought in $3.3 billion
last year. Avonex had sales of $2.5 billion, while Tysabri
generated $900 million.  Gilenya is set to lead the market in 2017, Leerink
estimates, with $2.9 billion in global sales, and Copaxone would
be in second place at $2.7 billion. Total sales of MS drugs will
grow to about $15 billion from $10 billion now, Leerink said.  Under Novartis’s patient assistance program, the company
pays out-of-pocket costs for those who aren’t on Medicare. The
Swiss drugmaker pays as much as $800 monthly in co-payments for
Gilenya, and helps patients navigate testing and monitoring
recommended by U.S. regulators, paying as much as $600. Patients
need to be monitored for six hours after their first dose of
Gilenya, along with checks of the liver, eyes, blood and heart.  Teva provides assistance and support programs, according to
Denise Bradley, a Teva spokeswoman, who didn’t elaborate on
eligibility requirements and the percentage of Copaxone patients
involved in the programs.  Company Assistance  Biogen spent $230 million on its patient assistance
programs and charitable donations, Biogen’s Altimari said. The
company will help patients better understand what their
insurance will cover and determine out-of-pocket costs, as well
as assist with co-payments and other services.  “Our belief is that patients should have access to the
therapy they need to treat their disease, regardless of their
financial situation,” Altimari said in an e-mailed statement.  Dean Kramer, 60, doesn’t qualify for such programs because
of her retirement fund.  Diagnosed in 1984, Kramer started taking Teva’s Copaxone in
the late 1990s and recalls the drug cost $1,100 a month then.
She had to pay $100 of that out of her own pocket each month.
Then a job change forced Kramer to switch to a less generous
insurer. After a year’s subsidy from a charity program, the
Maryland resident faced a choice between dipping into her
retirement fund or quitting her MS therapy. She chose to quit.  ‘Desperate’ People  Kramer relies on diet, exercise and two cheap medicines to
improve her mobility. Gilenya is intriguing because it’s more
effective than the older therapies, Kramer said. She’s waiting
to see the side effects, aware that her personal cost-benefit
calculation may change if her symptoms worsen.  “People get desperate and look for anything that will make
them feel better,” she said in a telephone interview.  The price increases may not be sustainable for the older
drugs, said Trung Huynh, a London-based analyst with
 Datamonitor , a business information and market analysis company.  “In the past they’ve been able to get away with that
because of limited competition, but not with Gilenya,” Huynh
said in an interview. “This will help them in the short term,
not the long.”  The market will soon get more competition. Three oral drugs
are in late-stage testing and may be available within the next
one to two years, according to UBS’s Wenner. They are Teva’s
laquinimod, Biogen’s BG-12 and teriflunomide from Sanofi-Aventis
SA of Paris. A fourth medicine, Merck KGaA’s cladribine, was
rejected by European regulators last year and failed to win U.S.
approval this month.  “The oral drugs are the bright shining star for us, but
it’s no closer than not having an oral drug at all, with Gilenya
priced so high,” Lakatos-Shaffer said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eva von Schaper in Munich at 
 evonschaper@bloomberg.net ;
Naomi Kresge in Berlin at 
 nkresge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at   pserafino@bloomberg.net . 