-- 
Novartis, Roche’s Xolair Help Blunt Severe Milk Allergies in Children

-- B y   N i c o l e   O s t r o w
-- 
2011-03-21T20:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/novartis-roche-s-xolair-help-blunt-severe-milk-allergies-in-children.html
Novartis AG (NOVN)  and  Roche Holding AG (ROG) ’s
Xolair, a medication used to treat asthma attacks caused by
allergens such as pollen and dust mites, helped children
overcome  milk allergies , a small study showed.  The research found that nine of 11 severely milk-intolerant
children were able to consume 8 to 12 ounces of dairy each day
after completing a desensitization regimen that included taking
Xolair for 16 weeks. The study, the first to combine Xolair with
food desensitization, was presented at the  American Academy  of
Allergy, Asthma and Immunology meeting today in  San Francisco .  About 3 million children in the U.S. have some form of food
allergy, with milk the most common, ranging in severity from
mild to life-threatening, according to the study. There is no
cure for food allergies and no safe and effective treatments
except to avoid the foods that cause reactions, the researchers
said. The findings may help lead to a cure for severe food
allergies, said study author  Dale Umetsu .  “These findings give us hope that we can develop a
treatment for patients with food allergies that is relatively
safe and effective,” said Umetsu, a professor of pediatrics at
 Harvard Medical School  and Children’s Hospital Boston, in a
March 18 telephone interview. “What we hope to do and see is
that this approach might work for other food allergies as well,
not just milk allergy, but perhaps other allergies such as
peanuts, tree nuts and those sorts of things.”  The children in the study had severe allergies, some of
which were life threatening, Umetsu said.  No Approval for Under 12  Xolair was approved in the U.S. in 2003 to treat allergic
asthma in adults and children aged 12 or older. Novartis and
Roche’s Genentech unit, which helped support the study, failed
to win U.S. clearance in 2009 for Xolair in children aged 6 to
11. Novartis and Roche are based in  Basel ,  Switzerland .  Christopher Vancheri, a spokesman for Roche’s Genentech
unit, said in a March 18 e-mail that the companies aren’t
currently conducting studies in children with milk allergies. He
said it’s premature to speculate whether they will pursue such
tests, or seek U.S. Food and Drug Administration approval for
Xolair’s use against milk allergies if larger studies show
positive results.  Xolair works in the body by attaching itself to
immunoglobulin E, an antibody responsible for allergic
reactions. The drug, the only one of its kind on the market,
brings the molecule out of circulation or pulls it from cells to
reduce allergic reactions.  Study Results  In the study, researchers from Children’s Hospital Boston
and Stanford University Medical Center in  Palo Alto ,  California ,
gave 11 children ages 7 to 17 injections of Xolair for nine
weeks. The kids were then given small amounts of milk while
continuing seven more weeks of injections to help block their
allergic reactions. Xolair was then stopped and the patients
continued to receive about 2 ounces of milk daily for another 8
weeks.  The children were tested by a nutritionist to see if they
were able to consume foods with milk powder added without side
effects. Nine of 11 did, the researchers said. The next day, the
nine children began to have 8 ounces to 12 ounces of dairy a day
to maintain their tolerance.  Building tolerance to milk in people with severe allergies
by having them digest small and incrementally larger doses at a
time could take months to years, Umetsu said. Most times they
will have side effects including hives, diarrhea, vomiting and
asthma, and some will drop out of the study because of the
reactions, he said. Xolair accomplished tolerance building in 24
weeks, the study found.  Further Study Needed  Larger studies are needed to confirm these findings and to
determine who will benefit most from the treatment before
doctors can start using Xolair in kids with food allergies, said
lead study author  Kari Nadeau  in a March 18 telephone interview.  “We are trying to make sure that everyone with food
allergies has different options available to them either with or
without Xolair,” said Nadeau, an assistant professor in the
division of Immunology and Allergy at Stanford. “To be able to
cure food allergy is fantastic. My hope is this will allow more
options for curing food allergies.”  Umetsu, Nadeau and Lynda Schneider, also from Children’s
Hospital Boston, said they are planning a similar study in
children with peanut allergies.  More than 12 million Americans, or 1 in 25, have food
allergies, according to the Food Allergy & Anaphylaxis Network,
which provides information about food allergies. Food allergies
occur most often in young children. About 1 in 17 kids under the
age of 3 have a food allergy, according to the network’s Web
site.  The most common culprits are milk, eggs, peanuts, tree nuts
including walnuts, almonds and pecans, wheat, soy, fish and
shellfish.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Ostrow in  New York  at 
 nostrow1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  