-- 
Nuclear Power Runs Amok: Laurence Kotlikoff and Eugene Stanley

-- B y   L a u r e n c e   K o t l i k o f f   a n d   E u g e n e   S t a n l e y
-- 
2011-03-21T23:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/nuclear-power-runs-amok-commentary-by-laurence-kotlikoff-eugene-stanley.html
The worst case. These three words
have been at the back of everyone’s mind ever since the
Fukushima reactors began malfunctioning after being swamped by a
tsunami. Remarkably, these reactors have been at the front of
few experts’ mouths.  Many experts have shied away from describing worst-case
outcomes, which are terrifying to contemplate and risky to
mention. The risk isn’t just panicking the public. Crying wolf
can threaten one’s expert status.  The bias toward calm, cool expression has been on full
display in this crisis.  The Japanese are particularly good at the stiff upper lip.
The authorities have serially indicated that exploding reactor
housing is not a big problem, that released radioactive steam is
not a big problem, that the significant cracks in containment
vessels are not a big problem, that burning spent fuel ponds are
not a big problem, and that the contamination of food and water
is not a big problem. To top off all this,  Tokyo  Electric Power
Co.’s president, Masataka Shimizu, made a formal apology “for
causing such a great concern and nuisance.”  Earth to Shimizu: This isn’t just a nuisance.  What’s already occurred is horrible enough, what with death
and severe injury to plant workers and the contamination of
local milk, spinach, beans, and, presumably, fish. But the
worst-case scenario at Fukushima is far beyond this. It entails
six reactors melting down and all 4,277 tons of spent fuel
stored at the plant burning out of control. And this at a site
just 150 miles from Tokyo’s 14 million inhabitants, whose water
is already showing traces of radiation.  Just Imagine  Yes, Japan can hope for a strong wind blowing out to sea.
But let’s just imagine how we might move from the current
situation to this worst case? Another earthquake followed by
another tsunami could certainly get us there. Sound crazy? Maybe
not. Maybe last week’s earthquake was a foreshock for an even
larger one that’s coming.  If this thought makes you queasy, you are feeling the bias
we humans have against considering terrible tail events, or
outcomes that are at the far end of the probability
distribution. If we haven’t seen it, and it hurts to think about
it, we ignore it. But equating what has happened with what will
happen is folly. When it comes to earthquakes, what we’ve
recorded to date is a minute span of geological history.  Geological Processes  Nor can we count on future geological processes following
past patterns. Four of the nine  largest quakes  to strike our
planet since 1900 have occurred in the last seven years. This
list doesn’t include  Japan ’s 1995 Kobe earthquake, which was,
until now, the costliest on record.  The U.S. Geological Survey website states emphatically that
no one can  predict  earthquakes. What it doesn’t say is that
neither the Survey nor anyone else knows the statistical
distribution governing earthquakes of different magnitudes.  Hence, the probability of extremely powerful earthquakes
and their attendant tsunamis may be much higher than we think.
Case in point -- the 9.0 magnitude earthquake off the northeast
coast of Japan was 10 times bigger than the maximum quake the
builders of the Fukushima plant considered possible.  Japan has 55 nuclear reactors. It’s in the process of
developing another 11. That’s 66 “nuisances” waiting to
happen, if not by earthquake and tsunami, then by terrorist, or
by human error -- the cause of the  Chernobyl  meltdown.  Thank Chernobyl  Thanks to Chernobyl, an area the size of  Switzerland , or
16,000 square miles (41,000 square kilometers), is uninhabitable
for the next 300 years. Japan is about nine times bigger than
Switzerland. If Japan has nine Chernobyls, it’s game over.  Is this unthinkable? It depends on your time frame. A lot
can happen in 700 million years, which is the half-life of
uranium-235, or 24,000 years, which is the half-life of
plutonium-239, or even 30 years, which is the half-life of
cesium-137. Japan’s thousands of tons of spent fuel are chock
full of these ingredients. Yes, new technologies are
reprocessing spent fuel, but they carry their own risks,
including the production of weapon-grade  plutonium .  Since we care about our kids, who will care about their
kids, who will care about their kids, we effectively care about
all our future descendents. And since our kids, grandkids,
great-grandkids will inter-marry, we personally need to worry
about all future humanity.  Our “carespan” far exceeds our lifespan and forces us to
worry not just about the likely effects of nuclear energy, but
the tail events. Since the tail events are potentially so
catastrophic to our progeny, economics tells us to place all the
weight in our planning on the worst-case scenario.  Shut Them  Were Nobel physicist Enrico Fermi alive, he would be
appalled by the nuclear tail risk we are manufacturing for
ourselves and bequeathing to our loved ones. Fermi, who played a
major role in the Manhattan Project, would have no hesitation in
telling the world to shut its reactors.  Fermi developed the first nuclear reactor and had grave
doubts about their net benefit, wondering when mankind will
“grow sufficiently adult to make good use of the powers that he
acquires over nature.” Fermi wrote these words two years before
he died at age 53 of stomach cancer caused by  radiation exposure 
to his reactor.  ( Laurence Kotlikoff  is professor of economics at  Boston
University  and author of “ Jimmy Stewart  Is Dead.” Eugene
Stanley is professor of physics at Boston University, a member
of the  National Academy of Sciences , and co-author of “An
Introduction to Econophysics.” The opinions expressed are their
own.)  To contact the writers of this column:
Laurence Kotlikoff at  kotlikoff@bu.edu ;  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  