-- 
Nuclear Agency Meets, Dark Pool ‘Tuna,’ SEC-IBM: Compliance

-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 
2011-03-21T12:34:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/nuclear-agency-meets-dark-pool-tuna-sec-ibm-compliance.html
U.S. nuclear regulators will meet
in public this week to discuss the reactor crisis in  Japan  as
President Barack Obama seeks a review of safety at domestic
atomic plants.  The five-member  U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission  plans a
briefing today on the “NRC response to recent nuclear events in
Japan,” according to a  notice  posted March 18 on the agency’s
website. Commissioners will meet at 9 a.m. at the agency’s
headquarters in Rockville, Maryland, north of downtown
Washington.  Japan is seeking to avert a meltdown at the Fukushima Dai-
Ichi plant, which was damaged in the March 11 earthquake and
tsunami.  Obama said March 17 he asked for a “comprehensive review”
by the NRC of safety at U.S. reactors as more is learned about
the stricken plant in Japan. U.S. plants already have undergone
“exhaustive study” and been “declared safe for any number of
extreme contingencies,” he said. The NRC has a yearly budget of
about $1 billion and employs about 4,000 people, according to
the agency’s website.  The NRC has sent officials to  Tokyo .  Compliance Policy  Study Shows Too-Big-To-Fail U.S. Banks Grew After Crisis  The largest U.S. banks have grown larger since the
financial crisis, and the number of “too-big-to-fail” banks
will increase by 40 percent during the next 15 years, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The Dodd-Frank law would prohibit the largest banks from
merging with one another. The law would not prevent the largest
banks from growing in other ways, according to the Bloomberg
Government Study, “Too-Big-to-Fail Banks Get Bigger After Dodd-
Frank.” Bloomberg’s Lizzie O’Leary reported.  For the video, click here and for more, click here.  Merger Fees Should Be Published, U.K. Takeover Panel Proposes  The U.K. merger regulator proposed changes to its rules
that would seek to protect takeover targets from protracted bid
periods and to make deal fees public to increase transparency.  U.K. merger rules should be altered to give takeover
targets more control during deals, the Takeover Panel said in a
statement today. The regulator also said that a buyer’s
financial information and the financing of a bid should be
disclosed.  The panel started a review of the nation’s takeover law
last year after  Kraft Foods Inc. (KFT) ’s acquisition of Cadbury Plc
provoked an outcry from politicians. In October, the regulator
said it had concluded that the rules should be altered to reduce
the “tactical advantage” of hostile bidders for U.K.
companies.  The London-based regulator also proposed banning measures
in most circumstances that reduce the likelihood of a successful
counterbid, such as so-called inducement fees.  Compliance Action  Fed Amends Credit-Card Rules on Income Requirements  The U.S.  Federal Reserve  approved a rule that would require
credit-card issuers to consider consumers’ individual incomes
before extending credit.  Credit-card applications generally can’t request
“household income” because that term is too vague for issuers
to evaluate whether customers will be able to make the required
payments on the accounts, according to a statement from the Fed
March 18. The rule is needed to prevent making credit available
to consumers who lack the ability to pay, the Fed said.  The change is supposed to limit issuers from giving cards
to college students, yet some lawmakers have been concerned that
stay-at-home spouses will suffer.  Card issuers can allow spouses to apply jointly for credit,
the Fed said. The Fed also specified that promotional programs
that waive interest charges for a specific period of time are
subject to the same protections as reduced rate programs.  Application fees that a consumer is required to pay are
also covered by rules that apply to overall fees charged during
the first year after the account is opened, the Fed said.  HSBC Was Told About Madoff ‘Fraud Risks’ in Two  KPMG  Reports    HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) , Europe’s biggest lender, was warned
twice by auditors that entrusting as much as $8 billion in
client funds to  Bernard Madoff  opened it up to “fraud and
operational risks.”  KPMG LLP told the London-based bank about the risks in 2006
and 2008 reports. The firm was hired to review how Madoff
invested and accounted for the funds, for which HSBC served as
custodian. KPMG reported 25 such risks in 2006, and in 2008
found 28, according to copies of the reports obtained by
Bloomberg News.  Irving H. Picard, the trustee liquidating Bernard L. Madoff
Investment Securities LLC, sued HSBC and a dozen feeder funds
for $9 billion in December in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in
Manhattan. The suit was partly based on the KPMG reports and
alleges the bank knew of concerns Madoff’s business was a fraud
and didn’t protect investors.  In the reports, KPMG didn’t present evidence the risks it
identified had materialized or that it found signs of actual
fraud, and said HSBC had told the firm “no allegations of fraud
or misconduct have been raised.”  HSBC Spokesman Patrick Humphris, KPMG spokesman Mark
Hamilton and Amanda Remus, a spokeswoman for Picard’s lawyers
 Baker & Hostetler LLP , all declined to confirm the authenticity
of the reports obtained by Bloomberg.  For more, click here.  Fed Says Banks Can Restart Dividends After Stress Tests  The Federal Reserve said some of the 19 largest U.S. banks
will be able to restart dividend payments, buy back shares or
repay government capital after “significant improvement” in
their capital positions and the economy. Peter Cook reported on
Bloomberg Television’s “InBusiness With Margaret Brennan.”  For the video, click here.  Credit Suisse Plans Trader Profiles in CrossFinder Dark Pool    Credit Suisse Group AG (CS)  will begin a program next month to
categorize customers of its dark pool based on trading
strategies, part of an effort to help them restrict who they do
business with.    Larry Tabb , founder of New York-based Tabb Group LLC, said
a challenge faced by asset managers is lack of information about
who they are trading against. “This is the next step. Credit
Suisse is trying to give clients more flexibility and
information on whether other clients are minnows, tuna or sharks
so they can decide whether to trade with them.”  The Zurich-based broker created a methodology to give
clients more information about their own transactions and what
types of counterparties they may be interacting with in dark
pools. The broker will divide clients of its electronic trading
unit into three groups based on a short-term profile of their
trading, said Robert Maher, a London-based managing director and
head of sales for Credit Suisse’s advanced execution services.
The data will be used to allow clients to avoid executions with
firms whose profiles are different from their own, he said.  Dark pools, private platforms that allow stock trades
without displaying bids and offers, have grown to handle more
than 12 percent of U.S. equity volume, according to Rosenblatt
Securities Inc. The expansion has raised questions among
investment managers about who’s on the other side of their
transactions after the explosion of high-frequency trading.  For more, click here.  EU Allows CO2 Registries in Four Countries to Reopen March 21  The European Union allowed carbon registries in Finland,
Romania, Slovenia and Sweden to reopen on March 21, lifting a
suspension imposed after computer-hacking attacks in January.  The four registries got approval to resume after they
demonstrated that their systems are secure, the European
Commission, the EU regulator, said in a statement March 18. The
decision means that 19 out of 30 national registries in the
region will be fully operational as of this week, and their
users will have access to all transactions.  The commission shut all registries in the European
emissions-trading system, the world’s largest, on Jan. 19
following a series of computer-hacking attacks.  During the suspension period, registries can’t record
transactions except for the surrender and allocation of permits,
effectively blocking spot trading. The closures didn’t affect
trading of carbon futures.  The four registries will resume normal operations at 8 a.m.
today, the commission said March 18.  For more, click here.  Google Fined by French Privacy Agency Over Street View    Google Inc. (GOOG)  was fined a record 100,000 euros ($142,000) for
violations of French privacy rules by its Street View mapping
service, the country’s data protection regulator said.  Google’s infractions included collecting passwords and e-
mails transferred wirelessly, the  National Commission for
Computing and Civil Liberties  said today in a statement on its
website. The fines are the highest the authority, known as CNIL,
has  levied , according to the agency’s website.  Google has been targeted by data-protection authorities in
the European Union for its Street View program, which lets users
click on maps to see photographs of roadsides. The  European
Commission , the EU’s executive agency, plans stricter and more
harmonized data-protection rules across the 27-nation region.
The  U.S. Federal Trade Commission  closed a probe in October
after Mountain View, California-based Google said it would
improve its safeguards.  Google is “profoundly sorry for having mistakenly
collected payload data from unencrypted WiFi networks,” said
Peter Fleischer, the company’s global privacy counsel, in an e-
mailed statement. The company stopped collecting the data after
it realized what happened and it contacted the authorities, he
said in the statement.  Dubai Censures Saxo Bank for Breaching Money-Laundering Rules  The Dubai Financial Services Authority, the regulator of
the Dubai International Financial Center business park, censured
Saxo Bank Dubai Ltd. for breaching anti-money laundering rules
and systems.  This “increased the risk of Saxo Bank’s DIFC business
being used for the purposes of money laundering,” the Authority
said in an e-mailed statement yesterday. “However, the DFSA
found no evidence of any money laundering having taken place.”  Saxo Bank A/S admitted it had breached rules relating to
taking on clients and DFSA’s anti-money laundering systems by
failing to obtain sufficient and satisfactory verification of
clients’ identities, permanent addresses and sources of wealth,
and performing ongoing due diligence on clients, according to
the statement.  The Danish provider of online currency and derivative and
equity trading also failed to adequately monitor client
transactions and to establish and maintain appropriate controls
in relation to politically exposed persons, DFSA said.  Courts  IBM Said to Pay $10 Million to Settle SEC Bribery Claims    International Business Machines Corp. (IBM)  agreed to pay $10
million to settle accusations by the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission that it gave cash and gifts to Chinese and
South Korean officials in exchange for computer contracts,
according to a person with direct knowledge of the settlement.  The company will pay $5.3 million in disgorgement, $2.7
million in interest and a penalty of $2 million to settle a
lawsuit filed March 18 in federal court in Washington. The SEC
alleged the bribes, which included travel and entertainment,
occurred from 1998 through 2009 in violation of the Foreign
Corrupt Practices Act.  IBM spokesman Ed Barbini said he couldn’t immediately
comment on the lawsuit or settlement.  The case is SEC v. International Business Machines Corp.,
11-cv-00563, U.S. District Court, District of Columbia
(Washington).  Gupta Sues SEC, Says Insider Case Deprives Him of Rights  Ex  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  Director Rajat Gupta sued the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, claiming an
administrative action for insider trading it filed bars him from
a jury trial.  Gupta, 62, said the SEC should have filed a lawsuit in
federal court instead. He denied the agency’s claims that he
gave tips to Galleon Group LLC co-founder Raj Rajaratnam.  The SEC filed the action March 1, alleging Gupta tipped the
hedge fund manager about  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) ’s $5 billion
investment in Goldman Sachs, about the New York-based bank’s
quarterly earnings and earnings at  Procter & Gamble Co. (PG) , where
Gupta was also a director.  “Gupta denies all allegations of wrongdoing and stands
ready to mount a defense against each and every one of the
commission’s charges,” his lawyer,  Gary Naftalis , said in the
complaint filed March 18 in Manhattan federal court.  In filing his lawsuit, Gupta seeks a jury trial, to have
the SEC barred from seeking civil penalties against him and a
court order keeping it from pursuing administrative claims.  Under SEC rules, Gupta isn’t allowed a jury trial in an
administrative action, or the right to use federal court rules
on discovery, which require the exchange of evidence with the
government, Naftalis said.  Florence Harmon, an SEC spokeswoman, declined to
immediately comment.  The case is Gupta v. SEC, 11-cv-1900, U.S. District Court
for the Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Congo Asks  China  to Rule on U.S. Vulture Fund’s  Hong Kong  Suit  China must approve a U.S. investment fund’s lawsuit in Hong
Kong against the Democratic Republic of the  Congo  before it can
proceed, the central African country’s lawyers said in a
challenge to the Chinese region’s independent judiciary.  FG Hemisphere Associates LLC , a New York-based so-called
vulture fund which buys distressed debt, has sued Congo in
jurisdictions around the world seeking to seize assets to
enforce two arbitration awards. In Hong Kong, its attempt to
collect payments owed to Congo by state-owned  China Railway
Group Ltd. (601390)  places the financial center’s judicial independence
at stake.  China’s foreign ministry has filed three letters to Hong
Kong’s judiciary in the case stating that no foreign government
can be sued in the city’s courts.  Hong Kong’s Court of Appeal in February 2010  allowed  FG
Hemisphere’s lawsuit to proceed. Arbitrators in Zurich and Paris
had ruled that Congo must repay a total of $34.25 million to
Energoinvest d.d., an engineering company based in Sarajevo,
Bosnia and Herzegovina, for construction projects in the 1980s.
The debts, including interest, now amount to more than $100
million, according to the Hong Kong court judgment.  Apart from deciding whether the case should be referred to
the Standing Committee of the National People’s Congress in
Beijing, Hong Kong’s Court of Final Appeal could rule directly
on whether Congo and other foreign states can be sued in Hong
Kong.  The five judges also may decide whether governments
relinquish any claims to sovereign immunity when they agree to
arbitrate a dispute. The hearing is scheduled to take six days.  The National People’s Congress last reinterpreted the
city’s constitution in 1999, overturning a Court of Final Appeal
ruling that gave almost 2 million mainland people the right to
live in Hong Kong. The reinterpretation, supported by Hong
Kong’s then Chief Executive Tung Chee-hwa, raised doubts about
the city’s judicial independence.  For more, click here.  Interviews/Speeches  ECB’s Mersch Says This Bank Stress Test Is a ‘Serious One’  European Central Bank council member Yves Mersch said this
year’s bank stress tests will be tougher than last year’s.  “The next stress tests won’t be a test of the liquidity
but of the banks’ solidity,” Mersch told reporters at a press
conference in Luxembourg today. The tests will be “more
severe” than the previous ones and “I hope that the markets
will accept that this stress test is a serious one,” he said.  European Union regulators have yet to agree on which banks
to test as part of annual examinations of capital, or what the
passing grade will be, a month before an April deadline for
disclosure of stress-test methodology. Last year’s stress tests
were criticized for not being stringent enough because lenders
in the 27-nation region were shown by regulators to need only
3.5 billion euros ($4.9 billion) of new capital, about a 10th of
the lowest analyst estimate.  Comings and Goings  Oxley of Sarbanes-Oxley to Lobby for Financial Self-Regulator  Michael Oxley, the former congressman who co-wrote the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, has registered as a lobbyist for the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority to promote self-
regulation of investment advisers.  Oxley, a partner at  Baker Hostetler LLP  in Washington,
registered this week as a Finra lobbyist, saying he would work
on securities regulation and the “harmonization of regulation
of broker-dealers and investment advisers,” according to his
registration form. Finra oversees about 4,560 brokerage firms
and is interested in expanding to investment advisers.  Finra contends the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
should use a self-regulatory organization, or SRO, to take over
examinations of investment advisers from the agency. The
creation of such an SRO was suggested in an SEC study.  Oxley, 67, didn’t immediately respond to a request for
comment.  Nancy Condon , a Finra spokeswoman, said the regulator
had no comment on Oxley’s hire.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 