-- 
Obama Says No Conflict in U.S. Policy, UN Libya Mandate

-- B y   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n   a n d   N i c h o l a s   J o h n s t o n
-- 
2011-03-21T20:18:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/obama-says-no-conflict-in-u-s-policy-un-libya-mandate-1-.html
President  Barack Obama  said there
is no conflict between the limited goals of the allied military
operation in Libya and his own calls for  Muammar Qaddafi  to
relinquish power.  Obama said that the U.S. is acting with other nations to
enforce a United Nations mandate resulting from concerns that
Qaddafi was attacking civilians, and that the airstrikes and
missile attacks on Libyan air defenses are intended to address a
humanitarian crisis.  “Our military action is in support of a international
mandate from the  Security Council  that specifically focuses on
the humanitarian threat posed by Colonel Qaddafi to his
people,” Obama said at a joint press conference with Chilean
President Sebastian Pinera in Santiago. “I also have stated
that it is U.S. policy that Qaddafi needs to go. And we’ve got a
wide range of tools, in addition to our military efforts, to
support that policy.”  Obama has come under criticism from some congressional
Republicans who say he hasn’t explained the full U.S. role in
the military campaign or its goals.  Obama, 49, arrived in Santiago earlier today after visiting
 Brazil , Latin America’s biggest economy, as part of a five-day
trip aimed at deepening trade ties with Latin America, including
openings for U.S. companies in the region’s energy development
and infrastructure-building. The joint military campaign by the
U.S., the U.K. and  France  has overshadowed the administration’s
themes for the visit.  UN Mandate  U.S. and U.K. defense officials have repeatedly said that
the UN resolution authorizing the military action doesn’t
include removing the Libyan leader from power. That was
reinforced today by by  Ben Rhodes , Obama’s deputy national
security adviser for strategic communications, in a briefing
aboard Air Force One.  “There are very clearly defined goals for the military
operations that we taking,” Rhodes said. “It’s not about
regime change.”  Obama said the U.S. will hand off command of military
operations in  Libya  once the initial phase -- knocking out
Qaddafi’s air defenses -- is completed.  Military commanders will make the recommendations on when
the transition takes place, he said.  No-Fly Zone  “We have a range of coalition partners -- the Europeans,
members of the  Arab League  -- who will then be participating in
establishing a no-fly zone there,” Obama said. “We anticipate
this transition to take place in a matter of days and not a
matter of weeks.”  The strikes were launched in response to gains by forces
loyal to Qaddafi in putting down a rebellion aimed at toppling
his government. Qaddafi’s forces last week had closed in on the
rebel stronghold of Benghazi after recapturing almost all of the
towns they lost during the uprising.  Oil prices  rose as the attack threatened to prolong a
supply disruption in Africa’s third-biggest producer and on
concern that escalating turmoil may curtail Middle East
shipments.  Crude oil for April delivery increased $1.26 to $102.33 a
barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , the highest
settlement since March 10. The April contract expires tomorrow.
The more-actively traded May futures advanced $1.24, or 1.2
percent, to $103.09.  Republican Critics  House Speaker John Boehner, an Ohio Republican, yesterday
called on Obama to “do a better job of communicating to the
American people and to Congress about our mission in Libya and
how it will be achieved.”  The president also came in for criticism from two senior
Republicans. Arizona Senator  John McCain , the top Republican on
the Armed Services Committee, said on CNN’s “State of the
Union” program that while he supported the strike, he believes
that Obama waited too long.  Appearing on “Fox News Sunday,” Senator Lindsey Graham, a
South Carolina Republican who also serves on the Armed Services
panel, echoed McCain’s remarks and questioned the U.S. position
in the coalition.  “I’m very worried that we’re taking the back seat, rather
than a leadership role,” Graham said.  Obama briefed Democratic and Republican leaders, including
senior members of key committees, about the U.S. plans on March
18.  Tom Donilon, Obama’s national security adviser, defended
the administration’s response and its dealing with lawmakers.  “It is absolutely important to have great clarity” on the
military mission “ and I think that we have done that,”
Donilon told reporters traveling with the president in South
America. “We look forward to working quite directly with
Speaker Boehner and all the members of Congress who have
responsibility here on this as we go forward.”  The turmoil in North  Africa  and the Middle East, triggered
by the revolt that ousted President Zine El Abidine Ben Ali in
 Tunisia  on Jan. 14, led to the removal of President Hosni Mubarak in  Egypt  as well as protests in  Saudi Arabia  and  Syria 
and an uprising against the Sunni monarchy in Bahrain.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julianna Goldman in Santiago at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net ;
Nicholas Johnston in Santiago at 
 njohnston3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  