-- 
Obama Says Brazil a Model for Democracy While Juggling Libya Crisis in Rio

-- B y   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n   a n d   N i c h o l a s   J o h n s t o n
-- 
2011-03-21T03:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/obama-calls-brazil-model-for-north-african-democratic-movements.html
President  Barack Obama , declaring
his support for Brazil’s rising global economic clout, said the
country can serve as a model for pro-democracy movements around
the world, including in North Africa and the Middle East.  Brazil is “a country that shows democracy delivers both
freedom and opportunity to its people,” Obama told a crowd
yesterday at Rio de Janeiro’s century-old Theatro Municipal. “A
country that shows how a call for change that starts in the
streets can transform a city, transform a country, transform a
world.”  Obama, 49, arrived in Brazil March 19 to kick off a five-
day tour aimed at deepening trade ties with Latin America the
same day that an international coalition began military action
against forces loyal to  Libya ’s leader  Muammar Qaddafi . As Obama
spoke in Rio, the military operation escalated with anti-
aircraft fire heard in the Libyan capital of Tripoli.  The crisis in North Africa has overshadowed Obama’s trip,
as he’s had to juggle demands including national security
briefings with official events and sightseeing. A planned press
conference with President  Dilma Rousseff  was scrapped, allowing
the two leaders to avoid questions about Brazil’s abstention in
the United Nations Security Council vote last week authorizing
air strikes against Libya.  Brazil’s Democracy  Still, the U.S. leader used yesterday’s speech to compare
the development of free markets in Brazil since the end of the
country’s last dictatorship in 1985 to the wave of democratic
uprisings across the Middle East and North Africa.  “As two nations who have struggled over many generations
to perfect our own democracies, the  United States  and Brazil
know that the future of the Arab world will be determined by its
people,” Obama said.  After spending his first day in Brasilia discussing trade
and economic relations with Brazil’s first female president and
a group of business executives, yesterday’s speech was meant to
deliver a broader message to the Brazilian people that
underscored shared values between the two countries.  “For so long, you were called a country of the future,
told to wait for a better day that was always just around the
corner,” Obama said. “Meus amigos, that day has finally come.
And this is a country of the future no more.  The people of  Brazil  should know the future has arrived. It is here now.”  Favela Tour  Earlier in the day, Obama and his wife, Michelle, and their
daughters Malia and Sasha visited a shantytown. Arriving in the
City of God favela, the first family took in a performance of
capoeira, an Afro-Brazilian martial art, and afterwards kicked
around a soccer ball, with Obama noting that Brazilians are the
“best soccer players in the world.”  Later they visited the city’s iconic Christ the Redeemer
statue.  Obama’s tour continues today in  Chile , where he’ll meet
with President Sebastian Pinera before heading tomorrow to  El
Salvador  en route to Washington March 23.  Chile was the first nation in  South America  to sign a free
trade agreement with the U.S., in 2003. Since then, as in Brazil
and other parts of South America,  China  has been making inroads.
China’s demand for copper allowed it to surpass the U.S. to
become the country’s biggest export market in 2007. Chile is the
world’s biggest producer of the metal.  Obama, during his remarks, highlighted the many
opportunities for economic cooperation between the U.S. and
Brazil, notably on energy and infrastructure. Brazil’s $2.2
trillion economy grew 7.5 percent last year, the fastest pace in
more than two decades.  Olympics  His administration is seeking to help U.S. businesses who
hope to profit from Brazil’s oil discoveries, the biggest in the
Americas since 1976, and $200 billion in road, airport and hotel
improvements needed before the 2014  World Cup  and 2016  summer
Olympics .  Obama said he intended to return to Rio as a spectator in
2016 and joked that it was a sore subject for him because his
hometown of  Chicago  lost its bid to host the games.  “You might have heard that this city wasn’t exactly my
first choice for the Summer Olympics,” Obama said. “But if the
Games couldn’t be in my hometown of Chicago, there’s no place
I’d rather see them than right here in Rio.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julianna Goldman in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net ;
Nicholas Johnston in Rio de Janeiro at 
 njohnston3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  