-- 
Obama Vows to Overcome Past Neglect of Latin America as Economies Mature

-- B y   R a n d y   W o o d s   a n d   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n
-- 
2011-03-22T03:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/obama-vows-closer-latin-america-ties-during-chile-trip-as-economies-grow.html
President  Barack Obama  pledged to
overcome past neglect and forge a stronger partnership with
Latin America as the region’s economic progress boosts its
importance to the U.S.  “Latin America is not the old stereotype of a region in
perpetual conflict or trapped in endless cycles of poverty,”
Obama said at a speech in Santiago, Chile, yesterday. “The
world must now recognize Latin America for the dynamic and
growing region that it truly is.”  Obama, 49, heads to  El Salvador  today on the final leg of a
five-day tour aimed at deepening trade ties with Latin America
as a U.S.-backed coalition expanded its military action against
forces loyal to Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi . Obama has to
juggle the scheduled trip with demands including national-
security briefings and providing updates on the combat
operations in North Africa.  Obama, speaking at the presidential palace in Santiago,
said that Latin America had gained confidence in the strength of
its democracies and economies since President  John F. Kennedy 
launched the Alliance for Progress a half-century ago this
month. Today’s realities demanded the U.S. work with the region
as “equal partners” on issues ranging from immigration to
fighting drug trafficking, he said.  The U.S. exports more than three times as much to Latin
America as it does to  China , and sales to the region are growing
faster than they are to the rest of the world, he said.  “Latin America is only going to become more important to
the  United States , especially to our economy,” Obama said. “In
short, when Latin America is more prosperous, the United States
is more prosperous.”  Deserving Credit  Michael Shifter , president of the Washington-based Inter-
American Dialogue, said Obama “deserves a lot of credit” for
resisting calls in the U.S. to return early to  Washington  to
cope with the Libya crisis. Still, he said yesterday’s speech
was a “disappointment” and wouldn’t substantially improve
relations with the region.  “In tangible terms, continuing with the trip is more
important than anything he said,” Shifter said in a telephone
interview. “Had he gone home early, it would’ve contributed to
the traditional view that nobody cares about Latin America.”  Obama chose Chile to outline his vision of relations with
Latin America. Chile flourished and became the region’s most
stable economy after removing dictator Gen. Augusto Pinochet in
1990.  The country was the first in  South America  to sign a  free-
trade agreement  with the U.S. Since it took effect in 2004,
Chilean exports to the U.S. increased 44 percent and imports
from the North American country nearly tripled, according to
 Chile ’s  central bank .  Praised Transition  Obama praised the country’s transition to democracy and
integration into the global economy, and said the 70-day rescue
last year of 33 miners trapped a half-mile underground was an
inspiration to the rest of the world.  Victims of Pinochet’s bloody, 17-year rule held protests
ahead of Obama’s visit, demanding he apologize for the U.S.’s
role in destabilizing Salvador Allende’s socialist government
before Pinochet’s 1973 coup.  Obama said relations between the two countries had been at
times “extremely rocky” in the past, though they shouldn’t be
“trapped by our history.” Obama said he would consider any
request by Chile to obtain information about its past.  “I think it’s very important for all of us to know our
history,” Obama said while standing alongside President
Sebastian Pinera. “I can’t speak to all of the policies of the
past, I can speak certainly to the policies of the present and
the future.”  Nuclear Deal  Pinera said he wanted to expand the free-trade agreement
with the U.S., without providing details. The two governments
agreed to deepen cooperation on clean-energy research and boost
educational exchanges. Last week they signed a nuclear
cooperation agreement to exchange scientific information and
train personnel on nuclear technologies.  The accord, which was signed as  Japan  battles to contain
the world’s worst nuclear crisis in 25 years after an earthquake
and ensuring tsunami, has been criticized by Chilean activists
who say the country’s own seismic activity makes it unsafe for
such technology.  Chile last year suffered an 8.8-magnitude quake that killed
about 500 people and caused about $30 billion in damage.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Randy Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net ;
Julianna Goldman in Santiago at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  