-- 
Obesity Lap Bands Cause More Complications Than Weight Loss, Study Finds

-- B y   P a t   W e c h s l e r
-- 
2011-03-21T22:18:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/obesity-lap-bands-may-cause-more-complications-than-weight-loss.html
Almost half of patients undergoing
gastric banding for obesity needed to have the device removed,
often because of erosion, according to a  study  that found the
treatment caused more complications than  weight loss .  About 60 percent of the 82 patients with the device,
Allergan Inc.’s Lap-Band, followed over 12 years or more needed
additional operations, according to a study by Belgian
researchers published online today by the Archives of Surgery.
The minimally invasive surgery led to weight loss of 18 percent
in 70 patients where data was available.  More than 15 million people in the U.S. are considered
severely obese, a total that has almost  doubled  in the past 25
years. About 220,000 people  underwent  weight-loss surgery in
2009, up since 2000 when 36,700 operations were performed,
according to the American Society for Metabolic and Bariatric
Surgery in Gainesville,  Florida . Gastric banding represents
about one-third of that total.  “I personally no longer perform band gastroplasty, but I
think it is defendable for surgeons to continue doing this,”
said Jacques Himpens, the study’s lead author who works with the
European School of Laparoscopic Surgery at Saint Pierre
University Hospital in Brussels. “Patients should not expect
too much from the procedure. If they do get the operation, they
must commit themselves to lifelong and very tight follow-up.”  Allergan Comments  Allergan Inc., the world’s largest maker of gastric banding
in the U.S., called the study “ill-constructed” in an e-mail.
The gastric banding products involved in the study are produced
by Allergan, which acquired the product in 2006 with its
purchase of Inamed Corp.  The company criticized the study for “severely deficient”
follow-up, with data on nearly half of the patients in the 151-
patient study never acquired, and a focus on patients that had
received their devices “at the very beginning” of the use of
gastric bands.  “The surgeons were at the bottom of their learning
curve,” said Cathy Taylor, Allergan’s spokeswoman. The Belgian
study surveyed patients who had the procedure from January 1994
to December 1997.  Allergan pointed to a  study  published in 2010 that showed a
12 percent complication rate among 2,909 patients who received
the gastric banding in 2001, the year the  Food and Drug
Administration  approved its use in the U.S. The study, conducted
by researchers at New York University Langone Medical Center in
New York, had received funding from the Irvine, California-based
device maker. Allergan controls 73 percent of the U.S. gastric-
banding market.  Rival Maker  Himpens and another author of the study have worked as
consultants for Ethicon Endosurgery Inc., a Cincinnati unit of
 Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) , a competitor of Allergan which produces the
Realize Solution band.  Body mass index  is a measure of a person’s weight in
relation to his height and is a reliable indicator of obesity,
according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in
Atlanta. A 5-foot, 4-inch woman weighing 175 pounds (80
kilograms) has a BMI of 30, which is considered obese.  Weight-loss surgery had been recommended for patients with
a body mass index of 35 and who are suffering from obesity-
related illnesses such as diabetes. The FDA approved an Allergan
application that would allow the company to market lap bands,
the proprietary name of the company’s product, to patients with
a body mass index of 30. A  BMI  of 40 or more is considered
severely, or extremely obese.  Band Removal  The Belgian study is “of interest” because it looks at
long-term complications and the need to remove the band, said
 Bruce Wolfe , president of the American Society for Metabolic and
Bariatric Surgery. He said he also agrees with Himpens’s
conclusion that any kind of weight-loss surgery requires regular
physician follow-up.  Twenty-three patients, or 1 in 3 who responded to the
survey, experienced band erosion, diagnosed after a median of
four years, the study found. Almost 50 percent of the patients
lost their bands within nine years.  Technological advances in the procedure and product have
been made since the operations upon which the Belgian study was
based, said Wolfe, who is a surgeon at the Oregon Health and
Science University in  Portland . Gastric bands are now wider and
require using less pressure. The technique for placement of the
band has changed to involve more fat tissue, which provides
padding that may reduce band erosion.  “The complication rate and need for removal of the band
are both concerning,” Wolfe said in a telephone interview.
“But many of the changes in patient care relative to gastric
banding may have addressed some of the problems.”  The  American Heart Association  in a policy statement March
14 said severely obese people benefit from weight-loss surgery.
The group, for the first time, said the risks of the procedure
aren’t as great as the help provided by the reduction in the
risk of diabetes, high cholesterol and heart ailments associated
with obesity.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pat Wechsler in  New York  at 
 pwechsler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale in New York at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  