-- 
Ohio State Faces the Toughest Road of NCAA Top Seeds, With Kentucky Next

-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-03-21T09:37:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/ohio-state-faces-the-toughest-road-of-ncaa-top-seeds-with-kentucky-next.html
  Ohio State University  has shown why
it was the favorite of oddsmakers entering college basketball’s
national men’s tournament, steamrolling its first two opponents
by a combined 61 points.  The Buckeyes had their largest margin of victory in 27
tournament appearances yesterday, when they routed  George Mason
University  98-66. Next up for Ohio State is the University of
Kentucky in the East Regional semifinals in  Newark ,  New Jersey ,
on March 25.  “It’s kind of hard to guard this basketball team with so
many weapons we have,” said Buckeyes freshman Jared Sullinger,
who has 29 points and 17 rebounds in the two wins. “I don’t
know what you do to take notes on how to guard us.”  While Ohio State has won 34 of 36 games this season, they
figure to be challenged by what may be the toughest of the four
four-team regionals in the National Collegiate Athletic
Association tournament. In addition to fourth-seeded  Kentucky ,
the East also features the No. 2 seed University of North
Carolina and No. 11 Marquette University.  “That’s going to be a very, very challenging region,”
Ohio State coach Thad Matta said at a news conference. “But for
the time being, we’re going to enjoy the ride (home) and then
we’ll pick up when we get there.”  Kentucky is the highest-ranked team any of the No. 1 seeds
have to play in the regional semifinals, as the University of
Kansas meets No. 12 University of Richmond in the Southwest and
defending champion  Duke University  faces No. 5 Arizona in the
West.  Co-Favorites  Because of the depth in the East, Ohio State is now listed
as co-favorite with  Kansas  (34-2) and Duke (32-4) to win the
national championship, with 5-2 odds at the Las Vegas Hilton’s
Race and Sports Book.  Ohio State was a 4-1 favorite at the start of the 68-team
tournament, followed by Kansas and Duke at 9-2, according to the
Las Vegas Hilton.  Senior guard David Lighty said he likes the Buckeyes’
chances, especially the way they’ve played against Texas San-
Antonio and George Mason. Lighty scored 25 points yesterday in  Cleveland  while hitting 7-of-7 three-point shots, one shy of the
NCAA tournament record. Ohio State shot 61 percent and got 18
points apiece from Sullinger and William Buford, while Aaron
Craft dished out 15 assists.  “Every time I looked up everybody was hitting a jumper or
a three (pointer) or something,” Lighty said. “Our speed and
pace and us sharing the ball, it’s unbelievable.”  Kentucky, whose seven championships and 103 wins in the
NCAA tournament rank second all-time, can play with similar
speed. Yet the Wildcats, with three freshmen in the starting
lineup, lack experience. And Kentucky, despite its history, is
0-5 all-time against Ohio State in the NCAA tournament, with
their last meeting coming in 1987.  Final Four  Should Ohio State get past Kentucky, the Buckeyes may face  North Carolina , the only program with more NCAA tournament wins
than Kentucky.  The regional winners advance to the Final Four in Houston,
where the national semifinals are scheduled for April 2 and the
championship game is April 4.  Kansas may have the easiest regional path of the top seeds,
with Richmond the lowest seed among the 16 teams left in the
NCAA tournament. If the Jayhawks get past the Spiders, they’d
play either No. 10 Florida State or No. 11 Virginia Commonwealth
in  San Antonio , which was the site of Kansas’s win over  Memphis 
in the 2008 NCAA championship game.  “We’ll be reminded of it,” Kansas coach Bill Self said.
“It will bring pleasant memories to us, but we’ve got to go
make new memories.”  Duke’s road to the Final Four includes  Arizona  and a
possible West Regional final against second-seeded San Diego
State or No. 3  Connecticut  in Anaheim,  California . If the Blue
Devils reach the Final Four, coach Mike Krzyzewski would tie Bob
Knight with 902 career wins, the most at the sport’s highest
level.  “The 900 it means we’re advancing,” Krzyzewski said. “So
that’s the best thing.”  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  