-- 
Oil Riches Let North Dakota’s Governor Dalrymple Bank Surplus in Hard Time

-- B y   B i l l   H e l t z e l
-- 
2011-03-21T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/oil-riches-let-north-dakota-s-governor-dalrymple-bank-surplus-in-hard-time.html
Rancher Michael Brew can survey  North Dakota ’s oil boom from the saddle. As he checks on his
cattle, he sees seven drill rigs, a dozen gas flares and convoys
of trucks rumbling down the road.  “I used to ride out on my horse and not see anyone for
hours,” Brew, 52, said at Nana Lil’s cafe in Killdeer. Now gas
flares tint the night sky orange and obscure the stars. The
staccato of air brakes and the slamming of drill pipes pierce
the breeze. “There is no peace and quiet anymore.”  Oil has created a $1 billion budget surplus and presented
Governor Jack Dalrymple with a question: How to keep up with the
boom while keeping the money flowing. Only North Dakota and  Montana  have reported surpluses from 2009 to 2011, according to
the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities. As states face what
may be more than $112 billion in  deficits  in the coming fiscal
year, Dalrymple’s dilemma is one many governors might envy.  “The number one priority is to keep up with the
infrastructure,” Dalrymple said in a February interview in
Bismarck. “That growth cannot continue if we do not keep up
with all the impacts that happen on communities out there.”  Dalrymple, a 62-year-old Republican, was elected lieutenant
governor in 2000 and moved up after his predecessor, John Hoeven, was elected to the U.S. Senate in November.  Amber Waves  North Dakota and its 672,591 residents grow more wheat,
barley, sunflowers, canola and flaxseed than any other state,
according to the  U.S. Department of Agriculture . Wheat futures
increased 47 percent last year, to $7.94 per bushel on the
Chicago Board of Trade.  And then there’s the oil. The state sits atop the Bakken
shale formation, one of the country’s largest reserves and the
reason the state has vaulted to the nation’s fourth-largest
producer from ninth in six years.  The spot price of light sweet crude oil like that in the
Bakken rose 221.78 percent from Dec. 22, 2008 through March 18.  Gross state product increased 75 percent, to $31.9 billion
from 2000 to 2009, compared with 42 percent nationally.
Unemployment in January was 3.8 percent, the country’s lowest,
as the national rate was 9 percent.  Disappearing Prosperity  North Dakota’s history is a chronicle of booms and busts.
Grain prices have risen and fallen with droughts and floods,
insects and crop diseases, recessions and wars. Residents recall
when spot oil prices dropped 67 percent from November 1985 to
March 1986, a bust that led to business failures and home
foreclosures.  “All of a sudden it went one day,” said Kevin Candrian, a
Killdeer rancher who worked on oil rigs. “Poof, it was gone.”  Mike Jacobs, publisher of the Grand Forks Herald, said the
state can avert a repetition with good planning and policy.  “You can’t do anything about the weather,” Jacobs said in
a telephone interview, “but you can do things about
infrastructure and higher education and development.”  The Bakken shale spans western North Dakota, eastern
Montana and parts of  Canada . High quality, light sweet crude is
trapped in dense rock two miles deep.  Traditional wells couldn’t extract much of it. Then, in
2006, Houston-based  EOG Resources Inc. (EOG)  tried horizontal
hydraulic fracturing near Parshall, 102 miles (164 kilometers)
northwest of Bismarck, the capital. EOG drilled 10,000 feet,
then tunneled horizontally and hit the hole with high-pressure
water, sand and chemicals.  Sideways Gusher  A nearby vertical well drilled in 1981 was a dry hole.
EOG’s well produced 1,883 barrels in seven days.  In 2008 the  U.S. Geological Survey  estimated that the
Bakken could yield 3.65 billion barrels in North Dakota and
Montana. That would make it the largest continuous U.S. oil
reserve outside  Alaska .  The state’s largest producer, Continental Resources Inc. of
Enid,  Oklahoma , puts the total at 20 billion barrels, including
deeper formations. The U.S. Energy Information Administration
estimated the proved oil reserves in the entire country in 2009
at 22.3 billion barrels.  Continental plans to spend $1.2 billion this year in the
Bakken, said Brian Engel, vice president of public affairs.
Other companies drawn to the state are  Brigham Exploration Co. (BEXP) 
of Austin,  Texas ,  Marathon Oil Corp. (MRO)  of Houston,  Northern Oil
and Gas Inc. (NOG)  of Wayzata,  Minnesota , and  Whiting Petroleum Corp. (WLL) 
of Denver.  ‘Nice Balance’  “Most businesses located in the state would say they have
a good working relationship with state government,” said Terry D. Hildestad, president and CEO of  MDU Resources Group Inc. (MDU) ,
based in Bismarck. “They’ve worked hard to have a nice
balance” with industry.  MDU, a natural resources company, is expanding a natural
gas pipeline in North Dakota and plans to spend $90 million this
year drilling in the Bakken.  Nearly all wells in the region strike oil and 95 percent
are profitable, according to the state Department of Mineral
Resources. Last year, North Dakota produced 113 million barrels,
less than only Texas, Alaska and  California , and about 6 percent
of the U.S. total.  “This is not the typical oil boom,” Dalrymple said. He
described it more like mining than exploration.  Oil and gas taxes added $1.8 billion to state coffers in
the past six fiscal years ended in June, and are expected to add
$1.3 billion in the next two years, according to a Legislative
Council report.  ‘Rational Thought’  Dalrymple’s strategy is shaped by the “dark days of the
1980s,” he said. He is trying to diversify the economy, cut
taxes and put research money into selective industries, he said.  “Job creation is really the goal,” Dalrymple said. “We
can have the things we want and have reasonable taxes,” as long
as spending is controlled. “You cannot allow the urge to say
yes to every idea overwhelm your sense of rational thought.”  Dalrymple  submitted  to the Legislature a two-year, $9.3
billion spending plan, including a $1 billion surplus.  He wants to cut property and income taxes by $500 million.
Meanwhile, his budget would increase general-fund spending on
human services by $265 million, mostly to replace federal
assistance; schools by $82 million; higher education by $55
million; and employee salaries and benefits by $36 million.  The plan sets aside $958 million for infrastructure in the
 17 oil-producing counties .  “That’s our contribution to keeping the development of oil
on track,” he said. “Without that, we know we’ll have a lot of
local pushback.”  Out of Pocket  The construction would be paid for without state borrowing.
North Dakota cities, counties and state have $4.2 billion in
outstanding bond debt, according to data collected by Bloomberg.
That is the second-lowest in the country, behind Wyoming. The
state is rated Aa2 by Moody’s Investors Service, third from the
top, and AA+ by Standard & Poor’s Rating Service, second
highest.  Dalrymple governs a state in which he has deep roots. The
governor lives in the 1880 homestead built by his great
grandfather 20 miles west of Fargo in the Red River Valley. The
farm was one of the first and largest of the “bonanza farms,”
tracts of at least 3,000 acres that the Northern Pacific
Railroad sold in the late 1800s for industrial farming.  He took over the family farm in 1971, after graduating from  Yale University  with a bachelor’s degree in American studies.  Using the Noodle  In 1991 he led 1,100 durum wheat farmers in organizing the
 Dakota Growers Pasta Cooperative . They built a $40 million mill
and processing plant that converts semolina flour into pasta.
The cooperative went public in 2002, and was sold last year to
Viterra Inc for $197 million.  Dalrymple’s management of the boom will be felt keenly in
Killdeer, a crossroads in western North Dakota that fancies
itself the “Hub of Cowboy Country.” Its 751 residents make it
Dunn County’s largest town, though cattle outnumber people 20 to
one.  The typical well will produce about $1.5 million in
salaries, according to the state Department of Mineral
Resources. The state estimates that 2,400 will be drilled in the
Killdeer area within seven years.  Police calls in the town have quadrupled to 1,000 a month,
due largely to burglaries and bar fights. Houses that sold for
$30,000 before the boom fetch $90,000. Rental apartments are
scarce and the two motels are booked for months.  “It’s not as good as it was five or 10 years ago,” Brew
said, “but this is a good place to live.”  John S. (Jack) Dalrymple III at a glance:  Born: Minneapolis, Oct. 16, 1948 (Age 62)  Party: Republican  Spouse: Betsy, formerly an elementary school teacher in Fargo,
active in public service causes like early childhood education
and youth volunteerism.  Children: Four daughters, ages 25, 27, 33 and 35.  Education: The Blake School, Hopkins, Minnesota, 1966. Yale
University, bachelor of arts, American studies, 1970. Dalrymple
graduated from Blake and Yale one year behind Minnesota Governor
Mark Dayton.  Career: Farming, Dalrymple Farms near Casselton, 1971 to
present.  1985 - 2000, North Dakota House of Representatives; 1992, lost
to Kent Conrad in special election for  U.S. Senate ; 1991 - 2010,
Chairman of Dakota Growers Pasta Company, which he helped found
as a farmer-owned cooperative; 2000, 2004 and 2008, elected
lieutenant governor; 2010, succeeded John Hoeven as governor.  Noteworthy: 1984, named outstanding young farmer in the  United
States  by the U.S. Junior Chamber of Commerce. 2007, named
entrepreneur of the year in Minnesota and the Dakotas, by Ernst
& Young.  Editors: Stephen Merelman, William Glasgall.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bill Heltzel in  New York . 