-- 
Oil Rises as Allied Forces Strike Libya, Turmoil Escalates in Middle East

-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h   a n d   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 
2011-03-21T12:25:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/oil-rises-as-allied-forces-strike-libya-turmoil-escalates-in-middle-east.html
Oil climbed as allied air strikes
in Libya threatened to prolong a supply outage in  Africa ’s
third-biggest producer and renewed concern that escalating
turmoil may disrupt Middle East exports.  Futures advanced as much as 2.3 percent in New York after
Muammar Qaddafi vowed to repel attacks by missiles and warplanes
against military installations. Libya’s crude output has fallen
to a quarter of pre-crisis production levels may stop entirely,
according to the chairman of the national oil company. Bahrain
Petroleum Co. employees went on strike last week in response to
a police crackdown on anti-government demonstrations, while
Yemen declared a state of emergency.  “The market has priced in almost a complete loss of Libyan
production,”  Tobias Merath , head of commodity research at
Credit Suisse AF in Zurich, said in a television interview with
Bloomberg News. “We’d really need to see a further escalation
to push prices higher. The  risk premium  in the market is already
fairly sizeable. The next big move could leave the oil price
lower again, below $100.”  Crude for April delivery climbed as much as $2.28 to
$103.35 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange . The contract, which expires tomorrow, was
at $102.81 at 12:23 p.m. London time. The more-actively traded
May future rose as much as $2.42 to $104.27 a barrel.  Gains have lagged behind London-traded  Brent crude ,
widening the spread between the benchmark contracts to $12.94
from $11.53 a week ago. Brent for May settlement gained as much
as $2.29, or 2 percent, to $116.22 a barrel on the London-based
ICE Futures Europe exchange.  Air Strikes  Allied officials said two days of strikes have effectively
grounded Qaddafi’s air force, halting advances into the rebel
stronghold of Benghazi,  Libya ’s second-biggest city. The leader
denounced the coalition allied against him, which includes the
U.S., the U.K. and  France , as “the party of Satan.”  “The likelihood of a swift normalization of Libya crude
oil production looks less and less likely after events over the
weekend,” Soozhana Choi, head of Asian commodities research at
Deutsche Bank AG in  Singapore , said in an interview with Rishaad Salamat on Bloomberg Television’s “On the Move Asia.”  Libyan output has fallen to less than 400,000 barrels a
day,  Shokri Ghanem , chairman of Libya’s National Oil Co., said
on March 19. The country produced 1.59 million barrels a day in
January, according to estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Exports
may be halted for “many months” because of damage to
facilities and sanctions, the International Energy Agency said.  Output Halts  Libyan oil production halted by the country’s civil war is
likely to remain suspended for the rest of this year, according
to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  “Our operating assumption is that there will be very
little Libyan oil exported in 2011,” said  Lawrence Eagles , head
of commodities research at JPMorgan in  New York . “Clearly,
political developments could change.”  Bank of America Merrill Lynch predicts that output will be
“mostly offline” for the next six months and start to resume
by the end of the year.  “We assume that Libyan oil infrastructure will not be
severely dented during the military struggle, and that Libyan
oil output will return to 2010 levels by the end of 2012,”  Francisco Blanch , Merrill’s New York-based head of commodities
Research, said in an e-mail.  State of Emergency  Bahrain’s government declared a three-month state of
emergency on March 15 after troops from Saudi Arabia and other
Arab Gulf states arrived to support the administration in
quelling more than a month of protests. The Shiite Muslim
majority is calling for democracy and civil rights in the Sunni-
ruled kingdom that neighbors  Saudi Arabia , the world’s biggest
crude exporter.  “Bahrain is more of the hotspot rather than Libya,” said  Jonathan Barratt , managing director of Commodity Broking
Services Pty in Sydney. “The focus will have to be on Saudi
Arabia and  Iran , that is where the powder keg is at the moment
and it’s based on Bahrain.”  Yemen’s President Ali Abdullah Saleh fired his cabinet
yesterday after the deadliest crackdown in two months of unrest
led officials close to him to resign in protest. At least 46
people were killed and hundreds injured earlier this week as
police and pro-regime gunmen shot at protesters in the capital.  Hedge Funds  Hedge funds reduced bullish oil bets from an all-time high
on concern demand in  Japan  will tumble after the country’s
biggest earthquake on March 11. About 29 percent of the
country’s refining capacity was shut, data from the Petroleum
Association of Japan industry group showed.  The funds and other large speculators decreased net-long
positions, or wagers on rising prices, by 13 percent in the
seven days ended March 15, the most since the week to Jan. 25,
according to the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission’s
weekly Commitments of Traders report.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net ;
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  