-- 
Oil Slips From Two-Week High on Speculation Mideast Risk Limited to Libya

-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h   a n d   A n n   K o h
-- 
2011-03-22T12:34:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/oil-trades-near-one-week-high-on-libyan-airstrikes-turmoil-in-middle-east.html
Crude oil retreated from its
highest price in almost two weeks amid speculation that supply
disruptions from political unrest in North African and the
Middle East may be confined to  Libya .  Futures declined after climbing as much as 0.3 percent.
Demonstrators in Yemen spent the night on streets to maintain
pressure on President Ali Abdullah Saleh, who is facing a
growing internal revolt. Tension in the region is adding a risk
premium of $15 to $20 a barrel to Brent oil prices, according to
Societe Generale SA.  “The unrest in Libya seems to be priced in almost
completely by now,”  Eugen Weinberg , head of commodities
research at Commerzbank AG in  Frankfurt , said in an interview
with Bloomberg television. “The price will stay at elevated
levels of around $110 to $120 for several months and will drop
back to $90 by the year-end.”  Crude for April delivery on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  fell 64 cents, or 0.6 percent, to $101.69 a barrel, as
of 12:30 p.m.  London  time, after rising as high as $102.67.
Yesterday, it gained $1.26 to $102.33, the highest settlement
since March 10. The April contract expires today. The more-
actively traded May futures were down 67 cents at $102.42 a
barrel. Brent oil for May settlement was at $114.34, down 62
cents, on the ICE Futures Europe exchange in London after rising
as much as 0.5 percent. The spread between the two May contracts
widened to $11.92 a barrel from $11.87 yesterday.  Regional Unrest  Regional turmoil has toppled the leaders of Tunisia and
Egypt and reached Yemen, Bahrain and  Syria . Societe Generale
raised its forecast for Brent by $11 to average $109 a barrel
this year as political risks increased, analysts led by  Michael Wittner  said in a report dated yesterday.  Allied forces are expanding their air campaign over Libya
in an effort to thwart Muammar Qaddafi’s fighters and enable
rebels to control cities, such as the opposition capital of
Benghazi, which had been under attack by troops loyal to the
regime. The Libyan leader denounced the coalition allied against
him, which includes the U.S., the U.K. and  France , as “the
party of Satan.”  Libyan output has fallen to fewer than 400,000 barrels a
day,  Shokri Ghanem , chairman of Libya’s National Oil Co., said
on March 19. The country produced 1.59 million barrels a day in
January, according to estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Exports
may be halted for “many months” because of sanctions and
damage to facilities, the International Energy Agency said.  Libyan oil production is likely to remain disrupted for the
rest of this year, said  Lawrence Eagles , head of commodities
research at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in  New York .  Protest in Yemen  Thousands of Yemenis spent the night on streets across the
country to maintain pressure on President Ali Abdullah Saleh,
who is facing a growing internal revolt by army leaders,
ministers and diplomats. Yemen produced about 298,000 barrels of
oil daily in 2009, according to BP Plc data.  Military officers including Ali Muhsin al-Ahmar, commander
of the first armored division, and Mohammed Ali Muhssein,
commander of the eastern region, abandoned the regime yesterday.
Their move was a result of the crackdown three days ago that
left dozens dead, said Mohammed al-Sabri, an opposition leader.  Bahrain’s government declared a three-month state of
emergency on March 15 after troops from  Saudi Arabia  and other
Arab Gulf states arrived to help in quelling more than a month
of protests.  Japan  is delivering more relief supplies in areas hardest
hit by the March 11 earthquake as workers restored power to two
reactors at a crippled Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear power plant
yesterday, prompting Prime Minister Naoto Kan to say there was
“light at the end of the tunnel.”  Short-Term Drop  “The recent tragic events in Japan will result in a sharp
short-term drop in economic activity but is likely to be
followed by a strong recovery driven by reconstruction and
replacement of durables which would boost the demand for many
commodities,”  Societe Generale ’s analysts said.  Japan was responsible for 5.2 percent of global oil demand
in 2009, according to BP, which publishes its Statistical Review
of World Energy each June. Japan is the third-biggest crude-
consuming country, after the U.S. and  China .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ann Koh in Singapore at 
 akoh15@bloomberg.net ;
Grant  Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  