-- 
Home Prices in Mumbai Decline 20% From 2010 Peak, Jones Lang LaSalle Says

-- B y   P o o j a   T h a k u r
-- 
2011-03-21T06:36:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/home-prices-in-mumbai-decline-20-from-2010-peak-jones-lang-lasalle-says.html
Mumbai  home prices  have declined 20
percent from their 2010 peak as lower sales, higher land values
and increased borrowing costs forced developers to reduce prices
to woo buyers, according to Jones Lang LaSalle  India .  Home prices, which increased 30 percent to 60 percent last
year, have returned to 2008 levels, Sanjay Dutt, chief executive
officer of business at the Indian unit of Chicago-based  Jones
Lang LaSalle Inc. (JLL) , said in a report today. Dutt expects prices
to remain at these levels until the three-month monsoon season
ends in September.  The central bank’s eighth interest rate increase this year
to curb inflation has led to tighter liquidity and higher
borrowing costs for developers. Many property companies raised
capital at interest rates of between 21 percent and 25 percent
from finance companies, Dutt said, while sales volumes dropped
by about 50 percent.  “This correction has come about as a result of an
increasingly urgent need for capital by the city’s developers,”
Dutt said in the report. “It is fairly certain that this
correction phase will continue for the next three months and
inevitably extend into the traditionally slower monsoon/
vacation period.”  Developers introduced promotions and incentives to woo
buyers, with those targeting high-net-worth individuals offering
discounts of as much as 15 percent to lift sales, Dutt said.  ‘Impending Oversupply’  Residential property developers built large land
inventories by the fourth quarter of last year, spending about
200 billion rupees in Delhi, Mumbai and Bangalore, with 60
percent being spent in Mumbai, Dutt said. This drove land
valuations higher and developers demanded higher sale prices, he
said.  “The overall sentiment in the market and the consistent
rate of new projects in Mumbai give a very clear indication of
an impending oversupply by 2012, and many developers in the most
severely affected locations are currently open to lowering sale
prices,” Dutt said.  Still, prices will bounce back in August and surpass the
2010 high, boosted by higher salaries and bonus increases, and
continued job confidence in the world’s second-fastest growing
major economy, Dutt said.  The  Reserve Bank  of India on March 17 raised the repurchase
rate to 6.75 percent from 6.5 percent and boosted the reverse
repurchase rate by 25 basis points to 5.75 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pooja Thakur in Mumbai at 
 pthakur@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 Apapuc1@bloomberg.net  