-- 
Options Trading Surges to Highest Level Since 2008 in U.S. Following Quake

-- B y   C e c i l e   V a n n u c c i   a n d   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 
2011-03-21T13:23:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/options-trading-surges-to-highest-level-since-2008-in-u-s-following-quake.html
U.S. option trades soared to the
highest level since September 2008 last week as investors
snapped up protection following  Japan ’s catastrophe and violence
in Libya and Bahrain, and as quarterly contracts expired.  A total of 122,446,222 contracts, or a daily average of
24,489,244, changed hands in the week ended March 18. That’s the
highest number since the week including Sept. 15, 2008, the day
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. filed for bankruptcy, according to
data from Chicago-based Options Clearing Corp., which settles
all trading of exchange-listed contracts.  “The recent spike in volatility in the VIX due to all the
global events really added a short-term spike to what has
already been a strong long-term growth pattern in options,”
said  Ed Ditmire , an analyst at Macquarie Group Ltd. in New York.
“The options market is where the price of volatility trades.
Given the dramatic moves in volatility, it explains a lot.”  Options prices soared around the world last week amid
concern that Japan’s nuclear crisis and uprisings in the Middle
East and northern  Africa  will restrain the global economy,
pushing the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index down the most in four
months. The Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility Index, or
VIX, which measures the cost of using options to protect against
losses in the  S&P 500 , surged 22 percent last week, after
posting the biggest three-day jump since May on March 16.  Last week was the expiration of futures and options
contracts on indexes and individual stocks, an event known as
quadruple witching, which occurs once every three months.
Options trading volume reached 3.9 billion contracts in 2010 for
an eighth straight annual record, according to the Options
Clearing Corp.  Calls give the right to buy 100 shares of a security for a
certain amount, the strike price, by a set date. Puts convey the
right to sell. Investors use options to guard against
fluctuations in the price of securities they own, speculate on
share-price moves or bet that volatility, or stock swings, will
rise or fall.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cecile Vannucci in  New York  at 
 cvannucci1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 