-- 
More Silk, Less Slurp, Alcohol as Vintners Class Up Pinot Noir

-- B y   E l i n   M c C o y
-- 
2011-03-21T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/more-silk-less-slurp-alcohol-as-vintners-class-up-pinot-noir-elin-mccoy.html
I’ve had it with prune-colored  California  pinots that taste like over-oaked top-heavy syrahs.  I give them a sniff, two sips just to be fair, then a groan
and a thumbs-down score.  I’m not merely disappointed. I think they’re a wine crime.
Why? Because when pinot is made to caress the tongue instead of
grabbing it, it can seduce the palate as no other grape can.  Fortunately, the small band of passionate pinot makers
championing pure fruit elegance and silky-textured finesse over
gross oak and ghastly levels of alcohol (some 16 and 17
percent!) is growing and getting more vocal.  Two weeks ago, at the 11th  World of Pinot Noir  event in San
Luis Obispo county, there was plenty of discussion among the six
winemakers from both camps on an “Alcohol Levels and Balance”
panel.  Participant Rajat Parr, wine director of the  Michael Mina 
restaurant group, caused a big stir two years ago when he
decided not to include any California pinots with alcohol levels
over 14 percent on  San Francisco  restaurant  RN74 ’s wine list.
Ironically, without knowing the alcohol levels of two Siduri
wines poured at the panel, Parr chose the 15.2 percent wine as
one to buy.  But he wasn’t fazed. “It’s a matter of balance,” he told
me a few days later, “The tannin, acidity, fruit, alcohol, the
whole combination working together.” His own just-launched
Sandhi pinot, though, is 13.3 percent.  ‘Garbage’  Speed-talking Jim Clendenen, the wild-haired
winemaker/owner at  Santa Barbara ’s  Au Bon Climat , who was also
on the panel, has been pursuing complex pinot for decades.  “To get those big, purple, slurpy flat fruit wines,” he
told me via phone, “people wait to pick until grapes are so
ripe they’re raisined garbage.” That stylistic choice requires
“radical surgery in the cellar” by adding water and acid. (The
more sugar in the grapes at harvest, the more alcohol in the
wine.)  “I get perfectly ripe grapes at lower alcohols,” he said,
“because my vines are in the right cool sites. I’m one of the
first to pick.”  I’ve long been a fan of his wines, like the bright, tangy
La Bauge Au Dessus ($27) and savory Sanford & Benedict single
vineyard bottling ($45), which can age 10 years and more.  Clendenen blames high scores from The Wine Advocate’s
 Robert Parker  for encouraging so many winemakers to continue the
over-the-top pinot making that began in the 1990s. But Parker’s
influence is waning. He announced last month that he’ll no
longer personally review California wines.  Talky Dog  “Site, microclimate, and soil are everything,” says Ross
Cobb, winemaker at his family’s  Cobb Wines  and also at  Hirsch
Vineyards . Both are on the Sonoma Coast a few miles from the  Pacific Ocean , cooled by wind and fog so ripening is slower,
preserving the acidity that lets pinot age.  His Cobb Coastlands ($65) has that purity of bright fruit,
complex minerality, and silky finish that makes you crave
another glass. “Pinot noir shouldn’t look black. You should see
your thumbprint through the glass,” he says.  Long-time pinot specialist Greg La Follette, who’s just
launched his own  La Follette  label, uses only one third new
barrels for aging his wines. Too much oak masks pinot’s delicate
fruit, which is very much on display in his single vineyard
Sangiacomo ($40) and Manchester Ridge ($50) bottlings.  “We’re now in the third wave of making California
pinot,” La Follette says. “We’ve shown the dog can bark, now
we’re giving him elocution lessons.”  Cloned Grapes  Some winemakers have only recently become converts to the
idea of balance. Former investment banker Jamie Kutch left his
day job five years ago to make wine in Sonoma, proposing to his
wife by hiding a boxed engagement ring among grapes on the
sorting table.  “That wine was 16.3 percent alcohol,” he says. “The
fruit profile was like a flatline on an EKG.”  But his palate shifted. He realized the wines needed more
acidity and brightness. The level in his 2009s is down to 13.2
percent, giving his current wines -- like the McDougall Ranch --
focus and vibrancy.  Higher alcohol gives an impression of fuller body and
texture, he explains, but low yields give true concentration,
richness, and intensity. Kutch, who buys grapes, also seeks out
vineyards with old heritage clones that were once smuggled into
the country from  France .  For many of these winemakers, Burgundy was the original
inspiration. But California’s climate, soil and sites are
different, and they’re still finding better ways to make very
American pinots with grace and balance.  Next week, Clendenen, Kutch, Cobb and 21 others will hold
the first group tasting in San Francisco under the “In Pursuit
of Balance” banner.  Organizers Parr and Jasmine Hirsch of Hirsch vineyards
dream of taking the wines on the road like pied pipers, bringing
along pinot believers.  I’m following the leaders.    Elin McCoy  writes on wine and spirits for Bloomberg News.
The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of the story:
Elin McCoy at  elinmccoy@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New York  at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 