-- 
Osborne Faces Weaker Growth, More Unemployment as He Readies U.K. Budget

-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 
2011-03-21T00:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/osborne-faces-lower-growth-more-unemployment-in-u-k-budget-analysts-say.html
U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  may face a deteriorating economic outlook when he
presents his second budget this week, as government forecasters
predict weaker growth, higher unemployment and more borrowing,
analysts say.  The Office for Budget Responsibility -- which monitors  government borrowing  and sets economic forecast -- may say
unemployment will rise to about 8.2 percent this year compared
with an 7.9 percent forecast made in November. The deficit will
increase over the next two years amid weaker growth, analysts
say.  “We have to be realistic where we are coming from as a
country,” Osborne said on  BBC Television ’s Andrew Marr Show
yesterday. “We have had the biggest banking crisis in our
history, the biggest deficit and, now, the additional headwind
of rising oil prices.”  Having embarked on the biggest squeeze on public spending
since World War II, Osborne said he will now set his sights on
measures aimed at improving the structure of the economy.  Ed Balls , who speaks for the opposition  Labour Party  on economic
affairs, said on the same program that Osborne’s fiscal
consolidation was responsible for shaking confidence at a time
of economic weakness.  Last week, the Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development cut its forecast for U.K. economic growth in 2011,
saying gross domestic product will expand 1.5 percent instead of
the 1.7 percent predicted in November.  First Budget  The OBR expected growth of 2.1 percent in November and of
2.6 percent before Osborne presented his first budget in June.
The median in a survey of 38 forecasts published by the Treasury
on March 16 showed growth of 1.8 percent.  “We suspect the OBR will lower its shorter-term
projections,” said  Philip Shaw , chief U.K. economist at
Investec Bank Plc. “We would not be surprised to see the
forecast of 2.1 percent lowered.”  Balls yesterday said Osborne’s plan to eliminate the
deficit is failing and the measures to stimulate growth that
Osborne is due to announce won’t go far enough.  “We’re not getting the growth to get the deficit down,”
Balls said. “Osborne is downgrading his forecasts for jobs and
growth next week.”  Implementation of fiscal program, with plans to slash more
than 300,000 public-sector jobs over the next four years, begins
fully next month yet it comes as weaker growth in the fourth
quarter pushed unemployment above 8 percent last week.  That’s increased the likelihood that the OBR will raise its
main jobless forecast to 8.2 percent, in line with a
“persistent weak demand” forecast that it had published in
November. Its main forecast then was 7.9 percent, which was
already surpassed last week when jobless rate hit 8 percent in
the three months through January.  “It’s not impossible that we get to 8.2 percent given
where we are now,” said  George Buckley , chief U.K. economist at
Deutsche Bank AG. “The OBR’s previous forecast is looking a bit
optimistic and a lot will depend now on how companies react to
recovery.”  ‘Higher Borrowing’  Given the slowdown in economic output, Osborne is also
likely to face higher borrowing predictions than those set out
by the OBR last year. Better than expected tax receipts may slip
back in the last two months of the fiscal year, suggesting no
change to this fiscal year’s 148.5 billion pounds borrowing
needs.  That weak outlook may increase borrowing beyond the 117
billion pounds in the year through March 2012 and 91 billion in
the following fiscal year.  “There is a long way still to go and a downgrading of
growth forecasts could result in some upward pressure to the
borrowing forecasts,” said Investec’s Shaw.  Such pressure will tie Osborne’s hands when trying to
introduce measures to stimulate the economy as it emerges from
recession. At the same time, Osborne this morning said the
budget won’t seek more spending cuts or higher taxes to reduce
the  budget deficit  and that, instead, he plans “far reaching
measures” to increase Britain’s productive capacity.  “Having undertaken the rescue measures last year, I am not
going to ask for more,” Osborne told the BBC.  Targeted Support  As part of the plans, Osborne will announce targeted
support for those suffering the most, including a 300 million
pounds plan to improve the skills of the young unemployed.
Osborne will expand a work experience program to 100,000 places
from 20,000 at present, according to a person with knowledge of
the plans. The plan will also fund 50,000 apprenticeships over
four years, the person added.  Chief Secretary to the Treasury Danny Alexander said in an
article in the Observer that the budget will “set out further
real progress” toward increasing the tax free allowance for all
workers on the first 10,000 pounds they earn, a pledge
Alexander’s Liberal Democrats made with the  Conservative Party 
when they agreed the coalition’s program for government. One
person with knowledge of the plans said the government will
increase the threshold to about 8,000 pounds from 7,475 pounds.  Osborne will also say he will study proposals to merge
National Insurance and Income Tax in coming years, according to
a separate person with knowledge of the plans.  Separately, Osborne will delay introducing an increase in
Air Passenger Duty starting in April for a year, saving
travellers one pound on an economy ticket to a European country
and about 6 pounds on a business class flight to the U.S.,
according to a third person with knowledge of the plans. The
delay will cost the government about 150 million pounds next
year, the person added.  Osborne also reiterated on the  BBC  that he is considering a
similar delay to fuel duty to help motorists cope with rising
oil prices.  “We do have a fuel duty rise for April and of course I am
looking at that to see whether we afford to do anything about
that,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  