-- 
Asian Stocks Rise on Libya Oil Impact, Japan Nuclear Progress

-- B y   S h a n i   R a j a
-- 
2011-03-21T10:51:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/most-asian-stocks-advance-as-libyan-airstrikes-boost-oil-prices-asx-drops.html
Asian stocks rose for a second day
as oil climbed after the U.S., U.K. and France launched
airstrikes in  Libya , Japan made progress in tackling a nuclear
crisis, and amid signs a U.S. economic recovery is strengthening.  Woodside Petroleum Ltd. (WPL)  climbed 1.8 percent in Sydney as
U.S. officials said allied forces grounded Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi ’s air force and drove back his offensive against a rebel
stronghold. LG Electronics Inc., the world’s third-largest
mobile-phone maker, gained 1.5 percent in  Seoul  as the  Federal
Reserve  cleared the way for lenders to boost dividends. Extract
Resources Ltd. led gains among uranium companies in Sydney.  The MSCI Asia Pacific excluding Japan Index climbed 1.5
percent to 459.32 as of 6:46 p.m. in  Hong Kong . More than three
stocks rose for each that fell on the gauge, which lost 5.5
percent this year through March 18. Japanese markets are closed
for a public holiday today.  “Investors are gaining confidence that despite all the
event risk that markets have been exposed to in the last eight
weeks or so, recovery in global growth will remain fairly
solid,” said Prasad Patkar, who helps manage about $1.8 billion
at Platypus Asset Management Ltd. in Sydney. “As an investor,
you can deal with the downside from natural disasters and wars a
lot better if there is some comfort that the economic
fundamentals will remain protected.”  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index, which includes Japanese
companies, last week recorded its biggest weekly drop since the
height of the European debt crisis last May as Japan fought to
prevent a nuclear disaster precipitated by the nation’s worst
earthquake on March 11.  Fed Allows Dividends  Australia ’s S&P/ASX 200 Index gained 0.4 percent in Sydney.
 New Zealand ’s  NZX 50 Index (NZSE50FG)  rose 0.3 percent in Wellington.  South
Korea ’s Kospi Index climbed 1.1 percent, and Hong Kong’s Hang
Seng Index also added 1.7 percent.  Futures on the Nikkei 225 Stock Average expiring in June
rose 3.5 percent and 3.1 percent in Singapore and  Chicago 
respectively.  U.S. Standard & Poor’s 500 Index futures rose 1.2 percent.
The gauge advanced 0.4 percent to 1,279.21 on March 18, paring a
weekly decline, after the Fed move, and as central banks worked
to support Japan’s economy following the earthquake.  The S&P 500 Financials Index gained 1.1 percent, the
biggest rally among 10 industries, as the Fed said some of the
19 largest U.S. banks will be able to restart dividend payments,
buy back shares or repay government capital after “significant
improvement” in their capital positions and the economy.  ‘Enemy Christian States’  Woodside, Australia’s second-biggest oil and gas producer,
rose 1.8 percent to A$45.20 in Sydney. Rival  Santos Ltd. (STO) 
advanced 1.1 percent to A$15.22. China Shenhua Energy Co., the
country’s largest coal supplier, gained 3.2 percent to HK$35 in
Hong Kong, while PetroChina Co., the nation’s biggest energy
producer, added 2.3 percent to HK$10.56.  In Libya, allied attacks have effectively groundedQaddafi’s air force and driven back his offensive against the
rebel stronghold at Benghazi, U.S. officials said yesterday, as
the leader vowed to repel “enemy Christian states.”  The Libyan military has not flown an aircraft in two days
and the coalition was in full control of the airspace, Vice
Admiral Bill Gortney told reporters at the Pentagon. It was
possible a Libyan jet or helicopter would still take off, but it
would be targeted by coalition patrols over the country, he said.  Qaddafi denounced the coalition, including the U.S., the
U.K. and  France  allied against him, as “the party of Satan.”  “We will not leave our oil to America or France or Britain
or the enemy Christian states that are now aligned against us,”
the Libyan leader, who has ruled since 1969, said yesterday on
state television. “We will not leave our land. We will fight
for every inch of our land and liberate every inch of it.”  New York Crude  Oil futures advanced as much as 2.3 percent as tensions in
Libya mounted, and as continuing unrest in the region renewed
concerns the turmoil may spread and disrupt supplies. Ninety
percent of Bahrain Petroleum Co.’s employees went on strike last
week in response to a police crackdown on anti-government
demonstrations, while Yemen declared a state of emergency on
March 18.  Crude oil for April delivery climbed as much as $2.28 to
$103.35 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange . It was at $102.93 at 2 p.m. Singapore time.  LG Electronics gained 1.5 percent to 102,000 won in Seoul,
while in Sydney, James Hardie Industries SE, the biggest seller
of home siding in the U.S., rose 0.5 percent to A$6.22.  Among uranium producers, Extract rose 14 percent to A$8.01,
Energy Resources of Australia Ltd. increased 1.5 percent to
A$8.12, and  Paladin Energy Ltd. (PDN)  gained 2.5 percent to A$3.69.  Power Reconnected  Japanese Prime Minister Naoto Kan said he can see “light
at the end of the tunnel” as workers at  Tokyo Electric  Power
Co.’s troubled Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear plant reconnected
power to two of the failed reactors.  In a flurry of announcements today, Kan said progress was
being made in restoring power to reactors No. 1 and No. 2, while
Tokyo Electric said it had connected No. 3 and No 4. Minutes
later, state broadcaster NHK said engineers were evacuated as
gray smoke was seen billowing from reactor 3.  Water in cooling ponds holding spent-fuel rods atop the
plant’s six reactors was below boiling point,  Japan  Defense
Minister Toshimi Kitazawa said last night in a news conference.  U.S. Energy Secretary Steven Chu said the Obama
administration believes the worst of the crisis is over. Unit 2,
where Tepco connected a 1.5-kilometer (1 mile) power cable March
18 as it tried to revive cooling systems knocked out by the
magnitude-9 temblor and tsunami, is the main source of concern,
Chu said on CNN’s “State of the Union” program.  ‘We Export Uranium’  Australia says Japan’s atomic crisis won’t affect the sale
of uranium, Sky News reported, citing an interview with Prime
Minister Julia Gillard yesterday.  “We do export uranium and we will continue to export
uranium,” Gillard said.  Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Co. climbed 5.7
percent to 65,000 won in Seoul as concern eased that demand for
nuclear  power plants  will abate. Also in Seoul, Hyundai Heavy
Industries Co., the world’s largest shipbuilder, rose 1.3
percent to 479,000 won after saying it received a contract to
build six container ships.  Korean Air Lines Co., South Korea’s largest carrier, added
4.5 percent to 60,400 won as Japan’s progress improved the
outlook for global travel. The company was also raised to
“buy” from “underperform” at Bank of America Merrill Lynch,
which cited recent declines in the share price, in a report
today. The stock has declined in six of the past eight days.  ‘Short-Term Rebound’  “We are seeing a rebound following last week’s decline,”
said  Castor Pang , Hong Kong-based research director at Cinda
International Holdings Ltd. “This short-term rebound may be
short-lived if  oil prices  continue to increase as tensions in
Libya intensify and as uncertainties prevail in the nuclear
situation in Japan.”  China Overseas Land & Investment Ltd., a Hong Kong-based
builder, jumped 3.8 percent to HK$14.64 after Kim Eng Holdings
Ltd. recommended the stock as a “buy.” PCCW Ltd., Hong Kong’s
No. 1 phone company, climbed 4.6 percent to HK$3.43 after saying
it may spin off its telecommunications assets.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Shani Raja in Sydney at 
 sraja4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 