-- 
Biggest Debtor Tata Steel Experiments With Hybrid Financing: India Credit

-- B y   A n u r a g   J o s h i   a n d   S h e l l e y   S m i t h
-- 
2011-03-22T05:02:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/overnight-rates-surge-to-one-year-high-on-inflation-battle-india-credit.html
Tata Steel Ltd. (TATA) ,  India ’s most
indebted company, raised 15 billion rupees ($333 million) in
bonds without adding the full amount to its balance sheet
liabilities.  The company, whose debt exceeds equity by 2.3 times, sold
notes with no fixed maturity priced to yield 11.8 percent,
according to a stock market filing. The securities, which can be
redeemed after 10 years, yield 1.8 percentage points more than
its 6.5 billion rupees of 10.4 percent senior unsecured bonds
due in 2019, according to prices from the Fixed Income Money
Market & Derivatives Association of India.  Tata Steel’s so-called hybrid perpetual notes show
companies are seeking unprecedented ways to raise money with
Indian bond sales down 42 percent this year to 274 billion
rupees and the nation’s Sensitive Index falling 13 percent to
become  Asia ’s worst equity benchmark. Central Bank Governor
Duvvuri Subbarao raised  interest rates  eight times since March
2010 to curb inflation, pushing the 10-year government bond
yield to 8.01 percent, more than double  China ’s 3.85 percent.  “Tata Steel can’t raise equity because the owners get
diluted, and it can’t sell too much debt because its debt-equity
ratio is bloated,” Rakesh Arora, head of research for Macquarie
Group Ltd.’s India unit, said in a phone interview from Mumbai
yesterday. “This is an in-between product.”  Accounting Criteria  Hybrid securities have features of both debt and equity,
including often having no stated maturity. That allows the
securities to be counted as debt for tax purposes and as equity
for ratings,  Standard & Poor’s  said in a 2008 guide.  Perpetual hybrids typically pay a higher coupon than bonds
with a fixed maturity because they rank below senior and
subordinated debt in the repayment obligations of a company.  Tata Steel is the first non-bank Indian corporate to sell
hybrid perpetual securities and has $18.3 billion of bonds and
loans due through 2031, the most of any issuer in the South
Asian nation, Bloomberg data show.  The Mumbai-based company is India’s third-biggest steel
maker by market value after  Steel Authority of India Ltd. (SAIL)  and
Jindal Steel & Power Ltd. Tata Steel’s debt-to-equity ratio
compares with 0.5 times for Steel Authority and 0.8 for  Jindal
Steel , Bloomberg data show.  More companies may sell hybrid perpetuals “once
acceptability and liquidity improves,” Suresh M. Hegde, group
finance head for Videocon Industries Ltd., India’s biggest
consumer electronics maker, said in a phone interview from
Mumbai yesterday.  ‘Better Liquidity’  “They are costlier because holders do not enjoy the same
rights like voting that shareholders have, but are attractive to
investors because of better liquidity” than on conventional
debt, Hegde said.  Yields on India’s 10-year bonds have risen to 469 basis
points more than similar-maturity U.S. Treasuries from this
year’s low of 439 on March 3. Indian bonds have returned 1.8
percent this year, HSBC Holdings Plc indexes show. Taiwanese
notes earned 1.9 percent and  Singapore ’s securities fetched 2
percent, the most in the region, according to 10 Asian local-
currency debt indexes tracked by HSBC.  The  Reserve Bank  of India’s latest rate increase on March
17 contributed to the rupee’s 0.2 percent advance last week. The
currency was at 44.98 per dollar at 10 a.m. in Mumbai today from
45.01 per dollar yesterday, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Bond Risk  The cost of credit-default swaps insuring the debt of  State
Bank  of India, which some investors perceive as a proxy for the
nation, fell 10 basis points to 178 basis points this month,
according to CMA prices. Default swaps pay the buyer face value
in exchange for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent
should a government or company fail to adhere to its debt
agreements. A basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract
protecting $10 million of debt.  Tata Steel’s 11.8 percent notes pay the highest coupon of
all perpetual notes issued by non-financial companies, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. Ahlstrom Oyj, the world’s biggest
maker of engine filters, held the previous record after selling
9.5 percent securities in November 2009.  “The issuer universe for this kind of instrument will be
limited to a narrow set of top-quality issuers,” said Piyush Gupta, a Mumbai-based managing director at JPMorgan Chase & Co.,
which managed Tata Steel’s sale alongside ICICI Bank Ltd. “The
blue-chip profile of Tata Steel, and the relative value
available to investors on account of the subordination and
hybrid nature of the instrument, were the main reasons behind
the success of the issue.”  Tata Steel Group Chief Financial Officer Koushik Chatterjee
announced a 70 billion rupee fund-raising plan in November. The
perpetuals will add to 3.53 billion pounds ($5.8 billion) of
loans the company obtained last year and 34.8 billion rupees
raised from a share sale in January to replace debt used to buy
Corus Group Plc in 2007.  “As Tata Steel continues to develop and execute its
significant and earnings accretive growth plans, this innovative
long-term funding with equity features but without the
associated economic dilution, helps diversify our financing
options,” Chatterjee said in a March 18 statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anurag Joshi in Mumbai at 
 ajoshi53@bloomberg.net 
 Shelley Smith  in  Hong Kong  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will McSheehy at 
 wmcsheehy@bloomberg.net  