-- 
Parmalat Slides as Analysts Cut Ratings After Last Week’s Gains

-- B y   A r m o r e l   K e n n a
-- 
2011-03-21T12:19:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/parmalat-slides-as-analysts-cut-ratings-after-last-week-s-gains.html
  Parmalat SpA (PLT)  slid in Milan trading
as some analysts cut their recommendations on the Italian dairy
company, citing last week’s gains in the stock after Groupe
Lactalis bought a stake.  Parmalat fell as much as 14 cents, or 5.4 percent, to 2.46
euros and traded at 2.48 euros as of 12:47 p.m. local time. The
shares jumped 11 percent last week.  “The actual share price already discounts a good part of
the potential value creation incorporated in our target price of
2.80 euros,” said Paola Carboni, an analyst at Equita in Milan,
in a note. She cut her recommendation to “hold” from “buy.”  Lactalis said on March 17 it had acquired a direct holding
of 7.3 percent in Parmalat, plus equity swaps that may give it a
further 7 percent. The French company said it may increase the
stake, though it doesn’t plan to breach the 30 percent threshold
at which it would be required to make a full bid.  The stake purchase by Lactalis prompted  Intesa Sanpaolo
SpA (ISP) ,  Italy ’s second-largest bank and the holder of 2.2 percent
of Parmalat, to seek support to keep the company in national
hands. Ferrero SpA, the Italian maker of Nutella spread, said it
favors Italian ownership of Parmalat.  “The hypothesis of a takeover seems remote, both by the
Italian entrepreneurs such as Ferrero, and by Lactalis,”
Equita’s Carboni said in the note.  Cheuvreux analyst Marco Baccaglio cut his recommendation on
Parmalat to “underperform” from “outperform,” saying the
stock may “sharply correct” once all purchases are made.  The deadline for nominations to Parmalat’s board passed on
March 18. Lactalis presented a list including Antonio Sala,
president of Lactalis in Italy. Intesa announced a slate of
board nominees, led by the dairy company’s CEO Enrico Bondi.  Fund investors Mackenzie Financial Corp., Skagen AS and
Zenit Asset Management AB put forward several alternative
candidates, led by Massimo Rossi, a former manager at Swedish
Match AB who pledged to boost growth through acquisitions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Armorel Kenna in Milan at 
 akenna@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  