-- 
Republican Pawlenty Sets Up Committee to Explore 2012 Presidency Candidacy

-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k
-- 
2011-03-22T04:00:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/pawlenty-to-announce-committee-to-weigh-republican-bid-for-u-s-president.html
Former Minnesota Governor  Tim Pawlenty  announced yesterday he’s forming a committee to explore
a bid for the 2012 Republican presidential nomination, becoming
the first major prospective candidate to do so.  “The two challenges for him are name identification and
campaign money,” said Steven Schier, a political science
professor at  Carleton College  in Northfield, Minnesota, who has
followed Pawlenty’s career. “He can run an executive branch
well, but he’s not very charismatic and he doesn’t really stand
out in a crowd. That’s going to be a problem.”  In a video  announcing  his committee that featured patriotic
images and Minnesota scenes, Pawlenty, 50, said Americans need
to “take back our government.”  He called for more jobs, limited government and reforms for
entitlement programs such as Medicare.  “There is a brighter future for America,” he said in the
announcement. “We need to encourage the dreamers and
innovators, the small business owners, the hard workers.”  The Minneapolis-based committee allows Pawlenty to raise
money for a presidential candidacy and also requires him to file
paperwork with the  Federal Election Commission . His committee
created a  website  to organize supporters ahead of a more formal
potential announcement of candidacy.  Democratic Criticism  The former governor’s declaration drew criticism from
Democrats in his home state.  “Unfortunately for the people of Minnesota, while Governor
Pawlenty was out exploring states near and far, he failed those
he was supposed to represent,” Ken Martin, the state’s
Democratic chairman, said in a statement. “Tim Pawlenty left
our state facing the largest deficit in Minnesota’s 152-year
history, drove up property taxes and fees on middle-class
families and small businesses alike, all while making draconian
cuts to education that forced some schools into four-day
weeks.”  Minnesota faces a forecast budget deficit of $5 billion for
its next two-year budget cycle, down from $6.2 billion when
Pawlenty left office in January after two terms.  The former governor added some user fees while avoiding any
“broad-based tax increases,” Schier said.  Pawlenty was given an “A” for his fiscal record in a 2010
 analysis  of National Association of State Budget Officers data
by the Washington-based  Cato Institute , a policy research
organization that advocates limited government and lower taxes.  Minnesota’s  population  grew 7.8 percent between 2000 and
2010, more than anywhere else in the Midwest except  South
Dakota , according to 2010 census data.  Jobless Rate  During the worst recession since the Great Depression, the
state’s unemployment never was as high as the national average.
It peaked at 8.4 percent in May and June 2009 and has been on
the decline since. By January, the most recent month available,
it was down to 6.7 percent, below the U.S. average of 8.9
percent in February.  Pawlenty has already made several trips to Iowa,  New
Hampshire  and  South Carolina , states with early contests in the
nomination contest and places where he would need a strong
showing to gain momentum. The lead-off  Iowa  caucuses are
tentatively scheduled for Feb. 6, 2012.  National polls  of Republicans have shown him barely
registering as a presidential candidate, typically receiving
about 3 percentage points of support.  Pawlenty has recruited an experienced team of political
strategists, especially in Iowa, where he has the support of
consultant Eric Woolson and Chuck Larson, a former state party
chairman.  Gingrich Website  No well-known Republicans have yet formally declared plans
to challenge President Barack Obama’s 2012 re-election bid,
although former House Speaker Newt Gingrich said on March 3 that
he was starting a  website  to explore a run.  Four years ago, when no incumbent was in the presidential
contest, a total of 17 Republicans and Democrats had signaled
their candidacies or set up exploratory committees by the end of
January 2007, including Obama and then-Senator  Hillary Clinton 
of  New York , who now serves as secretary of state.  Obama has already started raising money and rallying
supporters for Democratic races in 2012, including his own. The
headquarters for his re-election bid will be based in  Chicago ,
his adopted hometown.  Other Republicans  Some of 2012’s other prospective Republican candidates
include former Arkansas Governor Mike Huckabee, who won the Iowa
caucuses in 2008, former Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney,
former Alaska Governor Sarah Palin, Governor Mitch Daniels of
Indiana, and former Utah Governor Jon Huntsman, who is stepping
down as ambassador to  China  in April.  Mississippi Governor Haley Barbour has also expressed
interest in the race and has begun traveling to states that hold
early primaries and caucuses, as has former U.S. Senator Rick Santorum of  Pennsylvania . Barbour is scheduled to visit  Nevada ,
another early primary state, today.  The lack of a clear Republican frontrunner has encouraged
others, including Representative  Michele Bachmann  of  Minnesota ,
a Tea Party favorite, to position themselves for potential runs.  “She has already generated more enthusiasm than
Pawlenty,” Schier said of Bachmann.  Pawlenty can make a case for himself to Tea Party
activists, who support limited government and lower taxes,
because he defended against tax increases in a state that
Democrats have dominated, Schier said.  “He was a goalie for Tea Party values,” he said. “He was
basically playing goalie and defense.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John McCormick in Chicago at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  in  Washington  at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 