-- 
Penguins’ Cooke Suspended for Rest of Season for Elbow to McDonagh's Head

-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-03-22T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/penguins-cooke-suspended-for-rest-of-season-for-elbow-to-mcdonagh-s-head.html
Matt Cooke’s blind-side elbow to
the face of New York Rangers defenseman Ryan McDonagh prompted
the  National Hockey League  to suspend the Pittsburgh Penguins
wing for the final 10 games of the regular season and the first
round of the playoffs.  The NHL has said it intends to crack down on illegal head
shots and Penguins General Manager Ray Shero said the team
supports the punishment for Cooke.  “The suspension is warranted because that’s exactly the
kind of hit we’re trying to get out of the game,” Shero said in
a statement. “Head shots have no place in hockey. We’ve told
Matt in no uncertain terms that this kind of action on the ice
is unacceptable and cannot happen.”  Cooke was considered a repeat offender by the NHL, having
been suspended four games last month for hitting Columbus Blue
Jackets defenseman Fedor Tyutin from behind. He’d received two
other suspensions in the past three seasons. Cooke was assessed
a major penalty for elbowing and a game misconduct for the
latest incident, which occurred two days ago during the third
period of the Penguins’ 5-2 loss to the Rangers.  While McDonagh returned to the game six minutes later, he
sat out yesterday’s practice as a precaution, Rangers coach John Tortorella said.  NHL Vice President of Hockey Operations Colin Campbell said
in a statement that Cooke “directly and unnecessarily targeted
the head of an opponent who was in an unsuspecting and
vulnerable position.”  Cooke, who leads the Penguins with 129 penalty minutes,
will forfeit $219,512 in salary during his suspension, which
started with last night’s 5-4 shootout win against  Detroit .
Cooke has 12 goals and 18 assists in 67 games.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  