-- 
Phillies Pass Yankees, Red Sox to Become No. 1 MLB Team in Fan Loyalty

-- B y   R o b   G l o s t e r
-- 
2011-03-21T04:00:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/phillies-pass-yankees-red-sox-to-become-no-1-mlb-team-in-fan-loyalty.html
The  Philadelphia Phillies  have the
most loyal fans in  Major League Baseball , surpassing the  New
York Yankees  and  Boston Red Sox , a survey found.  The Yankees were second on the baseball index for the
second straight year. The Red Sox, No. 1 the previous two years,
fell to third. The  New York Mets , who fired their manager and
general manager after a 79-83 season, tied with the Washington
Nationals for 23rd among the 30 major league teams.  New York-based  Brand Keys Inc.  compiled the 19th annual
Sports Loyalty Index by surveying 250 fans in each team’s market
and assessing the data based on factors driven by on-field
success, fan bonding with players and the franchise’s history
and tradition. A club’s effort and sense of teamwork also can
have an effect.  “With the Phillies, every game seems to count to the whole
team,” Brand Keys President Robert Passikoff said in telephone
and e-mail interviews. “They seem to take it more personally.”  The  New England Patriots  were No. 1 among National Football
League teams. The San Antonio Spurs topped the National
Basketball Association rankings and the Detroit Red Wings had
the highest score in the National Hockey League.  A copy of the 2011 survey results, which will be released
this week by Brand Keys, was given to Bloomberg News.  The Yankees led the major leagues with attendance of 3.8
million in 2010, followed by the Phillies at 3.6 million. The
Phillies sold a higher percentage (104 percent, including
standing room) of their 43,651 seats at Citizens Bank Park,
compared with 89 percent at 50,287-seat Yankee Stadium.  Sold-Out Phillies  The Phillies, who reached the National League Championship
Series last season before signing free-agent pitcher  Cliff Lee 
in mid-December, have sold out 123 straight home games, a streak
that began during the 2009 season.  David Buck, the team’s senior vice president of marketing,
said the club has sold 99 percent of its seats for 2011 and
expects to sell out every game again this season.  “Philly is an awesome sports town,” Buck said in a
telephone interview. “The place is loud and the fans take it
seriously. The fans are loving it and their support is enabling
us to do the things we’re doing on the field.”  The Brand Keys surveys were conducted a week after
football’s Feb. 6 Super Bowl.  The Patriots were followed by the Pittsburgh Steelers,
Indianapolis Colts, Super Bowl champion  Green Bay Packers  and  New York Jets  in the NFL list. The  New York Giants  were ninth
and the  Dallas Cowboys  were 21st among the league’s 32 teams.  In the NBA, the Spurs topped the index for the third
straight year. The two-time defending champion Los Angeles
Lakers were second, followed by the Dallas Mavericks,  Boston
Celtics  and Phoenix Suns. The New York Knicks were 20th of 30
teams.  The  Red Wings  were followed by the Philadelphia Flyers and
San Jose Sharks in the hockey index. The New York Rangers were
20th of the NHL’s 30 teams.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Gloster in  San Francisco  at 
 rgloster@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  