-- 
Pimco Buying Debt From Emerging Market ‘Rising Stars’ as Inflation Looms

-- B y   S h a n n o n   D .   H a r r i n g t o n
-- 
2011-03-21T15:37:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/pimco-acquiring-debt-of-emerging-market-rising-stars-as-inflation-looms.html
Pacific Investment Management Co.
says investors should buy company debt in  Russia , Brazil and
other emerging markets where rising wages and relatively low
public and private debt will help borrowers weather accelerating
inflation.  The manager of the world’s biggest bond fund is buying debt
of “rising stars” linked to nations with expanding wealth
because they will more easily be able to pass on higher
materials costs,  Mark Kiesel , Pimco’s global head of corporate
bond portfolio management, wrote in a report today on the firm’s
website. At the same time, he’s avoiding companies dependent on
growth in  Europe , the U.S. and  Japan  that will struggle amid
stagnant wages and debt-laden governments and consumers.  “Companies which are tied most directly into the strong
economic growth engine in the emerging markets should have the
most pricing power and ability to either pass through rising
costs or absorb them without a significant margin hit,” Kiesel
wrote. Those more tied to growth in developed nations, he said,
“will likely have less pricing power and be more negatively
affected by rising prices for both food and energy.”  Pimco, based in  Newport Beach ,  California , expects gross
domestic product, adjusted for inflation, to grow 5.5 percent to
8.5 percent in the next year in emerging markets such as Brazil,
Russia,  India , Mexico and China. The firm forecasts growth of 1
percent to 3.5 percent in developed economies, he wrote.  Younger Populations  The developing countries, with faster-growing and younger
populations, are benefiting from improving education,
infrastructure and productivity, he said, bolstering the
purchasing power of their consumers.  The best buys for corporate bond investors will be the debt
of companies that are both located in those nations and sell
their products into other emerging markets, he said. Those
include firms in the energy, pipeline, metals and mining and
banking sectors, Kiesel wrote. He didn’t name specific companies
in the report.  For the same reasons, the  fund manager  said he’s less
favorable toward bonds of corporate borrowers more tied to
developed economies and less likely to offset higher food and
energy prices, such as retailers, airlines, automakers and parts
suppliers and the food and beverage industry.  “Retailers are going to be very exposed because they’re
going to face higher wages in  China  and also higher cotton input
prices,” Kiesel said in a telephone interview. “Food and
beverage companies are going to be very exposed to higher
commodity costs. Airlines and autos are going to be exposed to
higher gas prices and energy prices.”  “This pipeline of inflation is starting to hit globally,”
he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shannon D. Harrington in New York at 
 sharrington6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  