-- 
Polish Growth Could Stumble on Low Employment, Skills Mismatch

-- B y   K a t y a   A n d r u s z
-- 
2011-03-21T11:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/polish-growth-could-stumble-on-low-employment-skills-mismatch.html
  Poland ’s economy, after surviving
the global financial crisis with one of the highest growth rates
in the European Union, may sputter in the coming years without
vital labor-market reforms, the  World Bank  said.  “There is uncertainty about whether Poland will be able to
return to the high growth rates exceeding 5 percent per year
achieved before the crisis,” it said. “Labor’s contribution to
growth is likely to stagnate without further reforms, owing to a
shrinking labor force population and an increase in
unemployment.”  Employment in the EU’s largest eastern member was kept
artificially high until the collapse of communism in 1989, the
World Bank said in a report, published today. Two decades later,
many workers still don’t have the right qualifications or
experience to find lasting work. About 65 percent of the
workforce is employed, below the EU average, while only 35
percent of those aged between 55 and 64 are in legal employment,
compared with an EU average of 51 percent.  “The main potential for increasing labor force
participation is among older workers and women,” the report
said. “There is still room to promote longer working lives
through further adjusting selected social security benefits so
that they do not keep workers from being active in the labor
market.”  ‘Soft Skills’  The government must also do more to boost the number of
Poles learning “soft” skills such as the ability to
communicate and work in a team, as jobs for trades like machine
operators and craftsmen dwindle.  “Job reallocation and the associated change in the
occupational structure of employment have given rise to a skills
mismatch in Poland,” the  World Bank  said. “Surveys indicate
that Polish employers see inadequate workforce skills as one of
the main constraints to the activity of their firms.”  Economic growth may suffer in the longer term, with
employment constraints playing a role in a slowing of the pace
by as much as 1 percentage point a year by 2012, according to
the report.  “This would suggest that following the global financial
crisis, Poland is likely to experience a permanent loss in
output,” the report said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katya Andrusz in Warsaw at 
 kandrusz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  