-- 
Zloty Rebounds on Japan, Polish Current Account; Forint Gains

-- B y   J a c k   J o r d a n   a n d   K r y s t o f   C h a m o n i k o l a s
-- 
2011-03-21T15:08:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/polish-zloty-strengthens-against-euro-pares-last-week-s-losses.html
The zloty appreciated after
reaching its weakest intraday level in eight months last week,
as ebbing nuclear risks in  Japan  boosted investor optimism, and  Poland ’s current-account deficit shrank more than expected.  Poland’s currency gained 0.7 percent to 4.0372 per euro as
of 3:44 p.m. in Warsaw, after weakening to as low as 4.1217 on
March 17. The Hungarian forint appreciated 0.2 percent to 271.43
per euro, the strongest intraday level since March 9.  “We see the potential for a number of central and eastern
European currencies to hold their own and in some cases continue
to appreciate,” Gillian Edgeworth and  Gyula Toth , UniCredit SpA
economists, wrote in an e-mailed note. “This view is based on
the assumption that neither events in Japan nor the Middle East
translate into a significant decline in global risk appetite or
economic activity.”  Stocks and commodities gained worldwide after Japanese
Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  said progress is being made in
restoring power to two reactors at the Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant,
which was damaged by the March 11 earthquake and ensuing
tsunami. In Libya, allied officials said air and missile strikes
have effectively grounded Muammar Qaddafi’s air force.  “Having been one of the consensus currency trades, the
zloty has overshot in the latest risk-off move,” RBC Capital
analysts wrote in a report to clients dated today. “We believe
it will remain a consensus trade and, with positioning lighter,
it should outperform as risk settles.”  Deficit Narrows  Poland’s current-account deficit narrowed to 930 million
euros ($1.3 billion) in January from 1.57 billion euros in
December, less than the 1.28 billion-euro median estimate of 19
economists polled by Bloomberg. Poland delayed the publication
of the data on March 14.  “Positive data might support the zloty a little” because
the delayed current-account report may have made some market
participants “skeptical,” strategists at Commerzbank AG led by
Ulrich Leuchtmann in  Frankfurt  wrote in a report before the data
was published today.  Hungary’s ruling party has eased investor concern over
monetary-policy interference in its choice of nominees to the
rate-setting Monetary Council today, according to Raiffeisen
International Bank AG. The party nominated Janos Cinkotai,
adviser emeritus to Central Bank President  Andras Simor , and
Gyorgy Kocziszky, after previously accusing the central bank of
flawed rate decisions.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Krystof Chamonikolas in  Prague  at 
 kchamonikola@bloomberg.net ;
Jack Jordan in  London  at 
 jjordan22@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  