-- 
PureCircle Posts Net Loss Over Timing of Customer Order

-- B y   R e n e e   L a w r e n c e
-- 
2011-03-21T16:54:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/purecircle-posts-net-loss-as-customer-order-take-up-declines.html
  PureCircle Ltd. (PURE) , the maker of zero-
calorie sweetener Reb-A, posted a net loss in its fiscal first-
half because a major customer took less of their total annual
order in the period. The stock fell the most in eight months.  The net loss of $7 million in the six months ended Dec. 31,
2010, compared with net income of $1.6 million for the same
period a year earlier, the Bermuda-based company said in a
statement. Sales fell to $13.6 million from $37.5 million.  PureCircle sells to PepsiCo Inc. and  Coca-Cola Co. (KO) , and a
major customer bought about 5 percent of its contracted order
during the first-half and committed to take the balance of 95
percent during the rest of the financial year, William Mitchell,
chief financial officer said by phone today.  Sales in the year ending June 2011 are forecast to range
from $50 million to $60 million, the company said. Last year,
sales were $60.8 million.  “It’s at the discretion of the customers that they are
placing volumes in factories in such a way, but the orders are
committed and will be delivered in the second-half,” Mitchell
said, “We will probably have a full-year net loss but the
losses won’t increase. This is a transitional year.”  Stevia  PureCircle, which derives its products from stevia, is
counting on the growing trend of health conscious consumers who
want to avoid drinks containing high calorie sugar. Stevia is a
leaf traditionally used by the Guarani Indians of  Paraguay  as a
sweetener. The company says it has started selling its product
to yoghurt manufacturers and breadmakers. Mitchell didn’t
disclose these customers’ names.  First-half net debt rose to $76.7 million from $20.5
million a year ago because the company is spending money to
build inventory, Mitchell said.  “It’s a one-off build as we need lots of inventory in
order to appeal to larger brands,” he said.  The stock dropped 16 percent to 105.5 pence at the 4:30
p.m. close in  London , the biggest decline since July 27, giving
the company a market value of 161.8 million pounds ($264
million).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Renee Lawrence in London at 
 rlawrence7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at 
 ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  