-- 
Hilton Stock Purchase Lawful, Rajaratnam’s Lawyer Tells Jury

-- B y   D a v i d   G l o v i n ,   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o ,   a n d   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 
2011-03-21T18:25:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/rajaratnam-s-hilton-stock-purchase-lawful-defense-attorney-tells-jurors.html
Raj Rajaratnam’s lawyers sought to
use cross-examination of a government witness to show Galleon
Group LLC had legitimate reasons to buy Hilton Hotels Corp.
stock before its 2007 buyout that didn’t involve inside
information.  During defense questioning of Margaret Holloway, a senior
credit analyst at Moody’s Investors Service Inc., defense
attorney Michael Starr tried to show sophisticated traders knew
Hilton was a takeover target months before Rajaratnam was
allegedly tipped. Prosecutors claim Galleon, co-founded by
Rajaratnam, bought the shares because Deep Shah, a junior
analyst at Moody’s, leaked news July 2, 2007, a day before the
Blackstone Group LP’s takeover of the chain was made public.  Starr questioned Holloway about analyst reports and media
accounts speculating on the likelihood of a buyout beginning
four months earlier. He showed her documents filed with
regulators stating that New York-based Galleon increased its
holdings from 250,000 shares in the quarter ended March 31,
2007, to 475,000 three months later -- prior to the alleged tip.  “This is not a secret document, is it?” Starr asked
Holloway about an April 30, 2007, report by Morgan Stanley
saying that private equity investors were “swarming the lodging
space.” Holloway replied that it wasn’t.  Largest Crackdown  Rajaratnam, 53, is on trial in the largest crackdown on
hedge-fund insider trading in U.S. history. The Sri Lankan-born
money manager is accused of making $45 million from tips leaked
by corporate insiders and hedge fund traders. The Hilton tip was
passed from Shah to  Roomy Khan , a former  Intel Corp. (INTC)  executive
and stock trader, who in turn told Rajaratnam, prosecutors said.  Khan has pleaded guilty in the case. Shah remains a
fugitive.  Rajaratnam said that his trades were based in part on
Galleon research, a point Starr sought to emphasize today.  Starr also asked Holloway whether Hilton was subject to
takeover rumors in early 2007 because of its large real estate
holdings, relatively low debt, profitable franchise business and
the elimination of a “poison pill” defense against hostile
bidders.  “Yes, like all companies in the sector,” Holloway
replied. Immediately after the judge called a mid-morning break,
following almost an hour of the cross-examination,  Rajaratnam
stood up and smiled.  Just Before Tip  The morning didn’t entirely go in Rajaratnam’s favor.
Assistant U.S. Attorney Andrew Michaelson used his re-direct
examination of Holloway to ask whether she knew that Galleon’s
Technology Fund bought another 400,000 shares of Hilton on July
3 -- just prior to the Hilton acquisition was announced but
after the alleged tip from Shah.  Galleon earned $4 million on the transaction, Michaelson
said. Holloway said she was unaware of the July 3 purchase.  Holloway testified earlier today that she learned about New
York-based Blackstone’s buyout of Hilton after receiving a call
from a Hilton executive at around 2:15 p.m. on July 2.  She said she immediately told Shah, who worked for her, to
begin pulling together Hilton’s financial documents, while also
warning him that the information was secret.  “My practice is to remind the junior staff that this is
confidential information,” she said.  Almost immediately, Michaelson noted in his questioning,
the price of Hilton shares began to rise.  Went on Vacation  Shah went on vacation to  India  in December 2007 and never
returned to Moody’s, Holloway said. On cross-examination, she
said that Shah had just gotten married in India and was being
pressured by his family to return home.  Prosecutors today continued laying the foundation for the
testimony of Rajiv Goel, a former executive at  Santa Clara ,
California-based Intel who is cooperating with the government.  The government called as a witness Sriram Viswanathan, an
Intel vice president who said that in late 2007 Intel began to
have discussions with Clearwire Corp. about creating a 4G
network to give high-speed  Internet access  for mobile phones.  Viswanathan said Goel, who held a position at Intel’s
Treasury Group, would have had access to the proposed deal, code
named “Project Rain,” and that Goel likely did “a lot of the
back end negotiating about how to go about maximizing the deal
for Intel.”  The case is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 1:09-cr-01184, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of  New York    Manhattan ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Glovin in Manhattan federal court
at   glovin@bloomberg.net ;
Patricia Hurtado in Manhattan federal court
at   phurtado@bloomberg.net .
Bob Van Voris in Manhattan federal court
at   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 