-- 
Rajaratnam Was Tipped About Wireless Network Deal, FBI Tape Recording Says

-- B y   D a v i d   G l o v i n ,   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o ,   a n d   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 
2011-03-22T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/rajaratnam-was-tipped-about-wireless-network-deal-fbi-tape-recording-says.html
Raj Rajaratnam’s friend Rajiv Goel
passed tips to him about Intel’s Corp.’s planned investment in a
wireless network company formed by Clearwire Corp. and Sprint
Nextel Corp, according to tape recordings played for jurors in
Rajaratnam’s insider trading trial.  In three calls secretly recorded by the FBI in March 2008,
Goel, a former Intel managing director, told Rajaratnam about
the company’s plan to invest $1 billion in a high-speed Internet
business, the identity of the new company’s board and even the
range in which the new stock would be valued. The deal wasn’t
publicly announced until May 7, 2008.  “Yesterday our board approved this deal,” Goel told
Rajaratnam at 9:11 p.m. on March 20, according to a recording.  “Did you digest the information I gave you?” Goel asked
on an earlier call that day. “Let me tell you what the board is
going to do, they are going to have such heavyweights on it,”
Goel said, before telling Rajaratnam the names of several
officers who would sit on the company’s board.  Rajaratnam, 53, is on trial in the largest crackdown on
hedge-fund insider trading in U.S. history. The Sri Lankan-born
money manager is accused of making $45 million from tips leaked
by corporate insiders and hedge fund traders. He says his trades
were based on legitimate research and denies wrongdoing.
Rajaratnam may spend as long as 20 years in prison if convicted
of fraud.  The tapes were played yesterday during the testimony of
Sriram Viswanathan, an Intel vice president who said that in
late 2007 Intel began to have discussions with Clearwire about
creating a 4G network to give high-speed  Internet access  for
mobile phones.  ‘Project Rain’  Viswanathan said Goel, who held a position at Intel’s
Treasury Group, would have had access to the proposed deal, code
named “Project Rain” and later referred to as “Project Grand
Slam,” and that Goel probably did “a lot of the back-end
negotiating about how to go about maximizing the deal for
Intel.”  Goel, a longtime friend of Rajaratnam who has known him for
more than 25 years, pleaded guilty to conspiracy and securities
fraud in February 2010 and will testify for prosecutors as early
as this week.  Goel said during his guilty plea that he gave Rajaratnam
inside information on Intel earnings and the company’s plan to
invest in a publicly traded company in 2007 and 2008.  “I’m calling to say you’re a good man,” Goel told
Rajaratnam in a March 19, 2008, recorded phone call in which he
divulged that Intel was having a board meeting that day.  ‘Highly Suspicious’  “That’s highly suspicious,” Rajaratnam responded. That
line, when played for jurors, prompted laughter in the
courtroom.  “Buddy, you gotta know something about me, you know I
don’t carry agendas,” Goel said, adding later in the same
conversation: “The Sprint thing isn’t happening in the short-
term.”  Defense attorney Terence Lynam sought to show on cross-
examination of Viswanathan that the information about the
venture was publicly known long before Goel allegedly tipped
Rajaratnam during the wiretapped telephone calls.  He also questioned Viswanathan whether Goel had access to
such information in his position at Intel.  Lyman asked whether it was “publicly discussed” in
“newspaper reports and trade press” in 2007 that Sprint and
Clearwire would combine on the networking company.  ‘Oh, Speculation’  “Oh, speculation, yes,” said Viswanathan.  Earlier in the day, Rajaratnam’s lawyers sought to use
cross-examination of a government witness to show that Galleon
had legitimate reasons to buy Hilton Hotels Corp. stock before
its 2007 buyout that didn’t involve inside information.  During questioning of Margaret Holloway, a senior credit
analyst at Moody’s Investors Service Inc., defense attorney
Michael Starr tried to show that sophisticated traders knew
Hilton was a takeover target months before Rajaratnam was
allegedly tipped.  Prosecutors claim Galleon bought the shares because Deep Shah, a junior analyst at Moody’s, leaked news on July 2, 2007,
a day before the Blackstone Group LP’s takeover of the chain was
made public. The Hilton tip was passed from Shah to  Roomy Khan ,
a former Intel executive and stock trader, who in turn told
Rajaratnam, prosecutors said.  A Galleon fund held 475,000 shares of Hilton as of June 30,
2007, the defense said. Galleon’s Technology Fund bought about
400,000 shares of Hilton on July 3 -- just prior to the Hilton
acquisition was announced but after the alleged tip from Shah,
prosecutors said. Galleon earned $4 million on the transaction,
the U.S. said.  Khan has pleaded guilty in the case. Shah remains a
fugitive.  Went on Vacation  Holloway testified early yesterday that she learned about
New York-based Blackstone’s buyout of Hilton after receiving a
call from a Hilton executive on July 2. She said she immediately
told Shah, while also warning him that the information was
secret.  Shah went on vacation to  India  in December 2007 and never
returned to Moody’s, Holloway said. On cross-examination, she
said that Shah had just gotten married in India and was being
pressured by his family to return home.  The case is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 1:09-cr-01184, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of  New York  ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Glovin in Manhattan federal court
at   glovin@bloomberg.net ;
Patricia Hurtado in Manhattan federal court
at   phurtado@bloomberg.net .
Bob Van Voris in Manhattan federal court
at   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 