-- 
Treasuries Erase Drop Before Two-Year Note Auction as Yields Draw Buyers

-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 
2011-03-28T16:32:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/treasury-futures-contracts-fall-as-japan-cools-crippled-nuclear-reactors.html
Treasuries erased losses as
two-year note yields at three-week highs attracted buyers before
the $35 billion auction of the debt.  “We’ve seen buyers stepping in at those levels,” said
 Kevin Flanagan , a Purchase, New York-based fixed-income
strategist at Morgan Stanley Smith Barney. “I don’t think
necessarily it’s the beginning where you say yields have topped
out for now.”  U.S. notes slid earlier today after Federal Reserve Bank of
St. Louis President  James Bullard  said on March 26 that policy
makers should review whether to complete what’s known as
quantitative easing. The debt also fell as  consumer spending 
increased more than forecast.  Benchmark 10-year note yields dropped almost one basis
point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 3.43 percent at 12:25 p.m.
in New York, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader figures. The
3.625 percent security maturing in February 2021 advanced 2/32,
or 63 cents per $1,000 face amount, to 101 19/32.  Yields on two-year notes advanced one basis point to 0.75
percent after earlier gaining five basis points to 0.78 percent,
the highest level since March 4. Five-year note yields increased
less than one basis point to 2.16 percent.  The two-year notes being sold by the Treasury today yielded
0.785 percent in pre-auction trading, compared with 0.745
percent at the prior sale Feb. 22.  Indirect Bidders  Indirect bidders, the category of investors that includes
foreign central banks, bought 31.3 percent of the notes last
month. Direct bidders, non-primary dealers buying for their own
accounts, purchased 6.8 percent, the least since November 2009.  “The two-year is pretty easy to take down,” said Guy LeBas, chief fixed-income strategist and economist at Janney
Montgomery Scott LLC in Philadelphia. “We expect it to be
absorbed well, particularly after the sell-off over the past
seven days.”  The Treasury is scheduled to follow today’s two-year sale
with a $35 billion five-year auction tomorrow and a $29 billion
seven-year offering on March 30.  U.S. debt  fell earlier after Bullard told reporters in
Marseilles,  France , two days ago that the U.S. economic recovery
may not need the $600 billion in stimulus planned through June.  “There’s continued rattling about how quickly the Fed is
going to act to remove accommodation,” said Christian Cooper,
head of U.S. dollar derivatives trading in New York at Jefferies
Group Inc., one of the 20 primary dealers obliged to participate
in U.S. auctions. “We can’t underestimate how quickly the
environment could change.”  Bullard’s View  Bullard, who in July became the first policy maker to call
for Fed purchases of Treasuries, has said the  Federal Open
Market Committee  should review the plan at every meeting and, if
necessary, continue it indefinitely.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  has given no indication that
the central bank will deviate from its plan to buy bonds through
June to spur economic growth and reduce the 8.9 percent
unemployment rate.  The central bank purchased $6.753 billion of government
debt maturing from March 2015 to August 2016 under its program
of quantitative easing.  Traders have increased bets that policy makers will raise
borrowing costs at its January meeting. Fed fund futures showed
a 52 percent chance of an increase in the target lending rate,
compared with 41 percent odds a week ago. The Fed has kept its
target at zero to 0.25 percent since December 2008.  Consumer Spending  Consumer spending gained 0.7 percent in February after a
0.3 percent increase in the prior month, the Commerce Department
reported. The median forecast of 71 economists in a Bloomberg
News survey was for a 0.5 percent gain.  Pending home resales unexpectedly climbed 2.1 percent last
month after a drop of 2.8 percent in January, the National
Association of Realtors reported. The median forecast of 33
economists was for little change.  An index of investor sentiment toward Treasuries fell last
week, based on a survey by Ried Thunberg ICAP Inc. The end-of-
June gauge slipped to 46 from 47 for the week ended March 25,
according to a survey of 19 money managers. A figure less than
50 indicates investors expect prices to decline.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanne Walker in  New York  at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  