-- 
Treasury to Sell Up to $10 Billion of Mortgage Bonds a Month

-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e ,   V i n c e n t   D e l   G i u d i c e   a n d   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 
2011-03-21T15:26:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/treasury-to-sell-mortgage-backed-holdings-at-up-to-10-billion-per-month.html
The U.S. Treasury Department plans
to wind down its $142 billion portfolio of mortgage bonds
guaranteed by  Fannie Mae  and Freddie Mac by selling as much as
$10 billion per month.  Sales will start this month and be subject to market
conditions, the department said today in a  statement . When
combined with principal repayments currently ranging between $3
billion and $5 billion a month, the sales may eliminate the
portfolio in about one year, the Treasury said.  “We will exit this investment at a gradual and orderly
pace to maximize the recovery of taxpayer dollars and help
protect the process of repair of the housing finance market,”
 Mary Miller , the Treasury’s assistant secretary for financial
markets, said in a statement.  The  department  began buying mortgage securities after
seizing Fannie Mae and  Freddie Mac  in September 2008 as then-
Treasury Secretary  Henry Paulson  sought to stabilize markets and
reduce the cost of mortgages amid the worst global financial
crisis and U.S. housing slump since the Great Depression. The
 Federal Reserve  the next year started its own program to
purchase $1.25 trillion of agency mortgage securities,
acquisitions that ended last March.  Selling the holdings could raise as much as $15 billion to
$20 billion in profit, according to a Treasury official who
spoke to reporters on condition of anonymity. Price gains for
the securities have been fueled by low yields on benchmark
government debt and the limited ability of some homeowners to
refinance because of falling home prices and tighter credit
standards.  State Street Managing  State Street Global Advisors , hired in 2008 to manage
Treasury’s mortgage-bond portfolio, will handle the sales, the
department said.  The decision to sell the mortgage bonds isn’t related to
the U.S. government’s debt ceiling, Treasury said.  Washington-based Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac of McLean,
 Virginia , supported by $151 billion of taxpayer-funded capital
injections since 2008, own or guarantee about half the U.S.
mortgage market. In addition to buying mortgage bonds, Treasury
also has been purchasing preferred stock in the companies as
part of the government bailout.  Consistent Pattern  “This action is consistent with a general pattern of
Treasury continued divestment of assets acquired during 2008 and
2009 as part of the various financial stabilization programs,”
the department said in the statement.  The sales will have a limited effect on the $5.2 trillion
market for agency mortgage bonds, Anish Lohokare, an analyst  New
York  at BNP Paribas, said in an e-mail.  That’s because fewer homeowners have been refinancing loans
from the Fed’s pool of mortgage-backed securities, limiting the
amount of debt returning to public markets, Lohokare said. The
pace at which the Fed’s holdings are being paid down has
declined to about $12 billion a month from as much $32 billion
last year after home-loan rates rose, he said.  The Fed held about $944 billion of Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac
and Ginnie Mae-backed mortgage securities as of March 16,
according to central bank  data .  About $5 billion of net supply is being created each month
through new bond issuance, so the “market can absorb an
additional $10 billion,” Lohokare said.  The price of Fannie Mae’s 5 percent 30-year mortgage
securities, among the Treasury’s largest holdings, declined 0.17
cent on the dollar more than similar government debt as of 10
a.m. in New York, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rebecca Christie  in Washington at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net ;
Vincent Del Giudice in Washington 
 vdelgiudice@bloomberg.net ;
Jody Shenn in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  