-- 
PCCW Considers Spinning Off Telecommunications Operations

-- B y   M a r k   L e e
-- 
2011-03-21T10:23:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/richard-li-s-pccw-may-spin-off-telecommunications-business.html
Billionaire  Richard Li  may seek to
spin off  PCCW Ltd. (8) ’s telecommunications assets, at least his
sixth attempt to reorganize  Hong Kong ’s biggest phone company
after it underperformed rivals.  PCCW rose 4.6 percent to HK$3.43 at the 4 p.m. close of
trading in Hong Kong, giving the stock its biggest two-day gain
since January 2010. The company said it’s in talks with
regulators in Hong Kong to list the assets separately as a
business trust.  Li’s plan follows a failed attempt to take PCCW private in
2009, when a Hong Kong court ruled that a shareholder vote was
manipulated. PCCW, with businesses including property
development and television, fell 4.7 percent in Hong Kong
trading this year to last week’s close while shares of SmarTone
Telecommunications Holdings Ltd. jumped 77 percent and  Hutchison
Telecommunications Hong Kong Holdings Ltd. (215)  gained 11 percent.  “The capital that’ll be raised from the spinoff will help
them develop new businesses,” said Linus Yip, chief strategist
at First Shanghai Securities in Hong Kong. “Borrowing costs are
now rising, so it may be a good moment for the company to reduce
its debt.”  Revenue Share  Telecommunications businesses, including fixed-line,
Internet, mobile-phone, pay-television and computing services,
accounted for more than 90 percent of PCCW’s first-half revenue
of HK$11.8 billion ($1.5 billion), with the rest coming from
property. Spokeswoman Anita Choi declined to comment on which of
the company’s assets will be included in the proposed spinoff.    Li Ka-shing , Hong Kong’s richest man and the PCCW
chairman’s father, spun off some container-terminal operations
from  Hutchison Whampoa Ltd. (13)  earlier this month. The newly-formed
investment trust, Hutchison Port Holdings Trust, fell 5.9
percent on its first day of trading in  Singapore  on March 18.  PCCW has lost more than 90 percent of its value since the
younger Li in 2000 used his Internet start-up Pacific Century
Cyberworks Ltd. to take over Cable & Wireless HKT, the former
phone monopoly in Hong Kong, to create a company valued at about
$41 billion in the biggest merger between two Asian firms at the
time. PCCW has a market value of HK$24.9 billion.  Li, 44, was unable to sell his controlling holding in PCCW
to former Citigroup Inc. banker Francis Leung in 2006 after
failing to secure minority shareholder approval. That followed
unsuccessful bids to sell PCCW’s main telecommunications assets
to TPG Inc. and Macquarie Group Ltd. in the same year.  In October 2008, PCCW scrapped the proposed sale of as much
as 45 percent of its HKT Group Holdings Ltd. unit, owner of the
company’s main telecommunications and pay-television businesses,
citing a lack of attractive offers during the global financial
crisis.  Court Ruling  In April 2009, Court of Appeal Judges including Anthony Rogers blocked Li’s $2.1 billion buyout bid for PCCW, after the
Securities and Futures Commission alleged that hundreds of
people were given shares in the phone carrier to boost support
for the transaction.  Hong Kong police searched the offices of at least one of
Li’s companies in February 2010, in addition to the premises of
Fortis Insurance Co.   Asia ), an insurer formerly controlled by
the billionaire, two people familiar with the matter said at the
time. Police had search warrants for Li’s residences in its
investigation of the buyout bid, according to the two people.  Martin Rogers, a lawyer for Li at Clifford Chance LLP in
Hong Kong, said in February 2010 that the executive would
“cooperate fully” with  any probe. No senior management at
PCCW and Li’s Pacific Century Regional Developments Ltd. has
committed any wrongdoing, Rogers said at the time.  To contact the reporter on this story:  Mark Lee  in Hong Kong at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  