-- 
Mantra Rises in Sydney After Agreeing to Reduced Takeover Bid From Rosatom

-- B y   C o l i n   M c C l e l l a n d   a n d   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 
2011-03-22T07:05:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/rosatom-cuts-takeover-bid-for-mantra-by-12-following-japan-nuclear-crisis.html
Mantra Resources Ltd. (MRU)  had its
biggest gain in Sydney in more than four years after the uranium
explorer agreed to a reduced takeover offer from Rosatom Corp.,
the Russian state-owned nuclear company.  Mantra, an Australian company with projects in  Africa , rose
26 percent to A$6.68, the largest increase since October 9,
2006. The benchmark S&P/ASX 200 Index was little changed.  Rosatom’s ARMZ Uranium Holding Co. cut its offer for Mantra
by 12 percent to A$1.02 billion ($1.02 billion) because of
 Japan ’s atomic crisis. ARMZ will pay A$6.87 a share and Mantra
investors will also get a dividend of 15 Australian cents per
share, Perth-based Mantra said today in a statement.  ARMZ agreed on Dec. 15 to pay A$8 a share. It said last
week the terms of that accord couldn’t be met because Tokyo
Electric Power Co.’s struggle to control damaged reactors at the
Fukushima Dai-Ichi power station was “likely to have a material
adverse effect” on Mantra. The Australian company is developing
the Mkuju River uranium project in Tanzania.  Mantra agreed to the revised transaction after considering
“all available options” and advice from its financial and
legal advisers, it said in the statement.  Uranium One Inc. (UUU) , a Vancouver-based producer of the nuclear
fuel, said in a separate statement the  call option  allowing it
to acquire Mantra from ARMZ for the same price the Russian
company will pay can now be extended to two years from one year
provided Uranium One partially exercises the option.  Artyom Gorbachev, a spokesman for ARMZ in Moscow, declined
to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Colin McClelland in Toronto at 
 cmcclelland1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  