-- 
Rupee Gains for 2nd Day on Signs Japan’s Nuclear Risk Is Easing

-- B y   A n i l   V a r m a
-- 
2011-03-21T11:46:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/rupee-gains-for-2nd-day-on-signs-japan-s-nuclear-risk-is-easing.html
India’s rupee strengthened for a
second day on speculation signs  Japan ’s nuclear crisis is easing
will boost investor appetite for emerging-market assets.  The currency extended last week’s 0.3 percent advance after
Japan’s Defense Minister Toshimi Kitazawa said last night that
latest readings suggested the damaged atomic reactors at the
Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear power plant are cooling. The Dollar
Index, which tracks the greenback against the currencies of six
major U.S. trading partners, retreated for a third day.  “The Japan nuclear scare is going away and that’s helping
positive sentiment across regional financial markets,” said
Krishnamurthy Harihar, treasurer at FirstRand Ltd. in Mumbai.
“The rupee should keep an upward bias as the dollar’s weakness,
which is a key factor behind today’s gains in regional
currencies, may persist.”  The rupee strengthened 0.3 percent to 45.01 per dollar at
the 5 p.m. close in Mumbai, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The currency will weaken to 45.25 by the end of June,
according to the median estimate of analysts in a Bloomberg News
survey.  Funds based abroad added an average $35 million a day to
shareholdings so far in March, compared with net daily sales of
$43 million last month and $69 million in January, according to
data published by the Securities & Exchange Board of  India .  Offshore forwards indicate the rupee will trade at 45.80 to
the dollar in three months, compared with expectations of 45.97
at the end of last week. Forwards are agreements to buy or sell
assets at a set price and date. Non-deliverable contracts are
settled in dollars.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anil Varma in Mumbai at 
 avarma3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  