-- 
Rupiah Gains as Central Bank Says GDP Growth to Beat Forecast

-- B y   S u r y a n i   O m a r
-- 
2011-03-21T09:59:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/rupiah-gains-as-central-bank-says-gdp-growth-to-beat-forecast.html
  Indonesia ’s rupiah advanced to its
strongest level in almost four years after the central bank said
economic growth in the first quarter may beat its forecast.
Benchmark bonds gained for a second day.  Gross domestic product may increase 6.6 percent in the
three months through March, Deputy Governor Hartadi Sarwono said
on March 16. The monetary authority had predicted on Feb. 4 that
the economy would expand 6.4 percent. The currency rose for a
second day after U.S. Energy Secretary Steven Chu said the Obama
administration believes the worst of Japan’s nuclear crisis is
over, U.S. Energy Secretary Steven Chu said.  “Recent comments by Indonesian officials that gross
domestic product may beat the initial forecast has set a
positive backdrop for the rupiah,” said Joanna Tan, a
Singapore-based economist at Forecast Singapore Pte. “There’s
also positive developments in  Japan .”  The rupiah strengthened 0.4 percent to 8,733 per dollar as
of 4:29 p.m. in Jakarta, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The currency traded at 8,731 earlier, its strongest
level since May 2007.  Ten-year  government bonds  rose for a second day as
parliament approved a government plan to delay limiting the sale
of subsidized fuel, Teuku Rifky Harsya, chairman at the
parliament’s commission for energy affairs, said today. Full-
year inflation may be less than 6 percent if the government
decides to delay the move, Bank Indonesia Governor Darmin
Nasution said separately in Jakarta.  Consumer prices in  Southeast Asia ’s largest economy
increased 6.84 percent in February from a year earlier, compared
with a 7.02 percent rise in January that was the most since
April 2009. The inflation data for March is due on April 1.  The yield on the 8.25 percent note due in July 2021 dropped
four basis points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 8.29 percent,
according to closing prices from the Inter-Dealer Market
Association.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Suryani Omar in Jakarta at 
 somar6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  