-- 
Russia, U.S. May Share Missile-Defense Information, Secretary Gates Says

-- B y   V i o l a   G i e n g e r
-- 
2011-03-21T11:34:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/russia-u-s-may-share-missile-defense-launch-data-gates-says.html
U.S. and Russian cooperation on
missile defense, long an irritant between the two nations, may
include exchanging launch information and setting up a joint  data center , Defense Secretary  Robert Gates  said.  “We’ve disagreed before, and Russia still has
uncertainties” about the revamped U.S. missile-defense system,
he told Russian military officers of the Kuznetsov Naval Academy
at the State Naval Museum in Saint Petersburg today. “However,
we’ve mutually committed to resolving these difficulties.”  The U.S. also may reveal more information about its
missile-defense plans and exercises and conduct a joint analysis
with Russia to determine how the two nations can collaborate in
the future, he said.  Gates is the latest high-level Obama administration
official to visit Russia in recent weeks for talks on missile
defense, a system of radar stations and interceptors that can
shoot down incoming rockets. The U.S. aims to end Russian
leaders’ opposition to the system, insisting it’s intended to
guard against potential attacks from  Iran  rather than to weaken
Russia’s offensive capabilities.  U.S. officials saw Russian President  Dmitry Medvedev ’s
attendance at the November meeting of the North Atlantic Treaty
Organization, which doesn’t include Russia, as an indication of
progress. The alliance used the meeting in part to adopt the
U.S. missile-defense system as a NATO project.  Arms Race?  Still, Medvedev warned on Nov. 30 of a new arms race within
the next decade unless Russia reaches an agreement with the U.S.
and its allies on missile defense. A day later, Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  said Russia would deploy strike forces and
nuclear technology against “new threats” posed by U.S.
missile-defense plans in  Europe  unless NATO accepted Russian
proposals for a joint missile shield.  Obama has made a priority of mending relations with Russia
after they sank to a post-Cold War low following the ex-Soviet
power’s invasion of  Georgia  in August 2008. The two presidents
signed a new treaty to cut atomic weapons last year, and
diplomats have worked together to pressure Iran and  North Korea 
over their nuclear programs.  The U.S. and Russia have talked for years about
collaborative projects, including an agreement in 2002 to
develop a joint data-exchange center that would share radar
information detecting missile launches around the world. It was
never implemented.  ‘Game Changer’  Vice President Joseph Biden earlier this month said the
U.S. seeks an agreement with Russia on missile defense “this
year.” Cooperation on “this once-contentious issue” will be a
“game changer,” Biden said in a speech at Moscow State
University on March 10.  Ellen Tauscher, the undersecretary of state for  arms
control  and international security, held talks with her
counterpart in Moscow earlier this month.  Still, missile defense isn’t the driving purpose of this
visit for Gates.  As one of the CIA’s cold warriors before he became the
agency’s director after the  Cold War , Gates has relished the
renewed cooperation with Russia. His September meetings with
Russian Defense Minister Anatoly Serdyukov at the Pentagon
included extensive sessions on the reforms each was trying to
accomplish in his agency, Gates has said.  ‘More Than Skeptical’  The drive to adjust to evolving security threats will shape
the careers of younger Russian and American military officers
“as surely as our differences once shaped mine,” he told his
audience today.  “If you’d told me when I joined the CIA in 1967 that I
would end my career helping to forge a stronger defense
relationship with the Russians, I’d have been a bit more than
skeptical,” said Gates, 67, who has announced he’s leaving
office this year.  The two countries set up a joint defense-relations working
group that is exchanging ideas on issues such as care for
troops, technology for countering roadside bombs and efforts
against piracy, Gates told the naval officers.  “Discussing our intentions as well as our capabilities is
a critical move forward,” he said. “One critical lesson we’ve
learned from the mistakes of the past is to avoid dangerous
circumstances that can emerge from mistrust and a lack of
transparency.”  Military Cuts?  Gates also encouraged the young officers and their leaders
to work more in multinational coalitions on mutual security
concerns. The U.S. military has experienced many of the same
reorganizations that Russians are now facing, with downsizing
after the end of the Cold War, he said.  “Depending on how our budget goes over the next several
years, we may have to do some more of that,” he said.  Relations between the U.S. and  Russia  have come a long way
since his days in the CIA, Gates told reporters traveling with
him en route to Saint Petersburg.  “Here is a single fact that continues to amaze me,” he
said on board his plane. “Russia is an integral part of the
northern distribution network for supporting our operations in  Afghanistan .”  The U.S. probably has sent more than 30,000 containers to
Afghanistan across Russia, Gates said.  “Russian’s willingness to work with us in this, I think,
is really extraordinary,” he said.  He also cited joint efforts on counter-terrorism, the fight
against narcotics trafficking and Russia’s cooperation in the  United Nations Security Council , including abstaining rather
than vetoing last week’s resolution authorizing military action
against the forces of  Libya ’s Muammar Qaddafi.  “It’s a lot different than it was in 1966, let me tell
you,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Viola Gienger in Washington at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  