-- 
Schwab to Acquire OptionsXpress for About $1 Billion, Adding Retail Broker

-- B y   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t   a n d   C e c i l e   V a n n u c c i
-- 
2011-03-21T21:05:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/schwab-to-acquire-optionsxpress-for-about-1-billion-adding-retail-broker.html
Charles Schwab Corp. (SCHW)  agreed to buy
 OptionsXpress Holdings Inc. (OXPS)  for about $1 billion in stock,
adding the retail options brokerage founded in 2000 to its
equity and mutual fund offerings.  Schwab, the largest independent broker by client assets,
will exchange 1.02 shares for each share of Chicago-based
OptionsXpress, according to a statement today. Based on San
Francisco-based Schwab’s closing price on March 18, the
transaction values OptionsXpress at $17.91 a share. The stock
jumped 17 percent to $17.90 at 4 p.m. New York time, while
Schwab rose 0.5 percent to $17.65.  Options trading in the U.S. has increased every year since
2002, rising 7.9 percent to 3.9 billion contracts in 2010,
according to data compiled by  OCC . Today’s acquisition follows
 TD Ameritrade Holding Corp. (AMTD) ’s 2009 purchase of Thinkorswim Group
Inc. for $748.7 million, aimed at diversifying the third-biggest
U.S. online brokerage by assets by adding an equity derivatives
unit.  “It’s a reaffirmation of the interest in derivatives and
specifically options trading from the retail segment,” said
 Andy Nybo , a principal and head of derivatives at New York-based
Tabb Group LLC. “As retail investors become more educated and
sophisticated in their strategies, being able to use options and
even futures to both manage risk and exposure is becoming a more
valuable way of trading.”  Deal Valuation  Schwab agreed to pay 12.4 times earnings before interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortization for OptionsXpress, more
than the median multiple of 11 for deals larger than $1 billion
in the investment banking and brokerage industry globally over
the past 10 years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
acquisition price amounted to a premium of 20 percent more than
OptionsXpress’ March 18 closing level, compared with the
industry average of 8.8 percent, the data show.  At the end of February, OptionsXpress had 385,200 client
accounts, $8.1 billion in assets and a 12-month average of
44,800 daily average revenue trades, according to the statement.
Schwab’s client assets totaled $1.6 trillion.  “OptionsXpress’ industry-leading and award-winning client
tools will be well received by our existing active investor
clients who are increasingly using options and other trading
strategies as a key part of their total approach to investing,”
Schwab Chief Executive Officer Walt Bettinger said in the
statement.  15 Takeovers  Schwab bought Windward Investment Management Inc. last year
for $150 million, adding products such as gold and real-estate
funds in its first acquisition since 2007. Schwab has completed
at least 15 takeovers since 1999, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Shares of Schwab has gained 55 percent since the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index fell to a 12-year low in March 2009, trailing
the 163 percent rally in the S&P 500 Financials Index. The stock
fell the most since Aug. 11 on Feb. 3 after the company said
2011 expenses would rise faster than some analysts estimated.  The transaction, which has a termination fee of $41.9
million, is expected to close in the third quarter following
regulatory approvals, Chief Financial Officer Joseph Martinetto
said on a conference call today. Schwab doesn’t need to raise
capital to pay for the deal, he said.  No Auction  OptionsXpress CEO  David Fisher  said merger discussions
began several months ago. The combined company will save about
$20 million in costs and boost revenue by $60 million during the
first year together, Martinetto said.  “There was not an outright auction process. We viewed
this as a unique opportunity,” Fisher said on the conference
call with analysts today. “This isn’t a deal that’s based
primarily on expense synergies and cutting people and cutting
expenses. It’s built much more on the opportunity we can bring
to our combined customer base.”  Fisher will continue to head OptionsXpress and become a
senior vice president at Schwab after the transaction closes,
according to today’s statement. The company will be part of
Schwab Investor Services and initially keep its brand and
locations.  UBS AG (UBSN)  was the investment bank for Schwab, while  Evercore
Partners Inc. (EVR)  advised OptionsXpress in the transaction,
Bloomberg data show. Evercore, the investment bank founded by
former U.S. Deputy Treasury Secretary  Roger Altman , also helped
advise AT&T Inc. on its $39 billion acquisition of  T-Mobile USA ,
which was announced yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net ;
Cecile Vannucci in New York at 
 cvannucci1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  