-- 
Shell Wins Approval for Deep-Water Exploration Plan in Gulf

-- B y   K a t a r z y n a   K l i m a s i n s k a
-- 
2011-03-21T20:44:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/shell-wins-approval-for-deep-water-exploration-plan-in-gulf.html
Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  won approval
for deep-water exploration in the  Gulf of Mexico , the first plan
cleared by U.S. regulators since the  BP Plc (BP/)  oil spill.  “This exploration plan meets the new standards for
environmental review and marks another important step toward
safer deep-water exploration,” Interior Secretary  Ken Salazar 
said today in an e-mailed statement. “I am confident that other
operators can satisfy the same standards.”  Shell, based in The Hague, is seeking to drill in about
2,950 feet (899 meters) of water, 130 miles off the Louisiana
coast, according to the Interior Department’s statement. The
company still needs drilling permits, a step that follows
approval of the exploration plan.  Shell is the first to get clearance for a plan, which may
result in drilling three new wells in the Cardamom field. The
regulator previously allowed  Noble Energy Inc. (NBL) , BHP Billiton
Ltd. and ATP Oil & Gas Corp. to resume work on wells on which
work was suspended after BP’s April 20 spill.  The  exploration plan  estimates the well would spew as much
as 143,000 barrels on the first day after an uncontrolled
blowout, more than double the daily average in BP’s spill.
Stopping the flow would take 109 days, if the company used a
relief well.  BP’s well spewed as much as 62,000 barrels a day after the
April 20 blowout, and gushed for 87 days.  Shell will use equipment from  Marine Well Containment Co. ,
a group the company set up with three partners, in case of a
blowout, according to the exploration plan.  Containment Plans  Marine Well Containment was established by Shell,  Exxon
Mobil Corp. (XOM) ,  ConocoPhillips (COP)  and  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  after the BP spill
to enable the companies to contain oil discharged during similar
disasters in the future.  “This reflects Shell’s robust and comprehensive approach
to responsible offshore development,” Shell said today in an e-
mailed statement.  Shell’s American depositary receipts, each representing two
class “A” ordinary shares, rose $1, or 1.4 percent, to $70.87
at 4:15 p.m. in  New York  Stock Exchange composite trading. The
company had climbed 21 percent in the past year in New York
trading.  -- with assistance from Joe Carroll in  Chicago ,  Jim Polson  in
New York. Editors: Steve Geimann, Joe Winski  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katarzyna Klimasinska in Washington at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Geimann at 
 sgeimann@bloomberg.net  