-- 
Shutterfly to Acquire Tiny Prints to Boost Stationery Sales

-- B y   A r i   L e v y
-- 
2011-03-21T22:00:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/shutterfly-to-acquire-tiny-prints-to-boost-stationery-sales.html
Shutterfly Inc. (SFLY) , the Web-based
photo-sharing company, agreed to buy  Tiny Prints Inc.  for about
$369 million to bolster sales of cards, invitations and
stationery.  Tiny Prints will receive $141 million in cash and about 3.9
million shares,  Redwood City , California-based Shutterfly said
today in a statement. Shutterfly is also reserving 1.4 million
shares for potential equity awards to Tiny Prints employees.  Shutterfly is shoring up its e-commerce offerings, aiming
to build on a run of accelerating profit and sales growth over
the past two years. With Tiny Prints, it gains a popular online
service for making custom birth announcements and party
invitations.  Shutterfly  faces competition from some of the
biggest names in technology, including Yahoo! Inc., Google Inc.,
 News Corp . and Hewlett-Packard Co., which have pushed into the
market by scooping up its rivals.  “Together, we will build on our portfolio of iconic brands
and combine our passionate, entrepreneurial employees to truly
transform the cards and stationery market,” Shutterfly Chief
Executive Officer Jeffrey Housenbold said in the statement.  Shutterfly rose 80 cents, or 1.9 percent, to $43.03 today
on the Nasdaq Stock Market. The stock has jumped 87 percent in
the past year and is up sixfold since the end of 2008.  Tiny Prints, based in Sunnyvale,  California , was founded in
2004. The startup is backed by venture capital firms Summit
Partners and Technology Crossover Ventures.  The acquisition is Shutterfly’s biggest since the company
went public in 2006. In November, Shutterfly bought the assets
of digital marketing company WMSG Inc. for $6 million. In 2009,
the company purchased Tiny Pictures, a mobile photo-sharing
application.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Levy in  San Francisco  at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  