-- 
Sina Leads Gains in China Internet Stocks as Gmail Blocked

-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 
2011-03-21T19:44:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/sina-leads-gains-in-chinese-internet-stocks-as-google-says-gmail-blocked.html
Sina Corp., China’s third-most
visited website, led gains among the nation’s Internet companies
after  Google Inc. (GOOG)  said the Chinese government is blocking its
Gmail e-mail service.  Sina, which owns the Twitter-like microblogging platform
Weibo, rose 5.3 percent to $92.80 at 3:30 p.m. in New York
trading. The shares earlier surged as much as 5.8 percent, the
most since March 8. Sina’s Chinese peers, including  NetEase.com (NTES) 
Inc.,  Sohu.com Inc. (SOHU)  and Baidu Inc., each climbed at least 3
percent as the Nasdaq Composite Index advanced for a third day.  Google, the world’s largest Internet search company, said
it discovered China’s government is blocking its e-mail service
after users reported trouble accessing the site. Gmail users in
China have had difficulty accessing accounts, sending e-mail and
using other features of the service for the past two weeks,
Google said.  “Continued government tinkering with competitive Internet
platforms is a positive catalyst for domestic Internet
players,” said Mike Hickey, an equity analyst at Janco Partners
Inc. in  Greenwood Village ,  Colorado , in an e-mailed reply to
questions.  China, the world’s largest Internet market with 457 million
Web users, bans pornography, gambling and content critical of
the ruling Communist Party. It already blocks Google’s YouTube
site as well as social-networking websites run by Facebook Inc.
and Twitter Inc. Google moved its search-engine service out of
mainland China last year and redirected users to  Hong Kong  to
avoid having to comply with the country’s Web censorship rules.  Microblog Service Growth  Li Wufeng, chief of the Information Office Internet Affairs
Bureau of China’s State Council, or cabinet, didn’t return a
call to his office today seeking comment. In a March 11
interview after Gmail users began reporting problems in  China ,
Li said he regularly uses Gmail and that he wasn’t experiencing
the issues reported by other users of the service in China.  “Sina is a market leader in microblogging service in
China, where fast growth has been a hot topic in the past few
months,” said Chunming Zhao, an analyst at Susquehanna
Financial Group LLP in  Boston . “I don’t see a very direct
relationship between its gains with the Gmail service problems
in China. The rises in the broad Nasdaq index helped with Sina’s
increases.”  Sina is preparing to spin off its microblog unit and is in
talks with investment banks for an initial public offering,
China’s 21st Century Business Herald reported March 8.  The  Nasdaq Composite Index (CCMP)  added 1.8 percent to 2,690.83.
The gauge earlier rose as much as 2.1 percent, the intraday
since Dec. 1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  