-- 
Some Radiation-Tracking Air Monitors May Not Be Working Properly, EPA Says

-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 
2011-03-21T21:11:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/some-radiation-tracking-air-monitors-may-not-be-working-properly-epa-says.html
Eight of 18  air monitors in
California, Oregon and Washington state that track radiation
from Japan’s nuclear reactors are “undergoing quality review,”
according to the Environmental Protection Agency’s website.  A sufficient number of devices are working and can measure
any changes in radiation levels from the damaged Fukushima Dai-
Ichi reactors, said Ronald Fraass, director of the EPA’s
National Air and Radiation Environmental Laboratory in
Montgomery,  Alabama .  “What we are seeing is not a problem,” Fraass said today
in a telephone interview.  The U.S. hasn’t detected levels higher than what a person
receives from exposure in the normal environment and the  Nuclear
Regulatory Commission  has said it doesn’t expect harmful levels
of radiation to reach the U.S. from  Japan .  Monitors are listed as undergoing review if they report an
abnormal reading, Fraass said. Scientists then evaluate the
reason, Fraass said.  An abnormality might mean that the monitor isn’t working
correctly, or the device measured a spike in radiation levels
attributable to an environmental change, Fraass said. For
example, higher temperatures can cause higher levels of
naturally occurring radon gas, he said.  The U.S. has 124 stationary air-radiation monitors compared
with 50 in use when the reactor at Chernobyl, Ukraine, exploded
in 1986, said Brendan Gilfillan, an EPA spokesman, in an e-mail.  Twenty-two monitors weren’t working and were listed as out
of service today, Fraass said.  “If a monitor in one area is being repaired, EPA’s network
will still be able to detect any fluctuation in background
radiation levels,” Gilfillan said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Geimann at 
 sgeimann@bloomberg.net  