-- 
Sprint Plunges After AT&T’s T-Mobile Deal Is Seen Leaving It Weaker No. 3

-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 
2011-03-21T20:38:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/sprint-plunges-after-at-t-s-t-mobile-deal-is-seen-leaving-it-weaker-no-3.html
Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)  slumped
14 percent in New York trading after  AT&T Inc. (T)  agreed to buy T-
Mobile USA from  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE)  for about $39 billion,
trumping Sprint’s effort to acquire the business.  With the takeover announced yesterday, AT&T would become
the largest U.S. mobile-phone company. The deal still needs
regulatory approval. Sprint also held talks with Deutsche
Telekom about buying T-Mobile, people with knowledge of the
matter said this month.  By acquiring T-Mobile, Sprint would have gained ground on
larger rivals Verizon Wireless and AT&T. Now, AT&T could leave
 Overland Park , Kansas-based Sprint as a far weaker No. 3 player
in the industry, said  Craig Moffett , an analyst at Sanford C.
Bernstein & Co. in New York.  “A Sprint deal is now off the table and Sprint is left to
go it alone,” Moffett said in a research note today. The AT&T
deal, if approved, makes Sprint’s prospects “decidedly worse,”
he said.  Moffett cut his rating on Sprint to “underperform” and
lowered his price estimate for the stock to $3 from $5, saying
the company is worth about $9.2 billion. Moffett estimates
Sprint’s operations are worth $22.2 billion and that the net
value of its non-operating assets, including debt, cash and a
stake in  Clearwire Corp. (CLWR) , is negative $13 billion.  Clearwire Combination  Sprint fell 69 cents to $4.36 at 4 p.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading, the biggest drop in two years.
Sprint, up 19 percent this year before today, is giving up gains
it made because of the expectations for a merger, said  Jonathan Chaplin , an analyst at Credit Suisse Group AG.  “We thought Sprint would merge with T-Mobile,” New York-
based Chaplin, who rates the stock “outperform” and has a
price estimate of $8, said in a note yesterday. “If the AT&T-T-
Mobile deal is approved, Sprint is locked into the No. 3
position against a dominant AT&T and Verizon.”  Sprint is now more likely to merge with Clearwire, the
provider of wireless-broadband service using WiMax technology,
said  Peter Misek , an analyst with Jefferies & Co. in New York.
That would be the quickest way for Sprint to gain a faster
network, Misek said in a note. Sprint is the majority owner of
Kirkland, Washington-based Clearwire.  Market Concentration  Sprint Chief Executive Officer Dan Hesse said this month
the company remains committed to Clearwire and that “every
option” for Sprint’s future involves the wholesaler and fourth-
generation WiMax technology. Hesse said he’d like to see Sprint
do more network sharing with Clearwire, which sells capacity
from its own network to Sprint and other carriers.  Last month, Clearwire predicted improving earnings that
could eliminate the need for additional funding. The
unprofitable company had struggled to meet its funding needs,
telling investors it could run out of cash by midyear before
raising $1.325 billion in bonds in December.  Cristi Allen, a Sprint spokeswoman, declined to comment on
Clearwire. Jeremy Pemble, a Clearwire spokesman, also declined
to comment.  A union of AT&T and T-Mobile would dramatically change the
U.S. wireless industry, leaving it dominated by two companies
with control of almost 80 percent of the market for customers on
contracts, Sprint said in an e-mailed statement.  Regulators “must decide if this transaction is in the best
interest of consumers and the  U.S. economy ,” Sprint said.  Verizon Unlikely Bidder  Verizon and AT&T currently account for about 65 percent of
U.S. wireless industry revenue, according to Moffett. If the
acquisition were approved, AT&T would control 45 percent of the
higher-margin contract-customer market, with Verizon owning 39
percent.  Verizon is unlikely to bid for Sprint because it would
further concentrate the industry in two hands and risk
additional regulatory scrutiny, Moffett said.  “A Verizon offer would put an exclamation point on the
duopolization of the wireless business, jeopardizing the
regulatory prospects of both deals,” he said.  Marquett Smith , a Verizon Wireless spokesman, didn’t return
an e-mail seeking comment.  Credit-default swaps on Sprint surged 46.3 basis points to
307.8 basis points, the highest level in two weeks, according to
data provider CMA. Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a
borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the value of the
defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000 annually on a
contract protecting $10 million of debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom in  New York  at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  