-- 
Squatters Take Over Qaddafi London Mansion for ‘Libyan People’

-- B y   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e
-- 
2011-03-21T11:31:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/squatters-say-they-re-holding-qaddafi-house-for-libyan-people.html
Abdulla Naas climbs out of the
window of the  10 million-pound  ($16 million)  London  house he’s
lived in for almost two weeks because he’s never had the keys.
Naas has a message for Saif al-Islam Qaddafi, the Libyan
dictator’s son that he and the police say is the owner.  “We want to return this house and other assets to the
Libyan people,” said Naas, a 22-year-old Libyan from the
opposition stronghold of Benghazi. “They are the true owners.
As soon as all the properties are returned to the Libyan people,
I’m out of here.”  Naas said at least 10 other people are living in the seven-
bedroom house in Hampstead Green, one of London’s most affluent
neighborhoods. The group, called ‘ Topple the Tyrants ,’ entered
on March 9 and hung banners from the windows criticizing  Muammar Qaddafi  in support of Libyans trying to overthrow his 42-year-
old regime. One features a picture of the leader’s face crossed
out with the slogan “Out of  Libya .”  The group is keeping tabs on the Libyan conflict by
watching the Al Jazeera news channel on the house’s multiple
flat-screen televisions, Naas said. Allied officials said two
days of attacks have effectively grounded Muammar Qaddafi’s air
force, preventing him from advancing into Benghazi, Libya’s
second-largest city. The country’s leader condemned the
coalition against him as “the party of Satan.”  The registered owner of the property is Capitana Seas Ltd.,
a company incorporated in the British Virgin Islands that paid
10 million pounds for the house on May 11, 2009, according to
the title deed. The Metropolitan Police consider the property to
be Saif al-Islam’s, said spokesman  Richard Jones . The squatters
said they learned about the ownership from newspaper reports.  ‘Civil Matter’  “It’s a civil matter and there’s not been any arrests,”
Jones said. “We’ve been monitoring the area and doing some
reassurance patrols.”  Saif al-Islam, 38, is the second-oldest of Muammar
Qaddafi’s seven sons and a former student at the  London School 
of Economics. At international events like the  World Economic
Forum  in Davos,  Switzerland , he has spoken about the need for
political and economic reforms in Libya. Qaddafi’s third son,
al-Saadi, told Al-Arabiya on March 7 that his older brother has
been leading the country for the past four years.  After Libyans took to the streets last month, Saif al-Islam
emerged as a prominent defender of the government’s violent
crackdowns on protesters as he blamed foreigners and terrorists
for leading the rebellion. “Rivers of blood will flow,” he
said on state television Feb. 21.  Asset Freeze  The UN Security Council voted 15-0 on Feb. 26 to impose an
arms embargo on Libya and a travel ban and asset freeze on
Qaddafi, his top aides and close family members in an effort to
halt his regime’s attacks on protesters. As of March 10, 2011,
the owner of the Hampstead Green house can’t dispose of it
without the consent of the Treasury’s Asset Freezing Unit,
according to land registry documents.  Squatting in empty buildings isn’t a criminal offense in  England  and  Wales  and property owners have been encouraged to
use civil courts if they want to evict occupiers. If a homeowner
gets a court decree called an interim possession order,
squatters must leave within 24 hours or face prison terms of as
long as six months, according to the  Ministry of Justice .  Squatters can take ownership of the property without the
permission of the owner if they live there for more than 10
years. There are about 20,000 squatters in the U.K., according
to the  Department for Communities and Local Government .  Sale or Rent  The occupied London house, a Georgian-style mansion on
Winnington Close, was listed for sale in July 2009 for 12.5
million pounds, according to  Zoopla , a property website. It had
been available to rent for 9,750 pounds a week, according to
London-based Glentree Estates, which was handling the property.  “We are no longer instructed on that property and the
property is no longer available for rental,” said Ros Florence
of Glentree. “We were not aware of who owned the property at
the time. It was given to us by a third party.”  U.K. newspapers, including the Guardian, reported that the
property was occupied by squatters on March 9.  The house has a swimming pool, sauna, gym and a Jacuzzi,
said Sylvester Wyczesany, a 35-year-old gardener who worked
there last year and has never met the owner. Zoopla has photos
of the building’s interior, including a home movie theater and
glass-encased stairways, on its  archive  website.  ‘Simple Garden’  “He has a simple garden with some small tropical plants, a
big deck and patio,” Wyczesany said.  At 4 a.m. on March 12, the squatters were offered 40,000
pounds to vacate the premises by a “well-dressed, middle
eastern-looking man,” according to Naas, who wears a Libyan
flag on his right sleeve of his leather jacket. He and the other
squatters rejected the offer.  “We told him no way. No money is worth people dying,”
said Naas. “Where has this 40,000 pounds come from if his
assets have been frozen?”  No one at the Libyan embassy in London was available for
comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Spillane in London at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 