-- 
Stocks Advance, Yen Weakens as Nuclear Risk Lessens; Oil Climbs on Libya

-- B y   D a n i e l   T i l l e s   a n d   L u   W a n g
-- 
2011-03-21T20:10:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/stocks-u-s-futures-advance-as-nuclear-risk-lessens-oil-climbs-on-libya.html
Stocks climbed, sending benchmark
gauges to their biggest three-day gains of the year, and the yen
weakened as Japan made progress in cooling nuclear reactors at a
crippled plant. Oil jumped after the U.S., U.K. and  France 
attacked military targets in Libya.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 1.5 percent at 4 p.m.
in New York and the Stoxx  Europe  600 Index closed up 1.8
percent. Telephone shares rallied as Deutsche Telekom AG agreed
to sell  T-Mobile USA  to AT&T Inc. for about $39 billion. The yen
fell versus all 16 major peers, while 10-year U.S. Treasury
yields gained 6 basis points to 3.33 percent. Oil rose 1.2
percent as the S&P GSCI commodity index climbed a fourth day.  The  S&P 500  recouped most of last week’s 1.9 percent loss
as Japanese Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  said progress is being made
in restoring power to two nuclear reactors damaged by the March
11 temblor and tsunami. In  Libya , allied officials said air and
missile strikes have effectively grounded Muammar Qaddafi’s air
force. The Stoxx 600 Telecommunications Index had its biggest
gain since May, jumping 3.7 percent as 20 of 21 shares advanced.  “We had resolutions to the two major geopolitical
events,” said Peter Tuz, president of Chase Investment Counsel
in Charlottesville, Virginia, which manages $1.5 billion. “The
AT&T/T-Mobile merger gets the whole thing going again. That’s
kind of got the animal spirits running.”  Third Day of Gains  The S&P 500 extended its gain since March 16 to 3.3
percent, its best three-day advance since the first week of
December. AT&T climbed 1.2 percent, while Verizon Communications
Inc. rose 1.7 percent. Tiffany & Co. jumped 5.1 percent after
the world’s second-largest luxury jewelry retailer reported a 29
percent gain in fourth-quarter profit as sales exceeded analyst
estimates during the holiday season.  Companies with business in the nuclear-power industry
rallied after tumbling last week.  General Electric Co. (GE) , which is
trying to expand its $1 billion nuclear services and parts
business, climbed 2.4 percent today after a 5.5 percent plunge
last week. Cameco Corp., the world’s second-biggest uranium
producer, surged 7.4 percent in Toronto after dropping 20
percent last week. Uranium One Inc., the mining company
controlled by Moscow-based ARMZ Uranium Holding, jumped 14
percent in Toronto.  U.S. equities maintained gains even after sales of
previously owned homes dropped a more-than-forecast 9.6 percent
in February and the median purchase price slid 5.2 percent to
the lowest since April 2002, indicating the housing market is
struggling to recover.  Buffett’s ‘Hunting Ground’  Billionaire investor  Warren Buffett  told South Korean
President  Lee Myung Bak  that the  U.S. economy  is improving in
all areas except the housing market, according to a statement
released by Lee’s office after the two met in Seoul. Buffett was
visiting  South Korea  to attend a ceremony for a factory being
built by TaeguTec Ltd., a company his Berkshire Hathaway Inc.
invested in. Buffett said South Korea is a “hunting ground”
for acquisitions.  “Large companies appeal to me and Korea has a number of
large companies obviously, so it’s a hunting ground,” he told
reporters today in the South Korean city of Daegu. “We hope we
find a wonderful business in Korea.” Buffett also said  Japan ’s
earthquake is a buying opportunity and he won’t sell his shares
in the country.  U.S. government debt fell as diminishing concern about
Japan’s nuclear crisis reduced demand for assets considered to
be the safest and after the Treasury Department said it plans to
wind down its $142 billion portfolio of agency-guaranteed
mortgage-backed securities by selling about $10 billion in
holdings per month. The sales will start this month and be
subject to market conditions, the department said.  Treasuries, AT&T CDS  Two-year U.S. note yields climbed three five points to 0.64
percent and 30-year bond yields increased three basis points, or
0.03 percentage point, to 4.45 percent.  The cost of insuring the debt of AT&T rose to the highest
since Sept. 1 after it announced the deal that would create the
largest U.S. mobile-phone company. Credit-default swaps linked
to AT&T’s debt rose 11.7 basis points to 87.5, according to CMA
prices. Moody’s Investors Service put AT&T’s debt ratings on
review for possible downgrade. S&P affirmed the company’s
outlook as “stable.”  European Stocks  Almost 13 stocks gained for each that fell in the Stoxx
600. Deutsche Telekom rallied 11 percent and climbed as much as
16 percent for its biggest advance on record, while Vodafone
Group Plc advanced 3.6 percent on speculation the AT&T deal will
benefit the U.K. company’s venture with Verizon by reducing the
number of U.S. mobile-phone operators.  Rockhopper Exploration Plc (RKH) , a U.K. explorer focused on
Falkland Islands oil, soared 33 percent after saying the Sea
Lion discovery area is likely to prove commercially viable
following results from its first appraisal well.  The MSCI Asia Pacific excluding Japan Index climbed 1.4
percent. Japanese markets were closed for a public holiday.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index advanced 1.1 percent, the
most in more than two weeks. South Korea’s  Kospi index (KOSPI)  gained
1.1 percent as Buffett shopped for takeovers. The  MSCI China (MXCN) 
Index of Hong Kong-listed Chinese stocks gained 2 percent, the
most since Feb. 14. The Shanghai Composite Index rose less than
0.1 percent after the central bank increased banks’ reserve
requirements for a third time this year to slow consumer price
increases.  ‘Gaining Confidence’  “Investors are gaining confidence that despite all the
event risk that markets have been exposed to in the last eight
weeks or so, recovery in global growth will remain fairly
solid,” said Prasad Patkar, who helps manage about $1.8 billion
at Platypus Asset Management Ltd. in Sydney. “As an investor,
you can deal with the downside from natural disasters and wars a
lot better if there is some comfort that the economic
fundamentals will remain protected.”  The yen depreciated 0.6 percent to 81.06 per dollar. The
currency slumped 2.1 percent at the end of last week after
central banks in Japan, Europe, the U.S. and Canada sold the yen
to curb its advance to a post World War II record of 76.25 in
the aftermath of the March 11 earthquake.  The Swiss franc depreciated versus all but the yen among
its most-traded peers as investors sold the currency that is
considered a haven. The dollar weakened against 12 of 16 peers.  Crude for April delivery climbed $1.26 to $102.33 a barrel
on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange. Libya’s output has fallen
to a quarter of pre-crisis production levels and may stop
entirely,  Shokri Ghanem , the chairman of the national  oil
company , said on the weekend.  The GSCI index of commodities has risen 5.1 percent in four
days. Silver futures gained 2.7 percent to $36.001 an ounce
today and gold for April delivery climbed for a fourth day,
increasing 0.7 percent to $1,426.40 an ounce.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Tilles in  London  at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net ;
 Lu Wang  in New York at 
 lwang8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  