-- 
U.S. Stocks Rally Amid M&A Deals as Japan Nuclear Crisis Eases

-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h   a n d   L u   W a n g
-- 
2011-03-21T20:42:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/stock-index-futures-rise-as-japan-nuclear-crisis-eases-aig-hartford-gain.html
U.S. stocks rallied, sending the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index higher for a third day, as concern
eased that Japan will suffer a nuclear meltdown and after  AT&T
Inc. (T)  agreed to buy  T-Mobile USA  for $39 billion.  AT&T added 1.2 percent after agreeing to buy Deutsche
Telekom AG’s U.S. wireless unit.  OptionsXpress Holdings Inc. (OXPS) 
soared 17 percent after  Charles Schwab Corp. (SCHW)  agreed to buy the
company for $1 billion in stock.  American International Group
Inc. (AIG)  and  Hartford Financial Services Group Inc. (HIG)  rallied at least
3.9 percent as Japan made progress in restoring power to two
reactors. Energy shares advanced as crude oil gained.  The  S&P 500  rose 1.5 percent to 1,298.38 at 4 p.m. and has
rallied 3.3 percent in three days, the longest winning streak in
about a month. The  Dow Jones Industrial Average  added 178.01
points, or 1.5 percent, to 12,036.53. The Chicago Board Options
Exchange Volatility Index, which measures the cost of using
options as insurance against declines in the S&P 500, slumped 16
percent, the biggest decline since May, to 20.61.  “We ought to be overweight equities,” said  Hayes Miller ,
the Boston-based head of asset allocation in  North America  at
Baring Asset Management Inc., which oversees $51.6 billion. “I
don’t think that anything that’s happening in  Japan  or Libya
changes the attractiveness of stocks. On top of that, companies
have cash and they need to deploy it somehow if they can find
accretive deals. The AT&T buyout looks very interesting.
Investors are also looking at dividends and buybacks.”  Bank Dividends  U.S. stocks fell last week, sending the S&P 500 down 1.9
percent, amid concern that Japan’s nuclear crisis and violence
in Libya and Bahrain may curb the economic recovery. The gauge
rose on March 18 as the  Federal Reserve  cleared the way for
lenders to boost dividends, Libya announced a cease-fire and
central banks worked to support Japan’s economy.  Global stocks rose today after Japanese Prime Minister
Naoto Kan said progress is being made in restoring power to two
reactors at the Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant, which was damaged by
the March 11 temblor and ensuing tsunami. In  Libya , allied
officials said air and missile strikes have effectively grounded
Muammar Qaddafi’s air force.  Billionaire investor Warren Buffett said Japan’s record
earthquake is a buying opportunity and he won’t sell his shares
in the country. Buffett canceled a trip this week to Japan to
visit a factory owned by Iscar Metalworking Cos.’s Tungaloy
Corp. in Fukushima prefecture, the site of the worst nuclear
disaster in 25 years. Buffett’s Berkshire Hathaway Inc. owns 80
percent of Iscar, a maker of cutting tools.  ‘Buying Opportunity’  “If I owned Japanese stocks, I would certainly not be
selling them because of the events of the past 10 days or so,”
said Buffett, speaking to reporters in the South Korean city of
Daegu, where he arrived yesterday to attend a ceremony for a new
factory being built by TaeguTec Ltd. “Something out of the blue
like this, an extraordinary event, really creates a buying
opportunity.”     AT&T gained 1.2 percent to $28.26. The phone company
agreed to buy T-Mobile USA from Deutsche Telekom for about $39
billion in cash and stock to create America’s largest mobile-
phone company, trumping  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S) ’s effort to acquire
the business. The deal would allow AT&T, now the second-largest
U.S. wireless operator, to add about 34 million customers and
surpass Verizon Wireless. AT&T was raised to “buy” from
“hold” at Citigroup.  Sprint tumbled 14 percent to $4.36.  OptionsXpress Soars  OptionsXpress soared 17 percent to $17.90. Charles Schwab
agreed to buy the Chicago-based company for $1 billion in stock,
adding the 10-year-old retail options broker to its equity and
mutual fund offerings. The largest independent brokerage by
client asset will exchange 1.02 shares for each share of
OptionsXpress. Charles Schwab added 0.5 percent to $17.65.  AIG rose 6 percent to $37.03 even after the insurer bailed
out by U.S. taxpayers said first-quarter catastrophes including
the earthquake in Japan will cost the company about $1 billion
this quarter.  Hartford added 3.9 percent to $26.49.  An index of energy shares rallied 2.9 percent, the most in
the S&P 500 within 10 industries. Oil rose as allied air strikes
in Libya threatened to prolong a supply disruption in Africa’s
third-biggest producer and on concern that escalating turmoil
may curtail Middle East shipments.  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  gained 2.5 percent to $82.84.
 ConocoPhillips (COP)  climbed 2.9 percent to $77.55.  CBS Rallies        CBS Corp. (CBS)  gained 5.5 percent to $24.51. Ratings from the
NCAA basketball tournament have been up 11 percent from the same
period last year, David Joyce, analyst at Miller Tabak & Co.,
said in a note today. There has been strong demand for
advertising and the tournament should be “the second-largest
sports ad revenue event after the Super Bowl,” he wrote.  Tiffany & Co. (TIF)  climbed 5.1 percent to $60.22. The world’s
second-largest luxury jewelry retailer reported a 29 percent
gain in fourth-quarter profit as sales exceeded analyst
estimates during the holiday season.     Citigroup Inc. (C)  lost 1.5 percent to $4.43 after reporting
a 1-for-10 reverse split of its common stock. Citigroup also
reported that it intends to reinstate a quarterly dividend of 1
cent per common share in the second quarter of 2011, following
the effective date of the reverse stock split.  U.S. stocks maintained gains even after the National
Association of Realtors said that sales of U.S. previously owned
homes dropped more than forecast in February and the median
purchase price declined to the lowest since April 2002.
Purchases decreased 9.6 percent to a 4.88 million annual rate,
less than the 5.13 million median forecast of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News.  “Those things are all part of uncertainties we deal with
on a day-by-day basis,” said Joseph Keating, chief investment
officer at CenterState Wealth Management, who manages $1 billion
in Birmingham, Alabama. “When you do the calculus, it comes
down to saying, ‘the  U.S. economy  looks like it’s on solid
footing and earnings will continue to grow. This is a buying
opportunity.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net ;
Lu Wang in New York at 
 lwang8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  