-- 
Swiss Re Sees Claims Costs of $1.2 Billion From Japan Earthquake, Tsunami

-- B y   C a r o l y n   B a n d e l   a n d   L e i g h   B a l d w i n
-- 
2011-03-21T09:04:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/swiss-re-sees-claims-costs-of-1-2-billion-from-japan-earthquake-tsunami.html
Swiss Reinsurance Co., the world’s
second-biggest reinsurer, estimated it will face claims of about
$1.2 billion from the earthquake and the tsunami in  Japan .  The figure is low because Japan’s government insures
residential properties covered by non-life companies against
earthquake and tsunami damage and this protection is not
reinsured internationally, the Zurich-based company said in an
e-mailed statement today. The preliminary claims figure is net
of retrocession and before tax, Swiss Re said.  A 9.0-magnitude earthquake off Japan’s coast on March 11
has left 8,649 people confirmed dead by noon yesterday, with
more than 13,000 still missing and operators of the Fukushima
Dai-Ichi atomic power plant battling to prevent a meltdown. The
nuclear accident won’t have a “significant” effect on
reinsurers, according to Swiss Re.  “It is clearly below market fears,” said  Christian Muschick , a Frankfurt-based analyst with Silvia Quandt & Cie.
“It should help the sentiment for reinsurers,” because losses
don’t seem worse than those tied to the Kobe-earthquake in 1995,
Japan’s most destructive until March 11, he said.  Swiss Re rose 1.7 percent to 50.85 Swiss francs as of 9:37
a.m. in Zurich trading, valuing the company at about 18.8
billion francs ($20.8 billion).  Munich Re , the world’s largest
reinsurer, gained 2.1 percent to 110 euros in Frankfurt trading.  Eqecat, AIR Projections  Catastrophe modeling firm Eqecat said on March 16 that
insurers and reinsurers will probably have losses of $12 billion
to $25 billion from the Japan earthquake and tsunami, after
modeler AIR Worldwide had estimated losses of as much as 2.8
trillion yen ($35 billion) from the quake alone.  Scor SE (SCR) , the
world’s sixth-largest reinsurer, said on March 14 that its
claims will be less than 185 million euros ($262 million).  Major catastrophe losses for the company in the first
quarter of this year will be about $2.3 billion, after floods in  Australia , cyclone Yasi and the temblors that struck  New
Zealand , Swiss Re has said. This compares with the firm’s $1
billion  annual budget . The $1.2 billion Japan estimate is
“subject to a higher-than-usual degree of uncertainty” and
exact calculations may take several months, Swiss Re said today.  “It eats into Swiss Re’s excess capital a bit, but I don’t
see it changing the S&P deliberations,” said Tim Dawson, a
Geneva-based analyst with Helvea. The reinsurer is bidding to
regain the AA-  credit rating  that  Standard & Poor’s  cut in 2009
after the company’s record loss the year before.  ‘Excludes Earthquake Shock’  The company said on Feb. 17 that capital was more than $10
billion in excess of S&P’s AA requirements.  “Coverage for nuclear facilities in Japan excludes
earthquake shock, fire following earthquake and tsunami,”
though commercial and industrial risks are commonly reinsured,
Swiss Re said today. “The incident at the Fukushima nuclear
power plant is unlikely to result in a significant direct loss
for the property and casualty insurance industry.”  The insurance losses from the Japan quake may be large
enough to turn prices for catastrophe cover that have been
falling for two years, according to Stefan Schuermann, a Zurich-
based analyst with Vontobel Holding AG.  “We remain convinced that high recent cat losses including
the Japanese catastrophe will most likely turn the soft
reinsurance market, to be tested on April 1 renewals,” he said
in a note to investors.  Reinsurers limit their own risks by selling parts of them
to other reinsurers in a process known as retrocession.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Carolyn Bandel in Zurich at 
 cbandel@bloomberg.net ;
Leigh Baldwin in Zurich at 
 lbaldwin3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net . 