-- 
U.A.E. Should Merge Its Three Exchanges, CFA Charterholders Say

-- B y   A r i f   S h a r i f
-- 
2011-03-21T14:36:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/u-a-e-should-merge-its-three-exchanges-cfa-charterholders-say.html
The United Arab Emirates’ three
stock exchanges should merge to help boost trading volumes and
improve visibility for foreign investors, a majority of
investment professionals holding the CFA charter said.  Ninety-three percent of about 200 respondents in a survey
of CFA charterholders from nine Middle East countries support
the merger of the U.A.E.’s three bourses into a national
exchange, according to a survey released by the local CFA
association at a conference in Dubai today. More than 90 percent
of the respondents said this will result in greater volumes and
liquidity in the market, while more than half said it will
improve visibility for foreign investors, the survey said.  The results were part of the first Middle East market
sentiment survey conducted by CFA Emirates, an association of
investment professionals who hold the Chartered Financial
Analyst designation. The designation is awarded by the not-for-
profit  CFA Institute , based in Charlottesville, Virginia.  The U.A.E., the second-biggest Arab economy, is home to the  Abu Dhabi  Securities Exchange, the  Dubai Financial Market (DFM)  and
Nasdaq Dubai. The Dubai Financial Market purchased Nasdaq Dubai
in July and now manages its trading system. The U.A.E.’ stock
market regulator would support a merger between the exchanges in
Abu Dhabi and Dubai, Abdullah Al Turaifi, chief executive
officer of the Securities & Commodities Authority, said Feb. 16.  Dubai’s benchmark share index fell 9.6 percent last year
and Abu Dhabi’s by 0.9 percent as the U.A.E. economy was hurt by
the global credit crisis. Dubai trading volumes have plummeted
50 percent to a daily average of about 107 million shares this
year from the year-earlier period, according to Bloomberg data.  A merger of the three exchanges will not result in an
improvement in transparency at the listed companies as this
would require a greater initiative from the companies
themselves, Domluke Da Silva, an executive committee member of
CFA Emirates, said at the conference today.  Equities and commodities will be the best-performing asset
class in 2011 despite the political environment in the region,
according to the survey. Qatar is expected to be the best
performing share market this year followed by  Saudi Arabia  and
Abu Dhabi. Bahrain is likely to be the worst.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Arif Sharif in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 Eevans3@bloomberg.net  