-- 
U.K. Power Regulator May Require Producers to Sell 20% of Output

-- B y   K a r i   L u n d g r e n
-- 
2011-03-21T11:43:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/u-k-power-regulator-may-require-producers-to-sell-20-of-output.html
The U.K.’s six leading energy
suppliers may be required to auction off as much as 20 percent
of their power generation, under new gas and electricity market
rules proposed by energy regulator  Ofgem  today.  The changes are aimed at “sweeping away complex and unfair
pricing practices,” Ofgem said today in a statement. Companies
that don’t comply may be referred to the  Competition Commission ,
the regulator said.  An investigation by the regulator found that major
companies including  Centrica Plc (CNA) , Electricite de France SA and
E.ON AG maintain as much influence over the market as they did
in 2008. Requiring companies to auction off a percentage of
their power will increase price transparency, Ofgem Chief
Executive Officer Alistair Buchanan said in a statement today.  “This type of intervention is worrying, with the risk of
unintended consequences high,” Adam Forsyth, an Edinburgh-based
analyst at Matrix Group Ltd., said in an e-mailed note.  Mandatory energy sales may disrupt hedging strategies,
Forsyth said. Utilities often sell power and buy fuel and
emissions permits as much as three years in advance to insure
against price swings.  “Tariff complexity has increased from 180 to more than 300
since 2008,” Buchanan said. “That is why we are planning to
sweep away this complexity so suppliers’ prices are fully
exposed to allow easy price comparisons.”  Companies have eight weeks to discuss the plans with the
regulator. The proposed licensing condition would require the
six major suppliers to make 10 to 20 percent of their power
production available through a mandatory auction.  “We welcome any proposals that further boost competition
in the U.K. energy market and provide reassurance for
consumers,” Phil Bentley, Managing Director of Centrica’s
British Gas, said in a statement.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net ; 