-- 
U.K. Voters Say Banks Should Help Repair Economy, Poll Shows

-- B y   S i m o n   C l a r k
-- 
2011-03-21T12:55:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/u-k-voters-say-banks-should-help-repair-economy-poll-shows.html
Supporters of Britain’s three main
political parties agree that financial companies have a
responsibility “to help repair the damage their actions
caused” in the credit crisis, according to a YouGov Plc poll.  The poll of 2,226 adults for non-profit Oxfam showed that
87 percent of Conservative voters, 91 percent of Labour voters
and 93 percent of Liberal Democrats agreed or strongly agreed
that banks and  hedge funds  bear responsibility. The poll was
taken from March 7 to March 14.  U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne , who this
week presents his budget, is seeking to resolve the political
fallout from the financial crisis in talks with banks - called
“Project Merlin” - to restrain bonuses and boost lending.  “This poll clearly shows the government’s attempts to draw
a line under the issue of bank profits and bonuses has failed,”
Oxfam policy adviser Max Lawson said in a statement.  The poll showed that 59 percent of Conservatives, 71
percent of Labour supporters, and 73 percent of Liberal
Democrats either disagreed or strongly disagreed with the
statement that “banks and bankers have already paid back enough
since the economic collapse.”  Oxfam is part of the  Robin Hood Tax  group of non-profits
and labor unions campaigning for the introduction of a tax on
financial transactions to raise money for public services.  “Public anger at banks will not subside until they see the
City of  London  pay its fair share,” Lawson said.  London was named today the world’s leading financial
center, ahead of  New York ,  Hong Kong  and  Singapore , in a survey
by London-based research company Z/Yen Group.  Taxes “should not be used as a stick with which to punish
certain sectors or high-earning individuals,” Stuart Fraser,
policy chairman at the  City of London Corporation , which manages
London’s oldest financial district, said in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Clark in London at 
 sclark4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  