-- 
Qaddafi Can’t Be Directly Targeted Under UN Resolution, U.K. General Says

-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n   a n d   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 
2011-03-21T13:54:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/u-k-foreign-secretary-hague-doesn-t-rule-out-targeting-qaddafi-directly.html
The head of the U.K.’s armed forces
said  Muammar Qaddafi  can’t be directly targeted under the United
Nations resolution enforcing a no-fly zone over  Libya  after
senior ministers raised the possibility that he could be.  “It’s not allowed under the UN resolution and it’s not
something I want to discuss further,” General David Richards
told  BBC  television today. “We’re cautiously optimistic that
we’re on track to achieve the goals that have been set us.”  Under the United Nations Security Council resolution passed
March 17, forces led by Britain,  France  and the U.S. are
permitted to enforce a no-fly zone to prevent Qaddafi attacking
his own civilian population. U.K. Foreign Secretary  William Hague  said this morning that it “all depends on how people
behave,” when asked if Qaddafi could be a target. Defense
Secretary  Liam Fox  also left open the possibility yesterday.  U.S. Defense Secretary  Robert Gates  said yesterday the
campaign should be limited to the terms of the resolution rather
than being broadened to target Qaddafi directly. Allied
officials said two days of missile and aircraft strikes have
effectively grounded Qaddafi’s air force, halting his advance
into the rebel stronghold of Benghazi. The Libyan leader
denounced the coalition against him as “the party of Satan.”  “I’m not going to get drawn into the detail of who might
be targeted because I don’t think it is right,” Hague told BBC
Radio 4’s “Today” program when asked if the resolution barred
attacks on Qaddafi. “I don’t think in a conflict and the
enforcement of the UN resolution, to give people all the details
of what might or might not be targeted is wise.”  ‘Very Diverse’  Gates told reporters traveling with him to  Russia  last
night that expanding the goal of protecting civilians could
divide what he said is as a “very diverse coalition.”  “The one thing that there is common agreement on are the
terms set forth in the Security Council resolution,” Gates
said. “If we start adding additional objectives then I think we
create a problem in that respect. I also think it is unwise to
set as specific goals things that you may or may not be able to
achieve.”  The main U.K. spokesman on the Libya operation, John
Lorimer, said today there is no evidence of an observation of a
cease-fire by Qaddafi.  “Although they claimed a cease-fire yesterday, there is no
evidence” of a change of policy from Qaddafi, Lorimer told
reporters in  London . “Opposition sources are saying that
Qaddafi is removing forces from Benghazi and targeting
elsewhere.”  ‘Numerous Casualties’  There had been “numerous casualties, including women,
children and the elderly” killed in Benghazi, Lorimer said.  Hague refused to rule out the possibility of deploying
British special forces on the ground in Libya, though he said
there would be no occupation of the country.  “Circumstances can arise when these sorts of things
happen. It would be foolish to exclude it,” Hague said. “We’re
not going to invade Libya, let everyone be clear about that.”  Gates added that he would like the British, French or the
North Atlantic Treaty Organization to take command of operations
from the U.S. “within days.” Fox said yesterday that he hopes
Arab nations may join the coalition within the next day or two.  “The U.K. Sees NATO as the main means of coordinating
military action,” Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s spokesman,
Steve Field, told reporters today when asked whether military
command would pass to the U.K. A defense ministry spokesman said
a decision on who takes command had not yet been made.  British forces launched new attacks on Libyan targets
overnight, which were “highly effective,” Lorimer said.  A planned attack using Royal Air Force GR4 Tornado jets was
abandoned after civilians were identified within the target
area. Richards said he was “delighted” that the planes had
turned back.  “We don’t want to fall into the propaganda trap Mr.
Qaddafi is trying to set us,” he told the BBC.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net ;
Viola Gienger in  St. Petersburg , Russia, at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  