-- 
Kirk Says U.S.-Brazil Accord Will ‘Open the Doors’ of Constrained Market

-- B y   E r i c   M a r t i n
-- 
2011-03-21T21:06:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/u-s-brazil-deal-blows-open-constrained-market-as-obama-leaves-for-chile.html
The trade and economic cooperation
deal signed by the U.S. and  Brazil  will open a constrained
market and help reach the administration’s goal of doubling
exports by 2015, U.S. Trade Representative Ron Kirk said.  Kirk, the co-chairman of a U.S.-Brazil commission created
by the pact to expand trade and remove nontariff barriers, said
yesterday that he will meet at least once a year with
counterparts from Brazil to “try to deal in a much more direct
way with some of the challenges and barriers.” The U.S. has
similar accords with other developing nations, Kirk said.  Brazil fell three positions to 127th in a World Bank survey
this year that measures the ease of conducting business,
trailing emerging economies such as Egypt,  Russia , Argentina and
Lebanon. Former Brazil President  Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva  last
year set limits on the amount of land foreigners can buy. The
U.S. and Brazil also lack a bilateral tax treaty that avoids
double taxation for companies.  “We can use this to really open the doors, and frankly,
blow the doors open to what’s been a fairly constrained market
for us,” Kirk said in an interview in the marbled entrance of
the governor’s mansion in Rio de Janeiro. “This can be hugely
accretive to what we’re trying to do with the export
initiative.”  The deal signed on March 19 during President Barack Obama’s
first visit to  South America  ended a push that began a year ago
when Kirk said he met with Celso Amorim, Brazil’s former foreign
minister. The agreement is a first step toward a free-trade
accord backed by corporate chief executive officers, U.S.
Commerce Secretary Gary Locke said today in  Sao Paulo .  ‘First Step’  “It’s the desire of both the Americans and Brazilian
CEOs,” who participated in the weekend U.S.-Brazil CEO Forum,
Locke told reporters. “It takes a long time to try to negotiate
and complete a free-trade agreement. That’s why the trade and
economic cooperation agreement is the first step.”  A Brazil free-trade agreement “should be on the agenda,”
said Steven Bipes, executive director of the Brazil-U.S.
Business Council, which is affiliated with the Washington-based
U.S. Chamber of Commerce, the nation’s largest business lobbying
group. “Detailed specific proposals and ideas from the private
sector, that work should begin,” he said.  During Obama’s visit, Brazil’s President Dilma Rousseff
reiterated complaints about U.S. agricultural measures,
including  farm subsidies  and a 54 cents-a-gallon tariff on
Brazilian ethanol that Congress renewed in December.  Exports Surge  U.S. exports to Brazil surged to a record $35.4 billion
last year as the Brazilian real’s two-year rally against the
dollar made American goods more attractive.  The Obama administration is being pressed to send Congress
free-trade agreements with  South Korea ,  Colombia  and  Panama 
reached under Obama’s predecessor. Kirk said the White House
wants to complete the South Korea accord before July 1, when a
Korean accord with the European Union is set to take effect.  U.S. officials are negotiating with Colombia on labor
protections and with Panama on tax-law changes before those
deals are submitted, he said. Republicans led by Senate Minority
Leader Mitch McConnell of  Kentucky  want the three agreements
delivered to Congress at the same time.  “People forget it was only June of last year when the
president said, ‘Let’s find a way to move forward with Korea’,”
Kirk said. “We effectively got that done in less than six
months.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Martin in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  