-- 
U.S. to Hand Allies Libya Air-Strike Command in ‘Matter of Days’

-- B y   P e t e r   S .   G r e e n   a n d   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n
-- 
2011-03-21T21:17:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/u-s-to-hand-allies-libya-air-strike-control-in-matter-of-days-.html
The  United States  will hand off
command of military operations in Libya to coalition leadership
once the initial phase -- knocking out Muammar Qaddafi’s air
defenses -- is completed, President  Barack Obama  said.  One option, having the North Atlantic Treaty Organization
take charge, may be complicated by reservations from Turkey, a
NATO member, reflected in remarks today by Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan . Turkish Foreign Ministry spokesman Selcuk Unal
said his country isn’t blocking NATO command, the  Associated
Press  reported.  Military commanders will make recommendations on when the
transition takes place, Obama said at a news conference in
Santiago, Chile, his second stop on a trip to Latin America to
promote trade. Obama said he expects that to happen “in a
matter of days, not a matter of weeks.”  “We are developing the process by which we will transition
the lead from military operations to a designated
headquarters,” U.S. Army General Carter Ham, who is commanding
the Libyan air strike mission, said today in a briefing from
Stuttgart,  Germany . “This is a very complex task under the best
of conditions, so my goal is to not cause disruption to the
ongoing operation while we effect the headquarters transition.”  A spokesman for U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  said
today that NATO should take control of the operation.  France ’s
foreign minister, Alain Juppe, said today in Brussels that “if,
during the course of this operation, NATO were to be called in,
yes, we would support that.”  NATO Tensions  Italian foreign minister Franco Frattini said that unless
NATO takes charge,  Italy  would “reflect” on its decision to
let its bases be used for launching the attacks.  Arab League allies, who called for the no-fly zone, may not
want to operate under NATO’s leadership, U.S. Defense Secretary
 Robert Gates  said at a news conference yesterday.  “The question is if there’s a way we can work out NATO’s
command-and-control machinery without it being a NATO mission
and without a NATO flag,” Gates said.  Turkey ’s Erdogan, in a speech today in Mecca,  Saudi Arabia ,
said a NATO operation in Libya cannot turn into an occupation,
and that NATO must have a clearly defined and limited mission
for any intervention there.  Limited Mandate  NATO involvement would have to be limited to “providing
Libyans with the opportunity to make their own decisions” about
their future, he said. Erdogan said on March 1 that NATO
intervention in Libya would be “unthinkable.”  The Western alliance requires unanimous approval from its
28 member countries to launch a military operation.  The NATO diplomats said the North Atlantic Council, NATO’s
top decision-making body, wasn’t able to reach agreement today,
and would take up the issue again tomorrow for the fourth day in
a row, according to the AP.  Six Norwegian fighter planes headed for Crete won’t be
immediately deployed until command is resolved, that country’s
defense minister, Grete Faremo, told  Norway ’s news agency.  “It is crucial that we get an effective chain of command
sorted out that gives us adequate insight into the decision-
making process,” Faremo said.  ‘Not So Simple’  Ham said he would “not put a date certain” on the
handover of command, and said a new headquarters and command
institution have to be identified first. “It’s not so simple as
just having a handshake someplace and saying, ‘OK, you’re now in
charge,’” said the general, who leads the  U.S. Africa Command .  “There are some very complex technical things that have to
occur, particularly in the management, command and control of
the air campaign, to make sure that, one, we have no disruption
whatsoever in the ongoing operation, two, that we put none of
our air crews at risk as we go through this transition to
whatever that follow-on headquarters would be,” he said.  “We will accomplish that transition as expeditiously as we
possibly can,” Ham said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Peter S. green in New York at 
 psgreen@bloomberg.net ;
Julianna Goldman in Santiago,  Chile  at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  