-- 
Vulture Fund May Cause ‘Constitutional Crisis’ in Hong Kong

-- B y   D e b r a   M a o
-- 
2011-03-21T10:27:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/u-s-vulture-fund-s-lawsuit-may-cause-constitutional-crisis-in-hong-kong.html
China must approve a U.S.
investment fund’s lawsuit in  Hong Kong  against the Democratic
Republic of the  Congo  before it can proceed, the central African
country’s lawyers said in a challenge to the Chinese region’s
independent judiciary.  “This is a matter that self-evidently affects the position
of the central people’s government,” Barrie Barlow, a lawyer
representing Congo, told Hong Kong’s Court of Final Appeal today.  FG Hemisphere Associates LLC , a New York-based so-called
vulture fund which buys distressed debt, has sued Congo in
jurisdictions around the world seeking to seize assets to
enforce two arbitration awards. In Hong Kong, its attempt to
collect payments owed to Congo by state-owned China Railway
Group Ltd., places the financial center’s judicial independence
at stake.  “The Hong Kong courts are taking the line that it’s one
country two systems -- that whatever the views of Beijing, the
Congo government can be sued,” said Tony Carty, a public law
professor at the University of Hong Kong. “That could cause a
constitutional crisis.”    China ’s foreign ministry has filed three letters to Hong
Kong’s judiciary in this case stating no foreign government can
be sued in the city’s courts.  “China considers that the issue of state immunity is an
important issue which affects relations between states,” the
ministry wrote according to an excerpt from a May 21, 2009
letter published in court documents.  $100 Million  Hong Kong’s Court of Appeal in February 2010  allowed  FG
Hemisphere’s lawsuit to proceed. Arbitrators in Zurich and Paris
had ruled that Congo must repay a total of $34.25 million to
Energoinvest d.d., an engineering company based in Sarajevo,
Bosnia and Herzegovina, for construction projects in the 1980s.
The debts, including interest, now amount to more than $100
million, according to the Hong Kong court judgment.  Apart from deciding whether the case should be referred to
the Standing Committee of the National People’s Congress in
Beijing, Hong Kong’s Court of Final Appeal could rule directly
on whether Congo and other foreign states can be sued in Hong
Kong. The five judges could also decide whether governments
relinquish any claims to sovereign immunity when they agree to
arbitrate a dispute. The hearing is scheduled to take six days.  Basic Law  “Ultimately it’s up to the Court of Final Appeal to decide
whether to refer the issue,” said Benjamin Yu, the  Justice
Department ’s lawyer. Yu said he expected the decision would be
in accordance with Hong Kong’s Basic Law, the mini-constitution
agreed before the city’s return to Communist-run China in 1997.  The National People’s Congress last reinterpreted the
city’s constitution in 1999, overturning a Court of Final Appeal
ruling that gave almost 2 million mainland people the right to
live in Hong Kong. The reinterpretation, supported by Hong
Kong’s then Chief Executive Tung Chee-hwa, raised doubts about
the city’s judicial independence.  The former British colony was guaranteed an independent
judiciary and a separate legal system for at least 50 years
under the Basic Law. Hong Kong’s rule of law and freedom of
information have supported its status as a financial center.  Congo’s assets in Hong Kong are tied to Hong Kong-listed  China Railway Group Ltd. (601390)  and its related companies, which
according to Barlow in 2008 entered into joint-venture
agreements with the Congolese state-mining company, Gecamines,
as part of a $6 billion minerals-for-infrastructure agreement
between China and Congo.  Mining Rights  FG Hemisphere claimed a portion of $350 million in entry
fees China Railway units agreed to pay in exchange for mining
rights in Congo.  Peter Grossman, managing director at FG Capital Management
Ltd. declined to comment during a recess in the hearing.  A copper belt running through Zambia and Congo holds 10
percent of the world’s copper reserves. Congo alone has a third
of the world’s cobalt deposits. Mining and rail companies are
investing at least $35 billion into rail projects over the next
five years to transport commodities out of  Africa .  Congo is recovering from more than four decades of
dictatorship and war and is one of the world’s most highly
indebted countries, according to the  International Monetary Fund .
The IMF and the  World Bank  agreed in July to support a debt
relief package of $12.3 billion, erasing obligations almost the
size of the country’s economy.    South Africa ,  Australia   In 2008, a South African court ruled FG Hemisphere could
seize payments for Congolese electricity sold to South Africa,
effectively halting the transactions, according to Jean-Pierre
Mukadi Mubenga, an official in Congo’s debt office.  The New South Wales Supreme Court in December ruled FG
Hemisphere’s claims could be pursued in Australia. U.S. and
Canadian courts have also said the arbitration awards were
enforceable in those countries.  In November, the  Royal Court  in the Jersey Islands ruled FG
Hemisphere could recoup its arbitration award by seizing $108.3
million in scheduled payments to Gecamines from a joint venture
led by  OM Group Inc. (OMG) , the world’s biggest cobalt producer,
according to OM Group’s regulatory filings. The judgment is
under appeal.  The case is between FG Hemisphere Associates LLC and
Democratic Republic of the Congo, China Railway Group (Hong Kong)
Ltd., China Railway Resources Development Ltd., China Railway
Sino-Congo Mining Ltd., China Railway Group Ltd. and Secretary
for Justice, FACV5, 6 & 7/2010, Hong Kong Court of Final Appeal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Debra Mao in Hong Kong at 
 dmao5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  