-- 
Existing Home Sales in U.S. Slump; Prices Drop to Lowest Since April 2002

-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 
2011-03-21T21:08:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/u-s-february-existing-home-sales-fall-to-4-88-million-rate.html
Sales of previously owned U.S.
homes dropped more than forecast in February, sending prices to
the lowest level since 2002 and indicating the market is
struggling to recover.  Purchases decreased 9.6 percent to a 4.88 million annual
rate, less than the 5.13 million median forecast of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News, figures from the National
Association of Realtors showed today in  Washington . The median
price fell 5.2 percent from a year earlier.  Foreclosures are adding to a glut of distressed properties
on the market and pressuring values, leaving some Americans with
bigger mortgages than their homes are worth as joblessness
hovers near 9 percent. The figures underscore the  Federal
Reserve ’s view that the housing market “continues to be
depressed” even as the rest of the economy improves.  “The demand for housing just isn’t there,” said  Mark Vitner , senior economist at  Wells Fargo Securities LLC  in
 Charlotte ,  North Carolina . “We have to clear this inventory of
foreclosures. We think that happens in the second half of the
year.”  Estimates of the 76 economists surveyed by Bloomberg ranged
from 4.8 million to 5.39 million.  Stocks rose as Japan made progress in cooling nuclear
reactors at a crippled plant. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
gained 1.5 percent to 1,298.38 at the 4 p.m. close in  New York .
Treasuries fell, pushing up the yield on the benchmark 10-year
note to 3.33 percent from 3.27 percent late on March 18.  No Recovery  “One cannot say that we are in a recovery right now,”
 Lawrence Yun , chief economist at the Realtors’ association, said
at a press conference. “If the price decline persists, even
with job recovery, it could hamper some buying enthusiasm.”  Distressed properties accounted for 39 percent of sales,
and the share of all cash transactions was 33 percent, the
highest since at least August 2008, when the agents’ group began
tracking the monthly figure.  Sales fell in all regions in February, led by a 12 percent
drop in the Midwest and a 10 percent decrease in the South.  The median price decreased to $156,100 last month from
$164,600 in February 2010.  The number of previously owned homes on the market rose 3.5
percent to 3.49 million from January. At the current sales pace,
it would take 8.6 months to sell those houses compared with 7.5
at the end of the prior month. Supply in the eight months to
nine months range is consistent with stable  home prices , the
group has said.  Tax Credit  Housing, the industry that precipitated the recent
recession, is having trouble gaining strength after the
government’s homebuyer tax credit expired and caused sales to
plunge to a 3.86 million rate in July.  Fed officials, in a statement following their March 15
monetary policy meeting, said that while the “economic recovery
is on a firmer footing,” residential real estate is still
“depressed.”  “Many potential home buyers are finding mortgages
difficult to obtain and are also worried about additional
declines in  house prices ,” Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  told
lawmakers during a March 2 testimony. “There’s no demand for
construction to build houses” until more people want homes, he
said.  Home prices dropped in the 12 months to December by the
most in a year, according to the S&P/Case-Shiller index of home
values. In 20 cities, prices fell 2.4 percent, the biggest year-
over-year decrease since December 2009, the group said Feb. 22.  Foreclosure Outlook  In addition to an  unemployment rate  lingering near 9
percent, some underlying home values are less than the mortgages
on the properties. That indicates foreclosure filings may climb
about 20 percent in 2011, reaching a peak for the housing
crisis, RealtyTrac said earlier this year.  Cheaper homes and distressed properties are making it
difficult for builders as well. Housing starts fell in February
to the slowest pace since April 2009 and building permits
slumped to a record low, Commerce Department figures showed
March 16.  For housing, employment “is the most important part today
or biggest impediment,” said Larry T. Nicholson, chief
executive officer of  Ryland Group Inc. (RYL) , a Calabasas, California-
based homebuilder catering to first-time buyers.  Whether potential buyers “have a job and they’re going to
keep their job or whether their hopes of employment are out
there is still the biggest challenge for us today,” Nicholson
said at an investor conference March 8 in  Orlando ,  Florida .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  