-- 
U.S. Asks Judge to Block Rajaratnam From Offering Statements

-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s ,   D a v i d   G l o v i n   a n d   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 
2011-03-22T00:11:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/u-s-asks-judge-to-block-rajaratnam-from-offering-statements-1-.html
Raj Rajaratnam, the Galleon Group
LLC co-founder on trial for alleged  insider trading , shouldn’t
be permitted to introduce statements including conversations
recorded by his personal trader, prosecutors told a judge.  The government’s request, made in a letter to U.S. District
Judge Richard Holwell today, shows that U.S. investigators were
using cooperating witnesses to secretly record telephone calls
in the investigation as recently as January, 15 months after
Rajaratnam’s arrest.  “The relevant recordings were made at the direction of the
FBI by  Adam Smith  on January 14, 2011, just after Smith had
begun cooperating with the government,” prosecutors said,
referring to discussions between Smith, a former Galleon trader,
and Ian Horowitz, who was Rajaratnam’s personal trader at the
firm, according to testimony in the trial.  Rajaratnam, 53, is on trial in the largest crackdown on
hedge-fund insider trading in U.S. history. The Sri Lankan-born
money manager is accused of making $45 million from tips leaked
by corporate insiders and hedge fund traders.  According to the letter and transcripts of the calls, Smith
had three conversations with Horowitz on Jan. 14. FBI agents
directed Smith “to record conversations with certain
individuals, including Horowitz, the government said.  Starent Networks  In the Horowitz calls, Smith, at the direction of the
agents, raised the issue of trading in Starent Networks Corp., a
mobile data network company acquired by  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO)  in
2009 and tried, unsuccessfully, to get Horowitz to discuss the
identity of the tipper.  In the calls, Horowitz denied knowing the tipper and said
he didn’t know of any concerns that Galleon was using illegal
information in its Starent trading.  ‘‘The fact that the government’s effort to develop evidence
against Horowitz -- in the form of an undercover recording --
did not work is entirely inadmissible,” prosecutors said.
“Indeed, it is not at all surprising that the effort failed in
light of Horowitz’s knowledge of the highly public
investigation.”  Horowitz declined to comment on the government’s
investigation of him. His attorney, Martine Beamon, didn’t
immediately return a voice mail message.  Synaptics Trades  In addition to the Horowitz calls, prosecutors are seeking
to bar denials by Joe Liu, a Taiwan man who is alleged to have
conspired with Rajaratnam to obtain inside information in 2009
about the earnings of  Synaptics Inc. (SYNA)  before they were issued.  Liu denied wrongdoing in a phone interview with FBI agents,
prosecutors said.  Before pleading guilty in January to securities fraud and
conspiracy, Smith, a former Galleon portfolio manager, told U.S.
investigators that Horowitz him in 2009 that he was going to put
330,000 shares of Starent into Smith’s fund Galleon and that
Smith shouldn’t ask why. Horowitz also put shares of Starent
into other Galleon accounts, prosecutors said.  In one of the transcripts of the calls between Horowitz and
Smith, Horowitz expresses a suspicion that he’s being recorded.  “Like, I feel that you’re ... the questions you are asking
me are like you are tapping me on the phone trying to get me to
say some things,” Howoritz said to Smith, according to the
transcript.  “Are you serious?” Smith asked. “Dude, come on.”  “Yeah,” Horowitz said.  “You kidding me?” Smith asked.  “That’s why I ask, like I don’t get it,” Horowitz said.  “Well, I, I’m telling you 100 percent that’s not the
case,” Smith told his former Galleon colleague.  The case is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 1:09-cr-01184, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of  New York  ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net ;
David Glovin in New York at 
 dglovin@bloomberg.net ;
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Rovella at 
 drovella@bloomberg.net  