-- 
U.S. to Let Workers Check Their Immigration Status Online

-- B y   J e f f   B l i s s
-- 
2011-03-21T17:16:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/u-s-will-allow-workers-to-check-their-immigration-status-online.html
Prospective workers can begin
checking online today for potentially inaccurate records about
their U.S. immigration status, through a new program aimed at
limiting bureaucratic mix-ups, the Department of  Homeland
Security  said.  The program is an extension of E-Verify, an electronic
system that almost 250,000 companies rely on to ensure that new
employees aren’t in the U.S. illegally and thus ineligible to
work, the department said.  E-Verify Self Check, initially available for people in a
limited number of states, uses the personal information workers
provide online to identify typographical errors and outdated
information, such as name changes, in federal records that
incorrectly flag a worker as illegal, the department said.
Immigrant advocates and the New York-based American Civil
Liberties Union have criticized E-Verify for using federal
databases they say are full of inaccuracies.  Prospective employees using Self Check “can learn of any
such problems ahead of time and clear them up,” said Alejandro Mayorkas,  director  of  U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services ,
in an interview.  New workers identified by E-Verify as potentially
ineligible have eight business days to resolve the problem.  Today, residents of  Arizona ,  Colorado ,  Idaho ,  Mississippi ,
Virginia and the  District of Columbia  will be able to use the
service. The goal is to expand it nationwide in the next 12
months, according to the department.  A Million Annually  Immigration officials said they expect 850,000 to 1 million
queries in the first year of the  Internet service , growing to 8
million annually. The online service is at
 www.uscis.gov/everify .  Software services provided by San Diego-based  Anakam  Inc.,
a unit of  Equifax Inc. (EFX) , validate the identity of Self Check
users by examining demographic and financial data.  U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services  reduced  the
portion of those whose immigration status couldn’t be validated
through E-Verify to 2.6 percent in 2009 from 8 percent between
2004 and 2007, according to the  Government Accountability
Office , Congress’s auditing agency.  “It’s only getting more accurate with each passing day,”
Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano told reporters
today at a Washington press conference. She said the department
has a process for people to challenge E-Verify results so that
“no one who is eligible to work is prevented from doing so.”  Correcting Inaccuracies  The Obama administration and Republicans are increasingly
supporting  E-Verify  as more database inaccuracies are corrected
and some states begin requiring employers to use the program.
Still, some Democrats said they are concerned E-Verify won’t
solve the illegal immigration problem so much as make it less
noticeable.  Expanding E-Verify “would actually encourage businesses
and workers to enter the underground economy by working off the
books,” said Representative Zoe Lofgren of  California , the
senior Democrat on a House Judiciary immigration subcommittee,
at a Feb. 10 hearing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Bliss in Washington 
 jbliss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  