-- 
U.S. Airlines to Discuss Quake Impact, Analysts Say

-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 
2011-03-21T20:23:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/u-s-airlines-may-discuss-quake-impact-on-capacity-analysts-say.html
United Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL) 
and  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  may detail at a conference tomorrow how
Japan’s earthquake and radiation leaks have affected demand and
plans for future flight capacity.  Executives from the largest U.S. airlines likely will
discuss the issues, along with rising fuel prices and fare
increases, at a  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)   conference  in  New York ,
said  Helane Becker , analyst at Dahlman Rose & Co. Details may
also come in U.S. regulatory filings prior to their remarks,
Will Randow, a Citigroup Inc. analyst, said in a report.  Changes to Japanese flights by other carriers would follow
a March 17 decision by Delta to suspend flights at Tokyo’s
Haneda airport, while continuing operations at its  Tokyo  Narita
hub. United Continental said March 16 that demand had fallen on
Japan routes and indicated it might reduce capacity.  “We are starting to see schedule changes which may be the
early indications of a downward trend in bookings,” Michael Linenberg, a Deutsche Bank AG analyst, said in a report today.
He estimated that Delta’s two suspended Tokyo routes represent
12 percent of the airline’s Asia-Pacific capacity for February
and 1.5 percent of its total capacity.  Capacity Cut  “As both of these routes are being served with Delta’s
403-seat Boeing 747-400s, the capacity cut is significant,”
Linenberg said.  Delta declined to provide “that level of breakdown” on
the suspension of the Haneda-Detroit and Haneda-Los Angeles
routes,  Betsy Talton , a Delta spokeswoman, said in an e-mail.  The U.S. is the largest international market connecting to
Japan, with 9.2 million passengers and $10.5 billion in revenue
annually, Randow said. Atlanta-based Delta, Chicago-based United
Continental and  AMR Corp. (AMR) ’s American Airlines, based in  Fort
Worth , Texas, have the biggest direct revenue exposure to Japan
among U.S. carriers.  A 9.0-magnitude earthquake and resulting tsunami hit Japan
on March 11, causing damage to a nuclear power plant that
developed radiation leaks. A no-fly zone has been placed around
the Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant, which is about 135 miles (220
kilometers) north of Tokyo.  The 12-member Bloomberg U.S. Airlines Index rose 1.3
percent today along with broader markets as concern eased that
Japan would suffer a nuclear meltdown. The index has fallen 7.9
percent this year.  The  Allied Pilots Association , which represents American
Airlines pilots, is in talks with the carrier about moving crew
layovers to cities other than Tokyo, the union said on its
website. British Airways Plc, Germany’s Deutsche Lufthansa AG
and Italy’s Alitalia SpA last week moved their crews out of
Tokyo on worry about radioactive fallout.  “Tokyo is a safe place to fly into and out of, as well as
overnight for our crews,” Tim Smith, an  American Airlines 
spokesman, said in an e-mail today. “We continue to do that and
-- just as we have since the beginning of this situation --we’ll
continue to closely monitor the facts involving radiation or any
other potential issue there.”  Delta, United Continental and American have offered refunds
for some Tokyo flights and are waiving fees to change booked
trips to some Japanese cities.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  