-- 
U.S. Lawmakers Demand Details From Obama on Goals of Libya No-Fly Mission

-- B y   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s
-- 
2011-03-22T17:32:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/u-s-lawmakers-question-obama-over-military-action-in-libya-mission-goals.html
U.S. lawmakers in both parties are
voicing mounting concern that President  Barack Obama  lacks a
clear plan for using military force in Libya, a mission that
skeptics worry could drag on indefinitely without a better-
defined exit strategy.  Republicans who were among the most vocal advocates for
aggressive U.S. intervention against  Muammar Qaddafi  now are
criticizing Obama for failing to explain his goals in
participating in air and missile strikes in Libya. At the same
time, some congressional Democrats have called on Obama to come
to Congress for authorization to use force in the conflict.  The twin criticisms underline the political challenges
Obama faces in carrying out what he called a “limited military
action” to enforce a United Nations mandate to protect Libyan
civilians against assault by Qaddafi’s forces. Anti-war
Democrats are loath to allow any president -- even one of their
party -- to take military action without an act of Congress,
while Republicans increasingly point to  Libya  as an example of
what they call Obama’s unwillingness to take firm stands amid
crises overseas.  ‘Lose-Lose’  “This kind of mission is a lose-lose for Obama. It’s a
multilateral mission under UN mandate -- exactly the kind of
thing the Republican base is very skeptical of,” said
 Christopher Gelpi , a political science professor at  Duke
University  in Durham,  North Carolina , who studies the politics
of foreign affairs. “And because he’s giving up control of the
operation, he’s vulnerable to a critique that he is not using
force effectively and doing what it takes to win. Either way,
it’s a free shot at him,” for others.  An array of Republicans eyeing campaigns in 2012 --
including Senator  Richard Lugar  of  Indiana , who is expecting a
Tea Party challenge in his re-election bid, and Sarah Palin and
 Newt Gingrich , who are prospective presidential candidates --
have publicly questioned Obama’s handling of the mission.  “There needs to be a plan about what happens after
Qaddafi,” said Lugar, the top Republican on the Senate Foreign
Relations Committee, in a statement that repeated his earlier
call for Obama to seek a war declaration from Congress. “Who
will be in charge then, and who pays for this all? President
Obama, so far, has only expressed vague hopes.”  Palin, traveling in  India  over the weekend, said there
would have been “less dithering and more decisiveness” had she
-- rather than Obama -- been responding to the turmoil in Libya.  Possible Stalemate  The criticism took on added urgency yesterday as Obama and
his military commanders said U.S. forces were not aiming to oust
Qaddafi, raising the prospect that the airstrikes could lead to
a prolonged stalemate between the Libyan leader and rebel forces
seeking to remove him.  “It is U.S. policy that Qaddafi needs to go. And we’ve got
a wide range of tools in addition to our military efforts to
support that policy,” Obama told reporters at a news conference
in  Chile , a stop on his three-nation Latin American tour. “But
when it comes to our military action, we are doing so in support
of UN Security Resolution 1973 that specifically talks about
humanitarian efforts, and we are going to make sure that we
stick to that mandate.”  ‘Clearly Define’  Representative Ileana Ros-Lehtinen, the Florida Republican
who heads the House Foreign Affairs Committee, said she was
“concerned that the president has yet to clearly define for the
American people what vital United States security interests he
believes are currently at stake in Libya.”  “We need to know what the president believes ultimately
must be accomplished in Libya to protect and advance U.S.
interests there,” she said in a March 20 statement.  That same day, House Speaker  John Boehner , an Ohio
Republican, said in a statement that Obama’s administration
“has a responsibility to define for the American people, the
Congress, and our troops what the mission in Libya is, better
explain what America’s role is in achieving that mission, and
make clear how it will be accomplished.”  Such an explanation should come, Boehner said, “before any
further military commitments are made.”  Frank ‘Disappointed’  Some Democrats criticized the degree of U.S. involvement in
the conflict, saying allies should be shouldering more of the
effort and that the U.S. military should be downsizing its
worldwide footprint to help reduce the government’s budget
deficit. Representative  Barney Frank , a Massachusetts Democrat,
said yesterday he was “disappointed” that U.S. planes were
involved.  “The countries closer to Libya should have been doing
it,” Frank said on public television’s “ Charlie Rose ” program.
“I’m afraid this is going to be another case where they leave
it to America to do it.”  Obama wrote yesterday to Boehner and Hawaii Democrat Daniel Inouye, the president pro tempore of the Senate, officially
informing them of the military activities.  “United States forces are conducting a limited and well-
defined mission in support of international efforts to protect
civilians and prevent a humanitarian disaster,” Obama wrote.
“We will seek a rapid, but responsible, transition of
operations to coalition, regional, or international
organizations that are postured to” carry out the UN Security
Council resolutions authorizing the action.  Democrats’ Concerns  Some Democrats charged that Obama has failed to lay out a
cohesive justification for action.  “We have a military operation that’s been put into play,
but we do not have a clear diplomatic policy or a clear
statement of foreign policy that is accompanying this military
operation,” Senator  Jim Webb , a Virginia Democrat and Vietnam
combat veteran, said on  MSNBC .  The criticism focusing on process, rather than substance,
is an indication that most U.S. lawmakers are waiting to see how
the conflict unfolds before staking out a position on it, said
James M. Lindsay of the  Council on Foreign Relations .  “It’s all hostage to events. If Colonel Qaddafi is pushed
out next week, the president will be hailed a hero even if
people in think-tank world write articles about the shortcomings
of his decision-making process,” Lindsay said. “If this goes
on for months, it won’t matter that the president thought long
and hard about it and made all the right calculations -- he’ll
have lost the debate.”  War Declaration  Even before the onset of airstrikes March 19, Democrats
were calling on Obama to come to Congress for a war declaration.
Representative John Larson of  Connecticut , the House Democrat in
charge of the party’s message, said Obama should seek a formal
war authorization even if it meant calling lawmakers back to
 Washington  from a weeklong break for a joint session of
Congress.  “Congress and the nation must have the opportunity to
consider what is being proposed, what the potential implications
of that action would be, and whether we, as a nation, wish to
undertake the full consequences of that action,” Representative
Jerrold Nadler, a New York Democrat, said in a statement.
“Where there is no imminent threat that does not allow for
prior consideration, we must follow that process.”  Jay Carney , the president’s chief spokesman, said Obama
“did consult with members of Congress,” including an hour-long
session from the White House Situation Room for Democratic and
Republican leaders and key committee members after the UN vote.  “We take very seriously the need to consult with
Congress,” Carney said at a briefing yesterday in Santiago.
“We would welcome any action they would do to show support.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in Washington at 
 jdavis159@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  