-- 
Hungarian Shares Jump on Deutsche Telekom Buybacks, Rising Oil

-- B y   K r y s t o f   C h a m o n i k o l a s
-- 
2011-03-21T17:10:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/hungary-stocks-jump-to-highest-in-1-1-2-weeks-as-mol-otp-rally.html
  Hungary ’s main equity index jumped
the most in three weeks, as Magyar Telekom Nyrt. rallied after
its majority owner,  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) , said it plans to buy
back minority stakes. Rising oil boosted Mol Nyrt.  The BUX gauge of stocks gained 1.8 percent to 22,554.46 at
the 5 p.m. close in Budapest, its biggest one-day advance since
Feb. 25. Magyar Telekom jumped 2.8 percent to 590 forint, a
four-month high. Nearly 7 million shares in the country’s
biggest phone operator changed hands, almost four-times the
daily average in the past three months.  “Interest in Magyar Telekom shares is probably driven by
speculation about higher chances for a minority buyout by
Deutsche Telekom after divestment in the U.S.,” Igor Muller, an
analyst at Wood & Co. brokerage in  Prague , wrote in an e-mail.  Deutsche Telekom rose as much as 16 percent today, the most
on record, after the company said it will sell its U.S. wireless
unit to AT&T Inc. for $39 billion. The German company said late
yesterday it will use the proceeds to slash debt and funnel
about 5 billion euros ($7.1 billion) into share buybacks.  “Consolidation of the European telecom market starts to
look more realistic” after the expectation that Deutsche
Telekom would seek full control of its Hungarian unit “has been
in the markets for many years,” Muller wrote today.  Mol, Hungary’s biggest oil company, rose 1.2 percent to
23,330 forint, after losing 1.9 percent in the previous session.
OTP Bank Nyrt., the country’s largest lender, added 2.4 percent
to 5,498 forint, its biggest one-day gain in three weeks.  Stocks rose worldwide after Japanese Prime Minister  Naoto
Kan  said progress is being made in restoring power to nuclear
reactors damaged by the March 11 earthquake. Crude oil jumped to
more than $102 a barrel as allied officials said attacks by the
U.S., U.K. and  France  grounded Muammar Qaddafi’s air force.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Krystof Chamonikolas in Prague at 
 kchamonikola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  