-- 
UN Answers Libyans’ Cry for Freedom With Global Protection

-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n   a n d   B i l l   V a r n e r
-- 
2011-03-21T16:44:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/united-nations-responds-to-libyans-cry-for-freedom-with-global-protection.html
The cheering on the streets of
Benghazi when the  United Nations  approved military action
against Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi  signaled something critics
have long doubted: that the UN can play a vital role in an
exploding crisis.  The Obama administration and its European allies said they
wouldn’t have begun armed intervention without the legality
conferred by the UN Security Council, and the resolution adopted
by a 10-to-0 vote with 5 abstentions puts Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon in the middle of its implementation.  “This is 21st century intervention, an extraordinary step
that pushes the envelope for the UN,” Jeff Laurenti, UN analyst
at the New York-based Century Foundation research group, said in
an interview. Intervening in an internal conflict such as Libya
“goes beyond previous non-aggression measures such the steps
taken against Iraq after the invasion of  Kuwait  in 1990.”  The UN action on Libya contrasts with its failure to
intervene in the 1994 genocide in  Rwanda , and the difference
drew praise from those who have previously criticized the world
body for its response to human-rights abuses, including Kenneth Roth, executive director of the New York-based Human Rights.  Preventing Atrocities  “The Security Council has defied expectations and risen to
the occasion by making clear that all options are on the table
to prevent mass atrocities,” Roth said in a statement. It now
needs to deal as decisively with other crises, such as halting
“mass atrocities” in Ivory Coast, Myanmar and  Sri Lanka , he
said.  Libya is a “relatively easy case of a brutal dictator with
few friends,” Roth said.  President Barack Obama’s decision to work through the UN
also contrasted with then-President  George W. Bush ’s move to
sidestep the Security Council when he invaded Iraq in 2003.
Then, the U.S. withdrew a draft resolution to authorize military
force against  Saddam Hussein  when it became clear it wouldn’t
pass and began the invasion two days later -- eight years ago
this week.  Adopting two Libya sanctions resolutions in three weeks,
the first approved unanimously after some behind-the-scenes
differences, shows the Security Council’s ability to act even
with some internal discord.  China  and  Russia  refrained from
casting vetoes that would have reflected their objections.
Aspiring permanent members  Brazil ,  Germany  and  India  expressed
their concerns by abstaining instead of voting against.  Internal Divisions  “The UN has gone through decades when the international
community has experienced gross violations of civilian
populations,” Ban said in an interview March 19 in Paris, where
he was briefed on the allied attacks. “Sometimes the UN was not
able to take proper measures because of the divisions of member
states. I am encouraged that the member states and the  Security
Council  have shown their leadership.”  Ban arrived last night in Cairo from Paris and went
straight to a meeting with Egyptian Foreign Minister Nabil El- Arabi. He met today with Amr Moussa, general secretary of the  Arab League , who said the group remains committed to the no-fly
zone in Libya.  Ban said the UN “stands ready to help protect civilians
and promote reform.” He condemned violence against
demonstrators in  Yemen  and cited rising violence in Bahrain.
“You cannot hold back demands for democracy and reform,” he
said.  Tahrir Square  The secretary general was forced to drop plans to walk
through Tahrir Square -- scene of massive demonstrations last
month that toppled President Hosni Mubarak -- before flying to
Tunis. Ban was turned back after he left the press conference
and was surrounded by a group of about 40 pro-Qaddafi
demonstrators chanting “Down, Down USA!” and waving their
fists at the secretary general.  The Security Council has scheduled talks on the allied
military action for 3 p.m. today in  New York , at the request of
Qaddafi’s foreign minister, Musa Kousa. In a March 19 letter to
the Security Council Kousa asks for “an emergency meeting in
order to halt this aggression, which is not aimed at protecting
civilians, as is purported, but rather to strike civilian sites,
economic facilities and sites belonging” to  Libya ’s army.  In addition to invoking Chapter 7 of the UN Charter, which
authorizes military action to force compliance with UN demands,
the no-fly resolution in seven instances either tells
governments to report to Ban on their military action, or gives
him a vital role in other enforcement tools. He must report to
the Security Council weekly on its implementation.  The no-fly resolution also marks the first implementation
of the 2005 global agreement on the “responsibility to
protect,” a doctrine that says collective action is justified
when a government commits acts of genocide or other atrocities
against its people. Bush and 170 other world leaders reached the
accord at a UN summit in New York.  ‘Hesitant’ Endorsement  “Since that controversial principle was introduced, it has
been endorsed in general and hesitant terms,” Bruce Jones,
senior fellow at the Washington-based  Brookings Institution  said
in an e-mail. “Libya was the first time it’s been forcefully
invoked in respect of a specific crisis.”  The resolution, adopted afterObama last week decided to
back a no-fly zone, also shows his administration’s commitment
to the UN and ability to work closely with Ban.  Bush was publicly antagonistic during his first term,
particularly after former Secretary-General Kofi Annan declared
the  Iraq  war to be illegal because it wasn’t explicitly
authorized by the Security Council.  Ban’s relationship with Bush was “not a harmonious one”
at first, Ban said in an interview in January at Bloomberg News
headquarters in New York. That changed gradually in Bush’s
second term, he said, as the U.S. sought UN help imposing
sanctions to block Iran’s nuclear ambitions and to end the
conflict in the Darfur region of  Sudan .  Obama Embraces UN  Obama has embraced the UN system in a way Bush never did.
The U.S. joined the Geneva-based Human Rights Council, supported
a General Assembly declaration urging the decriminalization of
homosexuality and gave government funds to a UN agency that
offers abortion counseling. Obama also backed a treaty to
regulate the trade in conventional weapons and agreed to
strengthen the nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty.  “The U.S. has taken very strong leadership and a
determined, principled position,” Ban said of the
administration’s role in getting the no-fly resolution adopted.  An Italian government official, who requested anonymity
because he wasn’t authorized to be identified in public
statements, credited the combination of Obama’s leadership and
Ban’s characteristic behind-the-scenes diplomacy for overcoming
concerns of Brazil, China, Germany, India and Russia to get the
no-fly resolution passed.  “The solicitude by  Washington  for the Security Council”
shows the Obama administration has “learned to play with others
in the global sandbox,” Laurenti said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson in Rome at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net ;
Bill Varner in New York at 
 wvarner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  