-- 
Hutchison May Pay ‘Survival’ Premium in U.K. Spectrum Sale

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 
2011-03-21T07:00:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/hutchison-may-pay-survival-premium-in-4-3-billion-u-k-spectrum-auction.html
Britain’s sale of mobile-phone
frequencies, potentially raising 2.6 billion pounds ($4.3
billion), may force  Hutchison Whampoa Ltd. (13)  to pay a “survival
premium” as competition among the four operators intensifies.  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) ,  Telefonica SA’s (TEF)  O2 unit, Everything
Everywhere and Hutchison are waiting to hear how frequencies
needed for fourth-generation networks will be sold. Regulator
Ofcom will this week set out rules for the 2012 auction and
start talks. Hutchison’s 3 unit, the smallest of the four, said
it may be forced out if it fails to win enough spectrum.  The auction will sell frequencies equivalent to three-
quarters of the spectrum currently being used by operators.
Carriers need the bandwidth to cope with data demand as users
watch films and surf the Web on smartphones including Apple
Inc.’s iPhone and handsets using Google Inc.’s Android system.  “It’s going to define the industry landscape for a
generation, we absolutely know that,” said Hyacinth Nwana, a
partner for spectrum policy at Ofcom.  The number of operators fell to four from five after  France
Telecom SA (FTE)  and  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE)  merged their British units to
form the largest company, Everything Everywhere, ahead of O2 and
Vodafone. The market may consolidate further without
intervention in the auction from the regulator, 3 said.  Ofcom, which said it will consider the market environment
ahead of the sale, must choose whether to support competition
among the operators or “gamble with consolidation,”  Kevin Russell , 3’s chief executive officer, said at an industry
conference on March 15.  Spectrum Needs  Hutchison Whampoa rose as much as 3.1 percent in  Hong Kong ,
and traded 2.8 percent higher at 87.20 HK$ ($11.18) at 2:46 p.m.  Hutchison entered the U.K. market in 2000 when the
government sold third-generation licenses. The five operators
spent a total of 22.5 billion pounds acquiring licenses at the
time. Hutchison began offering services in 2003 and invested
more than $12 billion in spectrum and the network.  All the companies are seeking access to the valuable 800
megahertz band of low spectrum that can travel long distances
with fewer expensive base stations.  “You will ultimately need a lot of spectrum to have a
sustainable market share,” Russell said. Hutchison’s 3 may need
to win 30 percent to 40 percent of all frequencies available in
the auction to reach its target for market share of more than 15
percent, he said.  3 is demanding a reserved slot in the 800 megahertz band to
prevent it being squeezed out in the bidding. Alongside
Everything Everywhere, it is also seeking a cap on bids for the
low frequencies, a view opposed by the other operators.  Government Limits  The U.K. government in July lifted a cap on how much of the
most-coveted frequencies O2 and Vodafone could buy. While Ofcom
may still impose limits, the proposals would enable the two
operators to pull ahead of rivals as they develop faster
networks.  “We do expect them to impose a sub-1 gigahertz cap,”
 Nicolas Ott , head of regulation and strategy at Everything
Everywhere, said in an interview. “If it’s not there it will be
very surprising.”  Vodafone and Telefonica are the only U.K. companies to hold
low-frequency 900 megahertz airwaves. Orange and T-Mobile hold
five times as much of the 1.8 gigahertz band than the other two
operators combined.  “We’re rather skeptical of arguments to skew spectrum in
favor of one operator or another,” said David Rodman, head of
regulatory affairs at Vodafone U.K. at a conference in  London 
this month. Hutchison’s 3 may need to pay a “survival
premium,” he said.  Auction Delayed  The U.K. auction has been delayed for more than two years
as the regulator faced legal challenges. Under the current
timetable, bidding will take place in the first quarter of 2012,
with spectrum starting to become available for use from 2013.  The U.K. auction will follow the sale of low frequencies in
Sweden and Germany, designed to enable operators to roll out
fourth-generation networks. The German auction last year raised
4.38 billion euros ($6.2 billion) from the disposal of airwaves
previously used to broadcast television services.  Based on the amounts spent in Sweden and  Germany , the 800
megahertz band may be sold for between 1.4 billion pounds and
2.4 billion pounds in the U.K., according to  Analysys Mason , a
research firm in Cambridge, U.K. The sale of 2.6 gigahertz
frequencies may be valued at about 225 million pounds, according
to bidding in Germany.  Operators may bid a “strategic premium” to force 3 to
exit the market, Stephen Lerner, director of regulatory affairs
for 3, said in an interview. “The greatest boost to the
profitability of Vodafone, O2 and Everything Everywhere would
come from 3 being pushed out of the market.”  Constraints  Ofcom’s decision in January to free up existing spectrum
for the three other operators for faster data services has
altered the market in the runup to the auction, by giving them
additional frequencies, 3 said. The company doesn’t have any
spectrum on a second-generation network.  The U.K., once at the forefront in  Europe  in offering
faster wireless networks, has been constrained by trying to
ensure competition amongst the operators, said Chi Onwurah, the
Labour spokeswoman for business, who also helped to roll out a
mobile-phone network in  Nigeria  for operator MTN.  “Trying to maintain competition is one of the reasons why
Ofcom has had so few auctions,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan Browning  in London 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel in London at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  