-- 
Vodafone, European Operators Soar on T-Mobile USA Valuation in AT&T Bid

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g   a n d   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l
-- 
2011-03-21T12:34:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/vodafone-rises-as-verizon-seen-to-gain-from-at-t-t-mobile-deal.html
European telecommunications stocks
soared on optimism about their valuations after  AT&T Inc. (T)  agreed
to buy  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) ’s  T-Mobile USA  for about $39 billion.  The Stoxx 600 Telecommunications Index climbed as much as
4.3 percent, the steepest gain in 10 months. The acquisition,
the largest in the wireless industry since 2004, showed
investors that some assets may be more valuable than previously
estimated, analysts said.  “Suddenly assets that were no-hopers may be worth more in
a bid,” said Steve Malcolm, an analyst at Evolution Securities.
The deal “changes a lot of things. Everyone assumed T-Mobile
was in a bit of a hole in the U.S.”  AT&T is offering a multiple of 7.1 times T-Mobile USA’s
2010 adjusted earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization. In the last five years, the median deal price for
a telecommunications company has been 4.5 times Ebitda,
according to Bloomberg data.  Deutsche Telecom jumped more than 16 percent, its biggest
intraday gain on record, pulling in its wake shares of  Vodafone
Group Plc (VOD) , the world’s largest mobile-phone company, which
climbed as much as 5.3 percent.  France Telecom SA (FTE)  rose as much
as 3.5 percent.  The AT&T deal cuts the number of mobile-phone operators in
the U.S., benefitting Vodafone’s wireless joint venture with  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ) , according to analysts including  Robin Bienenstock  at Sanford C Bernstein.  ‘De Facto Duopoly’  The T-Mobile USA deal turns the U.S. market into “a de
facto duopoly,” between AT&T and Verizon, the analysts said.
Verizon is unlikely to bid for the third-largest operator Sprint
Nextel Corp. because of antitrust concerns, they said.  Verizon Communications has said previously it would like to
buy Vodafone’s 45 percent stake in the venture. The AT&T deal
may act as a “benchmark in terms of valuation” for Vodafone,
said James Crawshaw, an analyst at Standard & Poor’s Equity
Research in  London .  Deutsche Telekom Chief Financial Officer Timotheus Hoettges
warned future transactions may not command similar valuations.  “If there is a wave of consolidation - and keep in mind
this is the largest telecommunications industry transaction in
10 years - the one that is the first out of the gate can achieve
the highest price,” he said on a conference call today. “Why?
Because the war chests of those that want to consolidate are
still full. With this in mind, we are happy that we are ahead of
others in having found this solution. Whether there will be
further consolidation, I don’t want to speculate.”  Sector Positive  The deal is “positive news flow from the sector
standpoint,” said  Boris Boehm , who helps manage about 1.1
billion euros at Aramea Asset Management in Hamburg. “I don’t
think it’s enough steam to really push these stock prices
forward.”  Deutsche Telekom is selling T-Mobile USA after the unit
reported profit declines in four of the past five years.  Europe ’s biggest phone company trailed rivals in the U.S. in
building out a third-generation mobile network and missed out on
offering Apple Inc.’s iPhone.  “If you look at it on a per-subscriber basis, it’s fairly
similar to deals involving AT&T in the past,” notably the SBC-
AT&T merger that created the modern AT&T,” said Philip Redman,
research VP at Gartner Inc in Hingham, Massachusetts.
“Certainly it’s in the range of what’s been paid.”  Meanwhile,  Hellenic Telecommunications Organization SA (HTO) ,
Greece’s biggest phone company, climbed as much as 10 percent.
Deutsche Telekom, which owns a 30 percent stake in the company,
has an option to acquire shares if the Greek government sells
down its stake.  To contact the reporter on this story:  Jonathan Browning  in London 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net . 