-- 
WaMu Wins Approval for Creditor Vote on Bankruptcy Plan

-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 
2011-03-21T21:17:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/wamu-wins-approval-for-creditor-vote-on-bankruptcy-plan-1-.html
Washington Mutual Inc. (WAMUQ) , the former
owner of the biggest  U.S. bank  to fail, won permission to send
its revised bankruptcy plan to creditors for a vote, setting up
a repeat of a court fight the company lost in December.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Mary F. Walrath in Wilmington,
Delaware, ruled today that the plan’s so-called disclosure
statement contains enough information to allow the vote. Walrath
ordered the company to add more details to the statement after
hearing from creditors and shareholders who have fought over the
plan for more than two years.  Walrath last year refused to approve WaMu’s plan to pay
creditors more than $7 billion until the company and its backers
agreed to make changes. The new version incorporates all of
Walrath’s requests, supporters of the plan said in court.  “We do believe strongly in this plan of reorganization,”
 Fred Hodara , an attorney for the official committee of unsecured
creditors, said in court. “We do believe it is critical that
this disclosure statement go out now so we can stay on track.”  Attorneys for both sides declined to comment as they left
the courtroom.  Wamu, based in  Seattle , filed for bankruptcy on Sept. 26,
2008, the day after its banking unit was taken over by
regulators and sold to  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  for $1.9 billion.
Washington Mutual Bank was the biggest bank to fail in U.S.
history, with more than 2,200 branches and $188 billion in
deposits.  Creditors’ Vote  Walrath will consider the vote of creditors on May 2 when
she is scheduled to hold a hearing on the plan.  Not all of the creditors who originally voted will be
eligible to vote this time, Walrath ruled.  The company’s 5 percent bonds due in 2012 rose 2 percent to
111.25 cents on the dollar according to Trace, the bond-price
reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  Walrath has already approved the central feature of the
bankruptcy plan, which is an agreement among WaMu’s biggest
creditors, banking regulators and JPMorgan to split billions of
dollars in tax refunds and cash.  After WaMu filed for bankruptcy in 2008,  hedge funds  bought
debt securities, some for pennies on the dollar, issued by the
 bank holding company  and its former banking unit, Washington
Mutual Bank. The hedge funds then battled each other,
shareholders, creditors, regulators and JPMorgan, over how to
divide the company’s assets.  Cash and Refunds  WaMu ended most of the arguments last year by agreeing to
split about $4 billion in cash and tax refunds of as much as
$5.8 billion among some of its creditors, including the hedge
funds, JPMorgan and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.  The hearing in May will involve groups of creditors and
shareholders who have long opposed the plan. They have filed
objections to the revised plan that are similar to the
complaints they made in December. Walrath did not rule on some
of the issues that creditors and shareholders have fought over.  Noteholders are battling each other over how much interest
WaMu’s senior creditors, who will be paid in full, will receive.  A group of investors who own a specialized form of debt
called trust preferred securities are in dispute with senior
creditors over whether the securities became worthless when WaMu
filed bankruptcy.  Interest, Securities  The arguments over interest and the securities, which
involves details of bankruptcy law, could be worth more than $1
billion, Seth Ard, an attorney representing WaMu shareholders,
said in court.  Walrath ordered WaMu to add an analysis of how the
different  interest rates  would affect creditors and to include
an estimate of how much some company assets, including real
estate, are worth.  The company must also begin mediation with a group of
creditors who hold litigation-tracking warrants related to a
lawsuit.  Shareholders oppose WaMu’s plan because it pays them
nothing. They argue that WaMu’s bank should never have been
seized by regulators and sold to JPMorgan. Shareholders claim in
court records that a lawsuit over the seizure and sale would win
enough money to pay all of WaMu’s debts and leave something for
them.  The case is In re Washington Mutual Inc., 08-12229,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington,  Delaware , at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Rovella at 
 drovella@bloomberg.net  