-- 
Premier Wen Jiabao Says ‘Urgent Steps’ Needed on China’s Trade Imbalance

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-03-21T13:18:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/wen-says-urgent-steps-needed-to-narrow-china-s-trade-imbalance-with-u-s-.html
Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao ,
speaking to a group of executives including  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) 
Chief Executive Officer Jamie Dimon, said “urgent” steps are
needed to narrow the nation’s trade imbalance with the U.S.  The world’s second-biggest economy posted a trade surplus
of $183 billion last year, dropping for the second straight
year, according to government data. Almost all of China’s trade
surplus comes from bilateral trade with the U.S., Wen said today
in Beijing.  “Urgent steps should be taken to close the trade
imbalances between the two countries,” Wen said while meeting
with foreign executives that also included Royal Dutch Shell Plc
Chief Executive Officer Peter Voser, HSBC Holdings Plc Chief
Executive Officer  Stuart Gulliver  and Saudi Arabian Oil Co.
Chief Executive Officer Khalid Al-Falih.  The Group of 20 nations are working to formulate a method
for monitoring and avoiding international trade and capital-flow
imbalances blamed in part for sparking the global financial
crisis.  China , which reported a trade deficit for February, has
made bolstering domestic consumption and reducing its reliance
on exports for growth a major economic target in its five-year
plan that covers the period from 2011 through 2015.  Wen said today the U.S. should foster Chinese investment in
its economy and relax restrictions on American exports to China
as part of efforts to address the trade imbalance. The Chinese
premier said he made the same suggestions to U.S. President  Barack Obama  in September 2009.  ‘Not Happened’  “But that has not happened,” Wen said. “We hope the U.S.
will further ease its restrictions on  market access .”  Global economic imbalances have been marked by low savings
and high rates of consumption in the U.S., U.K. and other
developed nations, versus greater savings and lower levels of
consumption in China,  India  and other emerging markets. This
pattern of demand “will have to change,”  Bank of England 
Governor  Mervyn King  said last month.  China, the world’s biggest exporter, reported a $7.3
billion trade deficit for February, the biggest in seven years.
The nation may post a total trade deficit for the first three
months of the year, Commerce Minister  Chen Deming  said March 20.  JPMorgan’s Dimon, HSBC’s Gulliver and other executives are
in Beijing for an annual meeting with Chinese government leaders
called the China Development Forum. At last year’s event, Wen
appealed to executives including Ford Motor Co.’s  Alan Mulally 
for their help in convincing their governments to avoid a global
currency war.  Equal Treatment  Wen pledged today at the meeting that was also attended by
Chinese Central Bank Governor  Zhou Xiaochuan  and Commerce
Minister Chen that foreign companies in China would receive the
same treatment as domestic Chinese companies. Intellectual
property rights will also be protected, Wen said.  “I feel optimistic about the  U.S. economy , about the
European economy and the whole world economy,” Wen said. It
won’t take long for the U.S. to “get back on the track of a
strong recovery,” he told the executives.  Domestically, Wen said he pays “attention most” to
inflation. The government needs to strike a balance between a
sufficient pace of economic growth that generates jobs and also
managing consumer price increases.  Wen also said China’s banks “now face new challenges,”
including the risk of new nonperforming loans after the country
successfully reduced bad debts in the banking sector over the
past decade.  Healthcare Spending  Responding to a question from  Novartis AG (NOVN)  Chief Executive
Officer Joseph Jimenez, Wen said the government would work to
increase health-care reimbursements and further expand health
care coverage, which now covers about 1.24 billion people, or
about 90 percent of China’s population.  Wen said the government plans to increase average health-
care subsidies to about 300 yuan per person from 200 yuan in the
next two to three years. He also said China’s pharmaceutical
industry lagged behind the global standard.  The Chinese premier also pledged to fight official
corruption, saying it “poses the biggest threat” to the
country and comparing it to “cancer cells.”  “No matter how good the infrastructure is in a country, if
there is bad corruption, I don’t believe there will be a
favorable investment climate,” Wen said. “It will also be
impossible for that country to achieve sustainable
development.”  Wen said political reform was necessary to combat graft.  --Michael Forsythe. Editors:  John Liu , Chua Kong Ho  To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Michael Forsythe in Beijing at 
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  