-- 
Wheat Declines on Signs Demand for U.S. Exports Slowing to Mideast, Japan

-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 
2011-03-21T19:09:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/wheat-futures-gain-for-third-session-as-adverse-weather-threatens-supply.html
Wheat futures fell for the first
time in three sessions on signs that demand is shrinking for
exports from the U.S., the world’s largest shipper.  About 25.7 million bushels of wheat were inspected for
export in the week ended March 17, down 9.9 percent from a week
earlier, the  U.S. Department of Agriculture  said today. Wheat
futures touched a five-month low last week after the earthquake
and tsunami in  Japan  damaged ports, while political unrest in
northern Africa and the Middle East threatened to disrupt trade.  Exports are “seeing a little bit of a slowdown, because
we’re still waiting to see what happens with the Middle East,
and Japan is still uncertain,” said Jamey Kohake, a broker and
branch manager at Paragon Investments in Silver Lake, Kansas.  Wheat futures for May delivery fell 2 cents, or 0.3
percent, to settle at $7.21 a bushel at 1:15 p.m. on the Chicago
Board of Trade, after climbing as much as 2.6 percent. The
commodity is up 49 percent in the past year, as drought cut
output in  Russia  while floods hurt crops in  Australia .  In the U.S., parts of Minnesota and South Dakota were under
 flood warnings  today as snow melted and rivers rose, according
to the National Weather Service. In Kansas, the largest winter-
wheat growing state, only 26 percent of crops were in good or
excellent condition as of March 13 because of dry weather,
government data show. Rain in the southern Great Plains will be
“limited” for the next 10 days, Commodity Weather Group said.  “Some areas of western Kansas don’t have very good wheat
stands at all,” said  Jason Britt , the president of brokerage
Central States Commodities Inc. in  Kansas City ,  Missouri . “You
could lose a little acreage.”  Winter wheat is planted in the Midwest and central and
southern Plains from September to early November, goes dormant
until March, and is harvested from June to August. Spring wheat,
grown primarily in north-central and northwest states, is
planted in April and May and harvested from August to September.  Wheat was the fourth-biggest U.S. crop in 2010 at $13
billion, behind corn, soybeans and hay, government data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney McFerron in Chicago at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net . 