-- 
Kansas Winter-Wheat Crop Conditions Improve; Texas Worsens

-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 
2011-03-21T21:38:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/winter-wheat-crop-conditions-improve-in-kansas-texas-worsens.html
Winter-wheat conditions in  Kansas 
improved last week after “modest rainfall,” while crops in
 Texas  and Oklahoma deteriorated, the  U.S. Department of
Agriculture  said.  About 27 percent of the crop in  Kansas , the biggest U.S.
winter-wheat grower, was in good or excellent condition as of
yesterday, up from 26 percent a  week earlier , the USDA’s
National Agricultural Statistics Service said today in a report
on its website. More than an inch of rain fell in some southeast
and east-central parts of the state, while western areas
received “little to no moisture,” the USDA said.  “Dry conditions continue throughout many areas of Kansas
as modest rainfall was short of the much needed moisture last
week,” according to the USDA office in Topeka.  In  Texas , 14 percent of plants got the top ratings, down
from 18 percent a week  earlier , the USDA said.  Oklahoma ’s  crops 
were rated 24 percent good or excellent,  down  from 27 percent a
week earlier. Those states were the second and third biggest
U.S. winter-wheat  growers  last year.  About 50 percent of hard-red winter-wheat growing areas in
the southern U.S. Great Plains have had less than half of the
normal amount of rainfall in the past 30 days, said Mike Tannura, the president of T-Storm Weather LLC in Chicago. Most
regions will remain dry for the next seven to 10 days, he said.  ‘Stormy Weather’  “While the central U.S. will have a stormy weather pattern
through the end of March, most of those storm systems likely are
going to bypass the hard-red winter-wheat belt, especially the
driest areas,” Tannura said. “Most of the precipitation will
fall to the north and east of these areas, leaving things
similarly dry heading into early April.”  Wheat futures for May delivery fell 2 cents, or 0.3
percent, to settle at $7.21 a bushel at 1:15 p.m. today on the
 Chicago  Board of Trade. Earlier, the grain climbed as much as
2.6 percent on speculation that dry weather in the U.S. Great
Plains and floods in northern growing areas would erode crops.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney McFerron in Chicago at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net . 