-- 
Wisconsin Asks Appeals Court to Block Order Halting Union Bargaining Law

-- B y   M a r i e   R o h d e   a n d   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 
2011-03-21T22:27:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/wisconsin-asks-appeals-court-to-block-order-halting-union-bargaining-law.html
Wisconsin ’s attorney general asked
an appeals court to block a state judge’s order that temporarily
halted a law curbing government employee unions’ collective-
bargaining power.  State Attorney General J.B. Van Hollen today also asked the
Wisconsin Court of Appeals for permission to file an appeal
seeking to overturn the ruling by Circuit Court Judge Maryann
Sumi.  “Contrary to established case law, the trial court
injected itself into the legislative process and enjoined a
legislative act,” Van Hollen said in court papers filed today
in Madison. “There is absolutely no authority for the broad,
overreaching step taken.”  Sumi on March 18 granted a temporary restraining order
blocking publication of the measure signed into law by Governor
 Scott Walker  on March 11, after a hearing in Madison, the
state’s capital city. Publication gives the law full force and
effect.  The legislation championed by Walker, a first-term
Republican, requires annual recertification votes for union
representation and makes voluntary the payment of union dues. It
exempts firefighters and police officers.  Organized labor and Democrats called the bill an attack on
workers. Opposition sparked almost four weeks of mass protests
at the Capitol.  Publication Blocked  Dane County District Attorney Ismael R. Ozanne, acting on
four filed complaints -- three by elected officials and one by a
union leader -- asked the court to bar publication. In addition
to being the state capital, Madison is the  Dane County  seat.  Sumi’s order temporarily blocked Wisconsin Secretary of
State Douglas La Follette from publishing the text of the law.
La Follette, a Democrat who is also a defendant in Ozanne’s
lawsuit, had said he planned to publish the law by March 25.  Sumi lacked jurisdiction to hear the case, Van Hollen told
the appeals court in today’s filing. The four legislators named
as defendants in the case are immune from lawsuits while in
session and La Follette can’t be barred from carrying out his
statutory duties, Van Hollen said.  “The trial court did not have the jurisdiction to
interfere with the legislative process,” the attorney general
said in the filing. “It is only after the ministerial, non-
discretionary act of publication of an act -- that is after the
law is in force -- that a trial court may visit the issue of the
constitutionality of that law.”  Deadline Tomorrow  The prosecutor didn’t return a voice-mail message seeking
comment.  The appeals court late today issued an order directing the
Ozanne to respond by 4 p.m. tomorrow to  Van Hollen ’s assertion
that Sumi had no jurisdiction to block La Follette’s publication
of the law.  “Any remaining arguments the District Attorney wishes to
make in response to the petition for leave to appeal and
accompanying request for temporary relief,” must be filed by 4
p.m. on March 23, the court order said.  Ozanne accused the four Republican lawmakers of violating
the state’s open-meetings law when they gathered to craft a
legislative measure that was then passed by both houses and
signed by Walker.  Two Hours’ Notice  State law required 24 hours’ notice before the legislation
could be considered by the joint committee of six senate and
assembly members, the prosecutor said in a March 16 filing. The
legislators gave less than two hours’ notice of their March 9
meeting, according to Ozanne’s complaint.  Assistant Attorney General Maria Lazar told Sumi last week
the joint committee had passed a rule that superseded the open-
meetings law.  Under the new law, state workers would contribute about 5.8
percent of their salaries toward pensions and pay 12.6 percent
of their health-insurance costs. The legislation would generate
$30 million in savings this fiscal year and $300 million in the
next two, the governor has said.  Fourteen Democratic members of the state Senate boycotted
the proceedings producing the law, including Minority Leader
 Mark Miller . He would have been one of six legislators, two from
his party and four Republicans, to comprise the joint-conference
committee.  Sumi was appointed to the bench in 1998 by then-governor
Tommy Thompson, a Republican. She was elected in 1999 and 2005
without running on a party line, an assistant to the judge,
Molly Schroder, said in a telephone interview.  The case is State of Wisconsin Ex Rel. Ozanne v.
Fitzgerald, 11cv1244, Dane County, Wisconsin, Circuit Court
(Madison). The appellate case is Ismael Ozanne v. Jeff
Fitzgerald, 2011AP613-LV, in the Wisconsin Court of Appeals,
District 4 (Madison).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Rovella at 
 drovella@bloomberg.net  