-- 
Yemen Faces a Revolt as Army Leaders Defect From Saleh to Join Protesters

-- B y   M o h a m m e d   H a t e m   a n d   V i v i a n   S a l a m a
-- 
2011-03-21T21:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/yemen-faces-a-revolt-as-army-leaders-defect-from-saleh-to-join-protesters.html
Thousands of Yemenis spent the
night on streets across the country to maintain pressure on
President Ali Abdullah Saleh, who is facing a growing internal
revolt by army leaders, ministers and diplomats.  Military officers including Ali Muhsin al-Ahmar, commander
of the first armored division, and Mohammed Ali Muhssein,
commander of the eastern region, abandoned the regime yesterday.
Their move was a result of the crackdown three days ago that
left dozens dead, said Mohammed al-Sabri, an opposition leader.  “The defections will certainly speed up Saleh’s ouster,”
 Susanne Dahlgren , Academy of  Finland  research fellow at the
Helsinki Collegium for Advanced Studies, who wrote “Contesting
Realities: The Public Sphere and Morality in Southern Yemen,”
said in a phone interview. “It’s not possible to turn back
now.”  Tanks and military vehicles belonging to the Yemeni
Republican Guard, headed by Saleh’s son Ahmed, were deployed
around the presidential palace. Army units took up positions
around key government buildings and bank offices in the capital,
Sana’a, without intervening against protesters.  Some soldiers joined demonstrators in Taghyeer Square, the
site of the March 18 killing of at least 46 people when police
and pro-regime gunmen shot at a crowd and snipers opened fire
from rooftops.  Al-Ahmar issued a statement late yesterday in which he
appealed to “his brothers in the security and army” to ignore
any orders to use violence against protesters and join the
opposition, Al-Arabiya television reported.  ‘Peaceful Demands’  “You should keep the achievements of the country and stand
by your brothers and their peaceful demands,” he said.  French Foreign Minister Alain Juppe said yesterday that
Saleh’s exit is “becoming unavoidable.” The U.S. wants Saleh
to address the demands of protesters and seek a peaceful
solution to his regime’s crisis, a State Department spokesman
said.  Saleh “needs to do more,” Mark Toner told reporters in
 Washington  yesterday. Toner declined to call for Saleh, an ally
of the U.S. fighting al-Qaeda in Yemen, to step down.  The country’s national defense council, chaired by Saleh,
met yesterday to discuss measures to restore stability. Defense
Minister Mohammad Nasser Ali said on state television afterwards
that no “coup against democracy” would be allowed.  “People here do not care about the defense minister’s
speech because he and his president are no longer legitimate,”
Mohammed Saeed al-Sharabi, a protest activist said by telephone
late yesterday. “The legitimacy is now for the massive number
of people at the protest sites across the country.”  ‘Chaos, Violence’  Saleh said those calling for “chaos, violence, hatred and
vandalism” are the minority and that most people support the
constitutional legitimacy of his government, state-run Saba
reported yesterday.  The violence was the worst seen in two months of protests
against Saleh and has intensified opposition efforts to oust
him. The crackdown prompted three ministers, including those
responsible for human rights and tourism, dozens of members of
parliament and at least three diplomats to quit. Mohammed al-
Shadadi, the deputy speaker of parliament, also resigned.  Saleh, who said official security forces weren’t to blame
for the massacre, sacked his Cabinet March 20, and prosecutors
issued 10 arrest warrants in connection with the deaths.  Sheikh Sadek Al-Hashid, the head of Yemen’s most
influential and second-biggest tribe, the Hashid, said yesterday
they support the popular revolt against Saleh’s regime,
according to his assistant, Abdulqawi Al-Kaisi.  ‘Already Gone’  “The regime of Saleh is already gone,” Abdulbari Taher,
an independent political analyst, said in an interview in
Sana’a. “However, I think Saleh will struggle and maneuver to
ensure that he exits without being held accountable or be sued
later.”  Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton , on a visit to Yemen in
January, said that Yemen-based terrorists are an “urgent
concern” for the U.S.  Yemen, which gets about $300 million a year in U.S.
security and humanitarian assistance, stepped up operations
against al-Qaeda after the attempted bombing of a Detroit-bound
plane in December 2009. Steps included air strikes targeting the
group’s camps.  Yemen is also struggling to quell two internal revolts, and
its domestic conflicts have in the past entangled Saudi Arabia,
the world’s largest oil exporter.  In 2009, Saudi Arabia got drawn into the struggle between
Yemen’s Shiite Muslim Houthi rebels and the government after the
rebels killed a Saudi soldier during a cross-border incursion.
Yemen’s government accused the Shiite government of  Iran  of
arming the Houthis.  Saudi Arabia  sent troops to another neighbor, Bahrain, last
week to help local Sunni rulers repress Shiite-led protests.  Foreign Policy magazine and the Fund for Peace ranked Yemen
15th of 60 countries on their 2010 Failed States Index, saying
only Afghanistan, Iraq and  Pakistan  are in worse shape among
nations in  Asia  and the Middle East.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mohammed Hatem in Sana’a at 
 mhatem1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net  