-- 
Yen Drops, Asian Stocks Advance as Nuclear Risk Eases; Oil Rises on Libya

-- B y   S h i y i n   C h e n   a n d   S h a n i   R a j a
-- 
2011-03-21T08:08:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/yen-drops-asian-stocks-advance-as-nuclear-risk-eases-oil-rises-on-libya.html
The yen fell for a second day while
stocks and commodities gained after Japan made progress in
cooling nuclear reactors at a crippled plant. Oil jumped after
the U.S., U.K. and France attacked military targets in Libya.  Japan’s currency slid 0.6 percent to 81.04 per dollar at 4
p.m. in  Hong Kong . The Swiss franc was the next worst performer
among the world’s 16 most-used currencies. The MSCI Asia Pacific
excluding Japan Index increased 1.3 percent and the Stoxx Europe
600 Index added 1.1 percent. Futures on the Standard & Poor’s
500 Index advanced 1 percent. Crude oil rallied 1.6 percent in  New York . Japan’s markets are closed for a holiday.  Billionaire  Warren Buffett  said Japan’s record earthquake
presents a buying opportunity and he won’t be selling assets in
the nation. Japanese Prime Minister Naoto Kan said progress is
being made in restoring power to two reactors at the Fukushima
Dai-Ichi plant, which was damaged by the March 11 temblor and
ensuing tsunami. In  Libya , allied officials said air and missile
strikes have effectively grounded Muammar Qaddafi’s air force.  “Investors are gaining confidence that despite all the
event risk that markets have been exposed to in the last eight
weeks or so, recovery in global growth will remain fairly
solid,” said Prasad Patkar, who helps manage about $1.8 billion
at Platypus Asset Management Ltd. in Sydney. “As an investor,
you can deal with the downside from natural disasters and wars a
lot better if there is some comfort that the economic
fundamentals will remain protected.”  Yen Intervention  The yen extended its retreat from a post-World-War II high
of 76.25 per dollar reached March 17. Derivatives traders cut
wagers on gains after  Europe ’s central bank, the  Federal Reserve 
and the  Bank of Canada  joined the  Bank of Japan  in selling the
currency on March 18. Japanese Finance Minister  Yoshihiko Noda 
said the coordinated interventions are an attempt to limit the
damage a strong currency will have on the nation’s economy.  The yen surged 5.2 percent in the week after its biggest-
ever earthquake struck, triggering a tsunami that killed more
than 8,000 people and knocked out cooling systems at the
Fukushima plant. The disaster sparked speculation the nation’s
insurers and investors would repatriate funds.  “Joint or solo intervention is still possible in the
currency markets,” said  Marito Ueda , senior managing director
in  Tokyo  at FX Prime Corp., a foreign-exchange margin company.
“This may help to halt risk aversion, which could be positive
for equities and negative for the yen.”  The franc slipped 0.3 percent to 90.42 per dollar and by
0.3 percent to 1.2812 to the euro.  Tokyo Electric Power Co. engineers are testing electrical
equipment at the No. 1 and 2 reactors before the company
attempts to revive reactor cooling systems. A power cable was
connected to the No. 3 and 4 reactors.  Takeovers, Acquisitions  Treasuries fell, sending the yield on the 10-year note
higher by five basis points to 3.32 percent. Futures on the S&P
500 signal that U.S. stocks may be headed for a third day of
gains. Data this week will probably show U.S. home sales fell in
February while orders for long-lasting goods climbed.  Futures also gained after  AT&T Inc. (T)  agreed to buy T-Mobile
USA from Deutsche Telekom AG for about $39 billion in cash and
stock to create America’s largest mobile-phone company. Deutsche
Telekom jumped as much as 16 percent.  More than three stocks rose for each that fell on MSCI’s
Asian Index. The Kospi index climbed 1.1 percent after Buffett,
the chief executive officer of Berkshire Hathaway Inc., said
South Korea is a “hunting ground” for acquisitions even as U.S.
companies remain more likely to be his targets.  Posco (005490)  gained 1.2
percent after Buffett told reporters he’s invested more than $1
billion in the South Korean steelmaker.  Oil Climbs    Paladin Energy Ltd. (PDN) , the uranium producer whose shares
slumped 24 percent last week, rose 2.5 percent in Sydney trading.
PetroChina Co. advanced 3.3 percent in Hong Kong and  Cnooc Ltd. (883) 
climbed 3.6 percent as  oil prices  gained.  Crude oil for April delivery increased 1.6 percent to
$102.66 a barrel in New York.  Brent crude  for May settlement
rallied 1.2 percent to $115.31 a barrel on the London-based ICE
Futures Europe exchange.  A no-fly zone is now in place over Libya, Admiral Mike
Mullen, chairman of the U.S. Joint Chiefs of Staff, said
yesterday. The coalition ordered Qaddafi to withdraw his forces
from major cities after weeks of fighting with rebels that has
left hundreds dead in the bloodiest of popular uprisings to have
swept the Middle East this year.  Ninety percent of Bahrain Petroleum Co.’s employees went on
strike last week in response to a police crackdown on anti-
government demonstrations, while Yemen declared a state of
emergency on March 18.  Gold, Wheat  Rising energy prices spurred demand for gold and silver as
a haven. Immediate-delivery bullion advanced 0.5 percent to
$1,426.57 an ounce while silver jumped 1.4 percent to $35.7350.  Wheat increased as much as 2.6 percent to $7.4175 a bushel
before trading at $7.2850. Farmers reaped 15.4 million metric
tons less than demand this season, the biggest shortage in four
years, and stockpiles will drop 7.8 percent, the  U.S. Department
of Agriculture  says.  The grain will average $8 a bushel on the Chicago Board of
Trade in the second quarter, 11 percent more than the $7.23
reached March 18, according to the median forecast in a
Bloomberg survey of 22 analysts.  Corn for May delivery rose 0.9 percent to $6.8975 a bushel.  The Series 15 Markit iTraxx Asia index of swaps linked to
50 investment-grade borrowers outside  Japan  began trading today
at 116 basis points, according to Credit Agricole SA. That
compares with a closing price of 110 basis points for Series 14
on March 18, according to data provider CMA.  The Markit iTraxx Australia index of swaps on 25 companies
was at 108 basis points, compared with close of 110 points for
the previous series, Credit Agricole and CMA prices show.  New series of the benchmarks are created every six months
when companies are added or dropped depending on their ratings,
cost of protection and ease of trading.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shiyin Chen in  Singapore  at 
 schen37@bloomberg.net ;
Shani Raja in Sydney at 
 sraja4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  