-- 
Euro Reaches Five-Month High Against Dollar on Outlook for ECB Rate Boost

-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n
-- 
2011-03-22T12:21:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/yen-falls-on-prospect-haven-demand-to-drop-as-nuclear-siutation-stabilizes.html
The euro reached a five-month high
against the dollar amid speculation the European Central Bank
will raise  interest rates  next month to tame inflation.  Britain’s pound surged as data showed consumer-price growth
surpassed economists’ forecasts. European Central Bank Executive
Board member Gertrude Tumpel-Gugerell and Governing Council
member Yves Mersch both said yesterday that “strong vigilance”
is necessary to keep a lid on inflation. The Dollar Index, which
tracks the U.S. currency against six major peers, fell to a 15-
month low. New Zealand’s dollar rose for a third day.  “It’s a risk-on and monetary tightening story,” said
 Jeremy Stretch , executive director of foreign-exchange strategy
at Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce in London. “Euro-dollar
is a beneficiary of that, and looks like it’s going to continue
to trade higher.”  The euro rose 0.1 percent to $1.4239 at 8:20 a.m. in  New
York  and reached $1.4249, the highest since Nov. 5. The currency
has climbed for four straight days, the longest streak since the
five days ending Jan. 27. The Dollar Index fell 0.1 percent to
75.292, the lowest since December, 2009.  The euro may extend its advance and reach $1.4280, Stretch
said.  Japan , ECB  The yen depreciated 0.1 percent to 115.38 per euro,
approaching a two-week low, as Japan made progress restoring a
crippled nuclear plant’s cooling systems. Against the dollar, it
was little changed at 80.98.  Japan has been battling for 12 days to prevent a meltdown
after the plant north of  Tokyo  was damaged in the March 11
earthquake and tsunami, leading to explosions at the steel-and-
concrete structures around the reactors and overheating fuel
rods. The yen soared to a postwar high on March 18 on
speculation local insurers were repatriating overseas assets to
pay for reconstruction, prompting Group of Seven nations to sell
the currency to weaken it and bolster Japanese exports.  European Central Bank  officials have indicated the economic
uncertainty caused by Japan’s earthquake may not deter them from
a rate increase at their next meeting on April 7. ECB Governing
Council member  Guy Quaden  is due to speak in Brussels today.  ECB President Jean-Claude Trichet told the European
Parliament yesterday he has “nothing to add” to his March 3
remarks, when he said policy makers may raise the benchmark rate
from a record low of 1 percent at their next meeting.  Pound, Kiwi  The pound rose as much as 0.6 percent to $1.641, the
highest since January 2010, as inflation data bolstered the case
for the  Bank of England  to increase rates. Against the euro,
sterling appreciated 0.4 percent to 86.88 pence.  Consumer prices rose 4.4 percent in February from a year
earlier, according to the Office for National Statistics, higher
than the 4.2 percent median forecast of economists in a
Bloomberg News survey.  “The market is just viewing that as ammunition for a rate
rise,” said  Gavin Friend , a markets strategist at National
Australia Bank Ltd. in  London .  New Zealand’s dollar appreciated 1.1 percent to 74.41 U.S.
cents. The  International Monetary Fund  said the nation’s central
bank may need to raise rates “relatively quickly” once the
economy begins to recover. Australia’s dollar rose 0.6 percent
to $1.0124.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net . 