-- 
Mylan Sues U.S. FDA to Block Ranbaxy’s Sale of Lipitor Copy

-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r ,   C a t h e r i n e   L a r k i n   a n d   A d i   N a r a y a n
-- 
2011-03-21T13:31:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/mylan-sues-fda-seeking-to-block-ranbaxy-s-lipitor-copy-approval.html
Mylan Inc. sued the U.S.  Food and
Drug Administration , seeking to block  India ’s  Ranbaxy
Laboratories Ltd. (RBXY) ’s exclusive rights to sell a generic version
of  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) ’s cholesterol pill Lipitor, the world’s best-
selling medicine.  Mylan and other generic-drug makers should be allowed to to
enter the market as soon as Lipitor’s patent expires in June
because of manufacturing violations at two Ranbaxy factories in
India, Mylan said in a complaint filed March 18 in federal court
in  Washington . Ranbaxy, 64 percent owned by Tokyo-based Daiichi
Sankyo Co., fell the most in almost two years in Mumbai.  Ranbaxy has said it is entitled to 180 days of marketing
exclusivity as a reward for being the first to challenge the
Lipitor patents. The drugmaker, based in Gurgaon near  New Delhi ,
reached an agreement with Pfizer in 2008 to sell copies of the
medicine beginning Nov. 30. The FDA has yet to clear any of the
generic competitors as equivalent to brand-name Lipitor.  “It’s the first time someone is openly challenging
Ranbaxy’s exclusivity for Lipitor,” said Bino Pathiparampil, a
Mumbai-based analyst at India Infoline Ltd. “It is
incrementally negative for sure” for Ranbaxy.  Ranbaxy fell 7 percent, the sharpest decline since May 26,
2009, to 436.05 rupees at the 3:30 p.m. close in Mumbai. That
made it the worst performer of the day on the Bombay Stock
Exchange 200 Index.  Ranbaxy declined to comment on the lawsuit in an e-mail
statement.  What’s At Stake  The six-month period of exclusivity may add as much as $585
million to Ranbaxy’s sales, according to the median of four
analysts’ estimates taken before today’s lawsuit. That would
make the generic version the biggest product in the Indian
drugmaker’s history. Ranbaxy had sales of 85.5 billion rupees
($1.9 billion) last year.  In its complaint, Mylan contends that Ranbaxy isn’t
eligible for that marketing exclusivity because of “false and
unreliable data” from its manufacturing site in Paonta Sahib,
India, used in Ranbaxy’s application for generic Lipitor.  Mylan said it wrote to the FDA in January and February, and
met with agency officials on Feb. 14 to ask whether Ranbaxy’s
claim to the marketing exclusivity or the entire application
would be denied because of the improper information. The FDA
hasn’t answered those questions, the company said.  “FDA’s indecision is depriving millions of Lipitor
patients access to lower-cost generic Lipitor,” Mylan, based in
Canonsburg,  Pennsylvania , said in its complaint. It’s “costing
the public billions of dollars in savings, and costing generic
manufacturers billions of dollars in lost sales.”  ‘Tainted by Misconduct’  Mylan wants a court to force the FDA to say publicly
whether Ranbaxy’s application “is tainted by Ranbaxy’s
misconduct” and that therefore the application must be denied
and the 180-day reward voided. A victory for Mylan would let it
enter the market in June, when some of the Lipitor patents
expire.  Ranbaxy is working with regulators to resolve outstanding
questions and is confident that it will get the FDA approval for
its copy this year, Chuck Caprariello, a company spokesman, said
in an interview last month. The company is working to move
manufacturing of generic Lipitor to  New Jersey , he said.  Lipitor sales fell 6 percent to $10.7 billion last year as
generic competitors arrived in Spain and  Canada . New York-based
Pfizer’s product has been the world’s biggest-selling medicine
for the past 10 years.  The case is Mylan Pharmaceuticals Inc. v. U.S. Food and
Drug Administration, 11-566, U.S. District Court for the  District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net ;
Catherine Larkin at 
 clarkin4@bloomberg.net .
Adi Narayan in Mumbai at 
 anarayan8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Allan Holmes at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net ;
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net  