-- 
You Will Survive ‘Priscilla’ and Shake Your Booty, Too: Review

-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 
2011-03-21T02:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/you-will-survive-priscilla-shake-your-groove-thing-too-jeremy-gerard.html
There’s a bus onstage at the Palace
Theatre, where Judy Garland and Liza Minnelli once ruled.  And while no one’s singing a remix of “Over the Rainbow,”
there’s more than a Technicolor dose of Oz on display in the
raucously winning disco musical “Priscilla, Queen of the
Desert.”  Oz, of course, is  Australia , where Tick is ready to call it
quits on a less than glamorous life as a drag queen in Sydney.  Opportunity knocks when the woman he married seven years
ago in a strange flight of fancy calls from the boonies -- in
this case, the desert resort Alice Springs. It’s time, she says,
for him to meet his son and by the way, she’s in desperate need
of a drag show at her club.  That’s totally believable, isn’t it?  Surely as believable as the two comrades in charms that
Tick recruits. First up is Bernadette, a somewhat long-in-the-
tooth transsexual who could make a rousing Lady Bracknell down
the street in “The Importance of Being Earnest.” Then there’s
Adam, aka Felicia, a heedless young stud who looks as good in a
miniskirt as he does in a jock strap. Soon they’re off on a
trans-continental trek that makes “Ishtar” look like a romp.  Disco Hit Parade  On the road to Alice, an unending parade of disco hits
unfolds, each one glitzier and more resplendently iridescent
than the last.  “What’s Love Got to Do With It” demands a herky-jerky
faux-Tina Turner; “Like a Virgin” a similar take on Madge.  Act I ends with the inevitable “I Will Survive.” Act II
kicks off with “Thank God I’m a Country Boy” worthy of Tommy Tune. The aerobically exhausting choreography is by Ross
Coleman, the hypnotic orchestrations and musical supervision are
by Stephen “Spud” Murphy and the staging -- campily
sentimental -- is by Simon Phillips.  Maybe none of their contributions would matter without the
sheer giddy-making blitzkrieg of costumes by Tim Chappel and
Lizzy Gardiner. There are cupcake skirts and cowboy boots and
more falsies than a convention of Victoria’s Secret models. Nick
Schlieper’s blazing lighting is a character in its own right.  So what if Stephan Elliott and Allan Scott’s crude book,
based on Elliott’s film “The Adventures of Priscilla, Queen of
the Desert,” panders to a crowd that doesn’t need winning over?
The first act works too hard and Will Swenson’s voice seems to
be on the verge of going on strike.  Nevertheless, he’s pretty winning as Tick; so is Nick Adams
as Felicia.  A cut above, for bringing tremendous heart to a predictable
role, is Tony Sheldon as the touching Bernadette. Hats off too
to C.  David Johnson  as lovable Bob, the man of Bernadette’s
dreams. Bring your dancing shoes.  At the Palace Theatre, 1564 Broadway, near 48th Street.
Information: +1-877-250-2929;  http://www.telecharge.com . Rating:
**1/2  (Jeremy Gerard is an editor and critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Jeremy Gerard in  New York  at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 