-- 
Zardoya Otis Full-Year Revenue May Miss Analyst Estimates

-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i
-- 
2011-03-21T08:26:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-21/zardoya-otis-full-year-revenue-may-miss-analyst-estimates.html
  Zardoya Otis SA (ZOT) , the Spanish
elevator unit of  United Technologies Corp. (UTX) , said its sales may
miss analyst estimates this year as the country’s real-estate
slump reduces new installations.  An estimate of 889.1 million euros ($1.26 billion) for the
fiscal year through November, the average figure of seven
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg, may be “too optimistic,” Chief
Executive Officer Pedro Sainz de Baranda said. Revenue will be
closer to that of last year, when it fell 2.5 percent to 862.8
million euros, he said. Zardoya Otis will do its best to keep
net income at last year’s levels, he added.  “2011 will be a difficult year because the Spanish economy
isn’t showing any clear signs of recovery,” Sainz de Baranda
said in an interview at his Madrid office. “I see a stable
sales volume on maintenance services with a likely decline in
new installations sales in  Spain ,” compared with 2010. “I
don’t see any growth drivers in our business yet.”  Zardoya Otis doesn’t foresee any recovery in property until
2012 at the earliest, and “there’s no guarantee” because of a
glut of unsold real estate, the 47-year-old executive said. He
became CEO of the Madrid-based company in June 2009.  The real-estate industry feeds new installations, which
represent about 17 to 18 percent of the company’s sales, and are
a source of growth, Sainz de Baranda said. The company enjoys
higher gross margins in services than in new installations, he
added, without providing further details.  Building Output  “The worst declines are over,” Sainz de Baranda said. New
installations have “reached a valley and I hope this isn’t too
long and we see it climbing soon.”  Building output, including residential, non-residential and
renovation activities, and excluding public works, fell 9.3
percent last year, Spanish industry group Seopan said in a March
3 report, forecasting a 2 percent to 5 percent drop this year.  “What the company really needs right now is to keep its
maintenance prices,” Ana Fuentes, an analyst at Banco BPI SA in  Madrid , said by phone. “It would be very difficult for them to
pass on to customers last year’s inflation rate given the
current Spanish economic situation and consumption outlook.”  The Spanish government is slashing wages and raising taxes
in the deepest austerity measures in three decades. The headline
rate of inflation was 2.9 percent in December, based on European
Union calculations, compared with 0.9 percent a year earlier.  Service Prices  Sainz de Baranda said he’s “optimistic” of being able to
increase service prices as much as 3 percent this year. “It’s a
very peculiar year as it seems there’s inflation and very low
economic activity,” he said. “I’m convinced inflation will
fall to about 2.5 percent or 2 percent as I don’t think the
increase in prices is sustainable.”  The headline rate of inflation was 3.4 percent in February,
based on European Union calculations, highlighting price
pressure as the  European Central Bank  prepares to raise  interest
rates . ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said March 3 that
policy makers may raise the benchmark rate next month from a
record low of 1 percent.  While Spain’s economy emerged from an almost two-year
recession in 2010, government austerity measures and rising
unemployment have undermined domestic consumption. The country
has the highest  unemployment rate  in  Europe .  Zardoya Otis is suffering a second wave of payment delays
from maintenance service clients because of the current economic
crisis, Sainz de Baranda said.  Acquisition Strategy  The company’s revenue in  Portugal  this year will be similar
to that of last year, while  Morocco  is clearly growing, Sainz de
Baranda said. “Spain is by far our biggest market,” he said,
as it represents more than 80 percent, while Portugal accounts
for about 10 percent of sales and Morocco for less than that.  Zardoya Otis, whose main competitors include  ThyssenKrupp
AG (TKA) , Switzerland-based  Schindler Holding AG (SCHP)  and Helsinki-based  Kone Oyj (KNEBV) , is in talks to make further acquisitions and its
market share in Spain stands at about 25 percent, the executive
said. “During the last few years we’ve acquired an average of
three smaller regional companies annually and we hope to keep
that up this year,” he said.  Zardoya Otis, which has paid dividends for the past 30
years, plans to continue paying shareholders almost all its
profit in dividends, he said.  The company’s shares fell 10 percent in a year before today
in Madrid trading, valuing the company at 3.87 billion euros.  Schindler Holding rose 14 percent in Zurich in the period,
while ThyssenKrupp rose 5.8 percent in  Frankfurt .  United Technologies has a 50 percent stake in Zardoya Otis,
according to Bloomberg data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net  