-- A-Rod ‘Sideshow’ Drives Ticket Prices Up 24% as Yankees Slump
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2013-08-08T16:39:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-08/a-rod-sideshow-drives-ticket-prices-up-24-as-yankees-slump.html
Interest in “the sideshow” of  Alex Rodriguez ’s Yankee Stadium season debut after injuries and a
record drug ban is driving secondary ticket-market sales as  New
York ’s playoff chances diminish.  The average resale price for the Yankees’ home game
tomorrow night against the  Detroit Tigers  has risen 24 percent,
to $112 from $90, since Aug. 5, when Rodriguez was given a 211-game doping ban, according to ticket aggregator  TiqIQ . Available
seats are down 47 percent, to about 5,000, since the
announcement.  Rodriguez, the Yankees’ third baseman and designated
hitter, filed an appeal yesterday allowing him to play until the
drug penalty is resolved. The three-time Most Valuable Player is
batting .273 in three games since returning from January hip
surgery hours after being banned by baseball Commissioner  Bud Selig . The Yankees last night dropped their fourth straight game
and third since Rodriguez’s return, falling 11 1/2 games behind
first-place Boston in the  American League East , their biggest
deficit of the season.  “The best way to quantify this increase is to say that
fans want to see the sideshow,” Chris Matcovich, a spokesman
for New York-based TiqIQ, said in an e-mail. “The team has
obviously been struggling as of late, but the circumstances
surrounding Rodriguez have piqued an interest among even casual
fans.”  The cheapest tickets for the matchup between pitchers Rick Porcello of the Tigers and Ivan Nova of the Yankees are $49, a
104 percent increase since Aug. 5. The least expensive entry the
following day is $26.  Eyewitness Views  “They want to see first-hand how people react, as well as
express their own sentiment toward A-Rod,” said Matcovich.  The Yankees’ 6-5 loss to the  Chicago White Sox  last night
dropped New York to 57-56, in fourth place in the five-team AL
East. Idle today, a loss tomorrow would drop the Yankees to .500
for the first time since April 13, when they were 5-5.  New York also is seven games out in the race for one of two
AL wild-card berths, trailing six other clubs. The wild cards go
to the non-division winners with the best records.  Selig said when suspending Rodriguez that the 38-year-old
All-Star used testosterone and human growth hormone over
“multiple years” and tried to “obstruct and frustrate”
baseball’s investigation of a now-defunct anti-aging clinic in
 Florida  that was supplying athletes with banned drugs.  Twelve other major-leaguers accepted 50-game sanctions on
Aug. 5, leaving Rodriguez as the only player to appeal.  The return of Rodriguez to the Yankees helped produce the
highest television rating of the season for the team’s regional
network, where viewership for games has dropped about 36 percent
from a year ago.  The Aug. 5 game between the Yankees and the White Sox in
 Chicago  drew a 4.3 rating on the Yankees Entertainment & Sports
Network, according to figures provided by YES. The previous high
was a 4.2 for the Yankees’ game against the  New York Mets  on May
27, according to YES.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  