-- Adecco Earnings Beat Estimates as CEO Sees Europe Turning
-- B y   P a t r i c k   W i n t e r s
-- 2013-08-08T15:59:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-08/adecco-earnings-beat-estimates-as-ceo-sees-europe-turning-2-.html
Adecco SA (ADEN) , the world’s largest
provider of temporary workers, posted a 12 percent increase in
second-quarter earnings and signaled signs of a turnaround in
 Europe . The shares rose to the highest price since March 2011.  Net income rose 12 percent to 126 million euros ($168
million), beating the 112.1 million-euro average estimate of
eight analysts in a Bloomberg survey. Organic sales declined 3
percent to 4.9 billion euros, the Glattbrugg, Switzerland-based
company said in a statement today.  “Labor markets are starting to stabilize around Europe and
we see some more positive signs in our business,” Chief
Executive Officer Patrick De Maeseneire said today in a
statement. “The steady improvement so far this year is
encouraging for the second-half outlook.”  De Maeseneire, the former chief of  Barry Callebaut AG (BARN)  who
became head of Adecco in 2009, has presided over a share-price
rise of about 35 percent this year, as the decline in Europe’s
job market slowed. The euro area probably exited recession in
the three months through June after a record six quarters of
economic contraction, according to a survey of economists
compiled by Bloomberg.  Adecco closed 3.74 percent higher at 62.40 euros in Zurich,
giving the company a market value of 11.8 billion francs ($12.8
billion).  Halt Declines  Second-quarter revenue fell 12 percent on an organic basis
in  France , which accounts for about 25 percent of group sales.
In Iberia revenue declined by 2 percent while in Germany,
Austria and Italy sales were flat on the same quarter a year
earlier, Adecco said.  Monthly sales will stop declining in the second-half
compared with the same period a year earlier, “let’s say after
the summer between September and December,” De Maeseneire said
in a phone interview today.  Adecco and  Randstad Holding NV (RAND)  said July 11 they’re among
temporary-staffing companies that are being probed by French
regulators investigating whether they infringed competition
rules. Adecco is fully cooperating with regulators, the company
reiterated today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Winters in Zurich at 
 pwinters3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tim Farrand at 
 tfarrand@bloomberg.net  