-- Adidas Cuts Forecasts as Quarterly Profit Misses Estimates
-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z   a n d   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s
-- 2013-08-08T07:36:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-08/adidas-cuts-forecasts-after-quarterly-profit-misses-estimates.html
Adidas AG (ADS)  cut its 2013 forecasts
because of “lackluster” sales in Europe and unfavorable
currency impacts after reporting second-quarter profit that
trailed analysts’ estimates.  Adidas said full-year goals will now be more challenging to
meet. The Herzogenaurach, Germany-based sporting-goods maker
expects full-year sales to rise by a “low- to mid-single-digit
rate on a currency-neutral basis” from a previous forecast of
“mid-single digit” percentage growth, it said today in a
statement. The shares fell 2.9 percent to 83.30 euros at 9:17
a.m. in Frankfurt.  Second-quarter net income rose 4.2 percent to 172 million
euros ($230 million), compared with the 175.8 million-euro
average estimate of 13 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Sales
declined 3.8 percent to 3.38 billion euros, compared with the
3.43 billion-euro average estimate. Excluding currency swings,
sales were unchanged.  Adidas follows cross-town rival  Puma SE (PUM)  in reporting worse-than-expected sales as austerity measures weigh on consumer
spending in Europe and currency fluctuations penalize growth.
Adidas expects “top-line momentum” to improve in the remaining
quarters of 2013 with the fourth quarter set to be “stronger
than normal,” it said.  Currency Swings  Quarterly sales rose 6 percent in Greater China, 7 percent
in other Asian markets and 21 percent in Latin America,
excluding currency swings, Adidas said. Sales fell 2 percent in
North America and 11 percent in western Europe.  “While currency headwinds have added additional speed
bumps to our path in 2013, from a strategic and operational
perspective, we are absolutely on track,” Chief Executive
Officer Herbert Hainer said in the statement.  Adidas attributed western Europe’s decline to higher prior
year rates following the UEFA Euro 2012 soccer tournament and
the London 2012 Olympic Games as well as macroeconomic
challenges in the region.  The gross margin, the percentage of sales left after
production costs, widened to 50.1 percent from 48.2 percent a
year earlier, boosted by pricing and higher margin product and
regional sales mixes, Adidas said. Analysts had forecast had
49.3 percent for the margin.  Margin Forecast  Adidas raised its gross margin forecast to 48.5 percent to
49 percent, from an earlier forecast of 48 percent to 48.5
percent. The measure will benefit from growth in  emerging
markets  and in Adidas’s own shops as well as improvements at the
 Reebok  brand, though these gains will be partly offset by less
favorable hedging rates as well as increasing labor costs,
Adidas said.  Revenue at Reebok grew 11 percent on a currency neutral
basis. Hainer has vowed to revive the fitness brand after the
unit’s sales declined in each of the three years after its
acquisition in 2006 and dropped again last year. Reebok will
return to growth this year, he has said.  Other operating expenses as a percentage of sales are
expected to increase rather than decrease “modestly” as
previously forecast, Adidas said. Sales and marketing working
budget expenses as a percentage of sales are projected to be at
a similar level to last year, the company said.  The operating margin will widen “to a level approaching 9
percent” from 8 percent, Adidas said, repeating an earlier
forecast.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julie Cruz in  Frankfurt  at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Roberts in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  