-- Adidas Cuts Forecasts as Quarterly Profit Misses Estimates
-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z   a n d   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s
-- 2013-08-08T08:46:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-08/adidas-cuts-forecasts-as-quarterly-profit-misses-estimates-2-.html
Adidas AG (ADS)  cut its 2013 revenue
forecast because of “lackluster” sales of sporting goods in
 Europe  and unfavorable currency impacts after reporting second-quarter profit that trailed analysts’ estimates.  Adidas said full-year goals will now be more challenging to
meet. The German sporting-goods maker expects sales to rise by a
“low- to mid-single-digit rate on a currency neutral basis”
from a previous forecast of “mid-single digit” percentage
growth, it said today in a statement. The shares fell as much as
3.8 percent in Frankfurt.  Second-quarter net income rose 4.2 percent to 172 million
euros ($230 million), missing the 175.8 million-euro average
estimate of 13 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Sales declined
3.8 percent to 3.38 billion euros, compared with the 3.43
billion-euro average estimate. Excluding currency swings, sales
were unchanged.  Adidas’s 11 percent decline in western European sales is
“a point of concern,” said Ingbert Faust, an analyst at
Equinet Bank, who has an accumulate rating on the shares. While
sales are likely to improve in the remainder of the year, rival
“Nike’s strong market presence with the footwear products Free
and Air seems to become increasingly a challenge for Adidas.”  Men’s Soccer  Adidas, based in Herzogenaurach, has been pushing product
categories including running and fitness as it competes with
Beaverton, Oregon-based  Nike Inc. (NKE)  in a year that lacks a major
men’s soccer event. The world’s second-largest sporting goods
maker follows cross-town rival  Puma SE (PUM)  in reporting worse-than-expected sales and profit as austerity measures weigh on
 consumer spending  in Europe and currency fluctuations penalize
growth.  Adidas expects “top-line momentum” to improve in the
remaining quarters of 2013 with the fourth quarter set to be
“stronger than normal,” it said.  Adidas shares fell 0.7 percent to 85.20 euros as of 10:43
a.m. local time, giving the company a market value of 17.8
billion euros.  Quarterly sales rose 6 percent in Greater China, 7 percent
in other Asian markets and 21 percent in  Latin America ,
excluding currency swings, Adidas said. Sales fell 2 percent in
 North America .  “While currency headwinds have added additional speed
bumps to our path in 2013, from a strategic and operational
perspective, we are absolutely on track,” Chief Executive
Officer  Herbert Hainer  said in the statement.  Olympic Games  Adidas attributed western Europe’s decline to higher prior
year rates following the UEFA Euro 2012 soccer tournament and
the London 2012  Olympic Games  as well as macroeconomic
challenges in the region.  The gross margin, the percentage of sales left after
production costs, widened to 50.1 percent from 48.2 percent a
year earlier, boosted by pricing and higher margin product and
regional sales mixes, Adidas said. Analysts had forecast 49.3
percent for the margin.  Adidas raised its gross margin forecast to 48.5 percent to
49 percent, from an earlier forecast of 48 percent to 48.5
percent. The measure will benefit from growth in  emerging
markets  and in Adidas’s own shops as well as improvements at the
 Reebok  brand, though these gains will be partly offset by less
favorable hedging rates as well as increasing labor costs,
Adidas said.  Revenue at Reebok grew 11 percent on a currency neutral
basis. Hainer has vowed to revive the fitness brand after the
unit’s sales declined in each of the three years after its
acquisition in 2006 and dropped again last year. Reebok will
return to growth this year, he has said.  The operating margin will widen “to a level approaching 9
percent” from 8 percent, the company said, repeating an earlier
forecast.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julie Cruz in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net ;
 Andrew Roberts  in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  