-- Lads’ Mag Tesco Revolt Mars Family-Friendly Makeover
-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g   a n d   M o r g a n e   L a p e y r e
-- 2013-08-09T15:42:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-08/lads-mag-tesco-revolt-mars-family-friendly-makeover.html
Tesco Plc (TSCO)  is investing 1 billion
pounds ($1.5 billion) revamping its U.K. stores, with a focus on
getting families to linger and spend more. Some mothers would
rather their kids not go in them at all because of the men’s
magazines on display there.  “I’ve got a little girl and I wouldn’t want her seeing”
the so-called lads’ mags, property manager Hayley Kew, 31, said
outside a Tesco store in London’s Islington neighborhood. Kew
would be concerned if her daughter was “going to get sweets and
there’s people with their boobs hanging out.”  Last week’s pledge by Britain’s largest retailer to stop
selling minors publications such as Zoo, Loaded and Nuts and to
cover up everything but their titles on the top shelf isn’t good
enough, say women’s groups. They plan a day of protests on Aug.
24 to pressure Tesco into ditching the magazines, which are
aimed at men under 30 and typically blend scantily clad women
with a low-brow take on life, jokes and sport.  They “fuel sexist behavior and attitudes that underpin
violence against women,” said Sophie Bennett, a spokeswoman for
the ’Lose the Lads’ Mags’  campaign . While not classified by
censors as pornography, a 2010 government report said they send
a message that boys should be sexually dominant and objectify
the female body.  Even though the group wants all retailers to ditch the
titles, they singled out Tesco for its “crucial leadership
role.” The scrap undermines efforts by the Cheshunt, England-based company to rebrand out-of-town hypermarkets as family
friendly destinations in a bid to recover from last year’s first
 profit warning  in two decades as shoppers defected to cheaper
rivals and the Internet.  Unwanted Flak  Tesco shares rose 1.6 percent in London trading today as
the company said it was in talks to merge its stores in  China .
The stock has  advanced  12 percent this year.  This “is flak it doesn’t need, particularly since it’s
trying to ramp up its credentials as a family destination,”
said  Bryan Roberts , an analyst at Kantar Retail in London. “To
get rid of the magazines wouldn’t have a material impact.”  Sales of all magazines account for less than 0.4 percent of
U.K. supermarket revenue, ratings company Nielsen Holdings N.V.
estimates. Tesco’s first revamped outlet, featuring family
restaurants, coffee shops and bakeries, opens Aug. 12 in
Watford, near London -- the week before planned protests.  “We’ve listened carefully to the concerns raised by the
campaign groups, but our priority is to make sure we meet our
customers’ needs,” Tesco said in an e-mail explaining why the
magazines will stay put in more than 3,000 shops.  Britpop Era  While popular British culture is best known outside the
U.K. for exporting costume dramas like “Downton Abbey,” where
pantaloons are considered  scandalous  dress, domestic fare has
grown increasingly explicit. The first lads’ mags stormed
Britain in the 1990s, packed with articles about beer, soccer
and women, recalls Robert Lynam, head of display at media agency
MEC in  London .  “They weren’t always about boobs, but really new and fresh
and captured the spirit of what was then the whole Britpop
era,” he said. “They are now culturally irrelevant.”  Sales of IPC Media’s Nuts have slumped to about 80,000
copies a week, from more than 306,000 in 2005, Audit Bureau of
 Circulation  figures show. Zoo shifts just over 44,000, from
260,000.  Toning Down  As sales dived, flesh on show surged.  In this week’s 82-page issue of Nuts, 31 -- including the
cover -- are dominated by breasts. Almost 30 of Zoo’s 74 pages
show women either topless or in bikinis. By contrast, GQ has a
six-page swimsuit special in its 290-page August issue. All
other women are fully clothed.  Zoo publisher Bauer Media Group, which also produces the
monthly FHM, said it is “sensitive to the mood of the public”
and would tone down its covers.  Last week featured the winner of the British version of
“The Apprentice.” She’s wearing a bikini because her clothes
were “fired,” the cover explains.  The campaign comes amid an increasing debate in the U.K.
about the impact on children by an oversexualization of society
and what some see as rising sexism.  There is a separate effort to get  Rupert Murdoch ’s Sun,
Britain’s No. 1 daily newspaper, to drop its topless Page 3
Girl. While Murdoch in February tweeted that he was considering
clothing the models again, they are still bare-breasted today.
Even so, the Sun’s Irish edition yesterday said it has stopped
showing topless women on page 3 of the paper,  “to reflect the
cultural differences in Ireland.”  ’Celebrate Women’  IPC said men’s magazines like Nuts “celebrate women.”
Bikini-clad reality-TV actresses on its cover were billed as
“TV’s sexiest stars.” Inside one is asked: “How are the new
boobs settling in?”  “The magazines have been in the shops for years and they
cause no harm,” said Joanne Holding-Parsons, a mother from
Essex. “They should concentrate on getting all the child porn
off the Internet.”  Lads’ mags blur the lines between pornography and
mainstream media, according to the 2010  Sexualization of Young
People Review , which called for a mandatory code on retail
displays to keep them from young people.  No Nuts  Tesco is alone among the nation’s top four grocers to sell
the magazines without a screen known as a modesty bar. Last week
it said only that they will be placed behind other titles on
display.  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) ’s Asda,  J Sainsbury Plc (SBRY)  and
William Morrison Supermarkets Plc said they all installed the
bars at least three years ago after customer complaints.  Co-Operative Group Ltd., the fifth-largest grocer, told
Front, Loaded, Nuts and Zoo publishers to put their magazines in
modesty bags by Sept. 9 or be excluded from its 4,000 outlets.
Nuts won’t be complying, Editor Dominic Smith told the British
Broadcasting Corp. yesterday.  Some shoppers say such half measures miss the point.  “The image of women is horrible everywhere,” said
freelance journalist Harry Harris, 24. “If you want to make a
moral stand, don’t stock them.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net ;
Morgane Lapeyre in London at 
 mlapeyre@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  