-- Taiwan Ends Three-Month Economic Rift With Philippines
-- B y   C i n d y   W a n g   a n d   D e b r a   M a o
-- 2013-08-08T17:55:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-08/taiwan-ends-three-month-economic-standoff-against-philippines.html
Taiwan  yesterday ended an almost
three-month standoff with the Philippines over the killing of a
Taiwanese fisherman in disputed waters, dropping 11 economic
measures it had taken against the Southeast Asian nation.  Taiwan lifted a hiring freeze on Filipino workers and a
travel warning after the Philippines met Taiwan’s requests for a
formal apology, compensation for the victims, punishment for
those at fault and talks on fishing rights in waters claimed by
both governments, Taiwan Foreign Minister David Lin said at a
press conference late yesterday.  Philippine envoy to Taiwan Amadeo Perez met the victim’s
family yesterday and apologized, Lin said. His government agreed
to compensate the dead fisherman’s family, and both sides agreed
to seek to hold fishing-rights talks in Taipei next month, Lin
told reporters.  Taiwan, the seventh-biggest destination for Filipino
workers last year, allowed 10,000 Filipino worker visas to lapse
during the standoff, threatening to slow Philippine President
Benigno Aquino’s push to cut his country’s jobless rate.
Overseas workers account for about 10 percent of the southeast
Asian country’s gross domestic product.  Travel agencies in Taiwan, the  Philippines ’ fifth-biggest
source of tourists, canceled trips after the government
discouraged travel to the country. Visitors from the Philippines
to Taiwan dropped 8.7 percent in the first half of the year, the
Taipei-based Central News Agency reported.  Homicide Charges  Philippines investigators on Aug. 7 recommended prosecuting
eight members of its coast guard on criminal homicide charges
following an investigation into the death of 65-year-old
Taiwanese fisherman, Hung Shih-cheng. The Philippines National
Bureau of Investigation said while the incident occurred in its
economic zone, there was “no conclusive justification” for the
use of force in the incident.  Taiwan’s justice ministry said in investigation results
released yesterday that 108 bullets were fired at the fishing
vessel, which it said was operating in Taiwan waters. One hit
Hung in the neck, causing “heavy blood loss” and killing him.  Measures Taiwan also dropped yesterday include a suspension
of air-space talks and ministerial meetings under the World
Health Assembly.  Aquino’s government, under its one-China policy, doesn’t
recognize Taiwan. Mainland China requires that nations with
which it has diplomatic ties drop their government connections
with the island. Philippine envoy Perez’s official title is
chairman of the Manila Economic and Cultural Office.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cindy Wang in Taipei at 
 hwang61@bloomberg.net ;
Debra Mao in Taipei at 
 dmao5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Debra Mao at 
 dmao5@bloomberg.net  