-- Malaysia Violent Crime Wave Escalates With Shootings, Car Blast
-- B y   B a r r y   P o r t e r
-- 2013-08-08T07:31:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-08/malaysia-violent-crime-wave-escalates-with-shootings-car-blast.html
One man was executed at a traffic
light, another shot four times by motorcycle assassins and a
third had explosives detonated in his Jaguar car in separate
incidents around  Malaysia , the Star newspaper reported today.  While gun ownership is restricted, public shootings have
surged to almost one a day since July 26, according to data
compiled by police. Prime Minister Najib Razak pledged to boost
resources for fighting violent crime and introduce additional
legislation in parliament after AMMB Holdings Bhd. founder
Hussain Ahmad Najadi was shot dead in a car park last week.  Early today, a 37-year-old ethnic Indian man was gunned
down at point-blank range at a traffic light while driving in
Malaysia’s northern city of Penang, the Star said, citing police
Assistant Commissioner Gan Kong Meng. Separately, a 29-year-old
man is recovering after being shot by motorcyclists while
driving in Ipoh late yesterday, the newspaper reported, citing
police Assistant Commissioner Sum Chang Keong.  In  Kuala Lumpur , the rear end of a Jaguar belonging to an
unidentified restaurant and nightclub-owner was damaged by
explosives on Aug. 6, the Star reported today, citing police.
The case has been classified as attempted murder, it said.  The surge in violence is partly due to the abolition of the
Emergency Ordinance in 2011, which led to 2,600 hardcore
criminals and gang members being released from detention, the
malaymailonline reported July 9, citing Home Minister Ahmad Zahid Hamidi in parliament. Najib repealed the law, which
allowed suspects to be detained for as long as two years without
trial, in a bid to boost civil liberties.  Temple Killing  Voters cited crime and social problems as their biggest
concern after the  economy  in a survey of 1,018 people conducted
in December by the Merdeka Center for Opinion Research. Najib’s
coalition was returned to power in May’s general election by its
narrowest margin since independence from Britain in 1957.  Police said this week they detained four people after
Najadi, a Bahrain-born banker, was gunned down by suspected
contract killers near a temple in the Malaysian capital on July
29. The 75-year-old businessman formed Arab-Malaysian
Development Bank Bhd. in 1975, selling out after seven years.
The institution went on to become  AMMB (AMM) , now Malaysia’s fifth-largest lender by market value.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Barry Porter in Kuala Lumpur at 
 bporter10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Barry Porter in Kuala Lumpur at 
 bporter10@bloomberg.net  