-- Arms Dealer’s Associate Will Act as His Own Lawyer at Trial
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2013-08-08T22:27:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-08/arms-dealer-s-associate-will-act-as-his-own-lawyer-at-trial-1-.html
Richard Chichakli, an associate of
convicted international arms dealer  Viktor Bout , was granted
permission by a judge to act as his own attorney against charges
that he conspired to violate U.S. export restrictions.  Chichakli is accused of conspiring with Bout to purchase
aircraft made in America in violation of U.S. economic
sanctions. The men were barred from purchasing the aircraft
because the  U.S. Treasury  found they were associated with former
Liberian President  Charles Taylor , the U.S. alleges in the
indictment.  Chichakli, who said he was once in the U.S. Army, told U.S.
District Judge William Pauley that while he thought defense
lawyer Marlon Kirton was “very nice,” he insisted he was in a
better position to defend himself at a trial set to begin in
November.  “I am ready for this yesterday, I’m ready for my day in
court” said Chichakli, who told the judge he has two
doctorates, four master’s degrees, two master of business
administration degrees and nine bachelor’s degrees.  He is facing nine counts, including  money laundering  and
 wire fraud  conspiracies, violation of the sanctions and six
counts of wire fraud. Each count carries a maximum prison term
of as long as 20 years. Prosecutors said Chichakli is a citizen
of Syria and the U.S.  ‘Help Myself’  “I think I might be able to help myself better in this
case,” Chichakli said. “I am a soldier. I served in the United
States Army for a very long time. I am capable of ‘drive on,’ as
we used to say.”  After a brief adjournment so the defendant could consult
with Kirton and another lawyer, Pauley warned the defendant
about the consequences of acting as his own lawyer and later
agreed to appoint Kirton to act as “standby counsel” to aid in
his defense.  “I wish to warn you, representing yourself at trial is
unwise and in the court’s view you’d be far better represented
by an experienced criminal defense attorney,” Pauley said.  Bout, a former Soviet military officer, is serving a 25-year sentence in federal prison.  The case is U.S. v. Chichakli, 09-cr-1002, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  ( Manhattan .)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 