-- Massa Says Argentina Missed Opportunity to Take on Cheap Debt
-- B y   D a n i e l   C a n c e l   a n d   E l i a n a   R a s z e w s k i
-- 2013-08-08T15:59:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-08/massa-says-argentina-missed-opportunity-to-take-on-cheap-debt.html
Argentina’s Sergio Massa, a former
cabinet chief under President Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner,
said the government missed its chance to tap low borrowing costs
to fund development and infrastructure projects.  Massa, the 41-year-old mayor of Tigre north of Buenos Aires
who is running for the lower house in October congressional
elections, made the comments yesterday to a group of about 300
businessmen and politicians in the Alvear Palace Hotel in Buenos
Aires.  Argentina hasn’t sold debt since its record $95 billion
default in 2001, while smaller neighbors including Paraguay,
Bolivia and Uruguay have tapped international markets at rates
of less than 5 percent. The exclusion from global debt markets
also affects the ability for private companies to secure cheap
financing, Massa told business leaders that included billionaire
Eduardo Eurnekian, who runs the Corp. America holding group, and
the head of Citigroup Inc.’s local unit.  “It’s important that we had a policy of reducing debt in
the past since it allowed us to restructure and begin again,”
Massa said. “But it’s important to understand that in a world
with enormous liquidity, there are opportunities that we’re
missing out on and have to do with a biased view.”  Presidential Hopeful  Opinion polls give Massa, a Peronist Party member who leads
a group that includes dissidents from the ruling Victory Front
coalition, an advantage of five to six percentage points over
Fernandez’s candidate Martin Insaurralde heading into Aug. 11
primaries. A strong showing by Massa in October may project him
as a presidential candidate in 2015, according to Mariel Fornoni, director of Buenos Aires-based Management & Fit polling
company.  According to Fornoni’s M&F, Massa will reap 34 percent of
votes this weekend, compared with 28 percent for Insaurralde, in
the primaries for congressional candidates for Buenos Aires, the
country’s most-populated province. The poll of 2,000 people,
conducted July 23 to Aug. 1, has a margin of error of 2.3
percentage points.  Argentina has the highest borrowing costs in  emerging
markets  with an average 13.33 percent yield on its dollar bonds,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. The country restructured about
92 percent of the defaulted debt in 2005 and 2010 and continues
to battle in court with holdout creditors including billionaire
hedge fund manager Paul Singer seeking full payment.  The  extra yield  investors demand to hold Argentine debt
over U.S. Treasuries is 10.65 percentage points compared to an
emerging market average of 3.45 percentage points, according to
JPMorgan’s EMBI Global index. The government didn’t issue new
debt even when the so-called spread tightened to 1.85 percentage
points in 2007 and 4.75 percentage points in 2011.  “It’s common sense, if there are times when you can get
cheap money, take it, and if it’s expensive you should avoid
it,” Massa said. “Good administration requires common sense.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Cancel in Buenos Aires at 
 dcancel@bloomberg.net ;
Eliana Raszewski in Buenos Aires at 
 eraszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  