-- Aussie Surges to Highest This Month as China Trade Recovers
-- B y   K e v i n   B u c k l a n d
-- 2013-08-08T06:52:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-08/aussie-near-highest-this-month-as-rba-bets-pared-before-job-data.html
Australia ’s dollar surged to the
highest this month against the greenback after imports in  China ,
the South Pacific nation’s biggest trading partner, rose more
than expected in July.  The Aussie advanced for a fourth day as traders pared bets
the central bank will lower the benchmark  interest rate .
Japanese investors were net buyers of Australian  government
bonds  for the first time in almost a year, data showed today.
The currency briefly fell after a report showed Australian
employers unexpectedly cut workers last month. New Zealand’s
dollar held a two-day gain.  “The worst of China slowdown fear may have passed for now,
and that’s helping the Australian dollar,” said  John Horner , a
Sydney-based strategist at Deutsche Bank AG, the world’s biggest
currency trader. “There’s been considerable short positioning
in the currency, and given the rally we have seen in the past
few days, those positions may come under further pressure.” A
short position is a bet an asset’s price will decline.  The Australian dollar jumped 1 percent to 90.86 U.S. cents
as of 4:47 p.m. in Sydney from yesterday, after touching 90.89,
the highest since July 30. New Zealand’s currency gained 0.1
percent to 79.81 U.S. cents, after reaching 79.98 yesterday, the
most since July 31.  China Trade  Chinese imports gained 10.9 percent in July compared with a
year earlier, the General Administration of Customs said today
in Beijing, after unexpectedly falling 0.7 percent in June.
Economists predicted a 1 percent rise last month. Exports
expanded 5.1 percent, outpacing forecasts of a 2 percent
increase.  Traders held record positions betting on declines in the
Aussie versus the  U.S. dollar  last week, figures from the
Washington-based Commodity Futures Trading Commission showed.
The difference in the number of wagers by  hedge funds  and other
large speculators on a drop compared with those on a gain -- so-called  net shorts  -- was 72,573 on July 30, compared with shorts
of 63,982 a week earlier.  Japanese investors purchased a net 54.3 billion yen ($565
million) of Australian sovereign debt in June, turning net
buyers for the first time in 11 months, according to data
released today by Japan’s Ministry of Finance.  The Aussie weakened as much as 0.3 percent after the
statistics bureau said Australian employers cut 10,200 jobs in
July, and the month-before figure was revised down to 9,300
hirings. Economists polled by  Bloomberg News  predicted a gain of
5,000 positions. The  unemployment rate  was unchanged at 5.7
percent, as the participation rate fell to 65.1 percent from
65.3 percent in June.  Rate Bets  Reserve Bank  of Australia Governor  Glenn Stevens  said in a
statement on Aug. 6 after cutting the benchmark rate to a record
2.5 percent that the board “will continue to assess the outlook
and adjust policy as needed to foster sustainable growth in
demand and inflation outcomes consistent with the inflation
target over time.”  The reduction was the second this year, and extends an
 easing cycle  that began in November 2011, when the benchmark
rate was lowered from 4.75 percent.  “There’s likely to be downward revisions to growth” when
the RBA releases its Statement on  Monetary Policy  tomorrow, said
Su-Lin Ong, Sydney-based head of Australian economic and fixed-income strategy at Royal Bank of  Canada . “The macro picture
here is telling you the odds are that the Aussie continues to
adjust lower to a lower growth story.”  Australia’s dollar has fallen 10 percent over the past
three months, the most among 10 developed-market currencies
tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. New Zealand’s
dollar is the second-worst performer, with a 3.8 percent
decline.  Traders place 64 percent odds that the RBA will cut its
benchmark in December,  interest-rate swaps  data compiled by
Bloomberg show. The figure was 72 percent yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Buckland in Tokyo at 
 kbuckland1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  