-- Australia Trials Bank Liquidity Regime Ahead of 2015 Rollout
-- B y   N a r a y a n a n   S o m a s u n d a r a m   a n d   B e n j a m i n   P u r v i s
-- 2013-08-08T00:34:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-08/australia-trials-bank-liquidity-regime-ahead-of-2015-rollout.html
Australia ’s banking watchdog said it
is testing procedures for implementing a new liquidity regime
ahead of its official rollout in 2015.  Lenders have been asked to submit a proforma application to
access the central bank’s funding facility to cover their
expected shortfall of liquid assets in 2014, the Australian
Prudential Regulatory Authority said in a statement on its
website. The trial will help determine steps taken by banks to
reduce their  liquidity risk .  Due to the shortage of high-quality liquid assets in
Australian dollars, such as federal and state government bonds,
banks will be allowed to access the central bank’s funding
facility to meet Basel III rules. Under the new framework being
rolled out to address systemic shortcomings exposed by the 2008
financial crisis, banks will need to hold enough assets to
withstand at least 30 days of severe liquidity stress.  Since 2008, banks have made “steady and material
improvements to their liquidity risk profiles, but more remains
to be done,” APRA said.  Lenders have reduced their reliance on bond markets and
increased deposits to improve their liquidity profile. The share
of banks’ funding from domestic deposits has increased from 40
percent in 2008 to 55 percent at the expense of short-term debt
funding, the central bank said in its Financial Stability Review
in March.  Banks can access  Reserve Bank  of Australia’s liquidity
facility to meet Australian dollar funding shortfalls only, the
regulator said. The size of the committed liquidity facility
will be determined by estimating the available Australian high-quality liquid assets, submission of a three-year funding plan
by the banks and allowance for a buffer.  APRA plans to stick with its timetable to implement new
liquidity rules and won’t widen the range of permissible assets,
declining to follow global peers who have softened their stance,
it said in May.  Global central bank chiefs in January agreed to let banks
meet only 60 percent of the liquidity obligations by 2015, with
the full rule phased in through 2019. Those lenders may also use
some equities and securitized mortgage debt to meet the
requirements, assets which APRA will not allow.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Narayanan Somasundaram in Sydney at 
 nsomasundara@bloomberg.net ;
Benjamin Purvis in Sydney at 
 bpurvis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  