-- Canada’s Lewenza to Retire as CAW Union Joins With CEP
-- B y   E r i c   L a m
-- 2013-08-08T18:42:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-08/auto-workers-lewenza-to-retire-as-union-merges-with-cep-1-.html
  Ken Lewenza  is stepping down as
president of the Canadian Auto Workers as the union prepares to
join with the Communications, Energy and Paperworkers Union of
 Canada  to form a group representing more than 300,000 workers.  Lewenza, who has headed the CAW since 2008, and Dave Coles,
his CEP counterpart, said at a press conference today in Toronto
that they are “passing the torch.” The two endorsed Jerry
Dias, a senior CAW official, for president of the new union.  “Jerry is experienced, determined and will bring
compassionate leadership,” Lewenza, 59, whose retirement takes
effect Oct. 1, said in an interview. “Those are the real
qualities of a good leader. Jerry represented me on a majority
of the auto global strategic meetings. He will fit in like a
glove.”  The recent bankruptcy of  Detroit , the home of  General
Motors Co. (GM)  and once the center of U.S. auto manufacturing, is a
concern for neighboring Windsor, Ontario, Lewenza said.  “When a community goes bankrupt within spitting distance
of you it has a negative impact,” he said. “Will that reality
reduce cross-border activity? You have to believe that it will
have an impact. The question is how much.”  The CAW and the CEP will hold a founding convention in
Toronto on Aug. 30 to elect a leadership team for the combined
Unifor union.  Unifor Transition  Coles, 65, said he’s assisting with the transition and will
help to introduce Dias to management teams of companies such as
 BCE Inc. (BCE)  and  Resolute Forest Products Inc. (RFP)  Dias has been an
assistant to the CAW president since 2007 and also has worked as
a local union president and a shop steward.  The new union plans to focus quickly on increasing its
membership base.  “We’ll be organizing workers not currently in unions, and
I’ve had discussions with smaller independent unions looking
very seriously at Unifor,” Coles said.  David Cockfield ,  fund manager  at Northland Wealth
Management in Toronto, said Lewenza deserves some recognition
for the part he played in negotiations with the three U.S.-based
automakers during the 2008 recession when the  auto industry  was
on the brink of collapse.  ‘Deserves Credit’  “The unions had to give up a lot of ground,” said
Cockfield, whose firm manages about C$200 million ($193
million). “But when the company you’re working for has its back
to the wall, there’s no use sniping from the sidelines. The
unions behaved very responsibly, and they really helped the auto
companies weather that perfect storm. He deserves some credit
for that as well.”  Lewenza, who will become an ambassador for the new
organization as well as working locally in Windsor, said he
wouldn’t discount a run for political office. He said he hasn’t
yet had time to reflect on his tenure as the head of the CAW.  “As the sports analogy goes, I left everything on the
field,” he said. “Somewhere down the road I’ll think I
could’ve handled a particular situation differently, but
representing workers is about compassion and it is a tough job.
I always wished the results were better.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Lam in Toronto at 
 elam87@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jacqueline Thorpe at 
 jthorpe23@bloomberg.net ;
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  