-- Aviva Has Biggest Gain in Almost Two Years on Profit
-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 2013-08-08T15:48:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-08/aviva-jumps-to-two-year-high-as-insurer-beats-profit-estimates.html
Aviva Plc (AV/) , the U.K.’s third-biggest
insurer by market value, reported first-half profit that beat
analysts’ estimates as Chief Executive Officer Mark Wilson
reduced costs and sold assets after taking the job in January.  Operating profit in the six months to June 30 increased 5
percent to 1.01 billion pounds ($1.6 billion), beating the 933
million-pound prediction of 18  analysts  provided by the company.
Restructuring costs fell 10 percent to 164 million pounds and it
paid back 700 million pounds of an internal loan, London-based
Aviva said in a statement today.  The results are “satisfactory,” Wilson said on a
conference today. “We are not where we need to be just yet, we
need to be clear on that, but we are where I thought we would be
at this stage of the year. We’ve thrown our the rose-tinted
glasses and we have a much sharper more focused edge.”  Wilson, who took the job after a shareholder rebellion over
executive pay forced his predecessor Andrew Moss to resign, is
seeking to appease investors by selling assets, eliminating jobs
and cutting costs to rebuild capital depleted by the euro area’s
debt crisis. The New Zealander cut the firm’s dividend by 44
percent in March as the insurer posted a full-year loss and
wrote down its U.S. business.  Shares Gain  The  stock  surged 7.6 percent to 399 pence in  London , the
biggest gain since October 2011 and the highest level since July
2011. It has increased 7 percent this year, trailing a 22
percent advance for the FTSE 350 Insurance Index.  “Aviva is successfully executing on its restructuring plan
and we expect the stock to continue to gain traction,” Paul Bradley, an analyst at Citigroup Inc. with a buy rating on the
stock, wrote in a report. Debt reduction “will give the market
confidence that internal leverage is not necessarily a threat to
ordinary dividends.”  Net income attributable to shareholders was 693 million
pounds compared with a  loss  of 688 million pounds a year
earlier. The dividend was reduced to 5.6 pence a share from 10
pence, in line with analyst estimates.  Operational capital generated increased 3.3 percent to 936
million pounds. The insurer’s combined operating ratio, or
claims and expenses as a percentage of premiums, rose to 96.2
percent from 95.5 percent, as a 70 million-pound loss from
floods in Alberta, Canada offset better-than-expected weather in
the U.K.  Cost Target  Wilson said the company is on track to deliver its 400
million-pound cost reduction  target  for this year.  “I wouldn’t be making any assumption on headcount,” he
said on the call. There is not going to be any “big bang on
restructuring or redundancies, that is not the direction that we
are going in at all,” he said.  Wilson, who is selling or winding down assets to free up
capital, said the firm still expects to complete the sale of its
U.S. business to  Apollo Global Management LLC (APO)  by the end of the
year. Aviva agreed to sell the operation in December for $1.8
billion.  He declined to comment on the future of the insurer’s
operations in  India  after a report earlier in the week said that
the company is considering selling its 26 percent stake in its
joint venture with Dabur Group.  “India is a very small part of the business,” Wilson told
reporters. “We have a focus on  China  and South East Asia and we
are looking on with interest on the developments of foreign
investment rules. I wouldn’t rule out anything.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  