-- Aviva Beats Analysts First-Half Profit Estimates on Lower Costs
-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 2013-08-08T06:10:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-08/aviva-beats-analysts-first-half-profit-estimates-on-lower-costs.html
Aviva Plc (AV/) , the U.K.’s third-biggest
insurer by market value, reported a 5 percent increase in first-half profit as restructuring costs fell.  Operating profit climbed to 1.01 billion pounds ($1.6
billion) in the six months to June 30, compared with 959 million
pounds a year earlier, the London-based company said today in a
statement. That beat the 933 million-pound forecast of 18
analysts provided by the company. Restructuring costs fell 10
percent to 164 million pounds.  “Progress in the first six months of 2013 has been
satisfactory,” Chief Executive Officer  Mark Wilson  said in the
statement. “There are a number of areas that must be addressed,
in particular leverage, expenses and under-performance in some
of our markets.” He added that it’s “essential” that
performance its  fund management  and Irish operations improve
over time.  Wilson, who took the job in January, is seeking to appease
investors by selling assets, eliminating jobs and cutting costs
to rebuild capital that was depleted by the euro area’s debt
crisis. The New Zealander cut the firm’s dividend by 44 percent
in March as the insurer posted a full-year loss and wrote down
the value of its U.S. business.  Aviva’s combined operating ratio, or claims and expenses as
a percentage of premiums, rose to 96.2 percent in the first half
from 95.5 percent a year earlier, indicating no improvement in
underwriting. Operational capital generation climbed to 936
million pounds from 906 million pounds.  Aviva said it will pay a first-half dividend of 5.6 pence a
share compared with 10 pence a year ago. Analysts had also
estimated 5.6 pence, according to the company survey.  The company said today it expects to complete the sale of
its U.S. business by the year-end.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  