-- Avocet Seeks to Remove Entire Gold Hedge in Refinancing Deal
-- B y   T h o m a s   B i e s h e u v e l
-- 2013-08-08T10:26:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-08/avocet-seeks-to-remove-entire-gold-hedge-in-refinancing-deal.html
Avocet Mining Plc (AVM) , a miner of gold in
 Burkina Faso , said it hopes to remove all its hedged gold output
though a new debt facility as it seeks to refinance before the
end of the year.  “We do understand that the hedge is a negative,” Chief
Executive Officer David Cather said in an interview by phone
today. “It’s something we’re very mindful of and working on as
part of the refinancing package.  Avocet, based in London, plans to restructure it finances
after cutting  gold reserves  at the Inata mine in the African
nation by half earlier this year. The company will have about
100,000 ounces of gold hedged by the end of the year at $938 an
ounce, lower than the current spot price of $1,292.32.  The company also needs to repay a $15 loan facility it
agreed with Elliott Management, which owns 27 percent of Avocet,
earlier this year. It will seek to do this through a new debt
facility that will also allow the company to buy back its hedged
production, Finance Director Mike Norris said.  ‘‘In an ideal world we would remove the whole hedge and
that would free up all of the cash that’s sitting in the mine
already,” Norris said in an interview. “That would be a good
outcome and the one we’re focusing on.”  Avocet today announced a new mine plan at Inata that will
lower costs and increase gold production. Average annual output
of the metal will rise 21 percent to 116,000 ounces, while cash
costs will be 6 percent lower at $906 an ounce.  Avocet rose as much as 37 percent, the steepest intraday
gain since July 24, and traded at 19 percent higher at 10.25
pence by 10:46 a.m. in  London .  The company has been dogged by operational setbacks at
Inata. The stock tumbled 62 percent last year after Avocet cut
its output target and is still down 84 percent this year.  “We’re very confident that this plan’s extremely robust in
all gold-price environments,” Cather said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Biesheuvel in London at 
 tbiesheuvel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net  