-- Bank of America Regains Top Spot for U.S. Structured Note Sales
-- B y   K e v i n   D u g a n
-- 2013-08-08T17:11:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-08/bank-of-america-regains-top-spot-for-u-s-structured-note-sales.html
Bank of America Corp.  is poised to
become the top seller of U.S. structured notes for the second
straight year, issuing its highest proportion ever of securities
tied to stocks.  The bank leads with $3.28 billion of issuance, of which 93
percent, or $3.04 billion, is linked to equities. Morgan Stanley
is second with $2.93 billion of total sales.  Bank of America has been helped by shrinking credit risk
and surging stock markets, with the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
climbing 19 percent this year. The lender’s large network of
financial advisers also boosts the size of its deals, which
averaged $37.7 million in 2013, while competitors use electronic
platforms to issue more notes in smaller amounts.  “The comfort level with Bank of America as a credit is as
high as it has ever been,” said Liam O’Neil, a managing
director and head of the company’s markets group for global
wealth and investment management in New York. Five-year credit-default swaps tied to the bank, which reflect the cost to
protect against a default by the bank, tightened to 110.7 basis
points yesterday from 131.3 at the end of last year, according
to CMA.  In June, Bank of America passed  Morgan Stanley (MS)  as the top
issuer of structured notes this year. Lauren Bellmare, a
spokeswoman for Morgan Stanley, declined to comment on the
bank’s sales.  Largest Average  Bank of America has more than 14,000 advisers who sell
structured notes, and more than half of its private wealth
clients buy the products, said Suzanne Buchta, a managing
director of debt capital markets for structured note issuers in
New York.  Its average deal size this year is the largest for any bank
selling U.S. structured notes, Bloomberg data show. Eight of
Bank of America’s sales during the first seven months totaled
more than $100 million, the most for any issuer for the same
period since at least 2010, when Bloomberg began collecting
comprehensive data on the market.  The lender’s two biggest deals this year were both tied to
the  Dow Jones Industrial Average (INDU) , an index of 30 stocks that are
generally the leaders in their industry.  “You’re seeing a repatriation of investor dollars to the
United States,” O’Neil said. “The Dow Jones represents the
highest of the high quality.”  Bank of America sold $284.5 million of notes tied to the
benchmark on June 27. The five-year securities yield 1.22 times
the gains of the index with protection against 30 percent of
losses, according to a prospectus filed with the U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission.  Electronic Platforms  The lender’s focus on large deals contrasts with the
strategy of others such as  UBS AG (UBSN) , which sells customizable
securities using an electronic platform. Such programs, which
are becoming more commonplace in the U.S., allow banks to create
offerings smaller than $1 million that are profitable.  UBS sold $1.15 billion of structured notes this year
through July in 1,231 deals for an average of about $933,000
each, Bloomberg data show. Last year, its issuance was $2.33
billion over the same period.  Megan Stinson, a spokeswoman for UBS in New York, didn’t
return an e-mail seeking comment on the program or sales.  Bank of America has sold two notes tied to interest rates
through July for $40.6 million, compared with $730.7 million
during the year-earlier period, Bloomberg data show. Banks have
struggled to offer attractive terms on such securities as the
Federal Reserve keeps the benchmark borrowing rate between zero
and 0.25 percent for a fifth year.  Banks issued $2.95 billion of structured notes in July, the
slowest period since December, Bloomberg data show.  Banks create structured notes by packaging debt with
derivatives to offer customized bets to retail investors while
earning fees and raising money. Derivatives are contracts whose
value is derived from stocks, bonds, commodities and currencies,
or events such as changes in interest rates or the weather.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Dugan in New York at 
 kdugan4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  