-- Banks Face Tougher Risk Weights as Borg Seeks Swedish Probe
-- B y   N i k l a s   M a g n u s s o n
-- 2013-08-09T09:43:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-08/bank-risk-weights-under-scrutiny-as-borg-calls-for-swedish-probe.html
Swedish Finance Minister  Anders Borg 
said the financial regulator needs to look into raising risk
weights on banks’ mortgage assets as he suggested levels may
still be too low after being tripled this year.  “This is something the Financial Supervisory Authority
should evaluate,” Borg said yesterday in an interview in
 Stockholm . “One should really assess whether they need to be
increased.”  Borg, who says he’ll only back a European banking union if
 Sweden  is free to pursue its own regulatory targets, has
championed the nation’s drive to impose some of the world’s
strictest capital rules. Though Sweden’s four biggest banks
already exceed national  reserve requirements , Borg argues
lenders may need to do more to guard against property market
risks and record household indebtedness.  “One should really make a new assessment,” he said.  Nordea Bank AB (NDA) ,  Svenska Handelsbanken AB (SHBA) ,  Swedbank AB (SWEDA)  and
SEB AB have spent the past few years building bigger reserves
than their competitors elsewhere. Handelsbanken is now the best-capitalized major bank in the European Union under Basel III
rules, with a core Tier 1 capital ratio of risk-weighted assets
of 17.8 percent at the end of June.  Bank Shares  Shares in Swedbank, Sweden’s biggest mortgage lender and
the bank whose capital requirement would increase most if risk
weights on home loans are raised, fell today while an index of
European financial stocks gained. Swedbank lost 0.5 percent to
161.20 kronor at 11:35 a.m. in Stockholm. Bloomberg’s 44-member
index of European banks gained 0.5 percent.  The FSA has taken multiple steps to try to limit financial
industry risks, in part after credit growth exceeded levels the
government said were safe. In October 2010, the regulator capped
mortgages at 85 percent of a property’s value and this year
raised risk weights on mortgage assets to 15 percent from as low
as 5 percent.  While the mortgage cap helped slow credit growth to 4.5
percent last year -- the lowest level since the mid-1990s --
from levels above 10 percent between 2004 and 2008, the pace of
borrowing has started to accelerate again. Household credit
growth was 4.7 percent in June.  “Swedish household borrowing shows signs of accelerating”
and “the rise in  house prices  suggests that this trend will
continue throughout the year,” SEB said July 15. Growing
household indebtedness “underscores the need for further macro-prudential measures.” SEB estimates credit growth will be as
high as 5.5 percent by the end of the year.  Basel Study  Sweden’s four  biggest banks  need to hold at least 10
percent core Tier 1 capital of their risk-weighted assets this
year, with the minimum requirement rising to 12 percent in 2015.
That compares with a Basel Committee on Banking Supervision
minimum target of 7 percent effective from 2019.  Central bank Governor Stefan Ingves, who is also the Basel
committee chairman, has backed Borg in his call for higher risk
weights. The Basel committee, which sets global banking
standards, is taking a closer look at risk weights after finding
wide variations in a study of 32 lenders, Ingves said in July.  Borg argues  Sweden (SWGDPAQQ)  needs stricter rules for its banks than
those set by Basel because a financial industry that’s four
times the size of the economy makes taxpayers vulnerable to
banking system shocks. Swedes owe their banks almost twice their
disposable incomes, the central bank estimates. That’s the most
on record.  ‘Still Challenging’  “The indebtedness from the household side in Sweden is on
the high side and we also have, on a relative basis, a large
banking system, so the financial stability issues are very
important,” Borg said. “We’ve seen an easing of house prices
and think we should expect that to continue in the years to
come. House prices should not increase very much in Sweden
moving ahead.”  Sweden’s $550 billion economy, home to  Hennes & Mauritz AB (HMB) 
and Ikea, will grow 1.3 percent this year and expand 2.1 percent
in 2014, the government said last month. Policy makers are
trying to revive domestic demand as the export-reliant economy
struggles to adjust to a shrinking market in the euro area,
which the European Commission estimates will see its economy
shrink 0.4 percent this year.  “There’s still a challenging situation for the Swedish
economy,” Borg told reporters yesterday. “We must try to
protect the economy and inject more energy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Niklas Magnusson in Stockholm at 
 nmagnusson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  