-- Barcelona Offer $22Million for Liverpool’s Agger: Roundup
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2013-08-08T10:29:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-08/barcelona-offer-22million-for-liverpool-s-agger-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  Suarez Banished  Luis Suarez  has been “sent into exile” by Liverpool
after claiming that the club broke a promise to let him leave if
it didn’t qualify for the Champions League, the  Daily Mail  said.  The Uruguay striker will have to train on his own as
punishment for his behavior after the Reds rejected a bid of
40,000,001 pounds ($62 million) from Arsenal, the newspaper
added. The extra pound was linked to a potential release clause.  Liverpool manager  Brendan Rodgers  is “furious” with
Suarez and denied there was any agreement that he could go, the
Mail said.  Agger Spain-Bound?  Barcelona has offered 14 million pounds for Liverpool’s
 Daniel Agger , the  Daily Telegraph  reported.  The Danish defender had been valued by Liverpool at 30
million pounds last summer when Manchester City tried to buy
him.  Chelsea recently turned down a 35 million-pound Barcelona
bid for  David Luiz  yet the Spanish club is still keen on signing
the Brazilian, the paper said.  United Chasing Everton pair  Manchester United may offer 30 million pounds for Everton
pair Marouane Fellaini and Leighton Baines as attempts to buy
Barcelona’s Cesc Fabregas have so far proved unsuccessful, the
 Guardian  reported.  New United manager  David Moyes , who has added only one new
player to his squad this summer, worked with Fellaini and Baines
while in charge of Everton.  Nuremberg ‘No’  German club Nuremberg will turn down an improved 10
million-pound offer by Aston Villa for Japanese midfielder
Hiroshi Kiyotake, the  Daily Express  said. A previous bid worth
8.5 million pounds was also dismissed by Nuremberg because it
wants to hold on to the player until at least next year’s  World
Cup , the paper said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh in London at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  