-- BCE, Telus Profit Beats Estimates on Subscriber Gains
-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 2013-08-08T14:36:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-08/bce-profit-beats-estimates-after-adding-wireless-subscribers.html
BCE Inc. (BCE)  and rival  Telus Corp. (T) 
reported second-quarter profit and sales that beat analysts’
estimates as the Canadian wireless carriers added more
smartphone subscribers than predicted.  Excluding severance, acquisition costs and other expenses,
BCE’s  earnings  were 77 Canadian cents (74 cents) a share, the
Montreal-based company said today, topping the analysts’
consensus of 76 cents. Telus reported profit of 54 cents on that
basis, compared with an average estimate of 52 cents.  BCE CEO Chief Executive Officer George Cope is busy
integrating Astral Media Inc. after winning regulatory approval
in June to buy the Quebec broadcaster for C$3 billion. Cope is
using Astral to attract more smartphone subscribers with sports,
news and drama programming. Telus, meanwhile, has avoided
acquiring broadcasting assets and instead is putting profits
into overhauling its networks.  BCE added 96,390 wireless contract customers last quarter,
compared with the 86,000 predicted by analysts. Average revenue
per user increased 2.7 percent to C$56.85 in the quarter,
outpacing a 1.5 percent gain in quarterly sales to C$5 billion.  BCE also boosted the forecast for its main Bell business.
The company now expects revenue growth of 2 percent to 4
percent, up from a February prediction of no more than 2
percent, helped by the Astral acquisition.  BCE shares  were little changed at C$42.15 at 10:20 a.m. in
Toronto. Telus declined 1.3 percent to C$30.71. BCE’s  stock  had
dropped less than 1 percent this year through yesterday, while
Telus had fallen 4.4 percent.  Telus, Verizon  Telus’s sales climbed 6.1 percent to C$2.83 billion last
quarter. The company also said today it plans to double its
share buyback to up to C$1 billion this year and then up to
C$500 million in 2014, 2015 and 2016.  Telus added 100,000 contract subscribers, topping an
estimate for 92,000 new customers.  Rogers Communications Inc. (RCI/B) ,
Canada’s mobile-phone leader, added 98,000 contract subscribers
during the same period. The wireless units of BCE and Vancouver-based Telus are closely matched, though BCE remains a larger
company because of its landline and broadcasting businesses.  Cope has been vocal about what he says is an unlevel
playing field for potential competitors from outside Canada. He
issued a statement last month calling on the government to
reverse a policy that he said would unfairly subsidize the entry
of U.S. carriers such as Verizon Communications Inc. into the
company’s home market.  Potential Bid  Verizon, which has a market value about double that of BCE,
Telus and Rogers combined, said in June that it’s weighing a bid
to buy Wind Mobile, the largest of three new Ontario-based
carriers. BCE has said the government’s decision to prevent
 Canada ’s largest phone companies from buying smaller rivals will
open the door for New York-based Verizon to acquire those
businesses at “cut-rate prices.”  The government must close that loophole, Cope said today.
He also reiterated the government should scrap a rule that would
give Verizon preferred access to new Canadian wireless spectrum
and the right to access Canadian carrier networks.  “It’s very clear that Verizon does not need government
handouts,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  