-- Beijing Auto Buys Small Local Carmaker to Expand in East China
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-08-08T03:03:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-08/beijing-auto-buys-small-local-carmaker-to-expand-in-east-china.html
Beijing Automotive Group Co., a
partner of  Daimler AG (DAI)  and  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380) , agreed to buy a
smaller Chinese automaker as part of a 15 billion  yuan  ($2.5
billion) deal to produce vehicles in eastern  China .  Beijing Auto will take over Zhenjiang Auto, based in the
namesake city in eastern Jiangsu province, and eventually
produce 300,000 vehicles a year, according to a statement from
the Beijing-based company. It said 15 billion yuan is the total
investment expected for the Jiangsu manufacturing base and
didn’t disclose how much it paid to buy Zhenjiang Auto itself.  The agreement follows a stake purchase by Dongfeng Motor
Corp. in a smaller rival in southern China in May, and adds to
signs that consolidation in the world’s largest vehicle market
is picking up pace. Home to more than 110 auto brands, the
central government has said it will encourage mergers and
reorganizations to create three to five domestic carmakers that
can compete with global companies like  General Motors Co. (GM)   Beijing Auto will manufacture SUVs and multipurpose
vehicles in the first phase of expansion, and subsequently make
mid- to high-end sedans, new-energy vehicles and engines, it
said. The company said it expects annual sales revenue from the
Zhenjiang operation to reach 50 billion yuan when it reaches
full capacity.  In June, Beijing Auto set up a unit, BAIC International
Development Co., to make acquisitions overseas. The carmaker has
said it plans to have 2.5 billion yuan of profit from outside of
China and sell 400,000 units abroad by 2020.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Alexandra Ho in Shanghai at 
 aho113@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  