-- Berlusconi Adds $1.5 Billion to Fortune Amid Court Losses
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e   a n d   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i
-- 2013-08-08T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-08/berlusconi-adds-1-5-billion-to-fortune-amid-court-losses.html
Silvio Berlusconi’s fortune has
increased by $1.5 billion this year even as the former Italian
prime minister lost four criminal-court judgments since January.  The 76-year-old senator, convicted of tax fraud last week,
ranked 33rd among year-to-date percentage gainers on the 200-person  Bloomberg Billionaires Index  as of Aug. 7, two spots
above  Warren Buffett . His wealth rose 26 percent to $7.6
billion. The advance was powered by gains in his insurer,
 Mediolanum SpA (MED) , whose shares returned 53 percent in Milan, and
broadcaster  Mediaset SpA (MS) , which has more than doubled.  “I am rated the best Italian entrepreneur since World War
II,” Berlusconi said in a Feb. 5 interview on the government’s
RAI television. “By everyone, by all the public rankings. Can
you name another?”  Leonardo Del Vecchio, the founder of eyewear maker
 Luxottica SpA (LUX) , outpaced Berlusconi in the period by adding 30
percent to his fortune, now estimated at about $19 billion.
Michele Ferrero, Italy’s richest person, trailed the two with a
gain of 13 percent. The owner of Nutella-maker Ferrero SpA added
about $2.7 billion to his estimated wealth of $24 billion.  Berlusconi, a three-time premier, retains influence over
the government even after he exhausted all of his appeals on the
tax verdict. Berlusconi is head of the second-biggest party in
parliament and in April became a partner in Prime Minister
Enrico Letta’s ruling coalition.  Sentenced to four years in prison, Berlusconi is unlikely
to spend a day in jail, given  Italy ’s effort to reduce prison
populations and the leniency traditionally accorded to criminals
over the age of 70. Ultimately, his penalty may involve house
arrest or community service. Italy’s top court rejected
Berlusconi’s final appeal on Aug. 1. He has maintained his
innocence.  Legal Setbacks  The original tax-fraud verdict was handed down in October.
He lost his first appeal in May. Berlusconi was convicted of
illegal use of wiretaps in March; in June, he was found guilty
of abuse of power and engaging a minor in prostitution. He is
appealing these verdicts and has denied all wrongdoing, saying
his trials are political persecution.  AC Milan, Berlusconi’s privately held soccer team, made the
 Champions League  after it signed striker  Mario Balotelli  this
year. Berlusconi’s wealth is concentrated in his Fininvest SpA
investment company.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Frye in Rome at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net ;
Chiara Vasarri in Rome at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  