-- Bertha Tunneling in Seattle Bolsters Property Deal Surge
-- B y   H u i - y o n g   Y u
-- 2013-08-08T04:01:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-08/bertha-tunneling-in-seattle-bolsters-property-deal-surge.html
Seattle ’s commercial-property market,
one of the hottest in the U.S., is getting a boost from a 7,000-ton tunnel-boring machine nicknamed Bertha.  The world’s largest tunnel driller last week began work on
a 1.7-mile (2.5-kilometer) underground freeway along the city’s
downtown waterfront, the centerpiece of a $3 billion
redevelopment plan that will bring new parks and public areas,
along with residential and commercial developments.  “It’ll improve transportation, amenities and quality of
life,” said Kevin Shannon, head of western U.S. office sales
for CBRE Group Inc., the largest commercial real estate
brokerage. “Those things all help Seattle improve its
credibility as a key gateway coastal market.”  A modernized transportation network is poised to attract
more investment to a city that’s already seen a surge in demand
for commercial properties, according to  Dan Fasulo , managing
director of Real Capital Analytics Inc. Seattle, with its
growing population and increased hiring at companies from
Amazon.com Inc. to Boeing Co., has surpassed larger markets such
as  Washington  and  Chicago  for office-building sales since the
start of last year, while apartment  rents  are growing at the
fastest pace in the country.  The city trailed only  Manhattan ,  Los Angeles  and San
Francisco in U.S.  office-property  sales from January 2012 to
June 2013, with more than $6.5 billion of transactions,
according to New York-based Real Capital. The total was boosted
by Amazon’s purchase last year of its headquarters campus from
developer Vulcan Inc. for $1.16 billion.  Premium Pricing  Investors are willing to pay a premium for Seattle
buildings, as demonstrated by the March sale of the 47-story
Wells Fargo Center for $390 million, Fasulo said. Chicago-based
Callahan  Capital Partners , on behalf of Canadian real estate
investor Ivanhoe Cambridge Inc., paid the equivalent of a 4.5
percent investment yield for the building, matching
capitalization rates for Manhattan office towers during the
market peak in 2007, according to Fasulo.  “Seattle’s trading like one of the gateway cities,” he
said, referring to the most attractive areas for real estate
investors because of their steady returns. Real Capital
designates  New York ,  Boston , Washington, Chicago, San Francisco
and Los Angeles as major markets.  Attractive Market  Seattle-area unemployment of less than 6 percent and
population growth help make real estate attractive in the
Northwest’s largest city, said Lisa Picard, Seattle-based
executive vice president and regional manager for the U.S.
development unit of Swedish construction company Skanska AB.
It’s also a cheaper place to live than West Coast areas such as
 San Francisco  and Silicon Valley, where  property prices  are
surging.  “We have an amazing amount of skilled labor,
entrepreneurialism and the opportunity to not spend your entire
paycheck on housing, which is a major issue in other metro
areas,” said Picard.  Seattle’s new tunnel, set to start service by early 2016,
will replace the Alaskan Way Viaduct, a two-tier, 60-year-old
elevated highway that was damaged in a 2001 earthquake. The
viaduct is part of State Route 99, the second-busiest north-south highway running through Seattle, after Interstate 5.  The drilling machine boring the new artery was named for
Bertha Knight Landes, who was elected mayor of Seattle in 1926
and the first woman to lead a major American city, according to
the office of the  city clerk .  High Line  The tunnel will lead to 20 acres (8 hectares) of new parks
and recreation areas, some of which will be designed by the same
firm behind New York’s High Line, which turned a defunct
elevated railway into a mile-long green park and brought new
residents and tourists to lower west Manhattan.  Residential and retail developments are also in the works
to replace the parking lots and low-rise buildings that line the
waterfront now, which may create as many as 1,000 new housing
units, said Marshall Foster, city planning director at the
Seattle Department of Planning and Development.  “We’re trying to create a neighborhood on the
waterfront,” he said. There will be “residents walking their
dogs at six in the morning and out there having a drink in the
evening.”  Seattle took the lead from San Francisco for the biggest
increase in U.S. apartment rents in the fourth quarter and has
held it since, with a 6.2 percent gain during the three months
ended June in  effective rent  growth, or what tenants paid after
any landlord price breaks, according to  Reis Inc. (REIS) , a property-research firm based in New York.  Hartz Purchase  Hartz Mountain Industries Inc. last month acquired the 184-unit Alto Apartments in Seattle in its first West Coast real
estate purchase. The Secaucus, New Jersey-based company, which
began buying and developing multifamily properties in 2010, paid
about $62 million for the complex, located five blocks from
Elliott Bay, according to the King County record of sale. The
purchase was done at a  cap rate  just above 4 percent, the lowest
the company has ever paid for real estate, said Emanuel Stern,
president and chief operating officer.  “Long term, we like the demographics of the city and the
infrastructure,” Stern said.  Seattle-based  Amazon (AMZN)  boosted employment 57 percent last
year, adding 32,200 full- and part-time workers worldwide,
according to its annual report. The headquarters of the world’s
largest online retailer dominates the technology and medical hub
of South Lake Union, located north of the main downtown area.  Nordstrom, Costco  Department-store operator Nordstrom Inc., also based in
Seattle, increased hiring 8 percent last year; Issaquah,
Washington-based membership-warehouse retailer Costco Inc. added
6 percent more employees; and employment at Boeing, the world’s
largest planemaker, increased 2 percent, according to those
companies’ annual reports. Boeing, which does most of its
commercial airplane assembly north of Seattle at its Everett,
Washington, plant, added about 4,500 workers in Washington state
last year, a 5.5 percent increase, according to the company.  Job growth is making Seattle one of the most attractive
U.S. markets for real estate investment, said Len O’Donnell,
president and chief executive officer of USAA Real Estate Co., a
unit of the insurer that oversees more than $12 billion of
assets. The company recently purchased land adjacent to Amazon’s
headquarters and is considering developing an office building
without any tenants in place, he said in an interview this week
at Bloomberg’s New York headquarters.  “Of all the markets in which we might consider speculative
development, Seattle is at the top of the list,” he said.  Interest Rates  While property values are jumping, deals may slow in the
city as  interest rates  increase, boosting financing costs for
borrowers, said Matthew Gardner, chief executive officer of
Gardner Economics LLC, which advises clients including pension
funds and developers on  land use , real estate and economics.  “My one concern is if  interest rates  start rising at a
faster rate than expected,” Gardner said. “That’s going to put
pressure on acquisitions.”  Seattle’s new tunnel has drawn parallels to Boston’s
Central Artery/Tunnel project, popularly known as the Big Dig,
the more-than-15-year project that rerouted traffic through
three new tunnels, Fasulo said. While that project was marred by
cost overruns and delays, it helped contribute to a
revitalization of south Boston’s waterfront.  Related Beal, a partnership of New York-based developer
Related Cos. and Boston’s Beal Cos. that has been active in
Boston’s waterfront construction, is considering a project in
the Seattle area, said Peter Spellios, executive vice president.  Leasing Demand  In Boston, the venture is building a new world headquarters
for Nike Inc.’s Converse unit by renovating a historic mill
building on the north waterfront. It is part of the firm’s $250
million Lovejoy Wharf project that also will include a new
public wharf and a 200,000-square-foot (18,600-square-meter)
residential building on which construction will begin next year.  “Leasing activity is overwhelming,” as a result of the
upgraded infrastructure, Spellios said. “Maybe 12 million
square feet is under development in Boston, and it wouldn’t
surprise me to know that more than half of it is sitting in
areas that benefited directly from the Big Dig.”  As with Boston, “part of the vibrancy of Seattle is its
location on the waterfront,” Spellios said. The development
that Related Beal is considering would encompass offices and
residences near the waterfront and would be the company’s first
in that city, he said.  Price Doubled  Unico Properties LLC, a downtown Seattle office landlord,
in May paid about $31 million for a six-story building at 51
University St. next to the viaduct, more than double what the
building sold for two years earlier.  “Redevelopment of the waterfront will deliver unobstructed
views of Elliott Bay and improved access,” Unico said on its
website. The seller of 51 University St. was Chicago-based
apartment landlord Equity Residential, which had bought the
building for $11.8 million in 2011.  Lease Crutcher Lewis, one of Seattle’s largest construction
companies, in June purchased a 50 percent stake in 2200 Western
Ave., near the north end of the waterfront, that it plans to
redevelop as its new headquarters by summer 2014. The purchase
of the building, completed in 1910 as a stable to house horses
that drew streetcars and fire engines, “gives us a chance to be
connected to the waterfront redevelopment,” Chairman Bill Lewis
said in a June statement.  “In terms of fundamentals and overall credit quality of
the employment base in the Western United States, Seattle is
higher than any other market I cover,” said CBRE’s Shannon, who
has worked on transactions including the $480 million sale of
Russell Investments Center, the former Washington Mutual Inc.
headquarters, in April 2012. “It’s clearly gotten more
popular.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hui-yong Yu in Seattle at 
 hyu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  