-- Bid to Repeal Ethanol Mandate Seen Diluted by EPA Change
-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 2013-08-08T15:14:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-08/bid-to-repeal-ethanol-mandate-seen-diluted-by-epa-change.html
Corn ethanol producers say a pledge
by U.S. regulators to lower the level of renewable fuel use
required next year may deflate a well-funded oil industry effort
aimed at persuading Congress to repeal the mandate.  Ethanol supporters say the U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency showed it can adjust to market needs with its Aug. 6
announcement that it will lower an 18.15 billion-gallon mandate
for 2014 because demand for gasoline has lagged expected levels.
That could slow momentum building in Congress for tougher
action, they say.  “To a large extent, the effort in Congress probably lost a
little wind in its sails,” said Bob Dinneen, president of the
 Renewable Fuels Association  in Washington, whose members include
 Archer-Daniels-Midland Co. (ADM)  and  Pacific Ethanol Inc. (PEIX)   The EPA’s announcement, which was paired with an agency
decision to give refiners an additional four months to reach
2013 goals, came as lawmakers in both chambers of Congress are
preparing for a fight over whether to alter the mandate first
established in 2007.  The debate over the renewable fuel standard puts the
ethanol industry, which once had rock-solid support for its
mandates and tax preferences, on the defensive.  Demand for gasoline and U.S. production of next-generation
sources of fuel have lagged behind what was projected six years
ago, and refiners complain that they could be forced to blend in
more than 10 percent of ethanol, which they say isn’t safe for
all engines.  Advertising Blitz  The  American Petroleum Institute  began an advertising blitz
last month designed to build pressure for a repeal of the
federal biofuel rule, with TV, radio and print ads that focus on
potential costs to consumers. One print ad says the higher
ethanol mandate “could damage your engine, and void your
warranty. Your engine won’t like it, but your mechanic will.”  Bob Greco, director of API’s downstream group, said the
EPA’s action this week underscores how unrealistic the current
mandate is, and his group will redouble efforts to convince
lawmakers to provide some relief. API represents refiners and
oil producers including  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  and  Chevron Corp. (CVX)   “These are band-aids that will help fix this, but the
statute itself is fundamentally broken,” Greco said.  In both chambers, some lawmakers are calling for changes to
the mandate. At a hearing of the House Energy and Commerce
Committee last month, lawmakers in both parties said there may
be enough support to make some changes, although there probably
isn’t enough for a full repeal.  Slipping Support  The panel’s chairman, Republican Representative  Fred Upton 
of Michigan, has asked a handful of lawmakers from his party --
including Representatives  John Shimkus  of Illinois and  Lee Terry 
of Nebraska -- to examine which revisions should be considered.  Support for producers of the biofuel already has slipped.
In June 2011, 33 Senate Republicans voted with Democrats in
favor of eliminating a tax credit and a tariff that subsidize
ethanol production.  While that didn’t become law, with little fanfare at the
end of that year the 45-cent-a-gallon tax credit for ethanol
blenders expired, as did a 54-cent-a-gallon tariff on imports.  The declining political allegiance to ethanol, once
required for political gains in rural states, also was on
display in the 2012 Republican presidential campaign, where for
the first time support for corn-based biofuels didn’t play much
of a role.  Iowa Caucuses  Rick Santorum , who won the  Iowa  caucuses, relied far more
on his support from religious conservatives than his backing of
biofuels.  Mitt Romney , the eventual Republican presidential
nominee and an opponent of long-term government subsidies for
the fuel, came in second, while  Ron Paul , another subsidy foe,
took third.  Newt Gingrich , who had the highest rating on farm
policy from the Iowa Corn Growers Association, was fourth.  Ethanol is a fixture of the farm economy, driving up demand
for corn and helping boost farmland values and agriculture
profits to records. The  U.S. Department of Agriculture  said last
month that ethanol will use up 35 percent of this year’s corn
crop.  Groups protecting the interests of ethanol producers say
that as the oil industry engages in a consumer awareness
campaign, their lobbying is centered more on one-on-one talks
with lawmakers.  Talks Continue  “We continue to talk to congressmen,” said Pam Johnson, a
corn and soybean farmer outside Floyd, Iowa, who is president of
the Corn Board of the National Corn Growers Association. “We
need to show them we need a long-term plan. We don’t need a
short-sighted move to repeal the RFS because we want them to
take the long-term big picture view of what’s necessary for
fuels in this country.”  Ethanol groups also say they can look to the EPA’s show of
flexibility to aid them.  “What the EPA did was send a strong signal to Congress
that they have the administrative flexibility to adjust these
volume goals accordingly,” said Michael Frohlich, a spokesman
for Growth Energy, which represents ethanol producers and is led
by Poet LLC, the nation’s largest biofuels maker.  At the same time, a Congress that hasn’t been able to agree
on cutting budget deficits also appears incapable of doing much
with environmental policy, he said.  ‘Strong Signal’  Splits in Congress over the issue were evident this week.  Senator Tom Carper, a Delaware Democrat, said the decision
“sends a strong signal to our refineries that the EPA is
listening to their concerns and working responsibly to address
them.”  The biggest defender of ethanol standards in Congress,
Republican Senator  Charles Grassley  of Iowa, a major corn-growing state, said he’ll fight any attempt to curb the
standard.  “The RFS has already led to significant environmental,
economic and national security gains,” Grassley said in a
statement. “The promise of the next generation of biofuels will
add even more. But that’s only if we protect the existing
supportive policies and work to provide greater certainty for
this burgeoning industry. I intend to do just that.”  At the same time, other lawmakers who have advocated
outright repeal or broad revisions said they’ll press ahead.  Representative Bob Goodlatte, a Virginia Republican, and
Senator  James Inhofe , an Oklahoma Republican, called for an end
to the biofuel requirement.  Waiver Urged  In a letter to President  Barack Obama , Senator  David Vitter 
of  Louisiana , the top Republican on the Environment and Public
Works Committee, urged the administration to waive the 2014
biofuel mandates altogether to buy time for Congress to make
broad changes.  “The premise and structure of the RFS were based on many
assumptions that no longer reflect the current market
conditions,” Vitter wrote in the Aug. 1 letter that was also
signed by Inhofe and Senator Mark Pryor, an Arkansas Democrat.  Jason Bordoff, director of Columbia University’s Center for
Global Energy Policy, said while the battle moves to Congress,
it’s unclear what any new mandate might look like and whether
there’s enough momentum for action.  “It would be cleaner for Congress to revise the statute to
fix the problem in the first instance,” Bordoff said. “The
tension is that the more flexible EPA is, the more pressure it
might remove from Congress to in fact take the steps to fix the
blend-wall problem through legislation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  