-- Big Business Bows to Small Business Increasing Hiring
-- B y   A l e x a n d r i a   B a c a
-- 2013-08-08T04:01:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-08/big-business-bows-to-small-business-increasing-hiring.html
Chris Yura says it took about six
months before he could afford to hire the first employee for the
clothing company he started in June 2009.  SustainU Clothing  now
has 20 workers, about half part-time, with plans to hire three
more full-time staffers by year-end, he said.  The company, which sells shirts made from recycled cotton
and polyester, is among the small businesses behind much of the
job creation in the U.S. In addition to its staff, SustainU
contracts out most of its garment-making, from spinning thread
to cutting fabric and sewing shirts, to about seven factories in
the Carolinas, Tennessee and  Pennsylvania , supporting another
300 to 400 workers, Yura said.  “For the first three years, I knew it would be really
tough,” because of the general economic climate, said Yura, 32,
a former model and Notre Dame football player who started the
business in his hometown of Morgantown,  West Virginia . “People
didn’t think it was going to work. But for me, all it is is more
motivation.”  Employment at companies with fewer than 50 workers, such as
SustainU, is stronger now than before the last recession, while
larger businesses are still lagging behind, according to data
from Automatic Data Processing Inc., a manager of employer
payrolls. Establishments with less than 10 employees are hiring
at a faster clip than before the downturn began in December
2007, Labor Department figures show.  ‘In Stride’  “Small businesses were slow out of the gate but now
they’re increasingly running in stride,” said  Mark Zandi , chief
economist at Moody’s Analytics Inc. in  West Chester ,
Pennsylvania. Moody’s produces the employment figures with ADP.  Businesses with fewer than 50 employees added 82,000 jobs
in July and 85,000 the month before, ADP data show. Companies
that size accounted for about 42 percent of U.S. employment in
July, according to ADP.  “The foundation of growth is really those high-flying
gazelles,” Zandi said, referring to companies that offer an
innovative product or service and grow exponentially in five to
10 years.  Age as well as size of small businesses makes a difference
in hiring, according to research by the Ewing Marion Kauffman
Foundation, which focuses on entrepreneurship. Job creation at
new companies, those less than a year old with one to four
employees, rose 5.4 percent in 2011, rebounding from four
straight years of decline, according to Business Dynamics
Statistics from the U.S. Census Bureau analyzed by the Kansas
City-based  foundation .  “There was a holdup in hiring,” said Dane Stangler,
director of research and policy at the Kauffman Foundation.
“It’s getting better among the newest, smallest companies but
for whatever reason, companies that normally come into existence
with 10, 15, 20, 30 employees -- so think restaurants, retail
stores, things like that -- they continue to have a slower pace
of  job creation .”  Housing Boost  Small businesses are also “getting a nice boost from the
housing recovery,” Zandi said. Sales of new homes rose in June
to the highest level in five years.  Moving franchise Two Men and A Truck, which averages about
50 employees at locations from Washington state to  Florida , is
among the housing-related companies adding employees.  ‘We’re having tremendous success this year with growth,”
said Jeff Wesley, chief financial officer of the Lansing,
Michigan-based company. “We’re looking to hire a lot of
people.”  Wesley said the company pushed to collect 10,000
applications in April. After receiving about 9,000 responses, it
is still looking for qualified movers, drivers, managers and
others, he said.  Hiring Rebound  Other reports indicate the small-business hiring rebound
will continue.  Insperity Inc. (NSP) , which said it processes payrolls
for about 5,500 clients with an average headcount of 23
employees, forecasts that its customers’ average number of work-site employees paid per month will increase by as much as 2.7
percent to 130,500 in the third quarter from 127,096 a year ago.
The Kingwood, Texas, business said the estimate reflects
increased hiring by its clients as well as new sales.  The number of small businesses planning to hire rose in
July to 9 percent from 7 percent a month earlier, according to
data from the National Federation of  Independent Business . That
matches the second-highest  level  since February 2008. The number
of firms with a job opening that is hard to fill rose to 20
percent.  Rising residential property values also serve as a source
of capital for those who want to start companies. The S&P/Case-Shiller index of property values in 20 cities increased 12.2
percent in May from the same month in 2012, the biggest year-over-year gain since March 2006, a July 30 report showed.  Household Wealth  “We’ve seen household wealth rebound pretty well, as well
as owners’ real estate and equity so that’s going to help fund a
lot of new businesses,” said Sarah Watt, an economist at  Wells
Fargo Securities LLC  in  Charlotte ,  North Carolina .  Not all the signs are positive. The NFIB’s optimism  index 
fell to 93.5 in June from 94.4 the month prior and is below a
 decade high  of 107.7 in November 2004. While access to credit
appears to be improving, financing remains an obstacle for newer
companies. A  quarterly report  from the Small Business
Administration shows business loans of less than $100,000 grew
by 1.6 percent in March 2013 from December 2012, following a 0.2
percent gain the previous period.  Companies younger than six years old have a “relatively
difficult” time obtaining financing, with 54 percent of those
surveyed unable to get a loan compared with 27 percent of older
businesses, according to a first-quarter  report  from the  Federal
Reserve Bank of Atlanta . The survey was completed by 478 small
businesses in the southeastern U.S.  Fewer Employees  New businesses are also starting with fewer employees. The
average number of employees at a new establishment, which
includes franchises, fell to 4.7 in 2012 from 7.5 in 1994,
according to Labor Department data analyzed by Wells Fargo
Securities.  A Wells Fargo report published June 13 attributes some of
that change to online stores reducing the need for staffing at
brick and mortar locations.  A leaner staff might also be a sign of caution among small
companies seeing if demand justifies hiring. One such watchful
business owner is Lisa Goodbee, a civil engineer who heads a
Centennial, Colorado,  firm  specializing in transportation
projects. She hired one full-time and one part-time worker last
fall, waiting until business had recovered sufficiently to
sustain the additional overhead. The 19-year-old firm has a
total of five full-time and eight part-time employees.  “State funding for transportation projects was really,
really lean” in 2010, said Goodbee, 51, who estimated her gross
revenue fell to about half of its $2 million target that year.
“I didn’t have to lay anybody off, but we definitely had a
slowdown in our business, and then 2011, 2012, we’ve picked
right up.”  Better Products  Yura, the sustainable-clothing company founder, said he
never doubted his ability to succeed. After graduating from
college in 2003, Yura worked as a model in  New York . As he
helped market so-called “green” or environmentally-friendly
clothing, Yura says he realized he could make better products
with U.S. labor. His father took out a third mortgage to provide
the initial $30,000 to finance the idea.  “Right now is a great time to be in business in America if
your business is focused on the right things,” said Yura, who
said he’s aiming for $1.5 million in sales by year-end. “My
only worry is making sure I get every order out every day.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexandria Baca in Washington at 
 abaca3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  