-- Biggest Michigan County Suffering Detroit Contagion: Muni Credit
-- B y   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a   a n d   C h r i s   C h r i s t o f f
-- 2013-08-08T17:51:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-08/biggest-michigan-county-suffering-detroit-contagion-muni-credit.html
Wayne County, home of  Detroit , has
seen the extra yield investors demand to own its debt soar to a
record, showing the price Michigan localities are paying after
the Motor City filed for bankruptcy.  Like in Detroit, Wayne’s tax revenue has dropped along with
property values, while employee pension costs have climbed. The
state’s largest county, with 1.8 million people, Wayne has a
$160 million accumulated deficit. It’s poised to lose more money
on an unfinished jail near downtown Detroit that’s already
increased the county’s debt by $200 million.  Moody’s Investors Service dropped Wayne’s grade to Baa3
last week, one step above junk, with a negative outlook. The
county is being penalized in the $3.7 trillion municipal-debt
market. The additional interest rate investors demand to own
bonds maturing in 2040 rather than Treasuries has reached the
highest in at least 17 months, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “For a while there’s been a Detroit penalty for bonds in
the Detroit area, but now it’s really pronounced,” said Clark Wagner, who oversees $1.5 billion of munis as director of fixed
income at First Investors Management Co. in New York. That
includes a $22 million  Michigan  fund.  Buyer Balks  Wayne County “is hard to separate from Detroit,” Wagner
said. While he owns some Wayne County Airport Authority
securities, he said he wouldn’t buy county general obligations.  The higher yields are the latest example of investors
penalizing Michigan localities. Buyers have speculated that
Detroit’s treatment of general obligations could set a
precedent, especially within the state. The June plan from
state-appointed Emergency Manager Kevyn Orr to avoid bankruptcy
proposed imposing losses on holders of some Detroit general
obligations.  Michigan’s Saginaw County delayed a $61 million bond sale
planned for today, joining Genesee County and Battle Creek in
postponing borrowings after Detroit sought court protection July
18. Issuers in the eighth-most-populous state sold $22 million
of long-term munis in the two weeks through Aug. 2, the slowest
stretch since January 2012, Bloomberg data show.  Jail Plan  Wayne in 2010 backed a $200 million sale of taxable bonds
for a 2,000-bed jail on a 14-acre site that holds the current
county jail, a courthouse and a juvenile detention center.  The county had approved selling as much as $300 million in
bonds for the plan. After the project manager revised the cost
estimate to $391 million, the municipality suspended
construction June 6, according to June West, spokeswoman for
County Executive Robert Ficano. Construction is 25 percent
complete and has already cost about $120 million.  The jurisdiction, whose population has decreased by 13
percent since 2000, has five proposals to develop the new jail
site and surrounding property.  It would still be responsible for repaying the debt.  “We’re going to take a bath on this, no question about
it,” said County Commissioner Timothy Killeen. The county may
not be able to find buyers for more bonds to build a jail at
another location, he said.  Trading in some Wayne bonds shows the price the county
would have to pay.  County’s Price  A portion of the bonds issued for the jail maturing in
December 2040 traded this week at an average yield of 8.86
percent, the highest since November 2011, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. The extra yield investors demanded for the debt
rather than Treasuries rose to 6.76 percentage points Aug. 5,
the most since at least May 2012 and up from 5.6 percentage
points when Detroit filed for bankruptcy, Bloomberg Valuation
data show.  Among proposals to develop the jail location is Rock
Ventures, which owns the Greektown Casino-Hotel near the site
and whose founder, Dan Gilbert, chairman of Quicken Loans Inc.,
has bought more than 30 downtown properties.  Rock Ventures would redevelop the site, said a spokesman,
Eric Larson, managing partner of Bedrock Real Estate Services.
He said the development may be as large as $500 million, create
5,500 jobs and add $20 million to the city and county tax base.  Larson said the county could save $100 million over five
years by combining jail and court functions at a closed state
prison in the city. The state is willing to lease the property
for $1 a year, said Russ Marlan, spokesman for the Michigan
Department of Corrections.  Tax Plan  Ficano, the county executive, has proposed a property-tax
increase to generate an additional $35 million to $70 million a
year to reduce deficits.  That’s “not going to happen,” Gary Woronchak, county
commission chairman, said in a statement Aug. 5, citing lack of
support among the panel to put a tax increase before voters.
Taxpayers blame mismanagement for the county’s fiscal woes,
Woronchak said.  Woronchak said the county is headed to a $200 million
accumulated deficit, caused in large part by plummeting property
values. Property values fell by 33.8 percent from 2008 to 2012,
according to Michigan’s treasury department. Meanwhile, the
county’s required pension payment grew to $51.7 million in 2012
from $39.7 million in 2011, Moody’s said.  “What’s going on in Detroit certainly does not help Wayne
County, but they need to focus on financial management,” said
Judith Ewald, a senior credit analyst in New York at Western
Asset Management Co., which oversees about $30 billion in munis.
“From what I can gather, it has not improved.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Chappatta in New York at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Christoff in Lansing, Michigan at 
 cchristoff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
William Glasgall at 
 wglasgall@bloomberg.net  