-- Birla to Tata Sell MCX as Crisis Roils Group: Corporate India
-- B y   S w a n s y   A f o n s o
-- 2013-08-08T05:35:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-08/birla-to-tata-sell-mcx-as-crisis-roils-group-corporate-india.html
A payment crisis at a spot commodity
bourse backed by the founder of  India ’s newest stock market has
prompted two of the nation’s biggest money managers to dump
shares of his  Multi Commodity Exchange of India Ltd.   Birla Sun Life Asset Management Co. and Tata Asset
Management Ltd. sold shares in the futures exchange founded by
Jignesh Shah as the company lost more than half its value in the
past week, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The selloff started
as the  National Spot Exchange Ltd.  suspended trading in most
commodities on July 31 after authorities inquired about trading
practices.  Investors (MCX)  sold as the crisis, which began with the
government seeking details on NSEL’s settlement cycle on July
14, deepened with the suspension of contracts on July 31. India
barred the bourse from introducing new obligations without prior
approval on Aug. 6. The NSEL broke rules by permitting the sale
of goods traders didn’t keep in its warehouses, according to the
futures market regulator.  “Exchange is a trust related business and if credibility
is hurt valuations get affected,” said Taher Badshah, senior
vice president and co-head equities at  Motilal Oswal AMC Ltd. (MOFS) ,
which has $300 million in assets. “Since they have a common
promoter, investors are also questioning the credibility of
MCX.” If the exchange ensures prompt payment, some credibility
will be restored, he said.  Daily Limit  MCX, which has  plunged  by the daily limit for five days
through yesterday, fell 1.8 percent to 292.6 rupees at 10:56
a.m. in Mumbai. Parent  Financial Technologies (India) Ltd. (FTECH) 
jumped 7.3 percent to 180.25 rupees, paring its loss since July
31 to 66 percent.  Birla Sun Life, which has $13 billion in assets, sold all
the shares it owned in both MCX and  Financial Technologies , it
said in an e-mailed statement yesterday. The holdings were less
than 1 percent of its portfolio, it said.  Tata Asset sold 185,493 MCX shares on July 31, according to
exchange data. Chief Executive Officer Arvind Sethi declined to
comment directing attention to public filings.  The futures exchange backed by NYSE Euronext and Fidelity
International trades in 40 commodities including gold, silver,
and cotton, and is 26 percent owned by Financial Technologies.
The Forward Markets Commission, the regulator, said NSEL broke
rules by allowing settlement longer than 11 days.  The plunge was seen as a buying opportunity for some.
 BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  bought a net 28,669 shares of MCX, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg as of Aug. 5.  ‘No Alternative’  “There is no other alternative for hedging commodity
exposures with such kind of volumes in India, so where will
people go?,” Gnanasekar Thiagarajan, a director at Commtrendz
Risk Management Services Pvt. in Mumbai, said by phone. “This
is a great opportunity to buy because they have wonderful assets
all over the world with very strong companies.”  The suspension of trading at NSEL may not directly impact
the volume and open interest on MCX, said Amit Jain, an analyst
at Sunidhi Securities Ltd. in Mumbai, who has a buy rating on
India’s only listed exchange.  The risk management processes of the exchanges owned by the
Financial Technologies group are different and will not be
affected by the suspension at NSEL, Vice Chairman Shah said on
Aug. 5. The group also runs commodity exchanges in  Singapore ,
Bahrain and owns a stake in the Dubai Gold & Commodity Exchange.
Shah, 46, also founded the MCX Stock Exchange Ltd., which began
operations this year.  Total Dues  NSEL has formed a panel to monitor pay-out of dues to
buyers, sellers and brokers arising of the cancellation of the
contracts, Shah said. The dues total about 56 billion rupees
($920 million), while the exchange claims to have commodities
worth 62 billion rupees in warehouses, according to the
regulator.  “Future viability of their businesses will be under
question if payments are not done on schedule and that is a
risk,’ Motilal’s Badshah said.  The exchange will announce a schedule of payouts by Aug.
14, NSEL’s Shah said. MCX and NSEL are totally different
entities with no financial commitments or exposure to each
other, Managing Director Shreekant Javalgekar said in an
exchange filing on Aug. 6.  Reliance Capital Asset Management Ltd. (RCAPT) , the country’s
second-biggest money manager with $16.5 billion in assets, sold
1.19 million shares of Financial Technologies, exchange filings
showed Aug. 1. The fund  held  2.27 million shares, or 4.94
percent of the company, as of June 30, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. Motilal Oswal sold 290,611 shares of Financial
Technology this week, exchange filing showed.  ‘Bad Phase’  MCX, which controls about 90 percent of the commodities
futures trading by value in India, reported 7 percent decrease
in  net income  to 601.2 million rupees in the three months ended
June 30. The company may post a 28 percent  decline  in profit to
2.16 billion rupees in the year ending March 31, according to a
median of estimates from seven analysts compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘‘I’m not building any new position in the stock,”
Dhananjay Singh, director at Blooming Capital Management Pvt.,
said by phone in Mumbai. “They are in a bad phase now and it’s
difficult to predict when they will come out of it. People now
have lot more questions than they have answers.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Swansy Afonso in Mumbai at 
 safonso2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  