-- BNY Mellon Unit Sued by Film Executive’s Charity Over Losses
-- B y   K i t   C h e l l e l
-- 2013-08-08T08:26:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-08/bny-mellon-unit-sued-by-film-executive-s-charity-over-losses.html
A British charity sued a  Bank of New
York Mellon Corp.  unit that managed its funds, saying risky
investments caused losses of about 7.9 million pounds ($12.2
million).  BNY Mellon ’s Insight Investment Management Ltd. oversaw
holdings “wholly unsuitable for the foundation,” including
funds linked to derivatives and catastrophe bonds, according to
a lawsuit filed by the  Rank Foundation , a charity founded by the
late film executive J. Arthur Rank.  Rank’s 48 million-pound portfolio was liquidated in 2009
after falling more than a quarter in 12 months, the charity said
in the lawsuit, filed at a London court in July and made public
this week.  The case is the latest legal dispute for BNY Mellon, the
world’s largest custody bank. The New York-based lender faces
lawsuits from the  New York  attorney general over claims it
defrauded clients in foreign-exchange transactions, Chesapeake
Energy Corp. over disputed bonds, and a U.S. tax court case
dealing with foreign tax credits.  Along with catastrophe bonds, which are linked to insurance
payouts, Insight invested in unrated and B-rated bonds,
according to the charity’s claim. Insight “failed to identify
that there was a disproportionately high level of high risk
investments in the Rank Portfolio,” it said.  Insight has “a long history” of advising clients
including pension funds and non-profits, Rhiannedd Brooke, a
spokeswoman for Insight, said in an e-mailed statement.  Pinewood Studios  “We take our fiduciary responsibilities seriously,”
Brooke said. “We are disappointed that this claim has been
brought, we reject the assertion that Insight invested funds
inappropriately and therefore reject the claim.”  The charity was set up by Rank, a British film executive
who died in 1972, to fund projects for disadvantaged young
people and vulnerable retirees while promoting Christian values.
Rank was one of the founders of Pinewood Studios, where sections
of the 2012 James Bond movie Skyfall were filmed.  David Sanderson, chief executive officer of Rank, declined
to immediately comment when reached by phone. BNY bought London-based Insight from Lloyds Banking Group Plc for 235 million
pounds in August 2009.  The case is: The Rank Foundation Ltd. v Insight Investment
Management Ltd., case no. 13-971,  High Court  of Justice,
Chancery Division.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kit Chellel in London at 
 cchellel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lindsay Fortado at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net  