-- Boehner Uses Fundraising Muscle to Avert Republican Split
-- B y   M i c h a e l   C .   B e n d e r
-- 2013-08-08T17:11:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-08/boehner-uses-fundraising-muscle-to-avert-republican-split.html
U.S. House Speaker  John Boehner  is
using an old-fashioned tool to solidify a splintering Republican
majority and head off a potential government shutdown. He is
raising money.  Boehner, 63, has donated $5.54 million this year to the
 National Republican Congressional Committee , the arm of the
party in charge of winning House races. He’s even raising money
for at least one incumbent who hasn’t backed him -- starting the
five-week break from  Washington  with a fundraiser for
 Pennsylvania  Representative Scott Perry, a freshman who voted
against Republican leadership five times in seven months.  Forty-one  House Republicans , about 18 percent of the
caucus, have repeatedly voted against their leadership since
2010. Boehner can’t lose more than 16 of their votes to pass a
funding measure or raise the debt limit, or he’ll need help from
Democrats. If he can’t command enough Republican votes, he could
face a tough speakership re-election in early 2015.  “Boehner has a core of his own party so far to the right
that they’re not interested in going along with leadership and
the reality is he has limited ability to punish his own
members,” said  Fred Wertheimer , president of Democracy 21, a
Washington-based group that advocates for tighter restrictions
on campaign finance laws. “Helping raise money is one way a
leader can earn chips.”  Wielding Influence  While previous House speakers wielded influence by
stripping rogue members of committee assignments or rewarding
good behavior with hometown spending projects, those actions
aren’t as meaningful for Boehner. The anti-tax Tea Party members
want less spending and show little interest in leadership.
Targeted spending projects, or earmarks, are banned.  Boehner’s fundraising shows he’s a team player, said Cory
Fritz, a spokesman.  “The speaker is committed to ensuring House Republicans
have the support they need to fight off attacks from the left,”
Fritz said in an e-mail.  Boehner plans to attend fundraisers in 15 states during the
break, Fritz said. This year, he has attended more than 100
events for incumbents and candidates, raising more than $30
million for his own committees and the National Republican
Congressional Committee, according to Fritz.  Sheldon Adelson  Even the power of the purse for a prodigious fundraiser
like Boehner might be limited. Outside groups including the
Washington-based Club for Growth and billionaires such as
 Sheldon Adelson  have helped fund candidates opposed by
Republican leadership. Arkansas Representative Tom Cotton, who
announced a U.S. Senate campaign this week, won a House primary
race last year against an establishment candidate.  “Club members donated $300,000 to Cotton, which helped him
get his message out and win easily after being down by about 40
points in our first poll of that race,” said Barney Keller,
communications director of the Club for Growth.  Still, even outspoken House lawmakers welcome help from
Boehner, who raised $22 million in his own campaign account in
2011 and 2012, more than any U.S. House candidate and every
Senate incumbent except  Scott Brown  of  Massachusetts , who lost
his re-election bid in November. Boehner’s political action
committee, Freedom Project, raised $3.72 million in 2011-2012
and has collected $1.06 million this year.  Also, a joint committee Boehner has with the National
Republican Congressional Committee, Boehner for Speaker, raised
$22.6 million between 2011 and 2012.  Unsuccessful Coup  Kentucky Representative Tom Massie, who helped orchestrate
an unsuccessful coup against Boehner in January, crossed the
border into Ohio three months earlier to share a stage at a
fundraiser hosted by the Cincinnati Republican. Nine House
Republicans voted against Boehner for speaker after he agreed to
a deal to increase taxes for the highest U.S. earners.  Five of the nine Georgia Republicans in the House have
consistently cast votes that diverge from their leadership,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. In May, the entire
state Republican delegation welcomed Boehner to the Capital City
Country Club in Atlanta for a fundraiser with suggested
donations of as much as $50,000.  Pennsylvania Representative Keith Rothfus joined Boehner
for a July fundraiser in Pittsburgh. Ohio’s  Jim Jordan  and
 Tennessee ’s Scott DesJarlais have received contributions from
Boehner’s leadership political action committee. Boehner donated
to South Carolina Representative Mark Sanford during a special
election there this year.  41 Republicans  All four are members of the group of 41 House Republicans
who defied their leadership on at least five of eight
significant votes this year. They are almost all men, mostly
white and predominantly from Southern states. They tend to be
favorites of small-government groups, including the Club for
Growth and Heritage Action, the political arm of the  Heritage
Foundation . The group is headed by former South Carolina Senator
 Jim DeMint , a Tea Party favorite.  Boehner helped one of those rogue members this week,
traveling to Harrisburg, Pennsylvania, for a luncheon at Metro
Bank Park, home of a minor league affiliate of the  Washington
Nationals , to raise money for Perry.  Perry, a former state lawmaker who won a seven-way primary
last year, crossed leadership to oppose a rewrite of farm
programs and twice voted against funding for recovery operations
following superstorm Sandy. Perry also supported an amendment,
over Boehner’s opposition, to curb the Obama administration’s
ability to collect telephone records.  Federal Spending  Perry told reporters outside the fundraiser that he asked
Boehner to visit, according to the  Associated Press . Perry, a
colonel in the Pennsylvania Army National Guard, was unavailable
for an interview for this story, said Ryan Nawrocki, a
spokesman.  Boehner could use support from Perry and others when they
return to Washington on Sept. 9, three weeks before government
funding runs out at the end of the fiscal year. Boehner told
reporters this month that a new budget won’t be finished by then
and Congress will need to extend current federal funding for a
“short period of time.”  If Congress concurs, that would push the broader fiscal
fight into November, when the U.S. is projected to reach its
$16.7 trillion  debt limit . Obama is insisting Congress raise the
debt ceiling with no strings attached, while Republicans want
budget cuts included.  Health Care  Raising the stakes is a band of Republicans led by Utah
Senator  Mike Lee , who are pushing lawmakers to oppose a budget
extension unless it defunds President  Barack Obama ’s signature
health care law.  Tea Party groups are bringing up the issue at Republicans’
town hall meetings during the August recess. At a meeting in
 North Carolina  on Aug. 5 -- the first day of the break -- men
and women shouted at Representative Robert Pittenger, a first-year lawmaker, for not supporting Lee’s position. Pittenger had
backed 15 bills this year to repeal or defund all or parts of
the 2010 health care law.  In a video edited and  posted  on YouTube by
ConstitutionalWar.org, a Tea Party group, a man off-camera asks
Pittenger about supporting Lee’s effort.  “Would you like to hear a thoughtful answer?” Pittenger
asked.  “I want yes or no,” the man said.  “No,” Pittenger says. His answer is replayed in slow-motion on the video.  Senate Democrats  Pittenger is shown in the video explaining a hurdle for
Lee’s plan: The Democratic majority in the Senate, including
Majority Leader  Harry Reid , has refused to repeal the health
care law. Only 12 of 46 Republican senators support Lee’s plan.  “Do you think Harry Reid is going to pass that in the
Senate?” Pittenger asks in the video.  “It doesn’t matter,” a woman interrupted. “We need to
show the American people we stand for conservative values.”  Pittenger, 64, said in an interview the exchange shows the
difficulty in reaching “achievable goals” in Congress.
Pittenger, who voted against the farm bill, said he’d welcome
Boehner to his district.  “The threat of a shutdown isn’t going to be successful,”
Pittenger said. “We’ll be held liable and be in jeopardy of
losing of the House. I don’t want to be part of it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael C. Bender in Washington at 
 mbender10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  