-- Bond Share Tumbles as Morgan Stanley Says Sell: Credit Markets
-- B y   L i s a   A b r a m o w i c z
-- 2013-08-08T12:58:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-08/bond-share-tumbles-as-morgan-stanley-says-sell-credit-markets.html
Institutional investors’ allocations
to dollar-denominated bonds have dropped to the lowest level
since 2007 as strategists at Morgan Stanley and JPMorgan Chase &
Co. see a shift away from the debt that may fuel higher
borrowing costs.  Holdings by investors from pensions to endowments fell to
26.2 percent of assets in the second quarter, from 30.1 percent
in the corresponding period of 2012, according to the Wilshire
Trust Universe Comparison Service, which tracks plans that
oversee $3.46 trillion. Morgan Stanley’s $1.8 trillion  wealth
management unit  has been advising clients to cut bond
allocations to the lowest in more than five years, Chief
Investment Strategist David Darst said.  Dollar-denominated corporate, mortgage and government
bonds, facing the biggest losses since 1994 this year, may be
headed for deeper declines as investors sour on the debt. While
Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke attributes rising
yields partly to confidence in the economic recovery, higher
borrowing costs are “unwelcome,” he said in July testimony
before Congress.  “Equities will outperform bonds over a seven-year
timeframe because bond yields are already so low,” Darst, who
oversees investment strategy at Morgan Stanley Wealth
Management, said in a telephone interview. “We’ve got a slight
underweight in junk bonds. We have a big underweight in
corporate and government bonds.”  Berkshire Hathaway  U.S. Treasury yields reached 2.74 percent on July 5, the
highest levels since August 2011, with investors seeing better
opportunities in equities. Speculative-grade notes yield 6.19
percent, almost the same as the 6.14 percent earnings yield on
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index of stocks.  While yields on dollar-denominated corporate, government
and mortgage debt have risen 0.8 percentage point since year-end
to 2.33 percent, they’re still 1.5 percentage-points lower than
the average over the past 10 years, Bank of America Merrill
Lynch index data show. The debt’s 2.6 percent loss this year
compares with a 20 percent gain on the S&P 500.  Billionaire  Warren Buffett ’s Berkshire Hathaway Inc., which
owns stocks valued at more than three times its bond holdings,
reported a 2 percent gain in book value in the second quarter.
Buffett told investors in February 2012 that bonds were among
the “most dangerous” assets.  Pension Payments  American International Group Inc. (AIG) , the insurer that repaid
a U.S. bailout last year, said the surge in interest rates in
the second quarter fueled a $9 billion reduction in its bond
portfolio. That contributed to a 2.1 percent decline in book
value.  “An extremely low-yield environment forces people to take
risk,” Sheila Patel, a managing director at Goldman Sachs Asset
Management, said yesterday in a Bloomberg Television interview.
“Doing nothing is risk because there are targets to be met and
pensions to be paid.”  Elsewhere in credit markets, the cost of protecting
corporate debt from default in the U.S. fell, with the Markit
CDX North American Investment Grade  Index (SPX) , which investors use
to hedge against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness,
declining 0.7 basis point to a mid-price of 75.6 basis points as
of 8:53 a.m. in New York, according to prices compiled by
Bloomberg.  The measure typically falls as investor confidence improves
and rises as it deteriorates. Credit-default swaps pay the buyer
face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  Rate Swaps  The U.S. two-year interest-rate swap spread, a measure of
debt market stress, was little changed at 17.63 basis points as
of 8:53 a.m. in New York. The gauge widens when investors seek
the perceived safety of government securities and narrows when
they favor assets such as company debentures.  Bonds of Royal Bank of Canada are the most actively traded
dollar-denominated corporate securities by dealers today,
accounting for 6.9 percent of the volume of dealer trades of $1
million or more as of 8:53 a.m. in New York, according to Trace,
the bond-price reporting system of the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority.  Stock Shift  Institutional investors such as corporate and public
pensions have reduced their median allocation to U.S. bonds from
32 percent of their assets in the last three months of 2011,
according to data compiled by Wilshire Associates Inc., whose
Trust Universe Comparison Service tracks more than 1,700 plans.  The current proportion of dollar-denominated debt holdings
is the least since the fourth quarter of 2007, Kim Shepherd, a
spokeswoman for the firm, said in an e-mail.  “There is movement by institutional investors out of
investment-grade bonds,” said Eileen Neill, a managing director
in the consulting division of Wilshire, a Santa Monica,
California-based financial advisory firm. “It’s not out of fear
of bonds, it’s out of necessity because of the low yields.
They’re moving to higher yielding bonds and  emerging markets 
debt.”  Individual investors have been shifting to stocks from
bonds as well. The gap between flows into bond mutual funds and
exchange-traded funds and those focused on equities widened to
$70 billion in June, the most ever, according to JPMorgan
analysts led by Nikolaos Panigirtzoglou in  London .  ‘Great Rotation’  “Retail investors have embraced the Great Rotation over
the past two months,” they wrote in an Aug. 7 report. “It
represents the biggest behavioral change by retail investors
since the Lehman crisis.”  Yields are rising from record lows as U.S. central bankers
debate slowing monthly bond purchases, which have pumped about
 $2.6 trillion  into the financial system since the failure of
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. deepened the 2008 credit seizure.
The 2.6 percent loss this year in dollar-denominated corporate,
government and mortgage debt compares with a 3.8 percent gain in
the same period of 2012 on the Bank of America Merrill Lynch
U.S. Broad Market Index.  Morgan Stanley Wealth Management changed its recommendation
to moderate high net-worth clients in March, advising them to
place 30 percent of their money in bonds and 42 percent in
stocks, Darst said. Last year, the advice was reversed, with 42
percent in bonds and 30 percent in stocks. The firm would
consider further decreasing the allocation to debt if
strategists sensed that interest rates were poised to rise more
quickly, he said.  Sales Slowing  “If we felt that we were going to have a quick move over
the next year or two, I think the inclination would be to reduce
it even further to move it into cash and then back into bonds or
into stocks,” Darst said. It’s important to have some debt
holdings because “there is deflation risk and you want to have
some insurance in case you’re wrong.”  Bond issuance is slowing as borrowing costs increase. While
U.S. companies and government entities sold debt at the fastest
pace since 2009 in the first half of the year, this month’s
$29.7 billion of sales is 6.3 percent less than during the same
period in 2012, Bloomberg data show.  “U.S pension funds and insurance companies have been
steadily accepting higher equity allocations and lower bond
allocations” since the third quarter of 2011, JPMorgan global
asset allocation strategists wrote in the Aug. 7 report. The
trend accelerated in the first quarter, they wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Abramowicz in New York at 
 labramowicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  