-- California’s Lockyer Urges Cleaning Up School Bond Deals
-- B y   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 2013-08-08T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-08/california-s-lockyer-urges-cleaning-up-school-bond-deals.html
California should limit negotiated
bond sales by school districts and restrict underwriters and
financial advisers’ involvement in campaigns for voter approval
of the offerings, according to state Treasurer Bill Lockyer.  Lockyer advocates statewide rules covering the issues,
rather than a local approach, spokesman  Tom Dresslar  said. This
week, Los Angeles County Treasurer Mark Saladino said
underwriters who donate to school-bond campaigns would be barred
from doing business with the state’s most-populous county.  Campaign donations are less troubling than bond
underwriters and advisers that assist in such efforts and then
receive no-bid underwriting contracts, Dresslar said.  “The aroma emanating from the school-bond finance arena is
not pleasant,” Dresslar said in a statement. “The whole system
is due for a deep cleaning.”  Saladino, whose office handles general-obligation security
offerings for the county’s 93  school districts , is informing 36
underwriting firms of the cutoff if they donate to their bond
campaigns, Assistant Treasurer Glenn Byers said by telephone. No
other  California  county has taken the step, he said.  “This is designed to curb pay-to-play,” Byers said.
“It’s the taxpayers who have to foot the bill.”  Two underwriting firms voluntarily agreed not to donate to
campaigns, leading to the countywide policy. Treasurers in some
of California’s 57 other counties have reacted positively to the
rule, Byers said.  Group Action  “If we had all or most of the treasurers in the 10 largest
counties in the state, that’s effectively a statewide policy,”
he said. Los Angeles County has almost 10 million residents.  Lockyer, 72, supports statewide rules that also would apply
to financial advisers and bond lawyers as well as underwriters,
Dresslar said. The Democrat also would bar school districts from
conducting negotiated sales involving issues that would raise
less than a certain amount, Dresslar said.  “You have district officials that have cozy relationships
with finance professionals, who contribute to campaigns, then
get no-bid contracts to manage noncompetitive bond sales,”
Dresslar said. “You have district officials and finance
professionals making unrealistic promises to voters to get bond
measures passed. Then when the promises can’t be met, you have
the same folks sticking future generations of taxpayers with
unjustified, outrageous debt service tabs.”  Legislative Solution  Lockyer backed a  bill  by state Assemblyman Donald Wagner,
an  Irvine  Republican, that would bar firms that advise bond
campaigns from working as underwriters or financial advisers on
bond issues. The bill, which  passed  the Assembly 51-10, is
stalled in the Senate’s Governance and Finance Committee, where
the last hearing on it was July 3,  according  to the state’s
legislative tracking website.  Saladino’s move likely will encourage other beneficiaries
of school bonds, such as construction firms, to compensate by
boosting their own campaign contributions, Byers said.  “To actually fix this is going to require a legislative
fix,” he said.  Leaders of the California  Association  of County Treasurers
and Tax Collectors today plan to discuss whether to push for
statewide legislation or a local approach, said Shari Schapmire,
the Mendocino County treasurer and president of the group. It
plans a teleconference on the issue.  “I can see some of the larger counties following Mark’s
lead on this,” Schapmire said by telephone.  To contact the reporters on this story:
James Nash in  Los Angeles  at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
William Glasgall at 
 wglasgall@bloomberg.net  