-- Camels From Oman May Be Transmitting Deadly Coronavirus
-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a
-- 2013-08-08T22:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-08/camels-from-oman-may-be-transmitting-deadly-coronavirus.html
Arabian one-humped camels in Oman may
be transmitting the new coronavirus that’s  killed 46  people,
according to a study published in the Lancet Infectious Diseases
medical journal.  Neutralizing antibodies specific to the Middle East
respiratory syndrome coronavirus, or MERS-CoV, or a very similar
virus, were found in all 50 serum samples taken from Arabian
dromedary camels in Oman, according to the  study , led by Chantal
Reusken of the National Institute for  Public Health  and the
Environment in Bilthoven, the Netherlands.  While a study published last month found that South African
bats may be the source of the virus, researchers suspect other
animals may be acting as intermediate hosts, because there is
limited human contact with bats. A team of scientists gathered
349 blood serum samples from livestock animals including camels,
cows, sheep and goats from Oman, the Netherlands,  Spain  and
 Chile .  “These new results suggest that dromedary camels may be
one reservoir of the virus that is causing MERS-CoV in humans,”
the authors said in a statement. “Targeted studies are needed
to confirm our findings and their possible relevance in relation
to the human cases.”  In the  Middle East , camels are raced and used for their
meat and milk, so there are different types of contact with
humans that could lead to transmission of a virus, they said.
Lower levels of the coronavirus-specific antibodies were also
found in 14 percent of samples taken from dromedaries from the
 Canary Islands  of Spain.  Imports Banned  While camels on the Canary Islands were originally imported
in the 15th century from the Horn of  Africa , this practice is
now banned because of the risk of foot-and-mouth disease.
Exports into the Middle East from Africa still continue in large
numbers, and this difference in turnover could be affecting the
virus epidemiology, the researchers said.  It’s unclear whether the detection of antibodies in both
Spain and Oman is a result of unrelated cross-species
transmission or because the virus has been circulating in camels
for a long time, Emmie de Wit and Vincent Munster of the
National Institute of Allergy and  Infectious Diseases  in
Hamilton,  Montana , said in a comment accompanying the article.  “Although the study by Reusken and colleagues leaves many
questions unanswered, it is an important step to a more
comprehensive understanding of the emergence of coronavirus,”
they said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in London at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  