-- Canadian Natural Profit Falls as Horizon Maintenance Cuts Output
-- B y   J e r e m y   v a n   L o o n   a n d   R e b e c c a   P e n t y
-- 2013-08-08T09:14:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-08/canadian-natural-profit-falls-as-horizon-maintenance-cuts-output.html
Canadian Natural Resources Ltd. (CNQ) , the
nation’s largest producer of heavy crude, reported a 37 percent
decline in second-quarter profit as maintenance work reduced
output from an oil-sands project.  Net income fell to C$476 million ($457 million), or 44
cents a share, from C$753 million, or 68 cents, a year earlier,
the Calgary-based company said today in a statement. Excluding
one-time items, per-share profit was 42 cents, missing the 44-cent average  estimate  of 16 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Canadian Natural said in May it would produce less crude in
the second quarter because of  maintenance  at the Horizon oil-sands plant following unplanned halts in the past two years. The
company is among energy stocks that have  gained  after Canadian
 oil prices  rose in the quarter, narrowing the gap with West
Texas Intermediate, a U.S. benchmark.  “Horizon performance continues to be a focus,” Phil Skolnick, an analyst at Canaccord Genuity Corp. in  New York ,
said in a July 22 note to clients. The maintenance work lasted
five days longer than expected, which may mean the project’s
output fell below company forecasts for the quarter, he wrote.  Canadian Natural produced the equivalent of 623,315 barrels
of oil a day in the period, down from 679,607 barrels a year
earlier.  Spot prices  for Western Canada Select rose 5.4 percent from
a year earlier to average $77.48 a barrel, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The  price difference  between the Canadian
heavy crude and the U.S. oil benchmark narrowed 15 percent to
$16.75 a barrel during the quarter.  The earnings were released before the start of regular
trading on North American markets. The shares, which have gained
10 percent this year, fell 1.3 percent to C$31.61 yesterday in
Toronto. The company has 17 buy, five hold and two sell ratings
from  analysts . It’s  Canada ’s biggest heavy-oil producer
according to its website.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeremy van Loon in Calgary at 
 jvanloon@bloomberg.net ;
Rebecca Penty in Calgary at 
 rpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  