-- Canadian Tire Reaches Record as Profit Beats Estimates
-- B y   L a u r e n   S .   M u r p h y
-- 2013-08-08T20:21:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-08/canadian-tire-reaches-record-as-profit-beats-estimates.html
Canadian Tire Corp., the country’s
largest sporting goods retailer, rose to a record after
reporting second-quarter profit that beat analysts’ estimates
and said it would seek a financial partner for its C$4.4 billion
($4.2 billion) credit-card portfolio.  Canadian Tire jumped 7.1 percent to C$89.45 at the close in
Toronto, its highest price since at least September 1988,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The shares have risen
29 percent this year, compared with a 1 percent gain in the
Standard and Poor’s/TSX Composite Index.  The Toronto-based retailer posted per-share profit of
C$1.91, beating the C$1.77 average of eight estimates compiled
by Bloomberg. Sales were C$3.02 billion, topping the average
estimate of C$3.01 billion.  The strong performance of the company’s credit card
portfolio would make it an attractive asset for a potential
partnership, Canadian Tire said. Financial services’ income
before income taxes increased 33 percent from a year earlier
because of the acquisition of new customers and improved write-off performance.  “The market is pretty pleased with the transaction they’re
going through with the credit-card portfolio,” Bobby Hagedorn,
an analyst with  Edward Jones  in  St. Louis , said today in a
telephone interview. “Retail investors are usually not quite as
comfortable with financial-services profits as they are with
core retail business profits. Whenever you can remove that big
part of the business, a lot of the time that will result in
evaluation multiples that expand, that’s where the market is
getting this move today.”  Credit Cards  The company said it was looking for a similar deal to
Target Corp.’s sale of its credit-card portfolio to  Toronto-Dominion Bank  and the sale of  Kohl’s Corp.’s  portfolio to
Capital One Financial Corp.  “What we’re looking for is someone to basically take the
balance sheet risk and take the balance sheet funding side of
this equation and share with us in the revenue produced out of
the credit card portfolio,” Dean McCann, the company’s chief
financial officer, said on the earnings call today.  Ken Silver will be CEO of the company’s REIT, the company
said today in the earnings statement. Silver was formerly the
president of Canadian Tire Real Estate Ltd.  Canadian Tire plans to release its C$3.5 billion REIT
initial public offering before the end of the year. The REIT
will acquire about 250 properties representing about 18 million
square feet, which includes Canadian Tire retail stores and a
distribution center, the company said on May 9.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lauren S. Murphy in Toronto at 
 lmurphy48@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jacqueline Thorpe at 
 jthorpe23@bloomberg.net  