-- Canadian Dollar Gains Most in Month on Global Economic Optimism
-- B y   J e f f   M a r s h a l l
-- 2013-08-08T21:13:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-08/canadian-dollar-gains-from-four-week-low-on-global-trade-signals.html
Canada ’s dollar strengthened the most
in almost a month after improved trade data from  China  and
 Germany  added to signs the global economy is recovering, fueling
speculation demand for the nation’s commodities will increase.  The currency advanced for the first time in three days as
reports showed Chinese exports climbed more than forecast and
 German (GRBTEXMM)  exports rose. It extended gains after initial jobless-benefits claims in the U.S., Canada’s biggest trade partner,
fell over the past month to the lowest in more than five years.
Metals rallied.  “The Canadian dollar has been the laggard for the last
week or so,” said Adam Button, a currency analyst in  Montreal 
at forexlive.com. “With the  Chinese (CNFREXPY)  data overnight and a
stronger outlook for commodities, the Canadian dollar is better
positioned.”  Canada’s currency, nicknamed the loonie for the image of
the bird on the C$1 coin, appreciated 0.9 percent, the most on a
closing basis since July 11, to C$1.0328 per U.S. dollar at 5
p.m. in Toronto. It gained as much as 1.1 percent to C$1.0304,
the strongest level since Aug. 1, after sliding yesterday to
C$1.0445, the weakest since July 11. One Canadian dollar
purchases 96.82 U.S. cents.  The currency declined 2 percent over the past three months
against nine developed-nation peers tracked by the Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Index. The Australian dollar fell the most,
losing 10 percent, while the U.S. dollar advanced 0.9 percent.  Benchmark 10-year Canadian-government bonds were little
changed after rising earlier and pushing  yields  down as much as
three basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 2.47 percent.
The yields ended the day at 2.5 percent as the price of the 1.5
percent securities due in June 2023 added 4 cents to C$91.39.  Bond Auction  The Bank of Canada said it will auction C$2.8 billion ($2.7
billion) of 10-year bonds on Aug. 14. The 2.5 percent securities
mature in June 2024.  Chinese shipments overseas climbed 5.1 percent in July from
a year earlier after sliding 3.1 percent in June, according to
the General Administration of Customs in Beijing. A Bloomberg
survey forecast a 2 percent increase. German exports increased
0.6 percent in June from May, when they dropped a revised 2
percent that was less than originally estimated, the Federal
Statistics Office in Wiesbaden said.  Positive Tone  “It’s generally a positive data tone, especially out of
China, where we were concerned about maybe a little bit of a
harder landing,” said  David Tulk , chief macro strategist at
Toronto-Dominion Bank’s TD Securities unit in Toronto. “The
sense that the rest of the world is doing OK does help support
Canada, given the fact that we have become increasingly reliant
on net exports to drive the next stage of the recovery.”  Copper climbed as much as 3.4 percent to $3.2795 a pound,
the highest level since June 11, on Comex in New York. Copper,
nickel and zinc gained on the London Metal Exchange.  Oil, Canada’s biggest export, slid as the decline in U.S.
jobless claims raised concern the Federal Reserve will trim
stimulus measures. Crude futures dropped as much as 2.1 percent
to $102.22 a barrel in New York, the lowest in a month, before
trading at $103.86, down 0.5 percent.  U.S. policy makers are discussing whether the world’s
biggest economy has improved enough for them to start slowing
the pace of their monthly bond purchases. The Fed buys $85
billion of Treasuries and mortgage debt each month to put
downward pressure on borrowing costs and spur growth.  Applications for  unemployment  benefits in the U.S. in the
four weeks ended Aug. 3 declined to 335,500 on average, the
least since November 2007, Labor Department data showed today.  ‘Less Rabid’  “Initial jobless claims helped to further the
strengthening,” TD’s Tulk said of the Canadian currency. “Some
of the tapering concern where we would see stronger U.S. data as
being negative for the Canada dollar has faded a little bit. The
market is a little less rabid in trying to price in tapering
expectations.”  Canada’s payrolls grew by 10,000 jobs last month after
losing 400 positions in June, economics surveyed by Bloomberg
forecast before data due tomorrow. The workforce surged in May
by 95,000, the most in a decade. The unemployment rate held at
7.1 percent in July for a third month, economists estimated.  New housing  prices  in Canada rose 0.2 percent in June after
increasing 0.1 percent the month before, Statistics Canada data
showed today. A Bloomberg survey forecast a 0.1 percent gain.  “It’s a 0.1 percent beat -- I wouldn’t exactly look at it
as an outlier result,” said  Jack Spitz , managing director of
foreign exchange at  National Bank of Canada (NA)  in Toronto. “But it
wasn’t negative. The breakup price action likely comes on the
back of the employment data tomorrow in Canada.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Marshall in New York at 
 jmarshall75@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robert Burgess at 
 bburgess@bloomberg.net  