-- Canadian Light Crude Oil Strengthens Before Plant Maintenance
-- B y   E d w a r d   W e l s c h
-- 2013-08-08T17:58:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-08/canadian-light-crude-oil-strengthens-before-plant-maintenance.html
Canadian light crudes strengthened on
the  spot market  before refinery maintenance closings that will
reduce supplies.  Two plants in  Alberta  will be shut for work starting next
month.  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ’s 97,870 barrel-a-day Scotford
refinery will close for most of September, a person familiar
with the matter told Bloomberg on July 30.  Husky Energy Inc. (HSE) ’s
82,000 barrel-a-day Lloydminster upgrader will shut for 45 days
starting in early September, executives said on an earnings call
last month.  Syncrude, a light oil produced from oil-sands bitumen,
strengthened for September delivery by $1 to a $3.50 premium to
U.S. benchmark West Texas Intermediate, according to Calgary oil
broker Net Energy Inc. It was the highest level for the grade
since July 19, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Syncrude supplies had been limited in past months by
maintenance at other Alberta upgraders, plants that convert
heavy bitumen into higher-quality light oil.  Canadian Natural Resources Ltd. (CNQ)  said today that May
maintenance at its Horizon upgrader caused second-quarter
production to decline 38 percent from the first quarter, to
67,954 barrels a day. Production at the Syncrude upgrader
declined 30 percent in July to 183,000 barrels a day from a year
earlier because of maintenance on a coker, according to  Canadian
Oil Sands Ltd. (COS) , the company’s largest owner.  Canadian conventional light, sweet oil for September
delivery strengthened by 35 cents a barrel to a $6.30-a-barrel
discount to WTI, Net Energy said. Western Canadian Select heavy
oil weakened by 10 cents a barrel to $22.90 below WTI, according
to Net Energy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edward Welsch in Calgary at 
 ewelsch1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  