-- Cargill Open to Deals After Integration Focus, CFO Says
-- B y   S h r u t i   D a t e   S i n g h
-- 2013-08-08T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-08/cargill-open-to-deals-after-integration-focus-cfo-says.html
Cargill Inc., the commodities trader
that’s the largest closely held U.S. company, is open to deals
again after focusing for the past year on integrating prior
acquisitions and building plants.  Cargill may direct about a third of its spending on
acquisitions for the 2014 fiscal year, which began June 1, Chief
Financial Officer  Marcel Smits  said in a phone interview
yesterday. Chief Operating Officer David MacLennan, who was also
on the call, declined to comment on potential targets or the
level of spending. Organic growth and acquisitions are likely to
come outside of North America, he said.  The largest U.S. beef packer after  Tyson Foods Inc. (TSN)  tilted
its 2013 investments toward expanding, modernizing and building
facilities after two fiscal years of acquisitions, according to
a Jan. 9 company statement. Among the purchases was Minneapolis-based Cargill’s takeover of French animal nutrition provider
Provimi SA in 2011 for $2.2 billion. The acquisition is
contributing “nicely” to the bottom line and other purchases
also are working out well, Smits said.  Devoting a third of its funds to acquisitions would return
the company to its historical average spending ratio, with the
remainder going to  capital expenditures , Smits said. Cargill
agreed to buy Joe White Maltings in Australia from Glencore
Xstrata Plc for about A$420 million ($378 million), two people
familiar with the matter said Aug. 5. Any additional
acquisitions will depend on strategic fit, financial value and
accretion to the company, MacLennan said yesterday.  The company will “work closely” with ratings companies to
ensure its credit profile isn’t changed because of acquisitions,
MacLennan said. Cargill has an A rating from  Fitch Ratings  and
 Standard & Poor’s .  Cargill performed due diligence on Decatur, Illinois-based
 Archer-Daniels-Midland Co. (ADM) ’s cocoa business, Reuters reported in
July. MacLennan declined to comment on whether Cargill is
interested in buying the unit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shruti Date Singh in Chicago at 
 ssingh28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  