-- Carney Bemoans All-Male Rate-Setting Committee at BOE
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2013-08-08T15:55:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-08/carney-bemoans-all-male-committee-as-he-seeks-more-women-at-boe.html
Bank of England  Governor  Mark Carney 
said today the lack of women on the nine-member Monetary Policy
Committee is “striking” and the bank needs to nurture female
economists in its ranks.  “It is anomalous, it’s striking,” he said in an interview
on BBC Radio 4 today. “What we have to do at the Bank of
England is grow top female economists all the way through the
ranks. That adds to the diversity in macroeconomic thinking, it
adds to qualified candidates for the MPC including qualified
candidates to be a future governor.”  No woman has sat on the nine-member MPC since  Kate Barker 
left in mid-2010. Carney’s comments are the second on the status
of women in the U.K. in less than 24 hours, after he said
yesterday the harassment of campaigners for a woman to appear on
U.K. banknotes was “shocking.”  “Mark Carney is absolutely right to criticize the lack of
women on the MPC,” said lawmaker Catherine McKinnell, Treasury
spokeswoman for the opposition  Labour Party . “To make matters
worse there are currently no women ministers in the Treasury
either.”  Bookmaker Odds  Sheila Dow, emeritus professor at the  University of
Stirling , is the favorite to become the next female MPC member,
according to odds offered by bookmaker  Paddy Power Plc. (PWL)  Dow, who
was a BOE economist in the 1970s and also worked at the
department of finance in the Canadian province of Manitoba, is
at 3/1, meaning a successful $1 wager would win a $3 profit.  Janet Henry , chief European economist at HSBC Holdings Plc
in London, is at 4/1, with Melanie Baker of Morgan Stanley at
5/1. Diane Coyle, head of Enlightenment Economics, is at 7/1,
followed by Bridget Rosewell, a senior partner at Volterra
Consulting, at 12/1. Lucrezia Reichlin, a professor at  London
Business School , is at 14/1.  Carney’s remarks, coming a day after he introduced policy
guidance at the BOE, may reflect a mandate from Chancellor of
the Exchequer  George Osborne  to revamp the 319-year-old
institution and revive economic growth. Lawmakers have warned
the bank must guard against “groupthink” when it sets monetary
policy.  “It’s certainly a new angle,” said Victoria Clarke, an
economist at Investec Securities in London and a former central
bank official. “He was appointed by the chancellor with the
idea that he should shake up the BOE, and I assume having the
right balance of male and female economists across the bank is
important for ensuring the variety of debate they’re looking
for.”  Twitter Abuse  Carney said yesterday people who harassed women lobbying
for 19th-century novelist  Jane Austen ’s image to appear on U.K.
banknotes should be prosecuted.  Journalist Caroline Criado-Perez, who led a campaign to get
Austen’s image on the currency, complained about sexual abuse
from comments posted on Twitter. Labour Party lawmaker Stella
Creasy also reported abusive comments posted online, including a
rape threat, to police. Police have arrested and bailed three
men in connection with the allegations.  “It was shocking, it should be prosecuted to the full
extent of the law,” Carney said in a  Channel 4 television
interview . “This institution, myself personally, have nothing
but admiration” for the women who raised the issue.  The campaign arose after Carney’s predecessor,  Mervyn King ,
announced that former Prime Minister  Winston Churchill  would
replace Elizabeth Fry, a 19th-century social reformer, on the
five-pound note starting in 2016. The change would have meant no
female historical figure appeared on U.K. banknotes. Carney said
last month an Austen note would appear within a year of the
Churchill note.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  