-- McDonald’s July Sales Rise on New Menu Items
-- B y   L e s l i e   P a t t o n
-- 2013-08-08T20:41:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-08/mcdonald-s-july-sales-rise-on-new-menu-items.html
McDonald’s Corp. (MCD) , the world’s largest
restaurant chain, said sales at stores open at least 13 months
rose 0.7 percent last month, topping analysts’ estimates, as new
wraps and breakfast food attracted U.S. diners.  Analysts projected a 0.4 percent gain, the average of 15
estimates compiled by Consensus Metrix. Same-store sales in the
U.S. rose 1.6 percent, the Oak Brook, Illinois-based company
said today in a statement. Analysts projected a 0.3 percent
increase.  The 34,700-restaurant chain has introduced new menu items
in the U.S. this year, including chicken McWraps and egg-white
breakfast sandwiches, to compete with  Burger King Worldwide Inc. (BKW) 
and Wendy’s Co., which are rolling out new food. McDonald’s also
is advertising its Dollar Menu in the U.S. and combo meals in
France and  Germany , its largest European markets, to attract
cash-strapped consumers.  “Their breakfast business has been strong,” and the egg-white sandwich probably helped boost July sales, Peter Saleh, a
New York-based analyst at Telsey Advisory Group, said in an
interview. “As the economy improves and you get job growth,
more and more people are now driving to work and so they tend to
go through the drive-through.”  McDonald’s fell 0.3 percent to $98.04 at the close in New
York. The  shares  have climbed 11 percent this year, while the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Restaurants Index has gained 18 percent.  U.S. Economy  The U.S. economy grew more than projected in the second
quarter, showing the country may be overcoming higher taxes and
cuts in government spending.  Consumer spending  also is
increasing, which may be helping McDonald’s sell more burgers.
U.S. spending rose 1.8 percent during the second quarter,
topping analysts’ estimates.  Same-store sales fell 1.9 percent in both Europe and the
company’s Asia Pacific, the Middle East and Africa region.
Analysts projected a 0.3 percent increase and 0.3 percent drop,
respectively, according to Consensus Metrix, a researcher owned
by Kaul Advisory Group in Wayne, New Jersey.  Comparable-store sales are considered an indicator of a
company’s growth because they only include older, established
locations.  July store sales fell in Germany and France, where
McDonald’s has about 2,700 stores.  ‘Tough Economies’  The chain is “going to face some tough economies around
the world,” Chief Executive Officer Don Thompson said on July
22 during a conference call. “Based on our recent sales trends,
our results for the rest of the year are expected to remain
challenged.”  McDonald’s, which gets about 40 percent of its  revenue  from
Europe, has advertised 4.50 euro baguette sandwich and drink
combos in  France  to attract diners. In  Germany , the chain is
promoting new snack salads and wraps with arugula and couscous,
along with value meals.  About 19 percent of McDonald’s locations worldwide are
owned by the company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leslie Patton in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  