-- China’s Worst Nightmare Is Turning Japanese
-- B y   W i l l i a m   P e s e k
-- 2013-08-08T21:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-08/china-s-worst-nightmare-is-turning-japanese.html
Few words strike greater fear in the
hearts of economists and politicians than “Japanization.” That
specter of chronic malaise, deflation and bad debt has driven
central bankers from  Ben S. Bernanke  in the U.S. to  Mario Draghi 
in  Europe  to flood markets with liquidity in an effort to avert
their own lost decades.  It should worry China, then, that experts on this dreaded
scenario are turning their attention to Beijing. Take Brian Reading, whose quest to understand what the world can learn from
Tokyo’s mess dates back to his prescient 1992 book “Japan: The
Coming Collapse.” He recently wrote a 40-page report with
Lombard Street Research Ltd. colleague Diana Choyleva titled
“China’s Chance to Avoid Japan’s Mistakes.”  Over at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in Hong Kong, investor
inquiries on the similarities between China and Japan drove
Grace Ng to revisit the topic. She warns that  China  today and
Japan in the 1980s share an uncannily similar buildup in broad
measures of credit to almost double their economies’ size.  So, just how susceptible is China to Japanization? Very,
actually, and only bold and creative action on the part of
President Xi Jinping and Premier Li Keqiang can avoid it. Think
of their 10-year term that began in March as China’s make-or-break period to dodge a major debt crisis.  China’s Debt  China is not impossibly indebted, considering it has $3.5
trillion in currency reserves. JPMorgan reckons its debt-to-gross-domestic-product ratio rose to 187 percent in 2012 from
105 percent in 2000, compared with Japan’s increase to 176
percent in 1990 from 127 percent in 1980.  Japan ’s has exploded
since then and could approach 250 percent of GDP next year. That
would mark a jump of 10 percent from 2012 alone in a fast-aging
nation that’s losing global competitiveness.  China, also aging, couldn’t withstand a similar jump; it
must rein things in now. Japan became rich before its society
became old. It had decades to build a social contract between
the public and private sectors, nurture a stable of innovative
companies, and open the financial system. That legwork enabled
Japan to muddle along for two decades without a huge  debt 
meltdown or social unrest.  Yet Japan’s is also a tale of hubris and missed
opportunities. Rather than quickly scrapping a model based on
overinvestment, exports and excessive debt,  Tokyo  delayed change
at all costs by relying on current-account surpluses, huge
budget deficits and asset bubbles. In many ways, it still is.  Sound familiar? “China has so far followed in the
footsteps of Japan,” Reading and Choyleva  argue . “But its
economy is not yet over-indebted. So there is time for China to
avoid Japan’s mistakes if it changes course. The lesson from
Japan’s experience in the 1970s and 80s is that change drives
change and liberalisation becomes unavoidable. But unless policy
is aimed at fundamental structural reform, the temporary
solutions of running current account surpluses, budget deficits
and spawning bubbles will eventually run out of steam and cause
growth to stall. But China is far from having twenty more years
to be blowing up bubbles.”  There are troubling signs that Beijing thinks it has plenty
of time to deal with the problem. For every pledge to cut excess
production capacity, audit government borrowings and tolerate
sub-8 percent growth, there are two others assuring markets that
growth won’t be allowed to slow too much. It’s that kind of
doublespeak that sounds eerily familiar to longtime Japan
watchers such as Marshall Mays.  “Even though Xi is reputed to have consolidated power
quite quickly, there is still a lot of mess to clean up in the
first year of formal rule,” says Mays, director of Emerging
Alpha Advisors Ltd. in  Hong Kong . “Li, meanwhile, doesn’t seem
to have settled on a stable program of his own yet.”  China’s Detroits  The problem is one of politics over economics. Around
China, dozens of local leaders are vying to put their cities on
the global map and become the toast of the Communist Party. That
means more than delivering rapid GDP. It also means building
huge skyscrapers, international airports, six-lane highways,
five-star hotel chains, sports stadiums, universities, giant
cultural centers and swanky shopping arcades punctuated with
Prada and Hermes shops -- all financed with fresh debt. If
several of these metropolises go bust,  Detroit ’s $18 billion
bankruptcy will look like small change by comparison.  A continued infrastructure boom promises ever-greater
riches for vested interests both locally and in  Beijing. (CNGDPYOY)  There
are ways Xi and Li could defuse the debt time bomb: greater
oversight, expanding the municipal  bond market , letting
localities refinance with direct bond sales, increased
transparency. China could borrow a page from the 1980s U.S.
savings-and-loan crisis and set up Resolution Trust Corp.-like
entities to dispose of bad debts.  But to do any of this, Chinese leaders must be willing to
spend political capital at levels that are at least commensurate
with the epic flow of ill-gotten gains heading back to the
nation’s capital. It will take some serious mettle to avoid a
Japan-like funk, and it’s unclear if Xi and Li have it.  (William Pesek is a Bloomberg View columnist.)  To contact the writer of this article:
William Pesek in Tokyo at 
 wpesek@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Nisid Hajari at   nhajari@bloomberg.net . 