-- China Reforms Spur SOE Credit-Quality Gap, Moody’s Say
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-08-08T07:32:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-08/china-reforms-spur-soe-credit-quality-gap-moody-s-say.html
Credit quality of  China ’s non-financial state-owned companies will diverge further in the next
few years as the central government rolls out economic and
corporate reforms, according to Moody’s Investors Service.  Differences will be greatest for the companies in sectors
with excess capacity, such as steel and building materials, and
where the impacts of slower growth and economic transition will
be more painful, Moody’s said in a report today. The state will
gradually reduce its investment, support and involvement in
industries that are no longer priorities, Moody’s said.  China has ordered more than 1,400 companies in 19
industries, including steel, copper, aluminum, cement and paper,
to cut excess production capacity this year. Premier  Li Keqiang 
is promoting domestic consumption over exports as he seeks more
sustainable growth. The country is targeting gross domestic
product growth of 7.5 percent this year, which would be the
slowest pace since 1990.  “The reforms will not materially affect the strategically
important sectors,” said Kai Hu, a Beijing-based senior credit
officer at Moody’s. “The state will continue to allocate
resources, including capital and government-sponsored research,
to strategically important sectors like energy and defense.”  China National Petroleum Corp., China Petrochemical Corp.,
 China National Offshore Oil Corp. (883)  and State Grid Corp. of China,
which have Aa3 ratings and stable outlooks, will maintain their
creditworthiness, Hu said.  For SOEs in sectors that the government views as less
strategic, only companies that are leaders in their field will
continue to benefit from state support, Moody’s said. Baosteel
Group Corp. was one such company, the ratings firm said.  Long-term investors need to evaluate which companies will
remain state-controlled and which will not. Risks will increase
for subsidiaries operating in less important sectors, with less
prospect of bailouts and more chance of being spun off, Moody’s
said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Helen Sun in Shanghai at 
 hsun30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  