-- China Rate Swap Falls to Three-Week Low as PBOC Adds Cash
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-08-08T02:48:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-08/china-rate-swap-falls-to-three-week-low-as-pboc-adds-cash.html
China ’s one-year interest-rate swap
fell to a three-week low after the central bank added funds to
the financial system using reverse-repurchase operations.  The People’s Bank of China injected 15 billion yuan ($2.45
billion) today by issuing 14-day reverse repos at 4.1 percent,
according to a trader required to bid at the auctions. The rate
was 40 basis points lower than when the contracts were last
auctioned a week ago. The monetary authority conducted seven-day
reverse repos on Aug. 6 at a yield of 4 percent, down from 4.4
percent a week earlier when the contracts were used in open-market operations for the first time since January.  “The central bank again guided the rate lower, reaffirming
its intention to the market,” said Guo Caomin, a bond analyst
at Industrial Bank Co. in  Shanghai . “However, the reverse-repo
amount is not so big, so the downside for rates should be
limited in the near term.”  The one-year swap contract, the fixed cost needed to
receive the floating seven-day repo rate, fell two basis points
to 3.85 percent as of 10:32 a.m. in Shanghai, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. That is the lowest level since July 18.  The  overnight repurchase rate , a gauge of cash availability
in the banking system, gained four basis points, or 0.04
percentage point, to 3.16 percent, according to a weighted
average compiled by the National Interbank Funding Center.  The central bank’s money-market operations injected a net
20 billion yuan this week, according to the trader. That
compares with 136 billion  yuan  in the five days ended Aug. 2.  The yield on the government’s 3.38 percent notes due May
2023 climbed three basis points to a two-week high of 3.82
percent, according to prices from the Interbank Funding Center.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Helen Sun in Shanghai at 
 hsun30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  