-- China July Iron Ore Imports Climb to Record on Cheaper Shipments
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-08-08T05:54:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-08/china-july-iron-ore-imports-climb-to-record-on-cheaper-shipments.html
Iron ore imports  by  China , the
world’s biggest buyer of the steelmaking raw material, climbed
to a record in July as falling prices spurred mills to stock up.  Imports reached 73.14 million metric tons in July, China’s
General Administration of Customs said today on its  website .
Shipments rose 17 percent from the previous month and 26 percent
from a year earlier, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Ore prices  at China’s Tianjin port dropped to $110.4 a dry
ton on May 31, the lowest level since October, and rebounded 21
percent to $133.1 as of yesterday, according to The Steel Index
Ltd. Iron ore entered a  bull market  on July 26 after China, the
world’s biggest steel producer, replenished inventories and
boosted steel output.  “The prices at around $110 levels in June made ore imports
cheaper than the ore produced from costlier domestic mines,”
said Zhang Jiabin, Beijing-based chief iron ore analyst with
researcher Custeel.com. “A price rebound also boosts
steelmakers’ sentiment to stock the raw material amid high steel
output.”  China’s economic-planning agency said Aug. 4 the
construction of transportation-related infrastructure projects
would be accelerated, adding to efforts to boost domestic steel
demand. The nation’s crude-steel production gained 7.4 percent
to 389.9 million tons in the first half of this year from a year
ago, according to the National Bureau of Statistics.  For the first seven months, iron ore imports climbed 8
percent to 457.23 million tons from a year earlier, customs said.  Steel-product exports were 5.15 million tons in July, it
said.  Shipments  increased 14 percent to 35.83 million tons in
the January-July period from a year earlier, customs said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Helen  Yuan  in Shanghai at 
 hyuan@bloomberg.net ;
Alfred Cang in Shanghai at 
 acang@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  