-- China Trade Rebounds in Further Sign Economy Stabilizing
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-08-08T08:27:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-08/china-july-exports-and-imports-exceed-estimates-surplus-trails.html
China ’s  exports  and imports rebounded
by more than estimated last month, adding to signs that the
economy is stabilizing following a two-quarter slowdown.  Shipments abroad rose 5.1 percent from a year earlier, the
 General Administration of Customs  said in Beijing today. The
median estimate was for a 2 percent increase in a Bloomberg News
survey, after June’s 3.1 percent drop. Imports gained 10.9
percent, leaving a trade  surplus  of $17.8 billion.  Exports to the U.S. and European Union, China’s biggest
markets, increased for the first time in five months. Improved
trade may bolster Premier Li Keqiang’s chances of achieving the
year’s 7.5 percent target for expansion in the world’s second-largest economy, after official manufacturing and service-industry indexes rose in July.  “Many people were worried that China’s economy would drop
very fast in a short period of time,” said Zhang Zhiwei, chief
China economist at Nomura Holdings Inc. in Hong Kong. “But now
it seems that the real economy hasn’t been seriously impacted.
The risk that the real economy will decline rapidly is lower.”  The benchmark  Shanghai  Composite  Index (CPMINDX)  of stocks fell 0.1
percent at the close after rising as much as 0.6 percent
following the report. The Australian dollar rose, with data
showing China’s imports from the country up 24.6 percent, the
most since May 2012.  The yuan today strengthened to a 19-year high and was up
less than 0.1 percent to 6.1175 per dollar at 3:50 p.m. in
Shanghai, according to the China Foreign Exchange Trade System.  Crude Oil  The volume of crude imports rose in July to a record high
as Sinopec, the country’s largest refiner, cut maintenance plans
by 40 percent in the third quarter, today’s figures showed. The
oil’s $19.4 billion value accounted for 11.5 percent of total
imports, compared with 11.1 percent in June. China also imported
74 aircraft in July, up from 58 a year earlier.  Trade data had shown a slowdown starting in May after the
government cracked down on fake invoices that inflated figures
earlier in the year. The quality of the data has “improved a
lot,” Lu Ting, head of Greater China economics at Bank of
America Corp. in Hong Kong, said in a note today.  The improving U.S. economy as well as delays in June trade
transactions because of the government crackdown on fraud aided
July’s figures, said Shen Jianguang, chief Asia economist at
Mizuho Securities Asia Ltd. in Hong Kong. Authorities will help
boost export growth above 5 percent in the coming months by
preventing  yuan  appreciation and increasing export credit
insurance, Shen said.  Cash Squeeze  Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. said in a note
that improved liquidity following June’s cash squeeze may have
aided trade in July.  Economists’ estimates for July exports ranged from a 4
percent drop to an 8.8 percent increase. The median  import 
projection was for 1 percent growth, with forecasts ranging from
a 2.3 percent decline to a 6 percent gain. The trade surplus
compared with the median estimate for a $26.9 billion excess.  “Import growth really should be seen as a proxy for
domestic demand,” said Helen Qiao, chief Greater China
economist at Morgan Stanley in Hong Kong. “Therefore a major
surprise on the upside really suggests that domestic demand is
in recovery.”  Data showed exports from inland provinces rising at a
faster pace than some coastal areas. Shipments from Shanxi more
than doubled and Hunan’s were up 61 percent, while eastern
Zhejiang’s exports gained 18 percent and Guangdong’s were up 3.9
percent. Shanxi’s mobile-phone exports rose 640 percent in the
first half on a local Foxconn Technology Group plant’s
production of Apple Inc.’s iPhone, the official Shanxi Daily
reported Aug. 5.  PMI Gauges  The official manufacturing Purchasing Managers’  Index (SHCOMP) 
increased to 50.3 in July from 50.1 in June and the non-manufacturing PMI rose to 54.1 from 53.9, reports earlier this
month showed. Private gauges from HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit
Economics didn’t show improvement.  While it’s “risky to make too much interpretation” from
one month’s data, the PMI gauges from the U.S., Europe and U.K.
and a China PMI export orders sub-index “suggest improving
external demand, boding well for China’s exports in the near
future,” said Ding Shuang, senior economist at Citigroup Inc.
in Hong Kong.  “We expect better trade activity to only partially offset
weak domestic demand due to tighter credit conditions” in the
second half, and growth will keep decelerating over the next few
quarters, Ding said in a note.  Politburo Pledge  The Politburo pledged last week to stabilize  growth  while
pressing on with economic reforms. China has announced what Bank
of America Corp. called a “small stimulus” consisting of
measures including tax breaks for small companies and
accelerated railway construction while cutting industrial
overcapacity and extravagant spending by officials and state-owned enterprises.  The statistics bureau will tomorrow provide data on July’s
inflation,  industrial production  and retail sales and January-July fixed-asset investment. The central bank will publish data
on credit and money supply over the next week.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Alan Wong in Hong Kong at 
 awong478@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  