-- China Unicom Rises After Profit Beats Estimates: Hong Kong Mover
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-08-09T09:00:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-08/china-unicom-earnings-beat-estimates-on-cheaper-smartphones.html
China Unicom (Hong Kong) Ltd. (762)  rose to
the highest in six months after the carrier posted second-quarter profit that beat analysts’ estimates as low-priced
smartphones lured new users.  The nation’s second-largest mobile-phone company  rose  2.3
percent to close at HK$11.80 in Hong Kong trading, the highest
close since Feb. 7. That pared its  drop  this year to 5 percent.  Net income  in the three months through June rose 41 percent
to 3.42 billion  yuan  ($559 million) from 2.42 billion yuan a
year earlier, based on figures derived from six-month  earnings 
that the Beijing-based company reported yesterday. That compares
with the 3.17 billion-yuan average of eight analysts’  estimates 
compiled by Bloomberg.  “Total revenues appear higher than our estimate, while
service revenues appear in-line, indicating higher-than-expected
handset sales,” Anand Ramachandran, a Hong Kong-based analyst
at Barclays Plc., wrote in a report to clients yesterday.  Chairman Chang Xiaobing has turned to low-cost smartphones
from Chinese suppliers such as  Lenovo Group Ltd. (992) ’s A66 or  ZTE
Corp. (763) ’s V790, both priced at 499 yuan ($82), to trim subsidy
costs and reduce reliance on  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone to win users.
Unicom, which lost exclusivity to offer the iPhone last year to
 China  Telecom Corp., still sells the iPhone 5 for 4,699 yuan on
its website, while offering it free with some service plans.  Handset Subsidies  The company’s first-half financial results were posted
first to the website of the State-owned Assets Supervision and
Administration Commission under China’s ruling State Council, or
cabinet, shortly after 3 p.m. yesterday, while  shares  were still
trading in Hong Kong.  The SASAC data release caused shares to jump as much as 3.9
percent in Hong Kong before trading was suspended at 3:32 p.m.
yesterday ahead of the company’s release through the stock
exchange. The official release at 4:17 p.m. yesterday contained
the same figures as the earlier release by SASAC.  Revenue rose 22 percent to 73.7 billion yuan in the second
quarter, beating the 71.6 billion-yuan average of eight
analysts’  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg, based on figures
derived from the SASAC data.  “China Unicom continues to manage its handset subsidies,”
Cynthia Meng, a Hong Kong-based analyst with Jefferies Group
LLC, wrote in an Aug. 1 report. Profit margins will expand in
the second half as cheaper phones that don’t require carrier
subsidies increase in popularity.  Unicom had 100 million 3G subscribers at the end of the
second quarter, lagging behind the 138 million for market leader
 China Mobile Ltd. (941) , according to data the companies released last
month. The smaller operator had a mobile customer base of 262
million, or 35 percent of China Mobile’s 740 million.  China Mobile is scheduled to report results for the period
on Aug. 15.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  