-- China Vanke to Expand in Hong Kong Tapping Mainland Homebuyers
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-08-08T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-08/china-vanke-to-expand-in-hong-kong-tapping-mainland-homebuyers.html
China Vanke Co. (000002) , the biggest
developer by market value traded on the nation’s exchanges,
plans to expand in  Hong Kong ’s property market after home prices
more than doubled in the city.  Vanke will also target foreign markets where Chinese buyers
are active, including San Francisco, New York, Boston and
Singapore, President Yu Liang told reporters in Hong Kong
yesterday. Of all the target cities, the developer prefers Hong
Kong and expects to increase investment there, Yu said.  “We are very optimistic on Hong Kong’s property market in
the long term and are looking forward to working with different
partners,” Yu said. “We will seize every opportunity to buy
land there.”  Vanke expanded overseas this year as Chinese developers
take advantage of demand for real estate around the world from
Chinese nationals and as prices at home soar. Vanke signed a
deal with Tishman Speyer Properties LP in February to develop
two residential towers in  San Francisco  and in April it agreed
to buy 30 percent of Sherwood Development Pte., a unit of
Singapore’s  Keppel Land Ltd. (KPLD)   The Shenzhen-based developer entered Hong Kong in January
when its unit jointly won a HK$3.43 billion ($442 million) bid
for a site with New World Development Co. Vanke last year paid
HK$1.08 billion for a 74 percent stake in Winsor Properties
Holdings Ltd., which was renamed  Vanke Property Overseas Ltd. (1036)   Vanke will mainly focus on the residential market in the
city, and it may invest without local partners, Yu said.  Home Prices  Home prices in Hong Kong have more than doubled since early
2009 on an influx of mainland Chinese buyers, near record-low
 interest rates  and a lack of new supply.  “If there are good opportunities, why not?” Yu said. “We
can’t always just sit on the bench.”  A unit of  China Overseas Land & Investment Ltd. (688)  paid
HK$4.54 billion for two sites in the city’s Kowloon East
district, the government said in June.  Vanke reported on Aug. 6 that first-half profit climbed 22
percent on year to 4.56 billion  yuan  ($745 million), as it sold
more small and medium-sized homes.  China’s home prices will stabilize in the second half of
the year as the government focuses on the long-term development
of the market rather than cracking down on it, Yu said.  China will seek a “stable and healthy” development of the
 property market , the Communist Party’s Politburo said July 30,
the first time this year authorities didn’t mention further
tightening of curbs, according to Credit Suisse Group AG and
Orient Finance Holdings (H.K.) Ltd.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bonnie Cao in Shanghai at 
 bcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  