-- Chong Hing Bank Jumps to 16-Year High as Bidders Approach
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   T o n g
-- 2013-08-08T03:57:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-08/chong-hing-jumps-to-16-year-high-as-potential-bidders-approach.html
Chong Hing Bank Ltd.,  Hong Kong ’s
smallest family-run lender, jumped to a 16-year high after
potential buyers approached the bank and its parent company.  Shares of Chong Hing rose 18 percent to HK$26.50 as of
11:17 a.m. in Hong Kong trading. That’s the highest since July
15, 1997.  Liu Chong Hing Investment Ltd. (194) , the parent company,
jumped as much as 23 percent, the most since it was listed in
1990. The city’s benchmark  Hang Seng Index  gained 0.8 percent.  Independent third parties have approached the controlling
shareholder of Liu Chong Hing about the possible purchase of
interests in Chong Hing Bank, the companies said in a joint
statement yesterday. Yue Xiu Group, a trading arm of  China ’s
Guangzhou city government, is considering a bid for Chong Hing,
according to a person familiar with the matter.  “Chong Hing has been relatively conservative compared with
rivals and its lending and fee businesses haven’t grown as much
as the other banks’,” Patrick Pun, director of global
investment strategy of  Haitong International Securities Group
Ltd. (665) , said by phone today. “With the introduction of a new
shareholder, this may hopefully bring in new synergy or a more
aggressive strategy at the bank.”  The founding Liu family held about 60 percent of Chong Hing
at the end of December, according to the bank’s annual report.
The stake is valued at about HK$6.9 billion ($890 million) based
on today’s price.  The controlling shareholder and Liu Chong Hing haven’t yet
entered into any agreements with the potential buyers and will
make further announcements as necessary, according to the
statement. The companies didn’t identify the potential buyers.  Mounting Speculation  Chong Hing Chief Executive Officer Lau Wai-man said in
March that the lender was open to proposals from prospective
buyers for all or part of the bank. Takeover speculation has
mounted since November, when Lau became the first CEO from
outside the founding Liu family.  The lender, founded in 1948 by Liu Po-shan, dropped the Liu
family name from Liu  Chong Hing Bank Ltd. (1111)  in December 2006 to
“more accurately reflect the public nature of the bank,”
according to its  website . Lau replaced Liu Lit-chi, a member of
the founding family who spent more than 50 years at the bank.  First-half  net income  at Chong Hing rose 6.4 percent from a
year earlier to HK$276 million, the bank said in a filing
yesterday.  Family Banks  “Small and medium-sized banks in Hong Kong are facing
intense competition from the larger players,” Pun said. “The
market views acquisition stories of small and medium-sized banks
positively as they see this as the only way out for the smaller
banks.”  The number of publicly traded family-run banks in Hong Kong
has fallen to four from six more than a decade ago after the
industry drew buyers including China Merchants Bank Co., which
paid $4.7 billion in 2009 for the Wu family’s Wing Lung Bank
Ltd.  Chong Hing  trades  at about 1.5 times its book value, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. That compares with 1.1 times at  Bank
of East Asia Ltd. (23) , the largest family-run bank in the city.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Tong in Hong Kong at 
 stong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net ;
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  