-- Chubu Electric Steps Into Tepco Turf With Diamond Power
-- B y   J a c o b   A d e l m a n
-- 2013-08-08T08:31:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-08/chubu-electric-steps-into-tepco-turf-with-diamond-power-3-.html
Chubu Electric Power Co. (9502) ’s purchase
of a small electricity supplier with customers in eastern  Japan 
edges the utility closer to  Tokyo Electric Power Co. (9501) ’s market
ahead of government reforms meant to weaken power monopolies.  The move by Chubu comes as the regional utility serving the
Nagoya region faces a loss for the third consecutive year after
the shutdown of its Hamaoka nuclear power station. The purchase
expands where Chubu can sell electricity.  Other utilities may follow as the government pushes a
liberalization plan that would give power-generating companies
access to each other’s transmission lines, promising a better
deal for customers, said  Hiroshi Takahashi , an energy policy
specialist at the Fujitsu Research Institute.  “It’s a very good announcement in terms of competition,”
Takahashi said. “That kind of behavior should change the
traditional structure of the power industries.”  Chubu yesterday said it will buy 80 percent of Tokyo-based
Diamond Power Corp. from  Mitsubishi Corp. (8058) , making it the first
of Japan’s 10 regional utilities to set itself up to serve
customers in another’s territory in more than seven years. The
purchase is scheduled to be completed Oct. 1.  Reform Push  Chubu’s shares fell 24 yen, or 1.7 percent, to 1,396 yen at
the close in Tokyo trading. The Nikkei 225 Stock Average
declined 1.6 percent.  Japan’s utilities have traditionally enjoyed virtual
monopolies in their regions through what critics have called a
gentleman’s agreement not to compete with one another.  While power companies have been able to vie for industrial
customers under a previous round of reforms that began being
implemented in 1995, few new companies have emerged to seek that
business and only one utility has tapped demand on a peer’s
turf. That was Kyushu Electric Power Co., which signed a
contract in 2005 to provide electricity to a supermarket chain
in Chugoku Electric Power Co.’s territory operated by  Aeon Co. (8267)   Japan’s government has now devised a new set of reforms,
which have yet to be voted on in the legislature. They would
compel Japan’s utilities to split their generation, transmission
and retail operations into separate entities that could buy and
sell electricity to whomever offered the best price.  Coal-Fired Plant  The entry by Chubu into Tepco’s territory positions it to
take advantage of that shift, said Takahashi. Tepco is Japan’s
biggest utility, with 28.8 million customers. Chubu’s 10.5
million customers makes it Japan’s third-biggest utility.  Chubu said in yesterday’s statement that it would be
involved with the construction of a 100-megawatt coal-fired
power plant in Shizuoka prefecture near  Tokyo . Mitsubishi will
hold 80 percent of the entity that will own the planned 2.6
billion yen plant, with Nippon Paper Group owning 20 percent and
Chubu 10 percent. The plant will begin operation in May 2015,
Chubu said.  The company was considering the sale of electricity to the
sections of Japan that use a 50-hertz frequency for power
transmission, which includes Tokyo and other parts of the
country’s eastern half, Chubu said.  The company appears to see Tepco as being in a financially
weakened state due to costs related to the March 2011 accident
at its Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear plant and is eager to offer
business to the capital area’s big energy users, Takahashi said.  Diamond Power buys excess power from utilities and other
suppliers and then sells it to office buildings, shopping
centers, hotels and hospitals, according to its  website .  “In the field of business, when competitors are losing
power, of course companies should compete more aggressively,”
he said. “It’s a very economical, rational decision for Chubu
Electric to try to enter this market. Until now there was no
such rational competition in the power industry.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jacob Adelman in Tokyo at 
 jadelman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  