-- Citigroup Sees Pound Rally Since Guidance Details as Short Lived
-- B y   M o r g a n e   L a p e y r e
-- 2013-08-08T10:47:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-08/citigroup-sees-pound-rally-since-guidance-details-as-short-lived.html
The pound’s rally since the Bank of
England said it would issue forward guidance on interest rates
will be short lived, according to  Citigroup Inc. (C)   Sterling climbed to a seven-week high yesterday after the
central bank raised the growth forecasts in its Inflation Report
and pledged to keep borrowing costs low until the jobless rate
falls to 7 percent. The pound will lose its shine against the
backdrop of a “more compelling” U.S. growth story and as the
 Federal Reserve  begins reducing its stimulus program in
September,  Valentin Marinov , head of European, Group-of-10
currency strategy in London said in an Aug. 7 phone interview.  “We doubt that the initial move up in the pound-dollar
 exchange rate  would grow into a trend reversal higher and
continue to sell cable on rallies for now,” said Marinov,
referring to the pound-dollar exchange rate.  The pound rose 0.1 percent to $1.5506 at 11.36 a.m. London
time, after climbing as much as 1.2 percent to $1.5531
yesterday, the highest since June 21. Even so, the U.K. currency
has weakened 4.6 percent this year against the greenback.
Investors also bought sterling yesterday unconvinced that rates
would stay low for long.  Sterling may extend its rebound to $1.56 in coming weeks on
further signs of economic resilience before weakening to finish
the year at $1.50, Marinov said.  The fact that the  Bank of England  remains cautious and will
try to avoid tightening monetary conditions before the economy
shows enough improvements should “keep cyclical headwinds for
the pound firmly in place,” Marinov said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Morgane Lapeyre in London at 
 mlapeyre@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Dobson at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  