-- Cleveland Fed’s Pianalto to Retire Early in 2014, Bank Says
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2013-08-08T20:56:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-08/cleveland-fed-s-pianalto-to-retire-early-in-2014-bank-says-1-.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland
President  Sandra Pianalto  will retire from the district bank
early next year, according to an e-mailed statement.  Pianalto, 59, is the longest serving of the Fed’s 12
regional presidents, having become leader of her district bank
in 2003. During her 10-year tenure at the Fed, Pianalto was a
reliable supporter of Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , never
dissenting from a decision of the Federal Open Market Committee.  “She was a centrist and she was a team player during a
difficult period,” said  Michael Feroli , chief U.S. economist
for JPMorgan Chase & Co. in New York and a former Fed economist.
“We’re going to have a couple new faces next year, a couple new
voters on the FOMC in 2014.”  Pianalto is the third policy maker, all women, whose plans
to depart the Fed have become public in the past month. Governor
 Sarah Bloom Raskin  was nominated last week by President  Barack Obama  to become deputy Treasury secretary and Governor  Elizabeth Duke  announced last month that she would resign at the end of
August.  In addition, Bernanke’s term as chairman ends in January
2014 and Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen ’s ends in October 2014. Fed
Governor Jerome Powell’s term as governor expires in January
2014 as well.  Fed Career  Pianalto joined the Cleveland Fed in 1983 as an economist
in the research department, and prior to that worked as an
economist at the Fed’s Board of Governors in Washington. Unlike
most of the Fed’s presidents, she had neither a doctorate in
economics nor private experience in the financial sector.  Presidents of the Fed’s district banks rotate voting on
monetary policy, with the Cleveland Fed holding a vote next
year.  “I have no immediate plans beyond continuing my
involvement in civic and non-profit activities,” Pianalto said
in the statement. “I will not consider any opportunities until
my successor is in place. I look forward to staying actively
engaged in leading the bank and serving on the  Federal Open
Market Committee  until the selection process is complete.”  The Cleveland Fed’s board of directors has formed a search
committee to appoint a successor. A final decision is “expected
to be made in early 2014,” according to the statement.  “We will miss her thoughtful insights and leadership
across a broad range of issues, including monetary policy,
payments policy and community development,” Bernanke said in
the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  