-- Commerzbank Surges After Quarterly Profit Beats Estimates
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t
-- 2013-08-08T08:23:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-08/commerzbank-quarterly-profit-falls-84-on-loan-provisions.html
Commerzbank AG (CBK) , the German bank
forced into an 18.2 billion-euro ($24 billion) state bailout,
surged the most in almost three months in Frankfurt trading
after second-quarter earnings fell less than analysts estimated.  Commerzbank jumped as much as 11 percent, the biggest
increase since May 15, and climbed 9.9 percent to 7.28 euros at
10:19 a.m., valuing the company at 8.3 billion euros. The stock
has slumped 33 percent this year, the biggest decline on the
benchmark Stoxx 600 Banks Index after  Spain ’s  Bankia SA. (BKIA)   Germany ’s second-biggest bank, which increased capital for
the fifth time in four years in May to repay state aid, is
firing staff to help boost profitability as it tackles souring
shipping and commercial real estate loans.  Standard & Poor’s  cut
the firm’s debt rating to A-, four levels above junk, two months
ago saying poor economic conditions mean it will struggle to
boost earnings sustainably.  “We are on the right track and we intend to press ahead
systematically with the strategic measures that have been
decided on,” Chief Executive Officer  Martin Blessing  said in a
letter to shareholders on the bank’s website. “The early signs
indicate that we are in fact on the right path.”  Net income slid 84 percent to 43 million euros from 270
million euros in the second quarter of last year, the company
said in an e-mailed statement. That beat the 4.6 million-euro
average  estimate  of eight analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Loan Losses  Loan-loss provisions rose 33 percent to 537 million euros
in the second quarter from a year ago, driven by U.K. commercial
real estate loans, Commerzbank said. The bank took a one-time
charge of 630 million euros in the first six months from the
cost of its business overhaul, which included the sale of U.K.
loans, it said.  The loan losses weren’t so bad if you stripped out charges
for U.K. loans,  Neil Smith , an analyst with Bankhaus Lampe in
Dusseldorf, Germany who recommends investors buy the shares,
said by telephone today.  Germany’s second-largest bank sold 5 billion euros of U.K.
property loans to  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  and  Lone Star Funds  last
month at a 3.5 percent discount to book value.  Commerzbank raised its core Tier 1 capital ratio, a key
measure of financial strength that measures capital against
risk-weighted assets, to 8.4 percent in June from 7.5 percent
three months earlier after selling 2.5 billion euros of shares
in May, according to the statement. The bank reiterated a goal
of increasing the ratio to 9 percent by the end of next year.  “Investors are also concerned about capital,” he said.
“It is comforting that they’re sticking with their target.”  Staff Cuts  Blessing, appointed in May 2008, is also eliminating 5,200
jobs by 2016 to boost the bank’s financial strength. Yesterday,
he announced plans to reduce top-level management, including two
board positions and about 20 percent of 55 “first-level”
managers. The changes were needed because the structure became
too complex, he said.  Angry shareholders criticized Blessing at an annual general
meeting in  Frankfurt  in April, saying bad decisions at the bank
meant that their investments had all but evaporated. Several
called on the management to resign.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Comfort in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  