-- CommonWealth Gains After Arbitrators Rule Against Bylaw
-- B y   B r i a n   L o u i s
-- 2013-08-08T18:37:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-08/commonwealth-gains-after-arbitrators-rule-against-bylaw.html
CommonWealth REIT (CWH)  rose the most since
February after an arbitration panel struck down a provision
making it more difficult for stockholders to remove the
company’s board of trustees.  A bylaw adopted in March requiring  shareholders  to own at
least 3 percent of the stock for a minimum of three years before
trying to remove the board is invalid, the panel found. Corvex
Management LP and Related Cos., which began buying shares
earlier this year and own about 9.6 percent of the company,
sought to void that rule as they began a campaign to remove the
trustees, claiming conflicts of interest and mismanagement.  While the arbitrators also denied a request by the
investors to set an expedited shareholder meeting to elect a new
board, the decision on the bylaw is perceived as “very
favorable” to Corvex and Related, John Guinee, an analyst with
Stifel Nicolaus & Co., wrote in a note today. The companies
began seeking votes in April to oust the trustees and said they
gained support from holders of more than 70 percent of the
shares. CommonWealth, based in Newton,  Massachusetts , has said
the effort was invalid under its bylaws.  “The market is reading this as a win for Corvex and
Related,”  Rich Moore , an analyst at  RBC Capital Markets  in
Solon,  Ohio , said in a telephone interview.  CommonWealth rose 6.8 percent to $25.56 at 2:28 p.m. in  New
York  and earlier gained as much as 9.5 percent, the most since
Feb. 28.  October Hearing  Corvex and Related sought an order declaring that its
consent solicitation is proper and that CommonWealth should
convene a special meeting of shareholders, which was denied by
the arbitration panel, CommonWealth said in a statement today.
The arbitrators scheduled a hearing for further consideration of
the issues to begin on Oct. 7, the REIT said.  The three-member panel ruled that the trustees “may not
adopt either a minimum ownership threshold or a minimum holding
period which operating either separately or together
substantially impairs the right of shareholders to proceed with
a consent solicitation by making the obtaining of a record date
on a consent solicitation unreasonably difficult to achieve,”
according to a filing from Corvex.  Previous bylaws requiring that holders own at least $2,000
of stock for at least one year remain in effect pending a
further order, CommonWealth said. The panel made no
determination on whether those limits were valid or not,
according to the filing.  Prior Precedent  Ousting the board will still be difficult, Moore said.  “This isn’t the first time it’s been tried,” Moore said.
“There’s a lot of precedent out there that says this isn’t
going to work.”  There are other hurdles for the investors. CommonWealth
claims that no trustee can be removed from the board “without
cause,” which it says makes Corvex and Related’s consent
solicitation invalid, according to a June 20 regulatory filing.  Commonwealth’s bylaws also require any shareholder seeking
to nominate individuals to the board to provide advance notice
to the company that contains specified information, including
its holdings, affiliates and its purposes, according to the
filing. CommonWealth said that the investors had not made “any
good faith attempt to comply” with those requirements.  “We look forward to continuing through the arbitration
process and to a full hearing on these matters,” CommonWealth
said in a statement today. “We are confident that when all of
the evidence is presented to the arbitration panel, the
invalidity of the Corvex/Related consent solicitation will be
established.”  External Management  Corvex and Related have argued that the ownership of an
external management firm, REIT Management & Research LLC, by
company President Adam Portnoy and his father Barry, a company
founder, has led to conflicts of interest and  underperformance 
at CommonWealth. Both Portnoys sit on the REIT’s five-member
 board  and are owners of the external management company.  CommonWealth spent between $8 million and $9 million in
legal and consulting fees in the second quarter related to the
Corvex and Related case as well as “copycat litigation from
others repeating various false charges made by Corvex and
Related,” Adam Portnoy said yesterday on a conference call with
analysts after the company issued second-quarter results. “We
now have cases pending in three different courts and an
arbitration proceeding.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Louis in Chicago at 
 blouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  