-- Commerzbank Reduces Shipping Loans as Additional Defaults Loom
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   B r a u t l e c h t
-- 2013-08-08T13:48:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-08/commerzbank-reduces-shipping-loans-as-additional-defaults-loom.html
Commerzbank AG (CBK) , the German lender
trying to offload soured shipping loans, reduced its credit
portfolio in the crisis-hit sector by 7.1 percent in the second
quarter even as it stuck to its forecast that the market will
not bottom out until 2014.  Commerzbank’s Deutsche Schiffsbank unit reduced its
exposure at default to 17 billion euros ($22.7 billion) from
18.3 billion euros in the first three months of the year,
including 4.6 billion euros in bad debt, according to a company
 presentation today,  when the Frankfurt-based lender reported
quarterly results.  The collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in September
2008 and the ensuing debt crisis in the euro area propelled the
shipping industry into a slump from which it has yet to recover,
damping demand for seaborne transport and generating a glut of
vessels.  “In the first half of 2013, market trends in the
container, tanker and bulker segment were still dominated by
excess capacity, putting pressure on and causing declines in
charter rates,” Commerzbank said in  the interim report .  Commerzbank decided in 2012 to wind down its shipping
portfolio to stem the losses. In May, it created Hanseatic Ship
Asset Management GmbH, based in Hamburg, to take over and run
vessels from clients who are unable to pay their debts, holding
off on a sale until values recover, Stefan Otto, the head of the
shipping unit, said in an interview in June.  Loan-loss provisions at Deutsche Schiffsbank fell 13
percent to 248 million euros in the first half compared to the
year earlier period, the lender said in its report.  Defaults Loom  “Given the ongoing difficult market conditions, further
defaults and associated loan loss provisions are expected in
subsequent quarters,” it said.  Commerzbank became the world’s second-biggest financier of
ships with the 2009 acquisition of  Dresdner Bank  and still ranks
among the top three lenders in the industry with regard to the
size of the portfolio.  The market leader is HSH Nordbank AG, which had 27 billion
euros in ship loans in the first quarter, while Norddeutsche
Landesbank Girozentrale had 18 billion euros of loans in the
sector at the end of March. The shipping units of Nordic banks
 DNB ASA (DNB)  and  Nordea Bank AB (NDA)  have loan portfolios of about 16
billion euros and 12 billion euros, respectively.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Brautlecht in Hamburg at 
 nbrautlecht@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  