-- Commerzbank Surges as Quarterly Profit Beats Estimate
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t
-- 2013-08-08T15:54:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-08/commerzbank-surges-as-quarterly-profit-beats-estimate.html
  Commerzbank AG (CBK) , the German bank
forced into an 18.2 billion-euro ($24 billion) state bailout,
jumped the most since October 2011 in Frankfurt trading after
second-quarter earnings fell less than analysts estimated.  Commerzbank climbed 16 percent to 7.66 euros, valuing the
company at 8.7 billion euros. The stock has plummeted 29 percent
this year, the biggest drop on the benchmark Stoxx 600 Banks
Index after  Spain ’s  Bankia SA. (BKIA)   Germany ’s second-biggest bank, which increased capital for
the fifth time in four years in May to repay state aid, is
firing staff to help boost profitability as it tackles souring
shipping and commercial real estate loans.  Standard & Poor’s  cut
the firm’s debt rating to A-, four levels above junk, two months
ago saying poor economic conditions mean it will struggle to
boost earnings sustainably.  “We are on the right track and we intend to press ahead
systematically with the strategic measures that have been
decided on,” Chief Executive Officer  Martin Blessing  said in a
letter to shareholders on the bank’s website. “The early signs
indicate that we are in fact on the right path.”  Exceeding Estimates  Net income slid 84 percent to 43 million euros from 270
million euros in the second quarter of last year, the company
said in an e-mailed statement. That beat the 4.6 million-euro
average estimate of eight analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  “This really isn’t enough profit for a bank of this size,
but the expectations were so low that they could beat them,”
Ingo Frommen, an analyst with Landesbank Baden-Wuerttemberg in
Stuttgart who recommends investors hold the stock, said today by
telephone. “The gain was also helped by the fact that there was
no bad news lurking in the release today. They still have a long
way to go.”  Loan-loss provisions rose 33 percent to 537 million euros
in the second quarter from a year ago, driven by U.K. commercial
real estate lending, Commerzbank said. The bank took a one-time
charge of 134 million euros in the quarter on the U.K. loans,
Chief Financial Officer Stephan Engels told investors on a
conference call today.  The loan losses weren’t so bad if you stripped out the
U.K.,  Neil Smith , an analyst with Bankhaus Lampe in Dusseldorf,
Germany who recommends investors buy the shares, said by
telephone.  Germany’s second-largest bank sold 5 billion euros of U.K.
property loans to Wells Fargo & Co. and Lone Star Funds last
month at a 3.5 percent discount to book value.  Raising Capital  Commerzbank increased its core Tier 1 capital ratio, a key
measure of financial strength that measures capital against
risk-weighted assets, to 8.4 percent in June from 7.5 percent
three months earlier after selling 2.5 billion euros of shares
in May, according to the statement. It reiterated a goal of
increasing the ratio to 9 percent by the end of next year.  “Investors are also concerned about capital,” Smith said.
“It’s comforting they’re sticking with their target.”  Blessing, appointed in May 2008, is also eliminating 5,200
jobs by 2016 to boost the bank’s financial strength. Yesterday,
he announced plans to reduce top-level management, including two
board positions and about 20 percent of 55 “first-level”
managers. The changes were needed because the structure became
too complex, he said.  Angry shareholders criticized Blessing at an annual general
meeting in  Frankfurt  in April, saying bad decisions at the bank
meant that their investments had all but evaporated. Several
called on the management to resign.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Comfort in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  