-- US Airways Says Frequent-Flier Miles Deducted in Breach
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   S u r a n e
-- 2013-08-08T22:28:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-08/data-breach-may-have-erased-some-us-airways-frequent-flier-miles.html
US Airways Group Inc. (LCC)  said hackers
breached 7,700 accounts in its Dividend Miles frequent-flier
program and deducted mileage credits from a “very limited”
number of users.  The compromised accounts were deactivated, and U.S. law
enforcement officials are investigating, the Tempe, Arizona-based airline said today in an e-mailed statement. A filing with
North Carolina state officials gave the number of affected
accounts and said the breach was discovered July 12.  US Airways’ frequent-flier awards can be redeemed for
travel as well as for newspaper and magazine subscriptions,
according to the airline’s website. The Dividend Miles program
had 30 million members as of February, the fourth-most in the
U.S., according to industry website FrequentFlyerServices.com.  “There’s definitely a financial gain element to it,” said
Barmak Meftah, chief executive officer of computer-security
company AlienVault Inc. in San Mateo,  California . “There’s also
an element of disrupting or creating a bad brand for the
airline.”  Hackers also gained access to the last four digits of some
customers’ credit cards, Fernand Fernandez,  US Airways ’ managing
director for marketing and customer loyalty, said in a letter to
Dividend Miles customers. Fernandez said US Airways has no
reason to believe that customers’ full credit card information
was accessed.  Agencies Alerted  US Airways said it notified credit bureaus, federal and
state agencies, and is working with customers to protect their
accounts. Dividend Miles accounts don’t contain Social Security
numbers, the carrier said. Customers who notice unauthorized
changes on their accounts should contact the Dividend Miles
service center, the airline said.  The affected customers received a free one-year membership
to LifeLock, a credit monitoring program, to help detect misuse
of their personal information, Fernandez wrote.  US Airways, the fifth-largest U.S. carrier, is poised to
merge with bankrupt  AMR Corp. (AAMRQ) ’s  American Airlines , putting the
combined company atop the global industry by traffic. AMR’s
reorganization plan is due to go to  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  on
Aug. 15, and U.S. antitrust regulators are studying the tie-up.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Surane in  New York  at 
 jsurane1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  