-- Delhaize Soars as Suppliers Pay for Price Cuts: Brussels Mover
-- B y   J o h n   M a r t e n s   a n d   E s h e   N e l s o n
-- 2013-08-08T16:59:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-08/delhaize-soars-as-suppliers-pay-for-price-cuts-brussels-mover.html
Delhaize Group (DELB) , the owner of the Food
Lion supermarkets, rose to a two-year high in Brussels trading
after second-quarter  earnings  showed that cost savings and
better supplier terms are outweighing price cuts in the U.S.  Delhaize surged 10 percent to 53.20 euros, the highest
value since June 2011, by the 5:35 p.m. close of trading on
Euronext Brussels as 1.56 million shares changed hands, three
times the 3-month average. The stock has gained 76 percent this
year, the  best performance  in the Stoxx 600 Retail Index.  Operating profit before one-time items in the three months
through June rose 6 percent to 193 million euros ($258 million),
the Brussels-based company said today in a statement. Analysts
projected a decline to 178 million euros, according to the
average of 10  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. The grocer also
slightly raised its forecast for 2013 and now expects a drop of
less than 3.5 percent in operating profit before currency
swings.  Delhaize’s operating margin widened 18 basis points in the
quarter as  improved terms  in contracts with suppliers offset
additional price cuts at Hannaford and in more Food Lion stores,
while expenses were little changed as a proportion of revenue.
The grocer generated 321 million euros of cash not required for
reinvestment in the first half, cutting net debt by 191 million
euros and removing any remaining concern about a loss of its
 investment-grade   credit rating .  “The group is clearly on the right track,”  Pascale Weber ,
an analyst at KBC Groep NV in Brussels, wrote in a note to
clients today. “The guidance implies a  free cash flow  yield of
10 percent.”  Belgian Volumes  Delhaize said it gained 35 basis points of market share in
its Belgian home market, reversing losses of 43 basis points in
the first quarter and of 50 basis points last year, even as
same-store sales growth slowed to 0.8 percent from 2.4 percent
in the prior three-month period.  “The market was difficult in  Belgium , volumes were
negative for the entire market,” Chief Executive Officer
Pierre-Olivier Beckers said today on a conference call with
analysts. “ Consumer confidence  has started improving, but it
stays in negative territory, especially in Flanders, which is
the richer region traditionally.”  Its Belgian sales rose 2.9 percent to 1.26 billion euros in
the quarter, which compares with a 0.4 percent drop at Carrefour
SA’s Belgian stores and a 3.4 percent increase in Colruyt NV’s
retail business unit in the three months through June.  Freeing Funds  Delhaize agreed in May to sell its U.S. banners Sweetbay,
Harveys and Reid’s to Bi-Lo Holdings LLC for $265 million in
cash, after closing 34 unprofitable Sweetbay stores earlier this
year, freeing funds to turn around the  Food Lion  banner and fend
off competition from grocers including ShopRite Supermarkets at
Hannaford. Kroger Co. agreed in July to spend $2.5 billion
buying Harris Teeter Supermarkets Inc., whose 212 stores compete
directly with Food Lion in the southeastern part of the U.S.  The 165 stores included in the transaction with Bi-Lo
generated $1.8 billion of revenue, or  almost 10 percent  of
Delhaize’s sales in the U.S., last year. Today’s report showed
for the first time that those stores added only 22 million euros
to operating profit in 2012.  The grocer forecast full-year operating profit of at least
755 million euros before currency swings today, a decrease of
less than 3.5 percent. That compares with a  previous forecast 
for a drop of about 3.6 percent and an increase of 9.8 percent
in the first half.  Delhaize expects a deterioration in the second half because
of further price cuts at  Hannaford  and in additional Food Lion
stores, accelerated store openings in the U.S. and  Romania  and
higher advertising spending in Belgium. The food retailer also
profited from a release of bonus accruals in the third quarter
of 2012.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Martens in Brussels at 
 jmartens1@bloomberg.net ;
Eshe Nelson in London at 
 enelson32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Contiliano at 
 tcontiliano@bloomberg.net  