-- Deutsche Telekom Jumps on Sales, U.S. IPhone Push
-- B y   R i c h a r d   W e i s s
-- 2013-08-08T20:29:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-08/deutsche-telekom-tops-sales-estimates-as-u-s-client-exodus-ends.html
Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) , reporting its
first increase in quarterly revenue and U.S. mobile-phone
contracts in three years, set aside 500 million euros ($667
million) to challenge  Verizon Wireless  and AT&T Inc. The stock
rose the most in more than two years.  Second-quarter sales climbed 5.4 percent to 15.2 billion
euros ($20.3 billion), beating the 14.6 billion-euro average
 estimate  among analysts. The  T-Mobile US Inc. (TMUS)  unit added 688,000
contract users. That marked the first expansion since the second
quarter of 2010, and compares with 551,000 additions AT&T
reported for the same period. The U.S. accounts for about a
quarter of Bonn-based Deutsche Telekom’s revenue.  Germany ’s biggest phone company completed a merger of T-Mobile US with MetroPCS Communications Inc. in May, freeing
management time to tackle its shrinking European business. In
Germany, where Deutsche Telekom added 434,000 contract wireless
clients, consolidation has picked up, with Vodafone Group Plc
offering to buy the country’s largest cable operator and
 Telefonica SA (TEF)  and Royal KPN NV trying to combine their wireless
assets in the past two months.  “I’m far from getting carried away just because we have
had a few good months for a change,” Chief Executive Officer
 Rene Obermann  said during a conference call. “We will keep our
feet on the ground and won’t become presumptuous or even
arrogant. There is so much work to do.”  Shares Rise  Deutsche Telekom climbed 7.7 percent to 9.75 euros in
Frankfurt, the biggest one-day jump since March 2011. That takes
the stock’s gain to 13 percent this year, valuing the company at
43.4 billion euros.  T-Mobile US, which is 74 percent owned by Deutsche Telekom,
rose 4.1 percent to $25 at the close in  New York .  Deutsche Telekom cut its full-year forecast for free  cash
flow  by 500 million euros to about 4.5 billion euros, reflecting
the U.S. spending to increase handset sales. In the second half,
T-Mobile US plans to add between 500,000 and 700,000 contracts,
which generate more revenue than pay-as-you-go customers, taking
the total projected additions this year to as many as 1.2
million.  Including prepaid users, T-Mobile US added 1.1 million net
customers during the quarter, it said in a statement. Of the 4.3
million smartphones sold in the period, about 800,000 to 900,000
were Apple Inc.’s iPhones, Obermann said. T-Mobile US reported a
second-quarter net loss.  18-Month Lockup  Adding new customers will make T-Mobile US more attractive
for a potential sale in the future, said Wolfgang Specht, an
analyst at Bankhaus Lampe who recommends holding Deutsche
Telekom shares.  While the MetroPCS agreement prevents Deutsche Telekom from
selling the shares on the stock market for 18 months, the German
carrier has said it can choose to divest the business to a third
party before that lockup period expires.  In July,  AT&T (T)  agreed to buy MetroPCS rival Leap Wireless
International Inc., which like MetroPCS provides pay-as-you-go
subscriptions. T-Mobile US CEO John Legere said in a conference
call today that his company had “no interest” in acquiring
Leap.  “We’ve said all along we’ll acquire Leap’s customers the
old-fashioned way,” he said.  Annual Earnings  Full-year earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization will be about 17.5 billion euros, Deutsche Telekom
said today. That’s up from an earlier forecast for 17.4 billion
euros, and now takes into account 600 million euros of
contribution from MetroPCS, as well as the 500 million-euro
extra marketing spending.  Second-quarter adjusted Ebitda dropped 6 percent to 4.42
billion euros, compared with the 4.41 billion-euro average
 estimate  by analysts. Net income climbed 10 percent to 530
million euros from a year earlier.  Deutsche Telekom is the last of Europe’s major carriers to
report earnings. Vodafone, Telefonica and BT Group Plc beat
sales estimates, a goodwill writedown sank  Telecom Italia SpA (TIT) 
into a net loss, and Orange SA disclosed a 2 billion-euro tax
bill that the French carrier said it would appeal.  With earnings by the region’s carriers under pressure,
operators from EE -- the U.K. venture of Deutsche Telekom and
Orange -- and Vivendi SA’s SFR to Telecom Italia and  Spain ’s
Yoigo are considering partnerships or share sales.  Germany’s former phone monopoly is preparing to speed up
its fixed-line Internet to fend off cable providers in its home
market while trying to limit the damage from the economic crisis
on its European operations.  Government instability in  Italy  and Spain is threatening to
end a lull in the  European debt crisis  and derail a nascent
recovery. Deutsche Telekom’s revenue fell 10 percent in  Greece ,
9.3 percent in the  Czech Republic , and 4.6 percent in Romania in
the second quarter, the company said. Hungary was a bright spot,
with sales increasing by 16 percent.  Obermann will be replaced by Finance Chief Timotheus Hoettges at the end of the year as he joins Dutch cable operator
 Ziggo NV (ZIGGO)  as CEO.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Weiss in Frankfurt at 
 rweiss5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net ;
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net  