-- Deutsche Bank to SocGen Buoyed by Structured Products RBS Shuns
-- B y   A l a s t a i r   M a r s h
-- 2013-08-08T10:52:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-08/deutsche-bank-to-socgen-buoyed-by-structured-products-rbs-shuns.html
Structured products are helping to
lift income at lenders from  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  to  Societe Generale
SA (GLE)  as they benefit from fewer competitors and investor demand
for higher-yielding securities amid near-zero  interest rates .  Societe Generale cited structured products and equity
derivatives among the main reasons for the surge in net income
at its corporate and investment bank, which almost tripled to
374 million euros ($499 million) in the second quarter from the
same period in 2012. The securities contributed to a 55 percent
increase in equity sales and trading revenues at Deutsche Bank
during the three months from the year earlier period, the
Frankfurt-based lender said in a July 30  statement .  Structured note issuers profited after  Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc  and Rabobank Groep departed from the business
this year, citing increased costs as regulators raise disclosure
requirements for issuers. The push by U.S. and European central
banks to stimulate growth by suppressing interest rates is also
propelling investors toward riskier, higher-yielding securities.  “When  Roger Federer  retires  Rafael Nadal  will feel sad to
see a great rival go, but he will also win a lot more,” Jean-Eric Pacini, European head of structured equity sales at BNP
Paribas SA in  London , said in a telephone interview. “That is
what it is like in the structured products business now.”  Capital-markets revenues at Paris-based BNP Paribas rose
4.1 percent from a year earlier in the second quarter as its
equity-and-advisory sales jumped 23 percent “due in particular
to the rise in transaction volumes and the good performance of
structured products,” the bank said last week. The increase
came as net income at  France ’s largest bank declined 4.7 percent
to 1.76 billion euros from a year earlier.  Increased costs  RBS said in June it will stop issuing structured products
for individual investors, citing high capital costs and expenses
for the securities. Switzerland’s  Basler Kantonalbank (BSKP)  also said
in June it will issue  no more  of the securities, saying
diminished growth prospects for the business have cut
profitability.  Dutch lender Rabobank announced in March it was closing its
equity derivatives unit because new regulations for selling
structured notes to wealthy individuals involve increased costs.
 Credit Agricole SA (ACA)  and Macquarie Group Ltd. have also closed all
or part of their equity derivatives operations since 2011.  Opaque Products  Regulators in the U.S. and  Europe  are seeking to increase
transparency for structured products, which came under scrutiny
following the financial crisis for being opaque and overly
complex. Rules requiring banks in the European Union to provide
concise information outlining the characteristics and risks of
the products they sell could be in place by the end of 2014,
according to the European Commission.  Issuers that stay in the market will need to become leaner
and more efficient as new regulations will probably drive up the
cost of operating a structured products business, said Nicolas Traissac, Deutsche Bank’s head of equity derivatives for Europe,
the  Middle East  and  Africa .  “There’s an opportunity now to benefit from consolidation,
but the scale required to be profitable is getting higher and
higher and issuers must streamline their business,” said
Traissac.  Proposed regulatory changes “are unlikely to make that
business too expensive from a capital or operational
perspective,” said Marc El Asmar, the global head of sales in
 Societe Generale ’s cross-asset solutions business, which
provides investment and hedging products to clients, including
structured products. “Banks that have left the industry have
likely done so due to a change in their strategy rather than
because the regulatory environment has made it unviable.”  Interest rates  held at record lows have created favorable
conditions for banks to sell structured products, he said. The
bank saw strong demand in the second quarter for structured
notes that bet on price moves in two assets, such as interest
rate swaps and an equity index.  The notes became more popular among wealthy individuals
because they can be sold with higher coupons than notes tied to
just one asset, to compensate investors for taking on additional
risk, El Asmar said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alastair Marsh in London at 
 amarsh25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  