-- Diamonds Are a War’s Best Friend. So’s Tungsten.
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-08-08T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-08/diamonds-are-a-war-s-best-friend-so-s-tungsten-.html
Question: When is a conflict mineral
not officially a conflict mineral?  Answer: When it’s not a diamond and is from somewhere other
than central  Africa .  Yet diamonds and African minerals are not the only
resources in the world used to finance mayhem. As Bloomberg
Markets magazine reports, the Colombian Revolutionary Armed
Forces (FARC) funds its insurgency against  Colombia ’s elected
government in part with revenue from tungsten. This rare metal
has entered the supply chain of parts used to make cars and
electronics worldwide.  Companies such as Apple Inc. and Bayerische Motoren Werke
AG have pledged to investigate. Beyond that, a new regulatory
regime to block this trade -- and that of many other conflict
minerals that don’t fall under existing compacts -- is needed.
Even in its absence, companies that use such materials in their
products would be wise to become more vigilant about the
problem.  Two regulations cover conflict minerals. Buying  conflict
diamonds  is barred by the  Kimberley Process Certification
Scheme , agreed to in 2003 by the major diamond-trading countries
and the gem industry. And the U.S. Dodd-Frank  Act  requires U.S.
companies whose products contain gold, tantalum, tin or tungsten
from the  Democratic Republic  of Congo and neighboring states to
disclose their efforts to trace the minerals’ provenance.  The U.S. presumably could expand the Dodd-Frank provision
to cover minerals outside central Africa. A proposal to do
essentially the same thing is now before the European Union.
Unfortunately, there is little political support in these
Western countries for establishing new rules.  Businesses resist such measures. Three American business
groups  challenged  (unsuccessfully) the limited U.S. law  in
court . Instead of fighting, car and electronics makers would be
wise to follow the example of the diamond industry and
scrutinize their supply chains -- if only to protect their
profits. After all, consumers and shareholders increasingly
demand that companies use only materials produced without labor
and human-rights abuses, and whose profits do not fuel warfare.  Consumers want cheap prices, but not unconditionally. After
recent fires and accidents at apparel factories in  Bangladesh ,
for instance,  retailers , under pressure from protesters, agreed
to improve factory conditions there.  Shareholders, for their part, know that reputation affects
revenue. For example, the American Federation of State, County
and Municipal Employees Pension Plan has filed  proposals  with
Caterpillar, Halliburton and McDonald’s asking for reports on
business risks arising from labor and human rights abuses in
company operations.  Many diamond sellers have learned to avoid even stones not
covered by the  Kimberley Process , which disallows only gems that
finance groups seeking to overthrow legitimate governments. The
rule was established 10 years ago, when consumers were demanding
diamonds that had not been purchased from warring rebels in
 Sierra Leone  and  Angola .  Today, the rule prohibits only gems from  Ivory Coast . Yet,
to the most discerning customers, diamonds from the Marange
fields in Zimbabwe are also  unacceptable  because of human-rights
violations there. Consequently, companies such as Cartier and
 Tiffany  have independently developed policies ensuring their
supplies are free of Marange diamonds.  What matters isn’t what the regulations say but what
consumers care about: buying a product with a reasonably clean
conscience.  In other words, a conflict mineral is a conflict mineral.
And it’s bad for business.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 