-- Diva Netrebko Spars With Domingo in Salzburg Joan of Arc
-- B y   W a r w i c k   T h o m p s o n
-- 2013-08-08T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-08/diva-netrebko-spars-with-domingo-in-salzburg-joan-of-arc.html
Not many people have heard, or even
heard of, Verdi’s opera “Giovanna d’Arco” (Joan of Arc). With
a little help from  Anna Netrebko  and Placido Domingo, that’s
sure to change.  The 1845 opera -- Verdi’s seventh -- is rarely performed
now.  “Nineteenth-century taste at its most abysmal,” says the
respected Penguin Opera Guide.  Tastes change, thank goodness. Netrebko (Giovanna) and
Domingo (as her father Giacomo) are singing the opera at
 Austria ’s Salzburg Festival in three concert performances.
Domingo is performing for the first time since he was
hospitalized in July after suffering a pulmonary embolism. As
they power through their soaring arias and crazy cabalettas,
they conjure up a mad world of lust, power and death.  Giacomo believes his warrior-daughter has sinfully given
her body to the King of France, so he betrays her to her English
enemies. He hopes they’ll burn her at the stake and thus save
her soul.  Perhaps critics of the work think that this scenario
stretches credulity too far. They should come to the U.K.  We’ve seen plenty of horrific “honor murders” of young
women by their religious families over the past few years.  Even without that disturbing realism, Verdi’s piece still
does what opera does best. It exaggerates emotions for
psychological truth. It’s like looking at someone’s escaped id
running rampant over the stage.  Lust or Glory  There are choruses of demons and angels who tempt Giovanna
to sinful lust or heavenly glory. The triple-time demons sound
surprisingly like jolly Neapolitan organ-grinders belting a folk
tune. They’re earthy and upbeat, and more fun than the soprano
and alto angels warbling their major thirds. Clever Verdi knew
what he was up to.  Netrebko fires on all cylinders and then some. Her voice is
big, dark and gleaming, and soars up to a top D flat with ease.
She’s authoritative when rousing her troops, then torn and
anguished when confessing her love for the king, and can swell
or pull back on her top notes masterfully.  As Giovanna ascends to heaven -- she dies on the
battlefield, not at the stake here -- you get the kind of
singing which makes you remember why you love opera.  Her dress is a treat too. She sports an over-one-shoulder
gold gown with a long train, split to the thigh, and shimmering
with floral displays of rainbow sequins. If it’s not exactly
Joan of Arc, it’s pure Netrebko.  Tingling Domingo  Domingo, in a baritone role, is on tingling form too. From
the moment he staggers on stage clutching the music stand for
support, you see a soul in torment. The passion pours out of
him, and his agonized top notes fly with tenorial splendor.  (Here’s another addition to the expanding Domingo
legendarium: in 1972 he recorded the tenor role too, so he
probably knows the opera better than anyone alive.)  In their big reconciliation duet, both he and Netrebko turn
away from their scores and act the scene fully with each other.
Heart strings are tugged. Who needs a staging?  Tenor Francesco Meli, if not quite in their league, still
does a fine job as King Carlo VII and pings out some rousing
notes above the stave.  Conductor Paolo Carignani shows himself to be a stylish
Verdian, now caressing long phrases, now pushing the drama on,
and the Munich Radio Orchestra and Philharmonia Choir Wien
perform for him with real passion.  There were microphones on stage for standard archival
recording. If the festival could consider a broadcast or even
CD, they’d be bringing joy to many, and even doing Verdi a fine
service in his bicentenary year.  Rating: *****.  “Giovanna d’Arco” is also performed on Aug. 10 and 13.
 http://www.salzburgfestival.at  or +43-662-8045-500.  Muse highlights include the  New York  and London  weekend
guides .  (Warwick Thompson is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Warwick Thompson, in Salzburg, Austria, at  warwicktho@aol.com  or
https://twitter.com/ThompsonWarwick.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 