-- Dollar Falls Most in Four Weeks on Global Recovery Signs
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2013-08-10T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-08/dollar-set-for-weekly-drop-versus-peers-on-china-stability-signs.html
The dollar fell the most in four
weeks amid signs that recoveries from  Germany  to the U.K. are
strengthening, narrowing the gap between growth in the world’s
largest economy and those of other developed countries.  The euro gained 0.5 percent versus the greenback during the
week as industrial production in Germany, Europe’s largest
economy, rose in June. The pound rallied against 12 of its 16
most-traded peers as U.K. exports rose to a record. The Labor
Department may report Aug. 15 that the consumer-price index
increased 0.2 percent in July, according to a Bloomberg survey,
as traders weigh whether economic gains will be enough for the
Federal Reserve to reduce stimulus measures next month.  “With the dollar, it seems a lot of it is more what’s
happening externally,” Brian Kim, a currency strategist at
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc’s RBS Securities unit in
 Stamford ,  Connecticut , said Europe’s economic data. As for the
Fed, “the market has gotten the message that tapering isn’t
tightening,” he said.  The Bloomberg U.S. Dollar Index, which tracks the greenback
against 10 major peers, fell 1.2 percent this week in New York
to 1,016.93, the biggest drop since the period that ended July
12.  The dollar depreciated 2.8 percent to 96.21 yen, the
biggest drop since the week that ended June 14. The U.S.
currency rose 0.3 percent to $1.3342 per euro. The 17-nation
shared  currency  fell 2.3 percent to 128.39 yen.  ‘Accommodative Stance’  JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s G-7 Volatility Index reached 9.11
percent, the lowest level since July 24 and at almost the lowest
level since May 9. The JPMorgan  gauge  priced at 8.5 percent a
year ago.  “Central banks still have this accommodative stance and
that tends to keep volatility subdued,” Eric Viloria, senior
currency strategist at Gain Capital Group LLC in New York, said
in a telephone interview. “A large part of it is summer trading
that we’ve been seeing in these ranges.”  The Fed has been purchasing $85 billion in Treasuries and
mortgages each month in a program known as quantitative easing,
while keeping its target interest rate between zero and 0.25
percent, to put downward pressure on borrowing costs.  Chairman Ben S. Bernanke rattled markets in May and June by
outlining a plan to end the asset-purchase program, which tends
to debase the currency.  The European Central Bank and the Bank of England left
their benchmark interest rates unchanged last week at 0.5
percent, as forecast by economists in Bloomberg surveys.  Aussie Jumps  Australia ’s dollar rallied the most since December 2011
after amid signs of growth in  China , its largest trading
partner. The Reserve Bank of Australia damped expectations for
further easing after cutting its key interest rate to a record
low this week.  China’s “industrial production number was the one that
everyone was looking for,” said Chris Weston, chief market
strategist at IG Markets Ltd. in  Melbourne . “It’s been a good
read on the real economy and it blew expectations out of the
water. This is good news for Australia.”  Australia’s dollar climbed 3.4 percent to 92.06 U.S. cents
this week, the most since the period ended Dec. 2, 2011.  The euro gained against the greenback as reports this week
showed services in the 17 nations that share the currency shrank
less than initially estimated, German industrial production
rebounded and U.K. services and manufacturing production both
surpassed economists’ forecasts.  The euro-area’s  gross domestic product  expanded 0.2 percent
in the second quarter, after contracting for the previous six
quarters, according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg survey
before the report is released on Aug. 14.  Longs, Shorts  Futures traders for a fourth week increased bets that the
shared currency will gain against the U.S. dollar, figures from
the Washington-based Commodity Futures Trading Commission show.  The difference in the number of wagers by hedge funds and
other large speculators on an advance in the euro compared with
those on a drop -- so-called  net longs  -- was 6,061 on Aug. 6,
compared with 8,504 of bets a week earlier that the European
currency would fall against the greenback.  Bets that the Aussie will decline against the U.S. dollar
rose to the most on record going back to 1993. So-called  net
shorts  totaled 76,779, compared with net shorts of 72,573 a week
earlier, the second week the figure set a record.  One Quadrillion  The yen gained against all of its major counterparts except
the Aussie as  Japan ’s outstanding public debt including
borrowings topped 1 quadrillion yen for the first time. It
reached a record 1,008.6 trillion yen ($10.48 trillion) as of
June 30, up 1.7 percent from three months earlier, the finance
ministry said in  Tokyo  today.  The world’s heaviest debt burden -- larger than the
economies of Germany,  France  and the U.K. combined -- will weigh
on Prime Minister Shinzo Abe when he decides next month whether
to implement a two-step plan to double the tax on consumers in a
nation with ballooning welfare costs.  “The yen’s strength is probably best ignored,” Kit Juckes, a global strategist at Societe Generale SA in  London ,
said in an e-mail. “Concerns about higher consumption taxes
won’t go away.”  In the U.S., the consumer-price index increased 0.5 percent
in June, which compared with the median forecast in a Bloomberg
survey for a 0.3 percent rise. The core measure, which excludes
food and fuel, rose 0.2 percent, matching the May gain and the
survey median.  The dollar has slumped 3.7 percent in the past month, the
worst performer among 10 developed-market currencies tracked by
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The euro rose 1 percent
and the yen gained 1.8 percent.  “Investors have ratcheted back expectations for the Fed to
act in September and moved up the likelihood of action in
December,”  Joe Manimbo , a market analyst in  Washington  at
Western Union Business Solutions, a unit of Western Union Co.,
said in a phone interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robert Burgess at 
 bburgess@bloomberg.net  