-- Dong Energy Spearheads Offshore Wind Cost-Cutting Drive
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2013-08-08T11:25:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-08/dong-energy-spearheads-offshore-wind-cost-cutting-drive.html
Dong Energy A/S, Denmark’s state-controlled utility, is leading a drive to cut offshore wind-power costs by as much as 40 percent by the end of the decade.  Dong is working with six other companies and three British
and Irish universities to study ways of using less steel in
wind-turbine foundations at sea to make the technology more
affordable, it said today in an e-mailed statement.  “The cost of energy from offshore  wind turbines  must be
reduced,” Bent Christensen, a vice president at Dong’s wind
division, said in the statement. “We expect to find significant
savings” by cutting the size of foundations and changing the
way turbines are installed, he said.  Offshore wind power costs about 2.7 times more than onshore
turbines, according to Bloomberg New Energy Finance, which puts
the cost at about $221 a megawatt-hour over the life of a
project. Governments are seeking to reduce the expense of wind
farms at sea to expand power supplies without adding to carbon
emissions or building on land.  Dong is targeting a price of 100 euros ($134) by 2020,
lower than the U.K. government’s goal of 100 pounds ($155).  Dong,  RWE AG (RWE) ,  Statoil ASA (STL) , Statkraft AS,  SSE Plc (SSE) ,  Iberdrola
SA (IBE) ’s Scottish Power division and Vattenfall AB have enlisted
researchers at the University of Oxford, University College
Dublin and Imperial College London to help with the research.  The project is slated to last 18 months, with results
published in early 2015, Dong said. That should enable the
findings to be applied to the offshore wind projects that won
licenses in the third round of U.K. tenders, it said.  The 600-metric-ton weight of a typical offshore turbine
foundation represents a “substantial” cost, Dong said. “A
significant contribution can come from this area towards our
efforts of reducing the price of offshore wind power by 35 to 40
percent by 2020,” Christensen said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in  London  at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  