-- ECB Monthly Bulletin Editorial for August (Text)
-- B y   H a r u m i   I c h i k u r a
-- 2013-08-08T08:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-08/ecb-monthly-bulletin-editorial-for-august-text-.html
The following is the text
of the European Central Bank’s August monthly bulletin:  Based on its regular economic and monetary analyses, the
Governing Council decided at its meeting on 1 August to keep the
key ECB interest rates unchanged. Incoming information has
confirmed the Governing Council’s previous assessment.
Underlying price pressures in the euro area are expected to
remain subdued over the medium term. In keeping with this
picture, monetary and, in particular, credit dynamics remain
subdued. Inflation expectations for the euro area continue to be
firmly anchored in line with the Governing Council’s aim of
maintaining inflation rates below, but close to, 2% over the
medium term. At the same time, recent confidence indicators
based on survey data have shown some further improvement from
low levels and tentatively confirm the expectation of a
stabilisation in economic activity. The monetary policy stance
continues to be geared towards maintaining the degree of
monetary accommodation warranted by the outlook for  price
stability  and promoting stable money market conditions. It
thereby provides support to a gradual recovery in economic
activity in the remaining part of the year and in 2014. Looking
ahead, the monetary policy stance will remain accommodative for
as long as necessary. The Governing Council confirms that it
expects the key ECB interest rates to remain at present or lower
levels for an extended period of time. This expectation
continues to be based on an unchanged overall subdued outlook
for inflation extending into the medium term, given the broad-based weakness in the economy and subdued monetary dynamics. In
the period ahead, the Governing Council will monitor all
incoming information on economic and monetary developments and
assess any impact on the outlook for price stability.  With regard to the economic analysis, following a six-quarter
economic contraction in the euro area, recent confidence
indicators based on survey data have shown some further
improvement from low levels and tentatively confirm the
expectation of a stabilisation in economic activity at low
levels. At the same time, labour market conditions remain weak.
Looking ahead to the remainder of the year and to 2014, euro
area export growth should benefit from a gradual recovery in
global demand, while domestic demand should be supported by the
accommodative monetary policy stance as well as the recent gains
in real income owing to generally lower inflation. Furthermore,
the overall improvements in financial markets seen since last
summer appear to be gradually working their way through to the
real economy, as should the progress made in fiscal
consolidation. This being said, the remaining necessary balance
sheet adjustments in the public and private sectors will
continue to weigh on economic activity. Overall, euro area
economic activity should stabilise and recover at a slow pace.  The risks surrounding the economic outlook for the euro area
continue to be on the downside. Recent developments in global
money and financial market conditions and related uncertainties
may have the potential to negatively affect economic conditions.
Other downside risks include the possibility of weaker than
expected domestic and global demand and slow or insufficient
implementation of structural reforms in euro area countries.  According to Eurostat’s flash estimate, euro area annual HICP
inflation was 1.6% in July 2013, unchanged from June. Annual
inflation rates are currently expected to temporarily fall over
the coming months, owing particularly to base effects relating
to energy price developments 12 months earlier. Taking the
appropriate medium-term perspective, underlying price pressures
are expected to remain subdued, reflecting the broad-based
weakness in aggregate demand and the modest pace of the recovery.
Medium to long-term inflation expectations continue to be firmly
anchored in line with price stability.  The risks to the outlook for price developments are expected to
be still broadly balanced over the medium term, with upside
risks relating to stronger than expected increases in
administered prices and indirect taxes, as well as higher
commodity prices, and downside risks stemming from weaker than
expected economic activity.  Turning to the monetary analysis, underlying money and, in
particular, credit growth remained subdued in June. Annual
growth in broad money (M3) decreased in June to 2.3%, from 2.9%
in May. Moreover, annual growth in M1 decreased to 7.5% in June,
from 8.4% in May. The annual rate of change of loans to the
private sector weakened further. While the annual growth rate of
loans to households (adjusted for loan sales and securitisation)
remained at 0.3% in June, broadly unchanged since the turn of
the year, the annual rate of change of loans to nonfinancial
corporations (adjusted for loan sales and securitisation) was -
2.3% in June, after -2.1% in May. Weak loan dynamics continue to
reflect primarily the current stage of the business cycle,
heightened credit risk and the ongoing adjustment of financial
and non-financial sector balance sheets. The bank lending survey
for the second quarter of 2013 confirms that borrowers’ risk and
macroeconomic uncertainty remained the main factors restraining
banks’ lending policies. At the same time, the degree of net
tightening of credit standards for loans to non-financial
corporations remained unchanged in the second quarter of 2013,
compared with the first quarter, and declined for loans to
households.  Since the summer of 2012 substantial progress has been made in
improving the funding situation of banks and, in particular, in
strengthening the domestic deposit base in a number of stressed
countries. In order to ensure an adequate transmission of
monetary policy to the financing conditions in euro area
countries, it is essential that the fragmentation of euro area
credit markets declines further and that the resilience of banks
is strengthened where needed. Further decisive steps for
establishing a banking union will help to accomplish this
objective.  To sum up, the economic analysis indicates that price
developments should remain in line with price stability over the
medium term. A cross-check with the signals from the monetary
analysis confirms this picture.  As regards fiscal policies, in order to bring debt ratios back
on a downward path, euro area countries should not unravel their
efforts to reduce government budget deficits. The emphasis
should be on growth-friendly fiscal strategies which have a
medium-term perspective and combine improving the quality and
efficiency of public services with minimising distortionary
effects of taxation. To reinforce the overall impact of such a
strategy,  Member States  must step up the implementation of the
necessary structural reforms so as to foster competitiveness,
growth and job creation. Removing rigidities in the labour
market, lowering the administrative burden and strengthening
competition in product markets will particularly support small
and medium-sized enterprises. These structural reform measures
are essential to bring down the currently high level of
unemployment, in particular among the younger citizens of the
euro area.  This issue of the Monthly Bulletin contains two articles. The
first article analyses the  interest rate  pass-through in the
euro area in a context of high financial fragmentation and
provides new empirical evidence on the pass-through in the four
largest euro area economies. The second article presents the
ECB’s macro stresstesting framework for bank solvency
assessments and gives examples of how it is used for policy
analysis.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Harumi Ichikura in London at 
 hichikura@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  