-- Eletropaulo Rallies on Profit, Efficiency Gains: Sao Paulo Mover
-- B y   D e n y s e   G o d o y
-- 2013-08-08T20:46:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-08/eletropaulo-rallies-on-profit-efficiency-gains-sao-paulo-mover.html
Eletropaulo Metropolitana SA,
 Brazil ’s largest electricity distributor, gained the most in
eight weeks after second-quarter profit rose four-fold and
blackouts declined.  Shares in the company, a unit of Arlington, Virginia-based
 AES Corp. (AES) , rose 6.2 percent to 6.32 reais today in Sao Paulo,
the biggest advance since June 14. It was the best performance
on the 16-member Bovespa Electric Energy Index, which  added  1.5
percent.  The results fueled optimism about the company’s prospects
after Brazil’s power regulator Aneel ordered the utility to cut
rates by an average 2.3 percent last year and didn’t allow an
increase this year, according to  Pedro Galdi , the chief
strategist at Sao Paulo-based brokerage SLW Corretora. Shares in
the utility have lost 62 percent this year.  “Those numbers were really good and showed Eletropaulo is
not dead,” Galdi said in a telephone interview. “Future
periodic rate reviews may be better.”  Adjusted net income  rose  to 245.3 million reais ($107.2
million) in the three months through June from 56.6 million
reais in the same period one year earlier, Eletropaulo said in a
regulatory filing yesterday after the market closed.  The utility’s power losses in its system fell to a record
low of 9.9 percent in the second quarter as the duration of
supply interruptions declined 12 percent to 8.05 hours in the 12
months through June, below the 8.49 hours target of the
country’s regulator, according to the filing yesterday.  Eletropaulo has the worst  recommendation consensus  among
Brazilian power utilities, with 11 sells, five holds an no buys,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Denyse Godoy in  Sao Paulo  at 
 dgodoy2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  