-- Ellie Mae Said to Consider Sale, Interview Advisers
-- B y   M a t t h e w   M o n k s
-- 2013-08-09T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-08/ellie-mae-said-to-consider-sale-interview-advisers.html
Ellie Mae Inc. (ELLI) , whose software is
used to make one-third of all mortgages in the U.S., is
considering a sale and has interviewed banks to manage the
process, three people with knowledge of the matter said.  Ellie Mae may begin soliciting bids in the next two months,
two people said, asking not to be identified because the process
isn’t public. The shares rose yesterday to their highest since
Ellie Mae went public in April 2011, giving the Pleasanton,
California-based company a market value of about  $820 million .  The company’s software offers ways of automating the
mortgage process. With the U.S.  housing market  recovering, Ellie
Mae raised its forecast last week for full-year sales to as much
as $132.5 million, a 30 percent jump from 2012. Single-family
 home prices  rose in 87 percent of U.S. cities in the second
quarter, the National Association of Realtors said yesterday.  For Ellie Mae, “now would be the good time to sell, when
they have strong forward estimates and strong valuation,”
Carter Malloy, an analyst at Stephens Inc. said by telephone
from  Little Rock , Arkansas. “The question is, is this a good
time for a buyer?”  Rising borrowing costs may hurt future demand for homes.
 Mortgage rates  for  30-year loans  have climbed from a near-record
low of 3.35 percent in early May to 4.4 percent in the week
ended yesterday, according to McLean, Virginia-based  Freddie
Mac .  Data, Software  Large banks, large system integrators, financial-services
data providers and software providers could be interested in
Ellie Mae, Brian Schwartz, an analyst with Oppenheimer & Co.,
said in a phone interview from  San Francisco .  “There has been heightened consolidation in this space, no
doubt about it,” he said. “I see lots of buyers.”  Ellie Mae has a price-book ratio of 4.5, versus an average
of 1.5 among U.S. mortgage-finance companies with market values
exceeding $500 million, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The stock gained 13 percent to $30.98 at the close in New York
yesterday.  Chief Executive Officer Sigmund Anderman said at an
investor conference this week that the company’s technology is
currently used to fund and process about one-third of all
 mortgage loans  made in the U.S.  An external spokeswoman for Ellie Mae said the company
doesn’t comment on rumors when asked about a potential sale.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Monks in  New York  at 
 mmonks1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  