-- Musk Fortune Soars $570 Million as Tesla Beats Estimates
-- B y   G i l l i a n   W e e
-- 2013-08-08T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-08/elon-musk-s-fortune-soars-570-million-as-tesla-beats-estimates.html
Elon Musk’s fortune soared $570
million yesterday as shares of  Tesla Motor Inc. (TSLA) , the electric-car company he co-founded in 2003, rallied 14 percent after
posting second-quarter results that surpassed analysts’
estimates on a surge in Model S sedan deliveries.  Musk has a net worth of $7.7 billion, according to the
 Bloomberg Billionaires Index , up more than 220 percent year-to-date. He’s the world’s 162nd richest person.  The company on Wednesday reported an operating profit of 20
cents a share, including 15 cents related to a leasing program.
Even without that provision, results exceeded the average of 10
analysts’ estimates for a 20-cent loss, according data compiled
by Bloomberg. On its operating basis, Tesla said it will make
money all year, even as it expands to Europe and  Asia .  “He’s very clearly managing all the moving parts that you
have to manage to put together an effective car company,” said
Karl Brauer, an analyst with Kelley  Blue Book  in Irvine,
 California . “For the people who can afford those cars, this car
is very effectively lining up with their needs: an attractive
premium looking and feeling, functional all-electric car.”  Shares of the Palo Alto, California-based company closed at
$153.48 in  New York  yesterday, bringing its market value to more
than $18.2 billion. Model S deliveries totaled 5,150 in the
quarter, topping the company’s target of 4,500, and Musk said on
Wednesday that an annual selling rate of 40,000 by the end of
next year looks “pretty safe.”  Nutritionist Mother  Tesla said its operating margins were 22 percent, up from
17 percent in the first quarter. The company said it expects to
post operating profits and generate cash every quarter in 2013,
even excluding sales of green-car credits to other automakers.  Born in South Africa to an engineer father and nutritionist
mother, Musk left home as a 17-year-old for college in Canada,
in part to avoid serving in the apartheid-era South African
army. After graduating from the  University of Pennsylvania  with
degrees in physics and economics, he enrolled at  Stanford
University . He dropped out after his first few days to pursue
his three main areas of interest: the Internet, clean energy and
space.  In 1995, the billionaire created an online publishing
platform called Zip2, which he sold four years later for more
than $300 million. He reinvested some of the proceeds to start
X.com, an online payment system. He would merge that with what
eventually became PayPal Inc., the e-commerce site that was
ultimately sold to  EBay Inc. (EBAY)  for $1.5 billion in 2002.  Model S  Musk also runs rocket maker Space Exploration Technologies
Corp., known as SpaceX, and is chairman of solar-power provider
 SolarCity Corp. (SCTY)   “He’s proving his critics wrong,”  Jack Ablin , who helps
oversee about $66 billion as chief investment officer of BMO
Private Bank in  Chicago , said by phone. “He’s delivering on the
top line, he’s selling more product. He’s able to extract a
premium price for an electric car.”  Tesla’s Model S, priced from $69,900 before a $7,500 tax
credit, received the highest rating ever from  Consumer Reports ,
which praised its sporty handling and luxury interior. Musk said
the sedan is winning customers who had owned Toyota Motor
Corp.’s Prius and  Daimler AG (DAI) ’s Mercedes-Benz E-Class. Toyota and
Daimler are investors in Tesla and buyers of its battery packs.  The company’s Model X sport-utility vehicle remains on
track to begin sales late next year, Musk said, adding that its
development is “swiftly rising” among the company’s
priorities. The SUV will be priced about the same as the Model
S, he said last month in a post on Twitter that has since been
deleted.  Biggest Investor  Beyond that, Musk said he has “high confidence” that
Tesla will be able to produce a more affordable car with a 200-mile (320-kilometer) range for about $35,000.  Tesla began delivering the first Model S sedans to
customers in  Europe  this week and is preparing to export to Asia
late in 2013. Musk, who is also the company’s biggest investor,
has said that over time two-thirds of Tesla’s sales will come
from overseas markets.  “He’s one of these guys who has multiple ideas that have
been successful,” Brauer said. “He’s done it two, three times
depending on how you want to define it. Theoretically, it’s the
American dream.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gillian Wee in New York at 
 gwee3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew G. Miller at 
 mmiller144@bloomberg.net  