-- Emerging Stocks Rise on China as Brazil Leads World Gains
-- B y   J u l i a   L e i t e ,   M a r i a   L e v i t o v   a n d   J e s s i c a   S u m m e r s
-- 2013-08-08T21:12:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-08/emerging-stocks-rebound-from-4-week-low-on-german-china-exports.html
Emerging-market stocks rebounded from
a one-month low as an increase in  Chinese (SHCOMP)  exports lifted
commodity producers from Vale SA to KGHM Polska Miedz SA.
 Brazil ’s  Ibovespa (IBOV)  led gains among global equity indexes.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index added 0.9 percent to
946.39. Vale, the world’s largest iron-ore maker, drove the
Ibovespa to the biggest advance among 94 world stock gauges.
 Poland ’s copper producer KGHM jumped the most in a month, while
Magyar Telekom Nyrt. surged to a three-week high in Budapest
after profit at the telecommunication-service provider beat
estimates. Brazil’s real rebounded from a four-year low as 22 of
24 developing-nation currencies tracked by Bloomberg gained.  Stocks rose as data showed Chinese shipments overseas
climbed 5.1 percent in July from a year earlier after sliding
3.1 percent in June. The fewest workers applied for U.S.
unemployment benefits over the past month since before the last
recession, indicating the labor market is making progress. The
emerging-market gauge trimmed this year’s drop to 10 percent,
compared with a 14 percent gain in the MSCI World Index.  “The Chinese economic transition is one of the biggest
stories in emerging markets,”  Stephen Wood , the New York-based
chief market strategist who helps oversee about $237 billion at
Russell Investments, said by phone. “ China  is stabilizing and
growing. Some of the data are confirming that softer landing.”  Commodity shares led gains among nine of the 10 groups in
the MSCI Emerging Markets Index. The  iShares MSCI Emerging
Markets Index  exchange-traded fund added 1.9 percent to $39.28.
The Chicago Board Options Exchange Emerging Markets ETF
Volatility Index, a measure of options prices on the fund and
expectations of price swings, retreated 1.2 percent to 23.06.  Brazilian Shares  Brazil’s Ibovespa rose 3.1 percent amid speculation the
economy is improving in China, the nations’ top trading partner.
Vale added 3 percent. The real climbed 1.3 percent after sinking
to the lowest level since March 2009 yesterday.  Russian stocks dropped for the fifth day on speculation
Bank Rossii will leave its main lending rates unchanged tomorrow
as inflation remains above target. VTB Group, the nation’s
second-biggest bank, fell 1.5 percent.  The Budapest Stock Exchange Index added 2.8 percent as
Magyar, the Hungarian unit of Deutsche Telekom AG, rallied to
the highest since July 18. Stocks in the  Czech Republic  and
Poland advanced at least 1.1 percent. KGHM surged 3.6 percent.  China Vanke  Most Chinese stocks fell before the release of factory
output and inflation data tomorrow. Losses for property
developers and industrial companies overshadowed better-than-estimated trade data.  China Vanke Co. (000002) , the biggest developer,
dropped 1.9 percent. Shenzhen Energy Group Co. slid the most in
six weeks after it denied a newspaper report that a unit had set
up an online brokerage with Tencent Holdings Ltd.  Indian  stocks  rallied the most since July 23 as some
investors judged the recent declines that dragged the benchmark
index to a six-week low was excessive.  Ranbaxy Laboratories
Ltd. (RBXY) , the nation’s biggest  drugmaker , jumped 28 percent as
earnings signaled sales in the U.S. were improving.  The premium investors demand to own emerging-market debt
over U.S. Treasuries fell 0.01 percentage point to 329 basis
points, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julia Leite in  New York  at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Levitov in London at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net ;
Jessica Summers in New York at 
 jsummers17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  