-- Emerging Stocks Rebound From 4-Week Low on China Export Growth
-- B y   A n u c h i t   N g u y e n
-- 2013-08-08T06:17:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-08/emerging-stocks-rebound-from-4-week-low-on-china-export-growth.html
Emerging-market stocks rallied from
the lowest level in four weeks and currencies strengthened after
better-than-estimated Chinese trade figures bolstered confidence
in the world’s second-largest economy.  Cosco Pacific Ltd. (1199) , the container-terminal arm of China’s
biggest shipping group, gained 1.3 percent in Hong Kong.  Hyundai
Merchant Marine Co. (011200)  advanced 15 percent in  Seoul  as North and
South Korea agreed to resume talks on reopening the Gaeseong
industrial complex.  Siam Makro Pcl (MAKRO)  climbed to a record in
Bangkok after profit jumped. South Korea’s won, the Thai baht
and China’s yuan appreciated versus the dollar.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index advanced 0.2 percent to
939.89 as of 2:11 p.m. in Hong Kong, the first increase in three
days. China’s  exports  rose 5.1 percent in July from a year
earlier, topping the 2 percent median estimate in a Bloomberg
News survey. Imports jumped 10.9 percent, exceeding the 1
percent median forecast. The figures follow reports last week
showing gains in official gauges of manufacturing and services.  “ China ’s trade data really surprised the market and shows
positive signs of economic recovery,” Vorasinee
Sangvornvetphan, an investment strategist at Tisco Financial
Group Pcl in Bangkok, said by phone. “This should assure
investors that China’s economy is on stable pace of rebound,
which should help most other emerging markets.”  Gauges of consumer discretionary and industrial stocks in
MSCI’s developing-nation index climbed at least 0.5 percent, the
most among 10 industry  groups . The 21-country measure has
dropped 11 percent this year, compared with a 14 percent
increase in the MSCI World Index of developed-nation shares.  Thai Protests  The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of mainland companies
traded in Hong Kong added 0.7 percent, the biggest increase in
more than two weeks, and the  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  climbed
0.2 percent. The  yuan  rose 0.05 percent to 6.1164 per dollar,
the strongest level since the government unified the official
and market exchange rates at the end of 1993.  Thailand’s  SET Index (SET)  surged 1.4 percent, the most in two
weeks, and the baht rose 0.5 percent against the dollar. More
than 2,000 people who rallied in Bangkok yesterday to oppose an
amnesty bill for political protesters ended the demonstration
peacefully, according to police spokesman Piya Uthayo.  Siam Makro, Thailand’s biggest cash-and-carry wholesaler,
jumped 28 percent in Bangkok after reporting profit in the
second quarter surged 29 percent to 959.2 million baht. CP All
Pcl, the largest convenience store, raised its stake in Siam
Makro to 98 percent, according to a regulatory filing.  Gaeseong Talks  The won rose 0.5 percent against the dollar after the Bank
of Korea left its benchmark interest rate unchanged as predicted
by all 16 economists in a Bloomberg survey. South Korea’s  Kospi
Index (KOSPI)  added 0.3 percent, the first advance in four days.  The South accepted North Korea’s offer of working-level
talks at Gaeseong to be held Aug. 14, Unification Ministry
spokesman Kim Hyung Suk told reporters in Seoul. Along with the
offer, North Korea said it would send its workers back into
Gaeseong.  Exchanges in Malaysia, Indonesia and Pakistan are closed
today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anuchit Nguyen in Bangkok at 
 anguyen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Patterson at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net  