-- Henkel Earnings Growth Beats Estimates on Emerging Market
-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z   a n d   J a n i c e   K e w
-- 2013-08-08T10:21:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-08/henkel-earnings-growth-beats-estimates-on-emerging-market.html
Henkel AG, the German maker of
Loctite glue and Fa soap and deodorant, reported second-quarter
profit that beat estimates, helped by revenue growth at the
laundry and home-care division in  emerging markets .  Earnings before interest and taxes excluding one-time gains
or costs rose 8.2 percent to 660 million euros ($881 million)
from 609 million euros a year earlier, the Dusseldorf-based
company said in a  statement  today. That exceeded the 644.3
million-euro  average  of nine analyst estimates compiled by
Bloomberg.  “The share of sales in emerging markets rose
substantially, reaching 45 percent for the first time,” Chief
Executive Officer Kasper Rorsted said in a conference call,
reiterating a forecast that revenue excluding acquisitions,
disposals and currency effects will rise 3 percent to 5 percent
this year.  The shares rose as much as 3.5 percent, the biggest
intraday gain since May 8, to to 64.96 euros and traded at 64.62
euros at 12:10 p.m. in  Frankfurt .  Henkel, which also makes Bref all-purpose cleaner, has a
target of increasing revenue to 20 billion euros in 2016 from
16.5 billion euros last year, with half of group sales coming
from markets such as  Latin America  or the Asia-Pacific region.
Henkel is working to reduce reliance on western  Europe , where
consumers are cutting spending in response to an economic
contraction that has led to record unemployment.  Russian Ruble  Sales increased 1.9 percent to 4.29 billion euros, in line
with the average of 14 analyst estimates. Adjusted Ebit as a
proportion of sales widened to 15.4 percent from 14.5 percent a
year earlier. Revenue gained 4 percent from a year earlier on an
organic basis, Henkel said. The median estimate of nine analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg was for 3.5 percent growth.  Excluding foreign exchange losses, sales climbed 4.2
percent. The negative foreign exchange effect was mainly seen
from the Japanese yen, the  U.S. dollar  and the Russian ruble,
Chief Financial Officer Carsten Knobel said on the call. Foreign
exchange headwinds are expected to persist in 2013, Rorsted
said.  In the laundry and home-care unit, which produces Mir wool
and silk detergent and Somat dish-washing tabs, sales gained 5.8
percent on an organic basis, driven by demand in Russia and
Turkey, while revenue at the cosmetics and toiletries division,
which sells Schwarzkopf hair dye and Diadermine skin cream, rose
2.8 percent on the same basis. Adhesives sales climbed 3.6
percent, boosted by advances in Latin America.  Brazil Growth  “We’ve seen double-digit growth in  Brazil ,  India  and
 China ,” Knobel said. Growth is Russia was “strong”, while
Henkel had continued weakness in Southern Europe and Japan, he
said.  Western Europe sales on an organic basis added 0.2 percent
as recessions in southern Europe held back growth. Revenue on
the same basis in Africa and the  Middle East  jumped 18.3
percent, despite political and social unrest in some countries
in the region.  The integration of  Cytec Industries Inc.’s (CYT)  pressure-sensitive adhesives product line, which was bought for $105
million in May 2012, is “fully on track,” Rorsted said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julie Cruz in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net ;
Janice Kew in Johannesburg at 
 jkew4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  