-- Mercedes Narrows Sales Gap With BMW, Audi on Compact Cars
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h   R a u w a l d
-- 2013-08-08T13:27:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-08/mercedes-narrows-sales-gap-with-bmw-audi-on-compact-cars.html
Daimler AG (DAI) ’s Mercedes-Benz division
narrowed the gap with luxury-car market leaders  Bayerische
Motoren Werke AG (BMW)  and  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s Audi in July as deliveries
of the revamped E-Class model and compact vehicles surged.  Sales of Mercedes-brand cars and sport-utility vehicles
jumped 20 percent from a year earlier to 116,790 units. The
growth outpaced increases of 14 percent for BMW-badged models
and 9.8 percent at Audi.  Daimler is pushing new models, such as the latest version
of its flagship S-Class sedan that started deliveries last
month, to restore Mercedes as the top-selling luxury-car
producer by 2020 while countering a contraction in  Europe ’s auto
market that’s in its sixth year. Sales in July of the compact
Mercedes A-Class hatchback, B-Class crossover and CLA coupe
almost doubled, while demand for the up-market E-Class gained 26
percent, according to the Stuttgart, Germany-based manufacturer.  “Sales growth rates are set to slow once the year-ago
figures reflect the introduction of the new compact cars, but
what’s more important is how popular the S-Class will be with
customers,” Hans-Peter Wodniok, a Frankfurt-based analyst at
Fairesearch GmbH, said today by phone. “The S-Class should
drive both sales and earnings significantly in 2014 and the
beginning of 2015.”  S-Class Pricing  Mercedes unveiled the new S-Class in May. The model,
including taxes, is priced starting at 79,790 euros ($106,600).  Luxury-car manufacturers have fared better than mass-market
automakers in recent years as growing appetite for upscale
vehicles in  China  and the U.S. more than offset shrinking demand
in recession-burdened Europe. Both Munich-based BMW and Mercedes
posted sales growth in their home region in July. The brands
were among the top three in registration gains in  Germany  last
month, according to the country’s Federal Motor Vehicle Office.  BMW deliveries last month rose to 128,594 vehicles, helped
by new versions of the 3-Series model and demand for SUVs, the
company said today. Seven-month sales by the world’s biggest
luxury-car brand rose 8.4 percent to 932,848 units.  Mainland China accounted for 32,194 BMW deliveries in July,
including sales of the company’s Mini small-car brand, as the
introduction of a 3-series with a longer wheelbase sparked a 39
percent increase from last year.  BMW Line-Up  “We continue to target sales volume growth for the full
year and hence a new all-time high for worldwide sales,”  Ian Robertson , BMW’s sales chief, said in a statement today. “Our
vehicle line-up is very strong, and we are confident that
further new models,” such as the BMW 4-Series coupe and X5 SUV,
will push growth when they go on sale in coming months.  Seven-month Mercedes sales increased 8.1 percent to 811,227
cars and SUVs. Audi’s July deliveries jumped to 131,300, pushing
the seven-month figure up 6.9 percent to 911,800, the
Ingolstadt, German-based division said yesterday.  Mercedes-Benz has a target of selling more than 1.4 million
cars this year, and Daimler Chief Executive Officer  Dieter Zetsche  has pledged that the brand will regain the crown in the
premium-car segment by the end of the decade. Mercedes ranks
third in deliveries after dropping behind Audi in 2011.  Audi reiterated earlier this month that it expects to cross
the 1.5 million-vehicle annual sales mark in 2013 for the first
time, two years earlier than planned.  Porsche, the Volkswagen division that makes the 911 sports
car and Cayenne SUV, said today that sales increased 11 percent
in July to 13,731 vehicles, with seven-month deliveries rising
17 percent to 95,296. Growth was propelled by gains in the U.S.,
the Stuttgart-based company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christoph Rauwald in Frankfurt at 
 crauwald@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  