-- Tesco Seeks to Revive Hypermarkets With Zumba Classes, Tapas
-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 2013-08-08T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-08/tesco-seeks-to-revive-hypermarkets-with-zumba-classes-nail-bars.html
Tesco Plc (TSCO) , Britain’s largest grocer,
is seeking to revive its hypermarket business with children’s
playgroups, gourmet coffee and nail bars as customers on tight
budgets move to competitors.  “If this works, there’s a great chance to speed it up,”
Tony Hoggett, managing director of the Extra chain of 250
stores, told reporters yesterday at a revamped store in Watford
on the outskirts of London. “All of the initiatives are
scalable and funds will be found.”  Tesco invested 1 billion pounds ($1.6 billion) last year to
slow the encroachment by discounters like Aldi and upscale
chains such as Waitrose Ltd. into its home market. Shoppers,
squeezed by rising  inflation  and stagnant wages, have also
defected to the Internet and local stores. Tesco’s market share
fell to 30.1 percent in the 12 weeks to July 7 from 30.7 percent
in the same period last year, Kantar Worldpanel data show.  In April, the company said it would scrap 100 major store
developments and wrote down the value of sites that were
acquired five to 10 years ago by 804 million pounds to reflect a
drop in property values.  In June, the retailer reported a 1 percent drop in U.K.
same store sales in the 13 weeks ended May 25, compared with the
previous quarter’s 0.5 percent gain.  Zumba, Yoga  Shares in Tesco, which generates two-thirds of annual
profit from its home market, have risen 9.9 percent this year
compared with a 10.7 percent gain in the benchmark  FTSE 100
Index. (UKX)   The Watford outlet, which re-opens on Aug. 12, is a test
site to see how customers respond to new ideas, Hoggett said.
Fresh produce and delicatessen counters are front of store while
gourmet coffee as well as tapas are on sale from upmarket chain
Harris & Hoole and the Giraffe restaurant. A former bay for
shopping carts is now an outdoor eating area.  Local children’s playgroups, back-to-work programs, yoga
and Zumba dance groups are being offered surplus space in the
store for free.  Tesco’s challenge now is to make its out-of-town
hypermarkets “exciting, relevant and convenient,” Hoggett
said. Tesco will open two more revamped Extra stores in the
northern England city of Coventry and Purley, near  London , next
week, he said. He declined to say how many more stores are
earmarked for the makeover.  “It’s an impressive job and should create some excitement
for customers and shareholders,” said Andrew Gwynn, an analyst
at Exane BNP Paribas. “However, the challenge is to repeat that
excitement across the whole Extra estate whilst trying to stick
to a budget.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  