-- Dollar Drops 5th Day as Trading Patterns Show Weakness
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2013-08-08T21:14:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-08/euro-rises-to-seven-week-high-after-german-exports-aussie-jumps.html
The dollar fell for a fifth day on
speculation economic gains may not be enough to spur the Federal
Reserve to reduce stimulus measures next month and as trading
patterns signaled further weakness for the currency.  The greenback dropped to a seven-week low versus the euro
as it approached an area where sell orders may be clustered. The
17-nation European currency gained against the yen before a
report next week that analysts said will show the euro-area
economy returned to growth in the second quarter. South Africa’s
rand climbed versus all of its 16 major counterparts as demand
for higher-yielding assets increased.  The market “is recalibrating its tapering expectations and
seeing less chance for it to happen in September,” Robert Lynch, a currency strategist at HSBC Holdings Plc in New York,
said in a phone interview of the dollar’s decline. “Even when
it does begin, it may not be as aggressive as the market
expected.”  The Bloomberg U.S. Dollar Index, which tracks the greenback
against 10 major counterparts, fell 0.4 percent to 1,017.11 at 5
p.m. in New York after touching 1,015.49, the lowest level since
June 19.  The euro rose 0.3 percent to $1.3381 after climbing to
$1.34, the highest level since June 19. The shared currency
added 0.7 percent to 129.36 yen. The yen fell 0.4 percent to
96.67 per dollar after weakening 0.6 percent and strengthening
0.5 percent.  Technical Levels  The Dollar Index, which IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses
to monitor the greenback against the currencies of six major
U.S. trading partners, fell 0.3 percent to 81.039. It breached
at 81.58 its 200-day moving average, considered a measure of
momentum by some traders, and faces a test of an uptrend dating
back to May 2011 at 80.70.  “On the euro-dollar side, we’re approaching very much a
big zone where the stop-losses are,”  Sebastien Galy , a senior
foreign-exchange strategist at Societe Generale SA in New York,
said in a telephone interview. “People are probing this area.”
A stop is a pre-established order to buy or sell when a specific
price level is reached.  German exports, adjusted for working days and seasonal
changes, rose 0.6 percent from May, when they dropped a revised
2 percent, the Federal Statistics Office said today in
Wiesbaden. Chinese shipments overseas climbed 5.1 percent in
July from a year earlier after sliding 3.1 percent in June,
according to the General Administration of Customs in Beijing.  Euro-area gross domestic product expanded 0.2 percent in
the second quarter, after contracting for the previous six
quarters, according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg survey
before the report is released on Aug. 14.  Global Growth  “As global-growth expectations pick up, the euro is
benefiting,” said Michael Sneyd, a currency strategist at BNP
Paribas SA in  London . “Positive China data boosts the euro on
signs of a global recovery and we’ve had reasonable German data.
The euro could continue to remain elevated.”  The euro has strengthened 5.6 percent this year, the best
performer of 10 developed-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The dollar gained 3.9 percent,
while the yen tumbled 7.9 percent.  The Aussie advanced for a fourth day versus the U.S.
currency as traders pared bets the Reserve Bank of  Australia 
will lower the benchmark interest rate.  Australia’s dollar gained 1.2 percent to 91.05 U.S. cents
after climbing to 91.35, the highest since July 30.  The rand jumped 1 percent to 9.8684 per dollar after
sliding 1.3 percent during the previous three days.  Options Trading  Trading in over-the-counter foreign-exchange options
totaled $25 billion, compared with $30 billion yesterday,
according to data reported by U.S. banks to the Depository Trust
Clearing Corp. and tracked by Bloomberg. Volume in options on
the dollar-yen exchange rate amounted to $8.5 billion, the
largest share of trades at 34 percent. Options on the Australian
dollar-U.S. dollar rate totaled $2.5 billion, or 10 percent.  Dollar-yen options trading was 38 percent more than the
average for the past five Thursdays at a similar time in the
day, according to Bloomberg analysis. Aussie-greenback options
trading was 27 percent more than average.  The yen fluctuated versus the dollar after Bank of  Japan 
Governor Haruhiko Kuroda’s board stuck with an April pledge to
expand the monetary base by 60 trillion yen ($622 billion) to 70
trillion yen per year.  ‘Dollar Weakness’  The fewest workers applied for U.S. unemployment benefits
over the past month since before the last recession, indicating
the labor market is making progress. Payrolls rose by 162,000
workers in July, the fewest in four months, following a 188,000
increase in June, data showed last week. The jobless rate
dropped to a more than four-year low of 7.4 percent from 7.6
percent.  Fed Bank of Cleveland President Sandra Pianalto said
yesterday that there has been “meaningful improvement” in the
labor market and that a tapering of the central bank’s bond-buying program may be warranted if it continues to strengthen.  “We’re seeing more of a dollar weakness across the
board,” Sireen Harajli, a foreign-exchange strategist at Mizuho
Bank in New York, said in a telephone interview. “You’re
getting mixed messages -- I think markets are trying to
determine or forecast what the Fed’s going to do. That’s why you
see a little bit of uncertainty.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robert Burgess at 
 bburgess@bloomberg.net  