-- Level 3 Said to Vie With Deutsche Telekom for Poland’s GTS
-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d
-- 2013-08-09T12:09:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-08/level-3-said-to-vie-with-deutsche-telekom-for-poland-s-gts.html
Level 3 Communications Inc. (LVLT) , a U.S.
telecommunications company with operations in 55 countries, is
bidding for Polish fixed-line operator GTS Central Europe, said
two people familiar with the discussions.  Level 3, which is based in Broomfield,  Colorado , is
competing against  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) ,  Germany ’s biggest phone
company, said the people, who asked not to be identified because
the talks are private. GTS, based in Warsaw, may fetch about 500
million euros ($667 million), one of the people said.  GTS, a provider of telephone and Internet services to
businesses including Coca-Cola Co. and General Motors Co., would
offer any buyer a platform for growing demand in central and
eastern Europe. The company, which has 38,000 customers and a
network consisting of 26,000 kilometers of fiber, reported
revenue of 387 million euros and earnings before interest, tax,
depreciation and amortization of 103 million euros for 2012,
according to its  website .  Representatives for Deutsche Telekom, Level 3 and GTS all
declined to comment on the process.  Meanwhile,  Poland ’s second-largest fixed-line phone
company, has expressed interest in the Polish part of GTS. Netia
SA’s Chief Executive Officer Miroslaw Godlewski said yesterday
the company “was, is, and will be interested” in the Polish
assets of GTS, which accounted for about 30 percent of revenue
for 2012, according to the company’s website.  Level 3 shares have declined 2.4 percent this year, valuing
the company at about $5 billion. The firm, which was founded in
1985, reported sales of $6.4 billion and a net loss of $422
million for 2012.  Founded in 1993  GTS, which was founded in 1993 and operates in Poland, the
Czech Republic,  Hungary ,  Romania  and Slovakia, was acquired in
2008 by a group of private-equity funds including Columbia
Capital, M/C Venture Partners, Innova Capital, HarbourVest
Partners, Oak Investment Partners and Bessemer Venture Partners.
GTS has made at least nine acquisitions since 2005, its website
shows.  More than $60 billion of phone companies worldwide have
been targeted this year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg, as bidders take advantage of low valuations for
telecommunications assets.  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  sparred with John Malone’s Liberty
Global Inc. for control of Germany’s Kabel Deutschland Holding
AG. Liberty bought U.K. Internet and television provider Virgin
Media Inc. in June and has since raised its holding in the Dutch
cable-TV provider Ziggo NV.  Deutsche Telekom, which completed a merger of T-Mobile US
with MetroPCS Communications Inc. in May, yesterday reported its
first increase in quarterly revenue and U.S. mobile-phone
contracts in three years. Finance Chief Timotheus Hoettges said
in a speech yesterday that within Europe, the strongest positive
contributor to earnings came from Poland.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Kirchfeld in London at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net ;
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  