-- Ex-Jets Guard Brandon Moore Retires From NFL After 10 Seasons
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-08-08T13:17:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-08/ex-jets-guard-brandon-moore-retires-from-nfl-after-10-seasons.html
Former New York Jets guard  Brandon Moore  is retiring from the National Football League, less than
nine months after gaining notoriety when quarterback  Mark Sanchez  ran into his backside in a nationally televised game.  The 33-year-old Moore spent the past 10 seasons with the
Jets and yesterday reversed a decision about signing a free-agent contract with Dallas Cowboys. Dallas coach  Jason Garrett 
said Moore had a change of heart.  “He was just a great teammate,” Jets coach  Rex Ryan  told
reporters yesterday. “A guy that was important to me and being
a first-time NFL head coach, I leaned on him some. I guess you
can’t play this game forever. But I certainly appreciate his
time that he had with us for sure.”  Moore started every game for the Jets at right guard from
2005 through 2012, playing in relative obscurity before last
season’s Thanksgiving Day holiday game against the  New England
Patriots . With the Jets trailing 14-0 in the second quarter,
Sanchez scrambled up the middle and was knocked to the ground
after running into Moore’s rear end, fumbling the ball as he
went down. Steve Gregory of the Patriots scooped up the loose
ball and ran 32 yards for a touchdown. Video of the play has
been repeatedly replayed on ESPN and other networks.  “It’s amusing to me to me that people think it’s so
amusing,” Moore told ESPN. “The way I look at it, I don’t
think it should have any link to my career. I don’t think it
stands for what I was as a player for 10 years.”  Moore passed up a $2 million contract with the Cowboys,
including $1.75 million in guaranteed money, ESPN said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  