-- Texas Drivers Stuck in Traffic as State Rejects Road Tax
-- B y   D a v i d   M i l d e n b e r g
-- 2013-08-08T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-08/texas-drivers-stuck-in-traffic-as-state-rejects-taxes-for-roads.html
Gary Hinze’s truck route delivering
car-wash detergent, paint and engine parts in Austin,  Texas ,
often takes two hours a day longer than when he started 13 years
ago -- the result of worsening bumper-to-bumper traffic.  Hinze, 57, a driver for Central Freight Lines Inc., tries
to avoid Interstate 35, the often congested north-south route
through the capital city, though he still winds up stuck as he
stops at more than a dozen businesses to drop off products.  “They are years behind in Austin in building roads,”
Hinze said as he drove his 48-foot (15 meters) truck on a recent
day. “They aren’t anywhere near keeping up with the growth.”  From Houston to El Paso, companies, drivers and political
leaders are complaining that roads haven’t kept pace with
growth. Traffic overload threatens Governor  Rick Perry ’s efforts
to lure companies to Texas.  Texas added 5.21 million residents from 2000 to 2012,
making it the second-largest state behind  California  with a
population of 26.1 million.  Texas lawmakers on August 5 agreed to let voters decide
whether to spend more money on transportation by diverting oil-and natural gas-tax revenue from a reserve account. Under the
proposal, transportation funding would rise about $1.2 billion,
or 12 percent, in 2015, from the prior year, according to state
estimates.  Opposing Tax  Perry, 63, who opposes new taxes to pay for roads, praised
the transportation-funding legislation. He hasn’t yet signed it.  Even with that increase, spending would still fall short of
the $15 billion a year the state Transportation Department says
is needed, mostly for road construction and repair. Texas now
spends about $10 billion annually on transportation.  Deciding how to pay for transportation in Texas, with about
80,000 miles of state and interstate highways, has split
Republican leaders, with some calling for new taxes or fees to
pay for roads, and others saying spending must be cut to pay for
transportation.  “You’d think that a Republican legislature that is backed
overwhelmingly by the business community would listen to
business leaders,” said Tom Terkel, founder of Four T Realty
LLC in Austin, a real-estate investment and asset management
company. “It’s an absolute, complete failure on the part of the
Texas Legislature to provide alternatives.”  ‘Band-Aid’  Texas spent $427 per person in fiscal year 2011 on
highways, behind the U.S. average of $490, according to the most
recent available data from the  Tax Policy Center  in  Washington ,
which researches tax and budget matters. That includes state,
local and federal money. California spent $391 per capita.  Spending state reserves -- known as the rainy day fund --
is a “Band-Aid,” said Senator Robert Nichols, a Republican who
leads the transportation committee. “Everyone knows this is not
a long-term fix,” he told reporters on June 30.  Nichols wanted taxes on the sales of cars to be used for
roads. Other lawmakers objected, saying that plan would have
taken money from schools, said Steven Albright, chief of staff
for Nichols.  Texas lawmakers earlier this year agreed to let voters
decide whether to use $2 billion from the same  reserve fund  to
create a bond bank to pay for water projects after droughts hurt
farms and reduced drinking water supplies.  Most Traffic  The stretch of Interstate 35 in the Austin area ranks among
the 16 most congested roads in the U.S., trailing highways in
 Los Angeles ,  New York  and  San Francisco , according to a study
this year by INRIX Inc., a research firm in Kirkland,
Washington. A separate report by  Texas A&M University  last year
named the state’s two largest cities, Houston and  Dallas , as
among the 12 most congested U.S. metropolitan areas.  A decade of lobbying by business groups that support
increasing road spending hasn’t resulted in adequate funding,
said Russell Laughlin, president of the 35W Coalition in  Fort
Worth , a transportation-advocacy group. Members include
Burlington Northern  Santa Fe  LLC; BBVA Compass bank, a unit of
Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA; and FMR LLC’s  Fidelity
Investments .  “We’re worried that we may get to a crisis and lose our
competitive advantage,” said Laughlin, senior vice president of
Alliance Texas, a 17,000-acre mixed-use development in Fort
Worth.  Seeking Money  Business groups supported legislation this year that would
have increased annual vehicle-registration fees by $30 to raise
more than $600 million annually for transportation, said
Representative Drew Darby, a Republican and the bill’s sponsor.  The measure failed to win support after Perry opposed it,
Darby said.  “I’ve talked to them about the need for more money until I
was blue in the face,” he said, referring to Perry and
Lieutenant Governor David Dewhurst, a Republican who is running
for re-election. They won’t support the measure because they
oppose new taxes and fees, he said.  Perry favors tapping the state’s reserves, redirecting some
tax collections on vehicle sales to roads and issuing bonds with
maturities as long as 100 years, spokeswoman Lucy Nashed said.
That would help Texas spend $41 billion on transportation
projects over the next 20 years, Perry said in a April speech in
Austin.  Perry’s push for bond sales hasn’t won support in the
legislature as lawmakers said they wanted to cut debt instead of
adding more. Measures supported by the governor would provide a
“long-term revenue stream for transportation,” said Josh
Havens, a spokesman.  Toll Roads  Reduced highway funding has prompted Texas to turn to
regional transportation authorities and private construction
firms to build toll highways or lanes in Austin, Houston, Fort
Worth and other cities.  Among the most recent is a $3 billion toll road planned in
north Houston less than a mile south of the future North
American headquarters of  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) , the world’s largest
publicly traded oil company.  Texas has issued more than $19 billion in highway-related
bonds over the last 12 years, said Stephen Minick, vice
president of governmental affairs at the Texas Association of
Business, based in Austin. Texas is spending about $850 million
annually on repaying debt, according to a state report.  Yogi Berra  “Once you pay for maintenance and debt service, we don’t
have any money for new roads, except by building toll roads or
borrowing more money,” Minick said.  Congestion may hurt the state’s ability to lure businesses
and attract jobs, Perry said in an April speech in Austin.  “We don’t want to become another example of the wildly
successful restaurant  Yogi Berra  once criticized, ‘Nobody goes
there anymore. It’s too crowded,’” he said.  It’s already too crowded, some say.  “In five years, we’re going to be in total gridlock, and
we already are in some sections of town,” Cathy Coneway, an
Austin real-estate agent.  Driving to a recent event at a suburban subdivision during
evening rush hour took 75 minutes from downtown Austin, triple
the time it would have taken 10 years ago, said Coneway,
chairwoman of the Austin Board of Realtors.  Coors Drivers  Several truck drivers at Coors Distributing Co. of Fort
Worth start their routes at 3 a.m. or 4 a.m., two hours earlier
than five years ago, to avoid interstate delays and meet 11 a.m.
delivery deadlines, said Larry Anfin, president of the closely
held company. Its plant abuts Interstate 35 on a section rated
the most congested in Texas by the state Transportation
Department.  “Fort Worth is growing much faster than the roads and
infrastructure,” Anfin said. “We’re playing catch up.”  Leaders of Texas’s biggest companies aren’t publicly
pushing for more spending, though lawmakers are receiving phone
calls and e-mails from executives and business-backed trade
associations promoting expanded roads, said Representative Joe Pickett, a Democrat and a bill sponsor.  Spokesmen for four large Texas-based companies -- David Eglinton of  Exxon Mobil , Daphne Avila of  J.C. Penney Co. (JCP) , Gail Chandler of  Texas Instruments (TXN)  Inc., and Jack Todd of  Trinity
Industries Inc. (TRN)  -- declined to comment.  In Austin, Hinze starts his route at a freight terminal,
driving a truck loaded with palettes of products. He usually
heads out at 8 a.m., immediately hitting traffic on Interstate
35.  He sometimes spends 30 minutes to an hour stalled or barely
moving in traffic, he said.  When he started working in Austin 13 years ago, Hinze said
he could count on finishing his route in about 7 hours. These
days, it takes him as long as 10 hours.  As he inches along, Hinze listens to talk radio -- news or
sports, it doesn’t matter. It gets his mind off the road, he
said.  “I listen to anything to keep my mind occupied,” he said.
While the traffic is frustrating, “It doesn’t do any good to be
aggravated. You just need to keep your cool.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Mildenberg in Austin at 
 dmildenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
William Glasgall at 
 wglasgall@bloomberg.net  