-- Mexico PRI Oil Amendment Helps Credit Outlook, Moody’s Says
-- B y   N a c h a   C a t t a n
-- 2013-08-08T13:13:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-08/mexico-pri-oil-amendment-helps-credit-outlook-moody-s-says-1-.html
Pledges made by Mexican ruling party
leaders that the government will seek constitutional changes to
break the state’s monopoly on oil are “credit positive” for
the nation, Moody’s Investors Service said.  The recent announcements mark an “important” shift for
the ruling  Institutional Revolutionary Party , or PRI, which
hadn’t publicly promised amendments before, Mauro Leos, a New
York-based senior credit officer at Moody’s, said in a phone
interview. The energy bill is “more critical” than an upcoming
tax overhaul in deciding on Mexico’s Baa1 rating, said Leos, who
added that a Moody’s committee will discuss the nation’s stable
credit outlook before congress votes on the bill.  President Enrique Pena Nieto said yesterday he’ll send his
bill to congress next week, which seeks to amend several
articles of the charter to allow private firms to drill for
crude in Mexico by offering production-sharing contracts, PRI
president Cesar Camacho said in an Aug. 6 interview. State-owned
 Petroleos Mexicanos , or Pemex, has monopolized oil production,
exploration, refining and distribution in  Mexico  since 1938.  “It’s a message for the opposition and a message for the
country that this is what the government is trying to do with
the energy sector in Mexico,” Leos said yesterday. “What is
credit positive is that the language they are using and the
message they’re providing is fully consistent” with what the
government has said in private, he said.  Peso  The peso strengthened 0.2 percent to 12.6865 per dollar at
8:08 a.m. in Mexico City. The yield on fixed-rate government
peso bonds due in 2024 fell 5 basis points to 5.77 percent.  Moody’s rates Mexico Baa1, the third-lowest investment
grade, since lifting the ranking in 2005.  Fitch Ratings  raised
Mexico’s rating one level to BBB+ in May, in line with Moody’s
ranking.  Standard & Poor’s  changed the outlook on its BBB rating
for Mexico to positive from stable in March. S&P rates the
country one level lower than Moody’s and Fitch.  The bill to loosen Pemex’s grip on crude output and attract
investment would be the economy’s biggest overhaul since the
 North American Free Trade Agreement , according to Barclays Plc.  Pena Nieto, a 47-year-old former governor who took office
in December, will propose production-sharing contracts for oil
exploration and output, while drawing the line at offering
private companies equity stakes in concessions, Camacho said in
his interview. He declined to say which constitutional articles
would be modified.  Javier Trevino, a PRI lawmaker and secretary on the lower
house’s energy committee, said in an Aug. 1 interview that the
bill will probably change at least articles 27 and 28 of the
constitution.  Pena Nieto had originally pledged to present the bill this
week. He delayed the reform in order to reach the “broadest
consensus possible,” Francisco Arroyo, a PRI lawmaker and
speaker of the lower house, said in a Radio Formula interview
yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nacha Cattan in Mexico City at 
 ncattan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  