-- Mexico Consumer Prices Unexpectedly Fell on Food Prices
-- B y   N a c h a   C a t t a n   a n d   J o n a t h a n   R o e d e r
-- 2013-08-08T15:29:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-08/mexico-consumer-prices-unexpectedly-fell-in-july-on-farm-prices.html
Mexico ’s  consumer prices  fell in July
for the third straight month as food and merchandise prices
declined and  Latin America ’s second-biggest economy struggles to
boost growth.  Prices dropped 0.03 percent from June, the national
statistics agency said today on its website, compared with the
median forecast for an increase of 0.02 percent from 18
economists in a Bloomberg survey.  Annual inflation  was 3.47
percent compared with 4.09 percent in June, falling into the
central bank’s 2 percent to 4 percent target range for the first
month since February.  “This shows that demand remains weak,” Marco Oviedo,
chief Mexico economist at Barclays in Mexico City, said in a
telephone interview. “There’s probably a lot of inventory and
merchants haven’t been able to increase their prices.”  Banco de Mexico yesterday lowered its 2013 growth forecast
to a range of 2 percent to 3 percent from a previous forecast of
3 percent to 4 percent while stressing it sees economic activity
accelerating in the second half.  Slowing Activity  “Economic activity at a global level has been slowing,”
central bank Governor Agustin Carstens said at the presentation
of Banxico’s quarterly inflation report yesterday. “This has
shown itself in a substantive drop in international trade” and
“contagion from advanced economies to emerging ones,” he said.  Yields on fixed-rate peso bonds due in 2024 fell 5 basis
points, or 0.05 percentage point to 5.80 percent at 10:21 a.m.
in Mexico City. The peso strengthened 0.5 percent against the
 U.S. dollar  to 12.6565.  Lower-than-expected  core inflation  reflects weak aggregate
demand and “could be bad news for economic activity,”
Barclays’s Oviedo said. The bank lowered its annual CPI estimate
to 3.5 percent from 4 percent, according to a research note
today.  Core prices, which exclude energy and farm costs, rose 0.03
percent in the month, compared with the median forecast of a
0.09 percent increase. Farm prices tumbled 1.51 percent,
according to the statistics institute.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nacha Cattan in Mexico City at 
 ncattan@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Roeder in Mexico City at 
 jroeder@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  