-- Textron Value in Breakup Seen Tempting Activist Investor
-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e
-- 2013-08-08T14:00:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-08/textron-value-in-breakup-seen-tempting-activist-investor.html
Activist hedge-fund managers in
search of their next prey may look to  Textron Inc. (TXT)   The $7.9 billion maker of Cessna planes and Bell
helicopters has a valuation that lags behind 83 percent of
 industrial stocks  in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. Credit Suisse Group AG said
Providence, Rhode Island-based Textron may become susceptible to
pressure from activists wanting to break up the conglomerate.  While Textron’s earnings are  forecast  by analysts to surge
next year to the highest level since the financial crisis, the
stock is being  hampered  by lackluster growth at its defense
unit, which could be spun off, according to industry consultant
Silverline Group. The units that make golf carts and auto parts
are overshadowed in the current structure and would be appealing
targets, said Royal Bank of Canada, which pegs Textron’s break-up value at $42 a share, 49 percent more than yesterday’s price.  “Textron screens very attractively for an activist,”
 Julian Mitchell , a New York-based analyst at Credit Suisse, said
in a phone interview. “You’ve got high-quality brands hiding in
a conglomerate that don’t have obvious synergies.”  It’s already been a busy year for activists.  Carl Icahn  is
trying to scuttle the Dell Inc. management buyout, while  Bill Ackman  said last week he had amassed a stake in Air Products &
Chemicals Inc., an industrial-gas producer. Nelson Peltz is said
to have purchased a large position in DuPont Co., and is also
pressuring PepsiCo Inc. to combine with snack maker Mondelez
International Inc.  Activist Push  “Activist investing is all the rage at the moment, as fund
managers look to unlock value that they see as trapped in public
corporations,” Robert Stallard, a New York-based analyst at
RBC, wrote in a July 22 report. He sees Textron as a “viable
candidate” and said that, if broken up, the company’s total
value may be $42 a share, a price it hasn’t reached since 2008.  Today, Textron shares rose 0.9 percent to $28.41 at 9:57
a.m.  New York  time.  David Sylvestre, a spokesman at Textron, declined to
comment on whether the company would consider a breakup or has
been approached by potential activist shareholders.  Stallard estimates about $8 a share of value would be
created by disposing of Textron’s four industrial businesses --
Kautex auto parts, Jacobsen golf-course mowers, E-Z-GO golf
carts, and Greenlee electrical tools. Each would make sense for
a range of potential buyers, including Greenlee for  ABB Ltd. (ABBN)  and
Jacobsen for  Stanley Black & Decker Inc. (SWK) , he said.  Barry Dillon, a spokesman at Zurich-based ABB, and Tim Perra, a spokesman at Stanley Black & Decker in  New Britain ,
 Connecticut , said their companies don’t comment on deal
speculation.  Few Synergies  There’s no need for Bell and Cessna to be within one
company because there are few synergies between helicopters and
the lineup of  business jets  and propeller planes, Stallard and
Credit Suisse’s Mitchell said. Bell is Textron’s largest  revenue 
contributor, generating $4.3 billion of last year’s $12 billion
of sales. Cessna is second with $3.1 billion.  Cessna has struggled to recover from a collapse in private
jet sales during the global economic slump and posted a $50
million operating loss in the second quarter as revenue slid 27
percent from a year earlier. While it may not be the best time
to sell the business, its woes are weighing down Textron’s
valuation, according to David Berkowitz, president of Radar
Asset Management LLC in Summit,  New Jersey .  “There probably has to be some further rationalization at
Cessna,” Berkowitz said in a phone interview. “Either that or
potentially selling it or spinning it off.”  Defense Unit  Textron Systems, the unit that makes the small, unmanned
military aircraft called drones as well as armored vehicles,
could be spun off as a standalone entity, according to  Michael Lewis , managing director of Silverline Group, a consulting firm
in McLean, Virginia.  That business isn’t getting the value it deserves, and at
the same time may be holding back Textron’s stock because of its
exposure to government funds, he said. About 29 percent of
Textron’s total revenue in 2012 stemmed from U.S. government
contracts, according to the company’s annual earnings filing.  “Investors who own Textron may view it as being bogged
down by the perception that they have a large proportion of the
portfolio tied to defense markets,” Lewis said in a phone
interview. “It would make sense to carve out Textron Systems.
That’s a very valuable asset.”  Activist Bait  Because Textron has disparate businesses and strong  brands ,
and hasn’t allocated much of its cash lately toward dividends
and buybacks, it may be vulnerable to activist involvement,
according to Credit Suisse’s Mitchell.  Textron pays shareholders a 2-cent quarterly  dividend , down
from 23 cents in January 2009, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Its dividend yield trails 55 of the 60 other
 industrial stocks  in the  S&P 500 Index , the data show.  The stock was valued yesterday at 12 times analysts’
average earnings-per-share  forecast  for 2014. S&P 500 industrial
companies fetch an average price-earnings  ratio  of about 15
based on next year’s profit estimates, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  The company hasn’t made any major acquisitions or
divestments in the four years since the U.S. recession ended,
the data show. Splitting up would be a way to bridge the
disparity between its sum-of-the-parts value and current stock
price, Mitchell said.  Textron “has kept the portfolio pretty much unchanged
since the last downturn,” he said. “You unlock the value by
breaking up the non-core businesses, making the core-brand
businesses a bigger piece of the pie and giving shareholders
some of the excess cash that the divestments generate.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Lachapelle in New York at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net  