-- Exxon, Imperial to Buy Conoco Oil-Sands for $723 Million
-- B y   E d w a r d   K l u m p
-- 2013-08-08T20:18:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-08/exxon-and-imperial-to-buy-conoco-oil-sands-land-for-720-million.html
Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  and  Imperial Oil
Ltd. (IMO)  agreed to buy ConocoPhillips’ Clyden lease for about C$751
million ($723 million), expanding their holdings in the booming
Alberta oil-sands region.  The sale includes 226,000 net acres of undeveloped land
near the southern edge of the Athabasca oil sands, Houston-based
ConocoPhillips said in a statement today. Under the agreement,
Exxon will hold 72.5 percent of the leasehold and Calgary-based
Imperial, which Exxon controls, will have 27.5 percent, the
companies said.  It’s the second Canadian purchase in 10 months for Irving,
Texas-based Exxon, which agreed to pay C$2.86 billion for Celtic
Exploration Ltd. in October, gaining access to shale regions in
Alberta and British Columbia.  Canada  has the world’s third-largest oil reserves, after  Venezuela  and Saudi Arabia, and its
output is expected to more than double by 2030, according to the
Canadian Association of Petroleum Producers.  Oil-sands projects offer “the same predictable
production” for years, as companies like Exxon face declining
output from conventional oil fields, said Fadel Gheit, an
analyst with Oppenheimer & Co. in New York who has the
equivalent of a hold rating on Exxon and a buy on
 ConocoPhillips. (COP)  Exxon said in March its combined oil and gas
production will fall for a second straight year as it builds
platforms and pipelines to bring recent discoveries online.  Exxon Partner  The sale is expected to close in the third quarter and
requires approval from Canada’s Competition Bureau,
ConocoPhillips said. Exxon is the  largest  shareholder in
Imperial Oil, with a 70 percent stake as of Feb. 13, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  ConocoPhillips gained 0.9 percent to $67.09 at the close in
New York, while Exxon climbed 0.5 percent to $91.78. Imperial
increased 3 cents to C$42.03 in Toronto.  Exxon plans to bring in a partner, reducing its stake to
27.5 percent while it keeps majority control of the project with
Imperial, the companies said.  Imperial has been expanding output from its oil-sands
holding, including the C$12.9 billion Kearl project in  Alberta 
which began production in April. Kearl is on schedule to produce
110,000 barrels a day by the end of the year, the company said
Aug. 1.  For Imperial Oil “this seems like a logical bolt-on
acquisition that’s easy to integrate,” Pavel Molchanov, an
analyst with Raymond James & Associates Inc. in Houston, said in
a phone interview today. He has the equivalent of a buy on Exxon
and a sell on ConocoPhillips and doesn’t own either shares.  ConocoPhillips has been selling assets for more than three
years to focus on more profitable areas. Chief Financial Officer
Jeff Sheets said earlier this month ConocoPhillips might reduce
its oil-sands holdings. The company expects about $13.5 billion
from its 2012-2013 asset sales program, including $3.8 billion
received through the end of June.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edward Klump in Houston at 
 eklump@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  