-- Falsified Reports After Fukushima Fan Anti-Nuclear Korea
-- B y   S u n g w o o   P a r k   a n d   H e e s u   L e e
-- 2013-08-09T11:39:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-08/false-reports-after-fukushima-bolster-anti-nuclear-korea-energy.html
For Seoul residents,  South Korea ’s
decision to keep four nuclear reactors offline because of faked
safety reports means power shortages, and a summer of sweltering
homes and offices. Lee Jin Gon has bigger concerns.  “We feel unsafe day and night,” Lee said, pointing at the
cause of his nervousness, one of the closed reactors in the town
of Yangnam, a four-hour journey southeast of the capital. “We
became worried about nuclear safety after the Fukushima accident.
Now it’s worse,” he said, adding that locals have held protests
to close the whole plant.  Lee, 60, is emblematic of growing opposition to atomic
power in South  Korea , a movement galvanized by the meltdown of
three reactors in neighboring  Japan ’s Fukushima in 2011. It
gained more support when an investigation found nuclear plants
were using components with faked safety certificates. That cost
Kim Kyun Seop his job as head of state-run Korea Hydro & Nuclear
Power Co., which runs the 23 operating reactors.  The anti-nuclear lobby is forcing President Park Geun Hye
to take note. Her administration said it will review the role of
nuclear power to reflect “social acceptability” in its energy
plan due by the end of this year. The government had planned to
build more reactors to cope with electricity demand it forecast
to surge almost 60 percent by 2027.  Surveys show nuclear power is becoming increasingly
socially unacceptable. Sixty-three percent of respondents to a
March survey by pollster Hangil Research said they consider
domestic reactors unsafe. That compared with 54 percent in a
year earlier poll by the non-profit Korean Federation for
Environmental Movement.  Reactor Isolation  In Yangnam, Lee, head of the local branch of Nonghyup, the
nationwide cooperative federation of farmers, says concern that
nuclear power isn’t safe is damaging sales of the area’s rice
and other farm produce.  “No one wants to come here to live,” Lee said in an
interview at his office in the town 180 kilometers (112 miles)
from  Seoul . “We’re being isolated.”  As in Japan, South Korea began building nuclear plants
decades ago to provide a stable source of energy to spur
economic growth and reduce reliance on imports of oil and coal.  The current president’s father, the military ruler Park Chung Hee, commissioned the first reactor Kori No. 1, which
began operations in 1978.  Twenty-two more have been built since, providing about 30
percent of the country’s electricity. Five are under
construction with plans for another six by 2024. All are run by
Korea Hydro, whose parent is  Korea Electric Power Corp. (015760) , which
in turn is the monopoly distributer of electricity.  Inevitable Choice?  When former President  Lee Myung Bak  in 2008 said nuclear
plants would supply 59 percent of the nation’s power by 2030
from 36 percent, his administration called it “an inevitable
choice” in the face of high  oil prices  and to reduce  carbon
emissions .  To bolster the case for atomic power’s efficiency and low
cost, the government said consumer prices had almost tripled
over the previous 25 years, while electricity bills had only
climbed 11.4 percent.  Critics say those statistics are misleading because the
government controls power prices and sets them at lower rates
than the cost of producing the electricity.  “The unreasonable price structure of electricity is the
key cause of Korea’s frequent power shortages,” said Yun Won Cheol, an economics and finance professor at Hanyang University
in Seoul. “The cost of producing power is more expensive than
the cost of using power.”  Power Losses  That shows up in the books of Korea Electric Power, which
reported a combined 11.2 trillion won ($10 billion) in  losses  in
the past five years.  With the government keeping electricity prices low, the
nation gorges on it. South Korea consumes power at almost twice
the OECD average relative to the size of its economy, according
to Hyundai Research Institute. Demand has grown to “an
excessive level” with supply failing to keep pace, Hyundai
Research said in a June 19  report .  Power producers may need to spend an estimated 70 trillion
won to add 50,923 megawatts of generation capacity by 2027 to
meet a 3.4 percent annual rise in demand, according to the
government’s bi-annual energy outlook released in February.  Park’s government has more immediate concerns. With the
shutdowns of some reactors in May, demand may exceed supply by
1.98 gigawatts during peak demand periods in August, “an
unprecedented level,” the energy ministry said on May 31. The
nation issued yesterday a preliminary warning for a possible
power shortage, according to the Korea Power Exchange.  That leaves the government focused on curbing consumption
to prevent blackouts.  Wear Shorts  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) , Hyundai Motor Co., Posco and other
industrial users, which consume about half the nation’s energy,
have been ordered to cut electricity usage by as much as 15
percent during peak-demand hours.  Thermostats in offices will be kept above 28 degrees
Celsius (82 Fahrenheit). To beat the sweltering heat, state-run
Korea National Oil Corp. advised male employees to come to work
in shorts.  Clothing retailers are worried customers may avoid trying
on clothes if stores are too hot, said Lee Dong Hee, director at
Myeongdong Special Tourism Zone Council, a shopping area popular
with Japanese and Chinese tourists.  “Shop owners are extremely resentful about having to take
the brunt of the power shortages because it’s the government
that has failed to meet power demand,” Lee said.  The government now needs to focus on alternative energy,
said Kim Ik Jung, a microbiology professor at  Dongguk University 
and head of research at Gyeongju Environmental Movement
Federation.  ‘Probability Question’  “It’s a simple probability question; Korea can never be
free from nuclear disasters unless it shuts down all of its
reactors,” Kim said in an interview. “The government hasn’t
spent enough money on alternative energy.”  Wind, solar and other alternatives accounted for 1.3
percent of South Korea’s power supply in 2010, compared with 10
percent in the U.S. and Japan, 14 percent in  France  and 18
percent in  Germany , according to Hyundai Research.  In  Taiwan , lawmakers have been debating whether to put
future of the island’s No. 4 nuclear power plant to an island-wide vote.  Korea’s government in 2008 set a target for renewables to
account for 11 percent of  energy supply  by 2030, requiring about
112 trillion won in public and private financing. The energy
ministry said May 10 it would come up with a new target in its
next long-term  energy policy .  For Lee and his neighbors in Yangnam that’s too late. He
and about 1,000 residents are demanding their houses be
relocated, at least far enough out of sight of the nuclear plant.
Lee’s not considering leaving the town.  “This is my home, where I was born and where I grew up.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sungwoo Park in Seoul at 
 spark47@bloomberg.net ;
Heesu Lee in Seoul at 
 hlee425@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stuart Biggs at 
 sbiggs3@bloomberg.net  