-- Fannie Mae to Pay Treasury $10.2 Billion as Home Prices Rise
-- B y   C l e a   B e n s o n
-- 2013-08-08T16:59:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-08/fannie-mae-to-pay-treasury-10-2-billion-as-housing-prices-rise.html
Fannie Mae , the mortgage financier
seized by U.S. regulators in 2008, will pay the Treasury
Department $10.2 billion after reporting a sixth consecutive
quarterly profit on continued recovery in the housing market.  The government-sponsored enterprise, which is operating
under federal conservatorship, had net income of $10.1 billion
for the three-month period that ended June 30, according to a
statement released today. The company’s net worth was $13.2
billion, it said in the statement.  “We had continued stable revenues and our results were
boosted by a significant increase in  home prices , 4.1 percent
for the quarter,”  Fannie Mae (FNMA)  President and Chief Executive
Officer Timothy J. Mayopoulos said on a call with reporters.  After its latest payment, the Washington-based company will
have sent the Treasury a total of $105 billion, compared with
the $117.1 billion of aid the company has received.  Freddie Mac (FMCC) 
of McLean, Virginia, which yesterday reported a $5 billion
quarterly profit, will have paid about $41 billion after drawing
$72 billion.  Fannie Mae yesterday joined a group of investors who
authorized  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  and Deutsche Bank AG to seek a
court order blocking the city of Richmond, California from
seizing mortgages through eminent domain.  ‘Serious Issue’  “We think this is a very serious issue and we believe the
use of eminent domain that’s being proposed in Richmond is an
inappropriate use of that power,” said Mayopoulos, whose
company could suffer losses if loans in its retained portfolio
are among those seized by municipalities to aid borrowers.  The Federal Housing Finance Agency, the U.S. regulator for
Fannie Mae and  Freddie Mac , said today it may direct the
government-sponsored enterprises to stop doing business with
cities that use the power of eminent domain for that purpose.  Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac were taken over by regulators in
September 2008, shortly before the failure of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. and the rescue of  American International Group
Inc. (AIG) , amid losses that pushed them toward collapse. The
companies have returned to profitability as the housing market
recovered and they raised fees for loan guarantees.  Net income at Fannie Mae last year exceeded that of
companies such as  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) ,  General Electric Co. (GE)  and
 Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) , according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Starting this year, the terms of the U.S.-owned
companies’ obligation to the government were changed so that
they now return to Treasury all profits above a permitted
capital reserve and the money isn’t counted as repayment.  Guaranteed Payments  Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, which were created by the
federal government before becoming publicly traded companies,
buy mortgages from lenders and package them into securities on
which they guarantee payments of principal and interest.  Fannie Mae has provided $3.7 trillion in liquidity to the
mortgage market since 2009, the company said in the statement.  President  Barack Obama  on Aug. 6 called for the two
companies to be replaced with a government mortgage reinsurer
that would sustain losses only in catastrophic circumstances.  Hedge funds including Paulson & Co. Inc. have been pushing
Congress to abandon plans to liquidate the companies as they buy
up preferred stock that has been soaring after being considered
worthless, according to people with knowledge of the
discussions. Some owners of preferred shares have sued the U.S.
government, charging that some of the companies’ profits should
eventually go to stockholders.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clea Benson in Washington at 
 cbenson20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  