-- Fed Officials Signal Tapering Is Possible at September Meeting
-- B y   B r e n d a n   M u r r a y
-- 2013-08-08T22:36:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-08/fed-officials-signal-tapering-is-possible-at-september-meeting.html
Four Federal Reserve officials with
varied voting records on monetary stimulus indicated greater
willingness this week to begin tapering the central bank’s bond-buying program, citing confidence the economy is accelerating.  “I would clearly not rule” out a decision to start
dialing back the purchases at the Sept. 17-18 gathering of the
 Federal Open Market Committee ,  Chicago  Fed President  Charles Evans  said two days ago in Chicago. “We’ve seen good
improvement in the  labor market , there’s no question in my mind
about that,” and “I’m still wanting to see greater evidence
that it’s a sustainable improvement.”  Fed policy makers are watching the job market to determine
when to begin scaling back the central bank’s $85 billion in
monthly bond purchases. Officials have said they will continue
the  program  until the labor market has improved
“substantially.”  Evans, a voting member of the policy-making FOMC this year
who dissented twice in 2011 in favor of easier policy, has been
among the most vocal proponents of record monetary
accommodation. His comments were similar to those from Cleveland
Fed President  Sandra Pianalto , who has always voted with the
majority during her 10 years on the FOMC.  “Employment growth has been stronger than I was expecting,
and the  unemployment rate  today is more than half a percent
lower than I projected it to be last September,” she told an
audience in Cleveland Aug. 7. “In light of this progress, and
if the labor market remains on the stronger path that it has
followed since last fall, then I would be prepared to scale back
the monthly pace of asset purchases.”  Fed Vacancy  Pianalto said earlier today she would retire from the bank
early next year, when the Cleveland Fed gets its turn in the
rotation to vote on the FOMC.  Economic growth is gaining momentum, recent data show.
American consumers last week were the most upbeat in more than
five years as firings retreated for the first time to the lowest
level since before the recession.  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index rose to minus 23.5 for
the period ended Aug. 4, its strongest reading since January
2008, a report today showed. The average number of workers
applying for jobless benefits declined to 335,500 in the four
weeks ended Aug. 3, the least since November 2007, according to
Labor Department data.  Stocks rose today, with the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
halting a three-day skid, as Chinese trade data topped
estimates. The  S&P 500  climbed 0.4 percent to 1,697.48 at the
close in  New York .  Fewer Firings  Another report from the Labor Department this week showed
 job openings  rose in June to the highest level in five years. It
also showed fewer workers were fired in June than at any time in
the previous five months.  Payrolls rose by 162,000 workers in July, the fewest in
four months, following a revised 188,000 increase in June, data
showed last week. The jobless rate dropped to a more than four-year low of 7.4 percent from 7.6 percent.  The economy will expand at a 2.5 percent annualized rate
from July through December, up from a 1.4 percent gain in the
first six months of 2013 and little changed from the pace
projected last month, according to a Bloomberg survey of 59
economists conducted Aug. 2 to Aug. 6.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said June 19 that the central
bank is on track to start trimming its bond purchases later this
year and end them in mid-2014 if the economy improves as policy
makers forecast it will.  Fisher’s Criticism  Dallas Fed President  Richard Fisher , one of the most vocal
critics of the central bank’s so-called quantitative easing
program, said today it’s “timely” for U.S. central bankers to
begin moderating record monetary stimulus as the economy
continues to improve.  “You heard a choir” from Fed officials this week that
“if things go as the committee expected, then I would expect us
to dial back,” Fisher said on CNBC. “We’ll have to see what
the data is and the feeling is between now and the time we next
meet in September.”  Dennis Lockhart , the Atlanta Fed president, told Market
News International that “the progress to date is pretty
impressive and certainly should be factored into the readiness
of the economy to move forward without asset purchases,”
according to an article published Aug. 7.  Lockhart, a supporter of Fed stimulus who doesn’t vote this
year on monetary policy, said the first cuts in Fed bond
purchases may come as early as September, Market News reported,
citing an interview with him.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brendan Murray in Washington at 
 brmurray@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 Wellisz@bloomberg.net  