-- Fed Chief Pick Points to Stocks Echoing Past: Cutting Research
-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y
-- 2013-08-08T23:04:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-08/fed-chief-pick-points-to-stocks-echoing-past-cutting-research.html
Financial markets may repeat their
historical response to the appointment of a new Federal Reserve
chairman when Ben S. Bernanke’s successor is announced.  That’s according to a former Fed economist who notes
equities rallied about 6 percent in the month after the
selections of Paul Volcker, Alan Greenspan and Bernanke.  “All three nominees were deemed acceptable by the markets
and either unlikely to deviate from the policy course set by
their predecessor (Greenspan and Bernanke) or about to set out
to achieve a desirable result (Volcker and his inflation
fight),” Roberto Perli, a Washington-based partner for
Cornerstone Macro LP, said in an August 6 report.  Bond yields did not exhibit a consistent pattern and
behaved more in line with the policy preferences of the nominee
as well as specific economic conditions of the time, Perli said.
The yield on the 10-year Treasury rose when Volcker was named
chairman in anticipation of tighter monetary policy, while they
fell when Greenspan was picked because he was seen as likely to
maintain a moderate policy course.  Bernanke’s term ends Jan. 31, and while drawing parallels
with history can be risky, Perli said a case could be made that
market behavior will be similar this time around.  So long as the next chairman isn’t viewed as someone who
will tighten policy quickly, then stock investors will stay
focused on the improving outlook for economic and  earnings
growth , he said.  The bond market may be more influenced by the choice of the
nominee, according to Perli. If President  Barack Obama  chooses
Fed Vice Chairman Janet Yellen or former Fed Vice Chairman
Donald Kohn then investors would continue to restrain bond
yields on the bet that there will be no interest-rate hikes for
a couple of years, he said. If Harvard University professor
Lawrence Summers was the choice, they might fear earlier
tightening and bond yields would rise.  * * *  A new revolution in technology has the potential to
transform and strengthen the global economy, according to UBS
AG.  Mobile and so-called cloud technology could bring as many
as 3 billion people into the world economy and advanced robots
could work without stopping, UBS AG economist Andrew Cates said
in a July study. 3D printers could remove 90 percent of waste
from some manufacturing processes and North American oil
production could climb more than 100 percent driven by hydraulic
fracturing and horizontal drilling, he said.  The impact of such developments could be an increase in
global economic growth of around 0.5 to 0.7 percentage points
than otherwise, while inflation could be one percentage point
lower, Singapore-based Cates said.  Investors would benefit as global earnings growth could be
boosted by around 5 percent in coming years, UBS said. The
dollar will also gain as the U.S. economy is likely to be the
main beneficiary of technology and bond yield curves will be
flatter, it said.  * * *  The pulling power of the U.S. economy has diminished even
as its recovery gains momentum.  “A stronger U.S. economy is an important part of our
expectation of healthier global growth,” said Gustavo Reis, an
economist at Bank of America Merrill Lynch in New York. “But
the oomph to the rest of the world will probably be somewhat
less than in the recent past.”  While still the world’s largest economy, the ability of the
U.S. to serve as a locomotive for global growth has slipped
because of weaker trade and commodity linkages, according to
Reis.  Having run a current account deficit of about 7 percent of
gross domestic product before the financial crisis, the U.S. is
now less a source of global final demand, Reis wrote in an Aug.
2 report. There are signs of strength in other nations, with
consumption composing a rising share of Asian trade.  The Americans are also likely changing the focus of their
economy, with residential investment likely to grow 18 percent
in 2014 compared with a 2.5 percent increase in consumption.  The impact the U.S. has on commodity markets has also
moderated, with Asia and the Middle East set to provide the bulk
of oil consumption in coming years. The oil boom in the U.S.
also narrowed the nation’s energy deficit.  Still, it continues to loom large in financial markets,
with U.S. assets accounting for almost half of Bank of America’s
global liquidity measure. A risk is that a withdrawal of
monetary stimulus may have a spillover effect elsewhere.  * * *  Immigration may help offset the risks of aging populations
in advanced countries by bringing in young workers who tend to
be active in the labor force.  So say Citigroup Inc. economists Nathan Sheets and Robert
A. Sockin in an Aug. 5 report, which concludes filling the void
of retired workers with foreigners is feasible and desirable.  They estimate about one-third of the economic growth of the
U.S., euro-area and U.K. in the past decade can be attributed to
immigration. More rapid immigrant inflows in coming decades will
mean a similar boost, Sheets and Sockin said.  “The key point is that immigrants are disproportionately
of working age and, accordingly, are very active in the labor
force,” the economists said. “This seems to be exactly what
the advanced economies are likely to need in the decades
ahead.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Kennedy in London at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  