-- FHFA Says GSEs May Cease Business in Towns Seizing Mortgages
-- B y   C l e a   B e n s o n
-- 2013-08-08T18:51:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-08/fhfa-says-gses-may-cease-business-in-cities-using-eminent-domain.html
The regulator of Fannie Mae and
Freddie Mac is considering directing the companies to stop doing
business in communities that seize mortgages through eminent
domain, the agency’s general counsel said today in a memorandum.  The  Federal Housing Finance Agency  may also initiate legal
challenges to eminent domain actions, Alfred M. Pollard, the
general counsel, said in the memorandum, which was posted on the
agency’s website.  “There is a rational basis to conclude that the use of
eminent domain by localities to restructure loans for borrowers
that are ‘underwater’ on their mortgages presents a clear threat
to the safe and sound operations of Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and
the Federal Home Loan Banks as provided in federal law,”
Pollard  wrote .  The city of Richmond,  California  announced last month it is
moving ahead with a plan to seize mortgages from investors and
write down the loan balances to help borrowers at risk of
foreclosure. The public benefit of the seizures is to fend off
foreclosures that cause blight and create other costs for the
community, according to the plan’s supporters.  Other Cities  At least a dozen cities still dealing with the fallout of
worst slump in home prices since the Great Depression are
studying the eminent domain idea. Others include El Monte,
California, North Las Vegas,  Nevada , and Irvington, New Jersey.
Communities such as San Bernardino County, California, and
 Chicago  abandoned such plans after considering them last year.  The FHFA statement comes a year after the agency first
requested public input on the issue, and a day after  Fannie Mae (FNMA) 
and Freddie Mac joined investors authorizing a lawsuit to stop
Richmond from seizing loans.  The eminent domain program is advocated by Mortgage
Resolution Partners LLC, which would provide services and
arrange for private investment funds that would profit by buying
the loans for less than property values, and reworking them.  The FHFA is violating its conservatorship mandate and
obligations to protect taxpayers by opposing the use of eminent
domain to restructure mortgages, said Mortgage Resolution
Partners Chief Strategy Officer John Vlahoplus.  “Instead of fighting loan sales, increasing risk, and
wasting assets, they should support a rapid loan sell down and
consequent risk reduction,” Vlahoplus said in an e-mailed
statement. “Those financial institutions that reduce risk and
their exposure to risky assets do well.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clea Benson in Washington at 
 cbenson20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  