-- Flybe’s New Management Starts Fresh Review Targeting Profits
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l   a n d   K a r i   L u n d g r e n
-- 2013-08-08T08:13:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-08/flybe-s-new-management-starts-fresh-review-targeting-profits.html
Flybe Group Plc (FLYB) ,  Europe ’s largest
independent regional airline, said new Chief Executive Officer
Saad Hammad is reviewing the carrier’s operations as it seeks to
reduce costs and boost cash.  The airline will report “in due course on the future
strategic development and direction of the business,” the
Exeter, England-based company said today in a statement. Flybe
said revenue for the year ending March 2014 will be similar to
sales last year of 781.5 million pounds ($1.2 billion).  Flybe shares gained as much as 7 percent, the most in a
month, and traded 0.4 percent higher at 61 pence at 8:58 a.m. in
 London . The stock has gained 20 percent this year.  The review follows a management shake-up that saw Hammad
take over from outgoing CEO Jim French, who became non-executive
chairman, and Paul Simmons appointed as chief commercial officer
on Aug. 5. Hammad and Simmons previously worked at discount
carrier  EasyJet Plc (EZJ)  and are targeting 40 million pounds of cost
savings in fiscal year 2014. Flybe is also seeking a new chief
financial officer after announcing the departure of Andrew Knuckey on Aug 5.  Britain’s biggest domestic airline is seeking to bolster
its balance sheet amid reduced demand and high fuel prices. The
company sold landing slots at London Gatwick airport to EasyJet
for 20 million pounds, is renegotiating pilot pay, and has
delayed deliveries of regional jets from  Embraer SA. (EMBR3)   First-quarter revenue for the three months through June
climbed 0.7 percent to 164.2 million pounds. The airline flew
2.1 million people in the period, 3.4 percent more than a year
earlier. Total revenue under management, which includes sales
from the airline’s joint venture with  Finnair OYJ (FIA1S) , climbed
almost 19 percent to 229 million pounds in the quarter.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net ;
Kari Lundgren in London at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  