-- Galleon, JPMorgan, Goldman, Fannie, Freddie: Compliance
-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 2013-08-08T12:11:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-08/galleon-jpmorgan-goldman-fannie-mae-freddie-mac-compliance.html
G. Robert Blakey, the law professor
who helped draft the U.S. wiretap statute, may submit a brief
supporting imprisoned hedge fund manager  Raj Rajaratnam ’s effort
to overturn his conviction for insider trading, a U.S. appeals
court ruled.  Blakey, who teaches at Notre Dame Law School in Indiana,
supports a rehearing of the case against the Galleon Group LLC
co-founder, whose conviction was upheld in June by the appeals
court in New York. He was granted the right to submit written
arguments yesterday.  Rajaratnam, who’s serving an 11-year term at the Federal
Medical Center Devens in Ayers, Massachusetts, on July 24 asked
for a hearing before the full U.S. Court of Appeals in New York.
His conviction was upheld by a three-judge panel.  Rajaratnam, 56, was convicted of directing the biggest
hedge fund insider-trading scheme in U.S. history. It was the
first such case in which investigators tapped targets’ phone
conversations, a tactic used in organized-crime probes.  Jurors listened to more than 45 wiretap recordings, on some
of which Rajaratnam can be heard gathering nonpublic information
from his sources.  Blakely, who is viewed as the architect of the wiretap
statute, called the secret recordings “a method of last
resort” in court papers submitted with his request to file the
brief on Rajaratnam’s behalf.  The appeal is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 11-04416, U.S. Court of
Appeals for the Second Circuit (Manhattan).  Compliance Action  S&P Said to Face SEC Probe on 2011 Commercial-Mortgage Bond  Standard & Poor’s is facing scrutiny from the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission for how it rated a
commercial-mortgage bond in 2011, three people with knowledge of
the matter, but who weren’t authorized to speak publicly, said.  The inquiry extends beyond a U.S. Justice Department
lawsuit against New York-based  McGraw Hill Financial Inc. (MHFI)  and
its S&P unit. Massachusetts has also looked into S&P’s post-crisis methods, Bloomberg News reported Feb. 21.  “We reviewed the application of our CMBS methodology and
determined that the approach used for new transactions rated in
2011 produced results that were consistent with Standard &
Poor’s rating definitions and resulted in no ratings changes,”
 Ed Sweeney , an S&P spokesman, said in an e-mailed statement.  John Nester , an SEC spokesman in Washington, declined to
comment on whether the agency was scrutinizing the deal, which
was first reported by Dow Jones Newswires.  The Justice Department sued S&P Feb. 4 in federal court in
Los Angeles, accusing the company of inflating ratings to win
business on bonds backed by home loans made to the riskiest
borrowers from September 2004 to October 2007. The U.S. is
seeking more than $5 billion in damages, or more than five years
of profit.  S&P denies the allegations and said in a Feb. 5 statement
it will defend itself “vigorously.”  Ex-Baker & McKenzie Partner Sentenced to 2 Years for Fraud  Former Baker & McKenzie LLP partner Martin Weisberg, who
admitted to stealing from a client and taking part in a $55
million securities fraud, was sentenced to two years in prison,
the U.S. said.  Weisberg, 62, pleaded guilty to conspiracy and money
laundering in May 2012 after prosecutors alleged he skimmed $1.3
million in interest from an escrow account for a hedge fund
client, SIAM Capital Management. Separately, Weisberg joined a
scheme to manipulate the stock price of technology firms
Xybernaut Corp. and Ramp Corp. prosecutors said.  “Instead of using his talents to provide wise counsel, he
lied to and stole from his own clients, lied to the Securities
and Exchange Commission, and betrayed the investing public,”
Brooklyn U.S. Attorney Loretta Lynch said in a statement.  U.S. District Judge Nicholas Garaufis in Brooklyn, New
York, also ordered Weisberg to pay $297,500 in restitution and
$250,000 in forfeiture, according to prosecutors.  Weisberg left Baker & McKenzie in October 2007 at the time
of his arrest in the securities case. Previously, he had worked
at firms including Cravath, Swaine & Moore LLP, Morgan Lewis &
Bockius, and Shea & Gould, according to a memorandum filed by
his lawyers in March.  Richard Albert, a lawyer for Weisberg, declined to comment
on the sentence.  The case is U.S. v. Saltsman, 07-cr-641, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of New York (Brooklyn).  JPMorgan Faces Criminal Probe as Bank Says U.S. Faults MBS Sales  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , the biggest U.S. bank, said it’s
under both civil and criminal investigation for practices tied
to sales of mortgage-backed bonds.  The Justice Department’s civil division told the bank in
May of its preliminary finding after examining securities tied
to subprime and Alt-A loans, which were sold to investors from
2005 through 2007, JPMorgan said Aug. 7. The office of U.S.
Attorney Benjamin Wagner in Sacramento, California, has been
conducting civil and criminal inquiries, the bank said.  “It would be a major decision for them to indict a major
U.S. bank, and frankly I would not predict it,” said  John
Coffee , a professor at Columbia Law School in New York. “You
can often bring dual investigations, civil and criminal, in
order to maximize pressure for a global civil resolution.”  Investigators are seeking to wrap up years-long probes of
abuses that fueled the housing collapse and led global credit
markets to freeze in 2008. This week, the Justice Department and
Securities and Exchange Commission sued  Bank of America Corp. ,
the nation’s second-biggest lender, accusing it of misleading
investors in an $850 million mortgage-backed bond.  The U.S. is investigating JPMorgan under the Financial
Institutions Reform, Recovery and Enforcement Act, according to
a person briefed on the matter, requesting anonymity because
details of the inquiry aren’t public.  The 1989 law, known as FIRREA, allows the government to
seek civil penalties for losses to federally insured financial
firms. The Bank of America case cited the same statute.  Lauren Horwood, a spokeswoman for Wagner in Sacramento,
declined to comment on the bank’s disclosures.  JPMorgan “continues to respond to other MBS-related
regulatory inquiries,” the New York-based company wrote in a
regulatory filing listing investigations.  Joe Evangelisti , a company spokesman, declined to comment.
Charlotte, North Carolina-based Bank of America has said buyers
of its mortgage bonds were sophisticated investors with ample
access to underlying data.  Federal prosecutors are reluctant to bring criminal charges
against a large bank that’s tightly interconnected with other
firms because it could endanger national or global economies,
U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder told a Senate Judiciary
Committee hearing in March.  Goldman Sachs Cooperating With U.S. Credit Derivatives Inquiry  Goldman Sachs (GS)  Group Inc., the fifth-largest U.S. bank by
assets, said it’s cooperating with the U.S. Department of
Justice’s four-year-old antitrust probe into the credit-default
swaps market.  The firm has received civil investigative demands related
to the investigation, New York-based Goldman Sachs said in a
regulatory  filing  today. The bank was among more than a dozen
financial institutions accused by the European Union last month
of colluding to curb competition in credit derivatives.  Morgan Stanley (MS)  and Citigroup Inc. also said in filings last
week that they were cooperating with the probe. The Justice
Department sent civil investigative notices in July 2009 to the
banks that own London-based Markit Group Ltd., a provider of
data on derivatives and bonds, to find out if they had unfair
access to price information, three people familiar with the
matter said at the time.  Markit’s shareholders included Goldman Sachs, JPMorgan
Chase & Co.,  Bank of America Corp. , and Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc, according to filings with the U.K.’s Companies House
at the time. Bloomberg LP, the owner of Bloomberg News, competes
with Markit in selling information to the financial-services
industry.  MetLife Says Bank May Face Fine as U.S. Probes Foreclosures  MetLife Inc. (MET) , the largest U.S. life insurer, said it may
face fines amid a government review of foreclosures at its bank
unit.  The bank received a request in May from the U.S. Department
of Justice for information on payments the lender made to law
firms tied to foreclosures, the New York-based insurer said in a
filing yesterday. Expenses were submitted to  Fannie Mae (FNMA) ,  Freddie
Mac (FMCC)  and the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development for
reimbursement, according to the filing.  “It is possible that various state or federal regulatory
and law enforcement authorities may seek monetary penalties from
MetLife Bank relating to foreclosure practices,” the insurer
said in the filing.  The probe adds to U.S. scrutiny of a business that MetLife
has been exiting as it seeks to focus on insurance and
retirement products. The company said last year that the Justice
Department, led by Attorney General Eric Holder, made a civil
investigative demand in a review of mortgages insured by the
Federal Housing Administration.  John Calagna , a spokesman for MetLife, declined to comment.  SAC’s Cohen Shouldn’t Get Evidence in SEC Case, Prosecutor Says  SAC Capital Advisors LP founder Steven A. Cohen shouldn’t
get evidence in a U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
administrative proceeding until criminal cases tied to his hedge
fund conclude, a prosecutor said.  Cohen, the billionaire founder of Stamford, Connecticut-based SAC, was accused July 19 in an administrative action of
failing to supervise two employees facing criminal charges of
insider trading. On July 25, Manhattan U.S. Attorney Preet
Bharara indicted SAC and filed a separate money-laundering
lawsuit against the fund.  The SEC alleged Cohen, 57, received “highly suspicious”
information that should have caused any reasonable hedge-fund
manager to investigate the basis for trades. Prosecutors said
the fund reaped hundreds of millions of dollars in illicit
profit from insider-trading schemes involving at least eight
employees including the two facing charges, former SAC fund
manager Mathew Martoma and Michael Steinberg, a fund manager at
SAC’s Sigma Capital unit.  While Cohen doesn’t oppose the request to postpone the SEC
case, he asked to be given prompt access to the agency’s
investigative records. His lawyers said he would be “severely
prejudiced” with “insufficient time” to adequately review the
vast number of documents collected by the SEC, which outnumber
those in prosecutors’ custody.  “Both arguments are incorrect,” Assistant U.S. Attorney
Antonia Apps, who is prosecuting SAC and Steinberg, said in a
memo filed yesterday in the SEC case. “The U.S. Attorney
respectfully submits that the public interest would best be
served by staying the administrative proceeding pending
prosecution of the related criminal cases.”  Jonathan Gasthalter, a spokesman for SAC at Sard Verbinnen
& Co., declined to comment on the filing.  The cases are U.S. v. SAC Capital Advisors LP, 13-cr-00541;
U.S. v. SAC Capital Advisors LP 13-cv-05182, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan). The
administrative proceeding is In the matter of  Steven A. Cohen ,
3015382, U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  Compliance Policy  Obama Says Private Capital Should Take Lead Mortgage Role  President Barack Obama is calling for private capital to
take the lead role in the nation’s mortgage market with the U.S.
government continuing to provide a backstop only against
catastrophic risk.  The president for the first time is endorsing an approach
to remake the housing finance system as  Fannie Mae  and Freddie
Mac are wound down. He said the government still must play a
role to preserve broad access to 30-year, fixed-rate mortgages
that underpin the market.  “You can’t have a situation in which the government is
underwriting and guaranteeing all the mortgage lending that’s
taking place around the country and big profits are being made
by these quasi-private institutions,” Obama said. Congress
should pass housing legislation by the end of the year, he said.  The president’s remarks yesterday came during a question
and answer session in Los Angeles moderated by Spencer Rascoff,
chief executive officer of  Zillow Inc (Z) , operator of the largest
real-estate information website.  A reduced government role would likely mean that mortgages
would become more expensive as the costs of covering risk are
shifted from taxpayers to borrowers. A Senate bill containing
Obama’s approach would increase interest rates by between 50 and
75 basis points for a typical borrower with a 30-year fixed rate
loan, a 20 percent down payment, and a 750 credit score,
according to a report by Moody’s Analytics.  For more, click here.  Concessions Seen in Telefonica-KPN German Merger for EU Nod  Telefonica SA (TEF)  and  Royal KPN NV (KPN) ’s bid to combine their
German assets has become an acid test for a telecommunications
industry anxious over whether regulators will allow deals
carriers say they need to spur growth.  Already Germany’s phone regulator has given Telefonica’s O2
and KPN’s E-Plus units two weeks to turn over details of
wireless frequencies so it can determine they’d be “efficiently
used,” and that the merger won’t hamper competition, according
to a July 25 letter from the Bonn-based agency.  The letter raised the prospect of a surrender of some
airwaves, which could water down the benefits of the 8.1
billion-euro ($10.8 billion) transaction and by extension
inhibit other carriers from attempting similar consolidation
moves, which regulators have said are key to rationalizing the
28-nation European Union market. Approval of the deal will
probably come with conditions such as asset disposals, according
to competition lawyer Paul Hughes.  “You’re looking at a reduction in the big players from
four to three,” said Hughes, European competition counsel at
Steptoe & Johnson LLP in Brussels. “No doubt, there will be
remedies required in the form of making available access to
wholesale network for virtual mobile telephony companies, for
making spectrum available to other players.”  The EU telecommunications market is inundated with carriers
spread over 28 countries. That creates a sevenfold difference in
the price of a domestic mobile call between the priciest and
cheapest markets across a region less than half the size of the
U.S., according to a  statement  Aug. 6 from Neelie Kroes, who is
in charge of the digital agenda for the European Commission, the
EU’s executive arm in Brussels.  For more, click here.  In the Courts  JPMorgan Sued With Goldman Sachs in Aluminum Antitrust Case  JPMorgan Chase & Co., the biggest U.S. bank, was sued with
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and  Glencore Xstrata Plc (GLEN)  over claims
they restrained aluminum supplies and drove up prices.  The complaint was filed by a Jacksonville, Florida, direct
purchaser, Master Screens Inc., and by individual plaintiff
Daniel Price Bart of Tallahassee, who is described in the filing
as a “purchaser of beverages sold in aluminum cans.”  The banks and Glencore are accused in the complaint filed
yesterday in federal court in Tallahassee of racketeering and
conspiring with the London Metal Exchange, hoarding aluminum in
Detroit-area warehouses and violating federal antitrust laws.
Goldman Sachs was first sued over similar claims by a Michigan
company on Aug. 1.  “There are no queues at our warehouses and we believe this
suit has no merit,”  Brian Marchiony , a spokesman for New York-based JPMorgan Chase, said in an e-mail.  “We believe this suit is without merit and we intend to
vigorously contest it,”  Michael DuVally , a spokesman for New
York-based Goldman Sachs, said in an e-mail. “We also note that
aluminum prices are down 40 percent from their peak in 2006.”  Charles Watenphul, a spokesman for Baar, Switzerland-based
commodities group Glencore, declined to comment.  The Florida case is Master Screens Inc. v. Goldman Sachs
Group Inc., 13-cv-00431, U.S. District Court, Northern District
of Florida (Tallahassee). The Michigan case is Superior
Extrusion Inc. v. Goldman Sachs Group Inc., 13-cv-13315, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of Michigan (Detroit). The
Louisiana case is River Parish Contractors Inc. v. Goldman Sachs
Group Inc., 13-cv-05267, U.S. District Court, Eastern District
of Louisiana (New Orleans).  Nuveen Funds Sue AIG, Executives Claiming Securities Fraud  Twenty-five Nuveen Investments Inc. funds sued  American
International Group Inc. (AIG) , claiming the company and executives
committed securities fraud leading to the U.S. financial crisis
that intensified in 2008.  Also named Aug. 6 as defendants in a 237-page complaint in
federal court in Chicago were former Chief Executive Officer
Martin J. Sullivan, ex-Chief Financial Officer Steven Bensinger
and  Joseph Cassano , who led the AIG Financial Products unit.  “Plaintiffs suffered tens of billions of dollars in
losses, at least, based on false and materially misleading
statements that AIG, certain of its executives, directors,
underwriters and outside auditor made,” according to the
complaint.  The funds accused the company, Sullivan and others of
violating Illinois and federal securities laws, common law fraud
and unjust enrichment. They asked for unspecified money damages.  Matthew Gallagher, a spokesman for New York-based AIG,
declined to comment immediately on the allegations.  Among the Nuveen funds suing the insurer are the  Dow 30
Enhanced Premium and Income Fund , the  Nuveen Equity Premium
Opportunity Fund (JSN)  and the  Nuveen Large Cap Value Fund. (NNGAX)   The case is Dow 30 Enhanced Premium & Income Fund v.
American International Group Inc., 13-cv-05612, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of Illinois (Chicago).  Publishers Object to U.S. Request in Apple E-Book Pricing Case  Publishers who previously settled an antitrust lawsuit with
the U.S. Justice Department over pricing of electronic books
filed an objection to the government’s bid to force  Apple Inc. (AAPL) 
to terminate existing contracts with them.  HarperCollins Publishers LLC, Hachette Book Group Inc.,
Simon & Schuster Inc. and two others claimed in the objection
yesterday that they would be punished by the proposed order. The
government’s proposal would force Apple to find new ways of
making deals with publishers to distribute e-books.  The proposal would “effectively eliminate the use of the
agency model” for selling and distributing e-books for a period
of five years, the publishers said in the filing in federal
court in Manhattan. Under the agency model, publishers, not
retailers, set book prices.  “The provisions do not impose any limitation on Apple’s
pricing behavior at all,” lawyers for the publishers wrote.
“Rather, under the guise of punishing Apple, they effectively
punish the settling defendants by prohibiting agreements with
Apple using an agency model.”  U.S. District Judge Denise Cote ruled in July that
Cupertino, California-based Apple, the world’s largest
technology company, violated U.S. antitrust law by fixing e-book
prices.  The five publishers were also defendants in the lawsuit,
which was brought by the U.S. government and 33 state attorneys
general. The publishers, Verlagsgruppe Georg von Holtzbrinck
GmbH’s  Macmillan  unit,  CBS Corp. (CBS) ’s  Simon & Schuster ,  Lagardere
SCA (MMB) ’s  Hachette Book Group ,  Pearson Plc (PSON) ’s Penguin unit and News
Corp.’s  HarperCollins , settled with the government for a total
of at least $164 million.  A sixth publisher, Random House Inc., didn’t sign an agency
agreement with Apple and wasn’t involved in the U.S. suit.
Penguin was merged with Random House this year.  Gina Talamona, a spokeswoman for the Justice Department,
said in an e-mail that the proposed court order doesn’t modify
the terms of the settlement reached with the publishers.  If approved by the court, the order “would prohibit Apple
from entering agreements that limit retail price competition
during a reset period,” she said.  The case is U.S. v. Apple Inc., 12-cv-02826, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ellen Rosen in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  