-- German Exports Gained in June in Signal Economy Gathered Pace
-- B y   W e i x i n   Z h a
-- 2013-08-08T06:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-08/german-exports-gained-in-june-in-signal-economy-gathered-pace.html
German  exports (GRBTEXMM)  rose in June, adding
to signs that the recovery in  Europe ’s largest economy is
gaining traction.  Exports, adjusted for working days and seasonal changes,
increased 0.6 percent from May, when they dropped a revised 2 
percent that was less than originally estimated, the Federal 
Statistics Office in Wiesbaden said today. Economists predicted 
an increase of 0.9 percent, according to the median forecast of 
13 economists in a  Bloomberg News survey . Imports fell 0.8 
percent.  Demand for German-made goods is increasing as the 17-nation
euro area, the country’s biggest trading partner, shows signs of
emerging from its longest-ever recession and the U.S. economic
expansion accelerates. European countries accounted for 69
percent of German exports last year and the U.S. for 12 percent,
according to the Federal Statistics Office in Wiesbaden.  “Exports will probably rise slowly over the following
months as growth in  North America  picks up and countries in the
euro area recover,” Gerd Hassel, a Frankfurt-based analyst at
Bhf-Bank AG, said before the report. “ Germany  will grow faster
than other euro-area countries as domestic demand also
increases.”  Manufacturing in the euro region expanded last month for
the first time in two years, according to a survey of purchasing
managers by London-based Markit Economics. The  U.S. economy  grew
at a 1.7 percent annualized rate from April through June after a
1.1 percent pace in the first quarter. German  consumer
confidence  this month will rise to the highest level since
August 2007, according to a survey by  GfK SE. (GFK)   Trade Gap  Germany’s trade surplus widened to 16.9 billion euros
($22.6 billion) in June from a revised 13.6 billion euros in
May, today’s report showed. The surplus in the current account,
a measure of all trade including services, increased to 17.3
billion euros from 11.2 billion euros.  The Bundesbank said last month that it sees the German
economy slowing after it grew “strongly” in the second
quarter. German and euro-area gross domestic product data for
the three months ended June will be released on Aug. 14. The
currency bloc’s economy shrank in the six quarters through
March.  At the same time, the  Ifo institute ’s measure of German
business confidence climbed for a third month in July and
factory orders, an indicator of future production, jumped the
most in eight months in June. The Sentix research institute said
euro-area investor sentiment gained this month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Weixin Zha in Frankfurt at 
 wzha2@bloomberg.net  