-- Italian Bonds Rise as Export Data Spurs Demand for Higher Yields
-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n   a n d   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 2013-08-08T15:35:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-08/german-bonds-little-changed-before-gdp-inflation-data-next-week.html
Italian 10-year bonds rose for a
third day, outperforming their German counterparts, as reports
showing exports increased in China and  Germany  spurred demand
for higher-yielding assets.  Italian benchmark yields fell to the  lowest  level in eight
weeks. Spanish bonds also advanced. German bonds were little
changed before a euro-area report next week that analysts said
will show the region’s economy expanded for the first time in
seven quarters. Chinese exports to the European Union and the
U.S. increased for the first time in five months.  “The Chinese export data to Europe is significant in that
it suggested the economic recovery here may be stronger than we
thought,” said Soeren Moerch, head of fixed-income trading at
 Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE)  in Copenhagen. That’s a factor supporting
higher-yielding euro-region bonds, he said.  The yield on Italian 10-year bonds dropped five basis
points, or 0.05 percentage point, to 4.20 percent at 4:33 p.m.
 London  time, the lowest since June 10. The 4.5 percent security
due in May 2023 rose 0.4, or 4 euros per 1,000-euro ($1,339)
face amount, to 102.675.  Similar-maturity Spanish yields also declined five basis
points, to 4.52 percent.  The yield difference between Italian 10-year securities and
similar-maturity German debt narrowed four basis points to 2.53
percentage points.  German exports rose 0.6 percent in June from May, when they
dropped 2 percent, the Federal Statistics Office said. Chinese
shipments overseas climbed 5.1 percent in July from a year
earlier after sliding 3.1 percent in June, according to the
General Administration of Customs in Beijing.  Flat-Lining  “You are now seeing Europe broadly flat-lining after being
in recession,” Michael Amey, a money manager at Pacific
Investment Management Co. in London, said in an interview on
Bloomberg Television’s “The Pulse” with Francine Lacqua and
Guy Johnson. “We should be pleased that bond yields have
stabilized in southern Europe. Certainly it is good news that
we’ve got to a period where growth is flat-lining as opposed to
being in a semi-permanent recession.”  The German 10-year bund yielded 1.68 percent after
increasing to 1.73 percent on Aug. 2, the highest level since
July 5. The rate on French 10-year debt was little changed at
2.24 percent.  Gross domestic product in the euro area increased 0.2
percent in the second quarter from the previous three months,
according to the median estimate of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News before the number is released on Aug. 14. The
annual inflation rate was unchanged at 1.6 percent in July, a
separate survey showed ahead of the data on Aug. 16.  Long Positions  “The case for long positions in large peripherals remains
compelling given improving growth prospects, high risk-adjusted
carry and supportive trading conditions,”  Michael Leister , a
senior fixed-income strategist at Commerzbank AG wrote in a note
to clients. “We expect yields to grind lower in the absence of
bearish news.”  A long position is a bet a security will rise in value.  Volatility on German securities was the highest in euro-area markets today, followed by those of  Austria  and the
Netherlands, according to measures of 10-year debt, the yield
spread between two- and 10-year securities, and credit-default
swaps.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net ;
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Dobson at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  