-- Glock’s Ex-Wife Helga Wins Alimony Fight With Austrian Gun Maker
-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 2013-08-08T14:48:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-08/glock-s-ex-wife-helga-wins-alimony-fight-with-austrian-gun-maker.html
The ex-wife of Austrian gun maker
Gaston Glock is entitled to alimony from her ex-husband
regardless of her own wealth,  Austria ’s highest court ruled.  Helga Glock may now receive an allowance based on her
former husband’s income, which will have to be determined in a
new proceeding, Christoph Brenn, a spokesman for the Vienna-based court, said by phone today. The verdict, made July 3 and
delivered to the parties this week, overturns rulings by two
lower courts in southern Austria, Brenn said.  “The plaintiff had demanded alimony from her husband, who
objected that she has such a high income herself that she can
cover her cost of living,” Brenn said. “The court rejected
that and ruled that the alimony has to be calculated the same
way as for lower incomes because the spouse that was innocently
divorced is entitled to share the wealth of the other spouse.”  The verdict is the latest instance in a bitter feud between
84-year-old Gaston Glock, the Austrian inventor of the handgun
used by two-thirds of U.S. police departments, and his wife of
49 years until they divorced in 2011. A separate case in which
Helga is seeking to regain a significant stake in Glock GmbH is
still pending at the highest court in Austria.  While the ruling is final, figuring out the amount of
alimony Helga Glock can claim may follow the same route to the
country’s top court, Brenn said. Helga hired an Atlanta law firm
earlier this year to try to gain access to Gaston’s financial
holdings through the U.S courts.  Helga Glock’s law firm, Willheim Mueller Rechtsanwaelte,
and Claudia Wolfahrt, a spokeswoman for Gaston Glock, didn’t
immediately respond to calls seeking comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  