-- Goldman Sachs Traders Lost on Six Days in Second Quarter
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 2013-08-08T11:02:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-08/goldman-sachs-lost-on-six-trading-days-in-second-quarter.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , which
generated about half its revenue from trading last quarter,
posted losses from that business on six days in the second
quarter, unchanged from a year earlier.  The bank’s traders made more than $100 million on 10 days
in the quarter ended June 30, compared with four days in the
year-earlier period, the New York-based company said in a
regulatory filing today. While the largest one-day loss was
between $75 million and $100 million, none of the firm’s losses
topped its value-at-risk estimate.  Goldman Sachs generated $4.31 billion from its trading
division in the second quarter of 2013, an increase of 11
percent from the year-earlier period. The total was down from
the first quarter amid a drop in bond prices sparked by
indications that the  Federal Reserve  may ease economic-stimulus
measures.  “Macro concerns emerged again toward the end of the
quarter and were reflected in lower activity levels and risk
appetite in certain businesses,” Chief Financial Officer Harvey Schwartz said on a conference call last month. “In addition,
the market volatility created more challenging periods within
the  capital markets  for managing client flows.”  Bank of America Corp.  lost money on seven days during the
quarter, including a $54 million misstep on one of them. Morgan
Stanley posted losses on 12 days, including one that topped $50
million, while  Wells Fargo & Co . reported five negative days.
Citigroup Inc. doesn’t disclose money-losing days.  Schwartz said last month that difficult conditions in June
had begun to abate in July, and that clients may change their
focus to economic data rather than speculating on the Fed’s
actions.  “For a very long period of time, I think there was an
expectation that this unusual low-rate environment would
persist,” Schwartz said. “Now that we might be entering a
different regime, you’ll see people probably respond more to
data.”  Goldman Sachs also disclosed today that it’s “reasonably
possible” legal losses could be as much as $3.5 billion more
than the firm has reserved for such litigation. That was
unchanged from the March 31 figure.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Moore in  New York  at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
 Christine Harper  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net  