-- Goldman Sachs, Deutsche Bank Said to Fund Debt on 650 Madison
-- B y   S a r a h   M u l h o l l a n d
-- 2013-08-08T15:33:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-08/goldman-sachs-deutsche-bank-said-to-fund-debt-on-650-madison.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and  Deutsche
Bank AG (DBK)  are funding the acquisition of New York’s 650 Madison
building with an $800 million loan, according to two people with
knowledge of the transaction.  The lenders plan to package the debt on the Manhattan tower
into bonds to sell to investors, said the people, who asked not
to be identified because the negotiations are private. A $150
million portion may be carved into riskier mezzanine loans that
pay higher yields, one of the people said.  The deal signals Wall Street’s conviction that bond buyers
will snap up the commercial-mortgage backed securities even as
concern that the  Federal Reserve  may begin to reduce stimulus
efforts next month roils markets. Goldman Sachs and Deutsche
Bank beat out Citigroup Inc., Bank of America Corp., JPMorgan
Chase & Co. and  Wells Fargo & Co . to land the assignment,
according to four people with knowledge of the talks.  Michael DuVally , a spokesman for Goldman Sachs, and  Amanda Williams  of Deutsche Bank, both in New York, declined to
comment.  A partnership between Crown Acquisitions and Highgate
Holdings Inc. agreed to pay a record $1.3 billion, or $2,100 a
square foot, for the tower at Madison Avenue and East 59th
Street in June.  Vornado Realty Trust (VNO)  and Oxford Properties Group
have joined the consortium of buyers, Vornado Chairman Steven Roth said on an Aug. 6 conference call with analysts.  The purchase, from Carlyle Group LP, is the largest for an
entire building in the U.S. since Google Inc.’s $1.8 billion
acquisition in 2010 of 111 Eighth Ave., a former warehouse in
 Manhattan ’s Chelsea section. It exceeds the record $1,583 a
square foot paid for 450 Park Ave. in 2007.  Wall Street banks have arranged $49.1 billion of bonds
linked to everything from strip malls to skyscrapers this year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Issuance is forecast to
climb to $70 billion in 2013, more than double last year’s
total, according to Credit Suisse Group AG.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Mulholland in New York at 
 smulholland3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  