-- Goodhart Sees BOE Raising Interest Rate Sooner Than 2016 Horizon
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n   a n d   C r a i g   S t i r l i n g
-- 2013-08-08T14:27:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-08/goodhart-sees-boe-raising-interest-rate-sooner-than-2016-horizon.html
The Bank of England will probably
need to raise  interest rates  before the late-2016 horizon
currently implied in its new guidance, former U.K. policy maker
Charles Goodhart said.  “I think that the strength of the British recovery is
probably somewhat underestimated,” Goodhart said in an
interview today in London. “The strength of the upwards
pressure on the British economy could well cause people to begin
to be concerned whether reverting to normality a bit quicker
might not be desirable.”  BOE Governor Mark Carney tried yesterday to quell investor
expectations on rate increases by saying officials won’t raise
the benchmark from a record low 0.5 percent until unemployment
falls to 7 percent, which they don’t expect until the second
half of 2016. Investors bet that the central bank will act
before then to tackle faster inflation as part of a caveat
enshrined in the new policy.  “I don’t think forward guidance is ever very effective --
it’s cheap talk,” said Goodhart, who was a founding member of
the BOE’s Monetary Policy Committee. “I think, when it comes to
the crunch, that the committee will always do what it thinks
best on the day.”  The so-called forward guidance presented by Carney has
three “knockout” clauses that allow officials to override
their rate outlook if inflation or financial stability
conditions require it. Goodhart said that such a policy means
the BOE doesn’t need to change the policy because it hasn’t
constrained its room for maneuver.  “I think there are so many conditions that are
sufficiently flexible that the MPC can almost do what it wants
whenever it wants to,” he said.  Osborne’s Desire  Goodhart said the MPC may have had no choice but to
introduce the policy because Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne signaled his desire for guidance on interest rates
earlier this year.  “Given the context, given the expectations, given that it
had been raised, given the mandate that they had to follow, I
think they did as well as they could,” he said.  Goodhart, 76, was on the MPC from 1997 to 2000. He devised
“Goodhart’s Law,” which holds that targeting monetary
aggregates as a surrogate for inflation is futile.  He spoke on the sidelines of an event organized by the
 Social Market Foundation  in  London .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  