-- Goodman Dumps Banks for Beef to Beat Inflation
-- B y   K a t i a   D m i t r i e v a
-- 2013-08-08T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-08/goodman-dumps-banks-for-beef-to-beat-inflation.html
Ned Goodman, founder and chief
executive officer of holding company  Dundee Corp. (DC/A) , shed the last
of his bank shares after forecasting global inflation will make
investments such as gold stocks and organic beef more rewarding.  Goodman, who oversees about C$10 billion ($9.6 billion) for
Dundee and its investments in real estate, precious metals,
energy and infrastructure, sold the last of the company’s  Bank
of Nova Scotia (BNS)  shares earlier this quarter. Dundee held
Scotiabank stock valued at about C$519 million as of March 31,
according to the first quarter earnings  report , including shares
acquired after the bank purchased the DundeeWealth Inc. asset-management unit for C$2.3 billion in 2011.  “Our whole investment modus operandi is to get involved in
those industries and companies that will gain from an
inflationary event,” Goodman, 75, said in an interview at
Bloomberg’s Toronto office Aug. 1. “I’m more bullish on gold
now than I’ve ever been.”  Goodman, who began managing investments in 1962 with Austin Beutel and Edward and Peter Bronfman in Toronto for Edper Group
Ltd., the predecessor of Toronto-based  Brookfield Asset
Management Inc. (BAM/A) , is putting his cash into hard assets. With the
U.S. Federal Reserve and other central banks printing money,
it’s only a matter of time before currencies lose value and
inflation rises, Goodman said.  ‘Completely Crazy’  “The world is totally upside down right now -- it’s
completely crazy,” Goodman said, clicking off his Rolex watch
and slinking the chain between his fingers. “I don’t know of
another time when every country in the world was printing
money.”  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  began so-called quantitative
easing in 2008 during the financial crisis, and the bank is
buying $85 billion in bonds each month in an effort to keep
 interest rates  low and spur economic growth.  Japan  and the
 European Central Bank  created similar programs.  Goodman said he doesn’t know when inflation will rise or
how drastically, but that his investment strategy is a pre-emptive strike against that risk.  “I don’t wait for inflation,” he said. “It’s hard to
call, but it’s impossible for me to see the U.S. getting out of
trouble without printing more money and it’s impossible to see
how  Europe  survives in the form that it’s in. You look around
the world and you say: ‘We’re going to have to have some
inflation.’ I want to own assets that are inflation-proof.”  ‘Buffett Freak’  Canada ’s annual inflation rate was 1.2 percent in June and
is forecast to average 1.7 percent for the year, 2.4 percent in
2014 and 2.7 percent in 2015, according to analysts’ estimates
compiled by Bloomberg. Inflation for the U.S. will average 1.6
percent this year and 1.9 percent in 2014, up from 1.8 percent
in June, according to estimates while globally, inflation is
expected to average 2.3 percent this year and 2.8 percent in
2014.  Toronto-based Dundee, which Goodman founded in 1991, rose
64 percent in the 12 months through yesterday, driven by gains
in real estate, and outpacing the 4.6 percent rise in the
Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Index. The company returned 165
percent in the five years through yesterday, including
dividends, beating Brookfield’s 30 percent gain and the 52
percent increase at  Warren Buffett ’s Berkshire Hathaway Inc.,
whom Goodman reveres.  “I am a Warren Buffett freak,” he said of the Berkshire
Hathaway CEO and third-richest person in the world, according to
the  Bloomberg Billionaires Index . “His whole process is really
quite simple: he buys things for less than they’re worth.”  Gold Slides  Buffett said in May gold held no appeal even after the
recent slide because it “just sits there and you hope somebody
pays you more for it.”  Gold, which rose for 12 consecutive years, slipped into a
 bear market  in April and has plunged about 33 percent to
$1,285.30 from its peak in 2011. Prices may average
$1,364 an ounce next year and decline to $1,344 in 2015,
according to the average of analysts’ estimates compiled by
Bloomberg. The S&P/TSX Global Mining Index of 111 companies
dropped 21 percent in the 12 months through yesterday.  Miners of precious metals are “dirt cheap,” Goodman said.
The largest single stake, or 10 percent, of the C$50 million
Goodman Gold Trust is invested in Toronto-based Barrick Gold
Corp., the world’s largest producer of the metal. The Trust
dropped 48 percent in the last 12 months; Barrick dropped 52
percent.  Underlying Asset  Dundee gives investors the ability to indirectly invest in
an underlying asset such as gold or real estate, and doles out
favorable returns from assets such as REITs, said Robert Almeida,  fund manager  at  Portland  Private Equity LP, in an Aug.
6 phone interview from Burlington, Ontario. Portland’s parent
firm, Portland Holdings Inc., manages about C$1 billion,
including Dundee shares.  “There aren’t many companies like that around,” Almeida
said. “It gives us access to traditional and non-traditional
assets.”  Dundee invests through subsidiaries, limited partnerships,
and real estate investment trusts, including  Dundee Industrial
Real Estate Investment Trust (DIR-U) , the largest industrial REIT in Canada and
Dundee REIT, which bought the Scotiabank tower in Toronto for
C$1.3 billion in a record office property sale with H&R REIT in
May.  Beef Bet  Goodman owns 99 percent of Dundee’s common shares and 5
percent of the subordinate voting shares, or 86 percent of total
votes and a 10 percent equity stake, according to the company’s
2012 annual report.  The Montreal-born investor looks for assets that will feed
his funds over time, and said agriculture fits that bill. Dundee
has an 83 percent stake in Blue Goose Capital Corp., a closely-held Canadian company that produces organic beef, poultry, and
fish, according to Dundee’s 2012 financial statement.  Blue Goose is the largest organic beef operator in  North
America  and has 13,000 head of cattle that includes certified
 Black Angus , with enough farmland for about 37,000 more, Goodman
said. His firm’s investment includes a ranch that raises
“wagyu” cattle, or animals that are bred to produce Kobe-style
beef, known for its flavor and often priced at a premium to
other cuts.  Whole Foods Market Inc. (WFM) , based in Austin,  Texas , is their
largest client, Goodman said. Dundee may benefit as the U.S.
supply of beef is squeezed. Production is plunging to a 21-year
low as ranchers cut herds due to skyrocketing feed costs.  ‘Fellow Dundonians’  The contrarian investor who calls his shareholders “my
fellow Dundonians” in the annual reports he writes himself each
year, also sees value in potash. The $20 billion global market
for the crop nutrient was roiled when OAO Uralkali, the biggest
supplier of the commodity, said in July it would end production
restrictions that underpinned global prices. Shares of Uralkali
and its biggest competitors, including   Potash Corp. of
Saskatchewan Inc.  and Mosaic Co., plunged on the announcement.  “We’ll wake up some day and we’ll find the potash price is
up because there’s a shortage,” Goodman said. “My mind says we
should own more of Potash Saskatchewan, it’s the best one in the
world and it still makes money even at these prices.” Potash
Corp. will need to slow expansion as will other producers of the
commodity, leading to a shortage and a share price rise, he
said.  Perhaps the most visible of Goodman’s investments is in
downtown Toronto. The  Canary District  neighborhood that will
house athletes of the 2015 Pan/Parapan American Games is under
construction with several cranes on site. The area will be
converted to mixed-use, including condos and retail space after
the event.  Dundee invested C$15 million and provided C$41 million in
credit for the project, alongside the Canadian government.
Dundee will receive its investment back plus an additional C$50
million, according to its annual report.  “I’m still keen on real estate,” Goodman said. “I’m keen
on anything that’s going to live with higher inflationary
numbers, because I can’t see the world getting out of the
problems that it’s in.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katia Dmitrieva in Toronto at 
 edmitrieva1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  