-- Google Advertising Dominance Dims Startups’ IPO Prospects: Tech
-- B y   O l g a   K h a r i f
-- 2013-08-08T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-08/google-advertising-dominance-dims-startups-ipo-prospects-tech.html
The online advertising industry is
booming. That means little to the hundreds of ad-technology
startups that are being shunned by the public markets.  Even as online ad sales are seen surging almost 60 percent
to $163 billion in 2016, video-ad provider  YuMe Inc. (YUME)  lowered its
initial public offering price this week because of slack demand
for the stock. Other newcomers Tremor Video Inc. and Millennial
Media Inc. have tumbled since their public market debuts, while
Adap.tv opted for a sale to AOL Inc. instead of an IPO.  The challenge for all emerging Web advertising companies is
that  Google Inc. (GOOG)  controls more than 40 percent of the industry,
mostly through its search engine, and has made acquisitions in
display, video and mobile. Investors are skeptical of betting on
mostly unprofitable upstarts in a highly fragmented market,
where Google has the power to control pricing and crush
competitors, said Michael Binger, a portfolio manager at
Gradient Investments LLC and Google shareholder.  “There’s always that pervasive threat,” said Binger,
whose Minneapolis-based firm manages $360 million. “I’m more
interested in stable, profitable, growing companies that are
taking share.”  The IPO struggles are sending ripples through Silicon
Valley, where venture investors have poured $7.4 billion into
over 1,000 ad-technology startups in the past decade, according
to a report from PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP and the  National
Venture Capital Association .  Luma Partners LLC , a media and
technology investment bank, estimates the amount invested is
closer to $13 billion.  Holding Off  Venture firms need IPOs and acquisitions to generate
returns and raise additional capital to back the next wave of
entrepreneurs. Yet companies like Exponential Interactive Inc.,
the parent of diplay-ad provider Tribal Fusion, are holding off
on going public as long as the market appears unreceptive.  “We are waiting for the market to change,” said Dilip Dasilva, chief executive officer of Emeryville, California-based
Exponential, in an interview. “We’ll keep a close eye on how
these companies are doing.”  YuMe  sold shares  on Aug. 6 for $9, below its projected
range of $12 to $14. The stock was unchanged yesterday in its
first day of trading.  Tremor (TRMR) , a YuMe competitor, has tumbled 19
percent since going public in June, and mobile-ad provider
Millennial has dropped 37 percent in its 17 months on the
market.  They’re all trading at a discount to Google, which is
 valued  at 5.2 times revenue over the past 12 months. YuMe trades
for 2.3 times revenue, Millennial for 3.2 and Tremor for 3.5.  Low Valuations  The recent performance of ad-tech startups is “definitely
going to weigh on the minds of IPO investors,” said Tom Taulli,
founder of Los Angeles-based IPOPlaybook.com.  All the while, digital advertising is surging.  Spending
worldwide , which crossed $100 billion last year, is projected to
reach $118.4 billion this year and jump to $163 billion in three
years, according to researcher EMarketer Inc. Growth of 15.1
percent in 2013 is more than 4 times the expected increase of
3.5 percent for the overall ad market, according to
 ZenithOptimedia .  The rush to the Web has spurred mergers and acquisitions in
the traditional advertising market, culminating last month in
the announced tie-up of  Publicis Groupe SA (PUB)  and  Omnicom Group
Inc. (OMC) , which have a combined market value of about $33 billion.
The joint entity’s size may provide more heft in negotiating ad
rates online, where Google dominates and Facebook Inc. is
rapidly growing.  Adap.tv Sale  Digital-ad startups without that leverage are weighing the
potential branding and economic benefits of going public with
the risk of seeing their stock tank. Adap.tv, a video-ad
provider that had been in talks with bankers about an IPO,
agreed yesterday to sell itself to AOL for $405 million.  Companies that have hired bankers or filed to go public
confidentially under the Jumpstart Our Business Startups (JOBS)
Act include ad-targeting software developer Rocket Fuel Inc. and
brand marketer Collective Media Inc., according to a person with
familiar their plans. French web-ad company Criteo SA has picked
JPMorgan Chase & Co. to help it go public in the U.S. this year,
people with knowledge of the plans said in April.  Jessica Cheney, a spokeswoman for Rocket Fuel, declined to
comment, as did Alexandra Pelissero, a spokeswoman for Criteo,
and Collective Chief Marketing Officer Ed Dandridge.  While each company tries to differentiate itself by
claiming better relationships with publishers, novel technology
or leadership of a fast-growing segment, investors are more
concerned with financial results.  Losing Money  YuMe, Tremor, Millennial and  Marin Software Inc. (MRIN) , another
recent IPO, each lost money in the most recent quarter, as
Google reported net income of $3.2 billion.  “Ad-tech is a challenged space,” said Navin Chaddha, a
managing director at Mayfield Fund in  Menlo Park ,  California ,
which has investments in online advertising. Some that went
public “could be features or offerings of bigger companies,”
he said.  Frank Addante, CEO of Mayfield-backed Rubicon Project,
isn’t talking publicly about an IPO, even though his Los
Angeles-based company is profitable and topped $100 million in
revenue three years ago. Rubicon, whose technology automates the
buying and selling of ads for marketers and publishers, reached
95 percent of U.S. Internet users in June, compared with 93
percent for Google, according to  ComScore Inc.   Still, Addante has been holding out on going public until
he can blow away money managers, not just impress them.  Bolstering Revenue  “Investors in general appreciate companies that are at
scale, profitable, have high growth rates and are technology
companies,” Addante said. “If you’re not making profit, you’re
still in the find-out stage of your business.”  BrightRoll Inc., another video-ad startup, has doubled
revenue in each of the past five years and been profitable for
three, CEO Tod Sacerdoti said in an interview. Sacerdoti
wouldn’t comment on his IPO plans, though he said he’s in no
hurry.  Others are probably being pressured by their venture
backers to take the leap, said  Brian Wieser , an analyst at
Pivotal Research Group LLC in  New York . Venture funds expect to
show significant wins after seven years and exit their portfolio
companies within a decade.  “Venture investors have limited time horizons,” Wieser
said. “You need to liquidate your positions within the life of
a fund and that forces certain choices.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Olga Kharif in Portland at 
 okharif@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  