-- IAAF Wants to Re-Introduce 4-Year Bans for Drugs Cheats
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2013-08-08T16:08:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-08/iaaf-wants-to-re-introduce-4-year-bans-for-drugs-cheats.html
The  International Association of
Athletics Federations,  track and field’s ruling body, plans to
reintroduce four-year suspensions for serious doping violations
from 2015.  “The IAAF has an ethical obligation to the overwhelming
majority of athletes and officials who believe in clean sport,”
it said in a statement  on its website today  after the 49th IAAF
congress in Moscow voted in favor of doubling its current
punishment for doping offenders.  “The new WADA ( World Anti-Doping Agency ) code, which will
come into force on Jan. 1, 2015, will reflect our firm
commitment to have tougher penalties and the IAAF will return to
four-year sanctions for serious doping offenses,” the ruling
body said.  The IAAF had been forced to halve its four-year ban for
first-time drugs violations in 1995 under pressure from some
major track governing bodies which were concerned a longer
suspension would violate national laws. That meant some athletes
caught doping had been able to sit out their bans without
missing an  Olympic Games .  The IAAF’s decision comes two days before the start of the
 IAAF World Athletics Championships  in Moscow, and follows a
series of high-profile cases that have shaken the sport in the
past two months.  On July 14, U.S. sprinter Tyson Gay and  Jamaica ’s Asafa Powell, respectively the fastest and fourth-fastest men in the
world this season, said they wouldn’t compete in Moscow after
testing positive for banned substances.  In June, Jamaica’s Veronica Campbell-Brown, a two-time
Olympic 200-meter champion, accepted a provisional suspension
following a positive test for a banned diuretic. And three days
ago, the Turkish Athletics Federation suspended 31 athletes --
including hammer-thrower Esref Apak, a silver medalist at the
2004 Athens Games -- for two years after they tested positive
for banned substances.  The new WADA doping code is up for approval at the World
Conference on Doping in Sport in Johannesburg in November.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh at the London sports desk at 
3628 or  drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  