-- Ibovespa Leads World Stock Gains as Vale Surges on China
-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i
-- 2013-08-08T20:34:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-08/ibovespa-futures-rise-as-china-data-boost-brazil-export-outlook.html
The Ibovespa rallied the most among
the world’s major equity benchmarks after data showed  China ’s
imports increased more than forecast, fanning speculation that
the economy is improving in  Brazil ’s top trading partner.  Vale SA, the world’s largest iron-ore producer, contributed
the most to the gain as China reported record imports of the
steel-making ingredient and after a measure of the company’s
second-quarter profitability exceeded analysts’ estimates.
 Brookfield Incorporacoes SA (BISA3)  gained the most in 11 months as
homebuilders rallied.  The Ibovespa surged 3.1 percent to 48,928.82 at the close
of trading in Sao Paulo, the most among 94 major equity
benchmarks tracked by Bloomberg. The gauge has dropped 20
percent this year. The real gained 1 percent to 2.2916 per
dollar at 5:20 p.m. local time. The Bloomberg Base Metals 3-Month Price Commodity Index rose 2.5 percent. China’s imports
jumped 10.9 percent in July, more than the 1 percent gain
forecast by economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  “After falling so much this year, many stocks are trading
at attractive prices,” Marcio Cardoso, a partner at brokerage
Titulo Corretora de Valores SA, said by phone from Sao Paulo.
“On a day like today, when global markets are doing well, those
stocks rebound. When you look at  Vale ’s earnings, you realize
that it’s very cheap given the outlook for its business.”  Commodities producers account for about 39 percent of the
Ibovespa’s weighting. The MSCI World Index advanced 0.5 percent.  Vale, the heaviest-weighted stock on the index, added 3
percent to 29.93 reais. The company had adjusted earnings per
share of 1.04 reais, beating the 1.02 reais average estimate
among analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  China Outlook  The company said in a statement accompanying its quarterly
earnings that “the slowdown in China should be moderate.”
Iron-ore imports in the country, Vale’s biggest overseas market,
rose 17 percent to a record 73.14 million metric tons in July,
according to data from the General Administration of Customs.  MMX Mineracao & Metalicos SA, the iron-ore producer
controlled by  Eike Batista , advanced 8 percent to 1.75 reais.  Brookfield rallied 9.2 percent to 1.67 reais. The Getulio
Vargas Foundation reported today that its IGP-M index of
wholesale, construction and consumer prices increased 0.13
percent from July 21 through July 31, slower than the 0.20
percent median  forecast  of economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  The outlook for equities is still negative given concern
that the Federal Reserve will soon reduce its bond-buying
program aimed at boosting the U.S. economy, said Fausto Gouveia,
who helps manage 380 million reais at Sao Paulo-based Legan
Administracao de Recursos.  2013 Plunge  Brazil’s main equity index wiped out $259 billion from the
 value  of stocks this year as of yesterday, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The equity gauge trades at 12.3 times
analysts’  earnings estimates  for the next four quarters,
compared with 10.4 for the MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index of 21
developing nations’ equities.  “You can have a better day or two depending on the news
flow, but the trend looking ahead is still negative,” Gouveia
said in a phone interview. “If the Fed starts cutting back
stimulus, that would stop global equities from rising, and I
don’t see anything positive in Brazil that could make the
Ibovespa post a sustained recovery.”  Cleveland Fed President Sandra Pianalto said yesterday that
a tapering of the central bank’s stimulus may be warranted if
the labor market continues to strengthen. Chicago Fed President
Charles Evans told reporters this week that he wouldn’t rule out
a decision to cut monetary stimulus next month.  Trading volume of stocks in Sao Paulo was 7.74 billion
reais today, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That
compares with a daily average of 7.58 billion reais this year
through Aug. 6, according to data  compiled  by the exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ney Hayashi in Sao Paulo at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  