-- Iceland Pension Funds Reject Taking Losses on House Bonds
-- B y   O m a r   R .   V a l d i m a r s s o n
-- 2013-08-08T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-08/iceland-pension-funds-reject-taking-losses-on-house-bonds.html
Iceland’s pension fund will need full
compensation for any changes to the terms of bonds issued by the
Housing Finance Fund, the head of the  Icelandic Pension Fund
Association  said.  “The pension funds won’t even discuss changes to the terms
of HFF’s bonds unless it’s clear that they are fully
compensated,” Thorey S. Thordardottir said in a telephone
interview. “Legally, the pension funds aren’t allowed to
negotiate differently.”  Iceland’s government is struggling to find a solution for
the HFF, which has about $4.2 billion in bonds outstanding. The
 lender  is teetering near insolvency as its inflation-linked home
loans lose ground to regular mortgages from commercial banks.
Iceland’s Treasury may be on the hook for more than 100 billion
kronur ($830 million) due to HFF’s financial difficulties,
Landsbankinn hf said in June.  Finance Minister  Bjarni Benediktsson  in June called on
HFF’s bondholders to show “flexibility” should the fund try to
negotiate new terms on its outstanding debt. Welfare Minister
Eyglo Hardardottir, who oversees the HFF, said in a May that she
wants “radical” changes to the country’s housing market.  The government hasn’t approached the pension funds to
discuss new terms on the bonds, said Thordardottir. Agreeing to
change the terms without compensation could make the board
members of Iceland’s 31 pension funds liable for damages to
their members.  The Bleeding  “The assets of the pension funds aren’t any different than
assets owned by the general population,” she said. “Those
assets are protected by the constitution and that protection has
been repeatedly upheld by the  Supreme Court .”  Benediktsson in an interview yesterday said the government
will publish its expectations for HFF in the budget that will be
presented to parliament on Oct. 1.  “It’s clear that we have to decide the future structure of
the fund, that is, what role it should play, how we’re going
deal with the aggregated problem and stop the bleeding,”
Benediktsson said. “That work is underway.”  HFF had a capital adequacy ratio of 3.2 percent at the end
of last year, compared with a 5 percent minimum requirement set
by the regulator, the fund said in March. The Reykjavik-based
lender said defaults on home loans increased by 0.17 percent to
12.92 percent of the portfolio in June, according to an HFF
monthly report.  Failure to stop HFF’s hemorrhage by restructuring the
lender will force the government to annually inject about 0.2
percent of gross domestic product into the lender, the
 International Monetary Fund  said yesterday. The Washington-based
lender called for a “comprehensive plan” to deal with HFF.  That plan won’t be made at the expense of Iceland’s
pensioners, Thordardottir said.  “The only way the terms of HFF’s bonds can be changed
without compensation calls for changing the constitution,” she
said. “The right to property would have to be revoked, allowing
the government to seize or nationalize the assets without
penalty. I don’t see that happening.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Omar R. Valdimarsson in Reykjavik at 
 valdimarsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  