-- Dell Founder Accuses Investor Icahn of ‘Grandstanding’
-- B y   P h i l   M i l f o r d
-- 2013-08-08T16:07:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-08/michael-dell-accuses-investor-icahn-of-legal-grandstanding-.html
Dell Inc. (DELL)  founder Michael Dell
accused investor  Carl Icahn  in court papers of “grandstanding”
in efforts to expedite litigation aimed at thwarting an inside
leveraged buyout of the company.  Icahn sued Dell and his company Aug. 1 in Delaware Chancery
Court, contending the founder’s offering price of $13.65 a
share, now as much as $13.96 with dividends, was too low.  Now “plaintiffs appear to seek a hurry-up hearing at the
end of which they will ask the court to order Dell to hold the
vote on the proposed merger simultaneously with the annual
meeting -- which would require a delay in the vote,” Dell’s
lawyers said in a filing made public today.  Michael Dell  contends in court papers that Icahn is seeking
“undefined” proceedings as “just another soapbox for Mr.
Icahn’s public spat” with Dell board members. The vote is
tentatively set for Sept. 12.  In opposition to an Icahn motion before Judge Leo Strine
Jr. to fast-track the case, Dell says Icahn lawyers “speak
grandly” of shareholder interests, yet “speak for no one but
themselves” and “‘cite zero authority’’ for the request. ‘‘The
court has time and time again rejected claims of this kind,’’
Dell said in the filing.  In response to Icahn’s claims that the board failed to stop
Dell from buying more shares, Dell says he’s been barred by an
agreement from buying shares since August 2012, while Icahn
interests ‘‘purchased an additional four million shares in the
last week alone,” according to the filing.  Expedited Handling  Dell holds about 15 percent of the common stock, and Icahn
holds about 9 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  In his motion for expedited handling of the case, Icahn
contends the board “has gone far beyond its lawful role,” has
“ignored the express will of the stockholders,” and is trying
to “force through a merger that those stockholders have
repeatedly voted against.”  Icahn lawyers said directors are working “to rig the vote
in favor” of Dell’s “grossly underpriced” offer, and the case
needs a quick resolution because an opportunity for
recapitalization financing expires Sept. 30.  The case is High River v. Dell Inc., CA8762,  Delaware 
Chancery Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware,
at   pmilford@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  