-- Michael Dell Says He’s ‘Passionately Committed’ to LBO
-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 2013-08-08T21:35:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-08/michael-dell-says-he-s-passionately-committed-to-lbo.html
Michael Dell  told  Dell Inc. (DELL)  staff
he’s “passionately committed” to seeing through his $24.9
billion leveraged buyout and using research and development and
acquisitions to become more competitive.  In an e-mail to Dell’s 110,000 employees, which was
provided to  Bloomberg News , the chief executive officer said the
company needs to change quickly and will maintain a “single-minded purpose” of creating value for its customers.  The comments come as Dell and his partner, private-equity
firm  Silver Lake  Management LLC, are nearing the end of a more
than half-year process of taking the personal-computer maker
private against opposition from financier  Carl Icahn  and other
 shareholders . Last week, Dell and Silver Lake gained the upper
hand by increasing their offer and winning a concession on
voting rules that favors the buyout. Shareholders will vote on
the deal Sept. 12 after three adjourned meetings in July and
August.  “Dell needs to transform, and we need to do it quickly,”
said Dell, who founded the third-largest PC maker almost three
decades ago. “The technology landscape has fundamentally
changed since the company was founded, and success requires this
transformation.”  The CEO said management is “making the right decisions to
position Dell, our customers and team members for long-term
success.”  ‘Groundbreaking Innovation’  “We’ll retain the flexibility to invest in groundbreaking
innovation both through organic R&D and acquisitions,” and the
company plans to hire more sales staff, invest in  emerging
markets  and expand its PC and tablet business, Dell said.  Dell and Silver Lake on Aug. 2 upped their offer by 10
cents to $13.75 a share, as well as adding 21 cents in
 dividends . The increased offer -- and actions by Dell’s board to
move the shareholder record date for voting eligibility and not
count abstentions as votes against the deal -- swayed some
investors toward Dell’s proposal, versus an alternative one from
Icahn.  “The offer delivers full and fair value for stockholders
and is best for the future of our company,” Dell said.
“Importantly, the revised transaction also enables us to enact
the will of the majority of voting stockholders.”  Icahn sued Dell and his company Aug. 1 in Delaware Chancery
Court, contending the founder’s offering price of $13.65 a
share, now as much as $13.96 with dividends, was too low.  The Round Rock, Texas, company is seeking to augment its PC
business with increased sales of data-center gear, software and
computer services to stem declining sales and  profit .  The  shares  of Dell rose less than 1 percent to close at
$13.75.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in  San Francisco  at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  