-- Canada’s Tim Hortonsto Reduce U.S. Capital Spending
-- B y   L a u r e n   S .   M u r p h y
-- 2013-08-08T20:28:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-08/tim-hortons-profit-tops-estimates-on-same-store-sales.html
Tim Hortons Inc. (THI) , the Canadian coffee
and doughnut chain under pressure from activist investors over
its U.S. expansion, said starting in 2014 it will reduce the
capital it deploys in the country.  The company is looking for “new ways” to grow in the
U.S., a market it says will contribute to long-term earnings
growth. The Oakville, Ontario-based chain will accelerate an
“initiative to partner with well-capitalized franchisees in the
U.S.,” as one approach, according to a statement. The company
also plans to raise debt to buy back C$900 million ($868
million) in stock.  Tim Hortons Chief Executive Officer Marc Caira announced
the measures as part of the chain’s first quarterly results
since he took over on July 2. Scout Capital Management, which
 held  a 5.5 percent stake on June 25, has said investment over
the past decade in the U.S. has brought little return.  “Most of the announcements made today seemed to align
pretty well with suggestions made by the two activists,” said
Bobby Hagedorn, an analyst with Edward Jones & Co., referring to
Scout and Highfields Capital Management, which has also pushed
for change. “It’s not quite to the level that they were looking
for, so it will be interesting to see how they’ll respond,”
said Hagedorn, who recommends buying the stock.  Josh Pekarsky, president of Vancouver-based Longview
Communications Inc. and a Scout spokesman, said he didn’t have a
comment. A telephone message left with Highfields wasn’t
returned.  About 23 percent of the company’s more than 3,400 stores
are in the U.S.  Quarterly Results  The coffee chain also reported second-quarter earnings that
topped analyst estimates. Net income rose 14 percent to C$123.7
million, or 81 cents a share, from C$108.1 million, or 69 cents,
a year earlier. Analysts anticipated 74 cents a share, the
average of estimates  compiled  by Bloomberg.  Sales rose 1.9 percent to C$800.1 million, falling short of
the C$818 million average of analysts’ estimates. Growth in
Canadian same-store sales was 1.5 percent, and 1.4 percent in
the U.S.  Same-store sales in the quarter advanced 1.5 percent in
 Canada , down from 1.8 percent a year earlier. Such sales rose
1.4 percent in the U.S. during the period, compared with a 4.9
percent jump in 2012’s second quarter.  Tim Hortons  said growth
in same-store sales, which exclude new locations, will be lower
than it predicted this year. The chain maintained its earnings
forecast for 2013.  Tim Hortons rose 0.7 percent to C$59.90 at the close in
Toronto. The shares have jumped 23 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lauren S. Murphy in Toronto at 
 lmurphy48@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  