-- India Adds to Cash-Supply Curbs as Rupee Volatility Climbs
-- B y   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s   a n d   K a r t i k   G o y a l
-- 2013-08-09T01:50:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-08/india-adds-to-cash-supply-curbs-as-rupee-volatility-at-09-high.html
India  plans to sell 220 billion
rupees ($3.6 billion) of cash management bills each week,
stepping up efforts to stem the rupee’s unprecedented plunge by
curbing supply of the currency.  The  Reserve Bank of India  will auction the notes every
Monday, it said in an e-mailed statement yesterday. The step
follows a review of the impact of earlier measures to steady the
currency and is for “effective liquidity management,” it said.
The rupee strengthened in offshore trading late yesterday and
Indian stock-index futures climbed in Singapore today.  The Indian currency fell to an all-time low of 61.8050 per
dollar on Aug. 6 and three-month historical volatility rose to
11.94 percent yesterday, the highest level since 2009, even
after the monetary authority last month restricted banks’ access
to cash, curbed trading in currency derivatives and raised two
 interest rates . The rupee has slumped 12 percent against the
dollar in the past six months.  “Such measures are not enough,” Priyanka Kishore, a
strategist at Standard Chartered Plc in  London , wrote in a
research note. The “market is awaiting a comprehensive
package” for reducing the current-account deficit by the end of
the week and if those expectations are not met, the pressure on
the rupee may persist, she wrote.  First Auctions  One-month non-deliverable forwards for the rupee rose as
much as 0.5 percent to a one-week high of 61.10 per dollar in
offshore trading, according to prices compiled by Bloomberg. SGX
CNX Nifty Index futures for August delivery increased 0.1
percent at 9:32 a.m. in Singapore. India’s markets are closed
for a holiday.  The sale of cash management bills, which typically mature
within 91 days, is in addition to about 150 billion rupees of
bonds auctioned each Friday as part of the government’s budgeted
borrowing program. The  Finance Ministry  also issues about 120
billion rupees of treasury bills, which mature in at least 91
days, every Wednesday.  The central bank will sell 35-day and 34-day cash
management bills worth 220 billion rupees in two separate
auctions on Aug. 12 and Aug. 13, it said yesterday.  The RBI in July capped lenders’ borrowing through daily
repurchase auctions and tightened daily cash-reserve-ratio
requirements. It also asked foreign investors to prove they
aren’t speculating on the currency and barred banks from
proprietary trading in currency futures and exchange-traded
options. The  Securities and Exchange Board of India  raised
margin requirements and limited open positions in such
contracts.  Raghuram Rajan , who has been named as the next governor of
the  Reserve Bank  of India, will join the central bank as an
officer on special duty three weeks prior to taking over to
provide an overlap with the incumbent Duvvuri Subbarao, the
central bank said in a separate statement Aug. 8.  Rajan is due to take over as the governor from Sept. 5.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeanette Rodrigues in Mumbai at 
 jrodrigues26@bloomberg.net ;
Kartik Goyal in  New Delhi  at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  