-- Minority-Owned Small Businesses Trail as U.S. Contracts Shrink
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   I v o r y
-- 2013-08-08T04:01:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-08/minority-owned-small-businesses-trail-as-u-s-contracts-shrink.html
About 17 percent of the  U.S.
population  is Hispanic, and 13 percent is black. In federal
small-business contracting, award ratios for those groups are
in the single digits.  Small businesses, called the “drivers and engines of
growth” by President  Barack Obama , attracted about $98.2
billion in government awards last year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Hispanic-owned companies won about 8.4
percent of that total, or $8.21 billion, while black-operated
small businesses won about 7.2 percent, or $7.1 billion.  “The needle hasn’t moved,” said Ruth Sandoval, president
of the National Hispanic Business Group, a New York-based
organization representing business owners.  The gap may reflect stiffer competition over a shrinking
pool of contract revenue as agencies cut spending. Black- and
Hispanic-owned businesses also may have difficulty breaking into
the $512 billion market because acquisition officers don’t have
a mechanism to specifically target those companies.  Small businesses are generally defined by the government as
having fewer than 500 employees or less than $7 million in
average annual sales.  Contracts for black-owned small companies declined about 1
percent in the year that ended Sept. 30, 2012 from the previous
fiscal year. Awards to the Hispanic-owned businesses rose 1.5
percent -- a gain that wasn’t enough to compensate for a bigger
drop in fiscal 2011, according to federal procurement data.  Racial Gap  Both groups fared better last year than the broader
contracting markets. Small business contracts declined 3.7
percent in fiscal 2012, while total awards dipped 4.1 percent.  Still, minority small businesses are playing catch-up
following sharp contracting declines in fiscal 2011 that
outpaced those of  small businesses  and all companies.  Awards to the black-owned businesses plunged 6.5 percent
from fiscal 2010 -- more than four times the decline in all
contracts. Awards to their Hispanic-owned counterparts fell 4.4
percent, compared with the 3.9 percent drop in small business
contracts and 0.2 percent decrease in all awards.  While black- and Hispanic-owned small firms may have
experienced a comparatively better year in 2012, the
distribution of contracts is far from mirroring the nation’s
demographics, according to Harry Alford, chief executive officer
of the Washington-based National Black Chamber of Commerce  The percentage of small business contracts going to black-owned firms “should be double” what it is now, Alford said.  Overseas Work  It has been such a tough year for black-owned businesses in
the federal contracting market that Alford said he has
encouraged some owners to seek commercial and overseas work.  “Is it worth the fight, or should you go and find business
elsewhere?” Alford said in an interview. “I don’t see a lot of
people smiling who do business with the federal government.”  One of the biggest hurdles that Hispanic small businesses
encounter is a perception that the companies aren’t quite
American enough, Sandoval said. It’s difficult to improve the
situation “when the only discussion about the Hispanic
community is about immigration,” she said.  Federal budget  cuts have made it even harder for the small
businesses to win contracts, Sandoval said. The government is
facing 10 years of automatic spending cuts that Congress agreed
to as part of the 2011 debt-ceiling agreement. The reductions
under a process known as sequestration will reduce projected
spending by about $85 billion this year.  Small Slice  “We had a difficult time getting in to begin with,” she
said. “When you’re talking about such a small piece of the pie
as we are given, it’s sad to see that we are going backward.”  Contracts aren’t keeping up with the rapid growth of the
U.S. Hispanic population, Sandoval said. By 2050, Hispanic
people will make up about 30 percent of the population,
according to Census data. Black people will make up about 15
percent.  It may be difficult for agencies to target black and
Hispanic-owned businesses for small-business contracts.  Some black-owned and Hispanic-owned companies qualify for a
federal plan, called the 8(a) program, that sets aside work for
small, “economically and socially disadvantaged” businesses.
Yet no contracts are reserved specifically for either minority
group.  “Procurement officers cannot see the race/ethnicity of
business owners when they select them for a contract award,”
said John Shoraka, an associate administrator of government
contracting at the  Small Business Administration .  Set-Asides  “Because of that, the SBA has been focusing heavily on
recruiting and training firms from underserved communities to
compete for and win federal contracts in the various socio-economic set-aside programs,” Shoraka said in an e-mailed
statement. “The more qualified firms participating in SBA’s
government contracting programs, the greater likelihood for
increasing actual contract awards.”  Outside of the 8(a) program, small businesses aren’t
required to report their ethnic status, and minority contracting
data may not “provide a complete picture of what is going on in
the procurement marketplace,” Shoraka said.  “There’s neither incentive nor authority to set aside
contracts for any ethnic group,’ said Joe Hornyak, a partner at
the Tampa, Florida-based law firm Holland & Knight LLP. The
award distribution ends up being “kind of random,” he said.  Obama in 2009 announced efforts to boost contracting
opportunities for small and minority-owned businesses, saying
they “must play a significant role” in efforts to restore
economic growth.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Ivory in Washington at 
 divory@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Stoughton at 
 sstoughton@bloomberg.net  