-- Iran Tanker Owner Seen Expanding Fleet by IHS Amid Sanctions
-- B y   R o b   S h e r i d a n
-- 2013-08-08T13:19:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-08/iran-tanker-owner-seen-expanding-fleet-by-ihs-amid-sanctions-1-.html
NITC,  Iran ’s biggest tanker company,
increased the capacity of its supertanker fleet by 23 percent
this year amid sanctions related to the nation’s nuclear program
that bar most of the world’s ships from carrying Iranian crude,
according to IHS Maritime.  The Tehran-based company added seven new very large crude
carriers, each able to transport 2 million barrels of oil,
according to data from the Coulsdon, England-based research
company, which provides information for the  United Nations ’
shipping agency. NITC has 37 supertankers and its entire fleet
can hold about 86 million barrels of oil, equal to 65 days of
the nation’s exports, IHS data show.  European Union sanctions that started in July 2012 prevent
most non-Iranian tankers from hauling the country’s crude
because almost all ships are insured under the 28-nation bloc’s
laws. The U.S. and EU say  Iran’s nuclear program  is aimed at
producing weapons while the government in Tehran says it’s for
civilian purposes. The expanded fleet has a daily capacity of
2.1 million barrels based on voyages to China, according to ICAP
Shipping International in  London .  “Any addition of new tonnage gives NITC the ability to
deliver more crude direct to their customers on their own ships,
avoiding insurance difficulties,” Nigel Prentis, the head of
consultancy at Hartland Shipping Services Ltd., a London-based
shipbroker, said by phone today. “It also allows them to store
more crude at sea.”  Chinese Construction  Three of the VLCCs were built at the Waigaoqiao shipyard in
 Shanghai , while the remaining four were made in Dalian, northern
 China , Clarkson data show. The supertankers were part of a group
of 12 vessels ordered in August 2009, for which the total
contract price was $1.2 billion, according to Clarkson.  Iran didn’t add to its fleet of smaller Suezmax or Aframax
vessels this year, according to IHS data. Ali-Akbar Safaei,
NITC’s chairman, wasn’t available for comment, according to a
person answering the phone at the company’s offices in Tehran
yesterday. Further calls yesterday and today weren’t answered
and NITC’s website doesn’t give an e-mail address.  Iran’s exports fell 48 percent to 66 million metric tons
last year, reducing revenue by 38 percent to $52.7 billion,
according to data from the  International Trade Centre , an agency
of the UN and the  World Trade Organization .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Sheridan in London at 
 rsheridan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net ;
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  