-- Third Vote Said Held by BOE in Carney Guidance Debate
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2013-08-08T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-08/third-vote-said-held-by-boe-in-carney-guidance-debate.html
Bank of England  policy makers held
three votes for the first time at their meeting this month as
they debated introducing guidance on  interest rates  under new
Governor  Mark Carney , according to a central bank official.  The Aug. 1 vote on adopting the plan linking the key rate
to unemployment was a one-off and won’t be repeated at every
Monetary Policy Committee meeting, said the official, who asked
not to be named in line with the bank’s policy. Minutes showing
how the nine-member panel voted on interest rates, quantitative
easing and the new policy will be published on Aug. 14, the same
time as  jobless data  for July.  The record will be closely watched as investors and
economists look for insight into policy makers’ commitment to
guidance after Carney said Aug. 7 the bank probably won’t raise
its benchmark from a record low 0.5 percent until unemployment
falls to 7 percent. The plan includes a number of caveats,
including two linked to inflation, which has previously divided
the committee in its voting.  “Several members of the MPC, including Deputy Governor
Charlie Bean, have in the past expressed doubts about the use of
guidance as a policy tool,” said Victoria Clarke, an economist
at Investec Securities in London. “So we do not expect the
debate about whether to issue forward guidance to have been a
simple one.”  At the July meeting, Carney’s first as governor, the MPC
kept policy unchanged after the first unanimous vote in nine
months.  Dissenting Vote  Richard Barwell, an economist at Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc, said a unanimous vote is not certain this month,
adding that a disagreement “would likely shake confidence in
the guidance.”  Brian Hilliard , an economist at Societe Generale
SA in London, agreed there could have been a split.  “Don’t rule out entirely the possibility of a dissenting
voter,” Hilliard said. “It is not impossible that one of the
more hawkish members voted against the proposition to introduce
forward guidance.”  The BOE’s forecasts show unemployment staying above 7
percent at least until the third quarter of 2016. Investors have
already shown skepticism that the BOE will keep the key rate
unchanged for that long.  The pound rose for a second day against the dollar
yesterday, advancing to the highest in seven weeks. The 10-year
gilt yield was at 2.48 percent late yesterday in  London  after
reaching 2.56 percent on Aug. 7, the highest since June 25.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  