-- Irish Fund Said Poised to Buy Phone Masts for $160 Million
-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 2013-08-08T14:11:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-08/irish-fund-said-poised-to-buy-phone-masts-for-160-million.html
A fund backed by Ireland’s sovereign
wealth fund is poised to buy about 400 mobile phone masts for
120 million euros ($160 million) from an investor group led by
 Goodbody Stockbrokers  clients, three people with knowledge of
the matter said.  Irish Infrastructure Fund , a 1 billion-euro fund created by
 Irish Life  Investment Managers and run by Sydney-based AMP
Capital Investors Ltd., entered exclusive talks last month to
buy TowerCom Holdings Ltd., which owns the masts, said the
people, who asked not to be identified, as the matter is
private. An accord may be announced within weeks, they said.  TowerCom bought the mast business of Ireland’s former phone
monopoly Eircom Group in 2007 for 155 million euros. The company
earns fees from providing radio antenna facilities for wireless
phone companies. Eircom and  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  are its biggest
customers, according to TowerCom filings.  Irish Infrastructure Fund, established in 2011, made its
first investment a year ago by buying a majority stake in 104
megawatts of wind arm projects from Viridian Group Ltd., the
Belfast-based power company. Ireland’s National Pensions Reserve
Fund is the fund’s biggest investor, having committed 250
million euros.  Time Up  TowerCom’s banks, led by  Allied Irish Banks Plc (ALBK) , weren’t
prepared to allow more time for its loans to be repaid, having
extended a five-year facility for 12 months in September, the
company said in a letter to investors last month, according to
the people.  The investors stand to recover about 45 percent of their 45
million-euro equity outlay, they said. Dublin-based telecoms
services provider Threefold Project Management Ltd. are among
the company’s other shareholders, according to filings.  Spokesmen for the NPRF, Irish Life,  Goodbody Stockbrokers 
and Allied Irish declined to comment on the transaction.
Officials from TowerCom and AMP Capital weren’t immediately
available for comment.  TowerCom’s operating profit rose to 11.1 million euros in
2011 from 10.5 million euros a year earlier, according to its
most recent set of filed accounts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joe Brennan  in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  