-- J.C. Penney Rises CNBC Says Retailer Seeking New CEO
-- B y   C h r i s   B u r r i t t
-- 2013-08-08T16:43:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-08/j-c-penney-rises-cnbc-says-retailer-seeking-new-ceo.html
J.C. Penney Co. (JCP) , the department-store
chain seeking to rebound from its worst sales year in more than
two decades, rose in  New York  after CNBC said the retailer is
searching for a new chief executive officer.  The shares climbed 7.2 percent to $13.72 at 12:15 p.m. and
earlier surged as much as 10 percent. J.C. Penney, based in
Plano,  Texas , had slid 35 percent this year through yesterday,
compared with a 19 percent increase for the Standard & Poor’s
500 Index.  J.C. Penney’s board agreed at a July meeting to make
succession an issue and has started a search to replace CEO
Myron Ullman, CNBC reported, citing a letter investor  Bill Ackman  sent to the retailer’s board. Ackman, who's also a 
director, said in the letter that he has gotten former J.C. 
Penney CEO Allen Questrom to agree to return to the company 
as chairman so long as he agrees with the choice of the new 
CEO, CNBC said.  Daphne Avila, a spokeswoman for J.C. Penney, didn’t
immediately reply to a telephone message and e-mail.  Ullman, 66, returned as CEO in April after the board ousted
 Ron Johnson  amid a failing attempt to transform the department-store chain. Ullman had served as J.C. Penney’s chairman and CEO
for about seven years before Johnson was brought over from Apple
Inc., where he helped build the company’s retail operations.  Since taking over, Ullman has worked to shore up J.C.
Penney’s cash balance, negotiating a $2.25 billion loan arranged
by Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and borrowing $850 million from a
revolving credit facility.  Cash Disclosure  J.C. Penney last week said it would have about $1.5 billion
in cash at the end of the quarter that ran through July. That
was less than the $1.9 billion projected by Kimberly
Greenberger, a New York-based analyst at Morgan Stanley.  Greenberger said the disclosure implied cash use of about
$1 billion from the previous quarter amid lower operating cash
flow, increased capital spending and higher-than-expected
inventories.  J.C. Penney’s sales in the year ended in February dropped
25 percent to $13 billion, the lowest since at least 1987,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Burritt in Greensboro at 
 cburritt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  