-- Japan’s Early Earthquake Warning Triggered in Error
-- B y   K a z u y o   S a w a   a n d   G r a c e   H u a n g
-- 2013-08-08T09:59:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-08/japan-s-early-earthquake-warning-triggered-in-error.html
Japan ’s earthquake early warning
system was triggered in error today, causing some bullet trains
to stop and jamming mobile-phone lines.  A magnitude-2.3 earthquake struck Wakayama prefecture in
western Japan at 4:56 p.m. local time, after the country’s
warning system predicted a magnitude-7.8 quake, according to the
 Japan Meteorological Agency .  The mistake was “probably the biggest” misreading since
the system started in October 2007, Toshio Kusano, a spokesman
for the Office of Earthquake and Tsunami Disaster Prevention at
the agency, said over the telephone today. There have been 31
errors out of 135 early warnings issued, Kusano said. Today’s
glitch was caused by electrical noise on the ocean floor, he
said.  The magnitude-9 quake and tsunami that devastated northeast
Japan and triggered a nuclear meltdown in Fukushima more than
two years ago was about 5 million times bigger than today’s
tremor, according to  calculations  on the U.S. Geological
Survey’s website.  Toshihiko Hashida, a JMA official, apologized for the
erroneous warning in a televised briefing and said the agency
will take steps to prevent a recurrence.  Some bullet train services were suspended after the warning,
according to a  Central Japan Railway Co. (9022)  statement. Trains have
since resumed operations.  Mobile phone connections were jammed for about 15 minutes
in the Kansai, Shikoku and Chugoku regions in western Japan,
said Saori Yoshimatsu, a Tokyo-based spokeswoman for  NTT DoCoMo
Inc. (9437) , the nation’s largest mobile phone operator. Rivals KDDI
Corp. and SoftBank Corp. reported no problems, according to
their spokesmen.  At a meeting of 100 lawmakers and anti-nuclear activists in
the Diet building in central Tokyo today, phone chirps that
signaled the early warning system were met with gasps. After a
brief pause, the environmentalists returned to questioning
Japan’s nuclear regulatory officials about whether atomic
reactors could be safely restarted.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kazuyo Sawa in Tokyo at 
 ksawa3@bloomberg.net ;
Grace Huang in Tokyo at 
 xhuang66@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Teo Chian Wei at 
 cwteo@bloomberg.net  