-- China Tests Japan on Island Claims After Philippine Success
-- B y   I s a b e l   R e y n o l d s
-- 2013-08-08T09:43:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-08/japan-files-china-protest-after-ships-approach-disputed-islands.html
China  deployed ships to waters near
islands disputed with Japan for a record 28 hours, drawing a
formal protest as it repeated a strategy of pressing its
territorial claims through bolder projections of maritime power.  Ships from China’s newly formed coast guard remained in the
Japanese-controlled waters for the longest time since Japan
bought the islands last year, Cabinet Secretary Yoshihide Suga
said at a briefing in  Tokyo  today. Japan’s Foreign Ministry
summoned a Chinese diplomat and “sternly protested,” he said.  The Chinese deployment mirrors an approach it has taken to
press its sovereignty claim in a dispute with the  Philippines 
over the Scarborough Shoal in the  South China Sea . The moves
come as China expands its  defense spending  and President Xi Jinping seeks to make China a maritime power in the region.  “It’s very similar,” said Chiaki Akimoto, director of the
Tokyo bureau of the  Royal United Services Institute  for Defense
and Security Studies, referring to China’s actions toward Japan
and the Philippines. “The idea is to escalate little by little.
At the same time, they want to see how Japan reacts.”  In June, the Philippines protested what it called “the
massive presence of Chinese military and paramilitary ships”
around territory it claims in the South China Sea. The
Philippines asked the  United Nations  in January to rule on its
dispute with China, which moved to take control of the
Scarborough Shoal a year after a standoff between Philippine and
Chinese ships.  28 Hours  Four Chinese Coast Guard ships spent about 28 hours in
Japanese-controlled waters around the islands, part of the time
remaining stationary within 5 kilometers (3.1 miles) of Minami
Kojima island, according to e-mailed statements from the
Japanese Coast Guard. The ships left the waters around the
islands, known as Diaoyu in Chinese and Senkaku in Japanese, at
about noon today.  “It is clear that the Senkaku Islands are  Japan ’s
territory, in terms of history and international law,” Suga
said today. “This incursion into our territorial waters is the
longest since our government bought the islands in September. It
is extremely regrettable and we cannot accept it.”  The Chinese ships forced out Japanese “right-wingers”
from waters around the disputed islands, the Chinese embassy in
Japan said in a statement  on its website today . The charge
d’affaires filed a diplomatic protest today over the incident
and requested that the Japanese ships immediately leave the
territory and prevent any future incidents, it said.  The escalation comes days before the Aug. 15 anniversary of
Japan’s World War II defeat, a sensitive occasion among Asian
nations invaded and occupied by the country in the first half of
the 20th century.  Ruling Party  Politicians from Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s ruling  Liberal
Democratic Party  may visit the Yasukuni Shrine, which honors
Japan’s war dead, including leaders convicted as war criminals
by an Allied tribunal. Abe will stay away on the anniversary to
avoid raising hackles in China and  South Korea , the Nikkei
newspaper reported today.  Relations between Japan and China have deteriorated since
the Japanese government purchased three of the five islands from
their private owner, hurting trade ties between  Asia ’s two
largest economies. Trade data released today showed that China’s
exports to Japan fell 2 percent from a year earlier in July, the
sixth straight decline.  Since last September, China has regularly sent ships into
the waters off the islands. In December, a Chinese marine
surveillance propeller plane was spotted for the first time in
Japanese-controlled airspace near the islands. Last month, Japan
confirmed that Chinese ships passed through a strait just north
of its territory for the first time.  China’s Claim  The latest moves are aimed at forcing Japan to recognize
China’s claim to the islands, which the government in Tokyo has
so far refused to do, according to analysts including Taylor
Fravel, an associate professor of political science at the
 Massachusetts Institute of Technology .  “Like Scarborough, China is trying to create a new status
quo,” Fravel said in an e-mail. “Unlike Scarborough, however,
China is seeking to demonstrate that it rejects Japan’s
exclusive control of the islands, not gain effective control
over them.”  Xi said earlier this month that China must improve its
ability to safeguard its maritime rights while settling
disagreements peacefully. “In no way will the country abandon
its legitimate rights and interests,” Xi said.  The Chinese action around the islands comes two days after
Japan unveiled the largest military ship it has produced since
World War II. Yesterday, China’s  Defense Ministry  said Asian
neighbors must be alert to Japan’s defense buildup after it
unveiled the ship.  China is expanding its military as well. The government
plans to boost military spending by 10.7 percent this year, and
commissioned its first  aircraft carrier  last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isabel Reynolds in Tokyo at 
 ireynolds1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nicholas Wadhams at 
 nwadhams@bloomberg.net ;
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  