-- Japan Buys Aussie Sovereign Bonds in June, Ending Record Sales
-- B y   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s
-- 2013-08-08T02:44:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-08/japan-buys-aussie-sovereign-bonds-in-june-ending-record-sales.html
Japanese investors bought Australian
sovereign bonds in June as the benchmark  yield  surged to its
highest level in 14 months, ending a record stretch of sales.  Money managers in  Japan  made net purchases of 54.3 billion
yen ($561 million) after selling the South Pacific nation’s
government debt in each of the previous 10 months, the Tokyo-based Ministry of Finance said today. Overall, they offloaded
Aussie dollar-denominated securities worth 247 billion yen, the
smallest sales in three months. U.S. Treasury sales moderated to
1.1 trillion yen from 3 trillion yen in May.  While Japan’s fund managers have sold  U.S. dollar  and
Aussie-denominated securities in each of the first six months of
the year, there are signs that trend may be changing. Weekly
data, also released today, showed investors made net purchases
of  offshore debt  for a fifth week in the period ended Aug. 2.  “One of the reasons they may might focus on Australian
 government bonds  over others would be for their extra
liquidity,” said  Damien McColough , head of fixed-income
research at  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  in Sydney. “At the end of the
day, the Japanese are still very risk-averse. If they can get a
good high yield for the benchmark bond that satisfies Mrs.
Watanabe, they’ll do it.”  Individual Japanese investors are sometimes referred to as
“Mrs. Watanabe,” a reference to housewifes who control family
budgets.  Australia ’s 10-year bond  yield  fell two basis points, or
0.02 percentage point, to 3.67 percent today and touched 4.04
percent on June 24, the most since April 5, 2012.  Kokusai Bearish  Kokusai Asset Management Co., which runs  Asia ’s biggest
bond fund, said last month it halved its Australian holdings
this year as a slowing economy makes the nation’s assets less
attractive than those of  North America  and  Europe . Masataka Horii, who runs the Global Sovereign Open Fund said July 18 that
he cut Aussie investments to 10 percent from as much as 20
percent late last year.  Investors have sold 516 billion yen of Australian
government debt and 1.9 trillion of securities denominated in
the nation’s currency this year. They offloaded 9.2 trillion yen
of U.S. Treasuries and 9.5 trillion yen of dollar bonds, the
data show.  Japan bought a net 689.9 billion yen of foreign debt in the
five days ended Aug. 2, separate data today showed.  Australia’s sovereign bonds have risen 0.3 percent in
August and 0.7 percent this year, Bank of America Merrill Lynch
data show. U.S. Treasuries are little changed this month and
down 2.7 percent since Dec. 31.  The Aussie dollar rose 0.5 percent to 87.09 yen as of 12:43
p.m. in Sydney, paring its decline this year to 3.5 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Candice Zachariahs in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  