-- Japan Lawmakers Lack Will to Alter Sales-Tax Law, Honda Says
-- B y   A n d y   S h a r p
-- 2013-08-08T05:21:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-08/japan-lawmakers-lack-will-to-alter-sales-tax-law-honda-says-1-.html
Japanese lawmakers are reluctant to
reopen legislation on the nation’s  sales-tax  rise, raising the
bar for Prime Minister Shinzo Abe should he want a shallower
path of increases, according to one of his advisers.  “They don’t want to touch on this issue,” Etsuro Honda,
58, a Shizuoka University professor and one of the brain-trust
members behind Abe’s reflation plan, said in an interview in
Tokyo yesterday, referring to a majority of politicians. He said
“I’m fully aware that I’m in a minority” favoring a flatter
trajectory for boosting the levy than the current law provides.  Abe, whom Honda has known for about three decades, “wants
to decide himself” on the tax, Honda said before the government
today announced that a panel of experts will analyze the issue.
The law enacted last year gives Abe the power either to let the
rate rise to 8 percent in April and 10 percent in 2015 from 5
percent today, or to hold off in the conclusion that the economy
isn’t strong enough to withstand the increases.  Honda’s assessment indicates Abe would need to expend
political capital to force a change in the law, such as Honda’s
favored 1 percentage point bump a year. The prime minister
already faces the task of building support for a package of
economic reforms from entering a U.S.-led Trans Pacific
Partnership trade bloc to revamping agricultural land-holdings
and tax relief for companies.  Stocks, Yen  Abe’s efforts to revive the world’s third-largest economy
have driven the Topix index of shares up about 34 percent this
year, with a more competitive currency helping exporters. The
yen is down 10 percent against the dollar over that period, and
slipped 0.3 percent to 96.65 as of 2:17 p.m. in  Tokyo , little
changed after the  Bank of Japan  reiterated its plan to double
the monetary base by the end of 2014 at a policy meeting today.  A gradual rise in the sales tax may help boost inflationary
expectations as the BOJ pushes to achieve its 2 percent
inflation target, Honda said in the interview at the prime
minister’s office complex. Increasing the tax by 3 percentage
points in April would place a huge burden on households, he
said.  The impact of the scheduled bump in the levy will cause a
contraction in gross domestic product in the second quarter of
2014, according to the median estimate of economists surveyed by
 Bloomberg News . When the levy was last raised, in 1997, the move
contributed to tipping the nation into a recession that cost
then-Prime Minister Ryutaro Hashimoto his job.  BOJ’s Role  Honda also said failure to increase the sales tax would
raise concern among investors about the government’s commitment
to cutting the nation’s debt.  Koichi Hamada, a retired Yale University professor and
another member of the reflationist brain-trust that has advised
Abe on monetary policy, said yesterday that BOJ Governor
Haruhiko Kuroda should be prepared to add monetary stimulus if
the economy falters after the planned tax increase.  “Mr. Kuroda seems to be in favor of the consumption tax
hike,” Hamada said in a phone interview from his home in
 Connecticut . “In that case, he should be ready to use the
strong medicine of monetary policy if the economy falters.”  Kuroda will be one of the members of the panel of experts
analyzing the tax, Finance Minister Taro Aso told reporters in
Tokyo today. The  Finance Ministry  has indicated that a fiscal
package could be considered to cushion the hit to GDP from the
increase. Aso today said that consideration of investment-tax
cuts will be accelerated and housing assistance also will be
looked at leading up to a sales-tax boost.  The BOJ in its policy statement today made no mention of
the sales-tax issue, even as it cited  Europe ’s debt challenges,
the pace of the U.S. recovery and developments in emerging and
commodity-exporting countries as contributing to “a high degree
of uncertainty concerning  Japan ’s economy.”  Kuroda and his board pledged to “examine both upside and
downside risks to economic activity and prices, and make
adjustments as appropriate.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Sharp in Tokyo at 
 asharp5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  