-- Oil Gains With Metals on China Output; S&P 500 Retreats
-- B y   N i c k   T a b o r e k ,   K a t i e   B r e n n a n   a n d   L u   W a n g
-- 2013-08-09T20:08:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-08/japan-futures-fall-while-yen-holds-drop-as-crude-rebounds.html
U.S. equities fell, with benchmark
gauges capping  their worst week since June after a rally to a
record left the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index at its most-expensive valuation in three years. Oil and metals advanced as
Chinese industrial output expanded faster than estimated.  The  S&P 500  lost 0.4 percent to 1,691.42 at 4 p.m. in New
York and slid 1.1 percent for the week. West Texas Intermediate
crude climbed 2.5 percent to $105.97 a barrel while zinc, nickel
and lead jumped at least 1.9 percent.  South Africa ’s rand
reached the strongest level this month against the dollar and
Australia’s currency posted its biggest weekly gain since
December 2011. The Hang Seng  China  Enterprises Index of mainland
companies listed in  Hong Kong  advanced 1.2 percent.  The S&P 500 has rallied 19 percent in 2013 and closed at a
record 1,709.67 on Aug. 2. The index trades at about  15.3 times 
projected earnings, up from a multiple of 13.1 at the beginning
of this year and holding close to a three-year high reached last
week. That compares to a five-year average of 13.9 times, data
compiled by Bloomberg showed. Stocks and Treasuries have been
whipsawed since May amid speculation the  Federal Reserve  will
begin to reduce its quantitative easing as the economy improves.  “We have been losing enthusiasm over the course of recent
days,” said Bruce McCain, who helps oversee more than $20
billion as chief investment strategist at the private-banking
unit of KeyCorp in  Cleveland . “There still seems to be half the
market that is focusing on improving fundamentals and the other
is worried about the Fed removing quantitative easing sooner
rather than later.”  Market Breadth  Forty stocks  in the S&P 500 closed at their highest levels
in 52 weeks or longer yesterday, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg, compared with 193 on May 15. Less than 79 percent of
the 500 companies traded above their  50-day (SPX)  moving averages,
down from 93 percent on May 17.  Investors pulled money out of  exchange-traded stock funds
after last week’s record highs in benchmark indexes. Almost
$1.20 billion was withdrawn from U.S. equity ETFs over the last
four days, according to data compiled by Bloomberg from about
1,500 funds. About $32 billion of deposits went to the funds in
July, the most since September 2008, the data show.  Markets ‘Overbought’  Credit Suisse Group AG cut its holdings of equities as
global stocks rallied to a five-year high and Fed policy makers
began considering whether to trim stimulus measures.
Switzerland’s second-largest bank reduced its allocation to
stocks to neutral from overweight, meaning it no longer holds
more of the asset class than is represented in global
benchmarks, according to a note to clients dated Aug. 5.  “The fundamental environment remains attractive, but the
markets are overbought in the wake of the recent rally,”
Michael Strobaek, the Zurich-based global chief investment
officer at Credit Suisse, wrote in the report. The “combination
of a positive economic outlook and a further supportive monetary
policy seems largely priced into the markets. We therefore see
limited upside in the near term,” he wrote.  Among stocks moving today, Gap Inc. dropped 3.1 percent
after saying July sales at stores open at least a year rose less
than analysts estimated. Nvidia Corp. lost 1.4 percent as it
forecast third-quarter sales that missed analyst estimates on a
weaker personal-computer market.  Cliffs, Priceline  Cliffs Natural Resources Inc. added 11 percent as
industrial metals rallied.  Priceline.com Inc. (PCLN)  climbed 3.9
percent as the largest U.S. online-travel agent by market value
reported second-quarter sales that exceeded analysts’ estimates.  The S&P 500 rebounded almost 5 percent in July after
slumping as much as 5.8 percent from May 21 to June 24 as Fed
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  indicated the central bank could start
tapering stimulus if the labor market continues to improve. The
benchmark index has gained almost 8 percent since. Ten-year
Treasury yields jumped from their 2013 low of 1.63 percent on
May 2 to as high as 2.74 percent on July 5.  Charles Evans ,  Sandra Pianalto  and  Richard Fisher , regional
Fed presidents in Chicago, Cleveland and Dallas, said this week
the central bank may be closer to tapering. Data yesterday
showed U.S. jobless claims fell in July to the lowest monthly
rate since before the recession. Fed stimulus has helped propel
the S&P 500 up more than 150 percent from its bear-market low in
2009.  Volatility Bets  Investors trying to protect against declines in U.S. stocks
have spurred record demand for securities tracking equity
 volatility  and traded more VIX options than ever before.  Shares outstanding of the iPath S&P 500 VIX Short-Term
Futures ETN, a security designed to rise when stock fluctuations
increase, have tripled this year, reaching a record 99.9 million
on Aug. 5.  Call volume  on the Chicago Board Options Exchange
Volatility Index rose to 1.12 million on Aug. 6, the most ever
and about five times more than put trades, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Equity investors are piling into securities that hedge
losses as a way to protect gains after the S&P extended its
rally to send the gauge past 1,700 for the first time. While
volatility has evaporated in the past month amid economic data
showing stronger U.S. growth, money managers including Lake Hill
Capital Management LLC’s Justin Golden said investors are
preparing for swings to increase. U.S. legislators must decide
whether to raise the government debt limit later this year and
most economists expect the Fed to cut the pace of bond purchases
in September.  China Economy  The retreat in U.S. stocks today halted an earlier global
advance triggered by China’s economic data.  Factory production
in China grew 9.7 percent in July from a year ago, the
government said today, compared with the 8.9 percent median
estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of economists. The
acceleration may bolster confidence that the  nation  will avoid a
deeper economic slowdown after larger-than-forecast gains in
exports and imports as well as improvement in gauges of
manufacturing and service industries.  “Chinese data surprised to the upside this week which
particularly benefited industrial metals,” said Ole Hansen, the
head of commodity strategy at Saxo Bank A/S in Copenhagen. There
“could be a potential turnaround in expectations where the
Chinese economy is heading over the coming months,” he said.  Copper climbed 1.3 percent in  London  and 3.9 percent this
week, the most since September. All six of the main industrial
metals on the LME rose, spurring a third day of gains for the
 LME metals index . China is the biggest buyer of industrial
metals.  Commodity Currencies  South Africa’s currency advanced 0.9 percent versus the
dollar and is up 0.5 percent this week. The Aussie rose 0.9
percent, advancing 3.2 percent on the week for its biggest gain
since December 2011.  The Bloomberg U.S.  Dollar Index , which tracks the greenback
against 10 major counterparts, was little changed after falling
for five straight days. The gauge has  declined  1.1 percent this
week, the biggest drop since the period ended July 12. The yen
strengthened 0.5 percent to 96.18 per dollar today.  Norway’s krone gained 1.3 percent against the euro, the
most in  four weeks, after a report showed inflation accelerated
faster than economists estimated.  About two shares advanced for each that declined in the
Stoxx Europe 600 Index. The index gained 0.6 percent this week.
Royal KPN NV surged 16 percent in Amsterdam, the most in more
than a year, after billionaire  Carlos Slim ’s America Movil SAB
said it plans to make a takeover offer for the Dutch phone
company.  The volume of shares changing hands in Stoxx 600 companies
was 15 percent greater than the 30-day average, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. S&P 500 trading was about 10 percent
below average.  Emerging Markets  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index rose for a second day,
adding 0.5 percent and trimming this week’s decline to less than
0.5 percent. The benchmark for developing nations has lost
almost 10 percent this year, trailing the S&P 500’s performance
by almost 30 percentage points. The Shanghai Composite Index
advanced 0.4 percent and Russia’s Micex Index added 1.5 percent.
Exchanges in India,  Malaysia , Indonesia, the  Philippines , South
Africa and  Turkey  were closed for holidays.  Junk-rated corporate bonds rose for a sixth week in Europe,
paring a selloff in June after the cost of insuring securities
against losses fell to the lowest in two weeks. Debt sales
slowed.  High-yield bonds returned 0.2 percent this week, bringing
the six-week gain to 2.1 percent after the securities lost an
average 2.3 percent in June, according to Bloomberg bond index
data. The Markit iTraxx Crossover Index of credit-default swaps
on 50 high-yield companies was little changed this week at 399
basis points at 12:26 p.m. in London. The gauge fell to a two-week low of 392 on Aug. 5.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nick Taborek in  New York  at 
 ntaborek@bloomberg.net ;
Katie Brennan in New York at 
 kbrennan23@bloomberg.net ;
Lu Wang in New York at 
 lwang8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  