-- Junk Bond Yields Drop to Two-Month Low as Intralot Deal Rallies
-- B y   K a t i e   L i n s e l l   a n d   N a t a s h a   D o f f
-- 2013-08-08T14:49:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-08/junk-bond-yields-drop-to-two-month-low-as-intralot-deal-rallies.html
Speculative-grade  bond yields  in
 Europe  dropped to the lowest in more than two months as issuance
stalls in August. The only high-yield bond sold this month, from
Greek gaming system developer Intralot SA, rallied.  The average yield investors demand to hold high-yield,
high-risk, bonds fell to 4.7 percent yesterday, the lowest since
June 4, according to Bloomberg bond index data. The 9.75 percent
August 2018 securities, which were sold via Intralot Finance
Luxembourg SA on Aug. 1, have climbed 4 cents to 103 cents on
the euro, among the best performers this month.  Credit markets are rebounding from a selloff that saw high-yield investors in the region lose 2 percent in June after
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  signaled the central
bank may start slowing stimulus measures aimed at boosting the
 U.S. economy . Sales of junk debt slowed after the busiest July
on record with 6.8 billion euros ($9.1 billion) of issuance,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “The fear that was around in May and June over aggressive
imminent tapering has been pared back somewhat and that’s
encouraged people to get back into high yield,” said  Jim Reid ,
head of fundamental strategy at Deutsche Bank AG in  London .
“Still, the market is quiet at this time of year as people are
on holiday and we’re not seeing much issuance.”  Intralot sold its 325 million euros of bonds, its first
sale since 2006, after postponing a deal in June due to market
conditions, people familiar with the matter said at the time.  Springer Science  German academic publisher Springer Science & Business Media
sold 640 million euros of bonds yesterday rated CCC+ by  Standard
& Poor’s , seven levels below investment grade, in a private
placement, data compiled by Bloomberg show. BC Partners Ltd., a
London-based private-equity firm agreed to buy Springer Science
for 3.3 billion euros in June.  It was the lowest-rated transaction since Faenza GmbH
raised 306.7 million euros from 8.25 percent bonds on July 25,
the data show. Faenza is an intermediate holding company
established for the acquisition of ceramics supplier CeramTec
GmbH by private-equity firm Cinven Partners LLP, according to
Moody’s Investors Service.  The  Markit iTraxx Crossover Index  of default swaps on 50
high-yield companies dropped 1.8 basis points to 399 today after
two days of increases. A decrease signals improvement in
perceptions of  credit quality . The Markit iTraxx Europe Index of
credit-default swaps on 125 companies with investment-grade
ratings declined 0.7 basis point to 96 basis points.  A basis point on a credit-default swap protecting 10
million euros of debt from default for five years is equivalent
to 1,000 euros a year. Swaps pay the buyer face value in
exchange for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent
should a borrower fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Katie Linsell in Madrid at 
 klinsell@bloomberg.net ;
Natasha Doff in London at 
 ndoff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  