-- Kenya Plans to Resume All International Flights at Midnight
-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 2013-08-08T19:35:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-08/kenya-resumes-international-flights-after-fire-shut-main-airport.html
Kenya  will resume all international
flights at its main airport from midnight after a fire engulfed
the arrivals terminals yesterday and shut operations at sub-Saharan  Africa ’s fourth-busiest air-transport hub.  “We are now going to have international departures and
from midnight today we are opening up the airport for full
operations,” Transport Secretary Michael Kamau told reporters
in remarks broadcast by KTN, a private television company.  Jomo Kenyatta International Airport in the capital,
Nairobi, partially reopened late yesterday. Flights from cities
including Bangkok landed in Nairobi since this morning after
cargo planes and passenger flights bound for domestic and
regional locations resumed yesterday.  The fire that burned for almost five hours razed the
arrivals terminal of the main airport, a crucial link for
exports of products including flowers and horticulture and
handling tourists, all of which are among the biggest sources of
foreign currency for Kenya.  Another “small” fire that broke out this morning at the
arrivals terminal was extinguished within 13 minutes, the
ministry said.  Investigators are trying to determine the cause of the
blaze and “there is no reason to speculate” before the
official findings are released, Kamau said.  Long Queues  The Kenya Airports Authority posted a  photo  on its Twitter
account of a make-shift, temporary international arrivals
terminal in enclosed tents set up on a pavement. Footage aired
by KTN showed long lines of travelers waiting at outdoor kiosks
to check in for their flights.  U.S. President  Barack Obama  called his Kenyan counterpart,
Uhuru Kenyatta, yesterday to offer support after the blaze,
according to an e-mailed statement. Obama also expressed his
condolences on the 15th anniversary of twin coordinated attacks
by al-Qaeda on the U.S. embassies in Kenya and Tanzania, in
which more than 224 people died. The  World Bank  and  African
Development Bank  have made “immediate offers” of financing to
help rehabilitate the Nairobi airport, Kamau said.  Kenya Airways Ltd., the country’s flagship carrier and the
third-biggest airline in sub-Saharan Africa by passengers, is
operating at about 35 percent of its capacity, he said. The
company’s shares fell for a second day, declining 0.5 percent to
9.45 shillings.  The airline will operate 31 international flights tomorrow
compared with 6 today and will resume all flights to the Kenyan
towns of Mombasa, Kisumu, Malindi and Eldoret, it said in an e-mailed statement.  Wild Game  Kenya is the world’s largest black-tea exporter and it
supplies one third of the flowers traded in  Europe . The
country’s wild game parks and Indian Ocean beaches draw almost 2
million tourists a year from countries including the U.K., the
U.S., India and  China .  “Horticulture exports fly out of the cargo section which
hasn’t been affected so there’s no disruption in terms of
horticulture and flowers getting to the market,” Henry
Kirimania, head of treasury at I&M Bank Ltd., said by phone from
Nairobi. “We’re speaking to tour operators and hotels. It may
be a little early, but so far bookings are still OK and there
are no cancellations.”  The currency of  East Africa ’s largest economy gained less
than 0.1 percent to 87.40 per dollar as of 10:35 p.m. in
Nairobi, after weakening 0.2 percent yesterday, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Construction of a fourth terminal at the airport, named
after Kenya’s first president and which will have the capacity
to handle 9 million passengers a year, has been delayed by more
than a year. It’s expected to be completed by March, Kamau said.
The airport is also planning a second runway.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  