-- Kenya Uses Paramilitary, Drones to Stop Elephant Killings
-- B y   E r i c   O m b o k
-- 2013-08-08T13:40:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-08/kenya-uses-paramilitary-forces-drones-to-stop-elephant-killings.html
Kenya  deployed paramilitary forces
and plans to acquire drones to fight poaching of rhino and
elephant populations in the East African nation where wildlife
parks help draw almost 2 million visitors a year.  “Wildlife underlies an important and growing role in
Kenya’s economy because of the wildlife-based tourism
industry,” Richard Lesiyampe, principal secretary in the
ministry of environment and natural resources, said today in the
capital, Nairobi. “Poaching of our indigenous species,
especially elephants and rhinos, has to stop.”  Kenya is home to the Maasai Mara park, through which the
annual migration of millions of wildebeest takes place, and
boasts Indian Ocean beaches. Tourism is the country’s biggest
foreign-currency earner after tea, generating more than $1
billion a year.  The nation, which has banned the trade in ivory, is trying
to clamp down on a rise in killings of rhinos for their horns
and the murder of elephants for their tusks. Poachers killed 34
rhinos so far this year, a 17 percent increase on the whole of
2012, while 190 elephants have been illegally slaughtered in
Kenya in 2013, compared with 384 last year, Lesiyampe said.  That leaves Kenya with a population of about 1,025 rhinos
and 40,000 elephants, he said.  Anti-Poaching Unit  Kenya today began training a 121-man anti-poaching unit
comprising personnel from the Kenya Wildlife Service,
administration police and the general service unit, the
paramilitary wing of the Kenyan police.  “We are in the process of acquiring drones,” William
Kiprono, director of the Kenya Wildlife Service, told reporters
in Nairobi today, without providing further details.  The  World Wildlife Fund  is among organizations using
technology such as drones to combat poaching. The WWF last year
introduced unmanned aerial vehicles, which are launched by hand
and programmed to fly automatically, to monitor poachers hunting
for endangered animals in  Nepal  and criminals involved in
illegal logging, according to its website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Ombok in Nairobi at 
 eombok@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  