-- Kerry Testing a New Path Toward Israeli-Palestinian Peace
-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2013-08-08T21:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-08/kerry-testing-a-new-path-toward-israeli-palestinian-peace.html
Mideast peace has long been the
Everest of diplomatic mountains, and those who’ve tried to scale
it have generally followed the same route: small steps by each
side to give both the confidence to take bolder ones.  Even as skeptics bet against Secretary of State  John Kerry ’s new peace effort, analysts such as  Aaron David Miller 
say the top U.S. diplomat has made small changes to the familiar
approach that could improve his odds of success. The talks
between  Israel  and the Palestinians are scheduled to continue on
Aug. 14 in  Jerusalem , the State Department said yesterday, and
Kerry has tried to minimize the pressure on both parties by
wrapping the terms for the negotiations in a veil of secrecy.  The secretary has drawn lessons from previous U.S. attempts
to broker peace between Israelis and Palestinians. The most
important may be the one that at first impression is the
riskiest: Kerry insists on discussing all the most difficult
core issues now -- borders, the return of Palestinian refugees,
the future of Jerusalem, settlements and security -- instead of
putting them off, as past negotiators have done.  “You’re talking about a secretary of state whose
absolutely committed to talking about the five core issues that
drive the Arab-Israeli conflict,” said Miller, a former Mideast
peace negotiator who is vice president of the Woodrow Wilson
International Center for Scholars in  Washington . “As long as he
does that, the prospect of the confidence-building measures that
have failed over and over again in the past take on a whole new
traction.”  ‘Old Approaches’  Others say the changes Kerry made don’t go far enough.
“It’s a repackaging of old approaches with more vigor,” said
Khaled Elgindy, a fellow at the  Brookings Institution , a
Washington policy group. “You can’t do the same thing that
didn’t work and expect a different outcome,” he said in a phone
call from the West Bank city of  Ramallah .  U.S. envoy  Martin Indyk  will travel to the Mideast for the
talks next week that will begin in Jerusalem and then continue
in Jericho in the West Bank, State Department spokeswoman Jen
Psaki told reporters yesterday in Washington. The sessions
follow initial talks in Washington last month.  There are signs of trouble already. The latest Israeli
Peace Index poll this month found growing growing intransigence
about trading land for peace, the foundation for negotiations
since the 1993 Oslo accords. Sixty-three percent of Israelis
told pollsters from the Israel Democracy Institute and Tel Aviv
University that they wouldn’t support a peace deal on that
basis, even if it included security for Israel and a
demilitarized Palestinian state.  In the weeks since Israel committed to the new talks, its
military has moved almost 1,100 additional housing units in the
 West Bank  closer to approval, some of them in two isolated
settlements that Israel previously had deemed to be illegal,
 according to  the Los Angeles Times.  Reciprocal Steps  Previous peacemaking efforts, including the Oslo accords
and the 2002 “road map” for peace, were sequential, with a
step by one side prompting a reciprocal one from the other.
Under the July 2002 road map, Palestinians were to improve
security and reduce violence against Israelis. Israelis would
then dismantle and freeze West Bank settlements.  There were two central problems with this, both of which
Kerry is avoiding, said Natan Sachs, also a Brookings
Institution fellow.  “The gradual approach failed in part because every time
you had a step to build confidence, that became a huge political
battle,” Sachs said. “It spread the difficulty out,” and as
one side failed to complete its gesture to build confidence,
Sachs said, the other side would be relieved of its obligation
to respond.  Full Package  The second flaw was that “the time given for confidence-building measures ended up being time the opponents of an
agreement used to derail things,” said Shibley Telhami, a
professor at the  University of Maryland  in  College Park .  That prospect hangs over Kerry’s push for peace, Sachs
said, “so the approach now is to do everything at once and do
it secretly, then come to the public with a full package.”  It’s not clear whether the two sides will be able to tackle
all the issues, said  David Makovsky , director of the Project on
the Middle East Peace Process at the Washington Institute for
Near East Policy. “It’s like  Mount Everest ,” Makovsky said.
“From afar it doesn’t look that big, but when you’re up against
it, it’s quite steep.”  The confidence-building gestures Kerry is encouraging
Israelis and Palestinians to make aren’t a mystery: There’s a
familiar list of demands by both sides.  Prisoner Release  Palestinian Authority  President  Mahmoud Abbas  asked for
prisoner releases, and Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu 
has obliged, pledging the phased release of 104 jailed
Palestinians. Kerry also has said that Israel supports his
efforts to attract millions of dollars in investment to spur the
West Bank economy.  Palestinians, in turn, have offered to set aside their
efforts to gain greater recognition at the  United Nations , a
push that officials in Jerusalem and Washington view as
potentially leading to Israel’s de-legitimization. They also
have stepped back from threats to take Israel to the
 International Criminal Court  over its occupation of Palestinian
territories it seized from Jordan in the 1967 Six-Day War.  One familiar request, for Israel to freeze settlement
construction, hasn’t been included this time. A State Department
official, who asked not to be identified discussing the
diplomatic effort, said Kerry decided not to push the issue,
which scuttled talks in 2010 when Netanyahu refused to extend a
freeze and Abbas walked away.  Nine Months  That episode highlights other differences in Kerry’s
approach that may work in his favor, said Sachs. The secretary
of state isn’t asking either side to do anything of great
political difficulty, and he hasn’t made the talks conditional
on any of the confidence-building measures.  Kerry also has asked both sides to “stick it out for nine
months” of talks regardless of what happens, said Makovsky.  Makovsky said changes in the Israeli political conversation
also could help Kerry. Using Netanyahu’s nickname, he said that
“for the first time, Bibi is framing peace in terms of
sovereign interests. It’s ‘what’s in it for us?’ instead of the
usual ‘do you trust the Palestinians?’”  That approach has migrated from the Israeli left, which has
long argued that the alternative to a peace deal is a binational
state with an eventual Palestinian majority if Israel is to
remain a democracy.  Kerry is building on decades of peace talks, too, said
Sachs. During the Oslo negotiations, the idea of a Palestinian
state was difficult for Israeli politicians to discuss. Now
Netanyahu can do so openly.  Palestinian Skepticism  If history has given Kerry a political base, it has also
eroded conditions, Sachs and Elgindy said.  Palestinians view the peace talks with either “opposition,
skepticism or indifference,” Elgindy said.  Twenty-three percent of Palestinians told the Gallup
polling organization last month that they don’t have much trust
in the U.S. to negotiate a fair peace deal. Also, 66 percent
said they had no trust that the U.S. could be an honest broker.
They see the  peace process  “as a fig leaf for the occupation,”
Elgindy said.  “Twenty years of peace process has gotten them more
settlements, more checkpoints, their residency status in
Jerusalem is less secure, their leadership is weaker and more
divided,” with the Palestinian Authority in the West Bank and
the Islamist party Hamas ruling Gaza, Elgindy said. Moreover, he
said, Israeli settlers on the West Bank have gained a stronger
voice, including roles in government.  Israeli Politics  Their presence changes Netanyahu’s political calculus.
Netanyahu’s coalition, said Sachs, “isn’t built for a deal.”
That said, “he could rely on another coalition or go to a
referendum, which would very likely succeed,” Sachs said.  While majorities on both sides want an agreement, neither
side believes the other does, said Makovsky.  That deep distrust creates a “disconnect between the
reality on the ground and the goal that exists among the
negotiating teams,” Elgindy said.  Inevitably, everyone will run up against the largest
disconnect of all, said Telhami of the University of  Maryland .  “At some point, they are going to get deadlocked and
confidence-building steps aren’t going to make a difference,”
Telhami said. “To the extent that an agreement is possible,
that’s when it becomes a matter of U.S. leadership,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  