-- Korea State Fund to Spend Up to $10 Billion on Alternatives
-- B y   K l a u s   W i l l e   a n d   S e o n j i n   C h a
-- 2013-08-09T05:57:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-08/korea-state-fund-to-spend-up-to-10-billion-on-alternatives.html
Korea Investment Corp., the nation’s
sovereign wealth fund, plans to spend as much as $10 billion to
triple its allocation to alternative assets, diversifying its
portfolio to smooth the fund’s returns.  The sovereign wealth fund, known as KIC, wants to increase
holdings of private equity, real estate and  hedge funds  to as
much as 20 percent of its portfolio by 2016 from 6.1 percent at
the end of 2012, its chief investment officer said.  “We are going to spend between $5 billion and $10 billion
on alternative assets over the next three years,” Lee Dong Ik
said in an interview on Aug. 7. “We like to have a balanced
portfolio in terms of strategies and regions.”  KIC is following other state funds or investment companies
that are diversifying their assets to achieve more stable
returns. Singapore’s Temasek Holdings Pte almost doubled its
holdings of unlisted assets to 27 percent of its portfolio in
the past eight years, while  Australia ’s Future Fund increased
the proportion of private equity and real estate to 13 percent
from 6.3 percent in the three years through March.  Founded in 2005 to invest some of the nation’s foreign-exchange reserves offshore, KIC initially bought bonds before
adding equities in 2007. Two years later, it expanded to
distressed debt, real estate and private equity for “stable
long-term returns,” it said in its  annual report for 2009 .  Compared with traditional equities and bond holdings,
alternative assets have a different risk-return profile and low
liquidity or are based on private contracts, KIC said.  Alternatives Relevant  “Alternative assets like private equity, real estate and
infrastructure are becoming more relevant for sovereign wealth
funds,” said Michael Maduell, president of the  Las Vegas ,
Nevada-based Sovereign Wealth Institute. “Investing in those
assets reduces return volatility.”  KIC’s investments in hedge funds and real estate have
yielded an average 7 percent annually since inception, according
to the 2012  annual report  published in May. Private equity
investments returned 11 percent and special investments, which
is KIC’s stake in  Bank of America  Corp., lost 16 percent.  At the end of 2012, KIC managed $57 billion and its  asset
allocation  was almost unchanged from the previous year, with 45
percent equities, 39 percent bonds and about 10 percent mainly
in cash, inflation-linked bonds and the stake in Bank of
America, according to the report.  Even Spread  The chief investment officer said alternative investments
would be evenly spread. “It may be 40 percent private equity,
30 percent real estate and 30 percent hedge funds,” he said.  While Lee, 55, wouldn’t nominate specific property
investments that he views as attractive, he said “real estate
is a bit overpriced in the big cities like  London  and  New
York .”  Real estate topped the list of state funds’ investments
last year, overtaking commodities and financial services, the
London-based Institutional Investor’s Sovereign Wealth Center
said in May. Properties made up 26 percent of investments, up
from 14 percent in 2011, the center said.  On its equity investments, KIC reported a 16.2 percent
return for 2012, according to its report. The MSCI World Index
yielded a total return of 16.7 percent during the same period,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. KIC’s bond holdings
returned 7.8 percent last year, according to its report. The
fund doesn’t publish a return on its total portfolio.  U.S. Appetite  Within the limits of its investment mandate, KIC has “more
appetite” for U.S. and European equities as the U.S. economy
shows a “fundamental recovery,” Lee said.  Even with the  Federal Reserve ’s quantitative easing
tapering, which Lee thinks will start in the third quarter,
“investors will put more money into the developed markets,
which means you have to take the money out of the  emerging
markets ,” the CIO said.  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  has gained 19 percent this
year and trades at 16 times its earnings, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. That compares with an 10 percent loss for
the MSCI Emerging Markets Index which trades at a price-earnings
ratio of 11.  “The  Standard & Poor’s  index looks a bit overvalued, but
you still have to think about where the money is going to go,”
the chief investment officer said. “A lot of money is ready to
be put into U.S. equities.”  The index could add as much as 10 percent by the end of the
year, he said. “And as money flows into the U.S. market, it
will definitely strengthen the dollar.”  With the U.S. economy improving,  interest rates  will rise,
making fixed income “less attractive,” he said.  China Investment  KIC also plans to expand its investment in  China , Lee said.
In 2011, the fund was granted a license from Chinese authorities
to invest in the country’s stock market under the Qualified
Foreign Institutional Investor, or QFII, status.  KIC’s quota is capped at $400 million, Lee said, adding
that 80 percent of that amount is going into equities and 20
percent in bonds. The quota is less than 1 percent of KIC’s
assets, which “doesn’t make sense” given the size of  China’s
economy , he said.  “As we grow, we plan to expand this quota and we’ll keep
applying to the government,” Lee said. “We have to follow the
government’s speed of market liberalization.”  The chief investment officer also said the state fund will
maintain its stake in  Bank of America .  KIC initially bought the $2 billion stake in Merrill Lynch
& Co. in February 2008, months before the firm was forced to
sell itself to Bank of America. The sovereign wealth fund held a
0.68 percent stake as of March 31, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  “For us, the bank is a proxy of the  U.S. economy ,” Lee
said. “There is no reason to sell.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Klaus Wille in Singapore at 
 kwille@bloomberg.net ;
Seonjin Cha in Seoul at 
 scha2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net ;
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  