-- Korea Pension Scraps Minimum Broker Fee to Reduce Trading Costs
-- B y   S h a r o n   C h o
-- 2013-08-08T07:45:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-08/korea-pension-scraps-minimum-broker-fee-to-reduce-trading-costs.html
South Korea ’s National Pension
Service, the biggest investor in the country’s equity market,
scrapped the minimum fees it pays brokers to execute stock
trades as the fund seeks to reduce transaction costs.  NPS, the nation’s largest pension fund, ended its policy of
paying a minimum 0.15 percent fee as of last month, Lee Yun Ji,
a spokeswoman for the fund in  Seoul , said in a phone interview
today. Brokers will need to “write down” their fees and the
new policy will spur competition for commissions, Lee said.
 Samsung Securities Co. (016360)  and  Mirae Asset Securities Co. (037620)  retreated
in Seoul trading today, while the Kospi Index rose 0.3 percent.  The NPS is seeking to reduce trading fees just as  turnover 
on South Korea’s stock exchange falls to the lowest levels in
six years, curbing revenue for local brokers. The fund holds
about 6 percent of publicly traded shares in the $1.1 trillion
equity market, according to Yoon Young Mok, the head of the
NPS’s strategy unit in Seoul. It had 408 trillion won ($367
billion) of assets as of April.  “With the minimum charge eliminated, local brokers will be
in a cutthroat fight against each other to cut their fees, which
will further burden the already-struggling industry,” said Han Sang Soo, a Seoul-based  money manager  at Samsung Asset
Management Co., which oversees about $114 billion. “But it will
be positive for the pension fund’s subscribers.”  Trading Slump  The NPS said in June it plans to boost  equity  holdings and
reduce bond investments to increase returns for members. The
latest five-year asset allocation plan calls for the pension
fund to increase stocks to more than 30 percent of assets by the
end of 2018 from 26.7 percent in 2012, according to a May
statement.  Samsung Securities, South Korea’s biggest brokerage by
market value, slipped 0.1 percent in Seoul trading today after
earlier rising as much as 0.7 percent. Mirae Asset Securities
declined 1.5 percent. Phone calls seeking comment from the
brokerages weren’t immediately returned.  The 30-day average value traded of Kospi Index shares fell
to about 3.6 trillion won today, the lowest level since April
2007, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The benchmark
index has declined 5.7 percent this year, versus an 11 percent
drop in the MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sharon Cho in Seoul at 
 ccho28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Michael Patterson  at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net  