-- Kuroda Warns Against Forgoing Japan’s Planned Sales-Tax Increase
-- B y   T o r u   F u j i o k a   a n d   M a s a h i r o   H i d a k a
-- 2013-08-08T09:18:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-08/kuroda-warns-against-forgoing-japan-s-planned-sales-tax-increase.html
Bank of Japan  Governor Haruhiko Kuroda warned against a delay in the nation’s planned sales-tax
increase, while pledging that the central bank will take action
should its two-year, 2 percent inflation target be endangered.  Budget consolidation is vital, and a loss of confidence in
 Japan ’s fiscal sustainability could lead to higher government
bond yields, undermining BOJ monetary stimulus, Kuroda told
reporters today in Tokyo. He said he hopes that Prime Minister
Shinzo Abe’s government will go ahead with fiscal tightening.  Abe faces a decision on whether to proceed with a 3
percentage-point bump in the sales tax in April that analysts
predict will cause at least one quarter of economic contraction.
Kuroda today was named to serve on a panel of experts that will
analyze the issue, stemming from legislation enacted before Abe
took office that enables the government to hold off should the
economy be judged not strong enough.  “Ending deflation and raising the  sales tax  are achievable
at the same time,” Kuroda said today. “Restoring fiscal health
is absolutely necessary and important by itself, but once fiscal
discipline is loosened, it’s true that that will indirectly make
a negative impact on monetary measures.”  A surge in bond yields could result from any perception
that the BOJ’s “massive” purchases of debt are perceived as
financing the government, Kuroda said. The BOJ, in the same way
as other developed-nation central banks, buys the securities in
the secondary market, rather than directly underwriting debt --
a step it took in the 1930s.  No Action  “The BOJ wants the government to go ahead with the sales
tax rise because they cannot justify a continuous purchase of
bonds if the commitment to austerity weakens,” said  Hiromichi Shirakawa , chief Japan economist at Credit Suisse Group AG in
Tokyo and a former BOJ official. “This is not economics, this
is very much politics.”  Kuroda is a former top official at the Ministry of Finance,
which has long advocated a rise in the sales tax.  The economy will grow 1.3 percent in the fiscal year
starting April 2014 and 1.5 percent the following year,
according to the median estimate of the bank’s board members.
Prices, excluding the effects of the planned tax increase, were
seen rising 1.3 percent in fiscal 2014, and 1.9 percent the year
after.  The bank’s projections for prices and growth released last
month account for a higher sales tax, Kuroda said.  Maintaining Pledge  Kuroda spoke hours after the BOJ refrained from adding to
unprecedented monetary stimulus after consumer prices rose in
June and a recovery in the world’s third-biggest economy
maintained momentum.                     The board stuck with an April pledge to expand the monetary
base by 60 trillion yen to 70 trillion yen ($727 billion) per
year, the bank said in a statement released in  Tokyo  today
showed. All 26 economists in a Bloomberg News survey predicted
the decision.  “If something big happens and considerably damages the
path to our price stability target, then we will of course
respond by taking appropriate steps,” Kuroda said, referring to
a question about the possibility of tail risks preventing the
bank from achieving its inflation target.  The Topix index of shares has risen about 33 percent this
year. The yen has weakened about 10 percent against the dollar
in that period, and was largely unchanged at 96.32 as of 5:49
p.m. in Tokyo.  Easing Pressure  Japan’s economy grew an annualized  3.6 percent  in the
second quarter, sustaining a recovery jump-started by fiscal and
monetary stimulus and a slide in the yen, according to the
median estimate in a Bloomberg survey ahead of data due Aug. 12.
A planned sales-tax increase in April could add pressure for
extra easing as advisers to Prime Minister Shinzo Abe express
concern over the likely hit to growth.  “The BOJ can sit and wait as the economy is improving and
consumer prices are rising,” said Maiko Noguchi, senior
economist at Daiwa Securities Co. and a former central bank
official. The weak yen won’t provide a continuous boost to
growth, while a proposed sales-tax increase would add to
uncertainties, she said.  The central bank left its assessment of the economy
unchanged after raising its view in July for a record seventh
straight month. It pointed in today’s statement to the  European
debt crisis  and the pace of the U.S. recovery as risks. The BOJ
didn’t mention Japan’s consumption tax in the statement.  Target Distant  Koichi Hamada, a retired Yale University professor who
advises Abe on monetary policy, said yesterday that Kuroda
should be prepared to expand easing if the economy falters after
the sales-tax increase. Another adviser, Etsuro Honda, said in
an interview that lawmakers are reluctant to reopen legislation
on the levy increase.  Most economists in a Bloomberg survey expect the bank to
ease further by June as inflation remains distant from a 2
percent target. Prices in June rose 0.4 percent from a year
earlier, the most since 2008 and the first positive number in
more than a year. The central bank’s preferred measure of
inflation excludes fresh-food costs, which are volatile.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Toru Fujioka in 東京 at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net ;
Masahiro Hidaka in 東京 at 
 mhidaka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  