-- NCAA President Emmert Says College Group Will Drop Jersey Sales
-- B y   S c o t t   S o s h n i c k
-- 2013-08-09T04:01:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-08/ncaa-s-emmert-says-committee-dropping-sales-of-sports-jerseys.html
The National Collegiate Athletic
Association is stopping sales of athletic jerseys, saying such
business “could be seen as hypocritical.”  NCAA President Mark Emmert said the practice, which passes
no money on to the athletes, was a mistake. He gave no estimate
on revenue from the sales and said the governing body for U.S.
college sports might not have received any revenue from the
practice.  “I can’t speak to why we entered into that business,”
Emmert said yesterday on a conference call with reporters.
“It’s not appropriate for us. There’s no particularly
compelling reason why the NCAA ought to be reselling jerseys
from institutions.”  The decision comes at what Michigan State University
President and NCAA Division I Board of Directors member Lou Anna
Simon called “a critical time” for college sports.  The NCAA and  Electronic Arts Inc. (EA)  are defendants in a
federal lawsuit alleging they didn’t compensate athletes for
using their likenesses in football and basketball games the
company produces. The NCAA last month said it wouldn’t renew the
contract with the video-game manufacturer because of legal
action over athletes’ likenesses.  Emmert’s announcement comes amid a controversy surrounding
Texas A&M quarterback Johnny Manziel, the reigning Heisman
Trophy winner, who according to ESPN was paid for signing
memorabilia in what would be a violation of NCAA rules.  NCAA’s Commitment  Emmert, Simon and Wake Forest University President and NCAA
Division I Board of Directors Chairman Nathan Hatch said on the
conference call that they don’t see any reason to alter the
rules that prohibit an athlete from profiting by signing his
name.  “We stand by the NCAA’s commitment to amateurism,” Hatch
said. “The way we’ve done that is the correct way.”  Moody’s Investors Service in June said it may downgrade
NCAA debt because of pending litigation and uncertainty over its
amateur business model.  A judge in Oakland,  California , heard arguments in June in
connection with a lawsuit filed by former University of
California-Los Angeles basketball player Ed O’Bannon and others
challenging the right of college sports’ governing body,
conferences and schools to keep proceeds from selling the rights
to athletes’ likenesses in TV broadcasts, video games and on
apparel. The plaintiffs say a victory could reduce the $6.4
billion in annual revenue universities earn from athletics by as
much as 50 percent.  Former Duke University basketball player Jay Bilas, now an
analyst on ESPN, earlier this week pointed out on his Twitter
feed that the NCAA’s official online store, ShopNCAAsports.com,
takes you to specific player pages if you search for a star
athlete, including Manziel, by name. The player search function
was disabled.  Hatch said the NCAA’s board meeting centered on the
structure, process and culture of college athletics.  “No decisions have been made,” he said. “The goal is to
have a plan that can be adopted a year from now.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Soshnick in  New York  at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  