-- Nestle Reports Slowest First-Half Sales Growth in 4 Years
-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 2013-08-08T10:37:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-08/nestle-reports-slowest-first-half-sales-growth-in-4-years.html
Nestle SA (NESN)  Chief Financial Officer Wan
Ling Martello said reaching the organic sales growth needed in
the rest of the year to meet the company’s forecast will be a
“stretch” as the world’s biggest food company wrestles with
sluggish demand in Europe.  Nestle said today it expects to reach organic sales growth
of about 5 percent this year, the low end of its long-term
target. Attaining 6 percent growth in the second half in order
to make the goal for 2013 “won’t be easy,” Martello said on a
conference call.  “Markets are clearly shaky and organic sales growth could
come in slightly below 5 percent for the year,” Alicia Forry,
an analyst at Canaccord Genuity Ltd in  London , said in a phone
interview. “It could be somewhere between 4.8 percent and 5.2
percent. We wouldn’t be surprised if it was below 5 percent.”  Nestle, located in Vevey,  Switzerland , reported the slowest
first-half revenue growth in four years as price reductions and
cold weather in Europe weighed on sales of ice cream and frozen
food. The maker of Haagen-Dazs remains committed to its long-term model despite continuing to grapple with weaker demand for
frozen foods, bottled water and diet products.  Revenue increased 4.1 percent, excluding acquisitions,
divestments and currency shifts, the company said in a
statement. That missed the median estimate of 4.5 percent
growth, with Martello blaming pricing for the “disconnect” with
expectations. Lower prices in  Europe  were primarily driven by
the company’s coffee business. The shares fell as much as 2.6
percent in Zurich trading.  ’Top-Line Issue’  “The organic sales growth is disappointing,” Jon Cox,
head of European consumer equities at Kepler Cheuvreux in
Zurich, said by phone. “It’s going to take a while to sort out
the top-line issue with the company.”  Unilever, the British-Dutch maker of Magnum ice cream, said
last month that underlying sales, which exclude acquisitions,
disposals and currency fluctuations, gained 5 percent in the
first half. Danone, the world’s biggest yogurt maker, said that
revenue on the same basis increased 6 percent during the period.  Nestle shares fell as much as 1.65 Swiss francs to 63.05
francs and traded down 2.4 percent at 63.15 francs at 12:23 p.m.
in Zurich, paring the gain this year to 6 percent. Nestle
reiterated it expects an improvement in margins and underlying
earnings per share at constant rates of exchange in 2013.  ‘Sensitive’ Europeans  Customers in Europe are “extremely sensitive”
to price, leading Nestle to boost investment in brands to win
market share. The situation in southern Europe is still
“extremely tough,” Martello told investors and analysts today.  Pricing added 0.8 percentage point to sales growth,
according to  Andrew Wood , an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein,
lower than the 2.1 percentage-point gain he had anticipated.
That was the weakest growth in Nestle’s pricing since 2002, he
said, leading to “fears of a collapse in pricing in coming
quarters.”  Nespresso coffee capsules, one of Nestle’s largest brands,
had a “sharp acceleration” and posted “double-digit” growth,
while measures the company took to improve its underperforming
Jenny Craig weight-loss business have yet to show results, the
company said. First-half net income rose to 5.12 billion Swiss
francs ($5.57 billion) from 4.94 billion francs.  Nestle’s CFO said that the Jenny Craig business is a
“problem that must be fixed” and the company is addressing
issues. The business, which closed operations in the U.K., is
now mainly operating in the U.S. The company is also wrestling
with a contracting market for diet foods such as Lean Cuisine
and has introduced new products such as “Honestly Good” meals to
combat that.  The company is also facing difficulty in  emerging markets ,
where growth in some countries slowed in the first half. The
environment in  Asia , Oceania and Africa remains “relatively
buoyant even though there has been a slowdown in the last 18
months,” amid austerity measures in  China  and other cutbacks,
Martello said. Emerging markets have pushed up sales at the
company’s water division, though.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Boyle in London at 
 mboyle20@bloomberg.net ;
Julie Cruz in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  