-- Norton Seeking Acquisitions in Australia After Gold Declines
-- B y   D a v i d   S t r i n g e r
-- 2013-08-08T00:35:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-08/norton-seeking-acquisitions-in-australia-after-gold-declines.html
  Norton Gold Fields Ltd. (NGF) , the
Australian producer controlled by China’s  Zijin Mining Group (2899) 
Co., is seeking further acquisition targets as falling prices
cut the value of mines.  “We never hide our desire to grow, we never hide our
interest in good assets, which are going to fit into our
portfolio,” Chief Executive Officer Dianmin Chen said in an
interview. “That’s what our business development team are
doing, they are looking into various assets.”  Zijin, China’s biggest gold miner by market value which
bought Norton last year, said in 2011 it aimed to spend as much
as 10 billion  yuan  ($1.6 billion) a year on acquisitions and
expanding mines. Gold, which has dropped 23 percent this year,
entered a  bear market  in April.  Norton expects to complete a deal within the next few
weeks, for Kalgoorlie Mining Co. Ltd., Chen said in the
interview yesterday at the company’s Paddington mill, 35
kilometers (22 miles) north-west of Kalgoorlie in Western
Australia.  Barrick Gold Corp. (ABX) , the world’s largest producer, is
seeking to dispose of some Australian assets and  Alacer Gold
Corp. (ASR)  said Aug. 5 it was near the end the process of selling its
two Australian gold mines.  Zijin is considering a bid for Barrick’s Australian assets,
Lan Fusheng, vice chairman in charge of overseas investment said
June 20. Fusheng also said Zijin had concerns about high
production costs in Australia.  Good One  “I’m not going to point out any particular assets, but if
it’s a good one then we would be interested,” said Chen, who
declined to discuss any bid for Barrick’s mines. He said the
producer is focused on studying possible acquisitions only in
Australia.  Norton has already seized on Barrick’s decision to scale
back on development work to acquire a fleet of trucks and mining
equipment from the larger producer, Chen said.  With gold companies from Canada to  New Zealand  announcing
more than $20 billion in writedowns on the value of their assets
in the past two months, Chen said Norton would avoid taking any
impairment charges. “We don’t need to have impairments because
we have been able to get on with our cost reduction and maintain
our asset value.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Stringer in Melbourne at 
 dstringer3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  