-- North Korea Boosted Uranium Enrichment Capacity, U.S. Group Says
-- B y   S a m   K i m
-- 2013-08-08T09:46:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-08/north-korea-boosted-uranium-enrichment-capacity-u-s-group-says.html
Satellite imagery indicates that
North Korea may have doubled the size of the uranium-enrichment
facility at its main nuclear complex, a move that may allow it
to produce more atomic weapons, a U.S. think tank said.  The roof of the building housing gas centrifuges at the
Yongbyon facility has been extended twice since March, just
before the North announced in April it was restarting nuclear
facilities there, the Institute for Science and International
Security  said on its website , citing images taken July 28.  The construction deepens concerns that North Korea may be
expanding development of a second source of fuel besides
plutonium to produce weapons. Tensions in the region escalated
after North Korea detonated a nuclear device in February,
drawing fresh United Nations sanctions, and then threatened a
first strike against the U.S.  “It does make sense for North Korea to continue to
modernize its nuclear arsenal enough so it has a real deterrent
against what it calls a hostile policy by South Korea and the
U.S.,” said Robert Kelly, an international relations professor
at Pusan National University in South Korea.  Expanding enrichment would run counter to proclamations in
recent weeks signaling the North was backing off its harsh
rhetoric. Yesterday, North and South Korea agreed to resume
talks on opening a joint industrial park that Kim Jong Un’s
regime shuttered in April.  Pyongyang has said it’s enriching uranium at a low level to
produce energy. ISIS said low-enriched uranium at the plant may
still be moved to a secret facility where it can be turned into
weapons-grade fuel.  Two Weapons  Doubling capacity at the site “would allow for an increase
in the production of enough weapons-grade uranium for up to two
nuclear weapons per year,” according to the ISIS report.  Yongbyon was restarted after the North mothballed it under
a six-nation agreement in 2007. The talks aimed at dismantling
the North’s nuclear arms programs have remained stalled since
2008.  South Korean Foreign Ministry spokesman Cho Tai Young told
reporters today that Joel Wit, a former U.S. State Department
official, met with North Korean officials in Geneva. He said no
U.S. government officials attended the meeting.  The U.S. maintains it would not rejoin the six-party talks
unless Pyongyang shows clear signs that it is rolling back its
nuclear ambitions. Uranium plants are considered easier to hide
than facilities producing plutonium because they generate less
heat and don’t need as much space.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sam Kim in Seoul at 
 skim609@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nicholas Wadhams at 
 nwadhams@bloomberg.net  