-- Novo Site in China Gets Government Call Amid Pharma Scrutiny
-- B y   A l b e r t i n a   T o r s o l i   a n d   F r a n c i n e   L a c q u a
-- 2013-08-08T13:08:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-08/novo-site-in-china-gets-government-call-amid-pharma-scrutiny-1-.html
Novo Nordisk A/S (NOVOB)  said Chinese
authorities visited one of its sites as the government extends
its scrutiny of drugmakers’ local practices.  Local administrative officers stopped by a Novo factory in
Tianjin, in northern  China , on Aug. 1, the company said today.  “We are not aware of this being part of an
investigation,” Chief Executive Officer Lars Rebien Soerensen
said in a televised interview. Novo is “cooperating” with
authorities and hasn’t been accused of any wrongdoing, he said.  The world’s biggest maker of insulin isn’t the only health
company under scrutiny.  Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY) , Sanofi and AstraZeneca
Plc also said in past weeks that Chinese regulators had visited
some offices. In a report in China’s 21st Century Business
Herald today, a whistle-blower alleges that Sanofi gave about
1.69 million  yuan  ($276,000) in bribes to local doctors. And
 GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  faces allegations of economic crimes
involving 3 billion yuan in spurious travel and meeting expenses
as well as trade in sexual favors undertaken to boost sales.  “Drugmakers worldwide are feeling the heat in China,”
said Jerome Forneris, who helps manage $8.5 billion at Banque
Martin Maurel in Marseille, including  Sanofi (SAN)  shares. “It’s a
difficult country to do business in.”  Checks there aren’t unusual and Bagsvaerd, Denmark-based
Novo isn’t revising its local practices there because of the
investigation of the pharmaceutical industry, Soerensen said.  “We don’t see a reason for changing the business,” he
said. “We have been in China for many years, we stick to the
law, we do things the right way.”  Secret Identity  Sanofi, meanwhile, said it takes the allegations published
by the Business Herald “very seriously.” The Paris-based
drugmaker has “established processes in place for reviewing and
addressing such issues,” it said in an e-mailed statement.  The bribes were given as “research spending” in the
cities of Beijing, Shanghai, Hangzhou and  Guangzhou  around
November 2007, according to the newspaper report. The whistle-blower used the pseudonym “bacon” and refused to disclose his
identity, the paper said.  “At this time, it would be premature to comment on events
that may have occurred in 2007,” Sanofi said.  Glaxo’s head of  emerging markets , Abbas Hussain, said last
month after meeting with government officials in Beijing some
employees may have broken China’s laws.  “I wouldn’t be too surprised if there were to be an
industry-wide investigation,” Novo’s Soerensen said on a
conference call with reporters.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Albertina Torsoli in Geneva at 
 atorsoli@bloomberg.net 
Francine Lacqua in London at 
 flacqua@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  