-- Nuance Gains as Icahn Builds Stake in Software Maker
-- B y   C a l l i e   B o s t
-- 2013-08-08T20:46:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-08/nuance-gains-as-icahn-expands-stake-spurring-sale-speculation.html
Nuance Communications Inc. (NUAN)  shares
rose after billionaire investor  Carl Icahn  added to his stake in
the speech-recognition  software developer .  The stock gained 1.2 percent to $19.33 at the close in New
York, and earlier touched $19.50, the highest intraday price
since May. Icahn holds about  16 percent  of the shares, according
to a regulatory filing today, more than the 9.3 percent stake he
revealed in April.  Icahn uses holdings to seek change in companies he deems
undervalued or ill-managed. While Icahn’s stake in Nuance is
passive, his move to expand the investment suggests that he may
push the company to sell itself or shed some businesses,
according to Shyam Patil, an analyst at Wedbush Securities Inc.  “This signals that he’s here to stay,” Patil, who rates
Nuance shares outperform with a $22 target price, said in an
interview today. “If the company were to put itself or certain
assets up for sale, there would be a lot of interest.”  Richard Mack , a spokesman for Burlington, Massachusetts-based Nuance, declined to comment. Icahn didn’t respond to a
request for comment.  Potential suitors could include Microsoft Corp.,
International Business Machines Corp. or  Oracle Corp. (ORCL) , Patil
said. It’s also possible that Apple Inc. or Google Inc. would be
interested in Nuance’s mobile technology, he said.  Takeover Target?  After Icahn revealed his stake in April, Deutsche Bank AG
and  Mizuho Financial Group Inc. (8411)  speculated that he might
pressure Nuance to sell its document-imaging division, Bloomberg
reported that month. Its voice-recognition technology, used on
millions of devices, could make Nuance a takeover target for
Microsoft, Avondale Partners LLC said in April, while Deutsche
Bank saw IBM as a suitor.  Nuance plunged the most in more than six years on Feb. 8
after cutting full-year sales and profit forecasts, citing
shifting demand for software. The company said at the time that
transcription volume was falling as health-industry customers
switched to electronic medical records and its new Dragon
Medical speech-to-text software.  In 2013, the stock has dropped 13 percent, compared with an
increase of 20 percent in the Russell 3000 Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Callie Bost in  New York  at 
 cbost2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  