-- Nvidia Predicts Sales That Fall Short of Projections
-- B y   I a n   K i n g
-- 2013-08-09T20:05:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-08/nvidia-predicts-sales-that-fall-short-of-projections.html
Nvidia Corp. (NVDA) , a maker of graphics
processors, forecast fiscal third-quarter sales that fell short
of some analysts’ estimates, dragged down by sluggish personal-computer sales.  Revenue will be $1.03 billion to $1.07 billion in the
period ending in October, the  Santa Clara , California-based
company said in a statement yesterday. That compares with
analysts’ average estimate for $1.1 billion, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Sales in the latest fiscal quarter
declined 6.4 percent to $977.2 million.  A record slump in PC shipments is cutting into the market
for Nvidia’s main product as consumers adopt smartphones and
tablets to check e-mail, shop, play games and browse the Web.
Nvidia may find it increasingly harder to make up for the
decline as its mobile-chip initiative falters and rivals boost
their computer-graphics offerings, according to Alex Gauna, an
analyst at JMP Securities in San Francisco.  “The question mark now will be, ‘Can they hit their
guidance?’” said Gauna, who has the equivalent of a hold  rating 
on the stock. “They’re doing a little bit better than you would
have thought” in the latest quarter, he said.  Nvidia slipped 1.4 percent to $14.49 at the close in  New
York , leaving the stock up 18 percent this year.  Net income in the fiscal second quarter fell 19 percent to
$96.4 million, or 16 cents a share, the chipmaker said.  Tegra Shrinking  Nvidia now expects revenue from Tegra -- a processor for
mobile devices - to decline by $200 million to $300 million this
year from approximately $750 million in 2012, Chief Executive
Officer Jen-Hsun Huang said on a conference call yesterday. The
company had previously said sales would be little changed.  Gross margin, or the percentage of sales remaining after
deducting the cost of production, will be little changed at 56
percent in the fiscal third quarter, Nvidia said.  Global PC shipments fell 10.9 percent to 76 million in the
three months that ended in June, the fifth consecutive drop,
market researcher Gartner Inc. said last month. Sales slid from
a year earlier in all regions, including a 1.4 percent drop in
the U.S.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian King in  San Francisco  at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  