-- Obama’s Vineyard Vacation Rental Is Investor’s Estate
-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 2013-08-09T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-08/obama-s-vineyard-vacation-rental-is-investor-s-estate.html
President  Barack Obama  and his family
fly this weekend to  Martha’s Vineyard  for a vacation at a rented
multimillion-dollar modernist home owned by Chicago investment
banker and Democratic Party donor David Schulte.  The 5,000-square-foot, four-bedroom house sits on nine-and
a-half acres in Chilmark,  Massachusetts , and includes an
infinity pool, a half basketball court, gym, and tennis court,
according to a person familiar with the arrangements, who asked
for anonymity because the trip details haven’t been made public.  Located on the island’s south shore, a preferred
destination for presidential retreats for security reasons, the
property features floor-to-ceiling windows and overlooks the
Atlantic Ocean. There’s also a two-bedroom guest house and, near
the front entrance, a huge boulder dropped by an ancient
retreating glacier, according to the  website  of architect Rick
Sundberg, the lead designer for a 2006 renovation.  Schulte declined to comment. He bought the house in July
2000 for $3 million, according to public records. Current
estimates put the property value at about $7.6 million.  Schulte is a managing general partner at the corporate
finance firm Chilmark Partners. In 1990, he teamed up with
billionaire  Sam Zell  to form the $1 billion Zell-Chilmark Fund
to buy control of financially distressed companies.  Chilmark’s investments included mattress maker Sealy Corp.,
Carter Hawley Hale Stores, Schwinn Bicycle Co., and radio
station operator Jacor Communications Inc. When Clear Channel
Communications Inc. bought Jacor in 1999 for about $4.4 billion
in stock and assumed debt, the fund earned a profit of more than
$1 billion.  Obama Donor  Schulte has given $90,350 to Democratic candidates and
party committees since 1989, according to the Center for
Responsive Politics, a Washington-based research group. He
contributed to Obama’s 2008 and 2012 presidential campaigns as
well as his earlier Senate run, and gave the maximum $28,500 to
the  Democratic National Committee  in 2008.  Obama’s visit, from Aug. 10-18, will be his fourth family
vacation on Martha’s Vineyard as president. He skipped going
there last year during his re-election campaign. As in the past,
the president is renting his vacation home. The costs typically
are shared by the Obamas and taxpayers, and the rental selection
is handled by a local broker, according to a White House aide
who asked for anonymity because the details haven’t been made
public.  White House press secretary  Jay Carney  declined to discuss
the vacation’s cost. It would be apportioned according to
“longstanding” procedures of past administrations, he said
yesterday during a press briefing in Washington.  President’s Baggage  “When you are president of the  United States  you carry a
little baggage when you travel and that’s true whether it’s a
summit, international trip or on vacation,” Carney said.  Blue Heron Farm, the estate that the Obamas rented during
their past three visits to the island, sold in 2011 to British
architect  Norman Foster  for $22.4 million. That property
included a tennis court, basketball court, par-three golf
course, swimming pool, and equestrian facilities.  Preparations have been made on the Island for Obama’s
visit. Additional mobile phone towers have been installed around
the property and in Chilmark, according to a report by the
 Vineyard Gazette  newspaper. Residents and vacationers are
girding for major traffic delays. Unlike during his other
visits, a main artery, South Road, is scheduled to be blocked
off for the duration of his stay.  “We’ve had the president come to our town three times and
it’s been very cordial and there’s been very little disruption
and we love to have him,” Selectman Warren Doty told the
Vineyard Gazette. This year’s visit will “be very disruptive.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Lerer in  Washington  at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  