-- Obama to Show Support for Greece in Samaras Visit
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v   a n d   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 2013-08-08T20:13:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-08/obama-to-show-support-for-greece-as-samaras-visits-white-house.html
President  Barack Obama  told Prime
Minister Antonis Samaras that the U.S. will support  Greece ’s
steps at structural economic reforms as Greece prepares for more
talks with creditors on additional debt relief.  “The United States wants to continue to be helpful and
supportive,” Obama said today at the White House. “The stakes
are high not only for  Europe  but the world economy.”  Samaras said the sacrifices being made by the Greek people
“are huge, but they won’t be in vain.” He vowed to follow
through on reforms, while also saying Greece’s emphasis must be
on growth and jobs.  The two leaders took no questions. Obama said he will hold
a news conference tomorrow, a day before he leaves for a
vacation on  Martha’s Vineyard ,  Massachusetts .  Greece’s unemployment rate rose to a record in May, with a
seasonally adjusted jobless rate of 27.6 percent, the Hellenic
Statistical Authority in Athens said today. The rate was 64.9
percent for Greeks aged 15 to 24.  Today’s White House meeting precedes the Sept. 22 elections
in  Germany , where  Chancellor Angela Merkel  is seeking a third
term with a promise that Germany won’t ease pressure on Greece
to make needed reforms to continue getting the aid it has
received since the debt crisis almost four years ago.  It also follows the July 31 release of an International
Monetary Fund report that said Greece, in its sixth year of
recession, probably needs more money from Europe to meet its
bailout objectives, while 4.4 billion euros ($5.8 billion) in
financing as part of a rescue package next year has yet to be
identified.  Delivering Message  The meeting is “an important bit of visual and substantive
stagecraft,” Douglas A. Rediker, visiting fellow at the
Peterson Institute for International Economics in  Washington ,
said.  Obama and Samaras aren’t likely to get deep into technical
finance issues so much as to promote the message that “the U.S.
remains supportive of Greece,” said Rediker, who represented
the U.S. on the IMF’s executive board from 2010 to 2012.  That message also may be couched with an eye to timing.  “Whether political leaders and policy makers acknowledge
it or not, much of the dynamic around the euro zone is somewhat
frozen, pending the outcomes of the German elections,” Rediker
said.  “The IMF has been very careful in the language,” he said.
“Greece is supposed to continue to adhere to agreed upon
conditions, and if there is a hole that develops, as
anticipated, the Europeans will be expected to make up that
hole,” he said.  Greek Reforms  Laura Lucas, a spokeswoman for Obama’s National Security
Council, said Obama will have a chance to express support for
Samaras’s reform efforts.  “The  United States  has an important stake in a Europe’s
economic health, and in Greece’s, so we will be talking about
ways we can support the structural reforms ahead of Greece to
accelerate a return to growth,” Lucas said in an e-mail.  The visit may provide Samaras an opportunity to send a
message to Merkel to ease off on austerity. Greece’s minister
for administrative reform, Kyriakos Mitsotakis, in the Athens
newspaper Kathimerini, said Samaras planned to tell Obama that
“austerity has been pushed too far” and that additional
efforts to tax incomes “will not fly.”  In last year’s debt restructuring, under which Europeans
and the IMF hold most of Greece’s debt, Greek debt is targeted
to fall to 124 percent of gross domestic product in 2020, from
176 percent of GDP this year.  U.S. Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew said on July 21 after
meeting with Samaras in  Athens  that the U.S. recognizes
“difficult decisions and shared sacrifices” Greece has made
while “continued reform will be essential to laying the
foundation for sustained growth.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Talev in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net ;
Lisa Lerer in Washington at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  