-- Molycorp Sees Rare-Earth Demand Rise as China Targets Mines
-- B y   S o n j a   E l m q u i s t
-- 2013-08-08T21:48:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-08/molycorp-sees-rare-earth-demand-rise-as-china-targets-mines.html
Molycorp Inc. (MCP) , the U.S. owner of the
largest rare-earth deposit outside  China , expects prices to rise
as customers from automakers to robot builders increase their
purchases and China expands enforcement efforts to control
illegal production.  “You have this very large commitment on behalf of both the
central and provincial governments to preserve the resource and
clean up and protect the environment,” Constantine Karayannopoulos, Molycorp’s President and Chief Executive
Officer, said in an interview today.  “All these illegal operations have effectively been
thumbing their noses at the policy and, of course, that has to
change,” he said. “It looks like the regulators are taking
pretty serious steps to put an end to that.”  Molycorp produced at an annual rate of 15,000 metric tons
in the second quarter, short of its goal to produce at the
plant’s 19,050-ton-per-year capacity, the Greenwood Village,
Colorado-based company said in a statement today. The company
had already delayed that target from the fourth quarter.  “When we need to run at that level in terms of demand of
our customers, we’ll run at that level,” Karayannopoulos said.  Molycorp’s second-quarter net loss narrowed to 44 cents a
share from 71 cents a year earlier, the company said in the
statement. The shares fell 13 percent to $6.42 at 5:46 p.m.
after the close of regular trading in New York.  The loss excluding water removal, business expansion and
other abnormal items was 36 cents, the company said, wider than
the 24-cent average of seven analysts’ estimates compiled by
Bloomberg. Sales rose 31 percent to $136.9 million, missing the
$157.5 million average of six analysts’ estimates.  Accelerated Purchases  Molycorp’s customers have accelerated purchases of magnetic
materials from the fourth quarter to the current quarter as they
have seen more demand from automakers.  “The auto industry has been one of the highlights both in
terms of rare earth demand for catalytic converters, rare-earth
demand for refinery catalysts and magnetic material demand,”
Karayannopoulos said. Builders of automated robots used on
assembly lines increased purchases for the first time in two
years, which “bodes well for all manufacturing,” he said.  Molycorp said in a separate filing that it will restate its
first-quarter results and is assessing its finance and
accounting controls after an error in its filings to the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission for the first quarter.  In July, the SEC  said it had ended an investigation into
the accuracy of Molycorp’s public disclosures without
recommending any enforcement action, according to a filing.  Molycorp paid C$1.3 billion ($1.3 billion) to acquire
Canadian magnetic materials and rare-earths producer Neo
Material Technologies in June 2012. The company replaced Mark
Smith, who had been CEO since the company’s 2010 initial public
offering, with former Neo CEO Karayannopoulos in December.  Mountain Pass mine, 60 miles (96 kilometers) southwest of
Las Vegas in the Mojave desert, accounted for a majority of the
world’s production from 1965 to 1985, according to an April 2011
 report  from the U.S. Government Accountability Office.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sonja Elmquist in New York at 
 selmquist1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  