-- Honda Civic Tops U.S. Insurance-Group Vehicle-Crash Test
-- B y   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e
-- 2013-08-08T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-08/honda-civic-wins-top-grade-in-insurance-group-crash-test.html
Honda Motor Co. (7267) ’s Civic won the top
grade in a new crash test of small cars while Nissan Motor Co.’s
Sentra and two  Kia Motors Corp. (000270)  models received “poor”
ratings, according to an insurance industry group.  Half of the 12 small cars tested in a deadly type of front-end collision earned “good” or “acceptable” scores while the
rest were “marginal” or “poor,” the  Insurance Institute for 
Highway Safety  said today. Small cars fared better on average 
in the simulation of a “small overlap” crash than small sport-utility vehicles did in a May study by the institute.  The test of model-year 2014 cars may influence consumers’
vehicle purchases as makers of top-performing cars use the
findings in marketing campaigns. The Arlington, Virginia-based
insurance industry-funded group created the new test in part to
give manufacturers an incentive to design safer cars.  The results underscore that safety need not be sacrificed
in buying small vehicles, said Karl Brauer, a senior analyst at
 Irvine , California-based automotive researcher Kelley Blue Book.  “Small cars are often associated with a lack of safety,”
Brauer said in a telephone interview. “It’s often a concern for
people shopping that category. ‘Am I going to be safe and
protected in this vehicle if something bad happens?’”  Introduced last year, the institute’s test simulates a
vehicle’s front corner colliding with a car, tree or pole. It’s
tougher than simulations used by U.S. regulators to rate
vehicles on a five-star auto safety system.  Corolla Redesign  The Civic is the top-selling model in the U.S. so far this
year in its segment of “upper small” cars, according to
Autodata Corp., a  Woodcliff Lake , New Jersey-based industry
researcher.  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) ’s Corolla ranks second. The Civic
is Honda’s second-best-selling vehicle in the U.S. after the
larger Accord.  The two- and four-door Civics, made by Honda, based in
 Tokyo , both scored “good,” the top rating, in the insurance
institute’s simulation. Honda has designed its vehicles to
withstand the types of crashes in this test and to have a
survivable space for the driver after impact.  Toyota’s Corolla wasn’t tested because the automaker based
in Toyota City,  Japan  plans to release it in a new design this
month.  The institute chided  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s Beetle because the
car’s steering column moved almost five inches to the right upon
impact as the driver’s seat dummy’s upper torso moved forward
and left. That meant the dummy’s head barely touched the front
air bag. At the same time, the seat belt released too far
allowing the dummy’s head to hit the dashboard. The Beetle still
scored better than the Sentra and Kia’s Soul and Forte models.  ‘Poor Protection’  In the Forte, the car that performed the worst in
restraints and the vehicle structure, the dummy’s head hit both
the windshield pillar and the instrument panel.  “In the worst cases, safety cages collapsed, driver air
bags moved sideways with unstable steering columns, and the
dummy’s head hit the instrument panel,” David Zuby, the
institute’s chief research officer, said in an e-mailed
statement. “Side curtain air bags didn’t deploy or didn’t
provide enough forward coverage to make a difference. All of
this adds up to marginal or poor protection in a small overlap
crash.”  Chrysler Group LLC’s Dodge Dart,  Ford Motor Co. (F) ’s Focus,
 Hyundai Motor Co. (005380) ’s Elantra and Toyota’s Scion tC were rated 
“acceptable.”  General Motors Co. (GM) ’s Chevrolet Sonic and Cruze, 
and the Beetle scored “marginal.”  The next group of cars to be tested is minicars, including
the Fiat 500 and Honda Fit, whose results IIHS says it plans to
release later this year.  Last year was the first year since 2005 when deaths on U.S.
roads increased, rising 5.3 percent to 34,080, according to
preliminary estimates from the U.S. National Highway Traffic
Safety Administration.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angela Greiling Keane in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  