-- Mondi First-Half Profits Rise 35% on Acquisitions, Packaging
-- B y   K a m l e s h   B h u c k o r y
-- 2013-08-08T15:34:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-08/mondi-first-half-profits-rise-35-on-acquisitions-packaging-1-.html
Mondi Ltd. (MND) , a South African maker of
packaging and paper, said first-half earnings rose 35 percent as
acquisitions and a shift to packaging products helped offset the
affect of sluggish economies.  Underlying operating profit for the six months through June
advanced to 366 million euros ($488 million), compared with 272
million euros a year earlier, the company said in a statement
today. Sales for the period rose to 3.34 billion euros from 2.82
billion euros, it said. The company raised its half-year
dividend by 7 percent to 9.55 euro cents a share.  “We are starting to get benefit of the synergies” of the
acquisitions, Mondi Chief Executive Officer David Hathorn said
in a phone interview.“Packaging and paper businesses have
enjoyed an extremely successful six months.”  Mondi shares advanced 2.7 percent to 155 rand at the close
in Johannesburg, the highest since July 2007, valuing the
company at 75.4 billion rand ($7.7 billion). The stock has
gained 68 percent this year, the third-best performer on the
 166-member FTSE/JSE Africa All-Share Index. (JALSH)   UBS raised its full-year estimate for Mondi’s earnings
before taxes and interest by 4 percent to 696 million euros,
analysts Catriona O’Grady, Nishal Ramloutan and David Hallden
said in a report received by e-mail.  Reducing Exposure  Mondi is benefiting from a shift to packaging products,
which now account for more than two-thirds of its output,
according to Hathorn. The company is reducing its exposure to
stagnant economies to expand in new markets. The company bought
Greven, Germany-based Nordenia from  Oaktree Capital Group LLC (OAK)  in
July last year to strengthen its position in Eastern  Europe . It
also bought two corrugated-box plants and a recycled-containerboard mill in  Germany  and the  Czech Republic  in
September.  Packaging products “enjoy structural growth in both good
and bad times,” Hathorn said. “Even with the soft
macroeconomic environment, we have seen volume growth.”  The company’s earnings improved even after taking a special
items charge of 68 million euros, resulting from restructuring
plans in Europe and  South Africa  during the period. “There is
no pressing need for any further rationalization,” the CEO
said.  “The positive share price response in the wake of the pre-release appears to have adequately reflected the strength of
results,” Kartik Swaminathan and Fabio Lopes, research analysts
at Bank of America Merill Lynch, said in a report received by e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kamlesh Bhuckory in Johannesburg at 
 kbhuckory@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  