-- London Metal Exchange Said to Consider People for CEO
-- B y   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z   a n d   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r
-- 2013-08-08T19:33:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-08/london-metal-exchange-said-to-consider-people-for-ceo.html
The London Metal Exchange, the
largest industrial-metals futures bourse, is considering three
people for the role of chief executive officer, according to two
people familiar with the process.  They are Diarmuid O’Hegarty, the LME’s chief operating
officer, Garry Jones, the former CEO of NYSE Liffe, and Martin Pratt, the chief operating officer of Triland Metals Ltd., said
the people, who asked not to be identified because the
information is private. The new CEO will succeed Martin Abbott,
53, who said in June he would leave at the end of the year.  The LME was bought by  Hong Kong Exchanges & Clearing Ltd. (388) 
last year for $2.2 billion. Abbott became CEO in 2006,
overseeing a period of expansion that drove annual trading to
$14.5 trillion from $4.5 trillion in the year before he took
over. The 136-year-old exchange counts Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
and JPMorgan Chase & Co. among its members and Triland is one of
11 companies that trade in the LME’s open-outcry ring.  Miriam Heywood, a spokeswoman for the LME, and Jones
declined to comment yesterday. Pratt didn’t respond to phone
calls and an e-mail seeking comment yesterday and today.  O’Hegarty was appointed COO of the LME in March after five
years as deputy CEO and also served as executive director of
regulation and compliance. He joined the exchange in 1998 after
serving in the policy and legal department at the U.K.’s
Securities and Futures Authority and working as a lawyer in
Dublin and London.  Global Derivatives  Jones, who also was head of global derivatives at  NYSE
Euronext (NYX) , stepped down in 2012 after five years. NYSE Euronext,
owner of Liffe, is being bought by IntercontinentalExchange Inc.  He joined NYSE Euronext from ICAP Plc, where he led the
interdealer broker’s European electronic-broking business, and
also worked at BrokerTec Europe, a fixed-income trading system
owned by investment banks. Jones worked in the financial
industry for about 30 years, including at Daiwa Securities, BNP
Paribas SA and Bankers Trust.  Pratt has been COO of Triland, owned by  Mitsubishi Corp. (8058) ,
since 2007. He was previously the trading director at Natixis
Commodity Markets Ltd. and also worked at Sucden Financial Ltd.
He serves on the LME’s user committee and heads its trading
committee.  The LME handles more than 80 percent of trading in
nonferrous metal futures and has a network of more than 700
approved warehouses. Prices of the six main metals on the
exchange dropped this year, led by nickel’s 16 percent decline.  Charles Li  Hong Kong Exchanges CEO Charles Li is overseeing the LME’s
push into  China , the world’s second-largest economy and the
largest consumer of industrial metals. The LME, which already
lists  Taiwan  as a storage point, wants to be able to license
warehouses in mainland China.  Having depots in China is part of Li’s strategy to create
an “East Wing” for the LME by easing restrictions for traders
in China and amending contracts and clearing to attract Asian
clients. Li said in an interview in February that he wants to
“use the LME as a catalyst to achieve a breakthrough in the
barrier between China and the rest of the world.” The bourse
signed a memorandum of understanding with Bank of China in June
on clearing of yuan-denominated commodity products.  Li is expanding a strategy that began before last year’s
acquisition. The LME opened a Singapore office in 2010, its
first in the region, and introduced Asian benchmark prices for
copper, aluminum and zinc in 2011. Transactions in Asian hours
accounted for 16 percent of electronic trading in three-month
futures in 2012, according to the LME.  The LME is also building its own clearinghouse, known as
LME Clear, to boost revenue and introduce new products. The
bourse will move to its own platform in September next year. LME
Clear will have a capability to clear renminbi-denominated
contracts, Li said in June.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in  London  at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net ;
Nandini Sukumar in London at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  