-- Hong Kong Ex-Minister Gets Suspended Sentence for Fraud
-- B y   K e l v i n   W o n g   a n d   E m m a   B i
-- 2013-08-08T04:46:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-08/hong-kong-ex-minister-gets-suspended-sentence-for-fraud.html
Hong Kong ’s former development
secretary Mak Chai-kwong received a suspended sentence for his
role in defrauding the government of more than HK$700,000
($90,249) of housing allowances during the 1980s.  District Court Judge Johnny Chan gave Mak and former
assistant director of the highway department Tsang King-man
sentences of eight months each, suspended for two years.  Mak and Tsang were convicted in June of concealing that
they had an interest in apartments that they leased from each
other’s wives in order to claim the allowances.  Mak had been arrested by the  Independent Commission Against
Corruption  less than two weeks after Chief Executive Leung Chun-ying was sworn in on July 1 last year. Two more of Leung’s
cabinet members have since resigned and lawmakers have called
for Mak’s successor  Paul Chan  to quit over his interest in
farmland designated by the government for redevelopment.  Mak’s lawyer earlier told the court that there was a
structural deficiency in the civil servant housing allowance
system and presented letters of support from Financial Secretary
 John Tsang  and former senior officials as part of a mitigation
plea.  Franklin Lam, a former UBS analyst, resigned from the
Executive Council after the city’s anti-graft agency this month
dropped its investigation into him. Prosecutors said there was
no evidence to support charges of misconduct in public office
against Lam.  Another cabinet member  Barry Cheung  resigned in May from
all public positions after the police began an investigation
into the Hong Kong Mercantile Exchange Ltd. that he founded and
headed.  Leung’s  support rating  was at a record low of 45.1 on a
scale of 0 to 100, according to survey of 1,032 people conducted
July 22-25 by the University of Hong Kong’s Public Opinion
Program.  The case is Hong Kong Special Administrative Region v. Mak
Chai-kwong and Tsang King-man, DCCC956/2012 in the Hong Kong
District Court.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kelvin Wong in Hong Kong at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net ;
Emma Bi in Hong Kong at 
 ebi4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  