-- Oprah-Backed Waywire Gains Fame as Newark Mayor Discloses Stake
-- B y   O l g a   K h a r i f
-- 2013-08-08T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-08/oprah-backed-waywire-gains-fame-as-newark-mayor-discloses-stake.html
Video startup Waywire kept a low
profile even with a roster of investors that includes talk show
host  Oprah Winfrey  and Google Inc.’s  Eric Schmidt . The company
can thank  Newark  Mayor  Cory Booker  for its newfound notoriety.  Started last year, New York-based Waywire lets users
create, share and find videos and organize them into channels
that others can follow. It’s competing for consumers’ attention
in a crowded market where everyone is chasing  Google’s (GOOG)  YouTube.  Waywire has yet to publicly introduce its product. Even so,
it was thrust into the limelight after Booker, in his campaign
for a New Jersey seat in the U.S. Senate, disclosed a stake
worth up to $5 million, and reports emerged that Andrew Zucker,
son of Cable News Network President  Jeff Zucker , abruptly
resigned from the advisory board. A bigger concern is whether
the site can attract users.  “Consumers already have an abundance of ways to discover
videos” said Clark Fredricksen, a vice president at researcher
EMarketer Inc. in  New York  “The video-viewing world is so
dominated by  YouTube , it’s hard to see other companies gaining
share.”  While Waywire has remained mum about its business model,
the company said in a  slideshow  in April that the site will
provide opportunities for advertisers to show branded content.
The number of registered users has increased to 29,000 from
7,500 in April as part of its initial trial, according to
Michele Clarke, a spokeswoman for Waywire. The company is
partnering with content sites like HuffPo Live and Slate.  More than 1 billion unique users visit YouTube each month.
Meanwhile, Facebook Inc. is gaining popularity as a video site
and startup Ustream Inc. said last month that it streamed more
than 7 million live videos in the first half of the year.  Company Founders  Waywire was co-founded by Booker, former Gilt Groupe Inc.
executive Nathan Richardson and former Yahoo! Inc. executive
Sarah Ross. Investors include Winfrey, Schmidt’s Innovation
Endeavors and venture firm First Round Capital. Its advisory
board features former CBS News anchor Dan Rather and AOL Inc.
Executive Vice President Susan Lyne.  Zucker, the teenage son of  CNN ’s president, resigned
yesterday to “avoid even the perception of a conflict of
interest,” according to Allison Gollust, a CNN spokeswoman.  Booker, the 44-year-old Democrat, listed in a report to the
 U.S. Senate  on July 12, a $1 million to $5 million interest in
Waywire. A similar number surfaced on Aug. 6, a week before the
Democratic primary for the Senate race, in a report Booker filed
with Newark.  Altered Image  For Booker, who took up residence in a violence-plagued
high-rise after moving to Newark in 1996, being a known
technology millionaire could tarnish his image as a politician
who relates to the poor. More than a quarter of Newark residents
are impoverished.  The disclosures don’t indicate what percentage of the
company Booker owns. As an unproven company with no name
recognition and a host of competitors, turning Booker’s paper
worth into cash will be a challenge.  “It’s obviously well-connected, but it’s an early-stage
startup,” said  Brian Wieser , an analyst at Pivotal Research
Group LLC in New York. “It doesn’t mean it’s going to be a good
business.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Olga Kharif in Portland at 
 okharif@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  