-- Swiss Stocks Drop for Second Day as Nestle Falls on Sales
-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 2013-08-08T14:22:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-08/most-swiss-stocks-gain-as-adecco-climbs-nestle-falls.html
Swiss stocks  fell for a second day,
their first back-to-back losses this month, as  Nestle (NESN)  SA
retreated after reporting slower growth in sales.  Nestle, which makes up 21 percent of the benchmark Swiss
Market Index by weight, slid 2.6 percent after reporting the
slowest first-half revenue growth in four years. Adecco SA
jumped to a two-year high as the biggest provider of temporary
workers posted income that exceeded projections.  Transocean
Ltd. (RIGN) ,  the largest offshore-rig contractor , added 1.1 percent
after posting a second-quarter profit.  The SMI slipped 23.02 points, 0.3 percent, to 7,953.26 at
4:19 p.m. in Zurich. The gauge rallied 2.1 percent last week as
the  European Central Bank  said  interest rates  will remain low
for an extended period of time and the  Federal Reserve 
maintained its monthly bond purchases. The broader Swiss
Performance Index lost 0.1 percent today.  “As we get into thinner and thinner trade in this part of
the summer, the story will continue to be a tug of war between
fundamental data and worries over central-bank stimulus,” Lorne Baring, who helps oversee about $500 million as managing
director of B Capital SA in Geneva, said in a telephone
interview. “Nestle is a giant bellwether which many investors
would look at as an indicator of the global picture.”  The volume of shares changing hands in SMI-listed companies
was 7 percent greater than the average of the last 100 days,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Meaningful Improvement’  Fed Bank of Cleveland President  Sandra Pianalto  said
yesterday there has been “meaningful improvement” in the labor
market and that tapering may be warranted if it continues to
strengthen. Fed policy makers are weighing data to determine
whether the economy has improved enough to begin reducing their
$85 billion in monthly bond purchases.  In  China , a report showed that exports and imports
rebounded more than estimated in July. Exports rose 5.1 percent
from a year earlier, the General Administration of Customs said
in Beijing today. That compares with the median estimate for a 2
percent increase in a Bloomberg News survey and June’s 3.1
percent drop. Imports rose 10.9 percent.  Nestle decreased 2.6 percent to 63 francs, contributing the
most to the  SMI (SMI) ’s drop. Revenue in the first half increased 4.1
percent, excluding acquisitions, divestments and currency
shifts. That missed the median estimate of 4.5 percent growth.  Adecco Climbs  Adecco advanced 4.3 percent to 62.75 Swiss francs. Second-quarter net income rose 12 percent to 126 million euros ($169
million), topping the 112.1 million-euro estimate of eight
analysts in a Bloomberg survey. The company also confirmed its
target of an earnings before interest, taxes and amortization
margin of more than 5.5 percent by 2015.  “Adecco fulfilled expectations on all levels,” Patrick Hasenboehler, an analyst at J. Safra Sarasin in Zurich, wrote in
a report to clients. “The outlook statement is quite promising.
 Adecco (ADEN) ’s strategy of focusing on profitability will continue to
pay off.”  Transocean climbed 1.1 percent to 44.94 francs. Net income
in the second quarter amounted to $307 million, or 84 cents a
share. That compares with a net loss of $304 million, or 86
cents, a year earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  