-- Tower Drops Most in 2 Months as Sales Disappoint: Tel Aviv Mover
-- B y   R o b e r t   L a k i n
-- 2013-08-08T15:55:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-08/tower-drops-most-in-2-months-as-sales-disappoint-tel-aviv-mover.html
Tower Semiconductor Ltd. (TSEM)  tumbled the
most in almost two months after the Israeli chipmaker’s second-quarter sales disappointed investors.  The shares slumped 7.1 percent, the most since June 13, to
16.4 shekels at the close in Tel Aviv, on 1.7 times the three-month daily  average volume.  The stock has plunged 44 percent
this year, compared with a gain of 3.4 percent for the Bloomberg
World Semiconductor Index.  Tower said today revenue for the three months through June
fell 26 percent to $125 million, compared with its May forecast
of between $122 million and $132 million in sales for the
period. Lower output from Tower’s former  Micron Technology Inc. (MU) 
factory in  Japan ’s Nishiwaki City contributed to the drop, it
said. Its results have missed estimates in the past seven
quarters,  data compiled  by Bloomberg show.  “The numbers were light relative to guidance,”  Jay
Srivatsa , an analyst at Chardan Capital Markets LLC in Tel Aviv
who has a buy rating on the shares, said by phone today.
“Although there has been a modest improvement in the networking
sector, PC’s are still weak and we need to see a broad-based
recovery.”  Global personal computer shipments continue to drop,
according to a Bloomberg Industries report on July 11 that cited
preliminary second-quarter IDC data. Commercial sales may rise
in the second half as corporations replace their Windows XP-driven computers, Bloomberg Industries analysts George Mykytyn
and Anand Srinivasan said in May.  Sales may also increase due to seasonally strong second-half spending in corporate, government and education markets,
they said.  Tower shares trade at 3.3 times 12-month estimated
earnings, compared with a multiple of 12.5 times for  Taiwan
Semiconductor Manufacturing Company Ltd. (2330) , which makes and
markets integrated circuits.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Lakin in Tel Aviv at 
 rlakin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  