-- Toyota Knew of Danger of Stuck Pedals, Lawyer Tells Jury
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2013-08-09T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-08/toyota-knew-of-danger-of-stuck-pedals-lawyer-tells-jury.html
Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  knew of the danger
of stuck pedals and failed to install a brake-override system in
the 2006 Camry of a woman who died in a crash, a lawyer told a
jury in the company’s first fatal sudden-acceleration case to go
to trial.  “Had Toyota installed a brake-override system, the vehicle
would have come to a stop,” Garo Mardirossian, the lawyer for
the widow and son of Noriko Uno, said yesterday in his opening
statement in state court in Los Angeles.  Uno, 66, died when her Camry sped out of control and
crashed into a tree after it was hit by a car that ran a stop
sign in Upland,  California , Mardirossian said.  Toyota, based in Toyota City,  Japan , settled economic-loss
claims by U.S. drivers after the recall of more than 10 million
cars worldwide in 2009 and 2010. Lawyers for drivers valued the
settlement at $1.63 billion. The recall followed complaints of
sudden, unintended acceleration, including stuck accelerator
pedals and floor mats that would shift out of position and get
wedged under the gas pedal.  The Uno case is the first to go before a jury of about 85
personal-injury and wrongful-death lawsuits consolidated in Los
Angeles Superior Court.  Brake Override  Mardirossian told jurors that Toyota had already installed
a brake-override system in models sold in  Europe . The system
forces the car’s engine to idle when both the brake and gas
pedal are stepped on simultaneously. There would have been no
cost to install the feature in cars sold in the U.S. because it
required only a modification to the car’s software, he said.  Uno’s family is seeking $20 million in damages.  “This is not a stuck-pedal case,” Toyota’s lawyer, Vince
Galvin, said in his opening statement. “It’s an alleged stuck
foot case.”  Galvin said the claim that Uno’s right foot was stuck
between the gas and the brake pedals, causing her to accelerate
as she tried to brake with her left foot, is not possible.  Uno’s 2006 Camry was not part of the recalls and was a safe
vehicle, as Toyota had advertised, the lawyer said. The car went
down the wrong side of the road for 30 seconds because Uno was
stepping on the gas instead of the brake, he said.  “There’s no reason an alert driver could not control this
vehicle,” Galvin said.  The case is part of In re Toyota Motor Cases, JCCP4621,
California Superior Court,  Los Angeles  County (Los Angeles).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in state court in Los Angeles
at   epettersson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 