-- Paschi Has Fifth Straight Quarterly Loss on Bailout Costs
-- B y   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i   a n d   F r a n c e s c a   C i n e l l i
-- 2013-08-08T09:05:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-08/paschi-has-fifth-straight-quarterly-loss-on-bailout-costs.html
Banca Monte dei Paschi di Siena , the
Italian bank seeking to persuade European regulators it deserves
a bailout, is the worst performer in Europe’s benchmark banking
index after reporting a bigger-than-estimated quarterly loss.  Monte Paschi dropped as much as 3.8 percent to the lowest
in more than a month. The bank was down 2.7 percent to 20.3
cents as of 10:55 a.m. in Milan, extending declines this year to
17 percent and giving the bank a market value of 2.36 billion
euros ($3.15 billion). The 47-company STOXX 600 Banks Index
climbed 10 percent this year.  The lender’s net loss narrowed to 279.3 million euros from
1.64 billion euros a year earlier, when Monte Paschi wrote down
goodwill and intangible assets by more than 1.5 billion euros.
That was more than the average estimate for a 149.7 million-euro
loss among six analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  “ The shocking loss in the second quarter is mainly due to
the collapse of net interest income, following the sharp de-leverage and increasing cost of funding,” Anna Maria Benassi,
an analyst at Kepler Cheuvreux who has a “reduce”
recommendation on the stock, wrote in an e-mailed comment today.
She cut her target price to 10 cents from 14 cents.  Chief Executive Officer Fabrizio Viola is waiting for
European regulators to approve the latest restructuring plan for
Monte Paschi to retain rights to 4.1 billion euros of state aid,
which it got from selling bonds to the government. The Siena-based bank, which must pay 9 percent annual interest on the
bonds, plans more asset disposals, branch cuts and savings to
return to profit this year, a necessary condition under the plan
to avoid surrendering a stake to the government.  Income Declines  Revenue in the second quarter fell 22 percent to 1.02
billion euros from a year earlier, hurt by higher costa of
funding and the state-aid costs. Net-interest income fell 38
percent to 486.5 million euros, below the 576 million euros
expected by analysts.  “Results were affected by a challenging macro
environment,” Viola said on a conference call yesterday. The
bank’s funding costs are 50 basis points higher than the average
of  Italy ’s top ten banks, while de-leveraging and the 152
million euros of interest paid in the first half on bonds sold
to the government hurt net interest income, he said.  Monte Paschi is among lenders in the country suffering from
Italy’s longest recession in more than 20 years, as stricter
rules by local and international regulators are forcing banks to
set aside more money for non-performing loans.  Loan-loss provisions grew to 544.8 million euros from 408.7
million euros in the second quarter of 2012 and compared with an
estimate of 468 million euros. Monte Paschi increased its bad-loan coverage ratio by 70 basis points to 41.1 percent in the
second quarter from the previous three months.  Restructuring Plan  Monte Paschi’s restructuring plan submitted to the European
Commission in June “reflects a more fragile macroeconomic
scenario as a result of the persisting economic crisis in
Europe, with negative repercussions on revenue generation and
loan loss provisions,” the company said in a statement
yesterday.  The bank plans additional actions, targeting cost savings
of 140 million euros in 2013 and 190 million euros in 2015.
“The bank is ready to accept indications from the EU Commission
aimed at improving the restructuring plan under review,” Viola
said.”  Europe’s regulators may insist on tougher measures on cost-cutting, executive pay and treatment of creditors to approve the
restructuring, according to a letter sent by EU competition
Chief Joaquin Almunia to Finance Minister Fabrizio Saccomanni on
July 16.  “There is a high risk that the European regulator will ask
for stricter measures from Paschi to turn around the bank and
repay state aid,” Vincenzo Longo, a Milan-based strategist at
IG Markets, said by telephone. “This would imply higher
execution risks that may add pressure on the stock.”  Viola, 55, and Chairman Alessandro Profumo, 56, appointed
last year to turn the bank around, cut more than 1,800 jobs in
the first half and plan to reach a 2015 target of closing 400
branches by next month. The pair are trying to revive profit
after the acquisition of Banca Antonveneta SpA in 2008 and
investments in sovereign debt and derivatives hurt capital and
finances.  Share Sale  Last month, Monte Paschi shareholders agreed to remove a
requirement for owners to hold a 4 percent stake in order to win
voting rights. The step was designed to make a 1 billion-euro
share sale to help repay state aid and avert nationalization
more attractive. The bank hasn’t been approached by any
potential investors, Profumo said last month.  Prosecutors are probing whether former managers at Monte
Paschi, which piled up losses of 7.9 billion euros in the past
two years, used derivative contracts to obscure more than 700
million euros of losses.  Magistrates are accusing former executives, including ex-chairman Giuseppe Mussari, of withholding information from
regulators about how the bank financed its purchase of
Antonveneta in 2008. Mussari has denied any wrongdoing. Former
General Manager Antonio Vigni, also under investigation, said
through his lawyer that he always acted in good faith and in the
interests of the bank.  The executives allegedly withheld documents that showed how
a 1 billion-euro securities sale arranged by JPMorgan Chase &
Co. to finance the purchase consisted of debt instead of equity,
the prosecutors said in a court filing last week.  Prosecutors say JPMorgan and at least one member of its
staff obstructed regulators. The U.S. investment bank said it
acted correctly.  For Related News and Information:  -- Editors: Dan Liefgreen, Mark Bentley  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net 
Francesca Cinelli at 
 fcinelli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  