-- Payroll Audits Proliferating on Multinational Relocations: Taxes
-- B y   L y d i a   B e y o u d
-- 2013-08-08T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-08/payroll-audits-proliferating-on-multinational-relocations-taxes.html
Governments are getting more tax-savvy about international relocations, and that’s making it
tougher for companies to be  compliant  everywhere.  As multinational corporations seek a mobile workforce
across developed and developing markets, many are coping with
more audits in more countries -- and the enforcement actions are
increasingly targeting employers, not just individuals,
Bloomberg BNA reported.  Permanent relocation of employees from their home country
to another has been growing, said Gardiner Hempel, a partner at
Deloitte Tax LLP. Ten years ago, most were outbound employees
coming from the U.S., U.K. or  Europe , and now mobility is global
and people are coming to and from several countries, he said.  “It’s a multidirectional movement of people,” Hempel said.  Enforcement is on the rise as governments become more
sophisticated and knowledgeable about how companies operate and
how their compensation packages for international employees are
structured, Hempel said. In the U.S., more audits focus on
employers to determine if they properly reported all wages --
shifting from income tax audits to payroll compliance audits,
Hempel said.  Relocations typically mean tax reports in two places, with
standard income payment, reporting and withholding in the home
country in addition to “shadow” reporting in the host country,
said Deborah Spyker, executive director of EY’s Employment Tax
Services. Shadow reporting still entails proper filing even
though income isn’t paid out there, she said.  Hempel said audits can take many forms overseas, with a
focus on the various elements of compensation, including equity-based compensation; 401(k) contributions, which are taxed in
many countries; and deferred compensation.  Stock Options  As more countries understand how international employees
are paid, they are better equipped to know what to look for in
performing their audits, Hempel said.  Years ago, some countries had trouble with noncash elements
of pay, such as  stock options , Hempel said. These benefits can
be difficult to tax as they are awarded in one year, may be
vested in another and exercised in another, and the underlying
stock could be sold in yet another year, he said.  “There could be three or four events over the life of that
piece of income, unlike cash, which is one event,” Hempel said.  Different nations’ tax regimes vary in how and when each
event would be taxed, he said. In the U.S., the stock option
award would be taxed at grant or exercise, whereas if that
employee moved to  Japan , his or her award could be taxed on
other events. The employee and employer would have to keep track
of, account for, report and pay taxes on all of these various
events in both jurisdictions, he said.  Social Security  Pension plan  contributions may also be included in income,
so employer contributions to a foreign national’s home country
pension plan are often taxable because the plans are not
recognized as a U.S.-qualified pension plan, Spyker said.  Other benefits, such as a car and driver, tuition, language
training and cost of living allowances, can also be taxable for
U.S. tax purposes and must be tracked by employers, Spyker said.  To be sure, once the rules are understood, there’s a lot
companies can do to lower their tax costs, Hempel said.  “Social Security tax has slowly emerged as an area of
increasing focus by companies, because in many jurisdictions
income taxes have been reduced over time,” while  Social Security 
taxes have remained stable in most countries, he said. “They may
be increasing as an amount relative to the overall tax burden.”  ‘Co-Investing’ Experience  Although tax compliance and planning for employees working
internationally isn’t new, it is becoming an increasingly
important issue for corporations, Hempel said. International
work assignments are increasingly seen as an important career
move that employees are willing to invest in, he said.  Some workers choose to “co-invest” in a foreign assignment
by accepting less monetary benefits in exchange for a career-enhancing experience, Hempel said. Even with the economic impact
of the recession, Hempel said the number of international
employees appears to be on the rise.  “It’s just the manifestation, in large part, of
globalization,” he said.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Cesca Antonelli at   fantonelli@bloomberg.net  