-- Pentagon Readies Sex-Assault Rules to Act Before Congress
-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 2013-08-09T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-08/pentagon-readies-sex-assault-rules-to-act-before-congress.html
The Pentagon is preparing to issue
policies aimed at curbing sexual assaults while stopping short
of measures some members of Congress are seeking to impose.  After months of criticism from lawmakers over a lax
response to sexual attacks in the military, the Defense
Department is circulating proposals for executive action,
including requiring that senior officers be alerted to assault
allegations and creating a “victim advocacy” program.  The proposals are being prepared as the military and its
allies on the armed services committees in Congress are lobbying
to defeat a proposal to remove major crimes, including sexual
assaults, from the chain of command and turn them over to
independent military prosecutors.  “The Pentagon taking action is a good thing, and these are
positive steps forward, but it is not the leap forward required
to solve the problem,” Senator  Kirsten Gillibrand , a  New York 
Democrat who’s leading the push for independent prosecutions,
said yesterday in an e-mailed statement.  The Defense Department has resisted the measure, saying
commanding officers must be able to discipline their own troops.
The military has won support in that position from lawmakers
including Senator  Carl Levin , the Michigan Democrat who heads
the Senate Armed Services committee, and Senator  Claire McCaskill , a Missouri Democrat who serves on the panel.  One policy in a draft Pentagon memo circulating on  Capitol
Hill  would require sexual-assault allegations and actions taken
to be reported to the first general or admiral in the chain of
command, a step designed to elevate the level of scrutiny such
cases receive.  Moving the Accused  Another provision would permit the administrative transfer
of a service member accused of committing a sexual assault so as
to better protect a victim. Currently, the person who says he or
she has been the victim sometimes is transferred from a unit.  The Pentagon proposals are similar to measures already
included in the House-passed version of the annual defense
authorization bill.  “It’s a way for the Pentagon to look like they’re taking
the initiative on these issues when these have been in the
sausage-making process for months and months,” said Greg Jacob,
policy director of the Service Women’s Action Network, a
victims’ advocacy group.  “They’re just simply doing what they would have been told
to do anyway,” Jacob, a former Marine, said in an interview.
“It’s really kind of silly, in a way.”  ‘Urgency’ Remains  Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel “has made it very clear that
he has not ruled out any options for improving the military’s
response to sexual assault,” Pentagon spokesman  George Little 
said yesterday in an e-mail.  “Our prevention and response programs are not static,”
Little said. “We continually evaluate our programs and seek
ways to improve them.”  While McCaskill considers the Pentagon’s move “another
positive development,” it “doesn’t detract from the urgency we
feel in enacting the historic reforms approved by the Senate
Armed Services committee,” said John LaBombard, her spokesman.  The Senate committee’s version of the defense authorization
bill would require a high-level review whenever a commanding
officer decides against pursuing prosecution of a sex-assault
allegation. It also would make retaliation against a victim who
reports an assault a criminal offense under military law.  Closing Loopholes  Navy Admiral James Winnefeld, vice chairman of the Joint
Chiefs of Staff, said in a speech last week that the policies
the Pentagon will soon offer are evidence of the Pentagon’s
determination to address a problem that President  Barack Obama 
has called “shameful and disgraceful” and Hagel has called a
“scourge” and a “blight” on the military.  A Pentagon survey of active-duty troops estimated there
were 26,000 cases of unwanted sexual contact last year, compared
with 2,949 victims identified in criminal reports.  “We’re closing any loopholes that the very few commanders
who don’t get it could find in avoiding holding people
accountable,” Winnefeld said in a panel discussion at the Navy
Memorial in Washington.  Jacob and other victims’ advocates say the draft policies,
which were reported Aug. 7 by the New York Times, amount to
half-measures that don’t address the crux of the problem: too
many victims are afraid to report assaults within their chain of
command.  Taryn Meeks, executive director of Protect Our Defenders,
an advocacy group backing Gillibrand’s bill, said the Pentagon’s
draft proposals are “good incremental changes but will not fix
the broken military justice system.”  The proposal to require reporting of assaults to a general
or admiral “still preserves decision-making within the chain of
command,” Meeks said in a statement. “Nothing short of an
independent, professional and impartial military justice system
will end this national disgrace.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Lerman in  Washington  at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  