-- Peru Likely to Keep 4.25% Rate After Bank’s Reserve Reductions
-- B y   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 2013-08-08T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-08/peru-likely-to-keep-4-25-rate-after-bank-s-reserve-reductions.html
Peru ’s central bank probably will
keep borrowing costs unchanged today for a 27th straight month
after reducing  reserve requirements  to counter slower growth.  The five-member board, led by bank President Julio Velarde,
will maintain the  overnight rate  at 4.25 percent, according to
all 13 economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg, matching  Malaysia  for
the longest interest-rate pause in  developing countries . The
decision will be announced at 6 p.m. Lima time.  Policy makers lowered reserve requirements effective Aug. 1
after growth lagged behind economists’ estimates in five of the
last six months due to a slump in metal exports. The central
bank will likely refrain from cutting  interest rates  today as
Peru remains Latin America’s fastest growing major economy on
the strength of robust domestic demand, said Hedmond Rios, an
economist at BTG Pactual in Santiago.  “The economy is growing very close to its potential,
private investment is healthy and consumer demand is growing at
a more sustainable pace,” Rios said. “In the next few months,
central bank policy will be limited to cuts in reserve
requirements.”  The central bank on Aug. 1 lowered the percentage of
depositors’ balances in soles and dollars that commercial banks
must have on hand as cash after credit expanded at the slowest
pace since December 2009, and the sol weakened to a two-year
low.  ‘Clear Signs’  The central bank began relaxing reserve requirements in
April after using the measures at least 36 times to tighten the
supply of either soles or dollars between February 2010 and
March this year.  “Clear signs of deceleration” leave the central bank
“trapped in a dilemma of its own,” said  Francisco Rodriguez ,
senior Andean economist at Bank of America Corp., in an e-mailed
note to clients Aug. 6. The bank runs “the risk of losing
credibility if it loosens monetary policy with both core and
headline inflation out of the target band. For now, it will
continue to hold the  reference rate  while possibly considering
some further cuts in reserve requirements.”  Speaking to reporters in Lima on July 24, Velarde said the
measure would potentially inject about 560 million soles ($200
million) and $150 million into the economy. Cutting reserve
requirements has an immediate impact, unlike changes to the
benchmark rate, and is designed to bolster demand, he said.  “Though consumption continues to be strong, there is a
slight deceleration,” Velarde said. “We’re trying to offset
that a little.”  Growth, Exports  Velarde reiterated the central bank’s 2013 economic growth
forecast of 6.1 percent nine days after the government on July
15 reported that the economy expanded 5 percent in May, below
the 5.5 percent median forecast of analysts in a Bloomberg
survey.  Slower growth in  China  and  Europe  has damped prices for
Peru’s copper and gold, which account for about half of the
South American country’s exports. Copper has declined 13 percent
in  New York  this year, and gold is down 23 percent.  Exports dropped 19 percent in June from a year earlier, and
imports fell 1 percent, the national statistics agency said Aug.
1. Peru had a record trade deficit of $404 million in May. The
agency reports June’s trade balance tomorrow.  Finance Minister Miguel Castilla has pledged to speed up
infrastructure investment and cut red tape after business
sentiment plunged to its lowest in at least a year in June,
according to the central bank.  Policy Limits  Cia. De Minas Buenaventura SAA, the country’s largest
precious metals producer, said July 30 it will close three mines
and scale back exploration.  Inretail Peru Corp., a Lima-based supermarket operator,
will slow the pace of store openings this year after consumer
demand slowed, Chief Financial Officer Augusto Rey told analysts
during a July 31 conference call.  Lower metal prices caused income tax revenue to fall 3.5
percent in June, the tax agency said July 8. The decline was
offset by a 5.4 percent rise in sales tax collections.  Construction and retail expansions will help mitigate the
external weakness, and policy makers won’t cut borrowing costs
unless they see clear signs of domestic demand slowing, said
Pedro Tuesta, a  Latin America  economist at 4Cast Inc.  “Growth will be weaker than the central bank was
anticipating,” Tuesta said in a phone interview from
 Washington . “The main reason is external demand for which the
central bank can do nothing.”  Higher food prices in July pushed the annual inflation rate
above the central bank’s target range of 1 percent to 3 percent
for the first time in nine months.  Consumer prices rose 0.55 percent, driving annual inflation
to 3.24 percent from 2.77 percent in June. Slower growth will
put inflation back below 3 percent by year-end, BTG Pactual’s
Rios said.  The Lima General stock index has plunged 27 percent this
year in local currency terms, the steepest decline among 94
primary indexes tracked by Bloomberg. The sol has weakened 8.8
percent over the same period. The central bank sold dollars in
the foreign exchange market last month for the first time since
May 2012 to stem declines in the sol.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Quigley in  Lima  at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  