-- Peru Keeps 4.25% Rate After Central Bank’s Reserve Reductions
-- B y   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 2013-09-12T23:02:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-08/peru-keeps-4-25-rate-after-central-bank-s-reserve-reductions.html
Peru ’s central bank kept borrowing
costs unchanged for a 28th straight month after reducing  reserve
requirements  to counter slower growth.  The five-member board, led by bank President Julio Velarde,
maintained the  overnight rate  at 4.25 percent, matching the
forecasts of all 15 economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg. Peru ties
 Malaysia  for the longest interest-rate pause in  developing
countries .  Policy makers lowered reserve requirements last month and
cut their 2013 growth forecast to 5.8 percent from 6.1 percent
three months ago after a slump in metal exports. A rise in
inflation above the central bank’s target range will prove
temporary, allowing the central bank to continue cutting reserve
requirements, HSBC Holdings Plc said in a Sept 9 report.  “We expect slower growth to tame inflation over the
coming months and allow the central bank to keep rates on hold
for the rest of this year,” said David Rees, an analyst at
Capital Economics Ltd in  London . “The next move in rates will
eventually be down if Chinese demand for metals exports weakens
and the Peruvian economy subsequently slows.”  The price of copper, Peru’s biggest export, has fallen 12
percent this year hurting business sentiment in the world’s
third-largest producer of the metal.  The  economy  expanded 4.4 percent in June, less than the 5
percent forecast by analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Growth has
lagged behind economists’ estimates in six of the last seven
months.  ‘Cycle Ended’  Exports fell 19.5 percent in July from a year earlier while
imports climbed 1 percent, leaving a record $486 million trade
 gap , the government’s statistics agency said Sept. 10.  Business sentiment is showing signs of improvement after
the government pledged to speed up approvals of permits and
reduce red tape slowing private investment to compensate for
weaker export demand, Finance Minister Miguel Castilla said Aug.
28. The government will maintain plans to boost investment by 20
percent this year, he said.  “Businesses are still investing but they realize the
economy has slowed down since the last quarter of last year and
that business plans were too optimistic so they revised them,”
said Pablo Secada, the chief economist at the Peruvian Economy
Institute in  Lima . “It’s not a self-fulfilling prophecy, it’s
just the cycle ended.”  The central bank has sold $3.3 billion of the U.S. currency
since July 2 to support the sol after the currency fell 8.2
percent in the first half of this year.  Depreciation has fueled imported price pressures and pushed
the  annual inflation rate  to 3.28 percent in August, above the
bank’s target range of 1 percent to 3 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Quigley in Lima at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  