-- Pimco, BlackRock Seek to Bar California Mortgage Seizures
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n ,   K a r e n   G u l l o   a n d   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n
-- 2013-08-08T23:37:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-08/pimco-blackrock-seek-to-bar-california-mortgage-seizures.html
Pacific Investment Management Co.,
 BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  and  Bank of New York Mellon Corp.  are seeking a
court order blocking Richmond, California, and Mortgage
Resolution Partners LLC from seizing mortgages through eminent
domain, saying the initiative would hurt savers and retirees.  The city’s plan is unconstitutional, according to
complaints filed yesterday by mortgage-bond trustees in federal
court in San Francisco. The trustees,  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  and
Deutsche Bank AG, were directed to take the action by investors
in the debt that also include  Jeffrey Gundlach ’s DoubleLine
Capital LP, said John Ertman, a partner at Ropes & Gray LLP.
Bank of New York said in a separate complaint the beneficiaries
of trusts it oversees include pension funds and mutual funds.  “Mortgage Resolution Partners is threatening to seriously
harm average Americans, including public pension members, other
retirees and individual savers through a brazen scheme to abuse
government powers for its own profit,” Ertman said in an e-mailed statement on behalf of investors.  The plan advanced last month with Richmond backing offers
to buy 624 loans, making it the first city to push the idea so
far forward. Those offers would need to be refused before the
city could follow through with its mayor’s vow to invoke its
potential powers to force sales of the mostly non-delinquent
loans, so that homeowners could get their debt balances cut to
less than the current  values  of their properties.  ‘Cease Business’  The  Federal Housing Finance Agency  said today in a
statement that it may direct  Fannie Mae (FNMA) , Freddie Mac and the
Federal Home Loan Banks “to limit, restrict or cease business
activities within the jurisdiction of any state or local
authority employing eminent domain to restructure mortgage loan
contracts.”  Andrew Wilson, a spokesman for Fannie Mae, and Thomas
Fitzgerald, a spokesman for Freddie Mac, said the companies were
among the investors authorizing Wells Fargo and Deutsche Bank to
sue. The government-controlled firms guarantee almost 70 percent
of new mortgages.  The program would harm owners of mortgage bonds by paying
them too little for loans, as well as damage communities by
drying up lending, at least 18 trade groups representing asset
managers, bankers, real-estate firms and builders have said in
past statements. Costs to investors could exceed $200 million
just on loans in Richmond, according to the Wells Fargo
complaint.  Court Scrutiny  Proponents of the plan including Cornell University law
professor Robert Hockett and Steven Gluckstern’s Mortgage
Resolution Partners, which is advising municipalities and lining
up private funds that would profit as the buyer of the loans,
dispute those claims. They  have said  that the plan will survive
court scrutiny.  At least a dozen cities still dealing with the fallout of
worst slump in home prices since the Great Depression are
studying the eminent domain idea. Others include El Monte,
 California , North Las Vegas,  Nevada , and Irvington, New Jersey.
Communities such as San Bernardino County, California, and
 Chicago  abandoned the plan after considering it last year.  Under the program that Mortgage Resolution Partners has
pitched, a private investment fund would buy loans from bond
trusts for amounts less than current property values. The prices
would be based on financial models or comparable trades and
sanctioned by courts.  The mortgages would then be reduced and homeowners
 refinanced  into new debt insured by the Federal Housing
Administration.  Interstate Commerce  Richmond’s plan would harm interstate commerce because
lenders will be less willing to underwrite mortgages and
investor confidence in the market for mortgage-backed securities
and “by extension, the national housing market and national
economy” would be undermined, according to the complaint by
Wells Fargo and Deutsche Bank.  The plan is also discriminatory because it targets only
certain loans, the trustees alleged. It violates California and
U.S. constitutional protections against impairing private
contracts and the taking of private property for public use
without just compensation, according to the complaint.  Richmond Mayor Gayle McLaughlin said she expected the legal
challenges, called them mertiless and alleged that U.S. housing
agency threats to limit business in Richmond is “redlining,”
the practice of refusing to make loans in specific
neighborhoods.  ‘Massive Injustices’  “We are offering to take the loans for fair market value
and that’s what this is all about,” she said by phone. “To
threaten redlining to our community, when they have already
suffered clearly massive injustices, it’s just setting us
back.”  Richmond has until Aug. 22 to respond to the bondholders’
request for a court injunction. A hearing on request is
scheduled for Sept. 13, according to a court filing.  Hockett, the Cornell professor, said the Wells Fargo
lawsuit makes the same arguments he has previously called
unsound.  “It’s essentially another stage in their strategy to scare
cities,” Hockett said yesterday in a telephone interview. “The
industry is essentially trying to head them off at the pass.”  Mortgage Resolution Partners, which is based in San
Francisco, has reviewed the Wells Fargo suit and is confident it
can prevail in court, Gluckstern said in an e-mail.  “No investor in any trust will be made worse off by the
sale of any loan. Rather, it is these trustees that are wasting
trust assets at the expense of America’s pensioners by pursuing
fruitless litigation,” Gluckstern said. “Sadly, the financial
institutions that brought us this crisis are yet again part of
the problem rather than part of the solution.”  Foreclosures, Blight  The goal of the eminent domain plan is to help communities
by fending off foreclosures that cause blight and create other
costs, according to its supporters. The 32 loan servicers and
bond trustees that received letters seeking voluntary sales of
the Richmond loans were told they must respond by Aug. 13, said
Mortgage Resolution Partners Chief Strategy Officer John
Vlahoplus.  The initiative has targeted mainly the loans of borrowers
who are current on their payments, which make up 444 of the
initial batch in Richmond, where the city council still hasn’t
formally authorized the use of eminent domain. Mayor McLaughlin
vowed to take the step on a July 30 call with reporters.  Richmond is a largely blue-collar city of 106,000 north of
San Francisco with long ties to heavy industry where almost half
of mortgages have higher values than the homes they finance.  Freddie Mac  The ultimate investors in the securities whose trustees
sued yesterday “include state and local pension plans, 401(k)
plans, college savings plans, insurance companies, mutual funds,
university endowments, and government-sponsored enterprises”
according to the Wells Fargo complaint.  Pacific Investment Management Co., known as Pimco, manages
the world’s largest bond fund, while BlackRock is the biggest
asset management company. Bank of New York sued in its role as
trustee of trusts created to hold the loans.The bank received a
letter from Richmond demanding to purchase more than 100 loans
from the trusts, the bank said in its complaint.  Freddie Mac (FMCC)  is also unhappy with the “threat” of eminent
domain being invoked, William McDavid, its general counsel, said
yesterday on conference call with reporters. While loans in
mortgage bonds guaranteed by the company and rival Fannie Mae
aren’t being targeted, the firms also own non-agency securities.  Under Water  Eminent domain, the right of governments to take private
property for the public good while providing fair compensation
to the owner, has typically been used to seize real estate, such
as to build highways or parks.  Richmond’s planned use is a legacy of the  housing bubble 
that began to burst seven years ago, leaving millions of
Americans owing more than the value of their properties even
after prices began recovering last year.  About 25 percent of U.S. homes with a mortgage, or 13
million properties, were under water in the first quarter of
this year, according to Zillow Inc., a real-estate information
firm. The housing recovery and foreclosures reduced the amount
from 31 percent a year earlier.  At the same time, the share of mortgages held by bonds
without government backing defaulting for the first time fell to
a 5.2 percent annualized pace as of July data, from 7.5 percent
a year earlier and almost 20 percent in 2009, according to a
Aug. 6 report by Amherst Securities Group LP.  The cases are Wells Fargo Bank v. City of Richmond,
13-3663, and Bank of New York Mellon v City of Richmond,
13-3664, U.S. District Court, Northern District of California
(San Francisco).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jody Shenn in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net ;
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net ;
John Gittelsohn in Los Angeles at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  