-- Pimco’s Gross Vows to Win Bond ‘War’ After Redemptions
-- B y   S r e e   V i d y a   B h a k t a v a t s a l a m   a n d   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2013-08-08T14:20:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-08/pimco-s-gross-vows-to-win-bond-war-after-redemptions.html
Bill Gross , manager of the world’s
biggest bond fund, urged investors to stick with him after
losses since May prompted client redemptions.  “We are confident that we know how to win this evolving
bond war,” Gross, co-chief investment officer of  Newport Beach ,
California-based Pacific Investment Management Co., wrote in a
commentary posted today on the firm’s website. “Stick with
Pimco, we’re going to win this new war.”  Pimco is preparing for an era of lower fixed-income returns
after unprecedented investor deposits into bonds since 2008,
which helped the firm more than double assets to $2 trillion in
the past five years. That trend may be reversing as investors
pulled money from Gross’s  Pimco Total Return Fund (PTTRX)  for three
straight months following a selloff in debt markets, triggered
by Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s comments that the
central bank may pare back bond purchases.  Under Chief Executive Officer Mohamed El-Erian, Pimco has
been expanding into stocks and bond strategies that can weather
the impact of rising interest rates and declining market
returns. Those shifts didn’t insulate Pimco from record
withdrawals in June, when investors pulled $14.5 billion from
the firm’s U.S. mutual funds, according to  Morningstar Inc. (MORN)  in
 Chicago . Clients have removed $18.7 billion from Gross’s Total
Return fund since May, Morningstar estimates.  Gross’s $262 billion Pimco Total Return Fund has declined
2.3 percent this year, trailing 61 percent of rivals, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. Over the past five years, the
fund has advanced 7.4 percent, beating 89 percent of peers.  ‘Mea Culpa’  Gross, 69, acknowledged this year’s underperformance,
saying the “strategic execution” in May and June “can and has
been publicly faulted.” A bet on inflation-linked  Treasuries (USGG10YR) 
hurt Gross this year after the market fell on muted expectations
for rising prices.  Gross made another bad bet on Treasuries 2 1/2 years ago.
In February 2011, he eliminated his allocation to Treasuries,
only to miss out on a rally in  government bonds  that left Pimco
Total Return trailing 70 percent of peers. Gross, in a letter to
clients at the time titled “ Mea Culpa ,” called 2011 a
“stinker.” His fund lost an estimated $5 billion to
withdrawals that year, according to Morningstar.  ‘Unconstrained’ Strategies  Bond managers need to adapt to an era of lower fixed-income
returns by being flexible and embracing “unconstrained”
strategies that protect investors from market risks, Gross said
today.  “Unconstrained strategies, alternative assets and stocks
will be flexible choices in a dynamic future environment,”
Gross wrote. “We want to continue managing them for you. But
don’t give up on bonds.”  Even though extending the maturity of bond portfolios as a
way to obtain higher returns “will work less well with yields
close to zero,” investors can still profit with fixed-income
securities by focusing on the difference in yields between
different types of credit, non-U.S. dollar-denominated debt and
bonds with higher volatility, Gross wrote.  Bonds issued by less than Aaa-rated sovereign nations as
well as corporations contain “credit risk,” which causes their
yields to be greater than those of countries such as the U.S.,
providing an opportunity for bond investors, Gross wrote in his
commentary. Investors also require more compensation for bonds
perceived to have greater risk of yield swings, or “volatility
premium.” Trading strategies that profit from movements in
yield differentials between debt of different maturities, the
so-called yield curve, will be another avenue for bond fund
managers to garner profits, Gross wrote.  “We know maturity/duration extension is becoming a tired
horse, but it may still have a place on the battlefield under
certain conditions,” Gross wrote in the note. “Total carry, or
the total ‘yield,’ of a portfolio is Pimco’s dominant focus, not
duration reduction.”  Duration measures a security’s price sensitivity to changes
in yields and generally increases with maturity.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sree Vidya Bhaktavatsalam in Boston at 
 sbhaktavatsa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  