-- Potash Corp. Bonds Teeter Toward Junk in Price-Cut Threat
-- B y   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r
-- 2013-08-08T17:46:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-08/potash-corp-bonds-teeter-toward-junk-on-price-cut-threat.html
Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc.
bonds are heading toward junk status on wagers the breakup of
one of the two marketing groups for the crop nutrient will lead
to lower prices.  Potash Corp.’s implied rating has fallen to BBB-, one level
above speculative grade, based on the cost to insure against
losses in the company’s bonds, according to calculations from
 Standard & Poor’s . The drop comes after  Russia ’s  OAO Uralkali (URKA) ,
the largest potash producer, promised to increase output and
quit a partnership with a Belarus company that controlled potash
supplies from the former  Soviet Union . The implied rating before
Uralkali’s July 30 announcement was BBB+, already below S&P’s A- long-term rating .  The venture that Uralkali is abandoning is one of two that
until now have controlled most of the world’s supply by
negotiating fixed-term supply contracts on behalf of their
members. That means the potash companies don’t compete with each
other individually in export markets, helping them to match
production with demand. Potash prices could fall 30 percent as
the other marketing group, Canpotex Ltd., consisting of  Potash
Corp. (POT) , Mosaic Co. and Agrium Inc., increases its own production,
according to S&P.  “What is very helpful in a cartel-like environment is
stability; when that unwinds, it can be very volatile and
violent,” Ric Palombi, a fixed-income portfolio manager at
McLean & Partners Wealth Management Ltd., said in an Aug. 6
phone interview from Calgary. “You either got to have a strong
stomach to hold it through this, or you just got to bail and
wait for a better day.”  Palombi said he does not own Potash Corp. bonds.  Ability Unquestioned  A spokesman for Potash Corp. said pricing in the secondary
market “has changed very little.”  “We are not in a situation at this time where we need to
access debt markets, but if we were, we would have no issue,”
Tim Herrod, director of treasury at Potash, said by phone
yesterday from Saskatoon, Saskatchewan. “Our ability to raise
cash in the debt market is certainly not in question.”  S&P cut its outlook on Saskatoon-based Potash’s credit
rating to negative from stable on Aug. 6, citing the threat of
lower prices.  Agrium, Mosaic  The implied rating for Calgary-based Agrium,  North
America ’s third-largest potash miner, was BBB- Aug. 7,  David
Fisher , a credit analyst at S&P, said by phone from Toronto
yesterday. The company currently has a BBB  rating  on Agrium.  Plymouth, Minnesota-based Mosaic’s implied credit rating is
A-, two levels higher than S&P’s current BBB  rating  on the
company, Fisher said.  Elsewhere in credit markets,  Canada ’s benchmark 10-year
bonds rose today, with  yields  falling two basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, to 2.48 percent at 1:41 p.m. Toronto time. The
price of the 1.5 percent security maturing in June 2023 added 15
cents to C$91.51.  Bank of  Nova Scotia  sold C$750 million ($719 million) of
bonds maturing in August 2018 with a coupon of 2.75 percent.  The extra yield investors demand to own Canadian
investment-grade corporate debt rather than the federal
government’s fell one basis point to 121 basis points yesterday
from the day before, according to the Bank of America Merrill
Lynch Canada Corporate Index. Yields decreased to 3.17 percent,
from 3.19 percent on Aug. 6.  Provincial Bonds  Spreads on provincial bonds declined one basis point to 72
basis points yesterday from Aug. 6, Bank of America’s Canadian
Provincial & Municipal Index showed. Yields fell to 2.99
percent, from 3.01 percent.  Provincial securities have dropped 2.7 percent this year,
corporate bonds have gained 0.04 percent and federal-government
debt has lost 2.1 percent, Merrill Lynch index data show.  The  Bank of Canada  auctioned C$2.7 billion of three-year
bonds yesterday, with an average yield of 1.373 percent. The 1
percent securities due in August 2016 drew C$7.1 billion in bids
for a bid-to-cover ratio of 2.64. The average ratio at the past
five sales of the debt was 2.76.  The  implied risk  of Potash Corp., Canada’s largest producer
of the substance, missing a debt payment in the next 12 months
increased to 0.03 percent, its highest in about 10 months,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Agrium’s (AGU)  one-year
implied risk of default rose to 0.07 percent, the highest in
about a year, the data show.  Uralkali’s move to stop cooperating with its Belarus
marketing partner and increase annual production to 13 million
tons next year from 10.5 million may reduce prices to below $300
a ton, according to Uralkali Chief Executive Officer Vladislav Baumgertner. That would be at least 25 percent below the latest
contract price for  China  and the lowest since January 2010.  Prices Down  Potash isn’t traded on public exchanges. Prices for potash
for delivery at  Vancouver ’s port have fallen to $410 a ton, 19
percent less than a year earlier, according to data from Green
Markets, a fertilizer-industry information provider that is a
unit of Bloomberg LP, the parent of  Bloomberg News .  Producers in Canada and the former Soviet Union accounted
for 56 percent of world potash supply last year, according to
Green Markets.  Lower potash prices wouldn’t threaten an ongoing expansion
of production capacity at Potash Corp.’s existing mines to 17.1
million metric tons a year, Bill Doyle, chief executive officer,
said yesterday in a webcast.  Projects, begun in 2003, are almost 90 percent completed,
and Doyle said he doesn’t expect lower potash prices would
hinder the company’s ability to pay dividends.  ‘Getting Squeezed’  “The reason for a possible downgrade is your primary
product is selling at a lower price,” said Keith Hoppe, who
helps manage $82 billion, including Potash Corp. bonds, as an
analyst at Thrivent Financial for Lutherans. He spoke by phone
from  Minneapolis . “If production doesn’t change and management
doesn’t do anything else, your margins are just getting
squeezed.”  The premium investors demand to own the debt of Potash
Corp. over government benchmarks has increased 22 basis points,
to 139 basis points, from the day before Uralkali’s announcement
through Aug. 6, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch data.
Agrium spreads widened 13 basis points, to 182 basis points, the
data show.  With $3.5 billion total debt outstanding, Potash Corp.’s
 ratio  of debt to earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation
and amortization was 0.98 times at the end of the second
quarter. If lower prices for the commodity hurt profitability,
that ratio could double to two times debt to Ebitda, S&P’s
Fisher wrote in an Aug. 6 note.  “Given what we’ve got as the balance sheet today, the
rating should be lower,” Thrivent Financial’s Hoppe said.  Agrium has $3.9 billion total debt for a debt-to-Ebitda
 ratio  of 1.5 times at the end of the first quarter, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Mosaic has the least  debt  with $1
billion total at the end of their last fiscal year for a ratio
of 0.38 times, the data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Altstedter in Toronto at 
 aaltstedter@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Robert Burgess  at 
 rburgess@bloomberg.net  