-- Pound Climbs to Seven-Week High After Carney Inflation Comments
-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a   a n d   N e a l   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2013-08-08T15:37:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-08/pound-approaches-seven-week-high-after-boe-inflation-forecast.html
The pound strengthened to a seven-week high against the dollar after Bank of England Governor Mark Carney reiterated policy makers’ commitment to bring down
inflation, fueling speculation interest rates will rise.  Sterling was within 0.4 percent of the strongest in a month
versus the euro as Carney said on BBC Radio 4’s “Today”
program that “without question” inflation at 2 percent is the
target. The pound jumped 0.9 percent against the dollar
yesterday as the central bank’s  Inflation Report  and review of
forward guidance fueled speculation the outlook for growth and
inflation will prevent it from keeping borrowing costs at a
record low. U.K. government bonds were little changed.  “Carney has emphasized that inflation is the primary
target,” said Thu Lan Nguyen, a currency strategist at
Commerzbank AG in  Frankfurt . “The market now that it has more
clarity about monetary policy, it can factor in the recently
better-than-expected economic data from the U.K.”  The pound advanced 0.4 percent to $1.5550 at 4:32 p.m.
London time after rising to $1.5574, the highest level since
June 19. Sterling was little changed at 86.10 pence per euro
after advancing to 85.79 pence yesterday, the strongest since
July 10.  Inflation “has been above 2 percent for too long” and
“we’re trying to strike the right balance,” Carney said on BBC
Radio. “This is a tactic, it’s a way of operating the inflation
targeting regime. We still have the same regime.”  Record Low  The Bank of England’s nine-member Monetary Policy Committee
kept its benchmark  interest rate  at a record-low 0.5 percent at
its most recent meeting on July 31-Aug. 1, where it has been
since March 2009. The next review will be Sept. 4-5.  The U.K. currency has strengthened 1 percent in the past
month, according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes that
track 10 developed-nation currencies, amid signs Britain’s
economy is recovering. The euro also rose 1 percent, while the
dollar slid 3.3 percent.  U.K. manufacturing  expanded more in July than economists
forecasts in July, Markit Economics and the Chartered Institute
of Purchasing and Supply said on Aug. 1. Home values increased
for a sixth month in July, Halifax said on Aug. 6, while a
government report the same day showed  industrial production 
rebounded in June.  Highly Skeptical  Sterling is unlikely to remain above $1.55 as better-than-expected economic data may have raised investor expectations,
while there is an increased risk that inflation will weaken U.K.
competitiveness, according to Vasileios Gkionakis, head of
global foreign-exchange strategy at UniCredit SpA in London.  “We feel highly skeptical about the sustainability of the
pound rally and think that the odds are for sterling weakness in
the medium term,” he wrote in an e-mailed report today. “We
remain comfortable with our year-end forecast of $1.50.”  The pound will weaken to $1.48 by year-end, according to
the median estimate of analysts in a Bloomberg survey. It last
traded at that level in June 2010.  The benchmark 10-year gilt yield was at 2.48 percent after
rising to 2.56 percent yesterday, the highest since June 25. The
price of the 1.75 percent bond due September 2022 was at 94.10.  Gilts have lost investors 3.4 percent this year through
yesterday, according to Bloomberg World Bond Indexes. Treasuries
dropped 2.6 percent and German bonds declined 1.4 percent.  The Debt Management Office sold 1.3 billion pounds of
inflation-linked bonds maturing in March 2034 today at an
average real yield of 0.08 percent, down from 0.126 percent when
the U.K. last sold 20-year index-linked securities in September.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net ;
Neal Armstrong in  London  at 
 narmstrong8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Dobson at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  