-- Priceline Nears Bubble-Era Record on European Bookings
-- B y   C a l l i e   B o s t   a n d   A r i   L e v y
-- 2013-08-10T20:00:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-08/priceline-revenue-tops-analyst-estimates-on-international-growth.html
(Corrects closing share price in second paragraph of a
story that was published yesterday.)  The four-year  European debt crisis 
can’t seem to stop  Priceline.com Inc. (PCLN) ’s march to a $1,000 stock
price and a record that was set during the dot-com bubble.  Priceline, the largest U.S. online-travel agent by market
value, jumped 3.9 percent to $969.89 at the close in New York
after reporting second-quarter  sales  that exceeded analysts’
estimates. Earlier, the shares rose as high as $994.98, topping
an all-time high on a split-adjusted basis of $990 in 1999.  Since purchasing Amsterdam-based Booking.com in 2005,
Priceline has counted on the European hotel reservation business
for the bulk of its growth. Even with the economies of  Spain ,
 Greece , Ireland and  Portugal  requiring bailouts during  Europe ’s
financial crisis that began in 2009, Priceline has bolstered its
 overseas business . International bookings surged 44 percent in
the second-quarter from a year earlier, accounting for 85
percent of total bookings.  “When macroeconomic conditions were at their worst in the
past year or so, Priceline’s international hotel business, the
majority of which is in Europe, displayed extraordinary
resiliency,” said Thomas White, an analyst at Macquarie Capital
USA in  New York , who has the equivalent of a buy rating on the
stock. “The business has held up well through this and seemed
to have emerged from the worst.”  Second-quarter revenue jumped 27 percent to $1.68 billion
from $1.33 billion a year earlier, the Norwalk, Connecticut-based company said yesterday. Analysts on average had  projected 
sales of $1.66 billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Overseas Growth  International bookings climbed to $8.6 billion from
$6 billion a year earlier. In addition to the Booking.com
acquisition, Priceline bought Bangkok-based Agoda.com in 2007 to
expand its hotel reservation business in  Asia .  “We still view it as a challenging environment from an
economic perspective,” Jeffery Boyd, Priceline’s chief
executive officer, said on yesterday’s conference call. “We
were relatively pleased with the growth rates we saw in
Europe.”  Priceline’s top rival isn’t faring as well.  Expedia Inc. (EXPE) 
reported second-quarter profit and revenue last month that
missed analysts’ estimates, leading to a 27 percent plunge in
the stock, the steepest in eight years. The Bellevue,
Washington-based company cited weakness in Southern Europe and
reduced traffic from  TripAdvisor Inc. (TRIP) ’s site.  Priceline  shares  have gained 56 percent this year, compared
with Expedia’s 18 percent drop.  Captain Kirk  When Priceline reached its bubble-era record, the company
was known for its name-your-own-price option for airlines,
hotels and other services and for its pitchman  William Shatner .
Between April 1999 and October 2000, a period when scores of
dot-com companies failed, Priceline lost 97 percent of its
market value.  “Congratulations to @Priceline on their stock price,”
Shatner said in a Twitter Inc. post. “Wish I hadn’t sold my
stock all those years ago.”  Chris Carley, a spokesman for Shatner, didn’t respond to a
telephone call or e-mail for comment on his gains.  While Shatner, who played Captain Kirk on the “Star Trek”
TV series, still promotes the brand, the company is very
different with most of its revenue coming from hotels overseas.
The number of hotel room nights sold rose 38 percent to 69.4
million from 50.2 million. Airline tickets sold increased 1.8
percent to 1.7 million.  Orbitz Rally  Net income at Priceline rose 24 percent to $437.3 million,
or $8.39 a share, from $352.4 million, or $6.88, a year earlier,
the company said.  “It was an extremely good quarter for Priceline,” said
Ron Josey, an analyst at JMP Securities in New York, who has the
equivalent of a buy rating on the stock. “The thesis that they
took market share has played out.”  Orbitz Worldwide Inc. (OWW) , another online agent, has also
rallied in the past year and got a further boost yesterday after
forecasting 2013 sales that exceeded analysts’ estimates. The
 stock  jumped 37 percent to $12.62, a six-year high.  Priceline’s revenue in the third quarter will increase 23
percent to 30 percent, the company said. Analysts on average
expect sales to rise 29 percent to $2.2 billion, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  To diversify its business, Priceline  acquired  travel search
engine Kayak Software Corp. for $1.8 billion in a deal that
closed in May. Expedia is also competing in that market after
buying a $630 million majority stake in  Germany ’s Trivago
earlier this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Callie Bost in New York at 
 cbost2@bloomberg.net ;
Ari Levy in  San Francisco  at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  