-- Progressive Seeks to Monitor More Drivers as 40% Say No
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r   a n d   M e g a n   H i c k e y
-- 2013-08-08T20:10:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-08/progressive-seeks-to-monitor-more-drivers-as-40-say-no-way.html
Progressive Corp. (PGR) , the fourth-largest
U.S. auto insurer, is searching for the right message to attract
customers to a product that tracks a person’s driving to set
rates, Chief Executive Officer Glenn Renwick said.  Surveys of prospective Snapshot users have shown that “you
get about 30 percent of people saying, ‘Yeah, why not?’; you get
another 30 percent of people saying, ‘Maybe, I need to know
more’; and you get about 40 percent of people saying, ‘No way in
hell,’” Renwick said today on a  conference call  to discuss
results at the Mayfield Village, Ohio-based company.  Progressive has sought to build acceptance for Snapshot
after a campaign that Renwick called “very acceptable, but
short of a breakout” in a  letter  to investors this week. The
insurer has been counting on the technology to encourage safer
habits behind the wheel and help identify the most valuable
customers. Some have shunned the product, citing privacy
concerns, Renwick said today.  Selling Snapshot has been “a bigger burden” than many in
the company would have assumed given that it can lower
customers’ rates, he said. “Intellectually, I kind of go ‘Why
wouldn’t 100 percent of people take this option?’”  The insurer has increased the percentage of its customers
at its direct channel who have tried Snapshot to about 35
percent from 20 percent two years ago, he said. Part of that
gain has come from advertising how people who don’t take
advantage of the product could be subsidizing others. In one
 “Rate Suckers”  television spot, a spokeswoman says people who
behave worse behind the wheel make “driving more expensive for
the rest of us.”  ‘Body Punching’  The base of premiums from the product total  $1.8 billion ,
Progressive said in a report on second-quarter results. Premium
revenue from individual clients was about $14.4 billion in 2012,
a total that includes policies covering autos, motorcycles,
watercraft and other vehicles. The direct channel includes
customers who sign up by Internet, rather than through agents.  Progressive rose 2 cents to $25.66 at 4 p.m. in New York.
Shares gained 22 percent this year, compared with the 31 percent
rally in the 22-company Standard & Poor’s 500 Insurance Index.  Renwick said there is more work to be done on Snapshot.  “We’re body-punching here,” he said. “We’re trying to
find the message that actually moves the needle. I think we now
understand how significant a burden it is to try to educate
consumers to do something that was not the natural buying or
engagement process.”  Rodgers, Krasinski  Progressive has sought an edge over competitors as it
fights for an increasing share of the $175 billion in annual
U.S. auto insurance premiums. The company has gained scale along
with the Geico unit of  Warren Buffett ’s  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) 
in recent years by emphasizing low prices and selling directly
to consumers over the Internet.  Advertising costs for auto insurers have ballooned in
recent years, as carriers turned to celebrities including  Aaron Rodgers  and John Krasinski to pitch their products. Geico spent
more than $1 billion in 2012, according to  data  compiled by SNL
Financial. Allstate Corp. was No. 2 at $828.8 million, followed
by State Farm Mutual Automobile Insurance Co. at $777.9 million
and Progressive with $526 million, the data show.  Snapshot helped open a new front in the competition for
customers. Progressive patented the device and has been
asserting its intellectual property rights. It struck a deal in
June with the United Services Automobile Association to license
the technology.  Buffett said at Berkshire’s annual shareholders meeting in
May that auto insurers are watching what Progressive does “with
interest,” even though Geico has no plans to roll out a similar
product. There are other ways to segment customers, he said.  Berkshire’s 82-year-old chairman and CEO said that he’s
less likely to get in an accident than a 16-year-old male.
Buffett quipped that’s because the younger man is “trying to
impress the girls.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Noah Buhayar in  New York  at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net ;
Megan Hickey in New York at 
 Mhickey18@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  