-- Providing Good Journalism Isn’t Complicated
-- B y   J o h n   T h o r n t o n
-- 2013-08-08T13:08:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-08/providing-good-journalism-isn-t-complicated.html
My father used to say that there are
two kinds of people in the world: those who do what they say
they are going to do, and everybody else. I thought of that
maxim when I heard that the Graham family was selling the
Washington Post to  Jeff Bezos , the chief executive officer of
 Amazon (AMZN) .com Inc.  When Amazon went public in 1997, Bezos was the frontman,
evangelizing his vision of not only the world’s biggest
bookstore but also the world’s dominant retailer. This, from the
CEO of a company that was losing money hand over fist and had
sold its first book 22 months earlier. Even amid the frothiness
of the time, this seemed a bit beyond the pale. I remember
thinking some variant of YRW: “yeah, right, whatever.”  Shows what I  know . In less than a generation, Amazon has
become the world’s second-most-valuable retailer as well as a
cultural phenomenon that touches almost every corner of our
online experience. Somewhere along the way, I capitulated. This
is clearly a guy who does what he says.  So as a venture capitalist with a public-service-journalism
habit, I am considerably cheered by the Grahams’ choice of Bezos
as a buyer. He says that he will honor the Post’s values
(presumably and primarily, journalism over profit) and put the
reader first. To the casual observer, these may sound like
throwaway lines. But if he really means them, they are anything
but.  The big problem with public companies owning newspapers is
that their leaders can’t credibly commit to putting the reader
first by valuing journalism over profit. As fiduciaries,
executives of public companies owe their loyalty to
shareholders, not readers, which means focusing on value
maximization, not values.  Public Good  These well-intentioned souls often mutter some version of
“it’s complicated,” but it really isn’t.  I’m a member of a group that believes that much of what
journalism organizations such as the Post provide is a public
good -- another way of saying that such journalism can’t
reliably pay for itself and represents a failure of free
markets.  I’d wager that the Grahams agree. And I would bet that they
courageously sold to Bezos not only because they know him well
but also because he  recognizes  a market failure when he sees
one.  Let’s take Bezos at his word and assume that he will seek
to maximize the Post’s societal impact rather than his return on
investment. Although that may not constitute philanthropy per
se, it’s a strong statement of his public-service priorities. My
fervent wish is that other business leaders will follow his
example. And for those who can’t afford to buy the whole
enterprise and run it in the public trust, favoring nonprofit
news organizations with their philanthropy serves the purpose as
well.  In the words of the Atlantic’s James Fallows, perhaps this
marks “the beginning of a phase in which this Gilded Age’s
major beneficiaries re-invest in the infrastructure of our
public intelligence.” Wouldn’t that be something? Given the
well-documented travails of the business of journalism, it’s an
infrastructure with considerable deferred maintenance.  ( John Thornton  is founder of the Texas Tribune and general
partner at Austin Ventures LP.)  To contact the writer of this article:
John Thornton at  jthornton@austinventures.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at  kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 