-- Puerto Rico Electric Bonds Rally With Bond Demand Doubled
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e
-- 2013-08-08T19:10:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-08/puerto-rico-electric-bonds-rally-with-bond-demand-doubled.html
Puerto Rico  electric bonds gained in
value a day after the biggest U.S. public-power utility received
orders for more than twice the $673 million in debt it sold.  Puerto Rico Electric Power Authority bonds, rated one step
above junk by Moody’s Investors Service and maturing July 2043,
traded today with yields as low as 7.02 percent, data compiled
by Bloomberg show. That’s 2.49 percentage points above top-rated
munis of similar maturity and down from 7.12 percent yesterday.
Yields move in the opposite direction of prices.  The electric agency boosted the sale by $73 million, to
$673 million, after receiving $1.5 billion of orders from
investors, Jose Pagan, interim president at Puerto Rico’s
Government Development Bank, said in a statement. The bank
handles the island’s capital-markets transactions. It was the
biggest sale from a commonwealth borrower in more than a year,
Bloomberg data show.  More than 60 institutional investors participated in the
deal, according to Pagan. Muni-bond funds purchased about 50
percent of the deal, with investors who typically buy taxable
debt accounting for 10 percent of the sale, said Lauren Bellmare, a spokeswoman for Morgan Stanley, the lead
underwriter, in an e-mail. Individual buyers purchased about
five percent, Bellmare said.  The agency borrowed as investors, spooked by rising
interest rates and  Detroit ’s record bankruptcy, pulled $4.86
billion from muni mutual funds in the four weeks through July
24, the most since February 2011, Lipper US Fund Flows data
show.  “It’s a big positive that in this kind of market, this
type of deal can get done,” said Daniel Solender, who helps
manage $19.5 billion of munis at Lord Abbett & Co. in  Jersey
City ,  New Jersey  and declined to say whether his firm
participated in the deal. The sale required “more traditional,
fund-type buyers to get it done.”  -- Editors: William Glasgall, Justin Blum  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Kaske in  New York  at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
William Glasgall at 
 wglasgall@bloomberg.net  