-- Rail Agency Probes Possible Safety Flaws in Crude Transit
-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 2013-08-08T15:41:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-08/rail-agency-probes-possible-safety-flaws-in-crude-transit.html
The Federal Railroad Administration
said it is investigating the safety of transporting crude oil by
rail, including whether chemicals used in hydraulic fracturing
are corroding tank cars.  Regulators in July 29 a letter to the  American Petroleum
Institute , a Washington-based lobbying and standards-setting
group for the oil and gas industry, said the chemical
composition of the crude is sometimes misclassified at a lower
hazard level, violating existing safety rules.  In some cases, the tank cars shipping the hazardous
material may not be equipped with “required design
enhancements,” the FRA said in the letter sent three weeks
after a deadly explosion in Quebec of a train hauling oil.  “FRA recommends that shippers evaluate their processes for
testing, classifying and packaging the crude oil” that they
transport, according to the letter.  The agency said it may fine companies that it finds aren’t
complying with rules for transporting hazardous materials.  The U.S. agency is investigating after a parked 72-car
train with crude oil from North Dakota’s Bakken started to roll,
derailed and exploded in the town of Lac-Megantic in  Quebec ,
killing 47 people. A wall of flames 12 stories high incinerated
buildings in the town’s center.  Canadian regulators are testing the chemical composition of
the fuel being transported. One question is why the derailment
led to such an intense inferno, which regulators have said was
“abnormal.”  North Dakota  “We did take samples from the tank cars to get a better
understanding of what was actually carried in them and verifying
that against the shipping documents,” said Chris Krepski, a
spokesman for the Transportation Safety Board of  Canada .  Investigators went to North Dakota as part of their review,
he said.  The letter to API, reported earlier today by the Wall
Street Journal, notes that the number of crude shipments has
increased 443 percent since 2005.  North Dakota  accounts for much
of the increase. About 75 percent of North Dakota’s oil is
shipped by rail, with the rest over pipeline.  Hydraulic fracturing in shale rock formations has pushed
U.S. oil production to the highest levels in two decades, with
trains hauling much of the increased production.  Tanker Corrosion  In fracking, drillers pump chemicals, water and sand deep
underground to break apart rock so that trapped oil and gas can
flow to the surface. Some of the chemicals come back up with the
oil and can be corrosive to the tank cars, according the FRA.  “Proper identification of these elements will enable a
shipper to ensure the reliability of the tank car,” according
to the letter.  As part of its investigation, regulators said they are
seeking data that would support the shippers’ classification of
the crude being transported.  Last week, the Federal Railroad Administration imposed
emergency rules to prevent parked trains from rolling on their
own. The order prohibits operators from leaving trains carrying
hazardous materials unattended without prior authorization and
requires employees to tell dispatchers the number of hand brakes
used.  Canadian investigators have said that not enough force was
applied to the hand brakes to keep the train from moving.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  