-- Ranbaxy Poised for Biggest Increase in Four Years: Mumbai Mover
-- B y   B h u m a   S h r i v a s t a v a
-- 2013-08-08T06:40:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-08/ranbaxy-poised-for-biggest-increase-in-four-years-mumbai-mover.html
Ranbaxy Laboratories Ltd. (RBXY) ,  India ’s
biggest drugmaker, had the sharpest gain in four years after
reporting earnings that signaled sales in the U.S. were
improving.  Shares of the Gurgaon, India-based company  surged  13
percent to 318.25 rupees at 12:08 p.m. in Mumbai, poised for the
biggest gain since May 2009. The company reported a profit of
1.35 billion rupees ($22 million) excluding foreign-exchange
related losses and exceptional items, according to a statement
yesterday. The stock has dropped 37 percent this year.  Brokerages including Kotak Securities Ltd. and Antique
Stock Broking Ltd. raised their  recommendation  on the stock
citing improving sales outlook at the company’s operations in
North America, where it has been struggling with charges over
the safety of its drugs. Rising demand for Absorica, an acne
medication, and Atorvastatin, a generic cholesterol treatment,
may boost profits, brokerage IIFL Ltd. said.  “There are initial signs of turnaround with improving
sustainability in U.S. earnings,” Krishna Prasad, an analyst at
Kotak said in a report today. There’s also an “increasing
visibility of the U.S. pipeline,” he wrote.  Revenue at the North American operations rose 24 percent to
8.5 billion rupees from the preceding quarter, according to
IIFL.  Losses of 3.67 billion rupees arising from a weak rupee and
goodwill impairment for its operations in  France  resulted in a
net loss of 5.24 billion rupees in the quarter ended June from a
year ago, Ranbaxy said in the statement. That compared with the
median  estimate  for a 1.29 billion rupees profit.  India’s currency has slid 10 percent this year against the
dollar and is the worst-performing currency in Asia after  Japan .  ‘Significant Improvement’  “There has been a significant improvement in our core
businesses if you remove exceptional items,” Arun Sawhney,
Ranbaxy’s chief executive officer told analysts yesterday.  Kotak raised its recommendation on the stock to buy from
reduce. Antique also increased it to a buy as did Anand Rathi
Securities Ltd.  The company controlled by Daiichi Sankyo Co. admitted it
sold batches of drugs improperly manufactured, stored and tested
in the U.S. and agreed to pay $500 million to settle the
allegations made in the whistle-blower’s lawsuit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bhuma Shrivastava in Mumbai at 
 bshrivastav1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at 
 dmerritt1@bloomberg.net  