-- Raytheon’s Sole Role on $7 Billion Jammer Questioned
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2013-08-08T15:56:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-08/raytheon-s-sole-role-on-7-billion-jammer-questioned.html
A Senate panel is calling for the
U.S. Navy to maintain at least two competitors for a $7 billion
radar-jamming system in a move that may force rebidding of an
initial contract won by  Raytheon Co. (RTN)   Raytheon beat  Northrop Grumman Corp. (NOC)  and  BAE (BA/)  Systems Plc
last month for the initial contract, valued at $279 million, to
demonstrate the technology behind the Next Generation Jammer.
The Naval Air Systems Command has said Raytheon also is in line
for as much as $3.1 billion for advanced development and $4.3
billion for production provided that it meets the initial
contract’s conditions.  The Senate Appropriations Committee’s defense panel said in
the  report  on its fiscal 2014 spending bill that the Navy should
extend competition through the current technology demonstration
phase and possibly into procurement.  While the panel didn’t explicitly demand rebidding of the
contract won by Waltham, Massachusetts-based Raytheon, it cited
the 2009 Weapon System Acquisition Reform Act “that encourages
competition throughout the acquisition” cycle of a program. The
panel expressed concern that the Navy’s decision to have only
one contractor now was “inconsistent with some of the basic
tenets” of the acquisition law.  The Navy also should collect technical data “that would
facilitate continued competition” for the remainder of the
system’s acquisition, the panel said.  ‘Big Bucks’  The Senate panel’s House counterpart didn’t include a
similar directive in its fiscal 2014 appropriations measure. The
two versions would have be reconciled later this year in a
compromise measure and signed into law, so it’s not clear if the
order for rebidding will become binding.  The committee’s language “sounds like a potential threat
to Raytheon’s award,” said  Loren Thompson , vice president of
the Arlington, Virginia-based Lexington Institute, a defense
research organization. The panel’s approach would require paying
multiple contractors to work on the jammer and “that could add
up to big bucks,” he said.  The contract is on hold because London-based BAE filed a
protest of the award July 19 with the U.S. Government
Accountability Office, which may not make a decision on the case
until early October.  The jammer is designed to defeat the radar of integrated
air-defense systems such as those fielded by  Iran ,  China ,  North
Korea  and  Syria  that detect aircraft and direct surface-to-air
missiles. It’s also intended to jam ground communications. The
Navy wants the jammer, which would equip 135  Boeing Co. (BA)  EA-18G
Growler aircraft, in operation by 2020.  ‘Raytheon Confident’  The Senate panel also said the GAO has almost completed a
report on the Navy’s jammer and comparable Air Force systems to
assess whether there’s unnecessary duplication.  Captain Cate Mueller, a Navy spokeswoman, said in an e-mailed statement that “should any law be passed affecting the
nature” of the jammer acquisition strategy, “the Navy will
assess its effect on the program and work with” Pentagon
officials and Congress to move forward.  “Raytheon is confident in the superior technical and
programmatic design” of its jammer offering, Jon Kasle, a
spokesman for the contractor, said in an e-mailed statement.
“The company remains ready to partner with the Navy to deliver
this critical national security capability in a timely and cost
efficient manner.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  