-- RBC Expects to Win Card Defectors If CIBC Loses Aimia Agreement
-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2013-08-08T20:23:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-08/rbc-expects-to-win-card-defectors-if-cibc-loses-aimia-agreement.html
Royal Bank of Canada (RY)  expects to gain
more credit-card customers if Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce
loses its card partnership with loyalty rewards operator  Aimia
Inc. (AIM)  to  Toronto-Dominion (TD)  Bank.  Canadian Imperial has until tomorrow to match the terms of
an agreement Toronto-Dominion made to become the primary card
issuer for Aimia’s Aeroplan rewards program if it wants to keep
its 22-year partnership. Toronto-Dominion conditionally agreed
on June 27 to become Aimia’s partner starting Jan. 1.  “This market turmoil creates opportunities, it wakes
people up,” Linda Mantia, executive vice president of cards and
payment solutions at Toronto-based Royal Bank, said today in an
interview. “There’s a great opportunity for us to continue the
growth momentum that we have” with our reward cards.  Royal Bank introduced the RBC Avion travel card program in
1999 and has since attracted more than a million customers. The
lender said it expects any change in Aimia’s partnership will
prompt cardholders to weigh alternatives.  Ali Duncan Martin, a Toronto-Dominion spokeswoman, declined
to comment, as did Canadian Imperial’s Kevin Dove.  Royal Bank was Canada’s third-largest credit-card issuer
last year based on outstanding balances, according to an April
issue of the Nilson Report, an industry publication. Canadian
Imperial was the largest, followed by Toronto-Dominion.  Canadian Imperial will probably opt out of its agreement
with Aimia, leading Toronto-Dominion to take over the
partnership, said  John Aiken , a Barclays Plc analyst in Toronto.  “Given CIBC’s public statements, we do not believe it will
exercise its right, and could potentially seek damages through
the courts,” Aiken said yesterday in a note to clients. “With
a deal unlikely, expect earnings and valuation to come down
heading into Q3.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
 Christine Harper  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net  