-- Rdio Challenges Pandora With Personalized Radio Service
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2013-08-08T15:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-08/rdio-challenges-pandora-with-personalized-radio-service.html
Rdio Inc., the music-streaming
service started by Skype co-founder  Janus Friis , is adding
personalized stations in a bid to draw listeners away from
 Pandora Media Inc. (P) , the biggest online radio service.  Rdio can combine listening history, track voting, Facebook
likes and Twitter follows to create a virtual station tailored
to a specific listener, Chris Becherer, vice president of
product, said in an interview. Stations based on artists, songs,
popularity and friends are also available, he said.  The new feature is aimed at persuading more users to pay
for Rdio rather than leaving after their free trial ends,
Becherer said. The company gives away its commercial-free
service for six months on computers and two weeks on mobile
devices. After that, it costs $10 a month.  “We definitely view Rdio as a mass-market service and
radio as a mass-market concept,” Becherer said. “In two weeks
on a mobile device, you should be able to create an interesting
experience and see a stark difference compared with Pandora.”  Rdio,  available  in the U.S. and 30 other countries, doesn’t
disclose how many free or paying subscribers it has. Pandora,
which operates in the U.S., Australia and  New Zealand , is the
biggest online radio streaming service, with 71.2 million active
listeners at the end of July.  There is plenty of overlap between the two services, and
the new radio feature may help keep more customers loyal,
Becherer said. About half of Rdio’s listeners also get their
music from Pandora and other streaming services, he said.  Shares of Oakland, California-based Pandora rose 1.5
percent to $18.91 at 10:01 a.m. in  New York . The  shares  have
more than doubled this year. Closely held Rdio is based in  San
Francisco .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Fixmer in Los Angeles at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  