-- Record Iron Ore Shipments Lead China’s Commodity Imports
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-08-08T09:06:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-08/record-iron-ore-shipments-lead-china-s-commodity-imports.html
China ’s iron ore imports set a record
in July, leading gains in purchases of raw materials by the
world’s biggest consumer.  Arrivals of the steel-making ingredient rose 17 percent
from a month earlier to 73.14 million metric tons after a 15
percent drop in prices in second quarter spurred mills to
replenish stockpiles, according to data from the General
Administration of Customs today. That beat the 70.94 million
tons in December and was the highest in data compiled by
Bloomberg stretching back to 1990.  Monthly imports surged more than fivefold in the past
decade and ore prices entered a bull market on July 26 as steel
makers rebuilt stocks and increased output. China’s total
exports and imports rebounded more than estimated in July,
adding to signs that the second-largest economy is stabilizing
following a two-quarter slowdown.  “Consumption will improve in the fourth quarter as the
economy steadies,” said Wu Jianguo, an analyst at Maike Futures
Brokerage Co. in  Shanghai . He cited government support across
the economy, ranging from tax reform to increased loans by banks
to small companies.  Soybean arrivals rose 3.9 percent from June to 7.2 million
tons and were also a record. Monthly imports of unwrought copper
copper and copper products rose to 410,680 tons, the highest
level in 14 months, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Ore with 62 percent iron content delivered to Tianjin port
rose to the highest level since April 30 yesterday, adding 1.3
percent to $133.10 a dry ton, according to a price index
compiled by The Steel Index Ltd.  Import Costs  “Prices at around $110 levels in June made ore imports
cheaper than the ore produced from costlier domestic mines,”
said Zhang Jiabin, a Beijing-based chief iron ore analyst with
researcher Custeel.com.  The rebound helped boost the price of steel reinforcement-bar futures in Shanghai, which closed at a 15-week high of 3,743
 yuan  a ton today, and may encourage more output from mills.  China’s economic-planning agency said Aug. 4 the
construction of transportation-related infrastructure projects
would be accelerated, adding to efforts to boost domestic steel
demand. The nation’s crude-steel production gained 7.4 percent
to 389.9 million tons in the first half of this year from a year
ago, according to the National Bureau of Statistics.  For the first seven months, iron ore imports climbed 8
percent to 457.23 million tons from a year earlier, customs
showed. Steel-product exports were 5.15 million tons in July, it
said. Shipments increased 14 percent to 35.83 million tons in
the January-July period from a year earlier, customs said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Helen Yuan in Shanghai at 
 hyuan@bloomberg.net ;
Alfred Cang in Shanghai at 
 acang@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net ;
Brett Miller at 
 bmiller30@bloomberg.net  