-- Rio Reports 18% Decline in Profit, Scraps Aluminum-Unit Sale
-- B y   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h
-- 2013-08-08T16:38:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-08/rio-reports-18-decline-in-profit-scraps-aluminum-unit-sale-2-.html
Rio Tinto Group (RIO) , the world’s second-largest mining company, said first-half profit dropped 18
percent as slowing economic growth in China sapped demand for
raw materials, dragging down prices.  Underlying profit fell to $4.2 billion from $5.2 billion a
year earlier, in line with the $4.16 billion average estimate of
seven analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Net income slumped 71
percent to $1.7 billion. The company shelved a planned sale of
an aluminum unit.  Chief Executive Officer Sam Walsh is seeking to cut $5
billion of costs, sell assets and slow spending to counter lower
prices. Investors including  BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  are pressuring new
mining CEOs at Rio,  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  and  Anglo American Plc (AAL)  to
boost returns to shareholders and defer building mines as waning
demand and declining prices erode profits.  “We’ve seen cost-cutting, we’ve seen job reductions so
he’s delivering on that aspect of it,” Paul Gait, a mining
analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein Ltd. in  London , said today.
“There’s nothing in this set of results that really stands out
as a significant validation of what Rio Tinto are trying to do
here. It does feel like somewhat of a holding pattern.”  Rio’s sales slipped to $24.5 billion in the first half from
$25.3 billion a year earlier, the company said in a statement.  Stock Performance  The shares have lost 14 percent this year in London, where
Rio is based. They climbed 2.1 percent to close at 3,016.5 pence
today. The company raised its  dividend  15 percent to 83.5 cents
a share.  CEO Walsh is seeking to  dispose  of more mining operations
after selling more than 20 assets for $12 billion to help cut
debt.  China  Molybdenum Co. last month agreed to buy Rio’s
Northparkes copper mine in Australia for $820 million, bringing
total assets sales this year to $1.9 billion.  The company today shelved a 2011 plan to divest Australian
and New Zealand aluminum assets, known as Pacific Aluminium. A
sale “for value is not possible in the current environment,”
Walsh said.  “It’s a lossmaking aluminum business in a massively
oversupplied world so it’s hardly surprising they can’t sell
this for value,” Bernstein’s Gait said. “Investors will be
disappointed. Simply because most people don’t like aluminum as
a commodity, they certainly don’t like lossmaking aluminum.
Bringing that back into the portfolio is just a distraction.”  Metal Prices  Growth in China, Rio’s biggest customer, eased in the
second quarter as gains in factory output slowed. Prices on the
London Metals Exchange have dropped 12 percent this year,
according to an index of six metals. Lower prices for all of
Rio’s commodities except diamonds trimmed earnings by $1.3
billion from a year earlier, the company said today.  “The medium-term economic outlook remains volatile with a
broader range of outcomes now possible,” Walsh said in the
statement. “Chinese economic growth has decelerated so far this
year and is unlikely to recover significantly in the second
half, but we do not expect a hard landing.”  The company has cut $1.5 billion in costs and reduced
employees by 2,200 since June 30, 2012. Spending on projects is
estimated at $14 billion this year, 20 percent below the 2012
peak, Rio said. Net debt rose to $22.1 billion at the end of the
first half from $19.2 billion as of Dec. 31.  Cut Debt  “In a world where we’re seeing more volatility, you want
to be resilient under any potential scenario,” Walsh told
reporters today on a conference call. “I’d like to see the
balance sheet strengthened. We do need to reduce the debt, and
we are working on it.”  New mining CEOs “have made promises to the market around
lack of M&A, operating-cost reduction, capital-cost reduction as
well, and increased returns to shareholders,”  Evy Hambro ,
manager of BlackRock’s $7 billion World Mining Fund, said
yesterday in an interview. “We are aware metals prices haven’t
been as strong as they would’ve expected but some continuity on
those themes and delivery to promises are going to be absolutely
key.”  The decline in net income was partly attributed to $1.9
billion of “non-cash exchange losses” and a write-off of $300
million relating to a landslide at a copper mine in  Utah .  Rio said today that it’s buying concentrate at Utah to meet
customer commitments and expects to complete the removal of the
landslide by the end of 2015.  Iron Ore  Iron ore is the biggest contributor to Rio’s  results ,
followed by copper. Iron provided 78 percent of earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization last year.  The company is studying an expansion of capacity in
 Australia ’s Pilbara region to 360 million metric tons of iron
ore a year from 290 million tons, and is evaluating options for
the estimated $5 billion project. It may develop new mines or
extend existing sites, Rio said today.  “Certainly if you look at the market fundamentals, they’re
strong,” Walsh said. “We’ve always said we’d make a decision
in relation to the mine in the latter part of this year. That
continues to hold.”  A deferral of Rio’s iron-ore expansion would help keep the
market for the material stable until 2018, underpinning prices,
according to a Citigroup Inc. report in May. Iron ore is set for
its first global surplus in at least a decade as production
grows and Chinese steel mills, the biggest buyers, raise output
at the slowest pace in five years.  Excessive Investment  “The first goal for us is to stop the excessive investment
that’s been taking place in many of the last few years,”
BlackRock’s Hambro said. “We are getting to the point where
management are curtailing projects.”  Walsh told reporters in London that investor opinion on the
expansion was largely split with those in Asia and Australia
mostly positive and European, U.S. and U.K. shareholders
preferring it to be slowed.  “You’ve got to be very careful you get a clear message
from investors because some quite frankly are also holders of
our competitors,” he said. “Quite frankly I’ve been a bit
concerned that some of the messages have focused on what we’re
doing,” rather than what rival producers are planning, he said.  Last month Rio made its first commercial copper shipment
from its newest mine, the $6.6 billion Oyu Tolgoi project in
Mongolia, which has been mired in a dispute with the landlocked
nation’s government this year.  Rio is delaying work on a $5.1 billion underground
expansion at the mine pending financial approval by Mongolia’s
parliament, it said in a July 29 statement.  “There are a lot of new issues that are unfolding as we
bring the project forward,” Walsh said today on the call. “We
have made significant steps in terms of resolving issues that
were of concern to the government of Mongolia.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Riseborough in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net  