-- Rio Tinto First-Half Profit Falls 18% as Metal Prices Slide
-- B y   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h
-- 2013-08-08T07:29:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-08/rio-tinto-first-half-profit-falls-18-as-metal-prices-decline.html
Rio Tinto Group (RIO) , the world’s second-largest mining company, said first-half profit dropped 18
percent as slowing economic growth in China sapped demand for
raw materials, dragging down prices.  Underlying profit fell to $4.2 billion from $5.2 billion a
year earlier, Rio said today in a statement. That compares with
the $4.16 billion average estimate of seven analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. Net income slumped 71 percent to $1.7 billion.  Chief Executive Officer Sam Walsh is seeking to cut $5
billion of costs, sell assets and slow spending to counter lower
prices. Investors including  BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  are pressuring new
mining CEOs at Rio,  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  and  Anglo American Plc (AAL)  to
boost returns to shareholders and defer building mines as waning
demand and declining prices erode profits.  The CEOs “have made promises to the market around lack of
M&A, operating-cost reduction, capital-cost reduction as well,
and increased returns to shareholders,”  Evy Hambro , manager of
BlackRock’s $7 billion World Mining Fund, said yesterday in an
interview. “We are aware metals prices haven’t been as strong
as they would’ve expected but some continuity on those themes
and delivery to promises are going to be absolutely key.”  Higher Dividend  Rio’s sales slipped to $24.5 billion in the first half from
$25.3 billion a year earlier. The London-based company raised
its  dividend  15 percent to 83.5 cents a share. The stock has
lost 15 percent this year in the city. It rose 1 percent to
2,982 pence as of 8:18 a.m. local time today.  Rio is seeking to  dispose  of more mining operations after
selling more than 20 assets for $12 billion to help cut debt.
 China  Molybdenum Co., the nation’s second-biggest producer of
the steelmaking material, last month agreed to pay Rio $820
million for its Northparkes copper mine. Rio has sold $1.9
billion of assets this year.  The company shelved a 2011 plan to divest Australian and
New Zealand aluminum assets, known as Pacific Aluminium,
according to Walsh, who said today that a sale “for value is
not possible in the current environment.”  Growth in China, Rio’s biggest customer, eased in the
second quarter as gains in factory output slowed. Prices on the
London Metals Exchange have dropped 12 percent this year,
according to an index of six metals. Lower prices for all of
Rio’s commodities except diamonds trimmed earnings by $1.3
billion from a year earlier, the company said today.  Volatile Outlook  “The medium-term economic outlook remains volatile with a
broader range of outcomes now possible,” Walsh said in the
statement. “Chinese economic growth has decelerated so far this
year and is unlikely to recover significantly in the second
half, but we do not expect a hard landing.”  The company has cut $1.5 billion in costs and reduced
employees by 2,200 since June 30, 2012. Spending on projects is
estimated at $14 billion this year, 20 percent below the 2012
peak, Rio said.  The decline in net income was partly attributed to $1.9
billion of “non-cash exchange losses” and a write-off of $300
million relating to a landslide at a copper mine in  Utah .  Iron ore is the biggest contributor to Rio’s  results ,
followed by copper. Iron provided 78 percent of earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization last year.  The company is studying an expansion of capacity in
 Australia ’s Pilbara region to 360 million metric tons of iron
ore a year from 290 million tons, and is evaluating options for
the estimated $5 billion project. It may develop new mines or
extend existing sites, Rio said today.  Excessive Investment  “The first goal for us is to stop the excessive investment
that’s been taking place in many of the last few years,”
BlackRock’s Hambro said. Rio is the biggest holding in his World
Mining Fund. “We are getting to the point where management are
curtailing projects.”  A deferral would help keep the iron-ore market stable until
2018, underpinning prices, according to a Citigroup Inc. report
in May. Iron ore is set for its first global surplus in at least
a decade as production expands and Chinese steel mills, the
biggest buyers, boost output at the slowest pace in five years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Riseborough in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net  