-- Russian Economy Probably Accelerated in Second Quarter
-- B y   S c o t t   R o s e
-- 2013-08-09T10:24:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-08/russian-economy-probably-accelerated-in-second-quarter.html
Russia ’s economic growth probably
accelerated for the first time in six quarters, suggesting
domestic demand is strong enough to help the economy ride out
its steepest slowdown in four years.  Gross domestic product  expanded 2 percent in the April to
June period from a year earlier, according to the median
estimate of 19 economists in a Bloomberg  survey . That compares
with the  Economy Ministry ’s projection for a 1.9 percent
increase and exceeds the 1.6 percent advance in the first
quarter that beat initial estimates. The Federal Statistics
Service in Moscow will publish the data today at 4 p.m.  “We had an upside surprise in the first quarter and it may
happen again,” said Tatiana Orlova, senior economist at Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc in  London . “Household consumption
likely remained the main driver of growth in the second
quarter.”  The economy is struggling with the drag created by weaker
global demand for commodities, putting pressure on President
 Vladimir Putin ’s allies as they prepare for next month’s
elections in major cities including Moscow and Yekaterinburg.
The government last month approved a stimulus plan, including
measures to cut the cost of loans to businesses.  Investment, Spending  Economic growth has slowed every quarter since the final
three months of 2011 as investment slumped and the government
slowed spending increases following Putin’s re-election in March
2012. Trade has also weakened, with Russia’s surplus narrowing
11 percent in the first half from a year earlier, according to
Federal Customs Service data.  Stocks have taken a beating, missing out on a rally in the
U.S. that sent the  S&P 500 Index (SPX)  to a record high last week. The
dollar-denominated  RTS Index (RTSI$)  of 50 stocks is down 14 percent
this year, more than the MSCI Emerging Market Index’s 10 percent
decline.  Bank Rossii, which today left its main lending rates
unchanged for an 11th month, pointed to “significant risks” of
a further economic deceleration as a result of weak investment
activity and a slow recovery of external demand.  “At present time the main source for economic expansion is
consumption, supported by growth of real wages and retail
lending,” the central bank said in the statement accompanying
its rate decision.  Resilient Consumer  Retail sales , a gauge of the household consumption that
accounts for about half Russia’s economy, have continued to
grow, although at a slower pace than in the first quarter. That
has supported companies including OAO Magnit, the country’s
largest food retailer, which more than doubled its first-half
dividend this month.  “We’re seeing a slowdown in  consumer spending , but it’s
still pretty robust relative to net exports and investment,”
said  Ivan Tchakarov , chief economist for Russia at  Renaissance
Capital  in Moscow. “I think we’re going to get a number that’s
a little better than what the Economy Ministry is saying.”  Estimates in the Bloomberg survey ranged from 1.4 percent
to 2.4 percent. Investors may be expecting an acceleration to
about 1.9 percent, which was the government’s first estimate,
according to  Alfa Bank .  “We’re a little unsettled by that number, because it’s not
clear what would have provided the acceleration,” Dmitry Dolgin, an economist at Moscow-based Alfa Bank, said by phone
yesterday. Any acceleration was probably a result of an increase
in inventories, which wouldn’t result in sustainable growth, he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  