-- Schroders Tumbles as Clients Pull $1.7 Billion in June
-- B y   L i a m   V a u g h a n
-- 2013-08-08T15:40:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-08/schroders-first-half-profit-advances-27-after-stw-acquisition.html
Schroders Plc (SDR) , the U.K.’s biggest
fund manager by assets, fell by the most almost two years in
London trading after clients withdrew 1.1 billion pounds ($1.7
billion) the second quarter.  The outflow in June reduced net inflows for the first six
months of the year to 4.5 billion pounds, the London-based fund
manager said in a statement today as it reported earnings.  The Federal Reserve indicated on June 19 that it may scale
back its purchases of fixed-income assets, triggering a sell-off
in bonds and some currencies. One single fixed-income client
pulled about $900 million that month as it sought to spread its
business across multiple fund managers, Chief Executive Officer
Michael Dobson told reporters on a call today, without
identifying the customer.  “The prospect of the easy monetary policy of recent years
being unwound is likely to weigh on markets and investor demand
will therefore remain unpredictable,” the firm said in a
statement today.  The stock slid 5.3 percent to 2,368 pence in London
trading, the steepest one-day decline since Sept. 2011. The firm
boosted its first-half dividend to 16 pence from 13 pence.  Net income for the first half climbed to 174.2 million
pounds from 137.1 million pounds, Schroders said. Profit from
asset management rose 21 percent to 212.1 million pounds, while
income from its private banking division was little-changed at
10.6 million pounds. Revenue rose 17 percent to 815.6 million
pounds.  Acquisitions  Schroders has been making acquisitions to counter
stagnating revenue at its private-banking unit and add assets.
The company acquired STW Fixed Income Management LLC, a U.S.-
based bond fund manager, in April, helping to increase assets
under management 21 percent to 235.7 billion pounds. The July
purchase of Cazenove Capital will add another 20 billion pounds
of assets in the third quarter.  “We continue to strengthen our business in the U.K. and
internationally and believe this will lead to further
opportunities for growth in the long term,” Dobson said. “We
continue to see good long-term growth prospects.”  Schroders named Rory Bateman head of U.K. equities in May
after Richard Buxton announced his departure for competitor  Old
Mutual Plc. (OML)  Clients pulled about 1.5 billion pounds in the
period from the fund Buxton managed, Dobson said on the call.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liam Vaughan in London at 
 lvaughan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  