-- Schwab to Sell ETFs With Arnott’s Non-Traditional Indexes
-- B y   C h a r l e s   S t e i n
-- 2013-08-08T17:38:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-08/schwab-to-sell-etfs-that-follow-arnott-s-non-traditional-indexes.html
     Aug. 8 (Bloomberg) ----  Charles Schwab Corp. (SCHW) , the largest
U.S. independent brokerage, is starting six exchange-traded
funds that track non-traditional indexes pioneered by Robert Arnott.  The ETFs will use an index methodology created by Arnott,
founder of Research Affiliates LLC, San Francisco-based Schwab
said today in a statement. Known as fundamental indexes, the
benchmarks weight stocks based on factors such as cash flow and
dividends, rather than pure market capitalization. The six ETFs,
scheduled to debut Aug. 15, will track U.S. stocks,
international and emerging-market equities, according to Schwab.  ETFs have grown in popularity among both institutional
investors, who use them to trade, and financial advisers who use
them to build portfolios for clients. U.S. ETFs had $1.54
trillion in assets as of the end of July, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Investors have poured $81.6 billion into
U.S. and international stock ETFs this year through July,
according to  Morningstar Inc. (MORN)  in Chicago. Unlike mutual funds,
ETFs are traded throughout the day like stocks.  “These ETFs adds a new flavor to our ‘pure vanilla’ ETF
market-cap lineup,” Marie Chandoha, president of Charles Schwab
Investment Management, said in the statement.  Schwab’s investment-management subsidiary, which currently
offers 15 ETFs, had more than $205 billion in assets under
management as of June 30, with $12 billion in ETFs. The unit’s
assets include $4.5 billion in mutual funds that use a
methodology pioneered by  Newport Beach , California-based
Research Affiliates.  $149 Billion  Arnott’s strategies are used to run $149 billion in assets
worldwide, according to his firm’s website. Arnott, 59, also
manages two asset-allocations funds for Pacific Investment
Management Co., the $33.4 billion  Pimco All Asset Fund (PAAIX)  and the
$32.9 billion Pimco All Asset All Authority Fund.  Arnott’s fundamental-indexing strategy is not universally
accepted. In a 2007 interview in the Journal of Indexes,  Eugene
Fama , a  University of Chicago  professor who helped develop the
efficient market hypothesis, said Arnott’s methods simply
capture the “value effect” to buy cheaper securities, much the
way stock pickers do. Arnott has said that traditional market-capitalization weighted indexes have a bias toward stocks that
have run up in value.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Charles Stein  in Boston at 
 cstein4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  