-- Serbia Holds Rates as Cabinet Shuffle Clouds Fiscal Outlook
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 2013-08-08T11:22:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-08/serb-central-bank-holds-rates-as-cabinet-shuffle-clouds-outlook.html
Serbia ’s central bank kept borrowing
costs unchanged for a second month as a cabinet shuffle that
shook the governing coalition clouds the outlook for the
cabinet’s fiscal overhaul plan.  The Narodna Banka Srbije in Belgrade left its  one-week
repurchase rate  at 11 percent, it said on its website today.
Fourteen of 24 economists in a Bloomberg  survey  predicted no
change, while eight forecast a quarter-point reduction, one saw
a half-point cut and one a 0.75 percentage point drop.  Signals that the U.S. Federal Reserve may soon pare its
asset purchases are compounding uncertainty for the Balkan
nation after its political leaders averted early elections on
July 31 with an agreement that led to the ouster of the finance
minister and his party.  “Having in mind that investors have reacted to the Fed’s
indications of a possible reduction in volumes of quantitative
easing with reduced readiness to accept risk, which has led to
an increase in  risk premium  and resulted in depreciation
pressures in all countries of the region and Serbia,” the
benchmark rate will remain unchanged, policy makers  said .  The threat of a snap ballot sent yields on state bonds to
the highest in a month. The Serbian Progressive Party of Deputy
Premier Aleksandar Vucic and Prime Minister  Ivica Dacic ’s
Socialists plan to sign a new coalition agreement and appoint
new ministers by September.  Dinar, Bonds  The dinar traded 0.1 percent stronger at 113.9419 against
the euro at 12:05 p.m. in Belgrade, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. The yield on the government’s 10-year Eurobonds
maturing in 2021 dropped two basis points, or 0.02 percentage
point, to 7.15 percent, after rising 0.75 percentage point since
July 30, when the finance minister was ousted.  Inflation has been decelerating and will fall within the
central bank’s target band by October while the economy remains
on track this year for 2 percent expansion driven by exports,
according to the regulator.  “The decline in annual inflation continues, mostly driven
by monetary policy measures and food market stabilization,” the
central bank said. “Weaker inflationary pressures indicate that
the trend will accelerate in the coming period.”  The central bank is seeking to bring inflation to 4
percent, plus or minus 1.5 percentage points. Price growth
slowed to 9.8 percent in June. It peaked at 12.9 percent in
October, fueled by regulated price increases and rising dinar
liquidity, which forced policy makers to raise borrowing costs
eight times in nine meetings through February even as the
economy shrank.  Uncertain, Unfavorable  “The political backdrop remains uncertain and external
risk appetite remains unfavorable” even as “activity
indicators call for looser monetary conditions,” Carlos Ortiz,
economist at  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  in  London , said in note to clients
before the rate announcement.  The  International Monetary Fund  has warned the fiscal gap
may soar to 8.3 percent of gross domestic product this year
without additional cost cuts, compared with a revised deficit
target of 4.7 percent.  With the Progressive Party taking over the finance and
economy portfolios, investors will wait to see if planned policy
changes are implemented, UniCredit’s Ortiz said.  “The political environment remains uncertain,” he said.
“In particular, it’s unclear which direction, if any, fiscal
policy takes from here” while the government “needs to return
to external markets before year end given a financing
requirement” of as much as 2 billion euros ($2.7 billion),
Ortiz said.  Serbian rate setters surprised most economists for two
consecutive months by lowering the benchmark rate by a quarter
point in June and holding borrowing costs in July after the IMF
said relaxing policy would be premature.  The Washington-based lender last month urged restraint in
further easing while fiscal consolidation is implemented to
avoid risks to inflation, the dinar and economic stability.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  