-- Serious U.S. Mortgage Delinquencies Fall to Five-Year Low
-- B y   P r a s h a n t   G o p a l
-- 2013-08-08T14:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-08/serious-u-s-mortgage-delinquencies-fall-to-five-year-low.html
The share of U.S. mortgages that are
 seriously delinquent  plunged to the lowest level in almost five
years as improving  employment  and rising home prices move the
foreclosure crisis closer to an end.  The percentage of home loans that were more than  90 days 
behind or in the foreclosure process fell to 5.88 percent in the
second quarter from 7.31 percent a year earlier, the Mortgage
Bankers Association said in a report today. That was the lowest
since the third quarter of 2008, when it was 5.17 percent.  “It’s a dramatic improvement over last year,” said Jay Brinkmann, the Mortgage Bankers Association’s chief economist,
said in a telephone interview today from  Washington . “It’s not
back to where we should be. It’s not back to where we were. But
it’s a major decline.”  The housing recovery has given delinquent borrowers a
reason to catch up on payments or seek loan modifications as
home  prices  increase at the fastest pace since 2006. The share
of U.S. homeowners who owe more than their properties are worth
fell to less than 20 percent in the first quarter as values
surged in hard-hit markets, according to CoreLogic Inc.  Property prices are climbing as investors and traditional
buyers compete for a tight  supply  of listings. U.S. home prices
jumped almost 12 percent in June from a year earlier, the 16th
consecutive gain,  Irvine , California-based CoreLogic said on
Aug. 6. States that were among the most affected by the
foreclosure crisis -- Nevada, California,  Arizona  and  Georgia  --
had some of the biggest increases.  Falling Foreclosures  The serious-delinquency rate is a gauge of shadow
inventory, or homes likely to be seized by banks and end up on
the market. The percentage of  loans  in the  foreclosure  process
at the end of the second quarter was 3.33 percent, the lowest
since the fourth quarter of 2008, and down from 4.27 percent a
year earlier.  While delinquencies and foreclosures are returning to
normal in much of the country, northeast states such as New
Jersey, New York and  Connecticut , which require court approval
for home seizures, are falling behind.  The rate of new foreclosures in New York was 1.07 percent
in the second quarter, a record in Mortgage Bankers Association
data going back to 1979, Brinkmann said. The U.S. average was
0.64 percent.  In  Florida , 13.5 percent of loans were seriously
delinquent, the highest level in the nation, followed by New
Jersey with 12.3 percent and New York with 9.2 percent.  The average rate for loans in foreclosure in judicial
states was 5.59 percent, triple the 1.86 percent for nonjudicial
states.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Prashant Gopal in Boston at 
 pgopal2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  