-- Sinclair, Tribune TV Deals Said to See Change From FCC
-- B y   T o d d   S h i e l d s
-- 2013-08-08T17:50:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-08/sinclair-tribune-tv-deals-said-to-see-change-from-fcc.html
A U.S. regulator has proposed
tightening limits on ownership of television stations that could
apply to pending acquisitions by Gannett Co.,  Tribune Co. (TRBAA)  and
 Sinclair Broadcast Group Inc. (SBGI)   Mignon Clyburn, the acting chairwoman of the Federal
Communications Commission, wants to do away with a provision
that calculates audience reach of some TV stations at 50 percent
of others when assessing compliance with ownership limits, said
three FCC officials who asked not to be identified because the
proposal isn’t yet public.  Clyburn’s change could take effect when the agency releases
the proposal and push some pending TV acquisitions closer to a
congressionally set limit that no company can exceed 39 percent
of the national TV audience, two of the officials said.  To release the proposal, Clyburn needs assent from a fellow
Democrat and the FCC’s third member, a Republican, the officials
said. Neil Grace, an FCC spokesman, in an e-mail declined to
comment.  Buyers seeking profit at broadcast TV stations, which are
collecting more fees from cable systems, proposed deals totaling
more than $3 billion in the second quarter, more than any
comparable period since 2007, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Regulatory Relic  Deals needing FCC approval include those from Tribune,
which wants to almost double its holdings to 42 stations by
buying 19 outlets from Local TV Holdings LLC. Gannett, based in
McLean,  Virginia , has proposed buying  Belo Corp. (BLC)  to bring its
holdings to 42 stations from 23. Meanwhile, Sinclair is to raise
its station total to 149 after deals with the Allbritton family,
 Fisher Communications Inc. (FSCI)  and two others.  Clyburn’s proposal, issued to her two fellow commissioners
on Aug. 1, would eliminate the so-called UHF discount, a
regulatory relic from the era when TV stations that now send
digital signals broadcast via old-fashioned analog transmitters.  The proposal needs to win an FCC vote after public comment
to become final.  With the old technology UHF stations --  those on channels 
14-to-51 -- couldn’t send their signals as far as those on lower
channels. To compensate, the FCC cut by 50 percent each UHF
station’s audience reach, compared with a lower-channel station
in the same location. The numbers are used to make sure an owner
doesn’t exceed the congressionally set limit of stations that
reach 39 percent of the national TV audience.  The discount means owners can buy more UHF stations without
hitting the cap.  Tribune Deal  With the UHF discount, Tribune would remain “well under 30
percent” after its purchase of Local TV, Eddie Lazarus, general
counsel of Chicago-based Tribune, said in a July 1 conference
call.  “We don’t know whether the commission will decide to
review the UHF discount, but we fully expect that the commission
will deal fairly and promptly with a transaction undertaken and
filed at the commission in reliance on the current rule,”  Gary Weitman , a Tribune spokesman, said in an e-mailed statement.  Gannett will reach about 30 percent of the U.S. TV audience
once its Belo deal closes, a figure that drops to 23 percent or
24 percent once the UHF discount is considered, Chief Executive
Officer Gracia Martore said in a July 22 earnings call.  The proposed change wouldn’t affect Gannett’s deal, Jeremy Gaines, a spokesman, said in an e-mail.  ‘Not Concerned’  After the Allbritton deal closes Sinclair will own stations
reaching about 38.2 percent of U.S. television households, or
21.9 percent with the UHF discount, the company based in  Hunt
Valley ,  Maryland , said in its statement announcing the deal.  Asked by analysts on an earnings call Aug. 7 about possible
FCC action to eliminate the discount, Sinclair Chief Executive
Officer  David Smith  said, “I’m not concerned about it right
now.  ‘‘It’s going to take some time to do something” at the
FCC, Smith said.  Broadcasters face competition from large cable, telephone
and satellite companies, Smith said.  “The idea that you would want to constrain a broadcaster
to me is nonsensical,” Smith said. “And I think we just have
to go try and make those points to the FCC.”  Barry Faber, a spokesman for Sinclair, didn’t return
telephone calls.  Media Consolidation  Clyburn, who took joined the commission in 2009, is leading
the agency that’s short two seats due to resignations as the
Senate considers President  Barack Obama ’s nominee for FCC
chairman, Tom Wheeler. In a  February statement  welcoming an
examination of minority ownership in media, Clyburn said the
study “could shed greater light on any potential harms that may
result from increased media consolidation.”  A Republican-majority FCC in 2007 loosened media-ownership
rules over Democratic objections. After a court threw out that
change, a Democratic FCC chairman in 2011 proposed relaxing the
rules and the agency is still considering the measure.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Todd Shields in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  