-- SingTel Said to Weigh Optus Satellite IPO as Alternative to Sale
-- B y   S e r e n a   S a i t t o ,   B r e t t   F o l e y   a n d   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 2013-08-08T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-08/singtel-said-to-weigh-optus-satellite-ipo-as-alternative-to-sale.html
Singapore Telecommunications Ltd. (ST)  is
considering an initial public offering of its Australian
satellite unit after drawing lower-than-expected bids for the
business, said two people with knowledge of the matter.  Intelsat SA (I)  is among suitors that made final-round offers
for Optus Satellite, said one of the people, who asked not to be
identified as the process is private. A group that included
Measat Global Bhd. dropped out of bidding, two other people with
knowledge of the situation said.  SingTel is seeking more than A$2 billion ($1.8 billion) for
the unit, people familiar with the company have said, which
would make it the biggest telecommunications deal in Australia
in more than a decade. Suitors including Measat and private-equity firms  KKR & Co. (KKR)  and Bain Capital LLC exited the process
on concerns the price tag isn’t justified by Optus Satellite’s
earnings potential, people with knowledge of the matter said.  Measat, controlled by Malaysian billionaire T. Ananda
Krishnan, was bidding together with TPG Capital and  Blackstone
Group LP (BX) , the people said. The group had indicated to SingTel
that it was willing to pay as much as $1.7 billion for Optus
Satellite, one person said.  Michele Batchelor, a spokeswoman for SingTel, declined to
comment, as did Dianne VanBeber of Intelsat. Ilham Bakti Adnan,
a spokesman for Measat, didn’t return a call seeking comment
outside of regular business hours yesterday.  SingTel, as Southeast Asia’s biggest phone company is
known, bought the business as part of the $9.69 billion takeover
of Optus,  Australia ’s second-largest phone company, in 2001. In
March, SingTel said it was considering options for Optus
Satellite. It hasn’t reported separate earnings figures for the
unit since the 2001 takeover of Optus.  Intelsat Loss  With five spacecraft in orbit, Optus Satellite provides
television, radio, phone, Internet data and military signals to
Australia, New Zealand and the Antarctic.  Intelsat, based in  Luxembourg , on Aug. 1 reported a second-quarter loss of $408 million on charges for early debt
repayments. Sales advanced 2 percent from a year earlier to $654
million, Intelsat said. The company raised $348 million in a
U.S. initial public offering in April.  Chief Executive Officer David P. McGlade said on a
conference call this month that Intelsat would “certainly look
at” acquisitions at the right price. He also said Intelsat
would be “disciplined” in doing deals.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Serena Saitto in  New York  at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net ;
Brett Foley in Melbourne at 
 bfoley8@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Browning in Hong Kong at 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  