-- Solar Shipments Surge in Second Quarter as Demand Rises in Asia
-- B y   J u s t i n   D o o m
-- 2013-08-08T22:09:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-08/solar-shipments-surge-in-second-quarter-as-demand-in-asia-swells.html
Solar shipments in the second quarter
from three of the top four panel producers exceeded projections
by as much as 32 percent as demand surged in  Asia .  Canadian Solar Inc. (CSIQ)  shipped 455 megawatts in the second
quarter, beating a May forecast of 380 megawatts to 420
megawatts, the Guelph, Ontario-based company said in a statement
yesterday.  Yingli Green Energy Holding Co. (YGE) , the largest panel
maker, and  Trina Solar Ltd. (TSL)  also surpassed their own
projections, according to preliminary statements.  Canadian Solar’s shipments to  Japan  almost doubled from the
first quarter as the country shifts to renewable energy after
closing nuclear power plants. Japan and China will be the top
two solar markets this year, according to Stefan Linder, a New
York-based analyst with Bloomberg New Energy Finance.  “In 2013, Asia should make up about half of global solar
demand, up from just a quarter last year,” Linder said in an e-mail. “Chinese manufacturers are still suffering with global
oversupply, but the government is looking to create domestic
demand to help soak up some of that excess capacity.”  China  plans to increase installations fivefold by 2015.
Japan has implemented solar incentives that “kicked off a
development frenzy,” he said.  Yingli said shipments will rise 23 percent to 24 percent
from the first quarter, compared with an earlier estimate of
gains in the low- to mid-teens. China accounted for 23 percent
of the Baoding, China-based company’s shipments last year, up
from 6 percent in 2010.  ‘Strong’ Growth  Trina, the third-biggest solar producer, said it will ship
630 megawatts to 660 megawatts of modules, compared with earlier
projections of 500 megawatts to 530 megawatts. The Changzhou,
China-based company reported “strong sequential growth in Japan
and India” in the first quarter.  “We have been consistently pursuing our strategy of
geographic diversification and have focused on new growth market
such as Japan,” Canadian Solar Chief Executive Officer Shawn Qu
said in the statement. The company was the fourth-largest
producer by shipments last year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Suntech Power Holdings Co., the second-largest solar
company last year, hasn’t released second-quarter results.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Justin Doom in  New York  at 
 jdoom1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  