-- Spirax-Sarco Profit Rises as China Growth Adds to Europe Savings
-- B y   E s h e   N e l s o n
-- 2013-08-08T14:03:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-08/spirax-sarco-profit-rises-as-china-growth-adds-to-europe-savings.html
Spirax-Sarco Engineering Plc (SPX) ,
reported a 17 percent increase in first-half adjusted earnings
as the provider of industrial and commercial steam systems
increased sales in  China  and improved efficiency in Europe.  Operating profit excluding certain non-operational items
climbed to 68.1 million pounds ($106 million), the industrial
engineering company said today in a statement. Revenue increased
6 percent to 331.6 million pounds.  Asia-Pacific sales rose 11 percent to 80.8 million pounds,
boosted by demand in China and  Korea . China is now the biggest
contributor to sales and profit for the Cheltenham, England-based company, accounting for 11 percent of revenue. Operating
profit in the Europe, Middle East and Africa region advanced 41
percent, after restructuring in Europe in the second half of
2012 and improved efficiency at factories.  “Although we anticipate continued sluggish economic
conditions in most of our markets and a challenging fourth-quarter comparison, the board expects the group to make good
progress in 2013,” Chief Executive Office Mark Vernon said.  The shares rose as much as 4.7 percent, the biggest advance
since May 28. The stock was up 4.1 percent at 3,009 pence as of
2:59 p.m. in  London , taking the advance to 28 percent this year
and valuing the company at 2.27 billion pounds.  “Profits and margins have increased strongly year-on-year
and we expect further good growth despite a challenging back-drop,” Scott Cagehin, an analyst at Numis, wrote in a note
today. “The high cost of energy, increasing environmental
regulation and the trend to outsourcing by its customers should
all provide good demand prospects.”  Numis has an add recommendation on the shares with a price
target of 3,200 pence.  The Mexico and Argentina territories performed
“exceptionally well” in the Americas, partly offset by weaker
results in the U.S. and  Canada , according to Spirax-Sarco’s
statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eshe Nelson in London at 
 enelson32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  