-- Starboard Said to Seek Group to Form Rival Smithfield Bid
-- B y   S h r u t i   D a t e   S i n g h   a n d   B e t h   J i n k s
-- 2013-08-09T14:22:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-08/starboard-said-to-seek-group-to-form-rival-smithfield-bid-1-.html
Starboard Value LP, an investor in
 Smithfield Foods Inc. (SFD) , approached buyout firms and meat
processors to encourage them to form a bidding group to derail a
Chinese takeover, said two people familiar with the process.  The activist investor is challenging  Hong Kong ’s Shuanghui
International Holdings Ltd., which agreed in May to buy
Smithfield for $4.7 billion. Under Starboard’s plan, the group
would bid together and break up Smithfield after the takeover,
said the people, who asked not to be named because the
negotiations are private.  Starboard, led by Chief Executive Officer  Jeffrey Smith ,
has argued for the past two months that the world’s biggest hog
producer could obtain a much higher price through a split. The
firm approached meat processors including  Tyson Foods Inc. (TSN)  about
a possible group transaction, said one of the people. Starboard
may present a proposal to Smithfield’s board within a month,
that person said.  “As far down the road as Smithfield is, it’s going to be
hard to turn that around,” Michael Cook Sr., CEO of SouthernSun
Asset Management LLC in  Memphis , which holds a 3.5 percent stake
in Smithfield, said in a telephone interview. If a rival bid was
“marginally better it would be hard to pull off. The economics
would have to be really good.”  Starboard holds a 5.7 percent stake in Smithfield,
according to a July 12 regulatory filing. The activist firm also
made overtures to potential financial investors such as KKR &
Co. and  Blackstone Group LP (BX) , the person said. No consortium has
yet been finalized and a rival deal may not emerge, said the
other person.  Breakup Value  Shuanghui agreed to pay $34 a share for Smithfield. The
stock  dropped  0.1 percent to $33.61 at 10:19 a.m. in  New York .  Spokesmen at Smithfield, Shuanghui, Blackstone and Tyson
declined to comment. Representatives at Starboard and KKR didn’t
immediately reply to requests for comment.  Shuanghui, whose takeover proposal is currently under
review by U.S. regulators, agreed to buy Smithfield as  China ’s
demand for pork and greater food safety increases. A fresh offer
may face less regulatory scrutiny, as politicians have urged the
Committee on Foreign Investment in the U.S. to take a closer
look at Shuanghui’s bid. Smithfield said July 24 that CFIUS is
conducting a 45-day review of the takeover after concluding the
initial 30-day review.  Board Evaluation  At the $34 offer price and including debt, Shuanghui is
paying about $7 billion, or 7.4 times Smithfield’s earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, according
to data compiled at the time of the bid. That compares with the
$44 to $55 a share that Starboard has said Smithfield could
fetch in a breakup. The firm said last month it hired Moelis &
Co. and BDA Advisors Inc. to advise on the process with
Smithfield.  Another shareholder that lobbied Smithfield to consider a
breakup, Continental Grain Co., was satisfied with Shuanghui’s
offer and said in June that it would exit its stake following
the proposal. The investor held a 5.8 percent stake at the time
of the bid.  Smithfield said in a July regulatory filing that the board
evaluated breaking up the company via carve-outs or spinoffs.
The board concluded “such restructuring alternatives were not
in the best interests of Smithfield and its shareholders
because, among other things, Smithfield’s hog production segment
created efficiencies and synergies.”  Some overseas meat processors also have been approached by
Starboard, according to one person.  JBS Move  Days before the Shuanghui deal was announced, Brazilian
beef processor  JBS SA (JBSS3)  proposed a bid of $33.50 a share to
Smithfield management and its advisers, with the possibility of
a higher bid following due diligence, said another person
familiar with the matter. JBS wasn’t willing to retain
Smithfield’s  management , and never heard from Smithfield again,
this person said.  An official at JBS, who asked not to be named owing to
company policy, said there would be no comment beyond CEO Wesley Batista’s previous statements. In June, Batista said in an
interview in  Sao Paulo  that his company decided against a bid
for Smithfield because the price was too high.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shruti Date Singh in Chicago at 
 ssingh28@bloomberg.net ;
Beth Jinks in New York at 
 bjinks1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  