-- Steinbrueck Says Merkel Misleading Voters on Euro Debt Crisis
-- B y   A r n e   D e l f s
-- 2013-08-08T18:52:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-08/steinbrueck-says-merkel-misleading-voters-on-euro-debt-crisis.html
German chancellor candidate Peer Steinbrueck criticized  Angela Merkel  for misleading voters over
the true cost of the  European debt crisis , saying he’ll be
upfront about the policy decisions needed after fall elections.  Steinbrueck, whose campaign to unseat Merkel on Sept. 22
has been riddled by gaffes and missteps, sought to use the first
rally of his campaign to make a virtue out of his reputation for
straight talking. Addressing a crowd of about 3,000 in Hamburg
today, he contrasted his approach with Merkel’s “lulling” of
voters, citing her stances on energy, the economy and on Europe.  “ Germany  will have to come to Europe’s help and foot the
bill if necessary,” the Social Democratic Party challenger told
supporters, many eating sausages and drinking beer. “But that’s
something Mrs. Merkel won’t tell you. It’s not enough to simply
beat other countries over the head with the cudgel of saving; we
need growth too.”  Steinbrueck, 66, has little more than six weeks to persuade
voters he is better able to steer  Europe ’s biggest economy than
Merkel, 59, as polls show Germans approve of her handling of the
crisis. Recent surveys suggest he has begun to whittle down the
lead held by Merkel’s Christian Democratic bloc. She returns to
official engagements on Aug. 13 after her vacation, and is due
to hold her first rally the next day in Hesse state.  ‘Straight Talking’  The SPD challenger, who was Merkel’s first-term finance
minister, chose Hamburg, his hometown and the only one of
Germany’s 16 states where the SPD has an absolute majority, to
try out his new format “ Open Air Straight Talking ” tour.  Speaking from a podium placed under a circular awning
resembling a circus tent without walls, Steinbrueck said the
issue of youth unemployment is becoming “explosive” in Europe.
Merkel’s CDU/CSU bloc has “no idea about money,” her coalition
has “the worst ministers since German reunification,” and has
reached a “stalemate,” he told the audience in the Michelwiese
park.  As chancellor in an SPD coalition with the Greens,
Steinbrueck said that he would move quickly to implement a
statutory  minimum wage  and put a brake on labor leasing. Laws
would be implemented to ensure equal pay for women, tax dodgers
pursued relentlessly, and banking “gambling” subject to
control. He’d abolish subsidies introduced this year for parents
who raise their children at home and use the money to finance
200,000 new kindergarten places.  More teachers are needed, “and that will cost money,” so
nursing care insurance payments will rise by 0.5 percent, he
said. “Saying taxes will rise is straight talking,” even if 95
percent of citizens won’t be affected by the increases,
Steinbrueck told the crowd.  Harald Zulauf, 47, who listened to the speech, said that he
was impressed with Steinbrueck’s ability to speak without notes,
though he would have liked to be allowed to ask questions of the
candidate. Steinbrueck, he said, “has to look optimistic given
the miserable polls.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Arne Delfs in Berlin at 
 adelfs@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  