-- Sweden Fights Jobless Recovery as Economic Hurdles Persist
-- B y   N i k l a s   M a g n u s s o n
-- 2013-08-08T09:05:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-08/sweden-fights-jobless-recovery-as-economic-hurdles-persist.html
Swedish Finance Minister Anders Borg
said the labor market of Scandinavia’s biggest economy will
remain weak through 2014 as economic hurdles persist.  Gross domestic product growth will be “relatively weak”
this year and stay slow in 2014, Borg told reporters in
Stockholm today.  “There’s still a challenging situation for the Swedish
economy,” he said. “We must try to protect the economy and
inject more energy.”  Unemployment (SWUERATE)  rose to 9.1 percent in June, not adjusting for
seasonal swings, official data show. That’s the highest rate in
a year and well above levels in neighboring Norway and  Denmark .
Borg warned today that risks to Sweden’s export-reliant economy
are “high” as the situation in Europe remains fragile.  Sweden’s $550 billion economy, home to  Hennes & Mauritz AB (HMB) ,
will grow 1.3 percent this year, held back by a drop in exports,
and expand 2.1 percent in 2014, the government said last month.
Policy makers are trying to revive domestic demand as the
export-reliant economy struggles to adjust to a shrinking market
in the euro area, which the European Commission estimates will
see its economy shrink 0.4 percent this year.  Domestic Focus  “We can enact policies that will support the economic
development,” Borg said. “As a starting point, we’ll create a
rebound with focus on domestic employment.”  A report last month showed the economy shrank in the second
quarter. Gross domestic product contracted 0.1 percent in the
three months through June, after growing 0.6 percent in the
prior quarter, according to preliminary data from Statistics
 Sweden . Annual growth was 0.6 percent, slowing from 1.7 percent.  Finance Minister Anders Borg has said the government needs
to keep stimulating the economy next year to boost demand. It’s
spending 23 billion kronor ($3.6 billion), or about 0.7 percent
of GDP, this year on infrastructure, research and a reduced
corporate tax to 22 percent from 26.3 percent.  The minority government this month received backing from
the Sweden Democrats for a fifth round of income tax cuts for
next year’s budget, Svenska Dagbladet reported yesterday, citing
the party’s economic spokesman Sven-Olof Saellstroem.  The economy is showing signs of reviving. Both
manufacturing and  consumer confidence  rose in June and retail
sales are climbing. The central bank last month kept its main
rate unchanged and said it will probably start raising rates in
the second half of next year as the economy improves.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Niklas Magnusson in  Stockholm  at 
 nmagnusson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net ; 