-- Swiss Re Reports Underwriting Loss as Disaster Claims Surge
-- B y   C a r o l y n   B a n d e l
-- 2013-08-08T08:25:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-08/swiss-re-says-second-quarter-profit-rebounds-after-admin-re-loss.html
Swiss Re Ltd. (SREN) , the world’s second-biggest reinsurer, reported its first quarterly underwriting
loss since 2011 after a surge in claims from natural
catastrophes and man-made disasters.  The combined ratio worsened to 100.1 percent in the second
quarter from 85.7 percent a year ago, the Zurich-based company
said today. A ratio above 100 percent means claims and costs
exceed premium income, leaving a loss from underwriting. Net
income rose more than ninefold to $786 million after year-earlier losses on the sale of its U.S. Admin Re unit.  The underwriting loss came after “above average” large
losses, including claims of more than $550 million from floods
in central Europe and  Canada  and a landslide in  Utah , Swiss Re
said. That was partly offset by a one-time tax credit of $134
million, the reinsurer said.  “Net income was bolstered by a large tax credit, but
investors may be disappointed by the property and casualty
operating profit, which was impacted by a large number of
smaller catastrophes and man-made losses,” said Daniel Bischof,
a Zurich-based analyst with Helvea with a neutral recommendation
on Swiss Re stock.  Swiss Re  fell  as much as 2.4 percent and was down 1.3
percent to 71.50 francs at 10:03 a.m. in Zurich trading, paring
this year’s gain to 8.5 percent. That compares with a 17 percent
gain for the 30-company Bloomberg Europe 500 Insurance Index and
a 6.4 percent increase for Munich Re, the world’s biggest
reinsurer.  Tax Benefit  Munich Re posted a 35 percent drop in second-quarter profit
earlier this week after claims from the June floods in central
Europe of about 230 million euros ($307 million). Swiss Re
reported European flood claims of about $300 million.  Swiss Re posted a tax benefit in the quarter after an
expense of $437 million in the year-earlier period.  “The group results in the second quarter of 2013 reflected
the impact of several natural catastrophes and man-made losses
on the underwriting result, partially offset by one-time tax
benefits,” Swiss Re said in the statement.  Reinsurers, which help primary insurers such as  Allianz SE (ALV) 
and  Axa SA (CS)  shoulder risks in return for a share of the premiums,
face challenges from low interest rates and an abundant supply
of capital. Even with the recent European flooding, catastrophe
claims remain below average, weighing on demand for reinsurance
coverage.  Rate Pressure  Swiss Re said prices at contract renewals in July, which
cover about 20 percent of its annual reinsurance treaty
premiums, were about 5 percent lower than a year earlier.
Renewal premium volumes for July, which focus on the Americas,
 Australia  and New Zealand, were 12 percent higher, the company
said.  The rates reinsurers charge may remain under pressure
throughout the year because of an influx of capital to
alternative forms of disaster coverage, such as catastrophe
bonds, reinsurance broker Guy Carpenter & Co. said in a report
last month.  Profit at Swiss Re’s reinsurance unit declined 37 percent
to $609 million in the quarter from a year earlier, with net
income at its property and casualty business dropping 35 percent
to $468 million.  Total net income jumped from $83 million in the year-earlier period, when the reinsurer booked a $1 billion loss from
the sale of its U.S. Admin Re business to Prudential Plc. Profit
in the second quarter of this year beat the $631.8 million mean
estimate of six analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carolyn Bandel in Zurich at 
 cbandel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  