-- U.K. Judges Face O.J. Simpson-Style Trials With Cameras in Court
-- B y   N i c o l e   M o r t i m e r
-- 2013-08-08T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-08/u-k-judges-face-o-j-simpson-style-trials-with-cameras-in-court.html
The U.K. justice system, where judges
in criminal cases still wear 18th century-style horsehair wigs
and winged collars, will take a step toward U.S.-style legal
dramas when cameras are allowed in court.  The judiciary is allowing English cases to be filmed for
the first time outside of the  Supreme Court  starting in October,
introducing a system that began in the U.S. in the early 1990s,
when the O.J. Simpson murder trial captivated a global audience.
The move, which comes after a decade of lobbying by British
broadcasters, heralds an era of transparency in a profession
steeped in tradition.  Proponents say it will improve access to a system where few
court documents are available online and reporters are
restricted in what they can write during criminal prosecutions.
Others warn it could affect the actions of judges and lawyers
who may play to the cameras.  “For opening up justice, it is a risk worth taking,” said
 Richard Moorhead , a professor of law and ethics at  University
College London . “Judges will pay a little more attention to
public opinion than they once did.”  U.K. courts are already being filmed by broadcasters in
test runs of how the technology affects judges, staff and
litigants. A full roll-out of cameras in the U.K. Court of
Appeal is scheduled to start in October, with access eventually
extended to sentencing decisions in criminal courts, Justice
Minister Helen Grant said in an e-mail.  70 Seconds  In Court 71 of the 131-year-old Royal Courts of Justice in
London, cameras used in the pilot program are clearly visible
among wooden benches and bookcases. Unlike unwieldy television
cameras that might be used in a studio, the cylindrical units
placed on stands around the room are no larger than a soccer
ball.  A technician operating the system said the television feed
will have a minimum delay of 70 seconds to give them time to
remove any footage that can’t be aired because of court
procedure rules or broadcast regulations.  Media companies including British Sky Broadcasting Group
Plc, British Broadcasting Corp., ITV Plc and the U.K. Press
Association will have access to the footage and cover the costs
of the court equipment and broadcasting. Proceedings in the
Supreme Court, the U.K.’s highest court, are already filmed.  “Although you have the right to go and sit in court, most
people don’t actually have the opportunity to do so,” Simon
Bucks, an associate editor at  Sky News , said in an interview.
“We have been campaigning along with the other broadcasters in
Britain to get cameras into courts for about 10 years. We
believe that cameras are the best way of extending the public
gallery to the public who are unable to go to court.”  The government agreed to televise court proceedings to
“improve transparency and bring greater public confidence and
understanding of the criminal justice system,” Grant said.  Judge Judge  In criminal trials, judges sometimes rule from the bench
without writing them down in advance. They may need help to
adjust to the presence of cameras and will be given training to
help them prepare, Judge Igor Judge said in a speech in January.  “English judges are very thorough, they are meticulous,
some are more flamboyant than others, but I don’t think it will
affect the quality of justice,”  George Maling , a lawyer at Enyo
Law LLP in  London , said in an interview. “You get a wide
variety of personalities who are judges. Some of the blokes
might start wearing make-up, who knows.”  U.S. courts, which have their roots in the British colonial
system, have allowed cameras in some cases since the early
1990s. Initially there were concerns that cameras would
interfere with the process of justice, some professors said.  ‘Must Acquit’  The Simpson murder trial in  Los Angeles , where the former
professional football player was accused of killing his wife and
a friend, was one of the first major cases to catch the public’s
attention. The footage of Simpson’s lawyer, Johnnie Cochran,
standing in front of the jury holding a glove saying “If it
doesn’t fit, you must acquit” was quoted and parodied on
television shows including ‘Seinfeld’ and ‘Saturday Night Live.’
Simpson was acquitted in 1995.  After the trial, some lawyers and professors were concerned
cameras could interfere with the justice system and that lawyers
and judges would act differently.  “There were warnings that the sky would fall and we were
told to beware because lawyers would start playing to the
cameras,” said  Christopher Daly , a journalism professor at
 Boston University .  Nearly twenty years later, those worries still linger.  During the U.S. trial of George Zimmerman, a Florida
neighborhood watch volunteer who was acquitted of murder last
month, the media accused Judge Debra Nelson of not being fair to
both sides.  ‘Bad Judges’  “There were criticisms that the judge had some unusual
rulings, particularly when she talked to Zimmerman directly and
asked him whether he was going to testify,” Ronald Rotunda, a
professor at Chapman University School of Law in Orange,
 California , said.  “Sometimes the judges are show boaters so they appeal to
the camera,” he said. “With cameras we can know that and see
they are bad judges.”  Moorhead doesn’t see judges showing off becoming an issue
in the U.K.  “I don’t think many judges would be likely to play up to
the cameras,” he said. “They are more likely to alter their
behavior to become more cautious, if anything. I think judges
are already quite sensitive to the public image of their office,
and this will make them more so.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Mortimer in London at 
 nmortimer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lindsay Fortado at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net  