-- U.K. Stocks Pare Gains as GlaxoSmithKline, Vodafone Drop
-- B y   S o f i a   H o r t a   e   C o s t a
-- 2013-08-08T15:24:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-08/u-k-stocks-pare-gains-as-glaxosmithkline-vodafone-drop.html
U.K. stocks  pared their advance,
following their biggest decline in more than six weeks, as
 GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  and  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  dropped, offsetting
gains by mining companies.  Commodity producers climbed after a report showed China’s
imports and exports increased more than economists had
predicted. Aviva Plc jumped to a two-year high after posting
first-half operating profit that beat analysts’ estimates and
saying that restructuring costs fell 10 percent.  The  FTSE 100 Index (UKX)  gained 0.88 points, or less than 0.1
percent, to 6,512.09 at 4:21 p.m. in London, paring an earlier
advance of as much as 0.7 percent. The equity benchmark has
 rallied 8 percent  from a low on June 24 as the  Federal Reserve 
said it remains flexible on the pace of bond buying. The broader
FTSE All-Share Index added 0.1 percent today, while Ireland’s
ISEQ Index increased 0.9 percent.  “In the short term, there will be blips of good news on
the back of the Chinese economy recovering,” Ashok Shah,
investment director at London & Capital Group Ltd., told
Francine Lacqua on Bloomberg Television. “Until it’s
fundamentally much stronger, cyclical sectors like commodities
will continue to be under tremendous pressure.”  The number of shares trading hands on FTSE 100-listed
companies was 13 percent lower than the average of the past 30
days at this time of the day, data compiled by Bloomberg showed.  In  China , a report from the General Administration of
Customs showed that  exports  rose 5.1 percent last month from a
year earlier, more than the 2 percent increase forecast in a
Bloomberg News survey. Exports dropped 3.1 percent in June.
Imports rose 10.9 percent in July.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sofia Horta e Costa in London at 
 shortaecosta@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  