-- U.S. Corporate Credit Swaps Fall; P&G Issues $1 Billion of Bonds
-- B y   S c o t t   H a r r i s o n
-- 2013-08-08T21:23:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-08/u-s-corporate-credit-swaps-fall-p-g-issues-1-billion-of-bonds.html
A gauge of U.S. corporate credit risk
fell as trade growth in  China  and  Germany  added to signs of a
recovery in the global economy. Companies from  Procter & Gamble
Co. (PG)  to Wells Fargo & Co. issued bonds.  The Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, decreased
1.1 basis points to a mid-price of 75.3 basis points at 4:33
p.m. in New York, according to prices compiled by Bloomberg.
That’s the measure’s first decline since Aug. 2.  A strengthening economic recovery in Europe will encourage
credit investors in the U.S., according to Sharon Stark, a
fixed-income strategist at D.A. Davidson & Co. German exports
increased 0.6 percent in June from May, when they dropped a
revised 2 percent that was less than originally estimated, the
Federal Statistics Office in Wiesbaden said today.  “You’re seeing some stability and reversal of trend in the
European economies,” Stark said in a telephone interview from
St. Petersburg,  Florida . “There have been many companies
adversely affected by events there and a turnaround will provide
for better corporate earnings. While growth in China is still
not stellar, it’s not as bad as we feared.”  The credit-swaps index typically falls as investor
confidence improves and rises as it deteriorates. The contracts
pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point
equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of
debt.  P&G Bonds  Chinese  shipments  overseas climbed 5.1 percent in July from
a year earlier after sliding 3.1 percent in June, according to
the General Administration of Customs in Beijing. The nation’s
sales to the U.S. and the European Union, its biggest markets,
advanced for the first time in five months.  Procter & Gamble, the world’s largest consumer-products
maker, issued $1 billion of 3.1 percent, 10-year notes to yield
60 basis points more than similar-maturity Treasuries, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The notes, the company’s first issuance in a year, may be
rated Aa3 by Moody’s Investors Service, the data show. Proceeds
will be used for general corporate purposes, the company said in
a regulatory  filing  today.  Wells Fargo (WFC) , the largest U.S. home lender, sold $1.5
billion of 4.125 percent, 10-year subordinated notes yielding
160 basis points more than benchmarks, Bloomberg data show.  Jobless Claims  The default premium on the Markit CDX North American High
Yield Index, a measure of speculative-grade corporate debt risk,
fell 5.8 basis points to 376.8 basis points, Bloomberg prices
show.  The four-week moving average of initial U.S. jobless claims
ended Aug. 3 declined to 335,500, the least since November 2007,
a Labor Department report showed today in  Washington . Compared
with a week earlier, claims rose by 5,000 to 333,000, in line
with the median forecast of 50 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland President Sandra Pianalto
said yesterday there has been “meaningful improvement” in the
labor market and that tapering of stimulus measures may be
warranted if it continues to strengthen. Fed policy makers are
weighing data to determine whether the world’s largest economy
has improved enough to begin reducing $85 billion in monthly
bond purchases.  The average extra relative yield investors demand to hold
investment-grade corporate bonds rather than similar-maturity
Treasuries tightened 0.1 basis point to 128.3 basis points,
Bloomberg data show. The measure for speculative-grade debt
declined 1.7 basis points to 567 basis points.  High-yield, high-risk debt is rated below Baa3 by Moody’s
and less than BBB- at Standard & Poor’s.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Harrison in New York at 
 sharrison52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  