-- U.S. Second Quarter Foreign Exchange Operations (Text)
-- B y   K r i s t y   S c h e u b l e
-- 2013-08-08T20:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-08/u-s-second-quarter-foreign-exchange-operations-text-.html
Following is the text of the U.S.
foreign exchange operations report.  TREASURY AND FEDERAL RESERVE FOREIGN EXCHANGE OPERATIONS  April-June 2013  During the second quarter, the  U.S. dollar ’s nominal trade-weighted exchange value increased 1.7 percent as measured by the
Federal Reserve Board’s major currencies index. The dollar
appreciated against most major currencies, including 5.2 percent
against the Japanese yen and as much as 14.0 percent against
emerging market and cyclically sensitive currencies. However,
the dollar depreciated 1.5 percent against the euro. The
dollar’s broad appreciation occurred amid improving U.S.
economic data and an emerging expectation that the Federal
Reserve could begin to reduce the pace of asset purchases before
the end of the year. The U.S. monetary authorities did not
intervene in the foreign exchange markets during the quarter.  U.S. DOLLAR APPRECIATES AMID IMPROVING ECONOMIC OUTLOOK AND
EXPECTATIONS FOR REDUCED MONETARY POLICY ACCOMMODATION  During the second quarter, the trade-weighted U.S. dollar
appreciated 1.7 percent on net, reaching its highest level since
July 2010. The dollar was supported by improving U.S. economic
data, particularly in the housing and labor markets, and an
emerging expectation that the  Federal Reserve  could begin to
reduce the pace of asset purchases before the end of the year.
This was evident in the notable rise in U.S. Treasury yields,
especially relative to other global rates, as the ten-year yield
reached its highest level since 2011. Other rate-sensitive
assets also reacted in line with expectations of reduced
monetary accommodation, as primary  mortgage rates  increased to
two-year highs and high-dividend-paying equities underperformed
the broader market over the quarter. The shift in market
expectations for the U.S. economic outlook and monetary policy
contrasted with expectations for further monetary policy
accommodation at other major central banks, prompting investors
to increase allocations to dollar-denominated assets.  U.S. DOLLAR BROADLY APPRECIATES AGAINST EMERGING MARKET
CURRENCIES  The U.S. dollar appreciated between 2 and 11 percent against
most emerging market currencies during the second quarter,
driven by the improved relative U.S. growth outlook and the
aforementioned shifting expectations for U.S. monetary policy.
The change in sentiment prompted investors to begin reducing
exposures to higher-yielding and cyclically sensitive emerging
market assets by selling fixed-income and equity securities as
well as hedging exposures in the  currency market . This behavior
resulted in heightened volatility and significant downward
pressure on the price of emerging market sovereign debt and
currencies, which have generally benefited in recent years as
global investors have accumulated emerging market exposures.
These moves were most pronounced in countries with relatively
large current account deficits and that generally rely more
heavily on foreign capital inflows, such as India, Turkey, South
Africa, and Brazil. In addition to the prospect of less
accommodative U.S. monetary conditions, the broad depreciation
also reflected downward revisions to the emerging market growth
outlook and, in a few countries, mounting political risks.
During the second quarter, emerging market growth forecasts were
downgraded due to worse-than-expected output, prospects of
weaker growth from China, and high-frequency data (such as
exports and surveys of manufacturing activity) showing renewed
weakness.  Policymakers took a number of steps to contain these market
pressures during the quarter, though the scale and type of
response varied significantly by country. Many emerging market
central banks intervened in spot and forward foreign exchange
markets in order to help stem domestic  currency depreciation .
Authorities also moved to relax foreign investment taxes and
other administrative controls to encourage capital inflows.  U.S. DOLLAR CONTINUES TO APPRECIATE AGAINST YEN FOLLOWING
INTRODUCTION OF HISTORIC JAPANESE MONETARY POLICY MEASURES  The U.S. dollar appreciated 5.2 percent against the yen in the
second quarter, following a 20.9 percent appreciation over the
prior two quarters, after the  Bank of Japan  (BoJ) announced a
historic shift in its monetary policy framework in early April.
Specifically, the BoJ introduced its Quantitative and
Qualitative Easing program, which included adoption of a
monetary base target, purchases of longer-dated Japanese
 government bonds  ( JGBs), and acceleration of its open-ended
asset purchases, to begin immediately rather than in 2014. This
level of policy accommodation was seen as larger than
anticipated, resulting in the dollar-yen currency pair
increasing above the 100 yen per dollar level for the first time
since 2009. The peak in the dollar’s strength against the yen
also marked the peak for the Nikkei 225 equities index, which
had been closely tracking the dollar-yen currency pair since
November of last year. The continuation of the yen’s
depreciation trend was driven in part by the expectation that
large Japanese real money investors such as insurers and pension
funds would ultimately shift allocations toward higher-yielding
investment opportunities abroad. However, weekly flow data
released by the Japanese Ministry of Finance continued to show
that Japanese investors for the most part remained net sellers
of foreign securities over the quarter.  The yen reversed course in late May, when it began to broadly
appreciate following the significant rise in JGB yields and
volatility, which was attributed to a number of factors.
Uncertainty surrounding BoJ policy operations, improved Japanese
growth expectations, and increased inflation expectations were
all cited by market participants as helping to push yields on
ten- and thirty-year JGBs higher. Measures of implied volatility
for the dollar-yen currency pair also increased notably over
this period. Toward the end of the quarter, however, the yen
resumed its depreciation trend against the dollar, consistent
with the increase in U.S. Treasury yields following the June
Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) meeting.  U.S. DOLLAR FLUCTUATES WITHIN RANGE AGAINST EURO AMID VARIOUS
CROSSCURRENTS  The euro-dollar currency pair fluctuated mostly within the 1.28
to 1.34 dollars-per-euro range throughout the second quarter,
with the dollar depreciating 1.5 percent on net against the
euro. The price action was driven by several crosscurrents. The
euro depreciated early in the quarter as market participants
debated the extent to which the  European Central Bank  (ECB)
could introduce additional monetary policy easing measures, in
particular, by moving to a negative rate on its deposit
facility. These expectations were pared back following the ECB’s
June Governing Council meeting, where no major suggestions of
additional accommodation were communicated. As a result, the
euro appreciated broadly alongside rising short-term  interest
rates . The euro depreciated further against the dollar following
the June FOMC meeting amid shifting expectations for a reduced
pace of policy accommodation by the Federal Reserve.  An improvement in economic data throughout the euro area,
particularly manufacturing surveys, helped support the euro over
the second quarter. A sustained current account surplus position
and perceived stability across the periphery countries added to
the improved sentiment toward the region as well.
Correspondingly, ten-year Spanish and Italian debt spreads to
the German equivalent narrowed by 73 and 65 basis points,
respectively, during the quarter.  FOREIGN EXCHANGE LIQUIDITY CONDITIONS DETERIORATE AMID
HEIGHTENED VOLATILITY  Liquidity conditions in foreign exchange markets deteriorated
throughout the quarter as uncertainty surrounding global policy
resulted in greater volatility across asset classes. Dealers
broadly reported widening bid-ask spreads and little depth to
the market, resulting in an environment where smaller trade
sizes had a greater effect on pricing. Against this backdrop,
dealers reported frequent bouts of strong one-way interest as
positions were unwound, exacerbating price movements. Strains
were reportedly most pronounced among emerging market
currencies, but G-10 currencies experienced some deterioration
in liquidity conditions as well. During the quarter, measures of
implied volatility reached multiyear highs across several
currency pairs.  TREASURY AND FEDERAL RESERVE FOREIGN EXCHANGE HOLDINGS The U.S.
monetary authorities did not undertake any intervention
operations during the quarter. As of June 30, the value of the
U.S. Treasury’s Exchange Stabilization Fund foreign-currency-denominated assets totaled $23.45 billion, comprised of euro and
yen holdings. The  Federal Reserve System  Open Market Account
holdings of foreign-currency-denominated assets totaled $23.47
billion, also comprised of euro and yen holdings.  Liquidity Swap Arrangements with Foreign Central Banks  On December 13, 2012, the Federal Reserve, in coordination with
the  Bank of Canada  (BoC), the  Bank of England  (BoE), the BoJ,
the ECB, and the  Swiss National Bank  (SNB), agreed to extend the
authorization of the U.S. dollar and foreign currency liquidity
swap arrangements through February 1, 2014. The rate on the
dollar liquidity swap arrangements was unchanged at the U.S.
dollar overnight indexed swap rate plus 50 basis points. As of
June 30, the ECB had $1.68 billion outstanding under the U.S.
dollar liquidity swaps, of which $1.48 billion was in three-month tenors and $0.20 billion was in a one-week-tenor
transaction. The BoC, BoE, BoJ, and SNB had no outstanding swaps
at the end of the quarter.  Foreign Exchange Reserve Holdings  The U.S. monetary authorities invest their foreign currency
reserves in a variety of instruments that yield market rates of
return and have a high degree of liquidity and  credit quality .
To the greatest extent practicable, the investments are split
evenly between the System Open Market Account and the Exchange
Stabilization Fund. A significant portion of the U.S. monetary
authorities’ foreign exchange reserves is invested on an
outright basis in German, French, and Japanese  government
securities . The amount of euro-denominated reserves held on
deposit at official institutions remained elevated in the first
quarter, given extremely low rates in euro-denominated money
markets, although the amount of yen-denominated deposits has
remained fairly steady over recent quarters. A smaller portion
of the reserves is currently invested in euro-denominated
 repurchase agreements , under which the U.S. monetary authorities
may accept sovereign debt backed by the full faith and credit of
the following governments: Belgium, France, Germany, Italy, the
Netherlands, and Spain. Foreign currency reserves are also
invested at the  Bank for International Settlements  and in
facilities at other official institutions. As of June 30, direct
holdings of foreign government securities totaled $21.73 billion
and foreign government securities held under repurchase
agreements totaled $3.83 billion.  This report, presented by  Simon Potter , Executive Vice
President,  Federal Reserve Bank of New York , and Manager of the
System Open Market Account, describes the foreign exchange
operations of the U.S. Department of the Treasury and the
Federal Reserve System for the period from April through June
2013. Dan Reichgott was primarily responsible for preparation of
the report.  SOURCE: Federal Reserve Bank of  New York   To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristy Scheuble in Washington at 
 kmckeaney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  