-- U.S. Mortgage Rates Little Changed, With 30-Year at 4.4%
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   D e x h e i m e r
-- 2013-08-08T14:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-08/u-s-mortgage-rates-little-changed-with-30-year-at-4-4-.html
Mortgage rates in the U.S. were
little changed as homebuyers began adjusting to borrowing costs
that have increased from near-record lows.  The average rate for a 30-year fixed mortgage rose to 4.4
percent in the week ended today from 4.39 percent, McLean,
Virginia-based Freddie Mac said in a statement. The average 15-year rate held at 3.43 percent.  Mortgage rates are stabilizing after climbing to a two-year
high last month on speculation the Federal Reserve may begin
paring its bond purchases. While higher borrowing costs have
slowed refinancing, the effects on home prices and sales haven’t
been seen yet, according to  Paul Diggle , property economist at
Capital Economics Ltd. in  London .  “This is not a terrible thing,” Diggle said in a
telephone interview today. Higher rates are “obviously a factor
for new borrowers, but a lot of existing borrowers are going to
be sitting pretty on their 30-year fixed rates they had over the
past few years.”  The 30-year rate has climbed from a near-record low of 3.35
percent in early May. It’s below the average of about 5.3
percent for the past 10 years,  data  compiled by Bloomberg show.  Americans are more optimistic about housing, even with
higher rates, according to a July survey released yesterday by
Fannie Mae. Sixty-two percent of respondents said they believe
mortgage rates will go up over the next year, the biggest share
in the monthly poll’s three-year history. At the same time, 74
percent said it’s a good time to buy a house, up from 72 percent
in June. Respondents said they expect home prices to climb 3.9
percent on average in the next 12 months.  ‘In Stride’  “Consumers have taken the interest rate rise in stride,”
Doug Duncan, chief economist at Washington-based Fannie Mae,
said in a statement. “These results are consistent with our own
analysis of previous housing cycles, which finds that interest
rates and home prices are not strongly correlated.”  President  Barack Obama  called for Congress to pass
legislation that expands Americans’ access to mortgage financing
so housing can continue to heal.  Even as interest rates have ticked up, “the housing market
has continued to be fairly robust,” he said yesterday during a
question-and-answer session in Los Angeles moderated by Spencer Rascoff, chief executive officer of  Zillow Inc. (Z)  “You’ve still
seen some good, steady growth, but I think that all of us
recognize that it is still a soft housing market.”  The Mortgage Bankers Association’s index of home-loan
applications rose for the first time in eight weeks, increasing
0.2 percent in the period ended Aug. 2. The  purchase  measure
gained 0.7 percent, while the  refinance  gauge dropped 0.1
percent, the Washington-based trade group reported yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Dexheimer in  New York  at 
 edexheimer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  