-- Huawei’s Smartphone-Like Network Switch to Challenge Cisco
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-08-08T01:56:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-08/huawei-to-sell-smartphone-like-network-switch-in-cisco-challenge.html
Huawei Technologies Co.,  China ’s
largest phone- network equipment  maker, will offer a new line of
switches that can be upgraded like applications on a smartphone
as the company steps up its challenge to  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO)   The new S12700 series of switches, programmable by software
enabling four times faster updates than hardware-based switches,
will be released globally in October, William Xu, head of
Huawei’s Enterprise Business Group, said in an interview in
Beijing yesterday.  Huawei is diversifying into smartphones and business-computing products and services as sales of its network
equipment are blocked in the U.S. on security concerns. Cisco
had a 58.8 percent share of the market for switches, which
connect  computer networks , in the first quarter compared with
Huawei’s 2 percent, according to data from IDC and Bloomberg
Industries. Xu said he expects the new gear to help boost
Huawei’s share by 2 percentage points in a year.  Developing hardware for a traditional switch takes about
two years, while software can be written to upgrade the S12700
in about six months, Xu said. “This is like migrating from an
old feature phone to a smartphone. With smartphones,
applications can be upgraded by software.”  The push to sell products and services to businesses and
governments comes amid calls from state-owned Chinese media
outlets for restrictions on Cisco after revelations of U.S.
surveillance programs by former National Security Agency
contractor Edward Snowden in June.  Security Concerns  Cisco’s 13,000 patents and dominant market share will make
it hard for Huawei to compete, said David McCulloch, a spokesman
for  San Jose , California-based Cisco.  “Cisco clearly has many advantages over Huawei in terms of
its proven innovation leadership, and a very extensive and loyal
customer base,” McCulloch said in an e-mail. “Other
competitors have been surprised by how difficult it is to
translate success in service provider networking into the
enterprise segment, and Huawei clearly faces a similar uphill
battle.”  China should develop its own Internet technology because
the U.S. can attack China almost at will, the Global Times
newspaper wrote in an editorial in June. U.S. companies,
including Cisco, represent a security threat, the official  China
Daily  reported the same week.  Huawei’s enterprise business in China isn’t growing any
faster than its overseas sales, indicating the company isn’t
benefiting from a shift away from Cisco because of security
concerns in its home market, Xu said.  ‘Tough Competitor’  “We consider Huawei to be a meaningful and tough
competitor in the enterprise market,” said Alex Henderson, a
New York-based analyst who recommends holding Cisco shares at
Needham & Co. The effect on Cisco has been noticeable in the
Asia-Pacific region “where Cisco’s growth has been clipped,”
he said.  The calls in China’s media for a shift away from U.S.
companies, including Cisco, are starting to mirror hurdles
Huawei faces in the U.S.  A U.S. congressional committee in October said Huawei,
based in Shenzhen, and cross-town rival  ZTE Corp. (000063)  provide
opportunities for Chinese intelligence services to tamper with
telecommunications systems for spying. Huawei was barred by the
U.S. in 2011 from participating in building a nationwide
emergency phone network.  Diversification Plans  The diversification into new products will help reduce
Huawei’s reliance on network-equipment sales that made up 73
percent of revenue last year, Deputy Chairman Guo Ping said in
April. That will decline to 60 percent of the total by 2017, Guo
said at the time.  Huawei is targeting 10 percent compound annual revenue
growth in the next three to five years by expanding its
smartphone and cloud-computing businesses, the company said in
April. Huawei’s sales in the first six months rose 11 percent to
113.8 billion  yuan  ($18.6 billion), the company said last month.  Huawei projects sales at the enterprise group will rise to
$2.7 billion this year from $1.8 billion last year, Xu said. It
plans to increase that to $10 billion by 2017, he said.  “Products and solutions driven by innovation will sustain
our growth and win recognition from customers,” Xu said. “If
we are just followers, it’s going to be hard for us to hit that
target.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  