-- TUI Sees Progress in Revamp Plan Seeking Return to Dividend
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-08-08T10:21:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-08/tui-sees-progress-in-turnaround-plan-seeking-return-to-dividend.html
TUI AG (TUI1) ’s new Chief Executive Officer
Friedrich Joussen said a plan to deliver 1 billion euros ($1.3
billion) in operating profit in 2015 is progressing as he seeks
improvements at the hotel and cruise units.  “The current financial year is a year of transition on our
path towards resuming dividend payments,” Joussen, who took
over from Michael Frenzel in February, said today in a statement
as the company announced third-quarter earnings. A business
review continues that could lead to disposals, he said.  The company has sold a business jet, ended sponsorship
agreements and arranged for the reduction of employees at its
headquarters from to 90 from 200, Hanover-based TUI said.  TUI, which last paid a dividend in 2008, has struggled to
maintain profitability as consumers increasingly book flights
and hotels on the Internet, and it failed to build up a strong
presence in the thriving market for cruises. The so-called
oneTUI turnaround plan is aimed also at boosting to 100 million
euros within two years.  Hapag-Lloyd Exit  “We are well on track and very confident of achieving the
communicated financial targets,” Joussen said.  TUI fell as much as 14 cents, or 1.5 percent, to 9.56 euros
in  Frankfurt , and traded at 9.66 euros at 12:08 p.m.
The stock has advanced 23 percent this year, valuing the company
at 2.4 billion euros.  The company still wants to exit its stake in Hapag-Lloyd
shipping unit either through a sale or initial public offering
once market conditions improve after a prolonged freight slump,
Joussen told analysts.  “There seems to be a a little bit of improvement on the
horizon,” he said, while adding there was no pressure to act.  The company is also monitoring the progress of Hapag-Lloyd
cruise lines in turning around the business. An assessment will
be made before too-long on whether it remains a good fit for
TUI, Joussen said. TUI Cruises will be retained, he said.  Hotels that are not returning their cost of capital may
also be unloaded, Joussen said. Two have been sold already with
eight more under review, he said.  Net income attributable to shareholders in the third
quarter reached 15.3 million euros, compared with a loss of 3.3
million euros a year earlier. Sales contracted 1 percent to 4.67
billion euros, compared with a 4.6 billion-euro estimate among
five analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  The largest earnings contributor,  TUI Travel Plc (TT/) , said
yesterday political turmoil in northern  Africa  was damping
demand among French customers. Summer customer numbers in the
mainstream business declined 2 percent through July 28, after
holding stable at the prior year’s level as of May 5, it said.  TUI said today average per-bed revenue at its hotels and
resorts business rose 3.4 percent to 52.58 euros, while revenue
contracted 1.8 percent to 556 million euros in the first nine
months. The cruise line activities saw revenue advance to 188
million euros in the same period, with the rate passengers were
paying advancing around 8 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  