-- Onyx Potential Sale Involves Multiple Parties, CEO Says
-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2013-08-09T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-08/multiple-parties-involved-in-potential-onyx-sale-ceo-says-1-.html
Onyx Pharmaceuticals Inc. (ONXX) , the
biotechnology company said to have rebuffed an initial takeover
bid from  Amgen Inc. (AMGN) , is involved with several potential
purchasers, Chief Executive Officer N. Anthony Coles said.  “The process is ongoing with multiple parties currently
engaged in discussions,” Coles said yesterday during a
conference call after the company released second-quarter
earnings. He said the South San Francisco, California-based
company wouldn’t comment further.  Onyx’s suitors are interested in Kyprolis, a cancer drug
approved last year for some patients with multiple myeloma. The
treatment may draw $3 billion in revenue by 2022, according to
analysts’  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. A deal would give a
purchaser a likely boost in sales as Kyprolis grows.  For Amgen, the therapy would supplement a roster of
products aimed at helping cancer patients with their treatment
with a medicine that targets cancer itself. Amgen, based in
Thousand Oaks, California, is the world’s biggest biotechnology
company by revenue. The company is said to have boosted its
offer for Onyx to $130 a share from $120 a share,  Bloomberg News 
reported Aug. 6.  Onyx shares gained 1.2 percent to $129 at 5:32 p.m. New
York time after declining less than 1 percent to $127.42 at the
close. Amgen declined 1.8 percent to close at $110.38.  AstraZeneca Plc,  Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  and  Novartis AG (NOVN)  had also
expressed interest, Bloomberg reported in July.  Bayer Partnership  Onyx also sells Nexavar for liver and kidney cancer in
partnership with Germany’s  Bayer AG. (BAYN)  Onyx generated $362 million
in 2012 revenue, with 80 percent coming from Nexavar and the
stomach-cancer treatment Stivarga. The company gets a 20 percent
royalty on Stivarga from Bayer, which has said it expects the
medicine to be a bestseller.  Earlier, Onyx reported a second-quarter  loss  of 40 cents
per share, excluding certain items, compared with a loss of 41
cents from 16 analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Revenue
of $153 million topped analysts’ estimates of $152 million.  Quarterly sales of Kyprolis were $61 million and the
company reported another $10 million in revenue from the drug’s
inventory at distributors that hadn’t yet been shipped to
doctors and hospitals, the company said in its statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Drew Armstrong in  New York  at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  