-- New Dad Hunter Mahan Struggles in PGA Championship First Round
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 2013-08-09T04:00:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-08/hunter-mahan-struggles-at-pga-championship-in-first-round-as-dad.html
Balancing golf and fatherhood might
take some time for  Hunter Mahan  to get used to.  Mahan was leading the U.S.  PGA Tour ’s Canadian Open two
weeks ago when he withdrew to be with his wife for the birth of
their first child. He is five shots off the lead at the  PGA
Championship  after an even-par 70 yesterday, his first round
since becoming a dad.  The 31-year-old Californian bogeyed two of his final four
holes and trails co-leaders  Jim Furyk  and  Adam Scott  by five
shots at Oak Hill Country Club, outside Rochester, New York.  “I didn’t hit it very good,” Mahan told reporters.
“Drove it terrible. Not what you’re going to need to play this
course well.”  Mahan missed the cut at last year’s PGA at Kiawah Island,
 South Carolina , and never has finished higher than 16th in
golf’s final major of the season. He began his opening round
with birdies on his third and fourth holes to reach 2 under.
After a bogey three holes later, Mahan, who began play on the
course’s 10th hole, birdied the par-5 fourth to pull within one
shot of the early lead.  Two closing bogeys quickly dropped him back.  His play was far different than two weeks ago at Ontario’s
Glen Abbey Golf Club. There, Mahan held a two-shot lead heading
into the third round when his wife, who wasn’t due to give birth
for at least three more weeks, called to tell him she had gone
into labor. Mahan withdrew from the event about 45 minutes
before he was scheduled to tee off and flew to a Dallas-area
hospital in time to witness the birth of Zoe Olivia Mahan.  Missed Million  His decision to skip the chance at the tournament’s $1
million winner’s check drew praise on and off the golf course.  “People are just ready for a great story in sports,”
Mahan said in a pre-tournament news conference at Oak Hill.
“The feedback’s been incredible. It’s just been awesome. I
think everyone can kind of relate. Everyone knows someone who
has given birth or had a child and I think everyone knows how
special it is.”  Coming into the PGA, Mahan had played in the final group at
this year’s  U.S. Open , where he finished fourth, and  British
Open , where he finished ninth. With five career PGA Tour wins,
the decision to leave the Canadian course wasn’t difficult for
Mahan, said  Sean Foley , his coach.  “He’ll be a better golfer for it,” Foley said in an
interview as Mahan played Oak Hill’s eighth hole yesterday.  Foley, who also coaches top-ranked  Tiger Woods  and U.S.
Open champion  Justin Rose  of England, has Chinese Kanji
characters for compassion, empathy, gratitude and love tattooed
on the inside of his right wrist. The symbols, he said, are part
of a philosophy he tries to impart to his players.  Mahan is a good student, Foley said.  “He has just recognized what real purpose is,” the coach
said. “He changes diapers and everything. He sends me five
pictures a day of the baby. He gets it. He’d probably rather be
back at home right now, to be honest with you.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Buteau in Atlanta at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  