-- Turkey’s Erdogan Vows Clampdown on Any Anti-Government Protests
-- B y   S e l c a n   H a c a o g l u
-- 2013-08-08T11:16:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-08/turkey-s-erdogan-vows-clampdown-on-any-anti-government-protests.html
Turkish Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan vowed to crack down on any anti-government protests as
the conviction of hundreds in a coup plot fueled tensions.  Protests over government plans to redevelop an Istanbul
park engulfed  Turkey ’s major cities for most of June amid
resentment over what critics say is Erdogan’s increasing
authoritarianism. Asked today if his government expects protests
to flare again after summer holidays, he replied, “Opting for
such a way would create problems for our country.”  “This country will respond in whatever way necessary with
the full power of its security forces,” Erdogan told reporters
in Istanbul after prayers marking Eid al-Fitr, the holiday
celebrating the end of the Ramadan fast month. “It is very
clear that none of these have anything to do with the search for
freedom,” he said, referring to protests.  Erdogan’s intolerance for dissent also filtered through in
his attack on opposition leaders who questioned the legitimacy
of a Turkish court’s conviction this week of hundreds of
defendants in a plot to overthrow his government.  He accused main opposition leader  Kemal Kilicdaroglu , head
of the Republican People’s Party, of violating Turkey’s
constitution by questioning the legality of the Aug. 5
convictions.  “His comments amount to a crime,” said Erdogan, citing an
article of the constitution that bars interfering with the
judiciary’s independence. The prime minister also attacked
Devlet Bahceli, head of the opposition Nationalist Action party,
for his criticism of the trial.  Convictions Questioned  The court sentenced ex-army chief Ilker Basbug to life in
prison, along with journalists, academics and lawyers at the end
of a six-year probe. Critics says the defendants did not enjoy a
presumption of innocence and were convicted on forged evidence.
The government denied the case was politically tainted and
defended it as a means to curb the power of a military that has
ousted four governments since 1960.  In another sign authorities were clamping down on critics,
three teenagers were detained in the southern city of Adana and
questioned by prosecutors for allegedly defacing a billboard
showing a smiling Erdogan calling for unity, Radikal newspaper
reported today, without saying if they were charged.  Reduced Exposure  Foreign investors have reduced their exposure to Turkey
since the June protests, a problem for its current account
because Turkey relies on capital flows from abroad to finance
growth. The flight has amplified the impact of an  emerging
markets  sell-off trigged by Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke when he
said in May he might scale back bond-buying stimulus.  In his remarks to reporters, Erdogan also said parliament
may cut short its summer recess to work on proposals for
“democratic reforms.” He did not elaborate. Parliament is
scheduled to reconvene Oct. 1.  Erdogan’s government has said it is working to address
demands for greater religious tolerance in the predominantly
Sunni Muslim country. The government refuses to recognize the
houses of worship of the largest religious minority, the Alevis,
and it is unclear how far the proposed reforms will go.  The smaller Greek Orthodox community seeks to reopen a
seminary Turkey shut down in 1971.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcan Hacaoglu in Ankara at 
 shacaoglu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  