-- Weil, Littler, Bracewell, Perkins Coie: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2013-08-08T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-08/weil-littler-bracewell-perkins-coie-business-of-law.html
Weil, Gotshal & Manges LLP was
counsel to  Brookfield Property Partners LP (BPY-U) , the commercial real
estate company that was spun off by its Canadian parent earlier
this year, in its agreement to purchase U.S. industrial-property
assets from Japan’s  Kajima Corp. (1812)  for $1.1 billion.  Morrison &
Foerster LLP is advising Kajima.  Weil’s team was led by partners Philip Rosen and Shayla Harlev. Additional partners included Samuel Zylberberg, real
estate; Charan Sandhu, technology and IP transactions; Scott Sontag, tax; Michael Nissan; executive compensation and
benefits;  Annemargaret Connolly , environmental; and Patrick O’Toole, regulatory.  Brookfield Property will buy about 25 percent of Kajima’s
Industrial Developments International Inc., with the balance
owned by its institutional partners, the Hamilton, Bermuda-based
company said yesterday in a statement. The deal includes more
than 27 million square feet (2.5 million square meters) of
operating assets and 49 million square feet of future space.  “The addition of IDI to Brookfield’s existing industrial
operations will create a leading global industrial real estate
company able to deliver high-quality distribution facilities to
clients around the world,” Ric Clark, chief executive officer
of Brookfield Property, said in the statement.  Alston & Bird LLP is advising IDI.  For more, click here.  Firm News  Littler’s Alaska Managing Partner Adds Portland Office to Duties  Douglas S. Parker  was named office managing shareholder of
the Littler Mendelson PC’s Portland, Oregon, office. Parker, who
succeeds Howard Rubin, will also continue to manage the firm’s
Anchorage, Alaska, office, which he founded in 2010, the firm
said in a statement.  “Doug has an impressive track record of providing
exceptional service, a longstanding pillar of strength for the
firm, and developing valuable relationships with clients and
attorneys alike,” Tom Bender and Jeremy Roth, co-managing
directors of Littler, said in a joint statement.  Parker has spent more than 30 years representing employers
in the Pacific Northwest and in Alaska in employment litigation
matters that include class actions, wrongful discharge, wage and
hour, employment discrimination, retaliation, health care and
other ERISA claims, contract interference, non-competition and
intellectual property matters. He also handles traditional labor
matters including collective bargaining, unfair labor practices
and labor arbitrations, the firm said.  Littler Mendelson has more than 980 attorneys at 57 offices
in the Americas and China.  Moves  Bracewell’s Houston Office Hires Environmental Partner  Heather M. Corken joined Bracewell & Giuliani LLP’s
Houston office as a partner in the environmental strategies
practice. She was previously at Norton Rose Fulbright LLP.  Corken focuses on energy-related environmental
issues including advising on regulatory requirements, evaluating
and negotiating corporate and real estate transactions and
representing clients in environmental litigation and enforcement
matters.  “Heather offers deep regulatory and transactional
experience in oil and gas, petrochemical, pipeline, shale
development and other areas, complementing our already strong
environmental team,” Tim Wilkins, head of the environmental
practice and managing partner of the firm’s Austin office, said
in a statement.  Bracewell & Giuliani has 470 lawyers in 10 offices in
 Texas ,  New York ,  Washington ,  Connecticut ,  Seattle , Dubai, and
London.  Labor and Employment Partner Joins Perkins Coie in Dallas  Perkins Coie  LLP announced that Ann Marie Painter has
joined its Dallas office as a partner in the firm’s labor and
employment practice. She was most recently a partner at Morgan,
Lewis & Bockius LLP.   Painter focuses her practice on representing employers in
labor and employment litigation and counseling. She has handled
alleged discrimination, harassment, retaliation, wrongful
termination, breach of contract, and unfair competition matters,
the firm said. She also has a background in both  Fair Labor
Standards Act  and state wage and hour collective and class
actions.  “Her experience in employment litigation, collective
actions, and noncompete litigation is a perfect fit with our
national practice and will be of great interest to our Texas
clients as well,”  Steve Smith , managing partner of Perkins
Coie’s Dallas office, said in a statement.  Perkins Coie has more than 900 lawyers in 19 offices
across the U.S. and  Asia .  Corporate Finance Attorney Bryan Jung Joins Holland & Knight  Bryan Jung  has joined Holland & Knight LLP’s financial
services practice group and will be based in the Fort Lauderdale
and West Palm Beach offices. Most recently, he was the principal
and founder of Whittier Hill LLC.  Jung has more than 20 years of experience in structuring
and advisory services in corporate finance transactions. He
focuses primarily on structured and corporate finance
transactions, including asset securitization, equipment leasing,
and bank,  finance company , and other institutional lending
transactions, the firm said.  Holland & Knight has 1,000 lawyers in 18 U.S. offices as
well as  Abu Dhabi , Beijing, and Bogotá.  Thompson Hine Adds to New York White Collar Criminal Practice  Thompson Hine LLP announced that  Maranda E. Fritz  has
joined its New York office as a partner in the business
litigation practice, where she will focus on white-collar crime,
internal investigations and securities litigation. She was
previously at Hinshaw & Culbertson LLP.  Fritz’s practice focuses on  securities fraud , insurance and
health care fraud, and she has experience in both trial and
investigative matters related to financial crimes, the firm
said.  Thompson Hine has lawyers at seven U.S. offices.  Fees  MF Global Trustee Louis Freeh Asks for $1 Million Fee  Louis Freeh , the former director of the  Federal Bureau  of
Investigation, is asking for $1 million, which is 25 percent the
fee he could have requested for serving as the trustee in the
Chapter 11 reorganization of MF Global Holdings Ltd.  The MF Global Holding company parent went into bankruptcy
reorganization in October 2011 alongside the brokerage
subsidiary MF Global Inc. after discovery of a $1.6 billion
shortfall in customer funds. The broker is in a parallel
liquidation under the Securities Investor Protection Act.  As trustee for the parent, Freeh was proponent of a Chapter
11 plan approved by the  bankruptcy court  in April and
implemented in June.  In response to a deadline for the filing of final fee
requests, Freeh explained how he presided over the receipt of
$161.3 million and the disbursement of $144.3 million. Unlike
lawyers who are paid largely based on the hours devoted to a
case, bankruptcy trustees are entitled to ask for maximum
compensation of in larger cases equal to 3 percent of money
“disbursed or turned over.”  Under the 3 percent formula, Freeh said, he would be
entitled to take home $3.975 million as his trustee’s fee, in
addition to time he spent as a lawyer.  In his final fee request, Freeh is asking for $1 million,
plus payment for his time charges as a lawyer.  The holding company’s Chapter 11 plan was prepared and
filed its original form by a group of creditors whose lawyers
are asking for $4.4 million for their efforts and making a
“substantial contribution” to the case.  To serve him as trustee, Freeh’s primary lawyers from
 Morrison & Foerster LLP  are seeking approval for $19 million in
fees, representing a 10 percent discount from their standard
rates.  Law firm Pepper Hamilton LLP, which Freeh joined this year,
is looking for a $4.7 million fee allowance, including $135,000
for Freeh’s time.  The two law firms that represented the holding company’s
official creditors’ committee are in line for an award totaling
$9 million. The committee’s lawyers moved from Dewey & Leboeuf
LLP to Proskauer Rose LLP when Dewey went out of business and
into its own bankruptcy.  The hearing for the judge to grant fee allowances will take
place Sept. 12.  The holding company’s Chapter 11 case is In re MF Global
Holdings Ltd., 11-bk-15059,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern
District of New York (Manhattan). The liquidation of the broker
is In re MF Global Inc., 11-bk-02790, in the same court.  Sentences  Ex-Baker & McKenzie Partner Sentenced to Two Years for Fraud  Former  Baker & McKenzie  LLP partner Martin Weisberg, who
admitted to stealing from a client and taking part in a $55
million securities fraud, was sentenced to two years in prison,
the U.S. said.  Weisberg, 62, pleaded guilty to conspiracy and money
laundering in May 2012 after prosecutors alleged he skimmed $1.3
million in interest from an escrow account for a hedge fund
client, SIAM Capital Management. Separately, Weisberg joined a
scheme to manipulate the stock price of technology firms
Xybernaut Corp. and Ramp Corp. prosecutors said.  U.S. District Judge Nicholas Garaufis in Brooklyn, New
York, also ordered Weisberg to pay $297,500 in restitution and
$250,000 in forfeiture, according to prosecutors.  Weisberg left Baker & McKenzie in October 2007 at the time
of his arrest in the securities case. Previously, he had worked
at firms including Cravath, Swaine & Moore LLP, Morgan Lewis &
Bockius, and Shea & Gould, according to a memorandum filed by
his lawyers in March.  He graduated from Northwestern University School of Law in
1975, where he was first in his class, according to the
memorandum.  Richard Albert, a lawyer for Weisberg, declined to comment
on the sentence.  The case is U.S. v. Saltsman, 07-cr-641, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of New York (Brooklyn).  Appeals  Professor Who Drafted Wiretap Law Backs Rajaratnam in Appeal  G. Robert Blakey, a law professor who helped draft the U.S.
wiretap statute, may submit a brief supporting imprisoned hedge
fund manager  Raj Rajaratnam ’s effort to overturn his conviction,
a U.S. appeals court ruled.  Blakey, who teaches at Notre Dame Law School in Indiana,
supports a rehearing of the case against the Galleon Group LLC
co-founder, whose insider-trading conviction was upheld in June
by the appeals court in New York. Yesterday he was granted the
right to submit written arguments.  Rajaratnam, who’s serving an 11-year term at the Federal
Medical Center Devens in Ayers, Massachusetts, on July 24 asked
for a hearing before the full  U.S. Court of Appeals  in New York.
His conviction was upheld by a three-judge panel.  Rajaratnam, 56, was convicted of directing the biggest
hedge fund insider-trading scheme in U.S. history. It was the
first such case in which investigators tapped targets’ phone
conversations, a tactic used in organized-crime probes.  Jurors listened to more than 45 wiretap recordings, on some
of which Rajaratnam can be heard gathering nonpublic information
from his sources.  Blakely viewed as the architect of the wiretap statute,
called the secret recordings “a method of last resort” in
court papers submitted with his request to file the brief on
Rajaratnam’s behalf.  Authorities investigating Galleon failed to provide key
facts in their request to make the recordings, called Title III
wiretaps after a part of a 1968 federal law, Blakely wrote. The
facts included the existence of an insider-trading investigation
by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, he wrote.  The wiretaps shouldn’t have been allowed, and the
recordings shouldn’t have been permitted as evidence, he argued.  The appeal is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 11-04416, U.S. Court of
Appeals for the Second Circuit (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York,
at   eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 