-- Wells Fargo Wins Trial Over Securities-Lending Losses
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s   a n d   B e t h   H a w k i n s
-- 2013-08-09T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-08/wells-fargo-lending-program-didn-t-cheat-investors-jury-says.html
Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  was cleared by a
jury of claims it misrepresented a securities-lending program to
Blue Cross Blue Shield of Minnesota and other institutional
investors and a demand it pay for $8.2 million of losses.  A federal court jury in St. Paul, Minnesota, yesterday
returned a verdict rejecting allegations in the plaintiffs’ 2011
lawsuit that the bank marketed a risky program as safe, leading
to losses the bank blamed on the financial crisis alone.  “The verdict validates that Wells Fargo was focused at all
times on serving our clients’ interests,” the lender said in a
post-verdict statement. Wells Fargo sought “to achieve the best
results for all participants in the securities lending program
during extremely difficult economic conditions.”  Plaintiffs’ lawyer Michael V. Ciresi declined to comment.  The case is one of  at least five  filed in  Minnesota  against
Wells Fargo over the securities-lending program, which was based
in the state. Under the program, Wells Fargo held its clients’
securities in custodial accounts and made temporary loans of the
instruments to brokers. The brokers used the securities to
support trading activities such as short sales and option
contracts.  Recall Right  The clients “had the right to recall their loaned
securities at any time, for any reason,” according to the
complaint. Brokers borrowing the securities were required to
post collateral, primarily cash, to use the instruments,
according to court filings.  The San Francisco-based bank lost the first case to go to
trial in 2010, when a state court jury awarded  Minnesota
Workers’ Compensation Reinsurance Association  and three
foundations about $30 million. That judgment was upheld on
appeal.  The current trial before U.S. District Judge Donovan W. Frank involved allegations by Blue Cross Blue Shield of
Minnesota, the El Paso County Retirement Plan and 10 other
nonprofit groups seeking reimbursement of losses and punitive
damages. It began on June 18.  Frank will hold a separate nonjury hearing to determine
losses to retirement funds operated by the nonprofits.  Blue Cross said in court papers filed Sept. 11 that Wells
Fargo promised to put the cash received as brokers’ collateral
in conservative investments it “repeatedly represented would be
‘high-grade money market instruments,’ where the ‘prime
considerations’ would be ‘safety of principal and liquidity.’”  Illiquid Securities  Wells Fargo instead moved the collateral into risky or
illiquid securities such as structured investment vehicles and
mortgage-backed assets, generating losses instead of a small
profit, Blue Cross said.  The plaintiffs accused Wells Fargo of breach of fiduciary
duty, breach of contract and fraud.  The bank said yesterday the program’s losses averaged about
3 percent while markets were down as much as 50 percent during
the peak of the financial crisis.  The company sold most of its securities-lending program to
Citigroup Inc. in 2011, Laura Fay, a spokeswoman for Wells
Fargo, said in June. The bank remains liable for any damages
awarded in the lawsuits, she said.  The bank is scheduled for a third trial on the same claims
in March in a class action brought in federal court on behalf of
about 100 other institutional investors. Two more cases are
pending in federal court, including one by Minnesota Life
Insurance Co. seeking $40 million in damages. Those cases are
also set for trial next year.  The Minnesota case is Blue Cross Blue Shield of Minnesota
v. Wells Fargo Bank, 11-cv-02529, U.S. District Court, District
of Minnesota (St. Paul).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Harris in the Chicago federal courthouse at  aharris16@bloomberg.net 
Beth Hawkins in St. Paul, Minnesota at 
 bhawkins16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  