-- Wilhelmsen Gains as Shipping Recovery Boosts Outlook: Oslo Mover
-- B y   S t e p h e n   T r e l o a r
-- 2013-08-08T10:49:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-08/wilhelmsen-gains-as-shipping-recovery-boosts-outlook-oslo-mover.html
Wilhelm Wilhelmsen ASA (WWASA) , the world’s
largest vehicle transporter, climbed the most in almost a month
in Oslo as a recovery in car sales in North America and Europe
improves the company’s earnings prospects.  Shares in the company, based in Lysaker near Oslo, gained
as much as 3.1 percent to 49.70 kroner, the biggest intraday
advance since July 11, and traded 2.5 percent higher as of 12:35
p.m., outperforming the Bloomberg European Transportation Index,
which was up 0.4 percent. Almost 38,000 Wilhelmsen shares have
been traded so far today, more than 85 percent of the average
daily volume during the last three months.  The company, which operates about a quarter of the global
car carrier fleet, is benefitting from rising demand for
automobiles and other vehicles as the global economy recovers.
Wilhelmsen today reported second-quarter earnings that beat
estimates, citing a positive trend in car sales and increased
demand for construction, mining and agricultural vehicles.  “The volume decline recorded in the latter half of 2012
and beginning of 2013 has levelled off with positive development
for both cargo segments,” Wilhelmsen said in a statement. The
company “anticipates that volumes shipped by the group’s fleet
will remain at present level.”  The shipping company reported second-quarter net income of
$92 million, up from $70 million a year ago, and beating the  $57
million (WWI)  average of eleven analyst estimates compiled by
Bloomberg.  The better than expected numbers were “driven by a sharp
increase in shipping results,” Pareto Securities AS said in a
note. “All in all the report is very positive and gives
increased confidence in higher shipping-volumes going forward.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Treloar at   streloar1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Wienberg at   cwienberg@bloomberg.net  