-- WTI Snaps Five-Day Drop as China Industrial Output Gains
-- B y   R u p e r t   R o w l i n g
-- 2013-08-09T12:48:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-08/wti-snaps-five-day-drop-as-china-industrial-output-seen-steady.html
West Texas Intermediate crude rose
for the first time in six days, trimming a weekly drop as
industrial production advanced more than forecast in China, the
second-biggest oil consumer.  Futures gained as much as 1.4 percent in  New York , snapping
the longest streak of declines since December. China’s factory
output climbed 9.7 percent in July from a year earlier, 0.8
percentage points higher than forecast in a Bloomberg survey,
figures from the National Bureau of Statistics show. Prices held
gains even as the  International Energy Agency  cut its estimate
for 2014 global oil demand growth.  “Better-than-expected Chinese industrial data was always
going to give a boost to risky assets such as oil,” said
 Michael Hewson , a market analyst at CMC Markets Plc in  London ,
who forecasts North Sea Brent crude to drop to $103 a barrel by
the end of the year and WTI to fall as low as $95. “Oil did
drop yesterday so we were always going to get a bit of a
pullback from that too.”  WTI for September delivery advanced as much as $1.42 to
$104.82 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange  and was at $104 as of 1:46 p.m. London time.
The contract fell 97 cents to $103.40 yesterday amid speculation
that the  Federal Reserve  will trim stimulus measures in the U.S.
Prices are down 2.8 percent this week.  Brent Crude  Brent for September settlement rose 0.4 percent to $107.09
a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures  Europe  exchange. The
European benchmark was at a premium of $3.09 to WTI, down from
$3.28 yesterday.  Trading in two North Sea crudes, Ekofisk and Oseberg, has
jumped almost eightfold on the Platts platform after quality
premiums were introduced May 1 to boost liquidity and enhance
Dated Brent’s stature as a global oil benchmark, data provided
by the price publisher show.  China’s retail sales climbed 13.2 percent in July, the
National Bureau of Statistics in Beijing said today. They were
projected to rise 13.5 percent, according to a Bloomberg survey.  Total exports of goods from China rose 5.1 percent last
month, figures from the General Administration of Customs showed
yesterday. They were expected to gain by 2 percent, according to
a Bloomberg survey. Imports climbed 10.9 percent, compared with
a forecast 1 percent increase in the survey.  Global Demand  China  was the second-biggest oil consumer last year,
accounting for about 11 percent of global demand, compared with
21 percent for the U.S., IEA data show.  The IEA trimmed its 2014 oil demand growth estimate amid
slowing expansion in China and a struggle to secure a recovery
in the U.S. and Europe. Global consumption will increase by 1.1
million barrels a day, or 1.2 percent, to 92 million next year,
the Paris-based agency said today. The expansion is 100,000
barrels a day less than its forecast last month.  OPEC maintained its demand growth forecast for next year at
about 90.8 million barrels in its monthly report, which was also
published today.  Crude output from the 12 members of the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries fell last month amid declines in
Iraq and  Libya , according to the monthly reports from both OPEC
and the IEA. A supply increase from  Saudi Arabia  muted the total
reduction.  WTI will probably drop next week on speculation that the
Federal Reserve will start as soon as this month to pare bond
purchases that have bolstered the economy and energy demand,
according to a Bloomberg News survey of analysts and traders.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rupert Rowling in London at 
 rrowling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  