-- Yahoo Posts $165 Million Second-Quarter Gain From Hedges
-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 2013-08-09T20:14:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-08/yahoo-posts-165-million-second-quarter-gain-from-hedges.html
Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)  recorded $165 million in
gains in the second quarter from steps the Web portal took to
guard against swings in the Japanese yen, bringing its total
benefit from such currency hedges to $438 million.  After using forward contracts to reduce foreign-exchange
risk related to its stake in  Yahoo Japan Corp. (4689) , the company had
recorded a pretax gain of $270 million in the first quarter and
$3 million for last year, Sunnyvale, California-based Yahoo said
in a regulatory filing.  Chief Executive Officer  Marissa Mayer  has benefited from
the company’s investments in Yahoo  Japan  and Alibaba Group
Holding Ltd., the Chinese online marketplace that may hold an
initial public offering by the end of the year. Mayer decided to
hedge against the yen last December, with forward contracts that
mature at nine to 15 months, the company said in the filing.  Forward contracts give the right to purchase a currency at
a certain price at a prearranged date, helping protect the
holder against a change in a currency’s value.  “If the Japanese yen depreciates at maturity from the
forward contract execution rates, we will receive a cash
settlement, which may be material,” Yahoo said. “We have
elected to apply net investment hedge accounting and expect the
hedges to be effective.”  The estimated value of the forward contracts was $3.5
billion at the end of June, according to the filing. The fair
value of the assets was included in prepaid expenses and other
current assets on the company’s balance sheet.  Yahoo also said it agreed to pay $40 million in cash as
well as stock-based compensation worth $41 million to Tumblr
Inc. founder David Karp over the next four years to retain him
after buying his blogging website in June. It acquired nine
other companies in the first half of 2013 totaling $54 million,
according to the filing.  The shares rose less than 1 percent to $27.68 at the close
in  New York . The stock has advanced 39 percent this year,
compared with a 19 percent gain for the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Douglas MacMillan in  San Francisco  at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  