-- Cattle Rise Most in Six Months as Tyson Halts Weight Aid
-- B y   D e b a r a t i   R o y   a n d   M a r l e y   D e l D u c h e t t o   K a y d e n
-- 2013-08-08T19:17:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-08/tyson-to-halt-purchases-of-cattle-fed-with-merck-additive.html
Cattle futures rose the most in six
months on concern that U.S. beef supplies will shrink as  Tyson
Foods Inc. (TSN)  halts purchases of animals fed with a supplement made
by  Merck & Co. (MRK)  after discovering lame livestock at factories.  “Some animal-health experts have suggested that the use of
the feed supplement Zilmax, also known as zilpaterol, is one
possible cause” for the animals being unable to walk, according
to a letter sent by Springdale, Arkansas-based Tyson to cattle
suppliers. The “interim measure” is effective Sept. 6, and the
“evaluation of these problems is ongoing,” according to the
letter provided yesterday by Tyson spokesman Gary Mickelson.
Merck said the supplement is safe.  Futures climbed to a five-month high. Zilmax helps animals
gain 24 pounds (11 kilograms) to 33 pounds more than normal and
is used to increase lean muscle, according to Steve Kay, the
editor of Cattle Buyers Weekly, a trade magazine based in
Petaluma,  California . The supplement is typically given for
about 20 days in the month before livestock are sent to
slaughter, he said.  “This is not a food-safety issue,” according to the
letter by Tyson, the biggest U.S. meat processor. “It is about
animal well-being and ensuring the proper treatment of the
livestock we depend on to operate.”  Technical Assistance  Pamela Eisele, a spokeswoman at  Whitehouse Station , New
Jersey-based  Merck , said in an e-mail that “extensive” data
and research showed that the “behavior and movement of cattle
fed Zilmax is normal.” The company “has offered technical
assistance, both internal and external experts, to help Tyson to
understand what is behind the instances at its facility,”
according to the e-mail.  Cattle futures for October delivery rose 1.9 percent to
settle at $1.27075 a pound at 1 p.m. on the  Chicago  Mercantile
Exchange, the biggest gain for a most-active contract since Jan.
28. Earlier, the price climbed by the CME limit of 3 cents to
$1.27675, the highest since March 13.  Trading was 89 percent more than the 100-day average for
this time, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Cattle
futures have dropped 3.9 percent this year.  The price pared gains after Cargill Inc., the second-largest U.S. beef packer, said it will keep buying animals fed
with additives.  “We buy cattle that have been fed supplements, and we’re
not we’re not planning to change what we do,”  Michael Martin , a
spokesman for Cargill Inc.’s U.S. animal-protein business, said
today in a telephone interview. The closely held company, the
biggest in the U.S., is based in  Minneapolis .  Feeder Cattle  Feeder-cattle futures for September settlement rose 0.9
percent to $1.57825 a pound after jumping the exchange limit of
3 cents to $1.59375, the highest since June 2012. Trading was 75
percent more than the 100-day average, according to Bloomberg
data. The price has gained 12 percent in the past year.  Because the suspension is not effective until next month,
it “gives cattle feeders plenty of time to stop using Zilmax,”
Kay of Cattle Buyers Weekly said in a telephone interview. About
60 percent to 80 percent of cattle are given Zilmax or the
alternative additive Optaflexx, manufactured by  Eli Lilly &
Co. (LLY) ’s Elanco unit, he said.  Optaflexx is a brand of ractopamine.  China  and  Russia  have
sought to restrict meat imports with that additive.  Tyson rose 0.6 percent to $30.79 at 3:15 p.m. in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading. Through yesterday, the shares
doubled in the past 12 months.  Merck gained less than 0.1 percent to $48.57. Through
yesterday, the shares gained 10 percent in the past year.  Independent Experts  “Zilmax has been used globally for nearly two decades in
countries including  South Africa ,  Mexico ,  Canada , the U.S. and
Canada, and  South Korea ,” Merck says on its website. “The
safety of Zilmax is well documented by numerous independent,
third-party experts.”  Wholesale  beef  reached $2.1137 a pound on May 23, the
highest since at least 2004, U.S. Department of Agriculture data
show. Since then, the price has dropped 11 percent to $1.8832.  “Either the size of the animals will shrink, or a lot more
corn will be consumed” as feed,  Jerry Gidel , the chief feed-grain analyst for Rice Dairy LLC in Chicago, said in a telephone
interview. Zilmax is “a widely used additive in the U.S. and
also by the exporters in Canada,” he said.  Corn futures for December delivery rose 0.3 percent to
$4.5975 a bushel on the Chicago Board of Trade, ending a five-session slump. The price has tumbled 44 percent in the past 12
months on forecasts that U.S. farmers will harvest a record crop
this year.  ‘Follow Suit’  “You’re going to see beef packers follow suit” on scaling
back supplements, Troy Vetterkind, the owner of Vetterkind
Cattle Brokerage in Chicago, said in a telephone interview.
“It’s getting harder to sell meat with additives in it as
countries like Russia and China are refusing to buy it.”  Cattle futures probably won’t top this year’s high
“because you shut demand off, and pork and poultry production
is on the rise,” he said.  On Jan. 11, the most-active contract by open interest
reached a record $1.35175.  The retail price of ground beef averaged $3.382 a pound in
June, the most ever behind the record of $3.407 in January, U.S.
Bureau of Labor Statistics data show.  “Cattlemen and women believe in the right of farmers and
ranchers to responsibly use FDA-approved  technologies ,” Forrest
Roberts, the chief executive officer of the National Cattlemen’s
Association in  Washington , said in a statement. “However, we
take every report of animal welfare issues very seriously. We
believe these products can be used responsibly when managed
properly.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Debarati Roy in  New York  at 
 droy5@bloomberg.net ;
Marley DelDuchetto Kayden in Chicago at 
 mdelduchett2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Patrick McKiernan at 
 pmckiernan@bloomberg.net  