-- Zimmer Told to Pay Stryker $228 Million in Patent Case
-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 2013-08-08T14:45:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-08/zimmer-told-to-pay-stryker-228-million-in-patent-case.html
Zimmer Holdings Inc. (ZMH) , which lost a
February trial against Stryker Corp. over a surgical device, was
told to pay more than $228 million -- three times the jury award
-- and stop selling its products.  The increase in the jury award was appropriate because
Zimmer intentionally infringed Stryker patents to build its
business for pulsed lavage, a technique that removes damaged
tissue and cleans bones during joint-replacement surgery, U.S.
District Judge Robert Jonker said in an order issued yesterday.
He also ordered Zimmer to stop selling its Pulsavac Plus device.  A federal jury in Grand Rapids,  Michigan , in February sided
with Stryker and awarded $70 million in damages. The dispute is
over devices that use pulsing liquid, such as water or saline
solution, to loosen debris from a surgical site and remove it by
suction.  “A $70 million verdict sounds large in the abstract, but
in context, it may not be enough, without enhancement, to deter
infringing conduct,” Zonker wrote in his opinion.  The judge awarded $210 million after tripling the jury
award, another $7 million for infringing sales that weren’t
covered by the verdict, $11.2 million for interest, as well as
attorney’s fees, said Stryker lawyer Greg Vogler of McAndrews
Held & Malloy in  Chicago .  ‘High-Risk Strategy’  The judge’s 58-page opinion outlines Stryker’s innovation
in coming up with a portable lavage device to replace bulky
machines that were wheeled around a hospital. Zimmer was losing
market share, so hired someone to “make one for us,” which
resulted in a product that looked and functioned like Stryker’s.  Zimmer recouped some market share until it was forced to
pull its product from the market in 2007 because of technical
problems and complaints, the judge said. It reentered the market
in December 2008, he said.  “Zimmer chose a high-risk/high-reward strategy of
competing immediately and aggressively in the pulsed lavage
market and opted to worry about the potential legal consequences
later,” the judge said.  The case is  Stryker Corp. (SYK)  v. Zimmer Inc., 10cv1223, U.S.
District Court for the Western District of Michigan (Grand
Rapids).  For Related News and Information:  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  