-- 
‘Ambitious’ Climate Targets Needed to Rescue UN Market, EU Says

-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a   a n d   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 
2011-10-17T16:36:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/-ambitious-climate-targets-needed-to-rescue-un-market-eu-says.html
The  United Nations ’ carbon program,
the world’s second biggest, needs “ambitious” emission-
reduction targets to rescue a market that has shrunk by nearly
80 percent since 2007, according to the European Commission.
Greenhouse gas credits dropped to a record.  More than 190 nations will discuss climate-protection rules
for the period after 2012, when the current targets for
developed nations under the  Kyoto Protocol  expire. Talks will
take place in Durban,  South Africa , starting Nov. 28. The
European Union is open to the so-called second commitment period
under certain conditions and hopes to have a new agreement
binding all countries to cut emissions within five years, said
Artur Runge-Metzger, the bloc’s envoy to the talks.  “We’re hopeful that countries within coming years will
increase their level of ambitions and that would create
additional demand for the Clean Development Mechanism,”Runge- Metzger said in an interview on Oct. 14. “That’s something
we’ll have to see. I wouldn’t close the door.”  The UN Clean Development Mechanism, which generates credits
for investment in emission-reduction projects in  developing
countries , shrank to $1.5 billion last year from $7.4 billion in
2007, according to World Bank estimates. Offset credits issued
under the mechanism, known as the CDM, can be used for
compliance by companies in the EU  emissions trading  system,
valued at $119.8 billion in 2010 and ranked as the world’s
largest.  Least Developed Countries  From 2013 the EU will accept only new offset projects based
in least-developed countries. Additionally, the import of
credits generated by reducing industrial gas hydrofluorocarbon-
23 and of those tied to some nitrous-oxide projects will be
banned as of May 2013.  Supply from existing CDM projects, excluding activities
related to HFC-23 and N2O, may be enough to satisfy demand from
EU emitters by 2020, according to Bloomberg calculations based
on data by the Risoe Centre on Energy, Climate &  Sustainable
Development . The Roskilde, Denmark-based Risoe is a unit of the
UN Environment Program.  “In terms of calculations, if everything stays as it is,
it seems that supply is sufficient to meet demand,” Runge-
Metzger said. “But we’d hope that, like what we’ve seen in
Australia, which is planning to introduce emissions trading as
of 2015, there may be more demand coming into the system. There
could be several others.”  Australian Demand  Australia will add demand for 450 million metric tons of
credits in the five years through 2020,  Trevor Sikorski , an
analyst for the investment banking unit of  Barclays Plc (BARC) , said
today in an e-mailed research note. That’s equivalent to about a
quarter of yearly emissions in the EU market.  “With EU emissions-trading-system demand likely to become
thinner in the period beyond 2016, then this could provide some
much-needed demand for those international offsets,” Sikorski
said.  Investors and traders including Geoff Sinclair, head of
carbon trading at Standard Bank Group Ltd., have expressed
concern that demand for the Certified Emission Reduction credits
known as CERs will dry up without a global treaty with binding
emission-reduction goals.  The UN talks to fix post-2012 climate architecture, which
involve extending emission-reduction goals under the  Kyoto
accord  and creating a new globally binding treaty, have stalled
amid differences between rich and developing nations.  Countries including Japan and  Russia  have said they don’t
want to extend the  Kyoto treaty . Their absence, along with that
of the U.S.,  China  and  India , would leave the Kyoto pact without
targets for the five biggest national emitters of pollution from
burning fossil fuels.  Binding Targets  As part of the EU negotiating mandate for Durban,
environment ministers agreed last week that the bloc would
consider signing up for the second  commitment  period under Kyoto
if the treaty guarantees environmental benefits and other
nations determine a road map for a legally binding global deal.  “CER demand is really only driven by binding targets, and
the only people providing that right now are the EU,” Sinclair
said by e-mail. “Investors need the demand side to be based on
legally binding caps and anyone who genuinely believes anything
different is on another planet.”  Mehran Massih, head of the environmental and climate change
practice at Shearman & Sterling LLP in London, says the market
is moving “two steps forward and one step back.”  Back Up Needed  Demand stemming from new targets is needed to back up
markets in California and  Australia , he said by phone. “While
the grand, global plan may not happen the way people envisaged
in 2008, smaller programs are getting off the ground,” Massih
said. “The engine continues to roll. Projects continue to be
sponsored. The interest by big carbon funds and energy traders
continues.”  UN offsets for delivery in December dropped as much as 1.9
percent to a record 7.12 euros ($9.80) a ton on the ICE Futures
Europe exchange and were at 7.13 euros as of 5:11 p.m. in London
today.  “From December, all investment in CDM projects outside
least-developed countries is likely to cease,” unless the EU
reconsiders its rules, said Brett Jordaan, vice president of
global carbon for the  White Plains , New-York-based carbon and
energy broker Evolution Markets Inc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net 
Mathew Carr in  London  at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  