-- 
‘Obsolete’ Thai Weather Radar Blamed for Failure to Predict Rain Severity

-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e   a n d   S u p u n n a b u l   S u w a n n a k i j
-- 
2011-10-17T02:16:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/-obsolete-thai-weather-radar-blamed-for-failure-to-predict-rain-severity.html
Thailand ’s weather service blamed
obsolete equipment for failing to predict the severity of rains
that killed 307 people, saying authorities ignored upgrade
requests that could have mitigated the impact of flooding.  Requests from Thailand’s Meteorological Department for a 4
billion baht ($130 million) overhaul of its radar and modeling
systems have gone unheeded since 2009, deputy director-general
Somchai Baimoung said. The new equipment would allow the
department to more accurately forecast  seasonal rains , he said,
giving dam operators information needed to adjust water levels.  “If we can get this new system, it can help people,”
Somchai said in a phone interview yesterday. “No one expected
rainfall would be this much. Right now our system, including
hardware and software, is obsolete.”  The difficulty in managing monsoon rains may shave 1.5
percentage points off growth in  Southeast Asia ’s second-biggest
economy as floods force companies including  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) 
and Sony Corp. to close factories. The deluge has also damaged
13 percent of the rice fields in the world’s biggest exporter of
the grain, according to the farm ministry.  Bhumibol dam, Thailand’s largest, retained most of its
water prior to August to ensure sufficient supply for irrigating
crops in the dry season, according to Boonin Chuenchavalit, who
oversees its operation for state-run  Electricity Generating
Authority of Thailand . The amount of precipitation since then
caught officials off guard, he said.  “We were aware rainfall would increase this year, but
didn’t anticipate it would be a massive amount,” Boonin said by
phone. “We have released some water by considering weather and
flooding conditions since late July. Releasing so much water
would worsen the flood situation.”  October Discharge  In June and July, authorities released an average of 4.5
million cubic meters of water per day from  Bhumibol Dam  as the
water level increased to 63 percent of capacity, double the
amount stored in the same period a year earlier, according to
 data  from the Royal Irrigation Department.  The discharge increased to 22 million cubic meters per day
on average in August and 26 million in September. From Oct. 1 to
Oct. 14, as floods left hundreds of thousands scrambling for
temporary shelter, an average of 77 million cubic meters has
been released downstream each day, more than 17 times as much as
in June and July, the data show.  In  Sirikit Dam , the country’s second-largest that feeds the
flooded area, discharge rates averaged 54 million cubic meters
per day from Aug. 1 to Oct. 14, five times more than in June and
July, according to Irrigation Department data. On Aug. 1, the
reservoir was 79 percent full, holding twice as much water as
the same date a year earlier.  Dry Season Storage  “If water was released from the dams in a proper way, the
flooding would be less severe,” said  Suphat Vongvisessomjai , a
water expert who has designed flood defenses across Thailand.
“They just kept on collecting water so they have as much as
possible to use in the dry season. This is the main problem.”  Suthep Noipairoj, head of the Irrigation Department’s
Office of Hydrology and Water Management, said discharges from
the dams were reduced starting in April because some agriculture
lands downstream were already flooded.  “The dams are full because the rainfall in the northern
part of the country reached a new record high this year,” he
said by phone. “It’s not true that we reduced the water
released because we were concerned about water shortages. The
people who said this just want to find a scapegoat.”  Heavy Storms  Rainfall in July and August was about 25 percent more than
the 30-year average, according to the latest available data from
the  Meteorological Department . Reservoirs at larger dams across
the country are 93 percent full on average, compared with 68
percent a year ago, the Irrigation Department said on its
website on Oct. 14.  Five tropical storms deluged Thailand in the past few
months, including Nock-Ten, which also struck the  Philippines ,
 Vietnam ,  Laos  and  China , killing more than 100 people. The water
from the northern dams takes nine days to reach Bangkok, Egat
Assistant Governor Kitti Tancharoen said Oct. 14.  “If they knew for sure the rain is coming, maybe they
would’ve released a little bit more water,” said Chaiwat
Prechawit, a former deputy director of the Irrigation
Department. “The Meteorological Department can say there will
be more rain than last year, but they couldn’t predict the
storms would hit Thailand directly with such heavy rain.”  River Basin  The floods are centered in the  Chao Phraya River Basin , an
area the size of  Florida  where water flows from  Chiang Mai  in
the north down to Bangkok and into the Gulf of Thailand. Average
elevation in the area is less than two meters (6.6 feet) above
 sea level ,  according to  the  World Bank .  Since the 1950s, more than 300 dams have been built to hold
water from Thailand’s monsoon rains from July to October for use
the rest of the year. Bhumibol and Sirikit,  funded by the World
Bank  after World War II to provide Bangkok with electricity and
turn Thailand into a commercial rice exporter, can irrigate
400,000 million hectares (1,544 square miles) in the dry season,
an area six times bigger than  Singapore .  In Ayutthaya, the former capital of Thailand 76 kilometers
(47 miles) north of Bangkok that is now a  United Nations World
Heritage Site , the annual floods helped the city repel Burmese
invasions. In the 1980s, industrial parks opened in the
province, attracting Japanese manufacturers such as Nikon Corp.
and Pioneer Corp., which are now among the 930 factories damaged
in the disaster, according to the Industry Ministry.  Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra assured Bangkok
residents yesterday that the capital would be spared from
flooding even as a high tide elevates water levels. The Cabinet
will review the budget to help recover from the floods and
manage them in the future, she said Oct. 11.  “Preventative measures are always the most effective,”
said Suvit Yodmani, a former Cabinet member and ex-director of
the Asian Disaster Preparedness Center. “As a whole, we
could’ve done more.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net ;
Supunnabul Suwannakij in Bangkok at 
 ssuwannakij@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  