-- 
A Taxing Debate: The Mortgage-Interest Deduction

-- B y   B e n   S t e v e r m a n
-- 
2011-10-18T15:13:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/a-taxing-debate-the-mortgage-interest-deduction.html
(Corrects language on deductible interest in fourth paragraph.)  The mortgage-interest deduction may be your favorite tax
break, but be aware that it has some impressive enemies. The
fiscal commissions of two different Presidents proposed
eliminating it, first in 2005 and then in 2010. There's also a
steady stream of research from such places as the  London
School  of Economics and the  Brookings Institution  arguing that
the deduction doesn't boost homeownership, but instead
provides incentives for wealthier Americans to buy big houses
and take on more debt.  Nevertheless, the mortgage-interest tax deduction
survives, fortified in  Washington  by strong housing industry
support and its presumed popularity with voters.
Now, according to a recent Bloomberg Poll, a growing number of
Americans may be willing to end the mortgage tax deduction --
as long as they get something in return. Forty-eight percent
of respondents said they were willing to give up all tax
deductions, including the home mortgage deduction, in return
for lower tax rates for every tax bracket. Forty-five percent
were opposed in the survey of 997 adults, conducted for
Bloomberg by Selzer & Company.  The results represent a significant shift from a December
2010 Bloomberg survey that asked the same question. That poll
showed a majority, 51 percent, opposed to giving up tax
deductions, with 41 percent in favor. Given the pressure to
lower the federal deficit, "everything is on the table," says
Richard K. Green, director of the University of Southern
 California  Lusk Center for Real Estate. "People are so
desperate to figure something out that they're willing to
consider anything."  Lobbyists versus Academics  The mortgage-interest deduction allows homeowners to lower
tax bills by deducting interest on home mortgages from their
taxable income. Interest on up to $1 million in mortgages on
first and second homes is
deductible, along with interest on up to $100,000 in home
equity debt.  Lobbyists for homebuilders and realtors vigorously defend
the usefulness and popularity of the tax break.  Lawrence
Yun , chief economist at the National Association of
Realtors, says the deduction has "lowered the cost of
ownership" and boosted the homeownership rate, which he
describes as "the foundation for a very stable, democratic
country." As recently as April, a  USA Today /Gallup Poll found
that 62 percent of respondents opposed eliminating the tax
break.  If the sentiment in previous polls is an accurate
reflection of attitudes, many Americans support the deduction
without getting a benefit from it. The deduction has a
definite high-income tilt: Only about one in four Americans
includes mortgage interest on taxes. Renters and homeowners
without mortgages have no interest to deduct, while many
lower- and middle-class homeowners receive a standard tax
deduction and don't itemize.  Dennis J. Ventry Jr., a professor specializing in tax law
at the University of California-Davis School of Law, calls the
provision, which costs nearly $100 billion a year, "the most
inequitable and inefficient provision in the Internal Revenue
Code." The benefits of deducting interest from income increase
with a homeowner's tax rate, he notes. Thus, according to a
2011 study co-authored by Green, 46 percent of the deduction's
tax benefit goes to households earnings more than $100,000 per
year.  Unpredictable Effects  Criticizing the mortgage-interest deduction is far easier
than calculating the impact of getting rid of it. If, as many
argue, the deduction has spurred "overinvestment" in
housing, ending the incentive may have negative and
unpredictable effects.  The potential hit to the housing economy is a big unknown.
Dean Stansel, an economics professor at Florida Gulf Coast
University who has studied the deduction for the Reason
Foundation, estimates that the tax break inflates housing
prices by less than 1 percent; a separate study calculates
that it raises prices by 3 percent to 6 percent.  One research paper forecasts serious trouble if the
deduction should disappear, predicting that prices could fall
from 2 percent to as much as 13 percent, depending on the
metropolitan area. Most vulnerable would be parts of the
country with higher incomes and higher  home prices , which
typically benefit most from the mortgage-interest deduction.
For example, according to a March 2011 analysis in Tax
Notes, residents of  Beverly Hills , California, get a $1,873
per person benefit from the deduction, while residents of
Clarksville,  Mississippi , gain an average of $45 per person.  On a personal level, the deduction's biggest beneficiaries
will feel the greatest pain if it disappears. Green, of the
University of Southern California Lusk Center for Real
Estate, estimates that households earning more than $160,000
would pay an average of $2,577 in additional taxes, even after
benefiting from a proposed 15 percent tax credit. Places with
pricy real estate would bear the brunt of a repeal. "The city
of  San Francisco  would just get whacked," Green says.  Tempting Target  To avoid dire scenarios, Washington would likely do away
with the mortgage deduction in a gentle fashion. The tax
advisory panel convened by President  George W. Bush  in 2005
suggested replacing the deduction with a tax credit equal to
15 percent of interest paid. In 2009, the Bowles-Simpson
Commission proposed an annual tax credit of 12
percent, limiting interest to first homes and mortgages up to
$500,000.  Unlike tax deductions, tax credits can be claimed by all
taxpayers, including those who do not itemize their taxes.
That could help a greater number of lower- and middle-income
people afford houses. Green estimates that a 15 percent
mortgage-interest tax credit would boost homeownership by 2.5
percentage points.  The mortgage deduction could once again be a target for
deficit cutters. According to a 2009 Congressional Budget
Office analysis, gradually replacing the mortgage deduction
with a 15 percent credit would yield $388 billion from 2013 to
2019. Such savings could prove tempting to the Joint Select
Committee on  Deficit Reduction , which is charged with finding
at least $1.5 trillion in deficit savings over the next 10
years.  The inclinations of this "super committee" are, so
far, secret, but the mortgage-interest deduction was discussed
at a Sept. 22 hearing. Without making any
recommendations, Joint Committee on Taxation Chief of Staff
Thomas Barthold mentioned the deduction as an example of a
"tax expenditure" that could be eliminated as part of an
overhaul of the  tax code .  The threat of mandatory deep cuts in defense spending and
Medicare if the super committee cannot find enough savings may
be the only way that the mortgage interest deduction can die.
It's tough to end the tax break, says Green, because the costs
are widespread and barely noticed, while the benefits are
concentrated in a vocal minority that appreciates the
deduction. "It's only in the context of overall reform that
you might see something happen," he says. With public opinion
turning, that day may be drawing near.
 