-- 
Abraaj Expects to Sell Three Investments Before End of 2012

-- B y   A r i f   S h a r i f
-- 
2011-10-17T13:55:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/abraaj-expects-to-sell-three-investments-before-end-of-2012-1-.html
Abraaj Capital Ltd., a Dubai-based
private-equity firm that oversees about $6.2 billion, plans to
sell two or three investments before the end of 2012, its first
disposals since the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  “Several of our companies are going through an exit
mode,” senior partner Matteo Stefanel told reporters at the
Super Return  Middle East  2011 conference in Dubai today. The
company has had interest from buyers including corporate and
private-equity firms, he said. The firm also expects to make one
or two acquisitions this year, each with a value of $100 million
to $200 million, he said.  Abraaj’s last disposal was the sale of its 30 percent stake
in National Air Services Co., a Saudi Arabia-based airline and
aircraft management company, to Prince Alwaleed Bin Talal’s
Kingdom Holding Co. for 1.17 billion riyals ($312 million) in
June 2008. The firm hired Merrill Lynch & Co. and Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. four months ago to oversee a potential sale of its
stake in Acibadem Holding AS, a Turkish hospital chain.  Buyout firms have struggled to sell assets after the
collapse of Lehman in 2008 roiled markets worldwide, forcing
companies to delay acquisition plans. The turmoil also cut off
the supply of loans firms use to finance acquisitions, stopping
private-equity firms from buying assets from each other.  ‘New Normal’  Abraaj is evaluating about 40 potential acquisitions in
industries from oil and gas service to financial institutions
and logistics, Stefanel said. There are attractive opportunities
in Indonesia and  Malaysia  and sub-Saharan Africa, he added.  “Certain levels of volatility in today’s economy and even
in the region are ultimately not just acceptable -- but they are
the new normal,” Stefanel said. There is “less fear of the
future, but there is a more cautious approach to investing.”  Abraaj took control in August of the $161 million North
African private-equity fund of Amundi, the French asset manager
jointly owned by Societe Generale SA and Credit Agricole SA. It
also bought a 49 percent stake in Network International LLC the
 credit card  processing unit of  Emirates NBD PJSC (EMIRATES) , Dubai’s
biggest bank, for 1.98 billion dirhams in April.  Network, which provides card payment services, serves about
70 banks and financial firms in the Middle East and  Africa  and
more than 17,000 retailers. The firm’s installations are
increasing by 20 percent a year and Abraaj expects to reap three
times its original investment within five years, Stefanel said.  Abraaj expects to close its fourth buyout fund at $2
billion “soon” after raising a little more than $1 billion at
its first close, Stefanel said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Arif Sharif in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at   cmaedler@bloomberg.net  