-- 
Abu Dhabi Shares Sink to Two-Year Low Led by Property Developers

-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r   a n d   S t e f a n i a   B i a n c h i
-- 
2011-10-17T13:06:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/abu-dhabi-shares-sink-to-two-year-low-led-by-property-developers.html
Abu Dhabi ’s benchmark stock index
slumped to the lowest in more than two years as real-estate
companies declined amid concern about an oversupply of
properties in the Persian Gulf emirate.  Aldar Properties PJSC (ALDAR) , the Abu Dhabi developer that’s had
three chief executive officers in four years, and  Sorouh Real
Estate Co. (SOROUH)  tumbled to the lowest since their listing. The
benchmark  ADX General Index (ADSMI)  dropped 0.7 percent to 2,453.97, the
lowest since April 2009, at the 2 p.m. close in Abu Dhabi. The
 ADX Real Estate Index (ADRE) , down 2.9 percent today, is the worst
performer of nine groups in the benchmark this year after losing
49 percent. About 47 million shares traded in Abu Dhabi,
compared with this year’s daily average of 67 million shares.  “There’s a lack of foreign and local interest judging by
the low volumes,” said  Haissam Arabi , chief executive officer
at Gulfmena Investments in Dubai. “The real-estate sector is
still an overhang. We are looking at a situation where there is
oversupply now and more to come.”  Abu Dhabi will continue to have excess of most types of
properties, leading to a further decline in rental and sale
prices, Jones Lang LaSalle said in a research report yesterday.
Vacancies in office and residential units will persist as supply
increases, the U.S. property broker said. As many as 11,000
residential units and 150,000 square meters of  office space  may
be delivered in the fourth quarter, it said.  Falling Rents  Rents in Abu Dhabi have fallen 40 percent since the
market’s peak as many foreigners left, leaving a number of
properties without tenants, according to estimates from Jones
Lang LaSalle. Aldar, down 60 percent over the past year, was the
first company in the emirate to receive a junk rating from
Moody’s Investors Service.  The developer’s shares declined 3.9 percent to 1 dirham,
the lowest since the company listed in April 2005. Aldar, which
is expected to announce third-quarter results Nov. 9, reported a
second-quarter profit that missed analysts’ estimates following
a year-earlier loss.  Sorouh, Abu Dhabi’s second-biggest property company by
market value, slumped 3.2 percent to 91 fils, also the lowest
since listing in 2005. The company has no short-term financing
needs and expects to win several government projects in 2012,
Managing Director Abubaker al Khouri said in Abu Dhabi today.
Sorouh is expected to announce third-quarter results on Nov. 1.  ‘Margin Calls’  “The losses are being driven by margin calls at banks,”
said Mohammed Ali Yasin, chief investment officer at Abu Dhabi-
based financial services company CAPM Investments PJSC. “Many
have decided to start cleaning up before the end of year
results.”  A margin call is a broker’s demand that a customer provide
additional cash or securities to satisfy requirements for the
purchase or short sale of securities or to cover an adverse
price movement.  Dubai’s  DFM General Index (DFMGI)  decreased 0.6 percent and  Saudi
Arabia ’s  Tadawul All Share Index (SASEIDX)  fell less than 0.1 percent.
Kuwait’s measure was little changed and Bahrain’s BB All Share
Index lost 0.2 percent. Oman’s  MSM30 Index (MSM30)  and Qatar’s  QE Index (DSM) 
rose 0.4 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net ;
Stefania Bianchi in Dubai at 
 sbianchi10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  