-- 
Accenture Verdict on Theft of Software Partner’s Work Upheld, Damages Cut

-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 
2011-10-17T22:27:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/accenture-verdict-on-theft-of-software-partner-s-work-upheld-damages-cut.html
Accenture LLP can’t retry a Houston
jury’s finding that it maliciously misappropriated a joint
marketing partner’s software product and intentionally cut the
startup firm out of future business deals, a U.S. judge ruled.  U.S. District Judge Keith P. Ellison upheld a Houston
federal jury’s May verdict that consulting giant Accenture stole
key components of Wellogix Inc.’s proprietary “purchase to
pay” software and used it without compensation.  “Wellogix presented evidence that Accenture not only
intended to misappropriate Wellogix’s trade secrets, but that it
also intended to cause Wellogix substantial harm,” Ellison said
in an Oct. 14 ruling. “There was evidence that Accenture
intended to steal Wellogix’s trade secrets and to cut Wellogix
out of the business deals with BP and SAP America Inc.
Ultimately, the court finds that there is sufficient evidence
that Accenture engaged in reprehensible conduct.”  Ellison’s order slashed the $94 million damages awarded the
startup software developer to a combined $44 million in
compensatory and punitive damages. Ellison said jurors gave
Wellogix $50 million more in punitive damages than its lawyers
had asked for.  “The amount so exceeds what was requested by Wellogix’s
counsel that it appears contrary to right reason,” Ellison
said. He ordered Wellogix to either accept the reduced damages
award or take its chances on a new trial. He denied Accenture’s
request for a new trial in the same order.  Value Plunged  Experts testified during the trial that Wellogix’s value
plunged from roughly $27 million during its 2005 joint marketing
agreement with Accenture to zero after the consulting firm
misappropriated the startup’s trade secrets, Ellison said.  No financial data is available on privately held Wellogix,
which said in a 2008 court filing that it raised $40 million in
several rounds of venture capital funding to develop its suite
of software solutions for the oil and gas industry.  Houston-based Wellogix provides on-demand business process
management solutions for energy companies and their service
providers, according to Bloomberg BusinessWeek’s private company
database.  Accenture is a publicly traded global management consulting
firm with 236,000 employees. It recorded $25.5 billion in annual
revenue for the fiscal year ended Aug. 31, according to the
company’s website. The firm was originally formed as Andersen
Consulting in 1989 by partners from the consulting group of
Arthur Andersen LLP.  Rick Laminack and Tom Pirtle, Wellogix’s lawyers, didn’t
immediately return calls seeking comment on the judge’s order.
Christina Rodriguez and Maria Boyce, Accenture’s attorneys, also
didn’t immediately return calls for comment today.  The case is Wellogix Inc. v Accenture LLP, 3:08-cv-0019,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of  Texas  (Houston).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha in  San Francisco  at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net . 