-- 
Hacker Threats, Solvency II, Philippine Bonds: Compliance

-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 
2011-10-17T12:39:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/hacker-threats-solvency-ii-philippine-bond-levy-compliance.html
Publicly traded companies should
disclose real or potential cyber attacks capable of disrupting
business operations or financial stability, the U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission said.  Under  guidance  issued Oct. 13 by the agency’s division of
corporation finance, the SEC said financial statements should
address the threat posed by hackers if a network breach is
“reasonably likely” to have a material effect on a company,
including the theft of intellectual property or increased
security costs.  Data breaches at  Sony Corp. (6758) ,  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and other
companies have sharpened U.S. government scrutiny of how
businesses safeguard consumer information and respond to cyber
attacks. The Obama administration on May 12 sent Congress a
proposal that called for shielding banks, power grids and
government computers, creating a uniform data-breach
notification law and requiring owners of critical systems to
develop network-security plans.  A House Republican task force released recommendations that
emphasize voluntary industry incentives. Senate Majority Leader
Harry Reid, a Nevada Democrat, is compiling comprehensive
cybersecurity legislation.  In its guidance, the SEC recognized concerns about giving
hackers too much public information through “detailed
disclosures,” and said such disclosures are not required under
federal securities law. The agency also cautioned companies to
avoid generic “boilerplate” disclosures and instead provide
“sufficient” information to allow investors to appreciate the
risks involved.  SEC spokesman  John Nester  declined to comment beyond the
agency’s guidance.  Compliance Policy  EU Markets Rules to Curb Commodity Swaps, High-Frequency Traders  The European Union may impose position limits for
commodities derivatives and curbs on high-frequency trading as
part of plans to overhaul the region’s financial-market rules.  The  European Commission , the 27-nation EU’s executive arm,
is seeking limits on the number of commodity derivative
contracts “any given market members or participants can enter
into over a specified period of time, or alternative
arrangements” with the same impact, according to copies of
proposals  set  for release on Oct. 20 that were obtained by
Bloomberg News.  French President Nicolas Sarkozy has demanded steps to curb
commodity derivatives speculation, which he blames for driving
up world food prices. He has made the issue a priority of
France’s presidency this year of the Group of 20 nations.  High-frequency trading firms would be forced to better
manage their risk and will be banned from some practices under
this week’s proposals, which will also include draft laws
toughening market-abuse sanctions.  Under the plans for commodity derivatives, the EU would
have the power to set the same position limits across the entire
region if it felt that curbs put in place by national regulators
were not working. The rules would help tackle “excessive”
price volatility for commodities, according to the EU documents.  For more, click here.  Basics of Basel Liquidity Rules ‘Unlikely to Change,’ BIS Says  Jaime Caruana, general manager of the Bank for
International Settlements,  said  that the “basic design and
structure” of two liquidity rules drafted by Basel regulators
are “unlikely to change.”  A review of the measures is meant to “ensure that the
rules work as intended and that any unintended consequences will
be addressed,” he said in prepared remarks for an Oct. 14
Lisbon speech.  The liquidity rules, which include requiring banks to hold
enough easily saleable assets to survive a 30-day credit crunch,
and to have minimum amounts of long-term stable funding, are
part of the last year’s Basel III deal to bolster the defenses
of the world’s financial system. The measures were designed by
the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, which is part of the
BIS.  Europe  Crisis Plan Wins Global Backing as G-20 Urges Action  European leaders have one week to settle differences and
flesh out a strategy to terminate their sovereign debt crisis as
global finance chiefs warn failure to do so would endanger the
world economy.  Group of 20 finance ministers and central banks concluded
weekend talks in Paris endorsing parts of the emerging plan to
avoid a Greek default, bolster banks and curb contagion. They
set an Oct. 23 summit of European leaders in Brussels as the
deadline for it to be delivered.  Europe’s revamped strategy to beat its two-year sovereign
debt crisis won the backing of global finance chiefs, who urged
the region’s leaders to deal “decisively” with the turmoil
when they meet for emergency talks in a week’s time.  European officials on Oct. 14 outlined the initiatives
they’re considering at a meeting in Paris of finance ministers
and central bankers from the Group of 20 economies. With the
continent’s fiscal woes rattling financial markets and
threatening the world economy, governments were urged to
complete the plan at their Oct. 23 summit in Brussels and to
tame the threat of contagion by maximizing the firepower of
their 440 billion-euro ($611 billion) bailout fund.  Policy makers held out the possibility of rewarding
European action with more aid from the  International Monetary
Fund , while splitting over whether the Washington-based lender
needs a fillip of cash.  Europe’s strategy, which is yet to be made public,
currently includes writing down Greek bonds by as much as 50
percent, establishing a backstop for banks and multiplying the
strength of the newly-enhanced European Financial Stability
Facility, people familiar with the matter said Oct. 14.  The G-20 officials -- who met to prepare for a Nov. 3-4
gathering of leaders in Cannes, France -- said the world economy
faces “heightened tensions and significant downside risks”
that must be addressed.  They vowed to keep banks capitalized and financial markets
stable, while reiterating an aversion to excess currency
volatility. They also considered shortly naming as many as 50
banks as systemically important, two officials said.  For more, click here, click here, click here, and click
here.  EU Publishes Draft Tender Rules for Carbon Auctioning Platform  The European Union’s regulatory arm published Oct. 14 draft
 specifications  for the planned purchase of auctioning
infrastructure under the EU emissions trading system.  Isaac Valero-Ladron, climate spokesman for the European
Commission, said in an e-mail that the commission is “on
track” to start the auction in the second half of 2012. It
intends to launch tender procedures and the single auction
monitor “around the turn of the year,” he said.  EU nations approved in July a proposal by the commission to
auction 120 million tons of post-2012 permits in the second half
of next year to limit price shocks as the bloc phases out free
allowances. In 2013, the EU will auction about 60 percent of all
CO2 and that proportion will increase in coming years.  U.K. Bank Group Attacks Blocking of ‘Liquidity Swaps’, FT Says  The  British Bankers’ Association  described as
“inappropriate” the Financial Services Authority’s approach to
so-called liquidity swaps, some of which have been blocked while
the FSA weighs their effect, the Financial Times reported,
citing the banking body’s submission to the watchdog on the
issue.  The BBA said liquidity swaps had real benefits to the
economy and that existing management and governance serve
adequately to mitigate relevant risks, the newspaper said.  The FSA is concerned about potential effects on financial
stability, the FT reported.  Compliance Action  Rizal Bank Asks Philippine Court to Review Tax Agency Bond Rule  Rizal Commercial Banking Corp. (RCB)  said it asked a Philippine
court yesterday to review a government order that seeks to
impose a 20 percent tax on bonds sold in 2001 that were supposed
to be exempt from the levy.  Rizal is “questioning the propriety and legality” of a
 Bureau of Internal Revenue  ruling this month that a final
withholding tax is applicable on 35 billion pesos ($808 million)
of  government bonds  due Oct. 18, Macel Fernandez Estavillo, the
bank’s head of legal and regulatory affairs, said in a telephone
interview Oct. 14 from Manila. The ruling is in breach of
contract, she said.  The government will generate almost 5 billion pesos in
revenue from the levy, the tax agency estimated more than a week
ago.  The Bankers Association of the Philippines, which
represents the nation’s 36 commercial lenders, is seeking a
dialog with the government to discuss the issue, Nestor Tan,
head of the association’s tax committee, said by telephone.  The internal revenue agency on Oct. 7 said that the 20
percent tax on the bonds will be deducted by the  Bureau of the
Treasury  at the time of redemption. The bonds weren’t subject to
a withholding tax, according to a term sheet distributed to
investors when the debt was issued in 2001.  Banks May Shun $231 Billion Rollover of U.S. Emergency Loans  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  and Citigroup Inc. are among firms
planning to repay rather than roll over their share of $231
billion raised under a U.S. loan program meant to help the
economy as the business slowdown crimps demand for credit.  Lenders including  General Electric Co. (GE)  and  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM)  face deadlines to refinance or repay by the end of 2012,
when funds borrowed under the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.’s
 Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program  mature. The emergency
program provided U.S. guarantees to help banks raise money after
credit markets froze in the 2008 financial crisis.  While lawmakers are urging lenders to help create jobs,
loan demand is slack and bulging deposits mean banks don’t need
to hang on to cash received when they sold the U.S.-backed debt.
The program permitted firms to raise money during the financial
crisis by selling debt securities guaranteed by the FDIC. This
allowed banks to borrow at close to the same  interest rates  as
the U.S. Treasury.  Liquidity is no longer an issue and bankers could raise the
$231 billion quickly if they wanted, according to Tom Farina, a
managing director at Deutsche Insurance Asset Management in  New
York , which oversees more than $200 billion. There’s no apparent
strain because banks have been hoarding cash rather than lending
aggressively, Farina said.  For more, click here.  EU Rules May Increase Appeal of Insurer Subordinated Bonds  European insurers, including  Axa SA (CS)  and  Allianz SE (ALV) , may
redeem subordinated bonds depressed by the region’s debt crisis
because they won’t qualify as core capital under rules being
introduced in 2013, investors say.  The European Union will introduce  Solvency II  rules from
2013 in a bid to align insurers’ risks with capital to offer
more protection to policyholders. There may be a  transition
period  for bonds that won’t count as core capital under the new
regulations. Some notes sold by insurers such as Axa and
 Assicurazioni Generali SpA (G)  have slumped amid concern over
holdings of debt from peripheral EU countries.  Even if Solvency II leads to more redemptions, it won’t
mean insurers will follow some European banks in buying back
bonds before their call date, said Narciso Quijano, head of
fixed income investments at Munich-based BayernInvest.  In case of bankruptcy, subordinated bonds are only repaid
after policyholders and senior debt holders. Some notes also
allow the issuer to stop paying interest or reduce the principal
if the company’s solvency is threatened or if it’s unprofitable.  European insurers have already started redeeming
subordinated bonds.  For more, click here.  Olympus Adviser Payments Should Be Probed, PWC Report Says  Olympus Corp. (7733)  may face regulatory and legal scrutiny
because of payments made to advisers in a 2008 transaction,
according to a PricewaterhouseCoopers report commissioned by
ousted president Michael C. Woodford.  Potential offenses include false accounting, financial
assistance and breaches of duties by the board, according to an
Oct. 11 report that Woodford provided to Bloomberg News.
Chairman Tsuyoshi Kikukawa said at an Oct. 14 press conference
that the board fired Woodford, a 30-year veteran of the Japanese
company, because he “wouldn’t listen” to warnings from
Kikukawa. The British executive, who is now back in the U.K.,
said he was fired after he challenged the transactions.  Olympus, a maker of cameras and medical equipment, paid
$687 million to two advisory companies related to its purchase
of Gyrus Group Plc in 2008, the report said. The fees were more
than a third of the $2 billion purchase price, according to the
report.  Kikukawa didn’t respond to an e-mail seeking comment and
the company declined to make him available.  Olympus Executive Vice President Hisashi Mori said the
report “is based on speculation,” when asked about it in a
telephone interview yesterday. Further calls to Mori today
weren’t answered.  PricewaterhouseCoopers spokesman Derek Nash said he “could
neither confirm or deny” that the firm had done any work for
Olympus.  For more, click here.  Courts  Rajaratnam May Join Madoff, Blind Sheikh in Federal Prison  Raj Rajaratnam, the hedge fund manager given the longest
sentence for insider trading, may serve that time at a North
Carolina prison whose inmates include Ponzi scheme mastermind
Bernard Madoff, corporate looter John Rigas and terrorist leader
Sheikh Omar Abdel Rahman.  U.S. District Judge Richard Holwell, who imposed the 11-
year sentence Oct. 13 in Manhattan federal court, said he would
recommend that the Galleon Group LLC co-founder be sent to the
federal medical center in Butner, North Carolina, because of
Rajaratnam’s health problems, which include diabetes.  The 5,045 inmates at the Butner prison complex also include
Samuel Israel, the Bayou Group LLC hedge fund co-founder who
directed a $400 million fraud, and  Timothy Rigas , son of the
Adelphia Communications Corp. founder John Rigas and a
participant in the fraud that destroyed their company.  The choice of prison may be critical for Rajaratnam, 54,
who, in addition to advanced diabetes, faces kidney failure and
the necessity of transplant surgery, according to Holwell.  Holwell denied a request by Rajaratnam’s lawyers that the
defendant remain free while appealing his conviction.  For more, click here, and click here.  London  Court Clerk Pleads Guilty in First Bribery Act Case  A London court clerk accused of asking for a 500 pound
($789) bribe to help clear a suspect of a driving offense became
the first person to plead guilty under the U.K.’s new bribery
law.  Munir Patel, 22, who worked as an administrative clerk at
Redbridge Magistrates’ Court in the Ilford neighborhood of
London, pleaded guilty Oct. 14 to requesting and receiving a
bribe under the law, which took effect in July. He also pleaded
guilty to misconduct in public office.  The Bribery Act, considered by some lawyers to be the
world’s strictest anti-corruption law, spurred companies doing
business in the U.K. to hire lawyers and advisers to ensure they
wouldn’t violate it.  Patel’s lawyer, Janice Johnson, told Judge John Price the
clerk is “a man of good character.” He is scheduled to be
sentenced in November.  Under the law, which is similar to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt
Practices Act, companies must prove they have adequate controls
to prevent corruption in order to defend themselves if a bribe
is paid on their behalf anywhere in the world, even if company
officials didn’t know.  Interviews/Speeches  NYSE’s Leibowitz Says Centralized Audit Trail Is ‘Critical’  Regulators should proceed with plans to collect and store
data on all U.S. securities trading, an initiative that is
“absolutely critical” to keeping markets fair,  NYSE Euronext (NYX) ’s
chief operating officer said.  Larry Leibowitz , the chief operating officer of the New
York Stock Exchange’s owner, made the remarks at a Society of
American Business Editors and Writers conference in New York
today.  After the May 2010 crash that erased $862 billion in 20
minutes, the Securities and Exchange Commission and stock
markets implemented circuit breakers last year to prevent
volatility in individual companies from spreading throughout the
market. The SEC said this year that it might mandate a system
that limits moves in securities prices.  “The SEC proposal to create centralized audit trail is
absolutely critical so we can say someone is surveilling across
all markets,” Leibowitz said. “It’s our job as an industry and
the exchanges in particular to stand up for transparency and
integrity.”  Regulators and exchanges are reviewing plans to improve
surveillance of trading activity after the rout on May 6, 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 