-- 
Lacker Says Fed’s Attempts to Boost GDP Growth May Risk Stoking Inflation

-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 
2011-10-17T23:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/lacker-says-fed-s-attempts-to-boost-gdp-growth-may-risk-stoking-inflation.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond
President  Jeffrey Lacker  said the central bank risks stoking
inflation by trying to boost growth because the recovery is
hampered by conditions that are unaffected by monetary policy.  “The factors likely to be restraining growth -- from empty
houses to prospective tax rates -- are nonmonetary and largely
beyond the power of the central bank to offset through easier
monetary conditions,” Lacker said today in the text of a speech
to be delivered in Salisbury, Maryland. “History has repeatedly
demonstrated that if a central bank attempts to add monetary
stimulus to offset nonmonetary disturbances to growth, the
result is higher inflation.”  Lacker said he opposed the Fed’s decision last month to
push down long-term  interest rates  by selling $400 billion of
short-term  Treasury securities  and replacing them with the same
amount of longer-term bonds, a move known as Operation Twist.  Lacker also said he couldn’t support the decision to
reinvest maturing housing debt into agency mortgage-backed
securities, saying “it’s simply inappropriate,” for a central
bank “to attempt to channel credit toward some economic sectors
and away from others.” The Fed had previously allowed its
holdings of housing debt to shrink and be replaced by
Treasuries.  Lacker’s opposition to further monetary easing aligns him
with Minneapolis Fed President  Narayana Kocherlakota ,  Richard Fisher  of  Dallas  and  Charles Plosser  of Philadelphia, who
dissented from the decision to launch Operation Twist. Lacker,
who doesn’t vote on policy this year, said the level of dissent
does not reflect disrespect among members of the  Federal Open
Market Committee .  Collegiality on Committee  “In my experience as an FOMC participant since 2004, the
Committee has functioned with an exceptional level of
collegiality,” Lacker said. “Differences have been aired
candidly and respectfully, and the give and take of our debates
has strengthened the FOMC’s collective understanding.”  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  this month told the Joint
Economic Committee of Congress that the two-year-old recovery is
“close to faltering.” He spoke two weeks after the FOMC
announced Operation Twist in a bid to push down long-term
interest rates.  Lacker said he agreed with the view that the slowdown in
the recovery this year is only partly attributable to transitory
shocks such as higher  oil prices  and the earthquakes and tsunami
in  Japan .  Ebbing Effects  “As this year has unfolded and the effects of these
temporary factors have ebbed, it has become apparent that there
are more persistent factors impeding growth in this recovery,”
Lacker said at the Salisbury-Wicomico Economic Development
Annual Meeting.  The world’s largest economy expanded at a 1.3 percent
annual pace in the second quarter and 0.4 percent in the first
quarter. The Fed meeting and Bernanke’s testimony to Congress
came before an Oct. 7 report from the Labor Department showed
the economy added 103,000 jobs in September, an improvement from
a 57,000 gain recorded in August.  Other recent reports have suggested that the economy is
holding up. Industrial production in September increased 0.2
percent, in line with the median estimate in a Bloomberg News
survey, after being little changed in August, figures from the
Fed showed today. Factory production, which makes up 75 percent
of the total, climbed for a third month.  Likely Scenario  “The most likely scenario is for the rate of growth to
gradually strengthen during the next two years,” Lacker said.
“But I would not be surprised if instead growth remained fairly
modest over that horizon; there is enough uncertainty in my mind
regarding the current impediments to growth that I cannot rule
out a less robust path.”  The FOMC said in its Sept. 21 statement that it anticipates
“that inflation will settle, over coming quarters, at levels at
or below those consistent with the Committee’s dual mandate.”
Lacker said by contrast that he was skeptical that inflation
would settle below an annual rate of 2 percent.  “I doubt inflation will fall much below 2 percent for a
sustained period,” Lacker said. “Moreover, experience coming
out of past recessions suggests that the risks to inflation lie
to the upside, so I do not believe we should relax our vigilance
on inflation at this time.”  Lacker, 56, is a former head of research at the Richmond
Fed and oversees a district that is home to the biggest U.S.
lender by assets, Bank of America Corp., based in  Charlotte ,
 North Carolina . He became president of the Richmond Fed in
August 2004.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Salisbury,  Maryland  at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  