-- 
Madoff Feeder-Fund Investors Ask for Customer Status in Bid to Get Money

-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 
2011-10-17T20:54:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/madoff-feeder-funds-seek-reversal-of-customer-definition.html
Investors in 16 funds that channeled
money into  Bernard Madoff ’s Ponzi scheme asked a court to decide
that they were “customers” eligible to claim money set aside
for the confidence man’s victims.  In a brief filed Oct. 14, the investors asked U.S. District
Judge Denise Cote to reverse a bankruptcy court ruling that
blocks them from claiming a share of the $8.7 billion recovered
so far by Madoff bankruptcy trustee  Irving Picard . In June, U.S.
Bankruptcy Judge  Burton Lifland  ruled them ineligible because
they didn’t hold accounts directly with Madoff’s firm, Bernard
L. Madoff Investment Securities LLC.  The investors say they placed their money with funds that
channeled 95 percent or more to Madoff’s firm. In his opinion,
Lifland agreed with Picard’s decision to deny their claims.  “The  Bankruptcy Court  simply ignores that the ‘Feeder
Funds’ were created specifically, and with a legal obligation,
to invest their investors’ funds in the BLMIS accounts,
expressly to take advantage of Bernard Madoff’s management of
their money through his apparently successful, long-term ‘split
strike conversion’ investment strategy,” the investors said in
the brief.  Amanda Remus, a spokeswoman for Picard, declined to
comment. She said Picard will respond to the investors’ motion
when his brief is due Nov. 4.  Feeder Funds  The 16 feeder funds are companies organized in New York,
Delaware, the Cayman Islands and the British Virgin Islands. All
were created as investment vehicles that sold ownership
interests to investors, according to Lifland’s June opinion. The
funds held a total of 19 Madoff accounts.  Madoff, 74, was arrested and his firm forced into
bankruptcy in December 2008. He pleaded guilty to running the
biggest  Ponzi scheme  in history and is serving a 150-year
sentence in a federal prison in  North Carolina .  The case is Securities Investor Protection Corp. v. Bernard
L. Madoff Investment Securities LLC, 11-CV-6565, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in Manhattan federal court at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 