-- 
Thai Floods Adding to European Risks May Pause Rates in Boost to Yingluck

-- B y   S u t t i n e e   Y u v e j w a t t a n a   a n d   M i c h a e l   M u n o z
-- 
2011-10-18T03:21:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/thai-floods-adding-to-european-risks-may-pause-rates-in-boost-to-yingluck.html
Thailand  may pause tomorrow after
seven interest-rate increases as the worst floods in five
decades and weakening global growth threaten to curb output and
weaken demand for exports.  The Bank of Thailand will keep its benchmark one-day bond
repurchase rate at 3.5 percent, according to 16 of 17 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News ahead of a decision due at 2:30 p.m.
in Bangkok tomorrow. One predicted a 25-basis point cut. The
country has raised borrowing costs more than any other major
Asian economy after  India , where there have been 10 rate
increases since the beginning of July 2010.  Floods that have killed at least 315 people, shutting
factories and wiping out crops, may convince the nation’s
central bank to heed calls from Prime Minister Yingluck
Shinawatra’s government to put growth ahead of efforts to cool
inflation. The  Philippines , hurt by typhoons in recent weeks,
may also hold rates this week as the  International Monetary Fund 
warns of “severe” risks to  Asia  from  Europe ’s debt crisis.  “There is a double whammy to growth from the impact from
the flood and also the worsening global economy,” said Julia Goh, an economist at CIMB Investment Bank Bhd. in  Kuala Lumpur .
“The tightening is already ended. From now on, it looks like
they will stay on a neutral stance.”  Thai Assets  Thai stocks and the baht weakened in the past three months
as overseas investors sold emerging market assets amid faltering
global growth. The benchmark SET Index has fallen about 12
percent while the baht has lost more than 2 percent over the
period.  Asian nations are reporting slower growth as a weakening
global recovery erodes demand for the region’s goods.  China ’s
economy grew at the slowest pace since 2009 last quarter, its
statistics bureau said today. Singapore lowered its 2011
economic growth forecast last week and said the expansion may
slow further next year.  The floods may erase between 1 percentage point and 1.7
points of Thai growth this year, Finance Minister Thirachai
Phuvanatnaranubala said yesterday. The damage caused by the
floods, which may amount to as much as 120 billion baht ($3.9
billion), will force the central bank to cut its 2011 expansion
forecasts, Governor Prasarn Trairatvorakul said Oct. 14.  Rice Fields, Factories  The three-month-old disaster has damaged rice fields and
swamped factories that employ more than 300,000 workers,
according to government data. Thai consumer confidence fell for
the second month in September as flooding displaced millions of
people, while companies including Nikon Corp., Pioneer Corp.,
and Western Digital Corp. have shut factories to protect
employees, facilities and equipment.  The  Bank of Thailand  should lower rates to help businesses
cope with the impact of the disaster, Deputy Prime Minister
Kittiratt Na-Ranong said Oct. 6, after meeting with industry
leaders who requested loans with low borrowing costs.  Other members of Yingluck’s two-month-old administration
have also called on the central bank in recent months to hold
off rate increases to support the government’s policies, which
aimed to boost domestic demand. Thirachai said this month the
central bank’s rate actions were “too soon and too much” and
“stepping on the brake on the economy.”  Inflationary Policies  The central bank has argued that government plans to boost
domestic demand are inflationary. Yingluck has outlined policies
to raise wages and rice prices and give tax incentives to first-
time buyers of cars and homes as she strives to keep campaign
promises that propelled her to the role of the nation’s first
female leader.  In the Philippines, President  Benigno Aquino  unveiled a 72
billion peso ($1.67 billion)-stimulus plan last week to boost
the economy as the government cut its growth forecasts for this
year and next. Inflation accelerated in September after
transport and utility costs rose, and typhoons killed more than
50 people and damaged crops and roads.  Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas will keep its overnight
borrowing rate at 4.5 percent when it meets Oct. 20, according
to all 17 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Thailand’s inflation rate accelerated in August to the
fastest pace since 2008 before easing in September. Still, core
inflation, which excludes fresh food and fuel prices, quickened
last month to 2.92 percent. The central bank uses  core inflation 
to guide monetary policy and aims to keep it at less than 3
percent.  ‘Too Early’  “It may be too early for the central bank to cut the key
rate now, but the risk is no longer on the tightening but on the
easing side,” said  Usara Wilaipich , a Bangkok-based economist
at Standard Chartered Plc. “If growth or inflation surprises on
the downside, there is a chance for them to lower the rate.”  The central bank plans to use headline inflation in
targeting price gains of 3 percent, with a so-called tolerance
band of 1.5 percentage points, from 2012, Prasarn said Oct. 4,
adding it will provide “more flexibility” for monetary policy.  Inflationary pressures in Thailand have eased and the core
index won’t exceed the central bank’s target this year as
government measures helped lower the retail price of oil,
Prasarn said this month. The central bank will assess its
monetary policy and see how “flexible” it can be to limit the
impact of the floods, he said yesterday.  “Concern over the impact of the floods on the economy is
increasing,” said Tohru Nishihama, an economist at Dai-ichi
Life Research Institute Inc. in  Tokyo , and the only analyst
surveyed by Bloomberg to predict a rate cut tomorrow. “The Bank
of Thailand has seen political pressure to lower rates and with
the flood situation, it would be harder to resist.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Suttinee Yuvejwattana in Bangkok at 
 suttinee1@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Munoz in  Hong Kong  at 
 mjmunoz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  