-- 
AIG Assembles Managers, Distributors at ‘Ultra Luxury’ Resort

-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 
2011-10-17T18:40:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/aig-hosts-event-at-ultra-luxury-resort.html
American International Group Inc. (AIG) ,
the insurer majority owned by the U.S. after a 2008 bailout, is
hosting an event at a California facility that advertises “the
amenities of an  ultra luxury  hotel.”  The American General unit assembled about 65 people who
distribute its products for a two-and-a-half-day stay this week
at the Resort at Pelican Hill in  Newport Beach , California, said
Larry Mark, a spokesman for AIG’s life insurance division. Nine
AIG managers were also sent to the resort to make presentations,
Mark said in a e-mail. He declined to say the cost of the event
for the insurer.  “It is important for these speakers, as well as the eight
field representatives in attendance to spend quality, one-on-one
time with our key distribution partners to ensure they
understand our offerings,” he said. “It is standard practice
in the financial-services industry to hold such business
development, leadership meetings.”  AIG resumed such conferences about two years ago, after
being rebuked by lawmakers in 2008 for spending $440,000 to send
about 100 advisers to the St. Regis resort in Monarch Beach,
 California . Chief Executive Officer  Robert Benmosche  is working
to expand sales as he seeks private investors to replace
government capital.  “We are back to the business of being in business and
we’re in the marketplace competing,” said Mark.  Senator  Max Baucus , a Democrat from  Montana , in October
2008 called AIG’s event that year an “insult to taxpayers.”  Fazio’s Course  Pelican Hill has “Palladian-inspired architecture from
Northern Italy,” 204 bungalows, 128 villas, a spa and 36-holes
of golf designed by Tom Fazio on a property with views of the
 Pacific Ocean , according to the resort’s website.  A “Garden Double Queen” room is available for $395 per
night today and tomorrow, and an “Ocean Four Bedroom Villa”
costs $1,150 a night, according to the resort’s online-booking
system. Kate Starr, a spokeswoman for Pelican Hill, didn’t
immediately return phone calls seeking comment.  AIG was bailed out in 2008 in a rescue that swelled to
$182.3 billion. The insurer paid back the balance on a Federal
Reserve credit line in January, and the Treasury exchanged its
preferred interest for 92 percent of the company’s common stock.
That stake was cut to 77 percent in a May share sale.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  