-- 
Thai Committee Agrees to Nationwide Increase in Minimum Wage

-- B y   A n u c h i t   N g u y e n   a n d   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e
-- 
2011-10-17T07:34:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/thailand-agrees-to-nationwide-increase-in-minimum-wage-correct-.html
Thai workers and employers agreed to
a government proposal to boost the  minimum wage , meeting a
campaign pledge by Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra as floods
disrupt operations at more than 1,000 factories.  Wages in Bangkok and six other provinces will rise to 300
baht a day by April 1, Somkiat Chayasriwong, the  labor
ministry’s  permanent secretary, told reporters in Bangkok today.
In the rest of the country, wages will rise an average of 40
percent by April 1 and then to 300 baht per day by 2013, with
rates frozen at that level until 2015, he said.  “The government will work out a full package to help
alleviate the impact on small and medium companies,” Somkiat
said. Employers will be able to deduct higher wage costs from
taxable income and reduce social security payments, he said.  The agreement by workers, businesses and the government
will increase wage bills for manufacturers as government
agencies and the central bank lower economic growth forecasts.
Floods,  Europe ’s debt crisis and a weakening U.S. recovery
threaten demand for Thai exports, the  finance ministry  said
Sept. 28.  “This is not a good time exactly for the wage hike when
the industrial sector has been clouded with several negative
factors, including the global economic downturn and impact of
floods,”  Pimonwan Mahujchariyawong , an economist at Kasikorn
Research Co. in Bangkok, said by phone. “For the short term,
the impact will be negative for the industrial sector and
foreign direct investment.”  ‘Acceptable’  Labor leaders agreed to drop demands for the minimum wage
to rise to 300 baht across the country immediately due to the
floods, Chalee Loysoong, the president of  Thai Labor Solidarity ,
which has about 280,000 members, said by phone. The group may
oppose the provision to freeze wages until 2015 if inflation
accelerates, he said.  “The increase of wages in seven provinces to 300 baht a
day first is acceptable,” Chalee said. “We know how employers
have suffered from the flooding. We don’t want to add more
problems.”  Southeast Asia ’s second-biggest economy will expand 3.8
percent to 4.3 percent this year, compared with a June forecast
for a 4 percent-to-5 percent expansion, the finance ministry
said Sept. 28. The Bank of Thailand plans to cut its own
economic growth projections when it releases new estimates next
month, Governor Prasarn Trairatvorakul said on Sept. 24,
signaling there is less scope to raise  interest rates  further.  Floods have swamped five industrial states in Ayutthaya
province, forcing the closure of factories run by Honda Motor
Co., Canon Inc. and Nikon Corp., which use Thailand as an export
base.  Yingluck’s Pheu Thai party won a parliamentary majority in
July elections after pledging to raise the minimum wage to 300
baht per day, cut corporate taxes and guarantee rice prices. The
daily minimum wage in  Thailand  ranges from 159 baht in northern
Phayao province to 221 baht on the resort island of Phuket,
according to the Labour Protection and Welfare Department’s
website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anuchit Nguyen in Bangkok at 
 anguyen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tony Jordan at 
 tjordan3@bloomberg.net  