-- 
Malaria May Be Eliminated From a Quarter of Nations in 10 Years

-- B y   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t
-- 
2011-10-17T19:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/malaria-may-be-eliminated-from-a-quarter-of-nations-in-10-years.html
Malaria, the deadly infection that
affects 40 percent of the world’s population, may be eliminated
from more than a quarter of countries afflicted by the disease
within a decade, according to a report.  Among 108 nations and territories in which the mosquito-
borne malady is entrenched, 29 have stopped transmission within
their borders or are on track to do so within the next 10 years,
the Geneva-based  Roll Back Malaria Partnership  said in a report
today.  Funding for fighting malaria has increased 10-fold to $1.5
billion in the past five years as donations from the  Bill &
Melinda Gates Foundation  and the  Global Fund to Fight AIDS,
Tuberculosis and Malaria  have helped pay for the bed nets, drugs
and tests that have saved an estimated 1.1 million lives in
 Africa  over the past decade, the report said. Still, progress
toward a goal of eradicating the disease will be jeopardized if
funding is not maintained, said Eric Mouzin, one of the report’s
authors.  “Our children will judge us based on what we’re able to
accomplish over the next few years,” Mouzin said in a telephone
interview. “We have everything in our hands today to be able to
eliminate malaria. Whether or not we do it depends on us.”  Malaria infected about 225 million people and killed about
781,000 in 2009, mostly children under 5 in Africa, the  World
Health Organization   said  in December. That makes it the world’s
third-deadliest infectious killer behind AIDS and tuberculosis.  The report was timed to coincide with the Gates
Foundation’s Global Malaria Forum, which starts in  Seattle 
today.  The Roll Back Malaria Partnership is a network of more than
500 partners, including governments, companies and non-
governmental organizations, that aims to coordinate the global
response to the disease. It was founded by three United Nations
agencies and the  World Bank  in 1998 and is based at the WHO in
Geneva.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simeon Bennett in Geneva at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  