-- 
Halliburton Falls on Slow International Growth, Analyst Says

-- B y   D a v i d   W e t h e
-- 
2011-10-17T20:27:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/halliburton-profit-rises-as-oil-prices-have-unsettling-drop.html
Halliburton Co. (HAL) , the world’s second-
largest oilfield services provider, fell as much as 8 percent on
concern for oil-price volatility and the slower than expected
growth in its international business.  Net income rose to $683 million, or 74 cents a share, from
$544 million, or 60 cents, a year earlier, Houston-based
Halliburton said in a statement today. Excluding an impairment
charge and costs from an arbitration ruling against a former
subsidiary, the company earned 94 cents a share, 3 cents more
than the average of 32 analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.
Operating income in the company’s region that includes Europe
and Africa fell by half to $66 million in the quarter.  Halliburton fell 8 percent to $34.48 at the close in  New
York . The shares have 32 “buy” and 3 “hold” ratings from
analysts.  “The international improvement is just not coming to
fruition as expected,” said Brian Youngberg, an analyst at
 Edward Jones  in St. Louis, who rates the shares a “hold” and
owns none. “Everything’s banking on  North America  right now.”  Other large oilfield service providers were affected by
Halliburton’s results.  Schlumberger Ltd. (SLB) , the world’s biggest
provider of labor and technology to the producers, fell 5
percent, and  Baker Hughes Inc. (BHI) , the third-largest servicer,
dropped 6 percent.  Capital Budgets  “We need to hear from the E&P guys on where their capital
budgets are going to be and what their plans are,”  Brian Uhlmer ,
an analyst at Global Hunter Securities in Houston, who rates the
Halliburton shares at “accumulate” and owns none, said today
in a telephone interview.  Oil prices in New York had the largest quarterly drop since
the 2008 financial crisis, tumbling to a one-year low as signs
of slowing growth in  China , the U.S. and Germany heightened
concern that fuel demand will weaken. Futures contracts have
dropped 24 percent from a high of $113.93 on April 29.  “The recent drop in  oil prices  and related declines in
equity markets have been unsettling to investors,” said Dave Lesar, chairman and chief executive officer, said in the
statement. “Despite short-term macroeconomic concerns, I
continue to believe in the long-term prospects for our
business.”  Halliburton’s international business is showing gradual
recovery and the company has “continued confidence in the
resiliency of the North American market,” Lesar said. Demand
for services to produce oil and natural gas will grow as field
development becomes more complex, he said.  Sales Rise  Sales for the third quarter climbed 40 percent to $6.55
billion, driven by growth in its Western Hemisphere business,
the company said.  “The big question is what happens over the next six to 12
months in more of a moderate commodity price environment,” said
 Scott Gruber , a New York-based analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein
who rates the shares at “market perform” and owns none. “The
main focus is going to be on the sustainability of pumping
margins and whether Halliburton can improve its Eastern
Hemisphere margins.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Wethe in Houston at 
 dwethe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  