-- 
Almarai May Tap Islamic Bond Market to Finance Expansion

-- B y   D a n a   E l   B a l t a j i
-- 
2011-10-17T05:50:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/almarai-may-tap-islamic-bond-market-to-finance-expansion-1-.html
Almarai Co.,  Saudi Arabia ’s largest
food producer by market value, may set up its first Islamic bond
program by early 2012 as it seeks financing for expansion.  The riyal-denominated sukuk would be available only to the
local market and would help finance an “ambitious capital
expenditure development plan and working capital needs,” Chief
Financial Officer Paul-Louis Gay said in an e-mailed response to
questions today. The size of the program is “not clearly
defined yet,” he said. The Riyadh-based company plans to set up
the program by the end of this year or early next year.  Sukuk sales in the six-nation Gulf Cooperation Council,
which includes Saudi Arabia and the  United Arab Emirates ,
declined to $3.73 billion so far this year from $3.97 billion a
year earlier. Saudi Aramco Total Refining & Petrochemical Co., a
venture between Saudi Arabian Oil Co. and Total SA, sold 3.75
billion riyals ($1 billion) of Islamic bonds earlier this month.  Almarai will seek shareholders’ approval for the bond
program at a meeting on Nov. 11, it said in a statement to the
Saudi bourse yesterday.  The company’s third-quarter profit advanced to 429.7
million riyals from 424.5 million riyals a year earlier. Profit
growth was restrained by production costs and “investments in
production capacities and expansions to meet growing demand,”
the company said. Capital expenditure reached 2.2 billion riyals
in the first nine months, it said.  The shares have declined 23 percent this year compared with
a 7.3 percent drop in the benchmark  Tadawul All Share Index. (SASEIDX)  The
stock closed unchanged at 85.75 riyals yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dana El Baltaji in Dubai at 
 delbaltaji@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  