-- 
Amazon Kindle Fire Sale in IPad Challenge Narrows Margins: Tech

-- B y   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a
-- 
2011-10-17T13:39:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/amazon-kindle-fire-sale-in-ipad-challenge-narrows-margins-tech.html
Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) ’s profit margins,
already at a five-year low last quarter, are set to narrow next
year as the world’s largest online retailer sells its new tablet
computer for half the price of the iPad.  The Kindle Fire will go on sale next month for as little as
$199, compared with $499 for the cheapest tablet from  Apple Inc. (AAPL) 
The lower price will help Amazon sell 4.5 million Kindle Fires
in the fourth quarter, according to Barclays Plc, topping the
3.3 million units Apple reported for iPad’s debut quarter. It
also means Seattle-based Amazon loses about $10 on each tablet,
according to IHS Inc.  “It is possible that in 2012 you’ll have a quarter with
negative operating margins,” said  Ben Schachter , an analyst at
Macquarie Capital in New York. “That typically is a disaster
scenario. It’s phenomenal to have this revenue growth, but at
some point you want to see them make money on it.”  Chief Executive Officer  Jeff Bezos  is counting on sales of
music, books, movies and merchandise on the tablet to make up
for money lost on the device. The  Kindle Fire , available Nov. 15,
has a 7-inch display, smaller than the iPad’s 9.7-inch screen,
Amazon said at a Sept. 28 event in New York. The device will run
on Google Inc.’s Android software, have a dual-core processor
and offer Wi-Fi connectivity, the company said.  Apple Challenge  Amazon is trying to parlay its leadership in e-commerce to
grab a piece of a market that Cambridge, Massachusetts-based
Forrester Research Inc. predicts will grow 51 percent a year
through 2015. While tablets from companies such as Hewlett-
Packard Co. and Research In Motion Ltd. have failed to erode
Apple’s dominance in the market, Amazon may be the first to pose
a meaningful sales challenge to the iPad, Brian Blair, an
analyst at Wedge Partners Corp. in  New York , said the day of the
Kindle Fire’s unveiling.  Still, selling the device at a loss means Amazon’s margins
could fall below zero percent, weighing on the company’s stock
price, Macquarie’s Schachter said. Amazon’s 2 percent operating
margin in the second quarter was the lowest since the third
quarter of 2006, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. They
may have narrowed to 1.3 percent in the third quarter, which
ended in September, analysts surveyed by Bloomberg project.  Investors’ focus on Amazon’s revenue growth has so far
diverted attention from the decline in profitability, Schachter
said.  Sales, Share Gains  Sales rose 51 percent in the second quarter from a year
earlier, the biggest jump since at least 2002, and analysts
predict revenue will rise 43 percent this year, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Amazon shares fell 1.1 percent to $243.93 at 9:37 a.m. New
York time. The stock has gained 37 percent this year before
today. It is projected to rise 1 percent over the next 12 months,
compared with an anticipated 20 percent increase for Apple,
according to Bloomberg data.  Mary Osako, an Amazon spokeswoman, didn’t respond to
requests for comment.  Amazon spends about $210 to make each Kindle Fire, while
the iPad 2 costs Cupertino, California-based Apple about $333,
IHS estimates.  Amazon will have to rely on content sales on the Kindle
Fire to make the tablet profitable, said Kerry Rice, an analyst
at Needham & Co. in  San Francisco . He estimates Amazon will sell
2 million to 4 million Kindle Fires this year.  Media, Merchandise  “Amazon is coming at it as, ‘We’re a media company, and we
need to put this in the market to drive sales of our media,’”
Rice said. “What this device does for Amazon is drive the
consumption of media in whatever form possible. They pay once
for a movie, and if they sell it a million times, that margin
increases.”  A Kindle Fire user would have to spend about $500 on media
and merchandise through the device, on purchases of items with 2
percent to 4 percent margins, to make up for Amazon’s loss on
the tablet itself, estimates  Scot Wingo , chief executive officer
of  ChannelAdvisor Corp.  The Morrisville, North Carolina-based
company consults on Web strategies for more than 3,000
businesses, including Amazon third-party sellers.  Wingo expects Amazon to sell about 5 million tablets in the
fourth quarter, bringing pressure on margins for the first six
months of sales.  Adding Prime Users  Margins may widen in the next few years, a result of
Amazon’s switch to a so-called agency model to sell books, which
means the company reports 100 percent profit and lower revenue
on each purchase, Schachter said. Instead of selling a book for
$10 and booking the entire amount as revenue, then paying
publishers $7 -- a 30 percent gross margin -- the company only
reports the $3 in revenue, he said.  Amazon is offering Kindle Fire buyers a 30-day free trial
of Amazon Prime, the company’s $79-a-year membership service
that includes streaming video and free two-day shipping,
something that may bring in more net income, Wingo said.  While Prime members represent about 8 percent of users,
they spend four times as much as other customers, according to
ChannelAdvisor. The Kindle Fire could draw 10 million more Prime
members, Wingo said.  “You go to Costco or BJ’s, you buy the membership and you
want to shop there enough to make up the cost,” he said. “Once
you join Prime, it just becomes second nature. You stop going to
Target every Wednesday.”  Investors’ Patience  Revenue from digital content on Kindles will surpass
hardware sales from the device in 2013, Barclays analyst
DiClemente estimates. He projects that the Kindle Fire and
content sales through the tablet will account for 5.1 percent of
Amazon’s 2012 revenue.  Investors may not continue to overlook the narrower margins
if Amazon doesn’t find a way to squeeze more profit from its
lower-priced items, Schachter said.  Increases in capital expenditures and marketing must be
countered by profit from higher-margin digital offerings such as
books, music and movies, he said. Amazon can also leverage its
ability to sell consumers items like clothes and cat food, in
addition to digital media products, to woo customers from Apple,
he said.  “Scale does not necessarily beget margin expansion,”
Barclays’s DiClemente said in an interview. “The sentiment from
investors is that in the near-term, revenue growth is more
important than margins. If and when revenue growth starts to
slow down, the narrative on Amazon’s financial story will switch
to margins.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Kucera in San Francisco at 
 dkucera6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  