-- 
AmeriGas to Buy Energy Transfer Propane Unit for $2.8 Billion, Add Retail

-- B y   B r a d l e y   O l s o n
-- 
2011-10-17T14:54:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/amerigas-agrees-to-purchase-energy-transfer-propane-unit-for-2-8-billion.html
AmeriGas Partners LP (APU) , the largest
retail propane distributor, will buy the propane operations of
 Energy Transfer Partners LP (ETP)  for $2.8 billion, the companies said
today.  AmeriGas will pay $1.5 billion in cash, $1.3 billion in
common stock and assume $71 million in debt in Energy Transfer’s
two propane units, Heritage Operating LP and Titan Energy
Partners LP, Energy Transfer said in a statement today.  The transaction is expected to close by early 2012. Energy
Transfer will own about 34 percent of AmeriGas common stock,
which it has agreed to hold until at least 2013, according to
the statement.  Energy Transfer Equity LP (ETE) , which is the general partner for
Energy Transfer Partners and owns 24 percent of its shares, has
agreed to buy  Southern Union Co. (SUG)  for $5.1 billion after a
bidding war with Tulsa, Oklahoma-based Williams Cos.  Selling propane assets from its limited partnership will
help Dallas-based Energy Transfer Equity raise cash to fund its
acquisition of Houston-based Southern Union, said  Ted Harper ,
who helps oversee about $6.8 billion in assets at Frost
Investment Advisors LLC in Houston.  With the purchase from Energy Transfer,  King of Prussia ,
Pennsylvania-based AmeriGas will add more than 1 million retail
propane customers and more than 500 million gallons to its
propane operations, according to an AmeriGas statement.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. advised AmeriGas on the transaction,
and Shearman & Sterling LLP acted as legal adviser.  (The companies have scheduled a conference call for 3:30
p.m. New York time. A live webcast will be available at
www.amerigas.com.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bradley Olson in Houston at 
 bradleyolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  