-- 
American, Pilots Recess Talks After ‘Progress’

-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 
2011-10-17T18:11:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/amr-trading-halted-as-shares-fall-11-.html
American Airlines  said it recessed
negotiations with its pilots union today after making
“significant progress” toward a contract that would end more
than five years of talks.  The sides will reconvene later this week after  Allied
Pilots Association  negotiators brief the union’s board, Missy Cousino, a spokeswoman for the Fort Worth, Texas-based carrier,
said in an e-mail.  Negotiations were stepped up last week as  AMR Corp. (AMR) ’s
American, the third-largest U.S. airline, sought waivers of
contract provisions that would help it cover staffing shortages
caused by pilot retirements. The situation provided a “window
of opportunity” to conclude talks, the union said.  “While some work remains, we are optimistic and believe
there is a path to an agreement,” Cousino said. Progress was
made on areas such as work rules and benefits, she said.  The  Allied Pilots Association  declined to comment on the
substance of the talks before hearing from its negotiators
tomorrow, said Sam Mayer, a union spokesman.  “It’s a little premature to comment on progress or no
progress,” he said in an interview. A date for resuming talks
“is going to be the topic of discussion between the board” and
union negotiators.  The latest round of talks ran from Oct. 11 through earlier
today at an undisclosed location near the Texas-Oklahoma state
line. It was the third time in the past six weeks that
negotiators had met at a location away from the airline’s
headquarters in an effort to reach a contract.  Shares Decline  AMR shares fell as much as 11 percent earlier today before
triggering a so-called automatic circuit breaker that halted
trading briefly. The circuit breaker is designed to stop a rapid
decline in one stock from spreading to other shares. AMR slid
6.1 percent to $2.76 at 2:09 p.m. in  New York .  The shares on Oct. 3 tumbled 33 percent, the most since
2003, and triggered circuit breakers seven times in less than
one hour. That drop was triggered by concern that a slowing
economy and possible decline in  travel demand  could force AMR
into bankruptcy.  “The stock is going to continue to swing wildly up and
down until it’s either in bankruptcy or it’s out of the woods,”
James Corridore, a  Standard & Poor’s  equity analyst, said in an
interview. “There is a lot of speculation in the stock on both
sides of the coin.”  AMR is scheduled to release third-quarter results Oct. 19,
and analysts estimate the company will post its 14th loss in the
past 16 quarters.  ‘Not Our Goal’  “While we generally don’t comment on AMR’s share price
performance, there is no company-driven news that caused the
volatility in AMR shares today,” Sean Collins, an American
spokesman, said in an e-mail. A bankruptcy filing “is certainly
not our goal or our preference,” he said.  AMR said on Oct. 13 that unusually large numbers of pilot
retirements in September and this month left staffing levels
“critically short.” American is cutting seating capacity
3 percent this quarter and shutting a San Francisco crew base
that the union said has more than 300 pilots, including those on
leave. The carrier also is planning to retire as many as 11 jets
next year because of the staffing shortfall.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  