-- 
Amy Winehouse’s Embrace Captured by Pop Artist Laing: Interview

-- B y   M a r k   B e e c h
-- 
2011-10-17T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/amy-winehouse-s-amorous-embrace-drink-binges-captured-by-pop-artist-laing.html
Amy Winehouse stares out from the
wall of a London gallery. She’s pushing a vacuum cleaner, a
cigarette dangling from her lips, a scarf in her unruly hair and
a garbage bag in hand. The pose is unusual for a singer, apart
maybe from Freddie Mercury in “I Want to Break Free.”  The oil-painted picture of the U.K. star, who died in July
aged 27, is by Gerald Laing, 75, whose first muses were the
actresses  Brigitte Bardot  and  Anna Karina .  “Amy projected extraordinary images all the time,” Lang
says in an interview. “Her dress sense was phenomenal. She was
graphically wonderful in every way, with that body and hair,
massive talent and a self-destructive streak.”  A press shot of her reaching for Champagne at an award
ceremony is re-imagined as Rembrandt’s “Belshazzar’s Feast,”
with her acolytes pixilated out and a Dutch still life of fruit
placed among the bacchanalian forest of bottles.  “It was the passionate nature of it,” Laing says of a
snatched snap of her on a red carpet, leaning to kiss husband
Blake Fielder Civil. “She’s giving herself so totally to him. It
was so evocative of Rodin’s ‘Kiss.’ The clothes, the pose -- it
needed commemorating. I didn’t want this image to escape.”  Another embrace is the subject of “The Gethsemane Kiss.”
Winehouse faces a wall of police in “Thus Far and No Further,”
with Laing drawing on her increasingly complicated and messy
life as paparazzi followed her every move.  Starlets, Astronauts  Laing has had a zigzag career. Born in Newcastle-Upon-Tyne,
northern  England , he was an army officer, attended St. Martin’s
School of Art, then moved to  New York  as a Pop artist with peers
and friends including  Andy Warhol  and  Ed Ruscha . His paintings
of skydivers, starlets and astronauts, with comic-book flat
colors and print dots, recall both Warhol and  Roy Lichtenstein .  In 1969, disillusioned by the  Vietnam War  and the
assassinations of  John F. Kennedy  and  Martin Luther King , Laing
moved to the ruined 16th-century Kinkell Castle in Scotland. He
turned to abstract, minimalist sculpture and then figurative
works inspired by his second wife,  Galina Golikova . He has
portrayed Luciano Pavarotti, Paul Getty (commissioned by the
National Gallery, London) and director Sam Wanamaker. Laing is
also known for monumental pieces such as the Rugby Players at
Twickenham stadium and bronze dragons at  London ’s Bank station.  He recalls how in the 1960s he rescued tiny photos from
newspapers and turned them into epic paintings. He returned to
 Pop Art  in 2004 to depict the torture of prisoners at Abu Ghraib
prison. Not everyone understood as Laing says the American
heroes of his youth had turned bad amid the “war on terror.”  Beckham, Moss  He’s fascinated by “media obsession with celebrity froth”
and started to work up portraits of stars such as Victoria Beckham and  Kate Moss , though Winehouse fast overtook them.  Laing, wearing a tweed jacket, looks at his sculptures on
the window sills in London’s private  Club at the Ivy , where we
talk. He shrugs when asked if he’s sorry that he never met
Winehouse. He’s a big admirer, he says, though he lives in the
remote Highlands in his now-restored castle.  “There are 14 Amy paintings and 30 or 40 drawings,” he
says. “Then she died, the drama has ended and I wanted to put
them together as a tribute, a sort of homage.”  Gerald Laing, “ Amy Winehouse ” is at Thomas Gibson Fine Art,
31 Bruton Street, Mayfair, London, W1J 6QS. Open 10 a.m.-5 p.m.,
Monday to Friday through Nov. 10. Twenty percent of all sales of
the limited-edition pictures will be donated to the Amy
Winehouse charity launched by her father Mitch. Information:
+44-20-7499-8572 or  http://www.amywinehousefoundation.co.uk/ ,
 http://www.thomasgibsonfineart.com ,  http://www.geraldlaing.com .
and  http://www.kilmorackgallery.co.uk/artists/laing.html   (Mark Beech writes for Muse, the arts and leisure section
of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Mark Beech in London at 
 mbeech@bloomberg.net  or  http://twitter.com/Mark_Beech .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 