-- 
Anadarko Ends Standoff, Settles With BP on Gulf Spill Costs

-- B y   E d w a r d   K l u m p
-- 
2011-10-18T20:42:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/anadarko-s-bp-settlement-will-let-company-focus-on-africa-u-s-.html
Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC) , which last
year blamed  BP Plc (BP/)  for a record  Gulf of Mexico  crude spill,
changed course when it reached a $4 billion settlement that will
allow the U.S. oil and natural-gas producer to focus on projects
in Africa and the U.S.  Anadarko, based in The Woodlands,  Texas , plans to pay BP
within 45 days using cash and funds from a $5 billion  credit
line , according to a statement yesterday. The company will try
to sell its share in Brazilian offshore blocks to help pay off
debt, assets analysts estimate may be worth $3 billion to $5
billion.  The $4 billion settlement is higher than some estimates
from May, when analysts said Anadarko might seek to pay less
than $3 billion. Anadarko Chief Executive Officer Jim Hackett
said on May 3 he was open to a compromise while saying the
company didn’t think it owed anything for its 25 percent stake
in the Macondo well, the site of an April 2010 explosion.  “With the uncertainties surrounding Macondo largely
removed, investors can now re-focus on the world-class deep-
water exploration program and dominant onshore position in  North
America , which we don’t think the company has gotten proper
credit for over the past 18 months,” John Lutz, an analyst at
Frost Investment Advisors LLC in  San Antonio , said in an e-mail.  Anadarko is pushing ahead with projects to get oil and gas
from its discoveries off the coasts of  Ghana  and  Mozambique , and
in the U.S. Gulf and onshore fields.  Removes Cloud  The company climbed 6 percent to $78.91 at the close in  New
York , after rising 5.5 percent yesterday. Anadarko plunged by
more than half after the Macondo spill began, before recovering
by the end of 2010.  The disaster dumped almost 5 million barrels of oil into
the Gulf, the biggest offshore U.S. crude spill, and forced BP
to write off $41 billion. The settlement helps remove a cloud
that has followed Anadarko, which may have been liable for an
estimated $10 billion or more, based on its 25 percent stake.  Several analysts have raised their ratings on Anadarko
since the settlement was announced, including new “outperform”
recommendations from Oppenheimer & Co. and Raymond James &
Associates Inc.  Moody’s Investors Service placed its Ba1 corporate family
rating and its Ba1 senior unsecured notes rating on Anadarko
under review for upgrade. Moody’s said the agreement was less
than its loss assumption of as much as $8 billion.  Expected Cost  Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services changed its outlook on
Anadarko to stable from negative, while affirming its BBB-
corporate credit and senior unsecured debt ratings.  Anadarko’s settlement follows an announcement in May that a
unit of Mitsui & Co. agreed to pay BP about $1.07 billion to
settle costs related to a 10 percent interest in Macondo.  That settlement suggested Anadarko could reach a $2.65
billion agreement for its stake,  Scott Hanold , a Minneapolis-
based analyst for  RBC Capital Markets , said in a note at the
time. It later became clear BP wouldn’t settle for that amount,
Hanold said yesterday, and he expected an Anadarko payment in
the range of $3 billion to $5 billion.  “This reduces an overhang that’s kept some investors
away,” said Hanold, who has an “outperform” rating on
Anadarko shares and owns none.  The settlement is a “very reasonable number for Anadarko”
and in line with expectations,  Wells Fargo Securities LLC  said
in a note to clients. The settlement amounts to about $2.6
billion, or $5 a share, on an after-tax basis.  Jubilee Project  Lutz, who helps oversee about $6.8 billion in assets,
including more than 200,000 Anadarko shares, said the settlement
was “positive” even if it was at the high end of his
expectations.  As it seeks to exit  Brazil , Anadarko will focus in part on
spending money in  Africa , said Eliecer Palacios, an energy-
sector specialist at Maxim Group LLC in New York.  The Jubilee project in Ghana, in which Anadarko is a
partner, may hold 1.5 billion gross barrels of oil equivalent,
according to the company. Offshore Mozambique fields may hold at
least 10 trillion cubic feet of gas, Anadarko said on Oct. 5.  Anadarko is working on Gulf of Mexico projects such as
Caesar/Tonga and Lucius. It also has onshore U.S. holdings in
the Eagle Ford and Marcellus shale formations.  In April, Anadarko and MOEX, a unit of Mitsui, sued BP over
economic losses from Macondo and the related  oil spill . Anadarko
said the next month that it was open to talks with BP, which had
initiated a dispute-resolution process.  Transocean, Halliburton  Anadarko issued a June 2010 statement blaming BP, the
operator of Macondo, for the spill, saying it was preventable
and the result of recklessness. Actions by BP “likely represent
gross negligence or willful misconduct,” Anadarko said at the
time. The company withheld payment as BP went on to seek
billions of dollars.  BP has said a number of factors led to the disaster, and it
called on Anadarko, rig owner  Transocean Ltd. (RIG)  and well-services
provider  Halliburton Co. (HAL) , to contribute “appropriately.”
Transocean and Halliburton have yet to reach a settlement.  Anadarko won’t pursue its allegations of gross negligence
as part of its agreement, BP said.  “This settlement agreement with BP is the right action for
our stakeholders, as it removes significant uncertainty
regarding future liabilities and associated risks,” Hackett,
who also is chairman of Anadarko, said in a statement yesterday.  Transfer of Stake  BP agreed not to charge Anadarko for damage claims related
to the Oil Pollution Act, claims for natural-resource damages
and related damage-assessment costs and claims under a joint
operating agreement. Hackett said the arrangement “eliminates
all significant exposure to historical and future claims,” even
though it doesn’t protect Anadarko against fines, penalties,
punitive damages or certain other claims.  The company agreed to transfer to BP its 25 percent stake
in the Gulf block holding Macondo.  The value of the block the company is relinquishing is
“not meaningful” to Anadarko, said Rehan Rashid, an analyst at
FBR Capital Markets in Arlington,  Virginia , who has a “market
perform” rating on Anadarko shares and owns none.  Anadarko also got what Wells Fargo described as a
“clawback provision” that may bring as much as $1 billion to
the company. Under that part of the agreement, Anadarko can
receive a percentage of certain future recoveries from insurance
proceeds or third parties that go to BP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edward Klump in Houston at 
 eklump@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  