-- 
Manufacturing in New York Fed Region Shrinks More Than Economists Forecast

-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 
2011-10-17T12:34:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/manufacturing-in-new-york-fed-region-shrinks-more-than-economists-forecast.html
Manufacturing in the  New York  region
contracted in October at a faster pace than forecast, reflecting
a lack of confidence in the U.S. recovery that failed to be
confirmed by measures of orders and sales.  The Federal Reserve Bank of New York’s general economic
index rose to minus 8.5 from minus 8.8 in September. Economists
projected an improvement to minus 4, based on the median of 53
forecasts in a Bloomberg News survey. Readings less than zero
signal companies in the so-called Empire State Index, which
covers New York, northern  New Jersey , and southern  Connecticut ,
are cutting back.  The central bank’s measures of bookings and shipments
climbed to the highest levels in five months, indicating the
industry at the heart of the economic recovery may be regaining
momentum. Growth in  China  and other emerging economies may
continue to lift demand for U.S.-made cars and machinery,
complementing a pickup in  consumer spending .  “Consumer demand has held up much better than just about
anyone could have expected and manufacturers should see orders
improve over the near-term as a result,”  Russell Price , a
senior economist at Ameriprise Financial Inc. in  Detroit , said
before the report.  Stock-index futures held earlier losses after the report.
The contract on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index maturing in
December fell 0.1 percent to 1,217.7 at 8:32 a.m. in New York.  Survey Results  Economists’ estimates ranged from 1 to minus 11.3. October
marked the fifth consecutive month of contraction for the
region’s factories, the longest stretch since the last
recession.  The headline index is based on a separate question and does
not reflect changes in areas like orders and employment. For
that reason, some economists consider it a measure of sentiment.  The Empire State gauge of current factory orders increased
to 0.2 from minus 8 last month, ending a four-month contraction.
A measure of shipments rose to 5.3 from minus 12.9. Employment
improved to 3.4 from minus 5.4.  Today’s report showed an index of prices paid dropped to
22.5, the lowest reading since November, from 32.6 while prices
received decreased to 4.5 from 8.7.  Factory executives in the New York Fed’s district became
less optimistic about the future, the report showed. The gauge
measuring the outlook six months from now dropped to 6.7, the
lowest reading since February 2009, from 13.  Price Increases  PepsiCo Inc., the world’s largest snack-food maker, is
among manufacturers that have been successful in passing on
price increases to consumers. The Purchase, New York-based
company last week reported a 4.1 percent rise in third-quarter
profit, helped by price increases and sales of snacks in  Latin
America .  “Commodity inflation has ramped up as we moved into the
second half of the year, as we expected, so some of the
incremental pricing is simply offsetting the incremental
inflation,” Chief Financial Officer Hugh Johnston told a
conference call on Oct. 12.  Economists monitor the New York and Philadelphia Fed
reports for clues about the Institute for Supply Management
figures on U.S. manufacturing during the month. The Philadelphia
Fed is scheduled to release its gauge on Oct. 20. Economists
forecast the index improved to minus 9.3 this month from minus
17.5. The national ISM factory data will be released on Nov. 1.  Spending Climbs  The latest economic data has helped allay concerns the
economy is sliding back into a recession after growth in the
first half of the year almost stalled. Retail sales rose 1.1
percent in September, the most in seven months, car sales
climbed to a 13.04 million annual rate, the most since April,
and the economy added 103,000 jobs, reports this month showed.  While exports in August were at the second-highest level on
record, concerns of a European default and slower global growth
may limit any further gains.  A strengthening in the  U.S. dollar  over the last couple
months also threatens to make American-made goods less
competitive in the global marketplace. From late July through
early October, the dollar strengthened about 6.2 percent against
a basket of currencies of major trading partners after falling
9.1 percent in the prior 12 months.  The  International Monetary Fund  last month lowered its
forecast for growth in the euro area to 1.6 percent this year
from a prior 2 percent forecast. Economic growth in  Mexico , the
third-largest U.S. trading partner, will be 3.8 percent, down
from a prior 4.7 percent estimate.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Willis in Washington at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  