-- 
Apotex, Samsung, Fujifilm, Intelspec, Lady Gaga: Intellectual Property

-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 
2011-10-17T11:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/apotex-samsung-fujifilm-lady-gaga-intellectual-property.html
Apotex Inc. agreed to delay selling
a generic version of the osteoporosis drug Boniva until a judge
rules on the validity of a  Roche Holding AG (ROG)  patent on the
medicine that expires in March 2012.  Apotex, based in Toronto, is seeking U.S. Food and Drug
Administration approval to sell a copy of Boniva. In 2007, Roche
sued in federal court in Newark,  New Jersey , claiming its patent
is valid and enforceable, and that Apotex infringed it.  Boniva, which is administered once a month, is the anti-
bone loss drug endorsed by actress Sally Field. An advisory
panel to the U.S. Food and Drug Administration recommended that
the agency call for clarification on the appropriate length of
time patients should take this class of drug. Some patients who
have taken the drug have experienced atypical fractures of the
thigh bones, the FDA has said in a safety announcement.  Under an accord filed in court Oct. 11, Apotex agreed it
wouldn’t sell its copy until U.S. District Judge Stanley Chesler
rules on the validity and enforcement questions or the patent
expires, whichever comes first. Roche agreed to post a $1
million bond.  The case is Hoffman-LaRoche Inc. v. Apotex Inc., 2:07-cv-
04417, U.S. District Court, District of New Jersey (Newark).  Samsung’s Dutch Patent Lawsuit Against Apple Rejected by Court  A Dutch court rejected Samsung Electronics Co.’s claims
that  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  infringed patents, preventing the South Korean
manufacturer from blocking the sale of some of its U.S. rival’s
products in the Netherlands.  Samsung, as holder of a standard-essential patent, is
obliged to provide third parties with a license for production
under fair, reasonable and non-discriminatory terms, the Hague
District Court said in a decision that denied all four of the
South Korean company’s claims.  Samsung, the world’s second-largest maker of mobile phones,
filed four lawsuits against Apple in the country, claiming the
Cupertino, California-based manufacturer’s iPhone and iPad
devices that use 3G technology infringe Samsung patents. The
court said patent terms require Apple to apply for a so-called
FRAND license, and Samsung to make an appropriate offer in
response.  “If parties cannot reach an agreement, Samsung can still
file a claim,” the court said.  The two companies have been locked in a global legal battle
since Apple claimed in an April lawsuit that Samsung’s Galaxy
devices copied the iPad and iPhone. Samsung has tweaked a photo-
browsing feature on Galaxy models for sale in the Netherlands to
bypass a Dutch injunction won by Apple in August.  The manufacturers are competing for dominance of the
fastest-growing segment of the $207 billion mobile-phone market,
where the iPhone is competing with devices powered by Google
Inc.’s Android system.  Samsung filed motions this month seeking bans on Apple’s
iPhone 4S in France and Italy, claiming the U.S. company
infringed its patents related to mobile technology.  Fujifilm Sues Eastman Kodak Over Digital Camera Patents  Fujifilm Corp. sued  Eastman Kodak Co. (EK) , alleging that it
infringed patents for digital cameras.  Fujifilm, based in  Tokyo , sued Eastman Kodak over four
digital-camera patents after talks between the companies were
unsuccessful, according to a complaint filed Oct. 14 in federal
court in  Manhattan .  Kodak manufactured and sold products in the U.S., including
the EasyShare C340 and EasyShare M530 digital cameras, that
violated the patents, Fujifilm alleged in the complaint. It
seeks damages and a jury trial.  Christopher Veronda, a spokesman for Rochester, New York-
based Kodak, didn’t immediately return messages seeking comment
on the suit.  The case is Fujifilm Corp. v. Eastman Kodak Co., 1:11-cv-
07247, U.S. District Court, Southern District of  New York 
(Manhattan).  United, Delta, Alaska Air Sued Over Mobile Check-In Patents  United Airlines, Continental Airlines, Delta Air Lines and
 Alaska Air Group Inc. (ALK)  were sued by a patent holder over wireless
transaction technology for mobile check-in and boarding passes.  Aeritas LLC , a Dallas-based wireless software maker,
contends the air carriers are using its inventions protected by
patents awarded in 2007 and 2011, according to four complaints
filed yesterday in federal court in Wilmington,  Delaware .  “Aeritas has suffered monetary damages in an amount
adequate to compensate for defendants’ infringement, but in no
event less than a reasonable royalty,” wrote the patent holder,
which is also seeking a jury trial and a halt to the airlines’
use of the inventions.  Continental and United are units of  United Continental
Holdings Inc. (UAL) , based in  Chicago . Delta is based in Atlanta, and
Alaska Air is based in  Seattle .  “We haven’t been served and are still assessing the claims
of the lawsuit,” Bobbie Egan, an Alaska Airlines spokeswoman,
said in an e-mailed statement.  Trebor Banstetter, a Delta spokesman, didn’t immediately
return a call seeking comment on the lawsuit. Representatives of
United Continental weren’t immediately available for comment.  In dispute are patents 7,209,903, issued in April 2007; and
7,933,589, issued April 26.  According to a  statement  on the Aeritas website,  Deutsche
Lufthansa AG (LHA) ’s Lufthansa began using a check-in and boarding
process in 2001 that was based on the company’s technology.  The cases are Aeritas v. United Airlines Inc., 1:11-cv-
00970; Aeritas v. Continental Airlines Inc.; Aeritas v.  Delta
Air Lines Inc. (DAL) ; and Aeritas v. Alaska Air Group Inc., U.S.
District Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Intel Sues Intelspec, Claims Company Name Infringes Trademarks  Intel Corp., the world’s largest chipmaker, sued a Utah
engineering company for trademark infringement.  The Santa Clara, California-based company objects to the
company name and website of  Intelspec International Inc.  of Salt
Lake City. According to the company website, Intelspec works
mainly in the  Middle East , East Asia, and Oceania on projects in
the $1 million to $10 million range, “that are too small to
attract the attention of the giant multinational firms.”  The chip company claims that given the “overwhelming and
distinctive association the public makes between the term
‘Intel’ and  Intel Corp. (INTC) , a likelihood of confusion exists.  Intel is known for its zealous defense of its intellectual
property rights, and has filed at least 20 trademark
infringement cases since 2002, according to Bloomberg data.  In the complaint, filed Oct. 12 in federal court in
Wilmington, Delaware, the chip company lists the wide range of
categories for which it holds registered trademarks involving
the “Intel” name. Among them are clocks, piggy banks, playing
cards, fanny packs, infant rompers, Christmas tree ornaments,
gold ball markers and towels, in addition to computer chips,
software and semiconductor processing cartridges.  One of the reasons Intel says it is harmed by Intelspec’s
actions is that the engineering company’s website mentions
“communications infrastructure for public and private
entities.”  The company said that “given Intel’s involvement in
communications, the vast use of Intel’s products and services by
the military and in other engineering applications and the
similarity of the marks, there is a likelihood that those
customers will attribute the quality and content of the
defendants’ offerings to Intel.” This potentially risks
damaging the chipmaker’s reputation, according to the complaint.  Intel asked the court to order the engineering company to
stop using the Intelspec name or any other name that is
confusingly similar to its trademarks. It also seeks a court
order for the destruction of all allegedly infringing
promotional materials and requested it be transferred the
intelspec.com domain name.  Additionally, the chipmaker asked for awards of money
damages, Intelspec’s profits, attorney fees and litigation
costs. The company also requested that the damages be tripled
and that extra damages be added to punish the Utah company for
its actions.  Intelspec “disagrees with Intel’s claims and, if
necessary, will defend the case brought by Intel,” company
spokesman Shawn Teigen said in an e-mail. “Intelspec does not
compete with Intel in any space and does not believe that its
trade name causes consumer confusion anywhere in the world, nor
does Intelspec’s use of its trade name weaken the Intel
Trademark.”  Intel is represented by  Bobby A. Ghajar  and  Neil Vohra  of
San Francisco’s Pillsbury Winthrop Shaw Pittman LLP and  Jack B.
Blumenfeld  and  Paul Saindon  of Wilmington’s Morris Nichols Arsht
& Tunnell LLP.  The case is Intel Corp. v. Intelspec International, 1:11-
cv-00962-UNA, U.S. District Court, District of Delaware
(Wilmington).  Lady Gaga Gets Court to Order Bye Bye to Lady Goo Goo  Lady Gaga, the pop singer known for her outrageous
clothing, won a court order barring a parody character from
performing a number called “The Moshi Dance” in Mind Candy
Ltd.’s Moshi Monsters social-networking online game for kids,
the U.K.’s Guardian reported.  A U.K. court barred Mind Candy from promoting of selling to
the public any music work or video that purports to be performed
by a character named Lady Goo Goo, according to the Guardian.  Mind Candy Founder and Chief Executive Michael Acton Smith
told the Guardian he was disappointed in the court ruling and
said it was “pretty obvious” that kids would tell the
different between Lady Gaga and the parody character.  The parody “was all done in the name of dun and we thought
Lady Gaga could have seen the humor behind this parody,” Smith
said and the Guardian reported.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Australia  Seeking Comments on Streamlined Copyright Enforcement  Australia’s government is seeking comments on whether
judges or magistrate could issue orders authorizing Internet
service providers to give a content owner information about a
specific subscriber, the Australian  reported .  Presently, under that country’s Privacy Act and
Telecommunications Act, ISPs are barred from disclosing customer
information unless it is required to do so by law enforcement or
required under law, according to the newspaper.  Australia’s Federal Attorney General Robert McClelland,
speaking at a symposium on copyright issues, said the government
is considering expanding its definition of Internet service
providers to include companies that operate online services,
such as Google Inc. and Yahoo! Inc., the Australian reported.  The present system under which copyright holders must apply
for the details of an ISP’s individual customer is cumbersome
and expensive, and needs to be streamlined, McClelland said at
the conference, and the Australian reported.  For more copyright news, click here.  IP Moves  Oblon Spivak Hires Marybeth Peters, Former Copyright Register  Oblon Spivak McClelland Maier & Neustadt LLP hired Marybeth
Peters for its trademark and copyright group, the Alexandria,
Virginia-based IP specialty firm said in an e-mailed statement.  Peters  was the U.S. Register of Copyrights for 16 years.
Before that, she served as policy planning adviser to the
Register, as acting general counsel of the Copyright Office, and
chief of both the examining and reference divisions.  She has an undergraduate degree from Rhode Island College
and a law degree from George Washington University.  IIPI Names Former Head of  Mexico ’s Patent Office Vice Chairman  The  International Intellectual Property Institute , a
Washington-based organization focused on international IP
issues, hired the former head of Mexico’s patent office.  Jorge H. Amigo Castaneda  will serve as vice chairman and
member of the board of directors, according to an IIPI
 statement .  Amigo was appointed the first head director of Mexico’s
Instituto Mexicano de la Propiedad Industrial in 1994 by then-
President  Ernesto Zedillo . He led this office for 17 years.  He served as Mexico’s lead delegate for intellectual
property during free-trade agreement negotiations and for the
Anticounterfeiting Trade Agreement completed in 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland,  California , at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 