-- 
Apple IPhone 4S Sales Top 4 Million in Record Debut Weekend

-- B y   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o
-- 
2011-10-17T14:52:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/apple-sells-more-than-4-million-iphone-4s-units-in-debut-three-day-weekend.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  sold more than 4 million
iPhone 4S devices in the first three days after it was
introduced, setting a record as customers lined up at stores
from Sydney to San Francisco to be first with the new touch-
screen handset.  That’s more than double the 1.7 million iPhones sold by
Cupertino, California-based Apple last year, during the
introduction of the previous model.  Demand for the new device extends Apple’s lead as the top
maker of smartphones as it fends off rivals including Samsung
Electronics Co. and HTC Corp. that rely on  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android
software. U.S. wireless partners Verizon Wireless,  AT&T Inc. (T)  and
 Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)  reported high activation rates for the new
iPhone, which has new voice-recognition software, a speedier
processor and higher-quality camera.  “Higher-than-expected sales may have been the result of
availability at Verizon and Sprint in addition to AT&T, broader
international distribution, positive reviews, timing of the
iPhone 3GS hardware upgrade availability and possible Steve Jobs
tribute-related demand,” said  Mike Abramsky , an analyst at RBC
Capital Markets, in a research note today. He had projected
sales of about 3 million units for the debut weekend.  The iPhone 4S went on sale Oct. 14 in the U.S., Australia,
Canada, France, Germany,  Japan  and the U.K., in Apple’s first
hardware release since the Oct. 5 death of former Chief
Executive Officer Steve Jobs. The company also has debuted
iCloud, for wirelessly synchronizing music, pictures and
documents across Apple devices, and iOS 5 mobile software.  Lines Worldwide  Customers lined up outside stores in cities including
Frankfurt, Tokyo, San Francisco and New York. Apple co-founder
Steve Wozniak was among the first to get a handset at the store
in  Los Gatos ,  California . With a two-year contract, the iPhone
4S costs $199, $299 or $399, depending on amount of memory.  The stock rose less than a percent to $425.32 at 10:44 a.m.
 New York  time. Expectations for high sales helped push Apple’s
shares up 3.3 percent to $422 in U.S. trading on Oct. 14. The
shares have risen 31 percent this year before today.  Sales from this weekend won’t be included in Apple’s
fourth-quarter results, due to be reported Oct. 18. In the
period, profit jumped 62 percent to $6.98 billion on sales of
$29.6 billion, according to the average estimate of analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg.  ‘Apples-to-Apples’  “Based on launch sales, we think 60 percent year-over-year
growth for the December 2011 quarter will prove to be
conservative,” said  Gene Munster , an analyst at Piper Jaffray
Cos., in a note to clients today.  The launch figures aren’t “a perfect apples-to-apples
comparison” because the 4S model was effectively available for
2.5 days during its debut weekend, while the prior model was
only “effectively available” for 1.25 days before the website
crashed and inventory was sold out, said Munster, who rates the
stock ‘overweight’ with a target price of $422.  For the quarter now underway, Apple may sell more than 27
million iPhones, Abramsky estimated. He said sales for fiscal
2012 may reach 110 million and he rates the stock ‘outperform.’  Apple said more than 25 million customers are  already
using iOS 5, the new mobile operating system, in the first five
days of its release, according to a statement today. More than
20 million customers have signed up for iCloud, a service for
storing and accessing content over the Internet.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Adam Satariano in  San Francisco  at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  