-- 
Asia Currencies Gain, Led by Won, After Global Funds Boost Share Holdings

-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 
2011-10-17T08:25:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/asia-currencies-gain-led-by-won-after-global-funds-boost-share-holdings.html
Asian currencies strengthened, led
by  South Korea ’s won, after international funds added to
holdings of regional assets to benefit from growth in the
world’s fastest-growing economies.  Global funds bought $1.5 billion more Indonesian, South
Korean and Taiwanese shares than they sold last week, exchange
data show. China’s gross domestic product increased more than 9
percent for a ninth quarter, official data will show this week,
according to economists in a Bloomberg survey. The MSCI Asia-
Pacific Index of shares rose after European Union Economic and
Monetary Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn  said clarity on a plan
to contain the debt crisis will emerge in the “coming days.”  “Sentiment and risk appetite are improving and that
provides support for Asian currencies through stock buying,”
said  Hideki Hayashi , a researcher at the Japan Center for
Economic Research in  Tokyo . “ Europe ’s situation will remain a
dominant factor in the market.”  The won strengthened 1.4 percent to 1,140.45 per dollar as
of the 3 p.m. close in  Seoul , according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Malaysia’s ringgit added 1 percent to 3.1005, the
Philippine peso climbed 0.6 percent to 43.115, Taiwan’s dollar
rose 0.7 percent to NT$30.10 and  India ’s rupee gained 0.6
percent to 48.7275.  The MSCI Asia-Pacific Index of shares advanced almost 2
percent after rallying 3.4 percent last week, the most since
March. Outflows from all global-tracked equity funds fell to a
four-week low of $1.37 billion during the second week of October,
EPFR Global said.  Economic Growth  Singapore’s economy expanded an annualized 5.9 percent in
the third quarter after having grown 1 percent in the three
months ended June, a government report showed on Oct. 14.
Official data tomorrow will show  China ’s gross domestic product
rose 9.3 percent from a year earlier, according to the median
estimate of 22 economists in a Bloomberg News survey. The
world’s second-biggest economy grew 9.5 percent in the three
months through June.  The won rose to the strongest level in almost four weeks
after U.S. government data showed on Oct. 14 that retail sales
rose 1.1 percent in September from a month earlier, the most
since February. The U.S. is South Korea’s second-biggest export
market.  The ringgit touched the strongest level in four weeks as
Malaysia’s benchmark stock index climbed 1.2 percent.  “There’s a bit of risk-on,” said Saktiandi Supaat, head
of foreign-exchange research at Malayan Banking Bhd. in
 Singapore . “There’s pretty firm commitment from the European
Union leaders about the policy that they might come out with
toward the end of the month.”  Stronger Fixing  The yuan gained for a second day as the People’s Bank of
China set its  reference rate  stronger for the first time in four
days. Official data tomorrow will show industrial output climbed
13.4 percent in September from a year earlier after having risen
13.5 percent in August, a separate poll showed. The yuan
strengthened 0.12 percent to 6.3710 per dollar, after gaining
0.12 percent last week.  “The firmer fixing confirms that China continues to want
its currency to appreciate,” said Dariusz Kowalczyk, a Hong
Kong-based strategist at Credit Agricole CIB.  Elsewhere,  Thailand ’s baht gained 0.6 percent to 30.61 per
dollar and the Indonesian rupiah rose 0.4 percent to 8,817,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  