-- 
Assured Guaranty Sues Credit Suisse, DLJ Mortgage in New York State Court

-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 
2011-10-18T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/assured-guaranty-sues-credit-suisse-dlj-mortgage-in-new-york.html
A  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  unit was
sued by over securitized mortgage loans for which  Assured
Guaranty Ltd. (AGO)  guaranteed payments to investors and that the bond
insurer says were riskier than promised.  Credit Suisse’s DLJ Mortgage Capital Inc. misrepresented
the quality of loans underlying the mortgage securities,
exposing Assured to “hundreds of millions of dollars” in
current and future claim payments, Assured units said in a
complaint filed yesterday in New York state Supreme Court.  “Assured is exposed to enormous current and future claims
under the policies,” they said.  Credit Suisse spokesman Steven Vames said in an e-mailed
statement that the company would fight Assured’s attempt to
“misuse litigation to sidestep its insurance responsibilities
and shift its own exposure to others.” Credit Suisse Securities
(USA) LLC is also named as a defendant.  “Assured is a sophisticated multibillion dollar insurance
company that received full disclosure about the securities they
chose to insure,” he said. “Now that investors have suffered
losses, Assured has chosen to file a lawsuit to evade its
insurance obligations.”  Assured is among bond insurers including  MBIA Inc. (MBI)  that are
suing lenders from  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  to  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) 
over mortgages packaged into securities and backed by the
insurers.  Seeking Buybacks  Assured Chief Executive Officer Dominic Frederico said on a
conference call with investors in May that it was seeking
buybacks from Credit Suisse, Deutsche Bank and  UBS AG (UBSN)  on $5.4
billion of loans he said violated so-called representations and
warranties made by the banks.  Assured said in the complaint against DLJ that the company
“repeatedly and pervasively” breached representations about
the loans and that a “massive number” of defective mortgages
were packaged into securities.  In six mortgage securitizations for which Assured provided
financial guaranty insurance, a review by the company found
7,338 defective  mortgage loans  with an aggregate original
principal balance of about $1.8 billion, according to the
complaint.  The case is Assured Guaranty Municipal Corp. v. DLJ
Mortgage Capital Inc, 652837-2011, New York state Supreme Court
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David McLaughlin in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 