-- 
AT&T Claims Sprint Working With U.S. in T-Mobile Lawsuits

-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 
2011-10-17T22:33:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/at-t-asks-judge-to-deny-sprint-access-to-data-in-t-mobile-case.html
AT&T Inc. said  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S) 
and Cellular South Inc. are working with the U.S.  Justice
Department  to gain a tactical advantage in lawsuits seeking to
block the AT&T’s proposal to buy T-Mobile USA Inc.  In a filing today in  Washington , AT&T asked U.S. District
Judge Ellen Segal Huvelle to reject Sprint and Cellular South’s
request for access to confidential information it turned over to
the Justice Department for its lawsuit seeking to block the
deal, arguing the judge denied a similar request last month by
Sprint. AT&T said the U.S. is now backing the companies’ bid for
“special privileges” in the case.  Sprint and Cellular South last week asked Huvelle to allow
their outside lawyers and experts to use the confidential data
to prepare for trial in their own lawsuits challenging the T-
Mobile deal. To deprive them of that opportunity creates a
“fundamental unfairness,” they said in a joint filing.  “The  United States  supports petitioners’ motion because it
would like to augment its litigation efforts with the work of
privately funded counsel,” Mark Hansen, of Kellogg, Huber,
Hansen, Todd, Evans & Figel PLLC in Washington, a lawyer for
AT&T, said in the filing.  Document Subpoenas  The companies argued that, as competitors with relevant
information, they have been subpoenaed for documents by AT&T in
the government’s antitrust suit. At the same time, Huvelle,
overseeing all the AT&T cases, froze document exchanges in the
private lawsuits while she weighs the company’s bid to dismiss
them. On Oct. 12, the Justice Department urged Huvelle to allow
Sprint and Cellular South access to AT&T’s information.  In today’s filing, AT&T said the subpoenas it issued to
Sprint, Cellular South and 14 other wireless providers are
routine and seek information on similar topics. Huvelle said in
a court filing that she’ll address the issue at a hearing
scheduled for Oct. 24.  “AT&T is seeking to continue to block our access to its
documents while it simultaneously uses the subpoena process to
obtain documents from us,” said Eric Graham, vice president for
strategic and government relations at C Spire Wireless, in an e-
mailed statement. Cellular South based in Ridgeland,
 Mississippi , changed its name to C Spire Wireless on Sept. 26,
according to its website.  John Taylor , a spokesman for Sprint, said AT&T is seeking
“volumes of documents” beyond the more than two million pages
Sprint and Cellular South gave the government during the Justice
Department probe.  ‘Refusing to Reciprocate’  “They are refusing to reciprocate and provide any
documents in exchange,” Taylor said in an e-mail.  The Justice Department sued Dallas-based AT&T and Bonn-
based  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) ’s T-Mobile unit on Aug. 31, saying a
combination of the two companies would “substantially” reduce
competition. Seven states and  Puerto Rico  joined the
government’s effort to block the deal, which would make AT&T the
biggest U.S. wireless carrier.  Sprint, based in Overland Park,  Kansas , brought its
antitrust lawsuit on Sept. 6, less than a week after the U.S.
sued to block the deal. As the third-biggest wireless carrier,
Sprint said the proposed merger would weaken its ability to
compete with AT&T, the second biggest, and  Verizon
Communications Inc. (VZ) , the market leader. The combination of AT&T
and T-Mobile would form the country’s largest mobile-phone
company.  Cellular South sued on Sept. 19 claiming the merger
threatened to “substantially” cut competition.  The case is U.S. v.  AT&T Inc. (T) , 11-cv-01560, U.S. District
Court,  District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  