-- 
Tata Consultancy Profit Misses Estimates as Clients Curb Software Spending

-- B y   K e t a k i   G o k h a l e   a n d   A n o o p   A g r a w a l
-- 
2011-10-18T04:55:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/tata-consultancy-profit-lags-estimates-as-clients-curb-technology-spending.html
Tata Consultancy Services Ltd. (TCS) ,
India’s largest software exporter, posted profit that missed
analyst estimates for the first time in 10 quarters as a weaker-
than-expected economic recovery curbed technology spending.  Net income rose 15 percent to 24.4 billion rupees ($497
million) in the three months ended Sept. 30, Mumbai-based Tata
Consultancy said in a statement yesterday. Profit trailed the
25.2 billion rupees median of 28 analysts’ estimates, the first
time since the quarter ended March 2009, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Tata Consultancy fell the most in a year after Chief
Executive Officer N. Chandrasekaran said there was a lot of
“negativism” among clients amid economic uncertainty. The
recovery in the U.S. still faces “a lot of headwinds” from the
sovereign-debt crisis in the  euro zone  to political gridlock
over the budget in the world’s largest economy, according to
Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. economist  Chris Rupkey .  “The recent European turmoil had moderated expectations
substantially and TCS missed even those moderated
expectations,” Nimish Joshi, an analyst at CLSA Ltd. in Mumbai,
wrote in a note to clients yesterday. “Simply put these numbers
are not good enough given TCS management’s super-bullish
commentary,” wrote Joshi, who rates the stock “underperform.”  Shares of Tata Consultancy slumped as much as 7.9 percent,
the most intraday since Oct. 8, 2010, and traded down 7.1
percent at 1,040.55 rupees as of 9:40 a.m. in Mumbai. The stock
was the worst performer today on the 30-company benchmark
Sensitive Index, which slid 1.5 percent. Infosys Ltd.,  India ’s
second-largest software company, declined 1.6 percent.  Europe  ‘Worrisome’  Revenue rose 25 percent to 116.3 billion rupees, from 92.9
billion rupees a year earlier. The median of 35 analysts’
estimates was 117 billion rupees.  The macroeconomic situation in Europe is “worrisome,”
Chandrasekaran said at a briefing in Mumbai yesterday. Still,
“we are getting positive vibes from customers in terms of their
IT spends going forward,” he said.  The deal pipeline in Europe was still “strong” and the
company was currently pursuing two to three telecommunications
contracts, Chandrasekaran said yesterday.  Tata Consultancy, which provides computer services and back
office support to companies including  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and
Volkswagen AG,  derived  52.9 percent of its first-quarter revenue
from companies in  North America , 15.3 percent from the U.K., and
9.9 percent from continental Europe.  ‘Not as Bright’  Worldwide spending on technology goods and services by
businesses and governments, which includes computer equipment
and outsourcing, will grow 5.5 percent in 2012 to $2.15
trillion, slowing from an estimated 11.5 percent this year,
according to a Sept. 16 report from Forrester Research Inc.  The outlook for demand in 2012 is “not as bright,” as
weak economic growth in the U.S. and Europe will make business
and governments more cautious about investing in technology,
Cambridge, Massachusetts-based Forrester said.  Infosys Chief Executive Officer S.D. Shibulal last week
said customers were delaying decisions on projects.  “IT spending reacts with a lag to macroeconomic headwinds
and tailwinds, and to that extent we will see slightly weaker
demand starting the next quarter,” said Hitesh Shah, vice
president of research at IDFC Securities Ltd. in Mumbai.  Tata Consultancy added 35 clients during the quarter, for a
total of 1,010 active customers. The company had a 6.2 percent
increase in volume in the three months ended Sept. 30 from the
previous period. Volume at Infosys grew 4.5 percent, Chief
Financial Officer V. Balakrishnan said Oct. 12.  Information-technology services companies define volume as
the number of man-months workers spend on projects for clients.  Attrition Declines  Infosys shares rose the most in more than two years in
Mumbai on Oct. 12, after the Bangalore-based software-services
provider raised its full-year sales guidance and posted earnings
that beat analyst expectations for the first time in a year.
Infosys projected sales in the year to March to range between
335 billion rupees and 340.9 billion rupees.  Tata Consultancy added a net 12,580 employees during the
quarter, for a total of 214,770, according to the statement.  Worker exits at Tata Consultancy eased to 13.7 percent in
the quarter ended Sept. 30, from 14.1 percent in the same period
last year. Infosys reported employee attrition of 15.6 percent
for the period.  As software vendors compete to win and retain the best
workers, wages across the industry are rising, creating a new
source of pressure on profit margins. Tata Consultancy said in
April that it would raise salaries for its workers in India by
12 percent to 14 percent in the year ending March 31, while
Infosys said it would raise wages by 10 percent to 12 percent.  The  Commercial Bank of Qatar (CBQK) , the country’s second-biggest
lender, yesterday said it signed a 5-year agreement with Tata
Consultancy for outsourcing back office and information
technology services.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ketaki Gokhale in Mumbai at 
 kgokhale@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  