-- 
Latvian Government Wobbles as Six Defect From Zatlers’ Party

-- B y   A a r o n   E g l i t i s
-- 
2011-10-17T14:47:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/latvian-government-wobbles-as-six-defect-from-zatlers-party.html
Latvia ’s coalition government, which
was expected to be confirmed this week, lost its majority after
six members of the Reform Party quit, leaving Premier Valdis Dombrovskis with exactly half of parliament’s seats.  The six said they were leaving due to “undemocratic
decision making” in the party, according to a press release
published yesterday, adding they will support the Cabinet, which
will have 50 of the legislature’s 100 seats. The new parliament,
elected last month, began its first session today.  Since turning to the European Commission and the
 International Monetary Fund  for a 7.5 billion-euro ($10.4
billion) loan in 2008, the Baltic country has lowered spending
and raised taxes equal to about 16 percent of gross domestic
product. It plans further cuts in next year’s budget to lower
the deficit to 2.5 percent of GDP to adopt the euro in 2014.  “We don’t have time to play little games, we have work to
do,” President Andris Berzins, who must name the next prime
minister, told lawmakers today. “In any case we can’t talk
about working for three years,” he said in an interview with
Latvijas Radio before his remarks in parliament.  Failed Vote  In a sign of problems within the coalition, former
President Valdis Zatlers failed to garner enough votes in two
separate secret ballots to become speaker of the parliament
today, a position the parties agreed he would get.  Dombrovskis’s Unity party and the Reform Party formed a
coalition together with the  National Alliance , which planned to
have 56 votes, instead of a government with Harmony Center,
which appeals to the country’s Russian minority. That grouping
would have given the three-party government 73 seats.  About 2,000 supporters of Harmony  protested  outside of
parliament today after the party, which won the most seats with
31, was left out of coalition talks, the  Baltic News Service 
reported, citing police estimates.  Zatlers, leader of the Reform Party, has refused to
negotiate with the Greens and Farmers Union due to their
connection with Aivars Lembergs, the mayor of Ventspils, who is
accused of  money laundering  and abuse of office. Lembergs denies
all the charges.  The defections “revive the chances of the Greens and
Farmers being in some sort of coalition,”  Nils Muiznieks , a
political scientist at the University of Latvia, said by phone.
“How it will play out is completely up for grabs now.”  The yield on Latvia’s 400 million-euro bond due 2018 fell 3
basis points to 4.79 percent today. Latvian five-year credit-
default swaps, used to speculate on a borrower’s credit
worthiness, were little changed at 307 basis points on Oct. 14,
according to CMA Datavision prices.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Eglitis in Riga at 
 aeglitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  