-- 
Austria’s Banks May Need Extra $5.5 Billion, Duchatczek Says

-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 
2011-10-17T15:56:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/austria-banks-may-need-4-billion-euros-in-eu-recapitalization.html
Austrian banks may need as much as 4
billion euros ($5.5 billion) in additional capital if the
European Union orders banks to clean up balance sheets and
bolster capital buffers in a recapitalization program.  That amount is an “upper limit” for  Erste Group Bank AG (EBS) ,
 Raiffeisen Bank International AG (RBI)  and  Oesterreichische
Volksbanken AG (VBPS) , Austria’s central bank Vice Governor Wolfgang Duchatczek told reporters in Vienna today. As “there is no
consensus among the leaders in Europe yet,” the terms of a
recapitalization remain unclear before the summit of EU
government heads scheduled for Oct. 23, he added.  Austrian banks face slowing economies and rising bad debts
in eastern European countries including Hungary and  Romania ,
where they are among the biggest lenders. That is hurting their
plans to bolster capital levels with retained earnings. Erste
and Volksbanken both warned last week that they will report
losses this year, while Raiffeisen said it will remain
profitable amid a weaker second half. All three got state
capital in 2009.  Duchatczek was speaking on the fringes of a ceremony in
which European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  was
awarded a medal by Austrian President Heinz Fischer.
Spokespeople for Erste, Raiffeisen and Volksbanken declined to
comment on Duchatczek’s remarks.  Estimate Parameters  The estimate of a 4 billion-euro deficit is based on data
requested by the European Banking Authority and assumes a
writedown of sovereign debt holdings to market prices,
Duchatczek said. He declined to elaborate on other parameters.
Three people briefed on the estimate said that it’s based on a
“worst case” minimum core Tier 1 capital ratio requirement of
9 percent. The people declined to be identified because the
plans are private.  Central banks and the Group of 20 finance ministers have
set an Oct. 23 deadline for the delivery of a plan to avoid a
Greek default and bolster  Europe ’s banks. Officials are
exploring the creation of an EU-level backstop which is
capitalized by the European Financial Stability Facility rescue
fund, people with knowledge of the discussions said last week.
It would take equity stakes in banks and guarantee bank
liabilities.  This proposal is controversial in  Germany , which so far has
called for bank recapitalization on a country-by-country level.
Austria has 6 billion euros that are still unused for capital
measures under its bank stability program, the  finance ministry 
said last week. Erste has received 1.2 billion euros from this
program, Raiffeisen 1.75 billion euros and Volksbanken 1 billion
euros.  Nationalization Looms  The banks got this capital in the form of non-voting, non-
tradeable “participation capital,” which is as risky as equity
while it doesn’t rise in value like common shares. That’s why
 Austria ’s ruling Social Democrats favor injecting common stock
should there be a second round of capital aid.  “It’s the prevalent view in the  Social Democratic Party 
that there only is nationalization,” senior Social Democrat
lawmaker Jan Krainer was quoted as saying in Vienna-based Kurier
yesterday. “The banks will only get tax money in return for
ownership rights.” A spokesman for Social Democrat Chancellor
Werner Faymann said there was currently no request for capital
and declined to elaborate.  Austria has the right to nationalize Volksbanken, which
hasn’t paid a dividend on its state capital since it received it
in 2009. Finance Minister Maria Fekter of the co-governing
conservative  People’s Party  has said her desire to exercise that
right is “very limited.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Groendahl at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 cullen8@bloomberg.net  