-- 
Australian Dollar Falls From One-Month High Before Central Bank’s Minutes

-- B y   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a
-- 
2011-10-17T17:27:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/australian-dollar-weakens-before-rba-minutes-snapping-three-day-advance.html
The Australian dollar weakened
before the  Reserve Bank  of  Australia  releases minutes tomorrow
of its meeting on Oct. 4, when Governor Glenn Stevens signaled
there’s more scope to cut  interest rates  if necessary.  The Aussie snapped a three-day advance versus its U.S.
counterpart on speculation its climb to a one-month high was
excessive. New Zealand’s dollar slid after a report showed the
nation’s services industry slowed in September.  “After such a big move, the Australian dollar getting a
few wobbles is certainly understandable,” said Gavin Stacey,
chief interest-rate strategist at Barclays Plc in Sydney. “You
become more susceptible to downside surprises for any
disappointment on RBA or the global policy front.”  Australia’s dollar declined 1 percent to $1.0232 at 1:23
p.m. New York time after touching $1.0372, the highest level
since Sept. 16. It surged 5.9 percent last week, the most since
February 2009. The currency fell 1.6 percent to 78.56 yen. The
 New Zealand dollar  slid 1.1 percent to 79.68 U.S. cents and
depreciated 1.6 percent to 61.17 yen.  The Australian dollar’s 10-day relative strength index
versus its U.S. counterpart was at 68.37 on Oct. 14, near the
level of 70 that some traders see as a sign that an asset’s
price may reverse direction after rising too rapidly.  Stevens said earlier this month in a statement accompanying
the RBA’s decision to leave its target rate unchanged at 4.75
percent that “an improved inflation outlook would increase the
scope for monetary policy to provide some support to demand,
should that prove necessary.”  Rate Outlook  Traders are betting the RBA will cut its cash target by at
least 25 basis points, or 0.25 percentage point, by the end of
this year, cash rate futures show.  “The market has seen interest rate expectation for an
easing near term being scaled back somewhat,” Barclay’s Stacey
said. Investors may be “a little bit wary that the RBA minutes
would provide further clarification on why the RBA shifted a
little bit to the dovish side,” he said.  An index for  New Zealand ’s service industry fell to 53.2 in
September from a revised 53.8 in the previous month, Bank of New
Zealand Ltd. and Business New Zealand, a Wellington-based
employer group, said on the Business New Zealand website. A
reading above 50 indicates expansion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariko Ishikawa in Tokyo at 
 mishikawa9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  