-- 
Australia’s Swan Urges Europe to End Crisis

-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 
2011-10-17T14:13:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/australia-s-swan-urges-eu-to-deliver-on-pledges-to-stem-crisis.html
Australian Treasurer Wayne Swan
called on European nations to deliver on pledges made to Group
of 20 officials to prevent another financial crisis that
threatens to reverberate worldwide.  “I’m now confident that my European colleagues understand
the seriousness of the threat and that they need to speak with
one voice,” Swan said in prepared remarks for a speech
yesterday in  London  after he attended weekend G-20 talks in
Paris. “Most crucially, they need to deliver at their meetings
this coming weekend.”  Swan’s comments reflect an unresolved European sovereign-
debt crisis and a tumble in shares that erased $10 trillion
worth of equities worldwide last quarter. G-20 finance ministers
and central bankers endorsed parts of an emerging plan to avoid
a Greek default, bolster banks and curb contagion. They set an
Oct. 23 summit of European leaders in Brussels as the deadline.  “I’m very hopeful that we will see the political will in
the leadership of  Europe  to deliver on that at this meeting this
coming weekend,” Swan said in response to audience questions at
the event hosted by Australian Business. “I’d be very fearful
if they don’t deliver in some of those key areas as to what the
outcome would subsequently be for markets and corporates.”  The  Reserve Bank  of Australia left its benchmark  interest
rate  unchanged at 4.75 percent two weeks ago, a developed-world
high, citing “very unsettled” global markets and signs of
weaker domestic growth. The central bank, which has kept
borrowing costs unchanged for 11 months, signaled less concern a
mining boom will boost wage pressures and indicated there’s more
scope to cut rates if necessary.  ‘Monetary Room’  Australia has “fiscal and monetary room to move in the
future if that is required,” Swan said, adding the nation has
“tiny exposures” to European banks. “We have perhaps more
levers to pull than any advanced nation to help withstand the
fallout from any worsening of the European situation.”  Driving Australia’s economy is demand from developing
nations including China and  India  for  iron ore , coal and natural
gas. That has spurred the nation’s currency, which reached
$1.1081 on July 27, the highest level since it was freely
floated in 1983.  “We will continue to experience relatively high commodity
prices for some time to come,” Swan said. “That reflects
strong demand from  Asia .”  ‘Encouraging Spots’  While parts of Australia’s economy “are still under
pressure from a cautious consumer, a high dollar and ongoing
global uncertainty, we’ve recently seen some really encouraging
spots in the domestic economy,” said Swan, named as Euromoney
magazine’s finance minister of the year last month. “Just the
other week we saw another solid rise in retail sales -- the
strongest back to back retail performance in nearly two years --
and very healthy export growth.”  Australia ’s sales abroad surged in August to a record
A$28.4 billion ($29.1 billion) on coal shipments, and the
nation’s A$3.1 billion trade surplus was the second-widest on
record, a government report two weeks ago showed.  At the heart of the current strains in the global financial
system are economic imbalances that policy makers need to
address to prevent repeat crises, Swan said. Countries running
deficits need to make their government budgets more sustainable,
while nations with surpluses should refocus their economy
towards domestic demand, he said.  “Part of that does require a commitment to market-based
exchange rates, which goes to the core of the action plan that
leaders are considering” for the G-20 meeting in Cannes,
 France , on Nov. 3-4, Swan said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  