-- 
Bank of Canada’s Business Survey Shows Less Sales Optimism

-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 
2011-10-17T16:49:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/bank-of-canada-poll-shows-less-sales-optimism-on-global-demand.html
The Bank of  Canada ’s quarterly
survey of executives found the least optimism about future sales
growth since the beginning of 2009, with signs of weak global
demand leading companies to curb hiring and investment plans.  The share of firms predicting faster sales growth over the
next year fell to 39 percent from 49 percent in the last survey,
while those calling for slower sales growth increased to 33
percent from 29 percent. The so-called balance of opinion
dropped to 6 from 20, the Ottawa-based  Bank of Canada ’s
quarterly Business Outlook Survey said.  “Responses to the autumn survey point to less optimism
among firms,” the report said. “Weaker expectations for U.S.
growth and a more uncertain global outlook weigh on business
sentiment.”  Governor  Mark Carney  will probably keep the benchmark
 interest rate  at 1 percent at the Bank of Canada’s next decision
Oct. 25, according to a Bloomberg calculation based on trading
on overnight index swaps. Carney has kept the rate unchanged
since September 2010, and has said that global economic tensions
have increased in the last few months.  “This moderation in confidence provides further reason for
the Bank of Canada to maintain its highly accommodative
stance,”  Paul Ferley , assistant chief economist at Royal Bank
of Canada in Toronto, wrote in a note to clients.  Spending, Employment  The balance of opinion for new investment spending over the
next year fell to 22 percent from 30 percent. For employment,
the balance of opinion fell to 38 percent from a record 53
percent in the last survey.  “Amid concerns about the level of demand, many firms
forecasting an increase in sales growth over the next 12 months
reported that they expect to achieve this by introducing new
products or by adopting strategies to increase market share,”
the report said.  Inflation expectations have moved back toward the central
bank’s 2 percent target, the survey showed, with 88 percent
predicting the  consumer price index  will advance between 1
percent and 3 percent over the next two years, compared with 80
percent in the last survey. The share who said it would advance
faster than 3 percent declined to 7 percent from 18 percent.  Credit conditions eased in the third quarter, the business
survey showed, a result matched by a separate survey of loan
officers.  The business survey found 24 percent of companies said
credit conditions had loosened over the past three months, while
11 percent said they were tighter. The balance of opinion of
negative 13 compared with negative 24 in the prior survey, with
figures less than zero indicating easing credit terms.  The lending officers  survey’s balance of opinion went to
negative 26.9 from negative 49.6.  The senior loan officer survey gathered responses from
“major Canadian financial institutions” from Sept. 19 to Sept.
23. The business survey polled about 100 executives from Aug. 22
to Sept. 22.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  