-- 
Barclays’s Loan to Junk-Rated Kinder Morgan Boosts Ranking as M&A Adviser

-- B y   Z a c h a r y   R .   M i d e r
-- 
2011-10-17T22:00:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/barclays-11-5-billion-loan-helps-fuel-kinder-morgan-takeover-of-el-paso.html
Barclays Plc (BARC) , the world’s top
adviser on oil and gas mergers during the past two years, is
lending $11.5 billion to junk-rated  Kinder Morgan  Inc. to help
maintain that lead.  The financing commitment will provide Kinder Morgan with
the cash needed for a $21.1 billion purchase of  El Paso Corp. (EP) ,
the largest pipeline takeover in history, Kinder Morgan said in
a statement yesterday. Barclays’s role on the deal also pushes
the London-based bank up to sixth place from eighth among merger
and acquisition advisers across all industries worldwide.  The financing from Barclays, whose investment-banking chief
is oil and gas banker Hugh “Skip” McGee, is the biggest
takeover loan for a non-investment grade company this year.
Dealmaking has slowed in recent months after the S&P/LSTA
Leveraged Loan 100 Index, which tracks the 100 largest dollar-
denominated first-lien leveraged loans, fell 5.66 percent in
August, the biggest monthly decline since November 2008.  Kinder Morgan’s current debt is at its Kinder Morgan Kansas
subsidiary and currently rated BB by  Standard & Poor’s , two
steps below investment grade. Leveraged loans and high-yield
bonds are ranked below Baa3 by Moody’s and less than BBB- by
S&P, or anything below investment grade.  Lehman Bankers  Barclays acquired one of the biggest investment banks in
the oil sector through its 2008 purchase of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc.’s North American operations. Those who joined from
Lehman included McGee and Carlos Fierro, who runs the global
natural resources investment banking business, as well as a team
in the oil and gas capital of Houston.  Barclays also advised BHP Billiton Ltd. on its $12.1
billion purchase of Petrohawk Energy Corp. this year, as well as
on the $4.75 billion acquisition of shale-gas assets from
Chesapeake Energy Corp.  In addition to Barclays,  Evercore Partners Inc. (EVR)  also served
as a financial adviser to Houston-based Kinder Morgan. Evercore
founder  Roger Altman  worked on the deal, along with Robert Pacha, Raymond Strong, and Shaun Finnie, all of whom joined
since 2009 to start the New York-based investment bank’s energy
business.  Barclays and Evercore may earn as much as $60 million in
advisory fees on the transaction, according to New York-based
research firm Freeman Consulting. Barclays may also earn up to
$92 million in fees for providing the $11.5 billion in
financing, Freeman said.  Kinder Morgan Chief Executive Officer  Richard Kinder  kicked
off the takeover talks in late August when he approached El
Paso’s Douglas Foshee, said Kinder Morgan spokesman Joe Hollier.
That disrupted a previous plan by El Paso, announced in May, to
spin off its exploration and production assets to shareholders.  Goldman’s Role  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ’s Steve Daniel had been advising
El Paso on the spinoff. For the talks with Kinder Morgan, El
Paso instead turned to a  Morgan Stanley (MS)  team including Brian McCabe, Stephen Munger, and Jonathan Cox.  Morgan Stanley may earn as much as $80 million in fees for
advising El Paso, according to Freeman.  Goldman Sachs’s private-equity arm was one of Richard
Kinder’s co-investors when he took his company private in 2007.
The firm remains one of the largest Kinder Morgan shareholders
and has two representatives on the board.  Those directors, Ken Pontarelli and Henry Cornell, recused
themselves from discussions of the El Paso offer, said  Andrea Rachman , a Goldman Sachs spokeswoman.  Lawyers from Weil Gotshal & Manges LLP, including Thomas Roberts, and R. Jay Tabor, and Bracewell & Giuliani LLP are
advising Kinder Morgan. Daniel Neff and  David Katz  are leading a
Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen & Katz team counseling El Paso.  Goldman Sachs is the biggest adviser on mergers and
acquisitions this year to date, followed by  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) 
and Morgan Stanley.  JPMorgan is providing the biggest U.S. deal financing this
year, with its commitment to a $20 billion, one-year unsecured
loan to help AT&T Inc. buy Deutsche Telekom AG’s T-Mobile USA
unit in a $39 billion transaction announced in March.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary R. Mider in New York at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  