-- 
Polish Central Bank Shouldn’t ‘Tighten Too Much’ on Inflation, Belka Says

-- B y   D a v i d   M c Q u a i d   a n d   K a t y a   A n d r u s z
-- 
2011-10-17T09:21:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/belka-says-poland-shouldn-t-tighten-too-much-on-inflation.html
Poland ’s central bank shouldn’t
“tighten too much” in response to inflation, while keeping its
policies oriented toward maintaining stability in a global
economic crisis, Governor  Marek Belka  said.  “We need to combat inflation, but not overdo it,” Belka
wrote in an article for Bloomberg Businessweek Polska, published
today. “We shouldn’t tighten the screws too far just to loosen
them too much a short while later.”  Poland’s central bank is weighing a slowing economy against
near decade-high inflation. Gross domestic product, which
expanded 4.3 percent from a year earlier in the second quarter,
may grow 3.8 percent in 2011, according to the  International
Monetary Fund .  Policy makers left the benchmark seven-day  reference rate 
unchanged this month at 4.5 percent after raising borrowing
costs by 1 percentage point in 2011 in an effort to bring
inflation toward their 2.5 percent target. Consumer-price growth
reached 5 percent in May, the highest in almost 10 years, before
easing to 3.9 percent in September.  Rate Cuts Unlikely  Members of the rate-setting Monetary Policy Council
including Anna Zielinska-Glebocka and Zyta Gilowska have said
it’s too early to reduce borrowing costs, even as Poland’s
biggest trading partners grapple with the euro area’s sovereign-
debt crisis.  “Inflation isn’t slowing enough to start talking about an
interest-rate cut,” Gilowska said in an Oct. 11 interview.
“Expectations for one are definitely premature and their
likelihood hasn’t increased an iota since August.”  Investors have canceled bets on lower rates after the zloty
fell 10 percent against the euro since June. To help stem the
decline, the central bank sold foreign currencies Sept. 23,
stepping into the market again a week later.  While Belka didn’t rule out further efforts to shore up the
Polish currency in today’s article, he reiterated that policy
makers don’t and won’t target a particular zloty exchange rate.  Last month’s foreign-currency sales were aimed at
preventing investors from speculating against the zloty “with
impunity,” since which time the currency has become more
stable, Belka said in the article.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David McQuaid at 
 dmcquaid1@bloomberg.net 
Katya Andrusz at 
 kandrusz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  