-- 
Turkish Yields Rise to Three-Week High on Inflation Estimates

-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 
2011-10-17T15:27:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/benchmark-two-year-bond-yields-head-for-three-week-high-after-tax-rises.html
Turkish bond yields rose to the
highest in three weeks as banks raised inflation estimates
following consumption-tax increases in cigarettes, alcohol,
mobile phones and luxury cars.  Yields on the two-year benchmark bond rose 24 basis points,
or 0.24 percentage point, to 8.67 percent at the 5 p.m. close in
Istanbul, according to the Turk Ekonomi Bankasi index, advancing
for a third day.  Finance Minister Mehmet Simsek announced changes to the
special consumption taxes Oct. 13, saying the higher levies
would raise an additional 5.5 billion liras ($3 billion) in
revenue and help discourage imports of luxury cars, electronics
and beverages. That prompted Garanti Securities to raise its
forecast for year-end inflation to “about 9 percent” from 7
percent.  “We had been expecting 7.7 percent and now we’ll need to
revise that up to something in the 9 percent range,”  Inan Demir , chief economist at Finansbank AS in Istanbul, said in a
telephone interview.  Philip Morris Sabanci Sigara & Tutunculuk Sanayi & Ticaret
AS, the local unit of the world’s largest publicly traded
cigarette maker, raised the price of its brands by between 28
percent and 44 percent, Milliyet newspaper reported today.  The tax increase adds to the impact of the weaker lira.
Depreciation of  Turkey ’s currency will probably add 3.5
percentage points to inflation, Hakan Kara, the central bank’s
chief of research, said in an Oct. 11 speech, Dunya newspaper
reported.  The lira was the second-worst performer among emerging-
market currencies today, weakening 1.8 percent to 1.8650 per
dollar, bringing its depreciation this year to 17 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Aydan Eksin at 
 aeksin@bloomberg.net  