-- 
Best Buy Sales at Risk as Surgical Shoppers Lose Impulse: Retail

-- B y   M a t t   T o w n s e n d
-- 
2011-10-17T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/best-buy-sales-at-risk-as-surgical-shoppers-lose-impulse-retail.html
It’s a retail maxim followed by
everyone from Best Buy Co. to  Foot Locker Inc. (FL) : Get shoppers in
the door and then sell them stuff they didn’t plan on buying.  Impulse purchases require people to browse the aisles,
however, and that’s happening less and less these days because
Web-savvy consumers often already know what they plan to buy and
simply pick it up and leave, said Bill Martin, the chief
executive officer of ShopperTrak.  These mission shoppers visit fewer stores -- three per
trip, down from five pre-recession, according to ShopperTrak. As
a result, foot traffic may fall 2.2 percent during the holiday
shopping marathon, says the Chicago-based research firm.  “There’s been a fundamental change in buying behavior,”
Martin said.  The shift will hit some chains harder. Electronics stores
such as Best Buy are most at risk because it’s so easy to
research gadgets online first, he said. Apparel chains like
Limited Brands Inc. may fare better because even mission
shoppers have to stick around long enough to try on clothes.  While retail sales may rise an estimated 2.8 percent this
holiday, according to the  National Retail Federation , they’d be
stronger if more mission shoppers browsed, Martin said.  Retailers are being forced to adapt at a time when they’re
closing stores and trying to attract consumers made cautious by
a 9.1 percent jobless rate. The rising competitive pressures may
accelerate an ongoing shakeout, said David Maddocks, who runs an
eponymous consulting firm in  Portland ,  Oregon .  “Most retailers are geared for people to come buy,” said
Maddocks, a former chief marketing officer at  Nike Inc. (NKE) ’s
Converse. “Retail has to start gearing itself to sell, to get
more out of every person that walks through the door.”  Shopping Patterns  Martin has been analyzing shopping patterns for the past 15
years. Typically traffic and sales growth rise or fall in
tandem. Last year he spotted something new. Even as retail sales
grew 3.5 percent, according to the NRF, traffic declined 0.5
percent, he said.  When the trend continued this year Martin didn’t know how
to explain to clients what was happening, so he asked his
researchers to dig for answers. They discovered Americans were
turning into what he calls “surgical shoppers.”  Men were the original mission shoppers, and they adopted e-
commerce first because it saved time. Faster Web connections and
a better shopping experience drew in more women. This has
accelerated change in shopping behavior because women outspend
men and retailers have long focused their efforts on them.  ‘Like a Man’  “Women now go into a store, hoping to go right to what
they need like a man would,” said Delia Passi, CEO of
Hollywood, Florida-based Medelia Inc., which advises companies
such as  Home Depot Inc. (HD)  on how to appeal to female shoppers.
“The science of retail shopping has changed, and unfortunately
the retailer hasn’t.”  Retailers pay close attention to so-called conversion rates
-- the percentage of people that actually buy something after
walking in the door. As Americans make fewer trips to the mall,
each shopper becomes more valuable and persuading them to buy
more shirts, power drills and bed sheets becomes all the more
crucial to retailers, says ShopperTrak’s Martin.  In the recession and its immediate aftermath, many cost-
cutting retailers stopped refurbishing stores and put fewer
salespeople on the floor. That made the Web even more appealing,
Passi said. Now stores are hustling to improve the brick-and-
mortar experience with upgraded technology, service and
merchandising, the better to engage mission shoppers.  Playing Catch-Up  “The retailer has let the consumer get too far ahead of
them and now they are scrambling to fix that,” said Tim Tang,
who oversees retail technology solutions for Hughes Network
Systems LLC, a Germantown, Maryland-based subsidiary of  EchoStar
Corp. (SATS)  “This season retailers are playing catch-up.”  Teen clothing chain  Pacific Sunwear of California Inc. (PSUN) 
equipped employees with  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  iPads to help customers
assemble virtual outfits. Lowe’s Cos., the second-largest home-
improvement retailer, has been adding wireless Internet networks
to stores, and gave iPhones to associates so they can check
inventory faster and spend more time helping customers.  In a return to old-world service, retailers are teaching
employees to read body language to better assess whether they’re
browsing or buying and respond accordingly, said Jill Puleri,
head of  International Business Machines Corp. (IBM) ’s global retail
consulting division. Chains also have added back store greeters
to improve the shopper’s mood, she said.  Conversation Starter  Foot Locker, the largest U.S. sneaker chain, trained
associates to ditch the traditional “how may I help you?” for
“what kind of shoe are you looking for?” It’s a subtle change
that’s more likely to start a conversation, said CEO Ken Hicks.
The company also revamped the store layout -- putting shoes and
apparel together -- in the hopes shoppers would buy outfits
rather than single items.  Retailers have also resorted to in-store entertainment and
pumping in aromas to keep shoppers in stores, according to Mike
Gatti, who runs the NRF’s marketing unit in  Washington . Jordan’s
Furniture, a New England chain owned by  Warren Buffett ’s
Berkshire Hathaway Inc., used 3-D movies, ice cream parlors,
laser shows and trapeze lessons to boost traffic.  “They are doing everything they can to get customers to
stop and smell the roses,” Gatti said.  Brookstone Inc., the closely held electronics chain,
couldn’t add Wi-Fi and iPads to its 300 stores fast enough, said
CEO Ron Boire. Next he wants hand-held checkout devices to
emulate the Web’s simplicity.  Boire has been speeding ahead because he’s worried overall
e-commerce will keep improving as stores get worse, and that
will only accelerate the migration to the Web -- and more
mission shopping.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Townsend in New York at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  