-- 
Bettencourt Mentally Unfit to Manage Affairs, Judge Rules

-- B y   H e a t h e r   S m i t h   a n d   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s
-- 
2011-10-17T16:33:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/bettencourt-can-t-manage-own-affairs-french-judge-rules.html
L’Oreal SA (OR)  heiress Liliane Bettencourt is mentally unfit, a French judge said in a ruling
that turns over management of her interests to Bettencourt’s
daughter and grandsons.  Judge Stephanie Kass-Danno granted Francoise Bettencourt-
Meyers’s petition for a guardian to look after her 88-year-old
mother, saying she could not take care of herself, said
Charlotte Robbe-Phan, a lawyer for the daughter, after the court
met in private with the parties’ representatives today.  Bettencourt, France’s third-richest person, will appeal the
ruling, Jean-Rene Farthouat, her lawyer, said, calling the
decision “contrary to good sense.”  The ruling is the latest in a longstanding feud between
Bettencourt and her daughter, who claimed her mother was being
manipulated by her entourage, including a photographer whom she
gave gifts totaling about 1 billion euros ($1.4 billion).
Tethys, the family holding company, will continue to exercise
the family’s L’Oreal voting rights, Bettencourt Meyers and her
sons said in an e-mailed statement.  The court in Courbevoie, near Paris, asked Bettencourt-
Meyers and her two sons to oversee her mother’s assets and
Meyers’s eldest son to look after his grandmother’s physical
well-being, Robbe-Phan said.  The three were “guided by the sole wish to see their
mother and grandmother truly protected,” according to their
statement. “It is a great relief for them today that Justice
has recognized their position.”  Nestle Accord  Today’s decision doesn’t change a 2004 accord between the
Bettencourt family and  Nestle SA (NESN) , which owns 29.6 percent of
L’Oreal, according to the statement. Bettencourt and the world’s
largest food company gave each other right of first refusal over
their stakes that runs through April 29, 2014. The Bettencourt
family owns 30.85 percent of L’Oreal.  Stephanie Carson-Parker, a spokeswoman for L’Oreal,
declined to comment about the ruling. Bettencourt-Meyers and her
sons also repeated in the statement their “profound bond” with
L’Oreal and their desire to continue to support its future
development.  L’Oreal shares rose as much as 2.67 euros, or 3.4 percent,
to 81.17 euros in Paris trading. Shares closed up 1.2 percent at
79.44 euros.  The mother and daughter have fought for years over whether
the heiress is fit to govern her fortune, estimated at $23.5
billion by Forbes magazine in March, making her the world’s
15th-richest person. Bettencourt’s father founded L’Oreal in
1909 and she and her daughter’s family hold almost 31 percent of
the company, the world’s largest cosmetics-maker.  Travel Expenses  Bettencourt said in an interview yesterday in the Journal
du Dimanche that she would leave  France  should her daughter be
put in charge of her life. While Bettencourt will be able to
travel and make many decisions about her life under
guardianship, she would need their approval for travel expenses.  A guardianship decision must be renewed at least every five
years under French law.  The issue of Bettencourt’s mental fitness has put into
question her role on the L’Oreal board as well as the management
of her estate. Bettencourt-Meyers initiated her legal case in
2007, after becoming concerned an artist friend of her mother’s
had manipulated her to secure 1 billion euros worth of gifts,
including art, real estate and insurance policies.  Pascal Wilhelm, who had previously been appointed to
oversee Bettencourt’s affairs should she be deemed unfit, was
cut out of the court’s plans today. He said “it is a great
disappointment for Madame Bettencourt” and that she will
“probably react badly.”  Wilhelm was Bettencourt’s lawyer until a controversy over
an investment she made with another of his clients prompted him
to step aside as her lawyer.  Investigating judges in  Bordeaux , France, are looking into
whether Bettencourt has been abused by her advisors and friends,
as well as other issues, including possible campaign-finance
violations.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Andrew Roberts  in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net ;
Heather Smith in Paris at 
 hsmith26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
To contact the editor responsible for this story
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 