-- 
Billionaire Saban Acquires 5% of Indonesia’s Media Nusantara in Asia Push

-- B y   J o y c e   K o h
-- 
2011-10-17T08:13:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/billionaire-saban-acquires-5-of-indonesia-s-media-nusantara.html
Saban Capital Group, led by U.S.
billionaire  Haim Saban , bought a 5 percent stake in Indonesia’s
PT Media Nusantara Citra for 692 billion rupiah ($78.2 million)
in its first investment in the Southeast Asian country.  The Los Angeles-based private equity firm will pay 1,000
rupiah a share for 692.3 million shares of Media Nusantara,
according to an e-mailed statement. Saban has an option to buy
an additional 346.2 million shares, or about 2.5 percent of the
company, over the next 27 months, the statement said.  Media Nusantara, 70 percent-owned by Indonesia’s largest
media company PT Global Mediacom, expects sales to jump 65
percent this year to 8 trillion rupiah on an increase in
advertising, local newspaper Kontan reported in April, citing
President Director Hary Tanoesoedibjo. The shares have advanced
14 percent so far in 2011, outpacing gains in  Indonesia ’s
benchmark stock index and valuing the company at $1.7 billion.  “We’re looking to be quite active here in  Asia , so we see
this transaction as a cornerstone investment for us,” Adam Chesnoff, Saban’s chief operating officer, said in a phone
interview today. “We hope over the near term, we will be able
to identify and execute other opportunities as well within the
media and telecom space.”  The transaction is expected to close by mid-November,
according to the release. As part of the deal, Media Nusantara
agreed to boost its dividend payout ratio to 45 percent of the
previous year’s net income, starting in 2012, the companies said.
Chesnoff said the price paid for the option shares will be at a
“slight premium to what we’re paying today.”  Content Library  Media Nusantara shares rose 0.9 percent to 1,090 rupiah at
2:57 p.m. local time today. The company has operations from
content production to newspapers and radio, according to its
 website . It has the largest content library in Indonesia,
reaching more than 100,000 hours of entertainment and news
content, increasing by more than 15,000 hours annually, the
statement said.  Saban Capital Group focuses on the media, entertainment and
communications industries, according to its  website . Haim Saban,
ranked the 287th wealthiest person in the world by Forbes
Magazine last year, made his fortune with the children’s
television show Mighty Morphin Power Rangers.  The company holds stakes in Univision Communications Inc.,
the Spanish language-media company, as well as Tiger Gate
Entertainment, a pay-television joint venture with Lions Gate
Entertainment Corp. In June this year, Saban was a cornerstone
investor in Shanghai-based Taomee Holdings Ltd.’s initial public
offering on the New York Stock Exchange.  Saban, through its unit Indonesia Media Partners LLC, was
advised by  UBS AG (UBSN) , according to the statement.  Morgan Stanley (MS) 
advised Media Nusantara.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joyce Koh in Singapore at 
 jkoh38@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  