-- 
BlackRock’s Evy Hambro Buys ‘Unrealistically Low’ Mining Stocks

-- B y   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h
-- 
2011-10-17T13:32:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/blackrock-s-evy-hambro-buys-unrealistically-low-mining-stocks.html
Evy Hambro, portfolio manager of
BlackRock Inc.’s $16 billion World Mining Fund, said he’s been
adding “significantly” to his holdings in the past few weeks
as mining-stock valuations are “unrealistically low.”  “If you can buy producing assets for less than it costs
you to build stuff in the future, then that’s a great deal,”
Hambro said in an interview in  London . “We went into the market
and we added to our holdings significantly,” he said, declining
to identify specific stocks.  A 23 percent slump this half in the FTSE 350 Mining Index,
which includes  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  and  Rio Tinto  Group, has
outpaced the 8.2 percent drop in the U.K.’s benchmark  FTSE 100
Index. (UKX)  Rio, the world’s second-largest miner, said last week
that concerns arising from  Europe ’s debt crisis don’t reflect
the “real economy” and demand for  iron ore  and coal is strong.  An indicator of value used by BlackRock is the cost of
replacing or building mining assets versus the cost of acquiring
them, said Hambro, 39. That measure has dropped recently with
mining stocks trading at as low as 70 percent of replacement
costs, he said, adding that the ratio declined to about 50
percent in the financial crisis of late 2008.  “We are buying these assets well below their replacement
cost and over three, five, 10 years we think they are going to
do very well,” he said. “We’ve got to an unrealistically low
point in valuations relative to what’s going on, but that
doesn’t mean that the risk of what’s going on is low.”  Rio Tinto, BHP  BlackRock’s World Mining Fund, which counts Rio, BHP,  Vale
SA (VALE3) , Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. and  Teck Resources Ltd. (TCK/B) 
as its top five holdings, is down 24 percent this year through
Oct. 14, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That compares
with a 22 percent drop in the HSBC Global Mining Index over the
period, the data show. The fund returned 29 percent last year.  An index of six metals on the London Metal Exchange has
fallen 18 percent this half on signs economic growth is slowing
in the U.S. and as speculation increases that Europe’s debt
crisis is spreading. European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said Oct. 11 the crisis threatens the region’s financial
system, while officials race to draft a plan to end the turmoil.  European Union leaders won’t provide the quick solution to
the euro-area crisis that global policy makers are pushing for
at an Oct. 23 summit, German Chancellor Angela Merkel’s chief
spokesman Steffen Seibert told reporters in Berlin today.  The  FTSE 350 mining index (F3MNG) , down 28 percent this year, fell
0.4 percent by 2:28 p.m. London time. It has rebounded about 21
percent from its 2011 low on Oct. 4.  “It was very opportunistic for us to pick a few bargains
in the late summer sales,” Hambro said, adding that iron-ore
producers are offering value to investors. “We focused on the
stocks that had fallen the most relative to their underlying
fundamentals.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Riseborough in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  