-- 
BlackRock Seeks Junk as Spreads Drop Most of ’11: Credit Markets

-- B y   L i s a   A b r a m o w i c z
-- 
2011-10-17T15:56:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/blackrock-lured-to-junk-as-spreads-shrink-most-this-year-credit-markets.html
Investors from Deutsche Bank AG to
BlackRock Inc. are accelerating purchases of speculative-grade
bonds as relative yields decline at the fastest pace this year.  Yields are within 8.10 percentage points on average of
Treasuries, down 1.22 percentage points from a two-year high of
9.32 on Oct. 4, according to the Bank of America Merrill Lynch
Global High Yield Index. Spreads have shrunk 0.55 percentage
point this month, the most since December. October returns total
1.7 percent, led by Las Vegas-based Caesars Entertainment Corp.
and First Data Corp., the credit-card processor owned by KKR &
Co., and follow losses of 7.9 percent over August and September.  Bondholders are gaining confidence that the global economy
may avoid a recession, wagering that European leaders will
prevent their debt crisis from infecting banks. U.S. mutual
funds that invest in high-yield, high-risk securities reported
inflows of $550 million last week, while the cost of protecting
the debt from default fell the most in almost two years.  “The probabilities of default have been overly priced by
the market,” Kevin Lecocq, the head of global investment
solutions at the private wealth management unit of Deutsche
Bank,  Germany ’s largest lender. “We’re moving up into more
high-yield fixed income, and away from the very highest-rated
corporates,” Lecocq said Oct. 13 in a Bloomberg Television
interview.  Improved ‘Tone’  BlackRock, the world’s biggest money manager, is buying
speculative-grade bonds as the chance of a severe U.S. economic
slowdown wanes, said Rick Rieder, chief investment officer of
fundamental fixed income at the firm in New York.  “There’s a tone that’s changed,” Rieder, who oversees
more than $612 billion, said in a Bloomberg Television
interview. “The economic data over the past few days, over the
past couple of weeks, have suggested that we’re not going into
or it doesn’t look like we’re going into a significant
recession.”  Elsewhere in credit markets, a benchmark gauge of U.S.
corporate credit risk rose from the lowest level in more than
three weeks. The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade
Index, which investors use to hedge against losses on corporate
debt or to speculate on creditworthiness, added 2.9 basis points
to a mid-price of 132.9 basis points as of 11:38 a.m. in New
York, according to Markit Group Ltd.  The index, which typically rises as investor confidence
deteriorates and falls as it improves, climbed from the lowest
level since Sept. 20 after Steffen Seibert, German Chancellor
 Angela Merkel ’s chief spokesman, said at a news briefing that
European Union leaders won’t provide the quick ending to the
euro-area debt crisis that global policy makers are pushing for
at an Oct. 23 summit.  Kinder Morgan Loan  The credit gauge declined from a more than two-year high of
150.1 basis points on Oct. 3 as investor optimism grew that the
region’s fiscal imbalances are being contained.  Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower
fails to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted
debt. A basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract
protecting $10 million of debt.  Barclays Plc (BARC) , the world’s top adviser on oil and gas
mergers during the past two years, is lending $11.5 billion to
junk-rated  Kinder Morgan  Inc. to help maintain that lead.  The financing commitment will provide Kinder Morgan with
the cash needed for a $21.1 billion purchase of El Paso Corp.,
the largest pipeline takeover in history, Kinder Morgan said in
a statement yesterday. Barclays’s role on the deal also pushes
the London-based bank up to sixth place from eighth among merger
and acquisition advisers across all industries worldwide.  Deploy Cash  If European leaders come up with a temporary solution to
the sovereign-debt crisis, or credit markets becomes less
volatile, fund managers will deploy their cash, according to
Christopher Sheldon, co-head of leveraged credit at KKR Asset
Management in  San Francisco . The investment-management arm of
the private-equity firm  manages  $14 billion.  In the U.S., retail sales rose in September by the most in
seven months, showing American consumers are helping the world’s
largest economy fend off a slump. Purchases grew 1.1 percent,
exceeding the median forecast of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News, according to Commerce Department data released
Oct. 14 in  Washington .  The trailing twelve-month global speculative-grade default
rate will fall to 1.4 percent by year-end before rising to 2.1
percent by the end of the third quarter of 2012, Moody’s said in
an Oct. 6 report. A year ago, the default rate was 4 percent.
The rate declined to 1.8 percent in this year’s third quarter,
from 2.3 percent in the prior period, the ratings firm said.  ‘Attractive Time’  Corporate bonds and loans set to mature through 2014 have
tumbled 66 percent to $413 billion from $1.2 trillion at the end
of 2008, according to JPMorgan research. The figure has been
lowered from $473 billion as of May 31, JPMorgan data show.  “It’s an attractive time to invest in the high-yield
market, both loans and bonds,” said Russell Morrison, who helps
oversee $22 billion of speculative-grade bonds and loans as head
of high-yield investments at Babson Capital Management LLC in
 Charlotte ,  North Carolina . “We are expecting defaults to rise
at some point next year. However, the rise is likely to be
moderate and well below levels that we saw at the peak.”  Inflows into U.S. high-yield funds added to a “trajectory
that has been largely positive since September,” according to
an Oct. 13 Bank of America Merrill Lynch report. “A significant
portion” of the funds can be attributed to exchange-traded
funds, New York-based analysts Neha Khoda and Oleg Melentyev
wrote.  Caesars,  First Data   The Markit CDX North America High Yield Index, which rises
as investor confidence improves, has added 5.8 percentage points
since Oct. 3 to 91.25 percent of face value, according to
Markit. That’s the biggest monthly gain since December 2009.  Bonds from Caesars, the world’s largest casino operator,
gained 9.9 percent this month after losing 16.1 percent in
September, Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data show. The
company’s $3.31 billion of 10 percent notes due in December 2018
have risen 10.25 cents this month to 69.5 cents on the dollar
and a yield of 17.7 percent, Trace data show.  Debt from Atlanta-based First Data, which was acquired by
KKR for $27.5 billion in 2007, has risen 11.6 percent in October
following a decline of 12.6 percent last month, the index data
show. Its $2.41 billion of 11.25 percent bonds due March 2016
have increased by 9.75 cents this month to 77.25 cents on the
dollar, for a yield of 19.1 percent, Trace data show.  While high-yield bonds have gained 4.1 percent since Oct.
4, investment-grade notes have lost 0.5 percent, Bank of America
Merrill Lynch index data show.  “You could paint a scenario where the market rebounds
really quickly right now, both trading levels and new issue
volumes,” KKR Asset’s Sheldon said. “Many are sitting on high
cash balances, keeping dry powder due to the heightened concerns
in  Europe .”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Abramowicz in  New York  at 
 labramowicz@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  