-- 
Bloomberg Brief Launches Seven Specialty Newsletters

-- B y  
-- 
2011-10-17T13:33:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/bloomberg-brief-launches-seven-specialty-newsletters.html

Press Release  Subscriptions for economic and financial newsletters reach
110,000  New York -- Bloomberg Brief, a series of newsletters published
by Bloomberg LP, has launched seven new titles that relate key
analytics, data and news from the Bloomberg Professional
service in a streamlined format. The company also announced
that Bloomberg Brief nearly tripled its subscriber-base to
110,000 since it launched last November.  The new Bloomberg Briefs available are: Bankruptcy and
Restructuring, Climate and Carbon, European Economics,
Financial Regulation, Leveraged Finance, Municipal Market and
Risk. These join existing newsletters:  U.S. Economics, Hedge
Funds, Mergers and Structured Notes.  Bloomberg Brief combines proprietary news, market data and
analytics with industry-specific content and commentary
written by industry experts, researchers and leading
economists. The newsletters draw upon information from the
Bloomberg Professional service, the leading platform used
globally by more than 310,000 business and financial
professionals.  “We are hearing overwhelmingly positive feedback from our
readers,” said Ted Merz, Editor and Content Manager of
Bloomberg Brief. “Bloomberg Briefs are tailored for busy
professionals who want a window into the wealth of information
available on the Bloomberg Professional service, delivered as
a timely, accessible and streamlined bulletin.”  “The Bloomberg Briefs are now must-reads in their respective
fields and have attracted significant interest from
advertisers,” explained Nick Ferris, Global Business Manager
for Bloomberg Brief. “We have found a way to accommodate
advertisers that want to reach the world’s leading business
and financial professionals, and maintain a quality product.”  About Bloomberg Brief
Bloomberg Brief is a newsletter publishing division at
Bloomberg LP, the premier source of data and analytics in the
financial world. The division publishes both daily and weekly
electronic newsletters. Subscribers to the Bloomberg
Professional service can sign up for a newsletter as part of a
monthly subscription fee. Bloomberg Brief also sells
enterprise licenses across departments and companies.  Contact for Bloomberg  -Vera Newhouse, Bloomberg LP,  vnewhouse@bloomberg.net , +1 212
617 6420
 