-- 
Botswana’s Central Bank Keeps Benchmark Rate Unchanged

-- B y   N a s r e e n   S e r i a
-- 
2011-10-17T16:29:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/botswana-s-central-bank-keeps-benchmark-rate-unchanged-at-9-5-.html
Botswana’s central bank kept its
benchmark  interest rate  unchanged for a fifth consecutive
meeting, forecasting that the inflation rate will drop inside
its 3 percent to 6 percent target range next year.  The lending rate was left at 9.5 percent, the Gaborone-
based bank said in an e-mailed statement today. The bank last
cut the rate by half a percentage point on Dec. 16.  Inflation, which reached 8.6 percent in September, may
remain above the central bank’s target in the “short term”
because of higher fuel prices, rising public transport costs and
faster inflation in neighboring South Africa, the bank said. Low
domestic demand will help to moderate price pressures, with
inflation expected to ease into the target range by the second
half of 2012, it said.  “The current state of the economy and the assumptions on
both the domestic and external economic outlook, as well as the
inflation forecast, suggest that maintaining the prevailing
level of interest rates is consistent with the achievement of
the bank’s 3 percent to 6 percent inflation objective in the
medium term,” the bank said.  The economy of Botswana, the world’s biggest diamond
producer, expanded 12.4 percent in the second quarter after
mining output surged 23.7 percent and non-mining production rose
7.4 percent, the central bank said.  “Going forward, it is expected that non-mining gross
domestic product will remain below potential in the medium term
and will, therefore, contribute to moderate pressures on
inflation,” the bank said.  The Bank of Botswana, led by Governor Linah Mohohlo, pegs
the pula against a basket of currencies that includes  South
Africa ’s rand and the euro. The pula has declined 11 percent
against the dollar this year and was trading at 7.25163 as of
6:10 p.m. in Gaborone.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nasreen Seria in Johannesburg at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  