-- 
Bovespa Falls on Brazil Economic Outlook, Global Growth Concern

-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   C u a d r o s
-- 
2011-10-17T20:30:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/bovespa-stock-index-declines-on-brazil-growth-inflation-concern.html
The Bovespa stock index fell for the
first time in a week as economists cut their forecasts for
 Brazil ’s economic growth and boosted inflation projections,
while concern mounted that the global recovery may falter.  Vale SA sank the most in three weeks as metals prices
dropped and a report said the miner is giving Chinese customers
the option of paying for iron ore in the fourth quarter at
prices close to the spot-market level. PDG Realty SA
Empreendimentos & Participacoes, Brazil’s biggest homebuilder by
revenue, led declines for companies that depend on domestic
demand.  The Bovespa fell 2 percent to 53,911.33 at 6:15 p.m. in Sao
Paulo, retreating from the biggest weekly gain in more than two
years. Fifty-one stocks dropped on the index today while 17
rose. The real weakened 2.3 percent to 1.7741 per dollar.  “The economy is slowing, and inflation is still high,”
said Marcello Paixao, a  money manager  at Sao Paulo-based hedge
fund Principia Asset Management. “Brazil is an underweight in
many global portfolios.”  Economists covering Brazil cut their predictions for
economic growth this year and next, while raising their 2012
inflation forecast for a seventh straight week. Gross domestic
product will expand 3.6 percent next year, according to the
median forecast in an Oct. 14 central bank survey of about 100
economists published today, from a forecast of 3.7 percent the
previous week. Consumer prices will rise 5.61 percent in 2012,
the survey showed, up from a previous forecast of 5.59 percent.  PDG dropped 6.1 percent to 6.72 reais as the  BM&FBovespa
Real Estate (IMOBBV)  Index fell 3 percent.  Europe  Debt Outlook  Global stocks and commodities retreated as  Germany  damped
expectations for a fast resolution to Europe’s debt crisis and a
report showed New York-area manufacturing shrank more than
forecast. Steffen Seibert, German  Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s
chief spokesman, said European Union leaders won’t provide the
quick ending to the region’s crisis that global policy makers
are pushing for at an Oct. 23 summit. The Standard & Poor’s GSCI
index of 24 raw materials lost 0.8 percent.  Vale SA, the world’s largest iron-ore producer, declined
3.8 percent to 38.74 reais. Vale and other miners are ceding to
pressure from Chinese steelmakers unhappy with paying the higher
 iron-ore  prices set in quarterly contracts, following recent
declines in the spot price, O Estado de S. Paulo newspaper
reported, citing an unidentified executive in the mining sector.  The Bovespa entered a  bear market  in July after plunging 20
percent from its 2010 bull-market peak. The measure has since
extended that drop to 26 percent and trades at 9.7 times
analysts’ earnings estimates, weekly data compiled by Bloomberg
show. That compares to a ratio of 10 for MSCI Inc.’s gauge of 21
developing nations’ equities.  Traders moved 5.4 billion reais ($3 billion) in stocks in
Sao Paulo today, data compiled by Bloomberg show. That compares
to a daily average this year of 6.58 billion reais through Oct.
13, according to data from the exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexander Cuadros in  Sao Paulo  at 
 acuadros@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  