-- 
Anadarko Will Pay BP $4 Billion to Settle Spill Claim for Gulf of Mexico

-- B y   K a r i   L u n d g r e n   a n d   B r i a n   S w i n t
-- 
2011-10-17T16:10:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/bp-says-anadarko-to-pay-4b-to-settle-spill-claim.html
BP Plc (BP/) , the operator of the Macondo
well in the  Gulf of Mexico  that was the source of the worst U.S.
oil spill last year, said  Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC)  will pay $4
billion to settle all claims over the disaster.  Anadarko, which had a 25 percent stake in the well, will no
longer pursue allegations of gross negligence against BP. The
payment will be made in a single cash sum and will be put in the
$20 billion trust being used to repay claims and damages. Under
the terms of the deal, Anadarko will transfer its stake in the
Macondo well back to BP, the companies said in separate
statements today.  The Anadarko settlement will be a boost to BP as the  oil
company  prepares for a February  trial in New Orleans  to
establish liability for the catastrophe. BP would face higher
fines if it’s found guilty of gross negligence for the spill,
which pumped almost 5 million barrels of crude into the Gulf and
forced the company to write off $41 billion. Rig owner
 Transocean Ltd. (RIG)  and  Halliburton Co. (HAL) , which supplied cement for
Macondo, are also defendants.  “This is likely to be seen as good news for BP and will
increase pressure on Transocean and Halliburton to settle ahead
of the multi-district litigation,” Oriel Securities Ltd. said
in a note to clients.  BP gained 2.2 percent in  London  trading to 425.6. Anadarko
rose as much as 6 percent in  New York .  Anadarko’s Costs  The cost of the settlement will be $5 a share after tax,
with the $4 billion payment applied to third-quarter results,
The Woodlands, Texas-based Anadarko said today in a filing.
Anadarko said it will use cash on hand and draw on $5 billion of
bank credit to pay BP within 45 days.  “Though the agreement does not provide indemnification
against fines and penalties, punitive damages or certain other
potential claims, we do not consider these items to represent a
significant financial risk to Anadarko,” Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer James T. Hackett said in the filing.  BP will withdraw claims of $6.1 billion against Anadarko,
the company said.  Under the terms of the settlement, both parties agreed to
drop claims against the other. Anadarko and BP have agreed to
work together with respect to indemnified claims and Anadarko
has the opportunity for a 12.5 percent participation in
recoveries from others or insurance proceeds exceeding $1.5
billion and up to a total cap of $1 billion.  ‘Clear Progress’  The Macondo well blowout and the explosion that followed
killed 11 workers and set off the worst offshore  oil spill  in
U.S. history. The accident and spill led to hundreds of lawsuits
against BP and its partners and contractors, including multiple
claims brought by vessel captains, residents and others exposed
to chemicals and oil during the cleanup.  “There is clear progress with parties stepping forward to
meet their obligations,” BP Chief Executive Officer Bob Dudley
said in the statement. “It’s time for the contractors,
including Transocean and Halliburton, to do the same.”  BP has now reached a settlement with both partners in the
Macondo well. In May, a unit of Mitsui & Co., which had a 10
percent holding in the well, agreed to pay $1.065 billion. Based
on that figure analysts had expected a settlement of between $2
billion and $3 billion for Anadarko.  Weatherford International Ltd. (WFT) , which provided equipment
for the Macondo well, agreed to pay BP $75 million.  “The good news is that Anadarko has abandoned charges of
gross negligence,” Lucy Haskins, an analyst at  Barclays Capital 
in London, said in a phone interview. “We’re getting a drip
feed of reports suggesting it was a multi-company event.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kari Lundgren in London at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Swint in London at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  