-- 
Brazil May Face Capital Flight on European Debt Crisis, IMF Director Says

-- B y   A r n a l d o   G a l v a o
-- 
2011-10-17T11:46:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/brazil-may-face-capital-flight-on-european-debt-crisis-imf-director-says.html
Brazil  could experience a flight of
capital should the European sovereign-debt crisis worsen, and
the country may use  interest rates  and U.S. dollar reserves to
combat contagion, an International Monetary Fund director said.  A worsening of debt problems in Greece and other European
countries would first affect Brazil’s financial markets over
other parts of the economy and could have consequences on trade,
IMF Executive Director Paulo Nogueira Batista Jr. said in an
interview in Paris yesterday. He said he doesn’t expect an
exacerbation of the crisis.  Group of 20 finance chiefs last weekend urged European
leaders to deal “decisively” with the turmoil when they meet
for emergency talks on Oct. 23 and to tame the threat of
contagion by maximizing the firepower of their 440 billion-euro
($610 billion) bailout fund. Brazilian Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  said yesterday the country could suffer knock-on effects
from  Europe ’s debt problems and will react accordingly.  “If the crisis becomes more acute, Brazil may face capital
flight,” Batista said. “The four points that give the country
an advantage in times of turbulence are its international
reserves and its leeway with interest rates, the exchange rate
and reserve requirements.”  Batista, alongside Mantega, took part in the meeting of
finance ministers and central bankers in the French capital last
weekend to prepare for a Nov. 3-4 summit of G-20 heads of state
in Cannes, France. He represents Brazil, Colombia, Ecuador,
Guyana, Haiti, Panama, the  Dominican Republic , Suriname and
Trinidad and Tobago at the IMF.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Arnaldo Galvao in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 agalvao1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  