-- 
Brookfield Said to Buy BofA’s Stake in Ex-Merrill Headquarters

-- B y   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t
-- 
2011-10-17T19:36:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/brookfield-said-to-buy-bofa-s-stake-in-ex-merrill-headquarters.html
Brookfield Office Properties Inc.
agreed to buy  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ’s 49 percent stake in 4
World Financial Center in lower  Manhattan , the former
headquarters of Merrill Lynch & Co., according to a person with
knowledge of transaction.  Brookfield will pay $225 million to $250 million for the
bank’s interest in the 34-story tower, said the person, who
asked not to be identified because the deal hasn’t been
completed. The New York-based real estate company controls the
complex, which has 8 million square feet (743,000 square meters)
of office and retail space.  Bank of America, which agreed to acquired Merrill as it
neared collapse during the 2008 financial crisis, plans to
reduce its occupancy at the World Financial Center to about
750,000 square feet from 2.7 million square feet. The biggest
U.S. lender by assets leases 4.6 million square feet at the
center under contracts that expire in 2013, with most of the
remaining space sublet to other companies. Its New York main
office at 1  Bryant Park  in Midtown was completed last year.  Kelli Raulerson, a spokeswoman at the bank’s headquarters
in  Charlotte ,  North Carolina , declined to comment on the pending
sale, which was reported earlier today by the  Wall Street 
Journal. “As we evaluate our space needs, we see an opportunity
to reduce our fixed real estate costs,” she said in an e-mail.
 Melissa Coley , a Brookfield spokeswoman, declined to comment.  Cost Cutting  Bank of America is seeking to reduce expenses after losing
about half its stock-market value. It plans to eliminate 324 New
York-based jobs starting next month, it said in a Sept. 29
filing with the state labor department. The job reductions were
part of 3,500 disclosed in August, and the bank said it has
already notified those affected.  Brookfield’s holdings in  New York  include 1 Liberty Plaza
and 245 Park Ave. It also owns Zuccotti Park, which has served
for about a month as the base of Occupy Wall Street, a movement
protesting financial greed.  Bank of America plans to hold on to about 500,000 square
feet at 4 World Financial and 250,000 square feet at 2 World
Financial Center, according to the person familiar with the
matter. The sale is awaiting sign-off from rating companies
because of its potential impact on debt associated with the
four-tower complex, the person said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David M. Levitt in New York at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  