-- 
Bulbs Rally Lawmakers in Fight for State Rights

-- B y   C h r i s   C h r i s t o f f
-- 
2011-10-17T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/bulbs-rally-lawmakers-in-fight-for-state-rights.html
In Dearborn,  Michigan , is a replica
of the lab where Thomas Edison perfected the light bulb. In
Lansing, 80 miles away, lawmakers have taken up the fight to
preserve his invention.  A federal law will phase out old-style incandescents by
2014 in favor of energy-saving lighting, providing a rallying
cry for Tea Partyers, talk-show hosts and presidential candidate
 Michele Bachmann . In July, an attempt to repeal the measure
failed in the U.S. House.  Now, lawmakers in Texas,  South Carolina , Michigan, Arizona
and  Georgia  have taken on a most conservative cause --preserving
130-year-old technology. They argue that the rules erode states’
rights, and that their resistance may make Congress reconsider.  “There’s no reason our citizens should have this choice
taken away from them,” said  Tom McMillin , 46, a Michigan House
member who sponsored legislation that would permit bulbs to be
made and sold in the state. “Plenty of people like them, plenty
of people don’t like the alternatives.”  The federal  Energy Independence and Security Act  signed in
2007 by President  George W. Bush  is  not a ban . It allows only
the sale of bulbs at least 28 percent more efficient than
conventional incandescents, such as compact fluorescent lamps.
The rules start with 100-watt bulbs in January, and phase in
standards for 75-, 60- and 40-watt bulbs through 2014. The rules
don’t apply to some incandescents, such as three-way bulbs and
some specialty products.  Power-Savings Grab  The new standards will produce lower bills and less
pollution, according to Environmental Protection Agency.
Opponents call them a nanny-state power grab.  “The market should decide whether or not an incandescent
light bulb or a CFL bulb prevails, not Congress,” said Rick
Manning, spokesman for  Americans for Limited Government , a free-
market advocacy organization based in Fairfax, Virginia.  McMillin said many consumers don’t like the lighting from
 CFLs , or that they contain small amounts of mercury, which is
hazardous at higher levels.  McMillin’s bill, similar to a new Texas law, passed the
House on Oct. 13 and goes to the Senate. Both chambers have
Republican majorities.  You Never Know  Governor  Rick Snyder  does not support the bill. It is prob-
ably unconstitutional and is a symbolic gesture because there 
are no companies in Michigan that make conventional  light bulbs 
or that have plans to, said Snyder's spokeswoman, Sara Wurfel.  McMillin said that while his state lacks a light-bulb 
industry, if his law passed, “it could happen.”  In South Carolina, the “Incandescent Light Bulb Freedom
Act” would allow in-state manufacturing and sale of
conventional light bulbs. The bill passed the House in April and
awaits action in a Senate committee.  The main sponsor, Republican Representative Dwight Loftis,
said if enough states pass the same law it will force Congress
to revisit the rules.  The three largest manufacturers --  General Electric Co. (GE) ,
Osram Sylvania Inc. and Royal Philips Electronics NV -- either
don’t make regular incandescents in the U.S. or will phase them
out over the next few years in favor of more efficient lighting
that meets federal standards, including halogens that look like
old-style bulbs, according to the American Lighting Association.  The companies have seen a 50 percent drop in the sale of
conventional incandescents over the past five years, said Terry
McGowan, director of engineering and technology for the
association.  “It’s highly unlikely that any company would look at
standard bulbs as a growth market and invest in a plant,”
McGowan said.  Tuna Sandwich  Technology for LED lighting -- it stands for light emitting
diode -- is advancing quickly and will become the dominant
lighting medium, said W. Lawrence Lauck, vice president of
communications for the American Lighting Association.  “The future is LEDs, that’s what the lighting industry is
gearing its investments toward,” Lauck said.  As for fears of mercury contamination from CFL bulbs, Lauck
pointed to a study that calculates that exposure to mercury from
a broken CFL is no more than mercury from a  tuna fish  sandwich.  In June,  Texas  Governor  Rick Perry  signed his state’s law
preserving the incandescent despite a memo from environmental
groups saying that it would not withstand a court challenge and
that it “tells the world Texas is moving backward, embracing
outdated technologies of the 19th century.”  “This was not about light bulbs; this was about states’
rights. It was about what the  government should and shouldn’t
tell us what to do,” said David Power, deputy director of the
Public Citizen office in Austin, Texas. The organization was 
among those opposed to the Texas law.  Suit Bait  Arizona Governor Jan Brewer vetoed identical legislation in
May 2010 -- not because she disagreed with the idea, but because
she favored another bill that might better prompt a lawsuit to
test federal powers. The bill she signed exempts firearms
manufactured and sold in  Arizona  from U.S. regulations.  Manning, of Americans for Limited Government, said that the
EPA, which battles the electric-power industry over mercury
emissions, now wants to force consumers to use light bulbs that
contain the substance.  “We’re going to create a toxic mercury time bomb in our
landfills,” Manning said. “It’s a classic example of good
intentions with bad results.  ‘‘Edison had a better idea and we should stick with it.’’  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Christoff in Lansing, MI 
 cchristoff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at   mtannen@bloomberg.net . 