-- 
Bunds Rise as Germany Damps Optimism for Swift Solution; Greek Notes Fall

-- B y   G a r t h   T h e u n i s s e n   a n d   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a
-- 
2011-10-17T15:39:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/bunds-rise-after-germany-shoots-down-dream-of-swift-debt-crisis-solution.html
Bunds rose, with benchmark yields
dropping from a six-week high, as  Germany  rebuffed optimism that
the latest plan to end the region’s debt woes will bring an
imminent resolution to the crisis.  Dutch and Norwegian bonds also gained after German
Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s chief spokesman Steffen Seibert said
a quick end to the crisis that investors are hoping for at a
Group of 20 summit on Oct. 23 was unlikely. Leaders won’t
present a “definitive solution” at the meeting in Brussels,
according to German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble . Greek,
Spanish and Italian two-year notes declined.  “They want to see what will come out of the meeting”
before buying bonds of the euro-area’s most indebted nations
instead of bunds, said Alessandro Giansanti, a senior interest-
rates strategist at ING Groep NV in Amsterdam. “We really need
hard news from the meeting. There’s a lot of risk inside the
peripheral countries.”  German 10-year yields declined 10 basis points, or 0.10
percentage point, to 2.10 percent at 4:27 p.m.  London  time. They
earlier rose to 2.25 percent, the highest since Sept. 1. The
2.25 percent security due September 2021 gained 0.865, or 8.65
euros per 1,000-euro ($1,377) face amount, to 101.31. Two-year
rates dropped eight basis points to 0.58 percent.  “Dreams that are taking hold again now that with this
package everything will be solved and everything will be over on
Monday won’t be able to be fulfilled,” Seibert said at a news
briefing in Berlin today.  Paris Talks  G-20 finance ministers and central bankers concluded
weekend talks in Paris endorsing parts of the emerging plan to
avoid a Greek default, bolster banks and curb contagion. They
set the Oct. 23 summit as the deadline for it to be delivered.  German 10-year yields have risen from a record low 1.636
percent on Sept. 23 as euro-region governments came under
pressure from officials, including U.S. Treasury Secretary
 Timothy F. Geithner , to bring the debt crisis under control.
Yields are still more than a percentage point below the average
of 3.45 percent for the past five years.  Investors “are more or less speculating about what’s going
to come up” at the summit, said Norbert Aul, a European
interest-rate strategist at  RBC Capital Markets  in London.
“Something more severe in terms of private-sector involvement
and also something more lasting for  Greece  will have to come
from there.”  ‘Coordinated Way’  Bonds issued by other European nations perceived to be
havens also gained. Dutch 10-year yields declined 11 basis
points to 2.50 percent,  Norway ’s rates dropped five basis points
to 2.72 percent and Swedish yields slid nine basis points to
1.94 percent.  On the summit agenda is how any recapitalization of
 Europe ’s banks “might be carried out in a coordinated way” and
how to make the European Financial Stability Facility, the EU’s
rescue fund for indebted states, as effective as possible,
Seibert said.  Euro members will seek consensus on five elements of a plan
to solve the region’s woes, including a debt reduction for
Greece, Reuters cited Schaeuble as saying in a speech at a tax
advisers’ conference in Dusseldorf.  The EFSF bailout fund needs 1 trillion euros, Le Figaro
reported Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney  as saying. The
rescue fund needs to be large enough to finance the debts of
Greece, Ireland,  Portugal ,  Spain  and  Italy , the newspaper quoted
Carney as saying in an interview.  Greek Notes  Greek two-year notes dropped for a second day, with yields
climbing 68 basis points to 74.82 percent. Similar maturity
Italian rates rose six basis points to 4.38 percent, and Spanish
yields increased eight basis points to 3.75 percent.  A new round of European Banking Authority stress tests may
include a reduction in the value of Spanish sovereign debt by as
much as 20 percent, El Mundo reported yesterday, without saying
where it got the information.  Mariano Rajoy , leader of the opposition People’s Party,
asked Spanish Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero
yesterday to try to stop the plan, the newspaper reported.  German bonds have handed investors 5.9 percent this year,
according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European
Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. That compares with a
return of 7.6 percent for U.S. Treasuries. Greek bonds have
tumbled 41 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Garth Theunissen in London 
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  