-- 
Cain’s Social Security Model Risks Miring U.S. in Debt

-- B y   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d
-- 
2011-10-17T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/cain-s-social-security-model-risks-miring-u-s-in-deeper-debt.html
Herman Cain , the former pizza
executive surging in polls for the Republican presidential
nomination, wants to replace Social Security with what he called
the “Chilean model” of private pension funds. Full adoption of
that model may push the U.S. deeper into deficit than  Greece .  Chile’s system, introduced under the 1973-1990 dictatorship
of  Augusto Pinochet , diverted workers’ contributions into
privately run funds, slashing government revenue over the next
few decades in exchange for a reduction in state pension
payments 30 years down the line.  The military regime prepared for the new system in 1981 by
cutting spending, building up a fiscal surplus and clamping down
on all forms of dissent. The U.S. by contrast, had a  deficit 
equal to 8.9 percent of gross domestic product last year, the
Congressional Budget Office estimates, and no political
consensus on how to eliminate that shortfall.  “For the U.S. right now it would be impossible,” said
Alejandro Micco, who was the chief economist at  Chile ’s Finance
Ministry until last year. To change to a private pension system
“you either need to have a very big fiscal surplus to pay
retirees without income from workers, or go into debt.”  An NBC News-Wall Street Journal poll taken Oct. 6-10 found
that Cain led the Republican field with 27 percent, followed by
former Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney with 23 percent and
Texas Governor  Rick Perry  with 16 percent. The poll interviewed
336 people who said they would vote in the Republican primary
and had a margin of error of 5.35 percentage points. Cain had 5
percent in an NBC-Wall Street Journal poll taken in August.  ‘Chilean Model’  Cain, speaking to the  New Hampshire  House of
Representatives on Oct. 12, mentioned his proposal to adopt the
“Chilean model, offering younger workers an optional personal
retirement account” as an alternative to the Social Security
system.  U.S. Social Security is mostly financed through a  payroll
tax  that last year brought in $545 billion, 3.6 percent of gross
domestic product, topped up by income from investment earnings,
according to the  Social Security Administration .  It’s not enough.  As people live longer, the ratio of workers paying Social
Security taxes to people collecting benefits keeps falling, from
more than eight workers per retiree in 1955 to 2.9 in 2010 and a
projected 2.1 in 2029, according to data from the U.S.  Social
Security Administration . The  agency  expects to collect less than
it spends this year and by 2036 will have run out of money.  Pay Now or Later  There is no easy solution, warns Augusto Iglesias, Chile’s
undersecretary for pensions.  “It’s not a choice between having a cost and not having
it,” Iglesias said in a phone interview. “It’s between paying
the cost in this generation or leaving it for a future
generation.”  Chile pioneered the private pension system in 1981 to build
up the country’s savings rate, help develop its capital markets
and reduce the long-term strain on its budget. The new system
was optional for people already paying pension contributions,
and compulsory for everyone joining the labor market.  Chile expects to fully replace the government program by
2030. The cost to the state of switching to the new system
reached about 4.9 percent of GDP in 1984, according to the
budget office.  Even in 2008, almost 30 years after Pinochet’s team of
U.S.-trained economists implemented the system, pensions still
represented a drain on the government finances of about 3.1
percent of GDP.  “This system is thrown out as a free lunch at times,”
said Eugene Steuerle, a former Treasury Department official who
is Institute Chair at the  Urban Institute , a nonpartisan
research center in  Washington . “But if it isn’t funded, the
U.S. would end up running huge deficits.”  ‘Working Well’  The U.S. budget shortfall would rise above Greece’s 10.5
percent of GDP if all of the current payroll tax was diverted
into private saving funds, according to Bloomberg data.  While Cain has not elaborated on how the plan would work in
the U.S., his campaign rejected the idea that it could have
disastrous consequences on the U.S. fiscal picture.  “We disagree with your analysis,” spokesman J.D. Gordon
said in an e-mail. “Thirty countries have adopted the Chilean
model, and it is working out well for those nations.”  Argentina ’s government lost $37 billion from workers
contributions after it set up a private pension system in 1994,
seven years before the country defaulted on $95 billion in debt,
according to Sergio Fiscella, a professor at the University of
 Buenos Aires .  The burden on the state led the government to nationalize
the system in 2008, returning pension contributions to state
coffers.  Fiscal Austerity  Chile’s private pension funds have done better than the
government originally expected, returning an average 9 percent
per year in real terms and amassing $133 billion since 1981. The
fiscal austerity that accompanied the system has left the Andean
nation with net credit of about 7.5 percent of GDP, compared
with a debt burden of 73 percent of GDP in the U.S.  Chile has a GDP of $203 billion, according to Bloomberg
statistics, and a population of about 17 million, compared with
U.S. GDP of $14.5 trillion and a  population  of 312 million.
Inflation was 3.3 percent in Chile in September, according to
the  National Institute of Statistics , while the U.S. Labor
Department put inflation at 3.8 percent in the same month.  While Chile’s pension system has helped enforce fiscal
discipline, it has also left millions without savings for their
retirement and originally provided no safety net for the poor.  In 2007, only 60 percent of Chilean workers had some kind
of pension coverage, down from 86 percent in the 1970s,
according to a  2009 article  Iglesias wrote for the Organization
for Economic Cooperation and Development.  Dictatorship  “It was implemented under a dictatorship, which meant it
didn’t have to pass through Congress, and it was obligatory,”
said Claudio Reyes, who oversaw pensions as Iglesias’
predecessor until March 2010. “It wouldn’t have been so easy in
a democracy.”  Even those in the system are not guaranteed an income to
see them through their golden years. Almost half of affiliates
aged between 60 and 65 have less than 5 million pesos ($10,000)
saved up, according to the latest figures from the
 Superintendent of Pension Funds . That’s not enough live on for a
year and a half, based on Chile’s average monthly salary of
338,000 pesos.  “People had to put off retirement because the pensions
they were due to receive couldn’t maintain their quality of
life,” Reyes said.  Chilean Reform  Jose Pinera, brother of Chile’s current President Sebastian Pinera, designed the pension system when he was Pinochet’s labor
minister. He now travels around the world touting its benefits,
with  London ’s Sunday Telegraph calling him the “pension world’s
equivalent of Placido Domingo” in 1996. He declined to be
interviewed for this article, citing engagements in  Europe .  Twenty-seven years after starting the system, Reyes and
Chile’s government felt the need to reform it. In 2008, they
started a minimum pension for people who had made contributions
for 20 years and raised payments for people who had no pension
provisions.  “The Chilean model has faults, some of which have had to
be solved by the intervention of a well-funded state,” Reyes
said.  -- With assistance from Eliana Raszewski in Buenos Aires and
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in Concord, New Hampshire. Editors:
Philip Sanders, Joshua Goodman  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sebastian Boyd in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net . 