-- 
Cain’s 2012 Campaign Built on the Fly Fights to Keep Momentum

-- B y   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s
-- 
2011-10-17T19:39:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/cain-s-2012-campaign-built-on-the-fly-fights-to-keep-momentum.html
Herman Cain is multitasking, and he
may be about to lose his cool.  “You see, this is the part that I really have to show my
patience,” Cain says as he autographs a well-wisher’s baseball,
gets heckled by a disgruntled Republican voter and crosses a
busy street in Concord,  New Hampshire  -- all while trying to
explain to a gaggle of reporters how he can win a third of the
black vote in the  United States .  His wife reminded him: “‘Herman, remain cool’” during
last week’s debate with his Republican rivals in Hanover, Cain
said. He did that and more, grabbing the spotlight with his 9-9-
9 tax initiative and hitting back when competitors belittled the
plan -- and him -- during the session.  Now Cain, 65, a former Godfather’s Pizza chief executive
and radio host surging in Republican primary polls, is
scrambling to transform his fledgling presidential bid -- heavy
on branding, personality and catch-phrases but light on
organization, discipline and policy details -- into a well-
oiled, well-funded competitive campaign machine.  ‘Lean and Mean’  That means rapidly expanding a politically inexperienced
staff of 35 -- Cain calls his operation “lean and mean” --
into a much larger and more seasoned organization in important
primary states, boosting fundraising and filling in the
considerable blanks in his policy plans.  Above all, it means preventing himself from becoming the
latest in a succession of fiscally and socially conservative
candidates -- including Texas Governor  Rick Perry  and Minnesota
Congresswoman Michele Bachmann -- who have briefly challenged
former Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney for the title of
Republican frontrunner, only to lose momentum.  “I won’t fizzle,” Cain promises a voter at a Concord
restaurant who asks if he’s in the race “for the long haul.”  Yet Cain knows he has a narrow and shrinking window of time
to ensure his staying power, with key states jockeying to hold
primaries as early as possible and New Hampshire now threatening
to set its contest for early to mid-December.  And he has little to say, apart from an ice cream analogy
that’s become a favorite in recent days, about how he can do so.  “Will I be the flavor of the week?” Cain quipped last
week. “Well, the answer is an emphatic ‘No,’ because Haagen
Dazs black walnut tastes good all the time.”  Primary Clock  Jack Kimball, a Portsmouth businessman and former chairman
of New Hampshire’s  Republican Party  who is backing Cain, said
it’s a race against the clock to make sure voters get a taste.  “What we’re concerned with right now is the compression of
the primary calendar,” Kimball said in an interview. “I
absolutely feel that he can pull it off here,” Kimball said.
“If we don’t come out of here first, we absolutely can come out
of here nip-and-tuck second.”  Cain finished considerably worse than that in the race for
cash, reporting over the weekend that he raised $2.6 million
between July 1 and Sept. 30, compared to $17 million for Perry
and $14.2 million for Romney over the same period.  And Cain, whose chief of staff Mark Block has never run a
presidential campaign, faces other challenges as he seeks to
ramp up his effort in  Iowa , New Hampshire and other key states.  “It’s real tough,” said Corey Lewandowski, New Hampshire
director of the Tea Party-aligned Americans for Prosperity.
“Almost all of the political operatives that want to be working
in New Hampshire are already working” for someone else, he
said, though some could be freed as other candidates fade.  Resonating Message  “His message resonates with the  Tea Party  very well,”
Lewandowski said. “The people who are supporting Herman Cain
are the type of people that show up and vote in the primary.”  For now at least, Cain is riding a wave -- the preferred
candidate of 27 percent of Republican voters in the latest NBC
News/Wall Street Journal poll, compared with Romney’s 23 percent
and Perry’s 16 percent. Texas Representative  Ron Paul  drew 11
percent in the survey conducted Oct. 6-10, former House Speaker
Newt Gingrich 8 percent, Bachmann 5 percent and former Utah
Governor Jon Huntsman Jr. 3 percent.  Cain is enjoying his moment, even as it has brought fresh
scrutiny and criticism of his signature tax plan and more
attention to campaign gaffes. Cain, who has trademarked the
phrase “The Hermanator Experience” and spent much of the past
several weeks on tour promoting his book “This is  Herman
Cain !,” is more marketing genius than policy heavyweight.  9-9-9 Plan  Critics in both parties have faulted Cain’s 9-9-9 plan to
replace the current code with 9 percent business, individual and
national sales taxes -- with Republicans warning it could lead
to future tax increases and Democrats asserting it would
disproportionately hit lower-income earners.  His vow to balance the federal budget in one year would
necessitate spending cuts of more than 20 percent. And his plan
to adopt a “Chilean model” in place of the Social Security
retirement system for the elderly has raised yet more questions
about how -- amid soaring deficits -- he would finance it.  Cain is still working out some details. Asked if his
proposed tax deduction for businesses that buy U.S.-made goods
would apply to a computer manufactured by an American company
and fabricated overseas with Asian-made parts, he responded: “I
have no idea, haven’t looked at it in that great a detail.”  Electric Fence  Cain told a crowd at a Cookesville, Tennessee, Tea Party
rally that he would build an electrified, barbed wire-topped
border fence to kill would-be illegal immigrants -- a statement
he dismissed as a joke yesterday on NBC’s “Meet the Press.”  The remark prompted an angry response from Democratic
Representative Charles A. Gonzalez of  Texas , the chair of the
Congressional Hispanic Caucus, who said in a statement today
that, “Whether or not he made his comments in jest, Mr. Cain’s
words show a lack of understanding of the immigration issues our
country is facing and a staggering lack of sensitivity.”  Last week, Cain courted late-lunch customers at the Ninety
Nine Restaurant in Concord wearing shirt cuffs monogrammed with
a “C” and carrying a black Stetson hat.  Debbie Mastromarino, 58, a pharmacy technician from
Pittsfield who said she was “not too sure about the 9-9-9” tax
plan, wanted to know if Cain was in the race to stay. “You
can’t fizzle -- because they all fizzle,” she warned over a
bowl of chili.  Cain had chosen the restaurant for its $9.99 entrée
specials, in keeping with his own brand.  If the product lacks some discipline, its producer is a
showman. Video of Cain, an accomplished gospel vocalist, singing
 John Lennon ’s “Imagine” with pizza-related lyrics circulated
on the Internet today. And at one point during his Tennessee bus
tour, Cain interrupted a rally to belt out a few bars of “To
Dream the Impossible Dream” from the 1965 musical “Man of La
Mancha” based on the 17th Century classic, “ Don Quixote .”  “This is my quest, to follow that star, no matter how
hopeless,” Cain sang, adding: “I just thought I’d do that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in Washington at 
 jdavis159@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  