-- 
California Diminished by Tax Revolt of 1978 Shows How U.S. Invites Decline

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 
2011-10-17T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/california-diminished-by-1978-tax-revolt-shows-u-s-in-decline.html
California voters approved
 Proposition 13  to rein in property taxes that had doubled in 10
years. More than three decades later, that rebellion has
mortgaged the state’s future, saddling it with the nation’s
highest debt and lowest  credit rating .  The measure led to reductions that dropped per-student
school spending from seventh to 29th nationally, prompted cities
to pursue sprawling retail development to compensate for lost
revenue, and pushed the state into budget gridlock, including a
$705 million revenue shortfall announced Oct. 10, by requiring
two-thirds approval for any tax increase.  “Proposition 13 set up an unfair and dysfunctional two-
tiered system of property taxes,” said Kevin Starr, a history
professor at the  University of Southern California  and the
author of a series of books on the state. “It choked off a
source of revenue, and the lack of that revenue has brought
California to the edge.”  The measure, approved in 1978, was the inspiration for an
antitax movement that has taken hold of the public discourse in
 Washington  and in state legislatures throughout the country. It
caps real estate levies at 1 percent of a property’s most-recent
sale price. Before it passed, local governments could raise
revenue as they saw fit.  Spread to Washington  In July, antitax fervor fed by the Tea Party movement led
Republicans in the U.S. House of Representatives to dig in
against any increase in the nation’s debt ceiling that included
raising taxes. The compromise that resulted threatens automatic
spending cuts across the government if a congressional
supercommittee can’t agree on ways to cut the federal deficit by
more than $1 trillion.  In his 1990 autobiography, “An American Life,” former
President  Ronald Reagan  called Proposition 13 “a prairie fire”
sweeping the nation. In just the past two years, New York and
 New Jersey  enacted laws inspired by it. At least 20 states now
have some sort of property-tax cap, according to the Lincoln
Institute of Land Policy, a Cambridge, Massachusetts, foundation
that researches property issues.  In  California , where Proposition 13’s tax ceiling has long
shaped public policy, the effect of that movement is clear.  Universities Cut  In addition to the effect on elementary schools, the most-
populous state cut support for its public universities by 18
percent to $4.5 billion this year, according to the California
finance department. The world’s ninth-largest economy’s general-
fund backed debt has risen to $82.6 billion from $2.25 billion
in 1978, state figures show. California carries more debt than
any other state and ranks eighth on a per-capita basis, with
$2,542 for each resident, Moody’s Investors Service has said.  Proposition 13 created disparities in tax payments that
amaze Larry Stone, the assessor in Santa Clara County, home to
Silicon Valley and companies such as  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and  Intel Corp. (INTC) 
Stone’s new neighbor in Sunnyvale will pay almost $18,000 in
annual taxes and special assessments compared with the $3,000
Stone pays for the house he bought in 1975.  “You couldn’t invent a crazier system,” Stone said in a
telephone interview.  The measure also created loopholes that businesses exploit
to avoid paying their fair share, says San Francisco Assemblyman
Tom Ammiano, a 69-year-old Democrat who has sponsored
legislation to tighten rules on business-property transfers.  Dell’s Deal  For instance, billionaire Michael Dell structured the 2006
purchase of an ocean-view hotel in  Santa Monica , a  Los Angeles 
suburb, to avoid the automatic tax increase that comes with
acquisition of more than a 50 percent interest in any property,
Los Angeles County officials said in a statement filed in court.  The founder of Texas computer maker  Dell Inc. (DELL)  and his wife,
Susan, bought shares in Ocean Avenue LLC, the corporation that
owns the 302-room Fairmont Miramar hotel. They did it through a
partnership, a limited liability corporation and a trust, none
of which bought more than half of the hotel’s stock.  “This is emblematic of the cavalier way people try to
skirt the law,” Ammiano said. “If you’re looking at a school
that has to lay off teachers, if you care about elder care,
money like this could make a real difference.”  The Los Angeles County Assessment Appeals Board ruled last
year that the hotel had changed hands and the property’s value
could rise to its $200 million purchase price from the previous
assessed value of $85 million -- that corresponds to an annual
tax increase of about $1.3 million. Ocean Avenue is suing in
state court to reverse the decision, while paying higher taxes
as it pursues the matter. Todd Fogarty, a spokesman for Dell’s
private investment firm, MSD Capital LP, declined to comment on
the entrepreneur’s behalf.  Ballot Action  Proposition 13’s success had another effect as well: It
inspired an explosion of ballot measures, from carving out part
of the budget for schools to legalizing marijuana for medicinal
purposes. Since 1978, the state has amended its constitution
through initiatives 69 times, compared with 47 times in the
previous 65 years, according to the Secretary of State.  That trend spread to other states such as  Colorado , where
voters in November will decide whether they want to raise income
and sales taxes to fund schools where per-pupil funding ranked
39th in the U.S. in 2009, according to Census Bureau figures.  “It’s had a profound impact on multiple levels,” said Jean Ross, executive director of the California Budget Project, a
nonpartisan research group in  Sacramento . “The one that’s
underestimated is the shift in decision-making from the local
level to the state. All of our public systems have been affected
by our seemingly perpetual budget crises.”  Demands for Change  In the years since antitax crusader Howard Jarvis led the
Proposition 13 campaign, demands for changes to the law have
become more vocal, if not more likely to succeed.  Los Angeles Mayor Antonio Villaraigosa, 58, like
Assemblyman Ammiano, advocates creation of a “split roll” that
lets levies on commercial properties rise more quickly than
those for residences, so that business owners pay more.  “Prop. 13 has had the unintended effect of favoring
commercial property owners at the expense of homeowners,”
Villaraigosa said Aug. 16 at the Sacramento Press Club. “Let’s
apply Prop. 13’s protections to homeowners and homeowners
alone.”  Yet the measure remains popular for both businesses and
homeowners. In a Sept. 23 Field Poll, 63 percent of California
voters said they would support the measure if it were up for a
vote again now. As for the split roll idea, Democrats endorsed
it 53 percent to 37 percent, while Republicans opposed it 70
percent to 23 percent.  Businesses Benefit  It’s one of the initiative’s ironies that business people,
who opposed the measure in 1978, have become its biggest
beneficiaries. In Los Angeles County, where a quarter of the
state’s  $4.38 trillion  in assessed property value is located,
commercial and apartment buildings represented 60 percent of the
tax rolls in 1975, while single-family homes accounted for 40
percent. Today that ratio is almost reversed.  In the late 1970s, tax-strapped homeowners were the driving
force behind Proposition 13. Jarvis led five attempts to gather
enough signatures to put the measure on the statewide ballot and
finally succeeded, over the objections of Democrat  Jerry Brown ,
73, the governor then and now.  In the year after the measure passed, property-levy
collections dropped 52 percent to $4.9 billion from $10.3
billion, according to the Board of Equalization, the state’s tax
administrator.  Shifting Tax Base  Proposition 13 “effectively shifted the financing of
portions of local government services and education from the
property-tax base to the more volatile income- and sales-tax
bases,”  Standard & Poor’s  said in a Sept. 8 report.  California has the 12th-highest sales tax rate in the
country, with a combined state and local levy of  8.13 percent ,
according to the Tax Foundation, a non-partisan Washington-based
research group. Its  income tax  collections placed it fifth in
the nation in 2008, at $1,531 per capita.  Without the ability to boost local levies, Vallejo, a city
of 116,000 in the San Francisco Bay area, in 2008 had to declare
bankruptcy, the city’s former finance director, Robert Stout,
told attendees at the Bond Buyer’s California Public Finance
conference on Sept. 15. The process cost $12 million in legal
bills and forced a one-third reduction in police staffing.  “I’ve worked for cities in  Florida ,  New York  and
 Connecticut ,” Stout told the group. “We were always able to
raise taxes.”  ‘A Nightmare’  At the San Bernardino City Unified School District, the
eighth-largest in the state with more than 50,600 students,
revenue has fallen by $54 million, or more than 10 percent, in
the past four years, as the state reduced funding. The district
east of Los Angeles fired 68 educators, eliminated summer school
and increased class sizes by a third, to average 30 students for
each teacher.  “This is a nightmare,” said Mohammad Islam, San
Bernardino’s assistant superintendent who has worked in school
finance for 22 years. “It’s impossible what the state is doing
to us.”  Lacking the ability to raise taxes locally, cities,
counties and school districts have been forced to cut jobs,
adding to California’s second-worst-in-the-nation 12.1 percent
unemployment rate, according to John Husing, an economist
specializing in the so-called Inland Empire east of Los Angeles.  Local governments in that area fired 12,600 employees,
including teachers and firefighters, in August as nongovernment
employers added 6,300 jobs, he said.  ‘Government-Created Recession’  “What we now have is a government-created recession,”
Husing said in a telephone interview. “It’s mostly school and
local-government workers. It’s been a goddamn disaster for local
governments to be put under the thumb of the Legislature.”  With property taxes capped, city officials have tried to
find ways to keep as much as they can of what’s left locally,
typically through redevelopment agencies, a 1945 creation
designed to help cities improve blighted areas. The agencies
advance city funds to developers, often from bond sales, which
are paid back from the increased property assessments their
projects generate.  Redevelopment agencies receive 12 percent of property taxes
statewide, up from 4 percent in 1983, according to California’s
Legislative Analyst’s Office. A March audit of 18 of the
agencies by State Controller John Chiang found no consensus in
how they defined a blighted area or in how they tracked  job
creation .  Fixed Shares  A formula worked out after Proposition 13 was passed also
fixed cities’ share of revenue collections at their 1970s
levels. That means the San Francisco Bay area city of Hercules,
which had a low rate, collects only five cents of every dollar
in property taxes paid while neighboring cities get as much as
25 percent, according to Liz Warmerdam, the former interim city
manager. That encouraged the previous city manager to pursue
development projects, particularly retail ones, to increase the
city’s base, Warmerdam said in a telephone interview.  The city of 25,000 now has $130 million in debt, much of it
spent on failed projects such as Sycamore North, a half-built
shopping and residential center, and Big League Dreams, a
softball stadium, Warmerdam said. Hercules sued its former city
manager, Nelson Oliva, in August claiming he sent more than $3
million of city funds to a consulting firm his family owned. His
attorney, Richard Ewaniszyk, said the city was aware of the
relationship and that the family divested its stake.  Faced with a $6 million  budget deficit  this year, partly
from $1.8 million in payments to the redevelopment agency,
Hercules cut 40 people, or 30 percent of its workforce, and
closed City Hall on Fridays.  Budget Logjam  Because Proposition 13 also requires a two-thirds majority
in the state Assembly and Senate to pass any tax increase,
legislators find themselves at constant loggerheads during
budget negotiations.  Last October, then-Governor  Arnold Schwarzenegger  signed a
budget 100 days late. This year, Republicans blocked Brown’s
efforts to extend previously enacted tax increases to help close
a $25.4 billion projected deficit. Democrats, who control just
under the two-thirds threshold in both legislative chambers,
passed a budget on the last day of the fiscal year in June only
by adjusting their revenue estimate upwards by $4 billion.  “The dysfunctional element here is that the minority party
is in complete charge of all matters revenue-related,” state
Senator Mark Leno, a San Francisco Democrat who leads the budget
committee, said by telephone. “That is not democracy.”  Last Day  The battle over taxes continued until the last day of the
legislative session in September. The Howard Jarvis Taxpayers
Association, a conservative group that carries on its founder’s
tax-cutting mission, helped convince legislators to vote against
a Brown proposal to raise $1 billion in taxes from businesses,
mostly out-of-state companies, and redirect the money to local
job-creation efforts.  The group released two statements objecting to the
legislation and used its full-time lobbyist in Sacramento to
buttonhole legislators. The association’s executive director,
Jon Coupal, met one-on-one with Brown to voice his displeasure.  “He was trying to move a complicated tax-reform proposal
forward and we were not in position to support it,” Coupal said
in a telephone interview. The measure died in the Legislature.  Meanwhile, disparities in property taxes linger. Take the
case of Roy Sakioka, a former sharecropper who spent time in a
World War II internment camp before becoming one of the largest
landowners in Southern California. He left a fortune estimated
at $325 million when he died in 1995. Among his purchases: a
three-story office building in Beverly Hills assessed for taxes
at $1.5 million and worth as much as 17-fold more today.  Tax Disparities  The building’s owner, Sakioka Farms, pays $17,000 a year in
taxes, according to Los Angeles County assessors’ records. A
building behind it with a third of the square footage and half
the land is assessed at $7 million and pays $72,000 in taxes
annually. That’s because the Sakioka building was purchased
decades ago, while the one behind it changed hands in 2009, so
the smaller structure has a more recent valuation.  Harvey Englander, a Los Angeles political consultant who
worked with Jarvis for two years after Proposition 13 passed,
said the man who led one of the nation’s most famous tax revolts
would support changing the terms today.  “H.J.’s goal was property-tax relief for homeowners or
renters,” Englander, a Democrat, said in an interview. “He
didn’t love big corporations. He said, ‘Someday Prop. 13 will
need to be updated.’”  Raising Business Rate  Englander suggests raising the rate business pay, to 1.5
percent, from one percent. “What people want is certainty,” he
said. “They want to know exactly how much they are going to
pay.”  The Board of Equalization estimates that another approach,
raising assessments on commercial property to current market
value, would generate $2.5 billion more a year in taxes
statewide, according to Anita Gore, a spokeswoman for the board.  All those changes are a nonstarter for Coupal, the Jarvis
association director. Raising property taxes will only drive
more businesses from the state, he said by telephone.  “The anti-Prop. 13 jihad hasn’t thought this out well,”
he said.  Proposition 13’s supporters may not have much to worry
about, as no statewide leaders are pressing for a major change.  ‘Doesn’t Poll’  “It doesn’t poll well,” said Controller Chiang, a
Democrat who had to hand out IOUs to creditors three years
earlier, when legislators couldn’t agree on a budget.  What about just changing it for businesses, he was asked?
Chiang shook his head no.  Brown also seems unlikely to take up Villaraigosa’s call to
action on Proposition 13. When asked at a Sept. 1 event if he
had any ideas for changing the measure, the governor said he
didn’t.  “Nor have I found anyone else that has a plausible
pathway,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in Los Angeles at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  