-- 
California-Blend Gasoline Slips as Refiners Recover From Upsets

-- B y   L y n n   D o a n
-- 
2011-10-17T20:45:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/california-blend-gasoline-slips-as-refiners-recover-from-upsets.html
California-blend gasoline’s premium
to futures slipped as three  Southern California  refineries
recovered from weekend upsets.  The premium for California-blend gasoline, or Carbob, in
Los Angeles fell 0.5 cent to 35.5 cents a gallon above gasoline
futures traded on the New York Mercantile Exchange at 4:17 p.m.
East Coast time, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Prompt
delivery of the fuel fell 8.68 cents to $3.0979 a gallon.  Valero Energy Corp. (VLO)  and  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  said breakdowns
at their refineries in Southern California didn’t affect supply.  “There was no impact to production,” Rachael Moore, a
spokeswoman for Exxon Mobil, said in an e-mail yesterday. “The
refinery is operating normally.”  ConocoPhillips (COP)  reported unplanned flaring to air regulators
at the 147,000-barrel-a-day Wilmington refinery that may last
through today.  Rich Johnson , a Conoco spokesman in Houston,
declined to comment on the notice to local regulators.  Conoco was said to shut a hydrotreater at the Wilmington
refinery Oct. 9 after a leak sparked a fire at the unit. Traders
speculated last week that the unit would be started shortly,
said Bob van der Valk, an independent fuel pricing analyst in
Terry, Montana.  San Francisco Carbob also slipped 0.5 cent, to a premium of
29.5 cents over gasoline futures.  The premium for conventional, 87-octane gasoline in
Portland, Oregon, strengthened 4.75 cents to 42.75 cents versus
futures.  Tesoro Corp. (TSO)  reported unscheduled shutdowns of a catalytic
cracker and an alkylation unit at the 125,000-barrel-a-day
Anacortes refinery in Washington on Oct. 1, according to a
regulatory filing e-mailed to Bloomberg on Oct. 14 by the
Northwest Clean Air Agency.  Mike Marcy, a Tesoro spokesman based in Martinez,
 California , said the company is conducting “maintenance
activities” at the Anacortes plant.  “We expect to continue meeting our contractual supply
commitments to customers in the region,” he said in an e-mail
today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lynn Doan in San Francisco at 
 ldoan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  