-- 
Californa Teachers’ Pension to Withhold Votes for Entire News Corp. Board

-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 
2011-10-18T00:00:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/calstrs-plans-to-withhold-votes-for-entire-news-corp-board.html
The California State Teachers’
Retirement System will oppose re-election of  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s entire
board, including Chairman and Chief Executive Officer  Rupert Murdoch , citing a lack of independent members.  The second-largest pension fund in the U.S. holds 35,200
News Corp. Class B voting shares, out of the 798.5 million total
outstanding,  Ricardo Duran , spokesman for Calstrs, said in an
interview. The pension fund owns 6.1 million Class A nonvoting
shares, he said.  Calstrs wants two-thirds of News Corp.’s board to consist
of independent directors and an independent chairman, Duran
said. The pension fund also seeks more investor say on executive
compensation at the media company, he said. The Murdoch family
holds about a 40 percent voting stake.  “The dual class voting structure gives undue influence to
the Murdoch family and entrenches them,” Duran said. “We
believe ultimately the board’s responsibility is to serve the
shareholders.”  News Corp., owner of the Fox Broadcast network, Wall Street
Journal and Twentieth Century Fox film studio, fell 1.8 percent
to $16.88 in  New York . The Class A shares have climbed 16
percent this year as the company repurchased its stock.  Institutional Shareholder Services, a proxy adviser,
recommended investors oppose 13 of 15 nominees, citing financial
consequences from a mobile-phone hacking scandal involving
former employees of its now-defunct News of the World tabloid in
the U.K.  The  California Public Employees’ Retirement System , the
largest pension fund in the U.S., said last week it would
withhold its 1.45 million  votes  for Murdoch and his sons James
and Lachlan, as well as directors Arthur Siskind and Andrew Knight. Calpers said it’s also seeking an independent chairman
and more input on executive compensation.  “We believe there’s a disconnect between pay and
performance at News Corp.,” Duran said. “Shareholders need
more say.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  