-- 
Canada September Existing Home Sales (Text)

-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 
2011-10-17T13:07:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/canada-september-existing-home-sales-text-.html
According to statistics released
today by The  Canadian Real Estate Association  (CREA), national
resale housing activity picked up in September 2011.  Highlights:  Sales activity rose 2.7 per cent in September from the previous
month.  Holding in line with the ten-year average, activity during the
first nine months of this year pulled ahead of sales over the
same period last year.  The number of newly listed homes held steady when compared to
the previous month.  The national housing market tightened in September from the
month before, but remains firmly entrenched in balanced
territory.  The national average price posted the smallest year-over-year
increase since January.  National sales activity rose 2.7 per cent in September when
compared to August, and follows three months of stable activity.
September’s increase reflects strengthened activity in a number
of major markets, led by Toronto. The monthly increase pushed
national sales to its highest level since recently tightened
mortgage regulations dampened sales earlier this year.  Actual (not seasonally adjusted) national sales activity came in
11 per cent above levels in September 2010. As was the case over
the summer, the year-over-year increase reflects weakened
activity one year ago.  A total of 361,749 homes have traded hands via Canadian MLS®
Systems to date this year. This is 1.2 per cent above levels for
the same period in 2010, and in line with the ten-year average.  “The Canadian housing market remains a bright spot against a
backdrop of mixed headline news about the global economy,” said
Gary Morse, CREA President. “Low mortgage rates continue to draw
buyers to the housing market, while recently tightened mortgage
regulations are working as intended. That said, housing market
trends often diverge from national trends due to local factors,
so buyers and sellers should talk to a local REALTOR to
understand housing market trends at play where they live.”  The number of newly listed homes nationally was little changed
from each of the previous two months. New listings were up from
the previous month in a number of major markets including
Toronto,  Montreal , Ottawa, Oakville and  Vancouver , offset by
fewer new listings in other markets including  Edmonton  and the
Fraser Valley.  The monthly rise in sales resulted in a tighter national housing
market that remains firmly planted in balanced territory. The
national sales-to-new listings ratio, a measure of market
balance, stood at 52.8 per cent in September, up from 51.6 per
cent in August.  Based on a sales-to-new listings ratio of between 40 to 60
percent, nearly two-thirds of all local markets in Canada were
in balanced market territory in September, with an even split of
buyer’s and seller’s markets among the remainder.  The number of months of inventory stood at 6.1 months at the end
of September on a national basis, little changed from the end of
August (6.2 months). It represents the number of months it would
take to sell current inventories at the current rate of sales
activity, and is another measure of balance between housing
supply and demand. Months of inventory have held steady at about
six months since April.  The actual (not seasonally adjusted) national average price for
homes sold in September 2011 stood at just under $352,600,
remaining below record level heights reached earlier this year.
While up 6.5 per cent from September 2010, the year-over-year
increase is the smallest since January.  “Canada’s housing market remains stable amid continuing
financial market volatility, contributing to Canadians’
confidence in the economy and providing support for Canadian
economic growth,” said Gregory Klump, CREA’s Chief Economist.
“ Interest rates  are expected to remain low for longer, and
evidence suggests that recent changes to mortgage regulations
are preventing the kind of excesses they were designed to avert.
Both of these developments are good news for the housing
market.”  PLEASE NOTE: The information contained in this news release
combines both major market and national MLS® sales
information from the previous month.  CREA cautions that average price information can be useful in
establishing trends over time, but does not indicate actual
prices in centres comprised of widely divergent neighborhoods or
account for price differential between geographic areas.
Statistical information contained in this report includes all
housing types.  MLS® is a co-operative marketing system used only by  Canada ’s
real estate Boards to ensure maximum exposure of properties
listed for sale.  The Canadian Real Estate Association (CREA) is one of Canada’s
largest single-industry trade associations, representing more
than 100,000 REALTORS® working through more than 100 real estate
Boards and Associations.  Further information can be found at
 http://www.crea.ca/public/news_stats/media.htm .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa   ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  