-- 
Canada August New Motor Vehicle Sales Report (Text)

-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 
2011-10-17T12:30:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/canada-august-new-motor-vehicle-sales-report-text-.html
The following is the text
of  Canada 's new motor vehicles sales report for August
released by  Statistics Canada .  The number of new motor vehicles sold in August slipped
0.4% to 131,840 units. This second monthly decline
followed a three-year sales peak in June. Lower sales of
trucks and overseas-built passenger cars accounted for the
decrease.  New motor vehicle sales down in August  Preliminary industry data indicate that the number of
new motor vehicles sold in September increased 2%.  Sales of trucks and overseas-built passenger cars decline  Sales of trucks (which include minivans, sport-utility
vehicles, light and heavy trucks, vans and buses) were
down 0.7% to 75,949 units in August. Sales declines in
July and August did not offset gains made in June.  Declines in overseas-built passenger cars (-3.8%)
offset gains in North American-built passenger cars
(+2.3%), leaving passenger car sales largely unchanged at
55,891 units. Overseas-built passenger car sales continued
their downward trend that began in early 2010.  Overseas-built passenger car sales continue their downward
trend  Vehicle sales decrease the most in  Quebec   Lower sales in three provinces more than offset the
increases in the other seven provinces. The largest
decline occurred in Quebec (-4.0%), where sales fell for a
third time in four months.  Sales in Nova Scotia declined 3.5%, following two
consecutive monthly increases.  All three Prairie provinces reported sales gains in
August. Alberta (+2.2%) registered the largest increase in
units sold. Sales in this province have been trending
upward since the beginning of 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at 
 ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  