-- 
Canada August International Securities Transactions (Text)

-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 
2011-10-17T12:30:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/canada-august-international-securities-transactions-text-.html
The following is the text of
Canada's international transactions report for August
released by  Statistics Canada .  Foreign investment in Canadian securities slowed to
$7.9 billion in August, with most of the investment in the
Canadian  bond market . Canadians added a further $2.0
billion of foreign securities to their holdings, again
this month led by acquisitions of US corporate shares.  Foreign portfolio investment in Canadian securities  Non-resident investors continue to acquire Canadian bonds  Non-residents acquired $6.0 billion of Canadian bonds
in August, the largest investment in three months. These
purchases totalled $31.6 billion for the first eight
months of 2011. However, this amounted to less than half
of the inflows recorded over the same period in 2010,
largely reflecting reduced foreign investment in federal
bonds.  Foreign investment in August focused on US dollar-
denominated new issues by federal government enterprises
and provincial governments. Secondary market purchases
remained subdued, reflecting a third consecutive monthly
reduction in foreign holdings of federal bonds.  The $1.0 billion foreign divestment in federal bonds in
August targeted shorter term bonds. Long-term interest
rates in  Canada  decreased further in August as the
difference between long- and short-term interest rates
narrowed to its lowest level in three years.  Non-residents purchase Canadian Treasury bills for a
second month  Non-residents added $1.6 billion of Canadian money
market instruments to their holdings in August, led by
further acquisitions of Canadian Treasury bills. This
followed the record foreign investment of $6.0 billion in
federal paper recorded in July. With the exception of
June, non-residents have acquired significant amounts of
Treasury bills since April, a period during which their
holdings increased by over $14 billion.  Lowest foreign investment in Canadian equities in four
months  Non-residents purchased $306 million of Canadian stocks
in August, down from a $2.8 billion acquisition in July.
New issue activity accounted for most of this activity
while non-residents sold Canadian shares on the secondary
market for a second month. Non-residents had previously
invested $13.8 billion in Canadian stocks through
secondary market acquisitions between December 2010 and
June 2011. Canadian stock prices declined for a sixth
consecutive month in August.  Canadian investors further reduce holdings of foreign debt  Residents divested a further $1.4 billion in foreign
bonds in August, for a total reduction of $10.8 billion
since the beginning of 2011. US Government securities
again led the reduction in holdings of foreign bonds. Long-
term  interest rates  in the  United States  have declined
each month since February to reach levels last seen at the
end of 2008.  Canadian investors also reduced their holdings of
foreign short-term securities by $232 million in August,
more than offsetting the investment in July. The
divestment in August was concentrated in US Treasury
bills. Short-term interest rates in the United States
decreased further during the month, reaching 0.02% by
month-end.  Canadian investors continue to acquire US stocks  Canadians invested in foreign stocks for an eighth
straight month in August, adding $3.7 billion to their
holdings, with US stocks accounting for all of the
increase. Investors have largely favoured US stocks over
non-US foreign stocks during this period, led by demand
from Canadian pension funds. US stock prices declined for
a fourth month in a row in August.  Note to readers  All values in this release are net transactions unless
otherwise stated.  The data series on international security transactions
cover portfolio transactions in stocks, bonds and money
market instruments for both Canadian and foreign issues.  Stocks include common and preferred equities, as well
as warrants.  Debt securities include bonds and money market
instruments.  Bonds have an original term to maturity of more than
one year.  Money market instruments have an original term to
maturity of one year or less.  Government of Canada paper includes treasury bills and
US-dollar Canada bills.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at 
 ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  