-- 
Canada’s Flaherty Says Europe Running Out of Time on Crisis

-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s   a n d   D a r a   D o y l e
-- 
2011-10-17T14:25:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/canada-s-flaherty-says-europe-running-out-of-time-for-crisis.html
Canadian Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  said that “time is running out” for European leaders
to solve a debt crisis that has begun to spread.  Flaherty said European officials could have already
provided a “definitive solution” to ease market concerns and
delays have started to cause “extreme stress” in the
continent’s banking sector.  “Quite frankly,  Europe ’s response over the past year has
been disappointing,” Flaherty said in a speech today in Dublin
to the Ireland Canada Business Association, two days after
attending a meeting in Paris of finance ministers and central
bankers from the Group of 20 countries.  “This is the world’s most immediate and pressing
problem,” Flaherty said, according to a prepared copy of the
speech provided by the minister’s office, and “is threatening
to bring the world to the verge of another recession.”  Group of 20 finance ministers and central bankers concluded
weekend talks in Paris endorsing parts of an emerging plan to
avoid a Greek default, bolster banks and curb contagion. They
set the Oct. 23 summit of European leaders in Brussels as the
deadline for it to be delivered.  A German official today suggested those expectations won’t
be met. German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  has made it clear that
“dreams that are taking hold again now that with this package
everything will be solved and everything will be over on Monday
won’t be able to be fulfilled,” Steffen Seibert, Merkel’s chief
spokesman, said at a briefing in Berlin today. The search for an
end to the crisis “surely extends well into next year.”  Disappointed  Flaherty told reporters after the speech he would be
disappointed if European leaders failed to deliver a plan at the
Oct. 23 meeting.  Flaherty said that while Europe has the resources to tackle
the problem, it has allowed the situation to fester and put its
banks in “jeopardy”, citing the need by France and  Belgium 
this month to rescue Brussels-based lender Dexia SA.  “What will it take for Europe to take decisive action and
put an end to this crisis, once and for all?” Flaherty said in
today’s speech. “Too much time has been wasted, too many
opportunities have been missed.”  Flaherty said the crisis can still be contained if European
leaders show “true leadership” and take clear and concrete
steps to resolve the crisis.  Consequences  Those decisions must include whether to support Greece
unequivocally or face the “natural consequences” of not
supporting the country, Flaherty said. After the speech, he told
reporters Europe risks a banking crisis if it doesn’t dedicate
more funding or an “adequate restructuring” of Greek debt.
Last month, Flaherty said  Greece  may have to leave the euro if
the country failed to press ahead with its budget cutting plans.  “Half-measures are not an option,” Flaherty said, adding
any decisions need to be clear in order to win the support of
markets. “The lack of clarity in Europe’s plans so far has only
exacerbated the ongoing instability.”  Flaherty said non-European G-20 countries also need to take
steps to secure the global recovery, including the adoption of
“medium-term” deficit reduction plans and flexible exchange
rates.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  