-- 
Canada’s Dollar Declines Most This Month on Germany’s Euro-Zone Comments

-- B y   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o   a n d   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 
2011-10-17T21:18:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/canada-s-dollar-falls-from-a-3-week-high-on-euro-zone-comments-in-germany.html
Canada ’s dollar posted its biggest
decline this month as comments from German officials that
there’s no quick fix for Europe’s sovereign debt crisis eroded
appetite for higher-yielding assets.  The loonie, as the currency is nicknamed, weakened against
its U.S. counterpart on declines in stocks and crude oil, the
nation’s largest export, after earlier touching a three-week
high. German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said “dreams that are
taking hold again now that with this package everything will be
solved and everything will be over on Monday won’t be able to be
fulfilled,” Steffen Seibert, Merkel’s chief spokesman, said at
a briefing in Berlin today.  “Those comments by German policy makers have really put an
element of uncertainty back into the markets, and the loonie is
following along,” said Rahim Madhavji, president of
Knightsbridge Foreign Exchange Inc., in a telephone interview
from Toronto. “The optimism that built up last week isn’t there
anymore.”  The Canadian currency weakened 1.3 percent, its biggest
drop since Sept. 30, to C$1.0234 per  U.S. dollar  at 5 p.m. in
Toronto. It fell as low as C$1.0226 after touching C$1.0044, the
strongest level since Sept. 21. One Canadian dollar buys 97.71
U.S. cents.  Stocks, Oil  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 1.9 percent, while
Canada’s benchmark Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Index
declined 1.3 percent. Futures on crude oil, Canada’s biggest
export, lost 1.1 percent to $86.29 a barrel in  New York .  The Canadian currency capped two weeks of gains on Oct. 14
on speculation an economic slowdown in the U.S., the nation’s
largest trading partner, won’t be as severe as forecasters
previously expected.  “Risk-off sentiment is back, and as equity markets sell
off we have the U.S. dollar moving higher against the loonie,”
Jim Phoenix, managing director at Canadian Imperial Bank of
Commerce, said in a telephone interview from Calgary. “The mood
has shifted somewhat in reaction to concerns that we’re not
necessarily going to see a definitive decision out of  Europe  by
this weekend.”  Canadian  government bonds  rose, pushing the 10-year yield
lower by 11 basis points, or 0.11 percentage point, to 2.29
percent. Ten-year yields reached a record low 1.994 percent on
Oct. 4. They trade at about 14 basis points above U.S. 10-year
yields, compared with 31 basis points on Oct. 3.  Bond Sale  Canada will auction C$3.5 billion of two-year notes on Oct.
19, according to the central bank’s website. The previous
auction of two-year bonds, on Sept. 14, fetched an average yield
of 1.03 percent and a bid-to-coverage ratio of 2.53 times, Bank
of Canada data show.  The Canadian dollar has gained 2.6 percent versus the
greenback this month. It’s beating peers along with other
commodity-linked currencies such the Brazilian real and the
Australian dollar on speculation the U.S. and global economies
will avoid another recession.  “It’s definitely a North American and global growth
story,” said  Sebastien Galy , a senior foreign-exchange
strategist at Societe Generale SA in  London , in a telephone
interview. “It’s the feeling that the pace of the slowdown is
moderating.”  Foreigners purchased a net C$7.92 billion ($7.82 billion)
of Canadian securities in August, including a net C$6.01 billion
of bonds, C$1.61 billion of money-market paper and C$306 million
of stocks,  Statistics Canada  said today in Ottawa. The total is
less than the C$10 billion median of three forecasts compiled by
Bloomberg.  Foreign Demand  Demand for Canadian bonds from abroad is slowing from a
record pace set the past two years. Year-to-date bond purchases
of C$31.6 billion are less than half the 2010 level. Some of
that money this year has moved to money-market paper, where
purchases from January to August have jumped to C$15 billion
from C$622 million in 2010.  The  Bank of Canada ’s quarterly survey of executives found
the least optimism about future sales growth since the beginning
of 2009, with signs of weak global demand leading companies to
curb hiring and investment plans.  The share of firms predicting faster sales growth during
the next year fell to 39 percent from 49 percent in the last
survey, while those calling for slower sales growth increased to
33 percent from 29 percent.  Canadian Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  said today in Dublin
that “time is running out” for European leaders to solve a
debt crisis that has begun to spread. Flaherty said European
officials could have already provided a “definitive solution”
to ease market concerns and delays have started to cause
“extreme stress” in the continent’s banking sector.  “Euro zone policy makers seem to have some sort of plan
and a sense of urgency,” said Knightsbridge’s Madhavji. “They
realize what would happen if they don’t come out with that sense
of urgency. They are well aware of the situation, they just need
to find a way to agree exactly on who pays for everything.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Frederic Tomesco in Montreal at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Fournier in Halifax, Nova Scotia at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  