-- 
Canon Default Swaps Decline as Yen Retreat Boosts Outlook: Japan Credit

-- B y   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a   a n d   S a t o s h i   K a w a n o
-- 
2011-10-18T03:04:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/canon-default-swaps-drop-as-europe-optimism-curbs-yen-gains-japan-credit.html
The perceived creditworthiness of
Japan’s  Canon Inc. (7751) , which earns a third of its revenue in Europe,
is improving at the fastest pace in 19 months on optimism the
region’s officials will contain the debt crisis and bolster the
euro from a decade low against the yen.  Credit-default swaps tied to Tokyo-based Canon, the world’s
biggest camera maker, slid 5.8 basis points to 60.3 basis points
in the five days ended Oct. 14, the biggest weekly drop since
March 12, 2010, according to CMA data. Contracts on Asian
technology companies fell 5.5 to 172 in the period, the steepest
decline since the period ended April 29.  Canon, second only to Nippon Sheet Glass Co. on the
benchmark Nikkei 225 Stock Average in percentage of revenue
generated in  Europe ,  estimates  it loses 5.3 billion yen ($69
million) in sales for every 1 yen gain by the Japanese currency
against the euro. A weaker yen helps exporters such as Canon
because it boosts the value of overseas income.  “The company’s high exposure to the euro means its CDS
contracts are overly sensitive” to fluctuations in the European
currency, said  Mitsushige Akino , who oversees about $600 million
in Tokyo at Ichiyoshi Investment Management Co. “Concerns are
easing over Europe’s debt crisis and its effect on the global
financial system, reducing credit risk in the short-term.”  Richard Berger, a Tokyo-based spokesman for Canon, wasn’t
immediately available for comment.  Government Bonds   Elsewhere in  Japan ’s credit markets, government bonds fell
even as Japan’s government downgraded its assessment of the
economy for the first time since April. Industrial Bank of Korea
is planning to sell as much as 20 billion yen of bonds, known as
Samurais, maturing in two to three years next month, said to a
person with direct knowledge of the matter.  The yield on Japan’s benchmark 10-year bond was unchanged
at 1.02 percent as of 10:37 a.m. Tokyo time today. The
difference between the yield and that for similar maturity
Treasuries has widened to about 114 basis points from the low
this year of 73 basis points on Oct. 3.  Credit-default swaps tied to Japan’s sovereign debt have
fallen to 116.5 basis points yesterday from this year’s high of
155 on Oct. 4, CMA prices in  New York  showed. CMA is owned by
CME Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the
privately negotiated market. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  ‘Decelerating’ Growth  “The Japanese economy is still picking up although the
pace is decelerating,” the Cabinet Office said in its monthly
report yesterday.  Japanese Finance Minister Jun Azumi told his Group of 20
counterparts of his concern about the value of the yen, during a
Paris meeting on Oct. 14. The G-20 finance officials said in a
statement after the gathering that “disorderly” currency moves
may hurt economies and financial markets.  Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda ’s government unveiled
measures last month to cope with the yen’s gains, including
subsidies for companies struggling to retain workers.  Industrial Bank of  Korea , a state-owned lender, plans to
set the size and maturity of its bond sale by Oct. 21, the
person said, asking not to be identified because the terms are
private. Proceeds will likely be used to refinance 19.3 billion
yen of two-year Samurai notes that mature on Nov. 9, according
to the person.  Standard & Poor’s  gave an A rating to the bonds
at the time, sold at 2.2 percent, or 155 basis points over mid-
swap rates, Bloomberg data shows.  Corporate Swaps  The Markit iTraxx Japan index of credit-default swaps for
50 companies has increased 9 basis points to 194.5 as of 9:24
a.m. in Tokyo, Deutsche Bank prices show, down from this year’s
high of 233.42 on Oct. 5. The nation’s corporate bonds yield 0.8
percent on average, and have lost 1.41 percent this year,
compared with a return of 2.91 percent for the global company
debt market, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes.  The yen has gained about 11 percent in the last six months
against a basket of nine other developed nation currencies
tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes, the
most of the group. While the 12-nation euro has weakened about
1.5 percent over that time, it’s up 1.4 percent in the past
month as the region’s leaders hammered out a plan to avoid a
Greek default, support banks and curb contagion.  G-20 finance ministers and central banks concluded weekend
talks in Paris endorsing parts of the emerging plan to end the
crisis. They set an Oct. 23 deadline for the plan to be
delivered at a summit of European leaders in Brussels.  Germany 
said officials won’t provide the complete fix to the crisis that
global policy makers are pushing for at the meeting.  Dreams Damped  German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  has made it clear that
“dreams that are taking hold again now that with this package
everything will be solved and everything will be over on Monday
won’t be able to be fulfilled,” Steffen Seibert, Merkel’s chief
spokesman, said at a briefing in Berlin yesterday. The search
for an end to the crisis “surely extends well into next year.”  “As Europe introduces remedies for the crisis, markets are
going through a correction and getting relief,” Kogo Horie,
equity analyst at Daiwa Securities Capital Markets, said.
“Whether the rebound lasts will depend on economic fundamentals,
and the euro will serve as a gauge.”  Canon expects the yen will average 115 per euro in the six
months to Dec. 31, the Tokyo-based company said in July. The yen
has appreciated 1 percent against the euro this year, touching
100.76 on Oct. 4, the strongest since June 2001.  Currency Fluctuations  The company at the time projected foreign-exchange
fluctuations would reduce its sales this fiscal year by 83.8
billion yen and shave 51.3 billion yen from operating profit, or
revenue minus the cost of goods sold and administrative expenses.  Canon, which has no bonds outstanding, is rated AA by
Standard & Poor’s, a level higher than Japan’s sovereign debt.
Only two other companies in the Nikkei index,  NTT DoCoMo Inc. (9437) 
and  Nippon Telegraph & Telephone Corp. (9432) , have the same rating as
Canon.  The company may also benefit from factory stoppages at
 Nikon Corp. (7731) ’s  Thailand  factories caused by the country’s worst
floods in more than five years. Nikon hasn’t been able to
determine when it can resume operations at the flooded plant in
Ayutthaya, Thailand, its biggest manufacturing base for single-
lens reflex cameras, Tokyo-based spokesman Yasuyuki Takeda said
Oct. 12.  While Canon also stopped output at two plants in the area,
the company may move production to other locations, Berger said.  “The fact that Canon can shift production to other
manufacturing locations and limit the damage gives it a relative
advantage over Nikon,” bolstering investor sentiment, Akino at
Ichiyoshi Investment said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yoshiaki Nohara in  Tokyo  at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net ;
Satoshi Kawano in Tokyo at 
 skawano1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  