-- 
Cardinals Oust Brewers, Set Up World Baseball Series Meeting With Rangers

-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-10-17T06:13:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/cardinals-oust-brewers-set-up-world-series-meeting-with-rangers.html
The  St. Louis Cardinals  are headed
to the World Series for the 18th time in franchise history after
a 12-6 win over the  Milwaukee  Brewers that was fueled by nine
runs over the first three innings.  Albert Pujols , Rafael Furcal and David Freese hit home runs
for the Cardinals, who won the best-of-seven National League
Championship Series 4-2. The teams combined for six home runs in
last night’s Game 6 at Miller Park in Milwaukee.  The Cardinals face the  Texas Rangers  in the best-of-seven
Major League Baseball championship series starting in St. Louis
in two days. The Cardinals are back for the first time since
winning in 2006, while the American League-champion Rangers lost
last year’s World Series to the  San Francisco Giants .  “It’s amazing, but we’ve got one step to climb and it’s
the big one,” Pujols, the Cardinals’ All-Star first baseman,
said in a televised interview after going 2-for-4 with two runs
batted in. “That Texas team is looking pretty good.”  St. Louis didn’t wrap up a postseason spot until the final
day of the regular season, claiming the NL’s wild card berth by
one game over Atlanta, which lost its final five games. The
Cardinals trailed the Braves by 10 1/2 games on Aug. 25 and won
23 of 32 games to end the season.  “We had a lot of adversity, but we found a way to get in
and have been playing really well,” Cardinals outfielder Matt Holliday told reporters. “Now we’re going to the  World
Series .”  Postseason Wins  Pujols and the Cardinals knocked off the 102-win
 Philadelphia Phillies  in the first round before ousting the
Brewers, who had finished six games ahead of St. Louis in the NL
Central Division.  “We had so much adversity and the guys never quit,”
Cardinals manager  Tony La Russa  said. “All of a sudden it
clicked. Once it got going, the guys played every game like it
was the last game of their life and it worked.”  The Cardinals jumped out to a 4-0 lead in the top of the
first inning against a Milwaukee team that had the best home
record in baseball this season at 57-24.  Lance Berkman  had a
run-scoring single and Freese followed with a three-run homer
off Brewers starting pitcher Shaun Marcum. Freese was voted the
NLCS Most Valuable Player after hitting .545 with three homers
and nine RBI against the Brewers.  “This means the world to me,” said Freese, who grew up in
 St. Louis . “Not only to get to the World Series, but to be a
part of this group of guys.”  Marcum went 0-2 with a 14.90 earned run average in three
postseason starts for Milwaukee.  Cardinals Pull Away  While Corey Hart, Rickie Weeks and Jonathan Lucroy hit home
runs over the first two innings to pull the Brewers within 5-4,
the Cardinals added four more runs in the third inning off Chris
Narveson.  Freese and Holliday each scored three runs for the
Cardinals, whose six-run win came one day after the Rangers
clinched back-to-back pennants with a 15-5 rout of the  Detroit
Tigers  in Game 6 of the ALCS.  The Cardinals have won 10 World Series titles, yet have
lost three of their past four appearances in the championship
round, including a four-game sweep against  Boston  in 2004. The
NL hasn’t produced consecutive World Series champions since
1982, when the Cardinals followed titles by the Pittsburgh
Pirates, Phillies and  Los Angeles Dodgers .  St. Louis had the top-scoring offense in the NL this year
and has averaged 6.6 runs a game in the postseason while the
Cardinals’ bullpen has gone 4-0 with a 2.55 ERA. Five relievers
combined to hold the Brewers to two runs over the final seven
innings last night.  “Our bullpen was incredible,” said Cardinals starting
pitcher Chris Carpenter, who is scheduled to start Game 1 of the
World Series. “The starting pitching didn’t go deep in these
games, but you can get hot in a short series. If you play hard
enough, you can get an opportunity.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  