-- 
Cartier in Japan Signals Luxury Rebound

-- B y   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s
-- 
2011-10-18T06:40:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/cartier-in-japan-signals-luxury-rebound.html
Japan’s luxury market is set to grow
for the first time in four years as status-conscious consumers
help rebuild the economy, encouraging expansion by Gianni
Versace SpA and  Mulberry Group Plc. (MUL)   Japanese sales of  luxury goods  may rise 2 percent in 2011,
following a contraction that started in 2007 and wiped 14
percent off the industry’s value in the world’s third-largest
economy, Bain & Co. estimates.  Confidence is returning after an earthquake in March
devastated northern Japan and triggered the world’s worst
nuclear crisis in 25 years. As growth resumes, deflation ends
and tourists visit from  China , the archipelago is drawing
investment from companies including Mulberry, the British maker
of 4,000-pound ($6,325) Bayswater bags. Versace returned to
Japan this year after closing its operations there in 2009.  “Consumers are back in stores,” said Claudia D’Arpizio, a
Milan-based partner at Bain. “Japan is still a market where you
need to be present because it’s a big chunk of the pie and also
because the young generation are becoming more and more trend
setters.”  Renewed optimism in Japan, boosted by reconstruction after
the earthquake, and a desire to control distribution is spurring
investment. Cavalli Group, the Italian fashion house known for
its animal-print clothing, opened its first directly operated
store in  Tokyo  last month.  Mass-Market Appeal  Mulberry is close to signing a distribution deal in Japan
with a joint venture owned by Club 21 and a subsidiary of Isetan
Mitsukoshi Holdings Ltd. The 10-year accord anticipates the
opening of multiple shop-in-shops within the IMH network as well
as new flagship stores in Tokyo and  Osaka , Mulberry said Oct. 4.  Luxury is almost a mass-market business in Japan with a
large consumer base that’s more value conscious than in other
countries, D’Arpizio said. Direct distribution allows companies
to control pricing and target customer groups, she said.  Mainstream consumers shelled out 26 percent more on luxury
clothes and accessories in the first half, according to American
Express Business Insights. By comparison, shoppers that make up
the top 5 percent of annual purchases in  Japan  cut spending by
22 percent in the period, the researcher said Sept. 20.  “I buy whatever I want even right after the March 11”
quake, said Kumiko Tominaga, a 42-year-old working at her
family’s business who bought a Cartier bracelet for 800,000 yen
($10,400).  Almost 50 percent of all Japanese women over 20 own a
Vuitton handbag, MF Global estimates.  $25 Billion Market  Japan’s share of worldwide sales of items like sapphire and
diamond necklaces and calf leather handbags retreated to 11
percent in 2010 from 12 percent a year earlier, while demand
surged by a third in China, Bain estimates. Japan’s luxury
market will reach about 18.5 billion euros ($24.8 billion), or
10 percent of the total, this year, according to the consultant.  Greater China is set to replace Japan this year as the
second-largest market for luxury goods behind the U.S., rising
to 23.5 billion euros, according to Bain. Chinese tourism into
Japan is helping to boost growth.  “We see Chinese shoppers going to Japan, mainly in Tokyo
in the Ginza area,” said Alexis Babeau, deputy chief executive
officer of  PPR (PP)  SA’s luxury division. Chinese consumers spent as
much as 15 billion euros on luxury goods outside their home
market, according to Bain.  Tourists from mainland China “will continue to be a major
contributor to retail sales in the Asia region,” HSBC analysts
including Erwan Rambourg said in a report this month. “These
‘walking ATMs’ are spreading across the region.”  Lost Luster  Worldwide spending on luxury goods may rise 10 percent this
year before slowing to a “solid single-digit” percentage
increase in 2012, Bain estimates. Global sales reached 173
billion euros in 2010, according to the consultant.  After more than 20 years of growth fueled by status-seeking
and the perceived need to fit in, Japan’s luxury market lost its
luster in the last decade. Consumers curbed spending on products
as they got older, the young rejected the global brands worn by
their parents and prices, which were once as much as three times
higher than in  Europe , stayed the same or fell.  Japan’s economy may expand 2.5 percent in 2012 after
contracting this year, according to estimates compiled by
Bloomberg. Unemployment is expected to be 4.4 percent, about
half the rate in the U.S. and euro zone.  Even before the earthquake, which forced some luxury
companies to close stores in Tokyo for more than 10 days, there
were signs that Japanese demand was stabilizing.  Ferragamo Trend  Salvatore Ferragamo SpA has said its Japanese sales, which
account for 13 percent of the shoemaker’s total, were growing in
the first quarter until the earthquake struck. While the
disaster caused a “significant” slowdown in sales in March as
well as a store closure, revenue growth resumed in the three
months through June, the Florence, Italy-based company said.  Ferragamo’s 1 percent increase in first-half sales in Japan
was “better than expected,” Chairman Ferruccio Ferragamo said.
“The trend can continue.”  PPR, owner of the Gucci and Bottega Veneta brands, has
posted single-digit percentage revenue growth in Japan since
May, Chairman and CEO Francois-Henri Pinault said in September.
Cie. Financiere Richemont SA reported a 7 percent increase in
Japanese sales in the five months through August, which is “an
encouraging trend seen in the broader luxury sector,” according
to Thomas Chauvet, an analyst at Citigroup Inc.  Vuitton Handbags  Burberry Group Plc (BRBY)  said last week it sees no signs of a
slowdown in any markets, echoing PPR and  LVMH Moet Hennessy
Louis Vuitton SA (MC) , the world’s largest maker of luxury goods.
LVMH, which gets about 9 percent of sales in Japan, reported
third-quarter revenue that beat analyst estimates today. Sales
rose 18 percent to 6.01 billion euros.  Tobu department store in Ikebukuro sold timepieces priced
between 2 million yen and 3 million yen during an August
promotion that generated sales of more than 500 million yen in a
week, according to managing director Keiji Hashimoto. Though
that was more than last year’s campaign, “we didn’t see
customers who bought a 10 million yen watch,” he said.  Masako Ide was shopping for  Louis Vuitton  in Ikebukuro
after shunning purchases in the weeks after the earthquake and
tsunami. “I’m still very cost conscious and select luxuries
carefully,” said the 52-year-old, who had already bought Gucci
and Coach handbags at a discount outlet. “I want to buy more
but it may lead to the bankruptcy of my family.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Roberts  in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 