-- 
McCourts Reach Divorce Settlement With Frank Gaining Control of Dodgers

-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 
2011-10-17T21:23:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/mccourts-reach-divorce-settlement-with-frank-gaining-control-of-dodgers.html
Los Angeles  Dodgers owner  Frank McCourt  and his ex-wife settled their divorce and Jamie McCourt
will withdraw her opposition to a proposed sale of the media
rights of the Major League Baseball team.  “The terms of the settlement, which is already in effect,
will remain private,” Frank and Jamie McCourt said today in a
joint statement.  Jamie McCourt said in a separate statement that she’s
giving up her in interest in the team.  “From the beginning, Jamie has consistently expressed her
willingness to accept a settlement, even if it required her to
give up her interest in the Dodgers, the team she loves, if a
fair resolution were possible,” she said in the statement.
“That has now been achieved through the cooperation of everyone
involved.”  Jamie McCourt will relinquish her claim to be co-owner of
the team in exchange for about $130 million, according to a
person familiar with the matter who didn’t want to be identified
because the settlement isn’t public.  Commissioner’s Monitor  The Dodgers filed for bankruptcy in June after Major League
Baseball Commissioner  Bud Selig  named a monitor to oversee the
team’s day-to-day operations and rejected a proposed television-
rights deal with Fox Sports. The team said it faced a temporary
cash crisis that would be resolved once it sold the TV rights.  Selig has asked U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Kevin Gross in
Wilmington,  Delaware , to strip McCourt of his exclusive right to
reorganize the Dodgers so MLB can try to sell the team.  Frank McCourt last year lost a trial over the validity of a
post-nuptial agreement he claimed made him the sole owner of the
Dodgers. Los Angeles County Superior Court Judge Scott M. Gordon
ruled that the 2004 agreement McCourt and his ex-wife made when
they bought the Dodgers and moved to  California  couldn’t be
enforced.  Robert Siegfried, a Dodgers spokesman, declined to comment
on the settlement.  The divorce case is McCourt v. McCourt, BD514309,
California Superior Court (Los Angeles County). The bankruptcy
case is In re Los Angeles Dodgers LLC, 11-12010,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in Los Angeles at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 