-- 
Cellulosic Ethanol ‘Floodgates’ May Open in 2013, Poet LLC Says

-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 
2011-10-17T16:51:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/cellulosic-ethanol-floodgates-may-open-in-2013-poet-llc-says.html
Cellulosic ethanol output may surge
starting in 2013, when the first commercial-scale plants “open
the floodgates” for the fuel, according to the largest U.S.
corn-based biofuel producer.  Poet LLC plans to start production in 2013 at a 25 million-
gallon-a-year plant in  Iowa  and secured a $105 million
conditional loan guarantee from the U.S. Energy Department this
year, said Greg Hartgraves, the company’s director of research.
Competitors  BP Plc (BP/)  and  Abengoa SA (ABG)  also plan facilities by that
year for the fuel, made from inedible grasses and crop waste.  “My hope is by 2013 when we start seeing some of these
plants come online, that will open the floodgates,” Hartgraves
said today in a telephone interview from  Sioux Falls ,  South
Dakota , where Poet is based. The company is the country’s
biggest corn-based biofuel maker by installed capacity.  The U.S. hasn’t been able to meet federal mandates
established under a 2007  energy law  to blend cellulosic ethanol
with gasoline because insufficient quantities have been
available. The Environmental Protection Agency has had to reduce
the target figure for blenders by more than 90 percent during
the past two years. The annual mandates run through 2022.  “We will ultimately meet the mandate, and that of course
requires a consistent federal  energy policy ,” Hartgraves said,
declining to say when this could happen.  Policy Needs  The government needs to provide investors with confidence
the ethanol mandates won’t be scrapped, he said.  “Even if the technology plays out like we believe it will,
it’s still not an inexpensive technology, and financing is not a
trivial matter,” he said. “Without that consistent energy
policy, it becomes risky for people to invest or finance these
opportunities.”  Cellulosic ethanol differs from conventional ethanol
because it is made from substances such as corn stover, rather
than the edible part of crops.  Poet’s first cellulosic ethanol plant, dubbed Project
Liberty, is being built in Emmetsburg, Iowa, next to an existing
ethanol plant. All Poet’s 27 refineries use corn to make
ethanol, meaning there’s potential to build a cellulosic plant
next to each to make use of the stover, said Hartgraves.  “We’re already looking at what the next plant is going to
look like,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in  London  at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at   landberg@bloomberg.net . 