-- 
Goldman Sachs Buys Stake in Chi-X Global Equity Venue With Morgan Stanley

-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 
2011-10-18T03:54:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/chi-x-global-says-goldman-sachs-getco-quantlab-acquire-stakes.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , Getco LLC,
Morgan Stanley and two other firms bought equal stakes in Chi-X
Global Holdings LLC, the operator of equity markets in Canada
and Japan owned by Instinet Inc.  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  and  Quantlab Group LP  also made
investments, according to a statement issued by Instinet. No
prices were disclosed. New York-based Instinet, a unit of  Nomura
Holdings Inc. (8604)  in  Tokyo , remains majority owner of Chi-X, Tal Cohen, its chief executive officer, said in a phone interview.  Brokers have become owners of exchanges and alternative
trading venues to get more say in how the markets are run and
ensure they remain competitive with bigger rivals. Exchanges are
seeking combinations to build scale and process more
transactions on a single trading technology infrastructure.  “Having major order-flow providers as equity partners
gives trading venues an important competitive edge,” Justin Schack, managing director for market structure analysis at New
York-based Rosenblatt Securities Inc., wrote in an e-mail.
“Firms that own part of an exchange or alternative market have
an incentive to favor that venue, within the bounds of best-
execution obligations and regulations.”  In return, brokers get more influence over pricing, the
rules that define the market and new products, Shack said. They
also get the “opportunity to realize capital gains should the
venue go public or be sold,” he said.  Proprietary Trading  Getco in  Chicago  and Houston-based Quantlab are proprietary
trading firms that buy and sell stocks and financial products
with their own money. Bank of America in Charlotte, North
Carolina, and New York-based Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley
are among the biggest banks trading U.S. equities.  Chi-X  Japan   accounted  for 2.7 percent of the Nikkei 225
Stock Average by value traded in September, according to the
company. Chi-X Canada had  10 percent  of Canadian equities in the
third quarter, data from the Investment Industry Regulatory
Organization of Canada shows.  Financial Technology Partners LP and FTP Securities LLC
advised Instinet and Chi-X Global on the transaction.  Chi-X Global  is considering an equity participation program
that could give its owners varying stakes in the company based
on their supply of orders to its markets, Cohen said. The five
brokers made equal capital investments in Chi-X Global and no
program offering incentives is currently in place, he said.  “We will look at different strategies to broaden
ownership,” Cohen said. “We’ll definitely consider a strategy
where we provide ownership stakes for participation. That’s
separate from the deal.”  European System  Such a plan could work similarly to one by Chi-X Europe
Ltd., which is separate from Chi-X Global, Cohen said. The
European market is owned by Instinet and more than a dozen
brokers including Getco,  Morgan Stanley (MS) , Goldman Sachs and Bank
of America. That venue runs Europe’s largest alternative trading
system and agreed in February to be bought by Bats Global
Markets Inc. in Lenexa,  Kansas . The deal is expected to close in
the first quarter.  “Chi-X Europe is a good example,” Cohen said. “There was
an initial capital investment and then over time firms increased
their stakes or more firms came on board through those types of
programs. It helped build the market and has proven to be
successful.”  Global Mergers  Deutsche Boerse AG in  Frankfurt  said in February it would
acquire  NYSE Euronext (NYX) , operator of the  New York  Stock Exchange,
for $9.53 billion. The value of that agreement has plummeted by
26 percent. Sydney-based  ASX Ltd. (ASX) ’s merger agreement with
Singapore Exchange Ltd. and London Stock Exchange Group Plc’s
combination with  TMX Group Inc. (X)  in Toronto fell through as
shareholders balked or regulators nixed the cross-border deals.  The New York Stock Exchange and other markets used to be
membership-based entities owned by the brokerage firms that
traded there. NYSE went public in 2006 by purchasing Chicago-
based Archipelago Holdings Inc. Nasdaq Stock Market acquired
electronic rivals and later the Philadelphia and Boston
exchanges. As exchanges converted members into shareholders and
regulators changed trading rules, brokers began to form
competing markets or take stakes in them to reduce the  fees  they
pay for executions and make sure their needs are met.  Bats Global Markets, Chi-X  Europe  and Jersey City, New
Jersey-based Direct Edge Holdings LLC, which operates two U.S.
stock markets, have sold stakes to groups of brokers that could
send them orders. Bats is owned in part by Bank of America,
Tradebot Systems Inc. and Getco. Direct Edge is owned by the
International Securities Exchange, Goldman Sachs, Citadel LLC
and Knight Capital Group Inc.  Overseas Ambitions  Chi-X Global plans to extend its holdings internationally
with the help of new owners.  “We want to expand into markets principally in  Asia  and
 Latin America  and bring regulatory reform and technological
competition to the benefit of issuers and investors,” Cohen
said. While individual markets haven’t yet been discussed, the
brokerage investors in Chi-X Global “see the opportunity to
open up markets,” he said.  Chi-X Global is already expanding its businesses. It’s
preparing to introduce Chi-X  Australia , a market designed to
compete with Sydney-based ASX’s Australian stock exchange on Oct.
31. The company also operates Chi-East, a joint venture with the
Singapore Exchange that runs a dark pool for Japanese,  Hong Kong 
and Singapore securities. Dark pools are private venues that
don’t display prices in advance. Australian securities will be
added to the platform in the coming months.  A system called Chi-FX will start in  Brazil  early next year.
That market will provide quotes in domestic equities in
different currencies and is a venture with Sao Paulo-based
 BM&FBovespa SA (BVMF3) , Cohen said.  Sang Lee, managing partner at Boston-based Aite Group LLC,
said in a phone interview that selling stakes to brokers has
been successful in drawing volume to new venues.  “Brokers invest in many types of ventures,” Lee said of
the Chi-X Global deal. “They’ll hedge their bets. But if this
succeeds, they’ll certainly have a strong say in determining how
the market structure changes happen and how they benefit from
that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nina Mehta in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 