-- 
Chinese Banks Increase Mortgage Rates as Property Prices Decline

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-10-17T07:17:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/chinese-banks-increase-mortgage-rates-as-property-prices-decline.html
At least two Chinese banks increased
interest rates on mortgages for first homes, after property
prices posted their first monthly decline in a year.  China Construction Bank Corp. (939) , the nation’s second-biggest
by market value, increased rates in Beijing to 1.05 times the
central bank’s benchmark lending rate, a press officer said
today, declining to be identified in line with bank policy.
 China  Everbright Co. raised its first-home mortgage rate in
Shanghai to the same level, a press officer said, confirming a
report in Economic Information Daily. The benchmark for loans of
more than five years is 7.05 percent.  Tighter lending for first homes could “freeze” the
market, slowing the economy, Alan Jin, a property analyst at
Mizuho Asia Securities Ltd. in  Hong Kong , said by phone. New
loans in September were the lowest in almost two years after the
central bank raised borrowing costs five times in 12 months and
boosted reserve requirements to rein in inflation and deflate an
asset bubble.  Home prices  fell 0.03 percent last month, according to
SouFun Holdings Ltd., after the government raised the minimum
down payment for second-home mortgages and cities imposed
restrictions to curb speculation.  Industrial and Commercial  Bank of China Ltd. (3988) , the nation’s
biggest, Bank of China Ltd., Bank of Communications Ltd. have so
far refrained from raising rates on first-home loans,
spokespeople said.  Agricultural Bank of China Ltd. (601288)  declined to
comment.  Small Businesses  China ordered banks to boost lending to small businesses
last week and pledged tax cuts after the collapse of some
manufacturers in Wenzhou, Zhejiang province, which could further
squeeze funding for homebuyers. Interest rates shouldn’t exceed
1.3 times the central bank’s benchmark, the city’s government
said this month.  Banks charged interest rates higher than the benchmark for
61 percent of new loans in June, almost 12 percentage points
higher than in January, according to the People’s Bank of China.
The one-year lending rate is 6.56 percent.  “It’s normal for banks to” increase rates because
“ mortgage rates  are low if compared with other loans such as
for small and medium-sized companies” and “other banks will
probably follow suit,” Sun Peng, a Beijing-based analyst at
Bank of China Ltd., said by phone.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  