-- 
China Oil Processing Growth Slows With Fuel Demand, NDRC Says

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-10-17T02:34:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/china-oil-processing-growth-slows-with-fuel-demand-ndrc-says.html
China ’s growth in oil processing
fell in the third quarter as fuel demand increased more slowly
in the world’s biggest energy consumer, the National Development
and Reform Commission said today.  The nation turned 99.7 million metric tons of crude oil
into fuels in July through September, an increase of 1.2 percent
from a year earlier, the top economic planning agency known as
NDRC said today in a  statement  on its website, citing
preliminary data. That compares with 3.3 percent growth in the
second quarter. Crude refining in the first nine months rose 4.6
percent to 303.4 million tons.  China’s economic growth slowed to 9.3 percent in the third
quarter from 9.5 percent in the second, according to the median
estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of economists. Fuel demand
expansion has started to slow because of narrowing growth in car
sales, NDRC said in the statement.  Fuel demand, measured by domestic production plus net
imports, rose 3.2 percent in the third quarter from a year
earlier to 62.1 million tons, NDRC said. This compares with 5
percent growth in the preceding three months, it said.  Consumption of fuels including gasoline, diesel and
kerosene increased 5.7 percent to 180.4 million tons from
January through September, NDRC said.  Fuel inventories at the end of September fell to 11.5
million tons from 15.6 million at the end of February, NDRC said.  China’s  natural gas  demand rose 20 percent from a year
earlier in the first nine months to 93.7 billion cubic meters,
NDRC said in a separate statement on its website.  The country imported 22.5 billion cubic meters of gas in
the period, comprising 11.2 billion as liquefied natural gas and
11.3 billion of piped supplies from Central Asia, NDRC said.  Domestic gas production increased 7 percent from a year
earlier to 74.4 billion cubic meters in January to September,
according to the NDRC.  --Chua Baizhen. Editors:  Mike Anderson , Alex Kwiatkowski  To contact the reporter on this story:
Baizhen Chua in Beijing at 
 bchua14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  