-- 
China Will Write Off $3 Trillion, Says Das of ‘Extreme Money’

-- B y   J a m e s   P r e s s l e y
-- 
2011-10-17T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/china-will-write-off-3-trillion-says-das-of-extreme-money-.html
If Satyajit Das is right,  China  will
end up writing off its $3.2 trillion in foreign reserves. Europe
is shambling toward Japanese-style growth. And a day of
reckoning is at hand for creditors and debtors alike.  “Europeans are going to have to recapitalize their banks,”
Das said as we discussed the sovereign-debt crisis and his new
book, “Extreme Money,” over coffee in a Brussels hotel. “You
have made bad loans; you’re going to have to write them off.
That is the one axiomatic law of making a bad loan.”  Das, 54, is the puckish derivatives specialist who
lampooned banking excesses in “Traders, Guns & Money.” He was in
town to brief members of the European Parliament on the crisis.
Looking relaxed in a black V-necked sweater and black shirt, he
talked about  Germany ’s fling with Greece, China’s unpaid loans
and what  Angela Merkel  can learn from  Winston Churchill . We
began with  Dexia SA (DEXB) ’s second bailout.  Das: The European Banking Authority gave Dexia  a clean bill
of health  in the last three months. What does that tell us? The
unwillingness to address the leverage in Dexia is astonishing,
especially given how the French at the start of the crisis went
on about “les affaires capitalistes sont finies.”  Whether you bail out Greece or you bail out your banks, all
these countries will incur savage costs. Moody’s has now put
 Belgium  on negative credit watch. I don’t think  France  will be
far behind.  Saving Germany?  Pressley: Is the Greek rescue really an attempt to save
French banks and German exports?  Das: It has always been about that. The hypocrisy of the
Germans is staggering. They run the same relationship as China
runs with the  United States : They funded the peripheral
economies to fuel their exports. Everybody knows why Germany
wants to save the euro. The debtors have sinned, but the
creditors are hardly without sin. No country can run permanently
large trade surpluses, and no country can run permanently large
trade deficits.  Pressley: How can a land as large as China run such a
surplus? It works for a  Korea , but China?  Das: It’s unsustainable. That’s the lesson we should have
learned from 2007. We instead shoveled everything under the
carpet, and it’s going to come back to haunt us. China’s going
to have to write off its $3 trillion.  Chinese history is full of discontinuities. Why wouldn’t
they suddenly turn around and say, well, we lent you $3 trillion
and you’re not going to pay us back. So we’ve written it off and
we won’t buy any more U.S. Treasuries until the U.S. reforms its
fiscal position. Any country whose symbol is the Great Wall is
hardly incapable of isolationism.  China’s Ponzi  Pressley: Chinese state-controlled banks are meantime on
the hook for bad loans to state-owned companies. Is that a  Ponzi
scheme ?  Das: It is. I do a simple piece of mathematics. The Chinese
say they’re growing at about 10 percent. But they’re pumping the
system full of bank debt equal to 30 percent to 40 percent of
gross domestic product. Of that, a third to a quarter isn’t
coming back.  If one-third doesn’t come back, they’re losing 10 percent.
The state-owned companies’ production shows up as GDP. Are they
growing at 10 percent, or do the losses mean they’re growing at
zero? Are they converting capital into income? Isn’t that what
the U.S. did when it borrowed against  home equity  to fund
growth?  Risk for U.S.  Pressley: What does  Europe ’s crisis means for the U.S.?  Das: In  New York  a few weeks ago, somebody said to me,
“This European debt problem: What’s it got to do with us?” I
said, ‘Well, based on 2010 data you export about $400 billion a
year to Europe, which is about 20 percent of your exports. Plus
you export a significant volume of intermediate goods to
 Southeast Asia  and China, which they repackage and sell as
finished goods to Europe. So if you don’t mind wiping out, say,
20-plus percent of your exports, you’ve got no problem.’  Pressley: Are European politicians trying to patch this up
with Band-Aids?  Das: That’s the danger. It’s like having cancer. If people
admit they have cancer, then you can look at all the options for
treatment. If you stay in a state of denial and let the disease
metastasize, it doesn’t give you a good long-term prognosis.  In a democracy, you have to have an honest discourse. Go
back to Churchill, whom I’m not a great admirer of. What was his
most important characteristic in the early part of the war? He
was honest. He said, we have to fight this because there is no
choice. We either fight this or we die.  Lost Decade  Pressley: What happens if  Greece  defaults?  Das: Its banking system will be bankrupt. The government
won’t be able to borrow from overseas. Even with all the
austerity, Greece is going to shrink by about 20 percent over
three years.  The rest of Europe is then trapped. Savings will be
absorbed in bank bailouts, and the ratings of these countries
will come under pressure. They will have trapped themselves in a
cycle of low growth. That’s the best case.  Pressley: That sounds like  Japan ’s lost decade.  Das: In hindsight, Japan may be judged better than people
think.  “Extreme Money: Masters of the Universe and the Cult of
Risk” is published by  FT Press  (459 pages, $29.99, 20 pounds).
To buy this book in  North America , click  here .  (James Pressley writes for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.
This interview was condensed from a longer conversation.)  To contact the writer on the story:
James Pressley in Brussels at 
 jpressley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 