-- 
China Swaps Trade at Four-Month Low as Growth Predicted to Slow

-- B y   K y o u n g w h a   K i m
-- 
2011-10-17T04:00:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/china-swaps-trade-at-four-month-low-as-growth-predicted-to-slow.html
China ’s interest-rate swaps traded
at a four-month low on speculation policy makers will loosen
monetary policy to support a slowing economy.  Annual expansion in gross domestic product slowed for a
third quarter to 9.3 percent in the three months ended Sept. 30,
according to the median estimate of 22 economists in a Bloomberg
News survey before data due in Beijing tomorrow. The State
Council last week unveiled measures including tax breaks and
easier access to bank loans to help small firms, after the
collapse of manufacturers in Wenzhou city.  “The focus is now on growth,” said Wee-Khoon Chong, a
fixed-income strategist at Societe Generale SA in  Hong Kong .
Authorities have already “started to ease policy in an
unconventional way.”  The one-year swap rate, the fixed cost to receive the
seven-day repurchase rate, was little changed at 3.45 percent,
the lowest level since June 8. It fell 28 basis points, or 0.28
percentage point, in the five days ended Oct. 14. That was the
sixth straight weekly drop in the rate, the longest stretch of
declines since 2008.  Societe Generale , France’s second-largest bank by market
value, predicts China’s GDP growth will decelerate to 8.4
percent this quarter, reducing the increase in 2011 to 9.1
percent from 10 percent in 2010.  Bond Sale  The finance ministry sold 17.6 billion yuan ($2.8 billion)
of three-year bonds today at a yield of 3.67 percent on behalf
of local governments, according to a trader at a finance company
that participates in the auctions. The ministry issued similar-
maturity local  government bonds  at a yield of 4.01 percent on
Aug. 22.  The seven-day repurchase rate, a gauge of funding
availability in the financial system, rose 20 basis points, or
0.2 percentage point, to 3.35 percent in  Shanghai , according to
a weighted average compiled by the National Interbank Funding
Center.  “The money market has seen 3.5 percent as what is
acceptable, as a medium-term equilibrium rate,” said  Frances
Cheung , a Hong Kong-based strategist at Credit Agricole CIB.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at   shendry@bloomberg.net  