-- 
Citigroup Closing Proprietary Unit After Equity Trading Rout

-- B y   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 
2011-10-18T19:00:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/citigroup-plans-to-shutter-proprietary-unit-after-rout-in-equity-trading.html
Citigroup Inc. (C) , the third-biggest
U.S. lender, said it’s closing a proprietary-trading unit that
incurred losses in the third quarter, as regulators prepare to
restrict banks from making bets with shareholder cash.  The company is almost “two-thirds done” winding down the
Equity Principal Strategies unit, Chief Financial Officer  John Gerspach  said yesterday in a conference call with analysts.
Market turmoil caused a revenue decline for the unit, which
suffered losses as it exited trading positions, Gerspach said.  Chief Executive Officer  Vikram Pandit , 54, is shutting the
business as lawmakers draft the so-called Volcker rule, which
aims to restrict banks from making bets with shareholder money.
Other firms including  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  Morgan
Stanley (MS)  already have exited similar businesses. New York-based
Citigroup partly blamed Equity Principal Strategies for a 73
percent slump in third-quarter revenue from equities-trading.  “Equity Principal Strategies is a de minimis part of
Citi’s overall trading operation,” Danielle Romero-Apsilos, a
spokeswoman, said in an e-mailed statement. “As it does not fit
with Citi’s business model under the impending Volcker rule, it
is in the process of being wound down.”  The proprietary-trading unit is headed by Sutesh Sharma,
who’s based in  London  and previously worked for New York-based
Morgan Stanley and Old Lane Partners LP, a hedge fund that
Pandit part-owned before selling it to Citigroup in 2007. Sharma
intends to leave the bank and start his own hedge fund, two
people familiar with the matter said in August. The team manages
about $2 billion, one of the people said. Sharma didn’t comment.  Revenue Tumbles  Sharma’s team is part of Citigroup’s equities-trading
business, run by Derek Bandeen. The division’s revenue,
excluding an accounting gain, tumbled to $289 million in the
third quarter, from about $1.04 billion in the same period a
year earlier. Moshe Orenbuch, an analyst with Credit Suisse
Group AG, had estimated revenue of $825 million for the three
months ended Sept. 30.  Citigroup’s proprietary-trading and equity-derivatives
units were “largely responsible” for the slump and “difficult
market conditions” drove the decline, the company said
yesterday in a statement. The bank posted a $3.77 billion third-
quarter profit, including a $1.9 billion accounting gain.  Citigroup advanced $1.65, or 5.9 percent, to $29.58 at 2:24
p.m. in  New York  trading. The shares had dropped 41 percent this
year through yesterday.  Underperformed Peers  “Citigroup has unwound only two-thirds of its principal
strategy business, unlike other banks that started the process
late last year, suggesting that there may still be losses
ahead,”  David Hilder , an analyst at Susquehanna Financial Group
LLLP who has a “neutral” rating on the bank’s shares, said in
a note to clients today.  Bandeen’s unit underperformed Wall Street peers in the
quarter, excluding accounting adjustments. Equities-trading
revenue at Goldman Sachs Group Inc., the fifth-biggest U.S. bank
by assets, rose about 8 percent to $2.18 billion from a year
earlier.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , the largest lender, posted a 15
percent drop to $1.05 billion and  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , the
second-biggest, reported a 21 percent decline to $757 million.  Morgan Stanley, owner of the world’s biggest brokerage, may
increase equities-trading revenue to $1.26 billion, compared
with $1.12 billion last year, according to  Roger Freeman , an
analyst at Barclays Plc. Morgan Stanley is scheduled to report
third-quarter results tomorrow at 7:15 a.m. in New York.  Volcker Rule  Regulators published the Volcker rule last week for public
comment. Named for former Federal Reserve Chairman  Paul Volcker ,
the rule would ban banks from trading for their own accounts.
The firms would be allowed to make short-term trades for hedging
and market-making. Pandit said last week that the rule may have
struck “the right balance” between the two.  “It’s a volatile business they’re getting out of,”  Gerard Cassidy , an analyst with Royal Bank of Canada who has an
“outperform” rating on Citigroup shares, said in a phone
interview. “If you’ve got a holding company that’s being
regulated by  U.S. bank  regulators, being involved in higher-risk
businesses may not be the best use of the bank’s capital.”  Bandeen previously worked for Morgan Stanley as head of
European equities. Pandit and Citigroup Chief Operating Officer
John Havens also held executive roles tied to equities trading
at the New York-based brokerage.  Bandeen restructured Citigroup’s equities unit in April,
promoting Mike Pringle to a new position leading global equities
trading and placing him in charge of risk, trading personnel and
use of capital, according to an internal memo.  “Clearly trading is something that from a performance
perspective and a profitability perspective, it’s just nowhere
near where it needs to be to compete effectively,” said Todd Hagerman, an analyst with Sterne Agee & Leach Inc. who has a
“buy” rating on Citigroup shares. “You want to be a global
player.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Donal Griffin in New York at 
 Dgriffin10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 