-- 
Citigroup Beats Estimates on Accounting Gain, Credit Quality

-- B y   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 
2011-10-17T20:17:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/citigroup-profit-rises-74-beats-estimates-on-accounting-gain.html
Citigroup Inc. (C) , the third-biggest
U.S. bank, said profit rose 74 percent, beating analysts’
estimates on a $1.9 billion accounting gain and a reduction in
losses tied to soured loans.  Net income for the third quarter was $3.77 billion, or
$1.23 a share, compared with $2.17 billion, or 72 cents, in the
same period a year earlier, the New York-based bank said today
in a statement. The average estimate of 25 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg was 82 cents. Excluding the accounting benefit,
earnings per share were 84 cents.  Citigroup’s credit-valuation adjustment, or CVA, mirrored a
$1.9 billion gain by  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  last week. The benefit
helped Citigroup Chief Executive Officer Vikram Pandit, 54,
weather a quarter in which its shares tumbled 38 percent amid
concern revenue from trading and  investment-banking  would drop
because of Europe’s debt crisis and the U.S. debt-ceiling fight.
Excluding the accounting adjustment, revenue fell 8 percent.  “They are making progress,”  Thomas Brown , CEO of Second
Curve Capital LLC, said in an interview with Betty Liu on
Bloomberg Television’s “In the Loop.” “All the big banks, I
think, are moving in the right direction.”  Late Payments  Chief Financial Officer  John Gerspach  said on a conference
call with analysts that the company may see an increase in late
payments and losses on home loans “reflecting re-defaults of
previously modified mortgages.” The pace of improvement in
home-equity delinquencies has slowed, Gerspach said.  Citigroup dropped 47 cents, or 1.7 percent, to $27.93 in
composite trading on the New York Stock Exchange at 4:15 p.m.
Shares of the company were down 40 percent this year through
last week. The  KBW Bank Index (BKX) , which tracks the performance of
24 U.S. banks, fell 27 percent in the same period.  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , the largest U.S. home lender, said year-
over-year net income rose 22 percent to a record $4.06 billion,
while revenue declined to $19.6 billion from $20.4 billion in
the second quarter. Wells Fargo fell 7.5 percent.  Citigroup said last month it would limit hiring to only
“critical” jobs as Pandit, whose strategy is to expand in
emerging markets, tries to control costs. Pandit is also trying
to boost revenue as new regulations on minimum capital levels
take effect.  ‘Challenging’ Environment  “Citi continues to navigate a challenging economic
environment and delivered another quarter of solid operating
results,” Pandit said in the statement. “We continue to manage
our risk prudently while growing the businesses that are core to
our strategy.”  Citigroup’s total revenue including the CVA gain was $20.8
billion, compared with $20.7 billion for the same period last
year. Excluding the adjustment, revenue fell to $18.9 billion.
The bank’s expenses rose 8 percent to $12.5 billion as Pandit
increased operations in  Latin America  and  Asia .  Gerspach said expenses for the year would be at the low end
of the bank’s $48 billion to $50 billion guidance range,
excluding the impact of foreign-exchange, legal costs and
related costs.  The bank’s losses on bad loans dropped 41 percent to $4.51
billion from $7.66 billion for the same period last year, as
fewer customers missed their payments. Citigroup reduced its
provision for losses on future loans by $1.42 billion, compared
with $1.97 billion last year.  Securities and Banking  The CVA helped Citigroup’s securities and banking unit,
which includes trading and investment banking, post a $2.14
billion profit compared with $1.36 billion for the same period
last year and $1.19 billion in the previous quarter. Excluding
the CVA, revenue tumbled across all trading and investment-
banking businesses amid market turmoil caused by the sovereign
debt crisis in  Europe  and concerns that the global economy was
weakening, the bank said.  Revenue from fixed-income trading excluding the accounting
change fell 33 percent to $2.3 billion from about $3.5 billion
in the same period last year and $3.03 billion in the second
quarter of this year.  “When an investor looks at the results, they should look
at the core operations,” said David Knutson, a credit analyst
with Legal & General Investment Management in  Chicago . “The CVA
will offset the operating weaknesses primarily in investment
banking.”  Accounting Gain  Most of the accounting gain stems from a rule that required
Citigroup to write down the value of its debts as investors grew
less confident of the bank’s ability to repay them during the
quarter. This led to a widening of the bank’s credit spreads,
the extra yield investors demand to own a corporate bond rather
than U.S. Treasury notes. Credit-default swaps tied to
Citigroup’s debt, which typically climb as investor confidence
deteriorates, soared during the quarter.  The gain is required under the theory that a profit would
be realized if the debt were repurchased at a discount.  Revenue from trading equities tumbled 73 percent to $289
million from $1 billion last year and from $812 million in the
second quarter, excluding the CVA gain. The bank blamed a slump
in revenue from “principal strategies,” which includes
proprietary trading, where Citigroup places its own money on
market bets. Revenue from the trading of derivatives, contracts
whose value is derived from financial instruments including
shares, also declined.  Mike Pringle  Derek Bandeen runs Citigroup’s equities business. In an
April overhaul, Bandeen promoted Mike Pringle to a new position
leading global equities trading, placing him in charge of risk,
trading personnel and use of capital, according to an internal
memo.  Fees from investment banking, which includes advising
clients on mergers and acquisitions as well as managing sales of
customers’ bonds and shares, fell 21 percent to $736 million
from $930 million last year, the bank said. Citigroup underwrote
$21.1 billion of U.S. corporate bonds during the third quarter,
down from $35.8 billion for the same period last year, as
overall issuance tumbled, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “There was no product set or geography that allowed you to
escape the volatility that plagued this quarter,” said Charles Peabody, an analyst with Portales Partners LLC, who has a
“hold” rating on the firm’s shares. “Citigroup will not be
immune from that.”  Profit at the bank’s transaction-services unit slid 3
percent to $892 million as expenses tied to “continued
investment spending” increased 17 percent to $1.44 billion.  Regional Banking  Citigroup’s regional consumer bank, run by Manuel Medina- Mora, boosted profit by 31 percent to $1.61 billion, the company
said. The North America division’s revenue slumped 9 percent to
$3.42 billion. Profit increased to $692 million from $177
million last year due to a release from loan-loss reserves and
fewer bad loans.  Consumer-banking profit from outside the U.S. fell 12
percent to $919 million, Citigroup said. While sales gained 10
percent, operating expenses rose 12 percent to $2.9 billion, due
in part to investments and the impact of foreign exchange,
according to the bank.  “It’s important that Citi maintains its focus on growing
emerging-market operations, particularly at a time when many
competitors are on the back foot, having to contemplate
shrinking overseas,” said Richard Staite, an analyst with
Atlantic Equities LLP in  London  who has an “overweight” rating
on the bank’s shares. “That’s a great opportunity for Citigroup
to take market share.”  Citi Holdings  Assets at Citi Holdings fell to $289 billion, a 31 percent
dip from $421 billion last year. Pandit created the division in
January 2009 to hold and sell the bank’s unwanted businesses.
Losses at the unit narrowed 30 percent to $802 million from
$1.15 billion a year earlier.  Pandit said that he no longer wants to sell the bank’s
retail partner cards business, which deals in store-branded
credit cards.  JPMorgan Chase, the second-biggest U.S. bank at midyear,
reported net income of $4.26 billion last week including the
accounting benefit.  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , the biggest U.S.
bank, may report a profit of $2.73 billion tomorrow, according
to a Bloomberg survey of analysts.  Citigroup posted its seventh profitable quarter in a row
after losing a total of $29.3 billion for 2008 and 2009.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Donal Griffin in New York at 
 Dgriffin10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 