-- 
Cochlear Ear-Implant Recall Costs May Reach A$150 Million

-- B y   N a t a s h a   K h a n
-- 
2011-10-18T05:56:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/cochlear-says-recall-of-ear-implants-may-reach-a-150-million-1-.html
Cochlear Ltd. (COH) , maker of the world’s
best-selling ear implant, said costs from a voluntary recall of
one of its hearing devices may reach A$150 million ($152
million). The shares fell the most in two weeks.  Recall-related costs will be in the A$130 million-to-A$150
million range, Cochlear Chairman Rick Holliday-Smith said in
speech notes prepared for today’s annual meeting in Sydney.
That’s more than the A$100 million estimated by UBS AG in a
report yesterday. The after-tax cash cost of the provision may
be A$20 million to A$30 million, the company said.  Cochlear, formed 29 years ago to develop a so-called bionic
ear invented by Melbourne researcher Graeme Clark, aims to
maintain its A$1.20-a-share dividend, Holliday-Smith said. The
shares have lost 26 percent of their value since Sept. 11, when
Cochlear said it was recalling its Nucleus CI500 range because
of an increase in failures of its CI512 units.  “Statistically the recall is still accelerating, and may
increase three fold yet,” UBS health-care analysts  Andrew Goodsall  and  Dan Hurren  said yesterday. They estimated a 4
percent decline in per-share earnings in the year ending June
2012 and reiterated their “sell” rating on Cochlear shares.  Cochlear ended trading down 1.8 percent at A$53.54 on the
Australian stock exchange, the biggest decline since Oct. 4.
Before the recall, Cochlear had about 70 percent of the global
market for hearing devices implanted in the snail shell-like
part of the inner ear.  Reputation Untarnished  Of 20 cochlear-implant surgeons surveyed globally, 85
percent indicated Cochlear’s reputation was little or
untarnished by the recall, Nomura Holdings Inc. wrote in a
report today.  “We are more confident that Cochlear’s reputation in the
market is not as damaged as we had feared,” Nomura health-care
analysts David Stanton and Zara Lyons said.  Switzerland ’s  Sonova Holding AG (SOON)  is Cochlear’s second-
largest competitor with about 15 percent of the market, Nomura
said last month, adding that potential recipients and surgeons
were more likely to use cochlear implants from other suppliers.  “So far, we’ve seen minimal impact on market share,”
Cochlear Chief Executive Officer Chris Roberts said in a phone
interview today. “We’ve got a strong position that we can
defend.”  Rather than switch to an alternative supplier, surgeons
have instead used Cochlear’s CI24RE implants, Roberts said.  The company plans to fund the cost of the recall with cash,
and increased a loan facility with Westpac Banking Corp. by A$50
million in case additional funding is needed to maintain the
current level of dividend, Roberts said.  February Update  More details of the cost of the recall will be announced in
February, when the company reports first-half earnings,
Holliday-Smith said. Items related to the recall will be
accounted for in the period ending Dec. 31, he said.  Checks on the recalled products found failures were caused
by a malfunction of one of four electronic components due to
moisture entering the device via a breach in the hermetic seal.
The malfunction causes the implant to shut down as it can no
longer receive information and/or sufficient power from the
unit’s sound processor, the company said.  “We regret the difficulties it has created for so many of
our stakeholders, but it was the right thing to do especially
when our primary consideration is always the welfare of our
recipients and our long term reputation,” Holliday-Smith said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Natasha Khan in  Hong Kong  at 
 Nkhan51@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net  