-- 
Commerzbank, HSBC Sell Debt as Euro Debt Crisis Jitters Return

-- B y   E s t e b a n   D u a r t e   a n d   H a n n a h   B e n j a m i n
-- 
2011-10-17T15:56:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/commerzbank-hsbc-said-to-sell-bonds-as-crisis-plans-cut-costs.html
Commerzbank AG (CBK)  and  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) 
raised a total 2.1 billion euros ($2.8 billion) by selling bonds
just as a German government spokesman cooled initial optimism
for a quick fix to the region’s debt crisis.  Commerzbank, Germany’s second-largest lender, priced 800
million euros of two-year senior, unsecured floating-rate notes
in its first benchmark deal in euros since March, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. London-based HSBC,  Europe ’s biggest
bank, raised 1.25 billion euros from 3.875 percent senior bonds
due 2018.  The banks tapped bond markets as relative yields on
financial firms’ debt fell to the lowest since Sept. 21 on signs
a strategy to avert a Greek default, bolster lenders and stem
contagion would be drafted by Oct. 23. The cost to insure bank
debt jumped after  Germany  said European leaders won’t provide
the complete fix that global policy makers are pushing for.  “Commerzbank and HSBC took advantage of a new window of
opportunity on the back of rising expectations for a solution of
the European crisis,” said Andreas Fischer, a Zurich-based  fund
manager  at Clariden Leu AG. “The still-fragile  market sentiment 
means companies are taking every opportunity to place new
issues.”  The extra yield investors demand to buy bank bonds instead
of government debt shrank to 377 basis points as of Oct. 14,
down from a 28-month high of 411 on Oct. 4, Bank of America
Merrill Lynch’s Euro Corporates Banking index shows.  Bond Risk  The Markit iTraxx Financial Index of credit-default swaps
linked to the senior debt of 25 banks and insurers rose 3 basis
points to 245, reversing a decline, according to JPMorgan Chase
& Co. An increase signals deteriorating perceptions of  credit
quality .  Commerzbank priced its bonds at 158 basis points more than
the euro interbank offered rate, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The Frankfurt-based lender’s last euro benchmark
offering was a 1.25 billion-euro issue of subordinated bonds due
2019 that is sold in March.  London-based HSBC priced its seven-year bonds to yield 160
basis points more than the benchmark swap rate, Bloomberg data
show. The sale is HSBC’s first benchmark deal in euros since May
when its French unit sold 1 billion euros of floating rate notes
due December 2012.  Commerzbank stock fell 6.8 percent to 1.58 euros as of 4:32
p.m. in Frankfurt trading. HSBC fell 0.5 percent to 522.2 pence
in  London .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Esteban Duarte in Madrid at 
 eduarterubia@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  