-- 
Constraints Seen for Market Makers Under Volcker Rule on Trading

-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 
2011-10-17T04:00:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/constraints-seen-for-market-makers-under-volcker-rule-on-trading.html
Confusion about what constitutes
proprietary trading under the Volcker rule may spur banks to
reduce market making for customers, according to Craig Pirrong
of the  University of Houston  and Thomas Gira of the Financial
Industry Regulatory Authority.  Firms will spend less to service clients, Pirrong, a
finance professor specializing in risk management, said in a
telephone interview. The proposals may have a chilling effect on
some businesses, according to Gira, executive vice president of
the oversight  organization  for the securities industry.  The rule, named for former  Federal Reserve  Chairman  Paul Volcker , was part of last year’s overhaul to rein in risky
trading by firms whose customer deposits are federally insured.
Concern is growing among banks that it will sometimes prove
impossible to distinguish between proprietary transactions and
trading done for the benefit of clients.  “To the extent the rule constrains the ability of these
firms to make profit, which is the whole idea, it will reduce
the amount of capital the firms will put into their market-
making business,” Pirrong said. “From the regulators’
perspective, that’s probably a feature rather than a bug.”  The Federal Reserve drafted the proposal, released on Oct.
11, with the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp., Office of the
Comptroller of the Currency, and Securities and Exchange
Commission. The public can comment until Jan. 13. A final
version is slated to take effect on July 21, 2012.  Depositor Money  Banks shouldn’t take risks with depositors’ money and if
market making shifts to independent institutions, that’s a price
worth paying, according to Aaron Brown, chief risk manager at
hedge fund AQR Capital Management LLC in Greenwich,  Connecticut .  “Larger banks will have to ring-fence an entity to do
their market making,” Brown, author of “Red-Blooded Risk: The
Secret History of  Wall Street ,” said in a phone interview. “It
will shake things up and open the field to new competitors
because big franchises will have to reorganize.”  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon 
said on Oct. 13 that while banning proprietary trading is
“fine,” market making by financial companies helps investors.  “The  United States  has the best, deepest, widest, and the
most transparent capital markets in the world, which give you,
the investor, the ability to buy and sell large amounts at very
cheap prices,” Dimon said during a conference call. “That’s a
good thing. I wish Paul Volcker understood that.”  Dodd-Frank  Lawmakers who crafted the Dodd-Frank Act last year exempted
market making from the Volcker rule, along with certain forms of
hedging and underwriting, because of concern that banning all
proprietary trading could bring some markets to a halt.  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and  Morgan Stanley (MS)  serve as
market makers when they accept risk to facilitate client orders.  Banks including JPMorgan, Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley
have already shut or plan to spin off proprietary trading units.  The proposal allows trading for meeting the near-term needs
of clients. Banks must have compliance, record keeping and
monitoring programs to identify and root out speculation
designed to profit from price changes which will no longer be
permitted, the agencies said. In contrast, so-called “bona
fide” market making supplies liquidity to clients and generates
revenue mainly through fees, commissions and the difference
between buy and sell prices, the document said.  Tests, Metrics  Distinguishing short-term speculative trading from market
making based on customer needs will be difficult, the proposal
states. To combat the problem, policy makers proposed tests
aimed at identifying the trading and revenue characteristics of
market making so that banned proprietary trading will be easier
to spot. They said the metrics will improve based on public
comment, experience and study.  MF Global Holdings Ltd. (MF) ,  Jefferies Group Inc. (JEF) , D.E. Shaw &
Co. and Citadel LLC may benefit as business migrates from
rivals, Pirrong said. Maureen Young, a San Francisco-based
partner at Bingham McCutchen LLP, said banking entities outside
the U.S. whose market-making operations aren’t subject to the
Volcker rule would be the main beneficiaries.  Abby Greenberger, a vice president at D.E. Shaw, said the
Volcker rule would even the playing field between banks and
firms such as hers. That’s “good news from our perspective,”
she said at a Securities Industry and Financial Markets
Association conference on Sept. 21 in  New York .  25% Drop  Banks’ fixed-income desks could see revenue fall as much as
25 percent under provisions in the proposal, based on a draft
circulated earlier this month, brokerage analyst Brad Hintz of
Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. wrote in a note on Oct. 10. Moody’s
Investors Service said the rule would be “credit negative” for
bondholders of  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , Citigroup, Goldman Sachs,
JPMorgan and Morgan Stanley, “all of which have substantial
market-making operations.”  “The main battleground will be market making and hedging,
where the Dodd-Frank statute is more ambiguous,” analysts led
by  Glenn Schorr  at Nomura Holdings Inc. wrote in an Oct. 6
report. A “draconian form” of the Volcker rule may result in
less liquidity, more funding costs for U.S. companies, higher
trading costs and lower returns, the report said.  “There will be disagreements between companies trading and
the regulatory agencies about whether or not they profited from
holding a particular type of security for three months or
whatever time it may be, if it appreciated in value,” Young
said in a phone interview.  Value at Risk  The agencies proposed 17 metrics to help determine whether
a bank market-making unit is engaging in prohibited activity
that aims to profit from price changes. They include fee income
and expenses, the volatility of the group’s profit and loss, and
value-at-risk, a gauge of potential financial loss. Trading that
generates unusually high or low revenue for the risk taken or
yields higher earnings volatility may signal banned activity
masquerading as market making, the rule proposal said.  The Volcker rule has the “potential to impact legitimate
activity,” Gira of Finra, which oversees almost 4,500 brokers,
said at the Sifma conference on Sept. 21. What constitutes
market making is a “difficult question to get your arms
around,” he said. “From a surveillance standpoint, this is a
pretty challenging rule.”  Firms with more than $5 billion in trading assets and
liabilities must run daily calculations of the 17 quantitative
measures and report to regulators monthly, the proposal said.  Bloomberg Government  A Bloomberg Government study published Oct. 14 said 13
firms will fall into this category. They accounted for 98.4
percent of the total trading assets and liabilities among the
1,020 bank holding companies subject to the rule, the report
said. They will need one compliance person per year in each
subsidiary and trading unit to meet the monitoring requirements.
Each bank may have dozens of trading units, the report said.  Banks that aren’t as big will have to conduct eight of the
17 checks, while the smallest will be exempt, the Volcker
proposal said. The Bloomberg Government report said 12 firms
will qualify for the second tier and 995 will be subject to the
trading ban without having to run the calculations.  The compliance and monitoring requirements may cost the
industry $2.1 billion a year, Nomura’s Schorr wrote. The fixed
expenses wouldn’t impede most market making or cause banks to
exit those businesses, according to Pirrong. Higher costs,
particularly in less actively traded products such as mortgage-
backed securities and illiquid stocks, would probably be passed
on to investors in the prices they pay, he said.  Shifting Jobs  Young said curbs on pay may eventually hurt the operations
and make them less competitive. Proposed limitations on
compensation meant to discourage the employees of firms subject
to the Volcker rule from taking inappropriate risk may spur
traders to look for jobs elsewhere, she said.  “It’s quite possible if this resulted in constrained
compensation for those on these desks, they’d go to higher-
compensation sectors of the industry,” Young said. “But that’s
down the road. It all depends on how the ultimate rules come out
and how they’re enforced.”  According to the proposed rule, market makers on exchanges
or similar venues must provide both bids and offers at or near
the prevailing prices, while those supplying liquidity in less-
active financial products must be willing to buy and sell on a
regular basis. Among the quantitative measures banks and
regulators must examine to ensure that trading activity
justifies the exemption is the requirement that firms buy and
sell roughly the same amount in liquid products.  Trading Decisions  Steve Crutchfield, chief executive officer of NYSE Amex
Options, owned by  NYSE Euronext (NYX) , said at a Sept. 14 conference
in New York that exchanges probably wouldn’t be hurt by a
reduction in volume as long as the ban on proprietary trading
doesn’t extend to bona fide market making. He raised questions
about trying to govern the trading decisions of market makers,
saying constraints may narrow what is allowed.  If a market maker is guided by his expectation that
volatility will increase or decrease, “does that become
proprietary trading and it’s suddenly an activity no longer
valid for a bank to enter into?” Crutchfield said. “We hope
the answer is no.” As market making has become more
competitive, trading by only supplying bids and offers is also
“no longer a viable business model,” he said.  Among the largest equity wholesalers, or market makers that
execute orders from retail brokerages, two are bank affiliates
and two aren’t. U.S. units of Citigroup and  UBS AG (UBSN)  compete with
Chicago-based Citadel and  Jersey City , New Jersey-based  Knight
Capital Group Inc. (KCG) , according to reports from  TD Ameritrade
Holding Corp. , Charles Schwab Corp.,  Scottrade Inc.  and E*Trade
Financial Corp. that track where the brokers’ orders are sent.  UBS, Citigroup  Under the Volcker proposal, UBS and Citigroup would face
regulatory and compliance requirements their rivals could skip,
increasing the cost of conducting those businesses.  In asset classes and products that are less liquid, the
pressure on market making may produce bigger changes as banks
tally how much less profitable those units will be under the
Volcker rule, Pirrong said. It may also not generate some of the
risk reductions sought by banning proprietary trading in banks.  “You think you’re reducing risk but you’re shifting it
around in ways that can come back and bite you,” Pirrong said.
“Customers will go to other financial entities.” The Volcker
rule “doesn’t make the problems go away. It just changes the
location,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nina Mehta in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  