-- 
Copper Rises on Optimism European Debt Crisis May Be Contained

-- B y   M a r i a   K o l e s n i k o v a
-- 
2011-10-17T12:08:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/copper-climbs-to-three-week-high-after-g-20-talks-u-s-data.html
Copper rose to the highest price in
almost three weeks in New York on optimism  Europe ’s sovereign-
debt crisis will be contained, supporting demand for raw
materials.  Group of 20 finance ministers and central banks concluded
weekend talks endorsing parts of an emerging plan to avoid a
Greek default, bolster banks and curb contagion. Prices also
gained before a report that probably will show industrial
production in the U.S., the second-biggest copper consumer,
advanced for a fifth month, economists said.  “Our outlook is for prices to work higher in the short
term in anticipation of a concrete European Union deal,”
 William Adams , an analyst at Basemetals.com in London, said in a
report today.  Copper for December delivery climbed 1.7 cents, or 0.5
percent, to $3.4255 a pound by 7:59 a.m. on the Comex in  New
York . Prices reached $3.4635, the highest level since Sept. 27.
Copper for three-month delivery rose 0.5 percent to $7,581 a
metric ton on the London Metal Exchange.  G-20 officials set an Oct. 23 summit of European leaders in
Brussels as the deadline for the plan to be delivered. Concern
that the European crisis would sap raw-materials demand
contributed to copper’s 26 percent plunge in the third quarter.  Production at U.S. factories, mines and utilities increased
0.2 percent in September, the same as in August, according to
the median forecast of 67 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.
The figures are due at 9:15 a.m. New York time. A report on Oct.
14 showed retail sales in the country rose 1.1 percent in
September, the most in seven months.  Bearish Bets  Managed-money funds held net-short positions, or bearish
bets on Comex copper, that increased 80 percent from a week
earlier, according to the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission. That left investors with a net-short position of
9,489 futures and options contracts on Oct. 11, the most since
June 2009, CFTC data showed.  Zinc, nickel and lead dropped in  London , tin was unchanged
and aluminum rose.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maria Kolesnikova in London at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  