-- 
Coq d’Argent Restaurant Owner D&D’s Sales Rose 6% Last Month

-- B y   R i c h a r d   V i n e s
-- 
2011-10-17T04:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/coq-d-argent-restaurant-owner-d-d-s-sales-rose-6-last-month.html
D&D  London  Ltd., the owner of 20
London restaurants, including Coq d’Argent, said sales rose 6
percent last month and by 5 percent in the six months to Sept.
30, as poor weather, riots and volatility failed to damp demand.  “Though we had a disappointing summer in terms of weather,
and despite the doom and gloom in the financial markets, our
revenues have continued to increase in the current financial
year,” Chairman and Chief Executive Des Gunewardena said today
in an e-mailed release. “But we are cautious about the short-
term future and are monitoring our revenues closely.”  Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization, excluding one-time items, in the 12 months ended
March 31 were little changed from a year earlier at 6.5 million
pounds ($10.3 million). Sales rose 4.7 percent to 73.7 million
pounds,  D&D  said. The company didn’t give a net income figure.  London revenue gains were led by Avenue, which jumped 13
percent, the Royal Exchange (12 percent), Bluebird (11 percent)
and Skylon (8 percent.) Profit was depressed by increased
marketing costs and strengthening management as the business
grows.  Guastavino’s   New York  events business surged 50 percent.  D&D’s redevelopment of the Old Bengal Warehouse in New
Street, in the City financial district, is planned to open in
the spring, the company said. The company’s first hotel, in
nearby South Place, is scheduled for the summer.  The London restaurants of D&D include Almeida, Floridita,
Kensington Place, Paternoster Chop House, Plateau and
Quaglino’s. The company also owns venues in Copenhagen (Bacino/
Custom House/ Ebisu), Paris (Alcazar),  Tokyo  (Botanica/ Iconic)
and New York (Guastavino’s).  D&D stands for Des (Gunewardena) and Managing Director
David Loewi, who led the buyout of Conran Restaurants in
September 2006. That company was founded in 1991.  (Richard Vines is the chief food critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. He is U.K. and Ireland
chairman of the World’s 50 Best Restaurants awards.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Richard Vines in London at 
 rvines@bloomberg.net  or Richardvines on
 http://twitter.com/home .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 