-- 
Oil Drops For a Second Day After China’s Economy Grows Slowest Since 2009

-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s   a n d   C h r i s t i a n   S c h m o l l i n g e r
-- 
2011-10-18T06:56:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/crude-oil-futures-decline-in-new-york-after-germany-damps-eu-rescue-hopes.html
Oil fell for a second day in New
York after  China  said its economy grew at the slowest pace in
two years and U.S. crude stockpiles were forecast to increase.  Futures dropped as much as 0.5 percent, extending
yesterday’s 0.5 percent decline, after China’s statistics bureau
said the economy grew at 9.1 percent in the third quarter, less
than predicted. An Energy Department report tomorrow may show
U.S. crude inventories climbed for a second week, according to a
Bloomberg News survey. Technical indicators indicate prices may
have advanced too fast to be sustainable.  “The number from China is getting a bit worse than
before,” said  Ken Hasegawa , an energy trading manager at broker
Newedge Group in  Tokyo , who forecasts prices will decline $5 a
barrel. “If the recovery of the economies in  Europe  and the
U.S. is getting worse, then the economies of China and  Asia  will
show some damage.”  Crude for November delivery fell as much as 40 cents to
$85.98 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange . It was at $86.10 at 2:45 p.m. Singapore time.
Yesterday, the contract lost 42 cents to $86.38, the lowest
settlement since Oct. 13. Prices are down 5.8 percent this year.  Brent oil for December settlement on the London-based ICE
Futures Europe exchange dropped as much as 45 cents, or 0.4
percent, to $109.71 a barrel. The European benchmark contract
was at a premium of $24 to U.S. futures. The difference narrowed
16 percent yesterday, the most since June 16.  Stochastic Oscillators  Crude is extending losses in  New York  as the five-day
stochastic oscillators have risen above 70, signaling prices may
have climbed too quickly to be sustained, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Investors tend to sell contracts when the
market is considered “overbought”.  U.S. crude stockpiles probably rose by 2 million barrels in
the week ended Oct. 14, according to the median estimate of nine
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News before a weekly Energy
Department report tomorrow. All the respondents forecast an
increase from 337.6 million.  Gasoline supplies are expected to have decreased 1 million
barrels, the survey showed. Distillate-fuel inventories, a
category that includes heating oil and diesel, likely fell 1.5
million barrels.  China’s gross domestic product increased less than the
median estimate of 9.3 percent in a Bloomberg News survey of 22
economists. The country consumes more crude than any nation
except the U.S.  Apparent oil demand in China, or the amount of processing
volume plus net imports, increased 2.8 percent to 8.949 million
barrels a day in September compared with a year ago. That’s down
from 7.97 percent year-on-year growth in August, based on
Bloomberg data.  Libya  Output  Libya’s largest oil refinery at Ras Lanuf will be ready to
start operations next month, acting Chief Executive Officer Abdo
A. Ahmed at Libyan Emirates Refining Co. said yesterday. The
plant, which can process 220,000 barrels a day of crude, was
shut in March because of fighting between forces loyal to
 Muammar Qaddafi  and rebels seeking the former leader’s ouster.  Fighting has reduced the availability of light, sweet
crude, or oil with low density and sulfur content, from Libya, a
member of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries. The
country’s output fell to 45,000 barrels a day in August,
according to Bloomberg estimates. The North African nation
pumped 100,000 barrels a day last month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Schmollinger in Singapore at 
 christian.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski in Singapore at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  