-- 
Dasa Declines to Three-Week Low After JPMorgan Cuts Rating

-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   C u a d r o s
-- 
2011-10-17T20:19:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/dasa-heads-to-three-week-low-as-jpmorgan-lowers-to-underweight-.html
Brazilian medical-diagnostics firm
 Diagnosticos da America SA (DASA3)  fell to the lowest price in three
weeks after JPMorgan Chase & Co. cut its recommendation to
“underweight” from “overweight” as sales growth slows.  Dasa, as the company is known, lost 2.4 percent to 14.89
reais at 6:15 p.m. in Sao Paulo. That’s the lowest close since
Sept. 23 and extends its slump this year to 34 percent. The
benchmark Bovespa index declined 2 percent today and is down 22
percent this year.  “Sales growth has decelerated in all segments, and in the
outpatient business it is underperforming its largest
competitor, Fleury,” Andrea Teixeira, an analyst at JPMorgan in
 New York , said in a note to clients today. She further cited
“uncertainties regarding the company’s ability to accelerate
growth and improve margins.”  Fleury SA (FLRY3)  fell 0.5 percent to 21.10 reais today. JPMorgan
reiterated its “overweight” rating on the stock.  Dasa may also be affected by delays in integrating its 2010
acquisition of MD1 Diagnosticos SA after  Brazil ’s antitrust
regulator Cade indicated that it may block the transaction,
Teixeira wrote.  Cade’s general attorney, Gilvandro Vasconcelos Coelho de
Araujo, recommended ordering Dasa to keep its administration
separate from MD1 Diagnosticos SA on concern the combined
company would have too much market share, an agency official
said in July.  Dasa’s second-quarter net sales increased 9.7 percent from
a year earlier to 541.2 million reais ($309 million), according
to an Aug. 15 regulatory filing. That compares to annual growth
of 13 percent in the previous quarter, a May 23 filing shows.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexander Cuadros in  Sao Paulo  at 
 acuadros@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos in New York at 
 papadopoulous@bloomberg.net  