-- 
Default Swaps Plunge From Record as Slowdown Spurs Haven Bid: Japan Credit

-- B y   M a s a k i   K o n d o   a n d   M o n a m i   Y u i
-- 
2011-10-17T03:01:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/default-swaps-plunge-from-record-as-slowdown-spurs-haven-bid-japan-credit.html
The cost of insuring  Japan ’s bonds
against nonpayment has slid from the record reached earlier this
month as concern eased that  Europe ’s fiscal woes will spread to
the Asian nation with the world’s biggest debt.  Five-year credit-default swaps completed the steepest two-
week drop in four years and have decreased 37 basis points, or
0.37 percentage point, from the all-time high of 154.8 basis
points on Oct. 4, CMA prices show. Default swaps for the U.S.
have fallen 4.8 basis points in October to 47.4.  The slide in insurance costs for Japan’s debt mirrors
resilient demand in the domestic bond market, where a sale of
30-year debt last week saw the lowest average yield in more than
two years. Japan’s current-account surplus and the yen’s gain
are attracting overseas money managers seeking a haven amid
signs of slowdown in developed economies, according to Toru Suehiro, a market analyst in Tokyo at Mizuho Securities Co.  “A current-account surplus is Japan’s strength,” said
Suehiro, whose company is one of the 25 primary dealers obliged
to bid at government debt sales. “Concern about the dollar and
euro is deep-rooted especially among overseas central banks, so
the bias remains for the yen to be bought.”  Government data last week showed that Japan’s current
account surplus, the broadest measure of trade, narrowed in
August for a sixth month to 408 billion yen ($5.3 billion). Even
so, the nation last year had the world’s second-largest surplus,
trailing only  China , according to data from the  International
Monetary Fund  in September. The U.S. and U.K. ran the biggest
current-account deficits, the figures show.  Current-Account Surplus  Japan has posted a surplus every year since 1981 and will
continue to have one until at least 2016, according to IMF
estimates. The current account is the difference between total
exports of goods, services and transfers, and imports of them.  So far in 2011, overseas money managers have bought 19.9
trillion yen more of Japanese debt than they have sold, set for
the biggest annual net purchase in government records going back
to 2005.  Demand has increased even as returns on yen-denominated
debt trailed most developed-nation peers. Government bonds
maturing in more than a year have returned 1.6 percent this
year, outperforming only  Belgium ,  Greece ,  Portugal ,  Italy  and a
gauge of euro-block bonds according to indexes compiled by
Bloomberg and the European Federation of Financial Analysts
Societies. The return on Japan’s debt jumps to 7.3 percent for
investors converting it into dollars.  Yen’s Gain  The yen has risen 3.5 percent over the past 12 months, the
third-best performer after the currencies of  Switzerland  and  New
Zealand  among 10 developed nation peers tracked by Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes. The euro was the second-
biggest loser with a 3.4 percent slump during the period.  The euro jumped 2 percent versus the dollar on Oct. 10, the
most since July 2010, after French President  Nicolas Sarkozy 
said “we will recapitalize the banks” to help them weather the
region’s debt crisis. Default swaps on  France  were 183.28 basis
points on Oct. 14, down from a record 202.51 basis points last
month.  “We haven’t had any particular news about Japan but have
had concern about Europe’s debt problems,” said Makoto Noji, a
senior debt and foreign-exchange strategist at SMBC Nikko
Securities Inc. in  Tokyo , another primary dealer. “Japan’s
default swaps just followed gains in European nations’.”  Japan’s swaps declined 29 basis points since Sept. 30, the
steepest decline for a two-week period since September 2007.  Lowest Yields  The Asian country’s 10-year bonds yielded 1.025 percent
today, about even with Switzerland as the lowest among developed
bond markets tracked by Bloomberg. Rates on France’s similar-
maturity debt are almost three times higher.  Japan sold 30-year debt on Oct. 13 at an average yield of
1.938 percent, the least since January 2009. The nation’s total
debt may reach 219 percent of gross domestic product next year,
according to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development.  Elsewhere in Japan’s credit markets, the extra yield
investors demand to hold Japanese corporate debt instead of
 government bonds  was 45 basis points on Oct. 14, compared with
256 basis points globally, according to indexes compiled by Bank
of America Merrill Lynch. The Ministry of Finance is scheduled
to sell five-year bonds tomorrow and 20-year securities on Oct.
20.  Domestic demand for Japanese government bonds has remained
strong amid an excess of funds at financial companies, said
Nobuto Yamazaki, an executive  fund manager  in Tokyo at DIAM Co.,
which manages the equivalent of $129 billion.  Customer Deposits  Customer deposits at banks surpassed outstanding loans by
164 trillion yen at the end of September, according to Bank of
Japan data, or bigger than the combined annual economic output
of  South Korea  and  Australia . Lenders’ holdings of the nation’s
bonds were 158 trillion yen in August, near the record 159
trillion yen reached in April, according to the central bank.  “Banks have ample money because of sluggish loan demand,”
said Yamazaki. “With few investment options, those funds are
finding their way into government bonds, such as two- and five-
year debt.”  The Bank of Japan’s benchmark interest rate is at a range
of zero and 0.1 percent, and it buys government bonds at a pace
of 21.6 trillion yen a year, 90 percent of which are directed to
debt with a maturity of 10 years or less.  Even as Japan’s current-account surplus and monetary easing
by the central bank help keep yields low, a debt load that’s
twice as big as the economy remains an issue investors’ minds,
according to SMBC Nikko’s Noji.  “Concern about Japans’ finances are spreading more and
more widely every year,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Masaki Kondo in Singapore at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net ;
Monami Yui in Tokyo at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  