-- 
Deloitte Faulted by PCAOB Over Unresolved Audit Deficiencies

-- B y   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-10-17T19:00:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/deloitte-faulted-by-audit-watchdog-for-deficiences-found-in-2007.html
Deloitte & Touche LLP  repeatedly
failed to support assumptions in audits examined in a 2007
inspection, the  Public Company Accounting Oversight Board  said
in the first public report of unresolved deficiencies involving
one of the so-called Big Four accounting firms.  The firm’s quality controls and independence systems give
“cause for concern,” the PCAOB said in its report, which was
released today. The Washington-based nonprofit, created in 2002
to oversee audits of public companies after the collapses of
Enron Corp. and WorldCom Inc., gives audit firms at least a year
to fix deficiencies and only releases the reports in cases where
auditors fail to make sufficient improvements.  “These deficiencies may result, in part, from a Firm
culture that allows, or tolerates, audit approaches that do not
consistently emphasize the need for an appropriate level of
critical analysis,” the PCAOB said in the Deloitte report,
which didn’t name the clients involved in the cited audits.  The PCAOB in 2007 looked at Deloitte’s practices through
inspections at the company’s New York headquarters and 18 other
offices. The report made public today lays out instances in
which the firm insufficiently weighed clients’ valuation of
assets and income-tax assumptions. The watchdog also faulted
Deloitte’s independence procedures, saying it “has no formal
system in place to monitor the services its foreign affiliates
actually perform.”  “In our drive for continuous improvement, we have been
making a series of investments focused on strengthening and
improving our practice,” Deloitte Chief Executive Officer Joe Echevarria said in a statement. Echevarria, who has been with
the firm since 1978, was elected to the top job in April.  The disclosure isn’t a disciplinary action, said  Colleen
Brennan , a PCAOB spokeswoman. Dozens of smaller registered
public accounting firms have had similar criticisms made public
and have retained their registration, she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Hamilton in  Washington  at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 