-- 
Domino’s ‘Brutally Honest’ Ads Attract Sales as Consumer Spending Falters

-- B y   A n n a - L o u i s e   J a c k s o n   a n d   A n t h o n y   F e l d
-- 
2011-10-17T17:41:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/domino-s-brutally-honest-ads-offset-slowing-consumer-spending.html
Fast-food restaurants are benefiting
from consumer concern about another recession, as unemployment
and weak confidence hurt discretionary spending.  The Bloomberg U.S. Quick Service Restaurant Index -- which
includes McDonald’s Corp. and Yum! Brands Inc., owner of Pizza
Hut -- has risen 4 percent this year, while the Bloomberg Full
Service Restaurant Index, made up of eateries such as Cheesecake
Factory Inc., has declined 9 percent.  Domino’s Pizza Inc. (DPZ)  is among companies with higher sales,
partly because of changes including a new recipe and commitment
to accountability, said Malcolm Knapp, a New York-based
consultant who has monitored the restaurant industry since 1970.  As its sales fell and its stock hit a record low of $2.83 a
share in November 2008, the  Ann Arbor ,  Michigan , chain spent
millions in a “brutally honest” advertising campaign that said
some people thought its “pizza sucks,” Knapp said. Then it
offered a money-back guarantee and embraced social media and e-
commerce to engage consumers.  “That was a very new proposition, but it worked because it
was delivered in a marketplace where trust had evaporated,”
Knapp said.  Domino’s shares have risen 75 percent this year, compared
with 15 percent for  Papa John’s International Inc. (PZZA)  in
Louisville,  Kentucky , Bloomberg data show. Since the end of
2009, when Domino’s announced its plans, the stock has gained
233 percent, compared with 37 percent for its rival. Domino’s is
scheduled to report third-quarter earnings tomorrow.  Lowest Level  Domino’s stock and sales have risen even as Labor
Department data show the U.S. unemployment rate has averaged 9.4
percent in the past 22 months, and  consumer confidence  in
September reached its lowest level since June 2009, based on
Bloomberg’s weekly Consumer Comfort Index.  Consumer spending  slowed in August as incomes dropped for
the first time in almost two years. Purchases rose 0.2 percent
after a 0.7 percent increase the prior month as incomes fell 0.1
percent, the Commerce Department reported Sept. 30.  The slow economic recovery has caused many Americans to
seek low-priced dining, as sales at U.S. McDonald’s restaurants
have grown as much as 5 percent since 2010, data from the  Oak
Brook ,  Illinois , company show. Still, much of Domino’s success
has come from its new marketing strategy, Knapp said. The
unconventional approach “was brilliant,” particularly because
Americans have lost faith in corporations, he said.  Falling Confidence  American confidence in businesses fell to 38 percent in
2009 from 58 percent the prior year, based on the  Edelman Trust
Barometer , an annual survey. This was the lowest credibility
since the public-relations firm began collecting data in 2001,
Executive Vice President Ben Boyd said.  The most important corporate-reputation factors, according
to Edelman’s 2011 survey of Americans ages 25 to 64, were
“transparent and honest practices,” “offers high-quality
products or services,” and “is a company I can trust.” These
have “demonstrably changed” during the past five years, as
consumers expect more authentic transparency and accountability
from businesses, Boyd said.  Domino’s began its rebranding effort by addressing the
“elephant in the room” in 2008: Many consumers just didn’t
like its pizza and U.S. sales were suffering as a result, Chief
Executive Officer J. Patrick Doyle said in a telephone
interview. Acknowledging the criticism in ads, it began using
the new recipe in December 2009 after 18 months of tinkering and
effectively “burned the bridge behind us,” he said. After the
change, “no one thought about going back.”  ‘Mea Culpa’ Campaign  When Domino’s unveiled its “huge mea culpa” marketing
campaign, same-store sales were essentially flat, said  Mark Smith , an analyst at Feltl & Co. in  Minneapolis , who maintains a
“buy” rating on the stock. While the approach seemed like a
“huge risk” initially, ads stressing transparency and candor
ultimately built “a lot of equity” with consumers, he said.  Sales at U.S. locations rose 14 percent in the first
quarter of 2010 from a year earlier, the biggest increase in the
company’s history, Doyle said. Meanwhile, sales at its two
largest competitors --  Pizza Hut  and Papa John’s -- were up 5
percent and down 0.4 percent in the same period, the companies
reported.  Smith said he wondered at the time how long Domino’s
“phenomenal” sales growth could last, especially given “tough
economic times” that were prompting value-minded consumers to
look for deals.  No Touch-Ups  The company “started to change the conversation
dramatically” with customers by acknowledging feedback and
holding itself accountable, Doyle said. It established a  website 
in July 2010 where diners could upload pictures and pledged to
display only real photos of its food, without any touch-ups or
enhancements.  Customers submitted more than 40,000 pictures -- an
“unbelievable response,” Doyle said. Still, some pizza looked
subpar, and the company broke “one of the ultimate rules of
advertising,” by including “lousy-looking” food in television
ads and vowing to do better, he said.  Engaging customers in quality control and offering money-
back guarantees further established a dialogue, Knapp said.
While these initiatives required franchise owners to address
problems, they proved successful as the company reported sales
growth of 12 percent in the third quarter of 2010, compared with
the prior year, he said.  Social Media  Domino’s also is embracing social media and e-commerce to
attract younger buyers who want “their views to be known,”
Knapp said. An online pizza-tracker tool allows customers to
follow their order, creating another level of personalization,
he said. Last month, the company introduced a line of what it
calls “artisan” pizzas with feta cheese instead of mozzarella
or Parmesan and Tuscan salami instead of pepperoni.  Sales have moderated as Domino’s faces difficult
comparables from 2010. Same-restaurant sales rose 5 percent in
the quarter ending June 19 after falling 1 percent in the three-
month period ending March 27, company data show. The stock has
fallen 3.6 percent since reaching a four-year high of $28.87 per
share on Sept. 19. The industry is “very competitive” and
consumers remain hesitant about spending in an uncertain
economy, Knapp said.  Even so, Doyle says he hopes the makeover has helped
redefine Domino’s -- known historically for delivery in about 30
minutes -- as a company also associated with honesty,
accountability and quality.  Domino’s posted customer feedback -- good, bad and neutral,
edited only for obscenities -- on a 125-foot electronic
billboard in  New York ’s Times Square, in a campaign ending last
month. Publicizing comments in the “town square of the
nation,” showed it “doesn’t hide from criticism,” Doyle said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna-Louise Jackson and Anthony Feld in New York at  ajackson36@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Feld in New York at 
 afeld2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Feld at 
 afeld2@bloomberg.net  