-- 
East Europe’s Economic Growth Hurt by ‘Protracted’ Euro Crisis, EBRD Says

-- B y   A g n e s   L o v a s z
-- 
2011-10-18T13:51:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/east-europe-s-growth-hurt-by-protracted-euro-crisis-ebrd-says.html
Economic growth in eastern  Europe  is
slowing “substantially” as a “protracted” euro-area debt
crisis infects the region, the  European Bank for Reconstruction
and Development  said.  The EBRD cut its 2012 growth forecast for the 29 east
European and central Asian nations in which it invests to 3.2
percent from 4.4 percent in July, according to a report released
today. Growth will slow from this year’s 4.5 percent, the EBRD
said, revising its previous estimate of 4.8 percent.  While three months ago the EBRD assumed “a relatively
benign external environment” with contained spillover risks
from the euro area, it now says the escalating crisis has
infected eastern Europe through intertwined trade and banking
links. The  development bank  expects drawn-out repercussions from
the euro region’s troubles, which will ultimately be contained,
under its main scenario.  “This crisis has clearly deepened,” EBRD chief economist
 Erik Berglof  said in an Oct. 14 phone interview from  London .
“We assume there will be a resolution, but even if we establish
the right measures, it will take some time to implement them. No
matter what way you resolve this, there will be some impact on
credit to the region.”  European officials outlined the initiatives they’re
considering at a meeting of finance ministers and central
bankers from the Group of 20 economies last weekend. The G-20
finance chiefs urged the region’s leaders to deal “decisively”
with the turmoil when they meet for emergency talks on Oct. 23
in Brussels.  Credit Threat  Eastern Europe’s banks may face a new credit crunch should
western parent banks suffering losses on Greek bonds cut
financing to units in the east. Western lenders, including as
 Unicredit SpA (UCG) ,  Erste Group Bank AG (EBS)  and  Societe Generale (GLE)  SA, own
about three-quarters of the region’s banking industry.  To avoid a repeat of the aftermath of the 2008 collapse of
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., the EBRD called on European
leaders in both the west and the east to come up with ways to
mitigate the risks.  The London-based lender helped avert a region-wide crisis
in 2008-2009 by leading efforts, known as the Vienna Initiative,
to persuade western banks to roll over funding for their eastern
units and inject fresh capital if needed.  Coordination Needed  “There is a risk that the ability of bank groups to pass
on support to their subsidiaries in the transition region may be
constrained by their national governments,” according to
today’s report. “This could result in a substantial reversal of
bank debt flows and a large contraction of credit in the region,
with potentially severe consequences for output. Policy
coordination that includes emerging Europe is needed perhaps
even more than” in 2008-2009.  Lack of a resolution of the euro-region turmoil and a U.S.
recession would pose additional risks to growth across the
EBRD’s region, the bank said.  “The potential for worsening of the current situation in
the  euro zone  beyond the baseline scenario poses significant
risks even to the lowered outlook,” according to the report.  ‘Particularly Vulnerable’  While all EBRD countries are forecast to avoid a
contraction in gross domestic product, central and southeast
European countries, which are “particularly vulnerable” to
euro-region contagion, will see the deepest slowdown.  The EBRD revised its 2012 forecast in the central Europe
and Baltic region to 1.7 percent, from the 3.4 percent seen in
July. Growth in southeastern Europe will be 1.6 percent next
year, more than 2 percentage points lower than the July
prediction. Polish growth will slow to 2.2 percent from this
year’s 3.7 percent, while  Hungary ’s expansion will be 0.5
percent next year from 1 percent in 2011, the EBRD said.  Expansion in  Russia  will remain “reasonably strong,”
supported by  government spending  in the run-up to presidential
elections in 2012, the EBRD said. Growth will quicken to 4.2
percent next year from 4 percent in 2011, it added. Neighboring
Ukraine will grow 3.5 percent in 2012 from 4.5 percent this
year, the EBRD predicts.  The lender, owned by 61 countries and two intergovernmental
institutions, was created in 1991 to invest in former communist
countries to help them transform their economies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Agnes Lovasz in London at 
 alovasz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  