-- 
ECB Says It Settled Fewer Government Bond Purchases Last Week

-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 
2011-10-17T13:38:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/ecb-says-it-settled-fewer-government-bond-purchases-last-week.html
The  European Central Bank  said it
spent less on government bonds last week.  The Frankfurt-based ECB said today it settled 2.2 billion
euros ($3 billion) of bond purchases in the week through Oct.
14, down from 2.3 billion euros in the previous week. The
central bank will take seven-day term deposits from banks
tomorrow to absorb the 165 billion euros of liquidity created
since its bond program started on May 10, 2010, a practice it
employs to ensure the purchases don’t fuel inflation.  ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said on Oct. 6 the
central bank will spend 40 billion euros on covered bonds
starting next month and will offer banks two additional
unlimited loans of 12 and 13-month durations to help fight the
region’s fiscal crisis. He also said policy makers will continue
to lend banks as much money as they need in regular refinancing
operations at least until July 2012.  The ECB was forced to buy Italian and Spanish  government
bonds  after  Europe ’s debt crisis pushed the nations’ yields to
euro-era records. Policy makers are increasingly split over the
best way to fight the turmoil. Juergen Stark on Sept. 9
announced he will resign from the ECB’s Executive Board in
protest at the purchases and Governing Council member Jens Weidmann said last month the bank should reduce the risks on its
balance sheet rather than increase them.  Euro-area governments have approved an expansion of the
region’s 440 billion-euro rescue fund, including giving it the
ability to buy bonds on the secondary market. Once that is up
and running, the ECB has said it may be able to scale back its
bond program.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  