-- 
EDF on Trial in French Greenpeace Spying Case

-- B y   H e a t h e r   S m i t h
-- 
2011-10-17T00:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/edf-on-trial-in-french-cloak-and-dagger-greenpeace-spying-case.html
Electricite de  France  SA and two
former security officials go on trial over “cloak-and-dagger”
charges that the company hired a hacker and private investigator
to spy on Greenpeace International’s French operations.  EDF,  Europe ’s biggest power producer, sought the men’s help
to monitor activists in 2006 as Greenpeace challenged plans in
the U.K. to expand nuclear operations. EDF and the other men are
charged by prosecutors with receiving information gained from
hacking at the trial, which is scheduled to start today in
Nanterre, near Paris.  EDF and the environmental group Greenpeace have fought for
years over France’s power production, more than three-quarters
of which is nuclear. Safety has become a greater issue in France
in the aftermath of  Japan ’s Fukushima atomic disaster.
Opposition politicians are urging the government to reconsider
rules for nuclear stress tests carried out before next year’s
presidential elections.  “Nuclear technology provokes this sort of cloak-and-dagger
behavior,” said Pascal Husting, executive director of
Greenpeace France.  EDF said during the investigation that it was the victim of
overzealous efforts to find out what Greenpeace was doing and
the company was unaware anyone would hack into the computer of
Greenpeace’s director.  EDF referred calls on the trial to its lawyer, Alexis Gublin, who declined to comment ahead of the trial. The company
faces fines of as much as 375,000 euros ($520,000).  Ex-Secret Service Agents  Husting said that Greenpeace’s goal in the trial is “to
prove nuclear technology and democracy don’t go together.”  EDF’s image outside France as “worthy of the confidence of
political and economic decision-makers” doesn’t correspond with
its “use of ex-secret service agents” for its French security
operations, he said.  The controversy will have little effect outside France,
said Per Lekander, an analyst with UBS AG in  London .  The spying scandal “is a highly French situation,”
Lekander said. Greenpeace’s criticisms are unlikely to “have
any impact” on EDF’s image outside France.  Greenpeace, which has victim status to request damages at
the trial, is seeking 8.3 million euros from EDF and the two
officials. Both men have been transferred internally away from
security work since the investigation began. Greenpeace will
also ask for 168,000 euros from the outside investigator EDF
hired for the surveillance, the value of the contract, Husting
said.  Agence France-Presse  said Oct. 13 Gublin may pose a
constitutional challenge to the trial, claiming the law was
being applied retroactively. Gublin declined to comment on the
report. Should the court refer the challenge for constitutional
review, it could postpone the trial for several months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heather Smith in Paris at 
 hsmith26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 