-- 
Egypt Company Borrowing Drops to Two-Year Low Amid Transition: Arab Credit

-- B y   A h m e d   A .   N a m a t a l l a
-- 
2011-10-18T14:03:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/egyptian-company-borrowing-drops-to-two-year-low-arab-credit.html
Egyptian companies are delaying
expansion plans, driving debt levels to the lowest in almost two
years and dimming prospects for the Arab country’s economic
recovery as it struggles with a transition to democracy.  The debt-to-equity ratio -- a measure of debt as a
percentage of shareholder equity -- of companies listed on the
benchmark EGX 30 Index dropped to 51 percent this month,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s near the lowest
level since January 2010 and the second-lowest in the  Middle
East  after Lebanon. It compares with 126 percent for companies
on  Morocco ’s  MADEX Free Float Index (MOSEMDX)  and 62 percent for those on
 Saudi Arabia ’s  Tadawul All Share index. (SASEIDX)   Violence has flared several times since military rulers
took over power from former President  Hosni Mubarak  in February.
The unrest of the past eight months has hurt the economy, with
gross domestic product growing 0.4 percent in the quarter
through June after contracting 4.2 percent in the first three
months of the year. Investors say the insecurity has been
compounded by delays to elections, now due to start in late
November, and a lack of clarity on commercial regulations.  “Changing the rules after Mubarak is not an overnight
process, but we thought when this started that by now we’d be
getting back to business,”  Arthur Byrnes , who helps manage $800
million as chairman of New York-based Deltec Asset Management
Corp., said by telephone Oct. 13. The firm’s investments include
Egyptian stocks.  “The rules are still unclear and companies with positive
cash flows are reducing their debt and waiting for what the
rules are going to be,” said Byrnes. “The longer this
continues, the more impatient investors are going to get.”  Debt Sales Plunge  Total debt issuance and syndicated loans drawn by all
Egyptian companies, including those not publicly traded, fell 65
percent this year from a year ago to $5.59 billion, according to
Bloomberg data. Higher government yields spurred local banks to
focus on lending to the state, increasing their holdings of the
debt by about 50 percent in the first half of the year.  Palm Hills Developments SAE (PHDC) , the Cairo-based luxury
property developer, is among companies that have canceled
projects this year. The company last month returned a 190-feddan
(197 acres) plot of land on the outskirts of the capital to the
government.  Lecico Egypt SAE (LCSW) , a sanitary ware and tiles
manufacturer, said in July it will delay the first phase of a
porcelain manufacturing project.  Borrowing Costs Soar  The nation’s government borrowing costs have risen to the
highest level in almost three years, with the yield on one-year
treasury bills soaring 344 basis points since the start of the
revolution to 13.88 percent last month. The rate was at 13.72
percent at an auction Oct. 13. The yield on  Egypt ’s 5.75 percent
10-year dollar bond due 2020 has climbed 48 basis points to 5.84
percent from its post-revolution low on Sept. 21.  The cost of protecting Egyptian government debt against
default for five years surged 264 basis points this year to 506
last month, according to data provider CMA, which is owned by
CME Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the
privately negotiated market. That rate was at 448 today.  Total lending by Egyptian banks increased 3.8 percent to
47.3 billion pounds in the first seven months of the year,
according to  central bank data . That includes a 3.6 percent
advance in lending to non-governmental entities to 43.2 billion
pounds, the data show.  Higher government borrowing costs, driven by the sell-off
of $34.9 billion in  government securities  by foreign investors
in the first six months of the year, may make funding more
expensive even for local companies in good financial health,
said  Wael Ziada , head of research at Cairo-based EFG-Hermes
Holding SAE, the biggest publicly traded Arab investment bank.  Currency Risk  “Companies with large domestic exposure can expect to face
higher costs for funds because of the local currency outlook and
political risks, which will take time to recede,” Ziada said.  The Egyptian pound has lost 2.8 percent against the dollar
this year to 5.9735 today. The central bank’s foreign currency
reserves have shrunk by a third in 2011 to $24 billion. Twelve-
month non-deliverable forwards for the pound are at 6.68 per
dollar, reflecting an expectation for the currency to weaken
about 11 percent over the life of the contracts.  Companies listed on the Egyptian exchange haven’t issued
bonds this year compared with sales of $748.5 million last year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Orascom Construction
Industries (OCIC) , the country’s biggest publicly traded builder, was
2010’s top issuer with a $292 million sale.  Chances for the return of credit growth will improve if
parliamentary and presidential elections are held peacefully,
said Moustafa Assal, head of fixed-income at Cairo-based
investment bank Beltone Financial Holding.  Possible Rebound  “Companies are now focused on keeping consistent business,
so it’s understandable why they are not borrowing,” Assal said.
“If elections are conducted well, we will see a rebound. It
doesn’t matter if Islamists gain more power; investors want to
see a civilian government.”  About 60 percent of Egyptians say the country’s “laws
should strictly follow the teachings” of Islam, according to a
survey by the Washington-based  Pew Research Center  published
April 25. The study found 75 percent had a favorable view of the
 Muslim Brotherhood , the nation’s most organized political group
that formed the  Justice and Development Party  for the elections.
The Brotherhood has vowed not to seek more than half the seats
in parliament or field a presidential candidate.  Credit Growth  Until there’s more stability, credit growth will remain
“anemic,” as outbreaks of violence such as the deadly clashes
between Coptic Christian protesters and security forces on Oct.
9 are likely to keep investors away, Ziada said.  The violence led to the resignation of Finance Minister
Hazem El Beblawi, which was rejected by the military council.  Egypt’s  EGX 30 Index (EGX30) , the world’s fourth-worst performer
this year with a 41 percent decline, has seen the price-to-book
value of its shares fall to 1.16, the lowest level since
Bloomberg started keeping track in 2004. It compares with 3.01
in Morocco and 1.8 in Saudi Arabia.  Stock valuations are “reasonable,” and some companies are
“very sound fundamentally,” said Deltec’s Byrnes. “But
confidence has been wounded and restoring it takes time. The
government says it’s doing its best, but people see the
demonstrations and the headlines and pictures of women weeping
on coffins and they can’t help but grow more skeptical.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ahmed A Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  