-- 
Lehman Italian Real Estate May Reap $160 Million Gain

-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 
2011-10-17T16:47:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/lehman-italian-real-estate-may-reap-160-million-gain-1-.html
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ) ’s
Italian real-estate fund could make “an immediate substantial
gain” after a restructuring that released 116 million euros
($159.5 million) of blocked assets, Lehman creditors said.  The defunct firm’s commercial-paper unit has stakes in 14
office buildings and 20  Telecom Italia SpA (TIT)  switching stations in
 Rome , Milan and other Italian cities as a result of loans made
in 2007, according to court documents. Restructuring the loans
and converting some of them to equity would let the unit, Lehman
Commercial Paper Inc., get its money back in two to three years,
the creditors committee said in an Oct. 14 filing in  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court  in  Manhattan .  Lehman, which is gathering support for a $65 billion
liquidation plan ahead of a November vote, is trying to sell and
restructure real estate interests taken on before its 2008
collapse. Last week, it said it would take title to the Ritz-
Carlton Kapalua after foreclosing on its $232.4 million loan in
2007 for a resort in  Hawaii .  The commercial-paper unit managed to syndicate 50 million
euros of its Italian real estate loans in 2007, Lehman has said.
The unit retained 278 million euros of debt that was due to be
paid in September, it said in a filing last month.  Lehman values its real estate at $13.2 billion. Asset sales
will run through 2014, New York-based Lehman said in a June
filing.  Fuld Request  Separately today, ex-Chairman Richard Fuld and other former
executives of what was once the fourth-largest investment bank
asked the judge handling Lehman’s bankruptcy to modify a law so
they can draw about $1 million more under the company’s
directors-and-officers insurance policies to settle six lawsuits
by California municipalities, according to a court filing.
Lehman executives said in August that they would settle an
investor lawsuit for $90 million.  Lehman has used up most of its so-called D&O coverage of
$250 million. Last week it asked the judge if it could tap the
insurers again to settle an arbitration proceeding with  GameTech
International Inc. (GMTC)  over securities-law violations.  Lehman failed because of risky real estate investments and
too much debt, which it tried to hide from investors, according
to a bankruptcy examiner.  Lehman’s creditors range from  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  to
the  New York  Giants and Abu Dhabi Investment Authority, as well
as individuals who hold Lehman bonds. Lehman filed for
bankruptcy on Sept. 15, 2008, with assets of $639 billion.  The case is In re Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., 08-13555,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  