-- 
EQT Partners’ ISS Sale Highlights Health of Scandinavian Takeover Market

-- B y   C h r i s   V .   N i c h o l s o n   a n d   A d a m   E w i n g
-- 
2011-10-18T13:31:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/eqt-s-iss-sale-underscores-health-of-nordic-acquisition-market.html
EQT Partners AB’s sale of its stake
in ISS A/S, its sixth exit of an investment this year, signals
Scandinavian mergers and acquisitions are thriving even as the
debt crisis chokes deals across the rest of  Europe .  EQT and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  agreed yesterday to sell
ISS, the Copenhagen-based building manager, to  G4S Plc (GFS)  for 5.2
billion pounds ($8.2 billion) including debt. The two paid about
$4 billion on that basis for ISS in 2005.  Scandinavian deal making is surging, with $83 billion in
mergers and acquisitions this year, more than double the deals
for all of 2010. Stockholm-based EQT, partly owned by the
Wallenberg family, has successfully disposed of holdings even as
rival private-equity firms such as Cinven Ltd. weigh delaying
plans to unload theirs through initial public offerings.  “It’s important for private-equity firms to prove their
ability to exit,” said Joachim Hoegh-Krohn, chief executive
officer at Norway-based asset manager Argentum
Fondsinvesteringer AS. “In the Nordics this has been
particularly important since the private-equity industry is
young compared to the U.S. or U.K.”  Johan Hahnel, a spokesman for EQT, declined to comment.  Cinven and Warburg Pincus LLC, co-owners of Ziggo BV, were
examining whether to hold off on an IPO for the cable-television
operator, people with knowledge of the matter said last month.
ISS itself pulled plans for an IPO in March, citing market
uncertainty.  Volatility  “Market volatility has made it almost impossible for
private equity to do IPOs,” said Hoegh-Krohn, whose firm
manages about 800 million euros ($1.1 billion) in assets.  The ISS sale comes less than a week after EQT raised 4.75
billion euros for its latest buyout fund, the largest in its
history. EQT, led by Chairman Jan Stahlberg, has invested more
than 10.5 billion euros in about 100 companies.  Demand for the EQT VI fund “greatly exceeded” the cap of
4.75 billion euros the firm set, with Asia-Pacific investors
contributing 23 percent of the capital, more than triple its
previous fund, EQT said last week.  EQT agreed to sell the German cable operator Kabel Baden-
Wuerttemberg GmbH to  Liberty Global Inc. (LBTYA)  in March for 3.2
billion euros, and the alarm system company Securitas Direct to
Bain Capital LLC and Hellman and Friedman LLC in June in a deal
valued at 21 billion Swedish kronor ($3.2 billion).  Deal-Making Easier  The health of Nordic lenders, relatively sheltered from the
sovereign debt crisis plaguing European banks, has made deal-
making easier for buyout firms in the region. European leaders
met over the weekend seeking a plan to avert a Greek default,
help banks holding risky sovereign debt and protect other euro-
zone members from debt-market pressures.  “Swedish banks have easier access to funding than many
European banks and they are better capitalized,” Martin
Andersson, director-general of Sweden’s Financial Supervisory
Authority, said in an interview on Oct. 12.  Nordic Capital  AB, another Stockholm-based buyout firm, was
the biggest seller in private-equity deals this year, with $14.1
billion as of September, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The largest was the 9.6 billion euro sale of
drugmaker Nycomed.  “Successful exits are always crucial in this business,
where investors appreciate firms with a robust track record and
sound business model,” said Mikael Widell, a spokesman for
Nordic Capital.  Struggles  The rest of Europe is still struggling. The average bid
price for European leveraged loans was 85.79 percent of face
value for the week ending Oct. 14, down from 85.91 percent a
week earlier, according to Markit Ltd. European leveraged loan
prices have lost 4 percent so far this year.  Private-equity firms invested 9.6 billion euros in Nordic
countries the first three quarters of the year, according to
Argentum, setting a record and underscoring how quickly the
market has recovered from the financial crisis.  The gross domestic product of  Sweden , where EQT is based,
grew more than 5 percent last year and may expand 4.55 percent
this year, according to estimates compiled by Bloomberg, more
than twice the average growth of euro-zone members.  Since its creation in 1994, the firm has performed better
than than an average of its rivals, according to data from the
private-equity research firm Preqin Ltd., which does not release
more precise numbers.  “EQT has proven again and again that they are able to exit
companies, and that is an important part of its franchise and
its success,” Hoegh-Krohn said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris V. Nicholson in New York at 
 cnicholson22@bloomberg.net ;
Adam Ewing in Stockholm at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  