-- 
Merkel Ally Meister Says Greek Writedown Push Must Be Voluntary

-- B y   B r i a n   P a r k i n   a n d   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 
2011-10-17T16:33:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/merkel-ally-meister-says-greek-writedown-push-must-be-voluntary.html
Efforts to persuade banks to accept
bigger writedowns on Greek bonds must remain voluntary to avoid
causing turmoil in financial markets, the parliamentary finance
chief of German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s party said.  “For us, the main motive is to stay in a controllable
situation, not in a situation that sparks contagion,” Michael Meister, the Christian Democratic Union parliamentary finance
spokesman, said today in an interview in Berlin. “If the
voluntary component is removed then we could find matters
spinning out of control. I believe everyone has understood this
well enough.”  European officials led by Germany and  France  are pressing
for banks to accept losses of as much as 50 percent on their
Greek debt as part of a package to fight the euro-area debt
crisis being prepared for a European Union summit on Oct. 23,
people familiar with the discussion said last week.  While Merkel’s chief spokesman tried today to damp investor
expectations of a complete fix by the Brussels summit, Finance
Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said that a 21 percent voluntary
writedown agreed in July needs to renegotiated to bring down
 Greece ’s debt level.  Euro-region governments and bank leaders, including
 Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  Chief Executive Officer  Josef Ackermann , aim to
achieve an “optimized” writedown on Greek debt, Meister said.
Ackermann said on Oct. 13 that getting investors to accept
larger losses on Greek holdings may prove difficult.  EU leaders also aim to agree on what Schaeuble has called a
more “effective use” of the European Financial Stability
Facility bailout fund. While as many as seven models are in
discussion to boost the fund’s strength, an “insurance”
vehicle that would commit the EFSF to underwrite a fraction of
euro-region debt is “conceivable,” Meister said.  “What’s decisive for us is that the German government,
parliament and the taxpayer approved a certain level of risk in
the EFSF,” said Meister. “What counts for us is that this
level is not increased.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net ;
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  