-- 
Esprit Shares Rise to One-Month High in Hong Kong Trading

-- B y   M a r c o   L u i
-- 
2011-10-17T09:42:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/esprit-shares-rise-to-one-month-high-in-hong-kong-trading-1-.html
Esprit Holdings Ltd. (330) , the largest
Hong Kong-listed clothing retailer, surged to the highest in a
month after a newspaper reported the company plans to improve
product quality and get rid of its U.S. business.  Esprit rose 7.9 percent to close at HK$12.52, the highest
level since Sept. 15, as of the 4 p.m. close on the Hong Kong
stock exchange. The benchmark  Hang Seng Index  climbed 2 percent.  The clothier is targeting a turnaround after its brand
image and quality relative to price suffered as the company
focused too much on the interests of short-term investors, Chief
Executive Officer Ronald Van der Vis said, according to an
interview in Handelsblatt newspaper Oct. 15. The company plans
to improve the quality of its products and produce more
fashionable collections, he said, according to the report.  Esprit’s gains today may be from traders buying back shares
they had borrowed and sold in a bet on decline, said  Steven Leung , director of institutional sales in  UOB-Kay Hian Holdings
Ltd. (UOBK)  in Hong Kong. “It’s probably some short covering, as the
share price kept on rising recently. Fundamental investors
wouldn’t buy at this level.”  Short sales of Esprit surged to 17.9 million shares on Oct.
12, more than 30 times higher than the same day a year earlier,
according to Bloomberg data.  A phone message left at Esprit’s investor relations office
today was not returned.  Esprit has hired an investment bank to sell the company’s
unwanted U.S. business and will close stores in the U.S. if it
fails to find a buyer, the report cited Van der Vis as saying.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marco Lui in  Hong Kong  at 
 mlui11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave McCombs at 
 dmccombs@bloomberg.net  