-- 
Metro Says Kluge, Chairman of Supervisory Board, Steps Down

-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 
2011-10-17T15:46:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/metro-says-kluge-chairman-of-supervisory-board-steps-down.html
Metro AG (MEO) ,  Germany ’s biggest
retailer, said supervisory-board chairman Juergen Kluge will
step down, a week after Chief Executive Officer Eckhard Cordes
announced plans to relinquish his position.  The “public dialog concerning the management of Metro has
affected the atmosphere at the company,” Kluge said in a
statement issued today by Franz Haniel & Cie. GmbH, the majority
shareholder of Dusseldorf-based Metro. He now plans to devote
his full attention to his duties as CEO of Haniel.  Cordes, 60, said last week he wouldn’t extend his contract
beyond next year following media speculation that he had lost
the backing of some supervisory board members. Newspapers
including Financial Times Deutschland reported that Cordes faced
opposition on the retailer’s board, prior to shareholders
approving the extension of his contract last month.  “Following the discussions concerning the management of
Metro, I believe that it is now time for a completely new
start,” Kluge said in the statement. He was elected as chairman
of the retailer’s supervisory board in May last year.  “I am a little bit surprised by the resignation,” said
 Robert Greil , an analyst at Merck Finck & Co. in Munich.
“Stability of the new management will in my opinion
predominantly depend on who becomes the new CEO.”  The Haniel family requested that Franz Markus Haniel
succeed Kluge as a member of the supervisory board, Metro said.  Metro fell 2.5 percent to 31.02 euros as of the 5:30 p.m.
close of trading in Frankfurt. The stock has fallen 42 percent
in 2011, the second-worst performer in the benchmark  DAX Index. (DAX)   Metro reported second-quarter profit that missed analysts’
estimates in August as its Media-Saturn consumer-electronics
unit posted a loss. The retailer is scheduled to announce third-
quarter earnings on Nov. 3.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Cruz in  Frankfurt  at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  