-- 
Belgium’s Rescue of Dexia Unit Faces In-Depth Probe by EU

-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 
2011-10-17T17:19:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/eu-approves-belgium-s-takeover-of-dexia-unit-pending-probe.html
The European Commission opened an
in-depth probe into  Belgium ’s takeover of  Dexia SA (DEXB) ’s local
consumer-lending unit while granting temporary approval for the
rescue.  Dexia will be broken up after Belgium agreed earlier this
month to pay 4 billion euros ($5.5 billion) for the Belgian
retail banking division and to guarantee 60 percent of a so-
called bad bank to be set up for Dexia’s troubled assets.  EU regulators said their probe will check whether the price
paid for Dexia Bank Belgium includes a state subsidy and whether
the aid meets EU rules. The Brussels-based commission approved
the payment pending the result of the investigation saying it
“acknowledges that the measure is necessary to preserve
financial stability,” it  said  in an e-mailed statement from
Brussels today.  Regulators must approve the terms for government rescues of
banks and has required banks to sell off assets to compensate
for the state support. Belgium has to submit a restructuring
plan for the bank within six months that shows “adequate burden
sharing by all involved of the restructuring costs” and
“sufficient measures” to compensate for the distortions of
competition, the commission said.  Dexia will sell assets, including its Luxembourg unit and
its French municipal lending arm, to give the bad bank capital
to absorb future losses. The bank has said further asset sales
are likely, including  Denizbank AS (DENIZ)  of  Turkey  and Dexia’s fund-
management division.  Call and e-mails to Dexia’s Brussels press office and the
Belgian government press office weren’t immediately returned
after the EU announcement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 