-- 
EU Boosts Defense Rights Amid Backlash Against Antitrust Raiders

-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 
2011-10-17T11:54:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/eu-bolsters-companies-defense-rights-during-antitrust-probes.html
European Union antitrust regulators
bolstered companies’ rights of defense in the wake of a backlash
from companies including  Intel Corp. (INTC)  over the fairness of
procedures in competition probes.  Companies may now ask an independent arbiter to step in
during disputes with regulators over the confidentiality of
documents and when they are concerned about answering questions
that could incriminate them, the European Commission said in an
e-mailed statement today.  Intel, the world’s largest maker of computer chips, has
argued that regulators levied a “manifestly disproportionate”
1.06 billion-euro ($1.47 billion) fine without proving antitrust
violations. Deutsche Bahn AG,  Holcim Ltd. (HOLN) , Cemex SAB and six
other companies filed EU court challenges to evidence gathered
in antitrust probes as more firms turn to the courts to rein in
the power of the region’s competition watchdog.  “We are willing to listen to stakeholders, learn from
experience and make improvements, while maintaining efficient
procedures,” EU Competition Commissioner  Joaquin Almunia  said
in the statement.  The EU’s hearing officer will now be able to act during the
early stages of an antitrust probe, in disputes during merger
investigations and negotiations on settlements of cases, the
commission said. Regulators will also give companies more
information on the status of a probe, tell them how possible
fines may be calculated, give them more details of evidence
submitted by rivals or customers and explain why it rejects
complaints.  The commission was faulted by the EU ombudsman in 2009 for
failing to record notes of a meeting with an executive from
personal computer maker Dell Inc. during its case against Intel.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 