-- 
European Union Said to Be Close to Deal for Curbs on Naked Sovereign CDS

-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 
2011-10-17T12:02:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/eu-said-to-be-close-to-deal-for-curbs-on-naked-sovereign-cds.html
The European Union is close to an
agreement to insert an optional ban on naked credit-default
swaps on sovereign debt into a draft law on short selling, under
plans to be discussed by government officials and lawmakers
tomorrow, according to two people familiar with the talks.  European Parliament  lawmakers and officials from the Polish
government, which holds the rotating presidency of the EU, are
scheduled to discuss such a ban during a two-hour meeting, said
the people who couldn’t be identified because the discussions
are private. The measure is part of negotiations on a draft EU
law that would also curb naked short selling of stocks and
 government bonds , the people said.  The amount of flexibility that national governments should
have to opt out of the rule will be part of the discussions, the
people said. The officials and lawmakers will also discuss the
terms of an exemption from the ban for traders holding assets
whose value is closely linked to that of the sovereign debt.  German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  and lawmakers in
the European Parliament have called for a ban on naked CDS
trades on government debt over concerns the practice fueled the
euro zone’s debt crisis. Germany already has restrictions on
using swaps to bet on sovereign defaults.  “It’s vital” that any agreement doesn’t undermine
investors’ ability to use sovereign CDS to hedge risks on assets
such as bank securities whose prices move in tandem with those
for government bonds, Syed Kamall, a U.K. lawmaker who
represents  London  in the European Parliament, said in an e-mail.  “Knock-on Effects”  Undermining this so-called proxy hedging “could make some
countries less attractive for investors,” Kamall said. “A
definition that is too restrictive could have serious knock-on
effects such as reducing market liquidity and potentially
pushing up borrowing costs for unstable sovereign debt
markets.”  CDS are instruments that act as insurance for the buyer
against losses on bonds. The practice becomes naked when someone
buys swaps on debt that they do not actually own.  Governments and lawmakers have already agreed during
previous rounds of negotiations that curbs should be placed on
naked short selling of stocks by requiring traders to have at
least located the shares they need to complete their trades and
to have a reasonable expectation that they can acquire them.  For naked short-selling of sovereign debt, only a
reasonable expectation would be required, with governments able
to temporarily suspend even this rule if it poses a threat to
the nation’s ability to sell its bonds.  Short sellers sell borrowed shares with plans to buy them
back later at a lower price, a practice politicians and some
investors blame for roiling markets.  Naked short-selling is when traders short shares without
ever actually taking possession of them.  Mary Schapiro , the chairwoman of the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission, and regulators from the U.S.,  Europe  and
 Asia  discussed short selling at a  London meeting  on Oct. 14.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at  jbrunsden@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  