-- 
Euro Drops Against Dollar After Moody’s Downgrades Spanish Government Debt

-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 
2011-10-18T21:34:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/euro-holds-drop-on-concern-no-quick-resolution-to-sovereign-debt-turmoil.html
The euro dropped against the dollar
after Moody’s Investors Service cut Spain’s government bond
ratings, fueling concern the region’s debt crisis will spread.  The 17-nation currency earlier gained after the  Guardian
newspaper  reported Germany and France support boosting the
region’s rescue fund to 2 trillion euros ($2.8 trillion). A
spokesman for German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  declined to
comment. The dollar fell against the Australian and Canadian
currencies as stocks and commodities rallied, damping demand for
a refuge.  “We have continued concern about the sovereign debt crisis
in the euro zone,” said  Kathy Lien , director of currency
research at the online trading firm GFT Forex in New York.
“Everyone is paring long exposure they’ve created in the
euro-dollar in the last two weeks because we’ve gotten nothing
positive.” A long is a bet an asset will gain in value.  The euro appreciated 0.1 percent to $1.3742 at 5:31 p.m. in
New York after earlier rising 0.6 percent. The euro gained 0.1
percent to 105.56 yen. Japan’s currency was little changed at
76.83 versus the dollar after advancing as much as 0.3 percent.  Japan ’s currency erased its gain versus the dollar after
the Nikkei newspaper reported that the government and central
bank will form a team of senior officials to oversee steps
designed to address the currency’s strength.  The yen rallied to a post-World War II high of 75.95
against the dollar in August, making Japan’s exports more
expensive. It gained even after the government intervened in the
 currency market  for the third time in the past year, selling the
yen in an effort to curb its appreciation.  Boost in Aussie  The dollar fell 1 percent to $1.0263 per Australian dollar
and slid 0.9 percent to C$1.0141 against the Canadian currency
today as stocks and commodities advanced.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 2 percent after
dropping as much as 0.8 percent. The S&P GSCI Total Return Index
of 24 raw materials increased 0.7 percent as crude oil for
November delivery surged 2.4 percent to $88.36 a barrel.  Global demand for U.S. stocks, bonds and other financial
assets was greater than forecast in August, the Treasury
Department reported. Net buying of long-term equities, notes and
bonds totaled $57.9 billion during the month, compared with net
buying of $9.1 billion in July.  Spain ’s government bond ratings were downgraded two levels
to A1 from Aa2, with a negative outlook, by Moody’s, the ratings
company said in a statement.  The euro advanced versus the dollar as the Guardian
reported that the two biggest economies in the currency area
agreed before the weekend summit to an increase in the 440-
billion euro European Financial Stability Facility.  Support for Banks  Germany and France have also supported recapitalizing the
region’s banks to meet a 9 percent capital ratio that may be
required by the European Banking Authority, the newspaper said.  The two nations have yet to agree on how to bolster the
European bailout fund as they seek to overcome technical hurdles
and to complete a plan to stem to debt crisis, said a person
with direct knowledge of the talks.  The euro fell earlier after Moody’s Investors Service said
yesterday  France ’s Aaa credit rating is under threat from
worsening debt metrics and the potential for additional
liabilities from the regional debt crisis. France’s 10-year
notes trail those of  Greece ,  Belgium  and Ireland this quarter.  Merkel said today that the European Union summit will mark
an important step, though not the final one, in solving the
euro-area debt crisis.  Debt has built up over decades, and the summit will produce
a “clear commitment” to the euro by the region’s leaders,
Merkel told reporters in Berlin after a meeting with Uruguayan
President Jose Alberto Mujica.  Dashed ‘Dreams’  Europe ’s currency dropped yesterday as a Merkel spokesman
knocked down what it called “dreams” that the Oct. 23 summit
would resolve the debt crisis.  Christian Noyer , head of France’s
central bank, ruled out a ramping up of the  European Central
Bank ’s bond-buying program to help shield countries such as
Italy and Spain from contagion.  “Everything seems hinged on what happens in Europe,” said
 Jessica Hoversen , an analyst at the futures broker MF Global
Holdings Ltd. in  New York . “The market is uncertain and
concerned. It has become very binary in these periods of
elevated stress.”  Among Group-of-10 currencies, the Australian dollar will
come under the most pressure against its U.S. counterpart as the
rally in higher-yielding assets reverses, according to Brown
Brothers Harriman & Co.  ‘Screamingly Overvalued’  Strong domestic economic fundamentals will not support a
“screamingly overvalued” Australian dollar,  Mark McCormick , a
currency strategist at Brown Brothers in New York, said in a
telephone interview.  The Aussie’s price is further above its 20-day moving
average than any other G-10 currency, according to McCormick.
It’s followed by the  New Zealand dollar .  Asian currencies dropped today as growth in  China ’s gross
domestic product slowed to 9.1 percent in the third quarter from
a year earlier after an expansion of 9.5 percent in the prior
three months.  South Korea’s won dropped 0.5 percent to 1,145.65 per
dollar, and the Malaysian ringgit fell 1.1 percent against the
greenback to 3.1353.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  