-- 
European Stocks Decline; Greek Banks, G4S Retreat as BP Climbs

-- B y   A d r i a   C i m i n o
-- 
2011-10-17T16:00:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/european-u-s-stock-futures-climb-philips-aviva-may-advance.html
European stocks fell, paring three
weeks of gains for the Stoxx  Europe  600 Index, as a German
government spokesman said that euro-area leaders will not
provide a complete fix to the debt crisis at their next meeting.  National Bank of Greece SA (ETE) , the country’s biggest lender,
led bank shares lower.  G4S Plc (GFS)  slumped 22 percent after agreeing
to acquire ISS A/S. BP Plc gained 2.2 percent after saying that
Anadarko Petroleum Corp. will pay $4 billion to settle all
claims for last year’s  Gulf of Mexico  oil spill.  The Stoxx 600 retreated 1 percent to 236.22 at the close in
 London , erasing an earlier gain of as much as 1.5 percent, after
Germany’s government said the Oct. 23 European Union summit will
fail to end the sovereign debt crisis. The benchmark measure had
rallied for the past three weeks, its longest stretch of weekly
gains since April.  “Markets are off their earlier highs on the back of wary
comments from  Germany  suggesting that the upcoming EU summit
won’t present a final solution for the euro-zone debt crisis,”
said Stephane Ekolo, chief European strategist at Market
Securities in London. “These comments remind investors how
difficult it is to find a solution regarding the euro-zone woes.
The problems are still out there and the solution isn’t really
coming.”  Germany Damps Optimism  Stocks erased earlier gains after Steffen Seibert, German
 Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s chief spokesman, told reporters in
Berlin that European leaders won’t fulfill “dreams” of a quick
end to the debt crisis at the Oct. 23 summit.  The Stoxx 600 advanced 2.8 percent last week. The gauge has
still retreated 19 percent from this year’s high on Feb. 17 as
concern mounted that  Greece  will default, pushing borrowing
costs higher for other indebted euro-area countries. The gauge
traded at 9 times its companies’ estimated earnings on Sept. 22,
the cheapest since March 2009, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  G-20 finance ministers and central bank governors concluded
weekend talks in Paris endorsing parts of the emerging plan to
avoid a Greek default, bolster banks and curb contagion.  The euro area’s plan, which has yet to be made public,
includes writing down Greek bonds by as much as 50 percent,
establishing a backstop for banks and magnifying the strength of
the 440 billion-euro ($606 billion) temporary rescue fund known
as the European Financial Stability Facility, people familiar
with the matter said last week.  Hurdles to Overcome  Hurdles to overcome for the accord include resistance from
bankers to a deeper restructuring of Greek debt as well as
disagreements between Europe’s capitals over just how to
multiply the firepower of their bailout fund and recapitalize
financial institutions.  National benchmark indexes fell in all of the 18 western-
European markets.  France ’s CAC 40 Index slipped 1.6 percent.
Germany’s DAX Index lost 1.8 percent and the U.K.’s FTSE 100
Index fell 0.5 percent. Greece’s ASE Index plunged 3 percent.  National Bank of Greece sank 10 percent to 1.63 euros.
 Piraeus Bank SA (TPEIR)  retreated 9.1 percent to 26 euro cents. EFG
Eurobank Ergasias tumbled 9.5 percent to 66.1 euro cents.  A Federal Reserve report showed that industrial production,
or output from factories, mines and utilities, increased 0.2
percent in September, matching the average economist estimate.  A separate report showed that manufacturing in the  New York 
area contracted in October more than economists had forecast.
The Empire State Index covering New York, northern  New Jersey ,
and southern  Connecticut  gave a reading of minus 8.5, a larger
drop than the average estimate of minus 4 in a Bloomberg News
survey of economists.  G4S Drops  G4S Plc slumped 22 percent to 219.9 pence for its biggest
slump in seven years. The world’s largest security provider
agreed to acquire ISS for about 5.2 billion pounds ($8.2
billion), of which 3.7 billion pounds is assumed debt, to add
cleaning and other facilities-management services and accelerate
expansion in emerging markets.  BP Plc (BP/)  rose 2.2 percent to 425.55 pence. BP, Europe’s
second-largest oil company, said Anadarko will pay to settle all
claims over the world’s largest accidental oil spill.  Anadarko, which had a 25 percent stake in the Gulf of
Mexico well, will no longer pursue allegations of gross
negligence against BP, the London-based company said.  SGL Carbon Stake  SGL Carbon SE (SGL)  soared 13 percent to 42.75 euros, its highest
price since August 2008.  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW)  plans to
buy a stake in the German maker of carbon and graphite
materials, Spiegel said, citing an unidentified manager at the
automaker.  Air France-KLM (AF)  Group, Europe’s second-largest airline by
sales, increased 1.4 percent to 5.61 euros. The company’s board
meets today to vote on ousting Chief Executive Officer Pierre- Henri Gourgeon, according to two people with knowledge of the
proposals.  L’Oreal SA (OR) , the world’s biggest cosmetics company, advanced
1.2 percent to 79.44 euros. A French judged ruled that L’Oreal
heiress and France’s third-richest person,  Liliane Bettencourt ,
was mentally unfit to manage her own affairs. The court
appointed Bettencourt’s daughter to manage her assets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adria Cimino in Paris at 
 acimino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  