-- 
Europe’s Last Stand Needs Overwhelming Firepower: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-10-17T00:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/europe-s-last-stand-in-financial-crisis-needs-overwhelming-firepower-view.html
Europe  is heading for what could be
the last stand in its two-year-old sovereign debt crisis. By the
time the Group of 20 nations holds its summit in Cannes,  France ,
on Nov. 3-4, the European Union aims to have a rescue plan sound
enough to ensure the financial troubles of struggling
governments don’t bring down the banking system.  If Europe wants to avert a financial and economic disaster
worse than that of 2008 and 2009, it had better apply
overwhelming firepower.  Achieving credibility will require three things Europe’s
leaders have so far failed to do. They must discard the illusion
that certain euro-area governments, particularly  Greece , can
afford to pay their debts. They must provide a realistic
accounting of how much Europe’s banks will lose when those
governments default. And they must offer financial guarantees
large enough to convince markets that the defaults and the
losses will be final.  Anything short of a full and honest reckoning will only
make the situation worse. Repeated efforts to avoid a Greek
default have added to the country’s debt burden, deepened its
economic pain and allowed the malaise to spread to otherwise
solvent countries such as  Spain , Italy and France. Uncertainty
about the health of the banking system is beginning to paralyze
the entire euro-area economy, to the extent that some economists
believe it’s already entering a new recession.  Stop the Rot  How much, then, will it cost to stop the rot? To provide a
rough answer, the editors at Bloomberg View did some number-
crunching.  The first key question is which European governments need
to default on their debts. The calculation has a lot of moving
parts: The slower a country’s economy is growing, and the higher
its borrowing costs, the less affordable its obligations.  Greece is by far in the worst shape. At current  interest
rates , and given growth  forecasts  from the  International
Monetary Fund , the government would have to implement severe
austerity measures to keep its debt burden merely stable.
Specifically, Greece would have to run a primary  budget surplus 
(not counting debt-service payments) of more than 5 percent of
gross domestic product indefinitely. Portugal, too, would
struggle: It can’t afford to pay market interest rates, and
would probably need many years to get its debt down to a level
low enough to restore investor confidence. Other euro-area
countries -- including Ireland, Italy, Spain,  Belgium  and France
-- can stabilize their debt burdens with primary surpluses of
less than 2 percent of GDP, assuming jittery markets don’t push
up their interest costs. Such surpluses are well within the
historical range, suggesting the bloodletting could end at
Greece and  Portugal .  How Much Debt  The next question is how much debt insolvent governments
can actually afford to pay. If we assume that a primary budget
surplus of about 1 percent of GDP is sustainable, and that
European guarantees would allow the governments to borrow at
reasonable rates after defaulting, Greece would need a 70
percent writedown, after which holders of its bonds would be
left with securities worth only 30 percent of face value. (See
attached explanation of how we assessed government solvency.)
The required writedown for Portugal would be 40 percent. The
market seems to recognize this: The countries’ 10-year bonds are
trading at discounts of about 60 percent and 40 percent,
respectively.  The two defaults would wipe out about 300 billion euros
($416 billion) in Greek and Portuguese debt, a large share of
which is held by banks that are pretending it’s worth full face
value. Hence, current estimates of the fresh capital needed to
prop up the banking system -- such as the  International Monetary
Fund’s  300 billion euros -- seem reasonable. Governments will
have to be prepared to provide that capital, though banks might
ultimately raise a large portion themselves, and some financial
institutions might be allowed to fail.  Final Question  The final, and perhaps most crucial, question is how big a
war chest would be needed to support bank recapitalizations and
protect solvent governments from speculative attacks. The
European Financial Stability Facility and the  European Central
Bank , with the collective backing of euro-area governments and
possibly the IMF, would have to guarantee all new bonds issued
by Greece, Portugal, Ireland, Spain,  Italy , France and Belgium
for at least several years, or until a more permanent fix, such
as jointly issued euro bonds, can be arranged. Data compiled by
Bloomberg, and separately by the IMF, suggest those countries’
financing needs add up to about 2.5 trillion euros through 2015.
(See attached explanation of how we calculated financing needs.)  3 Trillion Euros  In all, then, and adding in some buffer for error, 3
trillion euros would be the minimum amount that European
governments must pledge to stop the crisis. Given the potential
global repercussions of failure, it would be in the interests of
countries beyond Europe to contribute to an even larger fund.
Official guarantees are like nuclear deterrence: If they’re big
enough, you don’t need to use them. Ideally, speculators would
be daunted, markets would provide funding to banks and
governments on their own, and the guarantees would never be
exercised.  Money alone won’t solve the euro area’s problems. If the
euro is to survive, European leaders must find the political
will to deal with fundamental issues, such as the lack of a
unified fiscal authority to match the currency union, and deeply
flawed bank-capital rules. A show of overwhelming force, though,
is the only way they can get from here to there.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net  