-- 
Euro Leaders’ Crash Crisis Campaign Bogs Down on Divisions Over Timetable

-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r   a n d   T o n y   C z u c z k a
-- 
2011-10-18T08:28:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/euro-leaders-crash-crisis-campaign-bogs-down-as-divisions-flare.html
Europe’s options for overcoming the
debt crisis narrowed as  Germany  doused expectations of a
breakthrough at this weekend’s summit and central bankers balked
at extended bond purchases.  European stocks fell for a second day after German
Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s office knocked down what it called
“dreams” that the Oct. 23 summit will be the last word in
taming the crisis.  Christian Noyer , head of France’s central
bank, ruled out a ramping up of the  European Central Bank ’s
bond-buying program as part of a multi-pronged strategy to
shield countries like  Italy .  While Group of 20 finance ministers and central bankers
pressed European Union leaders to set out a strategy by the end
of the week, divisions flared over an emerging plan to avoid a
Greek default, bolster banks and curb contagion.  “We’re really in a bind here,”  Carl Weinberg , founder and
chief economist at High Frequency Economics, said in an
interview with Betty Liu on Bloomberg Television’s “In the
Loop.” “We have a lot of egos, a lot of national interests, a
lot of political considerations, and that’s just hampering us
from getting to a solution.”  The ECB said yesterday it bought 2.2 billion euros ($3
billion) of bonds last week, the least since it restarted the
market support program in August over the objections of Germans
on its council. While looking to exit the bond-buying business,
the ECB also opposes the use of its balance sheet to boost the
government-financed 440 billion-euro rescue fund with enough
firepower to do that job.  French Finances  Underscoring the stress on Europe’s finances, Moody’s
Investors Service said in a release overnight that  France ’s top
credit rating is under pressure as the debt crisis has led to a
“deterioration” of its government finances.  Moody’s cited “the possible need to provide additional
support to other European sovereigns or to its own banking
system” as stresses on French finances.  France will do “everything” to maintain its top debt
ratings, Finance Minister  Francois Baroin  said today on France 2
television. “We have the highest public spending in the G8,”
Baroin said. “We have room for maneuver.”  The Euro Stoxx 50 Index slid 0.8 percent to 2297.28 at
10:20 a.m., led by BNP Paribas SA and Societe Generale SA. The
euro traded at $1.3718, down from $1.3738 in  New York  yesterday,
when it slid 1 percent.  ‘Dampen Expectations’  “It is far from clear that the summit will deliver a
package that is viewed as broad and deep enough,” David Mackie,
chief European economist at  JPMorgan Chase & Co (JPM) , said in a note
today. “Indeed, comments out of Germany appear to be trying to
dampen expectations of what the summit will deliver.”  Merkel’s spokesmen Steffen Seibert stoked the disagreement
by saying that EU leaders won’t provide the complete fix that
global policy makers are pushing for at their Brussels summit.  Merkel has made it clear that “dreams that are taking hold
again now that with this package everything will be solved and
everything will be over on Monday won’t be able to be
fulfilled,” Seibert told reporters in Berlin. The search for an
end to the crisis “surely extends well into next year.”  Group of 20 finance ministers and central bankers concluded
weekend talks in Paris endorsing parts of  Europe ’s emerging
crisis plan. Providing a week to act, they set the Oct. 23
meeting of European leaders as the deadline.  ‘Disappointing’ Response  “Quite frankly, Europe’s response over the past year has
been disappointing,” Canadian Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty 
said in a speech yesterday in Dublin. “This is the world’s most
immediate and pressing problem,” Flaherty said, according to a
prepared copy of the speech, and “is threatening to bring the
world to the verge of another recession.”  On the summit agenda is how any recapitalization of
Europe’s banks “might be carried out in a coordinated way” and
how to make the European Financial Stability Facility, the EU’s
rescue fund for indebted states, as effective as possible,
Seibert said. The leaders will also discuss aid for  Greece  and
ways to tighten economic and financial policy, he said.  In Greece, parliamentary debate is due to begin today on a
fresh round of austerity measures amid public protests and
labor-union unrest. Finance Ministry workers began a 10-day
strike yesterday, complicating the government’s efforts to
collect taxes and highlighting the mood in Europe’s most-
indebted country as Greek lawmakers face another vote on fiscal
measures due in two days. That’s a showdown Prime Minister
 George Papandreou  needs to win to ease the way for more foreign
financing and stave off default.  Obstacles  Across Europe, obstacles to an accord include resistance by
bankers to a deeper restructuring of Greek debt and discord
among Europe’s capitals over how to multiply the firepower of
their bailout fund and recapitalize financial institutions. At
stake is confidence in the 17-nation currency union that Merkel
stresses she wants to preserve.  In the works for the summit is a five-point plan foreseeing
a solution for Greece, bolstering of the firepower of the EFSF,
fresh capital for banks, a new push to boost competitiveness and
consideration of European treaty changes to tighten economic
management.  Forcing lenders to boost capital would be
counterproductive, and getting investors to accept larger losses
on Greek holdings difficult, Deutsche Bank Chief Executive
Officer  Josef Ackermann  said on Oct. 13. Ackermann, who chairs
the Washington-based  Institute of International Finance  and
spearheaded the July accord, was scheduled to hold talks in
Brussels today with policy makers.  To contact the reporters on this story:
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net ;
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  