-- 
U.S. Senate Bill on Chinese Yuan a ‘Dumb Idea,’ Ex-AIG CEO Greenberg Says

-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h   a n d   S a r a   E i s e n
-- 
2011-10-17T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/ex-aig-ceo-greenberg-says-u-s-senate-bill-on-yuan-a-dumb-idea-.html
A U.S. Senate bill designed to
punish  China  for keeping its currency undervalued is a “dumb
idea” and risks igniting a trade war, former  American
International Group Inc. (AIG)  Chief Executive Officer Maurice “Hank” Greenberg said.  “Just doing it was wrong, totally wrong,” Greenberg, who
helped build AIG into the world’s largest insurance company,
said in an interview with Bloomberg Television. He brokered an
agreement that let his firm return to China in 1992 as the first
foreign insurer since the 1949 communist revolution.  “That way of thinking protectionist -- it leads to trade
wars -- it’s simply wrong,” Greenberg said, adding he didn’t
think the  House of Representatives  would vote on the measure.
It’s “not in our national interest and I think it was a dumb
idea.”  U.S. House Speaker  John Boehner  practically declared the
measure dead on arrival in the Republican-run chamber after the
Senate’s 63-35 vote last week to let U.S. manufacturers seek
duties on Chinese imports if they prove they were harmed by
manipulation of the yuan, or renminbi. Boehner, of  Ohio , voiced
“grave concerns” the bill may trigger a trade war.  China may move to restrain the yuan, which has gained the
most against the dollar among 25 emerging-market currencies in
the past four years, after a report last week showed its exports
rose the least in seven months in September.  Failure to allow faster gains by the yuan against the
dollar has impeded a shift in demand toward emerging markets
that would bolster the global economy, according to Federal
Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke .  ‘Big Move’  Greenberg, 86, said China has increased the value of the
yuan by 30 percent to 35 percent in the past four to five years.
“That’s a fairly big move,” he said.  “Even now, China is losing many things that they were
manufacturing before,” Greenberg said. “It’s moving to
 Vietnam , Cambodia,  Bangladesh , Central America. Wages have gone
up in China quite significantly.”  Former Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney said last week he
will brand China a currency manipulator on his first day as
president, saying the U.S. must stand up to cheating in trade
relationships.  “I will label China as it is, a currency manipulator,”
Romney said in a debate between Republican presidential
candidates on Oct. 11.  The U.S. Treasury Department said last week it will delay
its twice-yearly report on exchange-rate policies of its trading
partners, including China’s, until after global meetings
scheduled for this month and next.  Chinese Exports  China’s exports rose a less-than-forecast 17.1 percent in
September from a year earlier, a government report showed Oct.
13. Growth in shipments to  Europe , China’s biggest export
market, slumped to 9.8 percent, from 22 percent, amid the
sovereign-debt crisis in the euro area.  The  U.S. trade deficit  was little changed at a four-month
low of $45.6 billion in August as near-record exports helped
keep the economy expanding, a government report also showed Oct.
13.  “If we didn’t have a trade deficit with China, we’d have a
similar trade deficit with other countries,” said Greenberg,
who led AIG as chief executive officer for nearly four decades
until 2005. “We don’t manufacture everything here.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net ;
Sara Eisen in New York at 
 seisen2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  