-- 
Ex-Deloitte Partner’s Wife Settles SEC Case for $1 Million

-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o   a n d   J o s h u a   G a l l u
-- 
2011-10-17T18:54:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/ex-deloitte-partner-s-wife-settles-sec-case-for-1-million-1-.html
Annabel McClellan, the wife of an
ex-Deloitte Tax LP partner, agreed to pay $1 million to settle a
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission lawsuit alleging she and
her husband tipped family members to merger deals.  The SEC will drop claims against her husband Arnold
McClellan, who headed one of Deloitte’s regional mergers and
acquisitions teams, if a federal judge approves his wife’s
settlement, said Daniel Bookin, his attorney.  Annabel McClellan didn’t admit wrongdoing, according to a
consent of final judgment filed today in federal court in  San
Francisco . Robert Tashjian, an SEC lawyer in San Francisco
involved in the case, declined to comment.  McClellan, who pleaded guilty in April to one count of
obstructing the SEC’s investigation, said she overhead her
husband talking about the deals and passed the information to
her brother-in-law, according to a transcript of her change of
plea hearing.  Nanci Clarence and Nicole Neubert, lawyers for Annabel
McClellan, didn’t immediately return messages seeking comment
about the settlement.  The McClellans, of San Francisco, were sued last year for
allegedly telling family members of at least seven confidential
buyouts between 2006 and 2008 planned by Deloitte’s clients,
including Kronos Inc., aQuantive Inc. and Getty Images Inc. The
relatives made about $3 million in profits, the lawsuit said.  McClellan told prosecutors that her husband wasn’t aware of
or involved in passing information, according to documents filed
in the SEC case.  “When the SEC was able to review all the evidence, they
recognized that Mr. McClellan had done nothing wrong,” Bookin
said in a telephone interview today.  The case is U.S. v McClellan, 10-5412, U.S. District Court
(San Francisco).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net ;
Joshua Gallu in  Washington  at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 