-- 
Fired Olympus President Met U.K.’s Fraud Office on Report

-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o   a n d   C h r i s   C o o p e r
-- 
2011-10-18T09:16:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/ex-olympus-president-woodford-meets-with-u-k-fraud-prosecutors.html
Fired  Olympus Corp. (7733)  President
Michael C. Woodford said he met with the U.K.’s Serious Fraud
Office to request an investigation of payments made by the
Japanese company to advisers in a 2008 acquisition.  Woodford handed the U.K. officials documents including a
PricewaterhouseCoopers report that he commissioned, he said
yesterday in an interview. He met with the SFO’s intelligence
officers, who will decide whether to proceed with an
investigation, a person familiar with the meeting said.  “I’m not saying fraud has taken place, I’m just making
sure the authorities have all the documents because the payments
were made from the U.K.,” Woodford said.  Olympus shareholders, including Nippon Life Insurance Co.,
have seen $3.8 billion in the market value of their investment
wiped out in the three trading sessions after the board fired
Woodford. Olympus may sue Woodford for leaking internal
information to the press, Executive Vice President Hisashi Mori
said in a conference call with investors and analysts yesterday,
according to a research note by Takumi Kakazu, an analyst at a
Tokyo-based unit of Morgan Stanley.  “I would be delighted for them to sue me in the  High
Court ,” Woodford said yesterday in an interview on Bloomberg
Television. He said there were a “lot of details still to come
out.”  ‘Wouldn’t Listen’  Olympus Chairman Tsuyoshi Kikukawa said at an Oct. 14 press
conference that the board fired Woodford, a 30-year veteran of
the Japanese company, because he “wouldn’t listen” to warnings
from Kikukawa. The British executive said he was fired after he
challenged the transactions.  Olympus, a maker of cameras and medical equipment, paid
$687 million to two advisory companies related to its purchase
of Gyrus Group Plc in 2008, the PwC report said. The fees were
more than a third of the $2 billion purchase price, according to
the report. Merger and acquisition advisory fees usually range
from 1 percent to 5 percent.  “Olympus have to answer the question, Why pay $675 million
in relation to an acquisition to unknown parties in the  Cayman
Islands ?” Woodford said on Bloomberg TV. “The question still
hasn’t been answered: for what and to whom?”  Woodford said that after being called to an unscheduled
board meeting on Oct. 13 and not being allowed to speak, he was
fired by the chairman.  Unknown Parties  Goldman Sachs Group Inc., Deutsche Bank AG and Nomura
Securities Co. cut their stock ratings on Olympus amid concerns
about the company’s corporate governance and costs. Cosmo
Securities Co., which started coverage of Olympus last month,
today withdrew its rating.  “We judged that the decision to fire Woodford had caused
an important change in the reasoning for our investment
stance,” Hiroshi Torii wrote in the Cosmos report.  Olympus shares plunged 8.9 percent to 1,417 yen as of the 3
p.m. close of trading in  Tokyo  today. The stock has fallen 43
percent since Friday, when the company fired Woodford.  Potential offenses by Olympus include false accounting and
breaches of duties by the board, according to an Oct. 11 report
by PwC that Woodford provided to Bloomberg News. Most of the
payments were made through Olympus’s U.K. unit, Woodford said in
the interview.  Olympus Corp. said all its corporate acquisitions and
mergers have been conducted through “appropriate” accounting
procedures, according to a statement released through the Tokyo
Stock Exchange today.  “The eventual cost of the transaction to Olympus is
extremely significant and is as a result of a number of actions
taken by management which are questionable and which give cause
for concern,” according to the PwC report. “We were unable to
confirm that there has been improper conduct, however, given the
sums of money involved and some of the unusual decisions that
have been made it cannot be ruled out.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lindsay Fortado in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net ;
 Chris Cooper  in Tokyo at 
 ccooper1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Teo Chian Wei at 
 cwteo@bloomberg.net  