-- 
Ex-Marines Fighting Pirates Off Africa as World Shipping Lanes Attacked

-- B y   I s a a c   A r n s d o r f
-- 
2011-10-18T08:47:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/ex-royal-marines-fighting-somali-pirates-as-world-shipping-lanes-attacked.html
About 1,000 former Royal Marines
will be deployed by a British company next year to protect  oil
tankers  and other vessels transiting the world’s most dangerous
shipping lanes off  East Africa .  Protection Vessels International Ltd.  will add about 250
guards to its existing force of 750, said Managing Director Dom
Mee. PVI is providing security for about 180 ships and has a 50
percent market share. An estimated 17 percent of ships in the
Indian Ocean will have armed ex-marines next year, compared with
15 percent now, Mee said.  Maritime piracy costs the global economy an estimated $7
billion to $12 billion annually, and attacks rose to a record in
the year’s first half, according to the United Nations’
International Maritime Organization. About 23,000 ships carrying
$1 trillion of trade pass through the  Gulf of Aden  between Yemen
and Somalia every year, the U.K. government estimates.  “What was shunned at first is now being seen as an
effective solution,” Mee said by phone from Caddington,
 England . “The pirates will back off and wait to find a vessel
that isn’t armed. For the vessels that are unable to protect
themselves, the violence will be quite intense.”  PVI guards in September repelled a pirate attack on a
vessel owned by Torm A/S,  Europe ’s largest ship owner
specializing in refined oil products, Mee said. A.P. Moller-
Maersk A/S, the largest owner of vessels that carry manufactured
goods, said this month it would start using armed security on
some of its oil and gas tankers.  Daily Rate  PVI charges a flat daily rate and the average cost is
$50,000 a voyage. The company hires only former Royal Marines,
according to its website. The average journey lasts eight days.
PVI has a staff of 60 to handle regulatory compliance and the
company buys all its weapons in the U.K., Mee said.  Somali pirates attacked 199 ships in the year’s first nine
months and hijacked 12 percent of them, down from a 28 percent
success rate a year earlier, the International Maritime Bureau
said in an e-mailed report today. Pirate attacks globally rose
to a record 352, it said.  PVI’s guards have come under attack 30 times in 3 1/2 years
and repelled all the assaults without incurring any deaths or
injuries, according to Mee. Warning shots are enough to turn
back pirates, he said. Attacks will increase in the next several
months as the monsoon season ends, he said.  Pirates operating in the  Indian Ocean , an area as large as
Europe, attacked 187 vessels and hijacked 22 in the first half
of the year, according to data from the IMO.  Policy Stance  The U.K. government will “soon” announce a change in its
policy of discouraging the use of private security on board
ships, Foreign Office Minister Henry Bellingham said in a speech
to the Chamber of Shipping this month.  The International Chamber of Shipping, representing 90
percent of the world’s merchant fleet, petitioned the UN last
month to set up a military force to fight Indian Ocean piracy.  Naval forces released as many as 1,500 pirates since 2010
because their governments didn’t want the responsibility of
prosecution, according to Giles Noakes, head of security at the
Baltic and International Maritime Council. It represents owners
controlling about 65 percent of global vessel tonnage.  The European Union naval force patrolling in the southern
 Red Sea , Gulf of Aden and western Indian Ocean typically has 10
warships at most to cover 2 million square nautical miles, its
 website  shows.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isaac Arnsdorf in London at 
 iarnsdorf@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  