-- 
Texas Seeks $200 Million in U.S. Aid to Lower Cost of Fighting Wildfires

-- B y   D a v i d   M i l d e n b e r g
-- 
2011-10-17T22:38:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/texas-seeks-aid-from-u-s-as-perry-criticizes-washington-deficit-spending.html
Texas , where Governor Rick Perry has
used his position to slam deficit spending, is seeking more than
$200 million from the U.S. government to help cover the costs of
fighting wildfires this year.  The state has spent $304 million to put out brush fires
amid a record drought and expects reimbursement for about three
quarters of that, W. Nim Kidd, assistant director of emergency
management in the Public Safety Department, said today at a
hearing in Austin. U.S. officials are working to speed the
payments, Tony Russell, the Federal Emergency Management
Administration’s regional administrator, said at the hearing.  “We can’t complain about the federal government and say
there’s no role, but when it affects us directly” say we need
it, U.S. Representative Henry Cuellar, a Laredo Democrat, said
at the hearing organized by Representative Michael McCaul, an
Austin Republican. Republicans including McCaul voted for a
funding bill this year that cut spending on state and local
programs by 70 percent from fiscal 2010, Cuellar said.  McCaul said the  House of Representatives  passed a short-
term funding bill for the agency, which he supported.  Kidd and Russell said at the hearing called to examine the
federal response the U.S. wasted no time in helping the state
fight fires that destroyed almost 2,900 homes. Perry, a
Republican running for the chance to challenge President  Barack
Obama  at the polls next year, has complained since May about
delays in aid as fires burned about 3.8 million acres in Texas.  Effective Cooperation  “It’s not uncommon for a state to request emergency
funds,” said Lucy Nashed, a spokeswoman for Perry. “When
Texans have been affected by the extremely dangerous wildfires
like we’ve experienced, we expect the federal government to help
get them back on their feet.”  Perry remains critical of federal agencies for moving too
slowly in responding to requests for help in putting out the
fires, Nashed said.  “We heard today that that FEMA has worked effectively with
the state in addressing this disaster,” Cuellar said in an
interview after the hearing, organized by Representative Michael McCaul, an Austin Republican. “Now we’re working on getting the
state paid back for its costs.”  A fire-fighting McDonnell-Douglas DC-10 jet aircraft under
federal control should have been moved to help in Bastrop
County, 30 miles (48 kilometers) east of Austin, McCaul said at
the hearing. About 1,500 homes were destroyed by fires in the
area last month.  Fire Warnings  “Despite all the warnings that Texas faced with it being
the driest summer in more than 100 years, there was no
prepositioned aircraft to help,” McCaul said at the hearing.
“We should have had more assets prepositioned.”  The plane was deployed against California wildfires before
it headed for Texas, Tom Harbour, the U.S. Forest Service
director of fire and aviation management, said in response.
Federal officials had three large air tankers, three water-
scooping models and 15 single-engine tankers, 11 “attack”
airplanes and 12 helicopters in Texas on Sept. 2, before the
Bastrop fires started, he said.  The Bastrop fire caused as much as $371 million in damage
in the central Texas region, or about 12 percent of total value
in the Bastrop County Appraisal District,  Standard & Poor’s  said
in an Oct. 7 report. No immediate change in credit ratings for
Bastrop-area debt issuers is warranted, according to S&P.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Mildenberg in Austin at 
 dmildenberg@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net ; 