-- 
MF Global Increased Capital in U.S. After Regulator’s Query

-- B y   A m b e r e e n   C h o u d h u r y   a n d   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k
-- 
2011-10-17T20:51:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/mf-global-increased-capital-in-u-s-after-regulator-s-query.html
MF Global Holdings Ltd. (MF) , the futures
broker, increased net capital at its U.S. unit after the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority raised concern about its
exposure to European sovereign debt.  MF Global Inc. “increased its net capital and currently
has net capital sufficient to exceed both the required minimum
levels and Finra’s early warning-notification level,” the New
York-based company said in a filing with the Securities and
Exchange Commission dated Sept. 1. The firm said it doesn’t
believe “the increase in net capital will have a material
adverse impact on its business, liquidity or strategic plans.”  Global regulators are trying to avert future shocks by
pushing financial-services firms to curb risk and build capital.
The Wall Street Journal reported the capital increase earlier
today.  Finra asked the company to “modify its capital treatment
of certain repurchase transactions to maturity collateralized
with European sovereign debt,” the filing said.  Once it was clear Finra wanted a different capital
treatment, the broker reallocated the money from internal
sources, said Diana DeSocio, a spokeswoman for MF Global. As of
Aug. 31, the firm had $167 million in excess capital, she said.  MF Global, led by Chief Executive Officer  Jon Corzine , 64,
fell 25 cents, or 6.3 percent, to $3.71 in New York trading. The
shares have dropped 56 percent this year.  Jefferies Slides  Jefferies Group Inc. (JEF)  also declined today, dropping as much
as 7 percent. The New York-based investment bank had almost $3
billion of sovereign debt inventory at the end of the third
quarter and may need to increase the amount of capital it holds,
putting pressure on its shares, according to Douglas Sipkin and
Warren Gardiner, analysts at Ticonderoga Securities LLC.  “While Jefferies is nowhere as reliant on  Europe  as MF
Global, it is likely they, too, have to hold more capital
against European-based  repurchase agreements ,” the analysts
wrote today in research note.  Richard Khaleel, a Jefferies spokesman, didn’t respond to
e-mail and phone messages seeking comment.  Jefferies slid 88 cents to $12.14 in  New York  today. The
shares have fallen 54 percent this year through last week.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ambereen Choudhury in London at 
 achoudhury@bloomberg.net ;
Laura Marcinek in New York at 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  