-- 
Facebook Ownership Claimant Ceglia Loses His Third Legal Team in Dispute

-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 
2011-10-18T20:34:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/facebook-claimant-told-lawyers-not-to-comply-with-order-in-ownership-fight.html
Paul Ceglia, the  New York  man who
claims a 2003 contract entitles him to half the holdings of
Facebook Inc. founder  Mark Zuckerberg , lost his third legal team
after allegedly telling them to violate a court order.  Jeffrey Lake, a San Diego lawyer whose firm represents
Ceglia in the suit, filed papers in federal court in Buffalo,
New York, yesterday to withdraw from the case and asking for a
three-week delay to allow a new legal team to “come up to
speed.”  “Paul Ceglia is currently in discussions with several
attorneys concerning substitution of new counsel in this case,”
Lake said in an affidavit filed with the court. “It is my
understanding that these attorneys are diligently coming up to
speed with the facts and proceedings in an effort to effectively
represent  Paul Ceglia  in future proceedings.”  The move comes after Facebook asked a federal judge to
impose sanctions on Ceglia for allegedly failing to turn over
evidence and telling his lawyers not to comply with a court
order. Since filing the suit in June 2010, Ceglia has had three
sets of lead counsel leave the case. At least two other law
firms declined to represent Ceglia after reviewing his evidence.  Paul Argentieri, the Hornell, New York, lawyer who filed
the original complaint in state court in Belmont, New York,
remains on Ceglia’s legal team. Lake didn’t return a call and e-
mail messages seeking comment on his withdrawal.  Digital Expert  “I have retained an expert in digital technology as an
attorney and am very excited by the direction we are taking,”
Ceglia said in an e-mail today. “It is difficult in any
circumstance to get a lawyer to do what you tell them and that
is twice as true when they are working on a contingency fee.”  Ceglia said he is working to ensure that he’s in full
compliance with the court’s order. He said he was reluctant to
give  Facebook  his e-mail passwords after company lawyers
disclosed passwords he had provided earlier.  On Sept. 1, Facebook’s lawyers included passwords to
Ceglia’s Web-based e-mail accounts in a public court filing. The
papers were removed from the public file the next day and
Ceglia, who is in Ireland, changed the passwords, his lawyers
said at the time. Facebook said Ceglia had failed to designate
his e-mail information as confidential.  New Lawyer  Facebook, which operates the world’s biggest social-
networking site, asked U.S. Magistrate Judge Leslie Foschio in
papers filed Oct. 14 to punish Ceglia and his lawyers for
failing to produce all the e-mail accounts and passwords he has
used since 2003. Ceglia’s lawyers said in court papers Oct. 7
that their client instructed them “not to comply” with that
part of Foschio’s order, issued in August.  “The decision by Ceglia’s lawyers to turn on their client
and publicly accuse him of wrongdoing by disclosing their
confidential communications with him -- as part of an effort to
protect themselves and shift the blame to their client -- raises
serious questions as to whether they have violated their
professional duties and may continue to represent Ceglia in this
matter,” Facebook said in its filing.  In his suit, filed in June 2010, Ceglia claims he and
Zuckerberg signed a contract in 2003 making them partners at the
start of  Palo Alto , California-based Facebook. The company calls
Ceglia’s suit a fraud.  Ceglia claims he communicated with Zuckerberg in 2003 and
2004 using Internet-based e-mail accounts. He says he cut and
pasted their correspondence into word-processing documents,
which he printed and saved.  2003 Contract  Both sides agree that Zuckerberg signed a contract with
Ceglia in 2003, when Zuckerberg was a freshman at  Harvard
University , to do computer coding for StreetFax.com, a company
Ceglia was trying to start. Ceglia claims the contract included
a provision giving him a partnership stake in Facebook in
exchange for some start-up money.  Facebook claims the e-mails are fabricated. The company
said its computer experts found the genuine contract between
Ceglia and Zuckerberg, which concerns only the StreetFax work,
on one of Ceglia’s computers. The contract makes no mention of
Facebook, according to the company.  Facebook said Ceglia e-mailed what it calls the “authentic
contract” to a lawyer at the firm Sidley Austin LLP in 2004.  On Aug. 18, Foschio ordered Ceglia to turn over evidence
including computers, electronic copies of the contract and e-
mails and removable computer storage devices. The order also
required Ceglia to provide access to his Internet-based e-mail
accounts, including his msn.com, gmail.com, tmail.com and
adelphia.net accounts.  “Mr. Ceglia instructed me not to comply with this
provision and to bring the issue before District Judge Arcara,”
Lake said in an Oct. 7 court filing, referring to  Richard Arcara , the judge overseeing the case.  The case is Ceglia v. Zuckerberg, 1:10-cv-00569, U.S.
District Court, Western District of New York (Buffalo).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in Manhattan federal court at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha   mhytha@bloomberg.net  