-- 
Failed Banks’ Bondholders May Share Future Gains Under EU Plans

-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n   a n d   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 
2011-10-17T12:19:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/failed-banks-bondholders-may-share-future-gains-under-eu-plans.html
Bank bondholders that are forced to
take losses under European Union plans to prevent the need for
taxpayer bailouts may get the chance to recoup some of their
investment in failed lenders, an EU official said.  Options include giving investors shares in a temporary
institution set up to hold the failed bank assets, the official
said. Bondholders may also receive compensation or a claim on
future profits if a crisis-hit lender improves its financial
position, the official said in Brussels today.  The measures are part of broader plans to bolster the
ability of regulators and governments to handle  bank failures ,
the official said. The proposals may also include so-called
early-intervention powers for authorities that would enable them
to replace a struggling lender’s management, they said.  Lenders including Citigroup Inc. and Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. have said that imposing losses on banks’ senior bondholders
may make it more expensive to attract funding. The move is
likely to have a “negative impact both on pricing and market
depth for bank debt” Citigroup said in a note to the commission
earlier this year. Debt writedowns “will have implications for
the funding markets,” Goldman said in its written response to
the commission’s plans.  Under the EU’s proposal, money raised by writing down or
converting bondholders’ stakes would be used to cover the costs
of either restructuring or winding down the crisis-hit lender,
the official said. Measures being considered include a so-called
clawback rule that would give investors a claim on a share of
the lender’s future revenues if its financial situation
improved, the EU official said.  Credit Ratings  Separately, the EU is planning to increase competition in
the market for credit ratings and to simplify company reporting,
the official said.  Plans may include forcing companies to periodically change
the firm they use to acquire credit ratings. On the accounting
issue, the EU may eliminate the requirement businesses produce
detailed quarterly reports, the official said.  Reducing this reporting may cut short-term market
volatility, they said, as well as lessen administrative burdens
on small businesses.  To contact the reporters on this story:  Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rebecca Christie  in Brussels at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net  