-- 
Farm Cuts Should Be Held to $23 Billion, Supercommittee Told

-- B y   A l a n   B j e r g a   a n d   D e r e k   W a l l b a n k
-- 
2011-10-17T17:43:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/farm-cuts-should-be-capped-at-23-billion-supercommittee-told.html
Spending on agriculture, rural
development and nutrition should be cut by no more than $23
billion over 10 years, leaders of the U.S. House and Senate farm
panels told the supercommittee charged with reducing the federal
deficit.  Specific recommendations on what to cut, including possible
reductions in  farm subsidies , will be provided by Nov. 1,
according to a letter today from the House and Senate
agriculture committees to the congressional deficit panel.  The savings “should absolve the programs in our
jurisdiction from any further reductions,” the top Democrats
and Republicans on the panels wrote, citing previous cuts to
crop insurance and the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program
as well as the expiration of other initiatives as reasons the
total shouldn’t exceed $23 billion.  The 12-member bipartisan supercommittee has until Nov. 23
to come up with a plan to cut the federal  budget deficit  by at
least $1.2 trillion. The law that created the panel requires
automatic, across-the board spending cuts if Congress doesn’t
approve its recommendations.  Signing the letter were House Agriculture Committee
Chairman  Frank Lucas , an Oklahoma Republican; Representative
Collin Peterson of Minnesota, the panel’s top Democrat; Senate
Agriculture Committee Chairwoman  Debbie Stabenow , a Michigan
Democrat; and Senator Pat Roberts of Kansas, ranking Republican
of that committee.  USDA Forecasts  The U.S. Department of Agriculture forecasts record farm
profits of $103.6 billion this year as livestock sales expand
and exports set records. Farmers’ relative prosperity while
unemployment remains stuck at 9.1 percent has made government
programs inviting prospects for cuts, Mark McMinimy, an analyst
for  MF Global Inc.  in Washington, said in an interview last
month.  Opposition to current levels of agricultural spending has
been bipartisan. President Barack Obama last month proposed a
$33 billion, 10-year cut in farm programs that included
shrinking funds for direct payments to farmers, made regardless
of crop prices, and to crop insurance, where the government
subsidizes overhead costs for companies including  Wells Fargo &
Co. (WFC)  to encourage them to underwrite policies.  Republican Proposal  Representative  Paul Ryan  of Wisconsin, the Republican
chairman of the House Budget Committee, proposed about $30
billion in farm-subsidy cuts over 10 years in April, and
reductions also have been urged by Senator  John McCain , an
Arizona Republican, and Representative Ron Kind, a Wisconsin
Democrat.  Crop-price increases, which result in lower subsidies under
the formulas for some programs, will drive down payments to an
estimated $10.2 billion this year, less than half the record
$24.4 billion in 2005.  Federal subsidies encourage greater production and reduce
raw-materials costs for grain traders such as Cargill Inc.,
 Bunge Ltd. (BG)  and Archer Daniels Midland Co. Meatpackers that rely
on corn-fed livestock, including  Tyson Foods Inc. (TSN) , and food
processors such as  Kraft Foods Inc. (KFT)  also benefit.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alan Bjerga in Washington at 
 abjerga@bloomberg.net ;
Derek Wallbank in Washington at 
 dwallbank@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  