-- 
Fed’s Evans Says U.S. Faces ‘Massive’ Job Shortfalls, Calls for New Steps

-- B y   V i v i e n   L o u   C h e n   a n d   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 
2011-10-18T02:00:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/fed-s-evans-says-u-s-faces-massive-job-shortfalls-calls-for-new-steps.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago
President  Charles Evans  said the U.S. faces “massive
shortfalls” in output and job creation and called for policy
steps to ensure the Fed meets its mandate to promote maximum
employment while limiting inflation.  The 53-year-old regional bank chief reiterated his
proposal, initially unveiled in a speech last month, to keep the
target for the benchmark U.S. interest rate near zero until
either unemployment falls below 7 percent or the medium-term
inflation outlook rises above 3 percent. He said he would
support more asset purchases if those objectives aren’t reached.  “Some may find such a policy proposal to be hard to
understand, or even risky,” he said today in a speech in
 Detroit . “But these are not ordinary times.”  The remarks place the Chicago Fed president among the
Federal Open Market Committee members who, according to minutes
of the FOMC’s gathering in September, wanted to keep further
asset purchases as an option to boost a flagging recovery. Evans
backed the committee’s Sept. 21 decision to push down longer-
term rates and its Aug. 9 commitment to keep the overnight
lending rate between banks near zero through at least mid-2013.  Adding triggers to the Fed’s statement "should enable us to
make progress toward our mandated goals," the Chicago Fed
president said at a dinner held by the  Michigan  Council on
Economic Education. "If this progress is too slow, then we
should move forward with increased purchases of longer-term
securities."  ‘Huge Hit’  “If we sit on our hands as the economy withers relative to
our mandate, then we could take a huge hit to our credibility,
akin to what happened to our credibility following the
devastating mistakes of the 1930s,” when the Fed kept monetary
policy too restrictive during a time of weak loan demand and
reluctance among lenders to take risks, he said.  Still, “we can only do so much,” Evans said in response
to questions after his speech. He added that inflation pressures
are more benign than some people have depicted, and “some
mortgage relief” would be a “big help” to the U.S.  Data released since the Sept. 20-21 meeting show American
employers added 103,000 jobs in September, easing concern the
economy is tipping into another recession. Retail sales in
September rose by the most in seven months, according to
Commerce Department figures.  By contrast, confidence among consumers unexpectedly
dropped this month and purchases of new homes declined to a six-
month low in August.  Stocks Fell  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index slid 1.9 percent to
1,200.86 at the close in  New York , while the yield on the 10-
year Treasury note declined nine basis points to 2.16 percent. A
basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  Evans, unlike most of his Fed colleagues, has repeatedly
stated a willingness to tolerate higher inflation as long as it
pushes down the jobless level. The Chicago Fed president said
the central bank might want to also consider “reevaluating”
its progress toward policy goals at each FOMC meeting, along
with the rate of asset purchases.  Minutes of the FOMC’s September gathering said a number of
participants saw large-scale asset purchases as “potentially a
more potent tool that should be retained as an option in the
event that further policy action to support a stronger economic
recovery was warranted.”  Meeting Minutes  Most FOMC participants favored providing the public with
more information on the central bank’s goals and how those
objectives influence the Fed’s decisions, according to minutes
of the meeting, released on Oct. 12.  Fed officials also “saw advantages” to tying the Fed’s
near-zero interest rates to more specific changes in the
economy, according to the meeting minutes.  The committee decided at last month’s gathering to replace
$400 billion of Treasuries in the central bank’s portfolio with
longer-term debt to reduce borrowing costs. Three officials
dissented. Policy makers also chose to reinvest maturing housing
debt into mortgage-backed securities, partly to keep the Fed’s
Treasury holdings from getting too large.  The Fed’s so-called "Operation Twist" plan is a "very
important" way of demonstrating a willingness to be
accommodative, without expanding the central bank’s balance
sheet, Evans said. "If it’s not doing enough, we need to do
more."  Evans has led the Chicago Fed since September 2007 and is
one of only two regional Fed presidents who vote on the FOMC
every other year, along with  Sandra Pianalto , president of the
Federal Reserve Bank of  Cleveland .  The regional bank chief has been among the FOMC’s strongest
supporters of monetary stimulus since last year. He represents a
five-state region that includes  Iowa  and most of  Illinois ,
 Indiana , Michigan and  Wisconsin . Iowa has one of the lowest
unemployment rates, at 6.1 percent as of August, while Michigan
has one of the highest, at 11.2 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Vivien Lou Chen in  San Francisco  at 
 vchen1@bloomberg.net ;
Timothy R. Homan in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz in Washington at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  