-- 
Financials Look Cheap After ‘Difficult Quarter,’ Kelly Says

-- B y   K a i t l y n   K i e r n a n
-- 
2011-10-17T16:45:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/financials-look-cheap-after-difficult-quarter-kelly-say.html
Financial industry stocks look cheap
after a “difficult quarter” and a sell-off that wiped out
trillions in global equity in August, according to  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s David Kelly.  U.S. banks are growing healthier as they have pursued
conservative lending to reduce delinquency rates in the
aftermath of the 2008 credit crisis, said Kelly, who helps
oversee $408 billion as chief market strategist for JPMorgan
Funds in New York.  “It is quite possible we did better than 3 percent growth
in the third quarter. That is clearly not recession,” Kelly
said, referring to the U.S. economy, in an interview on
Bloomberg Television’s “In the Loop” with Betty Liu today.
“Unless you are assuming Armageddon next year, financials as a
sector looks pretty cheap.”  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Financials Index has fallen 23
percent this year as European leaders struggle to contain the
region’s sovereign debt crisis. That’s the worst performance
among 10 groups in the  S&P 500 . The price-to-earnings ratio fell
to 10.9 as of Oct. 14, below its 10-year average of 16.9,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The KBW Bank Index slipped 2.7 percent as of 12:30 p.m. New
York time. JPMorgan, the first U.S. bank to announce third-
quarter results, has fallen 6 percent since it reported on Oct.
13 that profit fell on a slump in investment banking and
trading.  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , the largest U.S. home lender, lost
6.8 today after its quarterly revenue dropped and margins
narrowed.  Citigroup Inc. (C)  declined 0.9 percent after its profit
rose 74 percent, beating analysts’ estimates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kaitlyn Kiernan in  New York  at 
 kkiernan2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  