-- 
Florida Lawmaker Seeks to Stop Bank Fees for Debit-Card Use

-- B y   S i m o n e   B a r i b e a u
-- 
2011-10-17T19:24:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/florida-lawmaker-seeks-to-block-fees-for-debit-card-purchases.html
A  Florida  lawmaker is pressing to
prevent banks from charging customers when they use debit cards
at retailers, less than three weeks after  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) 
announced plans for a $5 monthly fee.  A  bill  offered today by state Representative Jeff Clemens,
a Democrat from Lake Worth, would ban the practice in Florida.  “The banks sold us all on the idea of a cashless society,
and now that we’ve bought into their promise of free, easy
access to our own money, they want to charge us for it,”
Clemens said today in a statement from Tallahassee, the capital.
“Anyone with a sense of decency should be outraged.”  The bill responds to consumer anger after banks such as
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  began unveiling new
charges for debit-card use, Clemens said. Bank of America, the
biggest U.S. lender by assets, said last month that its levy
would offset federal rules that cap “swipe fees,” which are
the charges merchants pay each time a customer makes a purchase
using a debit card.  The Florida bill would be “bad regulation on top of bad
regulation,” said Trish Wexler, an Electronic Payments
Coalition spokeswoman. The organization based in  Washington 
represents banks and transaction networks.  “No business can be expected to lose money and continue to
offer the product,” Wexler said in a telephone interview. Her
group supports a repeal of the federal law capping swipe fees.  Anne Pace, a spokeswoman for Bank of America, didn’t
comment on the Florida bill in an e-mail sent in response to an
inquiry about the measure.  The prospect of higher costs for consumers as a result of
the new banking rules led U.S. Representatives Jason Chaffetz, a
Utah Republican, and Bill Owens, a New York Democrat, to file a
bill in Congress  last week  to repeal the swipe-fee controls.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simone Baribeau in Miami at 
 sbaribeau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  