-- 
For Alternative Energy, Storage Makes All the Difference: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-10-17T00:00:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/for-alternative-energy-storage-makes-the-difference-in-reliability-view.html
Arguments for solar and wind power
are so enticing (endless availability, no pollution and so on)
that it’s easy to see why the idea of transitioning the world
economy to  alternative energy  over the next 40 years keeps
gaining favor.  Public discussion often makes it seem as if the only
obstacles are efficiency and cost. Photovoltaic solar cells and
offshore wind farms can provide power at about $160 a megawatt
hour. That’s far costlier than coal-fired plants, which deliver
power at about $70 a megawatt hour. That price gap keeps
narrowing; it may close completely in a decade or two.  Recent events in Germany, though, highlight a less
discussed, but equally crucial, challenge. As Bloomberg News
reported recently, German energy prices have begun careening in
the strangest ways. Sunny, gusty days generate so much
alternative energy that utilities pay industrial customers to
take it away. Cloudy, calm weather creates shortages that can
send wholesale prices as high as $220 a megawatt hour.  It’s a problem inherent to solar and wind energy. Modern
factories and homes want reliable power round the clock; the sun
and wind don’t oblige. Without good ways of storing peak output
for later release, alternative-energy plants become the most
erratic parts of the  power grid .  Zigzagging energy prices aren’t just a short-term
annoyance. They distort budgets and spending priorities, forcing
utilities to spend billions on conventional fossil-fuel plants
that are used only part time to ensure steady power when wind
and solar are in short supply.  An Elegant Solution  The most elegant solution would be to improve grid-level
storage of solar and wind power, so yesterday’s sunshine can
continue to yield power during today’s storms. Better storage
could provide the steadier energy prices and more efficient
power-plant networks that everyone craves.  Achieving next-generation storage will take years. False
starts will abound. Partial breakthroughs will need to be freely
shared. Such long-horizon projects are anathema to the private
sector, but well-suited to government support, with the U.S.,
 Germany ,  China  and  Japan  leading the way.  Governments worldwide are still trying to figure out the
best ways of encouraging alternative energy, and some check-
writing to date has been more hasty than prudent. U.S. support
for the failed Solyndra LLC solar-cell factory is one prominent
example; China’s all-out push to subsidize cheaper production of
silicon wafers may be another.  Taking fewer risks on the factory floor, and more in the
research lab, would be the wisest use of government money. The
U.S. Department of Energy took a step in the right direction
last month when it issued a slew of $3 million or smaller grants
to labs exploring projects as varied as molten batteries,
nanomaterials, high-temperature salts and compressed vapor.  Judicious government backing for such ideas should persist,
and even accelerate, worldwide. Alternative energy’s full
potential goes well beyond the approaches that are being
commercialized today. The sooner that major advances in areas
such as storage can be found, the easier it will be to save
billions by shrinking the need for backup plants.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 