-- 
Ford Vote Switch Avoids Strike While Adding Jobs: Cars

-- B y   K e i t h   N a u g h t o n   a n d   J e f f   G r e e n
-- 
2011-10-19T15:57:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/ford-vote-reversal-avoids-strike-while-union-adds-members-cars.html
(Corrects S&P rating in the 21st paragraph of story
published Oct. 17.)  Ford Motor Co. (F)  may have dodged its
first nationwide strike in 35 years and secured labor peace
while the  United Auto Workers  adds thousands of new members.  UAW members at Ford went from voting 53 percent against the
proposed contract on the morning of Oct. 14 to 63 percent in
favor by at 8:18 p.m. today New York time. The union said 15,862
members at Ford had cast ballots in favor of the labor deal
while 9,375 voted against. Ford’s 40,600 U.S. hourly workers
will conclude balloting tomorrow.  The latest voting results “improve the likelihood of
passage, as remaining plants would have to be over 80 percent
opposed,” said  Brian Johnson , an analyst at  Barclays Capital .
“Contract ratification now looks likely -- opening up the way
to a potential rating agency upgrade and dividend.”  Ford fell 1.4 percent to $11.40 at the close in New York.  The UAW was preparing for its first national strike at Ford
since 1976. It would have cost Ford $273 million a day in lost
revenue and $71 million in daily variable profit, Johnson said.
Even bigger, he said, would have been the loss of reputation for
failing to reinvent U.S. auto competitiveness. Workers at
 General Motors Co. (GM)  ratified their new accord last month.  “I was surprised there wasn’t a negative reaction to Ford
and GM’s rich contracts, but instead investors saw them as part
of a bright new day in  Detroit ,” said Johnson, who estimates
the deal will add $70 million annually to Ford’s labor costs.
“Ford still has the highest per hour cost, as Chrysler started
lower and GM likely benefits from greater skilled trades
attrition.”  ‘Job Security’  Ford workers initially saw the contract as not nearly rich
enough, said Gary Walkowicz, a union official with UAW Local 600
in Dearborn, Michigan, who led a “Vote No” campaign. They were
angry it didn’t include raises for senior workers or restore
cost-of-living pay increases members gave up to help the
Dearborn-based automaker survive, he said.  Ford’s offer of 12,000 new jobs, $6.2 billion in factory
upgrades and work brought in from Mexico and  Asia  appears to
have won over the majority of workers, said  Harley Shaiken ,
labor professor at the  University of California  at Berkeley.  “Sure you have workers who are angry and wish they could
have gotten more,” Shaiken said. “But what had been
underestimated is how the jobs created in this contract
reinforce the job security of existing workers.”  Focus on Jobs  UAW President  Bob King  made the centerpiece of UAW
contracts this year the jobs they create, including 6,400 at GM
and 2,100 at Chrysler Group LLC. Union leaders have said they
expect voting at Fiat SpA-controlled Chrysler’s to be done this
month. Adding members is crucial for the UAW, where membership
has fallen from 1.5 million in 1979 to 376,612 last year.  “The conventional wisdom was that manufacturing in this
country was dead and gone,” Shaiken said. “But Bob King has
created jobs, while also hanging on to health-care benefits and
pensions for senior workers and getting a 20 percent raise for
entry-level workers. That’s a pretty impressive achievement in
this economy.”  UAW Vice President Jimmy Settles, who led negotiations with
Ford, said union members had concluded the tentative accord was
in their interest.  “The Ford workers voting early on in the process were
voting on emotion, but workers in plants with voting later in
the process had a chance to learn everything about the agreement
and understood how much their votes counted,” Settles said in
an e-mail last night.  Economic Multiplier  King, who has a law degree from the University of Detroit,
also is seeking to add to the UAW membership rolls by organizing
the U.S. factories of Asian and European automakers.  “It was a jobs, jobs, jobs agenda,” General Holiefield,
who runs the union’s Chrysler unit, told reporters Oct. 12 in
Warren,  Michigan . “We placed more focus on that than we did
pretty much anything else.”  Assuming 20,000 union positions are created in at least 34
factories under the contracts, they may spawn 140,000 more jobs
nationwide, including 14,444 at auto-parts makers, according to
a preliminary analysis by the Center for Automotive Research in
 Ann Arbor , Michigan.  For each new worker hired by the automakers, seven other
jobs are created either by suppliers or because of the added
income, said Debbie Menk, project manager at the Center for
Automotive Research, based on a preliminary study.  CAR had previously estimated that nine other jobs were
created for each auto-assembly position added. The new CAR
analysis, which is still under study, takes into account the
lower wages of new workers, which start at $15.78 an hour under
the proposed contracts, compared with about $28 for senior
assembly workers, Menk said.  Ford Dividend  For investors, the deal increases the likelihood Ford will
begin paying a dividend for the first time in five years,  Rod Lache , an analyst with Deutsche Bank, wrote in a note today.  “This clears one of the final hurdles to the announcement
of a meaningful dividend at Ford in the relatively near
future,” wrote Lache, who is based in  New York .  Moody’s Investors Service said Oct. 5 it would likely raise
Ford’s credit rating if the contract was ratified. Moody’s rates
Ford’s debt at Ba2, two steps below investment grade.  Standard &
Poor’s  said Sept. 29 it may raise Ford’s credit rating two
levels to BB+, the highest non-investment grade, depending on
the outcome of labor talks.  Had Ford workers rejected the contract, those jobs might
not have materialized, Shaiken said. Ford was the only U.S.
automaker that faced the possibility of a strike in this year’s
labor negotiations between the union and U.S. automakers. The
UAW agreed to strike bans at GM and Chrysler as part of the
U.S.-backed bankruptcies at the companies.  “There’s little question, that if this went down, the
investment Ford promised would have been jeopardy,” Shaiken
said. “A solid base is in place now for passage of this
contract and it reflects a major step forward in the
competitiveness of the domestic  auto industry .”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Keith Naughton in Southfield, Michigan at 
 knaughton3@bloomberg.net ;
 Jeff Green  in Southfield, Michigan at 
 jgreen16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  