-- 
Forint Weakens a Third Day as BofA Says Hungary Faces Downgrade

-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 
2011-10-17T14:51:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/forint-weakens-a-third-day-as-bofa-says-hungary-faces-downgrade.html
The forint weakened for a third day
after Bank of America Corp. said  Hungary  faces a ratings cut to
below investment grade and the German government damped optimism
of a quick fix to  Europe ’s debt crisis.  Hungary’s currency depreciated 0.7 percent to 295.3 per
euro at 4:32 p.m. in Budapest, after strengthening as much as
0.8 percent earlier today. Government bonds maturing in June
2022 slumped, lifting the yield five basis points, or 0.05
percentage point, to 7.74 percent.  Standard & Poor’s , which rates Hungary BBB- with a negative
outlook, may downgrade the country “in the coming weeks,”
 Raffaella Tenconi , an analyst with Bank of America, said in an
e-mailed note today.  Fitch Ratings , which has a BBB- rating with a stable
outlook, is likely to review Hungary in the coming six months
and may cut the outlook or downgrade the country to BB+ in 2012
“if funding difficulties materialize,” Tenconi said.  “Heightened global risks and still-elevated uncertainty
surrounding the government’s policy mix in our view imply a high
risk that Hungary will soon lose investment grade status by one
rating” company, with another potentially following in the
coming year, Tenconi said.  European Union leaders won’t provide the complete fix to
the euro-area debt crisis that global policy makers are pushing
for at an Oct. 23 summit, Steffen Seibert, German  Chancellor
Angela Merkel ’s chief spokesman, said at a briefing in Berlin
today.  Teams from S&P and Moody’s Investors Service will visit
Hungary in October to review its rating, Gyula Pleschinger,
Chief Executive Officer of the state debt management agency,
told a conference on Sept. 30.  Moody’s, which rates Hungary Baa3 with a negative outlook,
also the lowest investment grade, is likely to affirm Hungary’s
rating and outlook “for now,” Tenconi said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  