-- 
Former JPMorgan Commodities Trader Bombell Starts Hedge Fund

-- B y   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k
-- 
2011-10-17T20:37:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/former-jpmorgan-commodities-trader-bombell-starts-hedge-fund.html
Former  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  trader
Damien Bombell, who left when the bank closed a unit that bet on
commodities last year, started a hedge fund to invest in metals,
grains and energy.  The Strand Global Macro Fund began investing this year with
money provided by Bombell and his partners, he said in a
telephone interview. The fund plans to start trading with
capital from outside clients in January, and is seeking to have
at least $200 million under management, he said.  “The reason why people should invest in strategies like
mine is that we are not in an investing environment anymore,”
he said in an Oct. 7 interview. “For the next five to 10 years,
we are likely to be in a very disjointed market place, where
politicians lurch from one crisis to another. You need tactical
traders and people who are mentally flexible.”  Bombell, 39, left JPMorgan in November 2010 after the New
York-based company told him and other members of the commodities
proprietary trading desk it would shut down the unit to comply
with U.S. rules that prevent banks from using their own money to
wager on markets. He joins traders from firms including  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and  Morgan Stanley (MS)  who’ve left
to join or start hedge funds after the Volcker rule restricted
risk-taking by banks following the collapse of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. and Bear Stearns Cos. in 2008.  20% Return Target  Hedge-fund startups had the most active first six months of
the year since before the financial crisis, helped by investors
seeking higher returns as central banks hold  interest rates  near
record lows. Money managers founded 578 new hedge funds during
the first six months of 2011, the most since the first half of
2007, according to Chicago-based Hedge Fund Research Inc.  The Strand fund will try to produce annual returns of 15
percent to 20 percent, said Bombell, who serves as chief
investment officer of Zug, Switzerland-based Strand Asset
Management AG.  Hedge funds  are private pools of capital whose managers can
buy or sell assets and bet on falling as well as rising prices.
The Strand fund, like many of its peers, will charge clients 2
percent of assets under management to cover costs plus 20
percent of any profits.  Commodity prices as measured by the Standard & Poor’s GSCI
Spot Index of raw materials gained 5.2 percent last week,
erasing losses for the year. The increase, the biggest weekly
jump since December, came after investors gained confidence that
European policy makers would take steps to bolster the region’s
banks. Oil and copper declined in August and September on
concern that  Europe ’s debt crisis would hurt demand for
commodities by spurring a global recession.  Bombell, who was born in Sydney, said the Strand fund is
buying Arabica coffee based on his view that demand will
outstrip supply. He’s also becoming “quite bullish” on Brent
crude oil, predicting a “nasty situation” in which it could
rise to $150 a barrel from about $110.  “That would ensure a global recession in 2012, regardless
of the fix being found for euro zone banking and sovereign
problems,” said Bombell.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Westbrook in London at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  