-- 
France Risks AAA on Expanded EFSF Bailout Fund: Euro Credit

-- B y   J o h n   G l o v e r
-- 
2011-10-18T15:12:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/france-risks-losing-top-grade-as-efsf-bailout-fund-bulks-up-euro-credit.html
Proposals to beef up Europe’s
bailout fund by offering to guarantee portions of the debt owed
by the region’s weaker governments threaten to trash  France ’s
top credit rating.  The nation’s 10-year notes are the fourth-worst performers
this quarter -- behind  Greece ,  Belgium  and Ireland -- as traders
speculate the European Financial Stability Facility will be used
to insure the first portion of losses in the event of a
sovereign default. France’s rating is under pressure, Moody’s
Investors Service said yesterday, and investors now demand a
record 112 basis points more to hold its bonds rather than
German notes, up from 29 basis points in April.  “France is the key factor here,” said Bob McKee, chief
economist at Independent Strategy Ltd. in London. “Offering
insurance increases France’s contingent liability and that puts
pressure on its rating. If France loses its AAA status, that in
turn increases the pressure on  Germany .”  French bonds are being hurt as policy makers consider using
the guarantee to ensure Italy, the world’s third-largest bond
issuer, and  Spain  can continue to access markets as contagion
spreads from Greece. A downgrade of France will also limit the
EFSF’s ability to hold a top grade, according to Moody’s.  Default Swaps  The cost of insuring French bonds using credit-default
swaps has soared to 191.5 basis points, from an average of about
84 in the first half of the year. They are the most expensive to
protect among the top-rated nations in Europe and more costly
than for nations rated AA- by  Standard & Poor’s , including
 China ,  Estonia  and the  Czech Republic .  “Looking at the numbers, France is no longer a AAA
credit,” said Nicola Marinelli, who oversees $153 million in
funds at Glendevon King Asset Management in  London . “They’re
talking about guaranteeing trillions of euros of bonds but if
France isn’t a AAA then even guaranteeing one more euro might
not be sustainable.”  French bonds have lost 2.37 percent this quarter, according
to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European Federation of
Financial Analysts Societies. Belgian bond returns are down 4.19
percent in the period and Greek notes have lost 7.58 percent,
the indexes show.  Moody’s Warning  European leaders meet in Brussels on Oct. 23 to determine a
recapitalization of the region’s banks as they face the prospect
of higher losses on Greek debt, an increase in the effectiveness
of the EFSF as well as ways to tighten economic and financial
policy. The meeting won’t provide a complete fix for the crisis,
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s spokesman Steffen Seibert said
yesterday, and the work will extend well into next year.  “The deterioration in debt metrics and the potential for
further contingent liabilities to emerge are exerting pressure
on the stable outlook of the government’s Aaa debt rating,”
Moody’s said in a report late yesterday. “The French government
now has less room for maneuver in terms of stretching its
balance sheet than it had in 2008.”  Moody’s said it will monitor and assess its “stable”
outlook on the nation’s debt over the next three months. In a
separate statement dated today, Moody’s said that  Europe ’s
central banks have “substantial capacity” to support lenders
and sovereign debt markets.  The so-called Eurosystem, headed by the  European Central
Bank , will continue to meet the liquidity needs of solvent euro
area banks, Moody’s said.  French 10-year borrowing costs increased to about 3.13
percent from 2.6 percent at the end of September. Italy’s 10-
year borrowing costs, as low as 4.93 percent on Aug. 17 after
the European Central Bank started buying its bonds, have soared
to 5.85 percent.  Spain, Germany  Spain’s 10-year bond yields, currently 5.33 percent, were
5.35 percent at the end of September and as much as 6.32 percent
on July 18. German 10-year yields also jumped this month, rising
to 2.01 percent from 1.73 percent on Oct. 4.  The need to lever the EFSF stems from the size of the
potential calls on its limited resources, said Sony Kapoor,
managing director of London-based policy group Re-Define Europe.
The facility is backed by so-called over-guarantees of about 780
billion euros from its member states, allowing it to claim a AAA
rating, according to Bloomberg calculations.  The EFSF’s firepower drops to about 230 billion euros when
over-guarantees are accounted for, the countries that have
already received bailouts are excluded,  Italy  and Spain drop out
of the tally, and the cost of a second Greek bailout is
deducted.  ‘Political Signal’  Italy and Spain alone must refinance more than 420 billion
euros of bonds that come due next year, data according to
Bloomberg show. By offering to take the first loss on some
portion -- the part mooted is 20 percent -- of new issuance, the
euro-region states can show they are standing behind the issuer
and persuade private investors to step in.  “You’re sending a very strong political signal that all
the member states believe that Spain and Italy are solvent and
they are willing to demonstrate that by putting themselves in
harm’s way,” said Kapoor at Re-Define. “They have a very
narrow space for maneuver in terms of the leverage. They’re
between the devil and the deep blue sea.”  French banks tumbled in the past four days with  BNP Paribas (BNP) 
SA, the biggest of the nation’s lenders, dropping more 15.7
percent and  Societe Generale (GLE)  SA down 17 percent amid concern
they would be downgraded along with the government and that they
need more capital.  “Given the sheer size the French banking system it may end
up being singled out as the most vulnerable country to a rating
agency downgrade,” said Marchel Alexandrovich, an economist at
Jefferies International in London.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Glover in London at 
 johnglover@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  