-- 
FSB Favorite Carney May Not Have to Label Canada Banks Systemic

-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 
2011-10-17T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/fsb-favorite-carney-may-not-have-to-label-canada-banks-systemic.html
Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney 
emerged from a meeting of Group of 20 officials in Paris as the
leading candidate to oversee efforts to rewrite new rules for
international finance that some lenders claim may slow lending
and hurt growth.  Carney is favored to take the helm of the Financial
Stability Board, the body charged by the G-20 to make
recommendations for global financial reform and monitor progress.
He would replace Bank of Italy Governor  Mario Draghi , who
becomes president of the  European Central Bank  next month,
according to two officials attending G-20 meetings in Paris on
Oct. 14 and Oct. 15, who spoke on condition of anonymity because
a decision hasn’t been made.  If chosen, Carney would oversee new rules that would
address risks associated with so-called “systemically
important” banks, none of which are likely to be Canadian.
Group of 20 governments are considering naming as many as 50
banks as systemically important to the global economy and in
need of extra capital, two officials from G-20 nations said.
Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  said on the weekend he doesn’t
expect any of Canada’s banks to be on the list.  Carney is “a highly qualified candidate,” Flaherty told
reporters at a press conference in Paris, where G-20 officials
agreed to strengthen the regulator’s capacity and resources. He
said the FSB appointment will be announced at a summit of
leaders from the G-20 in Cannes, France, on Nov. 3-4.  Clash With Lenders  Regulators have clashed with lenders including HSBC
Holdings Plc, BNP Paribas SA and Citigroup Inc. over the plans,
with banks warning that the measures may constrain lending and
hurt the economy.  Jamie Dimon , chief executive officer of
JPMorgan Chase & Co. has said that the U.S. should consider
withdrawing from the Basel committee and that the rules it sets
are “anti-American.”  Carney, 46, worked at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. for more
than a decade before becoming a policy maker in 2003 and then
chief of  Canada ’s central bank in 2008. He has pushed for
tougher regulations for global lenders and clashed with banking
executives over new rules requiring them to hold more capital.  In a Sept. 25 speech to a banking group in  Washington ,
Carney said new financial-market regulations wouldn’t hobble the
global economic recovery, citing the recent UBS AG trading loss
of $2.3 billion as an example of why greater controls are needed.  Monetary Policy   If appointed, Carney would likely continue to run monetary
policy in Canada, the world’s 10th largest economy. Like other
central bankers, he has spent the last three years seeking to
bolster growth by keeping  interest rates  at historically low
levels.  Speaking in an interview with CBC Television recorded Oct.
13 and broadcast over the weekend, Carney said he has room to
add stimulus by lowering the central bank’s benchmark interest
rate from the current 1 percent, and could boost the economy
further if needed should lower rates be insufficient.  “We are not out of bullets when we get to that point, but
we’re not trigger happy either,” Carney said. “The current
level of interest rates are appropriate, but we’ll judge that as
the economy evolves.”  Carney helps to oversee a Canadian financial system that
largely escaped the last financial crisis and has been ranked
the world’s soundest by the Geneva-based  World Economic Forum .
The country’s three largest banks --  Royal Bank of Canada (RY) ,
Toronto-Dominion Bank and  Bank of Nova Scotia (BNS)  -- are among the
world’s 20 largest by market capitalization.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net  