-- 
Funds Flow Out of Euro as Central Bankers Prefer Yen, Pound

-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a   a n d   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 
2011-10-17T15:30:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/funds-flow-out-of-euro-as-central-bankers-prefer-yen-pound-1-.html
The euro’s rebound from its weakest
levels since January is in jeopardy as banks from UBS AG to
Morgan Stanley say they see money flowing out of the currency.  Foreigners were net sellers of European equities in the
past five weeks, according to Zurich-based UBS. Morgan Stanley
data show that investors have had a net short, or bearish,
position in the currency since September. The reports add to
 International Monetary Fund  figures showing a drop in
allocations to the euro by central banks since a 2009 peak.  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French President
Nicolas Sarkozy are counting on international support as they
seek to resolve the region’s sovereign debt crisis, setting a
deadline of the Nov. 3 Group of 20 summit. While the euro has
gained 2.7 percent since a Sept. 12 low against nine
developed-nation counterparts as measured by Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Indexes, it’s about 3.8 percent below its
high for the year in May.  “The big money, the real money managers, are paring their
exposure on a strategic basis,”  Samarjit Shankar , a Boston-
based managing director of foreign exchange at Bank of  New York 
Mellon Corp., which administers about $26 trillion as the
world’s largest custodial bank, said in an Oct. 11 interview.
“Non-European fixed-income investors are just calling it a day
and pulling out of Europe.”  Equity Flows  The amount of money investors pulled out of the region’s
most-indebted nations’ bond markets this year as Greece 10-year
yields rose above 20 percent was as much as twice the average of
2010, according to Bank of New York Mellon’s “iflow” data,
which is used by the IMF and the Bank of Japan in their
analyses.  UBS’s equity-flow gauge showed investors cut their holdings
of shares in the euro zone in the five weeks through Oct. 7,
while it was “broadly flat” for U.S. stocks, analysts at the
bank said in an Oct. 10 report.  Instead of euros and dollars, central banks are putting
more reserves into  Japan , Britain, Australia and Canada,
according to Barclays Plc and Citigroup Inc.  Europe’s 17-nation currency traded at $1.3757 at 11:12 a.m.
in New York, having strengthened 3.8 percent last week to
$1.3882. It fell 1.5 percent to 105.57 yen today and climbed 4.4
percent to 107.20 yen in the five days to Oct. 14. The Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Currency Index for the euro rose to 99.1474
from 98.7399 on Oct. 7.  The median estimate of at least 30 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg is for the euro to weaken to $1.35 by year-end, and
depreciate to 104 yen. UBS, the world’s third-largest currency
trader, sees it falling to $1.20.  ‘Bear-Market Rally’  “We are in the midst of a bear market rally,” and the
currency should weaken to $1.25 in the first quarter of 2012,
Calvin Tse, a foreign-exchange strategist at New York-based
Morgan Stanley, said in an Oct. 14 interview.  Morgan Stanley’s latest “FX Positioning Tracker,” which
uses six proprietary indicators including money flows through
the firm and ranges from -10 to 10, was -6 on Oct. 10. It was
last neutral, or zero, on Sept. 5.  The euro rallied last week after Merkel and Sarkozy set a
three-week deadline to devise a plan to recapitalize the
region’s banks and find a “durable” solution for  Greece , which
is in jeopardy of defaulting. The euro is about 15 percent
stronger than its average versus the dollar since January 1999,
buoyed in part by their pledges to preserve the monetary union.  Additional Powers  It also gained as Slovakia backed the enhanced European
Financial Stability Facility, the rescue fund that will have a
lending capacity of 440 billion euros ($609 billion), which is
“ready” to use its expanded powers, according to European
Commission President  Jose Barroso . The EFSF has gained the power
to buy sovereign bonds, offer credit lines to governments and
grant aid for bank recapitalizations. The fund’s role had been
to sell bonds to finance rescue loans.  Europe ’s revamped strategy won the backing of global
finance chiefs, who urged the region’s leaders to deal
“decisively” with the turmoil when they meet for emergency
talks in a week’s time.  “The plan has the right elements,” U.S. Treasury
Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  told reporters in Paris. Bank of
Canada Governor Mark Carney said that “some of what is being
considered, if fully implemented, would be sufficient in our
opinion.”  ‘Lot of Progress’  “We’ve actually seen a lot of progress, comments in the
right direction showing that they are going to move forward in
terms of finding a comprehensive solution,”  Mary Nicola , a New
York-based foreign-exchange strategist at BNP Paribas SA, said
in an Oct. 12 interview.  The euro may climb to $1.45 by year-end, she said, as
Europe makes progress toward resolving its debt crisis and the
 Federal Reserve  starts to print money again to buy bonds as the
economy falters, debasing the greenback, according to Nicola.  At the same time European Union leaders expressed optimism
that they can fix Greece, and France and Belgium decided to
dismantle  Dexia SA (DEXB) , three years after rescuing what was once the
world’s largest lender to municipalities, and Standard & Poor’s
cut Spain one level to AA- from AA.  Forcing losses on sovereign bondholders as a way to fix the
region’s crisis may “damage the reputation of the single
currency internationally, possibly adding to volatility in
foreign-exchange markets,” the  European Central Bank  said in
its monthly bulletin on Oct. 13. “Public and private
international investors may be cautious about investing large
portions of their wealth in assets denominated in a currency of
sovereigns that may not fully” repay their debts, it said.  Declining Share  The euro’s share of global reserves fell to 26.7 percent as
of the end of June from a peak of 27.9 percent in September
2009, a month before Greece’s new government sparked the debt
crisis by revealing that its predecessor had understated the
 budget deficit , IMF data on Sept. 30 showed.  The pound’s share of reserves was little changed at 4.2
percent, and up from 4 percent at the end of last year, while
the yen’s rose to 3.9 percent from 3.2 percent. Central banks
and other wealth managers raised allocations to a group the IMF
calls “other currencies,” which Citigroup says likely includes
equal amounts of Australian and Canadian dollars and the Swedish
krona, to 4.9 percent from 3 percent.  ‘More Attractive’  Smaller Group of 10 “currencies are providing a more
attractive alternative as they have a much better sovereign-
credit situation and much greater exposure toward the fastest
growing economies of the world,” Andrew Cox, a strategist at
Citigroup in New York, said in an interview on Oct. 11.  Reserve managers reduced their euro holdings by an
equivalent of $11 billion in the year through June, adjusting
for the currency’s appreciation, according to Citigroup.  Global reserves were $10.1 trillion at the end of June, up
from $8.16 trillion at the end of 2009, according to the IMF,
which calculates data from central banks that report their
currency allocations. Some countries, including  China , whose
$3.2 trillion in reserves are the world’s largest, don’t give
currency breakdowns.  China, the largest foreign lender to the U.S., raised its
holdings of Treasuries in July to the highest level in nine
months, according to the Treasury Department statistics released
Sept. 16. The world’s second-largest economy boosted its U.S.
debt securities to $1.17 trillion as China’s trade surplus
surged to the highest in more than two years, the data showed.  Crisis to Crisis  While optimism that politicians can agree a plan on banks
may push the euro toward $1.40, gains won’t last as the region
is “likely to lurch from one crisis to another,”  Chris Walker ,
a strategist at UBS in  London , said in an Oct. 12 interview.
“It will take a major act of political unison and fundamental
change in the system to solve the structural problems for good,
something which would likely take time to implement.”  Hedge funds  and other large speculators held a net 73,795
contracts at the Chicago Mercantile Exchange as of Oct. 11
betting on a drop in the euro, according to the Washington-based
Commodity Futures Trading Commission. In May, there were a net
99,516 contracts wagering on a gain.  “I don’t see anything to be optimistic about in Europe,”
John Brynjolfsson, chief investment officer Armored Wolf LLC in
 Aliso Viejo , California, said in an Oct. 14 interview with  Matt Miller  on Bloomberg Television’s “Street Smart.” “The euro is
depreciating,” said Brynjolfsson, who oversees about
$1 billion. “That is a trade you definitely want to have on.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net ;
Liz Capo McCormick in New York at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net ;
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  