-- 
G4S Acquires ISS From Funds Advised by EQT, Goldman Sachs for $8.2 Billion

-- B y   A n d r e w   N o e l   a n d   R i c h a r d   W e i s s
-- 
2011-10-17T13:50:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/g4s-buys-iss-from-funds-advised-by-eqt-for-8-2-billion-broadening-reach.html
G4S Plc (GFS)  agreed to acquire ISS A/S
for 1.5 billion pounds ($2.4 billion) to create the world’s
biggest integrated security provider and office cleaner for
clients such as Citigroup Inc.  G4S plunged as much as 22 percent, the most since it
started trading on the  London  Stock Exchange in 2004, after
saying in a statement that it plans a 2 billion-pound rights
offer to fund the purchase. G4S is buying ISS from EQT Partners
and Goldman Sachs Capital Partners for a total value of 5.2
billion pounds, of which 3.7 billion pounds is assumed debt,
Chief Executive Officer Nick Buckles said on a call today.  G4S is playing into a trend for customers to bundle
different kinds of office-upkeep and security services into a
single contract. With the purchase, the Crawley, England-based
company gains access to the 500 billion-pound facilities-
management market, where the ability to offer other services
alongside security can boost expansion by 1 percent to 2
percent, Buckles said.  “G4S has a good track record on acquisitions and the move
to an integrated facilities services offering does have some
logic,”  Robert Plant , an analyst at  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  with a
“neutral” recommendation on the company, said in a note.  The British company fell as much as 61.2 pence to 221.1
pence in London, cutting its market value to about 3.18 billion
pounds. It traded at 225.8 pence as of 2:47 p.m.  Investors ‘Positive’  G4S expects an earnings-per-share boost of at least 10
percent from the deal, Buckles said. Combining the businesses
could result in a “couple of thousand” job cuts, he said.  “We saw all our top 12 shareholders in person or on the
phone and they all were positive about the deal,” the CEO said.  The transaction will create a global services provider with
16 billion pounds in sales, generate 100 million pounds in
annual cost savings by 2014 and drive growth in emerging
markets, G4S said. The price the U.K. company will pay is equal
to 8.5 times ISS’s earnings, according to the statement.  The U.K. company was formed seven years ago through the
merger of Group 4 Falck A/S and Securicor Plc. G4S and
Copenhagen-based ISS have separately made hundreds of smaller
deals to fill geographic holes in their coverage, absorbing
minor competitors that struggle to compete on scale and breadth
of service.  G4S competes in security with  Securitas AB (SECUB)  of  Sweden , which
has also made bolt-on acquisitions in past years to expand its
presence in areas such as guarding. Securitas tried and failed
this year to buy Swedish surveillance-system maker Niscayah AB,
which ended up with  Stanley Black & Decker Inc. (SWK)   The security industry has grown as companies such as G4S
take on work such as guarding major sports events and
conventions. Buckles said in August that the company will take
on more work from governments, and that G4S is benefiting
because security is an expense that’s “very difficult to cut.”  ‘Game-Changer’  “This is a real game-changer on all metrics,” Buckles
said on today’s call. “We don’t have a direct competitor that
can deliver the range of services we can.”  ISS retreated from plans earlier this year for an initial
public offering because of weak capital markets, and the company
had said it might revive the IPO. Apax Partners LLP in January
dropped a 6.4 billion-euro ($8.87 billion) bid for ISS,
according to two people familiar with the talks at the time.  ISS is the world’s fourth-largest private employer with
more than 500,000 workers. The company has bought 154 companies
since 2000, making it the Nordic region’s most active buyer in
the past decade, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Deutsche Bank AG, Royal Bank of Scotland Plc and  HSBC
Holdings Plc (HSBA)  are underwriting new debt facilities. Deutsche Bank
and Greenhill are joint advisers to G4S, alongside HSBC and RBS
Hoare Govett.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Noel in London at 
 anoel@bloomberg.net ;
Richard Weiss in Frankfurt at 
 rweiss5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  