-- 
Gannett Profit Slides on Ad, Circulation Declines; Digital Sales Increase

-- B y   B r e t t   P u l l e y
-- 
2011-10-17T13:55:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/gannett-third-quarter-profit-slides-on-advertising-circulation-declines.html
Gannett Co., the owner of 82
newspapers and 23 television stations, reported third-quarter
profit that decreased 1.6 percent as circulation and print-
advertising revenue declined.  Net income fell to $99.8 million, or 41 cents a share, from
$101.4 million, or 42 cents, a year earlier, the McLean,
Virginia-based company said in a statement today. Excluding some
items, earnings declined to 44 cents a share, matching the
average estimate of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Gannett, whose publications include  USA Today , is the first
newspaper publisher to report its results for the quarter,
making it an indicator of how the industry is faring. Publishing
revenue, including advertising and circulation, declined 5.3
percent to $917.8 million. Digital revenue rose 10 percent.  Gannett reported a 17 percent drop in national advertising
at its U.S. publishing business, with declines in entertainment,
automotive and financial categories.  “That’s not very encouraging,”  Ed Atorino , an analyst at
Benchmark Co. in New York, said in an interview. Overall, the
company’s results were “a little worse than I thought.”  New York Times Co. (NYT) , publisher of the namesake newspaper as
well as The Boston Globe, warned last month that a worsening
global economy has led to weakened advertising sales. The New
York-based company will report third-quarter results Oct. 20.  Total revenue at Gannett fell 3.5 percent to $1.27 billion,
meeting the average analyst estimate.  Gannett declined 3.1 percent to $10.60 at 9:48 a.m. in  New
York  Stock Exchange trading. The shares had lost 28 percent this
year before today.  (Gannett is holding a conference call today at 10 a.m. New
York time. To listen, go to  http://www.gannett.com .)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brett Pulley in New York at 
 bpulley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom in New York at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net . 