-- 
Gannett Shares Tumble as Third-Quarter Profit Falls on Drop in Ad Revenue

-- B y   B r e t t   P u l l e y
-- 
2011-10-17T20:18:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/gannett-shares-tumble-as-third-quarter-profit-falls-on-drop-in-ad-revenue.html
Gannett Co., the owner of 82
newspapers and 23 television stations, dropped the most in two
months after reporting third-quarter profit had fallen as
circulation and print-advertising revenue declined.  The company, based in McLean,  Virginia , fell 8.7 percent to
$9.99 at 4:15 p.m. in  New York , for the shares’ biggest daily
decline since Aug. 10. They have lost 34 percent this year.  “We face challenges across many of our advertising
categories,” Gannett Chief Executive Officer Gracia Martore
said on a conference call.  Net income fell 1.6 percent to $99.8 million, or 41 cents a
share, from $101.4 million, or 42 cents, a year earlier, the
company said in a statement today. Excluding some items,
earnings declined to 44 cents a share, matching the average
estimate of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Gannett, whose publications include  USA Today , is the first
newspaper publisher to report its results for the quarter,
making it an early indicator of how the industry is faring. The
newspaper industry has struggled over the past few years, as
consumers of print news have transitioned to new digital
platforms and advertising has been hurt by the weak economy.  Publishing revenue at Gannett, including advertising and
circulation, declined 5.3 percent to $917.8 million during the
quarter. Digital revenue rose 10 percent.  Gannett reported a 17 percent drop in national advertising
at its U.S. publishing business, with declines in entertainment,
automotive and financial categories.  “That’s not very encouraging,”  Ed Atorino , an analyst at
Benchmark Co. in New York, said in an interview. Overall, the
company’s results were “a little worse than I thought.”  New York Times Co. (NYT) , publisher of the namesake newspaper as
well as the Boston Globe, warned last month that a worsening
global economy has led to weakened advertising sales. The New
York-based company will report third-quarter results Oct. 20.  Total revenue at Gannett fell 3.5 percent to $1.27 billion,
meeting the average analyst estimate.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brett Pulley in New York at 
 bpulley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom in New York at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net . 