-- 
GAO Calls for Review of Pentagon’s $15 Billion Rocket Buys

-- B y   B r e n d a n   M c G a r r y   a n d   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 
2011-10-17T19:04:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/gao-calls-for-review-of-pentagon-s-15-billion-rocket-buys-1-.html
The U.S. Defense Department and
National Reconnaissance Office plan to spend $15 billion on
rocket booster cores without enough information to determine
whether they’re getting a “fair and reasonable” price,
according to government auditors.  A Government Accountability Office  report  released today
questioned aspects of an  Air Force  and National Reconnaissance
Office plan to buy eight booster cores a year from fiscal 2013
to 2017, a total of 40, to stabilize production. The booster
core is the main component of a rocket.  “Some subcontractor data needed to negotiate fair and
reasonable prices are lacking,” according to the report
prepared for Representative C.W. Bill Young, a Republican from
 Florida , and Representative Norm Dicks, a Democrat from
Washington. Young is the chairman of the House Appropriations
Defense subcommittee and Dicks is the panel’s top Democratic
member.  “The expected block buy may commit the government to buy
more booster cores than it needs, and could result in a surplus
of hardware requiring storage and potentially rework if stored
for extended periods,” the GAO wrote.  The Pentagon “partially concurs” with GAO’s
recommendation to reassess the length of the block-buy contract.  Space-Launch Competition  “The decision on specific contractual quantity and period
of commitment will be balanced among price, operational
requirements, budget realities and the potential for new entrant
competition,” Ronald Jost, deputy assistant secretary of
defense, wrote in a response included in the GAO report.  Getting certified cost and pricing data is sometimes
“impractical,” Jost wrote. “It is not likely the prime
contractor or the DOD will be able to obtain certified cost or
pricing data for the Atlas V RD-180 engines, which are purchased
from a Russian company.”  The report comes as the Air Force is finishing a
procurement strategy and new entrant criteria for missions to
launch national-security payloads, such as reconnaissance
satellites. The strategy is expected to be completed “within
the next few months,” according to the GAO.  United Launch Alliance LLC, a joint venture of Bethesda,
Maryland-based  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  and Chicago-based  Boeing
Co. (BA) , is the government’s sole provider of military and spy
satellite launches under a program called Evolved Expendable
Launch Vehicle. The EELV program uses medium- and heavy-lift
rockets to launch satellites into space.  Competition  The Air Force, National Reconnaissance Office, which
manages the nation’s spy satellites, and the space agency NASA
on Friday released a strategy designed to help companies compete
for space-launch business. The agencies agreed to a common set
of requirements and payload risk classifications.  “This strategy is intended to further enable competition
and provide a consistent path for new entrants to compete,”
according to the document.  Under the EELV program, the Pentagon awards a contract for
each rocket as needed and a separate contract to cover ULA’s
overhead and facilities cost, according to the GAO report. The
bulk buy approach is designed to curb rising costs by
stabilizing demand and production.  The GAO said more coordination between the Air Force, NRO
and  NASA  may yield savings on fuel and other items that ULA buys
for the EELV program office.  Savings Sought  “ULA charges up to an 18 percent profit on top of engine
prices and to act as a broker for the program office on
commodities like propellants bought from other government
agencies, like NASA and the Defense Logistics Agency -- costs
the program could avoid if it were to coordinate purchases
directly from other agencies,” the report states.  The company buys engines under commercial subcontracts,
which limits cost and pricing information available to the
government, according to the GAO report.  The program office hasn’t had access to cost and pricing
data for subcontractor hardware such as engines, motors and
guidance systems on the Delta IV booster cores “for over a
decade,” it states. The Air Force in 2007 waived Boeing from
providing the information because it was not required under a
commercial contract.  “Without certified cost or pricing data on the booster
cores,” defense auditors “believe that program contracting
officials have an inadequate basis on which to negotiate launch
contracts,” according to the GAO report.  Less than half the EELV missions planned in recent years
were actually launched, according to the GAO. The program’s
launch rate was about 38 percent in the five-year period from
fiscal 2005 through fiscal 2009, with 21 missions completed out
of 56 missions planned.  “The Air Force believes a ‘bow wave’ of satellite payloads
will be ready for launch in the near future as satellites
previously delayed are nearing delivery and will require launch
vehicles at an unprecedented rate,” according to the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brendan McGarry in  Washington  at 
 bmcgarry2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  