-- 
Gas Beating Oil in Shipping Market as Consumers Expand Stockpiles: Freight

-- B y   I s a a c   A r n s d o r f
-- 
2011-10-18T11:02:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/gas-beating-oil-in-shipping-as-users-expand-stockpiles-freight.html
Record liquefied-petroleum-gas
shipments are eroding a glut of the tankers hauling the fuel
used in stoves, cars and lighters, driving charter rates to the
highest ever at a time when most other ships are losing money.  Seaborne trade in LPGs will advance 7.9 percent to 60.2
million metric tons this year, led by supplies from  Qatar ,
according to Knut Stangebye Olsen of Lorentzen & Stemoco A/S, a
shipping consultant. Monthly rental costs will exceed the
previous record of $1.27 million by next year’s third quarter,
from $900,000 now, said the Oslo-based analyst, a former manager
at BW Gas Ltd., the largest owner of the vessels.  The surge in supply is a consequence of expanding natural
gas output and oil refining, which produce LPGs as a byproduct.
While returns on the biggest ore carriers fell 87 percent in the
past three years and owners of some of the largest crude tankers
are paying clients to hire their vessels, LPG ship rates almost
doubled this year. Gas supply expanding at more than twice the
pace of the fleet means analysts anticipate profit at  Exmar NV (EXM) ,
an operator of the tankers, will almost double this year.  “We don’t have a lot of vessels available for spot
cargoes,” said Diego de Potter, a chartering official at
Antwerp, Belgium-based Exmar, whose fleet of 30 ships can hold
enough gas to supply China for more than a month. “If you ask
me for a charter in six weeks, I will not even bother to give
you a freight rate.”  Negative Returns  Costs for spot cargoes on the biggest LPG tankers doubled
to $78.25 a ton this year, according to the London-based Baltic
Exchange, which publishes assessments for more than 50 routes.
LPG includes propane, butane and ethane.  The cost of propane in northwestern  Europe , an industry
benchmark, averaged $876 a ton this year, on track for the
highest annual average in at least three decades, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Demand for LPG is strengthening now because consumers are
expanding stockpiles before the Northern Hemisphere’s winter
begins, said Steve Engelen, the manager of research and projects
at Joachim Grieg & Co., an Oslo-based shipbroker.  Returns on capesizes, the biggest ships hauling iron ore
and coal, are 50 percent below the five-year average. Global
rates on the largest crude carriers are a negative $10,911 a
day, compared with a five-year average of $28,429, Baltic
Exchange data show. Clients still pay some fuel charges, cutting
costs for owners moving ships into regions with better returns.  Orders at Yards  The LPG tanker fleet expanded 0.3 percent this year,
compared with 6.3 percent for the biggest  oil tankers  and 14
percent for capesizes, according to London-based Clarkson Plc,
the world’s largest shipbroker. Orders at yards in  South Korea ,
China,  Japan  and  Brazil  for new LPG vessels are equal to 10
percent of existing capacity, the smallest ratio of any type of
commodity carrier, according to data from Redhill, England-based
IHS Fairplay.  While LPG tanker rates rose fivefold since March 2009, they
are still only “a little above break even,” said Andreas Sohmen-Pao, the Singapore-based chief executive officer of BW
Gas. The company hasn’t ordered new ships for five years and
sold its oldest vessels, he said. The average LPG tanker is now
idle about 10 percent of the time, compared with 25 percent in
the past several years, Sohmen-Pao said.  Economic Growth  The projected jump in rates may be curbed should economic
growth slow. The U.S., the world’s biggest LPG consumer, will
expand 1.4 percent next year, compared with 1.7 percent in 2011,
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said in a report Oct. 3. The bank had
previously expected growth of 2 percent in 2012.  China , the
second-biggest user, will slow to 8.7 percent in 2012, from 9.3
percent this year, according to the median of 10 economists’
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  World energy consumption fell 1.5 percent in 2009, the
biggest decline in at least four decades, as the global economy
endured its worst recession since World War II, data from
London-based BP Plc show. Natural-gas production fell 2.8
percent, the most since at least 1970, and oil refining
retreated 2.6 percent, the largest contraction since 1981.  The process of extracting natural gas destined for
liquefaction yields about 5 percent propane and a similar amount
of butane or ethane, according to the Paris-based World LP Gas
Association. Liquefied natural gas is produced by cooling gas to
about minus 260 degrees Fahrenheit. A barrel of crude typically
yields about 3 percent LPGs when it is refined, accounting for
about 40 percent of global LPG supply.  Gas Futures  Crude oil traded on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  fell 6
percent to $85.90 a barrel this year as of 6:14 a.m. today in
 New York . Natural-gas futures traded on the bourse slid 16
percent to $3.692 per million British thermal units.  Exmar will report net income of $32.3 million this year,
compared with $14.1 million in 2010, according to the mean of
five analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Earnings will
expand to $49.7 million in 2012, the estimates show. Shares of
the company fell 21 percent this year in Brussels trading,
compared with a 32 percent slump in the Russell Global Large Cap
Shipping Index of 26 companies.  BW Group Ltd.’s 6.625 percent bonds maturing in 2017 trade
at about 94.5 cents on the dollar, according to data on Trace,
the bond-price reporting system of the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority. Bonds issued by Overseas Shipholding
Group, the largest U.S. operator of very large crude carriers,
and maturing in 2018 trade at 75.2 cents on the dollar, the data
show.  “It’s the classic combination of basically zero fleet
growth with increased demand,” said Wouter Vanderhaeghen, an
analyst at KBC Securities NV in Brussels, who has a “buy”
rating on Exmar. “This has been one of the poorest shipping
segments out there, and they’re finally making decent returns.
Everything is there for the stock value to increase.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isaac Arnsdorf in London at 
 iarnsdorf@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  