-- 
Germany Shoots Down ‘Dreams’ of Swift Fix

-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a   a n d   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 
2011-10-17T14:53:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/germany-shoots-down-dreams-of-early-end-to-europe-sovereign-debt-crisis.html
Germany  said European Union leaders
won’t provide the complete fix to the euro-area debt crisis that
global policy makers are pushing for at an Oct. 23 summit.  German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  has made it clear that
“dreams that are taking hold again now that with this package
everything will be solved and everything will be over on Monday
won’t be able to be fulfilled,” Steffen Seibert, Merkel’s chief
spokesman, said at a briefing in Berlin today. The search for an
end to the crisis “surely extends well into next year.”  Group of 20 finance ministers and central bankers concluded
weekend talks in Paris endorsing parts of Europe’s emerging plan
to avoid a Greek default, bolster banks and curb contagion.
Providing a week to act, they set the Oct. 23 meeting of
European leaders in Brussels as the deadline.  On the summit agenda is how any recapitalization of
 Europe ’s banks “might be carried out in a coordinated way” and
how to make the European Financial Stability Facility, the EU’s
rescue fund for indebted states, as effective as possible,
Seibert said. The leaders will also discuss aid for  Greece  and
ways to tighten economic and financial policy, he said.  The euro retreated as much as 1 percent to $1.3739 from a
one-month high against the dollar after Seibert’s comments. The
currency last week had its biggest gain in more than two years
on speculation that policy makers were moving closer to stemming
the crisis. German 10-year bonds rallied and the Stoxx Europe
600 Index reversed an advance of as much as 1.5 percent and was
down 1.4 percent at 4.45 p.m. in  Frankfurt .  ‘Disappointment Trade’  Seibert’s statement “moved the disappointment trade to
this morning,”  Carl Weinberg , founder and chief economist at
High Frequency Economics, said today on Bloomberg Television.
“We’re looking at a really big disappointment if we don’t get a
funded, operational and agile response to the bank
recapitalization problem as soon as possible.”  Two years to the week since Greece triggered the turmoil by
revising its budget math, policy makers face increasing calls
from the U.S. and other global partners to stamp out the turmoil
that has pushed the Greek government to the edge of default and
the European economy close to recession.  The outlook for German economic growth has worsened as
companies cut their business expectations and foreign orders
decline, the Bundesbank, Germany’s central bank, said in its
monthly report today.  Greek Strikes  In Greece, Finance Ministry workers began a 10-day strike,
complicating the government’s efforts to collect taxes. Renewed
walkouts have hit Europe’s most-indebted country as Greek
lawmakers face another vote on fiscal measures as soon as this
week, a showdown that Prime Minister  George Papandreou  needs to
win to ease the way for more foreign financing.  Obstacles to an EU accord include resistance by bankers to
a deeper restructuring of Greek debt and discord among Europe’s
capitals over how to multiply the firepower of their bailout
fund and recapitalize financial institutions. At stake is
confidence in the 17-nation currency union that Merkel says she
wants to preserve.  As EU officials move toward an agreement that may include
bigger losses on Greek debt holdings and the forced
recapitalization of lenders, bankers are pushing back. Options
include altering a July accord struck with investors for a 21
percent net-present-value reduction in Greek debt holdings.  ‘Sustainable Solution’  German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said yesterday
the reduction of Greece’s debt by means of private-investor
participation must be bigger than agreed to in July by euro-
region leaders to achieve a “sustainable solution” for the
country. There will be negotiations with banks about a debt cut
for Greece, Schaeuble said on ARD public television, according
to a transcript of the interview.  While tensions “may die down if markets are suitably
impressed” with the summit outcome, Merkel is seeking to keep
pressure on euro-area countries to lock in budget discipline,
 Holger Schmieding , chief economist at Joh. Berenberg Gossler &
Co. in  London , said in a phone interview.  “For her, the longer-term reform is at least equally
important” because it increases the chances “that the German
taxpayer will get back all the money” put on the line in
bailouts for Greece, Ireland and  Portugal , he said.  Forcing lenders to boost capital would be
counterproductive, and getting investors to accept larger losses
Greek holdings difficult, Deutsche Bank Chief Executive Officer
 Josef Ackermann  said on Oct. 13. Ackermann, who chairs the
Washington-based  Institute of International Finance  and
spearheaded the July accord, travels to Brussels this week for
talks with policy makers.  Writedowns  Greek bond losses of as much as 50 percent envisaged in
Europe’s emerging plan may be accompanied by a pledge to rule
out debt restructurings in other countries that received
bailouts, such as Portugal, to persuade investors that Europe
has mastered the crisis, people familiar with the discussion
said on Oct. 14.  In the works for the summit is a five-point plan foreseeing
a solution for Greece, bolstering of the firepower of the 440
billion-euro ($611 billion) EFSF, fresh capital for banks, a new
push to boost competitiveness and consideration of European
treaty changes to tighten economic management.  “The problems in the eurozone are chronic” and “won’t go
away,” said  Nouriel Roubini , chairman and co-founder of Roubini
Global Economics LLC.Roubini. He said EFSF needs to be more than
four times its current size to be effective.  Even so, leaders won’t present a “definitive solution”
for the euro region’s debt crisis at the summit in Brussels,
Reuters cited Schaeuble as saying at a tax advisers’ conference
in Dusseldorf today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net ;
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  