-- 
German DAX Companies Set Voluntary Quotas for Female Bosses

-- B y   N a o m i   K r e s g e
-- 
2011-10-17T13:58:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/german-dax-companies-set-voluntary-quotas-for-female-bosses-1-.html
Germany ’s 30 biggest publicly listed
companies announced targets for promoting women today, capping
more than six months of debate over women in the boardroom with
a program that stops short of a mandatory quota.  The members of Germany’s  DAX index (DAX)  didn’t set goals for
women in top board positions. Instead, the companies set
divergent targets for increasing the proportion of women in
other management positions within four to nine years.  Women run the German government -- led by  Chancellor Angela Merkel  and with Labor Minister Ursula von der Leyen, whose
ministry gets more than 40 percent of the country’s federal
budget -- yet they have failed to penetrate the country’s
boardrooms. Just 3.7 percent of executive board members are
women, said von der Leyen, who earlier this year called for a 30
percent quota.  “The real question is how the DAX companies are dealing
with the glass ceiling,” von der Leyen said at a press
conference in Berlin. “The glass ceiling is exactly where the
executive board starts, and 3.7 percent is an impossibly low
number for the 21st century.”  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , whose Chief Executive Officer  Josef Ackermann  angered Merkel’s ministers by saying in February that
a woman would make his all-male board “more colorful and
prettier,” pledged today that a quarter of its managing
directors and directors worldwide will be female by 2018. About
16 percent of the people in those jobs today are female.  More Women Managers  Including vice presidents, assistant vice presidents and
associates, Deutsche Bank said 35 percent of managers will be
women, up from 29 percent today.  Siemens AG (SIE)  said women’s share of leadership positions in
Germany would rise from 10 percent to as much as 13 percent by
2015.  “It’s everything from top management to people who are
project managers,” Siemens spokesman Michael-Hans Friedrich
said by telephone from Munich today. The affected group of
employees numbers about 22,000 people in Germany, he said. “Our
goal is to employ more women, especially in technical
professions.”  Wilfried Porth, Daimler AG’s head of human resources, said
the company favors an industry specific approach. Daimler plans
to raise the number of women in leadership positions to 20
percent from the current 10 percent by 2020.  Norway  Leads  Led by Norway in 2003, other European nations have used
quotas to bring more women into corporate management.  Spain 
followed in 2007.  France  this year required 40 percent female
boards by 2016 at its 2,500 biggest companies.  In the U.K., a government-appointed panel has called for a
third of new directors to be female. Women accounted for 22.5
percent of such appointments at companies in the FTSE 250 index
since the target was set in February, according to Cranfield
University research.  Merkel rejected von der Leyen’s call for a quota, saying
German companies should do more from within to promote women.  “I reject the idea of politicians setting a unified target
for companies,” Family Minister Kristina Schroeder said today,
adding that companies had set “ambitious” goals.  About one-third of the DAX companies set global targets for
female leadership without listing Germany-specific goals.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naomi Kresge in Berlin at 
 nkresge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  