-- 
Green Mtn. Coffee Drops on Einhorn Comments

-- B y   L e s l i e   P a t t o n   a n d   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t
-- 
2011-10-17T17:39:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/green-mountain-coffee-drops-after-einhorn-cites-need-for-better-disclosure.html
(Corrects Wellington’s stake in seventh paragraph.)  Green Mountain Coffee Roasters Inc. (GMCR) ,
the seller of Keurig single-pack coffee packets, fell as much as
11 percent after hedge-fund manager  David Einhorn  said the
company should improve its disclosure.  The shares fell 9.8 percent to $83.07 at 12:23 p.m. in New
York, after earlier dropping to $81.61.  Green Mountain  has reduced transparency and the company
needs to improve disclosure, Einhorn, president of Greenlight
Capital Inc., said today at the  Value Investing Congress  in New
York. He said that Green Mountain declined to speak to him while
citing a quiet period. The company has a “looming patent
issue” on its single-serve K-Cups, he said.  The company has a “litany of accounting questions,”
Einhorn said, adding that its latest earnings were “perhaps too
good to be true.”  Green Mountain has sought to boost sales through its Keurig
brewer and single-serve K-Cups. The coffee company partnered
with  Starbucks Corp. (SBUX)  and Dunkin’ Brands Group Inc. earlier this
year to sell branded K-Cups at cafes and in grocery and retail
stores.  Green Mountain has increased more than 10-fold during the
 bull market  that began on March 9, 2009, the third-biggest gain
in the Standard & Poor’s Midcap 400 Index. The shares trade for
52 times forecast earnings for 2011, compared with an average
multiple of 15.4 for the index as a whole.  The company’s biggest holders on June 30 included Fidelity
Management with 12.5 percent of the stock, according to filings
with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Wellington
Management had a 8.7 percent stake on that date and  Vanguard
Group  controlled 3.3 percent, data compiled by Bloomberg showed.  Einhorn, the hedge fund manager best known for shorting
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. before it collapsed in September
2008, has had mixed results in 2011. His Greenlight Capital Inc.
sold a stake in Yahoo! Inc. for a “modest loss,” he told
investors in a July letter. His attempt to buy a share of the
 New York  Mets baseball team fell apart in September.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leslie Patton in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net . 