-- 
Greek Credit-Default Swap Payout Should Be Allowed, Tchir Says

-- B y   A b i g a i l   M o s e s
-- 
2011-10-17T09:46:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/greek-credit-default-swap-payout-should-be-allowed-tchir-says.html
Greek sovereign credit-default swaps
should be allowed to pay out to support demand for  government
bonds  and ensure the wrong investors aren’t punished, according
to hedge fund manager Peter Tchir.   Swaps, which pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a borrower
fail to meet debt agreements, will lose value as a hedging tool
if they don’t work as intended, Tchir, founder of TF Market
Advisors in  New York , wrote in a note. That will hurt investors
who use swaps to manage risk as well as those who speculate, and
force asset sales, he said.  The  European Central Bank  has insisted since the start of
the crisis that there should be no credit event that triggers
swaps. An involuntary restructuring could trip the contracts and
policy makers are now struggling to persuade investors to accept
bigger losses on Greek debt than the 21 percent already agreed.  “If they are really pushing for a true restructuring where
banks and insurance companies are for all intents and purposes
forced to accept a big haircut, they should want to trigger a
CDS  credit event ,” Tchir wrote. “Lashing out by manipulating
markets and rules will do more harm than good.”  A restructuring credit event can be caused by a reduction
in principal or interest, postponement or deferral of payments
or a change in the ranking or currency of obligations, according
to the  International Swaps & Derivatives Association . Any of
these changes must result from a deterioration in
creditworthiness, apply to multiple investors and be binding on
all holders. ISDA’s determinations committee rules whether
credit swaps can be triggered.  “The smart, hedged banks will be the ones punished,”
Tchir said. “The EU wants to punish the  hedge funds , but all
they will do is punish banks that have been most prudent.”  Contract Sanctity  Lawmakers have gone back and forth over the sanctity of
bond contracts as the crisis escalated. German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  has insisted on the participation of banks, insurers and
other private investors as a condition for bailouts, while ECB
president Jean-Claude Trichet has opposed any move that would
trigger swaps on concern it would reward speculators and spread
contagion.  Those worries are misplaced in part because credit-default
swaps are so small compared with the country’s overall debt,
Tchir said. The net amount of Greek debt insured is $3.7
billion, according to the Depository Trust & Clearing Corp.
That’s less than 1 percent of the government’s $477 billion of
bonds and loans outstanding, Bloomberg data show.  “Banks are well prepared for the settlement of CDS,”
Tchir wrote. “If the regulators and EU are sure the system can
handle the bond write-offs, the write-offs for CDS are a
rounding error, at best.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Abigail Moses in London at 
 Amoses5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  