-- 
Grupo Mexico Must Pay $1.3 Billion to Southern Copper Over Mine Unit Sale

-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 
2011-10-17T22:26:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/grupo-mexico-must-pay-1-3-billion-to-southern-copper-delaware-judge-says.html
Grupo Mexico SAB must return
$1.3 billion in shares to  Southern Copper Corp. (SCCO)  for forcing the
unit to overpay for a Mexican mining company, a Delaware judge
ruled.  Southern Copper , previously named Southern Peru, bought a
99 percent stake in Minera Mexico, a company owned by Grupo
Mexico, in April 2005 for $3.75 billion, higher than a previous
valuation of $3.1 billion. The transaction was unfair and based
on a flawed analysis by Goldman Sachs Group Inc., which served
as financial adviser, Delaware Chancery Court Chief Judge Leo Strine ruled.  “A focused, aggressive controller extracted a deal that
was far better than market,” Strine wrote in a 106-page opinion
on Oct. 14.  Southern Copper shareholders sued on behalf of the company
claiming that it overpaid because directors and Goldman Sachs
failed to derive a true value for Minera and instead relied on a
relative analysis when comparing the two companies, according to
court documents.  The analysis “obscured the actual value of what Southern
Peru was getting and that was inclined toward pushing up, rather
than down, the value in the negotiations of what  Grupo Mexico 
was seeking to sell,” Strine wrote.  Juan Rebolledo , a Grupo Mexico spokesman, said the company
will appeal the ruling.  ‘Total Disagreement’  Grupo Mexico, which owns about 80 percent of Southern
Copper, “is in total disagreement with the court’s ruling,”
the company said in a separate statement. The form to make the
payment to compensate Southern Copper still needs to be set by
the court, Grupo Mexico said.  Goldman Sachs and a special committee of Southern Copper
directors made “strenuous efforts” to justify the deal by
optimizing Minera’s cash flows, discounting the fact that the
Mexican company had trouble paying its bills, and agreeing to
pay a special dividend, Strine said in the ruling.  “The special committee turned the ‘gold’ it was holding in
trust into ‘silver’ and did an exchange with ‘silver’ on that
basis, ignoring that in the real world the gold they held had a
much higher market price,” Strine wrote.  Strine faulted Goldman Sachs for shifting its client’s
focus to a “non-real world set of analyses” and helping the
special committee directors “rationalize” their decision.  Andrea Rachman , a spokeswoman for New York-based Goldman
Sachs, declined to comment on Strine’s criticism of the company.  Mine Strikes  At the time of the transaction, Minera Mexico held the
world’s second largest copper reserves after  Chile ’s state-owned
Codelco. Minera was suffering from strikes at its Cananea and La
Caridad units in Sonora state, Mexico’s largest copper mines,
and had a net debt of $1.06 billion.  Goldman Sachs initially told Southern Copper directors that
Minera’s value was probably more than $1 billion less than the
$3.1 billion Grupo Mexico suggested. The adviser “stretched to
justify the deal” by using a range of multiples for  cash flow 
that exceeded comparables. Goldman Sachs also estimated that
Minera would earn almost as much as Southern Copper in 2004 and
more than the company in 2005, according to court papers.  “Neither estimate turned out to be even close to true,”
Strine wrote.  Grupo  Mexico  must return to Southern Copper the number of
shares needed to satisfy the $1.3 billion award plus interest,
Strine said. He gave lawyers for the company 15 days to propose
a payment plan.  Grupo Mexico fell 3.9 percent to 33.87 pesos in Mexico City
trading today. Southern Copper shares dropped 3 percent to
$27.44 in New York trading.  The case is In Re Southern Peru Copper Shareholder
Derivative Litigation, CA961, Delaware Chancery Court
(Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Wilmington at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  