-- 
TIAA-CREF Joins APG in Venture to Buy Stakes in Five U.S. Malls

-- B y   B r i a n   L o u i s
-- 
2011-10-17T15:43:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/tiaa-cref-joins-apg-in-venture-to-buy-stakes-in-five-u-s-malls.html
A joint venture of TIAA-CREF and APG
Algemene Pensioen Group NV bought stakes in five U.S. regional
malls to provide steady income sources for the pension funds.  The partnership acquired interests in four malls in Kansas,
Missouri, Tennessee and Texas owned by  CBL & Associates
Properties Inc. (CBL) , TIAA-CREF said today in a statement. Those
properties were included in a deal between the New York-based
retirement fund and CBL that was completed this month and
reduced the Chattanooga, Tennessee-based mall owner’s debt by
about $486 million. The venture also bought an interest in a
fifth property, in Bethesda,  Maryland , from Australia’s
 Westfield Group. (WDC)   “We see dominant regional malls as being an important part
of a well-diversified real estate portfolio, with the ability to
provide durable income streams and long term value,” Scott
Kempton, managing director of TIAA-CREF’s global real estate
portfolio, said in the statement.  TIAA-CREF owns 51 percent of the venture, with the rest
owned by APG. The five properties are valued at $1.5 billion,
according to the statement.  Retail centers have been hurt by slowing economic growth
and a U.S. unemployment rate that’s lingered at or above 9
percent for six straight months. Regional and super-regional
mall vacancies rose to 9.4 percent in the three months ended
Sept. 30 from 8.8 percent a year earlier and 9.3 percent in the
second quarter, according to  Reis Inc. (REIS) , a New York-based
property-research company. It was the highest since Reis began
publishing the data in 2000.  Teachers Insurance and Annuity Association - College
Retirement Equities Fund, or TIAA-CREF, oversees $469 billion,
including retirement assets for teachers and researchers. It
owns more than $17 billion in office, retail, industrial and
apartment buildings in the U.S.,  Canada , and western  Europe . APG
is a Netherlands-based pension fund provider with assets of 280
billion euros ($385 billion) as of July.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Louis in Chicago at 
 blouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  