-- 
IBM Third-Quarter Revenue Misses Estimates on Slowing Demand

-- B y   S a r a h   F r i e r
-- 
2011-10-18T00:36:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/ibm-third-quarter-revenue-misses-estimates-on-slowing-demand-shares-drop.html
International Business Machines
Corp. (IBM) , the biggest computer-services company, reported third-
quarter sales that missed analysts’ estimates on slowing revenue
growth at its software, hardware and services businesses.  Sales climbed 7.8 percent to $26.2 billion, Armonk, New
York-based IBM said today in a statement. Analysts predicted
$26.3 billion, the average of estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Chief Executive Officer  Sam Palmisano  is focusing on areas
such as business analytics, emerging markets and cloud computing
to boost sales amid sluggish economic expansion. The  U.S.
economy  grew at a 1.3 percent pace in the second quarter
following a 0.4 percent gain in the previous three months, the
weakest performance in two years.  “Because they didn’t beat, the stock’s going to trade
down; the expectation is pretty high for this name,” said Josh Olson, an analyst with Edward Jones & Co. in  Des Peres ,
 Missouri , who has a “buy” rating on the stock. A slowdown in
hardware revenue growth is occurring “sooner than I expected.”  It was the second time in nine quarters that IBM missed
sales estimates. Hardware sales growth slowed to 4 percent from
17 percent in the second quarter. Sales growth at IBM’s services
business slowed to 8 percent from 10 percent, while revenue
expansion at its software unit decelerated to 13 percent from 17
percent.  Record Last Week  IBM fell as much as 4.1 percent to $179.02 in extended
trading after closing at $186.59 in  New York  today. It has risen
27 percent this year as of the close of regular trading.  The stock reached a record of $190.53 on Oct. 14, and at
least three analysts revised their price estimates to $200 a
share or higher. In September, IBM passed Microsoft in market
value based on closing prices for the first time since 1996
before the companies switched back.  “This is a name that you’re expecting in this environment
to perform very strong,” said Brad Zelnick, a Macquarie Capital
USA analyst who added coverage of IBM last week. “Any
deceleration in signings or any significant drain on backlog is
going to send shares down.”  Contract signings for services, which make up about 60
percent of IBM revenue, were $12.3 billion, compared with $14.3
billion in the second quarter.  Projects Software  The company projects software will make up half of total
profit in 2015. Analytics software, which helps businesses
predict trends, is expected to draw $16 billion in sales by
2015, while cloud computing will draw $7 billion.  Smarter Planet, Palmisano’s initiative to provide digital
monitoring of anything from roads to hospitals to make them more
efficient, will grow to a $10 billion business, the company has
said.  Revenue from growth markets, such as Brazil, India and
 China , climbed 19 percent last quarter. Sales from the regions
will make up at least 30 percent of revenue by 2015, the company
has said, up from 21 percent in 2010.  “Growth market performance was terrific across all
segments,” Chief Financial Officer Mark Loughridge said on a
call with analysts and investors.  It was the fifth consecutive quarter of double-digit growth
in these markets, and it led revenue growth in all business
segments, Loughridge said. IBM opened up 80 new branches, he
said.  ‘Footprint’ Important  “They’re very ahead of where the big markets will be in a
few years, and it’s very important for them to have a footprint
there,” Ed Maguire, an analyst at Credit Agricole Securities
USA, said in an interview. He has an “outperform” rating on
the shares.  Palmisano has said he plans to spend about $20 billion on
acquisitions between 2010 and 2015. So far the company has spent
about $3 billion in acquisitions related to cloud computing,
said Steven Tomasco, an IBM spokesman.  Because of IBM’s global position and broad set of computer
services, it is “about as close as you can get to a technology
index fund,” Maguire said. “They’re a bellwether for the rest
of the market.”  Accenture Plc and  Oracle Corp. (ORCL) , which compete with IBM in
selling services to technology companies, both benefited from
increased spending by business clients in their most recent
quarters.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Frier in New York at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net  