-- 
Lies About Military Medals to Get U.S. Supreme Court Review in Speech Case

-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 
2011-10-17T15:56:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/lies-about-military-medals-to-get-u-s-supreme-court-review-in-speech-case.html
The U.S. Supreme Court agreed to
decide whether the Constitution’s free speech clause protects
people who falsely claim to have been awarded military medals.  The justices today said they will hear arguments on the
2005 Stolen Valor Act, which punishes people with as much as a
year in prison for lying about receiving a medal. A federal
appeals court declared the law unconstitutional, and President
Barack Obama’s administration is appealing.  The law “plays a vital role in safeguarding the integrity
and efficacy of the government’s military honors system,” U.S.
Solicitor General Donald Verrilli argued in the administration’s
bid for high court review.  The case before the justices involves Xavier Alvarez, one
of the first people charged under the law. In 2005 Alvarez was
serving as an elected member of the local water board in Pomona,
 California , when he said at a board meeting that he had served
25 years in the Marines and had been awarded the Congressional
Medal of Honor. In truth, he had never served in the military.  He was indicted for violating the Stolen Valor Act and
pleaded guilty, while reserving his right to appeal on First
Amendment grounds. Alvarez was sentenced to three years of
probation, a $5,000 fine and 416 hours of community service. A
divided federal appeals court in  San Francisco  threw out the
guilty plea.  45 Cases  Prosecutors have filed charges under the Stolen Valor act
in 45 cases since the law was enacted, Alvarez said in court
papers.  The Obama administration says previous Supreme Court cases
establish that false statements are entitled to only limited
First Amendment protection. Alvarez says that’s not the case,
contending that the court has never carved out a First Amendment
exception for lies.  “Criminalizing the telling of a lie about oneself -- even
a lie which might tend to tarnish the reputation of a military
honor -- is simply beyond the limited exceptions to the
constitutional dictate that ‘Congress shall make no law …
abridging the freedom of speech,’” Alvarez argued, quoting from
the First Amendment.  The case, which the court will consider and decide in the
first half of next year, is  United States  v. Alvarez, 11-210.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in  Washington  at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 