-- 
Tighter U.S. Budget to Strain Technology Vendors, Group Says

-- B y   J u l i a n n   F r a n c i s
-- 
2011-10-17T19:31:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/tighter-u-s-budget-to-strain-technology-vendors-group-says.html
U.S. government purchases of
 information technology  will decline slightly through 2017 as
budget pressures prompt agencies to contain spending, according
to an industry group’s forecast.  Companies that sell computers and software to U.S. agencies
will need to meet increased demand for wireless and
cybersecurity products to stay competitive, according to the
forecast from TechAmerica, a Washington-based organization that
represents companies including  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and  International
Business Machines Corp. (IBM)   Technology spending by the civilian agencies on an annual
basis will remain flat at $43 billion in the next five years and
defense spending on information technology will drop to $35
billion by 2017 from $38 billion in 2012, after adjusting for
inflation, according to the report.  President  Barack Obama ’s administration has sought to
reduce technology purchases by closing government data centers
and shifting systems to cloud computing, which lets multiple
users share computing resources including applications and data
storage.  The administration’s effort to trim technology spending
coincides with broader budget deliberations in Congress by a
bipartisan supercommittee of 12 lawmakers that is seeking $1.5
trillion in overall savings.  Efficient Use  Agencies will focus their increasingly limited budgets on
making more efficient use of technology, boosting demand for
enterprise software, cloud computing and other shared services,
according to the TechAmerica report.  Harris Corp. (HRS)  and Hewlett-
Packard Co. are among the government contractors that are
developing services to meet those needs.  Companies that provide information-security services will
also have more procurement opportunities as the government works
to “minimize risks and vulnerabilities” of new technologies
and focuses on identity management and authentication, according
to the report.  The government has increased its focus on information
security in light of recent data breaches at  Sony Corp. (6758)  and
Lockheed Martin Corp. Last month, tapes containing medical
records for 4.9 million patients in the U.S. military health-
care system were stolen from an  SAIC Inc. (SAI)  employee’s car.  Agency efforts to increase employee mobility will drive
demand for security on wireless devices and those devices’
connections to the government’s networks, according to the
report.  “IT consolidation is critical for budget, operations and
security, but is constrained at department level” in the
Pentagon by legislative requirements, according to the
TechAmerica report.  The defense IT spending forecast doesn’t include a
“significant amount of IT associated with mission systems,”
which means that the IT budget represents only a fraction of the
technology purchased by DOD, according to the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Juliann Francis in Washington at 
 jfrancis31@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Shepard at 
 mshepard7@bloomberg.net  