-- 
Lilly-Amylin’s Bydureon Diabetes Treatment Recommended by U.K. Cost Agency

-- B y   P h i l   S e r a f i n o
-- 
2011-10-17T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/lilly-s-bydureon-diabetes-drug-recommended-by-u-k-cost-agency.html
Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY) ’s Bydureon diabetes
drug was approved by the U.K.’s health-cost agency for use in
combination with two glucose-lowering medicines.  Bydureon can be used with metformin and a sulphonylurea, or
metformin and a thiazolidinedione, when control of blood sugar
is inadequate, the National Institute for Health and Clinical
Excellence said in a statement today. Lilly, whose top-selling
schizophrenia drug Zyprexa loses U.S. patent protection this
month, is seeking clearance to sell Bydureon in the U.S.  The Lilly drug can be used in combination with one other
therapy only when a patient can’t take other medicines, said the
agency, known as NICE, which advises the  National Health Service 
on whether drugs provide value for money. Bydureon is a longer-
acting version of the twice-daily diabetes injection Byetta.  The agency’s decision is preliminary. NICE will review
comments from the company, health providers and the public and
probably will issue a final decision in February, according to
the statement.  Bydureon costs 73.36 pounds ($115.56) for a pack of four
doses, NICE said.  Byetta, a synthetic version of a substance found in the
saliva of the Gila monster, stimulates pancreas cells to produce
the hormone insulin when blood sugar is high.  Lilly, based in Indianapolis, markets Byetta outside the
U.S. and co-markets it with San Diego-based  Amylin
Pharmaceuticals Inc. (AMLN)  in the U.S. The drug was developed by
Amylin, and the technology enabling it to be used in a longer-
acting form was developed by Waltham, Massachusetts-based
 Alkermes Inc. (ALKS)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Serafino in Paris at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at   pserafino@bloomberg.net  