-- 
India May Raise Bond Cap for Foreigners to Counter Outflows

-- B y   V .   R a m a k r i s h n a n   a n d   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s
-- 
2011-10-18T06:15:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/india-bond-yields-rise-to-3-year-high-after-demand-falls-at-sale.html
India  may allow overseas investors
to buy more sovereign rupee debt, raising the cap on foreign
investment for the first time in 13 months, to help counter
equity outflows fueled by  Europe ’s debt crisis.  The finance ministry may hold a meeting this month with the
 Reserve Bank of India  to discuss easing the limit, an official
at the ministry in  New Delhi  said yesterday, asking not to be
identified before a public announcement. The government last
doubled the cap to $10 billion in September, 2010. That limit
has almost been reached, the official said, without elaborating.  The threat of a contagion from a potential Greek debt
default and local inflation that has stayed above the central
bank’s comfort level has contributed to an 18 percent drop in
the Sensitive Index and a 9 percent slide in the rupee this year.
A higher limit may be too little to stem a surge in yields as
the government has increased borrowing by 32 percent more than
planned this financial year, said J. Moses Harding, executive
vice president at IndusInd Bank Ltd. in Mumbai.  “Just lifting a cap won’t flood the market with demand as
we have overwhelming supplies,” he said in an interview
yesterday. “Only a signal that the interest-rate cycle is
peaking will boost demand for bonds; the limit is unlikely to be
raised so significantly so as to change the trend in inflows or
the rupee.”  Surging Yields       Ten-year bond yields have risen 88 basis points, or 0.88
percentage point, this year, the most in  Asia  after  Vietnam , as
central bank Governor Duvvuri Subbarao raised the repurchase
rate six times to tame the inflation rate that has stayed above
9 percent for 10 months through September.  The yield on the 7.8 percent note due April 2021 was little
changed at 8.76 percent today after falling three basis points
yesterday following the official’s remarks.  Foreign holdings of debt issued by the finance ministry and
companies jumped 24 percent this year to $22 billion as of Oct.
13, according to  Securities and Exchange Board of India  data.
The regulator doesn’t provide separate figures for investments
in these asset classes. The government last increased the cap on
 government bonds  with a rider that half the amount must be
invested in securities maturing in more than five years.  The  finance ministry  said Sept. 29 that it will raise 2.2
trillion rupees ($45 billion) from bond sales in the second half
of the financial year ending March 31, compared with an earlier
plan for 1.67 trillion rupees. A drop in collections by small-
savings plans prompted the higher borrowing, R. Gopalan,
secretary in the Department of Economic Affairs, said the same
day.  ‘Act as Balm’  India may find it hard to meet its target of reining in its
fiscal deficit to a four-year low of 4.6 percent of gross
domestic product this year, Finance Minister  Pranab Mukherjee 
said on Oct. 5.  “At best, any increase in the foreign-investment limit
will act as a balm,” said Nirav Dalal, the Mumbai-based head of
debt markets at Yes Bank Ltd. “But it won’t heal the burn
suffered by the large supply of debt.”  Individual investors withdrew 61.9 billion rupees in the
five months through August from small-savings deposit plans,
after adding 238.56 billion rupees in the year-earlier period,
official data show.  While foreigners added to their bond holdings this year,
they sold a net $256 million of equities, according to data
provided by SEBI. The shortfall in the current account, the
broadest measure of trade and investment flows, widened to $14.1
billion in the April through June period from $5.4 billion the
previous quarter, the central bank said on Sept. 30.  The rupee is the worst performer among Asia’s 10 most-
traded currencies this year. The  International Monetary Fund  cut
its forecast last month for India’s economic growth to 7.8
percent in 2011. In June, it had predicted 8.2 percent.  The  Reserve Bank , which last raised its benchmark rate on
Sept. 16, has boosted borrowing costs 12 times since mid-March,
2010, by a total 3.5 percentage points.  To contact the reporters on this story:
V Ramakrishnan in Mumbai at 
 rvenkatarama@bloomberg.net ;
Jeanette Rodrigues in Mumbai at 
 jrodrigues26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  