-- 
Industrial Production in U.S. Probably Rose Again

-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 
2011-10-17T04:01:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/industrial-production-in-u-s-probably-rose-for-fifth-month.html
Industrial production  in the U.S.
probably advanced in September for a fifth consecutive month, a
sign manufacturers are contributing to growth, economists said
before reports today.  Production at factories, mines and utilities increased 0.2
percent, the same as in August, according to the median forecast
of 67 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. Another report may
show manufacturing in the  New York  region contracted at a slower
pace in October than in the prior month.  Companies like General Motors Co. and Alcoa Inc. are
getting a lift as  Japan  recovers from the earthquake and
tsunami, and as demand from emerging markets and business
investment boosts orders. At the same time, shipments to Europe
may cool as the region’s debt crisis lingers, indicating factory
assembly lines will probably not be running at full tilt.  “Autos remain a favorable factor for the manufacturing
environment in general, and we’re going to continue to see
demand improvements,” said  Russell Price , a senior economist at
Ameriprise Financial Inc. in  Detroit .  The  Federal Reserve ’s production data are due at 9:15 a.m.
in Washington. Economists’ estimates ranged from a drop of 0.3
percent to a 0.5 percent increase.  Other indicators show manufacturing, which accounts for
about 75 percent of industrial production, may have skirted a
prolonged contraction after economic growth slowed in the first
half of 2011 to weakest pace since the recession began.  Factories Expanding  The  Institute for Supply Management ’s factory index climbed
to 51.6 last month from 50.6 in August, the Tempe, Arizona-based
group said Oct. 3. A level greater than 50 signals expansion.  “There is some minor momentum in the economy,” Federal
Reserve Bank of Dallas President  Richard Fisher  said in an Oct.
3 interview on Bloomberg Radio. Business leaders he knows are
saying “that they are barely moving forward, but they are not
moving backward.”  The Federal Reserve Bank of New York’s general economic
index, due at 8:30 a.m., probably rose to minus 4 from minus 8.8
in September, according to the median forecast. Readings less
than zero show companies in the so-called Empire State Index,
which covers New York, northern  New Jersey , and southern
 Connecticut , are cutting back.  Automobile manufacturing, which has recovered from supply
chain disruptions related to Japan’s earthquake earlier this
year, is probably supporting factories through the current
period of sluggish growth. September vehicle sales rose to a 13
million seasonally adjusted annual rate, exceeding median
forecast of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg and the strongest
since April, according to industry data.  Auto Sales  Detroit-based GM reported sales rose 20 percent in
September from a year earlier, and company executives don’t
believe the economy is falling back into a recession. Economic
data “all point to a slow growth scenario, not a double dip,”
 Don Johnson , GM vice president of U.S. sales, said on an Oct. 3
conference call.  Alcoa, the largest U.S. aluminum producer, has looked past
swinging stock markets and  Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis,
saying they expect demand to recover. While the New York-based
company posted profit last week that trailed analysts’ estimates
as European customers cut back, it maintained its 2012 global
demand growth forecast of 12 percent.  “We’ve seen strength in many of our markets despite the
sharp slowdown in Europe that hurt our sequential results, and
I’m more concerned about the lack of confidence than about
market fundamentals,”  Klaus Kleinfeld , Alcoa’s president and
chief executive officer, said in an Oct. 11 with analysts. “It
almost looks like the world is worrying itself into another
recession and that should not be allowed to happen.”  The Standard & Poor’s Supercomposite Machinery Index has
climbed 20 percent since Oct. 3, when it hit the lowest level in
more than a year. That compares with an 11 percent gain in the
broader  S&P 500 Index  in the same period.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in  Washington  at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  