-- 
Industrial Production in U.S. Increases 0.2% on Demand for Cars, Computers

-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 
2011-10-17T20:21:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/industrial-production-in-u-s-increases-just-barely.html
Industrial production in the U.S.
advanced in September on growing demand for automobiles and
computers after stalling the prior month, a sign manufacturers
are contributing to growth.  Output at factories, mines and utilities increased 0.2
percent, in line with the median estimate in a Bloomberg News
survey, after being little changed in August, figures from the
 Federal Reserve  showed today. Factory production, which makes up
75 percent of the total, climbed for a third month.  Companies like  General Motors Co. (GM)  and  Alcoa Inc. (AA)  are
getting a lift as Japan recovers from the earthquake and
tsunami, and as demand from emerging markets and business
investment boosts orders. At the same time, shipments to Europe
may cool as the region’s debt crisis lingers, indicating factory
assembly lines will probably not be running at full tilt.  “You can’t scare America into recession right now,”  David Kelly , chief market strategist at JPMorgan Funds in New York,
said in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s “In the Loop”
with Betty Liu. The data “have been quite good in the last few
weeks,” said Kelly, who projects the economy grew at least at a
2 percent annual rate in the third quarter and possibly as much
as 3 percent.  Survey Results  Estimates of the 75 economists surveyed by Bloomberg ranged
from an increase of 0.5 percent to a drop of 0.3 percent. The
Fed previously reported the August reading as a 0.2 percent
increase. Manufacturing accounts for about 12 percent of the
economy.  Stocks fell as a German government spokesman damped
optimism of a quick fix to Europe’s debt crisis. The Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index dropped 1.9 percent to 1,200.86 at the 4 p.m.
close in  New York . The decrease followed the gauge’s biggest
weekly advance since 2009.  Treasury securities  rose, sending the
yield on the benchmark 10-year note down to 2.16 percent from
2.25 percent late on Oct. 14.  Another report showed manufacturing in the New York region
contracted in October at a faster pace than forecast, reflecting
a lack of confidence in the recovery, even as measures of
orders and sales improved. The Federal Reserve Bank of New
York’s general economic index rose to minus 8.5 from minus 8.8
in September. Readings less than zero signal companies in the
so-called Empire State Index, which covers New York, northern
 New Jersey , and southern  Connecticut , are cutting back.  Factory Output  Today’s  industrial production  report showed factory output
climbed 0.4 percent after increasing 0.3 percent in August.  Capacity utilization, which measures the amount of a plant
that is in use, increased to 77.4 percent from 77.3 percent in
August. The gauge compares with the average of 79.5 percent over
the past 20 years.  Mining production, which includes oil drilling, rose 0.8
percent. Utility output dropped 1.8 percent after decreasing 2.9
percent in August.  The output of motor vehicles and parts increased 0.7
percent after climbing 1.5 percent a month earlier, today’s
report showed. Excluding autos and parts, manufacturing rose 0.3
percent in September for a second month.  Production of business equipment advanced 1 percent last
month, reflecting a 1.9 percent gain in computer output. The
increases signal investment in capital equipment continues to
climb.  Auto Gains  Automobile manufacturing, which has recovered from supply
chain disruptions related to  Japan ’s earthquake earlier this
year, is supporting factories through the current period of
sluggish growth. September vehicle sales rose to a 13 million
seasonally adjusted annual rate, exceeding median forecast of
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg and the strongest since April,
according to industry data.  Detroit-based GM reported sales rose 20 percent in
September from a year earlier, and company executives don’t
believe the economy is falling back into a recession. Economic
data “all point to a slow-growth scenario, not a double dip,”
 Don Johnson , GM vice president of U.S. sales, said on an Oct. 3
conference call.  Other indicators show manufacturing may have skirted a
contraction after economic growth slowed in the first half of
2011 to weakest pace since the recession began.  The  Institute for Supply Management ’s factory index climbed
to 51.6 last month from 50.6 in August, the Tempe, Arizona-based
group said Oct. 3. A level greater than 50 signals expansion.  Global Demand  Alcoa, the largest U.S. aluminum producer, has looked past
swinging stock markets and  Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis, as
the company expects demand to recover. While the New-York based
company posted profit last week that trailed analysts’ estimates
as European customers cut back, it maintained its 2012 global
demand growth forecast of 12 percent.  “We’ve seen strength in many of our markets despite the
sharp slowdown in Europe that hurt our sequential results, and
I’m more concerned about the lack of confidence than about
market fundamentals,”  Klaus Kleinfeld , Alcoa’s president and
chief executive officer, said in an Oct. 11 call with analysts.
“It almost looks like the world is worrying itself into another
recession and that should not be allowed to happen.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  