-- 
Intel Puts Highest Since 2005 in Hedge Before Earnings: Options

-- B y   C e c i l e   V a n n u c c i   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 
2011-10-17T20:18:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/intel-puts-highest-since-2005-in-hedge-before-earnings-options.html
Intel Corp. (INTC)  options traders are
boosting the price of bearish contracts to the highest level in
six years, protecting against losses even if the world’s biggest
semiconductor maker beats analysts’ earnings estimates for a
ninth straight quarter tomorrow.  Puts to sell the  Santa Clara , California-based company are
1.28 times more expensive than calls to buy, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. That’s the widest difference in the price
relationship known as skew since May 2005, the data show.  Concern is rising in options markets after Intel’s shares
gained 12 percent this year, the second-biggest increase among
18 chipmakers in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index behind KLA-
Tencor Corp. The world’s biggest semiconductor company lowered
its forecast for growth in personal-computer shipments this year
after reporting second-quarter results on July 20.  “In this volatile market, if Intel does disappoint what
have become perhaps overly optimistic expectations for earnings,
the stock could see significant downside,”  Timothy Ghriskey ,
who oversees $2 billion as chief investment officer of Solaris
Group LLC in  Bedford Hills , New York, said in a telephone
interview on Oct. 14. “We’ve seen the put activity increase
significantly.”  Intel’s profit may rise 25 percent to 65 cents a share
excluding some items, up from 61 cents four weeks ago, according
to the average analyst projection in a Bloomberg survey. The
company reported its fifth consecutive quarter of record revenue
in July and has beaten analyst earnings estimates eight straight
times, according to Bloomberg data.  Outstanding Puts  Seven of the 10 Intel options with the biggest increase in
ownership in the past week were puts, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. December puts with an exercise price of $18 had
the biggest gain in open interest, adding 32,649 contracts to
35,817. October $23 contracts followed, with 56,128 options.  “The real risk is protecting that downside,” Ophir Gottlieb, managing director of client services at San Francisco-
based Livevol Inc., a provider of options-market analytics, said
in an Oct. 14 telephone interview. “People have realized a
fairly large gain in Intel, and now they’re just buying the
downside protection into earnings.”  The market for PC shipments will grow 8 percent to 10
percent in 2011, down from an earlier forecast in the “low
double digits,” Intel Chief Executive Officer  Paul Otellini 
said July 20. The company predicted the shortfall would be
mainly in lower-end machines powered by Intel’s discount Atom
line of microprocessors, according to Otellini.  The VIX, as the Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility
Index is known, tumbled 38 percent over the nine days through
Oct. 14 for the longest retreat since February 2010. The gauge,
which has averaged 20.48 in its 21-year history, fell as the S&P
500 jumped 8.2 percent in the past two weeks, the biggest gain
since July 2009. The volatility measure rose 18 percent, the
most since Aug. 18, to 33.39 today.  Volatility Decreasing  The volatility gauge fell the most in 19 years in the six
trading sessions before New York-based Alcoa Inc. posted results
on Oct. 4, a record drop before the start of earnings season,
according to data since January 1993 compiled by Bloomberg.  Intel trades for 10.59 times profit in the last 12 months,
8 percent less than the average valuation for chip stocks in the
 S&P 500 . Among analysts who track the shares, 34 rate it
“buy,” 16 “hold” and five “sell,” according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Gross margin, the percentage of sales left after deducting
production costs, will be about 64 percent in the third quarter,
Intel said in July, up from 60.6 percent in the second quarter.
The company had $11.55 billion in cash and short-term
investments in the three months ended July 2, higher than 401
nonfinancial companies in the S&P 500.  ‘Tough Climate’  “Intel has done a great job of running their business in a
very tough climate,” Wayne Wilbanks, chief investment officer
at Wilbanks, Smith & Thomas in Norfolk,  Virginia , said in an e-
mail yesterday. His firm manages about $1.8 billion. “Margins
are near all-time highs and the company is sitting on tons of
cash.”  Options are implying Intel’s shares will rise or fall 4
percent after it reports results, compared with an average gain
of 0.9 percent in the past eight quarters, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. Intel’s implied volatility, the key gauge of
options prices, for contracts expiring in three months dropped
24 percent from its Oct. 3 high as the stock rallied. It closed
at 30.24 on Oct. 14.  “People might be taking the chance of locking some gains
and paying for some protection,” Stephen Solaka, who oversees
about $50 million including options as co-founder of Belmont
Capital Group in  Los Angeles , said in a telephone interview Oct.
14. “It’s probably a mix of both: people protecting gains given
the recent rally, and additionally, earnings,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cecile Vannucci in Amsterdam at 
 cvannucci1@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in  New York  at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  