-- 
Liquidnet Hires Kerner From Wedbush to Run Private Shares Group

-- B y   A r i   L e v y
-- 
2011-10-17T12:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/liquidnet-hires-kerner-from-wedbush-to-run-private-shares-group.html
Liquidnet Holdings Inc., a trading
platform used by institutional investors to buy and sell large
blocks of shares, hired social-media analyst Lou Kerner to run a
new group focused on private companies.  Kerner’s team will provide research on fast-growing
startups and help clients, including mutual funds and  hedge
funds , invest in those companies, New York-based Liquidnet said
today in an e-mailed statement. Since June 2010, Kerner has
managed the private companies research group at Wedbush
Securities Inc.  Liquidnet joins a growing list of firms that are focusing
on startups, following the growth of Facebook Inc., Twitter Inc.
and Groupon Inc., which reached multibillion-dollar valuations
without selling shares to the public. SecondMarket Inc. and
SharesPost Inc. have emerged to let employees and stakeholders
in startups sell shares to institutional investors, while firms
like Greencrest Capital Management, PrivCo and VC Experts Inc.
provide research and valuation analysis.  “There’s been a growing interest in this asset class,”
Steve Greenblatt, the head of issuer servicers and equity
capital markets at Liquidnet, said in an interview. “We expect
our coverage to expand as more and more value is held in these
rapidly growing private companies.”  Trading to Surge  So far this year, 143 companies have held initial public
offerings in the U.S., according to Bloomberg data. While that’s
up from 133 a year ago, it’s 64 percent below the number of
deals priced at the same time in 2000.  Trading of privately held companies is likely to surge 51
percent to almost $6.9 billion in 2011 from the previous year,
according to Nyppex LLC, a  New York  research and advisory
services firm. Facebook, the world’s biggest social-networking
site, is valued at $68.2 billion on SharesPost, making it larger
than 66 of the 74 companies in the Standard & Poor’s 500
Information Technology Index.  Kerner, 50, is being joined by Michael Silverstein, who had
been a researcher in Wedbush’s private companies group since
March, according to his LinkedIn profile. They will both be
based in New York and Greenblatt said the team will add more
people next year.  As of the end of 2010,  Liquidnet  had 637 institutions using
its platform, with an average of $20 billion in assets under
management, and the company offered trading in 39 markets
worldwide, according to its website. The private shares group
will be part of Liquidnet’s equity capital markets group.  “We really think the companies we’re working with today
are changing the world in a dramatic fashion,” Kerner said in
an interview. “They’re disrupting industries and they’re
creating significant  shareholder value . We think we’re at the
beginning of a long run.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Levy in  San Francisco  at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  