-- 
Lira Under ‘Fundamental’ Pressure Even as Bank Sells Dollars, Goldman Says

-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 
2011-10-17T13:22:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/lira-will-remain-under-fundamental-pressure-goldman-says.html
The lira sank the most in two weeks
and was the worst emerging-market performer against the dollar
after  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  said the currency remains under
“fundamental” pressure and may drop to 1.95 in three months.  The lira is “unlikely to outperform its emerging-market
peers, even in a ‘risk-on’ environment and notwithstanding the
central bank’s relatively more ‘hawkish’ stance on the  exchange
rate ,” Goldman economist for the region Ahmet Akarli said in an
e-mailed report today from  London .  The currency weakened 1.4 percent to 1.8540 per dollar at
3:58 p.m. in Istanbul, the biggest drop among 25 emerging-market
currencies tracked by Bloomberg, in its biggest decline since
Oct. 3.  Turkey ’s central bank has sold dollars in auctions since
Aug. 5 in an effort to stem the currency’s declines, selling a
record $750 million on Oct. 5 after the lira reached a record-
low 1.9096 per dollar the previous day. It has reduced the
amount and frequency of the sales, selling $210 million in two
auctions last week. It sold $70 million for liras today, the
smallest amount since Oct. 3.  “The appetite for the Turkish lira is waning,” Thu Lan Nguyen, a currency strategist at Commerzbank AG in  Frankfurt ,
said in an e-mailed response to questions. “A lot of investors
have counted on the central bank to support the lira by its
daily auctions. But since it is clearly not offering sufficient
amounts at the moment and thus not intending to drive lira
lower, investors are disappointed.”  Lira Forecasts, Probability  Fourth-quarter forecasts for the lira vary from 1.65 to
1.95 per dollar, with a median estimate of 1.80 liras, according
to estimates from 18 banks compiled by Bloomberg. There is a 53
percent probability that the lira will drop to 1.95 per dollar
in three months, according to implied probability calculated
from currency options.  The ruble, zloty and forint may fare better than the lira
“if and when we get some normalization in  Europe ,” Akarli
said. “For the lira, the real inflection point will come as the
re-balancing process reaches a more advanced stage and the
economy troughs, possibly sometime in the second quarter of
2012,” he said.  BNP Paribas SA said it’s “less constructive” on the lira
after the currency strengthened to a target of 1.82 per dollar
last week. “The central bank is refraining from selling high
amounts of foreign exchange and save ammunition for the rainy
days,” it said.  The bank was expected to sell $350 million to $500 million
for liras today, reacting to the lira’s under-performance
against emerging market peers, BNP said in an e-mailed report
today before it announced the auction’s size.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Bentley at 
 mbentley3@bloomberg.net  