-- 
IRS Warns Busy Signals, Weaker Enforcement Will Follow Cuts

-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n   a n d   A n d r e w   Z a j a c
-- 
2011-10-17T18:06:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/irs-warns-of-busy-signals-weaker-enforcement-amid-budget-cuts.html
The  Internal Revenue Service  is
reducing spending in anticipation of budget cuts for the current
fiscal year that haven’t taken effect, Commissioner Douglas Shulman said in a letter to lawmakers today.  He warned of a “noticeable degradation” of taxpayer
services and enforcement if Congress follows through on a plan
to cut about $500 million from the agency’s budget for fiscal
2012.  If that happens, Shulman said, half of taxpayers trying to
reach the agency would either get busy signals or hang up in
frustration. Responses to taxpayer letters would be delayed as
much as five months. Audits and efforts to collect unpaid taxes
would drop by 5 percent to 8 percent, he said in the letter.  “These budget cuts will result in a direct increase to the
nation’s deficit,” Shulman wrote to the chairmen of the
committees that oversee the  tax code  and the IRS budget. He
estimated the revenue loss at $4 billion for this year.  For fiscal 2011, which ended Sept. 30, the IRS received
$12.1 billion. President  Barack Obama  asked for funding of $13.3
billion in his 2012 budget proposal. The House Appropriations
Committee approved a bill with an $11.5 billion level for the
IRS, and the companion bill in the Senate set the budget at
$11.7 billion.  Not Much Room  Neither of those bills has reached Obama’s desk, and
Congress hasn’t set final spending levels for the 2012 fiscal
year, which began Oct. 1. Lawmakers passed a temporary spending
plan that expires Nov. 18.  There isn’t much room for change in those numbers because
overall  government spending  this year is constrained by the
August agreement that included an increase in the federal debt
ceiling.  Shulman said the depth of the cuts being considered
prompted him to start reducing the agency’s spending before a
2012 budget has been passed. Waiting could make the cuts even
deeper, he wrote.  “If we did, we would not have enough time left in the year
to make the spending cuts that could be required,” he said.  The letter provided no additional detail about what cuts
are being implemented. It noted that the cuts “would mean that
front-line IRS staffing levels must be substantially reduced.”  More Responsibilities  Shulman noted in the letter that Congress has given the IRS
additional responsibilities, such as administering a program
that requires information reporting on credit card payments.  At the end of fiscal year 2010, the IRS had 94,346
employees, according to the  agency’s website .  About 3,000 to 4,000 positions could be cut, according to
Colleen Kelley, president of the National Treasury Employees
Union, which represents much of the IRS workforce.  “It’s so basic,” she said in an Oct. 12 conference call
with reporters. “The agency that brings in more money than it
spends, why would you not fund it?”  The bills are HR 2434 and S 1573.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Zajac in Washington at 
 azajac@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  