-- 
Shalit Freed as Israel Releases Prisoners in Deal That May Aid Peace Talks

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r   a n d   G w e n   A c k e r m a n
-- 
2011-10-18T18:18:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/israel-to-swap-prisoners-for-captured-soldier-in-trade-that-may-spur-talks.html
Israeli soldier Gilad Shalit was
freed after more than five years of captivity as  Israel  released
hundreds of Palestinian prisoners, an exchange with Hamas that
may help boost chances for peace talks.  Shalit crossed into Israel after being transferred from the
 Gaza Strip  to Egyptian territory, the Israeli army said. Israel
freed 477 Palestinians after receiving word that Shalit was in
Egyptian hands. Another 550 Palestinian prisoners will be
released later this year.  “I hope this deal will help the Israeli and Palestinian
sides reach peace and strengthen cooperation,” Shalit, 25, said
in an interview with Egyptian television before reaching Israel.
Looking pale barely an hour after being freed by Hamas, Shalit
also said: “I missed seeing people and talking to them.”  The release comes as the U.S. and European Union are
pushing to revive talks that have been frozen for more than a
year, a drive that became more urgent after Hamas’s rival, the
 Palestinian Authority , began pressing for statehood recognition
at the  United Nations . Middle East envoy  Tony Blair  has said the
swap may facilitate efforts to restart negotiations by creating
a better atmosphere.  “This agreement tears away the facade that says enemies
can’t talk to each other,” said Yossi Mekelberg, an associate
fellow at the Chatham House research institute in  London . “With
the right brokers, Israel and Hamas managed to work things
out.”  Israeli Custody  In Gaza City, tens of thousands of Palestinians gathered at
Al-Katiba field, swathed in green Hamas flags for a welcoming
ceremony as the prisoners entered the territory in buses.
Palestinian Authority President  Mahmoud Abbas  held a ceremony in
the  West Bank  city of Ramallah to greet the former inmates,
noting that thousands more are still in Israeli custody.  “We won’t relax until we see the last Palestinian prisoner
coming out of Israeli jails,” Abbas said.  He has refused to
restart negotiations with Israel until Netanyahu halts
settlement building.  One of the released prisoners, Yehiye Sinwar, called on
Hamas’s military wing “to kidnap more soldiers to exchange them
for the freedom of our loved ones who are still behind bars.”
Sinwar, who was interviewed on Hamas’s Al-Aqsa TV, was one of
the founders of Hamas’s Al Qassam Brigades and had been
sentenced to life in prison for his role in the killing of two
Israeli soldiers.  ‘Mortal Danger’  Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  warned that
released Palestinian prisoners who take part in attacks would
place themselves “in mortal danger.”  Shalit’s father, Noam, told a crowd outside the family home
that his son was suffering from shrapnel wounds that were never
properly treated and that it was hard for him to face the
welcoming masses after more than five years of isolation.  “We hope his rehabilitation will be quick and that he will
be able to return to normal life,” Shalit said in remarks
broadcast on  Army Radio . “Today we can say that we have
experienced a second birth of our son.”  An Israeli government official, speaking on condition of
anonymity because of the sensitivity of the matter, criticized
Egyptian television for its interview with Shalit, saying that
questioning him before he had crossed to the Israeli side of the
border was appalling.  Investor Confidence  The prisoner agreement comes amid increased investor
confidence in the Israeli economy. Israeli five-year credit-
default swaps, or the cost of protecting government debt against
non-payment for the period, were at 157 at 7:01 p.m. after
falling to a two month low of 150 yesterday, according to data
provider CMA. The shekel weakened 0.4 percent in  Tel Aviv  to
3.6509 shekel to the dollar at 7:05 p.m.  “The shekel is weakening on the global trend, but to a
lesser extent I think the Gilad Shalit issue is playing a part
here,” said Shai Uliel, a dealer at Financial Immunities Ltd.  David Makovsky , head of the Middle East peace project at
the Washington Institute for Near East Policy, said he didn’t
share Blair’s optimism that the release would boost the  peace
process .  “Hamas is bound to see the move as a validation of its
current path,” Makovsky said in an e-mail.  The agreement may undermine Abbas, who has been criticized
by Israel and the U.S. for pursuing statehood recognition in the
absence of a peace agreement. Some Israelis say the release of
Palestinians convicted of attacks may lead to more bloodshed.
Hamas has refused to repudiate violence or recognize Israel and
is considered a terrorist organization by Israel, the U.S. and
the EU.  Detention Orders  Of the Palestinians freed today, all except four had been
convicted of crimes and sentenced, according to the Israel
Prison Service. The others were under detention orders.  “This is a model for the unity of the people,” Hamas
leader Khaled Mashaal said of the deal to reporters in Cairo.
“The swap deal has created a good atmosphere that we will build
on to speed up implementing the reconciliation.”  Abbas signed an agreement with Hamas in May aimed at
healing a four-year breach between the two groups and uniting
Gaza and the West Bank, which is controlled by the Palestinian
Authority.  Shalit, who has both Israeli and French citizenship, was
abducted June 25, 2006, after Palestinian militants fired a
rocket-propelled grenade at the tank in which he was posted
outside Gaza. Two other Israeli soldiers were killed in the
cross-border raid.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Ferziger in Tel Aviv at 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net ;
Gwen Ackerman in Jerusalem at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net . 