-- 
Italian Match-Fixing Earned Up to $2.75 Billion Over Six Years, FIFA Says

-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 
2011-10-17T15:45:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/italian-match-fixing-earned-up-to-2-75-billion-over-six-years-fifa-says.html
Organized criminals may have made as
much as 2 billion euros ($2.75 billion) from fixing Italian
soccer matches over the past six years, according to the head of
security at the sport’s governing body,  FIFA .  Tackling match-fixing requires the support of governments
and even the  United Nations , said Chris Eaton, who heads FIFA’s
efforts to tackle the problem, which has led to a number of
arrests and convictions worldwide in the past two years. Italian
prosecutors are investigating a crime syndicate with links to
its top two divisions.  “It’s my understanding from the investigation in Italy
that organized crime has benefited to the tune of 2 billion
euros from match fixing,” Eaton said in an interview in London
today. “It’s all still subject to investigation but in other
words that’s 40,000 jobs paying 50,000 euros per year.”  Police have arrested suspects in Asia, Europe and Africa
for rigging matches. The start of the Turkish league was delayed
amid a police inquiry that resulted in the demotion of champion
Fenerbahce to the second tier. Police in  Italy  arrested 16
people, including former national team striker Giuseppe Signori,
for alleged match-fixing in June. FIFA has uncovered several
national team games it suspects of being compromised.  In May, FIFA President  Sepp Blatter  pledged 20 million
euros to Interpol over 10 years to help tackle the problem. The
donation includes the creation of an anti-corruption center in
Singapore. Others are to be set up in  South America  and the
Middle East.  “We have a significant budget from President Blatter to
cleanse football and FIFA,” Eaton said.  Other measures set to start early next year are the
creation of a reward program for those who come forward with
information about rigged matches, a tip-off hotline and a
rehabilitation program for players and officials who’ve been
coerced into helping gangs to fix games.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tariq Panja  in the  London  newsroom at
   tpanja@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 