-- 
John Brown, the Antislavery Entrepreneur (Part 1): Tony Horwitz

-- B y   T o n y   H o r w i t z
-- 
2011-10-17T00:00:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/john-brown-antislavery-entrepreneur-part-1-commentary-by-tony-horwitz.html
In 1859, John Brown’s raid on
Harpers Ferry,  Virginia , propelled a divided nation toward Civil
War. Brown’s wild hair and desperate scheme to free and arm
slaves helped foster his enduring image as a crazed fanatic, a
zealot on the far fringe of American society.  But for most of his 59 years, the abolitionist was a clean-
shaven entrepreneur -- a mercantilist everyman in the rapidly
expanding economy of the 19th century.  Born in 1800 to a New England farm family of Puritan roots,
he became a less-than-successful tannery owner, land developer
and wool merchant. The world of commerce infused his secret war
on slavery, which he called his “wool business,” funded with
 venture capital  from Northern industrialists. Brown’s flaws as
an entrepreneur carried over to his failed, but ultimately
prophetic, strike against slavery.  In the first of five excerpts from his new  book , “Midnight
Rising: John Brown and the Raid That Sparked the Civil War,”
author Tony Horwitz tells of the abolitionist’s early years as a
striver on the American frontier:  In 1857, as John Brown solicited funds for his plot to
overthrow slavery, he dined at the home of George Luther
Stearns, a wealthy Boston industrialist. Stearns’s 12-year-old
son was so inspired by the abolitionist’s words that he donated
his pocket money (30 cents) to the cause.  Brown’s Early Life  In return, Brown wrote the boy a revealing letter about his
own youth at the start of the century. Brown’s early life was
marked by dislocation and loss. At the age of 5, he moved with
his family by oxcart from rural  Connecticut  to the Ohio
frontier. Three years later, his mother died in childbirth.
Though his father quickly remarried an “estimable woman,”
Brown “never adopted her in feeling,” he wrote, and
“continued to pine after his own Mother for years.”  This loss magnified the influence of his father, Owen, an
austere Calvinist, ever vigilant against sin and attachment to
the material world. From an early age, Brown hewed closely to
his father’s example of hard work and strict piety. He “never
attempted to dance,” never learned cards and “grew to a
dislike of vain & frivolous conversations and persons.”  He went to work young, “ambitious to perform the full
labour of a man.” At 12, Brown drove cattle 100 miles on his
own and took up leather tanning, his father’s trade. Brown wrote
that he “habitually expected to succeed” and felt sure his
plans were “right in themselves.” This drive and confidence
impressed adults, but Brown confessed that he “came forward to
manhood quite full of self-conceit.”  At 20, prompted by his father, Brown married “a remarkably
plain; but industrious & economical girl; of excellent
character; earnest piety; & good practical common sense.”
Dianthe Lusk was 19 and, in the first four years of their
marriage, bore Brown three sons. Like his father, Brown
pioneered new territory, in northwest  Pennsylvania , where he
cleared land, built a tannery, raised stock, and became a Mason
and civic leader, founding a school and church and serving as
the area’s first postmaster.  But this seemingly conventional ascent faltered in Brown’s
early 30s. In an echo of his boyhood loss, his wife died after
giving birth to their seventh child, a stillborn son. Brown
remarried months later, to 17-year-old Mary Day, with whom he
would have 13 more children, as he worked tirelessly to support
his growing family. He showed talent for tanning, surveying,
cattle-breeding and sheep-herding, winning prizes for his wool
and publishing articles about livestock.  Money Management Problems  But Brown’s diligence and work ethic were repeatedly undone
by his inability to manage money. “I am running low for cash
again,” Brown wrote in 1828 to Seth Thompson, a partner in his
tanning and cattle business. “I was unable to raise any cash
towards the bank debt,” he wrote in 1832. In these early
letters, Brown always expressed regret over his financial
straits -- and blamed them on the weather, ill health or the
monetary policies of President  Andrew Jackson .  Brown may also have been distracted by his budding concern
for affairs other than business. It was in the early 1830s that
he first wrote of his determination to help slaves. At the time,
organized abolitionism was just emerging, under the leadership
of William Lloyd Garrison, a staunch pacifist. Brown initially
shared Garrison’s faith in education and moral suasion as the
tools necessary to defeat slavery. But Brown soon went in his
own, more militant, direction.  In 1837, when a pro-slavery mob murdered an abolitionist
editor, Elijah Parish Lovejoy, Brown attended a church meeting
called to protest the killing. Lifting his right hand, he
declared: “Here before God, in the presence of these witnesses,
from this time, I consecrate my life to the destruction of
slavery.”  Abolitionists created hundreds of societies in the 1830s,
from national groups to local knitting circles. Brown joined
none of them. Instead, late one night, he gathered his wife and
three oldest sons by the fire and spoke of armed struggle
against slavery. “He asked who of us were willing to make
common cause with him in doing all in our power to ‘break the
jaws of the wicked and pluck the spoil out of his teeth,’” his
eldest son wrote. After each family member assented, Brown knelt
in prayer and administered an oath, pledging them to secrecy and
devotion to slavery’s defeat.  Land Speculation  This initiation, however, coincided with a collapse in
Brown’s worldly ventures. He moved back to  Ohio  in 1835, amid a
property boomed fueled by easy credit and the many
transportation projects under way in the fast-growing nation.
Brown began speculating on land along a proposed canal route,
subdividing lots and borrowing to buy more property. Then the
canal company abruptly changed its plans.  “I do think it is best to sell all out if we can at any
thing like a fair rate,” Brown wrote his long-suffering
partner, Seth Thompson, who wanted to cut their losses. “But I
think the time unfavourable. If we have been crazy getting in,
do try & let exercise a sound mind about the maner of getting
out.”  Six months later, the economy crashed in what became known
as the Panic of 1837. Almost half the nation’s banks closed,
credit evaporated and the U.S. entered its first economic
depression. Brown, already in trouble, was now buried in debts
and lawsuits. By 1840, he was “flat down” and unable to afford
so much as postage.  Then things got worse. Brown refused to vacate a piece of
land to which he’d lost title. Instead, he armed his sons and
holed up in a cabin on the property until he and two of his boys
were arrested and briefly jailed. A year later, in 1842, an Ohio
court declared Brown bankrupt. The court’s meager inventory of
household “necessaries” the Brown family was allowed to keep
included “2 Earthen Crocks Broke,” “3 Bags old,” 11 Bibles,
“8 Womens and childrens aprons” and a tin pail valued at 6
cents.  Brown’s plight wasn’t rare; more than 40,000 Americans
filed for bankruptcy under a law enacted after the 1837 Panic.
But for a man who hated to “abandon anything he fixed his
purpose upon,” failure of this scale was especially galling. He
had fallen far short of his own, exacting standards and borrowed
heavily from friends and family, including his father, who lost
his farm after underwriting one of his son’s loans.  Family Tragedy  A year after the bankruptcy, Brown’s large household was
struck by severe dysentery, possibly cholera. Four children died
within days, the oldest just 9. “They were all children to whom
perhaps we might have felt a little partial,” Brown wrote,
after burying all four in a single grave.  In the early 1800s, roughly a third of Americans died
before reaching adulthood. Premature death was so common that
parents recycled the names of their offspring. The Browns, after
losing children named Sarah, Frederick and Ellen, replaced them
with newborns also named Sarah, Frederick and Ellen. In all,
nine of his 20 offspring would die before the age of 10.  Though Brown was all too familiar with early death, burying
four of his young flock in 1843 plunged him into a profound
depression. The family’s impoverishment, which had necessitated
moving to a crowded and possibly unsanitary log house, deepened
the wound. “I felt for a number of years,” Brown later wrote a
young abolitionist, “a steady, strong desire: to die.”  But in the same letter, he expressed his undying commitment
to the destruction of slavery. “Certainly the cause is enough
to live for,” Brown wrote. He knew he would “endure hardness”
in pursuing his dream. “But I expect to effect a mighty
conquest, even though it be like the last victory of Samson.”  (Tony Horwitz is the author of “A Voyage Long and
Strange,” “Blue Latitudes,” “Confederates in the Attic” and
“Baghdad Without a Map.” This is the first in a five-part
series excerpted from his new book, “Midnight Rising: John
Brown and the Raid That Sparked the Civil War,” to be published
Oct. 25 by Henry Holt and Co. The opinions expressed are his
own. See  Part 2 ,  Part 3 ,  Part 4 ,  Part 5 .)  To contact the writer of this article:
Tony Horwitz at the website  www.tonyhorwitz.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net  