-- 
Jordan’s King Appoints PM After Cabinet Resigns

-- B y   M a s s o u d   A .   D e r h a l l y
-- 
2011-10-17T15:50:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/jordan-s-king-appoints-pm-after-cabinet-resigns.html
Jordan’s  King Abdullah  appointed Awn
al-Khasawneh, a former judge at the  International Court of
Justice , as prime minister after accepting the Cabinet’s
resignation.  Khasawneh was given the task of forming a new government,
the royal court said today in an e-mailed statement. He replaces
Marouf Bakhit, a former army general who critics said was slow
to implement political and economic changes following protests
inspired by a wave of popular uprisings across the Arab world
that ousted leaders in Egypt, Tunisia and  Libya .  “This was always likely to happen,” David Butter,
regional head of the Middle East at the Economist Intelligence
Unit, said by telephone. “Bakhit is taking the rap for the
unsatisfactory scope of constitutional reforms in the country.”  Jordan, one of the smallest economies in the  Middle East ,
relies on foreign investment and grants to support its budget
and current-account deficits. The government has increased
public salaries and subsidies since pro-reform protests broke
out as part of this year’s regional turmoil.  King’s Promises  King Abdullah has changed the government twice this year
and promised to ease restraints on political parties and allow
the formation of governments based on a parliamentary majority,
without saying when this could happen.  “This happens quite often in Jordanian politics,” Butter
said. “Bakhit had already attracted criticism for the forced
resignation of the central bank governor last month.”  Central bank Governor Faris Sharaf resigned and was
replaced by his deputy, Mohammad Said Shahin. Bakhit had
criticized Sharaf, who wanted the government to rein in spending
amid a widening  budget deficit , for being a “liberal.”  Jordan’s economy will probably grow 3 percent this year and
3.5 percent in 2012, as the regional political turmoil reduces
remittances and foreign investment, Finance Minister Mohammed
Abu Hammour said in a Sept. 7 interview. The budget deficit for
this year will be about 5.5 percent of output, he said. The
 International Monetary Fund  estimates the economy will grow 2.5
percent in 2011.                                  Excluding foreign grants, the government had a budget
deficit of about 970 million dinars ($1.37 billion) in the first
eight months of the year compared with same period last year,
according to the  Finance Ministry . Jordan’s trade deficit in the
first eight months of the year widened 19.7 percent to 4.67
billion dinars, the Department of Statistics said in an e-mailed
statement today.  Khasawneh, 61, is a former chief of the royal court and
previously served as a legal adviser to the late King Hussein,
father of the current monarch. He is a graduate of the U.K.’s
University of Cambridge and was vice president of the ICJ from
2006 to 2009.  Jordan’s opposition, made up largely of Islamist groups
that oppose peace with  Israel  as well as members of the
communist party, has staged protests this year to demand reform
and an end to corruption, inspired by the region’s pro-democracy
revolts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Massoud A. Derhally in  Beirut , Lebanon at 
 mderhally@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 