-- 
KBC Agrees to Sell Insurance Broker Fidea to JC Flowers

-- B y   M a u d   v a n   G a a l
-- 
2011-10-17T14:27:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/kbc-agrees-to-sell-insurance-broker-fidea-to-jc-flowers-1-.html
KBC Groep NV (KBC) , the recipient of 7
billion euros ($9.7 billion) in Belgian rescue funds, agreed to
sell its insurance broker Fidea NV to JC Flowers & Co. LLC for
243.6 million euros.  The sale will boost KBC’s capital by about 100 million
euros and result in a 0.1 percent increase in its Tier 1 ratio,
KBC and New York-based private equity firm JC Flowers said in a
joint statement today. The transaction will cut earnings by
about 100 million euros, Brussels-based KBC said.  KBC, Belgium’s biggest bank and insurer by market value, is
selling assets to raise funds to repay its bailout. The firm
last week agreed to sell its private-banking unit to a Qatari
investor for 1.05 billion euros. It will also divest its Polish
bank and insurance subsidiaries in exchange for European Union
approval for its rescue.  “Given the banking uncertainty in general, and in  Belgium 
due to Dexia in particular, we believe it is good that KBC did
two divestments in a short time,” said Cor Kluis, an Utrecht-
based analyst at Rabobank Groep. It is “understandable in
current market circumstances” that the takeover price was
“marginally lower” than Kluis’s estimate of 300 million euros,
the analyst said.  The Belgian government agreed last week to buy Dexia Bank
Belgium NV for 4 billion euros, the first step in the rescue and
breakup of  Dexia SA (DEXB) , which became inevitable after concern over
European sovereign debt holdings caused its short-term funding
to evaporate.  ‘Difficult Choices’  KBC shares fell 3.7 percent to 16.74 euros as of 3:53 p.m.
in Brussels, after earlier rising as much as 3.6 percent. That
gave it a market value of 6 billion euros. The Bloomberg  Europe 
Banks and Financial Services Index fell 0.9 percent at that
time, as Dexia retreated 16 percent.  “Today’s deal is yet another step in the implementation of
our updated strategy,” KBC Chief Executive Officer Jan Vanhevel
said in the statement. “The divestment of Fidea is one of the
difficult choices we have had to make to meet the demands of the
European Commission.”  The purchase amount includes 22.6 million euros pre-
completion dividend and is subject to pricing adjustments on
closing accounts, the companies said. The transaction is
expected to be completed in the first quarter of 2012.  Book Value  The sale price values Fidea at 0.8 times 2010 book value,
“on the low valuation range of our 21 European Insurance
companies’ coverage universe across nine countries,” AlphaValue
Bank analyst Christophe Nijdam said. “But everybody knows that
financial institutions’ valuations are currently one-third below
the ones prevailing before the summer.”  JC Flowers, the private equity firm founded in 1998 by J.
Christopher Flowers, targets investments in the financial-
services industry and has invested more than $5 billion in
Europe, according to the statement. It also owns NIBC Bank NV in
the Netherlands.  JC Flowers was advised by Credit Suisse Group AG, Deloitte
and  Cleary Gottlieb Steen & Hamilton LLP . KBC was advised by KBC
Securities, Morgan Stanley, Eubelius and Linklaters LLP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maud van Gaal in Amsterdam at 
 mvangaal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  