-- 
Kelsey’s Ailing Mayor; Belafonte’s Legacy; Chernobyl Wolves: TV

-- B y   G r e g   E v a n s
-- 
2011-10-17T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/kelsey-s-ailing-mayor-belafonte-s-legacy-chernobyl-wolves-greg-evans.html
Kelsey Grammer buries Frasier Crane
under six feet of political dirt and hard-core acting in “ Boss ,”
a gritty Starz drama that does for Chicago politics what “The
Sopranos” did for New Jersey waste management.  Grammer stars as Windy City mayor Tom Kane, a ruthless
politico whose grip on both the city and his own life are
threatened by a newly diagnosed degenerative brain disorder. No
one knows about the mayor’s condition except his doctor -- and
she’ll wish she didn’t.  As Kane’s illness announces itself in chilling ways -- the
tough-talking mayor goes momentarily blank during a speech --
Grammer captures the volcanic anger and deep fear in a powerful
characterization.  While the mayor copes with his secrets, the muddy waters of
Chicago politics flow on. In a move that stuns his longtime
allies, Kane throws his support behind a young, untested
candidate for governor.  “The only thing you’re missing is heft,” Kane tells the
handsome upstart. “And here I am.”  Kane’s protege (well played by Jeff Hephner) might appear
idealistic, but “Boss” isn’t. No one has clean hands, least of
all the candidate who has more than All-American looks in common
with  John Edwards .  Shady Deal  Kane’s personal life is no rosier. His marriage of
convenience to a Chi-Town Lady Macbeth (Connie Nielsen) provides
no comfort, and the couple has long turned away from their
troubled adult daughter (Hannah Ware).  Meanwhile, a Carl Bernstein-like reporter (Troy Garity) is
closing in on Kane’s medical condition and a massive, shady land
deal at O’Hare Airport that the mayor considers his civic legacy.  Like its main character, “Boss” can be too determined to
announce its heft. One reference to “Citizen Kane” is one too
many, and several shocking moments of violence and retribution --
one involving body parts and a garbage disposal -- strain the
“Sopranos” fixation.  Little matter. “Boss” has already been renewed by Starz for
a second season, and it deserves the re-election.  “Boss” airs Friday on Starz at 10 p.m.  New York  time.
Rating: ***  ‘Sing Your Song’  Harry Belafonte’s social activism takes the spotlight in
HBO’s “ Sing Your Song ,” Susanne Rostock’s loving documentary
profile of the singer.  Produced in part by Belafonte’s own company, “Sing Your
Song” is distinguished, for better and worse, by its intimate
access to the singer, his family, friends and admirers. Belafonte
charmingly recounts his many dealings with  Martin Luther King Jr ., the Kennedys,  Nelson Mandela  and other historical figures.  Belafonte’s musical career isn’t ignored, including such
highlights as his career-making recording of “Banana Boat (Day-
O)” and a 1968 television appearance in which singer Petula Clark
touched his arm and sent racists into a mouth-foaming tailspin.  However, “Sing Your Song” sacrifices depth for an
inspirational tone. Two divorces are skimmed over quickly, and
the closest the film comes to acknowledging Belafonte’s human
failings is when son David says dad divided his fatherly
attention between his biological children and “the family of
man.”  “Sing Your Song” airs tonight on  HBO  at 10 p.m. New York
time. Rating: **1/2  ‘Radioactive Wolves’  PBS’s “Nature” series kicks off its 30th season in fine form
with the hour-long documentary “ Radioactive Wolves .”  It’s not a horror film, at least not of the giant monster
variety. “Radioactive Wolves” infiltrates the no man’s land of
Chernobyl, where packs of radiation-defying wolves have been
rumored to flourish.  Contrary to some scientific predictions, the vast miles
surrounding the long-abandoned nuclear power plant have become
anything but a dead zone. Twenty-five years after history’s worst
nuclear-plant disaster, wild life has blossomed.  Packs of howling wolves have indeed reclaimed the area,
recovering from the near-extinction that resulted from the  Soviet
Union ’s taming of the land for collective farming.  “Radioactive Wolves” suggests how quickly and efficiently
nature reinvents itself in human absence. Man’s disaster is a
wolf’s happy ending.  “Radioactive Wolves” airs Wednesday on PBS’s “Nature” at 8
p.m. New York time. Rating: ***  ( Greg Evans  is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Greg Evans at  gregeaevans@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 