-- 
Kenya Sends Troops to Pursue Al-Shabaab Rebels in Somalia After Abductions

-- B y   E r i c   O m b o k   a n d   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 
2011-10-17T14:27:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/kenya-sends-troops-to-pursue-al-shabaab-rebels-in-somalia-after-abductions.html
Kenya’s government said it has taken
“robust measures” to protect the country against al-Shabaab,
the rebel group in neighboring  Somalia , after foreign tourists
and aid workers were abducted.  The action was in self-defense as defined by the  United
Nations , the government said in an e-mailed statement today
without giving details of the operation. Kenyan soldiers entered
Somalia yesterday to combat al-Shabaab and create a buffer zone
of 100 kilometers (62 miles) on Somali territory, the  Daily
Nation  reported, citing unidentified security officials.  Somalia, on Kenya’s northern border, hasn’t had a
functioning government, police force or court system since the
1991 overthrow of dictator Mohamed Siad Barre. Al-Shabaab has
waged a four-year campaign to remove President Sheikh Sharif Sheikh Ahmed’s Western-backed administration and controls most
of southern and central Somalia.  Somalia’s government has military alliances in the region.
About 9,000 Ugandan and Burundian soldiers form the African
Union-led peacekeeping force in Somalia. U.S.-backed Ethiopian
forces invaded the country in December 2006 to oust the Islamist
government that had captured southern Somalia.  Kenya  has trained Somalia’s military and allied fighters,
Rashid Abdi, a Horn of Africa analyst with the Brussels-based
 International Crisis Group , said today by phone from Nairobi,
Kenya’s capital.  ‘Show of Might’  The recent kidnappings of foreigners from Kenya, which
officials blame on al-Shabaab, may have prompted the government
to step up its action to show that Kenya has the ability to
protect its citizens, investors and tourists, Abdi said.  “This is a show of might rather than a military strategy
to free those who have been abducted or to try and hold
territory in southern Somalia,” Abdi said. “It’s likely a
short excursion to show that Kenya is not impassive and it’s
willing to act.”  British tourist David Tebbutt was killed and his wife,
Judith, was abducted last month at a resort in Kiwayu, 500
kilometers southeast of Nairobi, and is being held hostage in
Somalia. On Oct. 1, Marie Dedieu, a 66-year-old disabled French
woman, was kidnapped from a house on nearby Manda Island by
gunmen from al-Shabaab.  Two foreign aid workers employed by the medical aid group
Medecins Sans Frontieres were kidnapped near a refugee camp in
northeastern Kenya by a group of armed men from Somalia on Oct.
13. Somalis fleeing famine and war have poured across the border
this year and Kenya now hosts 590,000 United Nations-registered
Somali refugees, three-quarters of whom live in the Dadaab
complex, the world’s largest refugee facility.  Forces Move In  Kenyan tanks, jet fighters and helicopters moved into
Somalia today, the London-based Telegraph reported, citing
residents in the Somali town of Dhobley.  A technical problem or pilot error is suspected of causing
the crash yesterday of a military helicopter in which five crew
members died at the Kenyan border town of Liboi, Nairobi-based
radio station  Capital FM  reported today on its website, citing
Military Operations Information Officer Major Emmanuel Chirchir.  Somalia government spokesman Abdirahman Omar Osman said
Kenyan troops are massed along the border.  “We have an excellent working relationship with Kenya in
terms of security,” he said today by phone from Mogadishu,
Somalia’s capital. “What we understand is that Kenya is
overseeing the border. They are supporting our troops but I can
assure you they are not in Somalia.”  Kenyan government spokesman  Alfred Mutua  didn’t answer five
calls to his mobile phone and one to his office today seeking
comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Ombok in Nairobi at 
 eombok@bloomberg.net ;
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net . 