-- 
Kinder Morgan’s El Paso Deal Hinges on Production Unit Sale

-- B y   M i k e   L e e   a n d   E d w a r d   K l u m p
-- 
2011-10-17T21:03:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/kinder-morgan-s-el-paso-acquisition-hinges-on-sale-of-oil-production-unit.html
Kinder Morgan Inc. is counting on
finding a buyer for  El Paso Corp. (EP) ’s oil and natural gas
production business within six months to help pay off ballooning
debt from its $21.1 billion acquisition of the rival pipeline
company.  The company’s acreage and production may attract deep-
pocketed foreign oil companies such as India’s Reliance
Industries Ltd. and Norway’s Statoil ASA, Dan Morrison, senior
energy specialist at Global Hunter Securities LLC in  Fort Worth ,
said in an interview today.  “This will put out one of the juiciest acquisition targets
we’ve seen on the market for a long time,” Morrison said. “The
foreign buyers can certainly pay a premium because they need the
operating entity in addition to the assets, and they also
generally have a currency advantage as well.”  Chief Executive Officer  Richard Kinder  plans to have a
buyer lined up for the exploration unit by the time Kinder
Morgan closes its purchase of El Paso in the second quarter of
2012, he said in a conference call with investors.  Evercore
Partners Inc. (EVR)  and  Barclays Plc (BARC)  already have begun marketing the
unit to potential buyers, a person with knowledge of the talks
said.  The sale of the exploration unit is important since Kinder
needs the proceeds to pay down the debt, Darren Horowitz, an
analyst at  Raymond James  & Associates Inc. in Houston, said.  Quadrupled Debt  Kinder Morgan’s stand-alone debt will increase to $14.5
billion from $3.2 billion, according to a report from
CreditSights Inc. issued yesterday. Fitch Ratings Ltd. put
Kinder Morgan Kansas Inc., which holds Kinder Morgan’s debt, on
a negative ratings watch today, citing the "transactional risk"
of the El Paso purchase.  El Paso is among companies that have expanded operations
into shale fields that were too expensive to develop until about
10 years ago. Producers are using a combination of horizontal
drilling and hydraulic fracturing to crack rock and release the
oil and gas. In the past decade, U.S. gas output jumped 11
percent, outpacing a 3.2 percent rise in consumption during the
same period.  El Paso owned drilling rights to 46,000 acres in
 Louisiana ’s Haynesville Shale at the end of 2010, according to a
filing, and 500,000 acres in the Eagle Ford Shale, Permian Basin
and other fields in Texas. It also has 605,000 acres in the
Raton Basin coal-bed methane field in  New Mexico  and  Colorado .  Potential Sale Price  The business reported 2010 earnings of $1.1 billion before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, said Bruce Connery, a spokesman for El Paso. That would give it a value of
about $7.3 billion if it fetches the median multiple of 6.6
times Ebitda for 34 takeovers of U.S. exploration and production
companies in the past five years, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The unit might reap as much as $9 billion if it sells
quickly, said Duane Grubert, an analyst at Susquehanna Financial
Group in Stamford,  Connecticut . Companies such as Petrohawk
Energy and Brigham Exploration have been sold for 16 and 21
times their Ebitda.  Kinder declined to name an asking price for the unit on the
conference call.  “They’re going to need all they can get,” said Horowitz,
of Raymond James, who rates Houston-based Kinder Morgan at
“outperform” and owns none of its stock. “This is a very
debt-heavy transaction.”  Shale Attraction  Apache Corp. (APA) ,  Hess Corp. (HES)  and  Occidental Petroleum Corp. (OXY)  may
have an interest in El Paso’s assets because those companies are
seeking additional opportunities in shale fields, Brian Youngberg, an analyst at  Edward Jones  in St. Louis, said in an
interview today.  “All those companies have significant shale interests
already, but this would allow them to buy some shale properties
that are already producing rather than having to buy leaseholds
and develop them themselves,” he said.  Some of the largest energy companies may scale back
spending on exploration and development in 2012 to free more
money for acquisitions,  Ted Harper , who helps manage about $6.8
billion for Frost Investment Advisors LLC in Houston, said in a
telephone interview today.  The El Paso transaction would strengthen  Kinder Morgan ’s
position as a major player in the U.S. gas industry, able to
connect the new shale gas fields to markets across the country.  Total Deal Value  Once the deal closes, Kinder Morgan will further reduce its
debt by selling pipelines to two subsidiary partnerships, which
will issue their own debt and equity to pay for the assets, the
company said.  The total value of the acquisition, including debt assumed
from Houston-based El Paso, is $37.8 billion, Kinder Morgan said
in a document prepared for investors. The takeover values El
Paso at about 14 times the last 12 months’ earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization of $2.67 billion,
according to Bloomberg data.  Kinder Morgan rose 4.8 percent to $28.19 at the close in
 New York . El Paso climbed 25 percent, the biggest gain in nine
years, to $24.81.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mike Lee in Dallas at 
 mlee326@bloomberg.net ;  Edward Klump in Houston  at 
 eklump@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  