-- 
Kinder Raises Bet on Natural Gas With $21.1 Billion El Paso Pipe Purchase

-- B y   G e n e   L a v e r t y   a n d   J o e   C a r r o l l
-- 
2011-10-17T13:37:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/kinder-raises-bet-on-natural-gas-demand-with-21-1-billion-buy-of-el-paso.html
Richard Kinder, the ex-Enron Corp.
president who parlayed its pipelines into a multibillion-dollar
enterprise, is betting on record natural-gas demand in Kinder
Morgan Inc.’s $21.1 billion purchase of  El Paso Corp. (EP)   The acquisition, announced three days before the University
of Missouri-educated lawyer’s 67th birthday, would give Kinder
control of a pipeline network long enough to circle the Earth
more than three times. Kinder plans to sell Houston-based El
Paso’s oil and gas wells to focus on the fuel transportation
market, where prices and profits are less volatile.  “We believe natural gas is going to play an increasingly
integral role in  North America ,” Kinder said in the statement
announcing the deal yesterday. “If America is serious about
reducing  carbon emissions  to benefit the environment, and
reducing its dependence on foreign oil, natural gas is
absolutely the best readily available option.”  U.S. factories, power plants and homeowners burned a record
 24.1 trillion cubic feet  of gas last year, according to the
Energy Information Administration. Pipeline operators such as
Kinder have profited even as a glut of supply from new wells in
Texas,  Arkansas  and  Pennsylvania  slashed prices 16 percent.  Kinder Morgan  rose 9.5 percent, the largest intraday
increase since Aug. 9, to $29.44 at 9:33 a.m. in New York. El
Paso climbed 25 percent, the biggest gain in three years, to
$24.52.  Drilling Technology  Statoil ASA and Brigham Exploration Co. announced today
that they have entered into a merger agreement for Statoil to
acquire all of the outstanding shares of the U.S. producer for
$36.5 per share through an all-cash tender offer.  Breakthroughs in drilling techniques since the 1990s
allowed energy explorers to extract gas from previously
impenetrable geologic formations. In the past decade, U.S. gas
output jumped 11 percent, outpacing a 3.2 percent rise in
consumption during the same period.  Burning gas to fuel  power plants  emits about 44 percent
less carbon dioxide than coal, according to the American Natural
Gas Association, a Washington-based trade group that represents
energy companies.  Every new gas well needs to be linked to a pipeline before
the owner can begin recouping invested capital and making a
profit. Output has been constrained in some newly opened
production areas, such as Pennsylvania’s Marcellus Shale,
because of a dearth of pipeline capacity to haul the fuel to
major population centers.  ‘Breakthrough in Supply’  “When you’re buying something like this you’re looking at
10 years ahead and I think that’s the vision that he sees,”
said  Stephen Smith , president of Stephen Smith Energy
Associates, a research company in Natchez,  Mississippi . “We’re
in a period where there has been a breakthrough on the supply
side and it’s of such a scale that a temporary glut has been
created.”  Kinder’s bets on energy pipelines have paid off handsomely,
placing him 46th on the Forbes Magazine list of wealthiest
Americans. Kinder Morgan operates the second-biggest U.S.
pipeline network by volume through its control of  Kinder Morgan
Energy Partners LP (KMP) , which operates or owns interests in 37,000
miles (60,000 kilometers) of pipelines and 180 terminals.  The El Paso transaction will create a company with an
enterprise value of $94 billion and 80,000 miles of pipelines,
according to Kinder Morgan. The El Paso deal will add pipelines
from  California  to  New England  that carry about one-fourth of
U.S. gas supplies.  Largest Shareholder  Kinder is the largest shareholder in Kinder Morgan, with
about 31 percent of the company, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. He formed the Houston-based company in 1996 with a
group of investors and an initial investment of $40 million
after he was passed over for the top job at Enron.  When he bought all the shares in the company with a group
of private-equity firms in 2007, its total value was $22
billion, including $7 billion in debt.  The company re-emerged as a publicly traded entity in
February when it issued 95.5 million shares at $30 a share.
Kinder Morgan fell 3 cents to $26.89 in  New York  on Oct. 14, a
10 percent decline from its debut.  “Rich Kinder continues to make history by shaping and
redefining the North American energy landscape,” said Bill
Herbert, an analyst at Simmons & Co. International in Houston.
“Mr. Kinder is making a bet that the structural positives will
eventually prevail and he is, once again, likely making the wise
bet.”  Kinder took a salary of $1 from Kinder Morgan last year,
receiving the bulk of his income from dividends paid on his
stake in that company and Kinder Morgan Energy Partners.  Avoiding ‘Dumb’ Acquisitions  Kinder Morgan Energy Partners said in May it will spend
$855 million to buy the 50-percent stake it doesn’t own of a
Haynesville Shale gas pipeline system from Petrohawk Energy
Corp. The Haynesville spans parts of  Louisiana ,  Texas  and
Arkansas.  In a 2006 interview, Kinder said he evaluates acquisitions
on projected cash flow and reviews transactions for three years
after they close to ensure financial targets are met. Like
fellow billionaire  Warren Buffett , he said he frets about making
the wrong deal.  “As Buffett said, you can undo 10 years of hard work with
one stupendously dumb acquisition,” Kinder said in the 2006
interview. “We’re trying to avoid one stupendously dumb
acquisition.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gene Laverty in Calgary at 
 glaverty@bloomberg.net ;
Joe Carroll in Chicago at 
 jcarroll8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  