-- 
Kinetic Concepts Makes Changes to Financing for Apax LBO

-- B y   M i c h a e l   A m a t o
-- 
2011-10-17T15:55:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/kinetic-concepts-said-to-make-changes-to-financing-for-apax-lbo.html
Kinetic Concepts Inc. (KCI) , a wound-care
company, changed the structure on a portion of the financing
backing its buyout by Apax Partners Inc., according to a person
with knowledge of the transaction.  A $2.2 billion term loan B maturing in seven years was cut
to between $1.9 billion and $1.95 billion, said the person, who
declined to be identified because the terms are private. The
company is now seeking a five-year term loan C that would be
between $250 million to $300 million, according to the person.  The term loan C is expected to price within 75 basis points
of the term loan B that pays 5.75 percentage points more than
the London interbank offered rate, the person said. The  term
loan  B portion will have a 1.25 percent Libor floor and will be
sold at 95.5 cents to 96 cents on the dollar, reducing proceeds
for the San Antonio-based company and boosting the yield to
investors.  Kinetic decided to seek the term loan C because of the
approaching end of the reinvestment periods for older
collateralized loan obligations, the person said. Those CLOs
would need to wind down after their reinvestment periods are
over. CLOs pool high-yield, high-risk loans and slice them into
securities of varying risk and return.  The term loan C portion will give lenders a one-year soft-
call protection of 101 cents, meaning Kinetic would have to pay
1 cent more than face value to refinance the debt during the
first year, the person said.  Revolving Credit  The company is also seeking a $200 million five-year
revolving line of credit.  Bank of America Corp., Morgan Stanley, Credit Suisse Group
AG and Royal Bank of Canada are arranging the deal and lenders
must submit commitments by Oct. 19 in  New York . The deal is
expected to close and fund on Nov. 4, the people said.  Kevin Belgrade, a spokesman for  Kinetic Concepts , declined
to comment.  Kinetic  agreed  to be taken private by Apax, the Canada
Pension Plan Investment Board and the Public Sector Pension
Investment Board for $68.50 a share.  In a revolving credit facility, the money can be borrowed
again once it’s repaid; in a term loan, it can’t. A term loan B
is mainly bought by non-bank lenders such as collateralized loan
obligations, bank-loan mutual funds and  hedge funds . A basis
point is 0.01 percentage points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Amato in New York at 
 mamato3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  