-- 
MTN Group Said to Bid for Vodafone’s Congo Wireless Venture

-- B y   S i k o n a t h i   M a n t s h a n t s h a   a n d   M i c h a e l   J .   K a v a n a g h
-- 
2011-10-17T16:29:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/mtn-group-is-said-to-be-bidding-for-vodacom-s-congo-mobile-phone-venture.html
MTN Group Ltd. (MTN) , Africa’s largest
mobile-phone company, is seeking to buy  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) ’s
wireless venture in the Democratic Republic of Congo, two people
with knowledge of the matter said.  MTN is part of a bidding process for  Vodacom Congo SPRL ,
the company 51 percent owned by  Vodacom Group Ltd. (VOD) , which in
turn is controlled by Vodafone, the people said, declining to be
identified because the matter is confidential. Johannesburg-
based MTN made a presentation to Vodacom last week, one of the
people said.  Vodacom has been in a dispute with the venture’s local
partner  Congolese Wireless Network SPRL  over funding and
operational structure since at least early 2010, following a
$484 million capital injection into the business by Vodacom.
Vodacom may sell its stake to end the dispute, Chief Executive
Officer Pieter Uys said on May. 16. Vodacom Congo had 4.2
million  subscribers  at the end of March.  “MTN may be well-suited to deal with that kind of issue
due to its long exposure in  Africa ,” said Khulekani Dlamini,
head of research at the Cape Town-based Afena Capital.  “An
acquisition in the DRC would be very good for MTN as it would
fill a gaping hole in its operations in a market that is very
big.”  Rwanda, Uganda  MTN, which operates in 22 markets across Africa and the
 Middle East , including in Uganda and Rwanda neighboring Congo.
Congo, with a population of 71.7 million according to CIA World
Fact Book, has also attracted interest from  France Telecom SA (FTE) ,
that country’s largest phone operator. Earlier this month it
agreed to buy a 49 percent stake in operator Congo China Telecom
from the Congolese government, and is in talks to purchase the
remainder of CCT, owned by China’s ZTE Corp.  Vodacom, also based in Johannesburg, is busy with a process
being run by  London ’s NM Rothschild & Sons Ltd. to “explore
options” for its Congo unit, spokesman Richard Boorman said in
an e-mailed response to questions today. MTN “continues to
search for value-enhancing opportunities everywhere,” spokesman
 Rich Mkhondo  said in a text message.  MTN added 0.9 percent to 132.35 rand at the close of
Johannesburg trading today, giving the company a market value of
249 billion rand ($31 billion). Vodacom rose 0.9 percent to
89.25 rand, valuing the company at 133 billion rand.  If MTN secures the asset from Vodacom, it would consolidate
its grip on the African continent, said Chris Gilmour, an
analyst with the Johannesburg-based Absa Investments, a unit of
Absa Group Ltd.  “Vodacom is apparently convinced it must get out of the
DRC, therefore the only thing that would need to be sorted out
is the price,” Gilmour said by telephone.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sikonathi Mantshantsha in Johannesburg at 
 smantshantsh@bloomberg.net ; Michael J. Kavanagh in Kinshasa at
   mkavanagh9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  