-- 
New Zealand’s Post-Quake Rebuilding to Remove Stimulus Need, Bollard Says

-- B y   C h r i s   B o u r k e   a n d   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 
2011-10-17T22:27:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/n-z-rebuild-to-remove-need-for-policy-stimulus-bollard-says.html
New Zealand ’s reconstruction of the
earthquake-devastated city of Christchurch will boost growth and
inflation pressures,  Reserve Bank  Governor Alan Bollard said,
signaling  interest rates  will probably need to increase.  Reconstruction from quakes in the nation’s second-largest
city since September 2010, including a Feb. 22 temblor that
killed 181 people, should provide “significant stimulus” in
the medium term, Bollard said today in prepared remarks for a
Wellington speech.  Bollard is among Asia-Pacific central bankers who have held
or lowered borrowing costs this year to ride out renewed threats
to the global economy from  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis. The
rebuild is likely to cost about NZ$20 billion ($15.9 billion),
equivalent to 10 percent of gross domestic product, he said.  The high concentration of work in one region “will boost
medium-term activity and inflationary pressures for an extended
period,” Bollard said. “It would therefore be inappropriate,
all else equal, for monetary policy to be stimulatory during the
reconstruction period.”  The  New Zealand dollar  strengthened as traders bet Bollard
will consider unwinding a 50 basis-point emergency cut made in
March to help cushion the economy from the quake’s fallout. The
so-called kiwi traded at 79.25 U.S. cents at 11:11 a.m. in
Wellington from 79.11 cents before the comments.  The Reserve Bank kept the official cash rate unchanged at a
record-low 2.5 percent last month, citing risks of a global
slowdown, and 12 of 17 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News
expect no change in borrowing costs until at least January.  Emergency Support  The central bank will start to withdraw monetary support as
economic conditions in the region improve, Bollard said today.
It will work “towards ensuring that the degree of economic
stimulus provided is appropriate for achieving our medium-term
policy aims,” he said.  Bollard’s speech, on the economic impact of seismic risk,
also focused on the threat to the capital, Wellington. The
experience of Christchurch suggests that a quake in Wellington
would hurt the tourism and education industries most, while
office-based services could relocate as necessary once
electricity and telecommunications could be resumed, he said.  “Wellington might be expected to be more resilient in that
many of the buildings have been built or altered with
earthquakes in mind,” Bollard said. “These standards are now
being reviewed in the light of Christchurch, and will likely be
increased, requiring significant further upgrading in Wellington
(and possibly driving a small commercial building boom as
happened in the 1980s). The challenge here will be to avoid a
costly regulatory overreaction to a one-off event.”  He said a concern is that earthquake insurance coverage
could become much more limited, more expensive, and more
restrictive in Wellington, following the Christchurch damage.  “Already we are seeing big increases in reinsurance
premiums, tighter covenants, high excesses, and a move from full
replacement to indemnity policies,” Bollard told a Rotary Club
of Wellington and Victoria University of Wellington forum.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Bourke in Wellington at 
 cbourke4@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  