-- 
New Zealand Salvage Team Halts Oil Removal From Freight Ship on Rough Seas

-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s   a n d   C h r i s   B o u r k e
-- 
2011-10-18T01:40:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/n-z-team-halts-ship-s-oil-removal-on-weather.html
Salvage teams suspended the removal
of oil from a stranded container ship off the northeastern coast
of  New Zealand  because of rough seas and strong winds.  About 90 metric tons of oil was pumped off the vessel
before operations were halted at about 11:30 p.m. local time
yesterday, Maritime New Zealand said in a  statement  on its
website. All salvage crew have been removed because of the poor
weather conditions, the agency said.  “The ship remains in a similar condition to what it was
yesterday, with cracks down each side but is still held together
through its internal structure,” Andrew Berry, head of the
Maritime New Zealand salvage unit, said in the statement.  Rena, the Athens-based Costamare Shipping Co.’s vessel,
remains “in a precarious state” and more oil could wash up on
beaches, Prime Minister John Key said yesterday. Cracks appeared
in the hull last week, raising concern the ship may break apart
more than a week after it ran aground near Tauranga, 100 miles
(160 kilometers) southeast of Auckland.  Poor weather was expected to impact both the salvage and
oil recovery operations today, Maritime New Zealand said. The
ship was being rocked by waves as high as four meters and winds
of 35 knots (65 kilometers per hour) were blowing.  As many as 1,290 birds have been found dead following the
accident and there are 235 birds and three seals being cared for
at a wildlife facility, Maritime New Zealand said.  The Rena was carrying 1,368 containers and about 1,700
metric tons of  fuel oil , according to maritime officials. As
many as 350 tons of oil may have spilled from the vessel.  The cargo on the 32-year-old, Liberian-flagged Rena
includes four containers of ferrosilicon, a solid substance that
can be hazardous when in contact with water and can emit
hydrogen, according to the agency.  As many as 88 containers have fallen from the ship and
almost half of them are empty, it said on Oct. 15.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Tim Smith  in Sydney at 
 tsmith58@bloomberg.net  