-- 
New York, Public Employees Federation Reach Tentative Contract Agreement

-- B y   F r e e m a n   K l o p o t t
-- 
2011-10-17T04:00:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/new-york-public-employees-federation-reach-tentative-pact.html
The New York State Public Employees
Federation reached a tentative agreement with the state on a
revised contract that may preserve thousands of jobs, the union
said in an e-mailed statement.  The agreement is a four-year contract, a year shorter than
a proposal rejected by the union last month. The deal calls for
no salary increases for years 2011, 2012 and 2013, with an
increase of 2 percent for 2014, the union said. It also includes
reimbursement for nine furlough days payable at the end of the
agreement, the union said.  The  Public Employees Federation  is the state’s second-
largest public union, representing 55,000 professional,
scientific and technical employees.  “The changes we were able to obtain under this revised
agreement address many of the concerns raised by our members,”
PEF President Ken Brynien said in yesterday’s statement.  Job cuts of 3,496 PEF members are set to begin Oct. 19.
However, Governor  Andrew Cuomo  will delay the start date to Nov.
4 if the union’s executive board approves the contract at a
meeting scheduled for 1 p.m. today, Cuomo said in an e-mailed
statement.  That delay will allow time for a membership ratification
vote, the union said. If approved and ratified, the jobs of
3,496 PEF members will be preserved, the union said.  As with the rejected proposal, the tentative agreement
doesn’t include a guarantee against future job cuts, Cuomo said.  “We hope that the leadership as a whole moves for a revote
and the membership is governed by the needs of the collective
and ratifies the contract,” Cuomo said.  Brynien has previously said he believed the union’s
membership would approve a shorter contract. Cuomo has said he
would agree to changes if they were revenue-neutral. The new
agreement meets that standard, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Freeman Klopott in  Albany  at 
 fklopott@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 