-- 
News Corp., Management Committee Sued Over Sun Editor Nixson’s Firing

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g   a n d   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 
2011-10-17T17:23:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/news-corp-management-committee-sued-over-sun-editor-nixson-s-firing.html
News Corp. (NWSA)  and the board-appointed
body that’s handling investigations into phone-hacking charges
at its U.K. newspapers, was sued by a former editor who was
fired in July.  Matt Nixson, who was a features editor at the Sun and
formerly worked at the shuttered News of the World, sued News
Corp.’s U.K. unit over his dismissal, a person with direct
knowledge of the lawsuit said. The claim was filed in  London  on
Oct. 14, according to court records.  Nixson is at least the fifth former employee to sue the
company since the phone-hacking scandal erupted in July and the
first to name members of the Management Standards Committee as
defendants. The MSC was formed in July to deal with police and
political investigations into charges that reporters used
illegal tactics to acquire information for stories.  Simon Greenberg , Will Lewis and Jeffrey Palker, the members
of the MSC, are named in the suit along with Anthony Grabiner, a
veteran commercial lawyer and member of the U.K. Parliament’s
House of Lords who was hired as an independent overseer of the
committee.  News International spokeswoman  Daisy Dunlop  declined to
comment on the case. Paul Durman, a spokesman for the MSC, also
declined to comment.  Andy Coulson, the former editor of the News of the World
and a former press adviser to Prime Minister David Cameron,
filed a suit in September when News Corp. stopped paying his
legal fees, as did News of the World private investigator  Glenn Mulcaire  over the same issue in August. Former News of the World
chief reporter Neville Thurlbeck filed a wrongful termination
suit at an employment tribunal that same month. Ian Edmondson, a
former assistant editor at the tabloid, filed a similar claim,
according to the  Daily Mail .  The case is Nixson v. News Group Newspapers, High Court of
Justice Queens Bench Division, Case No. HQ11X03843.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Browning in London at 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net ;
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  