-- 
Nordic Banks Risk Backlash From Investors Seeking Cost Cuts

-- B y   A d a m   E w i n g
-- 
2011-10-18T13:47:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/nordic-banks-risk-backlash-from-investors-seeking-crisis-plans.html
Nordic banks will need to show
investors they can do more to cut costs when they report third-
quarter earnings this month or risk an investor backlash for
failing to adjust to  Europe ’s worsening economic outlook.  “We’ve heard chatter about Nordic banks laying people off,
but we investors need to see more concrete detail on what they
plan on doing to judge if they are doing enough,” said Espen Furnes, an Oslo-based  fund manager  at Storebrand Asset
Management, which oversees $74 billion. “It’s obvious banks
need to start cutting costs to deliver earnings growth, given
economies are slowing.”  While Nordic banks such as  Nordea Bank AB (NDA)  are among
Europe’s best-capitalized, the cost of insuring against lender
defaults in the region has more than doubled as the threat of
contagion from Europe’s debt crisis spreads to Norway and
Sweden. The average price for insuring debt sold by the five
biggest Nordic banks jumped to 150 basis points from 65 in June,
according to CMA. The insurance peaked at 175.5 basis points
last month, the highest level since March 2009.  Policy makers in Sweden, Denmark and  Norway  have told banks
in the region to do more to gird against Europe’s debt crisis
and the risk of a credit crunch. Swedish Finance Minister Anders Borg said today while lenders face no immediate need to raise
capital levels, banks should stand ready to increase their
buffers in the long term.  “We don’t have a primary risk to the Swedish banking
system,” he told reporters in Stockholm today.  ‘Under Pressure’  As regulatory demands grow and recovery prospects fade,
banks must cut costs to have any chance of generating profits,
said Nick Anderson, a London-based analyst at Berenberg Bank.  “Cost cutting and restructuring will be a big theme across
all the banks,” Anderson said in an interview. “Banks that are
slow to do this will come under increasing pressure from the
rest of the market to follow the banks that are. Plans have more
credibility than promises.”  Western European banks have announced almost 80,000 in job
cuts this year as they struggle to adapt to tougher markets.
Investor concern that Europe’s debt crisis may engulf Italy and
 Spain  has roiled financial markets and depleted earnings from
fixed-income trading, stock and bond underwriting as well as
mergers and acquisitions.  Higher Evaluations  Nordic lenders are more highly valued than European rivals.
Nordea, for example, had a price to tangible book value, which
strips out goodwill and other intangibles and is a measure used
by investors to examine the value of a stock, of 1.15 in the
first half compared with a median of 0.68 among other lenders,
according to Bloomberg Industry data.  In  Sweden , policy makers have warned that lenders are too
reliant on short-term dollar funding. Banks may face fees for
their foreign-currency borrowing or higher  capital ratios  to
compensate for the added risk.  In Denmark, a regional banking crisis this year led to the
European Union’s first senior creditor losses within a
resolution framework, cutting most of the country’s roughly 120
lenders off from international funding markets.  In Norway, the central bank and financial regulator have
warned banks they need to tighten lending standards to avoid a
credit-driven housing bubble as consumer debt levels surge to
the highest in over two decades.  The 14-member MSCI Nordic/Financials Index has fallen 22
percent this year, while the 46-member Bloomberg Europe Banks
and Financial Services Index has slumped 31 percent.  Nordea Bank, the region’s biggest, said on Aug. 29 it plans
to cut 2,000 jobs to reduce costs. Stockholm-based SEB AB hasn’t
announced any job cuts, and says it won’t raise costs until
2014.  Denmark ’s Danske Bank A/S said it plans to trim its
workforce by as many as 1,500 people through attrition, though
the adjustment will be phased in over seven years. The Danish
lender is also raising  interest rates . Norway’s  DnB NOR ASA (DNBNOR)  has
announced cost savings of 3 billion kroner by the end of 2015.  Share Performance  The announcements lack detail and don’t convince investors
that the banks have clear plans on how to stay profitable
through the crisis and its aftermath, Furnes said. That makes
profit targets doubtful, he said.  Nordea shares fell as much as 2.6 percent and were down 0.3
percent as of 2:54 p.m. in Stockholm. Danske fell 0.7 percent,
Swedbank declined 0.4 percent, while DnB NOR rose 1.3 percent.  Nordea, SEB and Swedbank are targeting a return on equity,
a measure of how much a company earns for each krona invested,
of 15 percent.  Svenska Handelsbanken AB (SHBA)  aims for a higher ROE.
Lenders are unlikely to reach those targets, said  Andreas Hakansson , a Stockholm-based analyst at Exane BNP Paribas.  A detailed cost-reduction program “is the only way to
improve profitability in this environment, which is key as none
of them will reach their return on equity targets,” he said.
Nordea, which publishes third-quarter earnings tomorrow, will
report a 22 percent slump in net income from a year earlier to
556 million euros ($760 million) for the period, according to a
Bloomberg survey.  ‘More Efficient’  Nordea said it wants to achieve most of its announced job
cuts through “natural turnover” and voluntary agreements.  “We have a need to become more efficient in terms of
capital, more efficient in terms of costs,” said Fredrik Rystedt, chief financial officer at Nordea.  Sweden’s government has cut its economic growth outlook for
next year to 1.3 percent from 3.8 percent previously. In
Denmark, Scandinavia’s worst-performing economy, output will
grow just 1.6 percent next year, the central bank estimates.  “We’ve really seen a sudden slowdown in Nordic economic
growth and this means the banks will be forced to refocus and
adjust their cost structures,” said Christian Hede, an analyst
at Denmark’s Jyske Bank A/S. “Investors are expecting something
soon so we’ll likely see more announced job cuts before the year
is over.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Adam Ewing in  Stockholm  at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net ; 