-- 
Obama Criticizes Republicans for Blocking His Jobs Proposal

-- B y   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n   a n d   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 
2011-10-17T21:45:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/obama-criticizes-republican-alternatives-to-his-jobs-proposal.html
President  Barack Obama  called on
Congress to pass elements of his jobs proposal and attacked
Republican alternatives, saying his plan is the “real Americans
Jobs Act.”  After Republicans blocked his $447 billion package of tax
cuts and spending in the Senate, Obama is seeking to tap into
populist anger in his campaign to get lawmakers to pass
individual provisions of the proposal.  The Republicans “want to gut regulations” and “let  Wall
Street  do whatever it wants,” Obama said today in Fletcher,
North Carolina, where he started a three-day, 560-mile bus tour
that also will take him to Virginia. Obama won both Republican-
leaning states in 2008 and seeks to hold both in next year’s
election.  “I need you to give Congress a piece of your mind,” he
said. “Tell your elected leaders to do the right thing.”  Six weeks after Obama unveiled his plan and with voters
increasingly anxious about the direction of the country, the
president is using his bus tour to blame Republicans for
Congress’s failure to enact his package of tax cuts and spending
measures that the White House says would spur growth and lower
the 9.1 percent  unemployment rate .  Aid to States  Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  is demanding a vote on
the first piece of the broken-up a jobs package, providing $35
billion in aid to cash-strapped state governments. The Nevada
Democrat said it would help save the jobs of teachers,
firefighters and other public-sector workers. Reid would pay for
it with a half-percent surtax on individuals with annual incomes
of $1 million or more.  The legislation is unlikely to pass the Senate;
Republicans, who have a majority in the House and enough votes
in the Senate to block legislation, have rejected raising taxes
to pay for the plan. They also object to additional spending
when the nation is struggling with a  budget deficit  that was
$1.3 trillion in the fiscal year that ended Sept. 30. It was the
third consecutive year that the shortfall has exceeded $1
trillion.  Republicans said the president, in hitting states he seeks
to win in 2012, is focused more on politics than economy.  More Cooperation  “It’s disappointing the president would rather give more
partisan speeches than work with Republicans to find common
ground,” said  Brendan Buck , a spokesman for House Speaker  John Boehner  of  Ohio . “There are things we can do right now to help
struggling American families, but it will require more
cooperation and less campaigning from the White House.”  The North Carolina  Republican Party  responded to Obama’s
visit with a “Towbama” campaign that features a tow truck as a
prop and an offer to “tow that bus back” to  Washington  so
Obama can work on economic policy, Robin Hayes, the state party
chairman, said on a conference call.  Of the $35 billion to states and communities, more than
$900 million would help teachers and first responders in  North
Carolina  and would support 13,400 jobs across the state, where
the unemployment rate is above the national average at 10.4
percent, according to the administration.  Obama cited the state’s need for federal help with
infrastructure projects that would put construction workers back
on the job, including runways and taxiways at Asheville Regional
Airport, where he spoke. The airport authority is seeking $60
million for renovations. The jobs bill includes $2 billion for
airport infrastructure projects.  Compromise  The president sought to cast himself as so willing to
compromise that he angered members of his own party.  “I want to work with Republicans in any way possible to
create jobs right now,” Obama said at his last stop, West
Wilkes High School in Millers Creek, North Carolina, about 112
miles (180 kilometers) from the Asheville area where he began
the trip. “I have bent over backwards, I have shown myself to
be willing.”  Obama will spend the night in Greensboro with another stop
in North Carolina scheduled for tomorrow before he heads into
neighboring  Virginia .  Obama narrowly won North Carolina in 2008, by 0.3 percent
of the vote, making him the first Democratic presidential
nominee to win the state in 32 years. An Oct. 6  Public Policy
Polling  survey shows Obama’s job approval rating in North
Carolina virtually unchanged since September with 44 percent
approving and 53 percent disapproving.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julianna Goldman in Fletcher, North Carolina, at   jgoldman6@bloomberg.net ;
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  