-- 
Obama Team’s Al-Awlaki Memo Furthered Bush Legacy: Noah Feldman

-- B y   N o a h   F e l d m a n
-- 
2011-10-17T00:01:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/obama-team-s-al-awlaki-memo-furthered-bush-legacy-noah-feldman.html
Killing terrorists with drones is
great politics. To the question, “Is it legal?” a natural
answer might well be, “Who cares?”  But the legal justifications in the war on terrorism do
matter -- and not just to people who care about civil liberties.
They end up structuring policy. As it turns out, targeted
killing, now the hallmark of the Barack Obama administration’s
war on terrorism, has its roots in rejection of the legal
justifications once offered for waterboarding prisoners.  The leaking of the basic content (but not the text) of an
Obama administration memo authorizing the drone strike that
killed U.S. citizen Anwar Al-Awlaki therefore calls for serious
reflection about where the war on terrorists has been -- and
where it is headed next.  The George W. Bush administration’s signature anti-terror
policy after the Sept. 11 attacks (apart from invading
countries) was to capture suspected terrorists, detain them, and
question them aggressively in the hopes of gaining actionable
intelligence to prevent more attacks.  In the Bush years, after the CIA and other agencies balked
at the interrogation techniques being urged by Vice President
 Dick Cheney , the White House asked the  Department of Justice  to
explain why the most aggressive questioning tactics were legal.
Lawyers at the Office of Legal Counsel -- especially John Yoo,
now a professor at the  University of California  at Berkeley --
produced secret memos arguing that waterboarding wasn’t torture.  The Torture Memos  What was more, the memos maintained, it didn’t matter if it
was torture or not, because the president had the inherent
constitutional authority to do whatever was needed to protect
the country.  Some of the documents were leaked and quickly dubbed “the
torture memos.” A firestorm of legal criticism followed. One of
the most astute and outraged critics was Marty Lederman, who had
served in the Office of Legal Counsel under President  Bill Clinton . With David Barron, a colleague of mine at Harvard,
Lederman went on to write two academic articles attacking the
Bush administration’s theories of expansive presidential power.
Eventually, Jack Goldsmith, who led the Office of Legal Council
in 2003-04 (and is now also at Harvard), retracted the most
extreme of Yoo’s arguments about the president’s inherent power.  In the years leading to the 2008 election, all this
technical criticism of the Bush team’s legal strategy merged
with domestic and global condemnation of the administration’s
detention policies. The  Supreme Court  weighed in, finding that
detainees were entitled to hearings and better tribunals than
were being offered. As a candidate, Obama joined the bandwagon,
promising to close the prison at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, within a
year of taking office.  Guantanamo is still open, in part because Congress put
obstacles in the way. Instead of detaining new terror suspects
there, however, Obama vastly expanded the tactic of targeting
them, with eight times more drone strikes in his first year than
in all of Bush’s time in office. Barron and Lederman, the
erstwhile Bush critics, were appointed to senior positions in
the Office of Legal Counsel -- where they wrote the recent
memo authorizing the Al-Awlaki killing.  What explains these startling developments? If it’s illegal
and wrong to capture suspected terrorists and detain them
indefinitely without a hearing, how exactly did the Obama
administration decide it was desirable and lawful to target and
kill them?  The politics were straightforward. Obama’s team observed
that holding terror suspects exposed the  Bush administration  to
harsh criticism (including their own). They wanted to avoid
adding detainees at Guantanamo or elsewhere.  A Father’s Appeal  Dead terrorists tell no tales -- and they also have no
lawyers shouting about their human rights. Before Al-Awlaki was
killed, his father sued the government for putting the son on
its target list. The Obama  Justice Department  asked the court to
dismiss the claim as being too closely related to government
secrets. The court agreed -- a result never reached in all the
Guantanamo litigation. Anwar Al-Awlaki now has no posthumous
recourse.  In the bigger picture, Obama also wanted to show measurable
success in the war on terrorism while withdrawing troops from
Iraq and  Afghanistan . But even here the means were influenced by
legal concerns.  Osama bin Laden  is the best example. One suspects that the
U.S. forces who led the fatal raid in Abbottabad almost
certainly could have taken him alive. But detaining and trying
him would probably have been a political disaster. So they shot
him on sight, as the international law of war allows for enemies
unless they surrender.  The authority for targeted killing -- as expressed in the
Lederman-Barron memo -- offers the legal counterpart to the
political advantages of the Obama targeting policy. According to
the leaks, the memo holds that the U.S. can kill suspected
terrorists from the air not because the president has inherent
power, but because Congress declared war on Al-Qaeda the week
after the Sept. 11 attacks.  The logic is that once Congress declares war, the president
can determine whom we are fighting. The president found that
Yemen-based Al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula, which didn’t
exist on Sept. 11, had joined the war in progress. He determined
that Al-Awlaki was an active member of the Yemeni groups with
some role in planning attacks. And, the memo says, it’s not
unlawful assassination or murder if the targets are wartime
enemies.  From a formal legal standpoint, Lederman and Barron can
claim consistency with their attacks on the Bush administration.
They relied on Congress and international law; Yoo’s “torture
memos” didn’t.  But this argument misses the more basic point: Most critics
rejected Bush’s policies not on technical grounds based on the
Constitution, but because they thought there was something wrong
with the president acting as judge and jury in the war on
terrorism.  No Defense Allowed  Anwar al-Awlaki was killed because the president decided he
was an enemy. Like the Bush-era Guantanamo detainees, he had no
chance to deny this -- even when his father tried to go to court
while he was still alive.  Naturally, a uniformed soldier in a regular war also
wouldn’t get a hearing. But like the Guantanamo detainees, Al-
Awlaki wore no uniform. Nor was he on a battlefield, except
according to the view that anywhere in the world can be the
battlefield in the war on terrorism.  Al-Awlaki might have maintained that he was merely a jihadi
propagandist exercising his free speech rights as a U.S.
citizen. Which might well have been a lie. Yet we have only the
president’s word that he was an active terrorist -- and that is
all we will ever have. The future direction of the policy is
therefore clear: Killing is safer, easier and legally superior
to catching and detaining.  Sitting beside Al-Awlaki when he was killed was another
U.S. citizen, Samir Khan, who was apparently a full-time
propagandist, not an operational terrorist. Khan was, we are
told, not the target, but collateral damage -- a good kill under
the laws of war.  Legal memos are weapons of combat -- no matter who is
writing them.  ( Noah Feldman , a law professor at  Harvard University  and
the author of “Scorpions: The Battles and Triumphs of FDR’s
Great Supreme Court Justices,” is a Bloomberg View columnist.
The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Noah Feldman in Cambridge, Massachusetts, at
 noah_feldman@harvard.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Tobin Harshaw at   tharshaw@bloomberg.net . 