-- 
Occupy Wall Street Loves Capitalism’s Pearls: William D. Cohan

-- B y   W i l l i a m   D .   C o h a n
-- 
2011-10-17T00:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/occupy-wall-street-loves-capitalism-s-pearls-commentary-by-william-cohan.html
It was probably inevitable that the
 Occupy Wall Street  movement would be rife with contradictions.
Back on Sept. 15, two days before the first protest began in
lower Manhattan, an organizing principle of sorts appeared on
the Adbusters website. “Hey President Obama, get ready for our
one demand!” the post announced.  (Just as an aside, Adbusters is a Canadian nonprofit
magazine and website that is generally credited with getting the
Occupy  Wall Street  ball rolling and best known for a 2004 anti-
Semitic  essay .)  After ruminating on the possibilities of what that one
demand could be -- “Shall we demand that President Obama
reinstate the  Glass-Steagall Act ; outlaw flash trading; impose a
1 percent tax on all financial transactions?” (interesting
ideas, but dismissed as “not very energizing”) -- the
anonymous author landed on the sweeping indictment: “END THE
MONIED CORRUPTION OF AMERICA MANIFESTO.”  The idea that the wealthiest 1 percent of Americans is
somehow subjugating the other 99 percent against their will
quickly became the credo of the movement. “The lords of finance
in the skyscrapers surrounding Zuccotti Park, who toy with money
and lives, who make the political class, the press, and the
judiciary jump at their demands, who destroy the ecosystem for
profit and drain the  U.S. Treasury  to gamble and speculate, took
little notice at (the) first activists on the street below them
three weeks ago,”  Chris Hedges , a former foreign correspondent
for the New York Times and one of the leading intellectuals of
the organization, wrote Oct. 8 in a front-page column in the
Occupied Wall Street Journal.  ‘Worship Money’  “The elites consider everyone outside their sphere
marginal or invisible,” he wrote. “Those who worship money
believe their buckets of cash, like the $4.6 million JPMorgan
Chase gave last week to the New York City Police Foundation can
buy them perpetual power and security. Masters all, kneeling
before the idols of the marketplace, blinded by their self-
importance, impervious to human suffering, bloated from
unchecked greed and privilege, they were about to be taught the
folly of hubris.”  A powerful anti-capitalist screed for sure, aside from its
mischaracterization of what JPMorgan actually did for the
police. So where to begin with the contradictions? Let’s start
with Hedges himself. He is a columnist for Truthdig.com, a
website dedicated to digging deeper into stories and to asking
“the questions that remain unasked.”  Helpful Billionaires  The money behind Truthdig comes from  Zuade Kaufman , who is
the daughter of the late Donald Kaufman and a relative  of  Eli Broad . Kaufman and Broad, of course, were the founders of what
is now known as  KB Home (KBH) , which bills itself as “one of the
nation’s premier homebuilders” and as having constructed “half
a million quality homes for families since its founding in
1957” in  Detroit . KB Home, based in  Los Angeles , has a market
value of $515 million. And, of course, at last count, Eli Broad
was  worth  $6.3 billion, according to Forbes magazine. I’m not
sure where Truthdig would be without good old-fashioned
capitalism.  It’s no surprise that Occupy Wall Street’s preferred
methods for getting out its message are the social-networking
powerhouses Facebook, Twitter and Tumblr. Occupy Wall Street’s
Twitter feed churns out a continuous stream of 140-character
observations and its Facebook page is a blaze of commentary and
pictures about the latest goings-on with the movement. Ditto,
Tumblr.  Someone Forgot  Of course, these three companies are all backed by wealthy
venture capitalists expecting to become even wealthier when
these closely held businesses take advantage of the Wall Street-
enabled market for initial public offerings. Did someone forget
to tell Hedges et al. that Facebook is backed by  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS) , may have a market capitalization of about $100
billion if it goes public next year, and its co-founder,  Mark Zuckerberg , is thought to be  worth  $17.5 billion largely because
so many people around the world are willing to share their
private musings with their friends (and with Facebook) for free?  We all know now that no self-respecting Occupy Wall Street
protester would be caught dead without his or her hand-held
device, preferably an  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  iPhone or iPad. Without Wall
Street and its ability to match entrepreneurs such as  Steve Jobs 
with investors and their capital, there would probably be no
iPhones or iPads today and, of course, Apple wouldn’t be the
world’s most valuable company -- at about $391 billion -- and
one admired around the world. Nor would Jobs have been worth
roughly $7 billion when he died tragically earlier this month.  ‘Picked a Fight’  “We have picked a fight with the most powerful economic
and political forces on the planet,” Naomi Klein, another one
of the intellectual leaders of the movement, said in an Oct. 6
speech at the park. “That’s frightening. And as this movement
grows from strength to strength, it will get more frightening.”  The park where the protesters have been living for the past
month is named after John Zuccotti, the co-chairman of
Brookfield Office Properties Inc., one of the nation’s largest
developers of commercial  office space . Brookfield, which owns
the park, donated $8 million to repair extensive damage from the
Sept. 11 terrorist attacks on the nearby World Trade Center
buildings.  On Oct. 11, Brookfield’s chief executive officer, Richard B. Clark, sent a letter to  Raymond Kelly , the New York City
police commissioner, stating that the company wanted to clean up
the park, which has gotten understandably messy with all the
people camped out there. He also noted that the protesters had
pretty much prevented other people, not interested in
protesting, from using the park.  Looming Confrontation  A confrontation loomed as the demonstrators insisted they
wouldn’t move for the cleaning and would prefer to be arrested.
On Friday morning, Brookfield made the decision not to clean
Zuccotti Park, for now, and a serious confrontation with the
police was avoided. No doubt, the protesters are giving little
thought to the hospitality Brookfield has been providing to
them.  What’s wrong with this picture is that the activists and
their purported leaders, such as Hedges and Klein, have failed
to account for how fortunate we are to live in a country that
affords us the  freedoms of speech  and of protest and creates
products, services and a general standard of living that we have
come to take for granted and that is the envy of the world.
Sure, there are problems -- many of them -- that need
addressing. But the time has come for a more constructive
approach, not the mindless, contradiction-filled claptrap that
seems to be coming out of lower  Manhattan .  David Brooks , the New York Times columnist, had it
absolutely right when he  wrote  last week, “It’s not about
declaring war on some nefarious elite. It’s about changing
behavior from top to bottom.” Amen.  (William D. Cohan, a former investment banker and the
author of “Money and Power: How Goldman Sachs Came to Rule the
World,” is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
William D. Cohan at  wdcohan@yahoo.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  