-- 
Occupy Wall Street’s Arrested Protesters May Demand Trials, Lawyer Says

-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y   a n d   C h r i s   D o m e t s c h
-- 
2011-10-17T22:06:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/occupy-wall-street-protesters-may-seek-trial-lawyer-says-1-.html
Hundreds of Occupy Wall Street
protesters arrested for demonstrating Oct. 1 on the Brooklyn
Bridge may demand trials if charges against them aren’t dropped
and some demonstrators are seeking the arrest of police
officers, a month into the  New York  protest against economic
inequality.  Manhattan District Attorney Cyrus Vance Jr.’s office is
considering a request to drop charges,  National Lawyers Guild 
attorney Martin Stolar said today outside the DA’s office after
a meeting. Stolar said he hopes for a response in a few days.  “We are prepared to try every single case,” said Stolar,
whose organization has offered to represent the protesters. ‘For
any clients who want to take the option of, ‘I’m innocent -- I’m
not pleading guilty,’ we’re prepared to provide them with pro
bono counsel to exercise their right to go to trial.”  If the cases all are tried, they will tie up resources of
New York’s courts, Stolar said. He said 765 people were arrested
at the bridge. The DA’s office said it was 267 and all but 17
got desk appearance tickets.  “Every arrest that comes into the DA’s office is assessed
individually, and charging decisions are based on the evidence
and circumstances unique to each case and defendant,”  Erin
Duggan , a spokeswoman for the office, said in an e-mailed
statement. The office regularly handles more than 100,000
arrests a year, according to its statistics. It has counted 499
since the protest started a month ago.  Two Investigations  Separately, at least two protesters’ complaints against the
police are being investigated, according to their lawyer, Ronald
L. Kuby, who is asking for the arrest of two police deputy
inspectors.  The district attorney’s official corruption unit is
investigating assault accusations against Deputy Inspector
Anthony Bologna and Deputy Inspector Johnny Cardona, Kuby said.
Bologna was involved in a pepper spray incident, and Cardona was
involved in an incident on Oct. 14.  “There’s not much to investigate,” Kuby said today
outside the DA’s office shortly after a meeting. “The videotape
on its face makes out a case for third-degree assault. Had this
been anyone other than a deputy police inspector, that person
would have been arrested,”  “It’s your garden variety assault, it’s a Class A
misdemeanor,” Kuby said of incident, in which his client Kaylee
Dedrick, a 24-year old teacher’s aide from  Albany , was pepper
sprayed by Bologna.  Oct. 14 Incident  His other client, Felix Rivera Pitre, was struck by Cardona
on Oct. 14, Kuby said.  “Deputy inspectors are there to make sure that patrol
officers, who are younger and less experienced, don’t act like
this,” Kuby said.  A police spokesman,  Paul Browne , didn’t immediately reply
to a message seeking comment on Stolar’s comments. Police
Commissioner Ray Kelly said Oct. 7 that allegations against the
police are under investigation by the department.  Five of the bridge protesters filed a civil rights
complaint claiming police officers lured them onto the bridge’s
roadway to trap and arrest them.  The protests have included an occupation of New York’s
Zucotti Park and marches on the homes of individuals including
JPMorgan Chase & Co. Chairman  Jamie Dimon  and News Corp.’s
 Rupert Murdoch .  Other Cities  On Oct. 15, a Saturday-night gathering in Times Square drew
at least 6,000 people. The protests have been echoed in other
U.S. cities as well as  London ,  Tokyo ,  Hong Kong , Sydney and
Toronto.  Protesters arrested have been accused of standing or
sitting in the streets, overturning trash baskets and throwing
bottles. At least one was detained after he allegedly knocked
over a police scooter.  The Lawyers Guild is an organization of attorneys, legal
workers, law students and “jailhouse lawyers,” it says on its
website. “We represent progressive political movements, using
the law to protect human rights above property interests and to
attain social justice,” it says.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Dolmetsch in New York
at   cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 