-- 
Tognum Probes $32 Million Paid to South Korean Sales Agent

-- B y   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k
-- 
2011-10-18T09:02:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/tognum-probes-32-million-paid-to-korean-military-sales-agent.html
Tognum AG (TGM) , which is being acquired
by  Daimler AG (DAI)  and  Rolls-Royce Group Plc (RR/) , uncovered 23 million
euros ($32 million) in commissions at its MTU Friedrichshafen
unit that may have been wrongfully paid in connection with sales
of defense-related products in South Korea.  Some funds were used to host members of the Korean military
at Asian vacation resorts and night clubs in the Bangkok red-
light district, according to a management summary of a draft
report obtained by Bloomberg News that was prepared for Tognum
by Ernst & Young GmbH. The document, part of an internal review,
focused on commissions paid to a South Korean businessman.  Ernst & Young recommended “an examination of the
implementation of current compliance measures” for sales
partners and payments at Tognum’s units outside  Germany , the
accounting firm said in the advisory section of the draft report
dated Sept. 26.  German companies have beefed up anti-corruption efforts
since Siemens AG was embroiled in a bribery scandal involving
1.3 billion euros of “unclear payments” that led to a $1.6
billion settlement with German and U.S. prosecutors. Daimler
last year agreed to pay a total of $185 million to resolve a
U.S. probe of bribes paid in 22 countries.  Joint Venture  In a 50-50 joint-venture bid announced in March, Daimler
and Rolls-Royce secured at least about 97 percent of Tognum
shares, Daimler said Aug. 26. Daimler had previously owned
Friedrichshafen, Germany-based Tognum before selling it to
private equity firm EQT Partners in 2006.  Tognum, the world’s second-biggest manufacturer of high-
speed diesel engines for the marine, energy and defense
industries, confirmed the probe in an e-mailed statement
yesterday without disclosing any details.  The investigation may be completed this week and the
company will release details “in due course,” Tognum spokesman
Stefan Wortmann said.  The supervisory board’s audit committee has been informed
of the probe from its start, Wortmann said. After receiving a
request for comment on the story by Bloomberg News, Tognum
yesterday also informed German prosecutors about the case.  A member of Tognum’s legal department came to see
prosecutors in Ravensburg, Germany, yesterday to inform them
about the issue, Karl-Josef Diehl, spokesman for the
prosecutors’ office said in an interview today. The lawyer
informed them only orally, without providing any written
documentation, said Diehl.  Ernst & Young  “Tognum told us that we would receive the Ernst & Young
report once it’s final,” said Diehl. “We can decide only then
whether to open a probe into the issue and whom to
investigate.”  The company retained Ernst & Young after receiving an e-
mail in January from German magazine  Der Spiegel  asking about
three payments made by MTU in 2008 “in connection with a
submarine deal in South Korea,” the accounting firm said. The
payments of 938,671 euros, 474,986 euros and 208,935 euros to a
sales representative may have been used “to bribe decision
makers,” the report cites the Der Spiegel e-mail as saying.  Ernst & Young identified the amounts in a series of
payments totaling 39.9 million euros made by Tognum’s MTU unit
from 2000 through 2011. The money went to companies and accounts
controlled by Chung Eui Sung, a South Korean business man.  Chung, an independent sales representative, was an employee
at MTU from 1977 to 1987 after serving 14 years in the South
Korean Navy, the report says.  Local License  In 1987, Chung started his own business. MTU deemed his
services necessary for a part of its business in  Korea  regulated
by the country’s rules for defense-related purchases. The
government required MTU and its competitors to sell defense
products through licensed local companies.  Without Chung’s support, MTU wouldn’t have been able to
keep its market share, Ernst & Young cited MTU managers as
saying during interviews conducted in the probe.  Chung was taken into custody in 1993 because a 300 million
South Korean Won ($263,000) donation to the navy chief for
setting up an institute was “erroneously interpreted as
bribery,” he said during Ernst & Young interviews, the
accounting firm said in the report.  Chung’s work on such “licensed products” was contrary to
internal MTU rules and contracts with the local customer
products were licensed to. Both barred any third-party
participation in the transactions. Commissions for the brokering
of “licensed products” sales were also banned in a clause that
applied though 2008 in an Agency Agreement Chung’s company,
Systech Korea Co. Ltd., signed with MTU.  Side Deals  To circumvent that, MTU and Systech, which in 2006 was
renamed UBMTech Korea Co. Ltd, entered into side deals
regulating the sales representative payments, according to the
report.  Chung and UBMTech didn’t reply to an e-mail seeking comment
yesterday. Chung’s administrative assistant at UBMTech said to
submit all questions via e-mail.  The practice was known to Peter Kneipp, who was chief of
MTU’s Asian unit 2004 to 2010 and is now a management board
member at Tognum, Ernst & Young said.  When German tax authorities audited MTU in 2009, Kneipp was
asked to provide all relevant sales representative agreements.
In his fax reply to MTU’s German headquarters dated Feb. 2,
2009, Kneipp only sent the Agency Agreement and didn’t include
the side agreements, the report said.  Hidden Contracts  Systech hid the contracts and had them stored outside  South
Korea  to put them out of the reach of local authorities, Ernst &
Young said.  “Korean tax authorities or prosecutors could have found
the documents in one of their investigations, which would have
been disadvantageous for Systech and MTU alike,” Ernst & Young
said, citing an explanation from UBMTech. “There have been
several investigations from the Korean side in the past, which
didn’t yield any results because the side agreements weren’t
present in Korea.”  Ernst & Young’s investigators found funds were spent to
host military officials. MTU and Systech financed “on-the-job
training” for members of the Korean military. While the
official part of the programs consisted of training on MTU
products, there was also an “unofficial” element that included
trips to Phuket, Bali and other Asian resort destinations, Ernst
& Young said.  The goal was to “support and intensify” relationships
with officers, the report said. Kneipp knew about the trips,
according to Ernst & Young.  Night Club Visits  Lists with costs of the trips include visits to night
clubs. Internet searches revealed these clubs were “notorious
establishments in Bangkok’s red-light district,” the Ernst &
Young investigators said. Some money was spent on items that may
have been given to members of the military as gifts, including
golf equipment and swimming gear, Ernst & Young said.  The investigators also said MTU didn’t properly document
the performance of Chung’s companies under the various
contracts.  “Because of the lacking performance documentation it can’t
be finally cleared to what extent the commission payments were
based on an actual broker service which justifies the amount of
commissions paid,” the report says.  Chung was questioned as part of the investigation about
what he did to earn the commissions. He said that UBMTech did
“project engineering,” “contractual negotiations” and
“after service (after contract works),” Ernst & Young said.  Korean Army, Navy  “UBMTech is promoting MTU interests in the Korean Army and
Navy,” Chung said in a May 20 letter, according to the Ernst &
Young report. “It is practically impossible to describe how
UBMTech promotional works are practically carried out.”  From 2001 to 2002, MTU paid part of the commissions to an
account in  Singapore  set up for an entity called Far Eastern
Trading and Consulting. From 2006 to 2008 a share of 9.8 million
euros was paid to Prisma Corporate Ltd., incorporated in the
British Virgin Islands, which also had an account in Singapore.
Both were controlled by Chung, according to the report.  Chung told Ernst & Young investigators that he was asked by
MTU to set up an off-shore account where “unofficial
commissions” could be paid.  From 2000 to 2004, Chung received 21 checks from MTU
totaling 1.1 million euros, Ernst & Young says. Nine checks were
cashed by MTU employees and the money was handed over to Chung.  A South Korean Defense Ministry spokesman declined to
comment. Ernst & Young spokesman Dag-Stefan Rittmeister declined
to comment on the report.  Daimler spokeswoman Ute von Vellberg declined to comment,
saying it is an issue for Tognum. Rolls-Royce didn’t reply to e-
mails seeking comment yesterday.  Der Spiegel didn’t publish a story on the payments
following its January e-mail request.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karin Matussek in Berlin at 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@Bloomberg.net . 