-- 
Crude Oil Slips From Its Highest in a Month as Germany Damps Rescue Hopes

-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 
2011-10-17T12:27:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/oil-rises-to-highest-in-a-month-on-europe-debt-rescue-efforts.html
Oil slipped from its highest in a
month in  New York  after Germany criticized as unrealistic hopes
for a swift resolution to Europe’s debt crisis.  West Texas Intermediate crude futures were little changed,
retreated from an earlier high above $88 a barrel. German
Chancellor  Angela Merkel , speaking at a briefing in Berlin
today, dismissed expectations that rescue plans to be announced
at an Oct. 23 summit will speedily address Europe’s problems as
“dreams.” Crude had advanced on forecasts that China may say
tomorrow its economy grew more than 9 percent last quarter.  “There’s optimism that a comprehensive solution for the
euro zone debt crisis will be unveiled at the EU summit next
week,” said  Carsten Fritsch , an analyst in Frankfurt at
Commerzbank AG, the fourth most-accurate forecaster of  oil
prices  in the third quarter. “But there is huge potential for
disappointment if announcements fall short of expectations,
which is very likely.”  Crude for November delivery was at $86.83 a barrel, 3 cents
higher in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile Exchange 
at 1:10 p.m. London time. Earlier it gained as much as $1.38 to
$88.18 a barrel, the highest since Sept. 16.  Brent oil for December settlement fell 60 cents to $111.63
a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. Front-
month futures rose 7.8 percent last week.  The spread between December West Texas and Brent oil was at
$24.55 a barrel today, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The price difference narrowed from $27.88 on Oct. 14 as the
London-traded future for November expired.  Hedge-Fund Bets  Hedge funds  raised bullish oil bets by 7.8 percent in the
week ended Oct. 11, according to the Commodity Futures Trading
Commission’s Commitments of Traders report on Oct. 14. Net-long
positions betting on rising prices in WTI oil held by hedge
funds, commodity pools and commodity-trading advisers, in
futures and options combined increased 11,389 to 157,693.  In  London , speculative bets that Brent prices will rise, in
futures and options combined, outnumbered short positions by
41,004 contracts, the London-based  ICE Futures Europe exchange 
said today in its weekly Commitment of Traders report. Net-long
positions rose by 11,911 contracts, from 29,093 a week earlier.  Prices gained earlier today on speculation  China’s economy 
will maintain growth rates. Gross domestic product in the
nation, the world’s second-biggest consumer of crude, increased
9.3 percent in the third quarter from a year earlier, according
to the median estimate of 22 economists in a Bloomberg News
survey. That would be the ninth straight quarter of expansion
above 9 percent and follow a 9.5 percent gain in the previous
three months in  China , the second biggest crude-consuming nation
behind the U.S.  “It does look as if that extremely pessimistic view that
the world was heading into recession, if not depression, is now
changing and the overall investment view is what we’re looking
at is a low-growth environment,” said Michael McCarthy, a chief
market strategist at CMC Markets Asia Pacific Pty Ltd. in
Sydney. “Confirmation of the growth story in China will be
important.”  -- Editors:  John Buckley , Raj Rajendran  To contact the reporters on this story:
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  