-- 
Oil Declines From Three-Week High as Germany Damps Rescue Hopes

-- B y   M o m i n g   Z h o u
-- 
2011-10-17T20:06:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/oil-slips-from-one-month-high-as-germany-damps-rescue-hopes.html
Crude oil declined from the highest
price in more than three weeks after  Germany  said European Union
leaders won’t provide a complete fix to the region’s debt
crisis, damping hopes for a quick rescue plan.  Oil fell 0.5 percent as  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said
expectations that rescue plans to be announced at an Oct. 23
summit will speedily address  Europe ’s problems were “dreams.”
Prices also weakened as data showed manufacturing in the New
York region contracted in October at a faster pace than
forecast.  “People started to accept that Europe is going to take
awhile to recover and there is no quick fix,” said Carl Larry,
director of energy derivatives and research with Blue Ocean
Brokerage LLC in New York.  Crude for November delivery fell 42 cents to settle at
$86.38 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . The Oct. 14
closing price of $86.80 was the highest since Sept. 20.  Brent oil for December settlement fell $2.07, or 1.8
percent, to $110.16 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe exchange.  The spread between the front-month Brent and corresponding
Nymex crude contracts narrowed to $23.54 from a record high of
$27.88 on Oct. 14.  Summit Meeting  Merkel has made it clear that “dreams that are taking hold
again now that with this package everything will be solved and
everything will be over on Monday won’t be able to be
fulfilled,” Steffen Seibert, her chief spokesman, said at a
briefing in Berlin today. The search for an end to the crisis
“surely extends well into next year,” he said.  Group of 20 finance ministers and central bankers concluded
weekend talks in Paris endorsing parts of an emerging plan to
avoid a Greek default, bolster banks and curb contagion. They
set the Oct. 23 summit of European leaders in Brussels as the
deadline for it to be delivered.  “Europe is going to continue to be influential in the oil
market and that’s what’s driving the market lower,” said  Kyle Cooper , director of research for IAF Advisors in Houston.  The Federal Reserve Bank of New York’s general economic
index was minus 8.5 in October. Economists projected an
improvement to minus 4, based on the median of 53 forecasts in a
Bloomberg News survey. Readings less than zero signal companies
in the so-called Empire State Index, which covers New York,
northern  New Jersey , and southern Connecticut, are cutting back.  Japan Downgrade  Japan’s government downgraded its assessment of the economy
for the first time since April as the strengthening yen and
slowing global growth weighed on the prospects for an export-
driven recovery.  The Cabinet Office today lowered its evaluation of  consumer
spending , exports and industrial production, all for the first
time in six months. Output increases are moderating and consumer
spending and overseas shipments have stalled, the report said.  Japan is the world’s third-largest oil consumer. The U.S.
and  China  are first and second.  Oil also fell as stock markets declined. The Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index fell 1.7 percent to 1,203.89, and the  Dow Jones
Industrial Average  slid 1.8 percent to 11,435.18.  “The oil market is moving on financial sentiment, by
what’s happening in the stock market,” said  Adam Sieminski ,
chief energy economist at Deutsche Bank in  Washington .  Hedge Funds  Hedge funds raised bullish oil bets by 7.8 percent in the
week ended Oct. 11, according to the Commodity Futures Trading
Commission’s Commitments of Traders report on Oct. 14.  Net-long positions betting on rising prices held by  hedge
funds , commodity pools and commodity-trading advisers, in
futures and options combined increased 11,389 to 157,693.  In  London , speculative bets that Brent prices will rise, in
futures and options combined, outnumbered short positions by
41,004 contracts, the London-based  ICE Futures Europe exchange 
said today in its weekly Commitment of Traders report. Net-long
positions rose by 11,911 contracts, from 29,093 a week earlier.  Crude gained earlier on speculation  China’s economy  will
maintain growth rates.  Gross domestic product in the nation increased 9.3 percent
in the third quarter from a year earlier, according to the
median estimate of 22 economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  That would be the ninth straight quarter of expansion above
9 percent and follow a 9.5 percent gain in the previous three
months in China.  Oil volume in electronic trading on the Nymex was 483,752
contracts as of 3:31 p.m. in  New York . Volume totaled 670,479
contracts on Oct. 14. Open interest was 1.44 million contracts.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Moming Zhou in New York at 
 Mzhou29@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  