-- 
Olympus Investors Lose $3 Billion After Woodford Fired Amid Board Dispute

-- B y   C h r i s   C o o p e r
-- 
2011-10-17T16:22:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/olympus-shareholders-lose-3-billion-after-board-fires-president.html
Olympus Corp. (7733)  shareholders including
Nippon Life Insurance Co. lost more than $3 billion of their 
holdings over the last two trading sessions after the board 
fired President Michael C. Woodford.  The maker of cameras and medical equipment yesterday
plunged 24 percent, the most since at least September 1974, to
1,555 yen at the close of trading in Tokyo. The stock fell 18
percent on Oct. 14 after the ouster of Woodford.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc., Deutsche Bank AG and Nomura
Securities Co. slashed their stock ratings amid concerns about
the company’s corporate governance and costs. The Tokyo-based
Olympus may face regulatory and legal scrutiny because of
payments made to advisers in a 2008 transaction, according to a
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLC report commissioned by the Briton.  “There seems to have been funny business going on,” said
Edwin Merner, president of Atlantis Investment Co. in  Tokyo .
“Maybe Olympus can be turned around by a new management, we
will have to wait and see.”  Olympus was valued at 422 billion yen ($5.5 billion) as of
yesterday, down from the 673 billion yen at the close of trading
on Oct. 13, the day before Woodford was fired, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Nippon Life, Olympus’s largest shareholder, lost about 21
billion yen in the value of its holdings, based on Bloomberg’s
calculation of the 22 million shares held by the company. The
insurer owned 8.3 percent of Olympus, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Breaches of Duties  Olympus declined to comment on statements from Woodford or
the PwC report, Seisho Tanaka, a Tokyo-based spokesman said.  Akira Tsuzuki, a spokesman for  Osaka , Japan-based Nippon
Life,  Japan ’s biggest life insurer, declined to comment.  Potential offenses include false accounting, financial
assistance and breaches of duties by the board, according to the
Oct. 11 report that Woodford gave to Bloomberg News.  Olympus is considering measures including legal action
against Woodford for leaking internal information to media,
Executive Vice President Hisashi Mori told analysts and
investors on a conference call yesterday, Takumi Kakazu, a
Tokyo-based analyst at Morgan Stanley, wrote in a research note.  Chairman Tsuyoshi Kikukawa said at an Oct. 14 press
conference that the board fired Woodford, a 30-year veteran of
the Japanese company, because he “wouldn’t listen” to warnings
from Kikukawa. Woodford, who is now back in the U.K., said he
was fired after he challenged the transactions.  “We are still puzzled by this decision by the board,”
Goldman Sachs analysts Toshiya Hari and Kenya Moriuchi wrote in
a report dated Oct. 14. “We hope to get a genuine response from
the management team.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chris Cooper  in Tokyo at 
 ccooper1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Bret Okeson at 
 bokeson@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Fowler at 
 Bfowler@bloomberg.net  