-- 
London Mansion Resurfaces on Hedge-Fund Row as Luxury-Homes Market Booms

-- B y   N e i l   C a l l a n a n
-- 
2011-10-17T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/london-mansion-resurfaces-on-hedge-fund-row-as-luxury-homes-boom.html
An office building on the  London 
square with the world’s most expensive commercial rents will be
converted into a nine-bedroom mansion as demand from
international buyers drives luxury-home values to record highs.  No. 7 St. James’s Square, designed more than a century ago
then converted to offices, could sell for more than 50 million
pounds ($78 million) after its renovation, according to Richard Barber, a partner at prime real estate broker W.A. Ellis LLP.
The building’s owner, Dublin-based  Green Property Ltd. , plans to
spend about 14 million pounds to convert No. 7, adding amenities
like a garden, swimming pool and spa.  A shortage of luxury properties is sparking renovation in
expensive areas such as the  West End , where most of the offices
were originally residential real estate. The average price of a
prime central London home was a record 3.97 million pounds in
September, 4.5 percent higher than the market’s last peak in
March 2008, according to property broker  Knight Frank  LLP.  “I think you will see it happen quite a bit,” said Simon
Stevenson, a professor of real estate and planning at  England ’s
Henley School of Business. It won’t mean, however, “that all of
the West End is going to become residential again like it was
100 years ago,” he said.  St. James’s and nearby Mayfair are the London districts
with  Europe ’s biggest concentration of  hedge funds . The square
was built in the 1660s by Henry Jermyn, an adviser to the royal
family, after he was granted land there by King Charles II. It’s
now home to the  162-year-old  East India Club and the
headquarters of BP Plc and Rio Tinto Group Plc, the world’s
second-largest mining company.  Potential Buyers  Green Property may attract buyers for the mansion from
India, the  Middle East  and the former  Soviet Union , said Richard Cutt of Knight Frank, an adviser to the company. International
buyers make up 40 percent of the market by value in prime London
areas, where the average size of a house bought by a billionaire
is 7,850 square feet, according to a survey by  Savills Plc (SVS) 
published last month.  No. 7 was designed as a home by British architect  Edwin
Lutyens  in 1910. The neo-Georgian house will have a library,
drawing room, staff quarters and a study, according to planning
 documents . Green Property has approval from Westminster Council
to change it back to a residence.  The house will total 31,400 square feet (2,900 square
meters), the planning documents show. The internal space would
be closer to 20,000 square feet, Cutt said. Closely held Green
Property declined to comment.  Price Not Set  The sale price hasn’t been set, Cutt said. He pointed to
the 25 million-pound sale of a 10,000-square-foot house on
nearby Charles Street as an example of a comparable property in
the area. The St. James’s Square home will be double the size.  After it’s redone, the interior of the mansion alone could
be valued at 2,000 pounds a square foot to 2,600 pounds a square
foot, Barber said. The final price would depend on the size of
the rooms and the gardens, he added.  Greek businessman Achilleas Kallakis, known as The Don on
the international poker circuit, had planned to convert No. 7
St. James’s Square into a home until he was turned down by
Westminster Council in 2008. Kallakis, through a company called
Labarre Trading, also sought to change offices at next door No.
8 into apartments and had a deal to sell the penthouse there for
a record 115 million pounds, the Sunday Times reported in March
2008. The sale wasn’t completed.  Seized Properties  The two St. James’s buildings and other real estate linked
to Kallakis was bought from 2003 through 2007 using loans
largely provided by  Allied Irish  Banks Plc. Kallakis and an
associate borrowed 762.6 million pounds for investments
including the two St. James’s Square buildings. Allied Irish
seized the properties after losing 56 million pounds on the
loans, the U.K. Serious Fraud Office said in March 2010.  Kallakis and Alexander Williams are currently on trial
after being charged with forgery, fraud by false representation,
 money laundering , conspiracy to defraud and obtaining a money
transfer by deception, the SFO said. A 2008 review by the bank
revealed lease guarantees on the properties by an unnamed
investment-grade company were fake, the SFO said. The defendants
allegedly falsified leases, making them for longer periods and
at higher rents than the existing tenants’ leases to increase
the properties’ value. They pleaded not guilty last month.  Office Renovation  An affiliate of closely held Green Property paid Allied
Irish 125 million pounds for the two buildings in November 2008,
according to documents filed with the  Land Registry . The Irish
property company plans to renovate the seven-story office
building at No. 8 St. James’s Square with more than 105,000
square feet of commercial space.  Permal Investment Management Services Ltd. agreed in 2007
to pay annual rent of 140 pounds a square foot for the top floor
at 12 St. James’s Square, according to the  property’s owner  at
the time. That was the world’s highest rent as of November 2010,
CBRE Group Inc. spokeswoman  Sarah Anderson  said, citing the
broker’s global-office rent index.  Nos. 7 and 8 are about a mile east of  Buckingham Palace  and
less than a mile west of 10 Downing Street. Lutyens also
designed the  British Embassy  in  Washington  and landmarks in
central Delhi such as  India  Gate and the former Viceroy’s House.
No. 8, formerly the U.K. Labour Ministry’s headquarters, was
built in 1939 and designed by architectural firm Robert Angell
and Curtis, according to the  University of London and History of
Parliament Trust .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Neil Callanan in London at 
 ncallanan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 