-- 
Hong Kong Starts Consultation on Over-the-Counter Derivatives Regulation

-- B y   K a n a   N i s h i z a w a
-- 
2011-10-17T11:46:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/hong-kong-weighing-laws-for-otc-derivatives-regulation-with-consultation.html
Hong Kong  has begun consultation on
proposals for regulation of the city’s over-the-counter
derivatives market in a bid to reduce systemic risk in the wake
of the 2008 collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  Main proposals included in the  consultation paper  released
by the Hong Kong Monetary Authority and the city’s Securities
and Futures Commission include mandatory reporting and central
clearing of over-the-counter transactions. Hong Kong Exchanges &
Clearing Ltd., the city’s bourse operator, will establish a
clearing house for the transactions while the the HKMA will
create a trade repository to collect data on the market. The
consultation will end on Nov. 30.  “We have to be in step with international practices,”
Edmond Lau,  executive director  at the HKMA, said at a media
briefing in Hong Kong today. The collapse of Lehman Brothers and
bailouts of major institutions have led to views among mature
markets that regulations are necessary, Lau said in a translated
comment.  The clearing house and repository are scheduled to begin
operation in the third-quarter of 2012, according to a document
handed to reporters. The proposed regime may be subject to
further change, the regulators said in a statement.  Global regulators sought new rules for over-the-counter
derivatives following the collapse of Lehman Brothers. The over-
the-counter derivatives market reached $601 trillion last year,
according Bank for International Settlements data compiled by
Bloomberg.  ‘Can’t Lag Behind’  The Financial Stability Board said last week global
implementation of tighter rules for over-the-counter derivatives
trading risk falling behind schedule. Some Group of 20 nations
including  Canada , Hong Kong,  India ,  Mexico ,  South Korea  and
 Russia , are among the countries that may miss the end-2012
implementation deadline unless they take further steps, the
board said.  “Hong Kong can’t be a leader on this matter, but we can’t
lag behind,” HKMA’s Lau said today. “As an international
financial center, we need to follow international standards.”  The FSB brings together regulators and finance ministry
officials from the G-20, as well as standard-setting bodies such
as the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kana Nishizawa in Hong Kong at 
 knishizawa5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  