-- 
Orkla Seeks Larger Acquisitions, New Markets in Brands Push

-- B y   M e e r a   B h a t i a
-- 
2011-10-17T13:29:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/orkla-seeks-larger-acquisitions-new-markets-in-brands-push.html
Orkla ASA (ORK)  will seek larger takeovers
in its push to expand in consumer brands and foods as the
Norwegian company sells its aluminum and solar energy assets.  “Our financial flexibility at the moment is quite good and
it will be even better when we have exited some other areas --
that will of course be the fuel for our growth,” Torkild Nordberg, head of the Oslo-based company’s brands unit, said in
an interview. “Our aim is to search for bigger acquisitions.”  Chairman Stein Erik Hagen, a Norwegian billionaire, has
announced the company will sell off assets such as its 39.7
percent stake in Renewable Energy Corp. ASA, and the Sapa
aluminum unit to focus on its brands business. The company
earlier this year sold Elkem to China National Bluestar Group
Co. for about 13 billion kroner ($2.32 billion)  The brands business, which makes everything from Grandiosa
frozen pizzas to Pierre Robert hosiery, will look for larger
acquisitions as well as smaller, more short-term profitable add-
ons, Nordberg said on Oct. 14. An expansion may include new
categories of brands and markets outside its existing presence
in the Nordic and Baltic countries,  Russia  and  India , he said.  Orkla shares rose 0.6 percent to 48.08 kroner as of 3:28
p.m. in Oslo.  Sensible Try  “It’s sensible for them to try to make something bigger of
it,” said Arild Nysaether, an analyst with Fondsfinans ASA in
Oslo with a “buy on the stock. “If you look at where Orkla has
really done well over the last several decades it has been in
the operations within brands in terms of being able to grow
organically and fine tune the operations to extract margins.”  Orkla Brands said last month that it aims for growth in
annual earnings before interest, tax and amortization of 10
percent through a “balanced” split between organic and
structural expansion. The company has spent about 8.15 billion
kroner between 2004 and 2010 on acquisitions larger than 100
million kroner, including the 3.1 billion-krone purchase of
Finnish snack company Chips Oyj and the 928 million-krone
takeover of Dansk Droge, a maker of vitamins and supplements.  The company has added sales of about 1 billion kroner a
year from acquisitions, on average, which it’s now seeking to
exceed, Nordberg said. The executive doesn’t expect to find any
“big bargains” because prices have remained stable, he said.  Speeding Up  “We have to speed up that growth and with a more focused
Orkla we have ambitions to increase the structural growth,” he
said. While he declined to comment on specific targets or
possible categories he said he couldn’t rule out revisiting a
move on Jotun AS should an agreement be reached with the family
shareholders or re-entering the brewery and soft drinks
business.  Orkla last month failed in a $933 million bid for the
remainder of paintmaker Jotun after the family controlling the
business rejected the takeover. Orkla owns 42.5 percent of
Sandefjord, Norway-based Jotun. Orkla sold its stake in
Carlsberg Breweries in 2004 for 12.5 billion kroner.  Orkla Brands has almost 80 production facilities in 17
countries and owns brands from  Norway ’s Stabburet and Lilleborg
to Russia’s chocolate and confectionary companies Krupskaya and
SladCo, which were merged this year. The unit had sales of 23.6
billion kroner last year. Its Ebita rose 6.2 percent to 2.97
billion kroner.  Selling Bakers  Orkla Brands made 11 company acquisitions and one brand
purchase last year alone. In the past year, the company has
bought Dagens AS, a pizza producer, and Indian spice company
Rasoi Magic Foods. In 2007, it bought India’s MTR Foods Ltd.,
which has since doubled its sales and is growing at more than 20
percent a year, Nordberg said.  The company is still working on the sale of Bakers, a
Norwegian baking company, which was expected to close during the
first half. “There are buyers,” he said. “I will not set a
new deadline but hopefully we’ll sort it out. We are putting a
lot of pressure on ourselves to make it happen.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Meera Bhatia in Oslo at 
 mbhatia2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  