-- 
Torture Suits Against Companies Including Shell Draw U.S High Court Review

-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 
2011-10-17T16:05:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/torture-suits-against-companies-draw-supreme-court-review-in-immunity-case.html
The U.S.  Supreme Court  agreed to use
a case involving units of  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  to consider
whether corporations can be sued under federal laws that protect
people in other countries from human rights abuses.  The justices today said they will hear two appeals on the
issue, including one from a group of Nigerians who say two Shell
units were complicit in torture and execution in the country’s
Ogoni region from 1992 to 1995. A federal appeals court threw
out the case, saying companies can’t be sued under the two-
century-old Alien Tort Statute.  The lower court ruling created “a blanket immunity for
corporations engaged or complicit in universally condemned human
rights violations,” the alleged victims argued in their appeal.  Multinational companies have faced dozens of suits accusing
them of playing a role in human rights violations, environmental
wrongdoing and labor abuses.  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ,  Coca-Cola Co. (KO) ,
 Pfizer Inc. (PFE) , Unocal Corp.,  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  and  Ford Motor Co. (F)  have
all been sued under either the Alien Tort Statute or a related
law, known as the Torture Victim Protection Act or TVPA.  The justices also accepted a case that may determine
whether companies can be sued under the TVPA. In that case a
federal appeals court threw out a suit filed against the
Palestinian Authority and the Palestinian Liberation
Organization by the sons and widow of Azzam Rahim, a U.S.
citizen allegedly tortured and murdered in the West Bank during
the 1990s.  Appeals Courts  A Supreme Court decision in favor of the two units, Shell
Petroleum NV and Shell Transport and Trading Co., would change
the law in much of the country. Most federal appeals courts to
consider the issue have said that companies can be sued under
the 1789 Alien Tort Statute, just like individuals.  In siding with Shell, based in  The Hague , the 2nd U.S.
Circuit Court of Appeals in  New York  concluded that the Alien
Tort Statute was aimed at a narrow class of violations of
international law.  “Imposing liability on corporations for violations of
customary international law has not attained a discernible, much
less universal, acceptance among nations of the world,” the
appeals court majority said. The three-judge panel divided 2-1
on the issue.  Third Judge  Shell urged the Supreme Court not to hear the appeal,
saying even the third judge on the panel would have rejected the
lawsuit, though for different reasons.  The Nigerians claim the Shell units aided in the torture
and murder of dissidents in the 1990s, including the playwright
Ken Saro-Wiwa.  Kayla Macke, a Shell spokeswoman in Houston, said the
company wouldn’t comment on the Supreme Court case.  In the Palestinian case, the central issue is a TVPA
provision that authorizes suits against “an individual”
engaged in torture. In throwing out the suit, a federal appeals
court in  Washington  said that term means “only natural
persons,” not corporations or organizations such as the PLO and
 Palestinian Authority .  The court will hear arguments in both cases early next year
and probably rule by June.  The Shell case is Kiobel v. Shell Petroleum, 10-1491. The
Palestinian case is Mohamad v. Rajoub, 11-88.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  