-- 
Losing $13.5 Billion to Piracy Spurs Europe Law Reformers: Tech

-- B y   K a t i e   L i n s e l l
-- 
2011-10-18T16:07:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/losing-13-5-billion-to-piracy-spurs-microsoft-led-europe-legal-push-tech.html
Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  and  Adobe Systems
Inc. (ADBE)  are among software companies that lost $13.5 billion to
program pirates and counterfeiters in Europe last year. Their
message to lawmakers: Learn from the U.S. and punish the thieves.  As the European Union considers changes to its intellectual
property rules, it needs to make sure that higher damage 
payments deter pirates, who often benefit because of insufficient
fines, said Warren Weertman, manager of legal affairs for
Washington-based  Business Software Alliance . The group’s members
include Microsoft, Adobe,  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and  Siemens AG. (SIE)   “Lump sum damages would act more as a deterrent than
having two actuaries fight it out in a costly court case,”
Weertman said in a phone interview from  London . “It’s a vicious
circle where the damages aren’t deterrent enough.”  In Europe, about 35 percent of software deployed on
personal computers was pirated every year since 2007, compared
with 20 percent in the U.S., according to a May study by BSA and
researcher IDC.  Ben Allgrove , a partner at law firm  Baker &
McKenzie LLP  in London, said the gap is a result of the legal
challenges for copyright owners.  “Most EU countries do not have statutory damages and right
holders are forced to prove actual loss,” Allgrove said in an
interview. “There is a material difference between monetary
awards in the U.S. and many other markets,” he said.  France  Tops List  Last year, France lost $2.6 billion in pirated software,
while  Germany  lost $2.1 billion,  Italy  $1.9 billion and the U.K.
$1.8 billion. The four nations were among the 10 most pirated
worldwide. Across the EU, Bulgaria recorded the highest rate of
software piracy in 2010 at 65 percent, while Luxembourg had the
lowest at 20 percent, according to BSA.  Globally, the value of pirated software rose 14 percent to
$58.8 billion last year, almost double the total in 2003. In
 China , almost four out of five programs in use are pirated, and
65 percent in  Russia  is stolen, according to BSA.  The European Commission, the 27-nation EU’s executive arm,
last year published a  report  showing that some provisions of the
current law, which was introduced in 2004, need “further
clarification and have resulted in diverging interpretations at
national level,” said  Chantal Hughes , a spokeswoman for EU
Internal Markets Commissioner  Michel Barnier . The commission is
also examining how to deal with the surge in online piracy.  Lobbying Efforts  Microsoft, the world’s biggest software company, isn’t
aiming to export the U.S. system around the world, said  Chris
Oldknow , the company’s enforcement policy counsel. At the same
time, the risk for pirates is “greater that they’ll wind up
having to pay a substantial amount in America,” Oldknow said in
an interview. “And lo and behold, America has the lowest rate
of software piracy in the world.”  Microsoft told the commission in March as part of a
 consultation  that lump sum or multiple damages, only available
to some extent in 10 smaller EU member states such as  Belgium ,
Austria and Malta, should be extended to the other 17 countries.  Fair damages should include lost profits and costs of
enforcement, additional damages in the amount of economic
benefit of the infringer, and fixed-sum or multiple damages,
Redmond, Washington-based Microsoft said. Corporate end users
may see an “economic benefit” in copying rather than buying
software if they are only made to buy the legitimate product
once caught or pay damages equal to the publisher’s lost profit,
the company said.  Microsoft rose 0.5 percent to $27.12 and Adobe climbed 0.6
percent to $26.39 as of 12:05 p.m. in  New York .  Under Licensing  Software firms such as engineering and design software
company  Autodesk Inc. (ADSK)  say they also suffer from so-called under
licensing, where clients only pay for some of the programs used.  “It’s a significant issue that does affect our bottom line
and we take it very seriously,” said spokesman Noah Cole.
Autodesk, based in San Rafael,  California , uses internal
technology to detect unauthorized use of its software.  The commission may make proposals on how to change the
current law in the first half of 2012, spokeswoman Hughes said.  “Some claim that damages awards do not currently appear to
effectively dissuade potential infringers from engaging in
illegal activities,” she said. “The commission services will
examine if changes are necessary.”  In Germany,  Europe ’s biggest economy, there are neither
statutory nor punitive damages but it is up to the discretion of
the court whether to fine, with no fixed amount, Weertman said.
The highest total settlement in an “end-user case” was 1.5
million euros, he said. In the U.K.’s criminal courts, the
maximum statutory fine is 10,000 pounds ($15,800) and punitive
damages are not recognized, he said.  Punitive Damages  In the U.S., punitive damages are often awarded in piracy
cases, with a statutory maximum rate per infringement of
$150,000 if it is found to be willful, according to the BSA.  The low rate of piracy in Belgium, one of the EU countries
where lump-sum or multiple damages are possible, backs up the
software companies’ claim. About 25 percent of software deployed
on PCs in the country was pirated in 2010, below the EU average
of 35 percent.  “Belgium courts have been rather severe with software
pirates by condemning them to pay damages which are double of
the license fees,” Stijn Debaene, a lawyer at Field Fisher
Waterhouse LLP in Brussels, said in an interview.  In the U.S., “counterfeiters can be subject to crippling,
bankrupting sorts of penalties,”  Scott Bain , the litigation
counsel for the Software Information Industry Association, said
in a phone interview from Washington D.C. The body’s members
include  Google Inc. (GOOG) ,  Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  and  International Business
Machines Corp. (IBM)  “The position of virtually any copyright owner
in the U.S. is that they wish the European institutions would
have even better damages laws.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katie Linsell in London at 
 Klinsell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  