-- 
Most New York Voters Favor Millionaire Tax

-- B y   F r e e m a n   K l o p o t t
-- 
2011-10-17T13:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/most-new-york-voters-favor-a-special-tax-on-millionaires-siena-poll-says.html
Almost three-quarters of New York
voters favor a tax on millionaires, a poll found, days after
several hundred people marched to the homes of some of  New York
City ’s richest financiers to protest economic inequality.  Support for taxing wealthier people breached party lines,
with 83 percent of Democrats and 55 percent of Republicans in
favor, according to the Siena College Research Institute poll
released today. Governor  Andrew Cuomo  said Oct. 13 he wouldn’t
change his opposition to the so-called millionaire’s tax.  “It’s not about the political pressure one way or the
other,” Cuomo, a first-term Democrat, said during a press
conference last week in  Albany  while responding to a question
about political support for the tax. “I try to keep it simple
on this job. You do what you think is right and you make the
best judgment you can.”  The tax adds a temporary surcharge on  New York ’s married
couples earning more than $300,000, and singles earning more
than $200,000. It will expire on Dec. 31 after Cuomo and Senate
Republicans, who hold a majority, made clear they wouldn’t renew
it.  Cuomo has said he believes the tax will make the state
uncompetitive. His approval rating was little changed from last
month, with 71 percent of voters saying they find him favorable,
according to the poll. That’s down one percentage point from a
September Siena poll.  The most recent poll surveyed 800 registered New York
voters by telephone from Oct. 10-12. The survey has a margin of
error of plus or minus 3.5 percentage points.  Voters are sending a “mixed signal” on budget issues,
Steven Greenberg, a pollster for Loudonville, New York-based
Siena, said in a statement accompanying the poll.  Although 72 percent of voters favored raising taxes on
residents earning more than $1 million a year, 51 percent said
they preferred cutting spending rather than raising revenue to
close a $2 billion  budget deficit  estimated for next fiscal
year, the poll found.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Freeman Klopott in Albany, New York at 
 fklopott@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 