-- 
Peltz Warns State Street on Negative Shareholder Return, Urges Profit Plan

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n
-- 
2011-10-17T20:42:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/peltz-warns-state-street-on-negative-shareholder-return-urges-profit-plan.html
Billionaire investor  Nelson Peltz 
admonished the board of  State Street Corp. (STT)  over poor performance
and urged it to adopt a multistep plan for raising profit that
included a possible sell-off of the custody bank’s money-
management unit.  The recommendations, outlined in a statement yesterday,
also included a call for a clearer commitment to cost-cutting
and prioritizing returns to shareholders over acquisitions.
Peltz’s Trian Fund Management LP, based in  New York , owns about
3.3 percent of State Street shares, the firm said.  “It’s important that you have a very credible guy standing
up and making these issues public,”  Jeffrey Hopson , an analyst
with Stifel, Nicolaus & Co. in  St. Louis , said in a telephone
interview. “As someone with buy on the stock I’m thrilled you
have a voice that potentially could be heard.”  Custody banks have suffered from flat or falling equity
markets and from record-low  interest rates , which reduce the
returns they earn on investments and on the lending of cash and
securities to institutional investors. State Street Chief
Executive Officer Joseph Hooley last year began job cuts that
would reduce staff at the Boston-based firm by about 8 percent
and announced a reorganization of information-technology systems
in an attempt to reduce costs.  State Street fell less than 0.1 percent to $33.87 at 4:15
p.m. in New York trading. It has fallen 27 percent this year,
compared with a 28 percent drop for the  Standard & Poor’s  index
of asset managers and custody banks.  ‘Very Expensive’ Acquisitions  Peltz is an activist investor who takes stakes in companies
and then frequently pushes for changes designed to boost their
share prices. Best known for investments in consumer-oriented
companies such as Kraft Foods Inc., ketchup maker H.J. Heinz Co.
and luxury retailer Tiffany & Co., Peltz made a foray into
financial services by joining the Legg Mason Inc.’s board in
2009.  Since Peltz joined Legg Mason’s board, the asset-management
firm has cut jobs and announced a restructuring plan to lift
operating margins.  The Trian letter said State Street’s ongoing IT
reorganization “lacks credibility in the absence of explicit
consolidated margin targets.”  Peltz further criticized the company for allowing costs to
grow faster than sales, for making “very expensive”
acquisitions and for reporting “recurring ‘non-recurring’
charges” that, according to the letter, accounted for 30
percent of pretax earnings each year since 2007.  ‘Constructive Discussions’  “Between 2006 and 2008, State Street allowed a massive
run-up in compensation expense,” Trian said in the statement,
which included a copy of a letter sent to board members.  State Street said in a statement that it had “engaged in
constructive discussions” with Trian over the past year. The
statement didn’t directly address the critiques or
recommendations.  “Despite the challenging operating environment over the
past several years, our business has remained resilient,” the
company said.  If State Street were to successfully adopt Peltz’s
recommendations, the bank’s implied target value could rise to
approximately $99 a share, according to the Trian letter.  “We, as well, think there’s lot of potential in the
company and for whatever reason the fundamentals haven’t
necessarily matched the potential,” Hopson said.  Tougher Action Possible  Hopson said the firm “doesn’t get full potential value”
from  State Street Global Advisors , the unit that manages $2.1
trillion in assets for investors.  Peltz’s letter suggested tougher action should State Street
not follow his advice.  “If management and the board fail to make progress, Trian
may decide to become significantly more active in evaluating its
alternatives as a large shareholder,” Peltz’s firm said.  State Street oversaw $22.8 trillion in assets under custody
and administration as of June 30, the company said.  Custody banks keep records, track performance and lend
securities for institutional investors including mutual funds,
pension funds and  hedge funds . State Street also manages
investments for individuals and institutions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Condon in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  