-- 
Peru GDP Growth Accelerates on Fishing, Consumer Demand

-- B y   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 
2011-10-17T15:39:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/peru-gdp-growth-accelerates-on-fishing-consumer-demand-2-.html
Peru ’s economy grew faster than
expected in August as rising consumer demand and a rebound in
fishing and mining output offset slowing private investment.  Gross domestic product expanded 7.5 percent from the year
earlier, the fastest pace in four months, the national
statistics agency said today in an e-mailed report. Economists
forecast 7.2 percent growth, according to the median estimate of
eight analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. In July, GDP rose 6.5
percent from the same month of 2010.  A surge in fish catches boosted GDP growth for a second
month while copper and gold led mining output to accelerate at
its fastest since June 2010. Consumer demand for goods and
services increased after President Ollanta Humala took office
July 28 pledging to boost social spending and lure foreign
investment.  Investor confidence is rising, though it remains below pre-
election levels on concern that a global recession may hurt
Peru’s commodity-dependent economy, said Juan Carlos Odar, an
economist at Banco de Credito del Peru.  “Business confidence is recovering little by little, but
uncertainty about the global economy will slow the pace of
private investment in the months ahead,” Odar said in a phone
interview from  Lima .  Slowing growth in capital goods imports in August and
September are a sign companies have become more cautious, Odar
said.  The Andean nation’s central bank on Oct. 6 indicated it is
ready to ease its monetary policy stance because of economic
stagnation in Europe and the U.S.  The government will expand the fiscal stimulus plan
announced last month as there is a greater chance the world will
enter a recession, Finance Minister Miguel Castilla said Oct. 7.  Retail output rose 8.5 percent, a three-month high, and was
the main driver of growth in August, accounting for 1.3
percentage points of the increase in GDP, the statistics agency
said. Fishing output surged 83 percent, mining climbed 3.2
percent and construction advanced 6.7 percent, the fastest since
January.  Peru’s sol weakened 0.1 percent to 2.7240 per  U.S. dollar 
at 11:24 a.m. Lima time, from 2.7205 on Oct. 14.  The country’s unemployment rate rose to 7.3 percent last
month from 7 percent in August, the agency said in a separate
report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Quigley in Lima at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 