-- 
Philips Will Eliminate 4,500 Jobs as Little Recovery Seen From Profit Drop

-- B y   M a a i k e   N o o r d h u i s
-- 
2011-10-17T10:55:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/philips-to-cut-4-500-jobs-globally.html
Royal Philips Electronics NV, the
world’s biggest maker of  light bulbs , plans to cut 4,500 jobs to
revive earnings after quarterly profit fell to the lowest in
almost two years and the company predicted no near-term rebound.  The job cuts are part of a plan to save 800 million euros
($1.1 billion), Amsterdam-based Philips said in a statement
today. Earnings before interest, taxes and amortization dropped
to 368 million euros ($510 million) in the third quarter, from
647 million euros a year earlier. That beat the 341 million-euro
average estimate in a Bloomberg survey of analysts. Revenue fell
1.3 percent to 5.39 billion euros, in line with estimates.  “Taking into account that cost-cutting measures will kick
in in the fourth quarter and next year, maybe Philips has hit
the bottom this quarter,” said Jos Versteeg, an analyst at
Theodoor Gilissen Bankiers. Versteeg, who advises that investors
buy the stock, said earnings were better than he had expected.  Chief Executive Officer Frans  van Houten  said the biggest
round of job cuts since 2009 are an “inevitable step” to
revive Philips and respond to economic challenges. Van Houten
spent the quarter traveling to Philips global sites, gathering
together workers in meetings to push his bid to accelerate an
efficiency drive. The manufacturer aims to pull out of
television production by the end of the year, a move it said
today is taking longer than anticipated.  Stock Rebound  Philips rose as much as 4.6 percent to 15.49 euros in
Amsterdam and was up 1.1 percent as of 12:54 p.m. Before today,
the stock had declined 35 percent this year, reducing the market
value of the company to 14.9 billion euros. German rival  Siemens
AG (SIE) , which also makes light bulbs and medical equipment, has
dropped about 18 percent in 2011.  Philips had “better than expected results, albeit relative
to low expectations,”  Peter Olofsen , an analyst at Kepler
Capital Markets, said in a note to clients. The stock’s price
reflects that investors are “discounting overly cautious future
margins.”  Philips employed about 120,500 people at the end of the
third quarter, excluding the discontinued television operations.
Some 1,400 jobs will be eliminated in the  Netherlands , Philips
said. The focus on administration and services jobs in making
cuts is the reason why the Netherlands is bearing the brunt of
the reductions, Van Houten said.  Cost cuts will take place at the headquarters, in
infrastructure,  information technology  and real estate, and will
have “quite a big impact in 2012 and 2013,” Van Houten said in
an interview with Bloomberg Television.  Cost of Changes  Restructuring costs will amount to 400 million euros
through 2014, the company said, with 200 million euros of the
total to be incurred in 2012.  Net income dropped to 74 million euros in the quarter from
524 million euros a year earlier, Philips said.  Philips is a remnant of a consumer-electronics industry
once led by  Europe  and now dominated by Asia. Munich-based
Siemens exited production of phones and bundled its appliances
operation into a joint venture. The company is also working on
an initial public offering of its Osram lighting subsidiary.  The planned cuts should help improve efficiency at a time
when Philips is battling slowing economic growth and competition
from lower-cost manufacturers in  Asia . Some 60 percent of the
savings are tied to the job cuts, while the remainder will come
from “other structural costs,” Philips said.  Margin Improvement  Investors may increasingly favor the stock “in the course
of next year as margins start to improve,” Kepler’s Olofsen
said.  Van Houten is seeking to drive innovation and new products
that can be moved quickly to market and made a commercial
success. He is stepping up market penetration and innovation by
making additional investments of 200 million euros a year.  The executive, who took over in April, has set a target of
increasing earnings before interest, taxes and amortization to
10 percent to 12 percent of revenue by 2013, on sales growth of
4 percent to 6 percent. He reiterated those goals today.  In lighting, where Philips is global market leader, the
goal is to lift the margin to 8 to 10 percent. In the third
quarter, the measure stood at 5.8 percent, compared with 11.3
percent a year earlier. That marked the third consecutive
quarterly drop for the division.  In health care, Philips wants to boost margins to 15
percent to 17 percent by 2013, while in consumer lifestyle
subsidiary, it aims for an Ebita margin of 8 to 10 percent. Both
divisions were short of those goals in the third quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maaike Noordhuis in Amsterdam at 
 mnoordhuis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  