-- 
Philip Morris Misled Smokers on Light Cigarettes, Jury Told

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k   a n d   J o e   W h i t t i n g t o n
-- 
2011-10-17T21:37:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/philip-morris-misled-smokers-on-light-cigarettes-jury-told-1-.html
Altria Group Inc. (MO) ’s Philip Morris
unit deceived Missouri consumers by marketing Marlboro Lights as
safer than regular cigarettes, a lawyer told a St. Louis jury.  “Philip Morris made two promises -- to provide lower tar
and nicotine to smokers,” Stephen Swedlow, who represents
Missouri smokers suing the company, said today in closing
arguments in the state-court trial. “They did not deliver on
this.”  In the lawsuit, a class action, or group case, filed in
2000 on behalf of all buyers of Marlboro Lights in Missouri, the
smokers claim Philip Morris misrepresented that the brand was
lower in tar and nicotine, a violation of state merchandising
law. The cigarettes are no safer than others, the consumers said
in court papers.  The smokers, who are seeking about $700 million plus
punitive damages, don’t claim any personal injuries. The class,
which was certified in 2005, includes as many as 400,000 current
and former Marlboro Lights smokers. The trial began with opening
statements last month.  Swedlow asked the jury to award $696 million. “I know that
is a big number, but this comes to about 99 cents a pack,” he
said.  The jury of three men and nine women began deliberations
this afternoon.  “There was no deception on our part,” Beth Wilkinson, a
 Philip Morris  attorney, said in her closing argument.  ‘Did Not Prove’  “Did they prove that Marlboro Lights didn’t deliver less
tar and nicotine? Did they prove that Marlboro Lights withheld
information?” she asked. “They did not prove their case.”  Philip Morris didn’t tout Marlboro Lights as safer and its
packages contain the same warnings as other cigarettes,
Wilkinson said. “What other product in the  United States  has a
warning that you’re taking your life in your own hands if you
smoke these?”  Missouri smokers sustained no damages, George Lombardi,
another Philip Morris attorney, said in his closing today.  “Nobody in this class paid a penny more for Marlboro
Lights than Marlboro Reds or any other cigarette,” he told the
jury. “In the real world, there was no ascertainable loss.”  The smokers claim that Philip Morris “willfully deceived
consumers regarding the nature and effect of Marlboro Lights,”
according to the complaint.  ‘Fraudulently Represented’  Philip Morris owes damages because the company
“fraudulently represented” that there was less tar and
nicotine in Marlboro Lights, Swedlow, the plaintiffs’ attorney,
said today. The smokers didn’t get what they were promised and
this made their purchases worth less than what they paid, he
said.  Philip Morris convinced the plaintiffs that it was better
for their health to smoke Marlboro Lights than other cigarettes,
Swedlow said. “They delivered the same tar and nicotine as
Marlboro Reds.”  The class covers all purchasers of Marlboro Lights in
 Missouri  from 1995 through 2003. Philip Morris sold $1.9 billion
Marlboro Lights to the class members, Swedlow said today.  Second Trial  This is the second lawsuit to go to trial this year in
Missouri against the tobacco industry over marketing practices.
Missouri hospitals lost a jury verdict in April in their claim
that Philip Morris, R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Co., Lorillard Tobacco
Co. and other cigarette makers manipulated the nicotine content
in cigarettes and misrepresented the health effects of smoking.  The hospitals, which were seeking more than $455 million in
damages, claimed the industry’s actions boosted spending for
unreimbursed and uncompensated tobacco-related health care.  The  tobacco companies  denied any responsibility for
patient-care costs at the hospitals or any financial losses by
the hospitals. A state-court jury in  St. Louis  sided with the
cigarette makers.  The case is Larsen v. Philip Morris Cos., 002-00406-02,
Circuit Court, City of St. Louis, Missouri.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Southfield, Michigan, at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net ;
Joe Whittington in St. Louis at 
 joethewhitt@sbcglobal.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  