-- 
Philippine Peso Climbs to One-Month High on Europe; Bonds Drop

-- B y   D a v i d   Y o n g
-- 
2011-10-17T09:02:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/philippine-peso-climbs-to-one-month-high-on-europe-bonds-drop.html
The Philippine peso rose to a one-
month high on optimism European policy makers are moving closer
to containing their debt crisis, buoying demand for emerging-
market assets.  The currency rallied the most this month as the benchmark
 stock index  advanced for an eighth day. Finance chiefs from the
Group of 20 nations endorsed parts of a plan to contain  Europe ’s
debt situation in Paris over the weekend. A summit in Brussels
on Oct. 23 was chosen as the deadline for an agreement.
 Government bonds  dropped as economists predicted policy makers
will leave  interest rates  unchanged this week to support the
economy.  “The G-20 meeting outcome is lending support to risk
appetite for Asian currencies,” said  Gundy Cahyadi , an
economist at Oversea-Chinese Banking Corp. in  Singapore . “There
is optimism going into the EU summit.”  The peso strengthened 0.6 percent to 43.115 per dollar as
of 4:41 p.m. in Manila, according to Tullett Prebon Plc, the
strongest level since Sept. 14. It has advanced 1.4 percent this
month.  A central bank report today showed remittances sent home by
Filipinos abroad rose 11 percent in August to $1.67 billion from
a year earlier, the biggest jump since December 2009.  While emerging-market bond funds posted outflows for the
fourth straight week through Oct. 14, the pace of redemptions
slackened as funds investing in both local-currency and dollar-
denominated securities took in fresh money, according to fund
research firm EPFR Global.  Rate Decision  Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas will keep its benchmark rate at
4.5 percent at its Oct. 20 meeting, according to all 17
economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Monetary-policy settings are
appropriate and there is no compelling reason for a shift,
Governor Amando Tetangco said on Oct. 15.  The yield on the 7.375 percent security maturing in March
2021 climbed four basis points, or 0.04 percentage point, to
5.79 percent, according to Tradition Financial Services. The
rate dropped 59 basis points from a three-month high on Sept. 23.  “Yields have already dropped a lot in the past month and a
rate cut looks unlikely for now,” said Speedy Delfino, a fixed-
income trader at East West Bank Corp. in  Manila . “The
government would probably like to see the results from its
stimulus program, plus inflation is still up there.”  President  Benigno Aquino  unveiled a 72 billion-peso ($1.7
billion) stimulus package of public works and poverty-reduction
projects to support growth on Oct. 12. It may add 20 billion
pesos to the package, Budget Secretary Butch Abad told reporters
today in Manila.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Yong in Singapore at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  