-- 
‘Vampire Lift’ Surgery Works to Bolster Collagen Levels, Researchers Say

-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 
2011-10-17T22:04:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/platelets-injected-during-vampire-lift-bolster-collagen-levels.html
A mixture of platelets and fibrin
that’s extracted from a person’s blood and injected for a
cosmetic procedure dubbed the “vampire lift” bolsters collagen
and activates cells in connective tissue, researchers said.  Investigators from the  New York Eye and Ear Infirmary 
studied the platelet-rich fibrin matrix, sold by closely held
Aesthetic Factors of Wayne,  New Jersey , in four healthy
volunteers. While the technique has U.S. approval for use in
orthopedic surgery, some doctors give it as a tissue filler for
facial wrinkles, scars and sagging skin.  The researchers drew blood from four volunteers and
separated out the platelets, shown to promote wound healing, and
 fibrin , a protein that helps with clotting. These were combined
with calcium chloride and the mix was injected in the upper arm.
An analysis of biopsied tissue showed the procedure activated
fibroblasts, a key component in connective tissue, led to new
collagen deposits and triggered production of new blood vessels.  “We are getting collagen production, but we’re also
stimulating blood vessel growth and production of new fat
cells,” said Anthony Sclafani, director of facial plastic
surgery at New York Eye and Ear, in a telephone interview. “We
see the blood vessels and fat cells within a couple of weeks,
and at 10 weeks they are still present and look mature.”  The procedure has been dubbed the “vampire facelift”
because it uses a person’s blood to fill wrinkles and flesh out
the face. Doctors also use it with other cosmetic products and
during fat transplants to help the new tissue take hold.  Selphyl System  The study published in the Oct. 17  Archives of Facial
Plastic Surgery  was funded by Aesthetic Factors. The company
sells the system as Selphyl, allowing each patient to be treated
with a platelet mix taken from their own blood. The company’s
web site gives no information about whether it is seeking Food
and Drug Administration approval of the approach for cosmetic
purposes.  Sclafani said he has been using the product for three
years, with good results. The fibrin creates a lattice that the
platelets latch onto, forming something similar to a bruise.
Sclafani said a previous study showed significant benefit in
patients treated for wrinkles that ran from the nose to the side
of the mouth, though it wasn’t clear how the treatment worked.  After 10 weeks, the growth appears to level off and is
mature, he said, comparing the injected platelet-rich fibrin
matrix with a graft of the patient’s own tissue. While a 60-
year-old patient may need repeat care to correct noticeable
aging that occurs even after treatment, the product that’s
injected isn’t likely to wear off, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  