-- 
Political Aides Getting Canada Data Day in Advance Hurts Market Confidence

-- B y   A n d r e w   M a y e d a   a n d   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 
2011-10-17T17:54:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/political-aides-getting-canada-data-day-in-advance-hurts-market-confidence.html
Statistics  Canada  sends at least 69
government workers and political aides  economic reports  a day
before publication, a practice that investors say undermines
market confidence.  Finance Department officials and ministerial staff can see
up to nine different reports, including employment and
inflation, according to government documents requested by
Bloomberg News under freedom of information law, as well as
responses to e-mails and interviews. Staff at the Privy Council
Office, the international trade and human resources departments,
and central bank also see data early, officials said, bringing
the tally to at least 69.  “It’s very dangerous from an ‘integrity of the numbers’
standpoint if there’s a sense that this stuff is floating all
around and there’s some people who can make money off it
beforehand,” said  David Dodge , a former Bank of Canada governor
and deputy minister of finance. “More restrictive is better
than less restrictive.”  Statistics Canada data drive movements in the $61.2 billion
daily market for the country’s dollar, as well as bonds and the
Toronto Stock Exchange. The currency jumped as much as 0.7
percent in the hour before stronger-than-forecast jobs data were
published in May 2009, leading to speculation by traders and
private-sector economists that the number in the report had been
disclosed. The agency found no evidence of a leak.  Parliamentary Review  A parliamentary committee should review the data-release
practice, Liberal opposition lawmaker John McCallum said today.
McCallum said he will ask the Government Operations and
Estimates Committee to hold hearings on the policy.  “I think that’s far too many people receiving that
information,” said McCallum, a former chief economist at Royal
 Bank of Canada  who served as Canada’s revenue minister between
2004 and 2006. “Obviously the more people get it, the more
likely there will be a leak, or there will be inappropriate
behavior.”  “It surprises me that the number is that big,” said Ed Devlin, the London-based head of Canadian  portfolio management 
at Pacific Investment Management Co., manager of the world’s
largest bond fund, referring to the number who can see releases.
“It should probably be less.”  ‘Play Safe’  David Love , a trader of interest-rate derivatives at Le
Groupe Jitney Inc. brokerage in  Montreal , said he’s wary of
taking market positions ahead of key releases. “You have to
play safe,” Love said.  “The data should be kept so tight,” Love said in a
telephone interview. “Do you know how much money you could make
by having the data one day before? It’s crazy.”  On the business day before publication, an analyst in the
Finance Department’s economic analysis and forecasting division
either goes to  Statistics Canada  to get a copy of the release,
or downloads an encrypted file, documents show. The analyst
gives a copy to three other senior officials in the department
and writes a so-called house card that prepares the minister for
questions in Parliament. A pool of 18 finance department
officials can see some or all of the reports at 2 p.m. Eight
others, including up to five political staff in the minister’s
office, have access at 5 p.m.  Other Departments  Similar procedures for specific releases are in place for
12 people at the Department of  Foreign Affairs  and International
Trade and 15 at Human Resources and Skills Development, as well
as about 15 at the Bank of Canada. Raymond Rivet at the Privy
Council Office, which supports the office of Prime Minister
 Stephen Harper , declined to say how many people have access,
citing security reasons.  “It sounds like there’s a lot of risk of some kind of
leakage when you have that many oars in the water,” said  Doug Porter , deputy chief economist at  Bank of Montreal (BMO) ’s Capital
Markets unit, by telephone from Toronto.  “Advance release information is provided to a restricted
number of authorized federal government organizations to ensure
they are in a position to react in a timely fashion when data
may have an impact on policy,” Statistics Canada spokesman
Peter Frayne said in an e-mail.  ‘Work-Related Need’  Access “is restricted to only those persons with a work-
related need,” Frayne said. “The data are delivered to them
through secure channels and the receiving organizations apply
strict security measures to protect the information.”  Porter said he isn’t convinced by the argument that
ministers need to be briefed before the data is published. “The
analysis can be done fairly quickly once the numbers are
released,” he said. “I’m not sure there’s any great urgency to
respond to these numbers.”  The government should restrict early access to a “much
smaller group,” said Peggy Nash, finance spokeswoman with the
 New Democratic Party , the biggest opposition party in the
country’s House of Commons.  “Most of these insiders don’t need to have this data. They
can find out when the rest of Canadians find out,” Nash told
reporters in Ottawa.  Currency traders contacted the Bank of Canada in 2009 with
suspicions of data leaks, documents obtained by Bloomberg show.
As well, Statistics Canada released  an audit  from KPMG LLP
earlier this year saying the agency had automated computer
processes that inadvertently made economic data available to
data distributors before the official publication time for more
than six years. That process was stopped in November after
Statistics Canada learned of the early release.  ‘Leaky Boat’  “The market perception still seems to be that there’s some
sort of a leaky boat out there,” said  David Watt , senior
currency strategist at the RBC Capital Markets unit of Toronto-
based Royal Bank of Canada, the country’s biggest bank by
assets. “That perception gets built into traders’ minds, and
it’s going to stay until they get years of evidence” that
suggests otherwise, he said.  Aside from the minimum of 69 government workers who are
authorized to receive at least one data report, Statistics
Canada had a pool of 40 external translation firms and
individuals who receive reports early so they can translate them
into English or French, Canada’s official languages, documents
show. The precise total of people with advance access couldn’t
be determined because both the  Privy Council Office  and
Statistics Canada refused to say how many people are authorized
to receive data early, citing security concerns.  Too Expensive  The agency rejected a 2009 internal recommendation that it
“reinforce security and confidentiality” by hiring employees
to translate data. The proposal was turned down because the
C$90,000 ($88,500) in startup costs and C$66,000 per year in
additional ongoing expenses were judged to be too great,
documents obtained under Canada’s Access to Information law
show. Frayne said Statistics Canada continues to use external
translators.  Bank of Canada spokesman  Jeremy Harrison , and spokeswomen
Anna Maddison at human resources and Caitlin Workman at trade
said in separate e-mailed statements that they have strict
safeguards in place to protect advance data.  Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty ’s office “treats
confidential data with extreme caution,” spokesman  Chisholm Pothier  said by e-mail. “The individuals receive the data to
properly brief the Minister on it and its broader policy
implications. It is reasonable and important for the Minister of
Finance to receive information in a timely fashion on news that
has an impact on the economy.”  While the finance minister should be briefed about key
data, particularly if there is something unusual about the
number, there is little need for ministerial aides to see data
the day before they’re published, said Dodge, 68, who was head
of the Ottawa-based central bank from 2001 to 2008.  ‘Pretty Restricted’  “The number of political staff having access should be
pretty restricted,” Dodge said in a telephone interview. “When
the perception is that this gets broader than the pure ‘need to
know,’ the potential for trust breaking down gets greater.”  Industry Canada , the ministry responsible for Statistics
Canada, asked last year to be removed from the list of
departments that receive pre-released economic data, spokesman
Michel Cimpaye said in an e-mail.  Tony Clement , who was Industry Minister from October 2008
until May, said it isn’t necessary to involve so many people.  “It’s not rocket science to figure out for extremely
sensitive information to have a much more direct path to a
minister,” said Clement, who is now Canada’s Treasury Board
president, in an Oct. 13 interview at Bloomberg’s New York
headquarters. “There are easier ways to do it, quite frankly.”  Important for Marketplace  “This is important data that has to be trusted by the
marketplace and is important to the proper functioning of the
marketplace,” said Clement.  The current procedures were put in place after the March
1994 jobs figures were leaked to CBC Television before their
official release, said Ivan Fellegi, who was Statistics Canada’s
chief statistician for 23 years until 2008. In response to the
leak, the circle of recipients was tightened, and lists were
drawn up of who in each department could receive data, he said.  Canada’s policies contrast with other countries that either
have more stringent rules governing pre-release of data, or have
moved to tighten access. Canada is one of 68 countries that
subscribe to the International Monetary Fund’s data
dissemination  standards , which set out best practices for
economic reports. More than half the countries ban all early
access to reports.  30 Minutes  In the U.S., the payrolls report is given to the president
through the Council of Economic Advisers office the night before
its release. The secretaries of labor, commerce and the treasury
only receive the information 30 minutes before it’s made public,
along with the Federal Reserve Chairman, according to the IMF.
Pre-release of Canadian data occurs between 14 and 18.5 hours
before publication.  The U.K. implemented rules in 2008 aimed at tightening
early access. They stipulate job titles of people who receive
data early must be made public. In contrast, a Canadian Finance
Department document, obtained under the Access to Information
law, had the names and titles of all officials who receive data
redacted.  A March 2010  review  of the U.K. rules by the Statistics
Authority found the government has had mixed success in reducing
pre-release access. The number of people with access to any
individual report varied from 8 to 55 people, the report said,
adding it isn’t possible to say “whether the numbers of people
being granted access are, in fact, the minimum” necessary.  ‘Instant Comments’  “There is currently a widespread expectation that
Ministers and Departments must be able to give instant comments
when new statistics are published,” Michael Scholar, chairman
of the U.K. Statistics Authority, wrote in the report. “This
expectation will need to be changed.”  Don Drummond, a former associate deputy finance minister,
says the number of department employees receiving data appears
to have increased slightly since 2000 when he left his position,
a job that put him among those who received advance access.  “It certainly would not have been that high at the end of
my period,” said Drummond, who was chief economist at Toronto-
Dominion Bank until 2010 and is a member of the National
Statistics Council, a panel of experts that advises  Statistics
Canada .  Nobody has alleged that any of the 69 has used the
information improperly, and Drummond says he doubts there’s
merit to speculation trades are being made with leaked data.  “They’ve got lots of conspiracy theories, probably from
spending too much time looking at the numbers every single
second,” Drummond said, referring to traders.  Asked what the government should do, Pimco’s Devlin said,
“Tighten the circle. That makes sense.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Mayeda in Ottawa at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net .
Greg Quinn in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 