-- 
Porsche Made in Leipzig Drives Sales at Lowest Labor Cost

-- B y   A n d r e a s   C r e m e r
-- 
2011-10-18T14:02:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/porsche-made-in-leipzig-lowers-labor-costs.html
For Porsche SE, “Made in Germany”
increasingly means a onetime Soviet military training base in
the country’s former-communist east.  The maker of the 911 sports car broke ground today on a
500-million euro ($689 million) expansion at its factory on the
former Soviet site in Leipzig. The addition of paint and body
shops will nearly double investment at the plant, home to the
manufacturer’s two best-selling models.  The investment, aimed at taking advantage of lower wages in
the east, is part of a broader shift by German carmakers 22
years after the fall of the  Berlin Wall . Porsche,  Bayerische
Motoren Werke AG (BMW)  and  Daimler AG (DAI)  are expanding production in the
former-communist region to escape the costs and congestion in
the industrial southwest, where they all call home.  “There was nothing but green fields when we started out
here,” Siegfried Buelow, head of Porsche’s Leipzig factory,
said in an interview. “We have excellent conditions in Leipzig.
We’re well aware of our advantages here,” said the executive,
who joined the company in 2000 when construction of the plant
started.  Porsche builds the $75,200 Panamera four-door coupe and the
$48,200 Cayenne sport-utility vehicle in Leipzig, the Stuttgart-
based company’s only assembly plant outside its home state of
Baden-Wuerttemberg. The two models accounted for three quarters
of Porsche’s 10,560 global sales last month.  Outpacing the West  The planned spending at the auto plant, the first following
reunification in 1990, will add to the 277 million euros
invested there over the past decade, according to Porsche. That
spending would outpace the 350 million euros that the
manufacturer has said is earmarked for facilities in western
 Germany . More than 420,000 cars have been built at the factory
since it opened in 2002.  “Leipzig is building the models that promise higher growth
potential for Porsche” than  sports cars  like the Stuttgart-
built 911, said Willi Diez, head of the Institute for Automobile
Industry, a state-funded think tank in Nuertingen. “The
enlargement will boost the factory’s strategic importance.”  Low Cost  Located in Germany’s eastern state of Saxony where the
smoke-spewing Trabant was built, Leipzig was the scene of
protests that spread to Berlin and toppled communist East
Germany in 1989. Federal aid helped develop the city’s airport
into an international cargo hub and construct modern highways
and rail links. The new infrastructure and a skilled local  labor
force  have also attracted investments by  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  and
Deutsche Post AG.  Low wages in the region, which still trails western Germany
economically, have also been critical. Manufacturers last year
paid workers in the eastern states 40 percent less than
counterparts in the west, according to the Cologne-based IW
economic institute. Labor costs averaged 21.76 euros per hour in
the east, compared with 36.28 euros in the west, IW said in a
study released this month.  “Leipzig will play an essential role in our plans for
future growth,”  Matthias Mueller , chief executive officer of
Porsche’s car-making unit, said today at the ground-breaking
ceremony. “The future for Leipzig looks rosy. Porsche is firmly
locked on a growth path.”  More Expansion  Porsche, which plans to merge with  Volkswagen AG (VOW) , is
seeking to boost sales to about 140,000 vehicles next year from
an estimated 120,000 in 2011, benefiting from revamped versions
of the 911 and Boxster roadster, a person with knowledge of the
matter said on Oct. 13. The carmaker is aiming to increase
deliveries to over 200,000 by 2018 and expand the number of
model lines to seven from four.  BMW, based in Munich, is turning to its Leipzig plant to
build its first electric car. The factory, which already makes
the 1-Series compact car and X1 SUV at the site, will start
manufacturing the emission-free i3 from 2013.  The area’s infrastructure, qualified workers and university
ties were key reasons behind a decision to spend 400 million
euros on expanding the plant, according to the carmaker, which
is hiring an additional 800 people at the site.  “Conditions to distribute vehicles and connect with
suppliers couldn’t be better,” said Manfred Erlacher, head of
BMW’s Leipzig factory. “We’ve been able to develop the plant
very quickly, also because local authorities cooperated very
well.”  Room to Grow  Daimler’s Mercedes-Benz will spend about 90 million euros
to build a new factory for engine components in Arnstadt, 114
kilometers (71 miles) southwest of Leipzig. The project will
initially yield 80 jobs and is to be completed next year.  At the Porsche plant, which features a 32-meter (105-foot)
tall diamond-shaped customer center and a 2.3-mile track, Buelow
will oversee the addition of at least 1,000 new jobs at the
factory. He’s hoping for more models after production of the
small SUV starts at the end of 2013.  “We’ll toss our hat into the ring again when it comes to
deciding on future models,” he said, while overlooking a map of
the 400-hectare (988-acre) area owned by Porsche. “The sheer
size of the land will leave us with quite a few opportunities.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andreas Cremer in Berlin at 
 acremer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  