-- 
Pound Weakens, Gilts Advance Amid Concern U.K. Economic Growth Will Falter

-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 
2011-10-17T15:35:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/pound-declines-versus-dollar-amid-concern-u-k-economic-growth-will-falter.html
The pound weakened and gilts rose
amid concern that U.K. economic growth will falter as European
leaders struggle to meet a one-week deadline for a plan to stem
the euro-region’s debt crisis.  Sterling snapped a three-day gain versus the dollar after
Ernst & Young LLP’s ITEM Club cut its U.K. growth forecast and
said the Bank of England should lower its main  interest rate .
The pound reversed an earlier gain after Steffen Seibert, German
 Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s chief spokesman, said European
leaders won’t fulfill any “dreams” of a quick end to the euro-
area’s debt crisis at their Oct. 23 summit.  “The German politicians have come out and said don’t
expect any wonderful plans,” said  Derek Halpenny , head of
European currency research at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd.
in  London . “That has hit confidence to a degree and the pound
has suffered on the top of that.”  The pound weakened 0.3 percent to $1.5778 at 4:30 p.m.
London time, paring last week’s 1.7 percent advance. Sterling
depreciated 0.9 percent to 121.13 yen, and strengthened 0.6
percent to 87.26 pence per euro.  Group of 20 finance ministers and central bankers concluded
weekend talks in Paris endorsing parts of the emerging plan to
avoid a Greek default, bolster banks and curb contagion. They
set the Oct. 23 summit of European leaders in Brussels as the
deadline for it to be delivered.  ITEM Club  Merkel has made it clear that “dreams that are taking hold
again now that with this package everything will be solved and
everything will be over on Monday won’t be able to be
fulfilled,” Seibert, Merkel’s chief spokesman, said at a news
briefing in Berlin today. Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble 
said leaders won’t present a “definitive solution” for the
crisis at the meeting.  “With the U.K. recovery grinding to a halt, new measures
are now needed,” said Peter Spencer, chief economic adviser to
the ITEM Club. “We have based our figures on the assumption of
an early resolution of the crisis gripping the  euro zone , which
may prove optimistic in view of the very slow progress made
until now. In that case, the outlook for the U.K. would
inevitably be a lot worse.”  Gilts Outperform  The 10-year gilt yield slid eight basis points, or 0.08
percentage point, to 2.52 percent, after earlier rising to 2.64
percent. The 3.75 percent security maturing in September 2021
advanced 0.760, or 7.60 pounds per 1,000-pound ($1,577) face
amount, to 110.670. The two-year note yield declined three basis
points to 0.60 percent.  Gilts have returned 10 percent this year, according to
indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European Federation of
Financial Analysts Societies, beating the 5.9 percent return for
German bunds and 3.1 percent for French securities. U.K. debt
has outperformed as government austerity measures erode growth
and the debt crisis roiling European markets drives investors to
the perceived safety of the securities.  U.K. gross domestic product will increase 0.9 percent in
2011 and 1.5 percent in 2012, compared with July projections of
1.4 percent and 2.2 percent respectively, the ITEM Club said.  Should euro-region leaders fail to quell the crisis, larger
doses of so-called quantitative easing will be insufficient in
the U.K. and the government may need to provide additional
support such as tax cuts to boost growth, the ITEM research
group said.  BOE Asset Purchases  “The ITEM downgrade to growth highlights the potential
risk of a worsening situation in  Europe  and how that would
impact on the U.K.,” said Halpenny. The forecasts assume a
“benign outcome in Europe. If things go pear-shaped, those
growth projections tell you that in fact the U.K. would be
pretty close to flat growth or even potentially we could
envisage an actual contraction.”  The Centre for Economics and Business Research Ltd. lowered
its 2011 growth estimate to 0.6 percent from a previous range of
between 1 percent and 1.5 percent. It sees the Bank of England
raising its bond-program target to 300 billion pounds by the end
of 2012, and said a “severe financial crisis” could push it to
as high as 400 billion pounds.  The 10-year gilt yield has climbed around 17 basis points
since the U.K. central bank announced an extension of its bond-
purchase program to 275 billion pounds from 200 billion pounds
this month. Minutes of the monetary policy meeting will be
published Oct. 19.  “There’s an underlying bid for gilts into higher yields
given what the  Bank of England  is doing,” said Eric Wand, a
fixed-income strategist at Lloyds Bank Corporate Markets in
London. “There’s still scope for them to do more down the line,
so it will be interesting to see what the minutes bring.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  