-- 
Quinn Promises Veto of Illinois Gambling Bill Absent Changes

-- B y   T i m o t h y   J o n e s
-- 
2011-10-17T19:07:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/quinn-promises-veto-of-illinois-gambling-bill-without-changes.html
Illinois Governor  Pat Quinn  said he
will veto a gambling expansion bill unless lawmakers reduce the
number of new betting sites.  While Quinn said he would support casinos in Chicago and
four other places, the measure also authorizes slot machines at
horse tracks, the state fairgrounds and at Midway and O’Hare
airports. Quinn, a 63-year-old Democrat, said he does not want
“Illinois becoming the Vegas of the Midwest.”  “I’m the goalie. I’m the final word,” Quinn said today at
a Chicago news conference. “The current bill has major flaws in
it.”  Quinn’s threat comes one week before lawmakers are to
return to Springfield, the capital, for their fall session.
Although the General Assembly approved the bill May 31, it
didn’t send it to Quinn, so as to allow time to negotiate
changes.  Plans for new casinos in  Chicago  and two of its suburbs, as
well as Rockford and Danville are acceptable, Quinn said. The
slot-machine expansion, however, is “excessive” and “not
healthy for Illinois.” He said safeguards are needed to prevent
corruption and provide “adequate revenue for education.”  On the Radar  Senate President John Cullerton, a Chicago Democrat, said
in a prepared statement that lawmakers will “fold his
recommendations into our ongoing discussion” and evaluate what
is “passable by both chambers of the General Assembly.”  The measure passed the House and Senate with the minimum
number of votes.  Chicago Mayor Rahm Emanuel said in a statement that he is
“encouraged that the governor has come forward with a
proposal.” Emanuel lobbied for a casino in the city, estimating
it would create 7,000 to 10,000 jobs.  Illinois has nine riverboat casinos in suburban Chicago and
elsewhere across the state. They’re operated by  Ameristar
Casinos Inc. (ASCA) ,  Bally Technologies Inc. (BYI) ,  Boyd Gaming Corp. (BYD) ,
Caesars Entertainment Corp.,  International Game Technology (IGT) ,  Penn
National Gaming Inc. (PENN) ,  Shuffle Master Inc. (SHFL)  and  WMS Industries
Inc. (WMS)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy Jones in Chicago at 
 tjones58@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  