-- 
Rail Bonds Rally as Deadly Crash Forces Austerity, Tax Break: China Credit

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-10-18T04:11:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/rail-bonds-rally-as-deadly-crash-forces-austerity-china-credit.html
Chinese Railway Ministry bonds are
gaining for the first time in nine months as the government
responds to a high-speed train crash that killed 40 by slowing
spending and cutting taxes on new debt issues.  Yields on 10-year bonds of the rail operator, which has
debt equal to 5 percent of  China’s economy , fell eight basis
points this month to 6.22 percent, after regulators cut tax on
interest income for ministry notes sold between now and 2013 by
50 percent. Yields climbed 140 basis points this year, while
those on similar-maturity government bonds dropped nine basis
points. The ministry’s five-year debt returned 0.1 percent,
compared with 5.5 percent for similar securities of OAO Russian
Railways and a 4 percent loss for Indian Railway Finance Corp.  “The  tax cut  certainly has increased investors’
appetite,” said Lily Wei, a fixed-income manager in Beijing at
Harvest Fund Management Ltd., who manages 13.8 billion yuan
($2.2 billion). “Through the new measure the government has
shown investors that it supports the ministry and is prepared to
take action to improve its financing.”  The government needs to regain investor confidence to pay
for the world’s largest bullet-train network, after two trains
collided in the eastern city of Wenzhou on July 23 because of a
signal failure. The rail operator, which employs 2.1 million
people and has debt totaling 2.1 trillion yuan, said it slashed
spending on construction by 59 percent last month after Chinese
Premier  Wen Jiabao  pledged to improve safety and accountability.  The yield gap between 10-year notes issued by the Railway
Ministry and government bonds has narrowed from a record-high
254 basis points, or 2.54 percentage points, on Oct. 10 to 242
basis points as of 11:36 a.m. local time, according to
ChinaBond. It is unclear whether the government has any
obligation to repay the debt that the ministry can’t meet from
its own budget, according to Southwest Securities Co. and
Industrial Securities Co.  Successful Sale  The new tax measure, announced on Oct. 10, helped the
nation’s biggest corporate issuer complete an auction of seven-
year debt priced to yield 5.59 percent, 34 basis points lower
than the yield on five-year debt sold in September. Harvest Fund
Management’s Wei, who declined to detail her purchases, said
she’s “bullish” on the debt.  The ministry’s spending in September plunged to 30.4
billion yuan from 73.7 billion yuan a year earlier, according to
an Oct. 14 statement. Debt issuance has fallen to 159 billion
yuan in 2011 from 175 billion yuan last year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Sales totaled 170 billion yuan in 2009.  Default Concerns  China ’s rail network is set to reach 120,000 kilometers
(74,600 miles) under a 2.8 trillion yuan, five-year investment
plan ending 2015. That includes boosting the high-speed network,
which opened in 2007, to 16,000 kilometers. China Business News
reported over 10,000 kilometers of building work was halted,
citing Wang Mengshu, a China Railway Group engineer.  “The amount of debt issued by the Railway Ministry is huge
and people worry about defaults,” said  Wang Jianhui , an analyst
in Beijing at Southwest Securities. “The concern still remains
on the legal status of the Railway Ministry. For a lot of
investors, it’s not still clear whether it is a ministry or a
corporation. It’s like a man with two faces. The long-term
prospect for these bonds isn’t as good as it used to be.”  China will guarantee railway construction bonds issued by
the ministry, Caixin Online reported, citing a document from the
National Development and Reform Commission. Xie Xiaowen, a news
department official at the ministry, didn’t reply to questions
sent by fax.  Mobilized Workforce  “China will continue to support and fund railway
construction,” said Tang Guohui, a bond analyst at Industrial
Securities Co. in  Shanghai . “Historically, the ministry has
always been a powerful arm of the central government. Shortening
travel time between provinces and mobilizing the workforce are
two main reasons China needs a comprehensive rail system now.”  Appetite for bonds has also improved as the government
eased supplies of cash on concern a faltering global economic
recovery will hurt export demand. The government reported third
quarter gross domestic product expanded 9.1 percent from a year
ago, the slowest pace in two years.  The seven-day repurchase rate, a gauge of funding
availability in China’s financial system, has fallen 556 basis
points from its 2011 high of 9.04 percent. The rate gained 13
basis points today to 3.48 percent.  Yields on 10-year  government bonds  have fallen seven basis
points this month to 3.79 percent, and reached 3.76 percent on
Oct. 11, the lowest level since November. The difference between
yields on 10-year notes issued by top-rated companies and
 government securities  widened to 236 basis points on Oct. 11,
the biggest gap in ChinaBond data going back to March 2006. The
spread narrowed to 226 basis points today.  ‘Severe’ Challenges  The cost of insuring government debt against default was
unchanged at 139 basis points yesterday, according to data
provider CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles
prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market.
Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
government or company fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  The yuan depreciated 0.1 percent to 6.3777 today. Exports
from China rose 17.1 percent in September from a year ago, the
least in seven months, customs bureau data showed on Oct. 13.
The bureau warned of “severe” challenges as the global
economic outlook deteriorates.  “There’s been worries about the prospect of the Chinese
and global economies, which is boosting the  bond market  at the
moment,” said Industrial Securities’ Tang. “It’s a good time
to buy railway bonds.”  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  