-- 
Rand Weakens as Germany Rules Out Quick Resolution to Region’s Debt Crisis

-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 
2011-10-17T14:05:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/rand-gains-for-2nd-day-as-eu-ultimatum-to-fix-crisis-lifts-risk-appetite.html
The rand weakened against the dollar
after German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s spokesman said  Europe ’s
leaders won’t provide a quick resolution to the region’s debt
crisis, sapping demand for riskier assets.  South Africa ’s currency slumped 1.5 percent to 7.9379 per
dollar by 3:40 p.m. in Johannesburg, after earlier gaining as
much as 0.8 percent to an almost a three-week high, following
last week’s biggest five-day advance since July.  The euro, the currency of a third of South Africa’s trade,
declined and stocks reversed gains after Steffen Seibert,
Merkel’s chief spokesman, said the search to end the crisis
“surely extends well into next year.” His comments came after
Group of 20 finance ministers and central banks endorsed parts
of a plan to manage the debt crisis after weekend talks in
Paris, sparking rallies in riskier assets including emerging-
market currencies and stocks.  Seibert’s statement “basically killed the strong ‘wishful-
thinking’ rally,”  Benoit Anne , the London-based head of
emerging-market strategy at Societe Generale SA, said by e-mail.
“While we saw earlier a spectacular rally in high-beta
emerging-market currencies, we have now retraced back into
negative territory. The rand as usual tells us a good story.”  Merkel has made it clear that “dreams that are taking hold
again now that with this package everything will be solved and
everything will be over on Monday won’t be able to be
fulfilled,” Seibert said at a news briefing today in Berlin,
dashing optimism the crisis will be resolved soon.  South African bonds were little changed, with the yield on
the 10.5 percent notes due 2026 rising less than one basis point
to 8.40 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  