-- 
Alabama Immigration, Harrisburg, Kodak, United in Court News

-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 
2011-10-17T12:24:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/ratings-companies-immigration-harrisburg-kodak-in-court-news.html
A U.S. appeals court temporarily
halted enforcement of Alabama laws requiring unregistered
immigrants to carry documentation and forcing schools in the
state to track students’ immigration status.  The Atlanta-based court on Oct. 14 temporarily blocked
enforcement of those provisions, contained in legislation signed
by Alabama Governor Robert Bentley in June. The court let stand
the other immigration-law measures that the U.S. had also
challenged.  The federal government and the rights groups showed a
“substantial likelihood” they would win their challenges to
the barred provisions of the Beason-Hammon Alabama Taxpayer and
Citizen Protection Act and a likelihood of irreparable harm if
those measures were enforced, the three-judge panel said. The
rulings are provisional and remain in effect only until the
appellate court considers the underlying legal challenges.  U.S. District Judge Sharon Lovelace Blackburn in
Birmingham, Alabama, last month rejected arguments against the
measures made in separate lawsuits filed by the federal
government and a coalition of civil rights groups.  The U.S. and the coalition, led by the American Civil
Liberties Union and Southern Poverty Law Center, asked the
appellate panel to delay enforcement of the laws, which took
effect with Blackburn’s Sept. 28 rulings, after she denied a
request for a delay pending appeal.  State Attorney General Luther Strange said, in a filing
that opposed delaying enforcement of the act while it is on
appeal, Alabama isn’t seeking to supplant the U.S. role in
immigration. Instead, he argued, the legislation draws on the
state’s “traditional police powers,” and helps ensure that
federal immigration law is respected, Strange said.  The cases are U.S. v. State of Alabama, 11-14532, and
Hispanic Interest Coalition of Alabama v. Bentley, 11-14535,
U.S. 11th Circuit Court of Appeals (Atlanta).  For more, click here.  For the latest trials and appeals news, click here  Verdicts, Settlements and Sentences  Moody’s, S&P, Fitch Settle Ratings Dispute With Connecticut  Moody’s Investors Service Inc.,  Standard & Poor’s  and Fitch
Inc. reached settlements resolving claims by Connecticut that
the credit rating companies unfairly gave lower ratings to
public bonds.  The companies will credit Connecticut about $900,000, which
will be used to offset the expense of obtaining future ratings
on the sales of state bonds, Attorney General George Jepsen said
Oct. 14 in a statement.  Connecticut sued Moody’s, S&P and Fitch, claiming that
because of deceptive practices by the companies, the state,
municipalities and school districts paid higher  interest rates 
than they should have on bonds they issued, and bought
unnecessary bond insurance.  “Moody’s is pleased to have reached an agreement with the
state of Connecticut to resolve this matter without costly and
protracted litigation,” said Michael Adler, a spokesman for New
York-based Moody’s.  Richard Blumenthal, then Connecticut’s attorney general and
now a U.S. senator, sued the ratings companies in July 2008,
calling the system “a secret Wall Street tax on Main Street.”  In March 2010, Moody’s said it would start rating state and
local government bonds on the same scale as corporate
securities. Fitch also recalibrated its grades for municipal
bonds.  “We are pleased to have reached an amicable resolution
with the state of Connecticut and look forward to rating the
state’s future bond offerings,”  Edward Sweeney , a spokesman for
New York-based Standard & Poor’s, said in a statement.  Daniel Noonan , a Fitch spokesman, said in a statement that
the settlement “reflects our strong belief that Fitch’s ratings
were fair and transparent.” Fitch is a unit of Paris-based
 Fimalac (FIM)  SA.  J&J Unit Cleared of Liability for Alleged Levaquin Injuries  A unit of Johnson & Johnson isn’t responsible for tendon
damage suffered by two  New Jersey  men who took the drugmaker’s
Levaquin antibiotic, a jury found.  The state court jury in Atlantic City, New Jersey,
deliberated about eight hours over two days before clearing
J&J’s Ortho-McNeil-Janssen Pharmaceutical unit of liability for
Paul Gaffney’s and Robert Beare’s injuries. The two men contend
their Achilles tendon snapped after they took Levaquin to treat
respiratory infections.  The Oct. 14 verdict is the company’s second win in a
Levaquin case. In June, a Minnesota jury rejected a man’s claim
that the antibiotic caused his Achilles injury. Another
Minnesota jury in December 2010 awarded another former Levaquin
user a total of $1.8 million in damages over his tendon injury.  “The evidence showed Ortho-McNeil-Janssen Pharmaceuticals
properly informed of the benefits and risks associated with the
use of Levaquin and that the company acted responsibly by
providing appropriate and timely information about” the drug,
William Foster, a spokesman for the J&J unit, said in an e-
mailed statement.  Levaquin, which generated more than $1 billion in sales
over an eight-year period starting in 2000, was J&J’s third-
largest selling product at one point. In 2008, the U.S. Food and
Drug Administration required all makers of antibiotics in
Levaquin’s class to beef up warnings about tendon ruptures.  J&J faces more than 2,600 claims in U.S. courts blaming
Levaquin for causing users’ tendon damage, court dockets show.  “We’re obviously disappointed with the verdict,” Andy Alonso, a lawyer for Gaffney and Beare, said in an interview
after the panel announced its decision. “We felt the evidence
was clear that the warnings were flawed. The jury felt
otherwise.”  The case is Beare v.  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) , L-196-10-MT,
Superior Court of New Jersey for Atlantic County (Atlantic
City).  BP Says Anadarko to Pay $4 Billion to Settle Gulf Spill Claims  BP Plc (BP/) , the operator of the Macondo well in the  Gulf of
Mexico  that was the source of the worst U.S. oil spill last
year, said  Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC)  will pay $4 billion to
settle all claims over the disaster.  Anadarko, which had a 25 percent stake in the well, will no
longer pursue allegations of gross negligence against BP. The
payment will be made in a single cash payment and will be put in
the $20 billion trust being used to repay claims and damages.
Under the terms of the deal, Anadarko will transfer its stake in
the Macondo well back to BP.  The Anadarko settlement will be a boost to BP as the oil
company prepares for a February  trial in New Orleans  to
establish liability for the catastrophe. BP would face higher
fines if it’s found guilty of gross negligence for the spill,
which pumped almost 5 million barrels of crude into the Gulf and
forced the company to write off $41 billion. Rig owner
Transocean Ltd. and Halliburton Co., which supplied cement for
Macondo, are also defendants.  “This is likely to be seen as good news for BP and will
increase pressure on Transocean and Halliburton to settle ahead
of the multi-district litigation,” Oriel Securities Ltd. said
in a note to clients.  BP has now reached a settlement with both partners in the
Macondo well. In May, a unit of Mitsui & Co., which had a 10
percent holding in the well, agreed to pay $1.07 billion. Based
on that figure, analysts had expected a settlement of between $2
billion and $3 billion for Anadarko.  Weatherford International Ltd., which provided equipment
for the Macondo well, agreed to pay BP $75 million.  Anadarko will book the $4 billion cost of the settlement,
equal to about $5 a share in its third-quarter earnings, it said
in a statement. The company said it’s confident there is no
further significant financial risk from the spill.  Under terms of the settlement, both parties agreed to drop
claims against the other. Anadarko and BP agreed to work
together with respect to indemnified claims and Anadarko has the
opportunity for a 12.5 percent participation in recoveries from
third parties or insurance proceeds exceeding $1.5 billion and
up to a total cap of $1 billion.  Cosmo Gets 25 Years in Prison for $413 Million Ponzi Scheme  Nicholas Cosmo, who pleaded guilty to running a $413
million Ponzi scheme that defrauded thousands of investors, was
sentenced to 25 years in prison, prosecutors said.  Cosmo, owner of Agape World Inc. and Agape Merchant Advance
LLC, was arrested in January 2009. He claimed Agape solicited
investor funds that were used to make short-term bridge loans.
Agape received about $413 million from investors, while only
about $30 million in loans were made, according to the
government. Actual losses to victims were about $195 million.  “Those who lie and steal from the investing public are on
notice that they face severe penalties,” U.S. Attorney Loretta Lynch in Brooklyn said Oct. 14 in a statement.  Cosmo, who was sentenced by U.S. District Judge Denis Hurley in Central Islip,  New York , operated the scheme from
October 2003 to January 2009. He solicited funds from investors
“well in excess” of what he told them was needed for bridge
loans, prosecutors said, and then pocketed the money.  Richard W. Levitt, a lawyer for Cosmo at Levitt & Kaizer in
New York, didn’t immediately return a call seeking comment on
the sentence.  In August 2010, Richard Barry, a former vice president and
underwriter at Agape World Inc., pleaded guilty participating in
the scheme. He’s scheduled to be sentenced Nov. 2.  Cosmo’s case is U.S. v. Cosmo, 09-cr-00255, and Barry’s
case is U.S. v. Barry, 10-cr-00648, U.S. District Court, Eastern
District of New York (Central Islip).  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  Trials and Appeals  Goldman Sachs Appeals Bayou Creditors’ $20.5 Million Award  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  filed an appeal seeking to dismiss
a $20.5 million arbitration award to creditors of the failed
hedge fund firm Bayou Group LLC.  Goldman Sachs asked the U.S. Court of Appeals in  Manhattan 
to overrule a decision by the Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority, the independent regulatory group for the securities
industry. A federal district judge declined in November 2010 to
reverse the Finra award.  The creditors sued Goldman Sachs Execution and Clearing LP
in 2008 for its role as the prime broker and clearing broker for
Bayou’s hedge funds. They said the Goldman Sachs unit aided a
$400 million fraud at Stamford, Connecticut-based Bayou, which
filed for bankruptcy in May 2006. Bayou co-founder Samuel Israel
pleaded guilty to directing the scheme and is serving a 22-year
prison term.  In the November ruling, U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff in
Manhattan said Goldman Sachs failed to show that the arbitration
panel had “manifestly disregarded the law” in granting the
award.  Goldman Sachs, based in New York, argued in its appeal
brief that the Finra panel was wrong in determining that
deposits into Bayou’s accounts and internal bookkeeping entries
qualified as fraudulent transfers.  John Rich, a lawyer for the Bayou creditors, didn’t
immediately return a voice-mail message seeking comment on Oct.
14 on the Goldman Sachs filing.  The case is Goldman Sachs Execution & Clearing LP v.
Official Unsecured Creditors’ Committee of Bayou Group LLC, 10-
cv-05622, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  Lawsuit News  Al-Qaeda Should Pay $9.4 Billion for 9/11, U.S. Judge Says  Chubb Corp. (CB)  and four other insurers should be awarded $9.4
billion in damages in their suit against al-Qaeda over the Sept.
11 terrorist attacks, a U.S. judge recommended.  U.S. Magistrate Judge Frank Maas in Manhattan said on Oct.
14 that the insurers, which sued for money they paid to
policyholders to cover business and property losses, should
recover triple damages under the U.S. Anti-Terrorism Act.  The insurers won a default judgment in 2006 against al-
Qaeda, the radical Muslim terrorist organization behind the
attacks, after the group didn’t contest the suit.  Maas gave the parties 10 days to file any objections to his
report and recommendations to U.S. District Judge George Daniels. Daniels, who is presiding over the case, will then
decide whether to award the money.  The case is Federal Insurance Co. v. al-Qaeda, 03-CV-6978,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Harrisburg Mayor, State Seek Dismissal of Bankruptcy Case  Pennsylvania officials joined Harrisburg Mayor Linda D. Thompson in an bid to dismiss a bankruptcy petition filed by the
city council, which critics say violates local, state and
federal laws.  In papers filed last week, Thompson and lawyers for the
state are seeking an immediate end to the bankruptcy, which
began Oct. 11 after four members of the city, the capital of
Pennsylvania, voted to hire a lawyer to file the case. Thompson
says the council members did not follow proper procedures and
the state says the bankruptcy violates a law passed earlier this
year by legislators.  The city council voted 4-3 on Oct. 11 in favor of Chapter 9
municipal bankruptcy, seeking to ward off a state takeover of
its finances after failing to pay debt on a trash-to-energy
incinerator. Mark D. Schwartz, a lawyer based in Bryn Mawr,
Pennsylvania, faxed the bankruptcy petition to the Harrisburg
court that night.  Thompson, who hired the law firm Tucker Arensberg PC to
oppose the bankruptcy, said her lawyers will file a formal
dismissal motion “shortly.” In the meantime, she asked U.S.
Bankruptcy Judge Mary D. France to set up a conference quickly
to schedule an emergency motion to end the case.  France set a hearing for Oct. 17 to discuss the status of
the case and to set a schedule for the coming battle over
whether the bankruptcy should be dismissed. She set Nov. 21 as a
deadline to file objections to the bankruptcy.  The case is In re City of Harrisburg, Pennsylvania,
11-06938, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Middle District of Pennsylvania
(Harrisburg).  For more, click here.  Mets Owners Oppose Madoff Trustee’s Bid for Federal Jury Trial  The owners of the New York Mets said a jury shouldn’t be
called upon to decide claims of hundreds of millions of dollars
against them filed by  Irving Picard , the trustee liquidating
Bernard Madoff’s firm.  U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff in New York set a March 19
trial date for the trustee’s case against the Mets owners after
narrowing by two-thirds the $1 billion demanded by Picard from
Fred Wilpon and Saul Katz. The remainder of the trustee’s suit
is based on bankruptcy claims that don’t carry a right to a jury
trial, the team owners said in a court filing Oct. 14.  “No decision supports the existence of a debtor’s jury
trial under these circumstances,”  Karen Wagner , a lawyer for
Wilpon and Katz, said in court papers. “No jury trial attaches
to these claims.”  Picard originally demanded $300 million in profit and $700
million in principal from the Mets partners in a complaint
alleging they turned a blind eye to Madoff’s Ponzi scheme. The
partners denied it.  To recover the profit, Picard must “simply” prove they
didn’t give equal value back for money received, Rakoff said in
his ruling.  The judge tossed most of the trustee’s allegations in an
11-count complaint in Manhattan federal court.  Rakoff said Picard could try to reclaim about $386 million,
based on bankruptcy claims. Picard has also asked Rakoff to let
him appeal the decision.  Amanda Remus, a Picard spokeswoman, didn’t immediately
respond to an e-mail seeking comment about the filing.  The case is Picard v. Katz, 11-cv-03605, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For the latest lawsuit news, click here.  New Suits  Fujifilm Sues Eastman Kodak Over Digital Camera Patents  Fujifilm Corp. sued  Eastman Kodak Co. (EK) , alleging that it
infringed patents for digital cameras.  Fujifilm, based in Tokyo, sued Eastman Kodak over four
digital-camera patents after talks between the companies were
unsuccessful, according to a complaint filed Oct. 14 in federal
court in Manhattan.  Kodak manufactured and sold products in the U.S., including
the EasyShare C340 and EasyShare M530 digital cameras, that
violated the patents, Fujifilm alleged in the complaint. It
seeks damages and a jury trial.  Christopher Veronda, a spokesman for Rochester, New York-
based Kodak, didn’t immediately return messages seeking comment
on the suit.  The case is Fujifilm Corp. v. Eastman Kodak Co., 1:11-
cv-07247, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  Citigroup Sued by Fairfield Sentry Liquidators Over Madoff  Liquidators for Fairfield Sentry Ltd. who are seeking to
take back money withdrawn from the largest feeder fund for
Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities Inc. sued a  Citigroup
Inc. (C)  unit Oct. 13.  Citigroup Global Markets Ltd. received $130 million in so-
called redemption payments from Sentry from Oct. 14, 2005, to
Nov. 19, 2008, according to the complaint filed in U.S.
Bankruptcy Court in New York.  The liquidators accuse the Citigroup unit and unidentified
investors in the Sentry funds of unjust enrichment and seek
return of the payments plus interest.  “We believe this suit is without merit,” Danielle Romero- Apsilos, a spokeswoman for New York-based Citigroup, said in an
e-mailed statement.  The liquidators filed similar complaints on Oct. 13 against
Fullerton Capital Pte Ltd. and Bankmed Suisse SA.  The case is In re Fairfield Sentry Ltd., 10-13164, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Madoff Trustee Sues Jewish Association for $5.2 Million  The liquidator of Bernard L. Madoff’s firm sued the Jewish
Association for Services for the Aged for $5.2 million in
fictitious profit allegedly received from the Ponzi scheme over
six years.  Trustee Irving Picard lost his bid to claw back six years
of withdrawals from the New York Mets owners last month, when
U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff cut a $1 billion suit by two-
thirds, saying he could only take back two years of money. In
the Oct. 14 suit against the Jewish Association, filed in U.S.
Bankruptcy Court in New York, Picard says he is entitled to
claim six years of transfers under bankruptcy and New York law,
among other laws.  “The trustee is entitled to a judgment against defendant
avoiding and preserving the six year transfers,” he said in the
complaint.  David Warren, president of the association for services to
the Jewish aged in New York, didn’t immediately respond to a
voice-mail message seeking comment on the lawsuit.  The case is: Picard v. Jewish Association, 11-ap-02773,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  United, Delta, Alaska Air Sued Over Mobile Check-In Patents  United Airlines, Continental Airlines, Delta Air Lines and
 Alaska Air Group Inc. (ALK)  were sued by a patent holder over wireless
transaction technology for mobile check-in and boarding passes.  Aeritas LLC , a Dallas-based wireless-software maker,
contends the air carriers are using its inventions protected by
patents awarded in 2007 and 2011, according to four complaints
filed Oct. 13 in federal court in Wilmington, Delaware.  “Aeritas has suffered monetary damages in an amount
adequate to compensate for defendants’ infringement, but in no
event less than a reasonable royalty,” wrote the patent holder,
which is also seeking a jury trial and a halt to the airlines’
use of the inventions.  Continental and United are units of  United Continental
Holdings Inc. (UAL) , based in Chicago. Delta is based in Atlanta and
Alaska Air is based in Seattle.  “We haven’t been served and are still assessing the claims
of the lawsuit,” Bobbie Egan, an Alaska Airlines spokeswoman,
said in an e-mailed statement.  Trebor Banstetter, a Delta spokesman, didn’t immediately
return a call seeking comment on the lawsuit. Representatives of
United Continental weren’t immediately available for comment.  The cases are Aeritas v. United Airlines Inc., 1:11-
cv-00970; Aeritas v. Continental Airlines Inc.; Aeritas v.  Delta
Air Lines Inc. (DAL) ; and Aeritas v. Alaska Air Group Inc., U.S.
District Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To see the patents, click 7,933,589 and 7,209,903.  Court Filings  The federal government’s Oct. 4 suit against  Bank of New
York Mellon Corp. (BK)  claiming that the bank had defrauded clients
in foreign currency trades was the most-read litigation docket
on the Bloomberg Law system last week. The New York attorney
general and the City of New York also sued the bank in New York
state court.  The suits allege that BNY Mellon, the largest custody bank,
earned $2 billion through a 10-year fraud in which it
misrepresented to customers its pricing practices. Florida and
Virginia have also filed claims against the bank and
Massachusetts regulators are investigating as well.  Rival State Street Corp., the third-largest custody bank,
has faced similar claims over foreign currency trades.  Custody banks keep records, track performance and lens
securities for institutional investors including mutual funds,
pension funds and hedge funds. In addition, custody banks manage
investments for individuals and institutions.  BNY Mellon will fight the lawsuits, said Kevin Heine, a
spokesman for the bank. The complaints are based on the same
“flawed analysis” and a misunderstanding of the global foreign
exchange market, he said.  The cases are U.S. v. Bank of New York Mellon Corp.,
11-06969, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan), and People of the State of New York v. The Bank of
New York Mellon Corp., 114735-2009, New York State Supreme Court
(Manhattan).  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ellen Rosen  in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 