-- 
Raytheon Anti-Missile Warhead Has Guidance Flaw, MDA Says

-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 
2011-10-17T20:21:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/raytheon-s-new-anti-missile-warhead-has-guidance-flaw-mda-says.html
The latest model of a  Raytheon Co. (RTN) 
anti-missile warhead failed in the final seconds of a $300
million flight test last December because of a “guidance
error,” according to the U.S. Missile Defense Agency.  The warhead “successfully selected the correct target
object, but a guidance error occurred in the final seconds
before the planned intercept,” said MDA spokesman  Richard
Lehner  in an e-mail statement.  The guidance system had a fault “related to outer space-
related dynamic environments,” Lehner said, without
elaboration. The specifics are classified, he said.  “It was something that occurred only in space and was not
identifiable during pre-flight ground testing,” he said.  The MDA statement announced the general findings of a
months-long failure review board investigation into the Dec. 15,
2010, intercept attempt -- the second consecutive failure last
year that’s halted additional flight tests and final assembly of
at least seven additional warheads at Raytheon’s Tucson, Arizona
plant.  Ten of the new warheads are in U.S. silos as the key weapon
in a $35 billion, ground-based missile defense system intended
to intercept a small number missiles if they were fired at the
U.S. by  North Korea  or  Iran .  Twenty first-generation warheads on interceptors in Alaska
and  California  “do not have this design issue,” MDA said.  ‘Commendable Job’  Ohio Republican Representative  Michael Turner , chairman of
the House Armed Service’s Committee’s missile defense panel,
said in an e-mail “the MDA has done a commendable job
diagnosing the problem.”  “If MDA can achieve the flight test sooner, it should,”
he said. At that point, it should then return to warhead
production, he said.  Raytheon spokesman  John Patterson  referred all questions to
the MDA. Jessica Carlton, a spokeswoman for  Boeing Co. (BA) , which
manages overall the ground-based system, said the company has
“worked closely” with the MDA and “has high confidence” in
the failure findings.  “Boeing continues to work closely with our customer and
our industry teammates on the design solution and getting back
to flight,” she said in an e-mail statement.  “Extensive ground testing and modeling have demonstrated
with high confidence the source of the failure,” Lehner said.  Different Cause  “There is no indication of any quality control problem as
the cause” in this case, he said. A missing “lockwire” on a
thruster caused a January 2010 failure, MDA told congressional
defense committees.  Raytheon’s “kill vehicle” is a $30 million, 120-pound
(54-kilogram) spacecraft about the length of a broomstick. It
looks like a telescope mounted on a pack of propane gas
cylinders. It is supposed to pick out a target amid decoys and
debris and smash into it while flying at a combined closing
speed of 6.2 miles a second. It has no explosive -- the
collision alone would do the damage.  Lehner said “corrective design steps are being pursued”
and will be verified in ground testing and in a non-intercept
flight next year. A new intercept attempt will follow,
contingent on corrections, he said.  Raytheon warhead deliveries remain halted until after the
non-intercept test, Lehner said.  “In our experience, design issues similar to the one
encountered here are significant and usually require a fair
amount of time to understand, correct, and re-validate,” GAO
missile defense analyst Cristina Chaplain said in an e-mail
statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  