-- 
Treasuries Drop on Outlook for Europe; Yield at Six-Week High

-- B y   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o   a n d   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 
2011-10-17T02:31:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/treasuries-fall-as-leaders-work-to-solve-europe-s-debt-crisis.html
Treasuries fell, pushing yields to a
six-week high, as European leaders work on a deadline to produce
a plan to end the region’s sovereign debt crisis.  Treasuries have handed investors a 1.2 percent loss this
month, Bank of America Merrill Lynch data show, as European
officials try to revive demand for the region’s bonds,
curtailing investor appetite for the relative safety of  U.S.
government debt . The  Federal Reserve  is  scheduled  to sell $1
billion to $1.5 billion of Treasury Inflation Protected
Securities due from April 2012 to July 2014 today as part of its
plan to keep down borrowing costs by swapping its holdings of
shorter maturities for longer ones.  “We’re quite negative on Treasuries because we see risk
appetite improving,” said Adam Donaldson, head of debt research
at  Commonwealth Bank of Australia  in Sydney. There is
“confidence and hope that global growth is being supported by
the European action.”  Benchmark 10-year yields climbed two basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, to 2.27 percent as of 10:53 a.m. in  Tokyo ,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 2.125 percent
security due in August 2021 fell 5/32, or $1.56 per $1,000 face
amount, to 98 3/4. The rate is the highest since Sept. 1.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index of shares advanced 1.7 percent,
the most in almost a week, helping curb demand for debt.  Japan ’s 10-year yields rose one basis point to 1.025
percent, set for the highest close in two weeks.  Central Banks Selling  Group of 20 finance ministers and central bankers concluded
weekend talks in Paris by endorsing parts of a plan to avoid a
Greek default, bolster European banks and curb contagion. They
set an Oct. 23 summit of European leaders in Brussels as the
deadline for the program to be delivered.  International central banks are selling the most Treasuries
since the credit crisis began just as institutional investors
load up on U.S. government bonds.  The Fed said its holdings of U.S. government debt on behalf
of central banks and institutional investors outside America has
plunged $76.5 billion in the last seven weeks, the most since
August 2007. At the same time, bond mutual funds are adding
Treasuries, banks have increased their holdings 45 percent in
the past five years and the Fed has added $656 billion to its
balance sheet this year.  Currency Support  Rather than a referendum on the U.S.’s $1.3 trillion  budget
deficit  and rising debt burden, sales by foreign policy makers
may have more to do with supporting their currencies after the
Brazilian real weakened 9.8 percent and  Taiwan ’s dollar lost 4.9
percent against the  U.S. dollar  since June. With economists
forecasting inflation slowing to 2.1 percent in 2012 from 3.1
percent this year and the Fed’s commitment to keeping  interest
rates  near zero, investors say the demand that pushed government
bond yields to record lows last month will be sustained.  “Demand will come from banks, insurance companies and from
pension funds which are still massively underexposed to
Treasuries,”  Stuart Thomson , a fixed-income  fund manager  in
Glasgow at Ignis Asset Management, which oversees 75 billion
pounds ($118.5 billion), said in an Oct. 12 telephone interview.  The 10-year yield will be at 2.15 percent by Dec. 31 and
2.88 percent at the close of 2012, according to a Bloomberg
survey of banks and securities companies in which the most
recent forecasts are given the heaviest weightings.  Money managers are bearish on Treasuries, according to a
survey by Ried Thunberg ICAP Inc., a New Jersey-based unit of
the world’s largest interdealer broker.  The company’s gauge on the outlook for  U.S. debt  through
Dec. 31 held at 47 in the seven days ended Oct. 14 from the week
before, according to the responses. A figure less than 50 shows
investors expect prices to fall.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Wes Goodman in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net ;
Kristine Aquino in Singapore at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  