-- 
RIM CEO Considers Operator Compensation to Restore Trust

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 
2011-10-17T20:06:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/rim-offers-corporate-clients-one-month-of-free-technical-support.html
Research in Motion Ltd. (RIM)  will this
week consider offering compensation to network operators
following one of its worst BlackBerry service disruptions, co-
Chief Executive Officer  Jim Balsillie  said today.  RIM will focus on compensation alongside the offer of one
month of free technical support to companies and free online
applications, Balsillie said in a telephone interview.  “We’re very focused on these carriers and making sure
they’re satisfied with the service operation and making sure we
comply with all of our agreements with them and making sure we
have their trust for the service going forward,” Balsillie
said.  RIM, based in Waterloo, Ontario, may face claims following
the disruption after some wireless carriers including  Vodafone
Group Plc (VOD) , the world’s biggest mobile-phone operator, offered
refunds to some BlackBerry users. Subscribers across most parts
of the world, including U.S. and  Canada , last week lost data
services after a network failure in the U.K. halted messaging
and Web browsing.  RIM will give subscribers free access to online
applications in games, radio and translation with a face value
of up to $100, the company said in an e-mailed statement today.  “This is our offer and we worked systemically over the
last three days to make that,” Balsillie said. “That was a
pretty comprehensive set of efforts.”  RIM fell 6.6 percent to $22.40 at the close in New York.
The stock has declined 61 percent this year.  Confidence Woes  The news comes as billionaire  Carl Icahn  said in a
television interview today that RIM is not in his sights as an
investment. In an interview on CNBC Icahn said the smartphone
maker is “not on our radar screen” right now. RIM shares rose
last month on speculation that the investor activist was
interested in buying a stake in the BlackBerry maker.  RIM will roll out further applications to cover all regions
of the world as part of the offer, Balsillie said.  “We have apologized to our customers and we will work
tirelessly to restore their confidence,” co-CEO  Mike Lazaridis 
said earlier today in a statement. “We are taking immediate and
aggressive steps to help prevent something like this from
happening again.”  RIM will face “defections” to  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  after the U.S.
company started selling its new iPhone,  Matt Thornton , an
analyst at Avian Securities LLC in Boston said last week. Apple
sold more than 4 million iPhone 4S devices in the first three
days, setting a record as customers lined up at stores from
Sydney to  San Francisco  to be first with the device.  RIM, which holds its developer  conference  in San Francisco
tomorrow, will show how the whole BlackBerry platform is
“transitioning,” Balsillie said in the interview today. The
company, which is trying to revive enthusiasm for its PlayBook
tablet after shipments dropped by more than half, will focus its
announcements on the device, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Browning in London at 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net ;  Scott Moritz in  New York  at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net ; 