-- 
Roche to Buy Anadys Pharmaceuticals for About $230 Million

-- B y   P h i l   S e r a f i n o   a n d   N a o m i   K r e s g e
-- 
2011-10-17T20:06:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/roche-to-buy-anadys-pharmaceuticals-for-about-230-million.html
Roche Holding AG (ROG)  agreed to buy
 Anadys Pharmaceuticals Inc. (ANDS)  for about $230 million to build its
portfolio of experimental drugs for hepatitis C, a market that
may be worth as much as $15 billion annually by 2019.  Anadys holders will receive $3.70 a share in cash, Basel,
Switzerland-based Roche said in a  statement  today. That’s more
than triple San Diego-based Anadys’s closing price on Oct. 14 of
$1.04 in Nasdaq Stock Market composite trading. Anadys more than
doubled to $3.65 at 4 p.m.  Anadys’s most advanced drug candidate, setrobuvir, is being
studied in combination with the generic antiviral pill ribavirin
and interferon, an injection sold by Roche as Pegasys. The U.S.
company’s compounds could help Roche develop a therapy that
doesn’t require the use of interferon, Jean-Jacques Garaud,
Roche’s head of pharmaceutical research and early development,
said in the statement.  “We see a potential upside for Roche’s hepatitis C
franchise,”  Andrew Weiss , a Zurich-based analyst for Bank
Vontobel AG, wrote in a note to investors today. Weiss, who
recommends buying Roche’s shares, estimated the drugmaker’s
annual hepatitis C-therapy sales will peak at 1.7 billion Swiss
francs ($1.91 billion).  Partnerships  Today’s deal follows an agreement between Roche and Merck &
Co. in May to work together to market hepatitis C treatments in
the U.S. The Whitehouse Station, New Jersey-based drugmaker won
U.S. approval for Victrelis, the first new hepatitis C treatment
in a decade, in May. Roche will include the drug, also known as
boceprevir, in its marketing for Pegasys.  Victrelis competes with Incivek, or telaprevir, a second
new hepatitis C treatment from  Vertex Pharmaceuticals Inc. (VRTX)  also
approved this year. Roche is selling more Pegasys in combination
with the Vertex drug than with its partner Merck’s medicine,
Pascal Soriot, head of the Swiss company’s pharmaceutical unit,
said in an Oct. 13 conference call.  Jefferies International Ltd. estimates the market for
hepatitis C drugs may total $15 billion a year by 2019.  Anadys is also conducting early clinical trials on ANA773,
a potential treatment for hepatitis C, other chronic infections
and cancer.  The Swiss company said it aims to begin a tender offer
“promptly” for Anadys’s shares, and expects the bid to be
completed this year. Citigroup Inc. bankers are advising Roche,
and Davis Polk & Wardwell LLP is providing legal advice. Anadys
is using  Lazard Ltd. (LAZ)  as bankers and Cooley LLP for legal advice.  Roche fell 0.8 percent to 141.6 Swiss francs in Zurich. The
stock has risen 3.4 percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Phil Serafino in Paris at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net ;
Naomi Kresge in Berlin at 
 nkresge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  