-- 
Roubini Says Greek Default May Spark Lehman-Magnitude Shock

-- B y   K a t i   P o h j a n p a l o
-- 
2011-10-17T12:47:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/roubini-says-greek-default-could-cause-lehman-magnitude-shock.html
A Greek default could trigger a
global economic shock on the scale of that suffered after Lehman
Brother Holdings Inc.’s 2008 failure, said  Nouriel Roubini ,
chairman and co-founder of Roubini Global Economics LLC.  A disorderly default by a member of the euro area or an
exit from Europe’s single currency bloc could cause a shock
“that would reverberate through the global economy,” Roubini
said at a seminar in Helsinki today organized by Evli Bank Oyj.  Europe’s failure to rein in its debt crisis means the
probability of a recession spreading through the region is now
greater than 50 percent, Roubini said. Policy makers are running
out of time to ring-fence  Greece ’s fiscal hemorrhaging and the
risk of a “self-fulfilling run” by debt investors on Italy and
 Spain  is growing, he said, adding both countries are already
viewed by markets as “insolvent.”  “The problems in the eurozone are chronic” and “won’t go
away,” Roubini said. He repeated his view that the European
Financial Stability Facility needs to be more than four times
its current 440 billion euros ($606 billion) in size to be
effective.  Italy  and Spain will be deemed insolvent by markets because
their austerity regimes will trigger recessions, depriving the
two economies of the growth they need to service their debts,
Roubini argued.  Defining Insolvency  Asked to elaborate at a question and answer session
following the speech, Roubini said Italy and Spain need a
“bazooka” to “have a fighting chance to avoid insolvency.”  “Once you lost market confidence, they put pressure on
your spreads,” he said. “You look insolvent.”  Roubini, who predicted the U.S. housing bubble while
failing to foresee a rebound in global stocks in 2009, also
warned there is a high probability of a recession spreading
through the world’s advanced economies as the fallout of
 Europe ’s debt crisis chokes recovery prospects in the U.S.  The Sept. 15, 2008, collapse of Lehman sent the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index plunging 43 percent through a trough in March
in the following year. Financial institutions lost or wrote off
close to $1 trillion. The  credit event  set the global economy
lurching into a crisis from which it has yet to emerge.  Roubini predicted the bubble in U.S. housing prices before
the market peaked in 2006. Still, when the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index fell to a 12-year low of 677 on March 9, 2009, he said it
probably would drop to 600 or lower by the end of that year.
Instead, the U.S. equity benchmark gained 65 percent for the
rest of 2009.  Rate Cuts  Germany  said today European Union leaders won’t provide the
complete fix to the euro-area debt crisis that global policy
makers are pushing for at an Oct. 23 summit.  Group of 20 finance ministers and central bankers concluded
weekend talks in Paris endorsing parts of an emerging plan to
avoid a Greek default, bolster banks and curb contagion. They
set the Oct. 23 summit of European leaders in Brussels as the
deadline for it to be delivered.  The  European Central Bank  must cut  interest rates 
“radically” to help avert a recession in the region, Roubini
said. Europe is “running out of time” to fix its woes, he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kati Pohjanpalo in Helsinki at 
 kpohjanpalo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  