-- 
Roubini Says Soft Landing in China Is a ‘Mission Impossible’

-- B y   K a t i   P o h j a n p a l o
-- 
2011-10-17T11:43:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/roubini-says-soft-landing-in-china-is-a-mission-impossible-.html
China ’s efforts to prop up economic
growth won’t help it escape the hard landing that will probably
arrive in 2013 or 2014, said  Nouriel Roubini , chairman and co-
founder of Roubini Global Economics LLC.  The prospect of a soft landing in China is a “mission
impossible,” Roubini said at a seminar in Helsinki today
organized by Evli Bank Oyj. Over-investment “always” leads to
a hard landing, he said.  Policy makers will “do anything possible” to keep growth
in national output at rates above 8 percent and ensure a
“delicate” political transition isn’t hampered by an economic
downturn, Roubini said.  Growth in  China’s economy  probably slowed to an annual 9.3
percent in the third quarter from 9.5 percent in the three
months through June, according to a Bloomberg survey of
analysts. Officials in the world’s second largest economy will
do what they can to “front-load” growth, pushing the risks
associated with overheating out in the future, Roubini said.  Managing the economic downshift would fall to the Communist
Party’s next leaders, as President  Hu Jintao  and Premier  Wen Jiabao  begin their transition from power late next year. A
successor to Hu is scheduled to be picked at a conclave of
Communist Party leaders late in 2012, with Hu and Wen stepping
down from their government posts in March 2013.  Lu Zhongyuan, deputy director of the State Council
Development Research Center, said at a briefing in Beijing last
month that growth in the next five years will probably exceed 8
percent.  Roubini Predictions  Roubini, who predicted the U.S. housing bubble while
failing to foresee a rebound in global stocks in 2009, also
warned there is a high probability of a recession spreading
through the world’s advanced economies as the fallout of
 Europe ’s debt crisis chokes recovery prospects in the U.S.  Europe shouldn’t count on much help from China, Roubini
said. China’s discussion on supporting Europe is little more
than “cheap talk,” he said. The government in Beijing
“doesn’t really mean” it will help euro area nations
struggling to emerge from the region’s debt crisis, he said.  Roubini predicted the bubble in U.S. housing prices before
the market peaked in 2006. Still, when the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index fell to a 12-year low of 677 on March 9, 2009, he said it
probably would drop to 600 or lower by the end of that year.
Instead, the U.S. equity benchmark gained 65 percent for the
rest of 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kati Pohjanpalo in Helsinki at 
 kpohjanpalo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  