-- 
Russian Industry Expands at Slowest Pace in Two Years, Misses Forecasts

-- B y   S c o t t   R o s e   a n d   A l e n a   C h e c h e l
-- 
2011-10-17T12:59:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/russian-industry-expands-at-slowest-pace-in-two-years-misses-forecasts.html
Russian industrial production grew
last month at the slowest pace since it began expanding in
October 2009 as increasing risks to the global economy weighed
on inventory accumulation and a weaker ruble hurt sentiment.  Factories, mines and utilities increased output 3.9 percent
from a year earlier in September after a 6.2 percent gain in
August, the Federal Statistics Service in Moscow said today in
an e-mailed statement. That’s lower than all 15 forecasts in a
Bloomberg survey, which had a median estimate of 5.5 percent.
Production shrank 0.8 percent from the previous month.  The  International Monetary Fund  trimmed growth projections
for emerging countries last month amid  Europe ’s debt crisis and
a slower global economy. Russian manufacturing endured its
weakest three months since the fourth quarter of 2009 in July to
September, according to  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) , while the government
has cut its full-year industrial-output growth forecast after
companies finished restocking inventories.  “The deterioration in the global economic outlook may have
prompted producers to rethink their strategies for the upcoming
months,” Tatiana Orlova, an economist covering  Russia  and the
former  Soviet Union  at Nomura International in  London , said
today by e-mail. “Episodes of ruble weakening usually have a
negative impact on confidence,” which partly explains
September’s “gloomy” data, she added.  The 30-stock Micex Index was 0.8 percent lower at 1,421.23
at 4:27 p.m. in Moscow. The ruble rose 0.4 percent to 30.7555
per dollar and was 1 percent stronger at 42.4200 per euro. The
Russian currency lost 10 percent against the dollar in
September, the largest monthly fall since January 2009.  Broad Slowdown  Growth in the three main industrial categories slowed, the
data showed. Mines boosted output 1.4 percent from a year
earlier in September after a 3.3 percent gain in August.
Manufacturing expanded 4.4 percent compared with 7.1 percent,
while utilities grew by 0.2 percent compared with 2.3 percent.  New export orders dropped for a third straight month in
September and weakening foreign demand means manufacturers
“face lasting stagnation,” HSBC said Oct 3.  Urals crude, Russia’s chief export blend, dropped 12
percent last month. The economy of the world’s biggest energy
exporter will match the level reached before the crisis by the
end of the year, taking twice as long compared with its recovery
after the 1998 sovereign-debt default,  Renaissance Capital  said
in an Oct. 14 report prepared with Moscow’s New Economic School.  OAO  AvtoVAZ (AVAZ) , Russia’s largest carmaker, saw sales growth
slow to 1.8 percent last month from 11 percent in August. OAO
 Raspadskaya (RASP)  and OAO  Mechel (MTLR)  last month reduced 2011 coal output
targets by 20 percent and 10 percent, respectively, citing mine
closures.  Industry Forecast Cut  The Economy Ministry predicts industrial output will expand
4.8 percent this year, less than the initial forecast of 5.4
percent, Deputy Economy Minister  Andrei Klepach  said Sept. 20.
The economy may accelerate in the second half after growth
slowed to 3.4 percent from a year earlier in the second quarter,
from 4.1 percent in the January-March period, according to a
revised government forecast published last month.  Companies were ramping up production faster than sales in
the first half in hopes of selling once the economy accelerated,
Valery Mironov, chief economist at the Center of Development in
Moscow, an independent research group that advises the  Economy
Ministry , said by phone Oct. 13.  Producer prices rose 18 percent in September from a year
earlier, the statistics service said Oct. 14. That was less than
the median forecast of 18.9 percent in a Bloomberg survey.
Producer-price growth will continue to slow, rising 12.1 percent
for the year, according to Moscow-based UralSib Financial Corp.  “Due to increased risks of an economic slowdown in
developed countries, producers will be reluctant to increase
prices rapidly,” UralSib analysts Alexei Devyatov and Olga Sterina said today in an e-mailed note before the release.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net ;
Alena Chechel in Moscow at 
 achechel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  