-- 
Russia September Retail Sales Probably Surged as Easing Prices Buoy Demand

-- B y   S c o t t   R o s e   a n d   A l e n a   C h e c h e l
-- 
2011-10-17T20:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/russian-retail-sales-probably-surged-last-month-as-prices-eased.html
Russian retail sales probably rose
the most in more than a year in September as banks boosted
lending and slower inflation lifted purchasing power.  Retail sales rose 8.5 percent from a year earlier, the
quickest pace since August 2010, according to the median
estimate of 13 economists in a Bloomberg survey. Real wages grew
4.7 percent, the fastest this year, a separate survey showed.
The Federal Statistics Service may release the data this week.  Inflation eased last month and won’t exceed 7 percent this
year, the lowest rate since 1991, according to the central bank.
That’s bolstering consumers even as exports suffer amid a weaker
global economy and the euro region’s debt crisis. Russians are
using bank loans to step up purchases of durable goods such as
cars and home appliances, said  Julia Tsepliaeva , chief economist
at BNP Paribas in Moscow.  “Consumption now is growing mainly through rising loan
volumes,” Tsepliaeva said yesterday by phone. “That’s shifting
spending habits toward non-food items.”  Loans to households grew 3.6 percent in September from a
month earlier, Mikhail Sukhov, a central bank department head,
said Oct. 11. That’s 0.1 percentage point less than July, which
had the fastest rate since at least 2009. Consumer loans rose
19.6 percent in the year through August, according to  central
bank  data.  Supermarket Sales Slow  Sales growth slowed in the third quarter at food retailers
including X5 Retail Group and OAO Magnit. The “weaker-than-
expected reports from the food retailers have, in particular,
raised concerns that the macro picture deteriorated in
September,”  Chris Weafer , chief strategist at Troika Dialog in
Moscow, said yesterday in an e-mailed research note.  X5, Russia’s largest food retailer by revenue, said Oct. 10
that it experienced a “cutback in spending amid unstable
economic conditions in Russia and world wide.” Magnit, the
largest food seller by market capitalization, said the following
day that it didn’t see “any noticeable decline in consumer
activity,” noting that food prices fell 2.7 percent from a year
earlier in the third quarter, compared with 2.9 percent growth
in the same period of 2010.  “Even if we have strong retail figures, the key boost
comes from non-foods, which are mainly imported,” Dmitry Polevoy, chief economist for  Russia  and  Kazakhstan  at ING Groep
NV in Moscow, said yesterday by e-mail. “This is fully in line
with the industrial production figures.”  Output at factories, mines and utilities rose 3.9 percent
in September, missing all 15 forecasts in a Bloomberg survey,
the statistics service said yesterday.  ‘Maintaining Current Demand’  “Food retailers’ concern is clearly premature” and the
situation won’t’ worsen before presidential elections next
March, BNP’s Tsepliaeva said. “Rising incomes, which have
boosted retail-trade growth, are unlikely to match double-digit
figures seen before the crisis, but higher pensions and salaries
for state workers are more than capable of maintaining the
current demand.”  Disposable incomes advanced 2.3 percent in the month, up
from 1.4 percent in August, according to a separate survey
Unemployment rose a tenth of a percentage point to 6.2 percent
in September, while investment spending advanced 6.9 percent
after a 6.5 percent gain in August, two other surveys showed.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net ;
Alena Chechel in Moscow at 
 achechel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  