-- 
Russia Doesn’t Expect Gas Pact During Medvedev’s Ukraine Visit

-- B y   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a
-- 
2011-10-17T12:35:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/russia-doesn-t-expect-gas-pact-during-medvedev-s-ukraine-visit.html
Russia doesn’t expect to reach a new
natural-gas supply agreement with Ukraine, which is seeking
lower prices for the fuel, during President Dmitry Medvedev’s
visit to Russia’s neighbor tomorrow.  While Medvedev will discuss energy with his Ukrainian
counterpart  Viktor Yanukovych , “we don’t plan to sign any
commercial contracts,” the Russian leader’s foreign-policy aide
Sergei Prikhodko told reporters in Moscow today. Alexei Miller,
chief executive officer of OAO Gazprom, will accompany Medvedev
to Donetsk, in eastern Ukraine,  Sergei Kupriyanov , a spokesman
for Russia’s gas-export monopoly, said today by phone.  Ukraine is seeking to revise the terms of its gas-supply
and transit contracts with Russia to help unlock the next
tranche of a bailout loan from the  International Monetary Fund .
Yanukovych, who has called the existing accord “discriminatory,
unfair and enslaving,” wants to cut the price to $230 per cubic
meter from next year’s expected level of $415.  Former Ukrainian Prime Minister  Yulia Tymoshenko  was
sentenced to seven years in jail last week for abuse of power by
signing the 10-year gas agreements with her Russian counterpart
 Vladimir Putin  in 2009. Russia’s Foreign Ministry said Oct. 11
that her conviction appears to be politically motivated and has
an “anti-Russian” flavor.  Ukraine’s questioning of gas contracts with Russia is
“dangerous and counterproductive,” Putin said the same day. A
price dispute between the two countries disrupted deliveries to
at least 20 nations for two weeks amid freezing temperatures in
January 2009.  Prikhodko declined to say whether Medvedev and Yanukovych,
who will meet at a forum on economic cooperation, would discuss
Tymoshenko.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lyubov Pronina in Moscow at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net ; 