-- 
Russia May See Fuel Shortages as Export Tax Falls, Analysts Say

-- B y   S t e p h e n   B i e r m a n
-- 
2011-10-17T15:18:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/russia-may-cut-oil-export-tax-4-5-next-month-after-urals-falls.html
Russia  may encounter short-term
shortages of oil products such as gasoline and winter diesel as
demand grows, refineries conduct seasonal maintenance and export
duties fall, encouraging shipments abroad, analysts said.  Repairs on refineries in September and October have led to
a scarcity of products including gasoline, jet fuel and diesel
on a wholesale level,  Alexander Nazarov , an oil and gas analyst
at OAO Gazprombank, said by e-mail today.  “That together with new duties and increased demand could
create a temporary shortage,” Nazarov said. The shortage may be
felt for only one or two days by end users, he said.  Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  this month lowered the export
tax rates for crude and some products to spur investment in the
world’s biggest oil producer. The new tax remains indexed to
world oil prices while lowering the percent of the state’s take,
except on gasoline and fuel oil.  “We are sure that there is a shortage of gasoline and  jet
fuel ,” Alexander Kirevnin, an oil and gas analyst at VTB
Capital, said by phone today. Shortfalls in gasoline, jet fuel
and winter diesel may grow as Russian demand outpaces the
production capacity of the country’s mostly Soviet-era refinery
stock, he said. This problem won’t be solved quickly as it
requires that companies invest in refinery upgrades, he said.  Falling Duties  Russia bases the export duties on the average Urals price
from the 15th day of one month to the 14th of the next. Urals,
Russia’s benchmark export blend, averaged $108.06 during the
most recent monitoring period,  Alexander Sakovich , a Finance
Ministry adviser, said by phone today.  The standard duty on crude exports will probably decline
4.5 percent to $393 a metric ton ($53.62 a barrel) on Nov. 1, if
the government maintains a reduced tax rate of 60 percent which
was applied this month, according to Bloomberg calculations
based on Finance Ministry data. The duty was set at $411.40 a
ton this month.  The levy on middle distillates, like diesel, will fall at
the same rate after plummeting 8.7 percent this month with the
introduction of Putin’s new rate.  State pressure to hold down gasoline prices as parliament
and presidential elections approach led to motor fuel shortages
earlier this year. The state responded by raising the export
rate on gasoline from May.  The tax on gasoline may fall to $353.70 a ton, Sakovich
said. That is 90 percent of the crude duty. Other products are
taxed at 66 percent of the crude rate.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Bierman in Moscow at 
 sbierman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  