-- 
TSA Expanding ‘Chat-Downs’ Experiment

-- B y   J u l i e   B y k o w i c z
-- 
2011-10-17T16:16:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/tsa-expanding-chat-downs-experiment-to-detroit-starting-today.html
U.S. Transportation Security
Administration workers today will begin interviewing passengers
entering  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL) ’s terminal in  Detroit  in an
expansion of its so-called behavior detection program, Greg
Soule, a TSA spokesman, said.  Detroit Metropolitan Wayne County Airport joins Boston’s
Logan International as a test site for the program, in which TSA
employees briefly talk to passengers to assess whether they
might be involved in terrorist activities. The technique has
been called “chat-downs” by Representative Bennie Thompson of
 Mississippi , ranking Democrat on the House homeland security
committee, who has questioned whether it works.  All passengers at checkpoints involved in the test are
required to answer questions when they encounter the agency’s
document checker, before proceeding to baggage X-ray and
passenger screening. The interview lasts about one minute and
resembles an encounter at a U.S. Customs checkpoint.  Trained behavior-detection officers have interviewed more
than 110,000 passengers since the program began Aug. 15 at
Terminal A of  Boston  Logan, George Naccara, TSA’s federal
security director at the airport, said in a interview last week.  Wait Times  The interactions haven’t increased waiting times in airport
lines, Naccara said. TSA is assessing efficiency and other
aspects of behavior detection during the test phase, Naccara
said.  Forty passengers, many of them saying they were in a rush
to make flights, have declined to chat and triggered
“additional” security measures, Naccara said, without
disclosing what that means.  Suspicious behavior detected during the chats has led to 10
arrests on charges including being in the U.S. illegally and
having an outstanding warrant, Naccara said.  “We don’t have someone who admitted to being a
terrorist,” Naccara said. “We’re detecting people who are
attempting to deceive us. There are similar behaviors exhibited.
There’s no distinction.”  The experiment in Boston and Detroit is a more intense form
of the people-watching that the TSA has been doing for seven
years through an effort called Screening Passengers by
Observation Technique, or SPOT.  In that program, about 3,000 officers trained in
observational techniques circulate through 160 airports. Instead
of engaging every passenger at a checkpoint, as in Boston, they
roam and talk to people they’ve identified as suspicious.  SPOT has cost the U.S. Department of  Homeland Security ,
which oversees the TSA, about $1 billion since 2007, according
to a Government Accountability Office report in July.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Bykowicz in Washington at 
 jbykowicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  