-- 
Samsung Sues Apple in Japan, Australia in Bid to Halt Sales of IPhone 4S

-- B y   S a e r o m i   S h i n   a n d   T i m   C u l p a n
-- 
2011-10-17T06:55:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/samsung-to-seek-halt-of-apple-s-new-iphone-4s-sales-in-australia-japan.html
Samsung Electronics Co. sued  Apple
Inc. (AAPL)  in Japan and  Australia  to stop sales of the iPhone 4S,
escalating a legal battle between the world’s two biggest makers
of smartphones and tablet computers.  Samsung also sought injunctions against the sale of the
iPad 2 and the previous generation iPhone 4 in Japan, the Suwon,
South Korea-based company said in a statement today. Samsung
claimed Apple’s products infringe its patents covering wireless
communications and user-interface technologies.  Legal conflicts between the rivals have spread globally
since April when Apple claimed that Samsung’s Galaxy devices
“slavishly” copied the iPad and iPhone. An Australian court
last week blocked sales of the Galaxy Tab 10.1, while Samsung
filed motions in France and  Italy  seeking to ban sales of
Apple’s latest handset.  “The legal battle is lasting longer and is more extensive
than originally expected,” James Song, a Seoul-based analyst at
Daewoo Securities Co., said by phone today. “This kind of legal
saga isn’t good for both companies given their business
relationship. The parties will eventually seek to resolve the
issue.”  Samsung rose 0.5 percent to close at 890,000 won in  Seoul 
trading, trimming its decline to 6.2 percent this year. Apple’s
stock has added 31 percent this year on the Nasdaq Stock Market.  “Apple has continued to violate our  patent rights  and free
ride on our technology,” Samsung said in the statement. “We
will no longer stand idly by and will steadfastly protect our
intellectual property.”  Paris, Milan  Apple, which is also one of the biggest buyers of chips and
displays from Samsung, had 19.1 percent of the global smartphone
market in the second quarter, with its South Korean rival
closing the gap and taking 16.2 percent,  according  to
Framingham, Massachusetts-based researcher IDC.  “It’s no coincidence that Samsung’s latest products look a
lot like the iPhone and iPad, from the shape of the hardware to
the user interface and even the packaging,”  Steve Park , a
Seoul-based spokesman for Apple, said by phone today, responding
to the court filing.  Apple is also suing Taoyuan, Taiwan-based HTC Corp. in the
U.S., alleging patent infringement. Samsung and HTC both use
 Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android platform, which has extended its lead in
smartphone operating systems over Apple’s iOS with 43 percent of
the market,  according  to Gartner Inc. Apple’s iOS leads the
market for tablet platforms, while Android will close the gap in
coming years, Gartner  said .  Samsung filed motions in Paris and Milan earlier this month
citing two patent infringements on wireless telecommunications
technology, aiming to prevent the sale of the iPhone 4S.  The company has filed an appeal against an Oct. 13
Australian court ruling to grant a preliminary injunction
against the sale of its Galaxy Tab 10.1, Samsung said in today’s
statement.  Samsung filed the latest preliminary injunction motions in
 Japan ’s Tokyo District Court and in the New South Wales
Registry, Australia, it said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Saeromi Shin in Seoul at 
 sshin15@bloomberg.net ;
Tim Culpan in Taipei at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net . 