-- 
HSBC Tells Bankers to Cut Travel, Get Smarter With Bookings

-- B y   S t e v e   R o t h w e l l
-- 
2011-10-17T16:20:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/hsbc-tells-bankers-to-reduce-travel-get-smarter-with-bookings.html
HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) ,  Europe ’s biggest
bank, is telling employees to reduce travel and become more
savvy in shopping around for flights and rooms as concern about
a global economic slowdown prompts a push to rein in spending.  HSBC’s travel volumes will almost certainly decline over
the next 12 months, Lee Whiteing, the London-based bank’s travel
and company-car manager for Europe, the  Middle East  and  Africa ,
said today at the 2011  Business Travel Conference  in London.  “It’s just going to be getting tougher out there,” Whiteing
said in a presentation. “We’re going to continue to need to look
to drive down the amount of travel. We’re constantly looking at
ways of economizing and doing things smarter.”  Growth in  premium air-traffic slowed  to 2.3 percent in
August from 7.5 percent the previous month, with bookings back
at levels seen late last year, the  International Air Transport
Association  said today. There’s also evidence of a permanent
shift toward business people travelling economy class, it said.  HSBC can’t simply achieve cost cuts by squeezing the travel
companies with which it has corporate accounts, Whiteing said.  Behavioral Change  “The message I’m going out to our businesses with is that
we’re not prepared to provide the cost reductions that you are
looking for simply by beating up the suppliers,” he said. “It’s
more about amending travel behavior, travelling less if we can.”  Employees who traditionally arrange meetings and then book
flights and rooms should check out the cost of travel first, and
then tailor their trips to match cheaper times or those
occasions when they can combine more than one visit, he said.  “People tend to ring a customer, arrange a visit and then
go and book their travel,” Whiteing said. “What we’re saying
to them is look at booking the travel first, or at least look at
the cost of traveling first before you make the meeting.”  HSBC plans to cut 30,000 jobs by the end of 2013, about 10
percent of the total, to stem costs driven by rising salaries,
it said Aug. 1. While the bank reported a 36 percent increase in
first-half profit, it said expenses equal to 57.5 percent of
sales are still higher than its 48 to 52 percent target range.  ‘Greater Caution’  Chris Thelen, CEO of  Chambers Travel Management , a U.K.-
based booker of corporate trips, said a year that began
“robustly” amid strong growth has turned much tougher, with
tighter budgets likely to eat into his industry’s profitability.  “We are seeing much greater caution both in the public and
private sectors, tight financial control,” Thelen said at the
TBTC convention. “We see a reduction in margin and much more
pay-as-you go pricing from our customers.”  Paul Wait, general manager for U.K., Middle East and global
sales at  Richard Branson ’s Virgin Atlantic Airways Ltd., said
travel budgets shouldn’t be viewed as a soft target for cuts and
that a reduction in face-to-face interactions comes with a cost.  “Whenever companies feel the need to reduce expense, one of
the first things that comes under scrutiny is business travel,”
he said at the conference. “Why stop doing the things that make
you successful? You only have to look through the history books
to understand the importance of trade and how countries develop,
thrive and survive as the result of a strong trading culture.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steve Rothwell in  London  at 
 srothwell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  