-- 
Selling Ben Ali Yachts Divides Tunisia Parties Before First Vote

-- B y   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i   a n d   C a m i l l e   l e   T a l l e c
-- 
2011-10-17T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/selling-ben-ali-yachts-divides-tunisia-parties-before-first-vote.html
The Tunis airport’s main hall
features advertisements for the country’s three cell phone
companies and foreign exchange booths from its major banks.  What Tunisians passing through it may not know is that the
toppling of President Zine el Abdine Ben Ali turned them into
shareholders of those companies -- worth almost one-quarter of
 Tunisia ’s stock market.  Tunisians control stakes in Orange Tunisie, Banque de
Tunisie and about 100 other companies, as well as 500 houses and
villas and 18 yachts, all seized by the new government after Ben
Ali fled in January. Deciding whether to sell those assets will
be a central task of the assembly being elected on Oct. 23 to
write Tunisia’s constitution.  The body’s choice may show whether Tunisia’s new rulers
will roll back the policies of Ben Ali, who supported free trade
and followed International Monetary Fund-prescribed spending
restrictions while alienating Tunisians with his family’s greed
and corruption. Two of the major parties promise to renegotiate
trade deals and use the companies for state-run investments.  “The left will push against Ben Ali’s free trade policies,
though I don’t see an alternative for a small country without
resources,” said Azzedine Layachi, a professor of Middle East
affairs at  St. John’s University  in  New York City . “The seized
assets will eventually be sold to the private sector, but only
once the political situation is settled.”  Tuna Canneries  The government’s stake in the companies, which also include
television production companies, tuna canneries, and  radio
stations , is worth about 3 billion dinars ($2.2 billion), said
Mohamed Adel Ben Ismail, president of a government commission
appointed to oversee the assets. That is equivalent to almost 25
percent of the value of the Tunisian stock market.  The commission is reviewing the companies’ records to see
how and when they were acquired and needs another six months to
complete its final report for the transitional government,
Ismail said in an interview. Even if the body rules the stakes
were legally acquired, many of their former owners are living in
exile and have been convicted in absentia on other charges.  Selling off even some of the companies could provide a
major boost to the stock market, said Slim Feriani, London-based
chief executive officer of Advance Emerging Capital Ltd., which
manages $750 million in frontier and developing nation stocks,
including Tunisian building materials company  Carthage Cement. (CC)   More Blue Chips  “The biggest issue with the Tunis stock market is its
small size, limited liquidity and lack of depth,” said Feriani.
“We need some more blue chips on the market.”  Tunisia’s benchmark stock index is outperforming that of
 Egypt , where the transition to democracy has been less smooth.
The TUNINDEX is down 9.6 percent since the start of the year
while Egypt’s EGX 30 has lost 40 percent.  The Tunisian election will be the first democratic test of
the so-called Arab Spring, which also swept out governments in
Egypt and  Libya  and led to promises of greater democracy in
Morocco and Jordon. Tunisia’s 217-seat assembly will write the
country’s constitution and be its acting government.  Ben Ali’s family accumulated its wealth by buying companies
from the state at knockdown prices and luring overseas investors
to do business with them. His family’s lavish lifestyle and
control over large segments of the economy, detailed in U.S.
State Department cables released by Wikileaks, helped spark the
revolution.  Wanting and Coveting  “Whether it’s cash, services, land, property, or yes, even
your yacht, President Ben Ali’s family is rumored to covet it
and reportedly gets what it wants,” a June 2008 cable from the
U.S. Embassy in Tunis said.  At the same time, Ben Ali’s free-trade agreement with the
European Union brought growth to Tunisia. The economy grew an
average of 5 percent a year in the 10 years leading up to the
2008 financial crisis, IMF data shows.  Merchandise exports have grown 150 percent since 2000,
driven by apparel and car parts, according to the Geneva-based
 World Trade Organization . Exports account for 47 percent of the
Tunisian economy, almost double Egypt’s ratio, the  World Bank 
says.  Tunisia “has undertaken wide-ranging structural reforms
aimed at enhancing its business environment and improving the
competitiveness of its economy,” the IMF said in a September
2010 review that also lauded its “prudent” fiscal policies.  Two parties, Al-Watad and the Modernist Democratic Pole, an
alliance built around the former communist party, favor creating
a holding company to use seized companies to direct investment
to distribute wealth more equally between the more developed
coastal areas and the interior. The Democratic Pole favors the
EU trade accord, unlike al-Watad.  Respecting Accords  The two largest parties according to polls, Islamic party
Ennahdha and the  Democratic Progressive Party  (PDP), have said
they’ll respect all international agreements inherited from the
Ben Ali government, without specifying a policy on the assets.  Ettakatol, a party that says it’s similar to European
 Social Democrats , pledges to renegotiate the EU trade agreement
to allow easier emigration of Tunisians, said Khemais Ksila, who
heads a party list in Tunis. The party favors selling the seized
assets.  “Long term, the government can’t be a partner of overseas
private companies,” he said in an interview at his office above
a satellite-television store in a working-class district of
Tunis. “It will have to sell the stakes.”  Court Administrators  When the Tunisian army put Ben Ali on a plane to  Saudi
Arabia  on Jan. 14, the transitional government froze his
family’s assets to prevent their ownership being transferred
overseas. Over the next few months, courts appointed
administrators for the companies to keep them running and save
the 15,000 jobs of people who work for them.  The government now controls indirect stakes in Carthage
Cement, as well as the country’s two largest publicly traded
banks,  Banque de Tunisie (BT)  and Banque Internationale Arabe de
Tunisie. Members of Ben Ali’s family had sat on the boards of
the three companies.  It also has stakes in all three cell phone companies.  “It’s actually against the terms of the licenses for us to
have all these stakes,” said Jamel Ayari, secretary of the
Tunisian government’s legal office, a map of Tunisia hanging in
front of him. “It was never our intention. We were catapulted
into this situation.”  Phone Holding  The government holds 65 percent of Tunisie Telecom, the
former monopoly. After Ben Ali’s departure, the government also
sequestered the 51 percent of Orange Tunisie held by Marouen
Mabrouk, 39, the husband of one of Ben Ali’s daughters from his
first marriage. And it seized 25 percent of mobile-phone company
 Tunisiana , which had been held by Mohamed Sakhr el-Materi, 29,
the husband of a daughter from Ben Ali’s second marriage.  El-Materi’s seaside house near Tunis is decorated with
bathroom sinks that had been illegally made from 2,000-year old
Roman busts. He also held a farm south of Tunis with 1 million
olive trees that he’d leased from the state for 30 years for
65,000 dinars, said Ayari, the legal adviser.  Ayari says he’s impatient to get some sales underway
because the government can’t afford the upkeep. The Maybach
luxury car owned by Ben Ali’s second wife, for instance,
“requires an engineer to come from  Germany  to change the oil,”
he said.  Foreign companies have been caught up in the seizures.
Paris-based  France Telecom SA (FTE)  owns the other 49 percent of
Orange Tunisie. Mabrouk’s three seats on the six-person board
are now voted by an administrator.  “It doesn’t in any way stop the normally functioning of
the company, but it’s a situation we’d obviously like to be
cleared up,” said Marc Renard, head of international operations
for  France Telecom . “If this lasted four or five years and we
had to start taking strategic decisions, then it will start to
be a problem.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gregory Viscusi in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net ;
Camille Le Tallec through the Cairo newsroom at
;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  