-- 
Sequenom to Sell Down Syndrome Test 2 Years After Pullback

-- B y   R y a n   F l i n n
-- 
2011-10-17T20:39:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/sequenom-to-sell-down-syndrome-test-2-years-after-pullback.html
Sequenom Inc. (SQNM)  said its prenatal test
for Down syndrome will be available in 20 U.S. cities today, two
years after an earlier effort was delayed because employees
mishandled research data.  The blood test is accurate in detecting Trisomy 21, the
genetic chromosomal abnormality that most commonly causes Down
syndrome, 99.1 percent of the time as early as 10 weeks into a
pregnancy, the San Diego-based company said in a statement. The
test, and others that will be able to identify genetic
abnormalities early in pregnancies, will alter the debate over
abortion, said Art Caplan, director of the center for bioethics
at the  University of Pennsylvania .  “For many people this test makes it morally, emotionally
and psychologically easier to have an abortion,” Caplan said in
an interview.  Caplan said future prenatal tests may be able to indicate
if the fetus had biomarkers for  Alzheimer’s disease , or  breast
cancer , or other diseases. Those tests will raise questions
about what issues will trigger potential parents to choose an
abortion. A  survey  published last month in the American Journal
of Medical Genetics showed that only 4 percent of parents with
Down Syndrome children regretted having them.  Ethical Shift  “Ethically, we are now starting to see the shift in the
issue of what counts as a medical disorder, what’s significant
enough to test for, what’s a genetic disability or just a
difference,” he said. “Many in the Down syndrome community
would say it’s just a difference.”  Sequenom funded a study, carried out by independent
researchers, that confirmed the results of its test. The study
will be published in the journal  Genetics in Medicine .  “This is the first time that a large independent study
like this was done in a blinded fashion, and it’s analyzed
independently by the principal investigators,” Dirk van den Boom, Sequenom’s senior vice president of research and
development, said in a telephone interview. “I think this is a
true validation of the technology that should convince people
that this works, very accurately.”  In April 2009, the company said it was delaying the release
of its Down syndrome test after discovering employees mishandled
research data, and shares plunged 76 percent. More than a year
later, Elizabeth A. Dragon, former senior vice president of
research and development at Sequenom, pleaded guilty to
conspiracy to commit  securities fraud  for lying to investors
about the effectiveness of the test.  Test Procedure  Sequenom’s genetic test uses a blood sample from a woman
who is pregnant. The most common current test for Down syndrome
inserts a needle into the pregnant woman’s uterus to withdraw
amniotic fluid. The needle technique, known as amniocentesis,
carries a risk of miscarriage.  This new test, if administered to women at high risk for
having a Down syndrome child, can “reduce procedure-related
losses by up to 96 percent, while maintaining high detection,”
according to the Genetics study.  The company said the test is aimed at the estimated 750,000
pregnancies at high risk for Down syndrome annually in the U.S.  Sequenom’s announcement is a good step toward giving
pregnant mothers more accurate information earlier, said Matthew Rabinowitz, chief executive officer of Gene Security Network in
 Redwood City ,  California , which is also developing a noninvasive
test for Down syndrome.  ‘Better’ Earlier  “If a couple finds an abnormality, and chooses to
terminate the pregnancy, it’s better to do it earlier,”
Rabinowitz said in a telephone interview. A family member of
Rabinowitz’s was given a false-negative result during her
pregnancy, and gave birth to a child with a genetic disorder,
who died shortly after, he said.  “The current state of noninvasive testing is not suitable
for this century,” Rabinowitz said.  Down syndrome  is characterized by slower mental and
physical development, including delayed language and motor
skills, according to the  National Institutes of Health . Those
with the condition are put at greater risk of ailments such as
heart and thyroid disease.  Sequenom’s shares increased 4.5 percent to $5.56 at 4 p.m.
New York time, the biggest gain among 125 companies in the
Nasdaq Biotechnology Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ryan Flinn in  San Francisco  at 
 rflinn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  