-- 
Shagang May Delay Ore Purchases If Steel Output Is Cut

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-10-17T10:30:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/shagang-may-delay-ore-purchases-if-steel-output-is-cut-1-.html
Jiangsu Shagang Group Co.,  China ’s
biggest private steelmaker, may delay  iron ore  purchases should
steel output need to be cut, Vice President Shen Wenming said.  “We’re considering this,” Shen said today in a telephone
interview. “The steel market is very bad. Should we cut
production, we will delay ore purchases.”  Chinese steel prices may extend their decline after
slumping to the lowest in 10 months, forcing domestic producers
to bring forward maintenance or cut output, analysts including
Hu Yanping from Custeel.com said. Chinese steelmakers, the
world’s biggest consumers of iron ore, may renegotiate fourth-
quarter raw material prices because spot rates have fallen below
contract levels, Maanshan Iron & Steel Co. and rival mills said.  “We’ve held talks with the top three ore suppliers on
quarterly pricing,” Shen said, “We told them that the index
pricing is unreasonable. It always lags behind the market when
the market falls, and it always rises faster than actual demand
when the market is up.”  Rio Tinto Group,  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  and  Vale SA (VALE5) , the world’s
biggest iron ore suppliers, last year abandoned a 40-year custom
of setting prices annually in favor of quarterly contracts as
spot prices rose. Miners currently offer various pricing options
including quarterly, monthly and weekly pricing as well as
auctions to mills. About 60 percent of Shagang’s iron ore
contracts are based on quarterly pricing, which also follow a
flexible system, Shen said.  The spot price of iron-ore fines with 62 percent iron
content delivered to the Chinese port of Tianjin fell 13 percent
to $157.5 a ton as of Oct. 14 from $181 on Sept. 7, a four-month
high, according to the Steel Index. Fourth-quarter contract
prices for the fines from  Australia  are at about $175 a ton,
Umetal.com analyst Xu Guangjian said.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net  