-- 
Singapore Exports Unexpectedly Declined in September as Electronics Slump

-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m   a n d   S a r i n a   Y o o
-- 
2011-10-17T00:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/singapore-september-exports-unexpectedly-drop-as-electronics-demand-slumps.html
Singapore ’s exports unexpectedly
fell in September as weakening expansion in the world’s biggest
economies eroded demand for electronics and petrochemicals.  Non-oil domestic exports fell 4.5 percent from a year
earlier, after a revised 3.9 percent increase in August, the
island’s trade promotion agency said in a statement today. The
median of 11 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey was for a 3.5
percent gain.  Singapore lowered its growth forecast for 2011 last week
and said the island’s expansion may slow further next year as
the European debt crisis and a faltering U.S. recovery damp
demand for goods made in  Asia .  China ’s exports rose the least in
seven months in September, while South Korean shipments climbed
at the slowest pace in three months.  “We expect a rough patch ahead for the economy,”  Irvin Seah , an economist at DBS Group Holdings Ltd. in Singapore, said
before the report. “Against the backdrop of a deteriorating
external outlook and judging from the broad-based decline in
global purchasing managers’ indices, ex-biomedical manufacturing
production will most likely continue to decline.”  Gross domestic product may increase 5 percent this year,
compared with an earlier forecast range of 5 percent to 6
percent, the trade ministry said last week. The central bank
said it will reduce the pace at which the currency strengthens
and continue with a modest and gradual appreciation.  Electronics shipments by companies such as contract
manufacturer Venture Corp. dropped 13.6 percent in September
from a year earlier, after declining 19.4 percent the previous
month.  Electronics Demand  “The electronics cluster is expected to remain weak due to
the easing of global electronics demand,” the trade ministry
said in an Oct. 14 statement.  Non-electronics shipments, which include petrochemicals and
pharmaceuticals, increased 0.9 percent. Petrochemicals exports
dropped 8 percent, while pharmaceutical shipments climbed 12.5
percent after falling 7.1 percent in August.  The performance of Singapore’s pharmaceutical industry is
volatile as production swings by companies such as Sanofi-
Aventis SA can cause industrial output to fluctuate from month
to month. Drug companies sometimes shut plants for cleaning
before making different products.  Singapore’s non-oil exports dropped a seasonally adjusted
9.3 percent last month from August, when they rose a revised 7.2
percent, today’s report showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  