-- 
SMBC Nikko Said to Be Dropped From Japan International Bond Sale

-- B y   T a k a h i k o   H y u g a   a n d   T a k a k o   T a n i g u c h i
-- 
2011-10-18T00:36:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/smbc-nikko-said-to-be-dropped-from-japan-international-bond-sale.html
SMBC Nikko Securities Inc. will be
eliminated as a lead manager for  Japan  International Cooperation
Agency’s bond sale following a probe into insider trading,
according to two people with knowledge of the matter.  JICA, as the state-run agency is known, will announce the
decision today, the people said yesterday, declining to be
identified as the matter is confidential.  Daiwa Securities Group
Inc. (8601)  and Mitsubishi UFJ  Morgan Stanley (MS)  Securities Co., which
were hired with SMBC Nikko earlier this month, will manage the
20 billion yen ($260 million) bond sale to individual investors,
one of the people said.  SMBC Nikko spokesman Kiyoo Kuniyoshi yesterday declined to
comment on JICA’s decision. The brokerage said on Oct. 6 that it
is being investigated by Japan’s  Securities and Exchange
Surveillance Commission  for a possible  insider trading  violation
by an executive.  “We are fully cooperating with the commission’s
investigation,” SMBC Nikko said in an e-mailed statement that
day, declining to comment further.  The brokerage is a unit of  Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group
Inc. (8316) , Japan’s second-biggest banking group by market value.
Sumitomo Mitsui shares fell 2.1 percent to 2,143 yen as of 9:13
a.m. in Tokyo, outpacing the Topix Bank Index’s 1.1 percent
decline.  Nissan Financial Services Co., a financial unit of Nissan
Motor Co., dropped SMBC Nikko from a planned bond sale,
according to an Oct. 6 statement from Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan
Stanley. The statement didn’t elaborate on the reason for the
exclusion. Mitsubishi UFJ, Citigroup Inc. and Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. will still manage the next sale, the statement said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Takahiko Hyuga in  Tokyo  at 
 thyuga@bloomberg.net ;
Takako Taniguchi in Tokyo at 
 ttaniguchi4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  