-- 
Sofinnova Raises Largest Life Sciences Venture Fund This Year

-- B y   R y a n   F l i n n
-- 
2011-10-17T10:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/sofinnova-raises-largest-life-sciences-venture-fund-this-year.html
Sofinnova Ventures Inc., a
California venture firm with $1.4 billion under management,
raised $440 million to invest in health-care companies and
experimental drugmakers, the largest fund for the industry this
year.  Sofinnova will seek out companies with drugs already in
clinical trials, as well as purchase therapies developed by
other pharmaceutical companies, said  Garheng Kong , a general
partner at the  Menlo Park , California-based firm.  “The initial target was $325 million,” Kong said in a
telephone interview. “Obviously we over-subscribed that, and
had excess demand.”  The fund stands out because investors have had a harder
time raising money this year. U.S. venture capital fundraising
fell 53 percent to $1.72 billion during the third quarter, the
lowest amount since the third quarter of 2003, according to the
 National Venture Capital Association .  Four other firms have raised health-care funds this year,
totaling $40 million, said Emily Mendell, a spokeswoman for the
NVCA in Arlington,  Virginia , in an e-mail.  Sofinnova will also look for what Kong called consumer
medicine, or companies with health-care products that don’t
require approval from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration. A
recent NVCA survey showed about 40 percent of 150 venture
capital firms have decreased their investment in life sciences
during the past three years, because of what they say are
regulatory hurdles.  “It’s going to be part of our strategy to pursue these
other opportunities that are slightly less regulated,” Kong
said.  The fund is Sofinnova’s eighth, and largest to date.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ryan Flinn in  San Francisco  at 
 rflinn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 