-- 
Solar Stocks Tumble as Canadian Solar Cuts Margin Forecast

-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 
2011-10-17T20:29:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/solar-stocks-tumble-as-canadian-solar-cuts-margin-forecast.html
Solar companies fell after  Canadian
Solar Inc. (CSIQ) , which makes solar panels in  China , said its gross
margin will drop more than analysts expected.  Sales after expenses probably declined to 2 percent to 5
percent of total revenue in the three months ended Sept. 30,
according to a statement today from the Kitchener, Ontario-based
company. The figure was forecast to fall to 10 percent based on
the average estimate of six analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Shares of the company dropped 14 percent to $3.27 at the
close in New York, the most since Aug. 8.  Solar panel manufacturers have lowered prices as demand for
their products declines because of subsidy cuts in Germany and
 Italy . At the same time, some companies have increased
production, leading to an oversupply of panels, said  Gordon Johnson , an analyst at Axiom Capital.  “Gross margins are going to be extremely weak” for many
panel manufacturers, Johnson said today in an interview. “We
think that there are going to be significant losses over the
next couple of quarters.”  The Bloomberg Global Leaders Solar Index dropped 3.1
percent. Hanwha SolarOne Co. declined 9.4 percent,  Trina Solar
Ltd. (TSL)  fell 6.7 percent and Yingli Green Energy Holding Company
Ltd. slid 7.4 percent.  “Pressure on average selling prices throughout the solar
supply chain” and a “weaker than normal financing
environment” led Canadian Solar to cut its forecast, the
company said in the statement.  Multicrystalline solar module prices have fallen 40 percent
this year, according to Bloomberg New Energy Finance data.  Canadian Solar’s gross margin was 17 percent in the third
quarter of 2010. The company said Aug. 17 that gross margin
would decrease to 9 percent to 12 percent this quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in  New York  at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  