-- 
Solyndra Judge Denies Request for Trustee to Run Bankruptcy

-- B y   M i c h a e l   B a t h o n
-- 
2011-10-18T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/solyndra-judge-denies-u-s-request-to-put-trustee-in-charge-of-bankruptcy.html
Solyndra LLC, the bankrupt solar-
panel maker under investigation related to a $535 million loan
guarantee from the U.S. government, persuaded a judge not to
appoint a trustee to take over its bankruptcy case.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Mary Walrath in Wilmington,  Delaware ,
denied the request of the U.S. trustee, an arm of the U.S.
Justice Department that monitors corporate bankruptcies, saying
at a hearing yesterday that “this case does not rise to the
level of failure to disclose that would mandate the appointment
of a trustee.”  Walrath allowed the company to hire  R. Todd Neilson  as
chief restructuring officer to replace its chief executive
officer. I think the “appointment of a CRO is a good
compromise,” she said.  The solar-panel maker filed for Chapter 11 reorganization
on Sept. 6 and was raided two days later by the  Federal Bureau
of Investigation . Solyndra, based in Fremont,  California , said
it had assets of $859 million and debt of $749 million as of
Jan. 1. When the petition was filed, the company said its
secured debt was $783.8 million.  Solyndra’s collapse prompted congressional scrutiny of
President  Barack Obama , who praised the company during a May
2010 tour of its facilities.  Based in Fremont, California, the company faces probes by
the FBI and Republicans in Congress over a $535 million federal
loan guarantee it used to build a $733 million factory.  Congressional Committee  Solyndra Chief Executive Officer Brian Harrison left the
company earlier this month after refusing to answer questions
from a congressional committee about the solar-panel maker’s
collapse two years after receiving government-backed funding.  Harrison and Chief Financial Officer W.G. Stover asserted
their constitutional right not to answer questions related to a
criminal matter.  The U.S. trustee argued the company’s management needs to
be displaced because of the distractions the investigations pose
and its refusal to answer questions about customer contracts. A
Solyndra executive, Benjamin Schwartz, refused to answer a
question about $1.2 billion in contracts referenced in a 2008
company statement while being interviewed by the trustee’s
bankruptcy analyst, Jeffrey Heck, according to the U.S. Trustee.  “The overarching requirement is for transparency, and they
can’t erase that or trump that,” Lisa D. Tingue, a lawyer for
the U.S. trustee, told Walrath. Tingue said the U.S. trustee
lacks confidence in the company’s board of directors and is also
concerned that Stover remains as the company’s CFO.  Walrath sided with Solyndra’s lawyers, asserting there was
no evidence of fraud or mismanagement.  ‘Highest and Best’  “Now the company can move forward and get the highest and
best offer for its assets,” Richard M. Pachulski, a lawyer
representing Solyndra, said in an interview after the hearing.
He said the request for a trustee was “unnecessary.”  The company received court approval last month to hold an
Oct. 27 auction to sell its core assets, including the Fremont
factory. The timeframe for the sale may be extended to until
about Nov. 16 to Nov. 18, Pachulski said.  Solyndra won approval yesterday to hold an auction from
Nov. 2 to Nov. 5 for assets that aren’t essential to the
business going forward.  The case is In re Solyndra LLC, 11-12799,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Bathon in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 mbathon@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 