-- 
South African Stocks Decline After Germany Damps EU Debt Hopes

-- B y   S t e p h e n   G u n n i o n
-- 
2011-10-17T16:04:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/south-african-stocks-head-for-11-week-high-on-euro-area-hopes.html
South Africa’s benchmark share gauge
fell after  Germany  said European Union leaders won’t provide the
complete fix to the euro-area debt crisis, damping speculation a
resolution would be reached soon and leading to a move away from
riskier assets.  The FTSE/JSE Africa All Share Index closed 0.1 percent
lower at 31,095.23 at the 5 p.m. close in Johannesburg. Copper
for three-month delivery fell in  New York .  Anglo American Plc (AAL) ,
the mining company that accounts for more than 9 percent of the
benchmark measure, closed 1.8 percent lower.  BHP Billiton Plc (BIL) ,
the world’s biggest mining group, declined 1.4 percent.  Group of 20 finance ministers and central banks concluded
weekend talks in Paris endorsing parts of the emerging plan to
avoid a Greek default, bolster banks and curb contagion. They
set an Oct. 23 summit of European leaders in Brussels as the
deadline for it to be delivered.  German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  has made it clear that
“dreams that are taking hold again now that with this package
everything will be solved and everything will be over on Monday
won’t be able to be fulfilled,” Steffen Seibert, Merkel’s chief
spokesman, said at a briefing in Berlin today. The search for an
end to the crisis “surely extends well into next year,” he
said.  “I suspect volatility is something we are going to have to
live with for the next two or three months at least,” Mohil
Bandulal, head trader at Sasfin Securities, a unit of  Sasfin
Holdings Ltd. (SFN) , said by phone from Durban. “Statistics suggest
that as we head into the last two to three weeks of the year we
will see a firmer market, but that does not mean a market devoid
of volatility.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Gunnion in Johannesburg at 
 sgunnion@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  