-- 
South Korea’s Regulator to Order Lone Star to Sell KEB Stake

-- B y   S a e r o m i   S h i n   a n d   S e o n j i n   C h a
-- 
2011-10-17T07:20:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/south-korea-s-regulator-to-order-lone-star-to-sell-keb-stake.html
South Korea  plans to order Lone Star
Funds to sell most of its stake in  Korea Exchange Bank (004940)  after the
U.S. fund was convicted for stock-price manipulation by a Seoul
court and lost its qualification as a major holder.  The  Financial Services Commission  will give Dallas-based
Lone Star seven days to provide its opinion on its legitimacy as
a KEB stakeholder, the regulator said in an e-mailed statement
today. The agency plans to issue an order on Oct. 25 giving the
fund a deadline to meet the requirements for holding the stake,
after which Lone Star will be asked to sell, according to the
statement.  The order would take the buyout firm closer to completing
its proposed 4.4 trillion won ($3.8 billion) sale of the 51
percent stake to  Hana Financial Group Inc. (086790)  Lone Star’s efforts
to exit its investment in the Korean lender have been delayed
for more than five years due to the legal proceedings.  “Lone Star will finally be able to leave South Korea,”
said Choi Jung Wook, an analyst at Seoul-based Daishin
Securities Co. “The completion of the deal will be a win-win
for both Hana and Lone Star. Hana can grow its scale and expand
businesses and Lone Star will get the best price for KEB.”  The Seoul High Court on Oct. 6 fined Lone Star 25 billion
won for its part in a stock-price manipulation case and
sentenced its former local chief, Paul Yoo, to three years in
prison. Yoo filed an appeal on Oct. 10.  Lone Star  decided not to
challenge the verdict by an Oct. 13 deadline, avoiding another
hurdle to gaining regulatory approval for the sale.  Hana and Lone Star in July extended the deadline for the
agreement to sell 51 percent of KEB until Nov. 30, and cut the
price by 6 percent.  “Considering that it’s practically impossible for Lone
Star to meet the requirements in this case, the FSC will set a
minimum period for the fund to meet the conditions,” the agency
said today. The regulator didn’t say when it will issue the
final order to sell the stake.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Saeromi Shin in Seoul at 
 sshin15@bloomberg.net ;
Seonjin Cha in Seoul at 
 scha2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net ;
Seyoon Kim at 
 skim7@bloomberg.net  