-- 
Spain’s NH Hoteles Cuts Price of Shares for HNA Deal by 24%

-- B y   S h a r o n   S m y t h   a n d   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i
-- 
2011-10-17T17:30:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/spain-s-nh-hoteles-cuts-price-of-shares-for-hna-deal-by-24-1-.html
NH Hoteles SA (NHH) , Spain’s largest
business hotel chain, said  China ’s HNA Group Co. Ltd. will pay
24 percent less than previously agreed to take a 20 percent
stake in the company, increasing chances of the deal being
completed.  Hainan-based HNA will pay 5.35 euros per share for 61.7
million new NH shares compared with 7 euros per share set in
May, NH said in a regulatory filing today.  Madrid-based NH Hoteles jumped 48 cents, or 15 percent to
3.74 euros, its biggest gain since May 10, 2010. The shares have
lost 36 percent since the deal was announced in May this year.  “Markets were doubting the transaction would take place at
all given the slide in the share price since the original offer
was made,” said Luis Benguerel, a trader at Interbrokers in
 Barcelona , Spain. “A more attractive price will ensure the deal
will go through.”  The deal will raise 329.85 million euros ($455 million) for
NH, compared with 431.6 million euros under the terms of the
previous agreement.  HNA, an air-transport and tourism company controlled by the
government of Hainan province is acquiring the stake as part of
an agreement that will see the companies create a joint venture
in China and NH become the preferred hotel for clients traveling
with HNA.  The capital increase, which will allow HNA to become the
hotelier’s second-biggest shareholder behind Grupo Inversor
Hesperia SA, will have to be exercised before Dec. 15, according
to the statement.  Spanish Revenue  NH Hoteles has 400 hotels in 25 countries. About a quarter
of the company’s second-quarter revenue came from  Spain , which
is struggling to emerge from the deepest recession in six
decades as austerity measures undermine the recovery.  Spanish Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero is
trying to encourage Chinese investment in Spain and Spanish
companies to boost exports to the Asian nation and visited China
in April to improve ties between the countries.  HNA Group had revenue of 7 billion euros in 2010. The
group’s assets included Hainan Airlines and department store
Xi’an Minsheng Group worth 40 billion euros, according to a NH
 press release  in May.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sharon Smyth in  Madrid  at 
 ssmyth2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 