-- 
Spanish Grape Prices Climb as Wine Output May Fall, Ciatti Says

-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 
2011-10-17T08:56:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/spanish-grape-prices-climb-as-wine-output-may-fall-ciatti-says.html
Spanish grape prices increased 15
percent to 20 percent as wine production in the country is set
to decline this year, U.S. wine broker Ciatti Co. said.  Wine output in  Spain  will probably slide 7.5 percent to an
estimated 38 million hectoliters (1 billion gallons) to 39
million hectoliters,  San Rafael , California-based Ciatti said in
a report on its  website  dated Oct. 14.  Adverse spring weather that caused disease including mildew
and a vine-uprooting plan are the main reasons for the expected
drop, according to Ciatti, which says it’s the world’s largest
broker of bulk wine. Uprooting removed 70,000 hectares (172,970
acres) of vineyards in the La Mancha region over the past three
years and 90,000 hectares across the country, equating to a
production drop of more than 10.5 million hectoliters, the
broker said.  “It is difficult to get new vintage quotes from producers
as they wait for their neighbors to make the first move, fearing
the risk of selling under the market price,” Ciatti said. “The
wines facing the biggest increase are, of course, the most-
demanded international varietal wines.”  France ’s grape harvest this year is “all about volume and
price, and less about quality,” and it’s too soon to give
accurate price figures because cooperatives and buyers are
holding off on reaching agreement, Ciatti said.  In  Germany , quality “looks very good” with high levels of
ripeness and lower acidity than last year, according to Ciatti.
Some growers suffered losses from frost and hail, while others
had higher yields a hectare than they’re allowed to sell, the
broker said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  