-- 
Sun Life Financial Had Third-Quarter Loss on Stock Declines

-- B y   S e a n   B .   P a s t e r n a k   a n d   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 
2011-10-17T20:20:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/sun-life-financial-expects-to-report-third-quarter-loss.html
Sun Life Financial Inc. (SLF) ,  Canada ’s
third-largest insurer, had a net loss of C$621 million ($608
million) in the third quarter, its first in two years, as North
American equities and interest rates plunged. The stock had its
biggest drop in two years.  Excluding some items, the loss was about C$572 million, the
Toronto-based insurer said today in a statement.  Sun Life said equity markets in  North America  dropped by 12
percent to 14 percent, while U.S. Treasury rates reached
historic lows. The losses are at the “high end” of ranges
disclosed by Sun Life in the second quarter, the company said.  “September was a brutal month from an equities
standpoint,” said  John Kinsey , a portfolio manager who helps
manage about C$1 billion, including Sun Life shares. “The
market has these knee-jerk reactions to these amounts.”  The insurer was expected to have adjusted net income of
C$260.6 million, or 38 cents a share, in the third quarter,
according to Bloomberg estimates.  Sun Life fell C$2.38, or 9 percent, to C$24.04 on the
Toronto Stock Exchange, the biggest one-day plunge since August
2009.  Manulife Financial Corp. (MFC) , Canada’s biggest insurer,
dropped 4.6 percent to C$12.34.  Manulife and  Great-West Lifeco Inc. (GWO)  “would be subject to
the same thing,” Kinsey said today in a telephone interview.  Sun Life and Manulife “could lose money in the quarter as
equity markets and interest rates declined sharply,” Andre-
Philippe Hardy, an analyst at  RBC Capital Markets , wrote in an
Oct. 3 note to clients.  Accounting Changes  Changes to accounting methods and assumptions contributed
about C$200 million to the loss forecast, Sun Life said. The
insurer will report full results Nov. 2 after markets close.  Sun Life said in the second quarter that a 10 percent
decrease in equity markets in the period would lead to a decline
in net income of C$125 million to C$175 million, and a 1 percent
drop in  interest rates  would decrease profit by C$200 million to
C$300 million.  The company plans to make changes in the way it accounts
for hedging costs on its variable annuities starting in the
fourth quarter, resulting in a one-time reduction in net income
for the period of about C$500 million, based on current market
conditions, Sun Life said.  Sun Life last recorded a net loss in the third quarter of
2009.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sean B. Pasternak in Toronto at 
 spasternak@bloomberg.net .
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net . 