-- 
U.K. Support for Scottish Independence Is Increasing, Poll Says

-- B y   P e t e r   W o o d i f i e l d
-- 
2011-10-17T08:26:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/u-k-support-for-scottish-independence-is-increasing-poll-says.html
More people in the U.K. support
independence for  Scotland  than oppose it, according to a poll
published in the Edinburgh-based  Scotsman  newspaper today.  The proportion of U.K. voters in favour of Scotland going
it alone rose six percentage points to 39 percent since May,
while opposition to independence fell four percentage points to
38 percent, a poll conducted by ComRes showed.  “Among the ordinary folk in  England , there’s a substantial
amount of support for the idea that Scotland wants to stand on
its own two feet and make its own way in the world,” Scottish
First Minister Alex Salmond told the Scotsman. “I think there
is a deep undercurrent of support.”  The ComRes poll matches the findings of a poll by TNS-BRMB
published last month in the Glasgow-based Herald newspaper.
Salmond, leader of the pro-independence  Scottish National Party 
and Scotland’s semi-autonomous government, promised to hold an
independence referendum in the second half of the five-year
parliament that started in May.  Support in Scotland for independence rose 11 percentage
points since May to 49 percent, while backing for staying in the
U.K. dropped nine percentage points to 37 percent, the ComRes
poll showed.  The latest Scottish social attitudes survey, published
yesterday, showed 74 percent of Scots say the Scottish
government should have the most influence over their lives. The
sample of 176 Scottish voters was dismissed by Scottish Labour
leader Iain Gray as too small to be taken seriously.  The referendum might include a question on whether Scotland
should have economic independence and leave foreign affairs and
defense policy to the U.K. government in  London , Salmond said.
That was a legitimate point of view, he told the Scotsman.  Salmond won’t bring forward the referendum as U.K. Prime
Minister  David Cameron  has urged, he said.  Salmond is currently seeking extra borrowing powers as well
as more control over  corporation tax , excise duties and the
 Crown Estate  to be given to the Scottish Parliament in Edinburgh
under legislation being considered by U.K. lawmakers.  ComRes polled 2,004 people including 176 in Scotland.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Woodifield in Edinburgh at 
 pwoodifield@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at   ckeatinge@bloomberg.net . 