-- 
U.S. District Judge May Review 30 Madoff Trustee Suits

-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 
2011-10-17T19:02:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/u-s-district-judge-may-review-30-madoff-trustee-suits-1-.html
A U.S. district judge said he would
take over a lawsuit by the liquidator of  Bernard Madoff ’s firm
against investor Gerald Blumenthal to decide whether a trustee
can demand the return of payments made by the confidence man’s
brokerage to its clients.  U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff said he would take 31
related suits out of  bankruptcy court  as well, “to the extent
that the 31 cases that joined Blumenthal” raised the same
issues. A bankruptcy judge could rule on remaining issues,
Rakoff said in the Oct. 14 filing in  Manhattan  federal court.  Rakoff said he would issue a written explanation of his
decision “in due course” and directed lawyers for all parties to
contact him to set a schedule.  Most of the 1,000 suits the trustee,  Irving Picard , has
filed to gather funds for customers who lost money are aimed at
clawing back profit withdrawn before Madoff’s 2008 bankruptcy,
he has said. Picard, who has raised $8.7 billion to pay claims
of $17.3 billion, has said parties in 247 of his suits are
seeking new judges.  Rakoff’s ruling on Picard’s $1 billion suit against the  New
York  Mets owners could cost him $6.2 billion, the trustee
estimates.  Ponzi Scheme  Blumenthal, a doctor who invested in the Ponzi scheme, was
sued for $1.6 million in transfers deemed “fraudulent” under
bankruptcy law. He asked Rakoff to rule on whether the Madoff
estate owes him the amount reflected on his Madoff brokerage
statements, among other issues, and was joined by the 31 other
investors facing similar so-called clawback suits.  Rakoff said he would decide if the trustee’s actions were
“consistent” with non-bankruptcy law on three issues, one of
which he had already addressed by reducing Picard’s potential
recovery from Mets owners  Fred Wilpon  and Saul Katz.  Rakoff said he also would rule on a third question, whether
Picard can claw back money taken out of the Ponzi scheme if it
was an obligatory withdrawal from a retirement account. Older
people must take funds out or pay a penalty, under federal law.  Amanda Remus, a Picard spokeswoman, didn’t immediately
respond to an e-mail seeking comment on Rakoff’s order. Jonathan Landers, a lawyer for Blumenthal, declined to comment.  The case is Picard v. Blumenthal, 11-cv-04293, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York
at   lsandler@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 