-- 
Banks Slump as Wells Fargo, Citigroup Say Revenue Falls on Economy, Europe

-- B y   D o n a l   G r i f f i n   a n d   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 
2011-10-17T17:00:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/u-s-banks-fall-as-wells-fargo-citi-say-revenue-slumped.html
U.S. banks fell after  Citigroup Inc. (C) 
and  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , the nation’s third- and fourth-largest
lenders, said quarterly revenue dropped amid economic weakness
and market turmoil linked to  Europe .  Wells Fargo slid 7.3 percent, the most since Aug. 10, to
$24.72 at 12:49 p.m. in New York trading, leading a 3 percent
decline in the 24-company  KBW Bank Index. (BKX)  Citigroup slipped 1.3
percent to $28.02.  Investors focused on Wells Fargo’s 6 percent slump in
revenue from a year earlier as U.S. banks struggle with low
 interest rates  and 9.1 percent unemployment. While third-quarter
profit at Well Fargo rose 22 percent to $4.06 billion, a record,
its $19.6 billion in revenue missed the $20.2 billion estimate
of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  “The economic recovery has been more sluggish and uneven
than anyone anticipated,” Chief Executive Officer  John Stumpf 
said a statement. “We can’t change the economic environment,
yet we have worked hard to control the variables we can.”  Citigroup’s net income jumped 74 percent to $3.77 billion
including a $1.9 billion accounting gain, known as a credit-
valuation adjustment. The firm’s $1.23-per-share profit beat the
82-cent average estimate from 25 analysts. It was the third-
largest U.S. bank by assets at midyear, ahead of Wells Fargo.  Stock Plunge  The CVA helped Citigroup’s securities and banking unit post
a $2.14 billion profit compared with $1.36 billion for the same
period last year and $1.19 billion in the previous quarter.
Excluding the CVA, revenue tumbled across all trading and
 investment-banking  businesses amid market turmoil caused by the
sovereign debt crisis in Europe and concerns that the global
economy was weakening, the bank said.  The accounting adjustment helped Chief Executive Officer
 Vikram Pandit , 54, weather a quarter in which the firm’s shares
tumbled 38 percent, spurred by concern that revenue from trading
and investment-banking would drop because of Europe’s debt
crisis and the U.S. debt-ceiling fight. Excluding the
adjustment, revenue dropped 8 percent.  “When an investor looks at the results, they should look
at the core operations,” said David Knutson, a credit analyst
with Legal & General Investment Management in  Chicago . “The CVA
will offset the operating weaknesses primarily in investment
banking.”  Cost Cuts  Stumpf, 58, has focused on cutting costs as the  U.S.
economy  and jobless rate helped keep borrowers on the sidelines.
His Project Compass aims to reduce expenses at the San
Francisco-based lender by $1.5 billion a quarter by the end of
next year. Rivals including  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  are cutting
employees, and Wells Fargo said today it plans on
“streamlining” some staff functions.  The bank’s net interest margin, the difference between what
it pays to borrow and what it earns on loans and securities,
narrowed to 3.84 percent from 4.01 percent in the second
quarter, the company said. About 0.12 percentage point of the
change was attributed to $41.8 billion in new deposits invested
in short-term assets.  “Given this low-rate environment, I think investors are
very focused on direction of bank margins, and Wells was a
little bit weaker than expected on the net interest margin,”
 David George , an analyst at Robert W. Baird & Co. in  St. Louis ,
said in an interview with Betty Liu on “In the Loop.”  The firm’s profit of 72 cents a diluted share met the
average estimate from a survey of 30 analysts.  Improved Lending  Wells Fargo reported $1.83 billion in mortgage banking
revenue, a 13 percent gain from the second quarter, with a 40
percent increase in mortgage originations to $89 billion. The
value of the mortgage servicing business declined 16 percent to
$12.4 billion, the bank said.  The company set aside $1.8 billion to cover loan losses,
with net loan write-offs of $2.6 billion, for a pretax reserve
release of $800 million. Nonperforming assets declined to $26.8
billion from $27.9 billion in the preceding quarter.  Most of Citigroup’s accounting gain stems from a rule that
required Citigroup to write down the value of its debts as
investors grew less confident of the bank’s ability to repay
them during the quarter. This led to a widening of the bank’s
credit spreads, the extra yield investors demand to own a
corporate bond rather than U.S. Treasury notes. Credit-default
swaps tied to Citigroup’s debt, which typically climb as
investor confidence deteriorates, soared during the quarter.  Trading Performance  Revenue from fixed-income trading excluding the accounting
change fell 33 percent to $2.3 billion from about $3.5 billion
in the same period last year and $3.03 billion in the second
quarter of this year.  Revenue from trading equities tumbled 73 percent to $289
million from $1 billion last year and from $812 million in the
second quarter, excluding the CVA gain. The bank blamed a slump
in revenue from “principal strategies,” which includes
proprietary trading, where Citigroup places its own money on
market bets. Revenue from the trading of derivatives, contracts
whose value is derived from financial instruments including
shares, also declined.  Fees from investment banking, which includes advising
clients on mergers and acquisitions as well as managing sales of
customers’ bonds and shares, fell 21 percent to $736 million
from $930 million last year, the bank said. Profit in the
transaction-services unit slid 3 percent to $892 million as
expenses tied to “continued investment spending” increased 17
percent to $1.44 billion.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Donal Griffin in  New York  at 
 Dgriffin10@bloomberg.net ;
Dakin Campbell in New York at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 