-- 
U.S. October Empire State Manufacturing Index (Text)

-- B y   E d i t o r :   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 
2011-10-17T12:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/u-s-october-empire-state-manufacturing-index-text-.html
Following is the text of the Empire
State Manufacturing Index.  The Empire State Manufacturing Survey indicates that conditions for New
York manufacturers continued to deteriorate in October. The general
business conditions index remained negative and, at -8.5, was little
changed. The new orders index hovered around zero, indicating that orders
were flat, while the shipments index rose above zero to 5.3. The
inventories index stayed below zero, a sign that inventories declined. The
indexes for both prices paid and prices received fell, but remained
positive, suggesting that price increases moderated. The index for number
of employees rose several points but was at a relatively low level of 3.4,
while the average workweek index was negative for a fifth consecutive
month. The future general business conditions index dropped six points to
6.7, its lowest level since early 2009, while future indexes for prices
paid and prices received declined.  Asked a series of supplementary questions about borrowing needs and credit
availability, firms noted some tightening in credit conditions but a
modest decline in borrowing costs, on net, over the past three months.
When these questions were last posed in March, survey responses had
indicated an increase in borrowing costs. In response to a new question
about credit applications, roughly three in four respondents indicated
that they had not applied for credit over the past three months.  Business Conditions Remain Weak
The general business conditions index was negative for a fifth consecutive
month, and at -8.5, adhered closely to the level it had held since June.
Seventeen percent of respondents reported that conditions had improved
over the month, while 26 percent reported that conditions had worsened.
After a series of negative readings from June through September, the new
orders index rose to 0.2 in October--an indication that orders were
unchanged after declining for a number of months. The shipments index
advanced eighteen points, rising above zero to 5.3 and signaling an
increase in shipments. The unfilled orders index inched upward, but
remained below zero at -4.5. The delivery time index was unchanged at -1.1.
The inventories index also remained below zero and, at -9.0, indicated a
modest decline in inventory levels.  Price Increases Moderate
The indexes for both prices paid and prices received fell in October,
indicating that price increases moderated. The prices paid index dropped
ten points to 22.5, its lowest level since November of last year. This
month, 29 percent of respondents indicated that input prices rose, while 7
percent indicated that input prices fell. The prices received index
retreated four points to 4.5, with 80 percent of respondents reporting
that they had not changed their selling prices. Employment indexes were
mixed. After dipping below zero last month, the index for number of
employees climbed nine points to 3.4, suggesting a slight increase in
employment levels. The average workweek index, however, remained below
zero for a fifth consecutive month and, at -4.5, indicated a slight
decline in the length of the average employee workweek.  Outlook Remains Subdued
Future indexes generally indicated an expectation that conditions would
improve in the months ahead, but the level of optimism remained relatively
low. The future general business conditions index fell six points to 6.7,
its lowest level since February of 2009. The future new orders index held
steady at 12.4, and the future shipments index rose five points to 18.0.
All of these indexes were well below levels seen earlier this year. The
future inventories index fell fourteen points to -15.7, conveying an
expectation that inventory levels would decline over the next six months.
The future indexes for both prices paid and prices received were positive
but significantly lower, indicating that price increases were expected to
continue moderating. At 6.7, the index for future number of employees
suggested that employment levels were expected to rise slightly, although
the future average workweek index was slightly negative. The capital
expenditures index was 7.9, close to last month’s reading, and the
technology spending index dipped six points to 1.1. 