-- 
U.S. Agencies Fail to Meet 1996 Law on Technology Management

-- B y   J u l i a n n   F r a n c i s
-- 
2011-10-17T20:36:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/u-s-agencies-fail-to-meet-1996-law-on-technology-use-gao-says.html
U.S. federal agencies are failing to
comply with a 15-year-old law aimed at improving the management
of computer systems, according to a report from the Government
Accountability Office.  The agencies, which spend $80 billion annually on
technology, lack leadership from their chief information
officers to meet requirements on the acquisition and use of
technology that were set under the 1996 Clinger-Cohen Act,
according to the GAO report released today.  “Just over half of the CIOs reported directly to the head
of their respective agencies, which is required by law,”
according to the report. The GAO polled 30 CIOs for the report.  The Office of Management and Budget, led by federal Chief
Information Officer Steven VanRoekel, sets priorities for
agencies’ technology use. The budget office “has not
established measures of accountability to ensure that
responsibilities are fully implemented,” according to the GAO
report.  “CIOs do face limitations in exercising their influence in
certain IT management areas,” according to the report.
“Specifically, CIOs do not always have sufficient control over
IT investments, and they often have limited influence over the
IT workforce, such as in hiring and firing decisions and the
performance of component-level CIOs.”  The budget office in August gave federal CIOs more
authority to review investments in hardware and software,
eliminate redundant programs, hire managers to oversee projects
and implement security programs. The agency didn’t immediately
respond to a request for comment on the GAO report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Juliann Francis in Washington at 
 jfrancis31@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Shepard at 
 mshepard7@bloomberg.net  