-- 
U.S. Bank Credit Risk Increases as Wells Fargo Revenues Decline

-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 
2011-10-17T21:29:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/u-s-bank-credit-risk-increases-as-wells-fargo-revenues-decline.html
The cost to protect U.S. bank debt
climbed after  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , the largest home lender,
reported a decline in third-quarter revenue.  Credit-default swaps on Wells Fargo, based in  San
Francisco , added 11.9 basis points to 156.5 basis points,
according to data provider CMA. Those tied to  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS)  climbed 30.5 basis points to 368.8. A benchmark gauge
of U.S. corporate credit risk rose the most in two weeks after a
German government spokesman damped expectations for a swift
resolution to the region’s debt crisis.  Traders pushed the contracts higher as Wells Fargo’s stock
fell to $24.42, the biggest drop since August, after revenue
fell to $19.6 billion from $20.4 billion in the second quarter,
missing the $20.2 billion estimate of 20 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. The average credit-default swap on the six biggest
U.S. banks had climbed to 360 basis points on Oct. 4 on investor
concern that bank margins are declining and that Europe’s
sovereign debt crisis will infect balance sheets.  The increase in bank swaps is a “kneejerk reaction to the
stock itself being lower,” said  Rizwan Hussain , a credit
strategist at  Morgan Stanley (MS)  in  New York . “It’s going to be
hard over the near term for the credit to go tighter when the
stock is flat to lower, but you have an environment where even
if you get the stock to stabilize and they’re perceived as dead
money, you can actually see the credit side do better.”  Credit swaps on  General Electric Co. (GE) ’s finance arm General
Electric Capital Corp. increased 30 basis points to 300.
Contracts linked to Morgan Stanley, which pay the buyer face
value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt, added 34 basis points to 425, and
those tied to  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  increased 25 to 390,
according to CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles
prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market.  Index Climbs  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, which
investors use to hedge against losses on corporate debt or to
speculate on creditworthiness, gained 5.4 basis points to a mid-
price of 135.4 basis points as of 5 p.m. in New York, according
to index administrator Markit Group Ltd.  The swaps index, which typically rises as investor
confidence deteriorates and falls as it improves, climbed after
Steffen Seibert, Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s chief spokesman,
said at a news briefing in Berlin that European Union leaders
won’t provide the quick ending to the euro-area debt crisis that
global policy makers are pushing for at an Oct. 23 summit.  The U.S. credit gauge is down from a more than two-year
high of 150.1 on Oct. 3 as optimism grew that  Europe ’s fiscal
imbalances may be contained. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Childs in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  