-- 
Uganda Police Fire Rubber Bullets, Tear Gas at Protesters

-- B y   F r e d   O j a m b o
-- 
2011-10-17T07:57:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/uganda-police-fire-rubber-bullets-tear-gas-to-disperse-protest.html
Ugandan security forces fired rubber
bullets and tear gas to disperse protests against the rising
cost of living in the capital,  Kampala , witnesses said.  Police used “necessary” means to disburse “hooligans”
in downtown Kampala, Ibin Ssenkubi, the metropolitan police
spokesman, said by phone today. The so-called walk-to-work
protest was called by the opposition group, Action for Change.  “People scampered for their dear lives as police fired
tear gas and rubber bullets,” Sunday Mubiru, an eyewitness,
said by phone from the Kisekka Market area in downtown Kampala.  Inflation in  Uganda ,  East Africa ’s third-biggest economy
and the continent’s second-largest coffee producer, surged to an
18-year high of 28.3 percent last month, prompting the central
bank to raise the benchmark  interest rate  by 4 percentage points
on Oct. 4. The country is scheduled to become an oil producer
next year when  Tullow Oil Plc (TLW)  begins pumping crude and gas from
the Lake Albert Basin.  At least 11 people died and more than 480 were injured
during protests in April and May over rising costs, according to
the Uganda Red Cross.  Ugandan police chief Kale Kayihura said Sept. 27 that the
authorities would step up security to deal with the planned
“disruptive activities.” He called Action for Change a
“sinister project that must be shunned, because if allowed to
be implemented, it will undermine the current efforts to solve
the problems of the country and plunge the country into chaos.”  The police arrested a number of A4C activists yesterday and
deployed officers to the homes of senior members of the group to
foil the protests, Mathias Mpuga, a coordinator for Action for
Change, said by phone from Kampala.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fred Ojambo in Kampala at 
 fojambo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  