-- 
Yanukovych Dismisses EU Protests Over Ukraine’s Imprisonment of Tymoshenko

-- B y   D a r y n a   K r a s n o l u t s k a   a n d   K a t e r y n a   C h o u r s i n a
-- 
2011-10-18T11:04:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/ukrainian-president-dismisses-eu-protest-over-tymoshenko-verdict.html
European Union protests over the
jailing of former Ukrainian Prime Minister  Yulia Tymoshenko 
won’t lead to her liberation, said President  Viktor Yanukovych ,
who continues to seek a trade agreement with the bloc.  “The point isn’t if someone likes” the verdict “or
doesn’t -- in Ukraine or in Europe,” Yanukovych, 61, told
reporters yesterday in Kiev, the capital. “The point is that
there is a supremacy of law, there is a court that decides.
Whatever decision the court makes, we must respect it.”  Tymoshenko was sentenced to seven years in prison last week
for abuse of power when signing a 10-year gas supply and transit
agreement with  Russia  as premier in 2009. The verdict may have
“profound implications” for Ukraine’s relations with the EU,
said Maja Kocijancic, a spokeswoman for the European Commission.  Before Tymoshenko’s trial,  Ukraine  was set to sign an
Association Agreement with the EU this year, which would have
included a free-trade area with the bloc. The former Soviet
republic, which relies on steel and chemical exports to drive
its economy, is seeking to ease its dependence on Russia, which
supplies more than 60 percent of its gas needs.  Brussels Meeting Postponed  EU President  Herman Van Rompuy  said today that a planned
meeting with Yanukovich in Brussels would be delayed.  The meeting, which had been scheduled for Oct. 20 to
discuss the Association Agreement, “has been postponed to a
later date when the conditions will be more conducive to making
progress on the bilateral relations,”  Van Rompuy  said in a
statement.  Progress toward the agreement “will now be difficult
unless some form of resolution is reached over the Tymoshenko
issue,” Tim Ash, head of emerging-market research at Royal Bank
of Scotland Group Plc in  London , said by e-mail.  Yanukovych wants to renegotiate the gas contract with
Russia, seeking a lower price. Tymoshenko signed the accord
after a dispute between the two nations disrupted deliveries to
at least 20 nations for two weeks amid freezing temperatures.
While Yanukovych called the agreement “discriminatory” and
“unfair,” Russia urged Ukraine to honor the terms of the deal.  Vladimir Putin  has tried to convince Ukraine to join a
Russia-led customs union that includes Kazakhstan and Belarus,
instead of seeking EU membership, which is “absolutely
unrealistic,” according to a Sept. 16 comment by the Russian
premier, who is seeking to return to the presidency next year.  “We are looking for a possible form of cooperation with
the custom union,” Yanukovych said. “We are obliged to find a
form that would not contradict our European integration.”  EU Membership Prospects  Ukraine still wants to forge closer ties with the EU and is
seeking eventual membership, said Yanukovych, urging the trading
bloc to treat the Association Agreement separately from the
Tymoshenko case.  The “Association Agreement, which reflects prospects for
Ukraine to join the” EU “is very important to us,” Yanukovych
said in his office. “Criminal cases against Tymoshenko should
be separated from Ukraine’s integration to the” EU.  Ukraine is ready to delay the association agreement with
the EU, should it not include the possibility of future
membership, Yanukovych said.  “If  Europe  isn’t ready for that because of any reason, or
Ukraine is not ready, it means the decision may be conducted
later,” he said.  ‘Politically Motivated’  The Tymoshenko case “appears to be politically motivated
and may damage Ukraine’s reputation,” EU Enlargement
Commissioner Stefan Fule said last month. There are several more
cases against the former premier, some of which haven’t yet been
made public as investigations continue, Yanukovych said
yesterday.  Ukraine’s security service opened a new criminal probe into
Tymoshenko on Oct. 13. It accused her of transferring $405
million in debt owed to the Russian Defense Ministry from United
Energy Systems, a company she used to run, to the state budget.
Tymoshenko denied any wrongdoing, saying Yanukovych engineered
the trial to silence opposition before parliamentary elections
next year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kateryna Choursina in Kiev at 
 kchoursina@bloomberg.net ;
Daryna Krasnolutska in Kiev at 
 dkrasnolutsk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  