-- 
Ukraine May Raise Gas Price to Unlock IMF Funds, Yanukovych Says

-- B y   D a r y n a   K r a s n o l u t s k a   a n d   K a t e r y n a   C h o u r s i n a
-- 
2011-10-17T21:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/ukraine-may-raise-gas-price-to-unlock-imf-funds-yanukovych-says.html
Ukraine will raise the cost of
natural gas for households next month to unlock an funds from an
international bailout, should the government fail to negotiate
lower import prices, President  Viktor Yanukovych  said.  The country must balance the books of state-run energy
company NAK Naftogaz Ukrainy to gain access to its next payment
from a $15.6 billion emergency loan from the  International
Monetary Fund . Ukraine, which depends on Russia for more than 60
percent of its gas, is trying to renegotiate a 2009 contract
with its eastern neighbor that ended a disruption of shipments.  “All we want is to have an average European price for
imported gas,” Yanukovych told journalists yesterday in his
office in the capital, Kiev. “Should we fail to get it, we will
be forced to raise the domestic price.”  Yanukovych today will meet Russian counterpart  Dmitry Medvedev  in the eastern Ukrainian city of Donetsk. While the two
will discuss energy,  Russia  doesn’t “plan to sign any
commercial contracts,” the Medvedev’s foreign-policy aide
 Sergei Prikhodko  told reporters in Moscow yesterday.  Former Prime Minister  Yulia Tymoshenko  in 2009 agreed to
the 10-year gas-supply agreement after a price dispute halted
supplies to more than 20 countries. The ex-premier last week was
sentenced to seven years in jail for abuse of power when signing
the deal, which Yanukovych has called “discriminatory, unfair
and enslaving.”  Ukraine wants to cut its gas imports to 27 billion cubic
meters next year from an estimated 40 billion in 2011, lowering
the price to $230 per cubic meter from next year’s expected
average level of $415. Russia has rejected the demands, arguing
that the terms of the 2009 agreement must be honored.  The IMF last year approved a $15.6 billion loan to Ukraine,
the second in two years, after the economy contracted more than
15 percent. The IMF released $3.4 billion in two installments
before freezing the next tranche, due in March, over the
government’s failure to raise gas rates for households. The
lender delayed a visit scheduled for August to Oct. 24, Prime
Minister  Mykola Azarov  said last week.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daryna Krasnolutska in Kiev at 
 dkrasnolutsk@bloomberg.net ;
Kateryna Choursina in Kiev at 
 kchoursina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  