-- 
Hungary Seeks ‘Drastic’ Cut in Swiss Franc-Loan Exposure

-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 
2011-10-17T14:27:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/hungary-seeks-to-drastically-cut-franc-loan-threat-lazar-says.html
Hungary  wants to “drastically” cut
the ratio of foreign-currency loans by early next year to reduce
the country’s vulnerability to exchange-rate swings, said Janos Lazar, the ruling party’s parliamentary leader.  The governing Fidesz party may back rules and, “if
necessary, sanctions,” that will encourage banks to allow
borrowers to rid themselves of foreign-currency loans, Lazar
told reporters in Budapest on Oct. 14. New measures may be
approved this year, Lazar told a briefing today.  “I’m almost certain we will take further steps” this
year, Lazar said. “My fellow members of parliament will be
satisfied if hardly any foreign-currency loans remained in
Hungary by next spring and instead we’d have forint loans that
don’t pose exchange-rate risks.”  Hungary, where two-thirds of  mortgage loans  are denominated
in Swiss francs, is struggling to help borrowers after that
currency rose to a record, boosting defaults and pushing up
monthly payments. Prime Minister Viktor Orban last week said the
government is considering “unexpected, unchartered” measures
to escape its franc-debt trap.  “The goal is to drastically cut the ratio of foreign-
currency borrowers by next spring,” Lazar said Oct. 14. “The
state needs to craft regulations and, if necessary, sanctions to
make banks allow the early repayment.”  Mortgage Plan  Lawmakers this year approved legislation allowing early
repayment of foreign-currency mortgages at more than 20 percent
below market rates, forcing banks to absorb the losses.  The European Union has said the plan may violate its rules,
while Hungary’s central bank warned that local lenders will
suffer “significant” losses, causing damage to lending and
growth prospects. Hungarian banks have vowed to challenge the
regulation at the  Constitutional Court .  OTP Bank Nyrt., Hungary’s largest lender, competes mostly
with units of international banks including  Raiffeisen Bank
International AG (RBI) ,  Erste Group Bank AG (EBS) ,  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  and  Intesa
Sanpaolo SpA. (ISP)   The central bank estimates that 20 percent of a total of 18
billion euros ($25 billion) in foreign-currency mortgages may be
repaid at fixed exchange rates.  While the government estimates between 20 percent and 30
percent of foreign-currency borrowers may take advantage of the
opportunity, some commercial banks put the ratio as high as 60
percent, Lazar said.  The early repayment plan followed an extraordinary bank tax
worth 120 billion forint ($554 million) a year, which the
government imposed in 2010 to plug budget holes.  ‘Significant Provisioning’  Erste Bank, eastern Europe’s second-biggest lender, became
the first foreign bank to recapitalize its Hungarian unit after
the mortgage-loan plan came into effect. Erste will inject 600
million euros into the subsidiary, the Vienna-based lender said
on Oct. 10.  Austria’s Raiffeisen International Bank will announce an
“additional significant provisioning” at its Hungarian unit on
top of 100 million euros that was already announced, Raiffeisen
said on Oct. 10.  The early-repayment plan may affect banks’ profitability
and capital, Moody’s Investors Service said Oct. 5. The rating
company placed Erste’s Hungarian unit on review for a downgrade
along with OTP and its mortgage arm; Foldhitel es Jelzalogbank
Nyrt.; as well as the local units of  KBC Groep NV (KBC) ,  General
Electric Co. (GE)  and  Bayerische Landesbank .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  