-- 
Turkey Sells $1 Billion of 10-Year Bonds, First Since March

-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 
2011-10-17T16:34:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/turkey-sells-1-billion-of-10-year-bonds-first-since-march-2-.html
Turkey  raised $1 billion in its
first international debt offering since March, taking advantage
of a rebound in emerging markets on optimism  Europe  will resolve
its debt crisis.  The government sold 10-year bonds in dollars, according to
a banker with knowledge of the deal, who asked not be identified
before the details are published. The bonds were priced to yield
310 basis points, or 3.1 percentage points, more than equivalent
U.S. Treasuries, compared with a spread of 169 basis points on
similarly rated 2021 bonds from the  Philippines , according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  The sale is the first by an emerging-market government this
month and follows a nine-day, 13 percent surge for the MSCI
Emerging Markets Index of stocks, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Developing-nation bond yields fell to the lowest
relative to  U.S. debt  since Sept. 20,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s
EMBI Global Index shows.  “The deal is fairly priced, unless you believe the general
tone of the equity and risk markets is going to retrace some of
the recent recovery,” Jeremy Brewin, who helps manage $3.5
billion in emerging-market debt at Aviva Investors Ltd. in
 London , said by e-mail.  Turkey is borrowing to help finance a  budget deficit  the
government expects to cut to 1.5 percent of gross domestic
product next year from 1.7 percent this year.  Extra Yield  The extra yield investors demand to own Turkish bonds over
U.S. Treasuries rose two basis points to 310 today, JPMorgan
indexes show. The spread has surged from 177 at the beginning of
the year and 232 at the beginning of August. The gap has
averaged 377 during the past 10 years.  “Spreads may have widened, but let’s face it, they’re
issuing at fairly low absolute yields,”  Edwin Gutierrez , who
helps manage about $7 billion in emerging-market securities at
Aberdeen Asset Management in London, said by e-mail. The bonds
didn’t offer “enough of a concession,” for Aberdeen to buy, he
said.  Turkey last sold debt on international market on March 11,
when it raised $2.3 billion in yen-denominated 10-year bonds. It
sold $1 billion of 30-year bonds on Jan. 5 and raised 500
million euros ($689 million) in November 2010 that it said was
pre-financing for this year.  The lira was the second-worst performer among emerging-
market currencies today, weakening 1.8 percent and bringing its
depreciation this year to 17 percent. The  ISE National 100 Index (XU100) 
of stocks fell 1.5 percent in Istanbul, after a spokesman for
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  said a solution to Europe’s debt
crisis will not be quick.  Serbia  Serbia was the last developing nation to raise money on
international capital markets, issuing $1 billion of Eurobonds
last month.  Turkey’s foreign-currency debt is rated two levels below
investment grade by Moody’s Investors Service, on a par with
Jordan and the Philippines.  Fitch Ratings  ranks Turkey one step
below with a positive outlook.  Standard & Poor’s  lifted Turkey’s
local-currency debt to investment grade on Sept. 20 while
keeping the foreign-currency rating two levels below.  The  Treasury  in Ankara hired Bank of America Merrill Lynch
and HSBC Holdings Plc to arrange the sale, according to a
statement on its website earlier today.  Turkey plans to raise a total of about 12.5 billion liras
($6.8 billion) in foreign borrowing this year, including
payments from international lenders such as the  World Bank .  The government announced on Oct. 13 economic plans aiming
for a tighter budget than the program published last year, with
debt-to-GDP declining from 39.8 percent at the end of this year
to 35 percent in 2013 and 32 percent in 2014. The previous plan,
which covered the three years to 2013, forecast debt ratio of
36.8 percent at the end of the period.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Bentley at 
 mbentley3@bloomberg.net  