-- 
Murray Passes Federer as No. 3 Tennis Player; Clijsters Is Out of Top 10

-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 
2011-10-17T10:22:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/murray-passes-federer-as-world-no-3-clijsters-out-of-women-s-top-10.html
Andy Murray moved ahead of  Roger Federer  on the ATP World Tour tennis rankings for the first
time, while Australian Open winner  Kim Clijsters  dropped out of
the top 10 of the women’s tour.  Murray, 24, rose one spot to No. 3 after he beat Spain’s
David Ferrer in the Shanghai Masters final yesterday. That
followed titles this month at the Thailand Open and Japan Open.
The Briton, who is still seeking his first major title, has now
won 25 of his past 26 matches. His last loss was against second-
ranked Rafael Nadal of Spain in the semifinals of the U.S. Open
in September.  Federer, the winner of a men’s record 16 Grand Slam singles
titles, dropped one spot to No. 4. The 30-year-old Swiss fell
out of the top three for the first time since June 2003, partly
as he decided not to compete in  Asia  so as to recover from the
U.S. hardcourt season. Serbia’s Novak Djokovic is already
guaranteed to finish 2011 as the world No. 1 thanks to a season
during which he won three majors and only lost three matches.  “I’m still not guaranteed to finish at No. 3,” Murray
said on the ATP website. “I’m still going to have to win some
more matches. But if you finish in front of Federer in a year,
then there’s not many people in the last five, six, seven years
that have been able to say that.”  Mardy Fish, the top American player, moved up one position
to No. 8. That puts him in contention for the season-ending  ATP
World Tour finals  in London at the end of November, where the
world’s top eight will compete.  On the women’s WTA tour, Clijsters dropped one spot to No.
11. The Belgian, a former world No. 1, missed the French Open,
Wimbledon and the  U.S. Open  because of injuries. Thirteen-time
major champion  Serena Williams  of the U.S. remained at No. 14.  Caroline Wozniacki  of Denmark remained the top player in
the rankings. Former Wimbledon champion  Maria Sharapova  of
Russia is at No. 2, with Victoria Azarenka of Belarus in third.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh on the London sports desk at   drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  