-- 
Venezuela Sells $3 Billion of 15-Year Bonds in Local Market

-- B y   D a n i e l   C a n c e l   a n d   C o r i n a   R o d r i g u e z   P o n s
-- 
2011-10-17T20:20:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/venezuela-sells-3-billion-of-11-75-bonds-due-in-2026.html
Venezuela  sold $3 billion of bonds
due in 2026, swelling total issuance this year to a record $7.2
billion as President  Hugo Chavez  looks to finance government
social programs ahead of his re-election bid.  The bonds were priced at 95 cents on the dollar to yield
11.75 percent, according to a statement published on the Public
Credit Office’s website. Venezuelans who bought them in bolivars
at the official rate of 4.3 per dollar can sell the notes abroad
at a discount to obtain foreign currency, a practice that skirts
currency controls imposed in 2003.  The country, which has the highest borrowing costs of major
emerging-market economies after Belarus, is selling a record
amount of debt this year even as the average price for oil
exports sits at $99.58 a barrel, up from $75 a year earlier.
Chavez nearly doubled the country’s debt limit this year to
secure resources for agriculture, housing and job creation
programs that he hopes will lead to re-election next year and
extend his 12-year rule through 2019.  “The government is trying to issue as much debt as
possible to pump up the economy and fund their electoral
missions,” said  Russell Dallen , the head bond trader at Caracas
Capital Markets in Miami.  The sale brings the total issuance by Venezuela and state
oil company Petroleos de Venezuela SA to about $15.2 billion
this year, a figure that surpasses the combined amount sold by
the rest of Latin American governments in the international
market,  Barclays Capital  said on Oct. 11 in a report.  Benchmark Yields  Yields on the government’s benchmark 9.25 percent bonds
maturing in 2027 rose three basis points, or 0.03 percentage
point, to 14.43 percent at 3:18 p.m. Caracas time, according to
prices compiled by Bloomberg. The price fell 0.13 cent on the
dollar to 68 cents.  The extra yield investors demand to own Venezuelan
 government bonds  instead of U.S. Treasuries rose seven basis
points, or 0.07 percentage point, to 1,330, according to
JPMorgan Chase & Co. indexes.  The 2026 bonds are being priced overseas at about 75 cents
on the dollar, for a yield of about 16 percent, Dallen said.  The government sold a majority of the bonds to the public
banking system, followed by companies importing food, medicine
and machinery,  Alejandro Grisanti , a New York-based analyst for
Barclays Capital, said in an interview. That structure will slow
the bonds’ diffusion into international markets, as the public
banks will sell their bonds through the central bank’s currency
market known as Sitme, Grisanti said.  Bond Limits  According to the  Finance Ministry , companies importing
“priority” goods were allocated a maximum of $1.47 million
while individuals and other companies received a maximum of
$1,500 each. The public banking system’s orders were all met,
the ministry said, without specifying how much banks bought.  “This allocation mechanism has the benefit of better
supporting Venezuelan bond prices during the first few months
because the private sector, which usually sells them immediately
into international markets, didn’t receive the majority of the
bonds,” Grisanti said.  JPMorgan Chase estimates that state-run banks received
about $2.5 billion of the sale. That will boost supplies to the
central bank currency market, giving it enough dollar-
denominated bonds for another six months, according to a note by
Benjamin Ramsey, a Latin America analyst in  New York .  PDVSA, the state-oil company, may sell bonds in a private
placement with the central bank later this year to repay
maturing promissory notes, and total issuance by Venezuela and
PDVSA may reach $12 billion in 2012, Ramsey said.  Oil Outlook  Fitch Ratings , which classifies Venezuelan debt B+, or four
levels below investment grade, said today that the country is
vulnerable to a global economic slowdown that could erode world
energy demand and drive  oil prices  down.  “Despite high oil prices and a return to economic growth
in 2011, Fitch Ratings views heavy government and oil sector
borrowing as risk factors that could affect the country’s credit
profile if global economic conditions worsen in 2012,” Fitch
said in a statement. “A significant macroeconomic shock could
erode sovereign  credit quality  quickly.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Cancel in Caracas at 
 dcancel@bloomberg.net ;
Corina Rodriguez Pons in Caracas at 
 crpons@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  