-- 
Vietnam Attracts Coffee Companies Seeking Supply, Dreyfus Says

-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 
2011-10-17T06:21:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/vietnam-attracts-coffee-companies-seeking-supply-dreyfus-says.html
International companies are
expanding in  Vietnam , the world’s largest producer of robusta
coffee, to ensure supplies after local traders failed to fill
contracts, according to Louis Dreyfus Commodities SA.  Disputes between exporters in growing countries and members
of the Swiss Coffee Trade Association increased after prices
jumped as much as 55 percent in the past year, said Nicolas
Tamari, head of the Geneva-based association. There may have
been “some movements in timing” on contracts and “we can’t
say who is right and who is wrong,” Luong Van Tu, chairman of
the Vietnam Coffee & Cocoa Association, said by phone Oct. 7.  Vietnam became the world’s largest producer of robusta in
1997-98, displacing  Indonesia , and was the second-biggest for
all types of coffee by 1999-2000, according to the  U.S.
Department of Agriculture . Vietnam’s crop doubled since 1999-
2000 as roasters sought to cut expenses by using more robusta,
which costs about 60 percent less than the arabica preferred by
Starbucks Corp., the world’s largest coffee-shop operator.  “The continued defaults by Vietnamese exporters have only
served to accelerate the process of multinational companies
processing in Vietnam, particularly in the last 12 months,”
said Trishul Mandana, managing director of the coffee unit at
Louis Dreyfus in Geneva. “Today, the only way in which
multinational companies can guarantee that they have secure
supply for their roaster clients is by sourcing themselves.”  Coffee Shipments  Dreyfus handles 8.5 million bags of green coffee a year,
according to its website. Vietnam’s exporters delayed or
canceled as much as 60,000 metric tons of coffee shipments in
June and July, Jan Luehmann, head of trading at Sucafina, a
Geneva-based coffee trader with offices in Vietnam, said in
July. Robusta climbed as much as 55 percent in the past year on
the NYSE Liffe exchange in London.  “I don’t want to answer you on whether it is a
postponement or default because there are contracts that were
signed for delivery in future months,” said  Luong Van Tu  of the
Hanoi-based coffee and cocoa association. Its 80 members include
local units of London-based Armajaro Holdings Ltd., Louis
Dreyfus, Neumann Gruppe GmbH of Hamburg, Noble Group Ltd. and
Olam International Ltd., according to its  website .  Coffee production in the Southeast Asian nation will climb
to a record 22 million bags of 60 kilograms (132 pounds), or
1.32 million tons, in the season that started this month,
Volcafe, the coffee unit of commodities trader ED&F Man Holdings
Ltd., estimated in August. That compares with 20 million bags in
the 2010-11 season, it said.  Coffee Merchants  If coffee exporters don’t meet contracts, “the logical
consequence is an expansion in origination by international
coffee merchants,” said Jan Kees van der Wild, managing
director of Volcafe in Winterthur,  Switzerland .  “Every year we have had defaults from Vietnam, but with
the market volatility so high, I believe people are getting hit
much harder financially,” said Renaud de Kerchove, the managing
director of coffee in  Europe ,  Middle East  and  Africa  for Ecom
Agroindustrial Corp., a commodity trading company.  “The big change this year is that larger companies are not
honoring contracts and more traders are being hit,” de Kerchove
said from Pully, Switzerland.  The reported increase in contract disputes has yet to mean
more applications for arbitration in London, said Angus Kerr,
the owner of Coffee ag, a trading company in Cobham,  England .
Kerr is a member of the panel of arbitrators at the  British
Coffee Association . That may be because traders assume the
arbitration will be unenforceable, he said.  Ecom resorted to arbitration last year and never received
compensation, de Kerchove said. Dreyfus won six arbitrations in
the past 12 months and none has been fulfilled, Mandana said.  “The defaults by the exporters are serving to destroy
value for the Vietnamese farmer,” Mandana said. Buyers are
beginning to “price in ‘ default risk ’ into the prices paid.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in  London  at 
 Ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 Ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 