-- 
VMware Says 2012 May Be ‘Difficult’ Amid Reduced Spending

-- B y   D i n a   B a s s
-- 
2011-10-17T22:16:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/vmware-profit-rises-as-customers-renew-licenses-sign-new-deals.html
VMware Inc. (VMW) , the biggest maker of
programs that let computers run multiple operating systems, said
it’s bracing for a “difficult” 2012 because corporations may
slow spending on technology, including the company’s software.  On a conference call today to discuss quarterly earnings,
Chief Financial Officer Mark Peek said next year will be
“challenging.” Net income in the third quarter more than
doubled to $177.5 million, or 41 cents a share, from $84.6
million, or 20 cents, VMware said. Excluding some costs, profit
was 53 cents, compared with the 49-cent average estimate of
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  VMware, based in  Palo Alto ,  California , has benefited as
companies invest in data centers to run software in the so-
called cloud, or stored on the Internet instead of their own
server computers. Still, Peek said information technology
spending is likely to weaken next year, and VMware’s results
will be compared against strong numbers from 2011. The company
also plans to invest heavily.  “It will be a year of challenging revenue comparables and
considerable investments,” Peek said on the conference call.  Sales in the first quarter will be $1 billion to $1.03
billion, the company said on the call. Analysts had expected
sales of $1.03 billion.  VMware, majority-owned by EMC Corp., slipped in extended
trading after the report. Earlier, the stock declined 3.8
percent to $89.52 at the close in  New York . The shares are
little changed this year.  Unearned Revenue  Sales in the recent period rose 32 percent to $941.9
million, while unearned revenue, a measure of future business,
was $2.2 billion -- almost $100 million above the estimate of
 Robert Breza , an analyst at  RBC Capital Markets .  “The overall numbers were good,” said Breza, who is based
in  Minneapolis  and rates VMware shares “outperform.” “The
most impressive number is when you add in the total unearned
revenue. It’s a pretty strong showing that should give people
confidence going forward.”  The company signed large contracts, renewed existing ones
and saw greater interest in new products such as vSphere 5,
which improves server performance, Adam Holt, an analyst at
Morgan Stanley, wrote in a note today.  Fourth-quarter sales will be $1.03 billion to $1.06
billion, VMware said. Breza said some shareholders may be
concerned that the company is being too conservative with its
forecast. Though the range is in line with or above the average
analyst estimate of about $1.03 billion, some investors may have
wanted the company to issue a higher projection, he said.  Breza said the forecast aptly reflects slow economic
growth.  “Right now, put a number out there you are going to
beat,” he said. “Don’t put out any stretch goals.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dina Bass in Seattle at 
 dbass2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  