-- 
Walgreen Climbs on Express Scripts Extension in Kansas City

-- B y   C h r i s   B u r r i t t
-- 
2011-10-17T20:16:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/walgreen-advances-on-express-scripts-extension-in-kansas-city.html
Walgreen Co. (WAG) , the largest U.S.
drugstore chain, rose 2.7 percent, the most in three weeks, 
after extending an agreement with  Express Scripts Inc. (ESRX) 
covering 430,000 customers in Kansas City, Missouri.  As of Jan. 1, 2012, Walgreen will continue participating in
the prescription-drug program that  Express Scripts  administers
for Blue Cross and Blue and Shield of Kansas City, the health
insurer said in a statement on its  website  Oct. 14.  The national agreement between Walgreen, the largest U.S.
drugstore chain, and Express Scripts, a manager of drug benefits
for companies, unions and other employers, expires at the end of
2011. Express Scripts may be more willing to come to terms on
the national contract with Walgreen as more of its customers
sign individual deals with the retailer, said John Heinbockel,
an analyst at Guggenheim Securities in  New York .  “We continue to believe that a resolution will occur
within the next few weeks given the impact on both companies if
the relationship is severed,” Heinbockel wrote today in a note
to clients. He has a “buy” rating on Walgreen.  Walgreen, based in Deerfield,  Illinois , climbed 2.7 percent
to $33.89 at 4:01 p.m. in New York, the biggest gain since Sept.
26. Express Scripts slipped less than 1 percent to $40.08.  Walgreen’s national contract with Express Scripts is worth
more than $5 billion in annual drug sales.  Express Scripts Clients  Walgreen is hearing from “many other Express Scripts
clients who are interested in having Walgreen in their
networks,” Michael Polzin, a spokesman for the retailer, said
today by telephone.  The Blue Cross and Blue Shield agreement in  Kansas City 
doesn’t signal that Walgreen and Express Scripts are resolving
the disputed national agreement, Polzin said. He declined to
comment on negotiations except to reiterate Walgreen’s statement
Sept. 27 that “we are planning not being part of the Express
Scripts network as of Jan. 1.”  Express Scripts reiterated its rejection of the Walgreen
offer. “If it had been something that we thought was good for
our customers, we would have accepted it,” said  Brian Henry , a
spokesman for the St. Louis-based pharmacy benefits management
company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Burritt in Greensboro at 
 cburritt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  