-- 
Years of Wal-Mart Violations Forced China Government Action, Official Says

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-10-18T16:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/walmart-names-asia-ceo-price-interim-leader-of-china-operations.html
Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) ’s failure to
fix problems at outlets in Chongqing over the past five years
forced authorities to temporarily halt its operations in the
Chinese city as a warning, an official said.  “Wal-Mart has been quick in admitting their wrongdoings,
but slow in correcting them,” Tang Chuan, the director of  law
enforcement  at the Bureau of Inspection and Enforcement in
Chongqing, said in an interview yesterday. “Every time, it
feels like we’re punching our fists into cotton.”  Tang’s bureau shuttered all of Wal-Mart’s 13 stores in the
city for two weeks on Oct. 9 and detained 37 people after the
retailer labeled ordinary pork as organic, the most severe
punishment in  China  since the company entered the country in
1996. U.S. and European business groups have complained of
unfair treatment of foreign companies in China, where Wal-Mart
has grown to 353 stores from eight in a decade.  “I think it’s overreacting -- I suspect mislabeling cases
like these in China are widespread,” said Jason Ding, a
Beijing-based partner and vice president at management
consultant Roland Berger AG. “Such severe punishment shows
selective enforcement.”  Anthony Rose, a Hong Kong-based spokesman for Wal-Mart,
declined to comment on Tang’s remarks in an e-mail yesterday and
instead drew attention to Wal-Mart’s expansion, the money it has
spent on local communities, and awards it has won in China. “Is
there any other company in retail that can claim that? Likely
not,” he said.  Kevin Gardner , a U.S.-based spokesman for the company’s
international business, deferred several requests for comment to
Rose.  3.65 Million Yuan Fine  Chongqing fined Wal-Mart 3.65 million yuan ($573,000) after
12 of 13 stores in Chongqing were found to have sold the
mislabeled pork. Wal-Mart pledged to cooperate with the
investigation, which saw two employees arrested and another 35
people detained. Tang would not comment on the status of those
cases.  Wal-Mart will reopen its stores on Oct. 25 and “exceed
customer expectations,” Rose said earlier this week. The
retailer has promised to set up a food-safety testing system,
host lectures by food-quality experts and establish a consumer-
rights desk, Tang said. Rose would not detail the company’s
efforts.  The world’s largest retailer was not being singled out for
punishment, Tang said. Since 2006, Wal-Mart has been cited for
21 cases of selling expired or substandard food and false
advertising in the city.  ‘Warning to Them’  “Anyone who breaks the law, no matter foreign or domestic,
big or small, will be punished,” Tang said. “It’s a warning to
them.”  Wal-Mart announced earlier this week that the president of
its China operations, Ed Chan, was resigning for personal
reasons and that Asia chief  Scott Price  was taking interim
control in the country. Clara Wong, senior vice president for
human resources in China, also quit for personal reasons, Rose
said.  China fined 19 Wal-Mart and  Carrefour SA (CA)  stores 9.5 million
yuan for misleading pricing, the National Development and Reform
Commission said on Feb. 22. In May, China fined Unilever, the
world’s second-largest consumer-goods maker, 2 million yuan for
telling the media about plans to raise prices, which the
government said led to hoarding.  The southwestern Chinese city of Kunming imposed temporary
price ceilings on “daily necessities” late last year, telling
retailers such as Wal-Mart and Carrefour to report any planned
price rises.  ‘Unambiguously Discriminate’  Wal-Mart reported annual revenue of $7.5 billion in China
last year, about 1.8 percent of the company’s total.  In September, the  European Union Chamber of Commerce  issued
a report saying that discriminatory laws and regulations keep
its members from participating in the Chinese economy. China has
rules that “unambiguously discriminate against foreign
companies” and implements them in a way that’s “biased and
subjective,” it said.  The report cited the fact that carmakers must take a
Chinese partner and are limited to a 50 percent stake in their
ventures, while telecommunications companies are effectively
shut out from the world’s biggest mobile-phone market. Foreign
banks’ ownership of domestic financial firms is capped at 20
percent, it said.  “Ten years ago, local governments would have fought
crazily for them to open stores,” said Ding at  Roland Berger .
“But the tides have turned against them this time. Their
honeymoon period is over.”  China Catching Up  Customers in Chongqing, a municipality of at least 30
million people, said local competitors were catching up to Wal-
Mart.  “Wal-Mart and other foreign supermarkets used to offer a
bigger variety of goods at lower price points,” said Peng
Xiaoyu, a 25-year-old clothing store owner, as she emerged from
a Yonghui Superstores Co. outlet with milk, apples, cookies and
shampoo. “What’s more important is they are known for not
cheating on quality or price. Chinese supermarkets are catching
up in recent years.”  In response to questions about the Wal-Mart closures
yesterday, Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Liu Weimin
suggested that foreign companies needed to recognize that their
Chinese counterparts are more competitive than in the past.  “Foreign companies should also adapt to such changes
instead of relying on preferential policies,” Liu said. “We
hope foreign companies can also make efforts to enhance their
own competitiveness.”  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave McCombs at 
 dmccombs@bloomberg.net  