-- 
Weavering Chief Orchestrated $600 Million Fraud, Lawyer Says

-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o
-- 
2011-10-17T15:13:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/weavering-founder-orchestrated-600-million-fraud-lawyer-says.html
The founder of Weavering Capital
(UK) Ltd. was the “chief architect of a $600 million hedge-fund
fraud” as he hid losses from investors and falsely inflated the
fund’s value, a lawyer for the fund’s administrators said.  Magnus Peterson “attracted hundreds of millions of dollars
from investors” by marketing the Weavering Macro Fixed Income
Fund Ltd. as an easily liquidated fund with low risk, a lawyer
for the administrators of the fund,  Robert Anderson , said at the
first day of a civil trial in London today seeking to recoup
losses from Peterson and other former Weavering employees.  The fund collapsed in March 2009, and Peterson and Edward Platt, his deputy investment manager, were arrested by the U.K.
Serious Fraud Office, which investigates white-collar crime. The
SFO decided last month not to bring charges because it didn’t
think it could win a conviction.  Peterson told investors the fund had returns of as much as
12 percent per year, with a diversified portfolio of exchange-
traded futures and options, based on the macroeconomic research
of  James Stewart , the fund’s then chief economist, Anderson
said.  After the fund lost money on Peterson’s options trades, he
sought to hide the losses with fraudulent swaps investments.
When the fund collapsed, administrators discovered that the
counterparty for the Macro fund’s biggest trading position was
controlled by Weavering.  Market Turbulence  “The fraud was discovered when investors sought to
withdraw their money following the market turbulence of 2008,”
Anderson said. “The reported value of the fund consisted solely
of the worthless swaps.”  A swap is an exchange of interest-rate exposures from
floating to fixed and vice versa.  MCR , Weavering’s administrator, is also suing Peterson’s
wife, Amanda, and Platt. The Petersons, both derivatives
traders, met while they were working at the Swedish bank
Skandinaviska Enskilda Banken AB in  London  in the 1980s. Amanda
Peterson, who was also an employee of Weavering, “ought to have
uncovered and reported the fraud,” Anderson said.  Platt “was certainly involved in the fraud, and intimately
so,” by forging documents and lying to investors, Anderson
said.  The defendants will present their arguments later in the
trial. A spokeswoman at Stephenson Harwood, Amanda Peterson’s
law firm, declined to comment on the lawsuit. Magnus Peterson
and Platt are representing themselves in the case.  Barnaby Stueck, a lawyer for MCR, said last month there is
“a devastating weight of evidence against Mr. Peterson.” He
said he disagreed with the outcome of the SFO investigation. MCR
liquidator Geoffrey Bouchier said it was “deeply disappointing
to Weavering’s investors and creditors.”  A Cayman Islands court found Peterson’s brother and
stepfather liable for neglecting their duties as directors of
the Macro Fund and awarded damages of $111 million to investors
in the case in August, lawyers for MCR said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lindsay Fortado in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  