-- 
Weight-Loss Surgery for One Spurs Healthier, Slimmer Family

-- B y   N i c o l e   O s t r o w
-- 
2011-10-17T20:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/weight-loss-surgery-for-one-person-spurs-healthier-slimmer-family.html
Weight-loss surgery  improves the
eating and exercise of the patient’s entire family, according to
a new study, lending support to the idea that healthy habits can
be contagious.  A trial of 85 people showed that a year after surgery,
other obese adults at home also lost weight and obese children
in the house had a lower body mass index than expected,
according to the paper in the  Archives of Surgery . Patients
after surgery are put on a strict eating regimen, which acts as
a powerful influence for the rest of the household to modify
their diets, researchers said.  Today’s findings validate what surgeons have noticed for
years: healthy habits rub off, said  Nestor de la Cruz-Munoz ,
chief of Laparoendoscopic and Bariatric Surgery at the
 University of Miami  School of Medicine. Surgeons have talked
about this effect for years so it was nice to see it in a
clinical trial, he said.  “The benefit comes because people then become a little
better educated on nutrition and the effects of obesity,” Cruz-
Munoz, who was not involved in the study, said in an Oct. 14
telephone interview. “As a patient starts going through the
educational process a lot of times the family does as well.
Everyone should get better educated on nutrition and obesity.”  Almost  34 percent  of American adults are obese, a number
that has doubled in the past 30 years, and about 17 percent of
U.S. children and adolescents are obese, triple the rate from
the previous generation, according to the Atlanta-based Centers
for Disease Control and Prevention. Overweight or  obese  people
have a greater risk of diabetes, heart attacks and strokes.  220,000 Gastric Bypasses  About 220,000 gastric bypass procedures are performed in
the U.S., according to the paper. In gastric bypass, doctors
create a small pouch about the size of a walnut at the top of
the stomach and connect it to a passage that bypasses the rest
of the stomach and part of the small intestine. That arrangement
limits the body’s ability to absorb calories.  Researchers in the study included 35 patients who had
bariatric surgery, 35 adult family members and 15 children under
the age of 18. The patients and family members all attended
surgery follow-up appointments together in the year following
the procedure.  Sixty percent of adult family members and 73 percent of
children of patients undergoing bypass surgery were obese.  Obese adult family members lost about eight pounds over the
year after significantly changing their eating habits, the study
showed. The patients who had the surgery lost about 100 pounds,
said study author John  Morton , director of Bariatric Surgery at
Stanford University Medical Center in Stanford,  California .  Losing and Gaining Together  “We lose and gain weight together,” Morton said, in an
Oct. 14 telephone interview. “We’ve got to support each other
when it comes to weight loss. When we support each other,
everybody benefits.”  There also was a trend for obese children to have a lower
body mass index than expected for their growth curve, the study
showed. Both adult family members and children increased their
physical activity, while adult family members had less
uncontrollable eating, less emotional eating and had fewer
alcoholic drinks. Children watched less television.  The  American Heart Association  in March said that severely
obese people may benefit from weight-loss surgery, which leads
to weight loss and improvements in diabetes, cholesterol and
blood pressure, and those benefits may outweigh the hazards.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Ostrow in New York at 
 nostrow1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  