-- 
Wells Fargo Slumps as Lower Revenue Mars Record Profit

-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 
2011-10-17T20:56:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-17/wells-fargo-posts-higher-net-income-on-improving-credit-quality.html
Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , the largest U.S.
home lender, led decliners among bank stocks after reporting
that third-quarter revenue declined and margins narrowed.  Investors focused on a 6 percent decline in revenue from a
year earlier to $19.6 billion. That missed the $20.2 billion
estimate of analysts as low interest rates cut into profit on
loans, according to a statement by the San Francisco-based bank.  “Given this low-rate environment, I think investors are
very focused on direction of bank margins, and Wells was a
little bit weaker than expected on the net interest margin,”
 David George , a bank analyst at Robert W. Baird & Co. in  St.
Louis , said in an interview with Betty Liu on Bloomberg
Television’s “In the Loop.”  Chief Executive Officer  John Stumpf , 58, is focusing on
costs as the 9.1 percent U.S. jobless rate and slow economy keep
borrowers on the sidelines. Stumpf’s Project Compass aims to
reduce expenses about $1.5 billion a quarter by the end of next
year. Rivals including  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  are cutting
employees, and Wells Fargo said it plans on “streamlining”
some staff functions.  Stock Declines  The bank fell 8.4 percent to $24.42 at 4:15 p.m. in  New
York  trading. It was the biggest drop since August, and Wells
Fargo led decliners in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Financials
index and the KBW Bank Index.  Profit for the three months ended Sept. 30 rose 22 percent
to a record $4.06 billion, or 72 cents a diluted share, from
$3.34 billion, or 60 cents, in the same period a year earlier,
according to the statement. Pretax, pre-provision income, used
by analysts to filter out the impact of some one-time gains and
losses, was little changed at $7.95 billion from $7.91 billion
in the preceding three-month period,  The company’s net interest margin, the difference between
what it pays to borrow and what it earns on loans and
securities, narrowed to 3.84 percent from 4.01 percent in the
second quarter, the company said. About 0.12 percentage points
of the change was attributed to $41.8 billion in new deposits
invested in short-term assets.  Weak Economy  “The economic recovery has been more sluggish and uneven
than anyone anticipated,” Stumpf said in the statement. “We
can’t change the economic environment, yet we have worked hard
to control the variables we can.”  The company set aside $1.8 billion to cover loan losses,
with net loan write-offs of $2.6 billion, for a pretax reserve
release of $800 million. Nonperforming assets declined to $26.8
billion from $27.9 billion in the preceding quarter.  Wells Fargo reported $1.83 billion in mortgage banking
revenue, a 13 percent gain from the second quarter, with a 40
percent increase in mortgage originations to $89 billion. The
value of the mortgage servicing business declined 16 percent to
$12.4 billion, the bank said.  “There is a view that the mortgage numbers were good but
could have been better, but part of that is just timing,” Chief
Financial Officer Timothy J. Sloan said in an interview. “We
ended the quarter with a really strong pipeline.”  The company’s mortgage servicing portfolio will grow as the
lender makes more home loans, he said. While management doesn’t
“have any plans to go out and buy somebody’s servicing
portfolio” they’d look at a business if it were priced
attractively, Sloan said.  Mortgage Servicing  Mortgage servicing involves billing and collections and,
when homeowners don’t pay, foreclosures and evictions. Record
U.S. defaults and home seizures have driven up costs for
mortgage servicers and made the contracts less profitable,
triggering writedowns that cut into net income.  Stumpf must contend with Federal Reserve policies aimed at
lowering the cost of loans for businesses and consumers. The
average rate on a typical 30-year mortgage fell to a record 3.94
percent earlier this month, according to housing-finance firm
 Freddie Mac .  While the decline in  interest rates  may stimulate the
economy, it’s squeezing profit margins for banks. Wells Fargo
may be able to counter by lowering its cost of deposits,  David Hilder , an analyst at Susquehanna Financial Group LLLP, wrote in
an Oct. 7 note.  On top of that, banks need to replace revenue chipped away
by new financial rules, including about $8 billion attributed to
federal caps on what lenders can charge merchants for debit-card
transactions.  Debit Cards  Wells Fargo has ceased all debit-reward programs and is
testing a $3 monthly fee in some markets to replace lost
revenue. Bank of America’s plan to charge customers $5 a month
sparked objections from critics including President  Barack Obama , and five House Democrats asked Attorney General Eric Holder on Oct. 13 to investigate whether banks and their trade
groups colluded on decisions to impose new fees.  The bank repurchased 22 million shares in the quarter and
another 6 million through a so-called forward repurchase
transaction that will close by the end of the year. The firm’s
biggest shareholder is Berkshire Hathaway Inc., the insurer run
by billionaire  Warren Buffett .  “Look at how much financials in general have sold off this
year,” said  David Kelly , who helps oversee $408 billion as
chief market strategist for JPMorgan Funds in New York, said in
an interview on Bloomberg Television’s “In the Loop.” “Unless
you’re assuming Armageddon next year, I think financials, as a
sector, looks pretty cheap.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dakin Campbell in New York at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  