-- L.A. Utility to Seek Bids for 250 Megawatts of Solar Power
-- B y   A n d r e w   H e r n d o n
-- 2013-05-14T02:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-14/l-a-utility-to-seek-bids-for-250-megawatts-of-solar-power.html
Los Angeles ’s power utility, which
serves about 1.5 million customers, will seek bids from
developers for 250 megawatts of solar power to comply with a
 California  requirement to get 25 percent of its energy from
renewable sources by the end of 2016.  The Los Angeles Department of Water & Power plans to issue
a request for proposals in June, Anh Wood, who manages three of
the utility’s solar development programs, said today by
telephone. Its board may approve contracts in the first quarter
of 2014, she said.  The four biggest planned installations, totaling 200
megawatts of capacity, will be built on parcels at the utility’s
Beacon project in Kern County, California, purchased in December
for $31.5 million. The previous owner  NextEra Energy Inc. (NEE)  had
proposed in 2008 developing a 250-megawatt solar-thermal power
plant on the site, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The utility now plans to build a 50-megawatt segment and to
use photovoltaic panels, while developers that plan to build the
remaining four segments must bid for 25-year power sales
contracts at no more than 8.5 cents a kilowatt-hour, she said.  “We’ll get good pricing from the sheer fact that this
property already comes with all the environmental work that’s
already done,” Wood said. “A lot of the liability that comes
from project development is already taken care of.”  Bids for the larger sites will be bundled with proposals to
build 50 megawatts of rooftop systems on buildings in the Los
Angeles area, as the final component of the utility’s 150-megawatt feed-in tariff program, Wood said. The price for those
20-year contracts will be capped at 14 cents a kilowatt-hour,
and it’s possible one company could get all the deals, she said.  “Even though we have four contracts that we can sign,
potentially there could be one winner.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Herndon in  San Francisco  at 
 aherndon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  