-- M&S CEO Says New Clothing Range a ‘Step in the Right Direction’
-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 2013-05-14T21:41:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-14/m-s-ceo-says-new-clothing-range-a-step-in-the-right-direction-.html
Marks & Spencer Group Plc Chief
Executive Officer  Marc Bolland  said its new autumn-winter
fashion collection is a “step in the right direction” toward
reigniting interest in the struggling fashion brand after seven
quarters of sales declines.  “I"m very confident that the direction in style and
quality is absolutely the right direction” for the U.K.’s
largest clothing retailer, Bolland said at the introduction of
its new fashion ranges in  London  tonight.  Bolland is seeking to revive interest in the 129-year-old
brand by “significant upgrades” to its quality like a 9
percent increase in the weight of cashmere jumpers, renaming and
editing down its core basic ranges called “M&S Collection,”
and more trend-led design. The new ranges will be in stores and
online from late July.  The retailer recruited former  Debenhams Plc (DEB)  CEO Belinda Earl as style director last year to make its offerings more
fashionable and recently announced it had hired  Inditex SA (ITX) ’s
Queralt Ferrer and  Next Plc (NXT) ’s Jo Jenkins after a number of high-profile exits.  Earl said tonight she planned to persuade existing
customers, particularly in lingerie and food, as well as new,
younger customers, to try the company’s clothing ranges. Its
 Limited Collection  for women 25 to 35 years old will be renamed
Limited Edition and will offer seasonal items.  Bolland, who has run the retailer for three years, has
conceded in the past the retailer’s collections are “not yet
satisfactory.” The CEO has asked investors to be patient until
the autumn-winter collection reaches the stores, bringing with
it products influenced by the new general-merchandise management
team, overseen by John Dixon since October.  With 75 percent of sales coming from customers aged 45 and
over, the CEO said tonight  Marks & Spencer (MKS)  shoppers “don’t want
to look old,” adding “this is a step in the right direction
and this is a step-by-step approach.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Shannon in London at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  