-- Actavis Said to Have Rejected $15 Billion Offer From Mylan
-- B y   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n ,   D a v i d   W e l c h   a n d   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2013-05-14T20:56:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-14/actavis-said-to-have-spurned-15-billion-offer-from-mylan-1-.html
Actavis Inc. (ACT)  rejected a cash-and-stock offer from fellow generic-drug maker Mylan Inc. for about
$15 billion, deciding instead to pursue talks to take over
 Warner Chilcott Plc (WCRX) , said people familiar with the matter.  The Mylan  offer  valued Actavis at $120 a share and would
have created the world’s largest generic-drug maker, said the
people, who asked not to be named because the discussions were
private. Mylan and Warner Chilcott approached Actavis in to
discuss potential deals when news of merger talks with  Valeant
Pharmaceuticals International Inc. (VRX)  leaked, said these people.  Chief Executive Officer  Paul Bisaro  has put Actavis --
formerly Watson Pharmaceuticals -- on an expansionary path,
announcing plans to push the generics business worldwide and to
buy and develop brand-name drug assets with bigger profit
margins. Investors have rewarded the company and the stock has
about tripled since Bisaro took over in September 2007.  The company’s cash flow and margins make Actavis an
attractive target for Mylan, said Ronny Gal, an analyst with
Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. “I like the cash flow but I don’t
like the strategic basis,” he said in a telephone interview.
Gal has an outperform rating on the stock.  Actavis’s strength “has been to very smartly select
products to challenge, and then develop a few products that are
very difficult to formulate,” Gal said. “It depends largely on
management talent. If you buy the company, they go away.”  Warner Chilcott Deal  Actavis, based in Parsippany, New Jersey, is discussing a
bid of more than $5 billion for Warner Chilcott, said another
person. A deal could be completed in the next couple of weeks,
that person said.  Mylan, based in Canonsburg,  Pennsylvania , made its offer in
a letter to Actavis on May 7 that emphasized the cost savings
that two large generic drugmakers could get by merging, one of
the people said. Actavis rejected the offer, in which Mylan was
offering more stock than cash, a couple of days later, the
person said.  Mylan’s bid for Actavis was worth $15.3 billion based on
the shares outstanding when the proposal went to the company on
May 7. Based on Actavis’s shares outstanding of 133.3 million,
updated today, the bid would be worth $16 billion.  Actavis shares rose 1 percent to $121.68 at the close in
New York. Mylan advanced 3.1 percent to $30.10, while Dublin-based Warner Chilcott was little changed at $18.92.  Potential Acquisition  Gal said a deal for Mylan to buy Actavis is still likely,
in part because the savings are large enough, and the current
cost of capital is low enough, to help drive it through.  “My guess is it’s hard for a transaction not to occur,”
he said. “What we’re seeing here is the bankers are going to
the companies and saying, ‘look interest rates are at record
lows now, and with the end of quantitative easing in sight, this
is the last chance to buy a bigger house.’ ”  The letter to Actavis said the deal would be “highly
accretive,” said a person familiar with the letter. Mylan was
making an offer with mostly stock in an effort to maintain its
current credit rating, another person said.  Gal agreed with that assessment. “The overlap is
significant,” he said, estimating a combined company may cut
about 20 percent of its costs.  Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA) , an Israel-based drug
company, has also looked at Actavis, said one of the people.
Teva is more keen on smaller acquisitions and isn’t likely to
pursue a bid, one of the people said.  Representatives at Mylan, Teva and Actavis declined to
comment. An official at Warner Chilcott didn’t immediately
return a call seeking comment.  More than a year ago, Warner Chilcott disclosed that it was
in discussions with suitors and conducting a strategic review.
Actavis was among those that considered an offer for the company
during that process, said another person.  In August, Warner Chilcott revealed that the talks had
ended and that it would renew a share-buyback program and pay a
special dividend, saying the measures would be more rewarding
for shareholders.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
David Welch in New York at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net ;
Drew Armstrong in New York at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  