-- Aereo to Offer Service in Atlanta in June, Adding Third City
-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 2013-05-14T20:55:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-14/aereo-to-offer-service-in-atlanta-next-month-adding-third-city.html
Aereo Inc., the Barry Diller-backed
online-television startup that’s drawn the ire of broadcasters,
will begin offering its service in Atlanta next month, adding a
third city to its coverage area.  Aereo will be available in Atlanta after June 24, following
a weeklong preview for preregistered users, the New York-based
company said today in a statement. The expansion will let the
service reach an additional 5.3 million consumers in 55 counties
in Georgia, Alabama and  North Carolina .  The move follows Aereo’s arrival in  Boston  this month and
ratchets up a conflict with the major TV broadcasters. The
networks are waging a legal fight to shut down the service,
which accesses broadcast TV signals and resells them online for
$8 to $12 a month -- without paying a retransmission fee. Until
this month, the service was only available in  New York  City.  “Consumers have the ability to pick up broadcast TV with
an antenna -- all Aereo has done is made it smaller and made it
remote,” Chief Executive Officer Chet Kanojia said in a
televised interview with Emily Chang on “Bloomberg West.”
“There should be no controversy in this.”  Aereo is talking with “independent-minded” people to add
more video content to its service, Kanojia said. Some agreements
may be signed “in the next few months,” he said. Aereo has
already signed a deal to carry Bloomberg TV, which is owned by
Bloomberg LP.  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Chief Operating Officer  Chase Carey  said last
month he would shut down Fox broadcast and transform it to a
cable channel if U.S. courts don’t prevent Aereo from
broadcasting its content without paying retransmission fees.  CBS
Corp. (CBS)  CEO Les Moonves later made the same threat with his
network.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  