-- AIG CEO Tells Grads Don’t Cry About Economy, Deal With It
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r   a n d   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2013-05-14T17:52:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-14/aig-ceo-tells-grads-don-t-cry-about-economy-deal-with-it.html
Robert Benmosche , the chief executive
officer of insurer  American International Group Inc. (AIG) , has some
tough love for college students graduating in the aftermath of
the financial crisis.  “You have to accept the hand that’s been dealt you in
life,” Benmosche said in an interview today with  Betty Liu  on
Bloomberg Television. “Don’t cry about it. Deal with it.”  The CEO is  scheduled  to give a commencement address May 18
at New York State’s Alfred University, where he earned a degree
in math and played football. College graduates have struggled to
find jobs after the financial crisis sent the U.S.  unemployment
rate  as high as 10 percent in 2009. Joblessness for recent
college graduates, ages 20 to 29, was 12.6 percent in October
2011, a Bureau of Labor Statistics  review  last month showed.  “They want me to talk to the students and give them a
sense of encouragement, especially with the high unemployment,”
said Benmosche, 68. “My advice will be, whatever opportunity
comes your way, take it. Take it and treat it as if it’s the
only one that’s coming your way, because that actually may be
the truth.”  The CEO said he plans to tell graduates about his own
career path, which included a stint as a truck driver delivering
Coca-Cola Co. products that helped him pay his way through
preparatory school and college.  After graduating from Alfred in 1966, Benmosche served as a
lieutenant in the U.S. Army Signal Corps and then worked at
Arthur D. Little Inc., Chase Manhattan Bank and PaineWebber Inc.
He joined  MetLife Inc. (MET)  in 1995 and took the insurer public,
retiring in 2006.  Hiring Forecasts  Companies surveyed by the National Association of Colleges
and Employers plan to hire  2.1 percent more  new college
graduates this year than last, according to data released last
month. That forecast is down from the 13 percent increase
respondents projected last year for the Class of 2013.  Benmosche began running New York-based AIG in August 2009,
about a year after the insurer’s bailout. AIG received a rescue
that swelled to $182.3 billion after housing-related bets soured
amid the financial crisis. The insurer repaid the aid last year,
in part by raising billions of dollars from asset sales.  The U.S unemployment rate dipped to 7.5 percent in April,
compared with 8.1 percent a year earlier. Before the crisis, the
last time the joblessness measure exceeded 7 percent was 1993.  Benmosche has been weighing whether to move jobs from the
 New York  area to lower-cost locations as AIG seeks to cut costs
to boost shareholder returns. He has cited AIG’s facility in
Amarillo,  Texas , as a location where expenses aren’t as high.  ‘Have Courage’  “We’re in a different economy than existed before for
college graduates,” Benmosche said. “They’re going to have to
think about what they love to do, and do what they love, and
have courage to face the future.”  The insurer has about  63,000 employees  according to its
annual report. That compares with 116,000 at the end of 2007,
before the company had to sell units to help repay its bailout.  AIG delayed a deadline for the sale of its plane-leasing
unit to a group of Chinese investors because the insurer hadn’t
received approval from regulators in the U.S. and  China ,
Benmosche told Liu. AIG said yesterday that either party can
terminate the deal for  International Lease Finance Corp. (ILFC)  if it
isn’t completed by June 14. The earlier deadline was May 15.  “Over the next month we should be able to receive the
approvals that we’re expecting,” Benmosche said. “We believe
that we’ll have plenty of time in which to close during this
quarter.”  Dimon’s Hand  Benmosche also said shareholders of  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) 
are wrong to challenge the authority of  Jamie Dimon , 57, the
bank’s chairman and CEO. Retirement plans including the AFSCME
pension fund are seeking to separate the chairman and CEO roles
at New York-based JPMorgan. Pressure on Dimon increased after
losses of more than $6 billion last year on derivatives trades.  “Jamie’s got a tough hand to play,” Benmosche told Liu.
“He’s playing that hand extremely well.”  JPMorgan’s board, which includes former Exxon Mobil Corp.
CEO Lee R. Raymond and Honeywell International Inc. CEO  David Cote , has been giving proper oversight, Benmosche said. He cited
the reduction in Dimon’s pay to $11.5 million for 2012 from $23
million a year earlier.  Benmosche is eligible for $13 million this year after
getting $10.5 million in 2012, AIG said in a regulatory filing
last month. AIG has rallied about 30 percent this year in New
York trading after surging 52 percent in 2012. JPMorgan is up 14
percent since Dec. 31 and climbed 32 percent last year.  Benmosche’s message of resilience for graduates echoes
comments that Charles Munger, the vice chairman of  Warren Buffett ’s  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) , made at the  University of
Michigan  in 2010 about dealing with a tough economy.  “There’s danger in just shoveling out money to people who
say, ‘My life is a little harder than it used to be,’” Munger
said. “At a certain place you’ve got to say to the people,
‘Suck it in and cope, buddy. Suck it in and cope.’”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net ;
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  