-- Air India to Add More Boeing 787s This Year After Flights Resume
-- B y   K a r t h i k e y a n   S u n d a r a m
-- 2013-05-14T08:57:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-14/air-india-to-add-more-boeing-787s-this-year-after-flights-resume.html
Air India  Ltd., the state-run carrier
that resumes  Boeing Co. (BA)  787 commercial flights tomorrow, plans
to take delivery of eight more of the fuel-efficient planes by
December as it seeks to pare losses.  The airline will use the Dreamliner to add new overseas
destinations including Sydney and  Melbourne , Civil Aviation
Minister Ajit Singh told reporters in  New Delhi  today. Mumbai-based Air  India  narrowed losses to 52 billion rupees ($952
million) in the year ended March from a record 75.6 billion
rupees a year earlier, Singh said.  The fuel-efficient  787  is key to attracting more passengers
and cutting costs at Air India, which hasn’t made an annual
profit since 2007.  ANA Holdings Inc. (9202) , operator of the world’s
largest 787 fleet, and Japan Airlines Co. will resume Dreamliner
flights on June 1 as authorities approved fixes to battery
overheating that grounded the plane’s global fleet.  Ethiopian Airlines Enterprise and Qatar Airways Ltd. have
already started 787 flights. United Continental Holdings Inc.
plans to begin service on May 20.  The planes were grounded after a Dreamliner operated by ANA
made an emergency landing on Jan. 16 after detecting smoke from
the battery. Nine days earlier, a battery had caught fire on a
JAL 787 in  Boston . No one was injured in either incident.  Seek Compensation  The carrier, which has  six  Dreamliners, will seek at least
2 billion rupees in compensation from Boeing for the losses
caused by the grounding, a person familiar with the matter said
last month. A ministry panel will initiate talks with Boeing for
the compensation, Singh said, without giving details.  Air India in 2005 ordered 68 passenger jets, including
Dreamliners, worth about $8.1 billion to expand operations and
introduce more fuel-efficient aircraft. The carrier has
subsequently struggled with debts from the expansion plan, along
with high fuel costs and price wars, which led to the government
pledging 300 billion rupees in bailouts through 2020.  The company plans to sell and lease back all of the 27
Dreamliners it has ordered as part of a financial turnaround
plan. The jetliner is the world’s first made chiefly from
composite materials and the first to use  lithium-ion batteries .  Air India will start using the Dreamliner on the New Delhi-Bangalore route from tomorrow. Battery fixes have been completed
in two of the carrier’s six 787 aircraft, Singh said.  Jet fuel discounts from state-run refiners and sale of real
estate assets will help the carrier further narrow losses this
year to 39.9 billion rupees, he said. Air India will resume
using the 787s on overseas routes from May 22, Singh said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karthikeyan Sundaram in New Delhi at 
 kmeenakshisu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vipin V. Nair at 
 vnair12@bloomberg.net  