-- Akfen Climbs After Unit Wins $400 Million Tender: Istanbul Mover
-- B y   T a y l a n   B i l g i c
-- 2013-05-14T15:07:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-14/akfen-climbs-after-unit-wins-400-million-tender-istanbul-mover.html
Akfen Holding AS (AKFEN) , a Turkish group
with diversified interests including port operations, energy and
real estate, climbed the most in more than two weeks after its
airport construction unit won a $400 million project.  The  shares  rose 1.9 percent to 5.30 liras at the close in
Istanbul, the biggest advance since April 29. More than a
million shares traded, almost 70 percent of the stock’s three-month average daily volume, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The Borsa Istanbul National 100 index added 1.7
percent to a record 91,287.14.  Tav Tepe Akfen Yatirim Insaat ve Isletme AS, in which Akfen
has a 21.7 percent stake, won a tender to design and construct a
terminal of the King Khaled Airport in  Riyadh , Saudi Arabia,
according to a statement e-mailed today. The win comes less than
two weeks after  TAV Havalimanlari Holding AS (TAVHL) , in which Akfen has
an 8.12 percent stake, withdrew from an auction to build and
operate a new airport in Istanbul.  “This signals that Akfen will remain a strong player in
airport construction,” Mustafa Kucukmeral, an analyst at Is
Investment in Istanbul, said in a phone interview. “It is good
news for the shares.”  TAV Withdrawal  A group consisting of five closely held constructors
submitted a winning bid to pay Turkey’s government a rental fee
of 22.1 billion euros ($29 billion) over a period of 25 years in
a May 3 auction for the planned third airport in  Turkey ’s
biggest city. TAV withdrew before the final round of bidding,
sending its  shares  tumbling 7.8 percent that day.  The King Khaled project adds to TAV Insaat’s project
backlog of $12.7 billion as of the end of February, according to
company documents. TAV Insaat is the world’s fourth-biggest
airport constructor as of the end of 2012, Akfen said on its
website.  Akfen may report net income of 8.5 million liras ($4.7
million) for the first quarter, down from 42.5 million liras in
the same period last year, according to the average  estimate  of
four analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Eleven analysts recommend
buying the shares, while one says hold, according to  data 
compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Taylan Bilgic in Istanbul at 
 tbilgic2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  