-- Ally Reaches Creditor Deal, Rescap Examiner Lawyer Says
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h   a n d   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 2013-05-14T16:18:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-14/ally-reaches-creditor-deal-rescap-examiner-lawyer-says.html
Residential Capital LLC and its
biggest unsecured creditors signed a deal to free the mortgage
company’s parent,  Ally Financial Inc. (ALLY) , from the threat of
billions of dollars in bankruptcy-related lawsuits.  Creditors who have agreed to settle include noteholder
Paulson & Co., MBIA Insurance Corp. and a group of
securitization trusts suing for losses related to bad mortgages
written by ResCap, Detroit-based Ally said in a statement.  A ResCap bankruptcy attorney, Gary Lee, told U.S.
Bankruptcy Judge Martin Glenn in  Manhattan  today that the major
parties in court-sponsored mediation sessions have a deal that
would remove many of the most difficult disputes between
unsecured creditors and Ally.  The term sheet that Ally and the ResCap creditors signed
must now be expanded into a so-called plan support agreement, in
which the parties promise to back a reorganization plan that
would split money ResCap has raised to repay as much of its debt
as possible.  “I understand you’ve accomplished a great deal to get to
where you are now,” Glenn said in court today.  The amount Ally will pay to end current and future lawsuits
won’t be made public until next week when court papers to
implement the deal are due, Ally said.  Bonds Climb  ResCap’s 6.5 percent bonds that matured in April rose
7.35 percent to 36.5 cents on the dollar in a 9:50 a.m. trade
before the hearing began, according to Trace, the bond price
reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  “This agreement is a seminal moment for Ally,” Chief
Executive Officer Michael A. Carpenter said in a statement. “We
are pleased to have reached a consensual and comprehensive
agreement that enables the company to put the issues related to
the mortgage industry behind us.”  The settlement comes before a court-ordered report into the
companies’ pre-bankruptcy relationship was to be made public.  The report, by former U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Arthur J. Gonzalez, examines allegations that Ally exerted so much
influence over ResCap that the auto lender can be forced to pay
its unit’s unsecured debts, which creditors claim may be as high
as $25 billion.  Ally, ResCap and a committee representing the unsecured
creditors announced the deal in an unannounced bankruptcy court
hearing yesterday. Glenn had agreed to keep the report sealed
while ResCap, Ally and the creditor committee completed their
deal.  Previous Proposal  Terms of the agreement weren’t announced. Ally has
previously proposed paying $750 million to settle claims that
creditors say are worth billions of dollars.  The settlement doesn’t resolve claims against Ally that are
not related to ResCap’s bankruptcy, including those brought by
the  Federal Housing Finance Agency  and the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corp., as receiver for certain failed banks, Ally
said.  ResCap, based in New York, filed for bankruptcy last year,
partly to help it resolve lawsuits brought by purchasers of
mortgage bonds backed by home loans. The investors claimed the
bonds lost value because many of the loans were bad. Such losses
account for much of the $25 billion in unsecured debt that the
creditors committee claims ResCap owes.  The case is In re Residential Capital LLC, 12-bk-12020,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net ;
Dakin Campbell in San Francisco at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net 
ALLY US <Equity>
OCN US <Equity>
WAC US <Equity>
 D US <Equity>
 Z US <Equity>
 Z US <Equity>
 Z US <Equity>
TRBAA US <Equity> 