-- Ally Clears Barrier to IPO With Plan to Resolve ResCap Debts
-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l   a n d   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2013-05-14T21:47:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-14/ally-clears-barrier-to-ipo-with-plan-to-resolve-rescap-claims.html
Ally Financial Inc. (ALLY)  moved closer to
repaying a U.S. bailout as the auto lender reached agreement
with creditors of its bankrupt mortgage unit.  While financial terms of the accord weren’t included in a
statement today from Detroit-based Ally, the company said it
will be insulated from  private claims  against its Residential
Capital LLC mortgage arm, once ranked among the largest
originators of subprime mortgages. The sum will be kept
confidential until next week, when debtors are expected to
support the plan in court, Ally said.  ResCap’s bankruptcy has been one of the biggest sticking
points as Ally seeks to sell shares to the public and pay back a
$17.2 billion taxpayer rescue received during the global credit
crisis. Ally Chief Executive Officer Michael Carpenter has been
selling assets to raise money and said this month that an
initial stock offering remains the best option.  The accord is “a seminal moment for Ally,” Carpenter, 66,
said in the statement, and will “put the issues related to the
mortgage industry behind us.” The company will be free to
concentrate on auto finance, where Ally said last year it was
ranked No. 1 in combined sales and leasing, and its online bank.  If approved, the agreement may head off the possibility
that Ally must pay billions of dollars more than it budgeted to
settle ResCap’s debts, including those tied to bad mortgage
bonds. New York-based ResCap filed for bankruptcy last year as
defaults soared and investors demanded refunds.  ‘Positive Development’  “This looks like a positive development,” Mohak Rao, a
Fitch Ratings analyst, said in a phone interview. “Putting the
ResCap issues behind them in terms of the payment and
liabilities will clear the market overhang, which has been
preventing them from repaying the  U.S. Treasury .”  The dispute concerns guarantees, or “representations and
warranties,” given to investors on bonds backed by mortgages
that ResCap created. Such bonds typically assure buyers they can
get refunds if the home loans are later found to be based on
faulty data about borrowers or the properties. Defaults on
 subprime home loans  reached record levels during the credit
crisis, causing hundreds of mortgage firms to collapse.  From 2004 to 2007, a ResCap predecessor issued $197.8
billion in non-agency mortgage bonds, according to Inside
Mortgage Finance, an industry publication based in Bethesda,
 Maryland . The lender, whose brands included the Ditech online
mortgage business, reported more than $14.5 billion in  losses 
from the start of 2007 through the end of 2009.  Repurchase Claims  In a regulatory filing on April 27, 2012, less than a month
before ResCap filed for bankruptcy, Ally said litigation and
repurchase claims could be between zero and $4 billion more than
“existing accruals,” or reserves, Fitch’s Rao said.  At the time of the filing, the company proposed paying $750
million to cover such claims, in what Carpenter later called a
“hostage payment.” Creditors said in a court filing that the
liabilities could be as much as $25 billion. Analysts at New
York-based CreditSights Inc. once estimated Ally would have to
pay $3 billion.  ResCap can repay creditors using Ally’s funds plus more
than $4.5 billion from the sale of a mortgage-servicing business
and a loan portfolio. Creditors who have agreed to settle
include  a unit of  MBIA Inc. (MBI) , the hedge fund Paulson & Co., and
a group of securitization trusts suing for losses related to bad
mortgages written by ResCap, Ally said in the statement.  Credit Suisse  MBIA’s share of the proceeds could be about $600 million,
Manal Mehta, founder of San Francisco-based hedge-fund firm
Sunesis Capital LLC, which owns MBIA shares, said in a phone
interview. The recovery is “consistent” with MBIA’s first-quarter disclosure, the insurer said today in a filing.  Chuck Chaplin, MBIA’s finance chief, said May 10 that the
firm expects to recover $1 billion tied mostly to claims against
Ally and Zurich-based Credit Suisse Group AG. An amended
complaint in the case against the Swiss bank shows losses of
more than $386 million, which would leave more than $600 million
from Ally if Credit Suisse pays out at 100 cents on the dollar,
Mehta said.  Mortgage bond investors represented by Houston-based Gibbs
& Bruns LLP may receive another $700 million, Mehta said. The
calculation is based on a similar settlement with Bank of
America Corp. that compensated investors for about 8 percent of
the $106 billion in loans that had either defaulted or are
“severely delinquent.” Last year, ResCap granted an $8.7
billion claim that represents losses to the investor group.  Almost Collapsed  Ally, formerly known as GMAC Inc., was owned by General
Motors Corp. until 2006, when the automaker sold 51 percent to
Cerberus Capital Management LP, a private-equity firm. GMAC
almost collapsed under the weight of bad subprime mortgages in
2008. The U.S. took a  74 percent stake  in return for a package
of financial aid designed to keep credit flowing to the  auto
industry  and preserve jobs.  Ally can now turn its attention to the IPO. The company
filed to go public in 2011 before putting the idea on hold until
ResCap’s fate was clear. Carpenter has said he favors a share
sale as opposed to selling units such as the online bank.  “We’re very focused on what’s the exit strategy for the
U.S. Treasury,” Carpenter said May 1 during the firm’s
quarterly earnings review. “If I had to put money on it right
now, I would say the IPO is the best alternative.”  To get there, Ally must resubmit its annual capital plan to
the  Federal Reserve  and show how it will improve the planning
process and increase its buffer against losses. The Fed rejected
Ally’s submission in March, citing “deficiencies.” Carpenter
publicly disputed the Fed’s findings and Ally called the central
bank’s analysis “fundamentally flawed.”  Preferred Shares  Ally could convert $5.9 billion of preferred shares owned
by the U.S. government into common equity to simplify its
 capital structure . The company said the Fed could force the
conversion as one way to boost capital levels.  Ally has collected about $7.6 billion through the sale of
international units, and at least another $850 million through
the sale of mortgage servicing rights, or contracts to collect
payments and handle billing for home loans. The firm needs
regulatory approval to pass the proceeds to taxpayers.  Carpenter, who  took over as CEO  in November 2009 and filed
for the IPO in March 2011, once predicted that an initial share
sale could value Ally at $30 billion. That was before the
bankruptcy and the asset sales.  The settlement doesn’t resolve claims against Ally that
aren’t related to ResCap’s bankruptcy, including those brought
by the  Federal Housing Finance Agency  and the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corp., Ally said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dakin Campbell in  San Francisco  at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net ;
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Rick Green  at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net ;
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  