-- America’s Cup Races to Proceed as Committee Reviews Sailor Death
-- B y   A a r o n   K u r i l o f f
-- 2013-05-15T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-14/america-s-cup-to-proceed-as-committee-reviews-sailor-s-death-1-.html
The America’s Cup yachting races will
proceed as scheduled while officials await findings from a
committee reviewing last week’s death of British sailor Andrew
Simpson during Swedish team training on  San Francisco  Bay.  Tom Ehman, vice commodore of the Golden Gate Yacht Club
that backs defending champion Oracle Team USA, said yesterday
that all four teams are continuing their plans and preparations
for the regatta, scheduled to start off San Francisco in July.  “We expect, yes, that all the teams will be racing,”
Ehman said in a news conference. “The America’s Cup will go
ahead this summer.”  The review into Simpson’s death will be led by Iain Murray,
regatta director, and will include Sally Lindsay Honey, the two-time Rolex Yachtswoman of the Year who led last year’s review of
the wreck that killed five sailors from the boat Low Speed Chase
during the Full Crew Farallones Race out of San Francisco. Honey
is the wife of Stan Honey, the cup’s technology director.  Artemis Racing’s accident was the second involving the new
72-foot (22 meter) boats being used in the cup. Powered by 131-foot carbon wing sails and capable of skimming above the water
on hydrofoils at speeds exceeding 40 knots (46 mph, 74 kph),
they are among the fastest sailboats ever built.  Larry Ellison ’s
Oracle Team, the defending champion, destroyed a wing during a
training accident in October.  Ellison Wins  Ellison, chief executive of  Redwood City , California-based
 Oracle Corp. (ORCL) , won the right to host this year’s America’s Cup by
defeating a catamaran sailed by Swiss billionaire Ernesto
Bertarelli’s Alinghi syndicate in a two-boat, best-of-three
series off  Valencia ,  Spain , using a 90-foot trimaran with a 223-foot wing sail. Ellison’s organizers then remade the cup for
television audiences, using the high-speed, twin-hulled boats to
replace traditional monohulls.  Murray yesterday held a meeting in San Francisco with all
four teams competing in cup racing, including Oracle, Artemis,
Emirates Team  New Zealand  and the Italian Luna Rossa Challenge,
and said the review was critical to figuring out what happened.  “The teams are obviously subdued, there is an incredible
amount of emotion, particularly from the sailors,” Murray said.
“We need to look at what we’re doing.”  Artemis was practicing with the Oracle team in flat water
and gusty conditions of 15 to 20 knots when the sailors
attempted to turn away from the wind, “one of the more
difficult maneuvers in sailing any fast boat,” Murray said at a
news conference last week.  Simpson’s Death  Simpson, 36, died after he was trapped beneath a section of
the capsized yacht, out of sight from other vessels and divers
searching for him, according to Murray. CPR was performed on
Simpson on a rescue boat and at the St. Francis Yacht Club,
where the sailor was pronounced dead.  Simpson won a gold medal for Britain in the Star class at
the 2008 Olympics as crew for Iain Percy, now Artemis’s sailing
team director. Simpson joined Artemis in February.  Artemis will undertake its own review of the incident,
according to a statement from Torbjorn Tornqvist, the team’s
chairman.  Ehman said the teams, at yesterday’s meeting, didn’t
consider canceling the races. He said the committee is an
independent body, working for the regatta’s race management arm,
which was established by the competitors.  “There was no discussion about calling the event off,”
Ehman said. “We have every confidence that, when we get to the
bottom of this and understand fully what happened, the regatta
can and will go on.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Kuriloff in  New York  at 
 akuriloff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 