-- Anadarko May Have Mozambique Stake Sale Deal in Coming Weeks
-- B y   E d w a r d   K l u m p
-- 2013-05-14T20:30:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-14/anadarko-may-have-mozambique-stake-sale-deal-in-coming-weeks-1-.html
Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC) , the second-largest U.S. independent oil and natural gas producer by market
value, may have an agreement in the coming weeks to sell a stake
in a drilling prospect off the coast of  Mozambique .  The company received “very good indications of interest,”
Chief Executive Officer Al Walker said in an interview in The
Woodlands,  Texas , today. Anadarko continues to negotiate the
terms of any deal, Walker said.  “We hope in the coming weeks to have reached agreement
with one of the parties that we’re in discussions with,” he
said. He declined to identify the parties.  Walker replaced Jim Hackett, the company’s former CEO, as
chairman after today’s annual meeting. Hackett is set to retire
from Anadarko next month. Walker said he’s happy with the
company’s portfolio and may look to add some onshore and
offshore acreage. Anadarko is also pursuing the sale of some
interests around the world including  Brazil  and possibly the
 Gulf of Mexico .  Anadarko and its partners including Mitsui & Co. and BPRL
Ventures Mozambique B.V. discovered recoverable gas estimated to
be as much as 65 trillion cubic feet off the coast of
Mozambique. Anadarko has a 36.5 percent stake in Offshore Area 1
of Mozambique’s Rovuma Basin and has discussed reducing that to
26.5 percent.  Brazil, Tronox  Walker said an agreement on a sale of Brazilian assets also
may be reached this year, setting up a possible exit from that
country. The company has exploration interests in about 750,000
gross acres in six blocks off the coast of Brazil, Anadarko said
in a filing in February.  Anadarko also looks forward to the judge in the Tronox Inc.
case making a decision “hopefully in the coming weeks,
months,” Walker said. Potential costs from the lawsuit may be
as much as $1.4 billion, said Walker. A loss in the case isn’t
probable, the company has said. The case involves environmental
liability related to Tronox, a chemical company, that was spun
off from Kerr-McGee Corp., which Anadarko later acquired.  ConocoPhillips (COP)  is the largest U.S. independent oil and gas
producer by market value. Independent  oil companies  don’t own
refineries or a chemical business.  Anadarko rose 2.3 percent to $88.77 at the close in  New
York .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edward Klump in Houston at 
 eklump@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  