-- Mancini May Join Monaco After Leaving Man. City: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-05-14T08:47:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-14/mancini-may-join-monaco-after-leaving-man-city-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  Mancini to  Monaco ?  Fired Manchester City manager  Roberto Mancini  may get
another job straight away with newly promoted French club Monaco
seeking to reopen talks with him,  the Sun reported .  Mancini spoke with Monaco when his position at City was
under threat last year, the newspaper added.  Mancini’s dismissal yesterday will be tempered by a multi-million pound payoff because he had four seasons remaining on a
five-year contract worth about 37 million pounds ($56.6
million), the  Daily Express reported .  ‘Exceptional Talent’  Incoming Manchester United manager  David Moyes  is set to
offer  Wayne Rooney  a way back following the striker’s transfer
request earlier this month, the  Daily Telegraph reported .  Moyes, who yesterday described Rooney as “an exceptional
talent” and “the last of the classic street footballers” in
an address at the Cambridge Union Society, is likely to meet the
player next week in order to clarify Rooney’s position and that
of United, the newspaper added.  Rooney Jeered  Rooney was jeered by United fans during yesterday’s open-top bus parade in Manchester to celebrate the team’s 20th
English league championship, the  Daily Mirror reported .  Rooney, 27, wore a baseball cap with the peak pulled down
during the parade and sat at the front of the bus away from
retiring manager  Alex Ferguson , to whom he made his transfer
request three weeks ago, the Mirror added.  $10 Million-Pound Target  Everton central defender  Phil Jagielka  is a 10 million-pound target for Moyes when he takes over,  the Sun reported .  Jagielka, 30, is the third Everton player on Moyes’s list
of targets alongside Marouane Fellaini and Leighton Baines, the
newspaper reported.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  