-- Hanergy Acquiring Engensa to Expand Into U.K. Residential Solar
-- B y   M a r c   R o c a
-- 2013-05-14T20:08:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-14/hanergy-acquiring-engensa-to-expand-into-u-k-residential-solar.html
Hanergy Holding Group Ltd., a Chinese
renewable-energy company, purchased London-based Engensa Ltd. to
expand into the U.K. residential solar market.  Hanergy, based in Beijing, bought the solar installer and
financing provider for an undisclosed amount, Engensa said
yesterday.  The deal is Hanergy’s third solar acquisition outside  China 
in less than a year, after its January deal for thin-film panel
maker MiaSole Inc. in the U.S. and its June purchase of Q-Cells
SE unit Solibro in  Germany . Asian companies including LDK Solar
Co. and  Hanwha Corp. (000880)  are snapping up overseas peers to gain
access to large markets, as well as technology.  “This is the first acquisition of a U.K. installer by a
manufacturer and the first Chinese manufacturer to invest in the
residential market,” Jenny Chase, head of solar analysis for
Bloomberg New Energy Finance, said by e-mail. “Hanergy, which
claims to have 2 gigawatts of thin-film silicon manufacturing
capacity already, probably means to find a sales channel.”  Unlike conventional panels, thin-film units use much less
or no silicon and aren’t at risk of any tariffs resulting from a
European Union probe into Chinese producers’ trade practices.  “Thin-film solar PV is very well placed to succeed in the
future due to its lower manufacturing costs, enhanced appearance
and because it’s not subject to any of the recently proposed
import tariffs,” Toby Ferenczi, Engensa’s co-founder, said in
an e-mailed statement. “Our partnership with Hanergy is
exciting because it is one of the first major attempts to
exploit this technology in the residential market.”  Engensa, founded in 2009, is among companies benefiting
from growth in the U.K. residential solar market. Installations
expanded more than 10-fold in 2012 to an annual 720 megawatts,
or 90 percent of the entire solar market, BNEF data show.  Ben Goldsmith, son of late billionaire financier Sir James
Goldsmith, was a founding investor in the closely held company.
Hanergy officials in Beijing weren’t immediately available to
comment when Bloomberg called outside of regular office hours.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marc Roca in London at 
 mroca6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  