-- Apple Worked to Fix E-Book Prices, U.S. Says in Filing
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2013-05-15T14:24:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-14/apple-worked-to-fix-e-book-prices-u-s-says-in-filing.html
(Corrects Murdoch job title in third paragraph of story
published May 14.)  Apple Inc. engaged in a horizontal
price-fixing scheme with some of the U.S.’s largest publishers
to violate antitrust laws by working “to strip retailers of
pricing authority,” the U.S. Justice Department said in a court
filing.  The department’s Antitrust Division filed papers for a
trial set to begin June 3 in federal court in  Manhattan  that
included excerpts of e-mails and depositions of Apple executives
including the company’s late founder,  Steve Jobs , and Senior
Vice President Eddy Cue and publishing executives.  In an April 26 memo made public today, the U.S. cited
evidence in its case such as an e-mail sent by Jobs to  James
Murdoch  of  News Corp. (NWSA) , the parent company of the HarperCollins
book division.  “Apple’s iTunes Store and  App Store  have over 120 million
customers with credit cards on file and have downloaded over 12
billion products,” Jobs, who died in October 2011, said in an
undated e-mail. “This is the type of online assets that will be
required to scale the e-book business into something that
matters to the publishers.”  The U.S. sued Apple and a group of book publishers in 2012,
claiming they conspired to raise prices for electronic books in
violation of U.S. antitrust law.  “Apple did not conspire to fix eBook pricing,”  Tom Neumayr , a spokesman for the Cupertino, California-based company
said in an e-mail today. “We helped transform the eBook market
with the introduction of the iBookstore in 2010 bringing
consumers an expanded selection of eBooks and delivering
innovative new features. The market has been thriving and
innovating since Apple’s entry and we look forward to going to
trial to defend ourselves.”  Apple said in court papers filed April 26 and made public
today that it engaged in “one-on-one, and at times contentious
negotiations” with book publishers over e-books. Apple said it
“never spoke to more than one publisher at the same time”
during its negotiations and had no knowledge of any intra-publisher communications during the time Apple was negotiating
its agency agreements.  “After this lawsuit was filed, Apple learned for the first
time about allegations relating to various publisher meetings,
phone calls, and dinners,” Apple said, citing the deposition of
Cue. “Apple had no information about any such communications
during its iBookstore negotiations.”  The case is U.S. v.  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , 12-cv-02826, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  