-- Aqua America Sees More Dividend Increases Next Year
-- B y   T i n a   D a v i s
-- 2013-05-14T20:55:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-14/aqua-america-sees-more-dividend-increases-next-year.html
Aqua America Inc. (WTR) , the second-largest
publicly traded U.S. water company, sees more dividend increases
in the next year after raising the payments twice in nine
months.  Aqua America, which reported a 23 percent rise in first-quarter net income on May 1, “can afford a nice-sized
dividend,” Nick DeBenedictis, chairman and chief executive
officer of the  Bryn Mawr , Pennsylvania-based company, said in an
interview at Bloomberg’s headquarters in New York today.  The water utility announced a 9 percent increase on May 9,
bringing the  quarterly payment  to 19 cents a share. That
followed a 6 percent boost on Aug. 2. Aqua America, which dates
its origins to 1886, has had more cash in part because of an
agreement with Pennsylvania regulators to take advantage of
“repair tax” regulations that cut its effective  tax rate  from
39 percent to 15 percent, he said.  The company has said it plans a payout of 60 to 70 percent.
Earnings are  expected  to reach $1.41 a share this year,
according to the average of 11 analysts’ estimates compiled by
Bloomberg. A 76-cent dividend payment “only gets us to 52
percent payout,” he said.  DeBenedictis said a board member once told him “you always
take a quarter for yourself, give three quarters back.”  Aqua America had 300,000 customers when he joined in 1992.
The company, which does about 20 acquisitions a year, now serves
3 million people in 10 states. The CEO said the company will
continue to look for smaller “tuck ins” to acquire water
systems in smaller cities, like Media,  Pennsylvania , or Manteno,
 Illinois .  Below Radar  “We try and stay below the radar screen, we look at what I
call smaller cities, third-class cities,” he said. “We would
not bid if Chicago decided they wanted to privatize. It’s just
too complicated, too many unions, too much politics.”  The company has gotten out of businesses in New York,
Missouri and  Maine , and is looking to exit  Florida .  “We
tripled in size in three or fours year and now we’re
digesting,” DeBenedictis said.  Aqua America gained 1.6 percent to $32.46 at the close in
New York. The shares have climbed 28 percent this year.  American Water Works Co. is the largest publicly traded
U.S. water company by market value.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tina Davis in  New York  at 
 tinadavis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Randall Hackley at 
 rhackley@bloomberg.net  