-- Marfrig to Sell, Close Plants After Second Quarterly Loss
-- B y   L u c i a   K a s s a i
-- 2013-05-14T13:37:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-14/marfrig-to-sell-close-plants-after-second-quarterly-loss.html
Marfrig Alimentos SA (MRFG3) ,  Brazil ’s
second-largest food-maker, said it plans to sell and close
plants and cut debt by as much as 2 billion reais ($996 million)
after it posted a loss for a second straight quarter.  The company based on Sao Paulo plans to save about 250
million reais in working capital this year as it sells three
food plants and closes or sheds four distribution units in
Brazil, Seara Foods unit Chief Executive Officer Sergio Rial
said. The meatpacker also is seeking to close a pair of
slaughterhouses in Argentina and a food plant in Brazil, he
said.  “This is a new chapter for the company, one where we will
look to keep lower debt levels and focus on extracting more
value to shareholders,” Rial told reporters today in Sao Paulo.
“Results will improve as we cut costs and grain prices are
expected to fall.´´  The stock surged as much as 8.2 percent to 7.14 reais in
Sao Paulo, the most since July 27, 2012, and traded up 6.7
percent at 7.04 reais at 10:35 a.m.. The company posted a first-quarter  net loss  of 81.2 million reais compared with a profit of
34.5 million reais a year ago, in a statement released before
the market opened.  The cost of integrating plants acquired from  BRF SA (BRFS3) 
contributed to the loss, Rial said. The cost of products sold
soared 28 percent as Marfrig doubled its capacity with last
year’s acquisition of food processing plants from BRF. Prices
increased in the quarter for corn and soybean, used to feed the
company’s chickens and pigs.  Bond Payment  Corn prices rose 11 percent, on average, while soybean
advanced 13 percent in  Chicago .  Marfrig plans to make an interest payment on 2.2 billion-real bonds held by Brazil’s development bank as scheduled, Rial
said. The bank is known as BNDES.  ‘‘We are not in talks with BNDES to either postpone the
payment or convert the notes,´´ he said.  BRF, based in Sao Paulo, is the country’s top food-maker.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucia Kassai in Sao Paulo at 
 lkassai@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  