-- Argentine Annual Inflation Slowest in 12 Months, Opposition Says
-- B y   E l i a n a   R a s z e w s k i
-- 2013-05-14T19:48:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-14/argentine-annual-inflation-slowest-in-12-months-opposition-says.html
Argentina’s annual  inflation  as
reported by opposition lawmakers was the slowest in a year in
April, reflecting a three-month price freeze by supermarkets.  Prices rose 1.52 percent in April and 23.67 percent from a
year earlier, the slowest annual rate since April 2012, said
Congresswoman Patricia Bullrich. In February, supermarkets
agreed with the government to keep prices unchanged for 60 days,
a period that was later extended to 120 days.  “Even with frozen prices, inflation remains at a pretty
high rate,” Juan Tunessi, a congressman from the opposition
Civic Radical Party, said in a telephone interview. “We are
entering a quasi-recession period, with an economy where growth
is slowing and inflation remains high.”  The opposition releases the inflation estimate because the
government has fined private economists for publishing data that
differ from official statistics.  In March, prices rose  10.6 percent  from a year earlier,
according to the government’s statistics agency, while the
private report put the increase at 24.4 percent. The agency is
scheduled to release April inflation data at 4 p.m. local time
tomorrow.  In February, Argentina became the first member of the
International Monetary Fund to be censured by the lender for not
providing accurate data on inflation and economic growth.
Interior Commerce Secretary Guillermo Moreno on May 7 defended
official data, saying the country’s real inflation rate was
released by the statistics agency.  Lawmakers started to publish private estimates on inflation
in May 2011. The names of the economists aren’t made public to
avoid the risk of government sanctions. Yesterday, an appeals
courts dismissed 3.5 million pesos ($670,000) of fines imposed
on a dozen researchers, saying they hadn’t violated any laws.  The peso has fallen 6.1 percent this year, the most after
 Venezuela ’s bolivar among Latin American currencies tracked by
Bloomberg. In the illegal market, the peso strengthened to 9.2
per dollar after reaching a record 10.45 per dollar last week,
according to  Ambito Financiero  newspaper.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eliana Raszewski in Buenos Aires at 
 eraszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  