-- Las Vegas Sands Loses Trial Over Macau License Claims
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n   a n d   V a l e r i e   M i l l e r
-- 2013-05-15T00:33:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-14/las-vegas-sands-loses-trial-over-macau-gaming-license-claims-1-.html
Billionaire  Sheldon Adelson ’s  Las
Vegas Sands Corp. (LVS)  must pay $70 million to a Hong Kong
businessman for his help in obtaining a Macau casino license
more than a decade ago, a Nevada jury said.  The jury in  Las Vegas  yesterday returned a verdict in the
second trial over Richard Suen’s claim that meetings he helped
arrange for Adelson with Chinese government officials in Beijing
were instrumental to Sands getting permission to operate casinos
in the former Portuguese colony in 2002. The Nevada Supreme
Court in 2010 reversed a $43.8 million jury award for Suen.  “We believe there are compelling and sufficient grounds on
which to appeal this verdict and we will do so aggressively,”
 Ron Reese , a spokesman for the casino company, said in an e-mailed statement.  Adelson, 79, claimed during his trial testimony that Suen,
a friend of his younger brother Lenny Adelson, contributed
nothing to the company’s being selected by the Macau government.
Lawyers for Sands argued that the Macau government made its
decisions independently from the central government in Beijing,
which is legally prohibited from intervening in Macau’s internal
affairs.  Las Vegas Sands fell as much as 1.3 percent after the jury
ruled against it. That loss was erased yesterday after the award
was reported to be $70 million.  Suen’s Testimony  Suen, 60, testified during the trial that he first alerted
Sheldon Adelson to the possibility in 2000 that the Macau
government would end the gambling monopoly casino mogul  Stanley Ho  had in the enclave since 1962. Suen claimed that the goodwill
created with Chinese officials through the meetings he helped
arrange in Beijing led the Macau government to select Sands.  “I got justice from the people of  Clark County ,” Suen
said after the verdict was read, referring to the court district
that includes Las Vegas. “I had faith in the justice system,
and it turned out to be absolutely correct.”  His lawyer, John O’Malley, said he thinks the verdict will
withstand an appeal.  “A question for Mr. Adelson: When are you going to pay
that?” O’Malley said.  Sands was part of a  Galaxy Entertainment Group Ltd. (27)  bid
that won one of the three Macau concessions in 2002. The company
was given a subconcession later that year to build and operate
its own casinos.  Annual Revenue  Las Vegas Sands gets about 58 percent of its annual revenue
from its Macau business.  Sands China Ltd. (1928) , the company’s Hong
Kong-listed unit, on May 2 reported first-quarter net income of
$452.9 million, a 63 percent increase from a year earlier, as it
drew a record number of visitors.  Suen had sought $328 million in damages based on the 2
percent of Sands’s net income from its Macau casinos he said he
was promised, after the 2001 meetings with Chinese officials in
Beijing, if the company received a gaming license.  Suen argued at the trial that the meetings with Chinese
Vice Premier Qian Qichen and Beijing Mayor Liu Qi were crucial
to Sands’s success in obtaining a license. It helped that during
those meetings, Adelson reassured Chinese officials they didn’t
have to worry that the U.S. House of Representatives would
derail Beijing’s bid to host the 2008 Olympics, Suen said.  Tom Delay  Adelson, during his three days on the witness stand, said
he had called then-U.S. Representative Tom DeLay, a friend, from
his mobile phone when he met the Beijing mayor to find out the
status of a pending House resolution that would have encouraged
the U.S. Olympic Committee to vote against Beijing’s bid to host
the 2008 Olympics.  Adelson said he learned from DeLay, a Texas Republican who
was one of the bill’s sponsors, that the resolution probably
wouldn’t make it to the floor of the House in time for the vote
later that month of the Olympic Committee.  The 2010 verdict in favor of Suen amounted to $58.7 million
with prejudgment interest. The Nevada  Supreme Court  reversed it
after finding that the judge who presided over the trial had
incorrectly allowed so-called hearsay evidence linking the
meetings in Beijing with the award of the gaming license.  The case is Suen v. Las Vegas Sands Corp., 04A493744,
Nevada District Court, Clark County (Las Vegas).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in  Los Angeles  at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net 
Valerie Miller in Nevada state court in Las Vegas at 
 valeriemusicmagic@yahoo.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  