-- Massacre at Marikana Sparks Suicides Near Lonmin Mine
-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 2013-05-14T13:55:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-14/massacre-at-marikana-sparks-suicides-near-lonmin-mine.html
Lonmin Plc (LON)  platinum worker Lungani
Mabutyana, 27, hanged himself from a tree on May 5 near the spot
where he watched police shoot dead 34 striking mineworkers in
August, a group formed by Nobel laureate  Desmond Tutu  said.  Mabutyana was one of seven men to commit suicide since
December as the community around the third-biggest platinum
producer’s Marikana mine grapples with debt and the horror of
last year’s violence, David van Wyk, the lead researcher of the
Johannesburg-based  Bench Marks Foundation , said by phone
yesterday. The shooting was South  Africa ’s deadliest police
action since the end of apartheid in 1994. The foundation is a
non-profit organization owned by church groups in South Africa,
according to its website.  “These guys are still going through a lot of trauma from
the Marikana massacre,” Van Wyk said. “The scale of the
violence has been of a magnitude which they just weren’t able to
comprehend. The whole society has been traumatized.”  Lonmin (LMI) ,  Impala Platinum Holdings Ltd. (IMP) , and  Anglo American
Platinum Ltd. (AMS) , the world’s three biggest producers of the metal,
last year suffered output losses and cost increases because of
violent strikes. Police on Aug. 16 shot dead protesting
mineworkers near Marikana after 10 days of a strike in which two
policemen were killed. Police say they shot in self-defense
after the protesters, armed with machetes, charged them.  Marikana is a small mining town near the Lonmin operation
that supplies almost all of its metal. The company employed
28,230 people as of Sept. 30. There had only been a “couple”
of suicides at the town in the preceding 14 years, according to
Van Wyk.  Rating Downgrade  The Bench Marks Foundation published a 167-page study
highlighting the social ailments around  South Africa ’s platinum
mining hub of Rustenburg, 120 kilometers (75 miles) northwest of
Johannesburg, weeks before the start of last year’s clashes.  The mine unrest prompted Moody’s Investors Service,
Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings to downgrade the credit
rating of Africa’s largest economy, citing deteriorating social
stability as a contributing factor.  “We are obviously concerned” by the suicides, Lonmin
spokeswoman Sue Vey said in a phone interview yesterday. Wider
violence around the mines “can start again at any time.”  Mabutyana was one of four suicide victims who were among
the thousands of protesting mineworkers who the police fired on,
Van Wyk said. He was due to testify at a judicial commission set
up to probe the incident. The other three lived nearby and
probably suffered psychologically because of the bloodshed, he
said.  Tavern Killing  “Some have seen their fathers or brothers being shot,”
Van Wyk said. “To me it looks like things have not been
resolved. That place can explode again. Any small incident might
trigger that.”  Members of the Association of Mineworkers and Construction
Union started a strike at the mine today after its regional
organizer, Mawethu Khululekile Stevens, was shot dead in a
tavern on May 11. AMCU has become the dominant labor group at
the mine since the police shooting in August, sparking fighting
with the  National Union of Mineworkers .  The rand declined as much as 0.8 percent to 9.2331 per
dollar today after the news of the strike, its lowest level
since April 23. It traded at 9.2022 at 3:50 p.m. in
Johannesburg. Lonmin fell 6.4 percent to 267.10 pence in  London .  The ruling  African National Congress  expressed concern
about Stevens’s death and AMCU has appealed for calm.  “Marikana cannot be allowed to deteriorate into a bastion
of lawlessness and the African National Congress urges the law
enforcement agencies to act determinedly and with urgency to
bring those involved in these crimes to answer before the
judicial system,” the ANC said yesterday.  Some mineworkers have built up debt because of the loss of
income during illegal strikes. The strike at Lonmin last year
ended after six weeks when the company agreed to pay increases
of 11 percent to 22 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Franz Wild in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  