-- Aston Martin Holder Investment Dar Offers Assets to Creditors
-- B y   F i o n a   M a c D o n a l d
-- 2013-05-14T11:28:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-14/aston-martin-holder-investment-dar-offers-assets-to-creditors.html
Investment Dar Co., a shareholder in
luxury carmaker  Aston Martin , is offering some of its assets to
creditors as the Kuwaiti company restructures debt.  The settlement-in-kind offer is optional and open to all
creditors, Investment Dar said in an e-mailed statement today.
Creditors not inclined to take the offer will retain their
claims under the restructuring plan approved by a Kuwaiti court,
the company said, without providing details of the assets.  Investment Dar, which defaulted on a $100 million Islamic
bond in 2009, restructured about $5 billion of debt in 2011
after the global financial crisis reduced the ability of some
Kuwaiti companies to repay debt. The company agreed last month
to sell its stake in Bahrain Islamic Bank.  Investment Dar was part of the group that bought Aston
Martin, the maker of cars featured in  James Bond movies , for 503
million pounds ($768 million) in 2007. Aston Martin said in
December it will sell a 37.5 percent stake to Investindustrial,
giving the company the cash to invest in automotive resources to
compete with Volkswagen AG’s Bentley and Fiat SpA’s Ferrari.  Investment Dar said today it remains committed to the
repayment schedule according to the timings and amounts in the
restructuring plan. The settlement-in-kind proposal was
discussed at a board meeting on May 12 in the presence of a
monitor from the Central Bank of  Kuwait .  “The board considers that the proposed settlement-in-kind
is fair and equitable to all of TID’s banks and investors, and
tremendously enhances TID’s chances of repayment of its debt on
time,” Chairman Adnan Al-Musallam said in the statement.  The company’s assets include Aston Martin, Grosvenor House
Apartments on  London ’s Park Lane and Al Dar Asset Management
Co., according to information on its  website .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fiona MacDonald in Kuwait at 
 fmacdonald4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  