-- Swan Shuns Europe-Style Austerity in Bet on Aussie Jobs: Economy
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2013-05-15T01:25:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-14/australia-shuns-europe-style-cuts-as-swan-bets-on-jobs-election.html
Australian Treasurer Wayne Swan will
eschew European-style austerity as a stronger currency slows
growth, wagering the government can win a Sept. 14 election
fought on jobs and absorb the pain of a broken surplus promise.  The underlying cash deficit will be A$18 billion ($17.8
billion) in the 12 months to June 30, 2014, Swan said in
Canberra yesterday as he released the  federal budget . The A$19.4
billion shortfall this fiscal year is 1.3 percent of gross
domestic product, compared with a projected A$1.1 billion
surplus released in the government’s mid-year review seven
months ago. The Australian dollar dropped to an 11-month low
after the release.  “To those who would take us down the European road of
savage austerity I say the social destruction that comes from
cutting too much, too hard, too fast is not the Australian
way,” Swan told parliament. “The alternative, cutting to the
bone, puts  Australian jobs  and our economy at risk.”  Swan outlined a longer path back to the black that funds
pledged spending on infrastructure, education and disability
care, while saying restraint gives the  Reserve Bank  of  Australia 
scope to cut record-low  interest rates  even further. Prime
Minister  Julia Gillard ’s Labor government trails  Tony Abbott ’s
opposition by double digits and has seen its economic
credibility weakened as a stronger currency dents tax revenue
and weighs on exporters and manufacturers.  Too Optimistic  “The revenue forecasts have been pared back, they’re a bit
more realistic, but I think they’re probably still a little
optimistic,” said Su-Lin Ong, Sydney-based head of Australian
economic and fixed-income strategy at Royal Bank of  Canada .
“It’s a modest fiscal tightening back to surplus. It sits with
the idea of lower for longer in terms of the RBA. That’s
consistent with their easing bias.”  After the fiscal plans were released, Moody’s Investors
Service Vice President  Steven Hess  said Australia’s Aaa rating
with a stable outlook remains intact.  Standard & Poor’s  echoed
that view, saying the government continues to demonstrate a
commitment to prudent fiscal policy.  Fitch Ratings  said its AAA
rating with a stable outlook remains and the budget is
consistent with Australia’s commitment to fiscal consolidation.  The  Australian dollar  traded at 99.15 U.S. cents at 10:29
a.m. in Sydney today compared with 99.76 cents before the budget
was released. Traders are pricing in a 69 percent chance RBA
Governor  Glenn Stevens  will lower the overnight cash-rate target
by a quarter percentage point to a new record 2.5 percent by
September, on the eve of the election, swaps data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  “The market’s mood towards the Australian dollar has
turned remarkably bearish in a very short period of time, and
Treasurer Swan gave it no reason to change its mind,” said  Sean Keane , an analyst in Auckland at financial advisory group Triple
T Consulting.  Huge Pressure  Treasury projects Australia’s  unemployment rate  will rise
to 5.75 percent by June 2014, from 5.5 percent last month, as
the economy undergoes a “substantial transition” from resource
investment to growth led by industries like housing construction.  “Challenging global conditions and the high Australian
dollar have put huge pressure on the budget and led to a
significant reduction in expected tax receipts,” Swan said,
announcing a revenue shortfall of A$16.6 billion in fiscal 2014.
“This government is providing a buffer to continued global
uncertainty and giving the  Reserve Bank of Australia  more scope
to cut interest rates should it want.”  Gillard and Swan, also her deputy, have struggled to
protect the ruling  Labor party ’s electorate from the two-speed
economy -- a phrase officials use to distinguish resource-rich
regions in the north and west that powered growth and hired
workers during the mining investment bonanza, from struggling
tourism, manufacturing and retailers of the south and east.  Traffic Congestion  To help woo voters in the outer suburbs ahead of the
election, the government plans to spend A$24 billion on roads
and railways in Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane and Adelaide.  “Traffic congestion costs commuters time with their
families and is estimated to cost our economy up to A$20 billion
a year by 2020 if not addressed,” Swan told parliament.  The government projects the budget will return to balance
in the 12 months through June 2016 and record a surplus of A$6.6
billion in 2016-17, the budget papers show.  Funding a return to surplus and savings to offset pre-election announcements of a disability care program, overhaul of
education and the upgrade of transport infrastructure, are
measures including tightening company tax breaks for a saving of
A$4.2 billion through June 2017. It will also scrap a cash
payment to parents of newborns and cap family payments for a
saving of A$2.4 billion.  Revenue Writedown  “This year we face the second largest revenue writedown
since the Great Depression,” Swan said in the speech. “This
budget sets a sensible pathway to surplus, while making room for
the big investments in our nation’s future.”  The government won’t proceed with a proposed family tax
benefit that would’ve cost A$2.5 billion, and will link
cigarette-price increases to faster-rising wages instead of
inflation. It didn’t disclose how much extra cash will be raised
from the measure.  Treasury forecasts the economy will expand 2.75 percent in
the 12 months beginning July 1 and accelerate to 3 percent the
following year.  Consumer-price (TDMIYOY)  growth will slow to 2.25 percent
in the 12 months to June 30, 2014, from 2.5 percent this fiscal
year, the budget papers show.  ‘Downbeat’ Projections  “The growth projections are downbeat,” said Hideo Shimomura, who helps oversee the equivalent of $59 billion in
Tokyo as chief fund investor at Mitsubishi UFJ Asset Management
Co., a unit of  Japan ’s largest publicly-traded bank. “They will
struggle to get out of the deficit. It could lead to further
easing” from the Reserve Bank, he said.  Treasury predicts resource investment will reach a record
of more than 8 percent of GDP in 2013-14 and said projects worth
A$260 billion are currently committed or under construction. It
said the central bank’s 2 percentage points of rate reductions
over the past 19 months are having an impact, with dwelling
investment “already showing signs of a recovery.”  Governor Stevens  last week cut the overnight cash-rate
target by a quarter percentage point to a record-low 2.75
percent. Australia still has one of the highest benchmark rates
among major developed nations. Central banks from Europe to  New
Zealand  to Canada have policy rates ranging from 0.5 percent to
2.5 percent. Rates in Japan and the U.S. are near zero.  The Australian dollar has soared 65 percent from its 2008
crisis low on Oct. 27 as quantitative easing in the U.S. and
Japan to stimulate their economies unleashes cash seeking yield.  Holden Cuts  Manufacturers are beginning to buckle under the sustained
strength of the local dollar, with  General Motors Co. (GM) ’s
Australian Holden unit announcing the loss of about 500 jobs
last month. The impact on the ruling Labor party’s blue-collar
supporters has taken a political toll on Gillard. Labor trails
Abbott’s Liberal-National coalition by 12 percentage points,
according to a Newspoll published on May 7.  The currency, which averaged about $1.03 since Gillard’s
government’s 2010 swearing in, last week ended its longest
stretch above parity since the 1983 float. The Aussie’s
resilience, even as commodity prices ease, is among reasons the
government revised down company taxes by about A$5.2 billion in
2012-13 and A$7.2 billion in 2013-14 from October forecasts.
Mining and petroleum taxes were downgraded A$3.6 billion and
A$3.2 billion respectively over the periods, budget papers show.  Treasury projects the economies of China and Japan, two of
Australia’s key export destinations, will ease next year.  ‘Politically Damaging’  Elsewhere, Singapore  retail sales  probably declined in
March for a sixth straight month, economists predicted before
data due today, while the Malaysian economy probably grew 5.5
percent in the first quarter, another survey showed. Gross
domestic product data are due for Germany, France and Italy.  In the U.S., industrial production probably declined 0.2
percent in April, a survey showed before the release of data.  Australia’s 2013-14 deficit will amount to 1.1 percent of
GDP, the budget showed. That compares with a U.S. deficit
equivalent to 5.4 percent of the economy, Japan’s shortfall of 7
percent and the euro area’s gap of 2.6 percent of GDP in the
period, according to the International Monetary Fund’s fiscal
monitor.  “While large deficits are politically damaging to admit
during a feisty election campaign, compared with global debt and
deficit metrics there is still not much to be concerned about,”
said Alvin Pontoh, a Singapore-based Asia-Pacific strategist at
TD Securities Inc. Labor has chosen a “social policy legacy
over austerity,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  