-- Austria on Good Way to Avoid $21 Billion Hypo Alpe Crash
-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 2013-05-14T15:34:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-14/austria-on-good-way-to-avoid-21-billion-hypo-alpe-crash.html
Austria ’s central bank said Hypo
Alpe-Adria-Bank International AG will likely avoid a 16 billion-euro ($21 billion) insolvency as policy makers negotiate with
the European Commission over the nationalized lender.  “The government is on a very good path with the
Commission, therefore I don’t think that there is an immediate
threat,”  Andreas Ittner , a director at the nation’s central
bank, told journalists in Vienna today.  Ittner said a 16 billion-euro loss was possible if Hypo
Alpe was forced by the Commission into immediate repayment of
government aid that would trigger insolvency, confirming a
figure first published by Profil magazine last month. Hypo Alpe
is the third-biggest lender in the nations of the former
 Yugoslavia , which have the potential to complicate the situation
by seizing local assets, according to Austrian policy makers.  Joaquin Almunia , the European Union’s top antitrust
official, told Austria in March that its restructuring plan for
Hypo Alpe wasn’t good enough to justify retaining about 2.2
billion euros of state aid the lender has received since 2008,
and he may order Hypo Alpe to pay it back. A  task force  led by
former central bank governor Klaus Liebscher is aiming to
satisfy Almunia by drafting a new plan.  Repaying the 2.2 billion euros right away could force Hypo
Alpe into insolvency, according to a central bank document that
was first reported by Profil and also obtained by  Bloomberg
News . The Balkan countries where Hypo Alpe is active may
nationalize its local arms in the case of an insolvency,
freezing as much as 10.4 billion euros the parent company lent
to the units, according to the document. Ittner declined to
elaborate on the loss calculation.  Asset Sales  Hypo Alpe is seeking buyers for its businesses in Austria,
Italy and the former Yugoslavia, where it trails only Nova
Ljubljanska Banka dd and  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  in terms of total assets.
Another unit owns non-performing assets that will be wound down,
including Croatian hotel loans, leasing deals across eastern
Europe and assets seized as loan collateral, such as shopping
malls, yachts and tractors.  The sale of the Austrian unit, which had 4.1 billion euros
of assets at the end of last year, is in the “final phase,”
Hypo Alpe spokesman Nikola Donig said by phone. He declined to
elaborate. India’s  Srei Infrastructure Finance Ltd. (SREI)  today denied
reports in Austrian media that said it’s bidding for the
business, and isn’t looking at buying any European bank,
according to a spokesman.  The sale could raise 100 million euros, Kurier reported
today, without saying where it got the information.  Ex-Yugoslavia Bank  Hypo Alpe originally proposed to sell the Austrian business
next year and dispose of the ex-Yugoslav unit, with 10 billion
euros of assets, by 2016, according to the central bank
document. That plan was rejected by Almunia, who wants all units
to be sold this year, the document said.  A quick sale of the Austrian unit may appease Almunia and
gain more time to sell the Balkan lenders. Hypo Alpe has sent
information memorandums to about 10 potential bidders for the
ex-Yugoslavia unit, which comprises banks in  Slovenia ,  Croatia ,
 Serbia ,  Montenegro , and  Bosnia and Herzegovina , Donig said. He
declined to elaborate.  Austria is also revisiting plans to spin off the “bad
bank” wind-down unit, which already is its biggest division,
accounting for 11.7 billion euros of total assets. Such a
vehicle could be modeled on Germany’s FMS Wertmanagement AoeR,
the bad bank for Hypo Real Estate AG, or Ireland’s National
Asset Management Agency. Finance ministry spokesman Gregor
Schuetze declined to comment on the status of the EU talks.  According to calculations by Hypo Alpe, Austria may have to
inject at least 2.5 billion euros more into the lender if it
accelerates the sales, on top of the 700 million euros already
earmarked in this year’s budget.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  