-- Australia Cuts Carbon Price Forecast for 2015 by More Than Half
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t   a n d   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 2013-05-14T17:19:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-14/australia-cuts-2015-carbon-price-forecast-58-to-a-12-10-a-ton.html
Australia more than halved its
projection for carbon prices in the year starting July 2015 to
A$12.10 ($12) a metric ton as the European Union, its planned
partner in a cap-and-trade system, struggles with low prices.  “Profound economic weakness in  Europe  has had a
significant impact on European growth and its carbon market,”
Climate Change Minister  Greg Combet  said yesterday in a
statement as the nation released its annual budget. The revision
cuts the value of permits by about A$6 billion through June
2016, or a net cost to government of A$2.1 billion after
accounting for industry aid, he said. Previous Treasury
forecasts were for A$29 a ton.  The charge on emissions is Prime Minister  Julia Gillard ’s
main tool for meeting her minority Labor government’s pledge of
cutting  greenhouse gases  by 5 percent before 2020. Opposition
leader  Tony Abbott , whose Liberal-National coalition leads in
opinion polls, has vowed to scrap what he has called a toxic tax
should he win power in the Sept. 14 federal election.  Carbon emissions  from the national  electricity market 
dropped 7.7 percent in the first nine months after the permit
price was introduced, as consumers and businesses reduced power
use, Combet said.  “The Australian government forecast is subject to huge
uncertainty as a result of its direct relation with European
prices,” said Konrad Hanschmidt, an analyst in  London  for
Bloomberg New Energy Finance. Australian emitters may buy EU
permits for a cheaper price than cutting greenhouse gases at
home, Hanschmidt said yesterday by e-mail.  ‘Game-changing year’  EU prices may rise if the bloc tightens its carbon targets
and installs a system to temporarily deal with a supply glut, he
said. “2015 can be a game-changing year in Europe.”  Australia ’s ruling Labor party set the price of carbon at
A$23 a ton starting in July 2012 with the aim of reducing
Australia’s reliance on coal. Gillard’s minority government
amended the law in August 2012 to allow emitters to immediately
begin buying EU permits in place of Australia’s own carbon
allowances starting in 2015.  The cost of permits on London’s ICE Futures Europe
exchange, fast becoming the benchmark price for Australia as the
nation prepares for market-based trading, closed at a record low
2.75 euros ($3.56) a metric ton last month. They advanced 7.7
percent yesterday to close at 3.52 euros on ICE.  The Australian government had promised additional tax cuts
of A$1.59 a week starting in 2015 to those earning as much as
A$80,000 a year to offset the costs of carbon pricing. While
those tax cuts will be deferred until carbon prices exceed
A$25.40, other household-assistance programs won’t be
eliminated.  ‘Coal Industry Assistance’  The government said A$274 million of coal industry
assistance will be reduced in line with the revised price. It
said A$662 million of uncommitted funds for low-emissions coal
and  carbon capture  and storage will be returned to the budget.  The deferral of investment in the Australian Renewable
Energy Agency and cuts to carbon capture “are regrettable,”
John Conner, chief executive officer of the Climate Institute,
said yesterday in an e-mailed statement.  “The government will continue to monitor the carbon price
to ensure that households are adequately assisted,” Combet said
in the statement. “Should carbon price revenue be higher than
anticipated when we move to an emissions trading scheme, the
government will also prioritize investments in land and
biodiversity programs.”  Abbott’s coalition supports Australia’s 5 percent reduction
target by 2020. Its so-called Direct Action Plan would commit as
much as A$750 million to subsidize companies’ spending to
achieve that goal.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net ;
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  