-- Babcock Profit Rises as Nuclear Sales Expansion Bolsters Defense
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-05-14T08:46:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-14/babcock-profit-rises-as-nuclear-sales-expansion-bolsters-defense.html
Babcock International Group Plc (BAB) , the
engineering company helping design the U.K.’s future submarines,
said full-year operating profit rose 14 percent on overseas
defense sales and nuclear-energy activities.  “Nuclear is becoming a significant business,” Chief
Executive Officer Peter Rogers said in an interview. “In
addition, even in the defense world, we are growing pretty
rapidly overseas.”  Babcock’s civil nuclear activities include dismantling and
decontaminating existing plants as it pursues work on new
reactors with partners such as  Electricite de France SA (EDF)  and
 Hitachi Ltd. (6501)   The company’s shares rose as much as 4.5 percent, the
steepest intraday gain since Oct. 2, and were trading 3.8
percent higher at 1,130 pence as of 9:43 a.m. in London.
Adjusted operating profit rose to 376.6 million pounds in the 12
months through March and its bid pipeline, a measure of
potential future business, advanced 63 percent to 15.5 billion
pounds, Babcock said.  The London-based company has been looking to grow in
markets such as  Australia , the  Middle East , and  Brazil  to win
defense service business to help offset lower volumes in the
U.K. It also has bet on expanding non-military work through its
training and nuclear energy work.  ‘Hotting Up’  “The business is growing well,” wrote Joe Brent, a
London-based analyst at  Liberum Capital  with a hold
recommendation on the share.  “Nuclear is hotting up.”  U.K. defense business, which recently accounted for 65
percent of sales, is now just above 50 percent and will drop to
less than half of revenue in the medium-term, Rogers said. New
contracts in the U.K. have meant the switch in business mix has
been slower to materialize than expected, he said.  The company also is seeing its first contract wins in the
Middle East in training and education and military activities,
Rogers said.  Babcock ended March with a 12 billion-pound backlog, 8
percent below last year’s level. Rogers said bureaucratic delays
on two U.K. defense contracts led to the dip. “Both of which
will come home,” he said.  Babcock also had to contend with a decline in the South
African rand in the past year which erased around 17 percent in
sales growth for its infrastructure and energy project
activities in the country, Chief Financial Officer Bill Tame
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in  London  at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  