-- Bangladesh Army Ends Survivor Search as 300 Factories to Close
-- B y   A r u n   D e v n a t h
-- 2013-05-14T04:22:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-14/bangladesh-army-ends-survivor-search-as-300-factories-to-close.html
The  Bangladesh  army ended the search
for survivors at the site where a clothing-factory building
collapsed three weeks ago as garment makers shut 300 plants
outside the capital due to labor unrest.  The army, which has been leading the rescue operations
since the eight-story building crashed down on April 24, is
handing over operations to the district administration today,
Mir Rabbi, an army spokesman said over the phone today.  About 200 factory workers blocked a highway and vandalised
several plants in the industrial belt of Ashulia on the
outskirts of Dhaka yesterday to demand higher pay, forcing
owners to shut 300 facilities indefinitely from today, according
to Atiqul Islam, president of Bangladesh Garment Manufacturers
and Exporters Association.  The protests and shut-downs follow the collapse of the Rana
Plaza factory building last month that killed 1,127 in the
nation’s worst industrial disaster. The disaster has also led
Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina’s government to shut factories as
the European Union’s Trade Commissioner Karel De Gucht considers
steps including trade sanctions against Bangladesh to encourage
changes in working conditions.  The protest came even after the Bangladeshi government said
it considers raising the minimum wage of garment workers from
about $39 a month from May 1. It plans to set up a panel to make
recommendations in consultation with factory owners and labor
leaders on how much the pay should be increased, Textiles
Minister Abdul Latif Siddique said yesterday.  The South Asian nation last increased the minimum pay to
3,000 taka ($39) a month in 2010 from 1,662 taka in 2006.  The Bangladesh cabinet also gave final approval yesterday
to an amendment to the labor law to allow workers greater
freedom to form trade unions.  Safety Pact  Hennes & Mauritz AB (HMB)  and  Inditex SA (ITX) ,  Europe ’s two largest
clothing retailers, are among companies that have committed to a
proposal enhancing fire and building safety in the Asian country
where the apparel industry accounts for 80 percent of total
exports.  The five-year accord, which will be funded by the
participants, calls for existing building regulations and
enforcement to be reviewed, the development of a worker
complaint process and a mechanism for workers to report risks,
according to  PVH Corp. (PVH) , which pledged $2.5 million to underwrite
the program.  Rescuers combing through the debris of the Rana Plaza
building pulled a survivor from the rubble May 10. The 19-year-old woman, Reshma Begum, was the first survivor found in almost
two weeks from the site.  Reshma, who survived on a packet of biscuits and water,
will never return to work at garment factories for fear of the
risks, she said at a press conference held yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Arun Devnath in Dhaka at 
 adevnath@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  