-- Bank of France Touts Securitization Plan as Template for ECB
-- B y   M a r k   D e e n
-- 2013-05-14T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-14/bank-of-france-touts-securitization-plan-as-template-for-ecb.html
The Bank of France wants to help
banks package loans to businesses into tradable securities with
the creation of a special-purpose vehicles, in what could become
a template for the euro area.  As the  European Central Bank  looks for ways to improve the
flow of credit to small and medium-sized enterprises, or SMEs,
the project started by the French central bank in July last year
could provide one possible solution, the head of its markets
division, Alexandre Gautier, said in a telephone interview.  He’s in talks with the Frankfurt-based ECB and other
national central banks on the initiative, which would ideally
create securities that qualify as collateral in ECB refinancing
operations. While banks can currently securitize SME loans and
use them as collateral at the ECB, the process is complicated
and not centralized.  “We want a vehicle that is super simple and super
transparent,” Gautier said. “We’d very much like these
securities to be eligible in the euro system, but it’s not a
condition. We’ll go ahead on our own if we have to to show that
it’s doable.”  The Bank of  France  project involves the creation of a
private company to pool existing loans to SMEs and then issue
new securities that can be traded. Current plans are for the
participating banks to own equal shares in the company and for
the first such entity to issue five-year bonds.  Easier  The aim is to make it easier for banks to re-finance
existing loans and incentivize them to extend credit to small
businesses. That would especially be the case if the new
securities were eligible as collateral with the ECB, said
Gautier.  “The banks were very interested but they said that to make
it really attractive, any securities should be eligible as
collateral for refinancing within the euro system so that they
would be liquid in the event of a crisis,” he said. “That’s
now what we’re aiming for.”  ECB President  Mario Draghi  said on May 2 that policy makers
will start consultations with other European institutions on
initiatives to promote lending to SMEs in the euro area using
asset-backed securities.  Gautier aims to have the French program up and running by
the third quarter.  He said the Bank of France would prefer the securities to
be rated by internal central bank systems or the  Internal
Ratings-Based  approach used by private lenders under the aegis
of the  Bank for International Settlements .  “We’d like to reduce dependence on the  ratings agencies ,
but it’s not necessarily easy,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  