-- Bilfinger Profit Slips on Slow European Economy and Harsh Winter
-- B y   A l e x   W e b b
-- 2013-05-14T09:40:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-14/bilfinger-profit-beats-estimates-after-cutting-costs-correct-.html
Bilfinger SE (GBF)  posted a 31 percent drop
in first-quarter profit as  Europe ’s harsh winter and stuttering
economy stunted earnings at Germany’s second-largest builder.  Adjusted net income slipped to 29 million euros ($37.7
million) from 42 million euros a year earlier, the Mannheim-based company said in a statement today. Output volume fell 3.9
percent to 1.87 billion euros.  “In all business segments, the continued lack of economic
impetus in Europe –- where Bilfinger generates 80 percent of its
output volume –- is leading to hesitation on the part of
clients,” Bilfinger said. “This results in delays in contract
awards, with primarily larger-volume and high-margin projects
affected.”  Hochtief AG (HOT) , Germany’s largest builder, and
 HeidelbergCement AG (HEI)  both reported rising quarterly profit last
week as growth in the U.S. offset a European construction slump
exacerbated by the long, cold winter. Bilfinger Chief Executive
Officer  Roland Koch  has said he may use some of the 850 million
euros available for acquisitions for the services units Hochtief
is divesting.  Acquisitions are a key tenet of Koch’s plan to turn
Bilfinger from a construction company into a services provider
with net income of about 400 million euros in 2016. Part of the
strategy is to reduce exposure to higher-risk, lower-margin
construction projects.  Engineering Work  Bilfinger shares were down 0.2 percent at 76.05 euros as of
11:00 a.m. in Frankfurt. Before today, the stock had climbed 4.4
percent this year, valuing the company at 3.5 billion euros,
while Hochtief has gained 29 percent and HeidelbergCement is up
27 percent.  Bilfinger reiterated its forecast of an increase in 2013
profit, helped by a savings program and rising demand for
engineering work and services in the power industry.  Adjusted earnings before interest, taxes and amortization
declined 18 percent to 56 million euros in the quarter, dragged
down by a 38 percent fall in earnings at the building and
facilities division.  “In contrast to generally moderate development in Europe,
Bilfinger is experiencing satisfactory demand in Scandinavia and
the United Kingdom,” the company said. “Outside Europe, this
applies to the  United States  in particular.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alex Webb  in Munich at 
 awebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  