-- BlackRock’s Cassese Likes Dividend Growth, Railroads: Tom Keene
-- B y   I n y o u n g   H w a n g
-- 2013-05-14T18:12:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-14/blackrock-s-cassese-likes-dividend-growth-railroads-tom-keene.html
David Cassese of  BlackRock (BLK)  Advisors
LLC said he likes stocks with dividend-growth potential and
industrial companies that will benefit from a manufacturing
resurgence in the U.S.  While some dividend-payers in groups such as
telecommunications and utilities have become overvalued, there
are still many companies with growth prospects that will be able
to increase their payouts, according to Cassese, a  fund manager 
at BlackRock. Railroads and  transportation companies  will
benefit from a “manufacturing renaissance” in the U.S. over
the next five to 10 years, he also said.  “Companies are more open than ever to bring manufacturing
back to the U.S,” Cassese said in a radio interview on
“Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom Keene . “It’s not just the
low-cost natural gas that’s driving it. There’s been wage
inflation in  emerging markets . Companies have had years of
experience now of outsourcing and have realized that there are
frictional costs, there is loss of IP, there are language
barriers.”  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index has gained 16 percent in
2013.  Telephone companies  have the highest dividend yield among
10  S&P 500  groups at 4.2 percent, and trade for 22.3 times
operating earnings in the last year, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. Utility stocks, with a payout rate of 3.8 percent,
are  valued at  17.3 times profit, the data show. The S&P 500 has
an earnings multiple of 16.1 and has a dividend yield of 2
percent.  Industrials, Financial  Industrial companies have surged 183 percent a a group
since the bull market in U.S. equities began in March 2009. That
compares with the S&P 500’s 144 percent rally and is the third
biggest gain out of  10 S&P 500 groups . The group trades at 16
times profit in the previous 12 months, Bloomberg data show.  Cassese said he’s been underweight financial companies
because of regulatory concerns like the Dodd-Frank Act and
opaque business models at large banks. At the same time, he’s
been adding regional banks such as Cincinnati-based Fifth Third
Bancorp and Atlanta-based  SunTrust Banks Inc. (STI) , as the “path to
dividend growth” for these financial companies becomes clearer,
he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Inyoung Hwang in  New York  at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  