-- BMWs Gaining Bitcoin-Like Appeal as CPI Hedge: Argentina Credit
-- B y   C a m i l a   R u s s o   a n d   E l i a n a   R a s z e w s k i
-- 2013-05-14T16:28:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-14/bmws-gaining-bitcoin-like-appeal-as-cpi-hedge-argentina-credit.html
Argentines are buying more BMWs,
Jaguars and other luxury cars as a store of value as inflation
decimates their deposits and pummels the nation’s bonds.  Purchases of cars from  Germany ’s  Bayerische Motoren Werke
AG (BMW)  and Jaguar Land Rover Automotive Plc, owned by  India ’s  Tata
Motors Ltd. (TTMT) , jumped the most in April among brands sold in
Argentina. The sales were part of a 30 percent surge in car
sales from a year earlier that was the biggest increase in 20
months, according to the Argentine Car Producers Association.
While used-car prices rose in line with inflation last year, or
about 25 percent, peso bonds tied to consumer prices  fell  13
percent. The drop was the biggest in emerging markets.  Car sales  in Argentina increased by the most in almost two
years last month as a ban on buying dollars made Argentines turn
to vehicles to protect savings against the fastest inflation in
the Western Hemisphere after  Venezuela . Luxury models are
becoming more attractive because they are imported at the
official dollar rate, said Gonzalo Dalmasso, vehicle industry
analyst at Buenos Aires research company Abeceb.com. Argentines
with savings in dollars are able to purchase cars at half the
cost by trading in the unofficial currency market.  “I’m seeing a lot of people buying high-end cars for the
first time, trading Minis for middle of the market models,”
Ignacio Monteserin, a salesman at BMW’s Mini Cooper dealership
in Buenos Aires’s Libertador Avenue, said. “It’s become very
convenient to own luxury cars in general because of the big gap
in the exchange rates and you get to have a quality good that
will preserve the value of your money with time.”  Surging Sales  Car sales in Argentina surged 30 percent in April from a
year earlier to 88,323 units, the fastest increase since August
2011 and the second-highest on record, according to a car
association known as Adefa.  Argentines have bought 1,588 BMWs so far this year, more
than double the amount they purchased in the same period last
year, according to Argentina’s Car Dealers Association, or
Acara. Jaguar and Land Rover sales increased by 200 percent and
278 percent respectively, the data show.  Mini Cooper sales rose 54 percent in January to April from
a year earlier. A  Mini Coupe  costs 194,000 pesos, or $37,072 at
the official rate of 5.2380 per dollar. It costs $19,400 at the
parallel rate at 10 pesos per dollar, cutting the price in half
for Argentines who have savings in dollars and go to the black
market to sell them for pesos. The same model in the U.S. costs
$22,150.  Bitcoin, Gold  Argentines are buying cars, gold and even virtual currency
such as bitcoin as they look for ways to preserve their savings
as the peso is forecast to fall 17 percent this year.  The peso in the illegal currency market, known as the blue
market locally, weakened to a record 10.45 pesos per dollar last
week. This means Argentines with peso salaries who buy dollars
in the black market to protect against a weakening of the local
currency and 25 percent inflation lose about half of their
money.  Inflation-linked bonds don’t protect against rising prices
because they’re tied to the  official price index , which at 10.6
percent is less than half the estimates of independent
economists. They have dropped 3.4 percent this year after losing
13 percent in 2012.  Argentina’s official price index has been questioned by
economists since 2007, when then-President Nestor Kirchner
changed staff at the National Statistics Institute. The
International Monetary Fund in February censured the country for
not improving its inflation measurement.  Bond Losses  Argentina’s dollar-denominated bonds aren’t a better
alternative as a U.S. legal dispute on repayment of the nation’s
defaulted debt caused average  yields  to soar to 13.92 percent,
almost three times the average in  emerging markets , according to
JPMorgan Chase & Co.  The notes have  plunged  10 percent his year.  The  rate  banks pay for 30-day deposits of more than 1
million pesos was 15.38 percent on May 10.  “The government takes away their salaries and deposits
through inflation and negative interest rates,” said Jorge Remes Lenicov, a former Economy Minister from January 2002 to
April 2002, when the country abandoned a decade-long peso peg to
the dollar.  The  extra yield  investors demand to hold Argentine
government dollar bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries narrowed 20
basis points to 1,171 basis points at 1:27 p.m. in Buenos Airs,
according to JPMorgan’s EMBI Global index.  Default Swaps  The cost to insure Argentine debt against default within
the next five years through credit default swaps rose 107 basis
points to 2,770 basis points, according to data compiled by CMA
Ltd.  While inflation and a gap in the exchange rates is fueling
sales, the same reasons are also deterring investment in the car
industry, said Cristiano Rattazzi, President of Fiat Auto
Argentina SA.  “There are no certainties,” Rattazzi, who is also head of
the car makers association, said in a phone interview in Buenos
Aires. “It’s a very unstable environment. What if they devalue?
What if there are multiple exchange rates? All of these
questions and high inflation are putting a big break on
investment.”  The Argentine government in March 2011 ordered car
importers to match their imports with exports or investment of
equal value to boost the trade surplus.  ‘Enjoy It’  The decree prompted BMW to export rice and Porsche
Automobil Holding SE to begin exporting olives and Malbec red
wine. Shizuoka Subaru Motor Co. agreed to export chicken feed,
Hyundai Motor Co. began sending soy flour to  Vietnam  and
 Mitsubishi Motors Corp. (7211)  started shipping peanuts.  As Argentines continue to lose purchasing power, cars and
other durable goods are temporary solutions to the region’s
fastest inflation after Venezuela, said Lenicov.  “There’s nowhere to put your money in,” Lenicov said.
“The reasoning is you lose money almost anywhere because of
inflation, so if you buy a car, at least you get to enjoy it.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Camila Russo in Buenos Aires at 
 crusso15@bloomberg.net ;
Eliana Raszewski in Buenos Aires at 
 eraszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Tsang at 
 mtsang1@bloomberg.net  