-- BMWs Cheaper Than Hyundais in Korea as Tariffs Crumble
-- B y   R o s e   K i m
-- 2013-05-15T09:48:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-14/bmws-cheaper-than-hyundais-on-tariffs-imperil-korean-maker-cars.html
Lee Tack Young says  Hyundai Motor
Co. (005380) ’s luxury vehicles are oversized, overpriced gas guzzlers. So
he opted for a more modest alternative: a BMW 528i.  Foreign brands have seen their share of South Korea’s
market for premium vehicles surge to 41 percent from 28 percent
in the past two years, according to Korean industry groups, as
lower tariffs make their cars cheaper and local buyers abandon a
decades-long preference for domestic brands.  “I was looking for a quality car that wasn’t too big,”
said Lee, president of Cosmetic Engineering, a packaging-machinery maker near Seoul. The 65-year-old’s last seven cars
were all Korean, starting with a Hyundai Excel in the 1980s.  This time, he chose his 71 million won ($64,000) BMW over
an 85 million won K9 from Hyundai affiliate  Kia Motors Corp. (000270) 
“Unless Hyundai and Kia change and offer me more variety and
better quality, I don’t see any reason to go back,” Lee said.  The shift has made South Korea a growth market for
Bayerische Motoren Werke AG,  Daimler AG (DAI) ’s Mercedes-Benz, and
 Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s Audi. Their gains are coming at the expense of
Seoul-based Hyundai and Kia, which count on sales of luxury
vehicles in their home market for much of their earnings.  “It’s definitely something Hyundai and Kia are worried
about, and they should be worried,” said Lee Sang Hyun, an auto
analyst at  NH Investment & Securities Co. (016420)  “This trend will
undoubtedly have an adverse effect on Hyundai’s profits.”  Duties on European imports have fallen to 3.2 percent from
8 percent since a trade pact was implemented in 2011, and next
year they will be eliminated for most cars. A U.S. deal has
halved tariffs for passenger vehicles to 4 percent and will
eliminate them by 2016.  Boy’s Dream  BMW, Audi and Mercedes-Benz -- the world’s largest luxury
automakers -- all saw Korean sales rise by at least 25 percent
in the first quarter, faster growth than in  China . Hyundai’s
high-end sales fell 4.7 percent in the period as the country’s
overall auto market shrank 2.2 percent. The three German
companies sold 18,114 vehicles costing more than 40 million won
in Korea in the quarter, versus 31,444 for Hyundai.  “Sure, it’s every boy’s dream to have a German car, but
that wasn’t the most important reason,” said Park Jun Bum, 28,
who traded his Kia Forte sedan for an Audi A4 a few weeks back.
“Audi offered better design, engine, safety -- better quality
overall.”  Sticker prices for the Hyundai  Equus  -- the company’s most
luxurious model -- range from 68 million won to 151 million won.
BMW’s 5-series runs 61 million won to 113 million won, though
the Equus is closer in size to the BMW 7-series, which starts at
124 million won.  Test Track  Hyundai’s profit fell 15 percent last quarter, squeezed by
Japanese competitors boosted by the weakening yen. This year,
Hyundai says its sales will likely rise at the slowest pace
since 2007.  Investors have taken notice. Hyundai’s stock this year has
 underperformed  all major automakers. Its Seoul-traded shares
have fallen 12 percent, versus a 12 percent gain for Daimler and
a 24 percent increase for the Bloomberg Industries global auto
index. Hyundai  fell 0.3 percent in Seoul trading today.  BMW is planning a range of new models and investing 70
billion won constructing a track in the Korean city of Incheon
where customers can test drive its cars at high speeds, its
first such facility in Asia. Mercedes-Benz says it will add A-Class hatchbacks in the second half of the year in a bid to lure
customers in their 20s to 30s.  To fight back, Hyundai this month cut the price of mid-sized sedans by as much as 1.5 million won. The automaker is
developing diesel engines, which have become popular in the
imported brands. And it’s remodeling some dealerships and
service centers to better compete with the upscale digs offered
by the Germans.  Soft Side  Hyundai has considered creating a separate luxury brand,
like Toyota Motor Corp.’s Lexus or Honda Motor Co.’s Acura. For
now, the company has ruled out the idea in favor of selling its
higher-end models under the Hyundai nameplate.  “We will continue our efforts to enhance brand value and
increase premium car sales,” Chief Financial Officer Lee Won
Hee said in April.  Kim Pil Soo, a professor of automotive engineering at
Daelim College in South  Korea  and an adviser to the government,
said Hyundai must promote its extensive dealership network and
comparatively cheaper maintenance costs to win back domestic
buyers.  “They should focus on the soft side,” Kim said.  Still, the recent change in the Korean auto market won’t be
reversed easily, especially since both younger and older buyers
are considering imports rather than domestic brands. And with
more than 45 percent of the market, Hyundai still has plenty of
share to lose.  “Customers who were loyal to the brand for over 20 years
are breaking away,” Kim said. “It shows that imported brands
are now perceived as something accessible.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rose Kim in  Seoul  at 
 rkim76@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  