-- BNP Eyes Expansion in Korea’s $42 Billion Structured Note Market
-- B y   J u n   Y a n g
-- 2013-05-14T01:49:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-14/bnp-eyes-expansion-in-korea-s-42-billion-structured-note-market.html
BNP Paribas SA (BNP)  plans to boost its
equity structured-products business in South  Korea , a $42
billion market where  France ’s largest bank says it had been
“underweight.”  “We’re currently correcting” the situation, Renaud Meary,
the bank’s global head of structured equity for Asia Pacific
said in an interview in Hong Kong. “Korea for us is a strong
priority” and BNP Paribas is “expanding the business to all
segments that can be active in structured products,” he said.  Sales of equity-linked securities in Asia’s fourth-largest
economy surged 34 percent to a record 46.2 trillion won ($41.6
billion) in 2012, as low  interest rates  spurred demand for
higher-yielding investments, according to the Korea Financial
Investment Association. A lack of alternative products which can
yield as generous returns amid monetary easing mean the market
may expand further this year, according to Lee Jung Ho, a
derivatives analyst at  Tongyang Securities Inc. (003470)   The  Bank of Korea  lowered its benchmark seven-day
repurchase rate to 2.5 percent from 2.75 percent last week as a
weak yen dims the outlook for the nation’s exports and record
household debt weighs on consumption. Yields on three-year
corporate notes rated at AA- were at 2.93 percent May 13, near a
record-low 2.80 percent reached on March 28, data going back to
2000 show.  Intensifying Competition  That compares with an annual 8.4 percent coupon on a three-year product tied to South Korean, Hong Kong and U.S. equity
indexes, issued this month by Tongyang Securities, according to
a regulatory filing. The structured note pays that rate so long
as none of the underlying assets fall by more than 45 percent at
maturity. Issuers create the securities by bundling zero-coupon
bonds with derivatives, such as options.  In  South Korea , BNP Paribas and other international banks
structure the products themselves before selling them to local
securities firms which then on-sell them to investors. As demand
for such products increases, competition among foreign banks
will intensify, Lee said.  “The equity-linked  securities market  will at least remain
at current levels or grow a bit more,” Lee said. “It will
continue to be in the spotlight because there are no other
similar products people can invest in.”  Foreign firms most active in the market to date include
JPMorgan Chase & Co., Credit Suisse Group AG, Nomura Holdings
Inc. and Standard Chartered Plc, according to Yoon Moon Han, a
deputy manager for product development at Hana Daetoo Securities
Co.  Asia Expansion  BNP Paribas obtained a license to operate an equity-structured products business in South Korea in November 2011 and
has local staff handling functions related to equity-linked
securities and warrants, Meary said, declining to comment on
growth targets. About 14.5 trillion won of warrants were traded
in the past six months through May 10, according to  Korea
Exchange data .  The bank plans to add more than 1,300 people in  Asia  over
the next three years, Kyoya Okazawa, the head of global equities
and commodity derivatives at BNP Paribas Securities ( Japan )
Ltd., said in an interview in March. Paris-based BNP Paribas is
targeting annual revenue growth of 12 percent in its corporate-and investment-banking and investment solutions operations in
Asia to more than 3 billion euros ($3.9 billion) by 2016, it
said in presentation materials in February.  The firm’s market share of equity-linked uridashi notes
jumped to 2.6 percent this year with issuance totaling $199
million, from 0.6 percent in 2012, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The securities are issued outside Japan and sold to
the nation’s individual investors.  The lender’s “goal is ultimately to become a leader in the
Korean market,” as well as in the rest of Asia, Meary said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jun Yang in  Hong Kong  at 
 jyang180@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katrina Nicholas at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net  