-- Borg: Sweden Can't Rely on Liquidity From Fed, ECB, BoE
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e   a n d   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2013-05-14T13:59:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-14/borg-sweden-can-t-rely-on-liquidity-from-fed-ecb-boe.html
Sweden  needs to make sure European
banking rules don’t make it overly dependent on liquidity from
the European Central Bank, the Federal Reserve or the Bank of
 England , Swedish Finance Minister Anders Borg said today.  Sweden’s banking system is concentrated and particularly
vulnerable to foreign-exchange risk, Borg said. This means any
limits on Sweden’s ability to respond in a financial crisis
could increase its dependence on foreign central banks who
aren’t obligated to help, he told finance ministers in Brussels.  “We don’t have access to the FX markets in the same way
that an ECB country has,” Borg said. “We cannot rely on the
ECB to just flood our banks with money.”  Sweden has “great trust” that the foreign central banks
would “help us out in a difficult position, but we are not a
member of the ECB, so we cannot trust the same access to
liquidity,” Borg said.  EU ministers are aiming to agree by June on a design for
new rules on handling bank failures. Today’s discussions
focussed on which creditors will be first in line to assume
losses and are part of a broader debate on how to strengthen the
European banking sector and prevent future crises.  Borg said the EU plans, as currently designed, would
increase Sweden’s risk while limiting its ability to inject
equity capital into struggling banks.  “The current proposal is actually saying that the way that
we have set up our own banking resolution will not be allowed,”
Borg said. “So I think this is actually a little bit of a
problem for us.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rebecca Christie in Brussels at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net ;
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  