-- Borg ‘Not Satisfied’ With Swedish Banks’ FX Financing
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 2013-05-14T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-14/borg-not-satisfied-with-swedish-banks-fx-financing.html
Swedish Finance Minister Anders Borg
said banks in the largest Nordic economy are taking too long to
wean themselves off foreign funding as he warns the financial
industry will need to pay for the risks it’s creating.  “We’ll consider whether we need to introduce a tax on
foreign-exchange financing or reserve requirements or something
that is pushing them back on that issue, because it is a
vulnerability in our system,” Borg said yesterday in an
interview in Brussels. He is “not satisfied” with what his
nation’s banks are doing to reduce reliance on offshore
financing, he said.  Sweden ’s central bank said in December it needs to add 100
billion kronor ($15 billion) to its foreign reserves to build a
buffer against risks stemming from bank industry reliance on
foreign funding. The nation’s four biggest lenders have assets
that are more than four times its gross domestic product. That's
prompted Sweden to impose more rigorous regulatory standards to 
protect taxpayers, Borg has said.  “We have a very strong banking system, but if you have a
problem in it, you should deal with it when it is strong,” Borg
said.  Following the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in
September 2008, Sweden’s central bank provided emergency
liquidity peaking at $30 billion after international funding
markets shut down.  Preventing Isolation  Of the total securities issued by Swedish banks as of the
end of December, including certificates and bonds, 76 percent
were in foreign currencies, according to Statistics Sweden.
That’s coincided with a rise in volatility in currency markets.  Sweden is working to prevent the isolation of its financial
system as the European Union builds a banking union focused on
the euro zone, where five of 17 countries have sought bailouts
amid the bloc’s sovereign debt and banking crisis. In the
currency zone, banking supervision will move to the European
Central Bank next year and finance ministers are now debating
rules for how to handle bank failures.  Borg said the new European rules should grant more leeway
to countries that don’t use the euro because those nations don’t
have guaranteed access to ECB liquidity. Sweden needs to act
while its banks are healthy and the country has a good
relationship with neighboring central banks, he said.  The four largest Swedish banks are  Nordea Bank AB (NDA) , SEB AB,
 Svenska Handelsbanken AB (SHBA)  and  Swedbank AB. (SWEDA)  First-quarter earnings
of Sweden’s biggest banks further strengthened their “solid”
core capital ratios and allow for increased dividends, Fitch
Ratings said in an April 30 statement.  Pushing Growth  Sweden is also urging its counterparts in the 27-nation EU
to shift away from so-called austerity policies toward tax and
spending efforts that will jump-start economic growth.  Borg said the EU faces a “very bleak outlook” and needs
to rely on more than monetary policy to spur recovery. He called
for more education spending and tax breaks for low and middle-income earners, particularly in countries with stronger public
finances.  “We need to move also to use fiscal policy to give a
little bit of push to the recovery,” Borg said. “We need to
think now because the budget decisions are coming in the autumn
and if we are going to do something, we need to really push for
this now.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rebecca Christie in Brussels at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  