-- Bratusek Says Slovenia Not a Risk Factor as EU Examines Overhaul
-- B y   B o r i s   C e r n i
-- 2013-05-14T12:21:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-14/bratusek-says-slovenia-not-a-risk-factor-as-eu-examines-overhaul.html
Slovenia is seeking to convince
investors and the European Union that its overhaul plan will
help fix the bank industry and make sure the nation avoids
asking for a bailout.  The government “knows what it’s doing and we know it will
be a difficult” path, Prime Minister Alenka Bratusek said in a
speech to lawmakers in the capital Ljubljana today as she
presented tax increases, spending cuts and plans to sell state-owned enterprises.  Slovenia last week presented the revamping measures that
will be assessed by the European Commission later this month as
it received guarded support from the euro-region finance
ministers meeting in Brussels. Slovenia is right to say it won’t
need outside assistance, German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said yesterday while Jeroen Dijsselbloem of the
Netherlands, the chief of euro-group, said Slovenia needs
“swift and decisive” action.  “We can tell the world that Slovenia won’t be an
additional risk factor,” Bratusek said. “But nobody can assure
us that we won’t feel the impact of the deepening crisis.”  The government and trade unions reached a deal today on
cutting public-sector wages, Delo newspaper reported, citing
Interior Minister Gregor Virant. This “will help us achieve our
fiscal targets for 2014 in line with the stability program we
sent to Brussels,” Virant was quoted as saying by the
newspaper.  Olli Rehn, the EU’s Economic and Monetary Affairs
Commissioner, said the 27-nation bloc EU was “encouraged”  by
the Slovenian proposal.  ‘Not Wise’  “Overdoing it in raising taxes and cutting spending seems
not very wise, although this may please  Germany  from a short-term perspective,” Gunter Deuber, head of research at
Raiffeisen Bank International said in an e-mail from Vienna.
“The Slovenian economy might be caught in a deflationary spiral
in the years to come given the sizeable required balance sheet
adjustments in the private sector.”  The yield on the benchmark dollar-denominated bonds
maturing in 2022 rose to the highest level in a week today at
5.43 percent at 1:45 p.m. in Ljubljana, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg after reaching a record of 6.38 percent
March 27. Slovenia also sold 54.7 million euros ($71 million) of
3-month and 6-months Treasury bills at an auction, according to
the  Finance Ministry .  The government will inject 900 million euros into its three
largest banks including Nova Ljubljanska Banka d.d. by the end
of July, the government has said. Bad loans at these lenders
amounting to 3.34 billion euros will be transferred to a bank
asset management company starting in June at a value of 1.15
billion euros, which is a discount of 38 percent, the
government’s reform program shows.  The plan assumes “the equity position in the banks is at a
high level, which we have some doubt about, so a second round
may well be needed later in the year with additional issuance to
back it up,” Peter Attard Montalto, an economist at Nomura
International in  London  said in an e-mail. “Equally, the plan
is very reliant on implementation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  