-- Brazil Oil Auction Bids Poised to Beat 2007 Record, De Luca Says
-- B y   P e t e r   M i l l a r d   a n d   R o d r i g o   O r i h u e l a
-- 2013-05-14T13:15:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-14/brazil-oil-auction-bids-poised-to-beat-2007-record-de-luca-says.html
Brazil is set to break the $1.1
billion record from auctioning oil exploration licenses in the
first round since 2008 that offers areas on land and in deep
waters, said the head of the Brazilian Oil Institute.  “I think it could be more, it will be very competitive,”
Joao Carlos  de Luca , who is also chairman of Barra Energia
Petroleo & Gas, said in an interview today in  Rio de Janeiro ,
where the auction is being held.  The Foz do Amazonas basin has attracted the most interest,
Magda Chambriard, head of the National Petroleum Agency, told
reporters at today’s event. Bid volumes could reach 2 billion
reais ($1 billion), slightly less than the $1.1 billion from
offshore areas sold in 2007, the current record, she said.  Sixty-four companies have registered to bid for 289 blocks
spread over 11 basins that regulator ANP estimates hold 36.7
billion barrels of oil equivalent. That’s about 14 years worth
of domestic consumption, based on a 35 percent industry average
recovery rate. The government had estimated the auction would
generate 5 billion reais to 10 billion reais for public
spending.  In 2007, Brazil sold licenses spanning nine basins
including Campos, the source of more than 80 percent of the
country’s oil output and 35 percent of its natural gas
production. Later that year the country announced at least 50
billion barrels of oil in the so-called pre-salt region in deep
waters of the Atlantic that holds Lula, the biggest discovery of
this century.  Ghana-Like  Brazil hasn’t sold any exploration tracts since 2008, when
it auctioned blocks on land.  Most of the areas up for auction today and tomorrow are in
virgin waters off the coast of northeastern Brazil where
discoveries in similar geology across the Atlantic in  Ghana  and
 Ivory Coast  yielded major discoveries. Tullow Oil Plc in 2011
sparked interest in the region with the Zaedyus find off the
coast of  French Guiana .  Contestants in Brazil’s first oil auction in five years
range from  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  and  Chevron Corp. (CVX) , the largest U.S.
producers by market value, to Brazilian startup Ouro Preto Oleo
& Gas, a government registry shows.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Peter Millard in Rio de Janeiro at 
 pmillard1@bloomberg.net ;
Rodrigo Orihuela in Rio de Janeiro at 
 rorihuela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  