-- British Airways Owner to Raise $520 Million in Convertibles
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l   a n d   J o h n   G l o v e r
-- 2013-05-14T09:44:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-14/british-airways-owner-to-raise-520-million-in-bonds-for-vueling.html
British Airways owner  International
Consolidated Airlines Group SA (IAG)  said it raised 390 million euros
($507 million) in convertible bonds to fund the takeover of
Spanish discount carrier Vueling SA.  The senior unsecured bonds due 2018 can be handed over for
stock in London-based IAG when the shares rise to 4.25 euros, a
premium of about 35 percent to the average market price during
the sale, the company said in a statement today. The notes will
carry a coupon of 1.75 percent payable semi-annually, and will
raise the number of IAG shares outstanding by as much as 5
percent if fully converted, it said.  “The terms of the deal make it look cheap for investors,”
said Haidje Rustau, a convertible bonds analyst at Mitsubishi
UFJ Securities in  London . “I would have expected it to be more
expensive. Issuance has been thin recently but demand is still
there and people are starved.”  Sales of convertible bonds by European corporates have
stalled after a record first quarter when companies including
Air France-KLM Group,  Europe ’s largest airline, and Italian oil
company Eni SpA raised $10.05 billion, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Since March 30, Salmon farmer Marine
Harvest ASA, and Glencore Xstrata Plc, the biggest commodities
trader, sold another $751 million of the securities.  Vueling Acquisition  IAG, which already held 45.85 percent of Barcelona-based
Vueling, raised its stake to 90.51 percent last month after the
majority of remaining investors accepted its offer of 9.25 euros
a share in a 123.5 million-euro transaction. Chief Executive
Officer  Willie Walsh  said Vueling will remain a standalone unit
within IAG and will cooperate with its unprofitable Spanish unit
Iberia, which is cutting short-haul flights.  “We are raising cash to fund our acquisition of Vueling,
an airline that will be a great addition to IAG,” Walsh said in
the statement. “It will also enable IAG to have cash available
to improve general liquidity and improve the credit profile of
the group.”  Banco Santander SA, Barclays Plc, Deutsche Bank AG, Morgan
Stanley and UBS AG managed the transaction.  The bonds are expected to be issued on May 31, IAG said.  IAG’s  stock  has gained 44.2 percent this year and was
trading at 266.8 pence at 10:35 a.m. in London, valuing the
company at 4.95 billion pounds ($7.5 billion).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net ;
John Glover in London at 
 johnglover@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  