-- British Columbia Voters Go to Polls as New Democrats Lead
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e
-- 2013-05-14T15:32:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-14/british-columbia-voters-go-to-polls-as-new-democrats-lead.html
Voters in British Columbia go to the
polls today with Adrian Dix, leader of the New Democratic Party
who opposes new oil pipelines in the Canadian province, favored
to oust Premier Christy Clark.  The NDP is nine percentage points ahead of the ruling
Liberal Party, according to an Angus Reid Public Opinion poll.
Dix’s party has the support of 45 percent of British Columbians,
while Clark’s Liberals have 36 percent, according to the online
 survey  of 808 people published on May 11. The survey’s margin of
error was plus or minus 3.5 percent.  “I think it will be a rather close one,” Jozef Hubburmin,
chief financial officer at Vancouver-based  Fresh Direct Produce
Ltd. , a closely held importer of vegetables and fruit, said
yesterday in a telephone interview. “It’s going to be tighter
than opinion polls are suggesting.”  During the election campaign, Dix, 49, questioned the
Liberals’ ability to eliminate the provincial deficit while
taking a hard line against proposed pipelines to deliver crude
to Asia Pacific markets from  Alberta ’s oil sands.  The general election, the first for both Clark and Dix as
party leaders, is also contested by the Conservative Party of
British Columbia and the Green Party. About 3.1 million people
have been registered, according to  Elections BC , the voting
agency for  Canada ’s western-most province.  Polling stations opened at 8 a.m. Vancouver time, and close
at 8 p.m. (11 p.m.  New York  time.)  Majority Government  The Liberals are seeking to extend their 12-year reign for
four years by emphasizing the party’s fiscal management,
including a proposed balanced budget for the year that began
April 1. Clark, 47, has been premier for more than two years
after former leader Gordon Campbell stepped down.  At the close of the legislative session about a month ago,
the Liberals had 45 seats in the 85-member house; the NDP had 36
and there were four independents. The winning party needs 43
seats to form a majority government; otherwise it needs
opposition support to approve legislation in Canada’s third-most
populous province.  Dix reaffirmed his  opposition  to Calgary-based  Enbridge
Inc. (ENB) ’s proposed C$6 billion ($6 billion) Northern Gateway line
from Alberta to Kitimat, British Columbia, in a statement on
April 22. He also has said he is against  Kinder Morgan Energy
Partners LP (KMP) ’s plan to turn Vancouver into a major oil export hub
with the twinning of its existing Trans Mountain line that ends
near the city, Shruti Joshi, a party spokeswoman, said by phone
on May 10. Dix, a member of the B.C. legislature since 2005, had
previously reserved judgment on Trans Mountain, pending Kinder
Morgan’s regulatory application for the expansion.  Five Conditions  Clark has set out five conditions for her support of
Enbridge’s planned conduit through British Columbia, including a
“fair share” of economic benefits for the province, according
to a statement from her office.  Clark, a former radio talk-show host, has vowed to keep the
province’s debt under control by encouraging development of
natural resources and forging closer trade ties with rapidly
growing economies in Asia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Donville in  Vancouver  at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  