-- British Land Profit Rises as New Leases Beat Expectations
-- B y   N e i l   C a l l a n a n
-- 2013-05-14T16:51:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-14/british-land-profit-increases-as-new-leases-beat-expectations.html
British Land Co. (BLND) , the U.K.’s second-largest real estate investment trust, said annual earnings rose
1.9 percent as tenants paid higher-than-expected rents on new
leases.  Underlying profit before tax for the year through March
increased to 274 million pounds ($420 million) from 269 million
pounds a year earlier, the London-based company said today in a
statement. The value of development projects climbed 12 percent.  British Land in March raised 493 million pounds in a share
sale to spend on acquisitions and development as the U.K.’s
biggest developers were able to access financing unavailable to
smaller rivals. U.K. commercial real estate values fell for the
17th consecutive month in March, according to Investment
Property Databank Ltd.  “Our access to low-cost financing is an important
competitive advantage,” Chief Executive Officer Chris Grigg
said in the statement. “Our core business will be resilient as
we benefit from our focus on the better-performing markets in
 London  and the Southeast and on high-quality retail around the
U.K.”  British Land was down 1 penny, or 0.2 percent, to 620 pence
at the 4:30 p.m. close in London, reducing its market value to
6.15 billion pounds. The shares have gained about 10 percent
this year.  The value of the company’s European retail assets fell 17
percent to 255 million pounds as economies in the region
faltered, British Land said. The REIT plans to sell its
properties in  Spain  and  Italy  in the medium term, Grigg said in
a call with reporters today.  European Market  “At the moment, we’re not having active discussions with
buyers,” he said. “It could be a long haul. The market’s not
that easy in  Europe .”  The company’s portfolio includes Spain’s largest fashion
mall at Puerto Venecia in the northern city of Zaragoza, which
opened in October and is owned by a venture with Orion European
Real Estate III Fund CV.  Earlier this month, British Land won approval to develop
three sites with about 300,000 square feet (29,000 square
meters) of  office space  in Shoreditch, a central London area
that’s the center of the country’s high-tech industry, according
to the developer.  Net income fell to 284 million pounds from 480 million
pounds as the value of the company’s assets rose more slowly
than a year earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Neil Callanan in London at 
 ncallanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  