-- Canada Stocks Rise as Industrial, Energy Shares Gain on Economy
-- B y   I n y o u n g   H w a n g
-- 2013-05-14T20:42:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-14/canada-stocks-rise-as-banks-commodity-shares-gain-on-economy.html
Canadian  stocks  rose as industrial
and energy shares advanced amid improving confidence in economic
growth in the U.S., the country’s largest trading partner.  Energy companies added 0.7 percent as a group. Canadian
National Railway Co. gained 1.6 percent and Canadian Pacific
Railway Ltd. jumped 4.4 percent to a record as industrial shares
rallied. Chorus Aviation Inc. fell 12 percent after Canaccord
Genuity Corp. downgraded the stock. BlackBerry lost 3.1 percent
after announcing plans to open up its BBM instant-messaging system to other smartphones.  The  Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Index (SPTSX)  rose 47.50
points, or 0.4 percent, to 12,577.05 at 4 p.m. in Toronto. The
benchmark equity gauge has added 1.2 percent this year. Trading
volume was 13 percent lower than the 30-day average.  “There’s a shift as people are getting more comfortable as
they reduce staples to more cyclical stocks,”  Robert McWhirter ,
fund manager of Selective Asset Management Inc., said by
telephone. The Toronto-based firm manages about C$3 million ($3
million). “The market seems to be moving back toward resumption
of an upward trend.”  U.S. equities rallied as confidence among U.S. small
businesses climbed in April to a six-month high, bolstering
optimism over growth in the world’s largest economy.  David Tepper , co-founder and owner of hedge fund Appaloosa Management
LP, told CNBC he’s still bullish on U.S. stocks and that the
economy is getting better.  Energy Gains  Energy shares contributed most to gains in the benchmark
Canadian equity index, rising 0.7 percent as a group even as oil
retreated for a fourth day.  Suncor Energy Inc. (SU) , Canada’s largest energy company by
market value, advanced 1.2 percent to C$32.42. Athabasca Oil
Corp. added 2.3 percent to C$5.89.  Industrial stocks climbed 1.7 percent for the second-biggest gain out of  10 groups  in the S&P/TSX. Canadian National
Railway added 1.6 percent to C$103.73, the highest in two
months. Canadian Pacific Railway jumped 4.4 percent to a
C$136.91, the highest since it began trading in 2001.  Kirkland Lake Gold Inc. surged 14 percent to C$3.82 for the
biggest gain in the S&P/TSX. The miner reported fiscal-year gold
sales that met its updated forecast and said sales would jump in
the year ending April 30, 2014.  The S&P/TSX Materials Index was unchanged, maintaining its
loss for the year at 23 percent, as industrial metals slumped on
concern that growth will slow in  China , the biggest consumer of
raw materials.  Commodity Bears  Money managers are the most bearish on commodities in more
than four years as a majority expected a weaker Chinese economy
for the first time in 14 months, a Bank of America survey
showed.  A net 29 percent of the fund managers surveyed were
underweight the asset class in May as their positions
“collapsed” to the lowest level since December 2008. One in
four now consider a “hard landing” in China as the biggest
risk to their investments. The bank surveyed professional
investors who together oversee $517 billion.  Separately, JPMorgan Chase & Co. reduced its second-quarter
growth forecast for the Chinese economy to 7.8 percent from 8
percent and the full-year estimate to 7.6 percent from 7.8
percent. The firm cited weak domestic demand suggested by April
data.  Chorus, BlackBerry  Chorus Aviation fell 12 percent to C$2.38,the lowest since
April 2009. Canaccord Genuity analyst David Tyerman lowered his
recommendation on the carrier to sell from buy. The Halifax,
Nova Scotia-based regional airline reported profit that missed
analysts’ estimates on May 10 and halved its quarterly dividend
amid a dispute with Air  Canada . The stock has erased 38 percent
this year.  BlackBerry, formerly known as Research In Motion Ltd., lost
3.1 percent to C$15.55. Chief Executive Officer Thorsten Heins
said today the company will begin offering BBM as a free
application on Apple Inc.’s iPhone and devices running Google
Inc.’s Android, a move that loosens BlackBerry’s grip on one of
its most valuable services.  Heins also unveiled the BlackBerry Q5, a lower-end phone
with a physical keyboard that comes in four colors, at an annual
conference in  Orlando ,  Florida . The new model is part of the
CEO’s turnaround plan for the long-struggling smartphone maker.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Inyoung Hwang in  New York  at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  