-- Canada Nearing Emission Curbs Deal With Oil Industry, Kent Says
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2013-05-14T17:28:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-14/canada-nearing-emission-curbs-deal-with-oil-industry-kent-says.html
Canada  is “very close” to an
agreement with industry on new rules to lower greenhouse-gas
emissions from the oil and natural gas industry, Environment
Minister Peter Kent said.  “We’re very close to bringing in regulations,” Kent said
today in an interview in Paris. The rules could be announced in
the “coming months,” he said, without providing details.  Canada’s greenhouse-gas output has risen from 1990 levels
mainly because of surging bitumen production from Alberta oil
sands. Producers are under pressure to reduce the environmental
footprint in the face of a European Commission plan to penalize
crude derived from bitumen as part of a proposed fuel-quality
directive.  Canada will suggest the European plan be assessed by the
 International Energy Agency  to determine whether bitumen should
be put in a separate category from other fossil fuels, Kent
said.  “It’s in the political arena now but might be better for
the IEA to inform the politicians of the reality of the
science,” he said. Europe should “take a second look at the
fuel-quality directive. It discriminates specifically against
Canada and heavy oil from the Canadian oil sands.”  Kent follows Natural Resources Minister Joe Oliver in
Europe as part of a lobbying effort to persuade officials to
eliminate the specificity of bitumen in the directive.  Suppliers of light conventional oil such as Saudi Arabia,
Nigeria and  Angola  use flaring and venting practices that would
lift emissions higher than that of oil sands, he said.  The level of carbon emitted in global energy supplies has
barely changed in 20 years amid stalled efforts to curb
pollution and increased coal use, the Paris-based energy adviser
IEA said last month in a report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  