-- Canada Dollar Falls to 2-Week Low on Bets Growth Can’t Meet U.S.
-- B y   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r
-- 2013-05-14T21:35:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-14/canadian-dollar-falls-fourth-day-on-bets-growth-can-t-match-u-s-.html
The Canadian dollar dropped to the
lowest point in two weeks versus its U.S. peer as traders
speculated a rally that saw the currency strengthen to within a
cent of parity moved too far, too fast.  The currency fell for the fourth day versus its U.S. peer,
its longest streak since February, as crude oil,  Canada ’s
largest export, also declined for a fourth day. With economic
growth forecast at 2 percent this year, the U.S. is set to
outpace Canada’s 1.6 percent growth rate, according to the
median estimates of Bloomberg surveys. The Canadian dollar’s
rally in the last two months brought it to C$1.0014 per U.S.
dollar on May 9, its closest to parity since Feb. 15.  “The market may have been overpriced and moved too far, so
we’re seeing a bit of a retraction,” said Greg T. Moore,
currency strategist at Toronto-Dominion Bank, by phone from
Toronto. “If we don’t have that summer swoon or soft patch in
U.S. growth, then we should have higher yields in the U.S., and
that’s what we’ve seen.”  The loonie, as the Canadian dollar is known for the image
of the C$1 coin, fell 0.7 percent to C$1.0180 per U.S. dollar at
5 p.m. in Toronto, the lowest level since April 26. One loonie
is worth 98.23 U.S. cents.  The currency touched C$1.0182, its 50-day moving average,
which some traders use to measure of momentum.  Heavy Volume  U.S. dollar-Canada dollar was the second-most actively
traded pair in the over-the-counter foreign-exchange options
market today, totaling $6.7 billion, or 16 percent, of the $43
billion overall. Dollar-loonie options trading was 683 percent
more than the average of the past five Tuesdays at a similar
time in the day. U.S. dollar-yen was the most-traded at $11.9
billion.  Canada’s benchmark 10-year government  bonds  fell, with
yields rising five basis points, or 0.05 percentage point, to
1.96 percent. The 1.5 percent security maturing in June 2023
dropped 44 cents to C$95.87. Yields on 10-year U.S. Treasuries
were  higher  than their Canadian counterpart for the fourth day,
the first time the U.S. has had a yield advantage since March
27.  Futures on crude oil fell 1.1 percent to C$94.17. The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index of U.S. stocks rose 1 percent,
setting a record for the eighth time in nine days.  The cost to insure against declines in the Canadian dollar
versus its U.S. counterpart was at its highest point in more
than eight months. The three-month so-called 25-delta risk
reversal rate was 1.5 percent, the highest since Sept. 5. Risk
reversals measure the premium on options contracts to sell
Canadian dollars versus buying U.S. contracts that do the
opposite.  ‘Growth Phase’  “We did move a little too far,” said  Jeremy Stretch , head
of currency strategy at Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce, by
phone from  London . “It’s the classic case that the U.S. is
moving, or continues to move, somewhat ahead of the Canadian
cycle. So the U.S. looking to move back to a stronger growth
phase in the latter half of the year.”  Implied volatility for three-month options on the Canadian
dollar versus its U.S. counterpart was 6.85 percent, the highest
level since March 11. Implied volatility, which traders quote
and use to set option prices, signals the expected pace of
currency swings.  Aussie, Kiwi  JPMorgan Chase & Co. cut its outlook for second quarter
growth in  China , the world’s second biggest economy, citing weak
domestic demand yesterday. That spurred losses in the dollars of
Canada’s fellow commodity exporters  Australia  and New Zealand,
for both of which China is the biggest trading partner.  The Aussie fell 0.6 percent to 98.89 U.S. cents, while the
so-called kiwi lost 0.6 percent to 81.97 U.S. cents.  “Its just a little U.S. dollar strength in the market, and
particularly some fears in the market brewing over the outlook
for China,” said  Camilla Sutton , head of currency strategy at
 Bank of Nova Scotia (BNS)  by phone from Toronto. “On the back of
that, I think there was some pressure on Aussie and maybe CAD.”  The loonie has gained 2.9 percent in the past month, the
most among 10 developed-nation currencies tracked by the
Bloomberg Correlation Weighted Index. The U.S. dollar added 2
percent and the Australian dollar lost 2.6 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Altstedter in Toronto at 
 aaltstedter@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  