-- CFTC Said to Review Wall Street Banks for Off-Exchange Trades
-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h   a n d   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 2013-05-14T19:55:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-14/cftc-said-to-review-wall-street-banks-for-off-exchange-trades.html
The top U.S. derivatives regulator is
seeking documents from Wall Street banks about trades that
combine features of swaps and futures since the Dodd-Frank Act
became law, according to two people briefed on the matter.  The Commodity Futures Trading Commission made the request
in a so-called special call for data on energy and metals trades
since July 2010, when President  Barack Obama  enacted the rules
overhaul including new derivatives measures, according to the
people, who asked not to be named because the review isn’t
public. The Financial Times, which reported on the CFTC’s probe
earlier, said banks that received requests included  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  Citigroup Inc. (C) 
Spokespeople for all three banks declined to comment.  The information sought by the agency is about contracts
known as exchange of futures for swaps, or EFS, which  CME Group (CME) 
Inc., owner of the world’s largest futures exchange, has
provided for more than a decade. The trades are conducted off
exchange by brokers and then guaranteed at clearinghouses.  “Our rules and guidance on this trade type have been
reviewed by the CFTC on many occasions and have been permitted
to become effective through the rule submission process
governing contract markets,”  Terrence Duffy , CME Group’s
executive chairman, said in a March 22 letter to the CFTC.  “The commission has also on numerous occasions proposed
rules or guidance related to this type of transaction, but has
never taken action to curtail or bar this popular and valuable
market practice, which has served to mitigate counterparty
credit risk through centralized clearing,” Duffy wrote.  Offsetting Swap  The trades have two legs, the first is a swap that
investors agree to execute at the same time they enter into an
EFS, Duffy said in the letter. The second leg is an identical
and offsetting swap that is cleared as a future through CME’s
ClearPort system.  Dodd-Frank requires the CFTC and Securities and Exchange
Commission to write rules designed to have most swaps traded on
exchanges or so-called swap-execution facilities. The law was
enacted to reduce risk and increase transparency in the swaps
market after largely unregulated trades helped fuel the 2008
credit crisis.  The CFTC has scheduled a May 16 meeting to vote on final
rules for how swaps should be traded on SEFs and is considering
reducing the number of price quotes buyers must seek before
conducting a trade, three people briefed on the matter said last
week.  Steven Adamske , the CFTC’s spokesman, and  Michael Shore , a
CME Group spokesman, declined to comment.  Bloomberg LP, the parent company of  Bloomberg News , has
filed a lawsuit challenging the CFTC over a Dodd-Frank rule that
affects its planned SEF.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net ;
Christine Harper in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Gregory Mott at 
 gmott1@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  