-- Champagne Marks End of Staycations as Americans Spend
-- B y   K a s i a   K l i m a s i n s k a   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2013-05-14T20:23:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-14/champagne-marks-end-of-staycations-as-americans-spend.html
DJ Steve Aoki sprayed champagne on
attendees before selecting some to surf the crowd on an
inflatable raft during opening week of the Hakkasan night club
in Las Vegas last month.  The five-story, $100 million-plus addition to the MGM Grand
symbolizes a revival of the unbridled partying Sin City was
known for before the real-estate bust turned Las Vegas into the
foreclosure capital of the U.S. It also created 500 jobs in a
state that had an  unemployment rate  of 9.7 percent in March, the
highest in the nation.  “The domestic customer is coming back, they’re spending a
bit more money,”  MGM Resorts International (MGM)  Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer James Murren said in a telephone interview.
“When you see a strong housing number, that bodes very well.
People feel they’re wealthy.”  After years of dipping in backyard pools and exploring
neighborhood festivals during so-called summer staycations,
Americans may be ready to splurge a bit more this year, giving
economic growth and employment a boost. A rebounding housing
market, lower gasoline prices and falling joblessness are among
reasons households will venture farther from home.  With travel expenditures projected to increase 3.6 percent
this year, faster than economic growth, the share of gross
domestic product coming from the industry may approach 3 percent
in 2013, up from about 2.7 percent in 2010, David M. Huether,
vice president for research at the U.S. Travel Association, said
in an interview. The world’s largest economy is forecast to
expand 2 percent this year, according to the median estimate of
81 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Home Prices  House prices  climbing at the fastest pace since 2006 are
helping repair household finances, while unemployment at a four-year low of 7.5 percent boosts confidence. The Bloomberg
 Consumer Comfort (COMFCOMF)  Index reached a five-year high in the week
ended April 28.  That means Americans will be more willing to travel as
gasoline prices remain below last year’s level. New attractions,
such as  Walt Disney Co.’s (DIS)  Cars Land at its California Adventure
Park in Anaheim, California, may encourage long-postponed
vacations.  “With the  unemployment rate  coming down, folks are feeling
more secure about their jobs, and I would expect to see more
people go on traditional vacations this year,”  Mark Vitner ,
senior economist at  Wells Fargo Securities LLC  in  Charlotte ,
 North Carolina , said in an interview.  Leisure Stocks  After under-performing the market last year, the 11 members
of the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Hotels, Restaurants and Leisure
Industry Index  are faring better in 2013, rising 13.4 percent so
far this year through yesterday compared with a 14.6 percent
advance for the broader  S&P 500 . Standouts include slot machine
maker  International Game Technology (IGT) , up 27.6 percent, and
hotelier  Wyndham Worldwide Corp. (WYN) , up 20.5 percent.  Stocks climbed today, sending the  S&P 500 Index  to its
eighth record high in the past nine sessions, on increased
optimism over growth in the world’s largest economy. The index
rose 1 percent to 1,650.34 at the close in  New York .  Elsewhere, German  investor confidence  rose less than
forecast in May, highlighting the risks to the economic outlook
as the euro region remains mired in recession.  In Atlantic City, New Jersey, they are preparing for the
May 24 opening of singer  Jimmy Buffett ’s Margaritaville, a
beach-front casino and restaurant complex at the Resorts Casino
Hotel that will employ about 600 people in a market that’s lost
6,900 gambling-related jobs in the past five years, according to
state data.  New Addition  Mitchell Etess, chief executive officer of the Mohegan
Tribal Gaming Authority, which manages the property, said the
$35 million addition will encourage patrons weary from years of
a slow economy and last year’s  Hurricane Sandy  to revisit what
was the state’s first casino in 1978.  “Resorts had fallen to the bottom of the pack,” Etess
said in a telephone interview. “What you’re going to get is
almost a complete redo.”  As in the broader economy, one headwind for the travel
industry is the automatic across-the-board federal government
spending cuts, or sequestration, which began on March 1.  “As sequestration has imposed limitations on travel for
government employees, cancellations of government bookings have
increased,” the  Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta  said in a May 2
 blog posting  about southeast tourism.  Additionally, “destinations that offer government-funded
programs such as military air and sea shows are also
experiencing disruptions,” according to the post.  Capital Spending  Disney, the world’s largest theme park operator, is among
companies sprucing up or adding offerings to spur sales. The
Burbank, California-based company said attendance at its
domestic resorts rose 8 percent in the quarter that ended March
31 and that reservations were trending up 7 percent in the
current quarter. The results follow a three-year period in which
it invested $9.45 billion in hotels,  cruise ships  and other
projects.  U.S. hotels will fill seven out of 10 rooms every night
this summer and lift their daily rate 4.4 percent to $112.21 on
average from $107.52 in 2012, according to Hendersonville,
Tennessee-based Smith Travel Research, Inc. In 2009, when
vacancy ratio plunged to 61.5 percent, a hotel room cost $97.54.  The travel industry added about 13,000 jobs a month on
average from January through April, compared with 4,000 a month
in the last four months of 2012,  according  to the U.S. Travel
Association.  Orlando, Florida, New York and  Los Angeles  are among this
year’s top visitor destinations, Simon Bramley, Travelocity.com
Inc. vice president for transportation and lodging, said in a
telephone interview.  Cheaper Gasoline  One reason may be cheaper fuel costs.  Average gasoline
prices , while elevated, are below levels seen at this point in
2012 and 2011, making it more likely Americans will drive
farther to their destinations this year and have more cash to
spend once they arrive.  “We’ve seen steady increases since the lows of 2008, 2009,
when leisure travel really retracted,” said Heather Hunter, a
spokeswoman for AAA, the nation’s largest motoring organization.  Gas prices  will probably decline to the range of $3.20 to
$3.40 per gallon by mid-summer, according to AAA. Regular
gasoline at the pump, averaged nationwide, was $3.58 a gallon
yesterday, compared with $3.73 a year ago, according to the
organization.  “We saw people traveling further from home,” said
Travelocity’s Bramley. “The austerity years of the staycation
are behind us at this point.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kasia Klimasinska in Washington at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Palmeri in Los Angeles at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  