-- China Stocks Fall Amid Economy, Property Concerns
-- B y   W e i y i   L i m
-- 2013-05-14T07:23:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-14/china-s-stock-futures-fall-signaling-drop-for-benchmark-index.html
China’s stocks  fell the most in three
weeks after JPMorgan Chase & Co. cut its growth outlook for the
nation’s economy and concern grew the government is introducing
more property restrictions to limit gains in housing prices.  China  Vanke Co. led declines for  developers  after the 21st
Century Business Herald reported Beijing tightened rules for the
pre-sale of homes.  Air China Ltd. (601111)  slid 2.6 percent after Credit
Suisse Group AG said Chinese airline traffic growth slowed last
month. ZTE Corp. slumped 4.8 percent after the Wall Street
Journal reported the European Union will seek to start a probe
into alleged unfair trade practices by the telecom company.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  fell 1.1 percent to 2,217.01
at the close, the most since April 23. The CSI 300 Index dropped
1.5 percent to 2,493.34. The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI) 
slid 1 percent. The Bloomberg China-US Equity Index lost 1.4
percent yesterday after data showed April industrial output
growth trailed estimates and retail sales slowed.  “The macro data hasn’t been good, so there’s not much to
drive up stocks,” said Cao Xuefeng, an analyst at Huaxi
Securities Co. in Chengdu. “Support for Shanghai Composite
could be at 2,150 for the rest of May.”  The Shanghai Composite has dropped 8.9 percent from this
year’s high on Feb. 6 amid concern a slowing economy will curb
profit growth. China’s industrial output in April rose 9.3
percent from a year earlier, compared with the 9.4 percent
median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of 38 analysts and an
8.9 percent increase in March.  Growth Outlook  JPMorgan reduced its second-quarter growth forecast for the
Chinese economy to 7.8 percent from 8 percent and the full-year
estimate to 7.6 percent from 7.8 percent. It cited weak domestic
demand suggested by the April data including industrial output
and fixed-asset investment, according to an e-mailed report.  There’s no indication the government’s policy stance will
be shifted quickly to support near-term growth, the JPMorgan
report said. China can’t cut  interest rates  because of abundant
global liquidity, the China Securities Journal reported today,
citing Zhu Baoliang, head of the State Information Center’s
economic forecast department. Adjustments to the economy should
be made through fiscal policies, the report cited Zhu as saying.  “Yesterday’s industrial production was disappointing and
investors were unable to breach 2,250 level successfully, so
it’s starting to look bad today,” said Du Liang, an analyst at
Shanxi Securities Co. “Investors are still digesting the macro
data.”  Developers Slide  Foreign direct investment data for April may be released as
early as today. FDI probably rose 6.2 percent in April from a
year earlier, compared with a 5.7 percent gain in March,
according to the median estimate of eight economists surveyed by
Bloomberg.  The Shanghai index  trades  at 9.6 times estimated earnings,
compared with the three-year average of 11.9 and the MSCI
 Emerging Markets  Index’s current multiple of 11, data compiled
by Bloomberg show. Trading volumes on the Shanghai index were
4.4 percent lower than the 30-day average, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  China Vanke, the biggest developer, slid 2.6 percent to
11.32 yuan, the biggest drop since April 25. Poly Real Estate
Group Co., the second largest, tumbled 3 percent to 11.59 yuan.
Beijing home pre-sales will need approvals from the mayor’s
office and the housing bureau, according to 21st Century
Business Herald. Pre-sale prices won’t be allowed to be higher
than current housing prices in the same area, the report said.  Airlines Drop  Air China, the biggest international carrier, fell 2.6
percent to 5.34  yuan . China Southern Airlines Co., the largest
domestic carrier, retreated 1.7 percent to 3.39 yuan. Industry
traffic growth slowed to a “disappointing” 9 percent in April
from 15 percent in the previous month, Credit Suisse analysts
led by Davin Wu wrote in a note dated yesterday.  ZTE, China’s second-biggest maker of mobile-phone
equipment, slumped 4.8 percent to 12.88 yuan. The EU’s trade
chief Karel De Gucht will ask for backing this week from the
bloc’s executive arm to start investigations into alleged unfair
trade practices by ZTE and Huawei Technologies Co., the Wall
Street Journal reported, citing an unidentified EU official.  Jiangxi Copper Co., the biggest producer of the metal,
dropped 2 percent to 20.44 yuan after its Hong Kong-listed stock
was cut to neutral from outperform at Macquarie Group Ltd. The
Hong Kong shares fell 2 percent to HK$15.70. Bright Dairy & Food
Co. slid 2.5 percent to 14.48 yuan, paring its gains this year
to 47 percent, as its New Zealand unit prepares for an initial
public offering in that country.  The iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund, the largest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., sank 1.8 percent to $37.73 in
 New York  yesterday, the steepest decline in three weeks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  