-- China Communist Party Fires Official After Graft Claims
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-05-14T09:42:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-14/china-communist-party-fires-planning-official-after-graft-claims.html
China ’s Communist Party fired a vice
chairman of the economic planning agency who is suspected of
“severe disciplinary violations,” after a Chinese journalist
posted allegations that he had improper business dealings.  Liu Tienan, 58, who was also head of China’s National
Energy Administration until March, lost his post at the National
Reform and Development Commission, the official Xinhua News
Agency reported in a one-sentence release, citing the party’s
Organization Department.  State-run media cited an investigation into Liu as evidence
that the Communist Party is becoming more responsive to
corruption claims circulated online. While President Xi Jinping
warned in November that a failure to contain graft could lead
the party to lose power, he has given no indications of
political restructuring.  “This is a case where the central government tries to
signal its seriousness of anti-corruption and encouragement of
real-name reporting of corruption,” said Jiangnan Zhu, an
assistant professor at the University of Hong Kong. Liu is not
as powerful or connected as former Chongqing Party Secretary Bo
Xilai who was dismissed in March last year, making the case less
sensitive to discuss openly, she said.  His case came to public attention after Luo Changping,
deputy managing editor of Caijing Magazine, made allegations
against him in  microblog posts  in December, saying he
exaggerated his academic credentials and that his son received
payments in U.S. and Canadian dollars into bank accounts from a
business executive. The Communist Party’s disciplinary body
announced via Xinhua on May 12 that Liu was the subject of an
official probe.  ‘Pure Slander’  After Luo first leveled his accusations, the press office
of the National Energy Administration told the Beijing News
newspaper it was “pure slander,” according to the paper.  Luo couldn’t be reached on his mobile phone when called
today. He said on his Weibo microblog account on May 13 that he
had spent one year confirming and cross-checking his
information. He received “important” information via telephone
in the beginning from Liu’s mistress in  Japan , he told the China
Business News in an interview on May 12.  The investigation into Liu “is a fresh sign of the new
leadership’s zero tolerance toward corruption and its vow to
hold violators accountable no matter who they are,” the state-run China Daily newspaper said in an editorial. It said Liu is
the first minister-level official to be investigated based on
corruption claims circulated online.  Demonstrators Arrested  Even as the official media highlight the crackdown, the
government has arrested people calling for public disclosure of
officials’ assets. Four people were arrested in Beijing on March
31 after they displayed banners in public with slogans
advocating asset disclosure, New York-based Human Rights Watch
reported.  Xi should tackle the corruption through proper legal
procedures and not via a political campaign reminiscent of
movements undertaken by Mao Zedong, said Huang Jing, a professor
at the National University of Singapore who focuses on Chinese
politics.  “The worry is not whether and to what extent it will be
done, it is how it will be done,” Huang said in an e-mail.  Liu was one of 11 vice chairmen at the NDRC, the successor
to the country’s Soviet-era planning agency that oversees
everything from highway projects to bond sales. No one was
available at the NDRC to comment when contacted by telephone
today.  Top officials falling from grace for corruption also
occurred under Xi’s predecessor, Hu Jintao. Under Hu’s watch,
two members of the party’s ruling Politburo were dismissed amid
corruption probes, as was the railway minister and the former
head of China’s second-biggest oil company.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Michael Forsythe in Beijing at 
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net ;
Henry Sanderson in Beijing at 
 hsanderson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  