-- Chinese Suggestions for Improving Internet Disappear
-- B y   A d a m   M i n t e r
-- 2013-05-14T22:41:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-14/chinese-suggestions-for-improving-internet-disappear.html
Chinese president  Xi Jinping  may
claim to be interested in hearing the  voice of his people , but
it’s increasingly clear that this openness doesn’t always extend
to people on the Internet.  On Sunday night, billionaire real-estate developer  Pan
Shiyi   tweeted  to his 15.3 million followers on Sina Weibo,
 China ’s leading social-media platform: “Soon I might meet a top
government Internet regulator,” he announced. “Anything you’d
like me to pass along?” By 7:48 a.m. the next morning the tweet
had been re-posted 3,455 times and generated 3,891 comments.  Few things irritate Chinese netizens as much as how their
government acts on the Internet: blocking access to many foreign
websites, censoring content and comments on Chinese websites and
directing  paid commentators  to promote the government’s
viewpoint. Over the past few days, the accounts of at least
three  prominent microbloggers  were deleted, and one suspended,
including accounts that belonged to  Murong Xuecun , the pen name
of Hao Qun, a novelist with 1.85 million followers on his Sina
Weibo account when it was yanked.  The reason for the deletions hasn’t been revealed, but it’s
probably related to a recent official campaign to reign in
 online rumor-mongering . Late last week, Hao and several other
now-deleted  microbloggers  tweeted -- indirectly but caustically,
in Hao’s case (his tweet was censored, but the text is widely
available in the tweets of other  microbloggers ) -- about a
rumored order, as reported by the respected Ming Pao newspaper
in  Hong Kong , from unidentified authorities in Beijing, that
requires university professors to avoid seven subjects in their
teaching, including civil rights, civil society and financial
and political elites. The Chinese government generally doesn’t
react well to suggestions that it isn’t concerned with the
development of a civil society, but Xi Jinping’s recent populist
rhetoric makes such comments particularly unwelcome.  Against such a backdrop, the outpouring of responses to Pan
Shiyi’s tweet was not surprising. For the most part, the
suggestions were predictable. “I want to be on Facebook and
Twitter,” wrote one commentator, echoing a widespread desire to
have access to blocked American social networks. Others made
political demands: “The central government should reflect upon
and handle microblogged grievances.”  Most of the comments were more cheeky than angry and might
have remained that way. But around 8 a.m. on Monday the list
began shrinking in a virtual buzz saw of censorship. By
lunchtime, the tweet had only about 50 or 60 (the number varied
as commenters commented and censors censored) responses, many of
them agitprop.  Is anyone fooled by this clumsy but characteristic effort
to project a sense that few Chinese are interested in improving
the Internet, and those that are make government-friendly
suggestions? Probably not, especially if you believe Fu Siming,
a professor of politics and law at the  Central Party School of
the Chinese Communist Party in Beijing . In a  May 6 interview 
with the  Study Times , a weekly paper published by the Central
Party School (as translated by the  China Media Project  at the
University of Hong Kong), Fu suggests that the heavy-handed
approach to online opinion control is probably backfiring:  “One method now is to organize a bunch of people to
anonymously offer their opinions, in this way channeling [the
ideas of]  internet users . This tactic is viewed by internet
users as ’immoral.’ Particularly the organization of huge
numbers of people to carry out online monitoring, deleting
critical opinions whenever they see them, or pleading the
defense [of the authorities] while disguised as ordinary web
users. The result of this tactic is that the government hears
only its own voice, and is tempted to the illusion that what it
is actually hearing is the voice of the people. Moreover, [the
government] demands that the people too indulge in this
fantasy.”  Based on the government’s continued use of these methods,
it’s likely that some bureaucrats (perhaps those who pre-date
the Internet) still buy the illusion Fu describes. But
regardless of what the government thinks the people think,
evidence suggests that the people are no longer willing to
indulge this fantasy.  On Monday, not long after  Pan  Shiyi’s commentators were
censored, Kai-Fu Lee, a former Google China executive with more
than  40 million followers  on Sina Weibo, re-posted Pan’s call
for suggestions to pass along to the top Internet regulator. It,
too, quickly generated thousands of new suggestions, this time
ones that were more angry and concerned with censorship.  A  user in Chengdu  suggested Pan tell the Internet
regulator: “We are members of society, we have a voice, we have
a right to freedom, and just deleting our tweets disrespects our
dignity. I invite you to reflect on your shortcoming when it
comes to the Internet.”  A  commentator in Henan  was even more strident: “If he
wants to block the Internet, restrict freedom of speech and
delete posts, there’s no point in talking to him. Tell him
outright that freedom of speech is the citizens’ right! Any
institution that restricts the freedom of speech destroys
society.”  This anger will probably grow with each deleted post,
comment and user. Nonetheless, it’s unlikely that unhappy
microbloggers will dissuade the government. As China Media
Project’s David Bandurski  noted on Monday , the current campaign
is the manifestation of a government obsession: “How to achieve
effective ‘social management’ of an online space that grows ever
more unruly, with repercussions in the real world?”  Thriving microblogging culture has become China’s de facto
town square. But as more alleged rumors and critical commenters
are quieted or deleted this center of civil society becomes a
less interesting place to visit. “Sad to say we can’t comment,”
wrote a commentator to  Pan Shiyi ’s original tweet on Tuesday
afternoon. “Sina becomes more and more like the People’s Daily,”
she added, referring to the newspaper that serves as the
official mouthpiece of the Chinese Communist Party. Soon, her
comment was gone.  (Adam Minter, the Shanghai correspondent for the World View
blog, is writing “Junkyard Planet,” a book on the global
recycling industry. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the author of this article: Adam Minter
at  ShanghaiScrap@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article: Zara Kessler
at  zkessler@bloomberg.net . 