-- China Condemns Osaka Mayor’s Comments on World War II Brothels
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-05-14T08:39:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-14/china-condemns-osaka-mayor-s-comments-on-world-war-ii-brothels.html
China  condemned comments by Osaka
Mayor Toru Hashimoto that Asian women who were forced to work as
prostitutes for the Japanese Army during World War II were
necessary to accommodate soldiers facing battle.  “We are shocked and strongly infuriated by the Japanese
politician’s remarks,” Foreign Ministry spokesman Hong Lei told
reporters today in Beijing. “How it deals with its past will
decide how Japan approaches its future.”  Hashimoto yesterday told reporters that Japan wasn’t the
only country that set up brothels for its troops and such a
system “was necessary” to enforce military discipline.  “For those who were forced into brothels against their
will, that is a tragedy of war,” he said. “But as of this
point, there is no proof that the armed forces or the government
themselves kidnapped women.”  Hashimoto’s comments come as Prime Minister Shinzo Abe
copes with frayed ties with South Korea and China over
territorial disputes that partially derive from  Japan ’s
occupation of Asia that ended in 1945. Abe today in parliament
reiterated that Japan “inflicted great suffering” on Asian
countries during the war.  The Osaka mayor heads the Japan Restoration Party, which
after forming last year won 54 seats in the 480-seat lower house
of parliament. Hashimoto, 43, runs the party with former Tokyo
Governor Shintaro Ishihara, a longtime China critic who has
called for Japan to become a nuclear power and advocates re-writing the country’s pacifist constitution.  ‘Comfort Women’  As many as 200,000 women, mostly from China and Korea, were
forced into sexual servitude by the Japanese army. Japan
apologized in 1993 and set up a compensation fund that some
victims rejected because it was funded through private
contributions. Abe has questioned whether the so-called
“comfort women” were forced into prostitution.  While declining to comment on Hashimoto’s remarks, Chief
Cabinet Secretary Yoshihide Suga today said, “the stance of the
government on the comfort women issue is clear. They suffered
unspeakably painful experiences.”  South  Korea  has called on the Japanese government to
officially compensate women who worked in the brothels. Several
survivors and their supporters installed a bronze statue of a
young girl in traditional Korean dress in front of the Japanese
embassy in  Seoul  in protest in December 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Forsythe in Beijing at 
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  