-- China’s Tangshan to Cut Power to 199 Polluting Plants Next Week
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-05-14T05:10:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-14/china-s-tangshan-to-cut-power-to-199-polluting-plants-next-week.html
China ’s Tangshan city will shut 199
polluting factories by cutting their power supply next week,
according to a  statement  on the local government’s website.  The city, 170 kilometers (106 miles) east of the capital
Beijing, will cut power from May 20 to iron and steel facilities
including three ore-sintering lines of Tangshan Iron & Steel
Group and two at Guofeng Iron & Steel Group. In addition, it
will shut outdated facilities at 31 companies, 136 unlicensed
quarries and 28 other illegal manufacturers by May 31, according
to the statement.  Chinese authorities have sought to appease public anger
after smog in Beijing hit hazardous levels in January. Pollution
has surpassed land disputes as the biggest cause of protests in
China, Chen Jiping, a former leading member of the Communist
Party’s Committee of Political and Legislative Affairs, said in
March.  “This sounds like the toughest measure on plant closures
since 2010 as the pollution in Beijing caused public concern,”
said Xu Xiangchun, chief analyst with researcher Mysteel.com,
“Whether it will have a big impact depends on the
implementation.”  Operations at the sintering facilities won’t be resumed
until desulfurizing devices are added and they meet
environmental standards, the Tangshan government said in the
statement.  The cut in power is estimated to reduce Tangshan Iron &
Steel’s production by about 10,000 metric tons a day and
Guofeng’s by as much as 5,000 tons, Mysteel’s Xu said. Tangshan
Steel is a unit of  Hebei Iron & Steel Group (000709) , China’s biggest
mill, which produced 69.2 million tons of the alloy last year.  China will impose emission limits on six polluting
industries including coal-fired power plants and steel and
petrochemical factories to improve  air quality  in major cities,
the Ministry of Environmental Protection said Feb. 20 on its
website.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Helen  Yuan  in Shanghai at 
 hyuan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  