-- China Seen Boosting Emergency Oil-Storage Capacity, IEA Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-05-14T08:00:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-14/china-seen-boosting-emergency-oil-storage-capacity-iea-says.html
China  will probably commission
additional storage sites for its strategic petroleum reserve
this year, boosting crude demand even as construction work on
the program takes longer than expected, according to the
International Energy Agency.  The nation, the world’s second-biggest  crude consumer , will
add 245 million barrels of capacity in the second phase of its
emergency stockpile plan, the Paris-based IEA said in its
Medium-Term Oil Market Report released today. That’s up 45
percent from the IEA’s original estimate of 169 million barrels.
Completion may be delayed to 2015, according to the agency,
which originally forecast the project would be finished by the
end of this year.  China, which buys about half its crude from overseas, is
building emergency oil reserves equivalent to 100 days of net
imports before 2020 in three phases to lessen the risk of supply
disruptions, China Petrochemical Corp., the nation’s top oil
refiner, said in September 2009, citing a plan approved by the
State Council. While high crude costs and construction delays
have slowed purchases so far, many regional administrations have
expressed interest in holding supplies, the IEA said.  “What is likely is that some additional Phase-2 sites will
be commissioned in 2013, which, when considering the probable
spare capacity at sites completed in 2012, could buttress
China’s demand for crude over the year,” the agency said in the
report. “If China completes tanks at Huizhou and Huangdao,
which many observers believe likely to be completed in 2013,
this could average over 56 million barrels, or 150,000 barrels a
day, of incremental oil.”  Three Stages  China finished filling the first phase of its strategic
reserve, with 103 million barrels, in 2009 after spending an
average $58 a barrel buying crude for the stockpiles the
previous year, according to the National Energy Administration.  The second phase, which started with the Dushanzi and
Lanzhou facilities in the country’s western region, was designed
with eight new locations, China National Petroleum Corp., the
nation’s largest oil company, said in its annual research report
in January.  Tanks in the third and final phase of the plan should add
about 152 million barrels of storage, which would take the
overall capacity to 500 million barrels by 2020, the IEA said.
That would be equivalent to about 60 days of net crude imports,
which may climb to 8.4 million barrels a day by 2020, according
to the agency.  Refined Products  While crude is expected to account for most of the
emergency reserve, the government may also require storage of
oil products to respond to short-term supply disruptions, the
IEA said.  “Reports have begun to circulate that China could be
planning to include refined products as part of the SPR,” the
IEA said. “However, how China could hold these stocks remains
open to debate. Rather than being held physically by the
administration, they could instead be held by industry at the
request of the government, similar to the minimum stockholding
obligation on industry utilized by many IEA member countries.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Jing Yang in Shanghai at 
 jyang251@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  