-- Chuck Muncie, NFL Pro Bowl Back for Saints, Chargers, Dies at 60
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-05-14T19:26:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-14/chuck-muncie-nfl-pro-bowl-back-for-saints-chargers-dies-at-60.html
Chuck Muncie, a three-time  Pro Bowl 
running back who once held the National Football League record
for rushing touchdowns in a season before his career was cut
short by cocaine use, has died. He was 60.  He died yesterday of a heart attack, according to the NFL’s
 website , citing the  San Diego Chargers , his final team in the
league. No further details were provided.  Muncie was the third overall pick of the  New Orleans Saints 
in the 1976  NFL draft  out of the  University of California , where
he finished second to Archie Griffin in voting for the 1975
Heisman Trophy. At 6-foot-3 and 227 pounds, Muncie teamed with
fellow rookie Tony Galbreath as part of a Saints backfield known
as “Thunder and Lightning.”  Muncie spent his first 4 1/2 NFL seasons in  New Orleans  and
was voted the Most Valuable Player at the 1979 Pro Bowl before
joining the Chargers for 4 1/2 years.  In 1981, Muncie rushed for 1,114 yards and set a then-NFL
record with 19 rushing touchdowns.  For his career, Muncie rushed for 6,702 yards and 71
touchdowns while averaging 4.3 yards a carry. He was suspended
by the NFL for the 1984 season after testing positive for
cocaine and marijuana use and wouldn’t play in the league again
even though he attempted a comeback in 1985.  In 1989, Muncie was in a federal prison, serving an 18-month sentence on cocaine distribution charges.  After Jail  “I had too much time on my hands and went to a lot of
parties,” Muncie was  quoted as saying  in a 1999 story in Cal-Berkeley’s alumni magazine. “Because I was famous, everyone
gave me cocaine so I would hang out with them.”  Muncie had said going to jail probably saved his life.  Following his release, Muncie became active in youth
programs and community service, and later founded the Chuck
Muncie Youth Foundation to mentor at-risk youth in  Southern
California . In addition to helping youth change their lives in a
positive way, according to the foundation website, it also
reaches tens of thousands of kids with free medical services,
childhood immunizations, tattoo removal screenings and camps for
chronically ill children.  “I had everything, and I ruined it all because of drugs,”
Muncie was quoted as saying in a 1995 Los Angeles Times  story 
ahead of the Chargers’ Super Bowl appearance. “I’m angry at
myself. I see guys I played with doing things I could have done.
But when I feel that way I look at this club and these kids and
remember there is a reason for everything. I believe in my heart
I was meant to do this.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  