-- Clorox Raises Quarterly Dividend to 71 Cents, Beating Estimates
-- B y   B e n   L i v e s e y
-- 2013-05-14T05:03:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-14/clorox-raises-quarterly-dividend-to-71-cents-beating-estimates.html
Clorox Co. (CLX) , the bleach maker with
products ranging from Hidden Valley salad dressing to Glad trash
bags, will raise its dividend by 11 percent, higher than
analysts estimated.  The quarterly cash payout will be raised to 71 cents a
 share  from 64 cents, the Oakland, California-based company said
in a statement yesterday. That compares with a Bloomberg
dividend  projection  of 69 cents.  While the maker of Burt’s Bees skin-care line and Brita
water filters posted earlier this month reported third-quarter
 sales (RSTAMOM)  and profit that missed estimates, it affirmed its forecast
for full-year earnings of $4.25 to $4.35 a share. Sales at U.S.
retailers unexpectedly advanced in April as lower  fuel costs 
combined with rising stock and home values boost buying power,
corroborating forecasts of economic growth.  Chief Executive Officer Don Knauss in a May 8 Bloomberg
Radio interview predicted “continued  margin  expansion” and
earnings-per-share growth of 7 percent to 9 percent over the
next 12 to 18 months. “It’s been a bit bumpy but we see steady
improvement.”  Clorox  rose  less than 1 percent to $86.22 at the close in
 New York  yesterday. The stock has  climbed  18 percent this year,
beating the 15 percent gain for the  Standard & Poor’s  500 index.  The dividend will be distributed on Aug. 9 to stockholders
of record as of July 24, Clorox said. The average of two
analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg was for a quarterly
dividend of 69 cents.  Health Care  The company on May 1 trimmed its forecast for full-year
sales to increase by 3 percent to 4 percent from an earlier
estimate of as much as 5 percent growth, in part because of
weakening foreign currencies and economic uncertainty in
Argentina and  Venezuela .  “We’ve readily embraced the fact that we’re a U.S.-centric
company,” Knauss, a former  Coca-Cola Co. (KO)  executive, said in the
May 8 interview. “International’s about 21 percent of our
 business . I think we’ll probably stay in that range over the
next couple of years.”  Clorox seeks to expand in health-care products and
services, such as selling bleach to hospitals, he said. “We
were selling about $4 million or $5 million to hospitals five
years ago. Today we’re selling $125 million. We think this could
be a $300 million business in the next three to five years.”  The 100-year-old company, targeted last year by billionaire
 Carl Icahn , would consider acquisitions in the businesses of
health-care products and services, Knauss said in a February
interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Livesey in London at 
 blivesey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net ;
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  