-- Cocoa Gains as Supply May Be Limited Before Expiry; Coffee Rises
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2013-05-14T10:06:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-14/cocoa-gains-as-supply-may-be-limited-before-expiry-coffee-rises.html
Cocoa climbed for a second day in
 London  on speculation supplies will be limited before the
delivery of the May futures contract this week. Coffee rose.  Cocoa for May delivery was 31 pounds ($47) a metric ton
more expensive than the July contract, reversing a discount of 8
pounds a ton a week earlier, exchange data on Bloomberg showed.
Backwardation, when prices for near-dated contracts are higher
than later ones, may signal scant supply. Trading of May futures
ends May 15 and the delivery will take place the next day. There
is speculation about limited supplies in European warehouses,
Jerome Jourquin, head of agricultural commodity derivatives at
brokerage Aurel BGC in Paris, said by e-mail yesterday.  Cocoa price gains are “more closely related to the May
expiration in London than much else,” Sterling Smith, a futures
specialist at Citigroup Inc. in  Chicago , said in a report e-mailed yesterday. More gains will need to be seen today to
confirm a bullish technical trend, he said.  Cocoa for delivery in July rose 0.3 percent to 1,551 pounds
a ton by 10:34 a.m. on NYSE Liffe in London and the May contract
climbed 0.8 percent to 1,592 pounds. Cocoa for July delivery
advanced 0.5 percent to $2,337 a ton in New York.  Cocoa delivered against the March contract totaled 72,350
tons, the most since the December 2010 futures expired. Buyers
on NYSE Liffe can take delivery of no more than 75,000 tons,
according to limits that came into force before the December
futures expired last year. Most of the beans delivered were from
top producer  Ivory Coast , followed by Cameroon and  Nigeria .  White, or refined, sugar for delivery in August was
unchanged at $485.10 a ton on NYSE Liffe. Raw sugar for delivery
in July was little changed at 17.24 cents a pound on ICE.  Sugar output in  Brazil ’s center south, the main growing
region of the world’s biggest producer, more than tripled in the
second half of April to 1.45 million tons, industry group Unica
said in a statement e-mailed yesterday.  “The expected acceleration of the Brazilian sugarcane
harvest is likely to put some downward pressure on the price
structure in the weeks ahead,” F.O. Licht GmbH said in a report
dated yesterday.  Robusta coffee futures for July delivery gained 0.5 percent
to $2,062 a ton in London. Arabica coffee futures for July
delivery were 0.6 percent higher at $1.4665 a pound in  New York .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 Ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 Ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 