-- Commonwealth Bank Posts A$1.9 Billion Third-Quarter Profit
-- B y   N a r a y a n a n   S o m a s u n d a r a m
-- 2013-05-15T06:58:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-14/commonwealth-bank-third-quarter-profit-rises-to-a-1-9-billion.html
  Commonwealth Bank of Australia , the
nation’s largest lender by market value, reported third-quarter
cash profit of A$1.9 billion ($1.9 billion) on more profitable
lending and controlled expenses.  Unaudited net profit in the three months ended March 31 was
also A$1.9 billion, the Sydney-based bank said in a statement
today.  Cash profit , which excludes one-time items, was A$1.75
billion in the three months to March 2012, according to a filing
last year.  Chief Executive Officer Ian Narev has boosted margins by
passing on only part of the central bank’s 200-basis-point rate
reduction since November 2011 and banks’ cost of raising funds
through bond offerings has recently fallen to its lowest in 5
1/2 years. CBA, the nation’s top  mortgage  lender, has ceded
market share to protect profit as home loan growth falls to its
lowest on record.  “CBA continues to get the basics right, extracting
attractive earnings growth from a low credit growth
environment,”  David Ellis , an analyst at  Morningstar Inc. (MORN)  said.
“Loan growth continues to be fully funded from customer
deposits, asset quality remains sound and strong capital levels
are supported by good organic capital generation.”  Morningstar will probably raise its full-year cash profit
 forecast , he said. It currently expects CBA to report a record
A$7.5 billion cash profit.  CBA  shares  ended 0.8 percent higher at A$72.65 in Sydney,
extending gains for the year to 17 percent. The benchmark
 S&P/ASX 200 (AS51)   index  dropped 0.6 percent.  Net interest margin , a measure of lending profitability,
was higher in the quarter, the lender said, without giving more
detail.  Rate Cuts  Three of Australia’s four major lenders on May 7 passed on
in full the central bank’s interest-rate cut for the first time
in 17 months, sending benchmark home-loan costs to the lowest
since 2009.  National Australia Bank Ltd. (NAB) , CBA and  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC) 
cut their variable mortgage rate by 25 basis points after the
 Reserve Bank  of Australia trimmed its key rate by the same
amount to a record-low 2.75 percent. Australia and New Zealand
Banking Group Ltd. lowered its home loan rate by 27 basis
points.  Deposits made up 65 percent of CBA’s total funding in the
third quarter, up from 63 percent in the six months to Dec. 31,
the lender said. Special  interest rates  used to attract term
deposits dropped to a four-year low of 4.20 percent at the end
of April,  Reserve Bank of Australia  data show.  Core tier 1 capital, a measure of a bank’s ability to
absorb losses, was 10.3 percent at the end of March, down from
10.6 percent three months earlier. It set aside A$255 million
for bad debts, the lender said.  Mortgage Growth  Growth in mortgages, which is CBA’s biggest segment,
remained modest in the quarter with the bank’s lending growing
faster than the industry average, it said.  While outstanding home loans grew a record-low 4.4 percent
in the year to March, according to central bank data, home
buyers are returning to the market. Australian home-loan
approvals rose the most in four years in March, data showed on
May 13. The number of loans granted to build or buy houses and
apartments advanced 5.2 percent from February, when they rose a
revised 2.1 percent, the statistics bureau said.  CBA results follow higher first-half earnings by its main
competitors in the last two weeks. ANZ and Westpac Banking Corp
reported a 10 percent increase in cash profit while National
 Australia  Bank reported a 3.1 percent increase. CBA follows a
June ending year while the other banks’ fiscal year ends in
September.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Narayanan Somasundaram in Sydney at 
 nsomasundara@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  