-- Commerzbank Seeks $3.25 Billion Via Rights Offer
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t
-- 2013-05-14T17:25:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-14/commerzbank-seeks-3-25-billion-via-rights-offer.html
Commerzbank AG (CBK) ,  Germany ’s second-biggest bank, is seeking 2.5 billion euros ($3.25 billion) in
the fifth capital increase in four years to repay debt from a
government rescue. The shares fell to a record low.  The company is offering investors the right to buy 20 new
shares for every 21 they hold at 4.5 euros apiece, equal to a 55
percent discount to yesterday’s share price. The stock will be
offered from tomorrow until May 28, the Frankfurt-based bank
said on its  website .  Commerzbank, wracked by financial troubles including soured
lending to shipping companies, gave the government a 25 percent
stake in 2009 in return for an 18.2 billion-euro bailout and is
cutting staff and selling assets to erase losses. The bank’s
shares have declined 94 percent since September 2008, the most
among financial companies in  Europe  outside Ireland and  Greece .  “It will be a challenge to get this done without having a
drastic impact on the share price,”  Christian Hamann , an
analyst with  Hamburger Sparkasse  who recommends investors sell
the stock, said by phone from Hamburg, Germany. “It looks like
a big discount.”  Commerzbank fell 6.3 percent to 9.312 euros at the close of
trading in  Frankfurt , a record low and the biggest decline in
two months. The company has dropped 35 percent this year, the
biggest loss in the 40-member  Bloomberg Europe Banks and
Financial Services Index , which rose 8.9 percent in the period.  State Aid  Chief Executive Officer  Martin Blessing , 49, will use the
cash raised in the rights offer to pay back a remaining 1.6
billion euros of 16.4 billion euros of so-called silent
participations, a form of non-voting capital, that the bank owes
the government and 750 million euros it owes to insurer  Allianz
SE. (ALV)  The government’s stake will probably fall to less than 20
percent under the plan, the lender said.  “The transaction marks the beginning of the federal
government’s exit from Commerzbank,” the company said. “The
capital structure of Commerzbank and its future ability to pay
dividends should improve significantly.”  Soffin, Germany’s state-owned bank rescue fund, is selling
about 625 million euros of stock, it said in an e-mailed
statement today. The shares are being offered today at a
guidance price of 6.3 euros apiece to market, according to a
term sheet obtained by  Bloomberg News .  The government expects the transaction to be completed
tomorrow and will receive the remainder of the 1.6 billion euros
in cash from Commerzbank, Soffin said.  Selling Loans  Commerzbank is in “intensive” talks to sell the majority
of its 5.7 billion-euro portfolio of U.K. commercial real estate
loans. The bank didn’t identify the potential buyers in a
statement on its website today.  The company is in negotiations to sell the debt to  Wells
Fargo & Co. (WFC)  and  Lone Star Funds , three people with knowledge of
the matter said last month.  Angry shareholders criticized Blessing at an annual general
meeting in Frankfurt last month, saying wrong decisions at the
bank meant that their investments had all but evaporated.
Several called on the management to resign.  The rights offering will increase the common equity Tier 1
ratio under full Basel III rules to 8.4 percent from 7.5
percent, Commerzbank said. The ratio, a key measure of financial
strength, is expected to increase to 9 percent by the end of
next year, it said.  “The bank’s management has realized that they need to sell
shares as they can’t generate enough profit to boost capital
reserves,” Michael Seufert, an analyst at Norddeutsche
Landesbank with a hold recommendation on Commerzbank, said by
telephone from Hanover today.  Commerzbank used the 5.3 billion euros it raised in a
previous stock offering in June 2011 to repay  government aid .  In April, the bank reduced the number of shares to 583
million from 5.83 billion in a reverse share split as it
prepared for the rights offer, underwritten by book runners
Deutsche Bank AG, Citigroup Inc. and HSBC Holdings Plc.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Bentley in Frankfurt at 
 mbentley3@bloomberg.net ;
Nicholas Comfort in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  