-- Commodity Holdings Tumble in May, BofA Survey Says
-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 2013-05-14T12:30:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-14/commodity-holdings-tumble-in-may-bofa-survey-says.html
Money managers are the most bearish
on commodities in more than four years as a majority expected a
weaker Chinese economy for the first time in 14 months, a Bank
of America Corp. survey showed.  A net 29 percent of the fund managers surveyed were
underweight the asset class in May as their positions
“collapsed” to the lowest level since December 2008. One in
four now consider a “hard landing” in  China  as the biggest
risk to their investments. The bank surveyed professional
investors who together oversee $517 billion.  “There has been a marked uptick” in concern about China,
said John Bilton, an investment strategist at Bank of America’s
Merrill Lynch unit, at a press conference in London today. “A
hard landing is not our core scenario, but certainly investors
are right to start thinking they should at least hedge some of
that tail risk.”  A gauge of raw-material companies on the MSCI World Index
has fallen 4.3 percent so far this year, the only industry group
on the equity benchmark to decline in 2013. In  Europe , the Stoxx
600 Basic Resource Index has slumped 16 percent.  Investors reduced their holdings in emerging-market
equities this month to a two-year low. A net 3 percent remained
overweight in the asset class in May, compared with 13 percent
in April. Holdings in energy companies slumped to a record low,
the survey showed.  “Contrarians should start buying  emerging markets , and
think about global energy and material companies and
commodities,” said Bank of America’s Bilton. “Divergence in
global growth means we are starting to get some quite
interesting spread positioning.”  Japanese Equities  Respondents bought Japanese stocks for a seventh-consecutive month, bolstered by the Bank of  Japan ’s
quantitative-easing program. A net 31 percent were overweight
the country, the highest proportion in seven years. Even so,
that is only half of the peak allocation in December 2005.  Hedge funds’ net exposure to equities climbed in May to
plus 45 percent, the highest level in almost seven years. So-called liquidity conditions were the best in more than five
years, according to the survey.  Investors’ allocation to banks also rebounded this month,
with a net 14 percent overweight the industry, the largest
proportion among fund managers since December 2006.  Holdings in U.S. equities remained unchanged at 20 percent
overweight, while holdings in euro-area stocks stayed at 8
percent underweight for a second month. The total allocation to
equities fell for a second consecutive month to a net 41 percent
overweight from 47 percent in April.  Bank of America conducted the global survey of 177
professional investors between May 3 and May 9.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in  London  at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  