-- Copper Futures Fall Most in Two Weeks on China Demand Concerns
-- B y   J o e   R i c h t e r   a n d   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z
-- 2013-05-14T17:51:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-14/copper-falls-most-in-two-weeks-on-indications-of-china-slowdown.html
Copper fell the most in almost two
weeks amid signs that economic growth is slowing in  China , the
world’s biggest consumer of the metal, as inventories swell.  China’s economy will expand 7.6 percent this year, JPMorgan
Chase & Co. said today, cutting its estimate from 7.8 percent
after a report yesterday showed industrial production in the
nation expanded less than economists predicted. Investor
confidence in  Germany , the third-biggest copper user, rose less
than forecast this month. Stockpiles monitored by the  London 
Metal Exchange increased the most in four weeks.  “We saw a big increase in copper inventories, and data out
of China and Europe has been lagging,” Harry Denny, a broker at
Hoboken, New Jersey-based PVM Futures Inc., said in a telephone
interview. “All of this has hit copper pretty hard today, and
the market will need to see signs of greater consumption to turn
the corner.”  Copper futures for delivery in July slid 2.1 percent to
settle at $3.288 a pound at 1:09 p.m. on the Comex in New York,
the biggest drop since May 1. The metal is down 10 percent this
year.  “In light of the economic conditions in Europe, we do not
expect a strong general upturn of copper-product demand in the
next few months,” Hamburg-based recycler  Aurubis AG (NDA)   said  today.  LME copper stockpiles climbed 2 percent, the most since
April 15, to 618,700 metric tons. Inventories in  Malaysia ’s
Johor gained 2.8 percent, exceeding 200,000 tons for the first
time.  On the LME, copper for delivery in three months declined
2.3 percent to $7,245 a ton ($3.29 a pound).  Zinc, nickel, aluminum and lead also dropped in London. Tin
advanced.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net ;
Joe Richter in New York at 
 jrichter1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  