-- Credit Swaps in U.S. Decline; Dish to Sell Debt for Sprint Deal
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S t i l w e l l
-- 2013-05-14T20:38:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-14/credit-swaps-in-u-s-decline-dish-to-sell-debt-for-sprint-deal.html
A gauge of U.S. corporate credit risk
declined for the first time in five days amid growing confidence
about the strength of the world’s largest economy.  The Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, decreased
0.9 basis point to a mid-price of 72.7 basis points at 4:16 p.m.
in New York, according to prices compiled by Bloomberg. That’s
the measure’s first decrease since May 7.  An improvement in labor market conditions warrants the
Federal Reserve tapering off its $85 billion-a-month of bond
buying, Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia President Charles Plosser said today in a speech in  Stockholm . David Tepper, co-founder and owner of Appaloosa Management LP, said in an
interview on CNBC today that he is still bullish and the economy
is getting better.  “There have been some vocal people on the Fed who have
been uncomfortable with quantitative easing for some time, and
we’ve seen enough decent data for them to make the case that now
is the time to begin tapering,” Kathy Jones, a fixed-income
strategist at Charles Schwab & Co. in New York, said in a
telephone interview. “This is the start of a long-term, gradual
signaling.”  The credit-swaps index typically falls as investor
confidence improves and rises as it deteriorates. The contracts
pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point
equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of
debt.  Dish Debt  Dish Network Corp. (DISH) , the satellite TV company vying with
 SoftBank Corp. (9984)  to acquire  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S) , is offering $2.5
billion of debt to help finance the proposed deal.  The company may sell four- and 10-year bonds today or
tomorrow, according to a person familiar with the transaction.
Proceeds from the sale will be placed into escrow and would be
released to help fund the cash portion of a Sprint acquisition,
the Englewood, Colorado-based company said today in a regulatory
filing. Dish will redeem the debt if a deal doesn’t materialize,
it said.  The offering comes a month after SoftBank sold $3.3 billion
of bonds denominated in dollars and euros to help fund its $20.1
billion bid for Sprint, Bloomberg data show.  Junk Spreads  Credit swaps tied to Dish debt widened 16.8 basis points to
a mid-price of 321 basis points at 4:02 p.m., Bloomberg prices
show. That’s the biggest jump since April 15 and means it would
cost the equivalent of $321,000 annually to protect $10 million
of obligations for five years.  The risk premium on the Markit CDX North American High
Yield Index declined 3.5 basis points to 351.7 basis points,
Bloomberg prices show.  The average relative yield on speculative-grade, or junk-rated, debt tightened 0.4 basis point to 481.2 basis points,
Bloomberg data show. High-yield, high-risk debt is rated below
Baa3 by Moody’s Investors Service and less than BBB- at Standard
& Poor’s.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Stilwell in New York at 
 vstilwell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  