-- Cuomo Proposes N.Y. Panel as Step Before Financial Control Board
-- B y   F r e e m a n   K l o p o t t
-- 2013-05-14T19:25:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-14/cuomo-proposes-n-y-panel-as-step-before-financial-control-board.html
New York Governor  Andrew Cuomo 
proposed creating a panel of officials to help struggling
governments reorganize and merge, a step meant to avoid a state
control board taking over a municipality’s finances.  The plan to create a Financial Restructuring Board, which
needs legislative approval, is intended to help cities such as
Yonkers, Syracuse, Rochester and Buffalo that are coping with
rising retirement costs, falling populations and declining
property values, Cuomo said today at a press briefing in Albany.  The board would serve in an advisory role, though if a
local government accepts state funding from a pool of $80
million, it would be required to implement any recommended
changes, said the governor, a 55-year-old Democrat.  State-imposed control boards, such as those overseeing
Nassau County and Buffalo, have traditionally been imposed when
a locality is veering toward bankruptcy. They have the power to
refinance debt and force unions to accept wage freezes. Cuomo’s
proposal is meant to prevent struggling governments from taking
such drastic action, he said.  “If you have a chronic financial imbalance, let’s stop
kicking the can down the road,” Cuomo said. “Let’s deal with
it.”  The proposal is particularly intended to help local
governments in upstate  New York . From 2000 to 2010, the
population there dropped by 1.4 percent as the cost of
government rose by 47 percent, Cuomo said. The imbalance has
left towns, cities and counties with expenses they can’t afford.
Cuomo said sending more cash isn’t the answer.  Merging Functions  In his former role as New York attorney general, Cuomo
backed programs designed to provide funding for local
governments seeking to restructure and even merge. As governor,
he’s sought to trim their costs, including having the state pay
for increases in Medicaid, the joint state and federal health-care program for the poor.  The Financial Restructuring Board is the next step. The
panel would advise localities on how they can cut costs by
combining backroom functions, such as human resources, with
their neighbors, Cuomo said. In some cases, it may suggest that
municipalities merge entirely.  The panel would also help officials find ways to trim labor
costs. Unlike a control board, though, the new panel wouldn’t
have the power to force changes, he said. It may also recommend
firings.  “It sounds right, it sounds easy, but politically, it’s
very hard,” Cuomo said.  The board will be composed of the state budget director,
secretary of state, attorney general, comptroller and one
restructuring professional from private industry.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Freeman Klopott in  Albany , New York, at 
 fklopott@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at   smerelman@bloomberg.net  