-- Dan Brown’s Harvard Hero Fears Plague in ‘Inferno’
-- B y   Z i n t a   L u n d b o r g
-- 2013-05-14T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-14/dan-brown-s-harvard-hero-fears-plague-in-inferno-.html
Harvard symbologist Robert Langdon is
back. Dan Brown’s latest thriller, the Dante-inspired
“ Inferno ,” puts Langdon in a hospital bed with no memory of
how he wound up there. Still, the clever professor is the only
one who can figure out the doomsday puzzle, the first macabre
piece of which is sewn into his bloody tweed jacket.  Langdon’s appearance in “ The Da Vinci Code ” was a
literary phenomenon, selling 81 million copies in 51 languages.  We spoke at the offices of his happy publisher, Doubleday.  Lundborg: How long did it take you to write “Inferno”?  Brown: About three years, including all the research.  Lundborg: And you’ve said you don’t even like writing. You
never need to write another word, so why do it?  Brown: It’s a hard process, but I love having written. I
love the research, and I love to inspire other people to be
excited about ideas I’m excited about.  It’s about sharing a passion for Dante, Florence, the big
ideas about what’s happening in the future.  Lundborg: How did you decide on Dante?  Brown: I always knew I would write about him. It wasn’t
until Dante came along and created a structured, codified, vivid
vision of hell that we really started to say, “I’ve got to go
to church!”  Inventing Hell  Sin has a scary effect and he invented hell as far as I’m
concerned.  Lundborg: Dante thought pride was the biggest sin -- what’s
it for you?  Brown: Sloth. Life is short and you go around once, so you
need to make something of your life. You need to contribute,
ideally to a dialogue.  Lundborg: What’s the toughest thing about creating a
thriller?  Brown: For me it’s making it relevant to the real world. I
use real history, real locations, real science: I tell my
readers these are fictional characters but everything they’re
dealing with, it’s real.  Lundborg: Does the thriller have a future?  Brown: We now have real-world thrillers at our fingertips
almost daily. What authors bring to reality is that they take
out all the boring parts.  Writers create suspense by cutting up reality, putting it
in a different order, dropping pieces out, putting in
misdirection. The story becomes fascinating as you try to
connect dots that aren’t connected for you on the page.  Shadowy Consortium  Lundborg: Tell me about the secretive Consortium -- that’s
real too?  Brown: There are a number of organizations like the
Consortium. They essentially create alibis for people, or
fictional realities. They make it easy to tell a very convincing
lie.  Whether it’s the Vatican, the White House or  Microsoft (MSFT)  --
they all need to manage public perception and sometimes that
involves creating illusion or shaping the truth.  Lundborg: With “The Da Vinci Code” you set the bar pretty
high for yourself. Does that make it easier or harder?  Brown: In terms of research, I now have access to people
and places I didn’t before. But simultaneously, I’m always
trying to keep what I’m writing a secret, and so the people I
talk to are signing non-disclosures.  Misdirection  For every question I ask about the novel, I’ll ask four
about other stuff entirely. I’ll go on tours of places I know
aren’t going to be in the book, just to keep people off the
trail. It’s not very efficient.  Lundborg: So there’s no point in asking what you’re working
on now?  Brown: I’d tell you, but it wouldn’t be true.  Lundborg: What’s the downside of “Da Vinci”?  Brown: There’s a lot of pressure. There are a lot of people
who rely on me to turn in great books. Still, what a luxury to
know what you’re putting on the page has a life.  Lundborg: Why are symbols so powerful?  Brown: They can convey enormous concepts without the
baggage of language. They are transparent and universal.  Lundborg: Why does Langdon wear a Mickey Mouse watch?  Brown: This very serious professor needs to remind himself
not to take it all that seriously. On some level, that’s
something, especially now, I remind myself almost on a daily
basis.  I take my work dead seriously, but what happens out in the
world with these books, I have to step away from. You run the
risk of losing your mind.  Lundborg: “Inferno” is full of smart people -- but it
seems the smarter they are, the more they suffer. Why is that?  Brown: On some level, ignorance definitely is bliss. The
more you understand the real world, the more you’re concerned
about where we’re headed.  On some level, we all live in denial.  To buy this book in North America, click  here .  (Zinta Lundborg is an editor for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are her own.
This interview was adapted from a longer conversation.)  Muse highlights include Philip Boroff on  theater  and Farah
Nayeri on  film .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zinta Lundborg at 
 zlundborg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 