-- Dana Gas First-Quarter Profit Rises 17 Percent on MOL Stake Sale
-- B y   A n t h o n y   D i P a o l a
-- 2013-05-14T08:28:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-14/dana-gas-first-quarter-profit-rises-17-percent-on-mol-stake-sale.html
Dana Gas PJSC (DANA) , the oil and natural
gas producer forced to restructure debt last year, boosted
first-quarter profit 17 percent as gains from an asset sale
outweighed a decline in revenue.  Net income  rose to 241 million dirhams ($66 million),
compared with 206 million dirhams a year ago, the company said
today in a  statement  to the Abu Dhabi stock exchange. Sales
dropped 20 percent to 557 million dirhams.  The company, which produces oil and gas mainly in Egypt and
 Iraq , expects output and income to improve this year as it pumps
from newly discovered deposits, Rashid Al Jarwan, acting chief
executive officer, said on a conference call today. Dana Gas
gained $135 million from the sale of a 1.6 percent stake in
 Hungary ’s largest refiner Mol Nyrt.  Dana Gas, based in the United Arab Emirates sheikhdom of
Sharjah, changed the terms of about $1 billion in Islamic bonds,
or sukuk, last year after the Egyptian and Iraqi governments
delayed payments for fuel sales. The global financial crisis and
inability of the company to find buyers for minority stakes in
some of its fields also hampered efforts to refinance.
Shareholders and sukuk-holders agreed this year to the
restructured terms on the bonds.  Shares were up 1.8 percent to 58 fils at 11:53 a.m. in
Dubai.  Collecting Payments  Egypt and Iraq’s semi-autonomous Kurdish region owed Dana
Gas a combined 2.26 billion dirhams at the end of March, the
company said, compared with 2.16 billion dirhams that they owed
at the end of December. Dana Gas collected 152 million dirhams
in payments in the first quarter in  Egypt  and 119 million
dirhams in Iraq.  Production declined to 61,400 barrels of oil equivalent a
day from 63,000 barrels because output in Iraq dropped after a
fire last year at the company’s facility in the Kurdish region
stopped shipments of liquefied petroleum gas. Dana Gas wants to
restart LPG sales this quarter, Al Jarwan said.  The company expects to appoint a permanent CEO and a chief
financial officer as soon as possible, Al Jarwan said. The
company has identified “several candidates” to be CFO and is
evaluating them, he said. The previous CFO James Dewar stepped
down at the end of 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anthony DiPaola in Dubai at 
 adipaola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  