-- Darling Says U.K. Housing Plan Risks Stoking Property Bubble
-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 2013-05-14T16:20:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-14/darling-says-u-k-housing-plan-risks-stoking-property-bubble.html
Former Chancellor of the Exchequer
 Alistair Darling  said a government plan to help people buy homes
risks stoking a housing bubble unless more properties are built.  The so-called Help to Buy program may spur unsustainable
gains, particularly in  London  and the surrounding areas, Darling
told reporters today. He also said Britain may be in for a
Japan-style economic slump unless the government eases its
deficit-cutting plan.  “If you don’t do anything about supply then prices start
to go up,” Darling, a lawmaker for the opposition  Labour Party ,
told parliamentary journalists in London. “It is a mistake to
introduce measures which I think will simply create a housing
bubble, particularly in London, rather than address the
underlying problem which is a shortage of housing. I do think
the government will have to look at this again.”  Help to Buy, announced in March by  George Osborne , the
current chancellor, aims to help people struggling to raise a
deposit, with the government lending 20 percent, interest free,
of the value of a newly built home. Mortgage guarantees
extending to all properties will be available from next year.  The program has already helped to spur the  property market ,
the  Royal Institution  of Chartered Surveyors said today.
Critics say the plan will lead to riskier lending, fuel demand
for second homes and drive property prices higher.  House prices  tripled in the decade to 2007 as the supply of
homes stagnated, with buyers taking on so-called buy-to-let
loans to purchase property for investment. Britons now owe a
record 1.27 trillion pounds ($1.94 trillion) on their mortgages,
according to the  Bank of England.  Household debt was equal to
153 percent of disposable income in the U.K. in 2011 compared
with 115 percent in the U.S. and 88 percent in  Germany , latest
 data  from the Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development show.  Darling also said the fiscal squeeze was endangering an
economic recovery and risked keeping Britain locked in a decade-long slump. Britain may “remain bumping along the bottom for a
decade if not longer,” he said.  The government should resist calls to break up  Royal Bank
of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  and Lloyds Banking Group Plc, he said.
Selling off a good bank and leaving taxpayers holding a bad bank
would be “ridiculous,” said Darling, who was chancellor when
the two lenders were rescued with 66 billion pounds of public
money in 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  