-- Detroit Mayor Dave Bing Says That He Won’t Seek Second Term
-- B y   C h r i s   C h r i s t o f f
-- 2013-05-14T18:01:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-14/detroit-mayor-dave-bing-announces-that-he-won-t-seek-second-term.html
Detroit  Mayor Dave Bing said he won’t
run for a second term leading  Michigan ’s largest city, which is
under state control.  Bing, 69, said at a news conference that he wasn’t done
with public service and would form an exploratory committee for
a possible campaign to become executive of Wayne County, which
includes Detroit.  Bing said he took office in a city filled with pain and
that his administration “has done a tremendous amount of heavy
lifting to prepare the runway to success.”  “The last four years have been challenging yet rewarding,
yet I am pleased with how my administration has moved the needle
forward for Detroit’s future,” he said. “I want to continue to
work for the advancement of the city and the region.”  Bing is a former automotive-supply company executive and
National Basketball Association Hall of Famer who played for the
 Detroit Pistons .  Recent polls showed him trailing Wayne County Sheriff Benny Napoleon and Mike Duggan, a former Detroit hospital chief
executive who was also county prosecutor. Duggan would be the
first white mayor in 44 years for a city that is 82 percent
black and carries a history of racial discord.  Bing had only 11 percent of support among 500 likely voters
in an April 29-30 poll by Target-Insyght of Lansing, Michigan.  Powerless Post  The next mayor will take office stripped of most power
under authority of state emergency manager Kevyn Orr, who seized
control of city finances and operations on March 25. Orr, in a
report released May 13, declared Detroit insolvent, in danger of
running out of cash next month and crushed by total debt of
$15.7 billion and an accumulated deficit that will top $380
million by June 30.  Bing was elected in 2009 after the resignation of Kwame Kilpatrick, who pleaded guilty to lying under oath in a
corruption case.  Bing has presided over one of Detroit’s stormiest periods,
wrestling after a recession with a deficit and cuts in services
that left residents with too few police and firefighters to
cover a city of 139 square miles (360 kilometers).  Bing, who was hospitalized with blood clots in each lung,
acceded to state intervention in April 2012, then to a takeover
by Orr, a Washington bankruptcy attorney appointed by Republican
Governor  Rick Snyder .  Captain’s Duty  Bing was good for Detroit, said John George, president of
Motor City Blight Busters Inc., a neighborhood redevelopment
nonprofit.  “He did his level best in a very difficult environment to
turn the city around, kind of right the ship,” George said in
an interview after he attended Bing’s announcement.  Bing’s possible run for Wayne County executive in 2014 was
“a bombshell,” said Luther Keith, executive director of Arise
Detroit Inc., a coalition of community groups that counter
crime, blight and school dropout rates.  Keith said Bing’s health crisis a year ago may have figured
in his decision. He said the next mayor can build on Bing’s
accomplishments.  “People do not really know how big the challenges are in
this city,” Keith said. “It’s a massive, massive
undertaking.”  Karla Henderson, Bing’s group executive for planning and
facilities, said she did not know Bing’s decision before his
announcement. She said his legacy will be restoring integrity to
the mayor’s office following the corruption of Kilpatrick’s
administration.  “He made a lot of hard decisions that people will look
back on,” Henderson said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Christoff in Detroit at 
 cchristoff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  