-- Detroit at 91 Cents on Dollar Not Distressed Enough
-- B y   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a   a n d   C h r i s   C h r i s t o f f
-- 2013-05-14T14:36:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-14/detroit-at-94-cents-on-dollar-not-distressed-enough-muni-credit.html
Detroit bonds trading at 91 cents on
the dollar are still too costly for municipal investors after
the city’s emergency manager said the U.S. auto industry’s
capital may run out of cash and consider cutting debt payments.  Kevyn Orr, appointed by Republican Governor  Rick Snyder  in
March, said in a May 12 report that the cost of $9.4 billion in
bond, pension and other long-term liabilities is sapping the
city’s ability to provide public safety and transportation. In a
preliminary plan to avert bankruptcy, Orr, 55, listed reducing
debt principal, retiree benefits and jobs among his options.  Tax-exempt Detroit general obligations maturing in April
2016 traded today at an average price of 90.5 cents on the
dollar, 9.5 percent below their 2008 issue price, data compiled
by Bloomberg show. The discount is too small for buyers waiting
to see whether the city becomes the biggest U.S. municipal
issuer to seek bankruptcy protection.  “Should Detroit fall into deeper stress or file for
Chapter 9, it would become a compelling investment opportunity
at a price,” said Hector Negroni, who invests in the municipal
market, including distressed securities, as New York-based chief
investment officer of Fundamental Credit Opportunities.  “Detroit can’t solve the problems by just reducing
expenses and reducing services -- creditors at some point are
likely going to have to be part of the solution,” he said.  Stockton Precedent  Detroit would join Stockton and San Bernardino, both in
 California , and Jefferson County,  Alabama , in trying to stick
bondholders with a loss. Stockton is one of five municipal
issuers rated by Moody’s Investors Service that defaulted in
2012. In comparison, 15 U.S. companies graded by Moody’s
defaulted through the first four months of 2013.  In the hometown of  General Motors Co. (GM) , the world’s second-biggest automaker, officials are struggling to provide public
safety and street lights for a population that has shrunk about
26 percent since 2000.  The city of 707,000,  Michigan ’s biggest, has a Caa2
general-obligation rank from Moody’s. That’s eight steps below
investment grade and a signal that “there may be present
elements of danger with respect to principal or interest,”
according to the ratings company.  ‘Insolvent’ City  Orr’s report to Michigan’s treasurer, required under a
state law giving the manager broad authority over city
government, offered guidelines for cost cuts. In a statement
yesterday, Mayor Dave Bing said Orr’s assessment “is consistent
with the findings of my administration.”  The financial manager’s document said  Detroit  is
“insolvent on a cash flow basis.” The city’s accumulated
deficit will top $380 million by June 30, and by then it will
run out of cash unless it defers pension payments and other
obligations, according to the report.  “Without a significant restructuring of its debt, the city
will be unable to break the cycle of damaging cutbacks in
essential municipal services and investments,” the report said.
Orr also cited the need for concessions from unions, and
revamping the police and fire departments to protect residents
beset by crime and blight.  Detroit’s long-term obligations are at least $15.7 billion,
including unfunded pension and retirement benefits. The general
fund this fiscal year, with revenue of about $1.1 billion, will
pay about $461 million for debt and health costs, according to
the report.  Water Protection  While the cash crunch depressed some Detroit general
obligations to as little as 71 cents on the dollar last week,
bonds backed by revenue from its municipal water system are
trading at a premium.  Dan Solender at Lord Abbett & Co. and  John Miller  at Nuveen
Asset Management said the legal protection and extra yield
relative to other U.S. water systems make the bonds more
attractive than those backed by the city’s full faith and
credit. Both investors hold the Detroit water-revenue debt.  Tax-exempt Detroit water revenue bonds maturing in July
2041 traded May 8 at an average price of about 108 cents on the
dollar, the highest since February. Moody’s rates the securities
Baa3, its lowest investment grade and eight steps higher than
the city’s general obligations.  The water-revenue bonds and municipal securities from
across Michigan may still be penalized if Detroit reduces
general-obligation payments, Lisa Washburn, managing director at
Concord, Massachusetts-based Municipal Market Advisors, wrote in
a report this week.  Statewide Impact  Such a move would affect other distressed Michigan cities
the most, she said. Pontiac and Flint are among the five
localities besides Detroit under state-appointed emergency
managers. Any increased yield penalty statewide could offset
savings from reducing bond payments, Washburn said.  Orr’s report offers alternatives for dealing with long-term
debt, including reducing interest rates, stretching out payment
schedules, forgiveness of principal or refinancing.  The report is probably a prelude to seeking Chapter 9
 bankruptcy protection , said Manny Grillo, New York-based head of
restructuring practices for Goodwin Procter LLP. There are too
many creditors, including 48 employee unions, to reach a
consensus without court intervention, he said.  State Treasurer Andy Dillon has said he’s been told the
city would become the biggest U.S. municipality to file for
Chapter 9 bankruptcy protection. Orr is a Washington bankruptcy
lawyer who worked on the reorganization of Chrysler Group LLC.  Table Talk  “If he can’t compel creditors to come to the table, a
filing might be the next shoe to drop,” said Negroni. “If
you’re an investor, a lot more has to be told before you can
take a constructive view on the credit.”  In the $3.7 trillion municipal market this week, Michigan
issuers led by Wayne State University plan to sell a combined
$174 million. The sales are part of a wave about $6.5 billion of
local-debt issuance.  At  1.79 percent , yields on benchmark 10-year munis compare
with  1.9 percent  for similar-maturity Treasuries. The  ratio  of
the two  interest rates , a gauge of relative value, is about 94
percent, the lowest since March 11. The lower the figure, the
more expensive local bonds are compared with federal securities.
The ratio has averaged 92 percent since 2001.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Chappatta in  New York  at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Christoff in Lansing, Michigan 
 cchristoff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  