-- Deutsche Post Profit Rises on Emerging-Market DHL Units
-- B y   R i c h a r d   W e i s s
-- 2013-05-14T08:49:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-14/deutsche-post-profit-rises-on-emerging-market-dhl-units.html
Deutsche Post AG (DPW) ,  Europe ’s largest
postal service, reported profit that beat analysts’ predictions
because of growth at express-delivery businesses abroad, sending
the stock to the highest in almost five years.  First-quarter net income fell 5.9 percent to 498 million
euros ($648 million), the Bonn-based company said today in a
statement. Profit exceeded the 441.6 million-euro average of
five analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Sales at the
company’s DHL operations rose 13 percent in  Latin America  and
4.9 percent in the Asia-Pacific region.  Freight companies are struggling to maintain earnings amid
recessions in Europe that have pushed unemployment in some
countries to record highs. Robust economic growth in Asia means
the region now generates more than half of DHL’s time-definite
express shipments.  “The express division made significant investments into
the expansion of its network in recent years,”  Stephen Furlong ,
a Dublin-based analyst for J&E Davy Holdings, said in a note to
clients. “The operational improvements are now producing the
expected gains in profitability.”  Deutsche Post  jumped  as much as 4 percent to 19.58 euros,
the highest intraday price since June 6, 2008, and was trading
up 3.5 percent at 10:47 a.m. in Frankfurt. The shares have
gained 17 percent this year in the third-best performance on the
22-stock Bloomberg Europe Transportation Index, valuing the
company at 23.6 billion euros.  Keeping Forecast  Earnings before income and taxes in the quarter rose 2.9
percent to 711 million euros as sales increased 0.6 percent to
13.4 billion euros. The company reiterated that Ebit will
 increase  to as much as 2.95 billion euros this year from 2.67
billion euros in 2012. Last year’s net income was inflated by a
186-million-euro gain from the disposal of Deutsche Post’s
banking activities.  “We’ve gotten off to a very solid start for the year in
what is a very difficult macroeconomic environment,” Chief
Financial Officer Larry Rosen said in an interview posted on
Deutsche Post’s website.  Operating profit at the mail unit fell 2.6 percent as the
quarter had fewer working days and a trade union staged short-term strikes. Sales at the unit benefited from a continuing boom
in electronic commerce, with 11 percent more parcels shipped
within  Germany  on average per day, Deutsche Post said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Weiss in  Frankfurt  at 
 rweiss5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  