-- Deutsche Wohnen Says FFO Rose After Acquisitions
-- B y   D a l i a   F a h m y
-- 2013-05-14T15:54:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-14/deutsche-wohnen-funds-from-operations-gain-on-acquisitions.html
Deutsche Wohnen AG (DWNI) ,  Germany ’s second-largest residential landlord by market value, said first-quarter
funds from operations rose 68 percent after the company acquired
thousands of apartments and charged higher rents.  FFO excluding divestments, a measure of a property
company’s ability to generate cash, climbed to 30.9 million
euros ($40 million) from 18.4 million euros a year earlier,
Deutsche Wohnen said in a statement today. The Berlin-based
landlord repeated its forecast that FFO for the whole of this
year will be 100 million euros.  German residential landlords are taking advantage of rising
stock prices by raising money from shareholders to finance
acquisitions at favorable terms. The company bought about 32,000
apartments in 2012, the most in its history, and in April agreed
to buy an additional 6,900 apartments in Berlin from  Blackstone
Group LP. (BX)   “We believe in Berlin,” Chief Executive Officer Michael Zahn said in the statement. The German capital “is a dynamic
market with a lot of potential for us.”  Profit from Deutsche Wohnen’s main business of renting
apartments rose 61 percent to 70.9 million euros.  Deutsche Wohnen rose 4.6 percent in  Frankfurt trading , the
most since March 14, to 15.01 euros. The shares have gained
about 30 percent in the past 12 months, while the FTSE/EPRA
NAREIT index of German property stocks has climbed 20 percent.  The company’s net income rose 82 percent to 26.2 million
euros in the first quarter from 14.4 million a year earlier,
largely due to higher rental profit from apartments that were
added in 2012.  Weighing Mergers  About 54 percent of Deutsche Wohnen’s apartments are in
Berlin and the company plans to continue buying homes in the
city, Zahn said on a conference call with analysts.  Initial public offerings this year are increasing
competition for shareholder equity, making it more likely that
listed companies will merge, he said.  LEG Immobilien AG (LEG) , formerly owned by Goldman Sachs Group
Inc., raised 1.3 billion euros in February, making the deal
Germany’s largest property IPO. Deutsche Annington Immobilien
AG, owned by Terra Firma Capital Partners Ltd., is planning to
sell shares for the first time by the end of June.  “The landscape is becoming more crowded and competitive,”
Zahn said. The MDAX stock index for medium-sized companies has
four members that are residential landlords and at least two
more are expected to join by the end of the year. That’s “not
really effective,” Zahn said.  If Deutsche Wohnen identifies a merger opportunity that
offers cost savings and fits with its strategy, “this could be
a situation we think about,” he said. There’s no indication
that such an opportunity exists at present, he added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dalia Fahmy in Berlin at 
 dfahmy1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  