-- Deutsche Bank Unit Loses Bid to Dismiss Mortgage Suit
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2013-05-14T23:04:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-14/deutsche-bank-unit-loses-bid-to-dismiss-mortgage-suit.html
A  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  unit lost a bid to
dismiss a lawsuit by mortgage-bond investors who claim
$250 million in damages and demand that the bank repurchase the
loans underlying the securities.  New York State Supreme Court Justice Shirley Werner Kornreich in  Manhattan  denied DB Structured Products Inc.’s
motion to throw out the lawsuit filed in March 2012 by investors
in a trust. Trustee HSBC Bank USA NA was later substituted as
plaintiff.  Attorneys for DB Structured had argued that the suit’s
single claim, for breach of contract, was subject to a six-year
statute of limitations that began when the contract was executed
in 2006. The trustee contended that the claims didn’t begin to
accrue until DB Structured breached its obligations to
repurchase loans that didn’t conform to representations and
warranties made regarding their characteristics and quality.  The loans at issue in the case were bought by DB Structured
Products from at least three originators and sold to Ace
Securities Corp., which then deposited the loans into the trust.
The loans were then securitized through the issuance of more
than $500 million of certificates under a pooling and servicing
agreement.  ‘Specific Deadlines’  If a six-year statute of limitations applied, the
contracts, which included “specific deadlines for the demand
and cure period and involve loans with a 30-year term,” could
have said that the repurchase demands could be made only within
that time frame, Kornreich said in a decision dated yesterday.  “It is highly peculiar that the” pooling and servicing
agreement “would leave out an effective six-year statute of
repose if such a limitations period were actually contemplated
by the parties,” Kornreich wrote. “Furthermore, if such a
limitations period existed, the trustee would have an implied
duty to conduct constant due diligence on the veracity of the
representations to ensure that lies are ferreted out before the
time to make a repurchase demand expires.”  Deutsche Bank “respectfully disagrees with the court’s
decision,”  Renee Calabro , a spokeswoman for the bank in New
York, said in a telephone interview.  The case is Ace Securities Corp. v. DB Structured Products
Inc., 650980/2012, New York State Supreme Court, New York County
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York State Supreme Court in Manhattan at
   cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  