-- Disney’s ABC Adds ‘Avengers’ Show to Female-Skewing Schedule
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2013-05-14T20:05:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-14/disney-s-abc-adds-avengers-tv-show-to-female-skewing-schedule.html
Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s ABC network, ranked
last among the TV viewers that advertisers target, will add five
comedies and seven dramas to its schedule, including a show
based on the secret agency from Marvel’s “Avengers.”  “Marvel’s Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D.,” from producer Joss Whedon, will air on Tuesdays at 8 p.m., ABC said today in an e-mailed statement. The network and other broadcasters are showing
their new lineups to advertisers this week in an annual event
known as the “upfronts.” (See schedule below)  The action series marks an effort by the network to draw
more young male viewers, an elusive group on broadcast TV, to a
schedule that skews more toward women with “Grey’s Anatomy”
and “Nashville.” It’s also leveraging the highly successful
 films  based on Marvel superheroes, such as  Iron Man . Including a
reality series, ABC unveiled 13 new programs.  “That should work better at getting younger male
viewers,” said  Brad Adgate , director of research at  New York 
advertising company Horizon Media Inc. “The network has very
little live sports, which has hindered its ability to become a
destination for male viewers.”  About 65 percent of ABC’s viewers are female, Adgate said,
citing Nielsen data. The average age of ABC’s viewers is about
53, second oldest to CBS, he said.  Disney, also owner of ESPN, gained 0.2 percent to $67.47 at
the close in New York. Shares of the Burbank, California-based
company have climbed 36 percent this year,  compared  with 16
percent for the  Standard & Poor’s  500 index.  Upscale Women  In “S.H.I.E.L.D,” Clark Gregg reprises the role of Agent
Phil Coulson from the Marvel films. He assembles a group of
agents who protect the public from strange occurrences around
the world. The timeslot would pit the show against  CBS (CBS) ’s
“NCIS,” the most-watched drama on television.  “Our job is to be inclusive,” Paul Lee, president of the
ABC Entertainment Group, told reporters on a conference call.
“We are a big, broad network that does over deliver on upscale
audience and does over deliver on upscale women.”  With the new season, “Dancing with the Stars” will air
its performance and results shows in a single two-hour block on
Mondays. On Tuesdays, starting with “S.H.I.E.L.D.,” ABC plans
all new programs. Networks regularly schedule new shows after a
well-established program to draw viewers. That practice is
changing due to DVRs, Lee said.  “Lead-in does matter and it is important,” Lee said. “It
is at times compromised by huge DVR viewing from the previous
show. We put on shows and started off with shows we knew we
loved and that we would get behind and market.”  Women’s Empowerment  With “Once Upon a Time in Wonderland,” a spinoff of
“Once Upon a Time,” ABC creates an all-drama Thursday night
that includes “Grey’s Anatomy” and “Scandal.”  In “Wonderland,” set in Victorian  England ,  Sophie Lowe 
plays Alice telling stories of a strange new land on the other
side of a rabbit hole. The network “built a night of women’s
empowerment,” Lee said.  Other dramas to be added this year will include “Lucky 7”
on Tuesdays and “Betrayal” on Sundays. ABC’s four September
comedies include “The Goldbergs,” “Trophy Wife,” “Back in
the Game,” and “Super Fun Night,” the network said.  ABC ordered a reality series called “The Quest,” from the
producers of “The Lord of the Rings” movies and “The Amazing
Race” TV show, according to the statement. In the show, 12
contestants face challenges in a fantasy world with mythical
creatures.  The network also ordered “Toy Story of Terror,” a
Halloween special from Disney’s Pixar animation studio.  New Lineups  ABC ranks last in the 18-to-49-year-old demographic group
that marketers target, with that audience down 9.1 percent for
the season through May 12, Nielsen data show. The network is
second in total viewers behind CBS, averaging 7.8 million
viewers a night, down 6.5 percent from a year earlier.  U.S. TV networks are introducing new shows ahead of
meetings with their biggest advertisers to obtain commitments
and set ad rates for the TV season that begins in September.  NBC, which announced its schedule on May 12, picked up
three dramas and three comedies, including “The Michael J. Fox
Show.”  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Fox said yesterday it will add nine
programs, including the comedy “Dads” from Seth MacFarlane and
the drama “Almost Human” from “ Star Trek ” producer  J.J. Abrams . CBS plans to announce its new shows tomorrow.  Ad spending on  network television  is projected to decline 2
percent this year to $16.9 billion, and total  TV advertising ,
including cable networks, will increase 2.8 percent to $63.9
billion, slowing from 7.1 percent in 2012, according to
ZenithOptimedia,  Publicis Groupe SA (PUB) ’s research division.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  