-- Euro Declines to Six-Week Low as Economy Shrinks; Pound Rises
-- B y   D a v i d   G o o d m a n   a n d   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a
-- 2013-05-15T11:14:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-14/dollar-near-5-week-high-versus-euro-on-bets-fed-to-cut-stimulus.html
The euro fell to a six-week low
against the dollar after reports showed the region’s economy
shrank more last quarter than analysts forecast and German
growth cooled.  The  Dollar Index (DXY)  climbed to the highest level since July as
improving sentiment toward the  U.S. economy  spurred bets the
 Federal Reserve  will reduce stimulus measures. The pound
strengthened versus all except two of its 16 major counterparts
after the  Bank of England  upgraded its estimate of the U.K.
economy. Switzerland’s franc fell to the lowest level in almost
nine months against the dollar.  “It’s clear that it’s weaker macroeconomic fundamentals
and growth divergence which are driving the euro lower at
present,” said  Stephen Gallo , European head of currency
strategy at Bank of Montreal in London. “Financial stability
risks have been supplanted by macroeconomic ones. We look for
very measured declines between here and $1.27.”  The euro fell 0.5 percent to $1.2861 at 7:13 a.m. New York
time after declining to $1.2852, the weakest since April 4. The
shared currency dropped 0.2 percent to 132.11 yen. The dollar
gained 0.3 percent to 102.72 yen after advancing to 102.76 yen,
the strongest level since October 2008.  Gross domestic product in the  euro zone  fell 0.2 percent
last quarter, the European Union’s statistics office said. The
median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey was for a 0.1 percent
contraction. The German economy grew 0.1 percent, below the 0.3
percent expansion forecast by economists.  ‘Growth Differentials’  “The event-risk calendar over the next week looks skewed
in favor of renewed” weakness in the euro,  Richard Franulovich ,
a senior currency strategist at  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  in New
York, wrote in a note to clients. The dollar’s advance is
“perfectly consistent with an unmistakable shift in growth
differentials,” he said.  Westpac recommends selling the euro against the dollar,
targeting $1.2850 into next week.  The euro has still gained 3.6 percent in the past six
months, according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes,
which track 10 developed-nation currencies. The dollar
appreciated 2.9 percent, while the yen tumbled 21 percent.  The Dollar Index advanced for a fifth day as economists
surveyed by Bloomberg predict U.S. data today will show
manufacturing in the New York area expanded in May, while U.S.
industrial production declined.  The Fed Bank of New York will say its general economic
 index  improved to 4 this month from 3.05 in April, according to
a Bloomberg survey before the report at 8:30 a.m. New York time.  Outpacing Europe  The U.S. economy will expand 2 percent this year, compared
with a 0.5 percent contraction in the euro area and growth of
1.4 percent in  Japan , according to median analyst estimates
compiled by Bloomberg. The Fed is buying $85 billion of Treasury
and mortgage debt each month to spur growth.  Fed Bank of Richmond President  Jeffrey Lacker  will speak
today in Baltimore after his counterpart in Philadelphia Charles Plosser this week reiterated that the central bank should begin
to curtail bond purchases.  “Yield differentials have turned a little more in favor of
the U.S. and that’s helped the dollar across the board,” said
 Michael Turner , a debt strategist at Royal Bank of Canada in
Sydney. “The economic trend is improving over the medium term,
so it’s really down to what the Fed has to say.”  The Dollar Index, which Intercontinental Exchange Inc. uses
to track the currency against those of six major U.S. trade
partners, gained 0.5 percent to 83.975 after rising to 84.034,
the highest since July 25.  Pound Gains  The pound rose for the first time in four days against the
euro as the Bank of  England  upgraded its estimate of the U.K.
economy in its quarterly Inflation Report.  The central bank forecast the expansion may accelerate to
0.5 percent this quarter from 0.3 percent in the first three
months of the year.  “The pound is reacting to the headlines on slightly higher
growth and lower inflation forecasts from the Bank of England,”
said  Gavin Friend , a currency strategist at National Australia
Bank Ltd. in London. “It fits with the run of U.K. data we’ve
had recently. There’s a sense that some of the worst is over,
but the economy is still flatlining.”  The pound advanced 0.5 percent to 84.55 pence per euro
after depreciating to 85.17 pence yesterday, the weakest since
April 25. Sterling was little changed at $1.5217 after declining
to $1.5193, the lowest level since April 4.  The franc fell for a fifth day against the dollar, dropping
0.6 percent to 97.28 centimes after depreciating to 97.38, the
weakest since Aug. 20. The Swiss currency was little changed at
1.2507 per euro.  South Korea’s won fell on speculation policy makers will
take steps to weaken the currency to help exporters compete with
those in Japan. The currency declined 0.8 percent to close at
1,114.76 per dollar in  Seoul .  To contact the reporters on this story:
 David Goodman  in London at 
 dgoodman28@bloomberg.net ;
Mariko Ishikawa in Tokyo at 
 mishikawa9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  