-- Heat Rout Bulls for 3-1 NBA Playoffs Lead as Grizzlies Win Again
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-05-14T05:28:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-14/heat-beat-bulls-to-move-within-one-victory-of-winning-nba-series.html
The  Miami Heat  routed the undermanned
Chicago Bulls 88-65 to move within a victory of a return trip to
the National Basketball Association’s Eastern Conference finals.  LeBron James finished with 27 points, seven rebounds and
eight assists as the Heat limited the Bulls to the fewest points
in a postseason game in franchise history. Chicago’s 25.7
percent shooting was also the lowest for the team and the worst
in an NBA playoff game since the  New Orleans Hornets  shot 24.4
percent against the Heat in 2004.  The defending NBA-champion Heat have a three-games-to-one
lead in the best-of-seven second-round series and can advance to
the Eastern Conference finals with a Game 5 win in Miami
tomorrow. Miami coach  Erik Spoelstra  said the Heat have to
maintain their intensity at home to advance.  “We have to go in with a mindset to really approach this
with desperation and urgency,” Spoelstra told reporters.  The Memphis Grizzlies also opened a 3-1 lead in their
Western Conference playoff series with a 103-97 overtime win
against the Oklahoma City Thunder. The Grizzlies have won three
straight games against the top-seeded Thunder and can close out
the series with a Game 5 win tomorrow in Oklahoma City.  “This was the most critical game of the series,” said
Grizzlies forward  Zach Randolph , who had 23 points and 12
rebounds last night at the FedExForum in  Memphis , Tennessee.  Two years ago, Memphis had been in a similar position -- it
held a 2-1 lead over Oklahoma City in the conference semifinals
and lost Game 4 by 133-123 in triple overtime. The Thunder went
on to win that series in seven games.  ‘Overcame It’  “I definitely thought about that,” Randolph said after
the Grizzlies fought back from a 17-point deficit in Game 4.
“It ran through my mind, but I told the team, ‘Let’s go, we can
do this, we came back this far.’ We kept fighting and fighting.
It was grit and grind basketball and we overcame it.”  The Bulls, playing without Kirk Hinrich,  Luol Deng  and
 Derrick Rose , were held under 27 percent shooting for the first
time in a playoff game. Hinrich missed his sixth straight game
with a bruised calf, Deng was out for the fifth game in a row
with an undiagnosed illness, while Rose, a former Most Valuable
Player, hasn’t played all season while recovering from knee
surgery. Bulls guard  Nate Robinson  missed all 12 of his shots
and was scoreless in 32 minutes of action while Chicago was off
target on 15 of 17 3-point attempts.  The Heat opened the game with an 11-2 scoring run and never
trailed again. Miami led by 11 points at halftime and limited
the Bulls to a franchise playoff-low nine points during the
third quarter to extend its advantage to 19.  Carlos Boozer  had 14 points and 12 rebounds to lead
Chicago, hitting three of 14 shots.  Pacers-Knicks  The winner of the Miami-Chicago series advances to the
conference finals against the  Indiana Pacers  or New York Knicks.
The Pacers hold a 2-1 lead in their Eastern Conference matchup
and host Game 4 today.  Also tonight, the San Antonio Spurs host the Golden State
Warriors in Game 5 of their Western Conference series, which is
tied at two games apiece.  The Grizzlies moved within a win of reaching the Western
Conference finals by outscoring the Thunder 9-3 in overtime.  Mike Conley  scored 24 points and  Marc Gasol  added 23
points, 11 rebounds and six blocked shots for Memphis, which
trailed by 17 points during the second quarter.  “We just kept battling until we got a win,” Grizzlies
coach Lionel Hollins said at a news conference. “I’m glad it
didn’t go to three overtimes.”  Kevin Durant  had 27 points on 10-of-27 shooting to lead the
Thunder, while Kevin Martin had 18 points and Serge Ibaka added
17 points and 14 rebounds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  