-- Telecom Egypt Profit Drops as Economy Hurts Calls Abroad
-- B y   N a d i n e   M a r r o u s h i
-- 2013-05-14T12:39:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-14/telecom-egypt-profit-drops-as-economy-hurts-calls-abroad.html
Telecom Egypt  Co., the country’s
monopoly fixed-line phone service, said first-quarter profit
fell 6.2 percent as slowing economic growth led to reduced
calling abroad.  Net income dropped to 857.7 million Egyptian pounds ($123
million) from 914.2 million pounds a year earlier, the Cairo-based operator said today in a  statement . Revenue increased 1.4
percent to 2.72 billion pounds.  Egypt’s economy is expected to expand 1.4 percent this
year, the slowest increase since 1992, analysts at HSBC Holdings
Plc estimate. Telecom Egypt reported an 11 percent drop in
quarterly revenue generated by calls from local fixed lines to
points outside the country, citing a “continued drop-off in
general business activity” in the country.  Telecom  Egypt , 80 percent owned by the government, said it
has seen a “notable” traffic increase at its international
wholesale division, which handles infrastructure for other
operators. For every outbound minute, it receives 10 inbound
minutes under contracts with 70 telecommunications operators in
the region, the company said. First-quarter sales at the unit
rose 5.7 percent to 1.23 million pounds.  “We’re pleased with our performance in the first quarter,
despite a challenging economic environment,” Chief Executive
Officer Mohamed Amin El-Nawawy said in a phone interview.  Mobile License  The company is in talks with local regulators on an
application to provide mobile-phone service “with an eye to
receiving the license by mid-July,” El-Nawawy said. Telecom
Egypt announced plans on May 12 to carry out its first mobile-phone test call this week.  Egypt’s government is considering new rules to allow its
four telecommunications providers to offer mobile, fixed-line
and broadband services under a single license. The move would
enable the  Egyptian Co. for Mobile Services , which operates the
Mobinil brand, as well as  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) ’s local division
and Emirates Telecommunications Corp.’s  Etisalat Misr (ETISALAT)  unit to
offer land lines, while Telecom Egypt would add mobile services.  “Our retail business continues to face challenges with the
impact of mobile substitution,” Telecom Egypt said. Fixed-line
subscriptions declined to 7.2 million customers as of March 31
from 7.3 million at the end of 2012.  Stock Declines  Telecom Egypt  fell  0.3 percent to 13.36 pounds at at the
close in Cairo, the fifth-worst performance on the benchmark EGX
30 Index. The phone company’s shares have dropped 5.6 percent
this year, exceeding the index’s 1.1 percent decline.  Telecom Egypt won’t be required to sell its 45 percent
stake in  Vodafone Egypt  to obtain a mobile phone license, since
it’s a minority shareholder, El-Nawawy said. The company will
consider what to do with the holding a year after starting its
own mobile phone operations to maintain its value, he said.  “If we buy new spectrum in the future, we don’t want to be
in a position where we are duplicating two competing capital
intensive assets,” El-Nawawy said.  Telecom Egypt would use its 7 billion-pound cash position
to acquire new spectrum, he said. For the first year of
operation, it plans to use the existing networks of mobile phone
providers in Egypt, and then set up its own.  The company is claiming 1.2 billion U.K. pounds ($1.83
billion) in an arbitration dispute on interconnection fees with
Mobinil and Vodafone Egypt. Telecom Egypt claims that competitor
Mobinil paid lower rates to Vodafone. El-Nawawy said he expects
a decision on the case this year or early in 2014.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nadine Marroushi in Cairo at 
 nmarroushi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  