-- Emerging-Market Stocks Advance as Turkey Jumps to Record
-- B y   M a r i a   L e v i t o v   a n d   J u l i a   L e i t e
-- 2013-05-14T21:36:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-14/emerging-stocks-rise-as-exporters-advance-on-yen-china-declines.html
Emerging stocks rose for the first
time in four days, led by consumer companies. The Borsa Istanbul
National 100 index climbed to a record, while Chinese shares
declined the most in three weeks on property concerns.  Turkey ’s  Akfen Holding AS (AKFEN)  jumped as its airport
construction unit won a $400 million project abroad.
Telekomunikacja Polska SA rose to a three-month high in Warsaw.
South Korean stocks gained the most in Asia, led by exporters,
as an earlier rally of the yen eased concern about loss of
competitiveness to Japanese rivals.  China  Vanke Co. slumped on
speculation the government is introducing more property curbs.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index rose 0.4 percent to
1,046.18. The gauge rebounded after capping the longest slide in
a month yesterday as Chinese output trailed estimates, prompting
JPMorgan Chase & Co. to cut its outlook for the nation’s
economy. Polish economic growth matched an 11-year low in the
first quarter, boosting the case for further rate reductions by
the nation’s central bank.  “The theme is that continued global monetary ease is going
to fuel equity prices,” Walter ‘Bucky’ Hellwig, who helps
manage $17 billion of assets at BB&T Wealth Management in
Birmingham,  Alabama , said by phone. “That’s pretty bullish for
 emerging markets , despite the weak data out of China.”  Eight out of  10 groups  in the emerging-market gauge rose as
consumer and technology shares added at least 0.8 percent. The
broader measure slid 0.9 percent this year, compared with a 13
percent gain in the MSCI World Index.  Emerging ETF  The iShares MSCI Emerging Markets exchange-traded fund
advanced 0.4 percent to $43.28. The Chicago Board Options
Exchange Emerging Markets ETF Volatility Index, a measure of
options prices on the fund and expectations of price swings,
slid 0.3 percent to 19.31.  Brazil ’s Ibovespa rose 0.4 percent as airline Gol Linhas
Aereas Inteligentes SA jumped, while homebuilder Gafisa SA
retreated. The index capped a four-day slump yesterday.  Borsa Istanbul index jumped 1.7 percent as Akfen Holding
posted the biggest gain since April 29. More than a million
shares traded, almost 70 percent of the three-month average
daily volume, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Poland’s benchmark measure added 1.4 percent as
Telekomunikacja Polska added 3.8 percent.  Russian equities fell for a third day as OAO Lukoil and OAO
Gazprom, companies with the biggest weighting on the Micex
Index, dropped as they traded without the right to a dividend.
The Micex Index dropped 0.8 percent, the most since April 17.  Samsung Electronics  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) , the world’s biggest maker of
mobile phones, and  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380)  added more than 1.5 percent
in  Seoul . The Kospi Index gained 1 percent as the yen gained the
most in two weeks, before reversing its advance. The dollar rose
against the yen for a fifth straight day, the longest winning
streak since November.  The Shanghai Composite Index fell 1.1 percent as China
Vanke, the biggest developer, capped the biggest drop since
April 25.  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  dropped 0.7 percent.
Indian stocks climbed, with the benchmark index rebounding from
its biggest drop in a year, after inflation slowed to a 41-month
low. Emaar Properties PJSC surged 3.1 percent, helping lift
Dubai’s benchmark index to the highest since October 2009 as the
real estate market outlook improved.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries dropped six basis points, or 0.06
percentage point, to 261 basis points, according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Diversified Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Levitov in London at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net ;
Julia Leite in  New York  at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  