-- Templeton’s Mobius Says Brazil’s Growth to Accelerate
-- B y   M a r i a   L e v i t o v   a n d   T r i s h   R e g a n
-- 2013-05-14T19:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-14/templeton-s-mobius-says-brazil-s-growth-to-accelerate.html
Brazil’s expansion will pick up as
the country prepares to host global sporting events and the
government changes its approach to economic development,
investor  Mark Mobius  said.  “There is going to be a lot of growth going forward,”
Mobius, executive chairman of Templeton Emerging Markets Group
said in an interview with Bloomberg TV. “We still have money in
Brazil. And given the right price, we would put more money in.”  The country’s benchmark Ibovespa index has lost 11 percent
this year, the worst performance among major equity benchmarks
in developing nations. Brazilian stocks have fallen amid concern
that government intervention in industries including energy,
banking and utilities will curb corporate earnings growth.  Brazil-based companies have the third-biggest weighting in
Mobius’s $3.2 billion  Templeton Emerging Markets Investment
Trust (TEM) , accounting for 14.8 percent of holdings, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The fund, which holds stocks
including lender Banco Bradesco SA and iron-ore producer Vale
SA, has gained 8.6 percent this year.  Brazil ’s economy grew 0.9 percent in 2012, less than the
U.S. and its peers in the BRIC group that includes Russia, India
and China. Economists covering Brazil forecast that growth will
be 3 percent this year, according to a central bank survey
released yesterday. That compares with an estimate of 4 percent
six months ago.  While economists have cut their growth outlook, Mobius said
Brazil is still his most-favored market after China, the biggest
emerging economy. Capital spending on infrastructure before the
2014  World Cup  and 2016  Olympic Games  and a shift in the way
government officials are approaching economic development are
opening up potential investment opportunities, he said.  “Finally, they are waking up to this reality that they
cannot discourage the entrepreneurial spirit and the growth of
these companies,” Mobius said. “I’ve seen some slight change
in the government’s attitude and that’s positive.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Levitov in London at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net ;
 Trish Regan  in New York at 
 tregan8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  