-- Enterprise Inns Finding Bond Favor as Debts Reduced: U.K. Credit
-- B y   C o l m   H e a t l e y   a n d   P e t e r   W o o d i f i e l d
-- 2013-05-15T11:45:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-14/enterprise-inns-finding-bond-favor-as-debts-reduced-u-k-credit.html
Enterprise Inns Plc (ETI) , the second-biggest U.K. pub operator, is finding favor with bond investors
by eliminating unwanted outlets and reducing its debt burden.  “Debt continues to come down, a reduction of a billion
pounds over three years,” Chief Executive Officer Ted Tuppen
said in a phone interview yesterday. “The market sees us as a
good bet. I don’t think anybody is worried about the security of
bonds. We demonstrated to the market that wasn’t the problem
they thought it was.”  The  yield  on the Enterprise Inns bond due 2018 tumbled to
6.03 percent from about 24 percent on March 2009, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. It’s the lowest yield since January
2008. The premium investors demand to hold the security instead
of similar-maturity gilts narrowed to 5.14 percentage points
from more than 13 percentage points in December 2011. The bond,
rated BB- by Moody’s Investors Service had a total return of
36.1 percent in the past year, Bloomberg-compiled data show. The
Bank of America Merrill Lynch BB-B Sterling High Yield Index had
an equivalent return of 28 percent.  Enterprise Inns is reducing its  debt  since peaking at 3.8
billion pounds ($5.8 billion) in 2009, using spare cash and the
proceeds from pub sales as the industry grapples with a slowdown
in the economy, rising competition from cheaper supermarket
alcohol and higher taxes on beer. Britain’s pub industry
accumulated debt from acquiring outlets in the boom years a
decade ago when  consumer spending  and pub attendance was
increasing.  Pub Numbers  The number of pubs in the U.K. has fallen to an estimated
49,537 in 2012 from 60,100 in 2002, according to the British Pub
& Beer Association. In 2002 pubs and restaurants accounted for
65 percent of alcohol sales, with the remainder coming from the
off-trade, the trade body said. Alcohol sold in pubs and
restaurants last year accounted for 51 percent of total sales.  Enterprise Inns bank debt net of cash fell 33 percent to
266 million pounds in the six months to March 31, the company
said in a statement yesterday. Net debt fell by 200 million
pounds to 2.7 billion pounds as of March 31 and should reach 2.5
billion pounds by Sept. 30, the Solihull, England-based company
said.  “With Enterprise Inns you have a recovery story and
progress reducing debt on its balance sheet,” said Thomas Rahman, a credit analyst at RIA Capital Markets Ltd. in
Edinburgh. “Also on the notes you have them secured against a
portfolio of pubs and they are valued at 72 percent on a loan-to-value basis.”  S&P Upgrade  Enterprise Inns implemented a program last year to prepay
and cancel bonds at its Unique Pub Finance Co. Plc, which has
helped debt prices, Rahman said.  Since 2010 the company has sold about 1,100 pubs, taking
its estate to 5,720 outlets. Enterprise Inns plans to sell 400
outlets this year to raise about 150 million pounds, a company
spokeswoman said in response to e-mailed questions.  In December,  Standard & Poor’s  upgraded its outlook on
Enterprise Inns credit to stable from negative, saying the pub
company’s business is stabilizing.  Like-for-like net income fell 4.2 percent for the six
months ended March 31, the company said yesterday, compared with
a decline of 1.6 percent a year earlier. The results reflected
heavy snowfall in January and a cold spring, which discouraged
customers from visiting their local pub, the company said.  Recovery Potential  Enterprise Inns  rose 9.9 percent , the biggest gain in
almost six months to 108.8 pence as of 12:40 p.m. in  London ,
giving the company a market value of 549 million pounds.  “We are holding our full year forecasts of both profit
before tax and net debt falling 7 percent based on profits
stabilizing in the second half,” Douglas Jack, an analyst at
Numis Securities, wrote in a note to clients yesterday. “The
company targets a return to like-for-like net income growth in
the second half and is moving in this direction with trading
improving to minus 1 percent in recent weeks.”  Punch Taverns Plc (PUB)  had proposals to restructure 2.4 billion
pounds of debt rejected by bondholders in March because the plan
didn’t address the business’s operational issues or provide a
way for the debt to be refinanced or repaid. None of Punch’s
bonds is due before 2020.  Deutsche Bank AG analyst Geof Collyer wrote in a note to
clients yesterday that the outlook given by Enterprise for the
second half reinforces its buy stance on the stock and the
market should focus on its “recovery potential.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Colm Heatley in  Belfast  at 
 cheatley@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Woodifield in Edinburgh at 
 pwoodifield@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Lytle at   dlytle@bloomberg.net  