-- Tepper Tells CNBC He’s Still Market Bull as Deficit Shrinks
-- B y   S a i j e l   K i s h a n
-- 2013-05-14T14:15:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-14/tepper-tells-cnbc-he-s-still-market-bull-as-deficit-shrinks-1-.html
David Tepper , the billionaire who
runs hedge-fund firm Appaloosa Management LP, said he remains
optimistic about markets as the U.S.  budget deficit  eases.  “I am definitely bullish,” Tepper said today in an
interview on CNBC. “The budget deficit is shrinking massively.
Guys who are short, they better have a shovel to get out of the
grave.”  Tepper, whose firm manages $17.9 billion, said the U.S.
deficit had shrunk because of tax increases, budget cuts and
economic growth. He said the markets shouldn’t worry about the
Federal Reserve reducing its stimulus and that there is $400
billion in cash in the economy that could help the stock market
increase further.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.3 percent to
1,638.02 at 9:37 a.m. in New York. Equity futures had slumped
earlier in the day as  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  reduced its second-quarter growth forecast for the Chinese economy to 7.8 percent
from 8 percent and the full-year estimate to 7.6 percent from
7.8 percent. The  S&P 500  has  advanced 15 percent  this year.  The U.S. is in the early stages of an economic recovery,
Tepper said, citing improvements in the auto and housing
industries. The hedge-fund manager, who in January said in a
Bloomberg Television interview that the U.S. “is on the verge
of an explosion of greatness,” said the nation is going to have
a “great manufacturing renaissance” that may start in 2015 or
2016.  Citigroup, JPMorgan  Tepper told CNBC his firm still owns stock of  Citigroup
Inc. (C) , which is his biggest holding, and other U.S. banks. Tepper
has a “small” holding in JPMorgan Chase and favors the New
York-based bank splitting Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon ’s
dual role as chairman and CEO, he said.  Tepper also said he cut his stake in  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  at the
start of the year as the maker of the iPhone and iPad devices
hasn’t been ‘evolutionary’ or ‘revolutionary’ recently.  The hedge-fund manager said the U.S. housing market is
improving though it won’t return to peak levels. He also said
he’s not holding commodities and doesn’t like bonds long term.  Tepper said central bankers have eased monetary policies in
countries such as Australia, Japan and South Korea and that he
has been “bullish” since the start of the year on Japan, where
the nation’s corporations have undergone “massive
restructuring.” The Middle East is a concern and a war in the
region could spur a 5 percent drop in markets, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Saijel Kishan in  New York  at 
 skishan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  