-- Merkel Aims to Boost Immigration in Break With Germany’s Past
-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a
-- 2013-05-14T13:10:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-14/merkel-aims-to-boost-immigration-in-break-with-germany-s-past.html
Chancellor Angela Merkel  called on
Germans to sweep away decades of reticence and face up to “some
hard truths” in accepting policy changes from immigration to
education needed to keep  Europe ’s biggest economy competitive.  Germany will fall behind in global economic competition if
it fails to address its shrinking population, Merkel told a
government-backed conference on the country’s demographic
challenges, touting a signature project she says she’ll pursue
if she wins a third term in federal elections on Sept. 22.  “It’s high time to start” tackling the generational
challenges, Merkel told an audience in Berlin including at least
four Cabinet ministers. Projections that Germany will have 6
million fewer working-age people by 2025 mean that “we can
surely do more to be open to immigration,” she said.  Merkel, who emerged as the key political policy maker
during the euro-area crisis that began in  Greece  in 2009, has
shifted her focus to longer term challenges facing Europe as it
strives to compete globally with emerging powers such as  Brazil ,
 Indonesia  and  China . Chinese Premier Li Keqiang will visit
Germany later this month as part of his first overseas trip
since taking office, China National Radio reported yesterday.  “In a globalized world with open borders you can’t force
young people to think of Germany as their home,” Merkel said.  Germany has for the past 40 years coupled one of the most
competitive economies in Europe with one of the region’s lowest
birth rates, leaving fewer workers to support an increasingly
aging population.  Schroeder’s Block  Merkel’s Social Democratic predecessor, Chancellor  Gerhard Schroeder , may have exacerbated the deficit by refusing to allow
workers from the eastern nations that joined the European Union
in 2004 the automatic right to work in Germany, a temporary ban
that ran out in May 2011.  Since then, Germany has benefited from an influx of people
looking for work, many from the crisis-hit countries of southern
Europe, particularly Spain and Greece. Merkel welcomed  official
statistics  released May 7 showing that about 370,000 more people
arrived in Germany last year than left, many of them well
qualified. Even so, research by the Paris-based Organization for
Economic Cooperation and Development found that Germany’s
reputation as a host country is “very bad,” Merkel said.  “We are considered a closed place, a country that is very
complicated to get to,” Merkel told delegates, saying that she
wants  Germany  to become “an open country that is very welcoming
to skilled workers.”  “It must be our goal already today to be open to young
people” from abroad, she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  