-- Estimate of U.S. Health Law Expansion Cut to 25 Million
-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 2013-05-14T19:25:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-14/estimate-of-u-s-health-law-expansion-cut-to-25-million.html
Two million fewer people than
previously estimated will gain health coverage under the U.S.
Affordable Care Act as new rules allow some uninsured Americans
to avoid a mandate for participation, the  Congressional Budget
Office   said .  About 25 million uninsured people are expected to gain
coverage through use of subsidized health plans or an expansion
of Medicaid, down from a 27 million estimate made in February,
the budget office said today in a  report . Proposed regulations
from the Treasury and Health and Human Services departments
would let as many as 1 million more people escape penalties for
going without insurance, the budget office said.  The CBO’s estimate of the number of people who will gain
coverage has slid from a high of 34 million in 2011, a year
after the law was passed. Key in the erosion was the  Supreme
Court ’s ruling in June that states don’t have to participate in
the expansion of Medicaid, the state-federal plan for the poor.  The Obama administration, in response, issued regulations
that “expanded the number of people who will be exempt from
paying a penalty for being uninsured relative to our previous
expectations,” CBO analysts  wrote .  Twenty states are so far opposing the expansion, according
to the  Kaiser Family Foundation , a nonprofit health research
group based in  Menlo Park ,  California . The Obama administration
said in January it wouldn’t penalize people living in those
states for not carrying health insurance if they would have been
eligible for an expanded Medicaid as envisioned by the health
law.  The estimated cost of implementing the law through 2023
rose by about $40 billion to $1.36 trillion, the budget office
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Wayne in Washington at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Romaine Bostick at 
 rbostick@bloomberg.net  