-- Ex-BayernLB Manager Denies Getting Ecclestone Suit Papers
-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 2013-05-14T14:20:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-14/ex-bayernlb-manager-denies-getting-ecclestone-suit-papers.html
Former Bayerische Landesbank Chief
Risk Officer Gerhard Gribkowsky said he didn’t receive a summons
in a  New York  lawsuit against Formula One Chief Executive
Officer  Bernie Ecclestone  over sale of an F1 stake.  Gribkowsky, in a German prison for accepting bribes to
facilitate the sale of the F1 racing stake to CVC Capital
Partners Ltd., said he is bankrupt, can’t afford a lawyer, can’t
get German legal aid in New York and has “no idea” of his
rights in the state. In a letter from Munich’s Stadelheim Prison
filed in state court in New York, he questioned whether the case
is in the right place.  “I am under the impression that the action from the
plaintiff is no part of the jurisdiction of  Supreme Court  of the
state of New York,” he said.  Ecclestone and other defendants, accused by a rival bidder
of paying a bribe to steer the F1 stake to CVC, have challenged
the right of plaintiff Bluewaters to sue in New York over events
in  Europe  by defendants without a New York connection.  Gribkowsky was sentenced to eight years and six months in
prison for his role in the 2005 sale after confessing to
accepting $44 million in bribes from Ecclestone. The lack of any
connection between the defendants and New York partly explained
why he hadn’t received the November summons, he said.  The lawsuit by Bluewaters Communications Holdings LLC seeks
$650 million for the alleged diversion of the F1 stake. The
financial firm, set up in New York shortly before the Ecclestone
suit was filed last year, was willing to pay $1 billion for the
stake at the time, it said in a Nov. 16 filing.  2002 Acquisition  BayernLB acquired the F1 stake in 2002. Gribkowsky clashed
with Ecclestone and sued him in  London  over corporate-governance
rules changed to limit the lender’s influence. Ecclestone wanted
to push BayernLB out and saw a chance when CVC showed interest,
German prosecutors have said.  Ecclestone, 82, transformed London-based F1 in three
decades into the world’s most popular auto-racing series,
attracting an average of 50 million TV views on a Sunday.  Kent Yalowitz, a lawyer for Bluewaters at Arnold & Porter
LLP, has said he is “confident” New York is the right place
for the suit.  Ecclestone, a U.K. citizen, has said his payments, which
moved from Swiss accounts to an Austrian account without
assistance from New York banks as far as he knew, were unrelated
to the sale to CVC. Rather, they were made to buy Gribkowsky’s
silence after “insinuations” that he might tell U.K. tax
authorities about certain activities of a family trust
controlled by Ecclestone’s wife at the time, Ecclestone said in
a filing.  The case is Bluewaters v. Ecclestone, 653965/2012, New York
State Supreme Court, New York County ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York
at   lsandler@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 