-- Ex-BP Engineer Says U.S. Withheld Evidence in Spill Case
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k   a n d   A l l e n   J o h n s o n   J r .
-- 2013-05-15T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-14/ex-bp-engineer-says-u-s-withheld-evidence-in-spill-case.html
A former  BP Plc (BP/)  engineer charged in
the first criminal case arising from the 2010  Gulf of Mexico  oil
spill said U.S. prosecutors withheld evidence that might clear
him and urged a judge to sanction them.  The U.S. charged Kurt Mix with two counts of obstruction of
justice last year, alleging he deleted from his mobile phone
text-message strings related to the company’s effort to estimate
the size of the spill. Mix, who has pleaded not guilty, is
facing a June 10 federal trial.  Prosecutors failed to turn over evidence requested by the
defense, so-called Brady material, that Mix might use to dispute
government allegations, his lawyers said in court papers. They
asked U.S. District Judge Stanwood Duval at a hearing yesterday
in  New Orleans  to sanction the government, suggesting in court
filings a range of actions including rejection of certain
evidence or arguments, or complete dismissal of the indictment.  “The facts make it abundantly clear that these prosecutors
have violated Brady,” court orders and ethics rules, Joan McPhee, an attorney for Mix, told Duval yesterday. “They have
done so by knowingly and intentionally suppressing evidence in
their direct personal possession” that contradicts their
obstruction charges against Mix, McPhee said.  The U.S. hasn’t suppressed evidence, prosecutor Derek Cohen
told Duval yesterday.  ‘Honest Disagreement’  “At best we have an honest disagreement” with defense
attorneys, Cohen said. “We’re prepared to turn everything
over.”  Duval said he would take the defense motion for sanctions
“under advisement,” while ordering the government to provide
the defense with  Federal Bureau  of Investigation interviews of
witnesses and 400 civil depositions.  Duval asked McPhee what remedies she would like for Mix,
“other than hanging and pillorying” the prosecutors.  McPhee said she would be happy to “craft an order.”  Duval said there was no time and declined to issue any
immediate orders.  “‘‘Right now, your client is going to trial,’’ the judge
said.  The blowout and explosion on the Deepwater Horizon drilling
rig in April 2010 killed 11 workers and started millions of
barrels of crude leaking into the Gulf. It also set off hundreds
of lawsuits against BP, its partners and contractors on the
project.  Nonjury Trial  A nonjury trial on fault for the incident ended last month
before a separate judge in federal court in New Orleans. U.S.
District Judge  Carl Barbier , who is overseeing litigation
stemming from the blowout, has said that he may not issue a
judgment on fault and gross negligence before a scheduled second
phase of the trial set for Sept. 16. That phase will concern the
size of the spill and the efforts to contain it.  Mix worked on BP efforts to estimate the amount of oil
leaking from the Macondo well. The two counts of the indictment
concern text messages between him and a contractor and another
string with his supervisor. Mix’s prosecution was the first
criminal case to arise from the 2010 spill.  Since his arrest in April 2012, BP and  Transocean Ltd. (RIG)  have
pleaded guilty to criminal charges over the spill.  Criminal Counts  BP agreed to plead  guilty  to 14 criminal counts including
11 for felony manslaughter related to the deaths that occurred
when the Deepwater Horizon drilling rig exploded and sank. The
 company  also pleaded guilty to one misdemeanor count under the
 Clean Water Act , one misdemeanor count under the  Migratory Bird
Treaty Act  and one felony count of obstruction of Congress.  The obstruction count involves BP’s communications on flow-rate estimates to a congressional subcommittee, according to the
 Justice Department . The company has also agreed to pay an
additional $525 million to resolve claims by the Securities and
Exchange Commission that London-based BP underestimated the size
of the spill to bolster stock prices.  Transocean, the Vernier, Switzerland-based owner and
operator of the rig, pleaded guilty in January to one
misdemeanor violation of the U.S. Clean Water Act.  Two BP well-site managers were charged with involuntary
manslaughter.  David Rainey , the company’s former vice president
of exploration for the Gulf of Mexico, was charged with
obstruction of Congress and false statements related to the size
of the spill.  Less Catastrophic  The U.S. claims Rainey cherry-picked information from flow-rate reports to make the oil spill seem less catastrophic than
it was. Rainey and the other defendants have pleaded not guilty.
Rainey’s trial is set for October and the well-site managers,
Robert Kaluza and  Donald Vidrine , face trial in 2014.  Mix ‘‘should never have been indicted in the first place,”
his lawyers have argued in court papers. The government is
attempting to make Mix “a central and essential player in a BP
cover-up of information from the federal government,” they said
in the May 9 filing.  The government has broadened its claims that Mix destroyed
evidence by alleging that he helped others at BP mislead the
federal government about the flow rate and the likely success of
“Top Kill,” a method used by the company in a failed attempt
to cap the well after it exploded, the lawyers said. The U.S has
contended that Top Kill couldn’t have worked because the flow
rate was too high.  Mix’s lawyers asked the government to disclose any
information that might indicate that it was impossible to know
as of May 2010, when the defendant attended a meeting on the
spill, that Top Kill would fail.  ‘Flow Rate’  “The government is sitting on evidence that contradicts
its allegation that Kurt Mix knew what the flow rate was,”
McPhee said yesterday.  The defense has “uncovered” two pieces of evidence in the
government’s possession that would undercut prosecutor
allegations that Mix didn’t cooperate with government efforts to
determine the  oil spill  flow rate and obstructed justice, McPhee
said at the hearing.  Mix’s modeling, which showed potential flow rates of 64,000
to 110,000 barrels a day, was turned over to the U.S. Coast
Guard in the first couple of days following the explosion, she
said. “It’s clearly exculpatory,” she said of the models.  She said the second piece of evidence regards the
government interpretation of “a data-free zone” involving
Operation “Top Kill.”  Free Zone  McPhee said the government has depicted the data-free zone
as a secret meeting of BP engineers and officials on May 17,
2010, discussing flow rates different than those presented to
the public. A scientist interviewed by the FBI in January told
Mix’s attorneys that the data-free zone was 5,000 feet below the
Gulf and didn’t refer to failing to disclose information about
the flow rate, McPhee said.  The government’s search for Brady material by Mix’s name
simply failed to turn up his estimate for the Coast Guard, Cohen
told the judge.  “We would have produced it, if we caught his name -- we
didn’t catch his name,” he said.  Cohen said that Mix and other BP employees at the May 17
meeting withheld critical information from the government about
flow rates of the roiling oil spill and the effectiveness of Top
Kill.  Truth Telling  “He was part of team of people that was not telling the
government the truth,” Cohen told the judge.  Cohen said the prosecution has witnesses that will testify
that the May 17 meeting was a “data free zone.”  The U.S. case isn’t charging Mix with being part of “an
amorphous company-wide” cover-up, Cohen said. The allegations
are limited to claims that Mix obstructed justice by deleting
voice-mails and e-mails, he said.  Prosecutors will turn over 400 depositions to the defense,
he said.  “I don’t want to be set up to fail,” he said.  The case is U.S. v. Mix, 12-cr-00171, U.S. District Court,
Eastern District of  Louisiana  (New Orleans).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in  Detroit  at 
 mcfisk@bloomberg.net ;
Allen Johnson Jr. in federal court in New Orleans at
 allenmct@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  