-- Ex-Goldman Trader Saiz’s Fund Assets Drop 86% Following Loss
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r o w n
-- 2013-05-14T15:49:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-14/ex-goldman-trader-saiz-s-fund-assets-slump-86-following-losses.html
Vector Commodity Management LLP’s
assets under management slumped 86 percent this year after
losing money since 2011.  The energy hedge fund run by former Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. trader Gilbert Saiz managed $43 million by the end of
April, according to a letter to investors obtained by Bloomberg
News. Its December statement showed assets of $318 million.
Vector’s trading of mainly crude and oil products resulted in a
4.9 percent loss from January through April, the letter showed.
A Vector executive in  London , who asked not to be named in line
with company policy, declined to comment by phone today.  Commodity  hedge funds  have struggled to turn a profit in
recent years as global economic and political developments
whipsawed markets. Hedge funds tracked by the Newedge Commodity
Trading Index lost an average 0.5 percent in the first four
months and 1.1 percent in April alone.  “It has been an extremely difficult year for oil
traders,”  Stephen Schork , president of the Schork Group, said
by phone from Villanova,  Pennsylvania . “A lot of investment has
been finding its way into commodity funds on the long side, and
the economic realities of not enough demand and too much supply
have caught a lot of these funds off guard.”  Chinese Growth  Saiz, 37, started Vector in June 2010 after about a decade
at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. where he rose to head its European
fuel oil desk. The fund was locked in April 2011 after assets
under management climbed to almost $600 million, people with
knowledge of the matter said at the time. After returning 8.6
percent in 2010, Vector lost 14 percent in 2011 and 1 percent
last year.  The letter didn’t disclose a reason for the drop in assets
under management. Vector invests mainly in relative-value
strategies that seek to profit on price gaps between different
oil products or geographical variations in energy costs.  Economic growth in  China , the biggest consumer of
everything from copper to energy and zinc, unexpectedly lost
momentum in the first quarter, expanding 7.7 percent from a year
earlier compared with an 8 percent median forecast in a
 Bloomberg News  survey.  “Given the elevated levels of net speculative length in
the market to begin the month of April, commodity prices
experienced a sharp sell-off from the negative growth news,”
Saiz said in last month’s investor letter. “Greater demand pull
from refinery runs and reduced spare capacity should certainly
create upside potential to crude structure this summer and
should provide a base of support at a minimum for  oil prices .”  Clive Withdrawals  West Texas Intermediate, the U.S. crude benchmark, dropped
3.9 percent in April, trading at its lowest level this year,
after climbing 5.6 percent in March.  Assets at Clive Capital LLP fell by $600 million this year
to $1.35 billion at the end of March, according to a person
familiar with the matter. Clive, which managed $3.6 billion at
the end of 2011, declined 8.8 percent last year and 10 percent
in 2011, according to two people with knowledge of the matter
who asked not to be named because the information is private.
Clive’s hedge fund posted investment gains of 1.8 percent in the
year’s first four months, one of the people said.  BlueGold Capital Management LLP, the $1 billion energy
hedge fund co-founded by  Pierre Andurand , liquidated in April
2012 after losing 34 percent in 2011.  Fortress Investment Group
LLC (FIG)  said in May last year it would shut a $500 million
commodities fund after it lost almost 13 percent in the past
four months. Billionaire trader  John Arnold  told investors on
May 2, 2012, he would close his Centaurus Energy Fund.  Andurand’s new fund, Andurand Capital Management LLC, based
in London, returned 25 percent since its February inception
after predicting that the differential between  New York  and
London crude oil would drop, two people with direct knowledge of
the matter said this month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matthew Brown  in London at 
 mbrown42@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  