-- Facebook IPO Investor Scam Leads to Arrest of Three Men
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 2013-05-14T21:17:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-14/facebook-ipo-investor-scam-leads-to-arrest-of-three-men.html
Three men who claimed they had
special access to  Facebook Inc. (FB)  shares before its initial public
offering last year were charged with defrauding an investor of
$6.7 million.  Eliyahu Weinstein, 37, Alex Schleider, 47, and Aaron
Muschel, 63, were charged in a complaint unsealed today in
federal court in Newark, New Jersey. They offered blocks of
Facebook shares in three transactions to a New Zealand investor
before the company’s IPO last May, even though they had no
access to them, authorities said.  At the time, Weinstein was under indictment on charges that
he ran a $200 million real-estate fraud, U.S. Attorney Paul Fishman said today in a statement. In January, Weinstein pleaded
guilty to the  Ponzi scheme  in federal court in Trenton,  New
Jersey . Facebook, based in  Menlo Park ,  California , is the
world’s largest social networking service.  “The defendants took advantage of the buzz around the
 Facebook IPO  to fleece unsuspecting investors,” Fishman said.
“Shamelessly, Eliyahu Weinstein allegedly committed these
crimes while under federal indictment for another investment
scheme, even using stolen money to pay his legal fees.”  The investor lost $3 million on the Facebook deals,
$2.83 million on a purported stake in a Miami apartment complex,
and $675,000 in another scheme, according to a  Federal Bureau of
Investigation  arrest complaint.  Court Appearances  Weinstein and Schleider, both of Lakewood, New Jersey, and
Muschel, of Brooklyn,  New York , appeared today in federal court
in  Newark .  They were charged with wire fraud conspiracy and face as
many as 20 years in prison that count. Weinstein was charged
with wire fraud conspiracy while on pretrial release, which
carries a 30-year maximum penalty. He and Muschel also were
charged with transacting in criminal proceeds and face as many
as 10 years on that charge.  U.S. Magistrate Judge Madeline C. Arleo revoked Weinstein’s
$10 million bail, saying he is accused of crimes while on
pretrial release. He is scheduled to be sentenced next month.
Prosecutors said he used some of the proceeds of the Facebook
fraud to pay his legal fees.  His two lawyers in court, Henry Klingeman and Mark D.
Harris, will withdraw “because they believe this is a legal
conflict,” Assistant U.S. Attorney Gurbir Grewal told the
judge. After the hearing, Klingeman and Harris declined to
comment.  Two Released  Arleo released Schleider and Muschel on $1 million bonds.
Schleider’s attorney Andrew Citron declined to comment.
Muschel’s attorney James T. Moriarty said, “He’s a perfectly
legitimate guy. How he’s involved in this is another story.”  He said “it was known in the community that Weinstein was
under indictment.”  Weinstein pleaded guilty on Jan. 3 to a $200 million fraud
that authorities said initially targeted fellow members of the
Orthodox Jewish community. He spent the proceeds on luxury cars,
jewelry and gambling trips, as well as his collection of
Judaica, Fishman said at the time.  The FBI complaint refers to three unindicted co-conspirators, including a lawyer who lives in Lakewood and has
offices in Seaside Heights, New Jersey, and  Los Angeles . Another
conspirator was a Lakewood resident, identified as C.R.E., who
worked in Weinstein’s home as his personal assistant, according
to the FBI.  Convicted Ex-Lawyer  The third, identified as M.B., was an attorney licensed in
in Massachusetts and  Florida  before pleading guilty in 1997 to
conspiracy to possess cocaine with intent to distribute. He was
sentenced in 1999 to almost nine years in prison and was
released seven years later. He resigned from the Florida bar,
yet never told the Massachusetts bar of his conviction or
sentence, according to the FBI.  He moved to New Jersey and resumed practicing law,
controlling an attorney trust account used in the scheme,
according to the FBI.  The attorney is Michael W. Burnbaum, according to a person
familiar with the matter who was not authorized to discuss the
identity. The  federal Bureau  of Prisons website shows he is 63
and was released Aug. 25, 2006.  Asked to comment today in a telephone interview, Burnbaum
said: “I really don’t know what you mean. That’s all I can tell
you. I’m sorry.”  Trust Account  In 2012, Weinstein caused $620,000 to be sent to M.B.’s
attorney trust account, and “the vast majority” originated
from the victim, identified in court papers as G.C., according
to the FBI.  “M.B. caused at least $300,000 to be wired to entities in
 Israel  for real estate investments” on Weinstein’s behalf,
according to the bureau.  Weinstein loaned $3.88 million of the proceeds from G.C. to
Rabbi C.B. in Brooklyn, who controlled Congregation K, also in
 Brooklyn , according to the complaint.  “Congregation K owned life insurance policies on a number
of different insured individuals worth approximately
$350 million upon their deaths,” the FBI said. “Congregation K
was the beneficiary on these policies, and paid monthly premiums
of over $1 million on them.”  In October 2011, Rabbi C.B. sought a loan from Weinstein to
help make the premium payments, according to the complaint.  Despite “repeated assurances” from Weinstein, Schleider
and the Lakewood attorney who is a co-conspirator, G.C. has
received only about $500,000 in return, according to the FBI.  $188,000 Check  On Feb. 26, Weinstein caused a $188,000 check to be written
on an attorney’s account that was provided to “Rabbi P,” who
“interceded on defendant Weinstein’s behalf to broker a
settlement” with G.C., according to the FBI. The check bounced.  Eight days earlier, Weinstein met with G.C., his son J.C.,
and “Dr. A.O.,” who purported to be a wealthy investor backing
Weinstein, according to the FBI. J.C. recorded the meeting at
the Marriott Hotel in Teaneck, New Jersey. Weinstein assured
J.C. that he would get his money back, according to the FBI.  “You’ve got to trust me,” Weinstein said, according to
the complaint. “It’s going to be hard for you because I’m the
bad guy. I’m the thief.”  The case is U.S. v. Weinstein, 13-mj-08148, U.S. District
Court, District of New Jersey (Newark).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Voreacos in federal court in Newark, New Jersey,
at   dvoreacos@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 