-- Fed Says U.S. Household Debt Declined to 2006 Level
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2013-05-14T16:33:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-14/fed-says-u-s-household-debt-declined-to-2006-level.html
U.S. households reduced debt during
the first quarter by 1 percent to the lowest level since 2006,
resuming a deleveraging trend in the wake of the financial
crisis, according to the  Federal Reserve Bank of New York .  Household debt  fell to $11.2 trillion in the first quarter
compared with a peak burden of $12.7 trillion in the third
quarter of 2008. Consumers reduced debt by $110 billion after
increasing their borrowing by $31 billion in the fourth quarter
of 2012, while delinquency rates fell “across the board,” the
Fed district bank said in a statement. Student debt bucked the
trend, rising to a record $986 billion.  “Household deleveraging has resumed its previous
trajectory,” Wilbert van der Klaauw, a senior vice president
and economist at the  New York  Fed, said today in a statement.
“We’ll look to see if this pace of debt reduction and
delinquency improvements will persist.”  Consumers are repairing their post-crisis balance sheets as
the Fed tries to spur the expansion and enliven the job market
by holding the main  interest rate  at zero and buying $85 billion
in bonds every month. More than four years of record stimulus
have yet to reignite household borrowing, and the  unemployment
rate  has exceeded 7 percent since December 2008.  Households in the first quarter improved their debt payment
patterns as delinquency rates on mortgages fell to 5.4 percent
from 5.6 percent, on home equity loans to 3.2 percent from 3.5
percent, on credit cards to 10.2 percent from 10.6 percent and
on  student loans  to 11.2 percent from 11.7 percent, according to
the New York Fed.  ‘Deleveraging Cycle’  “We’re much closer to the end of the deleveraging cycle
than the beginning,” said Gennadiy Goldberg, U.S. strategist at
TD Securities Inc. in New York. “If the housing recovery
continues at the current pace, deleveraging could end very
soon.”  Falling delinquencies have helped bolster bank shares. The
KBW Bank Index of 24 financial institutions has risen 32 percent
during the past year compared with a 23 percent gain for the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index. The  S&P 500  rose 1 percent to
1,647.72 at 12:10 p.m. in New York trading.  Mortgage debt led the decline, falling to $7.93 trillion
from $8.03 trillion, along with credit card balances, which
decreased $19 billion to $660 billion, according to the Fed
regional bank.  The largest increase in lending occurred in student loans,
according to the New York Fed survey. Total student debt rose to
$986 billion in the first quarter from $966 billion in the
fourth quarter of last year.  Random Sample  The statistics are based on figures from a nationally
representative random sample provided by the Equifax Inc. credit
bureau.  Student lending has surpassed credit cards, auto loans and
 home equity loans  in recent years and is now the largest form of
 consumer debt  after mortgages.  A panel of bankers that advise the Fed warned last year
that patterns in student lending resemble the mortgage crisis
that helped lead to the worst recession since the Great
Depression.  “Recent growth in student-loan debt, to nearly $1
trillion, now exceeds credit-card outstandings and has parallels
to the housing crisis,” the Federal Advisory Council said in
minutes of a Feb. 3, 2012 meeting, that were obtained by
 Bloomberg News  through a Freedom of Information Act request.  The bankers said student lending shares features of the
housing crisis including, “significant growth of subsidized
lending in pursuit of a social good.” In this case, the focus
is on higher education rather than expanded home ownership.  Bank Easing  The deleveraging coincided with bank easing on the
standards and terms for many types of loans, according to a
separate quarterly Fed survey of senior loan officers. Demand
for business loans increased, while “on the household side, the
survey results were more mixed,” the Fed said last week in a
description of the April 2-16 survey.  Banks in the U.S. have boosted lending as the economy gains
strength. The total  value of loans  at U.S. banks climbed 3.7
percent in the past year to $7.3 trillion in April, according to
a separate Fed report on the assets and liabilities of
commercial banks. Lending to businesses has led the way, with
commercial and industrial loans climbing to $1.55 trillion in
April, an increase of 10 percent from a year earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  