-- Fed’s Plosser Says Slowing Inflation No Concern for Policy
-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 2013-05-14T09:00:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-14/fed-s-plosser-says-slowing-inflation-not-a-concern-for-policy.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia
President Charles Plosser said a slowing in U.S. inflation to
the lowest rate in more than three years doesn’t warrant a Fed
policy response.  “Should inflation expectations begin to fall, we might
need to take action to defend our inflation goal, but at this
point, I do not see inflation or deflation as a serious threat
in the near term,” Plosser said today in a speech in  Stockholm .  Central bank officials including St. Louis Fed President
James Bullard said last month persistent disinflation may
require the Fed to provide stimulus beyond $85 billion in
monthly bond purchases. Consumer prices rose 1 percent in March
from a year earlier, the lowest level since October 2009,
according to the Fed’s preferred gauge of inflation.  The Federal Open Market Committee said on May 1 it will
keep buying bonds at the current level and would be prepared to
increase or reduce the pace in response to changes in the
outlook for inflation and the labor market.  Plosser reiterated that he believes the Fed should begin to
curtail its purchases as early as its next gathering, scheduled
for June 18-19.  The U.S. central bank’s zero rate policy “is increasingly
troubling to many people on the Fed,” he said in response to
questions after the speech at the SNS Center for Business and
Policy Studies. “We’re very conscious of the fact that keeping
rates at zero for very long periods of time can distort decision
making in various ways.”  The Philadelphia Fed leader said he expects the U.S.
economy to grow 3 percent this year and in 2014. Consumer
spending has made a “solid contribution,” while a deadlock
over fiscal policy has inhibited business spending, he said.  “Labor market conditions warrant scaling back the pace of
purchases as soon as our next meeting,”  he said. “Moreover,
unless we see a significant reversal in current trends that
jeopardizes my forecast of near 7 percent unemployment rate by
the end of this year, then I anticipate that we could end the
program before year-end.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Matthews in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  