-- Fiat European Production Faces Delays on Dispute With Supplier
-- B y   T o m m a s o   E b h a r d t
-- 2013-05-14T13:37:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-14/fiat-european-production-faces-delays-on-dispute-with-supplier.html
Fiat SpA (F)  and  Fiat Industrial SpA (FI)  are
facing delays producing vehicles in Europe after a supplier
stopped delivering plastic components used in Maserati sedans,
500 subcompacts and Iveco trucks.  Fiat Industrial’s Iveco plant in  Spain  and Fiat’s Maserati
plant near Turin have been stopped for at least four days
because of the halt in supplies from Selmat Automotive SpA, said
a Fiat representative. The Iveco plant isn’t operating today
while the Maserati factory is partially open, he said.  The Italian carmaker’s factories in  Poland , where Fiat
builds its iconic subcompact 500, and  Serbia , where it produces
the roomier 500L, have faced delays in production this week and
last week, the spokesman said.  Fiat, which controls Chrysler Group LLC, is boosting
production of upscale models in  Europe , including the $130,000
Maserati Quattroporte, as it targets to end losses in the region
by 2016. Fiat’s European business had a loss of more than 700
million euros ($908 million) last year.  “Fiat is facing serious damages” because of the
components shortage with “thousands of workers” affected, the
Italian carmaker said yesterday in a statement.  Selmat Chief Executive Officer Enzo Maccherrone said the
company informed Fiat one month ago that it was going to stop
production from April 29 to May 2 and that it’s delivering its
car parts normally again now. Selmat supplies Fiat and Fiat
Industrial with 7,000 kinds of plastic products.  “Fiat is making all this noise just because they wanted to
buy my company at a bargain price,” said Maccherrone, whose
company employs 1,000 workers and had about 150 million euros in
revenue last year.  Fiat had no comment on his statements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tommaso Ebhardt in Milan at 
 tebhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  