-- Ford Short of Russian SUVs Adding EcoSport in 2014
-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 2013-05-14T20:13:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-14/ford-sollers-to-add-third-sport-utility-vehicle-in-russia.html
Ford Motor Co. (F) , the second-largest
U.S. automaker, and partner OAO Sollers will introduce a third
sport-utility vehicle in Russia and boost engine production in
the country to meet rising demand.  The Ford Sollers venture will build the EcoSport SUV in the
second half of 2014 and as many as 105,000 engines a year at the
factory beginning in December 2015, both in Russia’s Tatarstan
region, according to a statement. The $274 million plant will
eventually have capacity to make as many as 200,000 engines a
year, Dearborn, Michigan-based Ford said.  Chief Executive Officer Alan Mulally is filling holes in
Ford’s product portfolio in Russia, which is poised to become
Europe’s biggest auto market. While its Focus compact car was
the No. 2 best-selling non-Russian model last year, a lack of
local production has held Ford back in SUV segments that were
almost one-third of the market.  “What’s really booming here in particular are the SUVs,”
Ted Cannis, CEO of Ford Sollers, said in a telephone interview.
“With our footprint here, because the only localized vehicles
that we had that could be really competitive were the Focus and
the Mondeo, we could only participate in part of the industry.”  New car sales in Russia may total 2.8 million to 3.1
million units in 2013, according to AEB Automobile Manufacturers
Committee estimates. Achieving the upper range of that
projection could propel Russia past  Germany , which totaled 3
million deliveries in 2012, according to Bloomberg Industries.  Explorer Output  Ford and Sollers began producing the U.S. automaker’s
Explorer SUV in the Tatarstan region in  April . The venture also
has been selling the Kuga SUV, which is marketed as the Escape
in the U.S. Full production of Kuga in Russia will be reached in
this year’s second half, Cannis said.  Carmakers avoid tariffs of as much as 30 percent by
assembling vehicles and sourcing enough of their engines,
gearboxes and components locally.  “There was very good reason to localize that production in
Russia, and the government makes it easy,” Cannis said.
“There’s a clear advantage to making the investment to localize
your parts to the extent you can based on the scale you can
develop and sell out of  Russia  rather than importing from long
distances.”  Ford rose 1.9 percent to $14.27 at the close in New York.
The shares have increased 10 percent this year compared with a
16 percent gain for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Craig Trudell in Southfield, Michigan at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  