-- Fraud Settlement at Ranbaxy Set to Spur Exports: Corporate India
-- B y   K e t a k i   G o k h a l e
-- 2013-05-15T12:13:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-14/fraud-settlement-at-ranbaxy-set-to-spur-exports-corporate-india.html
Ranbaxy Laboratories Ltd. (RBXY) , the Indian
drugmaker whose exports to the U.S. were restricted after a
fraud investigation, may revive sales to its biggest market
after resolving the charges that it sold adulterated medication.  India’s biggest drugmaker may be able to cut costs by 15
percent once it starts selling the products made in the plants
to U.S. clients, according to an average of five analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg. The Gurgaon, India-based company, which
agreed to pay $500 million to settle the allegations May 13,
still needs inspections from the U.S. Food and Drug
Administration before resuming exports from the factories, it
said in an e-mailed response.  Moving production back home is crucial for the company,
which reported a second straight  drop  in sales in the three
months to March, to revive growth in its biggest market,
according to Ranjit Kapadia at Centrum Broking Pvt. The
resolution helps the unit of  Japan ’s  Daiichi Sankyo Co. (4568)  cap
allegations about Ranbaxy’s practices dating to 2003, when it
distributed a batch of acne medication it knew had failed a
quality test, according to the charges.  “It’s better to shift to India, low-cost, high volume
products,” Mumbai-based Kapadia said. “They will be able to
restart production for the U.S. market from both these
facilities and that will improve revenue.”  Ranbaxy’s  shares  rose 2 percent to 464.70 rupees at the
close of trading in Mumbai. The stock has dropped 5.7 percent in
the past year, compared with a 24 percent gain in the 50-stock
CNX Nifty Index.  Sales Drop  Sales fell 34 percent to 24.4 billion rupees in the three
months ended March, the biggest drop in at least four years,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Ranbaxy’s  earnings
margin  before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization
narrowed to 10 percent in the quarter, from 19 percent a year
earlier.  Moving production of high-volume antibiotics such as
ciprofloxacin, ampicillin and amoxicillin, and Gabapentin, a
drug used to treat epilepsy, back to  India  may reduce Ranbaxy’s
costs and boost margins, Kapadia said.  Ranbaxy’s export ban will also remain in place until the
company satisfies provisions it agreed to on Dec. 20, 2011 with
the FDA, the company said in the e-mail yesterday.  FDA Agreement  Ranbaxy, as part of the deal with the U.S. regulator, said
it would remove false data contained in past drug applications,
hire an outside expert to conduct a review of the tainted
facilities and withdraw any applications found to contain false
data, according to court documents.  The process of winning new FDA approvals for the facilities
in Paonta Sahib in India’s Himachal Pradesh state and Dewas in
Madhya Pradesh, and moving drug production from Ranbaxy’s U.S.
subsidiary Ohm Laboratories Inc. “will be tough,” said Bino Pathiparampil, an analyst at  India Infoline Ltd. (IIFL)  in Mumbai.  “To shift from Ohm to India, they’d have to apply to the
FDA again -- it’s kind of almost as difficult as getting a new
approval,” said Pathiparampil. “Some of the products they may
decide to shift are high volume and where margins will make big,
big impact, but it’s not a quick, straightforward shift.”  FDA inspections of facilities in Paonta Sahib and Dewas,
beginning in 2006, found incomplete record-keeping, testing
failures and other quality-control issues. Earlier, lapses in
manufacturing procedures made it impossible to ensure the drugs
were of the required purity, according to the criminal charges.  Criminal Case  Drug manufacturing and testing defects led the FDA to block
more than 30 generic drugs made at the Indian drugmaker’s two
plants, the FDA said in September 2008, three months after
Tokyo-based Daiichi agreed to buy a controlling stake in Ranbaxy
for $4.6 billion.  Ranbaxy reported in December 2011 it set aside $500 million
to resolve “all potential civil and criminal liability”
related to the U.S. probes.  The company, in papers filed in federal court in a whistle-blower’s lawsuit in Baltimore on May 13, admitted it sold
batches of drugs that were improperly manufactured, stored and
tested. The company also pleaded guilty to making fraudulent
statements to the FDA about how it tested drugs at the Indian
plants.  The felony criminal charges include a $130 million fine and
forfeiture of $20 million. The company said in the settlement
agreement to the lawsuit that it denies wrongdoing in the civil
case.  False Claims  This case is “the nation’s largest financial penalty paid
by a generic pharmaceutical company” for violation of the Food,
Drug and Cosmetic Act, Maryland U.S. Attorney Rod Rosenstein
said in a statement.  The false claims portion of the settlement totals $350
million for the U.S. and states to settle allegations taxpayers
paid for substandard drugs used in publicly financed programs
such as Medicare and Medicaid.  The conclusion of the “investigation does not materially
impact our current financial situation or performance,” Arun Sawhney, chief executive officer and managing director of
Ranbaxy, said in a statement.  The whistle-blower in the civil case, Dinesh Thakur, of
Belle Mead, New Jersey, a former Ranbaxy executive, will receive
$48.6 million from the federal government’s share.  “The past is now clear with this settlement,”
Pathiparampil said. “That doesn’t mean you can sell the
products, because they were approved based on false data. They
have to individually take up products, redo all those tests. It
will be a laborious process that will take years to complete.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ketaki Gokhale in Mumbai at 
 kgokhale@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net  