-- Freeport Says 4 Dead, 25 Trapped After Tunnel Collapse
-- B y   L i e z e l   H i l l   a n d   Y o g a   R u s m a n a
-- 2013-05-15T07:44:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-14/freeport-says-2-dead-34-trapped-after-tunnel-collapse.html
A unit of  Freeport-McMoRan Copper &
Gold Inc. (FCX) , the world’s biggest publicly traded copper producer,
said four people were killed and 25 remain trapped after part of
a tunnel collapsed at its Grasberg complex in Indonesia.  Ten survivors have been evacuated and are reported to be in
a stable condition, PT Freeport Indonesia said in an e-mail
today. One survivor has been airlifted to Jakarta for further
treatment and five more are scheduled to be airlifted to the
city tomorrow, as rescue and recovery work continues, it said.  Thirty-nine workers may have been in a classroom at an
underground training facility when the accident occurred, the
unit said. Phoenix-based Freeport said earlier there may have
been 40 workers in the classroom and that it didn’t expect there
will be a material effect on mining, milling operations or
development work.  Grasberg in Papua province includes underground and open-pit operations and is the world’s third-biggest copper mine
ranked by production capacity, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. It also produces gold. Output was disrupted in 2011
and 2012 after labor unrest and violence at the site.  Indonesia 
 accounted  for $3.92 billion of revenue last year, or 16 percent
of Freeport’s sales.  Rescue Efforts  “So far the rescue efforts have been hampered by the
confined and restricted space within the tunnel, forcing them to
use manual jacks, saws and wheelbarrows instead of heavy earth
moving equipment,” PT Freeport Indonesia said in the statement.  Yesterday’s accident happened outside of areas being mined,
about 500 meters (1,640 feet) from the entrance to the Big
Gossan underground mine.  Freeport fell 1.2 percent to close at $31.57 yesterday in
 New York . The shares have declined 7.7 percent this year,
compared with a 20 percent drop in the 115-company Bloomberg
World Mining Index.  BHP Billiton Ltd.’s Escondida mine and Codelco’s Codelco
Norte operation, both in  Chile , were the largest copper mines by
capacity in 2011, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “This is a very sad day for us,” said Freeport Indonesia
President Director Rozik B. Soetjipto. “Our thoughts and
prayers go out to all the victims and their families and we will
continue to do our best to evacuate the remaining workers.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Liezel Hill in Toronto at 
 lhill30@bloomberg.net ;
Yoga Rusmana in Jakarta at 
 yrusmana@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  