-- Germany’s ‘Green Hell’ Nuerburgring Formula 1 Track Up for Sale
-- B y   D a l i a   F a h m y
-- 2013-05-14T13:53:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-14/germany-s-green-hell-nuerburgring-formula-1-track-up-for-sale.html
The Nuerburgring, the German race
track known as Green Hell for its challenging Formula One
course, goes on sale tomorrow after its owners failed to pay
loans taken out to build hotels and a rollercoaster on the site.  Investors can submit bids starting tomorrow for the 379-hectare (937-acre) property, Jens Lieser, the lawyer managing
the insolvency of owner Nuerburgring GmbH, said today by
telephone. Bidders will probably include event organizers as
well as automakers and suppliers that would use the tracks to
test equipment, he said.  “The value of the property is between 120 million euros
($156 million) and priceless,” Lieser said after a press
conference held in Mainz to announce the auction. “We’re
talking about a motorsports icon.”  The Nuerburgring,  Germany ’s most famous race circuit, was
built in 1927 and has since hosted at least 30 Formula One
races, including the 1976 event where Austrian driver Niki
Lauda’s car burned with him trapped inside. The owner and
operator filed for insolvency in 2012 after amassing debt to
build hotels and an amusement park, Lieser said.  The next Formula One race at the track is set to take place
in July, according to the venue’s website. The Nuerburgring is
located in the village of Nuerburg in the west of Germany.  In February,  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380)  built a 4.4 million euro
research center at The Nuerburgring with direct access to the
tree-lined track dubbed Green Hell by driverJackie Stewart. The
grounds for sale include the 21-kilometer (13-mile) North Loop
and newer 5-kilometer Grand Prix circuit.  Investors can bid for the whole property or parts of it,
Lieser said. The state government is expected to approve a law
requiring the new owners to keep the site open to the public, he
said. Bidding is set to end in September and the sale is
expected be completed in the first quarter of 2014.  KPMG International is advising the sellers, according to a
statement from Lieser’s office today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dalia Fahmy in Berlin at 
 dfahmy1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  