-- German Investor Confidence Rose Less Than Forecast in May
-- B y   S t e f a n   R i e c h e r
-- 2013-05-14T10:52:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-14/german-investor-confidence-rose-less-than-forecast-in-may.html
German investor confidence rose less
than economists forecast in May, highlighting the risks to the
economic outlook as the euro region remains mired in recession.  The ZEW Center for European Economic Research in Mannheim
said its  index  of investor and analyst expectations, which aims
to predict economic developments six months in advance, edged up
to 36.4 from 36.3 in April. Economists forecast a gain to 40,
according to the median of 38 estimates in a  Bloomberg News
survey. (GRZEWI)   While an unusually long winter delayed  Germany ’s recovery
from a slump in the final quarter of 2012, recent data indicate
Europe’s largest economy is returning to growth. Factory orders
and industrial production both increased more than economists
forecast in March and the benchmark  DAX share index  climbed to a
record high this month.  “It’s pretty clear that Germany has found its way back to
growth,” said Guillaume Menuet, a senior economist at Citigroup
Inc. in  London . “The problem is that it seems to be the only
big European economy growing, and that’s why the crisis in the
euro area is far from over.”  Current Conditions  ZEW’s gauge of the current situation fell to 8.9 from 9.2
in April. Economists had forecast an increase.  The euro traded slightly lower at $1.2967 at 12:33 p.m. in
 Frankfurt . European stocks extended losses after falling from
their highest level in almost five years yesterday. The Stoxx
Europe 600 Index slid 0.4 percent to 303.30.  Industrial production in the 17-nation euro region rose 1
percent in March from February, the European Union’s statistics
office in Luxembourg said today.  The improvement “stands in stark contrast to the
recessionary message conveyed” by other economic indicators,
said  Marco Valli , chief euro-area economist at UniCredit Global
Research in Milan.  While the German economy  probably  recovered from a 0.6
percent contraction in the final quarter of last year to expand
0.3 percent in the first three months of 2013,  France ,  Italy  and
the euro area as a whole are forecast to post first-quarter
declines in gross domestic product.  The Federal Statistics Office in Wiesbaden will release the
German data at 8 a.m. tomorrow, three hours before the euro-area
GDP report is due.  ECB Rates  “Despite mostly positive economic data for the German
economy, the ZEW indicator remains at the level of the previous
month,” said ZEW President Clemens Fuest. “This may be due to
the still poor economic situation in the euro zone, which is
also reflected by the recent ECB interest-rate cut.”  The European Central Bank this month reduced its  benchmark
rate  to a record low of 0.5 percent and said it stands ready to
act again if the economic outlook continues to deteriorate. It
forecasts that the euro-area economy will shrink 0.5 percent
this year. The Bundesbank predicts 0.4 percent growth in
Germany.  Some German companies have turned to faster growing markets
abroad to compensate for weaker sales at home.  Beiersdorf AG (BEI) , the German maker of Nivea skin cream, on May
2 reported first-quarter profit that exceeded analysts’
estimates as higher emerging-market sales countered a drop in
Europe.  Asia, U.S.  Germany’s  HeidelbergCement AG (HEI) , the world’s third-largest
maker of cement, said on May 8 that first-quarter earnings rose
3.3 percent as North American growth and job cuts helped offset
the effects of harsh winter conditions in its domestic markets.  Malaysia’s economic growth  probably  exceeded 5 percent for
a seventh straight quarter, the longest stretch since the depth
of the global financial crisis in 2008. The government is due to
release the data tomorrow.  In the U.S., retail sales unexpectedly advanced in April,
corroborating forecasts of a pickup in the economy after a
second-quarter soft spot.  Still, Germany is feeling the effects of the recession in
the euro region, its biggest export market.  Lanxess AG (LXS) , the chemical maker that joined the DAX in
September, on May 8 predicted lower-than-estimated operating
profit in the second quarter on weaker orders from the tire and
auto industries.  Business confidence fell for a second month in April and by
more than economists forecast.  “One of the concerns is that exports may not pick up
anytime soon to support an economic recovery,” said Christian Schulz, senior European economist at Berenberg Bank in London.
“Even though the ECB cut interest rates and the risks of a
euro-area breakup are receding, German investors remain
cautious.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Riecher in Frankfurt at 
 sriecher@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  