-- German Metalheads Drafted by Cruise Operator for Revival
-- B y   R i c h a r d   W e i s s
-- 2013-05-15T06:19:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-14/german-metalheads-enlisted-by-cruise-operators-to-revive-sales.html
Miland Petrozza, the front man of
German thrash metal veterans  Kreator , is more used to his fans
wading through mud and sleeping in tents than coming to his
concerts from an afternoon of shuffle board.  Yet when he shrieked the lyrics “let there be darkness,
let there be blood tonight” across the decks of luxury liner
Mein Schiff 1 last week, the passengers of  Europe ’s largest
heavy metal cruise had gladly left their spas and cabins behind
for the chaos of the mosh pit.  The  Full Metal Cruise  is one of the more unusual offerings
put forward by Europe’s $48-billion cruise industry, where tour
operators target special interest customers from gourmets to
nudists in an attempt to broaden their client base. Operators
are seeking to rebuild trust and repopularize the industry
following the fatal grounding of the  Carnival Corp. (CCL)  cruise ship
Costa Concordia off the coast of Tuscany in January 2012.  Kreator were among more than 20 bands booked by TUI
Cruises, a joint venture between Europe’s largest tour operator
TUI AG and Miami-based  Royal Caribbean Cruises Ltd. (RCL) , to lure
almost 2,000 fans onto a round trip from Hamburg to Southampton
via Amsterdam ending May 12. Most guests were first-time
cruisers, said Godja Soennichsen, a spokeswoman for the company,
while beer consumption at about 16 liters a head was more than
six times higher than average.  Beyond Belief   The cruise industry’s penetration in Europe is about one-third of that in the U.S., said Jan Bovermann, a consultant at
AT Kearney in Copenhagen, yet before the Carnival shipwreck it
appeared to be catching up. The industry posted double-digit
growth in European passenger numbers every year between 2007 and
2011, according to data compiled by  Cruise Line International
Association , with the annual total doubling between 2005 and
2012 to 6.1 million.  “The Costa Concordia was a disaster beyond belief for the
industry,” Bovermann said. “I cannot think of a cruise liner
that sunk since the Titanic. While the market in the U.S. has
recovered, bookings in Europe remain poor.”  TUI AG (TUI1)  today said its cruise business, which also consists
of luxury arm Hapag Lloyd cruises, had an operating loss of 11
million euros ($14.2 million) in the six months ended March 31.
While TUI Cruises was able to fill all its cabins, the  load
factor  at Hapag Lloyd fell to 70 percent, prompting a push to
cut costs and potentially reduce the fleet of five ships.  Desirable Holidaymakers  For the Full Metal Cruise, pursuing holiday-makers less
fearful of death and destruction may be a cure for the industry
malaise. The fate of the Costa Concordia, which is still visible
as a wreck off the coast of Italian tourism hotspot Tuscany, has
done little to deter German music fans from selling out the
trip.  The cruise was organized to drum up publicity, generate
income, and reduce prejudice in a client group which may have
previously had reservations toward cruises, Soennichsen said.
The average passenger age on the trip was 39, compared with a
typical target range of 45 to 65.  The starting-point of  Germany  was the fastest growing of
Europe’s five largest markets at almost 15 percent per year
through 2011, the Cruise Line International data shows. The
industry has benefited from a large middle class with 30 days of
statutory paid leave per year, the highest in Europe, according
to data from  Eurofound . Germans, heavy metal fans or otherwise,
are also desirable holidaymakers because they spend more on
board compared with other Europeans, according to Bovermann.  Further Mishaps  Passenger growth in Germany slowed to 11 percent after 32
passengers died aboard the Cost Concordia, forcing operators  to
offer discounts to fill empty cabins. The Italian market shrunk
9 percent and Spain 18 percent.  The decline in  Spain , where unemployment has reached a
record 27 percent since a decade-long property bubble burst in
2008, has been exacerbated more than most by economic turmoil,
the European Cruise Council said in a report. Italy “will not
be fully back to normal much before 2014,” it said.  Carnival’s fleet of cruise liners has been beset by at
least four further mishaps this year, including an engine fire
that crippled the Triumph ship in February, leaving 3,100
passengers stranded at sea for four days. Two passengers went
missing from a cruise ship in  Australia  earlier this month and
have not been found. The incidents forced Carnival to cut its
profit forecast for the year after it paid reimbursements and
spent more on fire protection systems.  To make sure it could attract music lovers to the 962-cabin
Mein Schiff 1, TUI teamed up with the organizers of Wacken Open
Air in northern Germany, the world’s largest open-air heavy
metal music festival, to make sure the appropriate artists came
on board. The ship also boasts two outdoor swimming pools, nine
restaurants and 11 bars.  “The after-hours heavy metal karaoke was especially
popular, and our on-board tattoo artist was working around the
clock,” Soennichsen said. The ship doctor reported no more than
one broken bone and two incidents including incisional wounds,
which meant a “very quiet” trip for him, she added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Weiss in Frankfurt at 
 rweiss5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  