-- Germany's Perverse Devotion to Austerity
-- B y   R o b e r t   K u t t n e r
-- 2013-05-14T17:55:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-14/germany-s-perverse-devotion-to-austerity.html
Next summer will mark the 100th
anniversary of the chain of diplomatic missteps that led to
World War I. In light of recent economic blunders, this also
should be the opportunity to revisit the war’s aftermath, when
miscalculations seeded the conditions that led to World War II.  In 1919, at the Versailles Peace Conference,  France  and the
U.K. resolved to impose draconian “reparation” payments on a
defeated Germany. The idea was both to compensate the U.K. and
France for the horrific costs of the war, and to ensure that
Germany could never again threaten  Europe .  The terms required Germany to make an initial payment of $5
billion, almost half of Germany’s annual  gross domestic product ,
by May 1921,
 -- plainly an impossible sum. The postwar settlement included
no recovery plan for Germany; on the contrary, it was required
to transfer lands and industrial assets to the Allies.  This financial vise led directly to the ruin of Germany’s
economy, its recourse to printing money, the hyperinflation of
1923, the destruction of the middle class and the rise of  Adolf Hitler .  A generation later, the Allies again faced a defeated and
destitute Germany. Then, too, many leaders wanted to destroy it
as an industrial power. The U.S. Treasury secretary, Henry Morgenthau, had a plan to make Germany a largely agricultural
economy. Soviet leader  Josef Stalin  expropriated German
factories as a down payment on reparations.  Cold War  But that policy soon changed to one of relief and recovery,
not because the Allies had learned from history, but because of
the incipient  Cold War . The U.S. needed a strong Germany.  The emblem of the European recovery policy was the  Marshall
Plan . However, even more important was forgiveness of German war
debt.  In prosecuting World War II, Hitler ran up the largest
share of national debt to GDP of any country --- 675 percent. In
June 1948, as part of a currency reform that created the new
deutsche mark, the Allies canceled 93 percent of the Hitler-era
debt. Repayment of the rest was deferred for almost half a
century.  As a result, West  Germany  had a  debt  of about 12 percent of
GDP in the early 1950s, far smaller than the liabilities of the
victorious Allies, which had sacrificed to defeat Hitler. This
act of macroeconomic mercy was key to the postwar German
economic miracle.  Germany today is the enforcer of European austerity, and
the cancellation of most of the Nazi war debt in 1948 has
disappeared from the national memory. Had Germany been kept in a
straitjacket of debt repayment, its path to recovery would have
been far more arduous. It might never have returned to
democracy.  As the dominant political and economic power of the
European Union, Germany is imposing a perverse austerity on
smaller and weaker nations for three interconnected reasons.  Many Germans, including those in the government of
 Chancellor Angela Merkel , draw questionable lessons from their
own history. The hyperinflation after World War I is taken as a
cautionary lesson about fiscal and monetary discipline. What’s
forgotten is that Weimar Germany’s ruinous actions in 1923 were
the result of external pressures to collect impossible-to-repay
debts in desperate times, not the result of Germany’s own
profligacy.  German Reunification  Second, the rest of Europe is being required to atone for
Germany’s sins. In the years after reunification in 1989-90, the
federal government in Berlin spent about 2 trillion euros ($2.6
trillion) on the reconstruction of eastern Germany. The
Bundesbank raised interest rates to contain inflation, resulting
in higher credit costs across Europe. Germany demanded that all
the major European nations run deficits that exceeded the fiscal
limits of the 1993 Maastricht Treaty on European Union as a way
to combat a recession.  When Merkel became chancellor in 2005, she resolved to
rigidly enforce the treaty’s deficit-and-debt limits, including
sanctions. This policy arguably made sense in good economic
times, but it is the opposite of what’s needed after a financial
collapse.  Third, Germany’s own self-interest undermines enlightened
policies for the rest of the continent. Economists at the
University of Munich have calculated that if Germany still had
the deutsche mark, it would trade about 40 percent higher than
the euro. For Germany, an undervalued euro produces a huge
 export  advantage. Also, the crisis elsewhere attracts capital,
giving the Germans artificially low  interest rates . The nation
that gave us the term schadenfreude profits from the misfortune
of others while presenting itself as a role model.  Lately, the rest of Europe has turned against austerity.
 Spain ,  Portugal , France and  Italy  have all moved to ease belt
tightening. But Germany still vetoes pan-European solutions.
 Greece , under pressure from the “troika” -- the European
Commission, the  European Central Bank  and the  International
Monetary Fund  -- just fired an additional 15,000 civil servants,
to qualify for the latest installment of bailout funds. But the
aid goes to repay creditors, not to help Greece, where
unemployment is approaching 30 percent.  In 1948, when U.S. President  Harry Truman  was promoting the
Marshall Plan and wrote off most of Germany’s debt, he was
monumentally unpopular in the U.S. and widely expected to lose
the November election. But he risked his presidency on an act of
statesmanship, and went on to win.  Chancellor Merkel  faces re-election in September. Mercy for
Europe’s presumed fiscal sinners isn’t popular with the German
electorate.  Though there is no Cold War to justify a fiscal amnesty,
the debt relief of 1948 was a central reason for Germany’s rise
to its current pre-eminence. This would be a good moment for
Merkel to revisit her nation’s history and lead Germany to a
more enlightened self-interest.  (Robert Kuttner is co-editor of the American Prospect and
senior fellow at Demos. He is the author of “Debtors’ Prison:
The Politics of Austerity Versus Possibility.” The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more Echoes columns  online .  To contact the writer of this article:
Robert Kuttner at  Kuttner@prospect.org   To contact the editor responsible for this post:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net  