-- Ghosn Says Infiniti to Add to Nissan Profit With Weakening Yen
-- B y   M a   J i e   a n d   Y u k i   H a g i w a r a
-- 2013-05-14T06:32:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-14/ghosn-says-infiniti-to-add-to-nissan-profit-with-weakening-yen.html
Nissan Motor Co. (7201)  Chief Executive
Officer  Carlos Ghosn  said the automaker’s premium Infiniti unit
will contribute significantly to group profit if the yen weakens
further to its “normal” historical level.  The strong yen had erased Infiniti’s profit contribution to
Nissan over the past two years, Ghosn told reporters today at an
event to mark the start of production of its Q50 sedan. The
luxury unit contributed less than 1 percent to the Yokohama,
Japan-based automaker’s operating profit, he said.  “If the new trend on the yen hopefully will continue to
bring back the yen to the normal historical level of 110 yen to
the dollar, Infiniti will bring back a very significant
contribution to the operating profit of Nissan,” Ghosn said in
Tochigi prefecture, north of Tokyo.  Nissan this month reported the slowest annual  profit  growth
among Japanese automakers as success in  China  backfired when a
political dispute triggered a wave of anti- Japan  sentiment in
the world’s biggest car market, outweighing the benefits from a
plunge in the yen.  Nissan  forecast  net income will rise 23 percent to 420
billion yen ($4.1 billion) in the year ending March, the highest
in six years. The company gains about 15 billion yen in
operating profit with every one-yen drop against the dollar,
according to the company.  Japan’s currency rose from near its lowest level in more
than four years against the dollar, strengthening 0.3 percent to
101.54 per dollar at 1:23 p.m. in Tokyo from yesterday.  Nissan based its profit outlook on an exchange rate of 95
yen against the dollar, and 122 yen versus the euro. It produced
about 22 percent of its cars at home last fiscal year, compared
with 44 percent at Toyota Motor Corp.  Infiniti is targeting to double its lineup in the next few
years, President Johan de Nysschen said today. The automaker’s
operating margin will improve to Nissan’s level by next year as
the yen weakens, he said, without elaborating.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ma Jie in  Tokyo  at 
 jma124@bloomberg.net ;
Yuki Hagiwara in Tokyo at 
 yhagiwara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  