-- Gillard Woos Voters With Australia Budget Spending Pledges
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2013-05-15T04:12:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-14/gillard-targets-voters-with-spending-pledges-in-australia-budget.html
Australia ’s government is wooing
voters with increased infrastructure, health and education
spending while charting a path to a  budget surplus  as it seeks
to restore economic credibility four months before an election.  The government will spend A$24 billion ($23.8 billion) on
road and rail projects and target A$43 billion in savings over
five years to return to surplus by 2016-17, Treasurer  Wayne Swan 
said in budget papers released yesterday. He forecast a A$19.4
billion deficit for the year ended June, from a A$1.1 billion
surplus seen last October, as the strong Australian dollar dents
tax revenue.  “It’s a responsible budget that deals with the very
substantial hit to revenues that we’ve seen,” Finance Minister
 Penny Wong  said in a Bloomberg Television interview from
Canberra today. “We’ve deferred the return to surplus and we’re
obviously going to take some political criticism for that.”  The budget is one of Gillard’s last chances to narrow a
double-digit gap in opinion polls before the Sept. 14 election
by focusing on core Labor party pledges to improve education and
healthcare. The government eschewed steeper cuts and has
previously warned that  Tony Abbott ’s opposition coalition would
slash spending and damage growth.  “This budget is an attempt to project two relative
strengths in education and health that might mitigate what looks
like an election disaster,” said  Nick Economou , a political
analyst at  Monash University  in  Melbourne . “Frankly it all
seems too late because the voters have stopped listening.”  Tax Loopholes  As part of its bid to save A$43 billion over five years,
the government is seeking to save more than A$4.2 billion
through June 2017 by closing tax loopholes for multinational and
other large companies. The measures include addressing
“aggressive tax minimization strategies” that shift profits by
artificially loading debt into Australian units.  It will also scrap a cash payment to the parents of
newborns and cap family payments for a saving of A$2.4 billion.  “The government doesn’t have a revenue problem, they’ve
got a spending problem,” Shadow Finance Minister Andrew Robb
said in an interview with Bloomberg Television today. “We just
need to trim the sails on a whole lot of programs that are
surplus to requirements. If we do that, we can progressively get
this budget back into a sustainable surplus.”  Sixth Budget  Announcing his sixth budget as Treasurer, Swan pledged to
spend more than A$3.7 billion on rail projects in Melbourne and
Brisbane and at least A$2.2 billion on highways in Sydney, the
nation’s most populous city.  Several measures were previously announced, including an
increase to the Medicare levy that funds Australia’s government-run healthcare system. The surcharge on incomes will rise to 2
percent from 1.5 percent to fund the National Disability
Insurance Scheme, which is intended to provide lifelong support
for people with physical and mental handicaps and their
families.  Gillard also previously announced a plan to boost school
funding by A$9.8 billion over six years from 2014-15, in an
effort to place Australia among the top five nations for
reading, mathematics and science by 2025.  Jobs, Defense  The government announced plans to support Australian jobs,
saying any new project worth more than A$500 million must
include a participation plan for local businesses. An Anti-Dumping Commission will be created, to protect Australian
industry from unfair overseas competition.  Defense spending  will increase to A$113 billion over four
years, from A$103 billion announced last year, according to the
papers.  Swan forecast a deficit of A$18 billion in 2013-14, a
balanced budget by 2015-16 and a A$6.6 billion surplus in
2016-17.  “It would be irresponsible to impose a savage fiscal
consolidation on the economy when it’s still transitioning from
mining investment to other growth drivers in the face of the
doggedly high dollar,” Swan said in a speech in Canberra today.
“I will never sacrifice jobs and growth on the altar of
political expediency.”  While the budget represents “some slippage in achieving
the government’s strategy of returning the budget to surplus,”
Australia’s stable AAA credit rating is unaffected,  Standard &
Poor’s  said yesterday. That rating has been a cornerstone of the
government’s pitch to voters, along with low unemployment of 5.5
percent and a record-low benchmark interest rate of 2.75
percent.  The government’s economic message has been overshadowed by
party infighting and a challenge to Gillard’s leadership by
former Prime Minister  Kevin Rudd .  Abbott’s Liberal-National coalition has criticized Swan’s
stewardship of the economy, citing a December backflip on a
pledge to restore the budget to surplus this fiscal year and the
imposition of new taxes on  carbon emissions  and mining profits
that the opposition says it would repeal if it wins office.  Carbon Price  The government forecast the carbon price will slump to
A$12.10 a ton in the year starting July 2015 from a previous
Treasury estimate of A$29 a ton, cutting revenue for the four
years to 2015-16 by about A$6 billion from the previous
forecast.  The 30 percent tax on  iron ore  and coal profits will reap
A$1.8 billion less in revenue for the year to June 30 than
previously forecast, the budget documents said.  “The big hit has been from the revenue writedown,” Prime
Minister  Julia Gillard  said in a Sky Television interview today.
The budget “makes room for the big investments, the wise
investments that our nation needs, including education.”  Labor fell a further 2 percentage points behind the
coalition and is trailing by 12 points on a two-party preferred
basis, according to a Newspoll published in the Australian
newspaper May 7. Gillard’s party hasn’t led in opinion polls in
more than 18 months.  While spending measures in the budget may appeal to Labor’s
core support, “ultimately though, it all looks a bit too
late,” Zareh Ghazarian, a lecturer in politics at Monash, said
before the announcement. “The polls are rarely moving which
suggests that voters have stopped listening and have already
made up their minds to vote the government out.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  