-- Gillard Budget Seeks to Woo Back Voters With Labor Spending
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2013-05-14T09:45:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-14/gillard-budget-seeks-to-woo-back-voters-with-core-labor-spending.html
Australian Prime Minister Julia Gillard’s government announced plans to upgrade infrastructure
as it boosts health and education spending, in a budget seeking
to woo back voters while restoring economic credibility four
months before an election.  The government will spend A$24 billion on road and rail
projects, while targeting A$43 billion of savings over five
years in an effort to return to surplus by 2016-17, Treasurer
Wayne Swan said in budget papers released today. He forecast a
A$19.4 billion deficit for the year ended June, from a A$1.1
billion surplus seen in October, as the strong Australian dollar
dented revenue.  “Just because the global economy took an axe to our
budget, does not mean we should take an axe to our economy,”
Swan said in the text of an address delivered in Canberra.
“We’ve chosen a responsible path to surplus while supporting
jobs and growth.”  The budget is one of Gillard’s last chances to narrow a
double-digit gap in opinion polls before the Sept. 14 election
by focusing on core Labor party pledges to improve education and
healthcare. The government eschewed steeper cuts and has
previously warned that Tony Abbott’s opposition coalition would
slash spending and damage growth.  ‘Core Policies’  “This budget provides the government with the ability to
entrench some core policies and appeal to those Labor voters who
have drifted away,” Zareh Ghazarian, a lecturer in politics at
Monash University in  Melbourne , said before the announcement.  The Australian dollar traded at 99.62 U.S cents at 7:37
p.m. in Sydney versus 99.76 cents before the budget was
released.  Announcing his sixth budget as Treasurer, Swan pledged to
spend more than A$3.7 billion on rail projects in Melbourne and
Brisbane and at least A$2.2 billion on highways in Sydney, the
nation’s most populous city.  “These projects will increase rail capacity and reduce the
traffic grind that commuters face every day,” he said in the
papers.  Several measures were previously announced by the
government, including an increase to the Medicare levy that
funds  Australia ’s government-run healthcare system. The
surcharge on incomes will rise to 2 percent from 1.5 percent to
fund the National Disability Insurance Scheme, which is intended
to provide lifelong support for people with physical and mental
handicaps and their families.  School Funding  Gillard has also previously announced a plan to increase
school funding by A$9.8 billion over six years from 2014-15, in
an effort to place Australia among the top five nations for
reading, mathematics and science by 2025.  The government is seeking to save more than A$4 billion
through June 2017 by closing tax loopholes for multinational and
other large companies. The measures include addressing
“aggressive tax minimization strategies” that shift profits by
artificially loading debt into Australian units.  The government announced plans to support Australian jobs,
saying any new project worth more than A$500 million must
include a participation plan for local businesses. An Anti-Dumping Commission will be created, to protect Australian
industry from unfair overseas competition.  Defense spending  will increase to A$113 billion over four
years, from A$103 billion announced last year, according to the
papers.  Budget Forecasts  Swan forecast a deficit of A$18 billion in 2013-14, a
balanced budget by 2015-16 and a A$6.6 billion surplus in
2016-17.  “To those who would take us down the European road of
savage austerity I say the social destruction that comes from
cutting too much, too hard, to fast is not the Australian way,”
he said in the text of his speech.  Australia’s stable AAA credit rating would be threatened if
the government is forced to weaken its commitment to returning
to a balanced budget, Standard & Poor’s said April 29. That
rating has been a cornerstone of the government’s pitch to
voters, along with low unemployment of 5.5 percent and a record
low benchmark interest rate of 2.75 percent.  Economic Message  The government’s economic message has been overshadowed by
party infighting and challenges to Gillard’s leadership by
former Prime Minister Kevin Rudd.  Abbott’s Liberal-National coalition has criticized Swan’s
stewardship of the economy, citing a December backflip on a
pledge to restore the budget to surplus this fiscal year and new
taxes on carbon emissions and mining profits that the opposition
says it would repeal if it wins office.  The government today forecast the carbon price will slump
to A$12.10 a ton in the year starting July 2015 from a previous
Treasury estimate of A$29 a ton, slashing revenue for the four
years to 2015-16 by about A$6 billion from the previous
forecast.  The 30 percent tax on iron ore and coal profits will reap
A$1.8 billion less in revenue for the year to June 30 than
previously forecast, the budget documents said.  ‘Unqualified Statements’  “One of the problems that the Labor Party has had, it’s
always made big, bold, unqualified statements and then failed to
deliver and that just undermines business and  consumer
confidence ,” Shadow Treasurer Joe Hockey told reporters in
Canberra yesterday. “We are determined to be measured and
thoughtful.”  Labor fell a further 2 percentage points behind the
coalition and is trailing by 12 points on a two-party preferred
basis, according to a Newspoll published in the Australian
newspaper May 7. Gillard’s party hasn’t led in opinion polls in
more than 18 months.  While spending measures in the budget may appeal to Labor’s
core support, “ultimately though, it all looks a bit too
late,” said Monash University’s Ghazarian. “The polls are
rarely moving which suggests that voters have stopped listening
and have already made up their minds to vote the government
out.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Scott in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  