-- Gol Advances as Profitability Improves on Capacity Cut
-- B y   D e n y s e   G o d o y
-- 2013-05-14T21:44:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-14/gol-gains-in-sao-paulo-as-profitability-improves-on-capacity-cut.html
Gol Linhas Aereas Inteligentes SA
rallied the most in two weeks as the Brazilian airline’s first-quarter earnings report showed an improvement in profitability
after it reduced flights on less-traveled routes.  The  shares  climbed 3.3 percent to 12.25 reais at the close
of trading in Sao Paulo, the biggest one-day gain since April
25. The  Ibovespa (IBOV)  Brazilian equity benchmark rose 0.4 percent.  While the airline posted an unexpected adjusted net loss in
the first quarter, its  earnings  before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization of 212.1 million reais ($105.6
million) exceeded the average estimate of 186 million reais
among four analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. A gauge of
profitability that measures net passenger income per available
seat per kilometer increased 12.4 percent in March from a year
earlier, Gol said in a regulatory filing.  The quarterly results show that the company is executing
“a successful turnaround,” Marimar Torreblanca, an analyst at
 UBS AG (UBSN)  who rates the airline a buy, wrote in a note to clients
today. “Gol’s focus on profitability and disciplined capacity
management is critical.”  The company reduced the number of flights in the domestic
market by 16 percent in the first quarter of this year from
2012, according to the filing. The airline has been reducing
domestic capacity as it tries to improve margins after growth in
 Brazil  trailed forecasts last year. Gol had projected gross
domestic product would expand 3 percent to 4 percent, more than
three times the 0.9 percent it increased.  The Sao Paulo-based airline’s focus on cutting flights in
Brazil “should persist and bring confidence to a better pricing
environment,”  Banco BTG Pactual SA (BPAC3)  analysts including Renato Mimica wrote in a note to clients today in which they reiterated
a buy recommendation on the shares.  Gol’s shares have declined 5 percent this year while the
Ibovespa fell 10 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Denyse Godoy in  Sao Paulo  at 
 dgodoy2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  