-- Goldman Sachs Wins Dismissal of Abacus CDO Suit on Appeal
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n   a n d   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2013-05-14T16:59:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-14/goldman-sachs-wins-dismissal-of-abacus-cdo-suit-on-appeal.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  won
dismissal of bond insurer  ACA Financial Guaranty Corp. ’s fraud
lawsuit over a collateralized debt obligation known as Abacus.  A  New York  state appeals court in Manhattan today ordered
the complaint against Goldman Sachs dismissed, overturning a
lower-court ruling that had allowed the case to proceed.  ACA claimed that New York-based Goldman Sachs and hedge-fund firm Paulson & Co. conspired to induce ACA to provide
financial guaranty insurance for the Abacus transaction and
deceived the insurer into believing Paulson was a long investor
when in fact it was taking a short position.  The appeals court said ACA could have uncovered Paulson’s
actual position, “but apparently chose not to.”  “Plaintiff should have questioned defendant or the non-party hedge fund,” the court said. “Such an inquiry would have
likely informed plaintiff that the nonparty hedge fund was
taking a short rather than a long equity position.”  ACA added New York-based Paulson as a defendant in the
lawsuit this year. A court has yet to rule on the hedge fund’s
motion to dismiss.  Marc Kasowitz , an attorney for New York-based ACA, said his
client may ask the divided appellate panel to reconsider the
decision and would pursue an appeal to the state’s highest court
in  Albany .  ‘Two-Judge Dissent’  “As the two-judge dissent makes clear, the three-judge
majority’s line of reasoning neither comports with the factual
record nor the law on this issue,” Kasowitz said.  Goldman Sachs in July 2010 won court approval of a
$550 million settlement with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission over claims that it misled investors in the Abacus
CDO. Goldman Sachs failed to disclose Paulson’s role in
selecting underlying securities or that Paulson had taken a
short position against the CDO, according to the SEC.  The bank didn’t admit or deny wrongdoing in the SEC
settlement. It acknowledged that it made a “mistake” and that
marketing materials for the instruments had “incomplete
information,” the agency said at the time.  The case is ACA Financial Guaranty Corp. v. Goldman Sachs &
Co., 650027-2011, New York State Supreme Court ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
David McLaughlin in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Dolmetsch in New York State Supreme Court
at   cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  