-- Google Plans to Settle EU Probe Should Be Rejected, Foundem Says
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 2013-05-14T07:33:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-14/google-plans-to-settle-eu-probe-should-be-rejected-foundem-says.html
Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s proposals to settle a
European Union antitrust probe into the way it operates its
search engine should be rejected, a U.K. company told the EU.  Given how “ill-suited” Google’s suggested remedies are,
the European Commission, the EU’s antitrust regulator, has no
other alternative “than to reject the proposals,” Foundem, a
U.K. shopping comparison website, said today.  EU Competition Commissioner  Joaquin Almunia  has sought a
deal with Google to end the antitrust case, while competitors
such as  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  and  TripAdvisor Inc. (TRIP)  have urged
regulators to force Google to change its practices. The
commission has said Google is  dominant  in Web search and search
advertising in  Europe  and that the  Mountain View , California-based company may harm competition.  “Google is keen to portray the commission’s acceptance of
its proposals as a fait accompli,” Foundem, which filed a
complaint against Google, said in an initial response to
the EU’s so-called market test of the proposed settlement. “If
the commission were to adopt anything like these proposals, it
would kill any hope of re-establishing the level playing field
on which competition, innovation, and consumer choice depends.”  Al Verney, a spokesman for Google in Brussels, said in an
e-mail that the company continued to cooperate with the EU.  Rivals, users and companies in the same market were given a
month on April 25 to provide feedback to the commission on
Google’s planned changes. Almunia has said a settlement may be
clinched “after the summer vacations” if the company’s offer
is deemed acceptable.  “We will have to wait for the market test to play out,
but, at the moment, we can see no reasonable alternative for the
commission other than to reject the proposals,” Foundem said
today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Bodoni in Brussels via 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  