-- Google Loses German Case Over Autocomplete Function
-- B y   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k
-- 2013-05-14T11:32:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-14/google-loses-german-case-over-autocomplete-function.html
Google Inc. (GOOG) , operator of the world’s
largest Internet search engine, lost a case in  Germany ’s top
civil court over how its autocomplete function adds words to
searches.  If alerted about libelous words that are added to a name
entered in the search slot, Google has to block them, the
Federal Court of Justice in Karlsruhe said, overturning two
lower court rulings. The website had added “Scientology” and
“fraud” to the plaintiff’s name, the court said in a  statement 
on its website today.  Google’s autocomplete function has come into focus in
Germany after the wife of former president  Christian Wulff  sued
Google because the search engine added words to her name that
referred to red light district and escort services. Her name is
still being autocompleted with the German word for “red
light.” Her case is pending at a Hamburg court.  “The search additions affect the plaintiff’s privacy
rights as they convey the statement that there is a relationship
between the plaintiff and the negative words,” the Karlsruhe
court said. “If that statement was untrue, the plaintiff’s
rights would be violated.”  Kay Oberbeck, a German spokesman for Google, said the
 Mountain View , California-based company is disappointed and
surprised, given that many courts ruled in the opposite way. He
called it “incomprehensible” that Google can be held liable
for words entered by users.  Frequent Terms  Starting in April 2009, users who entered search words see
a window predicting what the search may be about. The
suggestions are created by an algorithm based on how frequently
the terms had been used before, the top court said.  The plaintiff, the founder and chief executive officer of a
web-based company selling dietary supplements, noticed in 2010
that the terms “Scientology” and “fraud” were suggested when
his name was entered in the search slot. He said he isn’t linked
to the religious group nor is he being probed for fraud,
according to the top court statement.  The case was sent back to the lower court to investigate
additional facts.  Today’s case is BGH, VI ZR 269/12.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karin Matussek in Berlin at 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@Bloomberg.net . 