-- Greece Upgraded as Fitch Sees Progress From Economy to Deficit
-- B y   C r a i g   S t i r l i n g
-- 2013-05-14T17:15:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-14/greece-upgraded-as-fitch-sees-progress-from-economy-to-deficit.html
Greece  won an upgrade by one level
from  Fitch Ratings , which cited the country’s progress in
rebalancing the economy and bringing its deficits under control.  Greece was raised to B- from CCC and given a stable
outlook, according to a statement from Fitch in  London  today.
The ratings company said there is a “semblance of political and
social stability” with the government showing more ownership
over its adjustment program and a lower risk of exit from the
euro area.  “The  Greek economy  is rebalancing,” Fitch said. “Clear
progress has been made toward eliminating twin fiscal and
current account deficits and ‘internal devaluation’ has at last
begun to take hold.”  Fitch’s rating of Greece six levels below investment grade
is in line with the assessment of  Standard & Poor’s , and
contrasts with Moody’s Investors Service, which puts the country
11 notches below the junk threshold. Investors often ignore
ratings, evidenced by the rally in Treasuries after the U.S.
lost its top grade at S&P in 2011.  Greece’s so-called Economic Adjustment Program is “on
track” and the increase in its ratio of public debt to gross
domestic product should moderate to peak at around 180 percent
in 2013-14, Fitch said.  “Sovereign debt service now appears more secure than the
size of the debt stock would otherwise imply,” it said. “Even
so, public debt sustainability is still far from assured and
will be dependent on economic recovery and a sustained primary
fiscal surplus.”  Rating Changes  Yields on sovereign securities moved in the opposite
direction from what ratings suggested in 53 percent of 32
upgrades, downgrades and changes in credit outlook last year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg published in December.
Investors ignored 56 percent of Moody’s rating and outlook
changes and 50 percent of those by Standard and Poor’s. That’s
worse than the longer-term average of 47 percent, based on more
than 300 changes since 1974.  The stable outlook on Greece “reflects Fitch’s assessment
that upside and downside risks to the rating are more broadly
balanced than in the recent past,” the company said. “The
degree of  default risk  for private creditors, encapsulated in
the previous ’CCC’ rating, has subsided.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Craig Stirling in London at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  