-- Greencore Whips Horsemeat Scandal on U.S. Growth: London Mover
-- B y   P e t e r   W o o d i f i e l d
-- 2013-05-14T10:16:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-14/greencore-whips-horsemeat-scandal-on-u-s-growth-london-mover.html
Greencore Group Plc (GNC) , the Irish food
producer that had a bolognese sauce withdrawn from the Asda
grocery chain during the European horsemeat crisis, rose for a
10th day on prospects that the U.S. unit will become profitable.  “After an indifferent initial foray in the U.S., Greencore
is potentially on the cusp of an opportunity that could revise
upward the earnings path of the business,” Cathal Kenny, an
 analyst  at Davy Securities, said in a note to clients today.  Greencore rose 0.4 percent to 116.5 pence at 10:45 a.m. in
 London , heading for the highest closing price since October
2009. The Dublin-based company’s stock has advanced 10 percent
in 10 days, the longest rising streak in 15 months, and is up
about 14 percent this year.  Greencore plunged as much as 20 percent in February as its
sauce was  withdrawn from  Wal-Mart Stores Inc.’s (WMT)  Asda outlets.
Subsequent investigation found no evidence of horsemeat
contamination. Retailers across Europe withdrew products such as
lasagnas and meatballs when some were shown to contain horse
DNA. The scandal led policymakers to put pressure on the
industry to make the food chain less opaque.  Greencore, due to release fiscal first-half earnings on May
21, may report  revenue  that was slightly ahead of last year’s
567.7 million pounds ($868.6 million), with operating profit up
3.9 percent at 33 million pounds, Davy’s Kenny predicted. He has
a neutral recommendation on the stock.  “The U.S. looks set to take up the baton of growth” this
year, Nicola Mallard, an analyst at Investec with a buy rating
on the stock, said in a note to clients on May 10. “The swing
from the U.S. from loss to profit could be in the region of 5
million pounds this year.”  Greencore has started supplying chilled products to about
10 percent of  Starbucks Corp. (SBUX) ’s U.S. outlets this year. The
contract is worth about $50 million in revenue in a full year,
Mallard said. The Irish company’s profit may be more biased
toward the second half than usual, she wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Woodifield in Edinburgh at 
 pwoodifield@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Lytle at 
 dlytle@bloomberg.net  