-- Ibovespa Gains Most in a Week as Gol, Cyrela Rally on Earnings
-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i
-- 2013-05-14T21:31:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-14/ibovespa-advances-as-gol-gafisa-gain-on-first-quarter-earnings.html
The Ibovespa rose as better-than-forecast results from airline Gol Linhas Aereas Inteligentes SA
and homebuilder Cyrela  Brazil  Realty SA Empreendimentos &
Participacoes bolstered the outlook for corporate profits.  Beef producer  Marfrig Alimentos SA (MRFG3)  rallied after saying it
will sell and close plants and cut debt by as much as 2 billion
reais following a second consecutive quarterly loss.
 Diagnosticos da America SA , Brazil’s biggest provider of medical
diagnostics, rose to a one-month high. The MSCI Brazil/Materials
Index  posted  the only decline among 10 industry groups as iron-ore producer  Vale SA (VALE3)  followed metals lower.  The Ibovespa added 0.4 percent to 54,666.82 at the close of
trading in Sao Paulo, its first gain in five days. Forty-three
stocks advanced on the gauge while 26 dropped. The real weakened
0.6 percent to 2.0208 per dollar.  “We saw some profit-taking in the past four sessions, but
I think the  Ibovespa (IBOV)  can go higher given the outlook for the
companies,” Leandro Martins, the head analyst at brokerage
Walpires SA in Sao Paulo, said in a telephone interview. “Many
of them seem to be doing well.”  Gol gained 3.3 percent to 12.25 reais. While the airline
posted an  unexpected  adjusted net loss in the  first quarter ,
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization
exceeded analysts’ estimates.  Cyrela Profit  Cyrela, Brazil’s largest homebuilder by sales, rose 4.5
percent to 18.07 reais. The company posted adjusted net income
of 179 million reais in the first quarter, more than the average
analyst estimate of 172.6 million reais, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Twenty-nine of the 51 companies on the Ibovespa that have
already  reported  first-quarter earnings  missed  analyst
estimates, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Marfrig  surged  13 percent to 7.45 reais. Dasa, as
Diagnosticos da America is also known, gained 4.7 percent to 12
reais.  The Ibovespa  earlier  fell as much as 0.2 percent as  Vale 
followed metals lower amid signs that growth is slowing in
 China , Brazil’s biggest trading partner. The Bloomberg Base
Metals 3-Month Price Commodity Index lost 1.4 percent as
JPMorgan Chase & Co. cut its forecast for China’s growth this
year to 7.6 percent from 7.8 percent.  ‘Watching Closely’  “Economic data in China have been worse than expected,
which surely affects companies such as Vale,” Larissa Gatti
Nappo, an economist at brokerage Souza Barros in Sao Paulo, said
by telephone. “That’s something to be watching closely. Any
number in China that’s slightly worse has a big impact over
Brazilian equities.”  Vale retreated 2.4 percent to 31.07 reais.  Brazil’s benchmark equity gauge has lost 10 percent this
year, the worst performer among 19 major  emerging markets ,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The Ibovespa  trades  at
12 times analysts’ earnings estimates for the next four
quarters, compared with 10.9 for the MSCI Emerging Markets Index
of 21 developing nations’ equities, data compiled by Bloomberg
show.  Trading volume for stocks in Sao Paulo was 8.22 billion
reais today, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That
compares with a daily average of 7.71 billion reais this year
through April 30, according to data compiled by the exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ney Hayashi in Sao Paulo at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  