-- ICAP CEO Says No Inappopriate Conduct Found in ISDAFix
-- B y   L i a m   V a u g h a n
-- 2013-05-14T16:16:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-14/icap-net-falls-broker-to-cut-costs-as-volumes-shrink.html
ICAP Plc (IAP)  Chief Executive Officer
 Michael Spencer  said an internal probe into allegations brokers
manipulated ISDAFix, the benchmark for the $379 trillion swaps
market, found no evidence of wrongdoing.  The Commodity Futures Trading Commission is investigating
employees at ICAP’s U.S. interest-rate swap desk as well as at
least 15 banks over allegations they colluded to create
inaccurate quotes to a computer screen used by the industry to
price swaps to inflate bank profits, Bloomberg reported April 8.  “So far, nothing that we have discovered in our internal
investigations gives me sleepless nights, and nothing that I’ve
heard externally suggests ISDAFix has been tampered with,”
Spencer told reporters on a conference call as the London-based
inter-dealer broker reported full-year earnings today. “We have
adhered to our procedures, so I would refute, at this moment,
that there has been any misconduct by ICAP brokers.”  ISDAFix is based on submissions made to ICAP’s New Jersey
office each day and displayed on an electronic screen known as
19901, which is used by corporate treasurers, asset managers and
other market participants as a measure of wholesale funding
costs. Regulators are investigating potential abuse of financial
benchmarks after  Barclays Plc (BARC) ,  UBS AG (UBSN)  and  Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc  were fined a combined $2.5 billion for rigging the
London and euro interbank offered rates.  “We think it is not analogous at all to the situation as
regards Libor,” said Spencer, 57. “We have very strict rules
for our staff” involved in the “monitoring and management of
our screen. From all our investigations so far we don’t believe
there’s been any failure with regards to those procedures.”  6,000 Companies  One potential source of price manipulation being probed is
tied to ICAP brokers not updating the rate-swap price on the
19901 screen after they facilitate a trade between two banks, a
a person with knowledge of the probe and a former ICAP broker in
the Jersey City rate-swaps group who asked not to be identified
for fear of retribution said on April 8.  ICAP enters those prices manually onto the screen, and
dealers tell the brokers not to put trades into the system until
all their business in a transaction is done, which skews market
prices, according to the former broker, who said he witnessed
such activity first-hand.  About 6,000 companies and financial firms subscribe to the
pricing service, according to ICAP. Values published by it are
accepted as a legal price by which swaps traders can terminate
contracts or to mark the value of positions, according to the
International Swaps & Derivatives Association.  ‘Proper Process’  “I sincerely think there’s every chance we’ll find out
that the process was properly handled and there has been no
inappropriate conduct,” he said. “We have a very thorough,
proper process of how we handle our screen.”  Spencer spoke after ICAP posted a bigger full-year profit
than it indicated two months ago as it stepped up its cost-cutting program. Pretax profit before exceptional items in the
year through March fell 20 percent to 284 million pounds ($435
million) from 354 million pounds in the year-earlier period.
ICAP cut its profit forecast on March 27 to 280 million pounds.
Sales fell 12 percent to 1.47 billion pounds, less than the 13
percent drop ICAP indicated.  The stock advanced 14 percent in London trading to 339.70
pence, its steepest advance since March 2009.  Spencer is seeking to cut expenses by reducing the number
of brokers as well as their pay to mitigate the decline in
revenue he attributes to the slowing economy and  interest rates 
at record lows.  The company said it has reduced costs by 80 million pounds
a year, 20 million pounds more than previously announced. The
number of brokers the firm employs fell by 152 to 2,195, and
their pay has been restructured, ICAP said, without giving more
details.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liam Vaughan in London at 
 lvaughan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  