-- Guar Gum Futures Trading in India Resumes on Record Harvest
-- B y   P r a b h u d a t t a   M i s h r a
-- 2013-05-14T12:07:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-14/india-resumes-futures-trading-in-guar-gum-as-crop-reaches-record.html
India, the world’s largest supplier
of guar gum, lifted a ban on futures trading in the commodity
used by  Halliburton Co. (HAL)  to extract shale gas after a rally in
prices spurred farmers to produce a record crop.  The National Commodity & Derivatives Exchange Ltd., or
NCDEX, and the  Multi Commodity Exchange of India Ltd.  today
began trading three contracts each in guar seed and guar gum,
according to separate notices on the bourses’ websites. The
Forward Markets Commission, the commodity market regulator,
suspended futures trading in March 2012 to curb excessive
speculation after prices surged nine-fold to a record.  Production of guar seeds in India, which accounts for more
than 70 percent of the global crop, probably reached an all-time
high of 2.2 million tons in the year ending June, said Rajesh
Kedia, director at Jai Bharat Gum & Chemicals Ltd., the nation’s
second-biggest exporter of guar gum. Prices slumped about 70
percent since futures trading was banned, he said.  “As futures have been relaunched with strict guidelines,
we hope speculators are kept at bay so that real players take
the benefit of price discovery,” Kedia said.  NCDEX will call for a statement of physical stockpiles
owned by clients, who hold 75 percent or more of the permitted
position limits in any contracts, and clients will be required
disclose the source of funds for trading, it said.  Benchmark Price  Guar gum for delivery in June opened at 30,700 rupees
($562) per 100 kilograms (220 pounds) on  NCDEX  today and closed
at 28,150 rupees, while guar seed opened at 10,400 rupees per
100 kilograms and ended at 9,460 rupees. Guar gum rallied to an
all-time high of 95,920 rupees on the NCDEX in March 2012,
extending gains into a fourth year.  “Futures trading in guar seed and guar gum can effectively
provide a benchmark price for the industry in  India , and also
help the trade and industry functionaries in managing price
risks on their spot and forward transactions,” Sumesh Parasrampuria, director for business development at MCX, said in
an e-mailed statement.  Guar gum, which means “cow food” in Hindi, is a
thickening agent used in ice creams, drugs and in hydraulic
fracturing to extract gas trapped in shale.  Halliburton and  Baker Hughes Inc. (BHI)  help drill and complete
oil and gas wells using a pressure-pumping technique known as
fracking, which blasts water mixed with sand and chemicals
underground to free trapped hydrocarbons from shale formations.
Guar is made into a thickening gel used to carry sand down a
well and into the cracks created from the hydraulic fracturing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Prabhudatta Mishra in  New Delhi  at 
 pmishra8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  