-- Subbarao’s RBI to ’Take Note’ as Inflation Eases to 41-Month Low
-- B y   K a r t i k   G o y a l   a n d   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 2013-05-14T18:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-14/india-inflation-eases-to-41-month-low-adding-to-rate-cut-scope.html
Reserve Bank  of  India  Governor
Duvvuri Subbarao said the slowest inflation since 2009 will be
factored into monetary policy decisions next month.  “We certainly will take note of the softening of inflation
and the external payments situation in the next mid-quarter
policy statement on June 17,” Subbarao said at an event in
 Frankfurt  yesterday, after data showed Indian inflation eased to
a 41-month low in April.  The  wholesale-price index  rose 4.89 percent from a year
earlier, after climbing 5.96 percent in March. Last month’s pace
is the slowest since November 2009, according to previously
reported data. The median estimate of 29 economists in a
Bloomberg News survey was 5.45 percent. Subbarao added that the
rate of increase in consumer prices is “still high.”  India’s central bank cut  interest rates  for a third time
this year on May 3 and signaled there is little space to ease
further, citing a current-account shortfall and the possibility
of price pressures returning. The economy grew 5 percent in the
year ended March, the least since 2003, according to an initial
estimate from the government.  “Easing price pressures and weak growth will allow the RBI
to continue with its calibrated easing,” said Tirthankar
Patnaik, a Mumbai-based strategist at Religare Capital Markets
Ltd. The central bank may cut rates by another 75 basis points
in the current fiscal year to March, he said.  India’s central bank this month lowered the repurchase rate
to 7.25 percent from 7.5 percent, a third straight quarter-point
cut. The monetary authority described the current-account
shortfall as “by far the biggest risk to the economy” after
the  gap  swelled to $32.6 billion in the quarter ended Dec. 31, a
record 6.7 percent of gross domestic product.  Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s minority government has
changed policies since September last year to spur  growth  and
avert a credit-rating downgrade. The steps included trimming the
 budget deficit , opening the retail and aviation industries to
more investment from abroad and reducing a levy on foreign
investors in local bonds.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kartik Goyal in Mumbai at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  