-- Indonesia Holds Key Rate as Fuel Policy Plan Adds Inflation Risk
-- B y   N o v r i d a   M a n u r u n g
-- 2013-05-14T08:10:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-14/indonesia-holds-key-rate-as-fuel-policy-plan-adds-inflation-risk.html
Indonesia  kept interest rates
unchanged for a 15th consecutive meeting as the threat of
inflation from planned fuel-price increases outweighs the risk
of slowing growth.  Bank Indonesia  Governor Darmin Nasution and his board held
the  reference rate  at a record-low 5.75 percent, the central
bank said in Jakarta today. The decision was predicted by all 21
economists  surveyed  by  Bloomberg News . This is Nasution’s last
rate meeting before he hands over to former Finance Minister
 Agus Martowardojo  later this month.  Indonesia joins Southeast Asian neighbor  Malaysia  in
holding borrowing costs steady even as other central banks in
the region from  Australia  to India cut rates this month to
bolster growth. The government plans to trim fuel subsidies to
ease the strain on state finances, which economists including
Chua Hak Bin of Bank of America Corp. predict may cause
inflation to accelerate to as much as 8 percent.  “Inflation remains elevated and outside the BI target
range,” Chua said before the rate decision. With slowing GDP
growth, “that complicates decision-making for Bank Indonesia as
it has to trade- off between the two objectives,” he said.  The rupiah was little changed at 9,739 per dollar as of
3:03 p.m. in Jakarta, according to prices from local banks
compiled by Bloomberg. The currency is the worst performing
currency in Asia after the yen in the past year.  Indonesia’s  economy  grew 6.02 percent in the first three
months of 2013 from a year earlier, after expanding 6.11 percent
the previous quarter, the statistics department said last week.
The government this month lowered its GDP target for 2013 to
about 6.2 percent to 6.3 percent from 6.8 percent previously.  Exports Drop  Overseas shipments  fell the most in seven months in March,
while imports dropped the most since 2009. The country is the
biggest producer of  palm oil , and its commodity exports include
coal, rubber, tin and cocoa.  Acting Finance Minister Hatta Rajasa said yesterday he has
signed a revised state budget that will be presented to
Parliament. The government has said the new budget will contain
details of a compensation plan to offset the impact of higher
fuel prices on the poor. It intends to raise subsidized gasoline
prices to 6,500 rupiah ($0.67) a liter, and subsidized diesel to
5,500 rupiah per liter, Planning Minister Armida Alisjahbana
said yesterday.  The central bank won’t resist raising rates if needed,
Assistant Governor Hendar said May 8.  Consumer prices  rose 5.57
percent in April from a year earlier, slowing from a 22-month
high of 5.9 percent in March.  The  Bank of Korea  cut  interest rates  last week, following
the lead of policy makers in Australia, Europe and India this
month. Malaysia kept rates unchanged on May 9.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Novrida Manurung in Jakarta at 
 nmanurung@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  