-- U.S. IRS Used Faulty Criteria to Flag Groups, Report Says
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2013-05-14T23:10:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-14/ineffective-irs-management-led-to-targeting-report-says.html
The Internal Revenue Service used
inappropriate criteria to select nonprofit groups for scrutiny
and “ineffective” management didn’t correct it, according to
an inspector general’s report.  The report, released today, cites no evidence of partisan
intent by IRS employees or involvement from outside the agency.  The practices at the IRS, which the agency first
acknowledged May 10, are the subject of four separate
congressional investigations and a Department of Justice
criminal probe.  The IRS apologized for singling out groups seeking tax-exempt status for extra scrutiny based on whether their names
included words such as “tea party” and “patriot.”  The
report said that only “first-line management” approved
references to the Tea Party in criteria for flagging the groups.  The tax agency said in a statement tonight that it didn’t
disclose targeting of nonprofit groups based on ideology because
officials didn’t want to interfere with an inspector general’s
investigation.  “There was no intent to hide this issue,” the IRS said.  The inspector general also criticized the IRS for delays in
processing applications and for asking questions that the agency
later deemed unnecessary.  The criteria as designed were ineffective in helping the
IRS determine which groups applying for  tax -exempt status should
receive extra scrutiny because they might be primarily
political. The report estimates that the tax agency missed 141
applications that should have been flagged.  Changed Criteria  The corrective actions taken by the IRS haven’t resolved 
all issues, the report said.  The report found that the team of specialists reviewing
applications at one point changed the criteria to focus on the
groups’ policy positions, without receiving approval from
managers, because they thought the rules were too broad.
Supervisors didn’t find out about the change for three months,
and then revised the criteria again.  The inspector general “continues to believe that the IRS
should better document the reasons why applications potentially
involving political campaign intervention are chosen for review
and develop and publish guidance,” the report said.  The inspector general, Russell George, and the acting IRS
commissioner, Steven Miller, are scheduled to testify at a Ways
and Means Committee hearing May 17.  The White House said it had no involvement in the matter.  “I am certainly not aware and am confident that no one
here was involved in this,” White House spokesman Jay Carney
said in  Washington  today before the report’s release. “We have
to find out exactly what happened.”  Extra Scrutiny  The IRS told congressional staff during a briefing
yesterday that 471 groups have received additional scrutiny,
according to a  letter  sent by the House Oversight and Government
Reform Committee to the IRS. The letter didn’t say how many of
the groups were Tea Party-related.  IRS officials told oversight panel staff that applications
from organizations seeking tax-exempt status were “essentially
placed in a state of purgatory where they often languished
without action” for as long as two years, panel Chairman
Darrell Issa, a California Republican, said in a letter to the
agency.  No IRS employee has been disciplined, the letter said,
while one employee who reviewed applications in the IRS’s
Cincinnati office has “received a promotion or a ‘career
enhancement.’”  The acting IRS commissioner said the agency’s errors in
targeting small-government groups stemmed from the lack of a
“sufficient process” and weren’t the result of partisanship.  Applications Doubled  In an  opinion piece  in USA Today, Miller wrote that the IRS
sought to centralize its handling of applications for tax-exempt
status following a “sharp increase” in the number of
applications, which more than doubled between 2010 and 2012.  “While centralizing cases for consistency made sense, the
way we initially centralized them did not,” he wrote. “The
mistakes we made were due to the absence of a sufficient process
for working the increase in cases and a lack of sensitivity to
the implications of some of the decisions that were made.”  The House Ways and Means Committee today requested
documents from the IRS that explain who knew about the targeting
inside and outside the agency and why the IRS didn’t tell
lawmakers about what the inspector general had found. The letter
also asked whether groups whose missions involved  Israel 
received special attention.  Miller and then-commissioner Douglas Shulman were briefed
on the investigation in May 2012.  ‘Purposely Misled’  “I think they purposely misled me,” said Senator Orrin Hatch of  Utah , the top Republican on the Finance Committee.
“This is really, really, very disconcerting to me.”  Attorney General Eric Holder said at a news conference
today that he ordered a criminal investigation May 10.  “Those were, I think as everyone can agree, if not
criminal, they were certainly outrageous and unacceptable,”
Holder said. “We are examining the facts to see if there were
criminal violations.”  Several lawmakers including Republican Senators Marco Rubio
of  Florida , Roy Blunt of Missouri, and John Cornyn of  Texas ,
have called on Miller to resign.  Anti-tax Tea Party groups, some of which include the word
“patriot” in their names, formed after Obama took office in
January 2009 and helped fuel gains by Republicans in the 2010
midterm election that gave the party control of the U.S. House.  In addition to groups with “tea party” and “patriot” in
their names, other organizations selected for the additional IRS
review included those in which “statements in the case file
criticize how the country is being run,” according to a June
29, 2011, briefing given to Lerner, the timetable says.  The IRS has been under pressure to regulate political
spending by nonprofit groups, in particular those falling under
Section 501(c)(4) of the U.S. tax code. Organizations qualifying
for that status don’t have to disclose donors even when engaging
in political activity.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  