-- Intesa Quarterly Profit Beats Estimates on Trading Income
-- B y   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i   a n d   F r a n c e s c a   C i n e l l i
-- 2013-05-14T14:48:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-14/intesa-first-quarter-profit-drops-on-lower-income-from-lending.html
Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP) ,  Italy ’s second-biggest bank, said first-quarter profit fell less than expected
after trading income exceeded analyst estimates.  Net income dropped to 306 million euros ($397 million) from
804 million euros a year earlier, the Milan-based bank said in a
statement today. Earnings beat the 287 million-euro  average
estimate  of nine analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Intesa posted a
gain of 180 million euros in the year-earlier quarter after
buying back securities.  While Italy’s longest recession in two decades is
depressing  interest rates  and hurting margins for lenders in the
country, Intesa reported trading income of 455 million euros was
63 percent higher than analyst estimates. Chief Executive
Officer Enrico Cucchiani is reducing costs and reorganizing the
bank’s branch network to strengthen finances and boost capital.  Results are “better than expected thanks to higher trading
income and lower costs,” Annamaria Benassi, an analyst at
Kepler Cheuvreux, wrote in a note to clients. The bank’s focus
remains on  credit quality  and its capital ratio, she said.  Intesa shares rose as much as 2.7 percent in Milan trading
today, and were up 2.5 percent to 1.42 euros at 4:20 p.m. The
stock has advanced 9 percent this year in line with the 40-company  Bloomberg Banks and Financial Services Index .  Revenue fell 14 percent to 4.12 billion euros as interest
income dropped 19 percent to 2.02 billion euros.  Capture Opportunities  “I am pleased with the first-quarter results, which are in
line with our dividend commitments,” Cucchiani said in a
separate statement. “In a more stable environment we now feel
prepared to move on and we are ready to capture opportunities.”  Intesa reiterated that it expects the  2013 dividend  to at
least match the 5 cents a share paid on last year’s earnings.  Operating costs fell 5 percent to 2.21 billion euros in the
quarter. Loan-loss provisions increased to 1.17 billion euros
from 973 million euros a year ago with a coverage ratio of 43.3
percent, the lender said. Provisions decreased 20 percent
quarter on quarter, as new inflows of bad loans decreased,
Cucchiani said, adding that the trend is confirmed by figures in
the first part of the second quarter.  The bank’s common equity ratio under Basel III rules, a key
gauge of financial strength, rose to 10.7 percent as of March
31, from 10.6 percent three months earlier.  LTRO Repayment  Intesa “holds an extraordinary cash buffer of 20 billion
euros,” Cucchiani said during a conference call. The bank may
invest the liquidity to make an early reimbursement of part of
the  European Central Bank ’s long-term refinancing operations and
to increase its Italian sovereign debt holdings, Chief Financial
Officer Carlo Messina said.  Intesa, which borrowed 36 billion euros during the LTRO and
invested part of that amount in  government bonds , kept Italian
bond holdings at 90 billion euros as of March 31, in line with
three months earlier. The average maturity of its portfolio is
1.8 years, the CFO said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net ;
Francesca Cinelli in Milan at 
 fcinelli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  