-- InvenSense Ups Legal Debate With STMicro on MEMS Patents
-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 2013-05-14T22:46:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-14/invensense-ups-legal-debate-with-stmicro-on-mems-patents.html
InvenSense Inc. sued
 STMicroelectronics NV (STM) , claiming the Swiss company is infringing
its patented inventions for motion sensors that are becoming
ubiquitous in everything from smartphones to hand tools.  The lawsuit, brought today in federal court in Marshall,
 Texas , broadens a dispute between the two companies over micro-electro-mechanical systems, or MEMS. At issue is a technology
that senses when consumers turn, touch and tap their gadgets,
such as when a smartphone is held at a different angle.  Each company has claimed to be the pioneer for key
technology in the systems, which incorporate motion sensors and
are used in cameras, fitness equipment, smartphones, tools,
remote controls and other devices. The motion-processor market
is projected to grow to 1.4 billion units by 2014, while
shipments of gyroscopes used in smartphones may reach 358
million units by then, up from 49 million units in 2010,
Sunnyvale, California-based InvenSense said in the complaint.  The company asked the court to prevent “the unlawful and
unauthorized exploitation and use of its innovative patented
technology” by STMicroelectronics, in court papers.  InvenSense inventions are used in Nintendo Inc.’s Wii
MotionPlus, smartphones and tablet computers made by Samsung
Electronics Co., HTC Corp., and ZTE Corp., as well as tools by
Stanley Black & Decker Inc. and remote controls for Roku Inc.
The company reported $208.6 million in fiscal 2013 sales.  MEMS Leader  STMicroelectronics, based in Geneva, leads the MEMS field,
according to data published by Lyon, France-based researcher
Yole Developpement. The manufacturer had MEMS revenue of $1
billion last year, Yole said in a February report.  InvenSense has claimed that the Swiss company was late to
the consumer market for MEMS gyroscopes and then used invalid
patents in litigation.  A civil suit STMicroelectronics brought in  California  is on
hold while the patents involved are reviewed by the U.S. Patent
and Trademark Office. STMicroelectronics filed a U.S.
International Trade Commission case in March against InvenSense,
seeking to block imports of Stanley screwdrivers and Roku remote
controls.  The new case is  InvenSense Inc. (INVN)  v. STMicroelectronics Inc.,
13cv405, U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Texas
(Marshall).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  