-- IOI to Spin Off Property Arm for Separate Kuala Lumpur Listing
-- B y   R a n j e e t h a   P a k i a m
-- 2013-05-14T06:24:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-14/ioi-to-spin-off-property-arm-for-separate-kuala-lumpur-listing.html
IOI Corp. (IOI) , Malaysia’s second-biggest
palm oil producer by market value, said it plans to spin off its
property assets for a separate listing to boost its profile and
unlock shareholder value.  The Selangor-based planter intends to sell 12.7 billion
ringgit ($4.3 billion) of real estate and land to IOI Properties
Group Sdn. which would list on the Kuala Lumpur stock exchange,
according to a regulatory filing today. IOI Corp. would be paid
in stock in the new company, which it plans to distribute on a
one-for-three basis to existing shareholders, it said.  “This will give more transparency to their property
division,” Ivy Ng, an analyst at CIMB Investment Bank Bhd.,
said by phone. “Once it’s carved out, people will see how well
they are doing and give them a proper valuation. In that sense,
it’s positive.”  IOI has a 26-year track record in real estate starting out
in township development in  Malaysia , according its website It’s
now expanding abroad, starting with  Singapore . The group
generated 584 million ringgit, or 24 percent of its  operating
income , from its property and hotels operations in its last
financial year ended June 2012, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  IOI Properties may list shares at least 4.46 ringgit each,
the filing showed. With a proposed total of 3.287 billion shares,
that would value the new company at 14.7 billion ringgit,
according to calculations by Bloomberg News. A restricted offer
for remaining shares would be made, it said.  Raising Funds  The demerger comes four years after IOI Corp. bought out
and delisted its real estate unit. After restructuring, IOI Corp.
would focus on its core commodities business and hold no direct
stake in the property group, even though both listed companies
would have some common shareholders.  “The proposed demerger provides a platform for the
respective entities to pursue different and a more tailored
business strategy,” IOI Corp. said in the statement. Listing
the property group will “further enhance its corporate
reputation,” helping the developer raise funds and expand its
customer base, it said.  IOI Corp. halted  shares  on May 9 ahead of today’s
announcement and last traded at 5.33 ringgit, up 4.1 percent.  AMMB Holdings Bhd., RHB Capital Bhd. and Standard Chartered
Plc were appointed joint global coordinators for the proposals,
IOI Corp. said.  As part of the plan, IOI Properties would buy 196.3 million
ringgit of assets from companies controlled by the group’s Chief
Executive Officer Lee Shin Cheng. IOI Corp. would get additional
shares in lieu of 1.8 billion ringgit of debt, the filing showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ranjeetha Pakiam in Kuala Lumpur at 
 rpakiam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Barry Porter in Kuala Lumpur at 
 bporter10@bloomberg.net ;
Andreea Papuc in Hong Kong at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  