-- Iran-Based Hackers Traced to Cyber Attack on U.S. Company
-- B y   C h r i s   S t r o h m
-- 2013-05-14T19:05:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-14/iran-based-hackers-traced-to-cyber-attack-on-u-s-company.html
A previously unknown hacking group
believed to be based in  Iran  has started cyber attacks inside
the U.S., according to Mandiant Corp., a security company that’s
linked China’s army to similar activity.  The Iranian group emerged within the last six months and
has infiltrated the networks of at least one U.S. corporation,
Richard Bejtlich, Mandiant’s chief security officer, said in an
interview in Washington today.  “You’re starting to see the Iranians get more active,”
Bejtlich said. “We’ve got at least one case where we think it’s
Iran, and we think what they are doing is trying to gain some
experience on a live network.”  Bejtlich’s observation backs assertions by U.S. politicians
including Representative Mike Rogers, a Michigan Republican and
chairman of the House Intelligence Committee, that Iranian
groups are behind recent cyber attacks.  Closely held Mandiant, based in Alexandria,  Virginia ,
released a report in February concluding China’s People’s
Liberation Army may be behind the hacking of at least 141
companies worldwide since 2006.  Mandiant is investigating the new group’s tactics and
hasn’t concluded it’s backed by Iran’s government, Bejtlich
said. “We don’t know if it’s the government,” he said. “We
don’t know if they’re patriotic hackers.”  The group’s motivation isn’t clear, and Bejtlich wouldn’t
name the U.S. company that has been infiltrated or what industry
is involved.  “We haven’t seen these guys before,” Bejtlich said.
“They are working their way through a network trying to figure
out where can they go; who will find them; who will stop them.”  Growing Threat  Allegations that the Iranian government is behind cyber
attacks are “baseless,” Alireza Miryusefi, a spokesman for the
country, said in an e-mailed statement. Iran has been repeatedly
targeted in hacking attacks sponsored by other governments and
wants an international legal framework to address issues
surrounding cyber warfare, he said.  Mandiant tracks about two dozen groups considered to be the
most aggressive attackers, known as advanced persistent threats.
The majority of the groups are based in  China  while others are
Russian or Eastern European, Bejtlich said.  Bejtlich said he is increasingly worried about cyber
attacks escalating from espionage to sabotage, or the
destruction of computer systems.  Persistent Attacks  “No one’s been talking about that previously,” he said.
“What I worry about is that someone’s going to make a decision
to do that and either not think through the consequences or
understand the consequences, or even care about the
consequences.”  The House has passed legislation, H.R. 624, that would
encourage information sharing about threats between the
government and private sector.  Bejtlich said information sharing alone won’t stop cyber
attacks. The group in China identified in Mandiant’s February
report continues its attacks, for example, he said.  “There are plenty of sites that are still being attacked
by the same group using the same methods and the same
infrastructure,” Bejtlich said. “It’s clear that even when you
make information completely free and just available for
download, it’s not going to solve the world’s problems.”  He said legislation is needed clarifying that companies can
protect their networks from attacks, and businesses need to
remain vigilant.  “We respond to companies that are armed like Fort Knox and
it didn’t make a difference,” he said. “If you’re a
sufficiently juicy target, they will find their way in no matter
what you have.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Strohm in  Washington  at 
 cstrohm1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  