-- Third Point’s Daniel Loeb Seeks Breakup of Sony, N.Y. Times Says
-- B y   N a o k o   F u j i m u r a
-- 2013-05-14T07:15:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-14/third-point-s-daniel-loeb-seeks-breakup-of-sony-n-y-times-says.html
Billionaire  Daniel Loeb , founder of
U.S. hedge fund Third Point, has called for a breakup of  Sony
Corp. (6758) , the  New York  Times reported, citing unidentified people
familiar with the matter.  Loeb has acquired a 6.5 percent stake in Sony and wants the
company to spin off part of its entertainment arm that includes
a Hollywood movie studio and music business, the newspaper
reported. Sony is checking the report and wasn’t immediately
able to comment, spokeswoman  Mami Imada  said today.  Sony last week forecast a 16 percent increase in profit as
it rolls out new Xperia smartphones and Bravia televisions to
recapture market share lost to Samsung Electronics Co., while
benefiting from a weaker yen. Chief Executive Officer  Kazuo Hirai  has used job cuts, asset sales, the currency and
blockbuster movies to revive earnings after four years of losses
as the electronics business struggles to keep consumers.  Loeb flew to Tokyo and hand-delivered a letter to Hirai
supporting his turnaround efforts and seeking more action, the
newspaper said.  Sony rose 1.2 percent to close at 1,877 yen in Tokyo
trading today, extending its gain this year to 96 percent.  Loeb expects that spinning off a portion of the
entertainment business could sharpen Sony’s focus and improve
profit margins, the newspaper reported. He is also pushing for a
spinoff of its insurance unit, the New York times reported.  TV Forecasts  Sony expects to sell 16 million TVs this fiscal year, up
from 13.5 million, as it focuses on ultra-high definition
screens that offer resolution four times sharper than
conventional models.  The company reiterated its target for the TV operation to
post a profit this year after racking up 800 billion yen in
losses since 2004.  Hirai’s plan to revive the consumer-electronics business
focuses on games, cameras and mobile devices, including the
flagship Xperia Z smartphone revealed at January’s  Consumer
Electronics Show  in  Las Vegas .  Sony’s electronics operation will turn an operating profit
of about 100 billion yen this fiscal year, compared with a loss
of 130 billion yen a year earlier, it said last week. Smartphone
sales are expected to rise to 42 million units from 33 million
units.  In February, Sony previewed the PlayStation 4 video-game
console that will go on sale for the year-end holiday season.
The company’s first home-gaming machine in seven years will make
its debut amid an industry shift toward games played on
smartphones and tablets.  Profit at the game unit will be “essentially flat” as the
company boosts spending on research, development and marketing,
it said. Sales will rise “significantly” on the introduction
of the PS4.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naoko Fujimura in  Tokyo  at 
 nfujimura@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  