-- IRS Focus on Tea Parties Stirs Dissent on Health Care Law
-- B y   J u l i e   B y k o w i c z
-- 2013-05-14T02:06:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-14/irs-focus-on-tea-parties-stirs-dissent-on-health-care-law.html
A handful of Cincinnati-based
Internal Revenue Service employees have accomplished what no
bipartisan White House dinner ever could: uniting the  U.S.
Congress .  Capitol Hill lawmakers are now on a mission to dissect how
the tax agency wound up targeting Republican-friendly groups for
extra scrutiny. Republican Senate Leader  Mitch McConnell  called
it a “travesty” and the chamber’s majority leader, Democrat
 Harry Reid , termed the matter “very troubling.”  Legislation banning such practices was introduced
yesterday, and four committees put the topic on the House and
Senate calendars. The House Ways and Means Committee will hold
the first hearing into the subject on May 17.  While the top tax collectors at the IRS face grillings in
Congress, the ramifications of the outrage are likely to ripple
far beyond them.  Even as President  Barack Obama  yesterday labeled the IRS
action “outrageous,” the issue will complicate his ability to
press other initiatives, including implementing the  health-care 
law, in which the IRS plays an enforcement role, political
scientists and strategists from both parties said yesterday.  “This was dirty, no question, and it will do nothing to
improve the tense relationship between the Obama administration
and Republican leaders,” said Kenneth Warren, a political
science professor at Saint Louis University in  Missouri .  Political Spending  At the same time, government watchdog groups and tax
attorneys expressed concern the revelations would hobble efforts
to police money in politics. Outside groups -- including
nonprofits that don’t disclose their donors -- pumped about $1
billion into the 2012 federal elections, three times as much as
they did four years earlier, according to the Center for
Responsive Politics, based in  Washington .  The uproar began last week when Lois Lerner, the IRS
official in charge of overseeing tax-exempt groups, apologized
for the Cincinnati workers’ review and said the agency was wrong
to pay special attention to groups promoting limited government.
The extra IRS scrutiny was given to organizations seeking tax-exempt status if they had “ tea party ” or “patriot” in their
name, she said. Her disclosure on May 10 came ahead of an
Inspector General’s report expected to be released this week.  Scrutiny Sought  In the months before last November’s election, Democracy 21
and the Campaign Legal Center, two Washington-based groups that
track political spending, asked the IRS to investigate four
high-profile nonprofit groups active in the 2012 presidential
race: Crossroads Grassroots Policy Strategies and American
Action Network, pro-Republican groups; Priorities USA, which
worked to help Obama; and Americans Elect, which was supporting
an independent candidate for president.  “These four cases and others like them must not be ignored
or swept under the rug because of the wrongful actions of the
IRS in the case of the conservative groups who were targeted,”
Democracy 21 president  Fred Wertheimer  said in a statement
yesterday.  Rather than scrutinizing the biggest players in last year’s
election, at least some of the IRS letters were aimed at state-based, anti-tax Tea Party groups.  Tom Zawistowski, the former president of an Ohio Tea Party
group who was among the first to publicize the IRS’s demands
last year, said it was distracting and demoralizing for Tea
Party groups like his.  IRS Questions  His Ohio Liberty Council Corp., later renamed the Ohio
Liberty Coalition, was founded to coordinate Tea Party
activities in one of the hardest-fought states in the
presidential election. The group applied in 2010 to be a tax-exempt social welfare group. After months of silence, the IRS
wrote to the group on Jan. 26, 2012, with dozens of questions.  Among the requests, the IRS wanted “a narrative
description” of every activity the organization had taken part
in during the past two years. The agency also wanted hard-copy
printouts of every social-media site, including  Facebook (FB) ,
curated by the group. It wanted to know “the names and
credentials of instructors” of past and planned events.  “Most of these questions had nothing to do with our tax
status,” Zawistowski said. “It was beyond maddening. It didn’t
feel right at all.”  He publicized his communications with the IRS on websites
including theblaze.com, founded by conservative radio talk show
host  Glenn Beck .  Afterward, Zawistowski fielded calls from
other Tea Party groups that had received similar demands.  ‘Stopped Me’  “This IRS issue stopped me from having time during the
election from doing the things I wanted to do,” he said. Heads
of Tea Party groups across the country were “terrified” by the
IRS inquiries, he said.  Zawistowski provided  Bloomberg News  with some of the IRS
communications other Tea Party groups shared with him, while
others posted those documents online.  The Waco Tea Party in  Texas , which also had sought tax-exempt status, received an IRS letter dated Feb. 1, 2012, asking
for reams of material such as “copies of any agreements you
have with others for provision of goods or services, sharing of
facilities or other cooperative arrangements, or anything
else.”  That request and a line in the letter that responses would
be “available for public inspection,” set off alarms for Waco
Tea Party president Toby Marie Walker.  “We chose to become a C4 to shield members and donors and
vendors from the public,” she said, referring to the  tax code 
that covers nonprofits. “There were so many stories about Tea
Party people being racist and extremist, we just didn’t want
anyone losing their jobs or business over helping us.”  Lost Donors  She said she and other Tea Party groups lost donors and
members because “we had to defend ourselves to the IRS and to
the public. People assumed we had done something wrong because
the IRS doesn’t just pick on people. Well, they do.”  The Hawaii Tea Party received an IRS letter Jan. 26, 2012,
demanding information about the group’s board members, officers,
employees and their family members.  The IRS also sought details about the Hawaii group’s
relationship with the Leadership Institute, an Arlington,
Virginia-based organization that trains Tea Party leaders. The
IRS wanted to know more about whether Dylan Nonaka, the former
executive director of the Hawaii Republican Party, had trained
the new Tea Party group.  Still other groups were asked about their connection to
Americans for Prosperity, a nonprofit group co-founded more than
a decade ago by billionaire industrialists Charles and  David
Koch . Obama named the organization in 2010 speeches about the
corrosive influence of money in politics.  Koch Group  A Jan. 26, 2012, IRS letter to the Georgia Tea Party probed
its relationship with Americans for Prosperity. The letter,
provided to Bloomberg News by AFP, asked the Georgia group to
explain its relationship with the Arlington-based organization
and provide the IRS with copies of contracts with and training
materials provided by the AFP.  “At the time we thought it was awfully odd for the IRS to
be interested in something like that,” said AFP president  Tim
Phillips  in a telephone interview. “Now we know that it was
part of a pattern of abuse. This is large-scale and
systematic.”  The Washington-based American Center for  Law and Justice 
disputed the IRS’s claim that the singling out of Tea Party
groups came from lower-level IRS employees in Cincinnati, saying
it has questionable inquiries from four IRS offices.  Some of the organizations affected are considering a
lawsuit, said Jay Sekulow, chief counsel of the American Center
for Law and Justice, which represents 27 Tea Party groups.  Health-Care Alarm  “It is no wonder that, in light of the open and notorious
politicization of the IRS vis-a-vis Tea Party and other
conservative groups, many Americans view with outright alarm the
called-for expansion of the IRS to implement the Affordable Care
Act,” Sekulow wrote yesterday in an open letter to  Steven
Miller , acting commissioner of the IRS. “Agencies like the IRS
must be scrupulously apolitical to retain the confidence and
trust or the American people.”  The IRS is charged with enforcing most of the laws that
changed after Congress approved Obama’s health-care package in
2010. Much of the phased-in measure will be in effect by next
year.  Republicans who have never stopped seeking to thwart the
health-care law now can wield the IRS treatment of Tea Party
groups as evidence that their suspicions about government
overreach are well-founded, said  Bruce Buchanan , a political
science professor at the  University of Texas  at Austin.  “This will complicate at least to some degree the way the
IRS is viewed on health care,” Buchanan said.  ‘Credibility Issue’  Those opposing it “will push the credibility issue for as
long as it will hold water,” he said.  Some Tea Party leaders subjected to the IRS’s extensive
questioning said they’re now more concerned about the
ramifications of the health-care measure and feel validated that
the IRS is now -- more than a year later -- acknowledging their
claims of having been targeted.  “This is at the heart of governance, at the heart of what
the Tea Party is about,” said Zawistowski. “This is  Big
Brother . This is 1984. And these are the people who will be in
charge of Obamacare. I’m happy to be engaged in this fight
because it’s the real fight.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Bykowicz in Washington at 
 jbykowicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  