-- Israeli Cabinet Votes to Send Netanyahu Budget to Parliament
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r
-- 2013-05-14T05:00:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-14/israeli-cabinet-votes-to-send-netanyahu-budget-to-parliament-1-.html
Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu’s Cabinet approved a two-year budget of 796 billion
shekels ($220 billion) that cuts defense outlays and raises
taxes to keep deficit spending within government targets.  The Cabinet voted 21 to 1 to send the package to parliament
in an overnight session that ended shortly before 6 a.m., the
Finance Ministry said in an e-mailed statement. Passage was
assured once Defense Minister Moshe Ya’alon agreed to trim
spending by 3 billion shekels, below the Finance Ministry’s
demand for 4 billion shekels. Other ministry budgets were cut to
make up for the change.  Finance Minister Yair Lapid said in the statement that he
would soon introduce measures to bring down housing prices,
broaden army service for the ultra-Orthodox and close corporate
tax loopholes.  “Approval of the 2013-2014 budget is the first step in
changing the way of life in  Israel ,” Lapid said.  The budget as approved sets 2013 spending close to last
year’s levels at 388 billion shekels and 2014 expenditures at
408 billion shekels. The moves are necessary to meet a deficit
target of 4.65 percent of economic output this year and 3
percent in 2014, the ministry said. Standard & Poor’s lowered
Israel’s local currency rating to A+/A-1 from AA/A-1+ on May 2,
citing “recent fiscal slippage.”  After agreeing to modify the defense budget cuts, the
Cabinet voted to reduce spending in all other ministries by 2
percent in 2013 and 3 percent in 2014, a total of 1 billion
shekels. The Finance Ministry proposed that after Cabinet votes
on the budget, it be brought before parliament for final
approval by June 10.  Budget Protests  A May 11 demonstration in Tel Aviv against budget cuts and
higher taxes drew several thousand Israelis. Similar protests in
the summer of 2011 led the government to recommend a series of
measures to ease the burden on the middle class.  Bank of Israel  Governor Stanley Fischer said last week that
he supports the budget proposal, calling it “courageous” and
adding that “all of society must carry the burden.”  The central bank yesterday unexpectedly cut its benchmark
interest rate by 25 basis points to a three-year low of 1.5
percent, and announced an effort to limit gains in the shekel by
purchasing about $2.1 billion in foreign currency.  The shekel retreated 1.2 percent to 3.6139 per dollar after
the announcement yesterday, the biggest one-day drop since
August.  State Comptroller Joseph Shapira said yesterday that he
will investigate how the government deficit ballooned,
responding to questions from lawmakers, according to an e-mailed
statement from his office.  In an effort to build parliamentary support for the budget,
Lapid said he would delay plans to cut funding to the
educational network run by the ultra-Orthodox Shas movement,
according to a text message from his office.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Ferziger in Tel Aviv at 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  