-- Israel Inflation Rate Drops to 0.8%, Below Target
-- B y   G w e n   A c k e r m a n   a n d   A l i s a   O d e n h e i m e r
-- 2013-05-14T11:32:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-14/israel-inflation-rate-drops-to-0-8-below-target.html
Israel ’s  inflation  rate dropped to a
six-year low in April, adding to the economic evidence that
spurred policy makers to cut borrowing costs yesterday.  Annual inflation slowed to 0.8 percent in April from 1.3
percent in March, the Jerusalem-based  Central Bureau of
Statistics  reported today. That’s in line with the median
estimate in a Bloomberg  survey  of 14 economists and puts
inflation below the government’s 1 percent to 3 percent target
for the first time since July 2007. Consumer prices rose 0.4
percent from the previous month, as expected.  “There are no inflationary pressures at present except for
housing prices,” Victor Bahar, deputy manager of Bank Hapoalim
Ltd.’s economics department, said by phone from  Tel Aviv .
“There is a global effect, there is no inflation in any Western
country.”  In an unscheduled move yesterday, the  Bank of Israel , led
by Governor  Stanley Fischer , cut the benchmark  interest rate  by
a quarter percentage point to 1.5 percent and pledged to buy
about $2.1 billion by the end of the year, in an effort to tame
the shekel’s gains.  The currency has advanced 2.7 percent this year, the
second-biggest after Mexico’s peso among the 31 most-traded
currencies. The currency strengthened this year as investors
were lured by the start of natural gas production and rates more
than double the U.S.’s.  Fischer Departure  The Bank of Israel started buying dollars in April for the
first time in two years to arrest the shekel’s climb and bolster
exports, which make up about 40 percent of Israel’s economy.  The central bank move came a little more than a month
before Fischer plans to step down. The former No. 2 at the
 International Monetary Fund  said he was leaving for personal
reasons, mostly because his family is in the U.S. and he has
achieved many of the goals he wanted to accomplish.  The rate cut came hours before before Israel’s Cabinet
approved a spending plan designed to contain the  budget deficit 
at 4.65 percent of gross domestic product this year and 3
percent in 2014.  “The recent agreement on Israel’s 2013-14 budget means
that the Bank can convince itself that fiscal policy is at least
’anchored’, and this allows more aggressive monetary policy,”
 David Lubin , chief emerging-markets economist at Citigroup Inc.,
wrote in an e-mailed report.  The central bank has gradually reduced the rate from 3.25
percent in 2011, in large part to shore up the economy amid the
European debt crisis.  Inflation Expectations  “Domestically, there is more competitiveness, more
regulation, cellphone prices fell dramatically in Israel, six
months ago preschool became free of charge,” said Bahar. “Food
prices have been under pressure since the social protests” of
2011, he said.  Economic  growth  is forecast to slow to 2.8 percent this
year, from 3.2 percent in 2012, excluding first-time natural-gas
revenue forecast to add another percentage point, according to
the central bank.  Economists’ average 12-month  inflation expectations 
declined to 1.8 percent, the lowest since 2009, according to a
central bank survey released March 17.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alisa Odenheimer in Jerusalem at 
 aodenheimer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  