-- Itau Agrees to Pay Citi $1.37 Billion to Reclaim Credicard
-- B y   F r a n c i s c o   M a r c e l i n o   a n d   C r i s t i a n e   L u c c h e s i
-- 2013-05-15T22:35:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-14/itau-agrees-to-pay-citigroup-1-37-billion-to-retake-credicard.html
Itau Unibanco Holding SA,  Latin
America ’s largest bank by market value, agreed to buy  Citigroup
Inc. (C) ’s Credicard unit for 2.77 billion reais ($1.37 billion),
gaining an additional 10 percent share of  Brazil ’s card market.  Itau will add about 4.8 million accounts with the
acquisition of Credicard, a company it  helped  create, according
to a filing yesterday. Sao Paulo-based Itau also will acquire
Credicard’s consumer-finance business. The sale is expected to
result in a gain of $300 million, or 10 cents a share, for
Citigroup, the New York-based bank said in a statement.  “We see the price paid as reasonable, particularly given
the potential for synergy gains,” BES Securities do Brasil SA
analysts including Gustavo Schroden wrote in a note to clients
today. “We reiterate our view that cards are a core component
of the bank’s future strategy.”  Itau paid 10.5 billion reais last year to acquire payment
processor Redecard SA to cut costs. Citigroup, the world’s
biggest credit-card lender, is exiting or scaling down consumer
businesses in some  emerging markets  to boost returns.  The deal, subject to approval by Brazilian regulators,
includes 96 Credicard stores and $3.26 billion in consumer-loan
balances as of Dec. 31, according to Citigroup. The transaction
excludes some card portfolios such as corporate and American
Airlines cards, the  U.S. bank  said.  To grow in Brazil, Itau must address the challenges that
the nation’s consumers face in “gaining access to banking
services,” Chief Executive Officer Roberto Setubal, 58, said in
a statement. “The credit card is one of the main instruments
for this goal.”  ‘Global Strategy’  “This transaction demonstrates how we are finding ways to
optimize our businesses and focus on specific segments in the
emerging markets, consistent with our global strategy,”
Francisco Aristeguieta, CEO of Citi Latin America, said in the
statement.  Itau  climbed  1.7 percent to 35.10 reais in  Sao Paulo .
Citigroup  gained 2.5 percent .  Credicard was founded by Itau, Citigroup and Uniao de
Bancos Brasileiros SA, known as Unibanco, in the early 1970s,
according to Credicard’s website. In 1996, the three lenders
created Redecard as a spinoff of Credicard. Itau and Citigroup
bought Unibanco’s stake in the credit-card issuer in 2004 for
1.54 billion reais. A year later, Itau and Citigroup split
Credicard’s accounts and assets. Itau bought Unibanco in 2009
for about 27 billion reais.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Francisco Marcelino in Sao Paulo at 
 mdeoliveira@bloomberg.net ;
Cristiane Lucchesi in Sao Paulo at 
 clucchesi5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  