-- Jersey City Mayor Dogged by Scandal Faces Ex-Bond Trader
-- B y   E l i s e   Y o u n g
-- 2013-05-14T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-14/jersey-city-mayor-dogged-by-scandal-faces-ex-bond-trader.html
Jersey City Mayor Jerramiah Healy,
62-year-old veteran of political hazards that include a drunken
nude photo and an FBI sting, wants a third full term. Backing
him are President  Barack Obama  and Newark Mayor Cory Booker.  Healy’s main challenger in today’s election, Steven Fulop,
a 36-year-old city councilman who left Sanford C. Bernstein &
Co.’s trading desk to campaign, says it’s time for Healy to quit
embarrassing New Jersey’s second-most populous city, four
minutes by train beneath the Hudson River to  Manhattan . Fulop’s
backers include Appaloosa Management co-founder David Tepper and
 Pennant Capital (PFLT)  Management founder Alan Fournier.  The two candidates are frontrunners for control of a city
government savvy enough to coax  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , UBS AG
and  Citigroup Inc. (C)  to open offices there, earning it the
nickname “Wall Street West,” yet powerless to shake a 100-year
reputation for crooked Democratic politics.  “It really is a test case in terms of a new guard entering
the fray,” said  Brigid Harrison , a professor of politics and
law at Montclair State University. “That old guard has retained
power. When people conjure up images of the city, it’s one in
which party machines are enormously important.”  Healy and Fulop are registered Democrats, though today’s
race, which has two others on the ballot, is nonpartisan. If no
candidate receives more than 50 percent of the vote, the top two
will compete in a June 11 runoff.  Hudson Democrats  Jersey City, 15 miles (24 kilometers) square, became known
for political corruption starting in 1917 under the 30-year rule
of Democrat Frank Hague, whose hallmark was boss-style patronage
and election fraud framed by his declaration, “I am the law.”
Mayor Thomas Gangemi Sr., an Italian immigrant, resigned in 1963
because he had never become a U.S. citizen. Mayor Thomas Whelan
was convicted of extortion in a 1971 federal case.  In 1991, Mayor Gerald McCann was convicted in a savings-and-loan scheme linked to a marina development. Released from
federal prison in 1994, he was hired as a city incinerator
inspector and elected as trustee for Jersey City schools, the
first ever taken over by the state of New Jersey, in 1989, for
poor performance.  Healy, a former prosecutor, municipal judge and councilman,
became mayor after winning a November 2004 special election to
succeed Glenn Cunningham, who died of a heart attack. He was re-elected in June 2005 and again in June 2009.  Nude Photo  The mayor declined to be interviewed for this story, said
Joshua Henne, a campaign spokesman.  In 2004, while Healy was still a councilman, a photo of him
sleeping nude on his front porch was posted on the Internet. The
 New York  Times quoted Healy saying in 2006 that he didn’t
remember how he got on his porch after drinking six to eight
beers at a local bar.  In an interview this year with the Star-Ledger, Healy was
quoted as saying that “three Hispanic girls” lured him
outside, pulled off the towel wrapped around him and did
“filthy” things to him. He chased them off, then sat on the
porch, and was then photographed by a political enemy, he was
quoted by the paper as saying.  In 2006, the mayor was arrested and convicted of a
disorderly-persons offense after scuffling with police outside a
Bradley Beach bar owned by his sister. Four years later, the
state Supreme Court’s disciplinary review board admonished him
for the incident, and the Jersey Journal of Jersey City called
for his resignation.  Bid Rig  In 2009, Jersey City was rocked by “Operation Bid Rig,”
the largest Federal Bureau of Investigation corruption sting in
New Jersey history, which netted 44 public officials and rabbis
across the state. The case led to prison sentences for Healy’s
deputy mayor, Leona Baldini, who had been his campaign
treasurer, and several other aides and allies.  Healy, recorded on an FBI hidden camera meeting with an
undercover informant, was never charged in that case. Fulop used
the  footage  in a campaign ad with a tagline, “Mayor Healy got
away with it.” Healy’s campaign issued a cease-and-desist
letter that called the material defamatory.  The mayor said that under his leadership, crime in his city
of nearly 250,000 people has dropped by a third. While other
major cities fired police officers to close budget gaps, Healy
has hired nearly 300, according to his campaign website.  ‘Same Values’  Healy, who was co-chairman of Obama’s New Jersey campaign,
said he and the president “share the same values that make up
the bedrock of the Democratic Party.” Obama, in his March 20
endorsement of Healy, said “we need more leaders like my
friend, Jerry Healy.”  “He’s made Jersey City a vital engine for economic growth,
innovation and opportunity,” Obama said.  Healy’s endorsements also include Booker, a rising
Democratic star and possible U.S. Senate candidate; Boston Mayor
Tom Menino and New York City Mayor Michael Bloomberg, the
founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News parent Bloomberg
LP.  Fulop has no comparable banner-name backing, though both
the Jersey Journal and the Star-Ledger have endorsed him.  “We have John from Gifford Avenue and Paul from Duncan
Avenue,” Fulop, referring generically to neighborhood support,
said in an interview. “It really speaks to the grassroots
thing.”  Tepper Committee  Fulop, who had worked for Citigroup and then Goldman before
leaving to serve with the Marines in  Iraq , has been able to draw
campaign interest from Wall Street. Better Education for New
Jersey Kids, a New Brunswick, New Jersey, political-action
committee started in 2011 by Tepper and Fournier, has funded
mailings supporting him.  “Fulop has a long history of putting the interests of the
public-school kids first, and standing up against the status
quo,” said Michael Lilley, a spokesman for Better Education.  Healy tried to get a Superior Court judge in Hudson County
to force the group to stop producing campaign ads. In a May 10
lawsuit, Healy accused it of engaging in “explicit advocacy of
Fulop’s candidacy” and skirting campaign-finance laws.  “Filing a frivolous lawsuit is what a desperate campaign
does when the state’s largest paper, The Star-Ledger, calls the
mayor ineffective, unethical and often downright embarrassing,”
said Bruno Tedeschi, a spokesman for Fulop.  Fulop’s campaign received $52,000 from Tepper, of
Livingston, and Fournier, of Far Hills, according to Healy’s
lawsuit. Neither responded to e-mails for comment on the race.  As of May 2, Fulop had raised more than Healy, $955,964 to
the incumbent’s $804,028, according to campaign-finance records.  Fulop says his success will depend on voter turnout.  “Our greatest obstacle is apathy,” Fulop said in an e-mail to supporters. “If the turnout is large on election day,
we win. If it’s not, we lose.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elise Young in Trenton at 
 eyoung30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  