-- Jolie Mastectomy Fuels Debate on Breast Cancer Treatment
-- B y   S h a n n o n   P e t t y p i e c e
-- 2013-05-14T22:21:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-14/jolie-mastectomy-fuels-debate-on-breast-cancer-treatment.html
Angelina Jolie’s decision to have a
double mastectomy is fueling debate among the thousands of women
at risk of developing breast cancer who want to know how, if and
when to have their breasts removed.  As many as 1 in 500 people in the U.S., including Jolie,
carry a genetic mutation that gives them about a  60 percent
chance  of developing breast cancer, doctors said. Women in that
group face the agonizing choice between surgery to remove their
breast tissue or close monitoring for early signs of cancer
along with drug treatments that can prevent tumor growth.  Those two paths, each with risks and benefits, can leave
patients confused and conflicted over how best to protect
themselves, said  Susan Domchek , a breast cancer researcher and
director of the Basser Research Center at the  University of
Pennsylvania . Jolie said she chose to have a double mastectomy
after learning she had the genetic mutation that increased her
risk for cancer, which killed her mother. Domchek said the
surgery hasn’t been found to dramatically improve a patient’s
life expectancy compared with vigilant screening and medicines
though it is the best way to prevent cancer from forming.  “When people have a mastectomy that is a totally
reasonable decision, and when people say ’I’m not ready to do
this,’ that is also totally reasonable,” Domchek said in a
telephone interview. “We have to be careful because there are
women out there who are greatly struggling with this and they
aren’t making a wrong decision by choosing screening.”  Genetic Mutations  Domchek and other doctors said Jolie’s disclosure in an
editorial in yesterday’s  New York  Times has driven a flood of
calls from patients asking if they should get surgery or tested
for the genetic mutations. The mutations in the BRCA1 and BRCA2
tumor-suppression genes are responsible for 5 to 10 percent of
all breast cancers and 10 to 15 percent of all ovarian cancers,
according to the  National Cancer Institute .  In normal circumstances, BRCA1 provides a protein that
repairs damaged DNA in cells. When BRCA1 is broken, the damage
accumulates, allowing cells to grow and divide uncontrollably,
forming tumors that can develop in the breast, ovaries,
fallopian tube and pancreas, according to the  National
Institutes of Health .  “Once I knew that this was my reality, I decided to be
proactive and to minimize the risk as much I could,” Jolie, 37,
wrote. Three months of medical procedures for the mastectomies
culminated with breast reconstruction and implant surgery on
April 27, she said.  Breast Reconstruction  About 458,000 women worldwide, including 40,000 in the
U.S., die annually from breast cancer. In the U.S., more than
100,000 women undergo mastectomy each year to remove breast
tissue that could harbor malignant cells, according to Decision
Resources, an industry analysis group based in Burlington,
 Massachusetts .  Different types of mastectomies are performed and new
technologies have improved how well doctors can reconstruct the
breasts, said  Deborah Axelrod , a breast surgeon at NYU Langone
Medical Center. This includes a skin-saving operation that
minimizes scarring and gives a more natural look; a modified
type that takes all of the breast tissue while leaving the lymph
nodes under the arms; and a radical mastectomy that takes all of
the breast, many lymph nodes and the muscles of the chest wall
under the breast.  “I’ve seen improvement in the aesthetics of doing
mastectomies and patient satisfaction has increased,” Axelrod
said in a telephone interview.  Drug Therapy  A mastectomy can cost $15,000 to $50,000 or more, depending
on local rates and how extensive the surgery and is typically
covered by insurance. The cost of treating breast cancer after
it appears can top $100,000 a year, depending on the type of
tumor and the surgery, drug therapy and radiation treatment a
woman undergoes, according to a 2009 study in the journal
PharmacoEconomics.  Patients can also opt for monitoring to catch cancer early
and take drugs that reduce the risk of tumor cells growing.
Because of advances for treating early-stage breast cancer,
closely monitoring, catching the tumor early and treating can
have a similar mortality benefit as a mastectomy, Domchek said.
From 60 percent to 70 percent of women with the mutation will go
on to develop breast cancer without any treatment, she said.  “This is a very personal decision that can be very
different depending on many factors, including a woman’s age and
life experience,” said  Ellen Matloff , director of cancer
genetic counseling at  Yale University  in  New Haven ,  Connecticut .
“Women need to work with a genetic counselor to consider their
family history, the type of mutation they have and where they
are in their lives. A 21-year-old who hasn’t had a child and is
single may make a very different decision than an older woman.”  Estrogen Blockers  There are two drugs approved by U.S. regulator to prevent
breast cancer, the generic medicine tamoxifen and  Eli Lilly &
Co. (LLY) ’s osteoporosis drug Evista. Both work by blocking estrogen,
the fuel certain tumors need to grow. Tamoxifen was found to
reduce the risk of developing invasive breast cancer by 50
percent over five years in post-menopausal women at high risk
for the disease, according to the  National Cancer Institute .
Five years of Evista reduced the risk of developing breast
cancer by 38 percent, according to the NCI.  Jolie, named the highest-paid actress in Hollywood by
 Forbes  in 2011, made “a totally reasonable decision, though
there are many options for women who find they carry these
mutations,” Matloff said.  When the mutations are prominent in a family, doctors will
often advise women to start undergoing annual mammograms at age
25, rather than beginning at 40, the accepted standard. About 30
to 40 percent of women who know they have the mutations
initially decide to undergo a mastectomy, Matloff said, “though
that percentage may rise as their life evolves.”  Family History  Matloff said a recent survey done among genetic counselors
found that 58 percent of them would undergo mastectomy if faced
with the knowledge that they carried the mutations and had a
strong family history of disease.  The most important thing for all women is to “know your
family history” early on, she said. “Talk with everyone and
know what cancer they had, whether they were tested and what the
results may have been.”  Myriad Genetics Inc., the world’s biggest genetic testing
company, is the lone U.S. provider of BRCA1 and BRCA2 screens.
The Salt Lake City-based company, founded in 1991, helped kick-start the gene-testing revolution by pinpointing the two BRCA
genes in the mid-1990s.  The company performs about 250,000 BRCA tests a year, with
the most comprehensive screens costing about $4,000, said  Ron Rogers , Myriad’s executive vice president for corporate
communications. About 95 percent of all women eligible for the
test are covered by their insurance, he said.  Insurance Coverage  The test is typically covered by private insurance though
in some states Medicaid won’t pay for it, said Domchek.  By law, insurers can’t use the results of genetic exams to
set premiums and they don’t get the results of breast-cancer
tests, said Lee Newcomer, a senior vice-president for oncology,
women’s health and genetics at  UnitedHealth Group Inc. (UNH) , the
largest U.S. health insurer. Starting next year, President
 Barack Obama ’s health-care law will also prevent carriers from
denying coverage based on pre-existing medical conditions.  The tests aren’t recommended for people without a family
history of cancer and insurers have denied requests in cases
where the tests are deemed unnecessary, said John Whitney, a
vice-president of medical policy at  WellPoint Inc. (WLP)  Still, when
used appropriately, the savings from early detection and
prevention can outweigh the costs, he said in a phone interview.  Jolie’s Experience  Jolie didn’t specify the type of surgery she underwent. Her
mastectomy process started on Feb. 2, she wrote, when she had a
procedure called a nipple delay, which can detect disease in the
breast ducts and draws extra blood flow to the area to increase
the chances of saving the nipple.  Two weeks later, she had the breast tissue removed and
temporary fillers put in place and after another nine weeks she
had a final surgery to reconstruct the breasts with implants.
The surgery only left her with small scars, she said.  Jolie’s decision follows by six months the announcement by
Sharon Osbourne, a former judge on the reality television show
“America’s Got Talent” and the spouse of rocker  Ozzy Osbourne ,
that she had the procedure.  Jolie decided to write about her decision so other women
could benefit from her experience and be encouraged to undergo
genetic testing, she said. Her chance of developing breast
cancer is now less than 5 percent. Her mother fought the disease
for almost a decade, she said.  “I can tell my children that they don’t need to fear they
will lose me to breast cancer,” Jolie wrote. “They can see my
small scars and that’s it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shannon Pettypiece in New York at 
 spettypiece@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  