-- K+S CEO Says German Public Support for Industry Is in Decline
-- B y   S h e e n a g h   M a t t h e w s
-- 2013-05-14T10:41:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-14/k-s-ceo-says-german-public-support-for-industry-is-in-decline.html
K+S AG (SDF)  Chief Executive Officer
Norbert Steiner said public support for industrial projects is
in decline in a speech today to shareholders of the German
potash maker, which has faced environmental protests over its
mines.  “Resistance is guaranteed” for projects such as  power
lines , railway stations and roads, the CEO said. Some people
“harbor a general suspicion about us as an industrial company
in that we are said to be plundering nature, ruthlessly pursuing
our economic interests in a way that runs counter to the public
good,” he told shareholders at the meeting in Kassel, where the
company is based.  Europe’s largest potash maker has faced protests from
environmental groups in the central German state of Thuringia,
where its mines discharge saline water into the Werra River.
Steiner said today that a package of measures, including an
evaporation system, will cut saline waste water by 90 percent by
the end of the year, a goal that had been set for the end of
2015.  K+S today reported first-quarter earnings that beat analyst
estimates after wintry weather in  Europe  boosted demand for de-icing salt. Earnings before interest and taxes and excluding
some hedging transactions, called Ebit I, rose 12 percent to
277.9 million euros ($361.5 billion). Analysts had forecast
274.9 million euros in a Bloomberg survey.  Sales Gain  Sales in the first three months gained 19 percent to 1.28
billion euros, beating a 1.23 billion-euro estimate in a
Bloomberg survey. Net income fell 11 percent to 187.5 million
euros.  K+S shares slipped 0.1 percent in Frankfurt trading to
34.94 euros as of 12:25 p.m. local time. The stock is unchanged
since the start of the year for a market value of 6.7 billion
euros.  The company reiterated today that earnings and sales will
probably rise “slightly” this year as increased demand for
salt more than compensates for lower potash prices. K+S and
rivals such as  Russia ’s OAO Eurochem plan to increase capacity
for the crop nutrient as prices are expected to stabilize.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sheenagh Matthews in Frankfurt at 
 smatthews6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  