-- Kentucky Derby Winner Orb Arrives at Pimlico for Preakness Prep
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-05-14T04:00:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-14/kentucky-derby-winner-orb-arrives-at-pimlico-for-preakness-prep.html
Kentucky Derby winner Orb arrived at
Pimlico Race Course in  Maryland  yesterday to continue
preparations for the May 18 running of the Preakness Stakes, the
second leg of horse racing’s Triple Crown.  Orb won his fifth straight race at the May 4 Kentucky Derby
at  Churchill Downs (CHDN) , where the 3-year-old colt finished 2 1/2
lengths ahead of Golden Soul to give Hall of Fame trainer Shug
McGaughey his first victory in the race.  McGaughey has never won the Preakness and last fielded an
entry in 1989, when Easy Goer lost to Sunday Silence by a nose.  “I’m here with the Derby winner, so I’m probably a lot
more at ease than when I came in that time,” McGaughey told
reporters yesterday at Pimlico. “We’re excited where we are.”  There hasn’t been a Triple Crown winner since 1978, when
Affirmed swept the Kentucky Derby, Preakness and Belmont Stakes,
which is scheduled for June 8 in New York. Belmont Park is Orb’s
home track and he arrived at Pimlico yesterday by van, joining
Goldencents, who shipped early last week after a 17th-place
finish in the Kentucky Derby.  “When I came in ’89, we came in here on Tuesday. This year,
I made up my mind I wanted to work him a day out from there and
get him down here to try to get him used to his surroundings,”
McGaughey said. “I want to school him in the paddock and not do
too much at one time.”  Orb had a final half-mile workout on the Belmont track
before leaving for Pimlico, covering the distance in a time of
47.18 seconds, the fifth fastest of 96 recorded at the distance
yesterday morning. McGaughey said Orb’s workout was “nothing
short of magnificent.”  “I couldn’t be happier with where we are,” he added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  