-- Kerry Meets Swedish Officials in Advance of Arctic Talks
-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2013-05-14T08:09:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-14/kerry-meets-with-senior-officials-in-sweden-to-consult-on-arctic.html
U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry
arrived in  Stockholm  for meetings with Swedish leaders before
traveling to the northern reaches of the country for a meeting
on the sweeping climate changes affecting the Arctic.  Kerry will hold talks with Prime Minister Fredrik Reinfeldt
and Foreign Minister Carl Bildt before traveling to Kiruna today
to meet with counterparts from Russia and six other major
stakeholders of the Arctic Council. Rapidly melting ice is
changing the dynamics of the region, opening up new shipping
routes that will shave transport times and making previously
untouched oil and gas deposits accessible.  Members of the Council -- Russia,  Finland ,  Denmark ,  Sweden ,
Norway,  Iceland , the U.S. and Canada -- will sign a treaty on
oil-spill preparedness and response, discuss their agenda for
the next two years, and possibly vote on adding to the roster of
permanent observers, which includes Spain, France, Germany, the
Netherlands, the U.K. and Poland.  China  and the European Union are among countries angling
for observer status in the diplomatic club and a greater say in
the region. The Council makes decisions based on consensus.  Kerry will also meet with Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov while at the Arctic Council to discuss  Syria . He will
hold talks with Swedish officials on Syria,  Afghanistan ,  Iran ,
North Korea and the EU.  Frigid Slush  The accelerating melt means that the area of ice covering
the Arctic Ocean, a body of water roughly the size of  Russia ,
had shrunk last summer by half, based on average measurements
from 1980 to 2000, according to the Arctic Institute, a
Washington-based policy group. The thickness of the remaining
ice had dwindled by 80 percent.  The Arctic Ocean may become a frigid slush of fresh and
saltwater in the summer within three to five years, according to
a White House estimate. An Arctic shipping route or easier
access through the Northwest Passage, now open only to fortified
ice-breaking ships, would mean shorter and less expensive trips
between northeastern Asia and the U.S. East Coast and Europe.  The melt also may mean easier access to oil and gas under
the ocean floor, resources the U.S. Geological Survey estimates
may be 30 percent of the world’s undiscovered natural gas
reserves and 13 percent of its undiscovered oil.  Tomorrow’s conference comes amid signs that greenhouse
gases blamed for global warming are accumulating at rates
mankind has never experienced. The U.S. National Oceanic and
Atmospheric Administration reported on May 10 that the amount of
carbon dioxide in the atmosphere exceeded 400 parts per million,
a threshold not seen for 3 million years.  The ministers also will discuss efforts to deal with the
increases in maritime traffic and oil exploration, and to cope
with the impact of melting ice on indigenous Arctic communities.  In preparation for the meeting, on May 10 President  Barack Obama  signed a new “national strategy for the Arctic region”
that lists as its first priority advancing U.S. interests --
including the protection of energy interests, maintaining free
passage through Arctic seas and building regional
infrastructure.  Without a clear budget plan or specific initiatives such as
an upgrade to an outdated American fleet of icebreakers, “this
strategy becomes nothing more than a lengthy wish list,” said
Mihaela David, a fellow at the Arctic Institute.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  