-- Kerry Warns Assad on Rejecting Syria Talks as Progress Seen
-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2013-05-14T11:32:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-14/kerry-warns-assad-on-rejecting-syria-talks-as-progress-seen-1-.html
Syrian President Bashar al-Assad
would make a “gross miscalculation” in rejecting planned talks
on ending the conflict in the war-torn nation, U.S. Secretary of
State  John Kerry  said.  Kerry disputed reports that both the opposition and the
regime are resisting participation in the talks and a cease-fire
proposed last week by the U.S. and  Russia . There’s “progress”
being made on convening talks, which are the “best” way to end
the conflict, he said today at a press briefing in  Stockholm .  “I keep hearing some people suggest somehow that the
process is moving away, not closer, I just don’t agree with
that,” Kerry said. “Enormous plans are being laid,” he said.
“It’s only been five days since this was just announced and a
huge amount of work is already underway.”  Both the Assad government and the main political opposition
said they need to learn more about the proposed talks before
they commit to attending. The Syrian government has expressed
“cautious optimism” about the talks,  Syria ’s Information
Minister Omran al-Zoubi said in an interview yesterday on
Hezbollah’s Al-Manar TV, state-run SANA news agency reported.  Russian Assurance  Kerry said that his Russian counterpart,  Sergei Lavrov ,
“has informed me that President Assad has already given him the
names of people who will come negotiate, so I don’t know where
this information is coming from.”  While the U.S. has supported the rebels with non-military
and humanitarian aid, Russia has continued to supply its
longtime ally in Damascus with weapons. Kerry will meet with
Lavrov while in Sweden to attend an Arctic Council meeting.  The top U.S. diplomat also said that he has in the last few
days spoken to UN Secretary General Ban ki-Moon, and UN Envoy
Lakhdar Brahimi, who “are both making plans for this
negotiation to take place.”  Kerry said he has spoken to almost all the foreign
ministers of the core group of countries that support the Syrian
rebels. They will meet next week to lay plans for the
negotiations, he said. The opposition members have also been in
touch with each other, Kerry said, adding that he today spoke to
the commander of the opposition’s military council, General
Salim Idriss, who is “committed” to talks with the regime.  Kerry held talks in Stockholm with Prime Minister  Fredrik Reinfeldt  and Foreign Minister Carl Bildt on Syria,  Afghanistan ,
 Iran  and the EU. He travels to Kiruna, in northern Sweden, later
today to meet with Lavrov and counterparts from the six other
major stakeholders of the Arctic Council.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  