-- Kobe Bryant Judge Orders Mediation in Memorabilia Dispute
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s   a n d   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2013-05-15T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-14/kobe-bryant-judge-orders-mediation-in-memorabilia-dispute.html
Kobe Bryant , the All-Star basketball
guard, was directed by a judge to try mediation before a
possible June 17 trial over whether a  New Jersey  auctioneer can
sell his memorabilia on behalf of his mother.  U.S. District Judge Renee Marie Bumb set a mediation
session for May 17 in federal court in Camden, New Jersey, to
try to settle a lawsuit between Bryant and Goldin Auctions LLC.
Bryant, a Los Angeles Laker, seeks to block Goldin Auctions from
selling 100 items consigned by his mother, Pamela Bryant. The
firm estimates the auction could raise more than $1 million.  “The court will hold an in-person settlement conference in
chambers on May 17,” according to a docket item entered after
Bumb held a hearing yesterday.  Bryant, one of the  National Basketball Association ’s all-time greats, contends in court papers that his mother falsely
said he gave her permission to auction the items. They include
jerseys from his days at Lower Merion High School in
 Pennsylvania , a Lakers ring after winning the NBA championship
in 2000, and two NBA All-Star rings.  In court papers filed May 13, Bryant’s parents both
disputed claims by their son and his wife, Vanessa, that he
never gave them the items.  “My son has never demanded the return of any of the items,
nor were they in any way improperly taken from him without his
permission,” according to Pamela Bryant’s affidavit. “Neither
Kobe nor Vanessa has ever requested that we return the items to
them so that they can give it as family heirlooms to their
children.”  Shipped Memorabilia  Bryant’s father, former NBA player Joe “Jellybean”
Bryant, said that he and his wife lived with his son in Pacific
Palisades,  California , from 1996 until he got married. Bryant
then arranged for his parents to move back to Pennsylvania and
shipped the memorabilia, according to Joe Bryant’s affidavit.  In 2005, when Kobe Bryant and his wife visited his parents,
the younger couple “went upstairs to look at the memorabilia,”
according to the affidavit. “Kobe and Vanessa left our house
without taking any of the memorabilia. When my wife came back
downstairs, she told me that Vanessa had said that the items
were from Kobe’s past and they did not want them.”  The elder Bryant sold the house in 2008 and put the items
in storage in New Jersey. They got a $450,000 advance from
Goldin Auctions and used it to buy a house in  Las Vegas .  Transferred Case  Last week, U.S. District Judge Andrew Guilford issued an
order in federal court in Santa Ana, California, that blocks
Goldin Auctions from selling or transferring property, including
“basketball jerseys, championship rings, and other sports
memorabilia” that Bryant said belongs to him.  Bryant sued Goldin Auctions in California state court in
Orange County on May 6, four days after the auctioneer sued the
Laker in federal court in Camden. Goldin Auctions had the
California case transferred to federal court, prompting Guilford
to issue a temporary restraining order.  Attorneys for Bryant and Goldin Auctions didn’t immediately
return calls yesterday seeking comment on the judge’s mediation
order.  The cases are Bryant v. Goldin Auctions, 13-cv-727, U.S.
District Court, Central District of California ( Santa Ana ); and
Goldin Auctions LLC v. Bryant, 0013-cv-02816, U.S. District
Court, District of New Jersey (Camden).  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Voreacos in Newark, New Jersey, at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net ;
Edvard Pettersson in the Los Angeles federal court house at
   epettersson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  