-- Kroll Says S&P, Moody’s Putting Profits Ahead of Accuracy
-- B y   D a v e   M i c h a e l s   a n d   M a t t   R o b i n s o n
-- 2013-05-14T20:56:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-14/kroll-says-s-p-moody-s-again-putting-profits-ahead-of-accuracy.html
Jules Kroll, a former private
investigator who started a bond-rating company after the
financial crisis, said the largest credit-rating firms are again
putting profits ahead of accuracy amid record demand for
corporate debt.  “They’re selling themselves out just as they did before,”
the chief executive officer of Kroll Bond Rating Agency Inc.
said today at a U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
roundtable in  Washington . “If you want to see the next tsunami,
wait for the outcome in high yield and watch what washes up on
shore.”  Companies are issuing speculative-grade bonds at a record
pace even as yields on the debt have fallen to unprecedented
lows with the  Federal Reserve  holding its benchmark  interest
rate  near zero for a fifth year. Douglas Peterson, president of
Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services, declined to comment on
whether the market is in a “bubble.” Prices reflect excess
liquidity, he said in response to a question from SEC
Commissioner Daniel M. Gallagher.  Regulators met today to discuss the merits of a plan to
create a board that would select ratings firms to grade
structured products, which was proposed by Senators  Al Franken 
from  Minnesota  and  Roger Wicker  of  Mississippi  in the 2010 Dodd-Frank Act. The proposal was intended to mitigate conflicts of
interest that stem from issuers of debt shopping around for the
most advantageous grades.  ‘New Conflicts’  Peterson said that plan would introduce “new conflicts”
and would be slow to implement.  “A government assignment system could create uncertainty,
could slow down markets, and disrupt capital flows at a time
when we could least afford it,” Peterson told the group.  Franken pressed the SEC to change the system, noting his
plan had bipartisan support in the Senate before it was watered
down in a conference committee. He blamed the ratings companies
for not doing their jobs, contributing to a housing crash that
caused millions of Americans to lose their employment.  “My plea today is that you take action,” Franken said.
“If we maintain the status quo we are leaving ourselves far too
vulnerable to another catastrophe.”  S&P, Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch Ratings, the
three-biggest credit graders, were “key enablers of the
financial meltdown,” the Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission,
created by Congress with a 10-member bipartisan board, said in
its January 2011 report. “This crisis could not have happened
without the rating agencies.”  Cutting Reliance  The commission’s report also blamed the crisis on lenders’
irresponsible and sometimes fraudulent practices, regulators’
inattention and overconfidence, and the recklessness of
borrowers and investors.  Representative  Scott Garrett , a New Jersey Republican, said
the SEC should focus on finishing regulations that strip out
references to credit-rating companies from its rulebooks. The
regulator is required under Dodd-Frank to remove language that
refers investors to the rating firms’ grades when selecting safe
investments.  “I do not believe that having the government assign which
firms will do the ratings is the right answer,” Garrett told
the roundtable participants. “By removing the government good
housekeeping seal of approval, we can increase competition among
 ratings agencies  and lessen reliance on ratings.”  ‘Constitutionally Vulnerable’  Kermit Roosevelt, a professor of constitutional law at the
 University of Pennsylvania , said a system that strictly forbid
bond issuers from picking and paying a company to rate the
securities could be unconstitutional.  “That is a prohibition on speech, and that I think is more
constitutionally vulnerable,” Roosevelt said.  Companies have sold $162.9 billion of speculative-grade
bonds in the U.S. this year, up from the $132.8 billion sold by
this time in 2012, when a record $358.9 billion was issued,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Yields on speculative-grade bonds, rated below Baa3 by
Moody’s and lower than BBB- at S&P, touched a record low 5.98
percent on May 9 before climbing to 6.07 percent as of
yesterday, according to the Bank of America Merrill Lynch U.S.
High Yield Index.  Mitigating Conflicts  The SEC’s roundtable also explored why a two-year-old
program designed to mitigate conflicts of interest and improve
competition has seen limited use. The program requires issuers
to disclose to all credit-rating companies, through a secure
website, the same information that is provided to a firm hired
to issue the rating.  An upstart credit-rating firm could use the data to issue
ratings as it seeks to break into a market dominated by S&P,
Moody’s, and Fitch. While the program has generated comments
about ratings by competing firms, it hasn’t produced a single
rating by unhired firms, which aren’t required to issue a grade,
according to the SEC.  “It is not the best use of our resources as we’re trying
to build out our ratings platform,” said Joseph Petro, managing
director at Morningstar Credit Ratings LLC.  SEC Commissioner Troy A. Paredes also questioned why
ratings companies would issue ratings for which they aren’t
paid. Issuing negative comments about a deal “may not be the
best way to get business in an issuer-pay setting,” Paredes
said.  Franken Alternative  Lawrence White, an economics professor at  New York 
University’s Stern School of Business, said the SEC should
eliminate a requirement that companies rate at least 10 percent
of the transactions they view on the website.  “It only serves to inhibit potential raters from even
looking at the existing bundles of information,” White said.  Tom Deutsch , executive director of the American
Securitization Forum, said the program could be improved by
requiring disclosure when an issuer shopped for ratings. The
ASF, an industry group that lobbies for issuers, argues the
SEC’s voluntary program can be strengthened and be an
alternative to Franken’s proposal, which it opposes.  “I don’t think any parts of the market would have serious
concerns with that,” Deutsch said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dave Michaels in Washington at 
 dmichaels5@bloomberg.net ;
 Matt Robinson  in New York at 
 mrobinson55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net ;
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  