-- N.Z. Housing Market May Warrant Interest-Rate Rises, IMF Says
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2013-05-14T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-14/n-z-housing-market-may-warrant-interest-rate-rises-imf-says.html
New Zealand’s central bank may need
to raise its benchmark interest rate from a record low if rising
house prices and household borrowing fan inflation, according to
the International Monetary Fund.  “Rising house prices, which are already elevated by
standard metrics, are a growing concern,” the Washington-based
fund said in its annual economic assessment of New Zealand. “A
tightening may be warranted if house-price and credit expansion
begin to fuel inflationary pressures.”  Central bank Governor Graeme Wheeler last week said rising
house prices may be “problematic” as they may encourage a
build up in household debt and spending. The Reserve Bank of New
Zealand has kept the official cash rate at a record-low 2.5
percent since March 2011 and is reluctant to increase it because
there is a risk higher borrowing costs will further boost the
New Zealand currency, damaging exports.  “Directors agreed that the current accommodative monetary
policy stance is appropriate,” the IMF said.  The so-called kiwi is likely to remain elevated because of
ample global liquidity, according to the IMF’s review, which
includes a staff report and a statement from the board.  New Zealand’s currency is 10 percent to 15 percent above
the level that would be consistent with medium-term
fundamentals, the IMF said. The exchange rate is being boosted
by the gap between domestic and international interest rates, it
said.  New Zealand’s economy will grow about 2.25 percent this
year in the face of headwinds from a strong currency, a drought
and government spending cuts, the IMF forecast.  “Pressures have emerged in the housing market, notably in
Auckland where supply bottlenecks persist and in Christchurch
where construction cost inflation has accelerated,” the IMF
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  