-- Nokia Declines as New Smartphone Disappoints Investors
-- B y   A d a m   E w i n g   a n d   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2013-05-14T12:49:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-14/nokia-to-sell-metal-smartphone-to-refresh-comeback-effort.html
Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  fell as much as 5.6 percent
in Helsinki trading after introducing a smartphone that
disappointed investors anticipating a handset attractive enough
to push forward the company’s comeback effort.  The Lumia 925 has a metal frame, lets users take sharper
photos and video, including in low light, and costs 469 euros
($609) before taxes and carrier subsidies,  Jo Harlow , Nokia’s
smartphone chief, said today at a press conference in  London .
The phone is a modified version of earlier models, said  Mikko Ervasti , an analyst at Evli Bank Oyj in Helsinki.  “There is nothing groundbreakingly new or different in the
hardware or software design, and there is limited
differentiation to Lumia 920 or Lumia 928,” Ervasti said in a
note. He said Harlow’s presentation was “not very confident.”  Chief Executive Officer Stephen Elop is trying to boost a
fledgling comeback bid that has so far failed to reverse market-share losses even as Lumia sales are rising. The phone also
advances partner  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s push into mobile software as
the two companies seek to break the dominance of Apple’s iPhone
and devices that run Google Inc.’s Android software, led by
Samsung Electronics Co. models.  Nokia, which had risen 18 percent in the six days before
today’s Lumia 925 introduction, was  down  3.2 percent to 2.85
euros at 3:32 p.m. in Helsinki.  ‘Not Groundbreaking’  “Shares are down today after they were so strong for
multiple days going into the event,” said  Sandeep Deshpande ,
an analyst at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in London. “Still, it
wasn’t much of an event as the handset is O.K. but not
groundbreaking.”  Operators including  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  will sell the Lumia
925 in  Europe , starting in June.  T-Mobile US Inc. (TMUS)  will offer it
in the U.S., and  China Mobile Ltd. (941)  and  China  Unicom ( Hong Kong )
Ltd. will market it in China.  The handset includes software that lets users snap 10
photos at once and edit them, Espoo, Finland-based Nokia said.
The software will be available as an update for other Lumias
running on Microsoft’s Windows Phone 8.  “We take better pictures than anyone else,” Harlow said
in an interview. “It is competitive in the imaging area, but we
believe very strongly what we’ve been able to deliver with low
light and bright light performance is something other people
have not been able to accomplish.”  Color Options  The metal design makes the Lumia 925 more robust, Nokia
said. The back of the phone is polycarbonate and comes in white,
gray and black. Users can separately buy covers that allow the
phone to be charged wirelessly when placed on a special pad.  One of the first smartphone makers, Nokia dominated with a
global market share topping 50 percent before Apple’s iPhone and
Google’s Android software were introduced six years ago. Nokia’s
market share has since collapsed to 3 percent, according to IDC.
The slump has pushed Nokia to losses and forced it to cancel its
dividend for the first time in at least 143 years.  Lumia’s global sales rose to 5.6 million units in the first
three months of the year from 4.4 million in the fourth quarter
as Nokia added versions. The company predicted at least 7.11
million Lumias will be sold this quarter as more models roll
out. Nokia is trying to differentiate itself from rivals with
its camera technology and location-based services.  Pricing Concern  “Nokia has been quite successful pushing great camera and
video technology into their smartphones,” said Ilkka Rauvola,
an analyst at  Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE)  in Helsinki. “To make themselves
stand out even more they need to continue to innovate and drive
down the price of the devices so more users around the world can
afford them.”  Elop, who joined from Microsoft in 2010, is into the third
year of a bet that his former employer’s software will help
revive Nokia’s sales. He abandoned Nokia’s homegrown software
after it fell out of favor among consumers.  Apple and Samsung’s combined smartphone sales top 100
million a quarter. Apple’s iPhone and devices running Android
account for more than 90 percent of the market.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Adam Ewing in Stockholm at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net ;
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  