-- NRC Board Ruling Seen Slowing Restart of Edison Nuclear Plant
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 2013-05-14T00:19:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-14/nrc-board-ruling-seen-slowing-restart-of-edison-nuclear-plant.html
A U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission
licensing board ruling has called into question whether  Edison
International (EIX) ’s shuttered San Onofre plant in California will
resume operations in the coming months.  The agency’s Atomic Safety and Licensing Board yesterday
determined that the NRC’s process for approving a re-start of
the plant amounts to a license amendment proceeding.  The decision provides the environmental group Friends of
the Earth “with the relief it requested -- namely, the
opportunity for a hearing on the license amendment,” the agency
said in a statement.  Both reactors at the San Onofre plant, about 45 miles (72
kilometers) southeast of Long Beach, California, have been out
of service since January 2012, after the company discovered
unusual wear on steam-generator tubes. Edison, owner of the
state’s second-largest utility, has said it may decide by the
end of the year whether to retire at least one of the units if
the plant can’t resume operations for one of the reactors at
reduced power. It is seeking a license amendment to do so.  Washington-based Friends of the Earth has said the plant
shouldn’t be allowed to resume operations without a public
hearing. The board’s ruling “is a tidal wave that is rammed
into the re-start plan,” Damon Moglen, energy and climate
director for the group, said in a phone interview.  Jennifer Manfre, a spokeswoman for Southern  California 
Edison, a subsidiary of Rosemead, California-based Edison, said
in an e-mail that the company is reviewing the board’s decision.
The company operates the state’s second-largest utility.  The NRC won’t make a decision regarding the license
amendment until at least 60 days after publication of an April
16 notice for a public hearing on the matter, which included a
deadline for a public-hearing request, agency Chairman Allison Macfarlane said in an April 26 letter to Senator Barbara Boxer,
a California Democrat.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  