-- Nvidia Hitches Ride to Future on Android Games After PS4
-- B y   I a n   K i n g
-- 2013-05-14T13:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-14/nvidia-hitches-ride-to-future-on-android-games-after-ps4.html
Nvidia Corp. (NVDA) , the largest maker of
chips for graphics cards in personal computers, today began
taking orders for its Shield hand-held gaming device and said
shipments get under way next month.  The handheld-gaming machine, which Nvidia announced in
January, will retail for $349, the company said today in website
posting.  Nvidia Chief Executive Officer Jen-Hsun Huang is betting on
the device to accelerate a push into markets outside of the PC
graphics-chip market, which provided 82 percent of the company’s
revenue in the latest quarter. Shield, along with other devices
such as the WikiPad and Ouya, is part of a growing array of
gaming hardware that’s challenging more established console
systems, such as  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s Xbox and  Sony Corp. (6758) ’s
PlayStation, both of which will be updated this year.  Shield is built around Tegra 4, newest in the company’s
line of processors designed for tablets and mobile phones. The
device uses  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android software, and resembles a
console’s video-game controller that also features a pop-up
screen. It works with “Angry Birds” and other games that can
run on Android. Along with a touch-enabled five-inch screen, the
device has built-in speakers and a Wi-Fi connection for  Internet
access .  Shield can also connect to larger screens for playing
games. When Huang introduced the device at the  Consumer
Electronics Show  in January, he showed it connected to a
television. By linking it wirelessly to a PC, players will also
have access to pricier titles such as “Call of Duty.”  Shares of Santa Clara, California-based Nvidia declined 2.1
percent to $14.24 at yesterday’s close in New York, leaving them
up 16 percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ian King in  San Francisco  at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  