-- NYSE Liffe Proposes Paris Wheat Delivery Date Changes in Review
-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 2013-05-14T14:57:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-14/nyse-liffe-proposes-paris-wheat-delivery-date-changes-in-review.html
NYSE Liffe proposed changes to the
trading calendar for its Paris milling wheat future to more
closely resemble the delivery schedule on the Chicago Board of
Trade, the largest market for buying and selling the grain.  The derivatives arm of  NYSE Euronext (NYX)  is proposing to revise
the contract’s delivery months to September, December, March and
May, according to an e-mail sent to grain market operators last
month that was confirmed today by Lionel Porte, Liffe’s senior
product manager. The exchange is still consulting with
operators, and no decision has been made, Nicholas Kennedy,
Liffe’s head of business development, said by phone yesterday.  NYSE Liffe started a review of the Paris wheat contract in
July and in November announced it would suspend futures for
delivery from November 2015 onward. The exchange “constantly”
evaluates its commodity derivatives contracts to ensure
they best reflect the underlying physical market, spokeswoman
Caroline Tourrier said in an e-mailed comment.  “We’re consulting on quality criteria, delivery points and
potential modification of the calendar,” Kennedy said.
“There’s no news. We’re making progress. There’s nothing
decided.”  The exchange now has January, March, May and November as
contract delivery months, while CBOT uses March, May, July,
September and December for its wheat contract.  In the e-mail sent to market operators in April, NYSE said
it “wishes to carry out the following revisions,” before
listing an additional delivery point, a new quality criterion
and the revised delivery schedule. The changes would take effect
from the now-suspended delivery months, according to Liffe. The
proposal was reported by Reuters last week.  Atlantic Port  The port of Rouen on the Seine River downstream of Paris is
the only delivery point for the milling wheat contract, and NYSE
Liffe said it wants to add an Atlantic Coast port that handles
wheat for exports.  The exchange also proposed the inclusion of a Hagberg
falling number criteria of 220 in the contract specification,
referring to an indicator of sprouting damage and baking
quality. Senalia, a storage operator that acts as the wheat
contract’s sole point of delivery, last year required the
Hagberg level as an additional quality criteria for grain it
receives.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  