-- Tepco Leads Surge in Power Utilities After Nomura Upgrades
-- B y   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a
-- 2013-05-14T07:20:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-14/tokyo-electric-leads-surge-in-utilities-after-nomura-upgrades.html
Tokyo Electric Power Co. (9501) , Japan’s
biggest power company by generating capacity, led a surge in
utility shares after Nomura Holdings Inc. boosted its ratings on
some of the nation’s utilities amid an expectation idled nuclear
power plants will be restarted.  Tokyo Electric, which wasn’t mentioned in the Nomura
report, rose 18 percent to 522 yen at the close on the Tokyo
Stock Exchange, the highest since July 2011. Tokyo Electric,
also known as Tepco, and three other Japanese companies were
among the  best performers  on the 1,605-member MSCI World Index
in Asian time. Tohoku Electric Power Co. rose 12 percent.  Tohoku Electric may return to profit and restore its
dividend in the year ending in March, “ahead of other electric
power companies that have applied for permission to hike
electricity rates,” Shigeki Matsumoto, a Tokyo-based analyst at
Nomura Securities Co., wrote in a report dated yesterday.  Japanese power companies reported combined losses of about
1.6 trillion yen ($15.8 billion) last fiscal year to cover
rising fuel costs as almost all of the country’s reactors
undergo checks and upgrades after the Fukushima disaster. The
idled reactors will have to meet new safety standards, to be put
into effect by July, before resuming operations.  Kyushu Electric Power Co.’s Sendai No. 1 and No. 2
reactors, which are candidates for the first restarts, may
resume operations in January and February, respectively,
Matsumoto wrote. Kansai Electric Power Co. may be able to
restart No. 3 and No. 4 reactors at the Takahama nuclear plant
as early as July 2014, he wrote.  Shares Gain  Matsumoto, who maintained his rating on Tohoku at neutral,
raised his target price from 720 yen to 1,380 yen in the report.
Ratings on Kansai Electric and Kyushu Electric were raised to
neutral from reduce.  Tohoku Electric rose 145 yen to 1,338 yen, the highest
since April 2011. Kansai Electric gained 13 percent to 1,417
yen, while Kyushu Electric climbed 6.3 percent to 1,464 yen.  The gains followed signs that lawmakers may be ready to
take some of the pressure off  Japan ’s utilities, which are
facing soaring fuel costs in the absence of the ability to
generate electricity from nuclear power.  The government shouldn’t force Tepco, the operator of the
crippled Fukushima nuclear plant, to take full responsibility
for compensation and decommissioning and other Fukushima
disaster issues, the Yomiuri newspaper quoted Prime Minister
Shinzo Abe as saying yesterday in parliament.  Compensation Costs  The government will play a bigger role to fulfill its
responsibility, Abe said, according to the Yomiuri.  The total cost of clean-up and compensation may exceed 10
trillion yen, twice the 5 trillion yen allocated by the
government, Tepco said in November. Decommissioning the damaged
reactors at the Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant may take more than 1
trillion yen, it said at the time.  “It’s a waste of time to project when and which reactors
may restart at the earliest” because the regulator’s planned
rules are still ambiguous, said Tomoko Murakami, a nuclear
analyst at the Institute of Energy Economics Japan. “Nobody
knows how long it will take for the regulator to complete their
assessment on the safety of each reactor until they actually
carry it out.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tsuyoshi Inajima in Tokyo at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  