-- Olam Third-Quarter Profit Rises 10% as Sales Volumes Gain
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   Y u n
-- 2013-05-14T23:47:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-14/olam-third-quarter-profit-rises-10-as-sales-volumes-gain.html
Olam International Ltd. (OLAM) , the
commodity trader targeted by short-seller  Carson Block , said its
third-quarter profit gained 10 percent as sales volumes jumped
at its grains business.  Net income was S$108.5 million ($87.3 million) in the three
months ended March 31, from S$98.7 million a year earlier,
Singapore-based Olam said today in a statement. Revenue
increased 12 percent to S$4.7 billion.  Olam, the world’s second-largest rice trader, said last
month that it’s slashing  capital spending  over the next three
years by about S$1 billion and will seek to sell assets to raise
cash. The decision came five months after Block and his research
firm Muddy Waters LLC first questioned the company’s finances.  The revised strategy “is being implemented and is expected
to generate  shareholder value  through continued profitable
growth, and enhanced cash flow generation in the coming
quarters,” Olam said today in the statement.  Shares of Olam declined 1.7 percent to S$1.785 at the close
in Singapore yesterday. The statement today was made before the
stock market started trading. The  stock  has gained 14.8 percent
this year, outperforming the 8.4 percent increase in the
benchmark  Straits Times  index.  Olam, which also shelved its $1 billion earnings target,
will seek to raise about S$1.5 billion in cash by fiscal 2016 by
selling assets and scaling down some operations, the company
said last month after it completed its annual business review.
Chief Executive Officer Sunny Verghese said the review had been
broad and reflected stakeholder feedback.  Muddy Waters in November questioned Olam’s debt,
acquisitions and accounting, and likened it to Enron Corp., the
Houston-based company that was the world’s largest energy trader
before it plunged into bankruptcy in December 2001. Olam
rejected the allegations and sued Block, a case it dropped after
investor feedback.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Yun in  Hong Kong  at 
 myun11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: 