-- Molson Coors Sees Margin Growth East Europe, CEO Says
-- B y   L e n k a   P o n i k e l s k a
-- 2013-05-14T13:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-14/molson-coors-sees-margin-growth-east-europe-ceo-says.html
Molson Coors Brewing Co. (TAP) ’s margins
across Central and Eastern  Europe  will be boosted by new
“higher” value products and premium brands, the company’s
chief executive officer said.  Molson Coors  bought StarBev LP, which operates nine
breweries in central and eastern Europe including the Czech
Republic, the home of Prague-based Staropramen, as well as
Hungary, Romania and  Bulgaria  from CVC Capital Partners Ltd. for
2.65 billion euros ($3.5 billion) in April 2012.  “If you look at” regional margins “in comparison with
more developed markets, they’ll be lower because GDP is lower --
but that’s an opportunity for growth,” CEO Peter Swinburn said
in a Prague interview today. “The focus is on Staropramen as we
have enough headroom to grow outside the  Czech Republic , then we
do innovations and then maybe -- we haven’t decided yet -- we
can bring in craft brands that we already own.”  Denver-based Coors Molson bought StarBev to expand outside
of its main regions of  North America  and the U.K., where high
unemployment and aggressive competition are weighing on growth.
Czech annual per-capita consumption is at 144 liters in 2012
from a year earlier, while total beer production rose some 2.8
percent, driven by exports and beer mixes.  “If you’re going to make a category attractive, you have
to create value by bringing new products that add to the margin
chain,” Swinburn said. “You don’t do it through cheap beer.”  There will be a “significant” push for innovation across
the region, Swinburn said.  Carling Offering  The brewer will start offering Carling in  Croatia , a former
Yugoslav republic that will join the European Union in July, and
roll out Carling cider and three new flavors of beer mixes
across the region, among other strategies.  On top of moving Staropramen to other countries, the
company will also offer non-alcoholic beer mixes and cider and
beer mixes to its markets, Swinburn said.  StarBev was a “good” purchase and it will be “value
accretive” through the whole year, Swinburn said. “There’s no
doubt that we’ll see GDP to grow in the region and that will
translate into growth.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lenka Ponikelska in Prague at 
 lponikelska1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  