-- OMV Petrom 1st-Quarter Profit Falls on Sales, Black Sea Costs
-- B y   A n d r a   T i m u   a n d   I r i n a   S a v u
-- 2013-05-14T08:11:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-14/omv-petrom-1st-quarter-profit-falls-on-sales-black-sea-costs.html
OMV Petrom SA,  Romania ’s biggest oil
company, said its profit fell 4 percent in the first quarter of
this year as sales dropped and the refiner paid more for
exploration projects.  Net income declined to 1.33 billion lei ($400 million) from
1.38 billion lei a year ago, the Bucharest-based company said in
a statement on the Bucharest Stock Exchange today. Sales shrank
to 5.8 billion lei from 6 billion lei last year.  Petrom shares 
lost 1.1 percent to 0.449 lei per share at 10:17 a.m. in
Bucharest, valuing the company at about 25 billion lei.  Petrom is striving to stabilize declining oil and gas
production by redeveloping mature domestic fields and searching
for new off-shore resources in the  Black Sea  with  Exxon Mobil
Corp. (XOM)  Exploration expenses surged to 190 million lei in the
first quarter from 18 million lei a year earlier.  “Going further, we will continue our significant annual
investment program of more than 1 billion euros ($1.3 billion),
a prerequisite to maintaining our sustainable performance, which
will allow us to support potential upstream growth opportunities
in the Black Sea,” Chief Executive Officer Mariana Gheorghe
said in the statement.  Petrom and Exxon are conducting seismic studies for the
appraisal of resources in their Neptun block in the Black Sea,
after preliminary results showed a potential “significant”
natural gas discovery. The three-dimensional seismic survey is
expected to be completed by the end of May and further
exploration is expected to start in late 2013, it said.  Earnings before interest and taxes fell 12 percent to 1.58
billion lei from 1.79 billion lei a year earlier, “influenced
by intensive Black Sea seismic campaign,” Petrom said in the
statement.  The Bucharest-based company also plans to drill more than
110 wells, under its exploration and production strategy for
this year, according to the statement.  Petrom said it restarted its Brazi gas-fired power plant at
the end of April, after a one-month shutdown to install a gas
treatment plant.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andra Timu in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net ;
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net ;
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net . 