-- Honda Plans $70 Million Ohio Supercar Plant to Aid Acura
-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 2013-05-15T20:14:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-14/honda-plans-70-million-ohio-supercar-plant.html
Honda Motor Co. (HMC) , speeding ahead with
an overhaul of the premium Acura line, is planning a $70 million
central  Ohio  factory opening in two years to produce the next-generation NSX supercar.  The Tokyo-based automaker said yesterday it will refurbish
an existing facility in Marysville, Ohio, adjacent to its main
North American auto-assembly plant and regional R&D center, to
build the racing-style NSX. The factory, dubbed the Performance
Manufacturing Center, will employ 100 veteran assembly workers.  “The company wants to show they’re really committed to
this market by producing even their most advanced vehicles in
the U.S.,” said Alec Gutierrez, an industry analyst for  Irvine ,
California-based Kelley Blue Book. “The original NSX certainly
had a following in the U.S., and a lot of us are watching the
progress of the new one closely.”  Honda,  Japan ’s third-largest automaker, created the Acura
brand for the U.S. in 1986 to expand its customer base in the
company’s biggest market. New models including the RLX luxury
sedan and revamped MDX crossover are being added this year,
ahead of NSX’s return, to reverse a slide in Acura sales that in
2012 were 25 percent below the brand’s peak of 209,610 in 2005.  The NSX factory, Honda’s third auto-assembly plant in Ohio
after those in Marysville and East Liberty, will be run by
Clement D’Souza, an associate U.S. chief engineer, Honda said.
Ted Klaus, a chief engineer with Honda R&D Americas, leads the
team developing the car.  Job Training  “The location of this facility is in the midst of one of
the greatest collections of engineering and production talent in
the world,” Hidenobu Iwata, head of Honda’s North American
manufacturing operations, said in prepared remarks yesterday.  The company said it’s not receiving tax incentives from
Ohio for the project. While the state is providing job-training
assistance, that didn’t prompt Honda’s expansion decision, said
Governor  John Kasich , after attending the carmaker’s press event
yesterday in Marysville.  “They’re making this investment because of the performance
of that workforce, and the fact I think they like Ohio,” Kasich
said in an interview in Columbus.  Honda has said the NSX may sell for more than $100,000.
Klaus and D’Souza on a May 13 conference call with reporters
declined to provide additional details of the car’s features,
price and annual production volume.  The Wolf  The company began promoting the NSX last year with a Super
Bowl ad starring comedian  Jerry Seinfeld . When Acura introduced
the $89,000 two-seater in 1989, driving enthusiasts embraced it
for the speed it generated from a powerful V-6 engine attached
to a lightweight, all-aluminum body. Once so hot, the NSX
starred in director Quentin Tarantino’s 1994 hit “Pulp
Fiction,” driven by Winston “The Wolf” Wolfe, played by
Harvey Keitel.  Acura stopped building it in 2005.  The restyled NSX is being reborn as an all-wheel-drive
hybrid, with a V-6 engine augmented by three electric motors to
generate the speed of a V-8 engine, the company has said.  U.S. Acura sales rose 14 percent this year through April to
48,852 cars and light trucks, ranking it fifth in luxury volume
behind  Daimler AG (DAI) ’s Mercedes-Benz, Bayerische Motoren Werke AG’s
BMW, Toyota Motor Corp.’s  Lexus  and  General Motors Co. (GM) ’s
Cadillac.  Honda’s U.S. sales unit is based in Torrance,  California .
The company’s American depositary receipts rose 1.6 percent to
$41.35 at the close in  New York . They have gained 12 percent
this year, compared with a 16 percent increase for the Standard
& Poor’s 500 Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in  Los Angeles  at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net  