-- London Mayor Blocks Mayfair Apartment Plan Citing Size
-- B y   P a t r i c k   G o w e r
-- 2013-05-15T11:24:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-14/london-mayor-blocks-exceptionally-large-mayfair-apartment-plan.html
London Mayor  Boris Johnson  blocked
the development of 25 luxury apartments in the city’s Mayfair
district because the homes would be too big, signaling a luxury
development boom in the city center may face new limits.  The Westminster local government told the developer at a
meeting yesterday to redesign the building after Johnson’s
Greater London Authority wrote to argue the enormity of some of
the apartments would result in fewer homes at a time when the
city faces a housing shortage. Westminster Council, which
oversees the affluent Mayfair and St. James’s neighborhoods,
home to  Europe ’s biggest concentration of  hedge funds , deferred
its decision on whether to approve the plan.  The proposal fails to comply with policy guidelines because
it “results in a loss of housing due to the applicant choosing
to include several exceptionally large units,” the Greater
 London  Authority said in the letter.  Johnson’s intervention could damp a surge in luxury-home
building in central London as the city’s reputation as a safe
haven attracts increasing investment from overseas buyers. Half
of London’s new-home buyers are foreigners and they spent more
than 3 billion pounds ($4.6 billion) on new homes in the U.K.
capital last year, a 25 percent increase from 2011, broker  Jones
Lang LaSalle Inc. (JLL)  said May 10.  Curzon Street  Real estate fund  Brockton Capital LLP  had sought permission
to build homes at 56 Curzon Street with an average size of more
than 5,000 square feet (465 square meters) to gain from surging
prices. That’s more than five times the size of the average new
home in the whole of the U.K., according to the  Royal
Institution  of Chartered Surveyors. Brockton Capital didn’t
immediately respond to a request for comment.  A 39 percent rise in Westminster home prices helped fuel a
jump of about 11 percent in all of London for the year through
March 13, researcher Acadametrics Ltd. said May 10.  Only one in seven foreign buyers of new London homes will
live in the property and the remainder plan to rent them out,
Chicago-based Jones Lang said in its May 10 report, citing a
survey of buyers.  Impressive Design  “The building needs to be reconfigured to provide more
flats of a size that will attract residents who want to live in
them permanently,”  Robert Davis , Westminster Council’s deputy
leader, said by e-mail. “However, we were impressed with the
external design of the proposed building and believed it would
make a high-quality addition to the area.”  Westminster City Council has approved similar plans in the
past. It allowed the redevelopment of a parking lot on Audley
Square into luxury homes in 2008 where the residences would
average 6,500 square feet. A comparable development at 20
Grosvenor Square won planning permission in 2011 for units
averaging 4,500 square feet.  Billionaire property investors David and Simon Reuben are
developing what’s likely to become the U.K.’s most expensive
home after winning approval for a plan to convert a former
members-only club near London’s Ritz Hotel. Aldersgate
Investment Management, owned by the Reubens, were allowed to
turn the former In and Out Club at 94 Piccadilly into a single
home with about 60,600 square feet of space, Westminster Council
decided last month.  Affordable Housing  The Reubens’ planning application was approved after the
two investors offered to contribute 3.85 million pounds to the
construction of affordable housing in the borough. Separate
applications by the Reubens to convert 95 Piccadilly into a
15,000 square-foot home and turn 90-93 Piccadilly into six
apartments and stores were also approved by the council.  “We want to see two things: places being built and
secondly we want to see more housing units,” Edward Lister,
chief of staff at the Greater London Authority, said in an
interview.  London’s annual new housing targets could increase to
40,000 a year from 32,000 a year due to the review of city
planning, Lister said by telephone.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Gower in London at 
 pgower@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 