-- Lonmin Strike Halts Marikana Mine After Union Worker Killed
-- B y   P a u l   B u r k h a r d t   a n d   K a m l e s h   B h u c k o r y
-- 2013-05-14T16:05:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-14/lonmin-marikana-mine-halted-as-workers-refuse-to-go-underground.html
Lonmin Plc (LMI) , the world’s third-largest
platinum producer, said operations at its Marikana mine in South
Africa have been halted after workers refused to go underground
following a union official’s death.  Mining is suspended because of “an illegal work
stoppage,” Sue Vey, a company spokeswoman, said in a text
message. None of the 13 shafts at Marikana are operating, she
said. Lonmin fell 7.3 percent to 265.10 pence by the close in
 London , the most since April 15.  The latest unrest at the mine near Rustenburg, 120
kilometers (75 miles) northwest of Johannesburg, comes after the
Association of Mineworkers and Construction Union said a local
organizer was shot dead on May 11. Competition over membership
between the National Union of Mineworkers and AMCU is
intensifying before annual wage talks.  “Management is in discussions with our recognized trade
unions to ascertain the reasons for the stoppage and to
encourage workers to return to work,” Lonmin said in a
statement. The company employs 27,000 people and 10,000
contractors, according to Vey.  AMCU members “are demanding that the National Union of
Mineworkers’ offices be shut because one of their own has
died,”  Lesiba Seshoka , a spokesman for the NUM, said in a phone
interview. Miners at Marikana also refused to go underground in
March, demanding the NUM close its office.  Currency Weakens  Violence at the mine in August that erupted from a dispute
over pay left 44 people dead -- including 34 shot dead by police
on a single day, 70 injured and led to about 250 arrests.
President Jacob Zuma appointed a commission of inquiry to
investigate events at the mine.  The rand declined as much as 0.8 percent to 9.2319 per
dollar today after the news of the work stoppage, its lowest
level since April 22. It traded at 9.2091 as of 5:35 p.m. in
Johannesburg. Finance Minister  Pravin Gordhan  called for a
resolution to disputes at Lonmin. “Returning to normal
production in our mining industry is absolutely critical,” he
told reporters in Cape Town.  Lonmin and AMCU will hold talks, the union said.
“Management is going to have a meeting with the branch,” Jimmy
Gama, treasurer for the AMCU, said by phone.  A prolonged disruption could pose a threat to Lonmin’s
forecasts of increased output. The company said yesterday it
plans to exceed production of 700,000 ounces of platinum metals
in concentrate this year after the 2012 strikes cut volumes and
raised costs.  Lost Production  About 2,000 ounces a day of platinum production could be
lost if a strike is under way and operations are disrupted,
Edward Sterck, an analyst with the Bank of Montreal, said in a
note to clients. “However, Lonmin has been performing well
recently and has built a reasonable stockpile of metal in
concentrate” and the disruption of a short strike could be
small, he said.  Mawethu Khululekile Stevens, 46, a local organizer for
AMCU, was shot dead May 11 at a tavern near the mine in the
North West province’s Rustenburg region, the union said.  “Stevens was meant to appear before the Marikana Inquiry
as he was involved in the mining protests that took place ahead
of the Marikana tragedy last year,” Jeff Mphahlele, AMCU
general secretary, said yesterday.  Lonmin has been negotiating with AMCU over a labor
recognition agreement since growth in its membership made it the
majority union at the company.  The union wants a threshold for recognition of 30 percent,
while Lonmin is seeking a level of 10 percent, according to
AMCU. The union has referred recognition talks with Lonmin to
South Africa’s Commission for Conciliation, Mediation and
Arbitration.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Paul Burkhardt in Johannesburg at 
 pburkhardt@bloomberg.net ;
Kamlesh Bhuckory in Johannesburg at 
 kbhuckory@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  