-- Moody’s Focuses on Emerging Currency Risk Amid Record Bonds
-- B y   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a
-- 2013-05-15T08:23:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-14/moody-s-focuses-on-emerging-currency-risk-amid-record-bond-sales.html
Moody’s Investors Service said it’s
assessing the risk of  currency depreciation  damaging the
creditworthiness of emerging-market companies after record
foreign bond sales.  Companies from 15  emerging markets  sold a record $130
billion of bonds in dollars and euros last year, Moody’s said in
an e-mailed report. Total corporate and government international
issuance may soar to a peak of $600 billion this year from $430
billion last year, and reach $1 trillion in three years, Hakan Wohlin, global head of debt origination at Deutsche Bank AG in
 London , said in an interview yesterday.  “The amount of  U.S. dollar  and euro debt outstanding has
increased considerably year-by-year, and with it the risk of
currency mismatch,” Moody’s analysts including Philip Robinson
in London said in the report.  While companies are benefiting from plunging bonds yields
spurred by  interest rates  in the U.S., Europe and  Japan  at
virtually zero, issuers may be vulnerable to increased repayment
costs if their revenue isn’t in the same currency as they’re
borrowing in, according to Moody’s.  Among the currencies highlighted by the ratings company are
the South African rand, which has tumbled 8.2 percent against
the dollar in 2013, making it the biggest loser among 24
emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg. Moody’s also
mentioned the Czech koruna, which has fallen 5 percent, and the
Russian ruble, which has lost 2.6 percent.  Issuance Outlook  “We would consider in our rating assessment the effect of
a potential currency depreciation on a company’s immediate
liquidity,” the Moody’s analysts wrote. “Where interest or
principal payments are due in the near future, there is clearly
little time for a reversal of the exchange rate movements.”  Moody’s said it would base assessments on the strategy for
dealing with any currency depreciation and any mitigating
factors including cash held in the borrowing currency.  Foreign bond sales this year included an $11 billion
offering by  Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR3)  this week, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “Going forward, issuance activity will remain high,”
Wohlin at Deutsche Bank said by phone yesterday. “Deals such as
Petrobras will not be unusual.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lyubov Pronina in London at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  