-- OPEC Spare Capacity to Surge Amid U.S. Shale Boost, IEA Says
-- B y   L a n a n h   N g u y e n
-- 2013-05-14T12:45:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-14/opec-spare-capacity-to-surge-amid-u-s-shale-boost-iea-says.html
OPEC’s spare crude oil production
capacity will surge 25 percent in the next two years as rising
U.S. shale output crimps demand for the group’s supplies, the
 International Energy Agency  said.  The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries is
forecast to increase its implied spare output capacity to a peak
at 7.18 million barrels a day in 2015 versus 5.76 million this
year, the IEA said today in its medium-term oil market report.
The figure is calculated by subtracting the anticipated demand
for OPEC crude from the group’s total production capacity.  The organization’s 12 members are “facing headwinds from
the shale oil and gas boom in North America,” which may
supplant some OPEC supplies, the IEA said.  The U.S.  pumped  crude at a 21-year high of 7.37 million
barrels a day in the week to May 3, according to data from the
Energy Department. The gains are driven by a boost in output
from shale deposits, which may propel the U.S. to become the
world’s top producer by 2020, displacing Saudi Arabia, according
to the IEA.  Brent crude  for July delivery fell to trade near $102 a
barrel today on the ICE Futures Europe exchange in  London . The
contract, which is used to price more than half of the world’s
oil, slumped 8.4 percent this year.  Shale Revolution  The shale revolution comes at a time when OPEC nations may
struggle to increase production because of maturing fields and
security issues, the energy adviser said.  “Escalating security risks, political instability and
unattractive fiscal regimes in a number of OPEC member countries
are expected to take a toll on OPEC production capacity
growth,” the IEA said.  Saudi Arabia, the group’s largest producer, will continue
to hold the largest share of spare capacity amid planned
expansion for  oil fields  including Khurais, Shaybah and Manifa,
the agency said.  The desert kingdom will increase output by a net 380,000
barrels a day to 12.35 million by 2018, “with new capacity
largely offsetting mature production as Saudi Arabian Oil Co.
plans to rest some old workhorse fields until new technology
improves extraction and recovery rates,” the IEA said.  The agency dropped its medium-term estimate for so-called
effective spare capacity, which measures the amount of
production that can be brought online in 30 days and maintained
for 90 days. The IEA will retain its monthly estimate of this,
which takes into account supplies from Iraq and Nigeria that are
not immediately available to the market for technical, security-related or infrastructure reasons.  OPEC’s members are  Algeria ,  Angola ,  Ecuador , Iran, Iraq,
 Kuwait , Libya, Nigeria, Qatar,  Saudi Arabia , the United Arab
Emirates and Venezuela. They will meet on May 31 in Vienna to
discuss production policy after keeping their collective target
at 30 million barrels a day in December.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lananh Nguyen in London at 
 lnguyen35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  