-- Morgans Hotel Group Burkle Deal Can’t Proceed, Judge Says
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 2013-05-14T21:23:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-14/morgans-hotel-group-burkle-deal-can-t-proceed-judge-says.html
Morgans Hotel Group Co. (MHGC)  can’t sell
billionaire Ron Burkle two of its businesses and begin a $100
million recapitalization plan because directors didn’t properly
approve the actions, a judge ruled.  Delaware  Chancery Court Judge Travis Laster today barred
Morgans from going forward with the deal, which would allow
Burkle’s Yucaipa Cos. to swap $230 million in notes and
preferred stock for ownership of Morgans’s  Delano South Beach
Hotel  in Miami and a restaurant company. Laster found Morgans
directors’ process for approving the transactions was flawed.  “These were transactions that had major consequences for
the company and involved the sale of its  crown jewel ,” Laster
said in a conference call with attorneys for the company, Burkle
and a dissident Morgans director who sued to challenge the deal.  Jason Taubman Kalisman , the company director and a founding
member of its largest shareholder, OTK Associates, sued his
fellow board members last month over their decision to back the
Yucaipa deal and the $100 million rights offering to current
investors. OTK owns about 14 percent of New York-based Morgans’s
shares, according to court filings.  OTK opened a proxy fight this year, saying it’s seeking to
overhaul Morgans’s board and return the company to
profitability. The chain, which includes 13 boutique hotels, has
lost money in every quarter since 2007, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  June Meeting  OTK and Kalisman accused Morgans’s current directors of
rushing to complete the offering and the Burkle swap before the
company’s annual shareholder meeting, originally scheduled for
May 15, to avoid losing their seats in the proxy vote. The board
had pushed the vote back to July 10.  Laster ordered Morgans officials to hold the annual meeting
tomorrow as originally planned. Still, the judge said directors
can open the meeting as a procedural matter and then vote to
postpone it. That would give company executives time to provide
proper notice about the meeting and the proxy vote, the judge
said. Only investors who held Morgans stock as of March 22 can
cast ballots, he noted.  Morgans officials have rescheduled the company’s annual
meeting for June 14 in the wake of Laster’s ruling,  Lex Suvanto ,
a spokesman for Morgans Hotel at Abernathy McGregor in New York,
said in an e-mailed statement. Frank Quintero, a spokesman for
Los Angeles-based Yucaipa, didn’t immediately return calls for
comment.  ‘Record Date’  OTK officials said they were pleased Laster ordered Morgans
executives to limit voting to investors who owned shares as of
March 22. They accused the company and Burkle of seeking to
change the so-called record date for who could cast ballots in
the proxy vote to help block the push to oust the board.  Laster’s ruling “also allows for a trial on the
recapitalization plan, which OTK believes is not in the best
interests of shareholders,” Nathaniel Garnick, a spokesman for
OTK at Sard Verbinnen & Co. in  New York , said in a e-mailed
statement.  Morgans closed unchanged at $6.14 in Nasdaq trading today.
The hotel chain’s stock rose more than 1.2 percent after Laster
announced his ruling. The shares have climbed 29 percent over
the past 12 months.  Kalisman complained that Burkle, who serves on Morgans’s
board, improperly swayed his colleagues to support his
acquisition bid and backing for the rights offering so that he
could exert control over the hotel chain.  ‘Various Threats’  The billionaire “liked to use various threats to try to
intimidate” his colleagues on the board, Kalisman’s lawyers
said in court filings. For example, Burkle threatened to scuttle
deals aimed at having Morgans executives operate hotels in
Moscow and  Las Vegas , Kalisman’s lawyers said.  Burkle’s warnings and inducements to fellow directors,
which included rides on his private jet, provided incentives for
the board to dismiss competing bids for the hotel and food-and-beverage company, Kalisman contended.  He said that because of his opposition to the Burkle deal
his fellow directors withheld information and kept him in the
dark about the recapitalization plan’s details until the board
met to give it final approval in March.  After hearing arguments in the case, Laster found Burkle
and other Morgans board members pushed to complete the
recapitalization effort in March as part of the board’s response
to OTK’s proxy challenge.  Rights Offering  The judge also found Kalisman’s colleagues misled him about
the progress of the rights offering transaction and didn’t
provide proper notice about a meeting to give the plan final
approval.  Morgans’ board is expected to reconsider the
recapitalization plan and the Burke acquisitions “in the coming
days,” Morgans spokesman Suvanto said in his statement.  The Morgans chain features boutique hotels such as the
Mondrian SoHo in New York, the Clift Hotel in  San Francisco  and
the Delano Marrakech in  Morocco .  The case is Kalisman v. Friedman, 8447, Delaware Chancery
Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware,
at   jfeeley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 