-- Morgan Stanley Shareholders Approve Pay After Bonus Cut
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 2013-05-14T14:06:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-14/morgan-stanley-shareholders-approve-pay-after-bonus-cut.html
Morgan Stanley (MS)  shareholders backed
the bank’s executive-compensation package after the board cut
Chief Executive Officer  James Gorman ’s pay by 7 percent and
deferred bonuses for top managers.  Investors voted about 86 percent in favor of the policy in
a non-binding resolution, down from about 95 percent last year,
according to a preliminary tally today at the company’s annual
meeting in Purchase, New York. They also elected the bank’s 14
board members, including new director Thomas Glocer, the former
CEO of  Thomson Reuters Corp. (TRI)   Gorman’s compensation fell to $9.75 million for 2012, and
was 40 percent below target based on the firm’s performance, New
York-based Morgan Stanley said in a March filing. Total
shareholder return, including appreciation and dividends, was 28
percent in 2012, below the 36 percent median of the bank’s nine
largest peers, said the company, which owns the world’s biggest
brokerage.  Proxy advisory firm Glass Lewis & Co. recommended voting
against the plan, saying Morgan Stanley paid better than peers
while performing worse. ISS Proxy Services USA on April 30 said
Gorman’s pay cut was aligned with performance and advised voting
for the proposal.  Gorman, 54, got no cash bonus for 2012 and 38 percent of
his pay was tied to specific future performance measures, up
from 18 percent for 2011, Morgan Stanley said in the March
filing urging shareholders to vote for the plan. The firm’s
other named officers also got no cash bonus and had at least 34
percent of their pay tied to future performance.  Bloomberg LP, the parent company of  Bloomberg News ,
competes with  Thomson Reuters  in providing financial news and
information.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Moore in New York at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  