-- Hospitals Prepare to Cut Care in Medicaid Opt-Out States
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   A r m o u r
-- 2013-05-14T17:06:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-14/hospitals-prepare-to-cut-care-in-medicaid-opt-out-states.html
With 15 U.S. states opting out of
President  Barack Obama ’s Medicaid expansion, hospitals that
treat poor and uninsured patients are asking the government to
delay $64 billion in planned funding cuts.  Medicaid funds to hospitals with a disproportionate share
of low-income patients will be cut 50 percent, or $14.1 billion,
from fiscal 2014 through 2019, according to draft regulations to
be published in the Federal Register tomorrow. The American
Hospital Association wants to delay by two years the start of
the cuts for Medicaid and for $49.9 billion in reductions by
Medicare, the health program for the elderly and disabled.  “They decided not to look at the effect of health care
reform,” Tom Nickels, senior vice president for federal
relations in  Washington  for the hospital association, said in a
telephone interview today. “They don’t penalize states that
have chosen not to expand.”  The reductions are mandated by President Barack Obama’s
Affordable Care Act, and were supposed to be offset by an
increase in the number of patients who would gain insurance
through an expansion of state Medicaid programs. With some
Republican-led states deciding not to cooperate, a loss of
funding without a gain in more insured patients would hamper
hospitals ability to keep caring for underserved populations.  “It’s a kick in the gut,” said John Bluford, chief
executive officer of  Truman Medical Centers  in  Kansas City ,
 Missouri , which estimates it may lose as much as $150 million in
Medicaid payments over seven years. “These are real dollars. It
would wipe out our margins.”  Tenet Profit  The rules being circulated this week show Medicaid would
reduce the so-called DSH payments by $500 million in the fiscal
2014 year starting in October. For 2015, $600 million more would
be cut with the annual reductions reaching $5.6 billion in 2019.  For the first two years, the funding cuts won’t be based on
whether states have opted to expand Medicaid.  Tenet Healthcare
Corp. (THC) , the third-largest for-profit hospital chain in the U.S.,
estimated in February the Medicaid and Medicare cuts would cost
it $35 million in government payments in the fourth quarter.
Dallas-based Tenet has 26 percent of its beds in  Florida  and 20
percent in  Texas , both states where the Republican governors
have opted not to expand Medicaid.  HCA Holdings Inc. (HCA) , the largest for-profit U.S. hospital
chain, has 25 percent of its beds in Texas and 25 percent in
Florida, according to said Brian Tanquilut, an analyst at
Jefferies LLC in  Los Angeles .  Saving Grace  For-profit hospitals like Tenet are unlikely to pass along
the costs of the cuts to consumers in the way of raising rates
to non-government payers, Tanquilut said. “They’ll eat it.”  Cuts in the Medicare DSH payments also will be offset by a
separate April 26 regulatory proposal that would lead to a 0.8
percent net raise in overall Medicare payments  for services
that elderly and disabled patients get after being admitted to
hospitals, Tanquilut said by telephone.  The overall Medicare rate -- which includes the Medicare
cuts to hospitals that treat a large number of low-income
patients -- should keep HCA’s earnings before interest, taxes
and amortization expenses within its February 2013 guidance, R. Milton Johnson, president and chief financial officer, said on
an April conference call with investors.  The saving grace for for-profit hospitals, Tanquilut said,
is that the Affordable Care Act will bring financial benefits
that nonprofit and public hospitals like Truman Medical won’t
see. Large, urban hospitals that provide the biggest share of
charity care and treat more Medicaid patients are most at risk,
Moody’s Investors Service Inc. said in a March 14 report.  Tight Bind  With only about one-fifth of their patients having
commercial insurance, these safety-net hospitals typically have
profit margins of about 2.3 percent, a third of the industrywide
average for all hospitals, according to 2010 data from the
 National Association of Public Hospitals and Health Systems .
Losing Medicaid funding and not gaining more insured patients
would swing that margin from a profit to a loss of 6.1 percent.  Hospitals may try to recoup losses by limiting the amount
of care they provide to the uninsured or reducing staff,  John
Graves , an assistant professor at the Vanderbilt University
School of Medicine in Nashville,  Tennessee , said by telephone.  “They’re in a tight bind,” Graves said. “They have to
recoup those losses through fewer services, shutting down.”  Lobbying Lawmakers  Grady Health System  in Atlanta, which had estimated it may
lose $45 million annually in Medicaid payments, has been meeting
with U.S. lawmakers to try to repeal or change the cuts, John
Haupert, chief executive officer at Grady, said by telephone.  “We’re having discussions with Congress and the
administration to give states that don’t expand Medicaid an
option to not extend the DSH cuts,” Haupert said in an
interview. For some hospitals, “it’s a matter of their doors
being opened or closed.”  Grady gets about 30 percent of its business from Medicaid,
while Truman Medical gets about 60 percent.  In addition to the American Hospital Association, the
National Association of Urban Hospitals also said it’s lobbying
Congress to delay or revisit the Medicaid DSH cuts.  Emma Sandoe, a spokeswoman at the Centers for Medicare and
Medicaid Services, said the agency wouldn’t comment on the
pending cuts.  Medicaid Opt-Outs  President Barack Obama’s 2010 health-care system overhaul
promised to deliver an increased number of insured patients who
could pay their bills, thus reducing the need for government
assistance to hospitals burdened by uncompensated care. That
promise would be accomplished by making 11 million more people
become eligible for Medicaid, a program largely financed by the
federal government yet controlled by each individual state.  As of May, at least 15 states, all with Republican
governors, aren’t planning to participate, according to a  tally 
by the Washington-based Advisory Board Co. States with high
levels of uninsured patients leaning toward opting out of the
expansion include Texas,  Louisiana ,  Idaho ,  Georgia  and  South
Carolina , according to Moody’s.  The looming DSH reductions may pressure states that are
still weighing Medicaid expansion because they know they’ll face
a financial quandary, Larry Gage, a senior adviser with  Alvarez
& Marsal , a New York-based professional services firm who was
once president of the public hospitals association.  “There are hospitals already in danger of closing in the
next six to 12 months,” Gage said by telephone.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Armour in Washington at 
 sarmour@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  