-- Total and BP Outbid Oil Rivals for Brazil Amazon Coast Licenses
-- B y   R o d r i g o   O r i h u e l a   a n d   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o
-- 2013-05-14T18:17:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-14/total-and-bp-outbid-oil-rivals-for-brazil-amazon-coast-licenses.html
BP Plc (BP/)  and  Total SA (FP) , Europe’s biggest
oil companies after  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) , won exploration
rights in the Amazon basin as  Brazil ’s first oil  auction  in five
years attracts a record level of bids.  Total, based in Paris, gained exploration access to operate
five blocks at the Foz do Amazonas basin in northern Brazil
together with partners BP and Petroleo Brasileiro SA, the oil
regulator said today. London-based BP won an additional license
to operate a block at the same basin in partnership with
Petrobras, as the state-controlled oil company is known.  Brazil, home to the largest crude discovery in the Americas
in more than 30 years, is holding its first oil exploration
round since 2008, attracting more than 60 prospective bidders
for a total of 289 blocks in 11 basins. The country is set to
break the $1.1 billion record in auctioning licenses, according
to Joao Carlos de Luca, the head of the Brazilian Oil Institute.  “Both the Foz do Amazonas and the Barreirinhas blocks
offered so far demonstrate the level of international interest
in the licensing round,” T.J. Conway, a research and advisory
manager at New York-based Energy Intelligence Group, said by e-mail. “The industry is now pursuing multiple Atlantic Margin
plays, applying the conjugate basins approach.”  BP and Total agreed to pay 621.5 million reais ($310
million) for the offshore Amazon basin concessions.  BHP Billiton
Ltd. (BHP)  won bidding for two blocks in the same basin, the
Melbourne-based mining company’s first oil assets in Brazil.  Tops Estimates  OGX Petroleo & Gas Participacoes SA, the oil company
controlled by billionaire  Eike Batista , Colombia’s  Ecopetrol SA (ECOPETL) 
and Queiroz Galvao Oleo & Gas SA also won licenses to operate
blocks at the Foz do Amazonas basin.  Today’s sale of exploration rights is beating the
government’s expectations, Mines and Energy Minister Edison Lobao told reporters at the event, which gathered about 700
executives and officials. The Foz do Amazonas basin has
attracted the most interest from participants, Magda Chambriard,
head of oil regulator National Petroleum Agency, said.  “So far we are satisfied and happy,” Guillermo Quintero,
CEO of BP’s Brazil unit, said during an interview at the event,
held in a Rio de Janeiro hotel. “This isn’t over yet.”  Most of the areas up for auction today and tomorrow are in
virgin waters off the coast of northeastern Brazil where
discoveries in similar geology across the Atlantic in  Ghana  and
Ivory Coast yielded major discoveries. Tullow Oil Plc in 2011
sparked interest in the region with the Zaedyus find off the
coast of French Guiana.  Contestants in Brazil’s first oil auction in five years
range from  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  and  Chevron Corp. (CVX) , the largest U.S.
producers by market value, to Brazilian startup Ouro Preto Oleo
& Gas SA, a government registry shows.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rodrigo Orihuela in Rio de Janeiro at 
 rorihuela@bloomberg.net ;
Juan Pablo Spinetto in Rio de Janeiro at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  