-- OTP Targets Loan Expansion, Declining Risk Costs, Bencsik Says
-- B y   E d i t h   B a l a z s
-- 2013-05-14T10:59:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-14/otp-targets-loan-expansion-declining-risk-costs-bencsik-says.html
OTP Bank Nyrt.,  Hungary ’s largest
lender, plans to expand credit by about 3 percent this year and
lower risk costs as economies in central Europe improve, Chief
Financial Officer Laszlo Bencsik said.  “We need a lending growth of between 2 percent to 3
percent and no further weakening of the forint to ensure a
stabilization in the non-performing loan ratio,” Bencsik said
at a press conference in Budapest today. The expected
improvement in economic performance in countries where OTP
operates will lead to a decline in its risk costs, he said.  OTP’s first-quarter net  income  fell 12 percent to 11.2
billion forint ($49 million) from a year earlier, the bank said
in a regulatory statement today. Non-performing loans rose to
19.9 percent from 19.1 percent at the end of 2012, partly due to
a decline in total loans and a weaker forint, Bencsik said.  OTP, which has subsidiaries in nine countries in central
and eastern  Europe , is increasingly relying on its foreign
subsidiaries for profit generation as Europe’s highest bank levy
and Hungary’s economic slump take a toll on domestic operations
and boost bad loans. The bank is in talks to buy two commercial
lenders in Hungary and negotiations may end within the next four
months, Chairman Sandor Csanyi told Inforadio yesterday.  Bencsik declined to name the two potential acquisition
targets and said that increasing the bank’s presence on the
domestic market was the only “strategic alternative.”  OTP  shares  dropped 2.6 percent to 4,835 forint at 12:22
p.m. in Budapest, heading for the steepest daily decline since
March 28. The benchmark BUX Index fell 0.7 percent today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edith Balazs in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  