-- Lowering Salt Intake to Improve Health May Backfire
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2013-05-15T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-14/lowering-salt-intake-to-improve-health-may-backfire.html
Lowering sodium intake, a drumbeat of
doctors’ efforts to improve patient health, may have the
opposite effect if taken to the extreme, scientists said.  U.S. dietary guidelines to reduce sodium intake to 1,500
milligrams a day for certain people aren’t supported by enough
scientific evidence, an  Institute of Medicine  panel said in a
 report  yesterday. Studies reviewed by the panel didn’t prove
health outcomes improved when salt consumption was cut to that
level.  “Lowering sodium intake too much may actually increase a
person’s risk of some health problems,” Brian Strom, the panel
chairman and a public health professor at the University of
Pennsylvania Perelman School of Medicine, said in a  statement .
The studies still “support previous findings that reducing
sodium from very high intake levels to moderate levels improves
health.”  Adults consume an average 3,400 milligrams of salt each
day. The U.S. recommends 2,300 milligrams for the general public
and as low as 1,500 milligrams for those with high blood
pressure, diabetes or chronic  kidney disease , black people and
people older than age 50. The  American Heart Association , which
advises 1,500 milligrams for everyone, challenged the report.  “The report is missing a critical component -- a
comprehensive review of well-established evidence which links
too much sodium to high blood pressure and  heart disease ,” said
Nancy Brown, chief executive officer of the association.  In addition, studies that don’t show a benefit on heart
disease or adverse effects were conducted on sick people, the
Dallas-based association said in a statement.  Complex Changes  The IOM panel said it looked at studies that measured
health outcomes such as heart disease and death rather than high
blood pressure as an indicator of heart disease.  “These studies make clear that looking at sodium’s effects
on blood pressure is not enough to determine dietary sodium’s
ultimate impact on health,” Strom said. “Changes in diet are
more complex than simply changing a single mineral. More
research is needed to understand these pathways.”  The report recognizes that  blood pressure  is only one of
many factors that should be considered when evaluating dietary
changes, the Salt Institute, an Alexandria, Virginia-based trade
group that represents companies including Morton Salt Inc., said
in a  statement . Morton Satin, vice president of science and
research for the Salt Institute, praised the report’s caution
against reducing sodium to 1,500 milligrams.  Potential Harm  “The recognition by the IOM experts that such low levels
may cause harm may help steer overzealous organizations away
from reckless recommendations,” Satin said.  The panel’s report didn’t list what a healthy sodium range
would be, and the authors said further research is needed on
associations between lower levels of sodium and health outcomes.  The  Institute of Medicine , the health arm of the
Washington-based nonprofit National Academies, provides medical
advice to policy makers and the public. The report was sponsored
by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  