-- Pentagon Furlough of 680,000 Seeks to Save $1.8 Billion
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o   a n d   G o p a l   R a t n a m
-- 2013-05-15T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-14/pentagon-to-furlough-up-to-650-000-civilian-defense-workers.html
The Pentagon is ordering furloughs of
680,000 civilian workers in an effort to save $1.8 billion of
the $37 billion in spending cuts it must make this year.  Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel announced yesterday that most
of the Defense Department’s civilian employees will face 11 days
of unpaid leave, one day a week starting on July 8 and
continuing through September.  The Defense Department “did everything we could” to avert
furloughs, Hagel told workers at a Pentagon facility in
Alexandria,  Virginia . That includes “sharp cuts in the training
and maintenance of our operating forces -- cutbacks that are
seriously harming military readiness,” Hagel said in a 10-page
memo released as he spoke.  While Hagel said he will try to reduce the number of unpaid
days later in the year, he made no promises and said more
furloughs may be required next year if the budget cuts, called
sequestration, continue.  “Major budgetary shortfalls drive the basic furlough
decision,” with $20 billion of the $37 billion in cuts falling
on operations and maintenance accounts, Hagel said in the memo.
Fuel-cost increases that were greater than expected have
compounded the shortages in accounts that also account for
civilian pay, Hagel said.  The estimate of $1.8 billion in savings was provided by two
defense officials who briefed reporters on condition of
anonymity to discuss details of the plan.  Training, Maintenance  The furloughs were ordered only after the Pentagon took
steps including cuts in training for Army and Marine Corps units
in the U.S., grounding Air Force fighter squadrons, postponing
Navy ship maintenance and delaying the Persian Gulf deployment
of an aircraft carrier.  The 11 days of furloughs is down from as many as 22 days
initially projected and 14 days estimated in March.  About 68,500 of 750,000 civilian Defense Department
employees who are eligible for furloughs will be exempted,
according to Hagel’s memo. The exemptions include 28,000
civilian workers at Navy shipyards who maintain vessels
“because it would be particularly difficult to make up delays
in maintenance work on nuclear vessels, and these vessels are
critical to mission success,” Hagel said.  Employees involved in intelligence and in handling foreign
arms sales also will be exempted, Hagel said. About 50,000
foreign nationals employed at overseas locations aren’t subject
to furloughs because they are paid by their countries or covered
by U.S. agreements with those nations.  ‘Deeply Regret’  Sequestration took effect March 1. Furloughs already have
begun for certain other federal employees, including the White
House staff. Congress moved last month to let the Federal
Aviation Administration move around funds to stop furloughs of
air-traffic controllers that forced delays at the nation’s
largest airports and provoked anger from travelers.  “I deeply regret this decision,” Hagel said in the memo.
“I will continue to urge that our nation’s leaders reach an
agreement to reduce the deficit and de-trigger sequestration.”  The Pentagon’s estimate that it will need to cut $37
billion in the fiscal year ending Sept. 30 is down from $41
billion previously projected. The amount was reduced after the
White House Office of Management and Budget completed
recalculations based on a spending bill passed by Congress and
signed by President  Barack Obama  on March 26.  While most of the federal government received stopgap
funding that continued at the previous year’s levels, the
Pentagon won more flexibility through inclusion of a full
appropriations measure.  “I’m sure it’ll ultimately affect some contracts,”
Marillyn Hewson, president and chief executive officer of
 Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) , told reporters in Arlington, Virginia,
yesterday, discussing the effect of the Pentagon’s planned
furloughs on contracts.  She said it’s unclear whether weapons testing will be
reduced and contracts will be delayed. Lockheed Martin is based
in Bethesda,  Maryland .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  