-- PetroChina Drops WestSide Offer in ‘Difficult’ Australian Market
-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 2013-05-14T09:17:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-14/petrochina-drops-westside-offer-in-difficult-australian-market.html
PetroChina Co. (857) , Asia’s biggest oil
and gas producer, dropped a bid to acquire  WestSide Corp. (WCL)  as a
strong Australian dollar and rising costs discourage resources
projects in the country, the Brisbane-based explorer said.  PetroChina, a partner in the proposed Arrow liquefied
natural gas development in Queensland state with  Royal Dutch
Shell Plc (RDSA) , withdrew its offer for the coal-seam gas explorer
“because the general situation in  Australia  has changed so
much,” WestSide said today in a statement.  Australia’s energy and mining projects have been hit by a
high local currency and increasing costs. Woodside Petroleum
Ltd., Australia’s second-biggest oil producer, scrapped a plan
last month to build the Browse LNG project on the Western
Australia coast, while Glencore Xstrata Plc, the world’s biggest
shipper of thermal coal, yesterday halted work on the Balaclava
Island export terminal in Queensland.  “Anybody who has got to go to a final  investment decision 
on a new project today in the Australian market is not excited
by the prospects,” WestSide’s Executive Chairman Angus Karoll
said today in a telephone interview. “Whether you are
PetroChina, Xstrata or Woodside, it’s a difficult market to make
a significant investment decision.”  Mao Zefeng, PetroChina’s Beijing-based spokesman, did not
answer two phone calls to his office nor an e-mail seeking
comment.  WestSide received a takeover offer of 52 cents a share that
valued the company at about A$185 million ($184.4 million), it
said Nov. 20, without identifying the bidder.  Below Parity  Australia’s dollar dropped below parity with its U.S.
counterpart on May 10 for the first time in more than 10 months.
The so-called Aussie’s stretch above parity was the longest
since exchange controls were scrapped in 1983 and has made local
costs more expensive to foreign investors.  Companies from Chevron Corp. to BG Group Plc have announced
cost overruns at their Australian LNG projects. Perth-based
Woodside is considering a floating LNG project as an alternative
for Browse as onshore costs climb.  PetroChina last year acquired Melbourne-based Molopo Energy
Ltd.’s coal-bed methane holdings in Queensland for A$43.4
million. The Chinese company plans to supply the gas to
Liquefied Natural Gas Ltd.’s proposed Fisherman’s Landing export
venture, the Perth-based company said in August.  Shell has delayed a decision to go ahead with the Arrow LNG
project amid cost inflation in Australia, Chief Financial
Officer Simon Henry told reporters on May 2. The company said in
November that it may delay until 2014 a decision on whether to
go ahead with the Arrow development.  WestSide, which has a market value of A$89.7 million,
operates fields in Queensland about 160 kilometers (100 miles)
west of Gladstone, where BG Group, ConocoPhillips and Santos
Ltd. are building more than $60 billion of LNG projects to
export the fuel to  Asia .  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Paton in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  