-- Philippines Unfazed by Weak Yen as Purisima Supports Japan
-- B y   Y e   X i e   a n d   K a r l   L e s t e r   M .   Y a p
-- 2013-05-15T02:48:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-14/philippines-unfazed-by-weak-yen-as-purisima-urges-healthy-japan.html
Philippine Finance Secretary Cesar Purisima said he is unconcerned that  Japan  is letting the yen
tumble, setting him apart from other Asian policy makers who
argue the currency’s slide is hurting their economies.  While Japan’s Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s pledge for
unlimited monetary stimulus pushed the yen to a five-year-low
yesterday, it may also put Asia’s second-largest economy on a
recovery path, buoying manufacturers in the Philippines,
Purisima said yesterday. Exports from the Philippines and Japan
don’t compete, and their industries supplement each other, he
said. Japan was the  biggest buyer  of Philippine goods in 2012.  “The healthier Japan is, the better for the Philippines,”
Purisima, 53, said in an interview at Bloomberg’s headquarters
in  New York . “If the devaluation and what they are doing now
will lead to a faster growing Japan, that should help us. We are
hopeful.”  The yen, which slipped beyond 102 per dollar this month for
the first time since 2008, threatens market stability,  South
Korea ’s central bank Governor Kim Choong Soo said on May 9 after
unexpectedly cutting the nation’s benchmark interest rate. The
currency’s depreciation may spur Asian neighbors to weaken
exchange rates and intensify trade disputes, the State
Administration of Foreign Exchange,  China ’s foreign-exchange
regulator, said in a report in April.  “Philippines is not in direct competition with Japanese
companies compared to others like South  Korea ,” said Eugene Leow, a Singapore-based economist at DBS Group Holdings Ltd.
“Philippines forms part of the Japanese companies supply chain.
If final demand for Japanese goods picks up due to the yen,
there will also be a pick-up for intermediate goods produced in
the Philippines.”  Foreign Investment  The yen rose 0.3 percent to 102.08 per dollar at 9:50 a.m.
in  Tokyo  from yesterday, when it touched the weakest intraday
level since October 2008. The peso climbed 0.7 percent against
the yen and slipped 0.1 percent to 41.125 against the dollar.  The stronger peso hasn’t deterred foreign investment, and
the Philippines has seen a “dramatic increase” in Japanese
investors over the past year as they seek to diversify from
China, Purisima said. The currency reached 2.477 against the yen
on May 13, the strongest level since August 2008.  China’s rising costs and a territorial dispute with Japan
have prompted Japanese companies to shift more operations to
 Southeast Asia . Total investment pledges in the Philippines
climbed to a record $15.9 billion last year, Trade Secretary
Gregory Domingo said in February, as Japanese companies
including Murata Manufacturing Co. boosted expansion.  Excessive Strength  The Philippines won its first investment-grade credit
ratings this year from  Fitch Ratings  and  Standard & Poor’s  as
President  Benigno Aquino  cracked down on corruption, pursued tax
cheats and narrowed a record budget deficit. The  economy  grew
6.8 percent in the fourth quarter from a year earlier, and the
peso reached a five-year high of 40.54 per dollar in January,
prompting policy makers to take steps to curb capital flows.  Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas has lowered the rate on funds
kept in special deposit accounts three times this year, and held
the rate it pays lenders for overnight deposits at a record low
at its review April 25. The central bank announced April 18 that
it had broadened the range of approved outward investments to
spur capital outflows and slow the peso’s gains.  Policy makers around the world have moved to counter
currency appreciation and stimulate growth, with  Sri
Lanka  and the  Bank of Korea  cutting borrowing costs last week,
following the lead of  Australia ,  Europe  and  India  this month.  Acceptable Limits  While the peso remains “within acceptable limits,” policy
makers will stay “vigilant” to prevent excessive strength,
Purisima said. “It’s something we have to monitor closely,” he
said. “The important thing is that we are not alone. Our
competitor countries are in the same boat.”  Policy makers can keep lowering the SDA rate and adopt so-called macro prudential measures to stem the currency’s rally,
Purisima said. To help reduce capital inflows, the government
will refrain from borrowing dollars abroad this year, he said.  Asked if there are any plans to set up a sovereign wealth
fund, Purisima said such a project is unlikely under the current
administration. The central bank and the  Finance Ministry  are
“observing” the practices of other countries such as Singapore
and Malaysia, and no decision has been made, he said.  Central bank Governor Amando Tetangco told reporters on
March 20 that Bangko Sentral can sell dollars to the government
to finance a sovereign wealth fund to help contain the peso.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ye Xie in New York at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net ;
Karl Lester M. Yap in Manila at 
 kyap5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net ;
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  