-- Philippine 2037 Bonds Decline After U.S. Yields Rise; Peso Gains
-- B y   K y o u n g w h a   K i m
-- 2013-05-14T09:11:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-14/philippine-2037-bonds-decline-as-u-s-yields-rise-peso-weakens.html
Philippine bonds due 2037 fell for
the first time a week as signs the  U.S. economy  is strengthening
fueled bets the  Federal Reserve  will scale back stimulus that
has spurred inflows into  emerging markets . The peso gained.  The yield on 10-year Treasuries reached the highest level
in almost seven weeks yesterday, following a report that showed
retail sales in the world’s largest economy unexpectedly
increased in April. The Fed is buying $85 billion of debt each
month to rein in funding costs and support the economy. Domestic
financial markets were closed yesterday due to elections.  “The rise in bond yields has less to do with local factors
than with global ones, as U.S. Treasury yields continue to
climb,” said  Vishnu Varathan , an economist at Mizuho Corporate
Bank Ltd. in Singapore. “Other sovereign yields are also
climbing across the board. I don’t see the result of elections
swinging the markets in a big way.”  The yield on the government’s 6.125 percent notes due
October 2037 rose one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to
3.93 percent in Manila from May 10 after reaching 3.95 percent
earlier, according to Tradition Financial Services. It fell
eight basis points in the previous three sessions. Ten-year U.S.
Treasury yields rose to 1.94 percent yesterday before declining
to 1.9 percent today.  Nine Senate candidates backed by President  Benigno Aquino 
are leading among the 12 seats available with about 30 percent
of precincts reporting, according to an unofficial count posted
on the Commission on Elections’ website. Since four of the 12
senators whose terms expire in 2016 ran with Aquino’s coalition
when he took power, an election victory for nine more allies
would give him an effective majority in the upper house.  Borrowing Plans  The Philippines is considering an overseas debt offering
next year after deciding to avoid the global  bond market  in 2013,
Treasurer Rosalia de Leon said today, responding to questions in
a mobile-phone message. Any international borrowing would be
“minimal” and the government has a bias toward raising funds
locally, she said.  The peso rose 0.1 percent to 41.09 per dollar, Tullett
Prebon Plc prices showed, reversing an earlier loss of as much
as 0.2 percent. One-month implied volatility, a gauge of
expected moves in the  exchange rate  used to price options, fell
one basis point to 4.28 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kyoungwha Kim in Singapore at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  