-- Philadelphia Abortion Doctor Sentenced to Life in Prison
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 2013-05-14T21:15:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-14/philadelphia-abortion-doctor-sentenced-to-life-in-prison.html
Kermit Gosnell, the Philadelphia
abortion doctor convicted of killing three infants during
illegal third-trimester procedures, was sentenced to life in
prison a day after jurors found him guilty.  Yesterday, jurors found Gosnell guilty of first-degree
murder for killing the babies by severing their spinal cords
with scissors. He was acquitted in the death of a fourth child.
Jurors were scheduled to hear arguments next week on whether
Gosnell should face the death penalty.  “Kermit Gosnell today agreed to waive all of his appellate
rights in exchange for life in prison without the possibility of
parole instead of the death penalty,” Tasha Jamerson, a
spokeswoman for Philadelphia District Attorney Seth Williams,
said in an e-mailed statement.  Gosnell was arrested along with nine employees in January
2011 and charged with performing late-term abortions in filthy
conditions at his Women’s Medical Society clinic. The charges
followed an investigation begun in 2010 after drug agents raided
the facility and uncovered the death of Karnamaya Mongar, a 41-year-old Virginia resident who went into cardiac arrest after
clinic employees gave her lethal doses of the narcotic Demerol.  Stained Walls  Investigators found women being treated in squalid
conditions with old equipment and outdated drugs, prosecutors
said. They described the clinic in West Philadelphia as a
“house of horrors” with floors and walls stained with cat
urine and blood.  Consecutive life prison sentences were imposed on Gosnell
today for the deaths of two infants, according to court records.
Sentencing in the death of the third is scheduled for tomorrow,
Jamerson said in the statement.  In addition to the murder convictions, Gosnell was found
guilty of involuntary manslaughter in Mongar’s death. Jurors
also found him guilty of more than 200 other counts for related
crimes including violating a 24-hour waiting period before
performing abortions.  The case is Commonwealth of  Pennsylvania  v. Gosnell, CP-51-CR-0001667-2011, Court of Common Pleas of Philadelphia County
(Philadelphia).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  