-- Pimco Pares Risk on Bet Monetary Easing Distorts Markets
-- B y   R i c h   M i l l e r   a n d   S i m o n   K e n n e d y
-- 2013-05-14T14:34:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-14/pimco-pares-risk-on-view-monetary-easing-distorts-global-markets.html
Pacific Investment Management Co.,
home to the world’s biggest fixed-income fund, is shying away
from risky assets as it sees a growing disconnect between the
performances of financial markets and the global economy.  “Especially with ever-elevated prices, and absent a
favorable growth shift, we will continue to bring down risk
postures of portfolios,” said Mohamed El-Erian, chief executive
officer of  Newport Beach , California-based Pimco, outlining the
company’s investment strategy over the next three to five years.  In a report posted today on Pimco’s website, El-Erian said
the world economy is undergoing a “stable disequilibrium” that
could end in financial turmoil, greater social tensions and
beggar-thy-neighbor national policies. Egged on by
“hyperactive” central banks, investors are playing down the
dangers and pushing financial markets higher, he said.  He warned of a risk of “severe air pockets” in financial
markets if economic growth proves disappointing and said
investors should be prepared for more restructurings of
corporate and sovereign bonds.  Seeking to craft a medium-term outlook that will guide
Pimco’s investments, El-Erian said U.S. growth will remain
limited to “not much greater than 2 percent on average” while
 Japan  will face challenges in sustaining an initial surge in
activity on the back of an “historical” policy-regime change.  Europe’s ‘Zombification’  In  Europe , the immediate threat is what El-Erian called
“zombification” where companies and banks continue to operate
without adding much to the economy.  China  is projected by Pimco to expand an average 6 percent
to 7.5 percent annually.  As for global inflation, the money manager tilts toward the
possibility that it will be “higher and less stable” over the
next three to five years, he said.  Pimco’s co-founder  Bill Gross , who serves as co-chief
investment officer alongside El-Erian, has already been advising
investors to sell riskier assets and buy government debt,
including inflation-linked securities and nominal Treasuries as
central banks pursue unprecedented stimulus measures.  Gross raised holdings of Treasuries in his flagship fund in
April to the highest level since July 2010. In Europe,  Andrew Balls , the company’s head of European  portfolio management , said
April 24 that Pimco had been scaling back exposure to Spain and
 Italy  as part of a reduction in credit risk.  Rising Stocks  El-Erian’s report summarizes three days of internal
discussions last week on the global economy and financial
markets. Former World Bank President  Robert Zoellick , former
Spanish Finance Minister  Elena Salgado  and  Adam Posen , president
of the Peterson Institute for International Economics in
 Washington , took part in the talks.  The annual strategy session came against a backdrop of
rising global equity prices and stepped-up stimulus from the
world’s central banks. Since the start of the year, Japan’s
 Nikkei (NKY)  225 Stock Average has risen by more than 40 percent,
while the Standard & Poor’s 500  Index (SPX)  has climbed almost 15
percent.  “Investors are enticed to take more and more risk at ever
more elevated prices,” El-Erian said. “But if growth fails to
materialize over time, reality will snatch back the returns from
investors in the period ahead.”  Rate Cuts  Four years after the deepest recession since World War II,
central banks are still combatting sluggish economies with
interest-rate cuts and asset purchases. So far this month,
monetary authorities overseeing a quarter of global gross
domestic product have lowered rates, including those of the
euro-area, Australia and Israel.  The central banks “have inserted a remarkable wedge -- a
disconnect -- between market prices and underlying economic and
financial fundamentals,” El-Erian said. Yet they “are still
unable to deliver sufficiently robust growth and jobs.”  He predicted central banks would keep experimenting in
their efforts to bolster their economies. More will follow the
 Federal Reserve  in targeting growth and jobs more explicitly and
may also try to support small and medium-sized enterprises or
broaden the set of assets they buy, he said. Their actions,
though, “are likely to become less effective” over time as the
risk of collateral damage mounts, according to the executive.  He said investors should be wary of holding too much of the
currencies of those central banks that are easing, yet lack the
reserve currency status of the U.S. Portfolios also should be
hedged against the risk of catastrophic outcomes, he wrote.  Pimco is now looking “more intensely” for opportunities
in areas not so affected by the wave of liquidity provided by
central banks, El-Erian said. Revolutions in shale energy and
digitalization provided some “exciting investible stories,” he
wrote.  El-Erian, who popularized the phrase “new normal” to
describe an era of lackluster growth, said economies are nearing
a fork “where the current road eventually ends, giving way to
one of two contrasting outcomes” -- a fast, sustainable
expansion or a slowing world economy with countries “competing
for a smaller pie.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rich Miller  in Washington at 
 rmiller28@bloomberg.net ;
Simon Kennedy in London at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  