-- Polish Economic Growth Slump Supports Interest Rate-Cut Case
-- B y   A g n e s   L o v a s z   a n d   M a r t a   W a l d o c h
-- 2013-05-14T14:03:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-14/polish-flash-1q-gdp-growth-slows-to-0-4-y-y-below-estimate.html
Polish economic growth matched an 11-year low in the first quarter, boosting the case for further
interest-rate reductions by the nation’s central bank.  Gross-domestic product  grew 0.4 percent from a year earlier
between January and March, compared with 0.7 percent in the
previous quarter, according to a flash estimate published today
by Central Statistical Office in Warsaw. The figure matches the
slowest expansion since the fourth quarter of 2001, also reached
in the first quarter of 2009. Growth was slower than the 0.7
percent median estimate of 25 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  While central bank Governor Marek Belka said policy makers
are in a “wait-and-see” mode after lowering the main rate by a
quarter-point to a record 3 percent last week, further evidence
of economic weakness will probably tip the balance toward more
easing next month, according to Marcin Mazurek, an economist at
BRE Bank in Warsaw.  “The May rate cut was based on monthly data and policy
makers’ gut feeling there was a risk,” Mazurek said by phone.
“Now that risk has materialized and a number of central bankers
are already on record saying that any further cuts should be
done fast.”  The zloty weakened less than 0.1 percent to 4.1622 per euro
at 11:54 a.m. in Warsaw. The  yield  on the benchmark two-year
zloty bond fell 6 basis points to 2.51 percent, a record low.  Rate Reductions  Traders increased bets on rate reductions after the GDP
data. Six-month forward-rate agreements are trading 63 basis
points below the Warsaw Interbank Offered Rate, from 56 basis
points yesterday, indicating more than two quarter-point rate
reductions by November.  The growth figures are subject to a revision when the
statistics office releases first-quarter GDP data on May 29.  Growth has been squeezed in the largest eastern European
Union member as the 17-nation euro region, which buys more than
half of Polish exports, remains in a recession for a second
year. With the growth outlook weakening and unemployment near a
six-year high, Poles are also more reluctant to spend.
Individual consumption declined 0.2 percent year on year in the
fourth quarter, the first drop since records began in 1996,
according to a report on April 22.  Better Sooner  While there’s not much scope for further monetary easing,
any decision should come “sooner rather than later,” Anna Zielinska-Glebocka of the Monetary Policy Council was quoted as
saying today by the PAP newswire. More rate cuts would be
ineffective in stimulating growth, rate setter Jan Winiecki said
in an interview on TVN CNBC after the data.  “There’s a false conviction that lower borrowing costs can
make producers and consumers change their thinking on investment
or durable-goods purchases, when they’re already feeling a lot
of uncertainty,” Winiecki told the broadcaster.  Even so, the slowest inflation in seven years may also
create scope for further easing.  Inflation decelerated for a sixth consecutive month to 1
percent in March from 3.8 percent in September. A report
tomorrow will probably show annual inflation decelerated to 0.7
percent last month, the least since April 2006, a survey of
analysts by Bloomberg shows.  “With CPI falling down to even 0.6 percent by June and
only back to 1.1 percent by year end means that the real rate
scope to cut is present for twice 25 basis points,” Peter Attard Montalto, a London-based economist at Nomura
International Plc, said in an e-mail today.  The central bank will reduce borrowing costs by a quarter-point in June and July and take its main rate down to 2 percent
or 2.25 percent by the end of the year,  Rafal Benecki , chief
economist at ING Bank Slaski SA, said by phone.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Agnes Lovasz in London at 
 alovasz@bloomberg.net ;  Marta Waldoch in Warsaw at 
 mwaldoch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  