-- Porsche to Seek Dismissal of Funds’ German Legal Claims
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h   R a u w a l d   a n d   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k
-- 2013-05-14T09:29:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-14/porsche-to-seek-dismissal-of-funds-german-legal-claims.html
Porsche SE, the family-controlled
holding company that owns a majority of  Volkswagen AG (VOW) , said it
views legal claims in  Germany  by 25 plaintiffs seeking more than
1.36 billion euros ($1.77 billion) as unfounded.  Porsche “considers the alleged claims to be without merit
and will respond by filing a motion to dismiss,” the Stuttgart,
Germany-based company said in a statement today.  The  investment company , which sold its Porsche sports-car
brand to Volkswagen last year, is fighting market-manipulation
allegations in three countries over a failed move to acquire VW,
Europe’s biggest carmaker, more than four years ago. The 25
funds, which are seeking interest in addition to the damage
claim, filed their lawsuit on April 30, Porsche said today.  The plaintiffs include Viking Global Equities LP, Glenhill
Capital LP and  David Einhorn ’s Greenlight Capital Inc., Bernhard Schabel, a spokesman for the Stuttgart Regional Court said
yesterday. Viking, Glenhill and Greenlight were among funds
suing Porsche in  New York  state court over the carmaker’s use of
options in the failed bid for Wolfsburg, Germany-based VW. Early
this year,  hedge funds  agreed not to pursue further appeals in
New York and Porsche granted them a 90-day period to sue in
Germany instead.  Porsche said today that 24 of the 26 plaintiffs that have
withdrawn from New York state court proceedings were involved in
the April 30 Stuttgart legal filing, along with another
unidentified company.  Stock Declines  Porsche  fell  as much as 1.7 percent to 59.26 euros and was
trading down 0.6 percent at 11:27 a.m. in  Frankfurt . The stock
has declined 2.9 percent this year, valuing the company at 18.4
million euros.  First-quarter net income, which comes entirely from
Volkswagen, totaled 601 million euros, Porsche said today. Full-year profit at that level will be in the “low single-digit
billion-euro range.” Net liquidity rose to 2.9 billion euros on
March 31 from 2.56 billion euros at the end of last year because
of tax refunds. The figure doesn’t include dividend payments
from VW of 386 million euros for 2012 that was paid last month,
it said.  Porsche has said it will use its cash to invest in mid-size
companies related to the automotive industry and expand its
assets beyond VW, currently its only operational business.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christoph Rauwald in Frankfurt at 
 crauwald@bloomberg.net ;
Karin Matussek in Berlin at 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  