-- Premier League Uniform Deal Values Rise 32%, Report Says
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2013-05-14T11:18:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-14/premier-league-uniform-deal-values-rise-32-report-says.html
English Premier League soccer teams
are benefiting as competition between new uniform suppliers
pushed up the value of team shirt contracts by 32 percent to
117.3 million pounds ($179 million).  A pair of North American companies in their first seasons
with Premier League clubs are boosting the league, sports
marketing company Repucom said in its 2013 European soccer
uniform supplier report.  Under Armour Inc. (UA)  signed with Tottenham
Hotspur for an undisclosed amount, while New Balance Athletic
Shoe Inc.’s Warrior unit is paying five-time European champion
Liverpool 25 million pounds for each of the next six seasons.  “The entrance of Warrior and the growth in Under Armour’s
investment in British football has been a real shot in the arm
in terms of Premier League club’s kit sponsorship incomes,”
Andrew Walsh, president of global enterprise at Repucom, said in
a statement. “The league’s global reach makes it a very
attractive prospect for the world’s top sports merchandise
manufacturers. In turn, kit contracts are becoming an ever-more
relevant source of revenue for the clubs, not only at the top
level, but right down the division.”  The Premier League accounts for almost 40 percent of the
combined uniform sponsorship revenue across Europe’s top five
leagues, which this season totals 315 million pounds.  The 20 Premier League teams earn an average of 6 million
pounds a year from uniform deals, almost double the Spanish
Primera Division, which is at 3.4 million pounds. Italy’s Serie
A is at 2.7 million pounds, the German Bundesliga at 2.6 million
pounds and  France ’s Ligue 1 at 1.4 million pounds.  The Premier League’s strength in being able to secure
lucrative uniform agreements is the number of replica shirts
teams can sell, the report said.  Approximately 5 million Premier League jerseys will be sold
worldwide this season, about one million more than the 2011-12
campaign and more than double the total for the 18 Bundesliga
clubs, Repucom said.  The Premier League’s average replica shirt cost of 47.60
pounds is the lowest of the five major European Leagues,
according to Repucom. Serie A has the highest average priced
replicas at 61 pounds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in  London  at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 