-- Private Equity Taps Builders as Foreclosures Vanish
-- B y   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n
-- 2013-05-14T14:00:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-14/private-equity-taps-builders-as-foreclosures-vanish.html
Investors seeking single-family homes
to rent are buying land and newly-built properties as
 foreclosures  dwindle and existing home prices in the U.S. rise
at their fastest pace since 2006.  Landsmith LP paid $32.5 million this month for 250 Houston-area houses that were built last year. The firm, which began
buying properties to rent in 2009, has 2,000 lots for new homes
under contract and expects to purchase a total of 4,000 new
houses this year, according to San Francisco-based Chief
Executive Officer James Breitenstein.  Just as investors flocked to Atlanta after picking through
foreclosures in Phoenix, they’re now seeking deals from  builders 
who want to lock in sales or sell property quickly. The appeal
of buying newly-built homes that are typically more expensive
than repossessed ones is growing as the number of borrowers
facing foreclosure falls to the lowest level since 2008 and
after prices of bank-owned properties was driven up by
 Blackstone Group LP (BX) ,  Colony Capital LLC  and other private-equity
firms snapping up tens of thousands of houses.  “A big part of our business plan is to execute this
strategy,” Breitenstein said in a telephone interview.  “It’s
a way to control your pipeline and not have to fight with the
herd.”  The share of mortgages in  foreclosure , meaning the lender
filed to repossess the property, fell to 3.55 percent in the
first quarter from 4.39 percent from a year earlier, the lowest
in four years, according to a Mortgage Bankers Association
report last week.  Dwindling Supply  “The dwindling supply of such properties may be cause for
concern among some institutional investors whose residential
business models depend crucially on being able to snap up these
bargains,”  Paul Diggle , an analyst with Capital Economics Ltd.
in  London  wrote in a note after the Mortgage Bankers report.  Demand from rental investors may bolster some homebuilders,
which have rallied 22 percent this year and more than doubled
since the end of 2011. Steve Eisman, who rose to fame betting
against subprime mortgages during the housing crash, said last
week that investors should buy shares of builders and land as
the housing market strengthens.  “While homebuilders are cheap, they have not priced in how
much fundamentals have improved,” Eisman, founder of Emrys
Partners LP, said at a conference in  New York .  New home sales  also have “higher economic multipliers and
local impact relative to existing home sales,” Sam Khater,
deputy chief economist with CoreLogic Inc., wrote in a
newsletter published today. “For example, the sale of every new
home requires the equivalent of five full-time jobs for 12
months.”  Capital Starved  Builders selling to Landsmith have mostly been capital-starved smaller operators, according to Breitenstein, rather
than publicly-traded companies such as  D.R. Horton  Inc. or
 PulteGroup Inc. (PHM)  Other investors have bought small numbers of
houses from the largest builders.  American Homes 4 Rent, a Malibu, California-based company
headed by Public Storage founder B. Wayne Hughes, bought from
 Lennar Corp. (LEN) , KB Home and M/I Homes Inc. in  Florida ’s
Hillsborough County, according to property records.  Blackstone, which has acquired more than 24,000 houses over
the past year, bought five Lennar homes in Hillsborough County
since September. The new houses, which sold for $200,000 to
$257,000, are in areas with low crime and good schools and can
make money from rent or price appreciation, according to Eric Elder, spokesman for Invitation Homes, Blackstone’s single-family rental division.  “It was an opportunistic buy,” Elder said in a telephone
interview. “It’s not a specific bullet point in our strategy.”  Vegas Houses  American Residential Properties Inc. (ARPI) , a Scottsdale,
Arizona-based rental company that raised $288 million in an
initial public offering last week, bought 21 to-be-built  Las
Vegas  houses last year from  William Lyon Homes (LWHS) , the last of 325
lots in a subdivision that opened in 2003.  “If we can make the numbers work, we’ll look at that the
way we look at any other opportunity,” American Residential
Chief Operating Officer Stephen Schmitz said in a telephone
interview.  Wall Street-backed investors began buying single-family
rental homes in the last few years after  prices  plunged more
than a third from the 2006 peak and more than five million
homeowners lost property to foreclosures, bringing institutional
capital to what has been a mom and pop industry.  ‘Massive Supply’  While low prices and record-low  interest rates  have made
homes more  affordable , many potential buyers are unable to get a
mortgage because they don’t have money for a down payment or
lack high enough credit scores to borrow. The U.S.  homeownership 
rate dropped to 65 percent in the first quarter, down from 69
percent in 2004 and the lowest rate in 17 years, according to
Commerce Department data. For people younger than 35, an age
group when families begin raising children and buying home, the
ownership rate fell to 37 percent last year from 43 percent in
2004.  “The massive supply of homes coupled with the significant
drop in prices create an opportunity for investors to acquire
homes at significant discounts while delivering housing
solutions for many displaced residents,” Colony American Homes,
the rental division of Thomas Barrack Jr.’s investment firm,
said in a regulatory filing.  Colony has raised $2.2 billion and acquired more than 9,500
homes in eight states as of April 21. The average house was 26
years old, 1,760 square feet (164 square meters) and cost
$159,000.  Highest Yields  Las Vegas; Indianapolis,  Indiana ; and Orlando, Tampa and
Jacksonville, Florida, have the highest yields on rentals
according to a report last month by Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
Those yields are higher on foreclosed homes, which typically
sell at a 30 percent discount to other properties, according to
the report. In Las Vegas, for example, the yield on bank-owned
properties is 8 percent compared to 6.2 percent for other
rentals, after factoring in vacancy rates and costs, such as
taxes and insurance.  The median resale home price in 150 U.S. cities jumped 11.3
percent in the first quarter to $176,600, the biggest price rise
in seven years, the National Association of Realtors reported
May 9. Prices soared 31 percent in Atlanta, 30 percent in
Phoenix and 27 percent in Las Vegas, the real estate group
reported from  Washington .  The largest rental investors have bought faster than they
can find tenants. Only 55 percent of Colony’s homes, most of
which were purchased within the last six months, were leased,
according to a regulatory  filing  this month.  Assembling Portfolios  Landsmith has specialized as a mid-sized player in the
single-family rental industry, buying homes for itself and
assembling portfolios of as large as 200 leased-up properties
that it sells to larger investors. The company is in the process
of closing deals this month to buy 87 rentals in Raleigh,  North
Carolina , for $5.1 million and 118 homes in Nashville,
 Tennessee , for $11 million.  It paid an average $130,000 for the 250 Houston-area homes,
Breitenstein said. The rentals are sprinkled around 12
communities where builders sold most of the houses to owner
occupants, he said.  The new houses have low maintenance costs and are more
efficient to manage than more scattered properties, Breitenstein
said. About 98 percent of the Houston residences are already
leased for $995 to $1,500 a month, according to an offering
memorandum obtained by  Bloomberg News . Tenants are willing to
pay a premium of $50 to $100 a month to occupy a brand new home,
according to Breitenstein.  ‘Smell New’  “They like the smell of new,” he said.  While fewer bank-owned properties are coming to market, the
number of new homes for  sale  has increased -- slowly -- rising 5
percent from a year earlier to 153,000 in March, according to
Commerce Department data. That compares with a high of 572,000
in July 2006.  The new homes sold for a median $247,000, up 3 percent from
a year earlier. Average prices rose 9.3 percent at Lennar, 10
percent at PulteGroup and 14 percent at D.R. Horton during the
companies’ most recent quarters as they emphasized improving
profit margins over sales volume.  “Our goal is improve the bottom line better than we
improve the top line,” D.R. Horton CEO Donald Tomnitz said
during an April 26 earnings call.  Builders sell houses to Landsmith at a discount compared
with owner occupants, because they don’t have to pay real estate
broker fees and it’s easier to raise  project financing  if a
large number of sales are guaranteed, Breitenstein said.  ‘Bullet-Proof’  “We help builders by giving them a bullet-proof takeout,”
said Breitenstein, who declined to name the builders to keep his
competitive edge.  Building new homes to sell to landlords was a viable option
in markets such as  Charlotte , North Carolina, a year or two ago,
according to  John Burns , chairman of John Burns Real Estate
Consulting. The opportunity to build new homes as rentals may
have passed as land, lumber and labor prices rise and more
buyers seek new houses amid a tight  supply  of existing homes, he
said.  More Sense  “Today, it makes way more sense to sell,” Burns said in a
telephone interview from  Irvine ,  California .  Beazer Pre-Owned Rental Homes Inc., a venture formed by
private-equity firm KKR & Co. and Beazer Homes USA Inc., started
last year with a portfolio of 190 houses in Phoenix and Las
Vegas, hasn’t been able to find new houses to rent that fit its
criteria, according to CEO Patrick Whelan.  “It’s harder to make the math work on new houses to rent,
and they are often located in inferior submarkets,” Whelan said
in a telephone interview from his office in Scottsdale,  Arizona .
“Buying for less than replacement cost is a key metric we focus
on. Obviously, if you’re buying new, you’re buying at full cost,
including builder margin.”  Last year, builder Hovnanian Enterprises Inc. and its
investor GTIS Partners debated whether to sell or rent units in
Vistabella, a 70-unit townhouse community in  Boynton Beach ,
Florida. They opted to sell, a decision that’s been vindicated,
according to GTIS Chairman Tom Shapiro.  Debate Over  “I’d say the debate’s over now given what’s happened in
the for sale market,” Shapiro, whose New York-based firm has
$2.3 billion under management, including 5,000 rental homes and
30,000 lots, said in a telephone interview. “Had rents kept
increasing and prices stayed low, I think we could’ve gotten
there. Today, I don’t think it will be your best economic
option.”  The economics of building to rent depend mostly on the
price of lots, which Landsmith tries to keep below 25 percent of
the final costs, Breitenstein said. Ready-to-build lots in  Texas 
markets, such as Houston, are about 20 percent of the cost of a
home, compared with as much as 50 percent in coastal California
markets, according to Jeff Meyers, a housing consultant with
 Beverly Hills , California-based Kennedy-Wilson Holdings Inc.  “In Texas, the land isn’t such a big component,” Meyers
said in a telephone interview.  Landsmith started tying up land in 2008 and 2009, when
prices had plunged to pennies on the dollar, buying foreclosed
subdivisions from banks and builders who ran out of cash. For
now, it makes financial sense to keep some of the new houses as
rentals.  “The key is executing quickly enough and moving fast
enough,” he said. “In a year or two, this might not work.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Gittelsohn in  Los Angeles  at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net ;
Rob Urban at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net  