-- Puma Cuts Full-Year Forecast as Profit Trails Estimates
-- B y   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s
-- 2013-05-14T08:30:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-14/puma-revises-down-2013-outlook-as-quarterly-profit-disappoints.html
Puma SE (PUM)  cut its revenue and profit
forecasts for this year after reporting first-quarter earnings
that trailed analysts’ estimates.  Europe ’s second-largest maker of sporting goods now expects
a low-to-mid-single digit decline in currency-adjusted sales,
Herzogenaurach, Germany-based Puma said today. In February, it
forecast unchanged 2013 sales. The company also said it’s
unlikely to meet its original guidance of low-to-mid-single
digit growth in earnings before interest, tax and special items.  The stock fell as much as 3.5 percent in Frankfurt trading,
the biggest drop in three months. Puma is cutting costs to
combat a decline in footwear sales while working to boost its
performance-wear credentials with products such as $110  Mobium
Elite  running shoes.  The “very disappointing numbers” signal that the gap with
Adidas AG and Nike Inc. “continues to widen,” Jurgen Kolb, an
analyst at Kepler Cheuvreux, said in a note to clients.
Crosstown rival Adidas reported profit that beat estimates this
month, causing its stock to soar to the highest level on record.  Puma stock traded down 2.75 percent at 226.25 euros as of
10:26 a.m. in  Frankfurt  today. The drop almost wiped out this
year’s gain, giving the company a market value of 3.39 billion
euros ($4.4 billion).  The company, which in February shifted away from a goal to
lift revenue to 4 billion euros by 2015, is closing stores,
eliminating jobs and cutting product ranges.  New CEO  First-quarter earnings before interest and tax fell to 79
million euros from 102 million euros a year earlier, Puma said.
Analysts predicted earnings of 95 million euros on that basis,
according to the average of eight  estimates  compiled by
Bloomberg.  The “business climate in Europe remains challenging,” the
sporting-goods maker said in today’s statement, while in  China ,
fitness and training products “did not perform as expected.”
Puma repeated its expectation for continued pressure on the
gross profit margin. The company still expects net income to
rise from the 2012 level.  “Puma will continue to face massive margin implications in
its attempt to revive its position as a sports performance
brand,” Ingbert Faust, an analyst at Equinet Bank, said in a
note to clients.  First-quarter sales fell 4.8 percent, or 2.3 percent
excluding currency swings, to 782 million euros, weighed down by
“particularly negative” trends in Italy and  France , owner  PPR (PP) 
SA reported last month. The western European market will remain
challenging for the coming quarters, PPR said.  Puma last month named  Pandora A/S (PNDORA)  head Bjoern Gulden as
chief executive officer-elect, to replace Franz Koch. Gulden, a
former soccer professional, will join Puma in July.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Roberts  in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  