-- Puma’s New Chief Faces Tougher Turnaround Task Than at Pandora
-- B y   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s   a n d   K a t a r i n a   G u s t a f s s o n
-- 2013-05-14T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-14/puma-s-new-chief-faces-tougher-turnaround-task-than-at-pandora.html
Bjoern Gulden turned round Danish
jewelry maker  Pandora A/S (PNDORA)  in a little more than a year. Working
his charm at  Puma SE (PUM)  will be a tougher task after  Europe ’s
second-biggest sporting-goods maker cut its profit guidance.  Gulden, due to start at Puma in July, yesterday reported
estimate-beating first-quarter profit at Glostrup, Denmark-based
Pandora that boosted the stock to the highest in almost two
years. At the same time, Puma cut its 2013 revenue and profit
forecasts as it trails competitors such as  Adidas AG. (ADS)   “When I came in there wasn’t a lot of question what we
should do, it was about executing and I think 14 months later we
have executed according to the plan and done what people
expected,” Gulden said of his job at Pandora, which he joined
in March 2012. He declined to comment on Puma.  The scale of Gulden’s task at Puma, which outfits sprinter
Usain Bolt, is daunting. Puma is far behind Adidas in the fast-growing area of performance sportswear, and catching up will
involve accepting lower profitability than on casual items. And
it comes at a time when the Herzogenaurach, Germany-based
company’s European markets show few signs of improvement.  Pandora “was reasonably easy to fix because it was all
about distribution,” according to  John Guy , an analyst at
Berenberg Bank in  London . “Puma is a slightly more complicated
story,” mostly because of an overdependence on products such as
casual sneakers and sweatshirts, he said.  To combat declining footwear sales, Puma has closed stores,
eliminated jobs and cut product ranges. It’s also seeking to
boost its credentials in the performance sportswear category
with products such as $110 Mobium Elite running shoes.  Unwanted Inventory  Puma  shares  fell 1.4 percent to 229.5 euros in  Frankfurt 
yesterday, almost wiping out their gain for the year. Pandora
rose 12 percent to 207.5 kroner, extending its advance in 2013
to 67 percent. That was the highest close since May 18, 2011.  Gulden, a former soccer professional, was brought in by
Pandora following a collapse of demand in the summer of 2011
that led the company to cut its full-year profit forecast.  To get sales growing again at the jeweler, the CEO replaced
unwanted inventory with best-selling lines, cut prices and
changed the product line as well as improving business
processes, systems and logistics.  Pandora said yesterday that first-quarter net income rose
30 percent to 438 million kroner ($76.4 million), exceeding the
346 million-kroner average estimate in a Bloomberg survey of
seven analysts. Sales increased 41 percent to 2 billion kroner.  Ideal Candidate  Gulden will be able to call on his experience at Puma’s
crosstown rival. He spent eight years with Adidas, where he
headed the apparel and accessories business and also helped take
the German sporting-goods maker public in 1995. Before joining
Pandora, Gulden held senior positions at Deichmann Group, the
owner of Rack Room Shoes and Off Broadway Shoes.  His experience makes him the ideal candidate to lead Puma,
according to Chief Financial Officer Michael Laemmermann.  “He has not only knowledge in sporting goods, but also in
the lifestyle industry,” Laemmermann said yesterday on a call
with reporters. “He will have the necessary standing and
capacity to carry on Puma’s” transformation.  After all but abandoning its 4 billion-euro revenue target
by 2015 in February, Puma yesterday forecast a low-to-mid-single
digit decline in currency-adjusted sales. The company, in which
Gucci-owner  PPR SA (PP)  owns a majority, also said it’s unlikely to
meet its original guidance of low-to-mid-single digit growth in
earnings before interest, tax and special items.  The “business climate in Europe remains challenging,” the
sporting-goods maker said in a statement, while in  China ,
fitness and training products “did not perform as expected.”  Performance Products  Puma gets 35 percent of  sales  from performance products,
compared with 72 percent at the Adidas brand. While the gross
margin on performance products is 5 to 15 percentage points
lower than on casual gear “you need a strong performance base
in order to leverage your lifestyle products,” said Guy.  Puma expects gross profit as a percentage of sales to
decline by about 1 percentage point in 2013, according to
Laemmermann. Restructuring measures will also lead to a loss of
market share this year and lower sales, Guy estimates.  The competitive nature of the market requires Puma to
provide bigger discounts than it would like, Laemmermann said,
adding that the level of markdowns is similar to last year.
“This is currently the reality of the market,” he said.  Still, with Adidas this month saying its gross margin
widened to a record in the first quarter, Gulden faces an uphill
challenge making Puma famous for performance rather than
fashion, which once differentiated the brand.  The gap with Adidas and  Nike Inc. (NKE)  “continues to widen,”
said Jurgen Kolb, an analyst at Kepler Cheuvreux.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Katarina Gustafsson in  Stockholm  at 
 kgustafsson@bloomberg.net ;
 Andrew Roberts  in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  