-- Rail Revival Is Lifeline to Biggest Africa Copper Mines: Freight
-- B y   M a t t h e w   H i l l
-- 2013-05-14T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-14/rail-revival-is-lifeline-to-biggest-africa-copper-mines-freight.html
Graham Soko, a shopkeeper whose
business straddles the railway line south of Lusaka station in
 Zambia ’s capital, says he’s hoping to reap profits from the
government’s plans to rejuvenate the dilapidated railway system.  “We need a well-developed, modern one,” he said as a
radio played in his shop, named All Types of Groceries. “People
will be using the facility so I expect our business to improve
as we start seeing more people coming to buy items.”  Railway operators in landlocked Zambia, the southern
African nation that’s the continent’s biggest copper producer,
plan to invest as much as $1.5 billion over the next five years
to upgrade the 1,200-kilometer (746-mile) system that President
Michael Sata in November said had “deteriorated beyond
description.” The nation plans to boost rail volumes almost 10-fold by 2016, cutting costs for companies including  Glencore
Xstrata Plc (GLEN)  and  Vedanta Resources Plc (VED)  as they increase output.  The government in September canceled an operating
concession with a South African company for Zambia Railways
Ltd., appointed new management for the state-owned operator and
gave it $120 million of the $750 million raised in the nation’s
debut Eurobond. The company started running inter-mine trains
for the first time since 2008 last month. Vedanta’s local unit,
Konkola Copper Mines, said the cost savings will be “huge.”  ‘Ease Costs’  “Rehabilitating the old rail lines between Zambia-Angola-Namibia and Zambia-Tanzania could help ease costs for copper
miners like First Quantum and Vedanta, given significant
transportation costs to get copper from mines in Zambia to
port,” Patrick Jones, a London-based analyst with Nomura
International Plc, said in an e-mail on May 3.  Zambia’s efforts are part of a continent-wide push to
improve infrastructure. Kenya is moving to spend $25 billion on
a second port, a crude pipeline and roads, while Nigeria is
spending more than $3 billion to build about 300 kilometers of
rail lines in the next three years. In West Africa, an iron-ore
boom is motivating miners including  Rio Tinto Plc (RIO)  to spend $25
billion on railways and ports, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Even if Zambia Railways succeeds in offering a competitive
and reliable alternative to road transport, there are
bottlenecks within and beyond its borders.  Tanzania-Zambia Railway Authority, owned by the two
governments, operates a 1,860-kilometer line and has suffered
from poor management and maintenance since it was built using
Chinese aid in the 1970s.  Illness-Like  The authority is “limping” and is “a child in the
hospital in a terrible state -- almost like terminal illness,”
Zambia Railways Acting Chief Executive Officer Muyenga Atanga
said in a May 9 interview at Lusaka station.  There are also capacity issues with a Zimbabwean operator
that Zambia Railways uses to move its freight to Durban in South
Africa. The company has approached the government to take up the
matter with counterparts in  Zimbabwe , he said.  Last month, President Sata suspended Zambia Railways CEO
Clive Chirwa following graft accusations. The suspension has
“no impact whatsoever” on the company’s plans, said Atanga.  “Without substantial investment and improved management it
is hard to envisage the railways ever again being competitive
with trucks,” said a 2011 report by the Zambia Institute for
Policy Analysis and Research, known as Zipar.  Export Earnings  Copper, used for pipes, wires and cables, accounts for more
than 70 percent of Zambia’s export earnings. Output is expected
to climb 34 percent to 1.1 million metric tons annually by 2015
from now, Mines Minister Yamfwa Mukanga said on April 18.  Less than 30 percent of the metal is moved by train, Zipar
said.  The rest is moved by truck, which uses more energy.  The government has agreed to lend Zambia Railways an extra
$50 million for its projects, said Atanga.  Yields on the country’s dollar debt due in September 2022
have climbed 53 basis points since being sold eight months ago,
to 5.70 percent yesterday. The rates have risen on concern that
the debut bond in the U.S. currency has paved the way for record
issuance that risks overstretching government borrowing, Ricardo
da Camara, a fixed-income analyst at NKC Independent Economists,
said by e-mail on May 3.  The nation’s rail volumes plummeted to 690,000 tons in 2009
from more than 6 million tons in 1975 as production declined,
Zipar said in the October 2011 report. Copper output fell to
257,000 tons in 2000 from 750,000 tons in 1973 after the
government nationalized the southern African country’s mines in
the 1970s, according to the Chamber of Mines.  68 Trains  Zambia Railways has more than doubled the trains it
dispatches every month to about 68 and plans to increase rail
volumes by two thirds this year to 1.1 million tons, said
Atanga, who also serves as permanent secretary in the Ministry
of Transport, Works, Supply and Communication.  “In three years we can look at getting to four to six
million tons,” he said.  Mopani Copper Mines, 73.1 percent owned by Glencore
Xstrata, is working with Zambia Railways to return to using rail
for some of its copper exports, Charles Watenphul, a spokesman
for Baar, Switzerland-based Glencore Xstrata, said by phone from
on May 10.  Vedanta’s Konkola plans to move 70,000 tons of the metal
using trains by March next year, Joy Sata, a spokeswoman, said
on April 2. KCM, as the company is known, transports 70 percent
of its copper by truck from Chingola to Kapiri Mposhi, about 210
kilometers away, Sata said. The metal is then transported by
rail to the Tanzanian port of Dar es Salaam, about 1,400
kilometers northeast.  Trucking Energy  The rest is moved by road to the docks at South Africa’s
eastern port city of Durban, about 2,600 kilometers away.
Glencore’s Mopani only uses trucks to transport the metal.  Trucks use two to 18 times more energy than rail to move
one ton of goods over the same distance, Stephan Krygsman, an
associate professor of transport economics at  Stellenbosch
University  in South Africa’s Western Cape province, said in a
May 8 e-mail. Zambia’s government raised diesel prices by 22
percent on May 1, more than triple the  annual inflation rate  of
6.5 percent in April.  Zambia’s gross domestic product  may rise  by 7.8 percent in
2013, the International Monetary Fund said in an April report.
The economy grew an estimated 7.3 percent last year, the central
bank said on Feb. 21. Copper for three-month delivery fell 2.2
percent to $7,240.50 a ton by 4:36 p.m. in  London  yesterday,
extending the decline this year to 8.7 percent.  Security also improves with the shift of more copper to
rail, Konkola’s Sata said by e-mail on May 8. The company lost
60,000 tons of finished copper because of theft in South Africa
between April and June last year, she said.  For the Zambian government, the equation in boosting rail
transport is simple.  “The more copper you move, the more revenue you get,”
said Atanga.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Hill in Lusaka at 
 mhill58@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net ;
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  