-- Rangers Rout Capitals to Set Up NHL Meeting With Bruins
-- B y   D e x   M c L u s k e y
-- 2013-05-14T03:02:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-14/rangers-rout-capitals-to-set-up-nhl-playoff-meeting-with-bruins.html
The  New York Rangers  defeated the
 Washington  Capitals 5-0 in a decisive seventh game to advance to
the second round of the National Hockey League playoffs.  The Rangers next will play the  Boston Bruins , who rallied
from a 4-1 third-period deficit to beat the Toronto Maple Leafs
5-4 in overtime in Game 7 of their Eastern Conference series
tonight.  “It was great to see us score a couple today,” Rangers
defenseman Ryan McDonagh said in a televised interview. “It’s
not always pretty and we shoot ourselves in the foot every now
and then, but we’re always willing to compete as hard as we can
every time we step on the ice.”  The win for the Rangers was the first in the series for the
visiting team, ending a run of 10 postseason games between the
teams in which the host won. Last year, the Rangers ousted the
Capitals in seven games to advance to the Eastern Conference
finals, where they lost to the  New Jersey Devils .  Arron Asham got the opening goal for New York at Verizon
Center in Washington and Taylor Pyatt and Michael Del Zotto
scored in the second period to make it 3-0.  Ryan Callahan  made it 4-0 after 13 seconds of the third
period and Mats Zuccarello added a fifth goal six minutes later.  Bruins Comeback  At TD Garden in  Boston ,  Patrice Bergeron  tied it for Boston
with 51 seconds remaining in the third period and got the
winning goal six minutes, five seconds into overtime.  After Matt Bartkowski put the Bruins ahead in the first
period, the Maple Leafs built a 4-1 lead with 14:31 to play in
the third as Cody Franson scored twice and Phil Kessel and Nazem
Kadri added a goal each.  Nathan Horton  pulled a goal back for the Bruins midway
through the third period and Milan Lucic made it 4-3 with 1:22
to play, 31 seconds before Bergeron made it 4-4.  It’s the sixth straight postseason that the Bruins have had
to play a decisive seventh game. They’ve now won four of eight
deciders in that span, with the prior three victories coming in
2011, when they ended a 39-year wait for a sixth Stanley Cup
title.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dex McLuskey in Dallas at 
 dmcluskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  