-- Ratings Shopping Revived in Asset-Backed Rebound: Credit Markets
-- B y   M a t t   R o b i n s o n ,   J o d y   S h e n n   a n d   S a r a h   M u l h o l l a n d
-- 2013-05-14T16:41:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-14/ratings-shopping-revived-in-asset-backed-rebound-credit-markets.html
Almost six years after the start of
the worst financial crisis since the Great Depression, bond
issuers are again exploiting credit ratings by seeking firms
that will provide high grades on debt backed by assets from auto
loans to office buildings considered inappropriate by rivals.  Fitch Ratings isn’t grading a deal linked to a Manhattan
skyscraper after saying investors needed more protection. The
securities won top grades from Moody’s Investors Service and
Kroll Bond Rating Agency Inc. Blackstone Group LP’s Exeter
Finance Corp. got top-tier ratings from Standard & Poor’s and
DBRS Ltd. in the past 15 months on $629 million of bonds backed
by car loans to people with bad credit histories, even as
Moody’s and Fitch said they wouldn’t grant such rankings.  Borrowers are finding more options than ever to get the top
ratings that many investors require after U.S. regulators
doubled the number of companies sanctioned to assess securities
to 10 since 2006. That expansion is facing scrutiny as the
Securities and Exchange Commission met today in  Washington  to
discuss Senator Al Franken’s plan to create a board to select
which firms grade asset-backed bonds, rather than leaving it to
the banks that pay the raters.  “Imagine the pharmaceutical industry having six FDAs, all
competing to approve drugs,” said Rob Dobilas, who founded
Realpoint LLC, the credit-rating company bought by Morningstar
Inc. in 2010, referring to the U.S. Food and Drug
Administration. “Everyone would be dead.”  Issuance Comeback  Issuance of bonds linked to loans and leases are staging a
comeback as the  Federal Reserve (FDTR) ’s unprecedented stimulus,
including a pledge to keep benchmark interest rates close to
zero into a fifth year, pushes investors into riskier assets.  Banks have arranged $31.5 billion of commercial mortgage-backed securities this year with issuance poised to climb 50
percent from 2012 to $70 billion, according to Credit Suisse
Group AG. Issuance of bonds tied to subprime auto debt of $7.7
billion this year compares with $5.7 billion in the first four
months of 2012, according to Wells Fargo & Co.  Fitch said yesterday in a statement that it was asked not
to rate a transaction linked to a $782.8 million loan on the
Seagram building at 375 Park Avenue in New York after
determining that investor protections were insufficient for top
grades.  Market Context  The mortgage on the tower, designed by Ludwig Mies van der
Rohe, allows the borrower to take on higher levels of debt on
the assumption that the building will generate more cash in the
future. The deal, rated AAA by Moody’s and Kroll, assumes $74
million of income from the property, compared with $54 million
as of 2012, according to Fitch.  So-called pro-forma lending was common during the property
market boom leading up to a record $232 billion in commercial-mortgage bond sales in 2007, sparking a surge in defaults when
properties failed to meet those expectations. The type of
underwriting was a “major reason” behind ratings cuts on AAA
securities issued from 2005 through 2008, Fitch said in its
statement.  “We didn’t give credit to pro-forma rents,” said Eric Thompson, a New York-based analyst at Kroll. The rater used
$61.2 million in income to underwrite the loan compared with the
issuer’s $73.6 million, according to a May 9 report. “We tried
to take into account the property’s performance and the context
of its market,” he said.  World Class  The Seagram building is a world-class property with the
capacity to retain value “well in excess” of the rated debt
amount, according to Moody’s analyst Tad Philipp.  “Moody’s new issue and surveillance CMBS ratings address
the intrinsic income generating ability of the collateral,”
Philipp said in an e-mail. “We do not assume high quality
buildings are worth zero when empty or that they are as good as
they appear when full.”  Scott Helfman, a spokesman for Citigroup Inc., and Amanda Williams of Deutsche Bank AG, both in New York, the underwriters
on the Seagram building deal, declined to comment.  “Nothing’s really changed” in the ratings business, David Jacob, former head of structured finance at S&P, said in a
telephone interview. Regulation “changed some of the processes
that they do, but what led to a lot to this bad behavior hasn’t
really changed.”  Franken’s Plea  Debt graders led by S&P and Moody’s helped ignite the
credit seizure that began in August 2007 by lowering their
standards to win business before defaults soared on home loans
to subprime borrowers, the Federal Crisis Inquiry Commission
said in a January 2011  report .  “My plea today is that you take action,” Franken, a
Democrat from  Minnesota  elected to the Senate in 2008, told
participants at the SEC roundtable today. “If we maintain the
status quo we are leaving ourselves far too vulnerable to
another catastrophe.”  The special status of ratings companies in the U.S.
financial system dates back to the depths of the Great
Depression. In 1936, Office of the Comptroller of the Currency
banned banks from holding bonds that were below investment
grade, or securities rated under BBB- by S&P and Baa3 at
Moody’s.  In 1975, the SEC designated S&P, Moody’s and Fitch as
Nationally Recognized Statistical Rating Organizations, or
NRSROs, and required some investors to buy only securities
stamped with the companies’ creditworthiness opinions.  Justice Lawsuit  While Congress responded to the crisis by passing the Dodd-Frank Act in July 2010 to remove some credit-rating references
from regulation, reducing the financial industry’s reliance on
the grades, lawmakers didn’t address how the companies are paid.  The SEC deferred deciding on whether to set up a board for
structured product ratings in a December report submitted to
Congress, instead opting to convene today’s roundtable. Ratings
for structured products would go through a board composed of a
majority of investors if the SEC adopted Franken’s measure.
Firms would potentially be chosen on a rotating basis or lottery
system.  In February, the Justice Department sued S&P, a unit of New
York-based  McGraw Hill Financial (MHP) , alleging the world’s largest
credit rater inflated grades on mortgage-backed securities to
win business from Wall Street banks. Calling the case
“meritless,” McGraw Hill said in a Feb. 5 statement it will
“vigorously defend S&P against these unwarranted claims.”  Basel Rules  Debt markets remain dependent on ratings companies, with
state and local pension funds relying on opinions to make
investments and the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision
linking capital requirements to the grades. That’s preserved the
tendency of issuers to shop for the most lenient ratings, not
those conducting the best analysis, Dobilas, now a managing
partner at Orchard Strategic Advisors LLC, an investing and
consulting firm, said in a telephone interview.  While S&P, Moody’s and Fitch accounted for 96 percent of
all outstanding credit ratings as of the end of 2011, according
to a November SEC  report , competition is more keen in the
securitized market where bonds often carry ratings from at least
two firms.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. got AAA ratings on $571 million of
home-loan securities from Fitch, DBRS and Kroll even as Moody’s
said in a March report that contractual promises about mortgage
quality in the bank’s bonds were too weak to allow for the top
grades. Hertz Global Holdings Inc. scored Aaa grades in January
from Moody’s on rental-car securities that S&P’s methodology
shows it would have ranked lower based on Hertz’s own credit
assessment.  Exeter Debt  Fueled by the securitization market, subprime auto loans
accounted for 43 percent of car financing in the fourth quarter,
the biggest portion since 2007, according to Experian
Information Solutions Inc.  Debt from Exeter, a subprime auto lender started in 2006,
received ratings as high as AAA from DBRS and AA from S&P in
three deals. Moody’s called the grades “inappropriate” in a
February 2012 report, saying Exeter was “small and unrated,
with limited experience and little asset performance history.”  Meredith Fletcher, a spokeswoman for Exeter, declined to
comment.  Fitch doesn’t grant top-tier ratings to subprime-auto
issuers lacking lengthy, consistent track records and strong
financial health to protect investors from what can go on
“behind the scenes” as well as potential collections problems
after a bankruptcy, John Bella, a managing director at the
credit rater, said in a telephone interview.  Limited Record  Especially “at the AAA level, with the implied lack of
volatility that should go on behind those ratings, that’s just
not something we’re prepared to do,” Bella said.  DBRS sends out two teams to a new subprime-auto issuer’s
offices to examine its operations and loan quality while another
group studies the company’s financial health, said Christopher O’Connell, a senior vice president.  While a “limited track record is very difficult to
overcome” an issuer can get DBRS’s top ratings if management
has a lot of experience, lending systems are robust and the
bonds have the appropriate amount of structural protections,
O’Connell said.  “Putting a cap on things, we don’t think is the right
approach,” he said in a telephone interview. “We know every
single bond stands on its own, and we have to look at every one
of these bonds critically.”  Securities Excluded  S&P excludes certain securities from top ratings, and in
some cases declines to grade them, because of concerns that
their credit performance will be unstable, among other reasons,
Ed Sweeney, a spokesman for S&P, wrote in an e-mailed statement.  “S&P takes these actions knowing that some issuers could
choose other agencies to rate the securities,” Sweeney wrote.  Elsewhere in credit markets,  Dish Network Corp. (DISH) , the
satellite TV company vying with  SoftBank Corp. (9984)  to acquire  Sprint
Nextel Corp. (S) , is offering $2.5 billion of debt to help finance
the proposed deal. The cost to protect against losses on
corporate bonds in the U.S. fell for the first time in five
days.  The Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark used to hedge against losses or
to speculate on creditworthiness, fell 1.8 basis points to a
mid-price of 71.8 basis points as of 12:38 p.m. in New York,
according to prices compiled by Bloomberg.  Europe Swaps  In  London , the  Markit iTraxx Europe Index , tied to 125
companies with investment-grade ratings, was little changed at
96.3. The indexes typically fall as investor confidence improves
and rise as it deteriorates. Credit swaps pay the buyer face
value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  The U.S. two-year interest-rate swap spread, a measure of
debt-market stress, fell 0.15 basis point to 14.1 basis points.
The gauge narrows when investors favor assets such as corporate
bonds and widens when they seek the perceived safety of
government securities.  Bonds of Petroleo Brasileiro SA are the most actively
traded dollar-denominated corporate securities by dealers today,
accounting for 11.7 percent of the volume of dealer trades of $1
million or more, according to Trace, the bond-price reporting
system of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  Dish Offering  Petrobras, as the Brazilian state-run oil producer is
known, sold $11 billion of bonds abroad yesterday, the most ever
for an emerging-market issuer. The company’s $3.5 billion of
4.375 percent notes due in 2023 rose 1.56 cents from the issue
price to 100.39 cents on the dollar to yield 4.33 percent at
12:34 p.m. in New York, Trace data show.  Dish may sell four- and 10-year bonds today or tomorrow,
according to a person familiar with the transaction. The
proceeds from the senior notes sale will be placed into escrow
and would be released to help fund the cash portion of a Sprint
acquisition, the Englewood, Colorado-based company said today in
a regulatory filing. Dish will redeem the debt if a deal doesn’t
materialize, it said.  The offering comes a month after SoftBank sold $3.3 billion
of bonds denominated in dollars and euros to help fund its $20.1
billion bid for Sprint, Bloomberg data show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matt Robinson in New York at 
 mrobinson55@bloomberg.net ;
Jody Shenn in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net ;
Sarah Mulholland in New York at 
 smulholland3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  