-- RBS Chairman Signals Further Job Cuts, More Branch Closures
-- B y   G a v i n   F i n c h
-- 2013-05-14T17:13:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-14/rbs-chairman-signals-further-job-cuts-branch-closings-to-come.html
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc , the
recipient of the biggest banking bailout in the world, will
eliminate more  jobs  and close additional branches before its
restructuring is complete, Chairman  Philip Hampton  said.  “We’ve got to have our branches where our customers are,
not always where we have had them for decades,” Hampton said at
the lender’s annual general meeting in Edinburgh today. “We
have work to do over the coming years to get our business in the
right shape to deliver these ambitions, and that could mean
further impacts on employees.”  Hampton and Chief Executive Officer  Stephen Hester  are
struggling to turn around the 81 percent government owned bank
and begin the process of returning it to private ownership
before the next general election, due in 2015. The bank, which
has announced 37,000 job cuts since its 45.5 billion pound
($69.4 billion) bailout in 2008 and 2009, employed about 123,000
people at the end of March, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  “Banks need to get more efficient,” Hampton said on
sidelines of the meeting. “That will mean, from time to time,
job losses.”  Outgoing Finance Director Bruce Van Saun refused to specify
how many more job cuts were likely and said the “vast majority
are now behind us.”  Stake Sale  RBS will have completed most of its restructuring next
year, allowing the government to start selling down its stake by
the end of 2014, Hampton said.  The  shares  rose 1.7 percent to 302.5 pence in London
trading, below the 407 pence a share the government sees as
break even on its investment. The stock has dropped 6.8 percent
this year, making RBS the worst-performing bank in Britain in
the period.  Hester said earlier this month that he saw a “cogent”
case for the government to start selling its RBS stake, even at
an initial loss. The average price the taxpayer would achieve
for the entire holding in RBS would be higher than the
government’s rescue price, he said.  The bank will have its core Tier 1 capital ratios “in the
final shape that we and our regulators want” within 18 months,
Hampton said in a statement.  RBS’s core Tier 1 ratio was 8.2 percent at the end of the
first quarter, less than the 8.5 percent minimum required by the
incoming Basel III rules and the 10 percent recommended by
Oxford academic  John Vickers  in a government-commissioned report
in September 2011.  The lender will have met the Basel requirements by the end
of this year and the higher Vickers requirement by the end of
2014, Hester said on the sidelines of today’s meeting.  “We’ll be at the Basel ratio five years early and the
Vickers ratio four years early,” Hester said. “We’re confident
of getting to the right place on capital substantially earlier
than the different rules require.”  All resolutions were passed at the meeting with at least 98
percent shareholder approval.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gavin Finch in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  