-- Resolute Weighs Forest Products Purchases as Costs Drop
-- B y   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e
-- 2013-05-14T20:22:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-14/resolute-weighs-forest-products-purchases-as-costs-drop.html
Resolute Forest Products Inc. (RFP)  Chief
Executive Officer Richard Garneau says the world’s largest
newsprint maker will consider acquisitions as lower borrowing
costs aid a push into more lucrative products.  Garneau is betting that a focus on wood, pulp and specialty
papers can help boost profit as it pares its exposure to
newsprint, where demand has slumped as publications switch to
the Internet. Last year, Garneau acquired Fibrek Inc. to add
three pulp mills and bolster Resolute’s position as the third-largest North American pulp producer.  “We now have the flexibility to be able to do something
else in terms of growth opportunities,” Garneau, 65, said May 8
in an interview at the Montreal headquarters of Resolute,
formerly known as AbitibiBowater Inc. “We had Fibrek last year
and it’s a good example of what could be done.”  Resolute, 30 percent owned by Prem Watsa’s  Fairfax
Financial Holdings Ltd. (FFH) , sold $600 million of 10-year, 5.88
percent bonds last month to replace more expensive debt. The
move will save about $15 million a year, the company said.  The supplier of newsprint to The  New York  Times and
 Brazil ’s O Globo newspapers, has surged 43 percent in the 12
months through yesterday, the best-performing  among  five
Canadian forest-products stocks, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. It owns and operates more than 40 pulp and paper
mills and wood products facilities in the U.S.,  Canada  and  South
Korea .  Lumber Rebounds  Resolute rose 1.5 percent to C$16.48 at the close in
Toronto today.  “We have very low leverage and it’s 10-year money, so we
will see what is going to become available,” said Garneau, who
said he likes potential for expansion in lumber and wood pulp.  Resolute’s predecessor, AbitibiBowater, filed for
 bankruptcy protection  in 2009 after being unable to pay $8.8
billion in debt or negotiate a restructuring amid a drop in
newsprint demand. AbitibiBowater was formed in the October 2007
merger of Abitibi-Consolidated and Bowater Inc. in a transaction
valued at about $4.8 billion.  Resolute last month reported a first-quarter loss of $5
million on revenue of $1.1 billion. Total debt fell to $532
million as of March 31, down from $620 million a year earlier.  Resolute’s notes were  rated  Ba3 by Moody’s Investors
Service and BB- by  Standard & Poor’s , both three levels below
investment grade. Central bank policies to stimulate economies
have depressed bond yields, with a gauge of junk-rated debt that
includes Resolute peers yielding almost a record low of 4.9
percent.  Newsprint Shrinks  Prices for lumber used in homebuilding are poised to extend
gains next year as the U.S. housing recovery gathers pace,  Paul Quinn , an analyst at  RBC Capital Markets  in Vancouver, said
yesterday in a note to clients.  Chicago lumber futures have risen 18 percent in the past
year as U.S. demand for the building material rose amid a
recovering housing industry. Lumber futures for July delivery
fell 0.24 percent to $337 per 1,000 board feet yesterday on the
Chicago Mercantile Exchange.  New-home construction in the U.S. climbed in March to a
1.04 million annual rate, the most since June 2008, and Garneau
said the pace could accelerate to as many as 1.2 million within
the next year -- echoing a forecast made by S&P last month.  “Richard does like pulp, and he does like lumber, and the
lumber side looks very good now,” Quinn said in a telephone
interview yesterday. “I don’t think he’s going to buy any more
newsprint.”  ‘Floor Somewhere’  Newsprint remains Resolute’s largest unit, accounting for a
third of total sales. Newsprint revenue fell 14 percent in the
quarter to $356 million as the unit posted a $2 million loss,
Resolute said April 30. Pulp and specialty papers made up 22
percent of sales each, with wood products adding up to 13
percent.  Standard & Poor’s last month forecast a 7 percent drop in
global newsprint demand in 2013, followed by annual declines of
3 percent to 5 percent.  “At some point there is a floor somewhere, but I don’t
know where that floor is,” Garneau said, adding that newspapers
are unlikely to regain readers and advertisers lost to the
Internet.  Resolute has focused on cutting costs, including
renegotiating labor agreements, while exporting to markets that
continue to expand, such as Brazil and  China . Resolute has
shuttered about half of its production capacity since before
Abitibi and Bowater merged, Garneau said.  Paul Rivett , a spokesman for Watsa’s Fairfax, didn’t
immediately return a phone call seeking comment on Resolute’s
strategy yesterday.  Resolute’s cost of sales for newsprint improved by $30
million in the first quarter, including savings of $8 million on
production costs, according to a May 10 Canadian regulatory
filing. Some mills have been able to lower expenses by reducing
use of water and electricity, Garneau said.  Diversified Portfolio  “They are a low-cost producer,” said RBC’s Quinn. “I
have no trouble with the company, I have trouble with the
industry. The biggest issue he’s got is that he’s in newsprint
and groundwood papers, which are in secular decline, and
declining quite rapidly.”  Garneau said the company’s portfolio of assets is well-balanced. “I’m optimistic that pulp is a good segment, lumber
is a good segment, and all our specialty papers, flyers and
inserts, are going to come back at some point,” he said. “With
newsprint, we have the flexibility to export.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Frederic Tomesco in Montreal at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Donville in  Vancouver  at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  