-- Rio Tinto on Track to Cut $2 Billion Costs This Year, Walsh Says
-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 2013-05-14T08:31:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-14/rio-tinto-on-track-to-cut-2-billion-costs-this-year-walsh-says.html
Rio Tinto Group (RIO) , the world’s second-biggest mining company, is on track to cut $2 billion in costs
this year across its mining and corporate offices, joining BHP
Billiton Ltd. and Vale SA in trimming spending.  “I can tell you we are on track to save $2 billion in
2013,” Sam Walsh, chief executive officer of the London-based
company, said today in speech notes for a conference in
Barcelona.  Rio (RIO) ’s coal unit in  Australia  alone has  cut spending 
on goods and services by $370 million this year, Walsh said in
presentation slides.  Since Walsh, 63, took over in January, Rio has announced
plans to sell assets and reduce $5 billion of total costs as
lower commodity prices  cut revenue . Walsh said the company was
looking to make further assets sales beyond those announced
after BHP’s new CEO Andrew Mackenzie today said he’s targeting
an 18 percent cut in capital spending in fiscal 2014.  Rio is seeking savings of $750 million on mineral
exploration spending this year, Walsh said, adding that the
company had the option of expanding its Australian iron ore
operations “at a much lower capital intensity” than by
developing new mines.  Rio dropped 2 percent to 2,945.5 pence at 9 a.m. in  London 
before Walsh started speaking at the conference. BHP slipped 0.7
percent to 1,898.5 pence.  Asset Disposals  “We are targeting significant cash proceeds from
divestments this year, and are looking at further disposals of
potential non-core assets, in addition to those we’ve already
announced,” Walsh said, adding the company had generated almost
$14 billion selling assets over the past five years.  Rio and BHP are leading a global asset sell off, and may
sell businesses or stakes in mines for as much as $35 billion,
Deutsche Bank AG said in March. Rio has announced a potential
sale of its Pacific Aluminum unit and diamonds business, and is
seeking to sell its Canadian iron ore operations, a person close
to the matter said in March.  Rio has “multiple pathways” to achieve an expansion at
its iron ore operation in Australia to produce 360 million
metric tons annually, from 290 million tons, Walsh said.  “Depending on the market, we could choose to develop new
mines to quickly deliver tons,” he said. “Or we could conserve
cash and fill some capacity with incremental tonnes from
existing mines at much lower capital intensity.”  The spending plan, currently estimated to cost $5 billion,
has drawn criticism from shareholders including Evy Hambro, who
manages  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) ’s $10 billion World Mining Fund.  Rio’s board is due to consider the expansion during the
fourth quarter. Walsh said today Rio’s capital spending will
drop to about $13 billion this year from $17 billion last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  