-- Roche Wins FDA Approval for Test to Target Lung Cancer
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2013-05-15T07:56:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-14/roche-wins-fda-approval-for-test-to-target-lung-cancer.html
Roche Holding AG (ROG) , the world’s biggest
maker of cancer drugs, won U.S. approval to sell a gene mutation
test that can help doctors pinpoint patients’ likelihood to
respond to a popular treatment for lung cancer.  The diagnostic detects epidermal growth factor receptor
gene mutations, and can be used as a companion with Roche and
 Astellas Pharma Inc. (4503) ’s drug Tarceva as a first-line cancer
treatment. The Food and Drug Administration approval includes
the test and the expanded use of Tarceva as an initial treatment
for patients with non-small cell lung cancer that has spread in
the body and have certain EGFR mutations.  Non-small cell lung cancer accounts for 85 percent of lung
cancers, the FDA said. About 228,190 people will be diagnosed
with lung cancer in the U.S. this year and 159,480 patients will
die of the disease, according to the National Cancer Institute.
Tarceva generated $1.4 billion in  sales  for Basel, Switzerland-based Roche last year as a second- and third-line therapy and as
a maintenance treatment for the disease.  “Companion diagnostics play an important role in
determining which therapies are the safest and most effective
for a particular patient,” Alberto Gutierrez, director of the
FDA’s Office of In Vitro Diagnostics and Radiological Health,
said yesterday in a  statement  announcing the approval.  Hal Barron , chief medical officer for Roche, said 10
percent to 30 percent of people worldwide with lung cancer have
tumors that test positive for certain EGFR mutations.  Similar Combination  Roche rose 0.9 percent to 246 Swiss francs at 9:42 a.m. in
Zurich. The stock has gained 34 percent this year. Astellas
gained 4.3 percent, the most in almost six weeks, to close at
6,010 yen in  Tokyo , where the company is based. It’s the stock’s
highest price in 13 years.  Boehringer Ingelheim GmbH and  Qiagen NV (QGEN)  are waiting on FDA
clearance, expected in July, for a similar drug-and-diagnostic
combination. The companies are seeking approval of Boehringer’s
experimental drug afatinib to treat advanced or metastatic non-small cell lung cancer in people who have an EGFR gene mutation
and Qiagen’s therascreen EGFR diagnostic test.  Another gene mutation test received attention yesterday
when actress Angelina Jolie revealed she had a double mastectomy
after learning she had an inherited mutation of the BRCA1 gene.
 Myriad Genetics Inc. (MYGN) , is the sole U.S. provider of BRCA1 and
BRCA2 tests. The company’s screens aren’t FDA approved.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  