-- Ron Mock Succeeds Jim Leech as CEO of Ontario Teachers
-- B y   K a t i a   D m i t r i e v a
-- 2013-05-14T19:13:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-14/ron-mock-succeeds-jim-leech-as-ceo-of-ontario-teachers.html
Ron Mock, senior vice president of
fixed income and alternative investments at Ontario Teachers’
Pension Plan, will succeed Jim Leech as chief executive officer
and president next year.  Mock, 60, takes over Jan. 1 when Leech retires after 12
years with the plan and six years as CEO, the Toronto-based fund
said today in a statement.  “I want to stay focused on ensuring we are the leader” in
the pension plan industry, Mock said in a phone interview. “The
world’s a changing place so you have to navigate the
organization along the way. I’m comfortable with the team that’s
here that we’ll be able to do it.” He declined to comment on
his strategies or plans for Ontario Teachers.  Mock joined Teachers’ in 2001 as director of alternative
investments and in 2008 was promoted to senior vice president,
overseeing all fixed-income assets and hedge funds. He’s also a
board member of Cadillac Fairview, which manages Teachers’ C$21
billion ($21 billion) commercial and retail real estate
portfolio.  Mock was previously CEO of Phoenix Research and Trading
Corp. and was responsible for all of Phoenix Canada’s fixed
income business, including the Phoenix Fixed Income Arbitrage
LP, a hedge fund. The hedge fund collapsed in 2000 when it lost
$125 million in the U.S. bond market, according to an Ontario
Securities Commission settlement  document  from 2003.  Probe Costs  The OSC ordered Mock to pay C$45,000 for investigation
costs and banned him from being an officer or director for six
years. The regulator said Mock failed to adequately supervise
Stephen Duthie, a former Phoenix employee whose trading of U.S.
government bonds was “directional, unhedged, and contravened”
the company’s investment parameters. Mock’s failure to supervise
Duthie was “material to the collapse” of the company, the OSC
said.  “We were 100 percent aware of the OSC case and we are
fully confident in his abilities and integrity,” Deborah Allan,
spokeswoman for the pension fund said in an e-mailed statement.
“What the OSC found was an oversight issue, however many years
ago. We’re going into this with eyes wide open.”  Leech, 65, was chief executive of the pension fund during
the financial crisis, raising net assets to C$130 billion. The
fund manages money for 303,000 retired and active teachers in
 Canada ’s most-populous province.  A committee made up of board members has been preparing for
the succession since 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katia Dmitrieva in Toronto at 
 edmitrieva1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  