-- Ronaldinho, Kaka Left Off Brazil’s Confederations Cup Squad
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2013-05-14T16:33:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-14/ronaldinho-kaka-left-off-brazil-squad-for-confederations-cup.html
Ronaldinho and Kaka, former world
players of the year, were left out of  Brazil ’s 23-player squad
for next month’s Confederations Cup.  Coach Luiz Felipe Scolari included Santos striker Neymar
and Chelsea teammates  David Luiz  and Oscar in the roster for the
eight-nation event. The tournament, Brazil’s only competitive
soccer before hosting the 2014 World Cup, features teams from
the six regional confederations including world and European
champion Spain,  Italy  and South American titleholder Uruguay.  Brazil, which automatically qualifies for the World Cup as
host, enters the tournament amid concerns over its ability to
secure a record-extending sixth title. The team is ranked 19th
by soccer’s governing body FIFA, its lowest placing since the
classification started in 1992.  “There are 13 to 15 players who haven’t played in a
competition for the national team,” Scolari told a press
conference at a beachfront hotel in Rio de Janeiro. “We must
give them the chance to play in the Confederations Cup,
competitive matches that are worth titles.  Scolari, who guided Brazil to its last  World Cup  success in
2002, was brought back into the job in November following the
dismissal of Mano Menezes. The 64-year-old’s return hasn’t
yielded an upturn in performance, with a 2-1 defeat in his
comeback game against England in London followed by draws
against Russia and Italy. The team’s biggest success since
Scolari came back was 4-0 win over 58th-ranked  Bolivia  on April
6.  Gasps Heard  When the roster was published on a screen next to Scolari
it drew grasps. As well as Ronaldinho, a World Cup winner in
2002 whom Scolari restored to the squad upon his return,
Chelsea’s Ramires and Manchester United defender Rafael were
also left out. The coach praised Paris Saint-Germain attacker
Lucas Moura and Ronaldinho’s Atletico Mineiro teammate Bernard,
two 20-year-old attackers who were chosen.  “There’s always people who complain when you choose A, B
or C,” Scolari said. “Obviously what’s going to happen is
people are going to criticize me if I choose A, B or C and if
things go wrong I know it will get ugly.”  As well as a test for Brazil’s soccer team, the tournament
acts as a warm-up event for World Cup organizers. The buildup to
the event has been marred by cost overruns and delays with many
of the stadiums being built to stage the competition.  Rio de
Janeiro ’s Maracana, which will stage the final of both the
Confederations Cup and World Cup, was opened in April, four
months after a second deadline had passed.  Brazil opens the Confederations Cup against  Japan  in
Brasilia on June 15, plays  Mexico  in Fortaleza four days later
and completes pool play against Italy on June 22 in  Salvador .
Brazil’s next game is a June 2 exhibition against England to
mark the official re-opening of the 78,838-seat Maracana.  The other teams in the competition are  Nigeria , which won
the Africa Cup of Nations earlier this year, and Oceania
champion Tahiti.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in  London  at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  