-- SAP Targets Sports Industry to Extend Its Reach for Consumers
-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a   a n d   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 2013-05-14T13:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-14/sap-targets-sports-industry-to-extend-its-reach-for-consumers.html
SAP AG (SAP) , the biggest maker of
business-management software, said it’s targeting the sports and
entertainment industries to increase its access to consumers and
help it meet a mid-term sales target.  The offerings may be used by sports to provide statistics
and interact with fans, or manage talent scouting, the Walldorf,
Germany-based company said in a statement during its annual
Sapphire conference in Orlando, Florida today. The offerings may
also help promoters of events to control logistics, SAP said.  Co-Chief Executive Officers  Bill McDermott  and Jim Hagemann Snabe are trying to shift SAP from a maker of back-office
programs to one that’s used by a billion people, to help it
boost  revenue  beyond 20 billion euros ($25.9 billion) by 2015.
McDermott, an ardent basketball fan, last year announced
partnerships with the  National Basketball Association  and
 National Football League  to deepen their statistical analysis.  The software maker is also introducing software called SAP
Mobile Secure that businesses can use to load employees’
smartphones and tablets with apps and secure their data. The
software will be sold as a cloud-computing service and start at
a monthly price of 1 euro per device, said Sanjay Poonen,
president of technology and innovation products.  “It’s sort of like Southwest Airlines pricing -- very
economical,” he said in a phone interview. The service will
compete with those from companies including MobileIron Inc. and
AirWatch LLC, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in  San Francisco  at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net ;
Cornelius Rahn in Berlin at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  