-- Sea Levels May Rise 69 Centimeters Until 2100 on Ice Melt
-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a   a n d   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2013-05-14T17:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-14/sea-levels-may-rise-69-centimeters-until-2100-on-ice-melt.html
Sea levels may rise as much as 69
centimeters (27 inches) through 2100 as water temperatures rise,
glaciers melt in the Andes and Himalayas and ice sheets in
Greenland and Antarctica shed water, European scientists said.  The new estimate exceeds a previous forecast of as much as
59 centimeters by the United Nations’  Intergovernmental Panel on
Climate Change  in 2007, which didn’t fully account for the
effects of melting ice, researchers with the independent Ice2sea
project of 24 institutions in Europe and  Chile  said today.  The study is aimed at giving greater clarity on UN
predictions for the effects of climate change to guide policy
makers. Envoys from more than 190 nations are working to draft a
new climate-change treaty by 2015 that will come into effect in
2020 and bind all countries. Average sea levels already rose by
about 17 centimeters last century, according to the UN panel.  “The changing climate of the earth is the main driver of
ice-sheet and glacier change,”  David Vaughan , a professor at
the British Antarctic Survey and coordinator of Ice2sea, told
reporters in London today. “Changes in climate that we see
today and over the next 10 years will have a long-term impact
into the future in terms of sea-level rise.”  UN Role  Ice2sea , which has published more than 150 scientific
papers since 2009, has submitted its key findings to the IPCC.
The UN panel will publish later this year an initial report out
of four planned in its first comprehensive assessment of climate
science since it shared the 2007 Nobel Peace Prize with former
U.S. Vice President Al Gore.  Ice2sea is publishing its report a day before an unrelated
meeting in Kiruna,  Sweden , of the six-country Arctic Council,
which is considering resource-use and transport rules as the
disappearance of ice widens access to the world’s northernmost
ocean. Arctic sea-ice cover shrank to its lowest recorded level
last year, opening up parts of the ocean to shipping and mineral
exploration. Sea ice doesn’t add to sea-level increases when it
melts because it already displaces water.  Ice2sea’s forecast includes a new estimate of 3.6
centimeters to 36.8 centimeters as the most likely range for the
contribution of melting continental ice to higher sea levels,
Vaughan said. At the upper limit, the Ice2sea scientists have
arrived at 95 percent certainty that the effects won’t exceed 84
centimeters, he said.  The new forecast for the total increase in sea levels, with
gains of 33 centimeters to 69 centimeters for the highest
probability band, includes the thermal-expansion effect of water
occupying more space as temperatures warm.  Gravity Effects  Due to the earth’s gravitational field, which varies around
the planet, rising sea levels affect the tropics near the
equator the most and areas closest to the ice polar regions the
least, according to Ice2sea.  Higher sea levels also need to be considered alongside
changes in ocean circulation when looking at possible effects on
storm patterns, Ice2sea said. The group’s researchers predict
that extreme storm surges may be as much as 1 meter (3.3 feet)
higher than at present on some European coasts over the next 50
years.  Antarctica holds enough ice to raise sea levels by about 57
meters, though full melting isn’t likely for thousands of years,
according to the UN. Greenland contains enough ice to raise sea
levels by about 7 meters.  The IPCC said in 2007 that Greenland and Antarctica
contributed a combined 0.42 millimeters a year to sea-level
increases from 1993 through 2003. That’s just over half the
0.77-millimeter contribution from mountain glaciers and smaller
ice caps, and a quarter of the 1.6-millimeter rise as a result
of water expanding with warmer temperatures.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in  London  at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net ;
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  