-- Sebelius Health Law Fundraising Probed by Republicans
-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 2013-05-14T17:33:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-14/sebelius-health-law-fundraising-probed-by-republicans.html
The U.S. health secretary’s effort to
raise money to promote the Affordable Care Act is drawing the
attention of Republican lawmakers who want to know whether she
solicited companies regulated by her agency.  Republicans on two House committees that supervise the
 Department of Health  and Human Services  wrote  Secretary  Kathleen Sebelius  late yesterday for information about her fundraising.
Leaders of the Energy and Commerce Committee also wrote 11
health insurers, including  UnitedHealth Group Inc. (UNH)  and  Aetna
Inc. (AET) , asking if they were solicited by Sebelius or her
employees.  The health agency said last week that Sebelius had been
calling advocacy groups, doctors, churches and “companies not
regulated by HHS” since March, asking for contributions to an
independent nonprofit group promoting the health law. The agency
finds itself doing more work than expected as more than a dozen
states refuse to cooperate and Congress rejects the president’s
requests for more government money.  “It is clear that your department is scrambling to find
funding from sources the law did not authorize,” Representative
David L. Camp, a Michigan Republican who is chairman of the
House Ways and Means Committee, wrote Sebelius.  Jason Young, a spokesman for HHS, said Sebelius’s
fundraising efforts are supported by a provision of the Public
Health Service Act, and she has stopped short of directly
soliciting companies her department regulates.  Agency History  “This provision has been in place since 1976, and has
applied to and has been used by previous secretaries, including
around the launches of Medicare Part D and the Children’s Health
Insurance Program,” Young said in an e-mail. “It was even
cited as part of President Reagan’s establishment of the
President’s Council on Physical Fitness.”  In a Senate floor speech yesterday, Senator  Lamar Alexander , a Republican from  Tennessee , compared Sebelius’s
fundraising with the Iran-Contra weapons scandal under former
President  Ronald Reagan . Alexander questioned the legal basis
for the fundraising in a letter and asked for records related to
the calls.  “Fundraising in your official capacity as secretary for a
specific organization that exists to promote the president’s
health-care law and is controlled significantly by entities that
have a vested interest in the law’s implementation is a far cry
from what Congress intended” in the Public Health Service Act,
he wrote.  Expanding Coverage  Medicare Part D is the prescription drug benefit
established in 2003 under President  George W. Bush  for the
government’s insurance plan for the elderly and disabled. The
Children’s Health Insurance Program was created in the 1990s, to
serve children of low-income families who weren’t eligible for
Medicaid, the state-federal program for the poor.  The Affordable Care Act would expand health coverage to
about 27 million uninsured people by 2017 through a series of
state-run health exchanges where residents would purchase
subsidized insurance plans and through an expansion of Medicaid
programs.  Sixteen states agreed to build exchanges, leaving Sebelius’
agency responsible for creating the marketplaces in 34. In
addition, the federal government must find money to promote the
law to ensure people use the exchanges starting Oct. 1 in large
enough numbers to sufficiently spread the risks for insurers
selling to them.  Shifting Money  Congress has rejected the administration’s requests for
more than the $1 billion the law provided for the work.
Lawmakers didn’t include $949 million the administration
requested in a spending bill for the government for the duration
of fiscal 2013. Instead, Sebelius has shifted at least $566
million from other parts of her department’s budget and plans to
take about $454 million from an account established by the
health law to fund preventive health efforts, according to the
American Public Health Association.  The money Sebelius has been soliciting would go to Enroll
America. Companies including  Kaiser Permanente , the Oakland,
California-based nonprofit insurer and hospital chain, and
Israeli drugmaker Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. joined
with the consumer advocacy group Families USA to create Enroll
America in 2011 to promote the health law. The group has been
led since the start of the year by a former White House aide,
Anne Filipic.  Filipic last week described the effort to promote the law
as a partnership among government, for-profit companies and
nonprofit organizations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Wayne in Washington at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  