-- Farm Bill Gets House Hearing After Senate Panel Approval
-- B y   A l a n   B j e r g a
-- 2013-05-15T16:16:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-14/senate-panel-approves-955-billion-for-u-s-farm-programs.html
The U.S. House Agriculture Committee
debated legislation today to reauthorize farm programs, a day
after the Senate panel approved a version that will cost $955
billion over 10 years.  The House measure, which proposes spending an estimated
$940 billion, would cut $40 billion over the next decade by
eliminating $20.5 billion from nutrition programs including  food
stamps , the biggest USDA program, $18.6 billion in  farm
subsidies  and 4.8 billion in environmental programs, the
 Congressional Budget Office  reported. Crop insurance, which is
making record payouts after last year’s drought, would rise by
$8.9 billion under the House measure.  “Farmers, ranchers and American taxpayers are counting on
us to pass a farm bill,” said House Agriculture Committee
Chairman  Frank Lucas , an Oklahoma Republican. “This committee
will mark up a reform-minded bill that was developed with true
bipartisanship.”  The House version, like the Senate’s, includes $6.4 billion
in mandatory budget cuts known as sequestration that took effect
March 1. Crop subsidies benefiting buyers such as  Archer-Daniels-Midland Co. (ADM)  and food stamps subsidizing purchases at
 Supervalu Inc. (SVU)  are targets for lawmakers seeking to trim the
deficit.  Senate Action  The full Senate will take up its version of the bill next
week, said Senator  Debbie Stabenow , the Michigan Democrat who
heads that chamber’s committee.  Lawmakers are seeking to pass a bill after failing to renew
farm policy last year. The Senate passed legislation last year
by a vote of 64-35 that included the first major reductions in
farm aid since 1996. The measure died in the House, where
Republican leaders wanted deeper cuts to food stamps. The
current law, passed in 2008, was extended until Sept. 30.  House Majority Leader  Eric Cantor , Virginia Republican,
said he plans floor action by August, giving both parties time
to negotiate a final package before current law expires.  The House committee today rejected an attempt to limit a
revamp of dairy policies that would re-introduce supply
management into the boom-and-bust milk market.  Dairy Plan  The Dairy Security Act, part of the committee’s draft,
would subsidize insurance policies for producers to ease tight
profit margins created by low milk prices and high feed costs.
In return, farmers would agree to cut milk production once
prices fall below a set limit.  A producer in the program who ignored the agreement would
receive less in government payments. Money saved would then be
used to buy dairy products for distribution to the poor --
another way to lower inventories.  Small dairy producers say subsidies are needed to stabilize
their boom-and-bust business. Groups representing companies
including  Dean Foods Co. (DF)  say the market distortions would harm
trade and consumers. Representative Robert Goodlatte, a Virginia
Republican and former chairman of the committee, offered an
amendment stripping the supply-management provisions from the
bill. The proposed dairy language would “penalize both
consumers and dairy producers who want to expand their
operations,” Goodlatte said.  Representative  Collin Peterson  of Minnesota, the
committee’s top Democrat who crafted the program, said his
proposal was a realistic way to deal with price swings.  ‘Worst Interest’  “We’ve got to understand that we have to deal with milk,
and if we have an oversupply, what do we do?” he asked.
“Volatility is in the worst interest of the dairy producer.”  The amendment failed 20-26.  Both Senate and House committees plan to end a program that
pays growers of corn,  rice  and other major crops regardless of
market prices, and use some of the savings to insure revenues in
less-profitable years.  The House and Senate proposals would each also expand crop
insurance and introduce some form of “shallow loss” protection
for farmers with revenue reductions not covered by indemnities.
Government-subsidized crop insurance sold by  Wells Fargo & Co .,
 Ace Ltd. (ACE)  and others have soared to records, galvanizing groups
fighting for less farm aid.  Indemnities for last year’s Corn Belt drought, the worst
since the 1930s, are at  $17.1 billion  so far, according to the
government.  Distribution Disagreement  In Senate committee debate yesterday, committee members
differed on how payments should be distributed. Senator  Pat Roberts  of Kansas, the top Republican on the committee last
year, disagreed with successor  Thad Cochran  of  Mississippi  over
provisions setting floor prices for commodities, which were
added this year to satisfy lawmakers from the South.  It’s “beyond frustrating” the Senate last year passed a
bill without target prices and is now approving “a rear-view
bill” that continues obsolete policies and may bring challenges
before the  World Trade Organization , Roberts said.  Under a recent trade case, the U.S. is paying $147 million
a year to Brazilian cotton farmers in a temporary settlement of
a case over U.S. policies that support the fiber. “The WTO
stove is hot,” said Roberts, who voted against the bill. “We
should not reach out to touch it again.”  Republicans unsuccessfully sought larger cuts to food stamp
funding.  “The Americans who rely on” the aid “are not nameless,
faceless people looking for a handout,” said Senator Kirsten Gillibrand of  New York , the lone Democrat to oppose the bill.
“They are children, hard-working adults, struggling seniors,
veterans, active duty troops and the families that stand by
them. That’s who suffers in this callous political fight.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alan Bjerga in Washington at 
 abjerga@bloomberg.net 
Derek Wallbank in Washington at 
 dwallbank@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  