-- Immigration Plan Backers Thwart Most Republican Changes
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r
-- 2013-05-15T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-14/senate-panel-rejects-proposal-to-restrict-immigration.html
Supporters of a bipartisan Senate
immigration bill prevented major changes to its visa program for
high-skilled foreign workers, seeking to preserve a compromise
backed by technology companies and labor groups.  The Senate Judiciary Committee adopted only minor
amendments yesterday to the bill’s version of the visa program,
which Congress created in 1990 to help U.S. companies fill job
vacancies with skilled foreign workers.  “What we’ve tried to do in our proposal is find a
balance,” said Senator  Charles Schumer , a  New York  Democrat who
co-sponsored the comprehensive immigration plan with a
bipartisan group of seven other senators.  After two days of marathon sessions in which dozens of
amendments were considered, the bill survived proposed changes
that might have doomed it on the Senate floor.  The measure, S. 744, seeks to combine Republicans’ goal of
stronger border security with Democrats’ proposal to provide a
path to citizenship for 11 million undocumented immigrants
already in the U.S. Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  has said
he wants the bill to reach the Senate floor in June.  On the H-1B visa program for high-skilled workers, the
measure would raise the annual visa limit to 135,000 from
85,000. It would allow further expansion to 180,000, depending
upon economic conditions.  Judiciary Chairman Patrick Leahy, a Vermont Democrat, said
companies such as  Intel Corp. (INTC) ,  EBay Inc. (EBAY) ,  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)  and  Google
Inc. (GOOG)  “have benefited from immigrants and talented, foreign
creators.”  “We need to do more to keep these companies and jobs for
American workers in this country,” Leahy said. “Talented
contributors from abroad also boost demand for local goods and
enrich our communities.”  Technology, Labor  The bill’s supporters say the proposal represents a
compromise between technology companies that want to hire from
overseas and labor organizations that seek to protect U.S.
workers. The bill would require companies to advertise jobs
before hiring foreign workers.  The panel adopted an amendment from Senator  Orrin Hatch , a
Utah Republican, to increase the fees that must be paid by
immigrants working in science, technology, engineering and math
fields who apply for permanent residency. The money would be
used to improve training within the U.S.  Hatch had planned to seek other changes to the H-1B
provisions, though he agreed to hold off to see if lawmakers
could reach an agreement that would accomplish his goals.  The judiciary panel is scheduled to resume consideration of
the measure tomorrow. Many of the approximately 300 amendments
filed probably will re-emerge during Senate floor debate, even
if the committee ends up rejecting them.  Toll-Free Number  The committee adopted two other changes to the high-skilled
visa program. A proposal by Rhode Island Democrat Sheldon Whitehouse would require creation of a toll-free number to
receive complaints about employers that hire under the program.
The other from Iowa Republican  Charles Grassley  would require
more information in advertisements posted before foreign workers
could be hired for high-skilled jobs.  Senators adopted another amendment from Grassley, the
panel’s top Republican, that would require greater information-sharing about those who overstay student visas.  The proposal was prompted by the April 15  Boston Marathon
bombings . Azamat Tazhayakov, a Kazakhstani national who was a
friend of one of the bombing suspects and is charged with
hindering the investigation, re-entered the U.S. in January on
an expired student visa.  Limiting Immigrants  The panel rejected a proposal by Alabama Republican  Jeff Sessions  to limit the number of immigrants entering the U.S.
Sessions, who contends that the legislation would prompt a wave
of immigration that would harm U.S. workers, was the only
committee member to vote for his amendment.  Senators also defeated an amendment proposed by Sessions to
require the U.S. to create a biometric visa tracking system,
such as fingerprinting or facial-recognition scans, before
undocumented immigrants could become citizens.  Opponents said the proposal would require the biometric
system sooner than is practical, would be too costly and would
delay citizenship for undocumented immigrants.  Also yesterday, six  House Republicans  held a news
conference to denounce the Senate bill.  “It grants amnesty to everybody that’s here” and
“destroys the rule of law,” Iowa Representative Steve King
told reporters.  Only after the U.S. border is “100 percent” secure should
Congress consider adjusting the status of the 11 million
undocumented immigrants, said Louisiana Representative  John Fleming . “We need to tear this thing up and start from the
beginning,” he said.  King said he’s concerned that if the Senate passes its
bill, “some version” would come to a vote in the House.  “Every Democrat would vote for it and it would only take a
couple dozen Republicans” to pass it, King said. “We would be
stuck with a very bad bill.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  