-- Serbs Cut Rates as Dinar, Weak Demand Keep Outlook Benign
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 2013-05-14T10:48:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-14/serbs-cut-rates-as-dinar-weak-demand-keep-outlook-benign.html
Serbia’s central bank cut its
benchmark  interest rate  for the first time since January 2012 as
the strong dinar, weak demand and the outlook for this year’s
harvest keep a lid on price growth.  The Narodna Banka Srbije cut the  one-week repurchase rate 
by a half-point to 11.25 percent, the lowest since December, a
day after the statistics office reported a “temporary spike”
in consumer prices in April. The cut matched the estimates of
four of 23 economists in a Bloomberg  survey . Eleven predicted a
quarter-point reduction, three saw a 75 basis-point decrease and
five forecast borrowing costs would be unchanged.  “Weak aggregate demand, stable movements in the foreign-exchange market and a decline in the country’s risk premium,
along with an expected full impact of policy measures taken to
date” will contribute to a further decline in annual inflation,
the central bank, based in the Serbian capital, Belgrade, said
in the  statement .  Serbian monetary policy is set to follow the rest of
eastern  Europe , where borrowing costs are falling to bolster
flagging economic growth. Rather than battling last year’s
recession with rate cuts, central bankers in Belgrade tightened
policy eight times in nine meetings through February as
regulated price increases and rising dinar liquidity drove the
inflation rate to 12.9 percent in October.  Poland ’s central bank on May 8 cut its benchmark interest
rate by a quarter-point to a record-low 3 percent and  Hungary 
reduced borrowing costs for a ninth month in April, bringing its
main rate to an all-time low of 4.75 percent from 5 percent.  Inflation Pickup  Inflation in  Serbia  quickened from a 30-year low of 2.7
percent in April 2012. It reached 12.4 percent in February and
was 11.4 percent last month. Policy makers want to bring it down
to 4 percent, plus or minus 1.5 percentage points, by December.  The April jump was “temporary” and “almost entirely
driven by rising vegetable prices” with the inflation outlook
remaining benign on the “new farming season, weak aggregate
demand, achieved stability of the foreign-exchange market and a
high base effect,” the National Bank of Serbia said on May 13.  Economists at Zagreb, Croatia-based Hypo Alpe-Adria Bank
d.d., including chief analyst Hrvoje Stojic, predicted the bank
would cut the rate by a quarter-point because “the CPI
inflation trajectory is clearly on the downside ahead, and the
recent postponements to clinch a new precautionary deal with”
the  International Monetary Fund  are “failing to exert any
material downside pressure on the dinar in the last days.”  The dinar traded at 110.9964 to the euro at 12:25 p.m. in
Belgrade, according to data compiled by Bloomberg, little
changed from yesterday. It has gained 1.3 percent against
Europe’s common currency this year even as the central bank
bought a total of 90 million euros ($117 million) to curb the
appreciation.  The IMF made it clear on May 7 there will be no talks on a
new loan program and the focus will be on the state of the
Serbian economy and measures required for a new loan deal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  