-- Kuwait-Led Group in Takeover Approach for U.K. Water Firm
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2013-05-14T16:35:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-14/severn-trent-surges-to-record-on-approach-from-borealis-kuwait.html
Kuwait’s sovereign wealth fund and a
Canadian infrastructure investor are discussing a bid for  Severn
Trent Plc (SVT) , the U.K.’s second-largest publicly traded water
company that’s valued at almost 5 billion pounds ($7.6 billion).  The Kuwait Investment Office, Borealis Infrastructure
Management Inc. and Britain’s Universities Superannuation Scheme
approached the utility regarding a possible takeover, Coventry,
U.K.-based Severn Trent said today in a statement. Its shares
surged 19 percent to a record, and closed 14 percent higher in
London trading for its biggest gain in 4 1/2 years.  The announcement pushed up the shares of U.K. utilities
including  Pennon Group Plc (PNN)  and Britain’s biggest publicly traded
water company United Utilities Plc on speculation other bidders
may be attracted by the stable, low-risk returns backed by
assets that they offer.  “Regulated activities particularly in the U.K. have
historically been attractive to infrastructure funds given their
stable and inflation-linked cash flows which help these funds
typically match their inflation-linked long-term liabilities,”
 Ashley Thomas , a London-based analyst at Societe Generale SA,
said by phone. Severn Trent may be a more manageable deal than
its peers, he said.  A takeover would make Severn Trent the latest British
utility to come under foreign ownership after buyouts including
Yorkshire Water Services Ltd. and South Staffordshire Plc.
Thames Water Utilities Ltd, with 14 million customers in the
London area, was bought in 2006 by Kemble Water Holdings Ltd.,
with investors including Australian bank Macquarie Group Ltd.’s
European Infrastructure Funds.  Takeover Speculation  Borealis, based in Toronto, co-owns the U.K.’s biggest
ports operator Associated British Ports, which owns 21 ports in
 England ,  Scotland  and Wales. It invests on behalf of Canadian
workers and retirees in the Ontario Municipal Employees
Retirement System,  Canada ’s sixth-biggest pension fund manager.  The companies recently made an approach to the board of
Severn Trent with a view to making a proposal regarding a
possible cash offer, Borealis said today in a statement. “There
can be no certainty that any offer will ultimately be made for
Severn Trent,” it said in the statement.  The approach may impact Severn Trent’s credit quality if it
results in an offer, Moody’s said today in a statement. It was
too early to assess a potential rating impact without a firm
proposal, the company said.  Takeover Talk  U.K. water companies have been the subject of recent
takeover talk. State-owned Abu Dhabi Investment Authority was
reported last month by the  Daily Mail  to be considering a bid
for Pennon while the Sunday Times said in April that United
Utilities hired Goldman Sachs Group Inc. amid speculation of a
possible takeover deal.  The Financial News reported earlier that the  Kuwait
Investment Authority  formed a group to make a 5.3 billion-pound
bid for Severn Trent, citing people with knowledge of the
matter. That price would represent a premium to the regulated
asset base of about 30 percent, in line with historical
transactions in the sector, Thomas said.  Ofwat Consultation  British water regulator Ofwat is consulting on the prices
water and sewerage companies must deliver for the five years
from 2015 to 2020, with final prices to be published next year.  “We do have evidence that funds are prepared to complete
deals in U.K. water companies despite the forthcoming review,”
Thomas said. “On that basis, the likelihood of the deal closing
is probably quite high.”  Liberum Capital Ltd. analyst  Peter Atherton  said in a note
it was “surprising” for a potential bid to be made in the
third year of the five-year regulatory period. A bidder would
take “considerable regulatory risk” if it pays a 35 percent
premium to regulatory capital value at this point, he said.  Severn Trent shares jumped as much as 345 pence to a record
2,170 pence, the highest since first sold in 1991. They closed
at 2,077 pence while Pennon rose 4.4 percent and United
Utilities gained 2.8 percent.  Severn Trent supplies drinking water to 7.7 million people.
Before today it had gained 16 percent this year. United
Utilities has risen 13 percent this year, Pennon 11 percent.  Severn Trent said the interested parties are required to
announce a firm intention to make an offer, or that they don’t
intend to make one, by 5 p.m. on June 11 in accordance with U.K.
takeover rules.  Deutsche Bank AG and RBC Capital Markets LLC are advising
the potential bidders, according to the Borealis statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  