-- Sharp’s Loss at Solar Unit Narrows After Incentives Introduced
-- B y   C h i s a k i   W a t a n a b e
-- 2013-05-14T07:28:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-14/sharp-s-loss-at-solar-unit-narrows-after-incentives-introduced.html
Sharp Corp.’s (6753)  loss at its solar unit
narrowed amid a boom in panel installations in  Japan  following
the introduction of an incentive program in July.  The company posted an operating loss of 4.4 billion yen
($43 million) for the year ended March 31, compared with 21.9
billion yen a year ago, the Osaka-based company said today.  Solar sales advanced 16 percent to 259.9 billion yen last
fiscal year, according to the filing, which didn’t provide a
breakdown of domestic and international sales. Solar business
sales may rise to 280 billion yen this fiscal year to 1,600
megawatts, the company said.  “This should be a good year for Sharp with the weight of
the yen lifted and strong demand from the Japanese market,”
Travis Woodward, a solar analyst in  Tokyo  for Bloomberg New
Energy Finance, said by e-mail. “Sharp will need to create some
kind of product differentiation strategy, whether on price or
quality, if they are going to survive. Most other major Japanese
manufacturers have already begun doing this.”  Last year’s improvement was “due mainly to a sales
increase in Japan centering on residential use, as well as
industrial use,” which was slightly offset by declining sales
outside Japan, the company said.  The announcement came as the company tries to restructure
its unprofitable liquid-crystal display business ahead of
deadlines to repay debt this year.  Sharp, which started developing solar panels in 1959, is
among solar panel makers benefiting from strong demand in Japan
thanks to the so-called feed-in tariff program. The plan pays
above-market rates for clean energy such as solar and wind.  Operating Income  For the three-month period ended March 31, Sharp’s solar
unit posted 9.7 billion yen in operating income, ending eight
quarters of losses, company figures show. Sales for the same
period were 110.8 billion yen.  The company has a factory on the Italian island of Sicily
that opened in 2011. The factory is run through a venture
between Sharp, Enel Green Power and STMicroelectronics to make
thin-film cells and modules. Sharp’s other overseas solar plants
are in Wrexham, Wales and  Memphis ,  Tennessee .  Sharp in February said it’s working to “accelerate
business restructuring” by scaling back its thin-film solar
panel manufacturing and operations in the U.S. and  Europe . No
specific plans have been announced.  Sharp is selling U.S. solar developer Recurrent Energy LLC
as well as overseas television factories, people with knowledge
of the company’s proposals to its lenders said in September.
Recurrent was bought for $305 million in 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chisaki Watanabe in Tokyo at 
 cwatanabe5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  