-- Singapore to Agree With U.S. on Sharing Bank Account Data
-- B y   S h a r o n   C h e n   a n d   S a n a t   V a l l i k a p p e n
-- 2013-05-14T08:33:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-14/singapore-to-agree-with-u-s-on-sharing-bank-account-information.html
Singapore  is set to conclude an
agreement with the U.S. that will help financial institutions
based in the city-state comply with a tax rule requiring them to
share information about overseas accounts held by Americans.  The island’s  tax authority  will also no longer need a court
order to obtain bank and trust information requested by other
nations, the  Finance Ministry , central bank and Inland Revenue
Authority of Singapore said in a joint statement today.  Wealthy individuals were hiding as much as $32 trillion
offshore at the end of 2010, according to Tax Justice Network, a
U.K.-based organization that campaigns for transparency in the
financial system. Singapore,  Asia ’s biggest offshore private
banking and wealth management hub, will make laundering of
profits from  tax evasion  a crime on July 1.  “These changes we are now making are a major enhancement,
in step with the strengthening of international standards for
exchange of information,” Finance Minister  Tharman Shanmugaratnam  said in the statement. “There is no conflict
between high standards of financial integrity and keeping our
strengths as a center for managing wealth.”  Singapore will also increase the number of countries it is
able to exchange information with for tax purposes from 41 to
83, the government said.  U.S. lawmakers passed legislation in 2010 to curb tax
evasion by requiring financial institutions based outside the
country to obtain and report information about income and
interest payments accrued to the accounts of American clients.  Under the Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act, banks and
account holders that don’t comply would face a withholding tax
of as much as 30 percent. Rules for the legislation, known as
Facta, were completed in January.  Singapore’s agreement with the U.S. will enable financial
institutions in the city-state to pass information to local
authorities, who will relay it to the U.S.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sharon Chen in Singapore at 
 schen462@bloomberg.net ;
Sanat Vallikappen in Singapore at 
 vallikappen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net ;
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  