-- SingTel to Spend S$2 Billion on New Acquisitions
-- B y   K y u n g h e e   P a r k
-- 2013-05-16T16:13:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-14/singtel-s-fourth-quarter-profit-falls-33-on-stake-sale-taxes.html
(Corrects story published May 15 to show 12 acquisitions
completed, in 10th paragraph.)  Singapore Telecommunications Ltd. (ST) ,
 Southeast Asia ’s biggest phone company, plans to spend S$2
billion ($1.6 billion) within three years on acquisitions to
boost growth after posting a drop in profit.  The company will focus on digital operations, including
mobile advertising, and may increase stakes in regional
associates, SingTel said in a filing.  Net income  fell 33 percent
to S$868 million in the fourth quarter ended March, after the
carrier took a loss on a stake sale and paid higher taxes.  SingTel’s expansion into Southeast Asian mobile-phone
markets, including a stake in  Thailand ’s  Advance Info (ADVANC)  Service
Pcl, is limiting the effect of slowing growth at Indian
associate  Bharti Airtel Ltd. (BHARTI)  and its Optus unit in  Australia .
Excluding one-time items, profit fell 2 percent to S$1 billion
in the quarter, the Singapore-based company said.  “SingTel has exposure to  Indonesia , Thailand and
 Philippines ; these are all growing markets,” said Kelvin Goh,
an analyst at CIMB Securities Sdn in  Kuala Lumpur . “There’s no
guaranteed returns to the huge investment in the digital
business. There could be startup losses.”  The carrier owns stakes in Indonesia’s PT Telekomunikasi
Selular and  Globe Telecom Inc. (GLO)  in the Philippines.  Group revenue this year will be little changed while
earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization
will rise by a “low single-digit level,” SingTel said. The
company has also been investing to improve its core business and
to create the next growth engine in the digital space.  Startup Losses  SingTel shares closed unchanged at S$3.99 in Singapore. The
stock has climbed 21 percent this year,  compared  with an 8.7
percent advance in the benchmark Straits Times Index.  The company spent about $400 million last year on
acquisitions in the digital business, Chief Executive Officer
Chua Sock Koong said. In March 2012, SingTel agreed to buy
Amobee Inc. for $321 million to expand into mobile advertising.  “In this investment phase, we would expect to see startup
losses,” Chua told a briefing today. “We’re going to see the
business grow very strongly.”  The carrier completed 12 acquisitions valued at about $665
million in 2012, almost double the $344 million spent in 2011,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. SingTel’s largest ever
deal is the 2001 purchase of Optus from Cable & Wireless Plc for
$9.7 billion. SingTel had cash and near-cash of S$911 million as
of March 31, the company said today.  Increased Dividend  Singapore ’s biggest mobile phone operator raised its final
 dividend  by 11 percent to 10 cents a share as it targets a
payout range between 60 percent and 75 percent, SingTel said.  SingTel in March completed the sale of its 30 percent stake
in  Warid Telecom (Private) Ltd.  for $150 million and will
receive a 7.5 percent share of the net proceeds from any future
sale, public offering or merger. It took a loss of S$225 million
from the deal.  The company had a one-time tax credit of S$270 million last
year from recognizing an increase in the value of an asset
transferred to an associate.  Australian Sales  Fourth-quarter Ebitda at  Optus , Australia’s second-largest
phone company, rose 3.4 percent to A$700 million ($692 million).
Revenue fell 5.4 percent. The unit agreed to pay A$649 million
for an allocation of airwaves to build up its wireless network
to attract more customers from  Telstra Corp. (TLS)  and other
competitors.  SingTel made 62 percent of its sales in Australia during
the quarter.  The earnings contribution from regional associates rose 3.2
percent to S$540 million in the quarter as strong results from
Indonesia and Thailand limited the effect of weaker results at
Bharti, the company said.  The pretax earnings contribution from Bharti slumped 31
percent to S$96 million. Bharti on May 2 reported earnings that
missed analyst estimates after a weaker rupee increased interest
payments and network equipment costs.  SingTel owns all of its Singapore and Australian phone
businesses in addition to minority stakes in five other mobile
operators with 468 million customers in countries in Asia and
 Africa . That excludes those from Warid since it was sold.  The company and its partners were among 12 applicants that
will be able to submit bids by June 3 for two telecommunications
licenses in Myanmar. The winners will be announced by June 27,
according to the Myanmar government.  Morgan Stanley and Credit Suisse Group AG will offer a
highly-leveraged debt package to help sell Optus’s satellite
division, according to three people familiar with the matter.  The banks, which were hired in March to study options for
the unit, are prepared to lend buyers more than six times Optus
Satellite’s Ebitda, two of the people said. The sale could fetch
A$2 billion, according to Nomura Holdings Inc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kyunghee Park in Singapore at 
 kpark3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  