-- Singapore Police Accessed Todd’s Hard Drive, FBI Says
-- B y   A n d r e a   T a n
-- 2013-05-15T13:59:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-14/singapore-police-accessed-todd-s-hard-drive-fbi-says.html
Singapore  police accessed an external
hard drive found at the home of American research engineer Shane
Todd, the  FBI  said, rather than an unknown person as asserted by
his family to support their claim he was murdered.  A May 9 U.S. Federal Bureau of Investigation report
presented to a coroner’s inquest yesterday confirmed the drive
Todd’s family found in the apartment and gave to the FBI was the
same device Singapore police had examined.  Singapore opened the inquiry after the Todd family said
their son was murdered, disputing an initial police finding that
he committed suicide by hanging. The inquest continued today
with a lab director from the forensic science unit at the Health
Sciences Authority showing simulations of how a man of Todd’s
weight and height could have hanged himself from a door.  Today’s hearing ended after Todd’s mother Mary said she
felt like vomiting and couldn’t continue after photographs of
Todd’s body and his home were shown in court.  Singapore is “only looking at suicide” as a conclusion
and has failed to look into certain evidence including activity
on Todd’s mobile phone days after he died, she said, fighting
back tears outside the courthouse. “I want the truth to be
known,” she said.  Other Possibilities  Singapore’s position remains that it welcomes information
from the family relating to evidence they wish to challenge, the
Attorney-General’s Chambers said in an e-mailed statement today.  While lawyers acting for the Todd family have raised
hypothetical possibilities including homicide, they haven’t
provided such evidence, according to the attorney-general’s
office statement.  The inquest is being held to determine the cause of Todd’s
death and its conclusions can’t be appealed.  Rick Todd has said his son’s death may have been tied to
his work at the Singapore’s Institute of Microelectronics and
connected to transfers of technology to  China .  Todd, 31 when he died, was depressed and had visited
suicide-related websites, senior state counsel Tai Wei Shyong
told the inquest on May 13.  Rick Todd had said the hard drive was accessed after his
son’s death and a file was deleted. A Singapore police
investigator accessed the drive from a laptop and a temporary
file was automatically deleted by  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  software when
it was closed, the FBI said in its report.  Fact Gathering  The Singapore investigator determined the hard drive wasn’t
relevant to the probe of Todd’s death and returned it to Todd’s
family on June 28, a day after accessing it, according to the
FBI report.  Amarjit Singh, a lawyer for the Todd family, asked a police
officer testifying yesterday if police could have altered
material evidence on the case, leading to a flawed conclusion.  Tai, the state lawyer, asked Singh if the questions raised
were hypothetical or allegations. Singh replied he was gathering
facts.  “Justice must be seen to be done and to be done,” Tai
said. “The reputation of Singapore’s justice system is at
stake.”  The Coroner’s Inquiry is Shane Truman Todd. CI002014 of
2012. Singapore Subordinate Courts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Tan in Singapore at 
 atan17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  