-- South African ANC Treasurer Wants Donations Kept Secret
-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 2013-05-14T07:45:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-14/south-african-anc-treasurer-wants-donations-kept-secret.html
South Africa ’s ruling  African
National Congress  wants the identity of party donors to remain
secret amid calls for more disclosure ahead of next year’s vote.  “No party should be compelled to divulge the name of its
funders,” Zweli Mkhize, the ANC’s treasurer-general, said in an
interview in Cape Town on May 9. “We do not want someone to be
compromised simply for supporting a party he wishes to support
or has approached him.”  The ANC’s dominance of the government in  Africa ’s biggest
economy since it took power in the first post-apartheid vote in
1994 has secured it the lion’s share of corporate sponsorship,
public disclosures by companies show. Groups including the
Congress of South African Trade Unions, the country’s largest
labor federation and an ANC ally, want parties to reveal their
sources of funding to reduce conflicts of interest.  To date only  SABMiller Plc (SAB) , the world’s second-largest
brewer, has disclosed plans to assist parties contesting next
year’s elections. Nine million rand ($983,000) will be given to
the six largest parties in proportion to their representation in
Parliament, the London-based company said in a March 15 stock
exchange filing.  MTN Group Ltd. (MTN) , Africa’s biggest mobile-phone company, and
 Anglo American Plc (AGL) , the largest investor in South African
mining, are among companies that have made public donations to
parties ahead of previous elections.  Organizations including the Open Society Foundation of
South Africa and the Institute for Accountability in Southern
Africa have also called for more disclosure.  ‘Public Judgment’  “I’ve interacted with a number of donors, who are very
happy to donate, but they do not want to make a political
statement about the support they give to a party,” Mkhize, who
is also premier of the eastern KwaZulu-Natal Province, said.
“They would also want to exercise their right without any sense
of public judgment. It’s a support of democracy.”  Mathews Phosa , who Mkhize replaced as ANC treasurer-general
five months ago, had raised concerns about unregulated party
funding.  “South Africa is moving into dangerous and challenging
territory,” Phosa said in a speech in Johannesburg on June 7.
“The private funding of political parties is unregulated. Our
democracy should not be available or sold to the highest
bidder.”  The  Democratic Alliance , the main opposition party, has
also resisted making donations public.  “The DA makes a commitment of confidentiality to our
donors,” party leader  Helen Zille  said a January newsletter.
“Ideally, the DA would prefer full transparency but if we were
the only party to apply it most of our donations would dry up,
together with any prospect of sustaining democracy.”  Chancellor House  The ANC also gets funding from Chancellor House, its
investment arm. Opposition parties say this presents a conflict
of interest because it enables the party to benefit from state
contracts.  Chancellor House owns a 25 percent stake in Hitachi Power
Africa Ltd., which won contracts to supply boilers to state
power utility Eskom Holdings SOC Ltd. While Phosa instructed
Chancellor House to exit Hitachi, it never complied.  “It should be possible that the ANC can participate in
commercial activity,” Mkhize said. “It shouldn’t participate
in government tenders. It needs to structure a kind of arms-length relationship where the business runs without having day-to-day involvement of the ANC.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Cohen in  Cape Town  at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  