-- Square Introduces Stand to Turn IPads Into Cash Registers
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a
-- 2013-05-14T16:51:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-14/square-introduces-stand-to-turn-ipads-into-cash-registers.html
Square Inc., the payments startup co-founded by Twitter Inc. Chairman Jack Dorsey, is rolling out
hardware that turns iPads into point-of-sale systems, bolstering
an effort replace cash registers in stores.  Square Stand, which costs $299, includes a credit-card
reader and swivels back and forth, allowing customers to enter
information from across a counter, the company said in a
statement today. By connecting to a mobile point-of-sale
application called Square Register, shops will also have access
to real-time sales data.  Square has been introducing products to overhaul the way
companies process in-store transactions, competing with  Intuit
Inc. (INTU)  and  EBay Inc. (EBAY) ’s PayPal. In February, Square rolled out
“Business in a Box,” an ensemble of devices that includes two
credit-card readers, a cash drawer, an iPad stand and an
optional receipt printer. The system costs $599, or $299
excluding the printer.  “Local business owners take as a given that they need an
ugly, slow, expensive, and complicated point of sale system
cluttering their counter,” Dorsey, Square’s chief executive
officer, said in the statement. “Square Stand is elegant, fast,
affordable, and easy to use.”  The San Francisco-based company began offering a stamp-sized credit-card reader in 2009 that lets merchants accept
payments on the go, targeting small proprietors -- cab drivers
and food trucks. Square offers a flat  fee  of 2.75 percent per
transaction or a monthly fee of $275, along with free software.
In addition to mom-and-pop retailers, Square has allied with
companies such as  Starbucks Corp. (SBUX)  to expand services.  More than 3 million merchants are able to use Square’s card
swiper and the company is processing more than $12 billion in
payments on an annual basis, the company said last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Kucera in  San Francisco  at 
 dkucera6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  