-- Sugar Prices Fall to Lowest Since July '10 on Brazil Crop
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   C a m p b e l l   a n d   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2013-05-14T18:53:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-14/sugar-prices-fall-to-lowest-since-july-10-on-brazil-crop.html
Sugar futures fell to a 33-month low
as output more than tripled in the second half of April at the
main growing area in  Brazil , the world’s biggest producer.  Output in the Center South surged to 1.45 million metric
tons from 393,200 tons a year earlier, Unica, a Brazilian
industry group, said yesterday. This year, raw-sugar prices in
 New York  have dropped 13 percent, the most among eight  futures 
in the Standard & Poor’s GSCI Agriculture Index.  “Oversupply is one of the biggest problems,” Phil Streible, a senior commodity broker at R.J. O’Brien & Associates
in  Chicago , said in a telephone interview. “We haven’t seen any
significant demand increases either.”  Sugar for July delivery fell 1.3 percent to close at 17.02
cents a pound at 2 p.m. on ICE Futures U.S. Earlier, the price
touched 17 cents, the lowest for a most-active contract since
July 16, 2010. The commodity hasn’t posted a gain since May 6.  “The expected acceleration of the Brazilian sugar-cane
harvest is likely to put some downward pressure on the price
structure in the weeks ahead,” F.O. Licht GmbH in  Germany  said
in a report dated yesterday.  Brazil said last month it will give  tax deductions  and
extend low-cost credit to mills in a bid to lift ethanol output.
The share of the raw material used to make sugar still increased
to 42 percent in the second half of April from 40.1 percent a
year earlier, Unica data showed.  “At the moment, it is unclear how exactly this tax benefit
will split between mills, distributors and gas stations, and
therefore how this decision will impact ethanol prices and
production at mills,” Licht said in a separate report
yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 Ialmeida3@bloomberg.net ;
Elizabeth Campbell in Chicago at 
 ecampbell14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net . 