-- Syria Rebels Must End Abuse After Heart Video, Group Says
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2013-05-14T19:01:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-14/syria-rebels-must-end-abuse-after-heart-video-group-says.html
Syria ’s opposition fighters must do
more to respect the laws of war after an Internet video appeared
to show a rebel leader mutilating and biting into the heart and
liver of a dead enemy soldier,  Human Rights Watch  said.  “It is not enough for Syria’s opposition to condemn such
behavior or blame it on violence by the government,” said  Nadim Houry , Middle East deputy director at the rights group, in a
telephone interview from  Beirut  today. “The leadership of the
opposition has to step up and rein in abuses by some groups.”  In the video posted on YouTube, a man cuts open the chest
of a dead uniformed fighter. He removes the two organs, holds
them up in his hands and says: “I swear to God, soldiers of
Bashar, you dogs, we will eat your heart and livers!”  Human rights groups have accused both sides of atrocities
during Syria’s civil war, which began in March 2011 with
peaceful protests and turned violent after President Bashar al-Assad’s troops turned their guns on demonstrators. At least
94,000 people have been killed in the unrest, the opposition
Syrian Observatory for  Human Rights  said today.  “If you talk about sheer numbers of violations and
killings, the government side has inflicted destruction on a
scale that isn’t even comparable,” Houry said. “But that
doesn’t justify the actions of this one rebel commander.”  War Crimes  “Mutilating or desecrating corpses during a conflict is a
war crime,” the United Nations High Commissioner for Human
Rights Navi Pillay said in a statement today. “While it is not
yet possible to fully authenticate the video, I urge the armed
opposition groups in Syria must do everything in their power to
halt such gross crimes.”  Human Rights Watch  said it identified the group involved as
the al-Farouq Brigade from the Baba Amr district of Homs. It’s
not known whether the group operates within the command
structure of the Free Syria Army, the New York-based group said.  “We’re appalled by this video,” U.S. State Department
spokesman Patrick Ventrell told reporters today in  Washington .
“We’ve been very clear that all sides in this conflict must
abide by international humanitarian law.”  The U.S. has “raised this gruesome act” in recent talks
with leaders of the opposition Supreme Military Council, “who
assured us that they do not support such actions and that this
is not representative of the vast majority of the armed
opposition,” Ventrell said. An opposition military unit, he
said, “had previously ejected this individual because of his
history of brutality.”  Condemning ‘Crime’  The Syrian National Coalition said in a statement that “it
reiterates its condemnation of such an act and stresses that it
is a crime, regardless of the perpetrator.”  Time Magazine  reported  on May 13 that two of its reporters
first saw the mutilation video in April in the presence of
several of the brigade’s fighters and supporters, who all told
them that the video was authentic.  “Atrocious acts happen,” Houry said. “It is what kind of
system is in place to deter them and hold people accountable,
this is missing at a local level and at an international
level.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Caroline Alexander in London at 
 calexander1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  