-- U.K. Exit From EU May Really Happen
-- B y   C l i v e   C r o o k
-- 2013-05-14T22:00:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-14/u-k-exit-from-eu-may-really-happen.html
Visiting the U.K. over the past week,
I realized for the first time that Britain might actually leave
the European Union. Of course, it has talked about this
eventuality, on and off, almost since it joined -- but for years
the constant whining could be dismissed as so much background
noise. Things have changed. Attitudes are hardening, and by
promising an “in or out” referendum on EU membership after the
next election, Prime Minister  David Cameron  may have put the
country on a course that will force it to choose.  If the referendum Cameron promises for 2017 were put to
voters tomorrow, the U.K. would probably leave. According to
polling by the  Pew Global Attitudes Project , only 26 percent of
Britons think Europe’s economic integration has helped the
economy, and only 43 percent have a favorable opinion of the EU.
Other recent polls show steady (though mostly slender)
majorities in favor of exit.  Cameron will have to win another election to keep his
referendum promise. His government is unpopular so that’s no
sure thing. But the opposition  Labour Party  will probably have
to promise a referendum, too, once the 2015 election comes into
view -- especially if the  U.K. Independence Party , which is
committed to an exit, keeps gathering strength. (UKIP already
attracts more support than the pro-European Liberal Democrats.)
It’s hard to run on a platform of denying voters a choice.  New Treaty  Cameron isn’t a Euro-skeptic: He’s the pro-EU leader of a
party that’s long been bitterly divided on the issue. To hold
the Conservatives together and keep the country in the EU, he
wants to draft a new European treaty that is more to Britain’s
liking before a referendum occurs. The other EU leaders say they
want nothing to do with this.  It’s a point that British advocates of exit have seized on.
In  an article  in the Times last week,  Nigel Lawson , a former
Tory chancellor of the exchequer (and no knee-jerk Little
Englander), said he expected nothing from the renegotiation and
would be voting for exit. Several other former ministers have
said the same.  Here’s the surprise: These interventions weren’t greeted as
reckless or sensational, as they once would have been. Suddenly,
exit is on the political agenda. Much of the City has turned
Euro-skeptic as a reaction to what many see as a vindictive
regulatory assault from Brussels. U.K. businesses used to be
strongly pro-EU, but that’s no longer so. What once might have
seemed an idle or even absurd threat has become a real
possibility.  I think the question of whether the U.K. should remain part
of the  EU (EUGNEMUQ)  is a closer call than either side wants to admit --
and, just as Cameron says, it all depends on the terms. If the
EU responds to the economic crisis with new strides toward a
 United States  of Europe, the costs for the U.K. will surely
outweigh the benefits: Britain just doesn’t want to be part of
that enterprise. If EU membership will require eventual
membership of the euro area -- and that’s the prevailing model,
as though the crisis had never happened -- Britain should again
say no thanks.  As free trade becomes the global norm, the benefits of open
access to Europe’s markets are less and less confined to EU
members. Cameron, visiting President  Barack Obama  in  Washington 
this week, discussed the proposed U.S.-EU trade pact, among
other things. The U.S. has signed free-trade agreements that
span the globe. The U.K. could do the same.  Better Arguments  At the very least, Britain’s pro-EU forces need better
arguments. They say Cameron shouldn’t have raised the issue in
the first place, implying it’s better to deny voters a say. What
are voters to make of that? Pro-EU politicians keep repeating
that exit is unthinkable -- but never really say why. What makes
 Switzerland ’s relationship with the EU unthinkable? They think
Britain should be leading Europe, that it maximizes its global
influence that way. Well, that’s just delusional. Why should
Britain expect to lead a union of 27, soon to be 28, countries?  Let’s take  Canada  as a thought experiment. It’s a small
economy next to a big economy. Its global influence is limited
by its size, of course. Would it be better off as part of the
U.S.? Would its influence in the world be greater? And wouldn’t
Canadians be giving up something they value very highly? The
pro-EU cause should find some answers to these questions.  For Europe’s sake, as much as it pains them, the other EU
governments should acknowledge that Cameron is right about the
need for a new constitutional settlement. The Pew survey shows
that disaffection with the EU is by no means confined to the
U.K. Grievances aren’t concentrated in the south, either.
Support for the union in  France  -- co-architect of the whole
project -- is actually lower than in Britain.  Can it seriously be maintained that  Europe ’s economic
calamity raises no questions about the EU’s constitutional
direction, that the commitment to “ever closer union” enshrined
in the founding documents can’t ever be reviewed, and that the
euro system, despite its recent difficulties, is fundamentally
sound? That’s what the EU’s leaders are asking an increasingly
dismayed European electorate to believe.  Cameron’s critics say he’s the trouble maker. I don’t think
so. The real threat to the EU is the other leaders’ bizarre
refusal to acknowledge what’s happening.  (Clive Crook is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Clive Crook at  clive.crook@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 