-- U.S. Deficit Narrows to $642 Billion in New CBO Estimate
-- B y   B r i a n   F a l e r
-- 2013-05-15T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-14/u-s-deficit-to-fall-to-642-billion-says-budget-agency.html
The U.S.  budget deficit  will shrink
by the end of fiscal 2013 to $642 billion, the smallest
shortfall in five years, according to the nonpartisan
 Congressional Budget Office .  The agency yesterday reduced its estimate of the likely
shortfall by more than $200 billion compared with its February
projections. The agency cited stronger-than-expected tax
receipts as well as payments to the Treasury by government-owned
Fannie Mae and  Freddie Mac  as major reasons for the change.  The decline from last year’s $1.1 trillion deficit would
mark the first time since 2008 that the gap between taxes and
spending slipped to under $1 trillion. It would also postpone
the effective deadline for raising the government’s debt ceiling
to avoid default until as late as November, the agency said.  The improved budget outlook is sapping the will of Congress
to make tough choices to reduce the deficit, said Senator  Bob Corker , a Tennessee Republican.  “The intensity doesn’t seem to be there as much -- there’s
sort of a fiscal fatigue,” Corker said in an interview. “You
just don’t feel the urgency around the issue that we’ve had in
the past.”  “I’m becoming very concerned we’re going to miss an
opportunity to deal with this issue,” Corker said.  Republicans Strategize  Republicans in the  House of Representatives  are set to meet
today to weigh strategies for an eventual debt-limit fight. Some
have begun backing off demands for entitlement cuts, pushing
instead for tax-code revisions in exchange for voting to raise
the borrowing cap, which goes back into effect after May 18.  As soon as the next day, the Treasury Department will have
to resort to “extraordinary measures” to stave off default,
and those steps will be exhausted by October or November,
according to the budget office report.  Tax receipts for fiscal 2013, which ends Sept. 30, will be
15 percent higher than the previous year, the agency said,
partly because Congress allowed a payroll-tax cut to expire on
Dec. 31. It also cited a January budget deal that let taxes on
the wealthy rise and economic growth.  Revenue this year will climb to 17.5 percent of U.S. gross
domestic product, up from 15.8 percent in 2012, according to the
agency. The 40-year average is 17.9 percent.  Also driving the improvement is expected payments of $95
billion to the Treasury by  Fannie Mae  and Freddie Mac, the
agency said.  Repaying Treasury  The government took over the mortgage financiers in 2008,
and they’re required to make quarterly payments to the Treasury
based on their net worth, the agency said. Because of rebounding
values as the housing market recovers, those remittances are
rising. Last week, Fannie Mae said it will deliver $59.4 billion
to the Treasury after reporting a record quarterly profit.  The deficit estimate is less than what either the White
House budget office or some major banks have projected. The
administration has said the 2013 shortfall would be $973
billion.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  has twice cut its deficit
estimates this year, to $775 billion last month.  Barclays Plc (BARC) 
has said it expects a $750 billion gap.  Next year’s deficit will narrow to $560 billion, according
to the agency, and will reach $378 billion in 2015 -- a level
unseen since the last  Bush administration  -- before rising
again. The budget office predicted it would widen to $895
billion for 2023 as  Baby Boomers  swell the ranks of entitlement
recipients, health-care spending rises and  interest rates  return
to historic levels, pushing up the government’s borrowing costs.  Debt Level  Debt held by the public meanwhile will remain at more than
70 percent of GDP for the foreseeable future, the agency said.
It has averaged 39 percent of GDP during the past 40 years.  The short-term improvement in the deficit may only make it
harder for lawmakers to tackle those long-term challenges, said
 Bob Bixby , head of the Concord Coalition, which promotes
balanced budgets.  “It could throw cold water on efforts to get some sort of
grand bargain going, though I’m not sure any cold water was
needed to put out that fire,” said Bixby. “It’s not like it
was a raging inferno.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Faler in Washington at 
 bfaler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katherine Rizzo at 
 krizzo5@bloomberg.net  