-- Hungary Exited Recession in First Quarter, Poll Says
-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 2013-05-14T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-14/hungary-exited-recession-in-first-quarter-poll-says.html
Hungary’s  economy  probably exited its
second recession in four years in the first three months of
2013, posting growth from the previous quarter for the first
time since 2011, a survey of economists showed.  Gross domestic product probably grew a seasonally adjusted
0.1 percent in the first quarter, according to the median
estimate of eight economists in a Bloomberg  survey . The economy
shrank 1.4 percent from the year-ago period, according to the
median estimate of 19 economists. The statistics office will
publish the data at 9 a.m. in Budapest.  Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  sacrificed growth last year to
reduce the budget gap and remove the threat of cuts in European
Union funding less than a year before parliamentary elections.
The government boosted revenue from  Europe ’s highest bank levy
and taxes on energy, retail and telecommunication industries,
which damaged lending and investments.  “Growth has quasi-started, we expect 1 percent growth for
this year,” Sandor Csanyi, the chairman and chief executive of
OTP Bank Nyrt., the nation’s largest lender, said on Inforadio
on May 13. “It’s another question that its rate isn’t
appropriate. The government took the necessary steps for fiscal
stability and to stop debt growth, but these have the
inconvenient side effect of not really being growth friendly.”  The forint traded at 294.31 per euro at 7:06 p.m. in
Budapest, little changed from the previous day. The cost to
insure the country’s debt against non-payment for five years
using credit-default swaps rose two basis points to 280. The
benchmark  BUX stock index  rose 0.1 percent to 18,704.01, its
highest close in more than two months.  Growth Outlook  While the government forecasts 0.7 percent economic growth
this year, Orban said the pace of expansion may reach 1 percent,
the state-run news service MTI reported on May 7. The European
Commission estimates  Hungary ’s economy will grow 0.2 percent
this year.  Hungary passed multiple rounds of fiscal cuts last year to
prevent the loss of EU funds, which finance 95 percent of
infrastructure development projects in the country. The
shortfall was 1.9 percent of GDP.  Last week, the government said it would freeze 92.9 billion
forint ($409 million) of planned spending this year and in 2014
and is ready to save another 80 billion forint next year mostly
by delaying payments for projects such as soccer-stadium
construction. If those are insufficient to exit EU budget
monitoring, Hungary is also prepared to raise the bank tax and
the financial-transaction levy.  The commission will publish its recommendation on whether
Hungary should be allowed to exit the so-called excessive
deficit procedure on May 29. The shortfall may be 3 percent of
GDP this year and 3.3 percent next year, the commission said on
May 3. The EU’s budget deficit limit is 3 percent of GDP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  