-- Hungarian Inflation Rate Plunging Widens Rate-Cut Room
-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n   a n d   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2013-05-14T07:12:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-14/hungarian-inflation-rate-plunging-widens-rate-cut-room.html
Hungary’s  inflation rate  dropped to
the lowest in almost 39 years, bolstering the case for policy
makers to cut record-low  interest rates  further.  Consumer prices rose 1.7 percent from a year earlier in
April, the slowest since June 1974, after a 2.2 percent increase
the previous month, the statistics office in Budapest said. The
median estimate of 18 economists in a Bloomberg survey was 1.8
percent. Prices rose 0.3 percent from March.  The Magyar Nemzeti Bank reduced the  two-week deposit rate 
by a quarter-point for a ninth month in April to a record-low
4.75 percent as policy makers seek to help the government end
the second recession in four years. The bank is “optimistic”
on inflation and predicts the rate will remain below its 3
percent target on the monetary-policy horizon, Vice President
Adam Balog said May 8.  Inflation is slowing after a government-mandated 10 percent
cut in household energy prices this year and as the recession
and subdued demand limit price increases. The cost of
electricity, natural gas and other fuels dropped 8.4 percent
from a year earlier, according to today’s statement.  That outweighed a 10.8 percent increase in alcohol and
tobacco products, a 3.4 percent rise in food prices and a 3.6
percent increase in services, according to the statement.  On the month, clothing prices rose 3.4 percent while the
cost of “other goods including motor fuels and lubricants”
fell 0.6 percent.  Core inflation , which strips out volatile energy costs, was
3.2 percent from the same period of 2012 in April and 0.2
percent from March.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net ;
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  