-- Turkey’s Stubborn Erdogan Is Undone by Obama, Assad
-- B y   F o u a d   A j a m i
-- 2013-05-14T22:00:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-14/turkey-s-stubborn-erdogan-is-undone-by-obama-assad.html
The car bombs that killed more than
40 people last weekend in a town in southern  Turkey  are a
reckoning for Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan.  He had made himself party to the fight over  Syria  and vowed
that he would see the end of Bashar al-Assad’s rule. But Assad
has hunkered down, and the Turkish leader who calls on U.S.
President  Barack Obama  this week faces a dilemma. In the face of
Syrian provocations, Erdogan threatens dire consequences, yet
draws back, sheltered behind the assertion that his country
won’t be drawn into a full-scale war with the regime in
Damascus.  The bombs in Reyhanli, a quaint border town in the province
of Hatay, were just the latest in a series of provocations by
Syrian forces. Give Assad credit for his audacity. Like a
gambler with steady nerves, he has bet that Erdogan won’t pull
the trigger.  In June 2012, a Turkish F-4 fighter jet was downed over
Syrian territorial waters. In October, Syrian mortar shells hit
a Turkish border town, killing five civilians. There have been
other attacks. Life alongside the Syrian  killing fields  has
exacted its toll on the Turks. More than 300,000 refugees have
spilled over the border.  The overwhelming majority of them have settled in Hatay, a
region with a complicated history and a tangled demography. It
was once a Syrian district, Alexandretta, with communities of
Turks, Kurds, Turkmen, Orthodox Christians, Armenians, Sunni
Arabs and Alawites. The Turks annexed it in 1939, after the
French Mandate authorities gave it up.  Borders Breached  The border didn’t annul the bonds of language and ethnicity
and sectarian attachments. Antioch (Antakya) is a bilingual
city, as Syrian in culture as it is Turkish. The Sunnis from
Aleppo and Idlib streaming into Hatay find relatives and kinsmen
on the Turkish side of the border. They also find  Alawites ,
supporters of Assad who bristle at the favoritism shown to the
Syrian rebels by Erdogan’s ruling Justice and Development Party.  A year or so ago, there was facile talk in Turkey of a neo-Ottomanist calling. Erdogan himself was prone to that vision.
For him the drive of the modern Turkish state for a place in
Europe held no attraction. Syria, by virtue of its geographic
contiguity, was a special prize.  Erdogan’s options in Syria have narrowed by the day. He has
arrayed his government on the side of the Sunni Arab states of
the Persian Gulf, an alliance that isn’t popular in Turkey. He
wages his political battles under the gaze of secularists at
odds with his pan-Islamic vision.  At the altar of this vision, Erdogan broke off Turkey’s
tight cooperation with  Israel  that was  forged  by his country’s
military and intelligence services. For four years, he has
courted the Arab street with an ardent anti-Zionism that puts
the most passionate Arab nationalists to shame. His  condemnation 
of the recent Israeli airstrikes -- on Damascus depots of
Iranian missiles meant to be delivered to Hezbollah -- is a
stark example of the triumph of ideology over realpolitik.  The sincerity of his attitude toward the slaughter in Syria
might be conceded. But the plunge into a quagmire was made
easier by the Turkish leader’s conviction that the U.S. was
bound to ride to the rescue. The prime minister convinced
himself that he had a close bond with Obama.  It is forgotten now that Obama’s first Islamic journey as
president wasn’t to Cairo but to Ankara. The Turks misread him:
They weren’t prepared for the large-scale American  retreat  from
zones of American primacy.  American Policy  Turkey wanted the Syrian rebellion armed and supported; it
wasn’t troubled by the Islamist groups that had taken up arms.
Moreover, the Muslim Brotherhood leaders were a known entity --
Istanbul is their favored base -- and the “Turkish model,”
they proclaim, is what they want for Syria after the fall of the
dictatorship.  The regime change in Syria that Turkey is committed to is
not  Washington ’s program. Two secretaries of state, first
Hillary Clinton, then John Kerry, have petitioned  Russia  to
abandon Assad. At the core of Obama’s Syria policy is an
unstated commitment to a negotiated settlement between the
Alawite regime and the Sunni rebellion. The Turks know there can
be no middle ground between the two.  The Turkish leader who will meet Obama this week is
politically weakened; the Arabs he bet on appear in no need of a
new Ottoman sultanate. And the American leader he will sit down
with has shown a  disturbing  ability to avert his gaze from the
pain and the ordeal of Syria -- and from Turkey’s stakes in that
conflict.  (Fouad Ajami is a senior fellow at the Stanford
University’s Hoover Institution and author of “The Syrian
Rebellion.” The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Fouad Ajami at  mjring@stanford.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at  kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 