-- Vaginal Bulge Surgery Fails in One in Four Women in Study
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2013-05-14T20:21:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-14/vaginal-bulge-surgery-fails-in-one-in-four-women-in-study.html
The most robust surgery currently
performed to treat pelvic organ prolapse, in which the uterus or
vaginal walls bulge into the vagina, provides only temporary
relief for many women, a study found.  The results published in the  Journal of the American
Medical Association  provide the longest look at how the 225,000
women who undergo surgery annually may fare in subsequent years.
The surgery failed in one-quarter of women, with a renewed bulge
or symptoms returning within seven years, the researchers said.  Most women were better off after the surgery in terms of
how much prolapse they had, said  Ingrid Nygaard , a professor of
obstetrics and gynecology at the University of Utah School of
Medicine in Salt Lake City. Still, women need to be aware of the
risks and how long the benefits may last, she said.  “The surgery that is considered to be the most durable and
effective for pelvic organ prolapse fails to restore normal
anatomy in one out of four women,” Nygaard said in a telephone
interview. “We were interested in not only how women felt, but
if surgery was doing what it was designed to do, which is hold
the vagina up.”  When researchers took into account the return of prolapse
symptoms and a renewed bulge, the surgery failed in 48 percent
of women after seven years. Incontinence developed in 81 percent
of those who didn’t get another procedure to prevent it and 75
percent of those who did.  The study didn’t involve the vaginal mesh implants that the
U.S. Food and Drug Administration said were potentially
dangerous and needed more study. The agency last year ordered
 Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) , C.R. Bard Inc. and 31 other manufacturers to
collect as much as three years of data on the safety of their
products after a report found a fivefold increase in deaths,
injuries and malfunctions linked to some products.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  