-- Verizon CFO Says He’s Growing Weary of Vodafone Questions
-- B y   S c o t t   M o r i t z
-- 2013-05-14T20:11:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-14/verizon-cfo-shammo-says-he-s-growing-weary-of-vodafone-questions.html
Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ)  Chief
Financial Officer Fran Shammo said he’s “tired of answering
questions” about the company’s relationship with Vodafone Group
Plc.  Analysts at a JPMorgan Chase & Co. conference raised the
topic to Shammo today amid speculation that Verizon will seek to
acquire Vodafone’s stake in their joint venture,  Verizon
Wireless . Shammo’s company began briefing analysts last month on
how much it was be willing to pay for the 45 percent stake,
people familiar with the matter said then.  Today, Shammo declined to offer his perspective, saying
only that he was weary of the subject. Along with the
announcement of a $7 billion dividend by Verizon Wireless
yesterday, the CFO’s ambivalent response left New York-based
Verizon’s strategy open to interpretation.  “This could have been an olive branch, and now they’ll
take a softer approach to get them to the table,” said Kevin Smithen, an analyst at Macquarie Group Ltd. in New York.  Verizon has long said it is interested in gaining full
ownership of the wireless business, which is the No. 1 mobile-phone company in the U.S. and more profitable than Verizon’s
landline phone business.  Smithen, who has a neutral rating on Verizon, said he still
believes a deal for  Vodafone (VOD) ’s stake will come in the next few
months. “I wouldn’t read too much into any of it,” he said of
Verizon’s latest actions.  Verizon will receive $3.85 billion from the dividend, while
Newbury, England-based Vodafone will get $3.15 billion,
according to  a filing yesterday . The payout will be made June
25.  Negotiating Tactic  The dividend has been seen as a negotiating tactic for
Verizon. Chief Executive Officer Lowell McAdam hinted in a
recent meeting with analysts that Verizon Wireless might not pay
the distribution this year, favoring debt repayment instead.  Getting the payment may remove some pressure for Vodafone
to agree to a sale and may indicate Verizon has lost interest in
acquiring the stake,  Jonathan Chaplin , an analyst with New
Street Research LLP in New York, said yesterday.  As the minority investor, Vodafone doesn’t control the
venture and counts on its partner to set the  dividend  terms. The
two companies routinely discuss the dividend policy at Verizon
Wireless board meetings throughout the year.  Verizon has communicated with analysts that it believes the
fair value of Vodafone’s stake is about $100 billion, people
familiar with the matter said last month. Talks between
executives of both companies over a deal have never amounted to
much, in part because Vodafone doesn’t see the $100 billion
offer as a reasonable opening bid, the people said.  Verizon Communications climbed 1.2 percent to $53.17 at the
close in  New York . Vodafone was little changed at 193.50 pence
in  London . It has advanced 25 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Moritz in New York at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  