-- Visa Europe Offers to Cap Credit-Card Fees to End EU Probe
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 2013-05-14T11:33:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-14/visa-europe-offers-to-cap-credit-card-fees-to-settle-eu-probe.html
Visa Europe  Ltd. plans to
“significantly” reduce the fees it sets for processing cross-border credit-card payments in a bid to allay European Union
competition concerns, the bloc’s antitrust watchdog said.  Visa  Europe ’s offer would bring its fees in line with those
of its main competitor  MasterCard Inc. (MA) , the European Commission
said today. The operator of the EU’s largest payment-card
network also committed to overhaul its rules so that banks will
be able to apply a reduced cross-border interbank fee when they
compete for clients cross-border.  “It will put at the same level the fees that are used by
MasterCard and by Visa and this will allow cheaper use of cards
that are a payment system used in almost half of our total
payments in the EU,”  Joaquin Almunia , the EU’s antitrust
commissioner, said in a video statement. Visa Europe’s offer
will mean “the two big credit and debit card companies” can’t
use “their market position to have extra profits.”  Visa Europe proposed to reduce by 40 percent to 60 percent
its so-called interbank fees for credit-card payments to a level
of 0.3 percent of the value of the transaction for cross-border
and domestic transactions, the commission said. The remedies
would last for four years. Visa Europe was sent a formal
complaint over the levies last year.  Market Test  Almunia said antitrust officials will carry out a so-called
market test with industry groups before deciding to make the
commitments legally binding.  “Merchants will now be able to benefit from centralizing
their acquiring in one place, which will bring benefits to the
European economy as a whole,” said Ruth Milligan, senior
adviser on payments at EuroCommerce, a group representing EU
retailers including  Carrefour SA (CA)  and Ikea Group. Acquiring banks
are those that process card payments on behalf of shops and
traders.  “We have long argued that the card scheme’s rule on cross-border acquiring were wholly contrary to single market
principles and are delighted to see them go,” said Milligan.  MasterCard in 2009 in a settlement with the Brussels-based EU regulator agreed to similar fee changes to avoid a
daily penalty of as much as 3.5 percent of sales. MasterCard is
appealing that decision at the EU courts in Luxembourg. Last
month, the EU said it is probing MasterCard’s bank fees on
foreign card payments such as when tourists go shopping in the
27-nation bloc.  Inflate Costs  Visa Europe’s so-called multilateral interchange fees
“harm competition between acquiring banks, inflate the cost of
payment card acceptance for merchants and ultimately increase
consumer prices,” the commission said today.  An earlier probe into Visa Europe’s fees for debit-card
payments made outside a user’s home country was settled in 2011.
The company split from  Visa Inc. (V)  before the U.S. card company’s
initial public offering in early 2008.  “Today’s outcome is the result of constructive dialogue
between Visa Europe and the European Commission and is  in line 
with the level of 0.3 percent established in the industry,”
Peter Ayliffe, Visa Europe’s chief executive officer, said in an
e-mailed statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Bodoni in Luxembourg at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  