-- Vivendi Shares Fall on Profit Drop as Iliad Boosts Revenue
-- B y   H e a t h e r   S m i t h
-- 2013-05-15T15:42:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-14/vivendi-quarterly-profit-slides-on-french-wireless-competition.html
Vivendi SA (VIV)  shares fell in Paris after
first-quarter profit missed analysts’ estimates as a wireless
price war started by  Iliad SA (ILD)  entered its second year.  Iliad, which introduced monthly packages for as little as 2
euros ($2.60) last year, said today first-quarter mobile revenue
tripled to 294.5 million euros ($380 million). SFR, France’s
second-largest mobile-phone company and Paris-based Vivendi’s
biggest unit, yesterday reported an 11 percent decline in
revenue, to 2.6 billion euros.  “This has been a tough quarter,” Vivendi Chief Financial
Officer Philippe Capron said during a conference call. “Really
we feel a worsening economic environment across the board in
basically all our activities, but especially in France.”  Wireless tariffs in France, still among the highest in
Europe, have accelerated a decline since Iliad became the
country’s fourth network operator. Market leader  France Telecom
SA (FTE) , which sells services under the Orange brand, last month
reported an 8.1 percent slide in first-quarter revenue.  Average monthly bills in the country fell to $36.25 during
the final quarter of 2012 from $43.37 a year earlier, according
to researcher  Informa Plc. (INF)  Still, the most recent figure
exceeded an average of $30.37 for the U.K. and Germany’s $18.67.  Vivendi  shares  dropped as much as 3 percent to 15.50 euros
before closing 1.7 percent lower in Paris. The stock has
declined 7.3 percent this year.  Waiting Mode  Earnings before interest and taxes fell 21 percent to 1.18
billion euros, the company said yesterday. That compared with
the 1.26 billion-euro average estimate among  analysts  compiled
by Bloomberg.  More than a year after Chairman Jean-Rene Fourtou promised
shareholders a “no-taboo” strategy review to reorganize its
telecommunications-to-media structure, investors are still
waiting for concrete proof of a revamp. Vivendi earlier this
year halted a planned sale of its Brazilian broadband unit GVT.
It is evaluating two bids for its 53 percent stake in Maroc
Telecom SA.  Vivendi also owns  Universal Music Group , video-game
publisher  Activision Blizzard Inc. (ATVI)  and French pay-television
company  Canal Plus .  Vivendi is fighting a lawsuit filed in February by
 Lagardere SCA (MMB) , which has a 20 percent stake in Canal Plus’s
France unit, seeking 1.6 billion euros in restitution for the
subsidiary. It’s retaliated with a slander and abusive lawsuit
claim, seeking 1.2 million euros,  Challenges  magazine said. A
Vivendi spokeswoman confirmed the report and declined to comment
further on the case. A Lagardere spokeswoman didn’t immediately
respond to an e-mail seeking comment.  ‘Hard Look’  Adjusted net income fell 19 percent to 672 million euros,
topping the 632 million-euro average estimate by  analysts . Sales
slipped 1 percent to 7.05 billion euros, trailing estimates.  At SFR, earnings before interest, taxes and amortization
slumped 42 percent to 328 million euros. Activision jumped 12
percent to 442 million euros. Canal Plus slumped 23 percent,
 Universal Music  dropped 19 percent, while earnings at Maroc
Telecom were little changed.  All Vivendi units are “taking a hard look at their
costs,” Capron said. On Activision, the board “continues to
review a variety of different options looking at ways to
optimize the balance sheet,” he said.  Maroc Telecom  Emirates Telecommunications Corp. (ETISALAT)  and QSC Qatar Telecom
last month submitted binding offers for Vivendi’s share of Maroc
Telecom. While Vivendi wants as much as 5 billion euros for the
holding in Maroc Telecom, according to one person briefed on the
matter, a more realistic target would be in the range of 4
billion euros to 4.5 billion euros, two other people with
knowledge of the sale have said. The stake has a market value of
$5.9 billion.  Earlier this year, Vivendi scrapped its planned sale of GVT
after it deemed offers from bidders that included U.S. pay-TV
operator  DirecTV (DTV)  and a private-equity consortium led by  KKR &
Co. (KKR)  to be too low. Vivendi had asked for 8 billion euros for the
asset, a person familiar with the matter has said.  “We finally decided that the best way to serve our
shareholders’ interests was to keep this asset and to continue
to grow it and develop it,” Capron said yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heather Smith in Paris at 
 hsmith26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  