-- VW Said to Favor FAW for Budget-Brand Project in China
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h   R a u w a l d
-- 2013-05-15T07:09:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-14/vw-said-to-favor-faw-for-budget-brand-project-in-china.html
Volkswagen AG (VOW) , Europe’s largest
carmaker, plans to produce cars for a planned budget brand in
 China  with joint-venture partner  FAW Car Co. (000800) , two people
familiar with the matter said.  VW aims to introduce the new low-cost marque in the world’s
largest auto market in about three years and may eventually
expand it to more than one model, said the people, who asked not
to be identified discussing the talks.  Growth in China is crucial to VW’s goal of leapfrogging
 General Motors Co. (GM)  and  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  to become the world’s
No. 1 automaker by 2018. China, VW’s top sales region, accounted
for 31 percent of the German automaker’s 9.21 million deliveries
last year. VW operates a second joint-venture with  SAIC Motor
Corp. (600104) , China’s biggest car manufacturer.  “We want to bring a true budget car to the market in China
in the foreseeable future - a particularly affordable entry-level model for 6,000 euros ($7,785) to 7,000 euros,” Chief
Executive Officer Martin Winterkorn said at the Wolfsburg,
Germany-based company’s annual meeting last month.  Eric Felber, a VW spokesman, said in a telephone interview
there’s nothing to report beyond the CEO’s April comments. Li
Pengcheng, a spokesman for the joint venture between FAW and VW,
said the organization had nothing to announce.  VW’s rising deliveries in China, where it plans to build
seven new factories, has helped the automaker cushion declining
demand in Europe. VW is working to counter the market downturn
in its home region by rolling out 60 new and updated models this
year, including fresh versions of the Golf hatchback, Audi A3
compact and the Skoda Octavia family car.  VW’s planned budget cars will compete with Chinese ventures
by other global automakers like GM’s Baojun brand as well as
local manufacturers like  Great Wall Motor Co. (601633)   Volkswagen agreed last November to extend its joint venture
with FAW beyond 2016 and expand its product range. The joint
venture started production of the Jetta model in the
northeastern Chinese city of Changchun in 1991.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christoph Rauwald in Frankfurt at 
 crauwald@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  