-- TW Telecom Seen Luring Time Warner Cable: Real M&A
-- B y   B r o o k e   S u t h e r l a n d
-- 2013-05-14T14:00:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-14/tw-telecom-seen-luring-time-warner-cable-real-m-a.html
Potential acquirers who agree with
Corvex Management LP that  TW Telecom Inc. (TWTC)  is an attractive
takeover candidate would have to pay one of the industry’s
highest valuations to get a deal done.  TW Telecom  rallied  5.8 percent to an 11-year high on May 8
after Corvex, an investment firm that bought an almost 6 percent
stake, said Level 3 Communications Inc. would be a logical
suitor for the phone and Internet services provider. D.A.
Davidson Co. said Time Warner Cable Inc. and  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA)  could
make more sense as buyers of TW Telecom, while  shareholder 
Thrivent Financial for Lutherans said the company would fill a
hole for telecommunications provider CenturyLink Inc.  TW Telecom already has the highest enterprise value
relative to free cash flow among U.S. telecom carriers valued at
more than $1 billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
An acquirer would need to offer more than a 20 percent premium
for the $4.3 billion company, Raymond James Financial Inc. said.
As cable providers hunt for new growth opportunities, gaining
access to Littleton, Colorado-based TW Telecom’s fiber network
and expertise in providing telecom services to businesses may be
worth the price, Cowen Group Inc. said.  “Logically, strategically, fundamentally, it makes sense
that at some point TW Telecom will be acquired,” Colby Synesael, a New York-based analyst at Cowen, said in a telephone
interview. “The importance of having an asset like TW Telecom
within your company is going to become increasingly important,
and, at some point, that makes the valuation argument a little
bit easier to overcome.”  Joint Venture  Created  two decades ago as a joint venture of U.S. West and
Time Warner Inc., TW Telecom went public in 1999 under the name
Time Warner Telecom Inc. The company provides data networking,
voice and other telecom services to corporate and government
customers in 75 U.S. metropolitan markets, according to TW
Telecom’s latest annual report.  TW Telecom would be an attractive acquisition target and
offers “massive value” in that context, Keith Meister, founder
and managing partner of New York-based Corvex, said last week at
a conference.  Level 3 (LVLT) , which Corvex owned a stake in as of Dec.
31, would be a good suitor for the company, Meister said.  TW Telecom “has demonstrated a long history of open dialog
with investors and looks forward to continuing to receive
ongoing investor input, including from Corvex,” the
telecommunications company said in a May 9 statement. “TW
Telecom’s board is committed to creating shareholder value and
believes that the company is well positioned to continue to do
so.”  Icahn Protege  Bob Meldrum, a spokesman for TW Telecom, said the company
doesn’t comment on speculation when asked whether it would be
open to a sale. Monica Martinez, a spokesman for Broomfield,
Colorado-based Level 3, also declined to comment.  Meister was a protege of billionaire activist investor  Carl Icahn  before leaving in 2010 to create Corvex. Ralcorp Holdings
Inc. agreed to sell itself to ConAgra Foods Inc. partly because
of increased pressure from Corvex, two people familiar with the
matter said last year.  Following Meister’s comments last week, TW Telecom shares
 jumped  5.8 percent on May 8 to $28.77, the highest closing price
since July 2001 and the biggest one-day climb since August 2011.
Today, TW Telecom rose 0.8 percent to $28.77 at 9:58 a.m. New
York time.  Meister’s view on TW Telecom is “consistent with our
investment thesis,” Sergey Dluzhevskiy, a Rye, New York-based
analyst for Gabelli & Co., said in a phone interview. “The
company could be an attractive acquisition target for either a
large telecom company or a large cable company looking to
increase its exposure” to corporate telecom services.  Cash Flow  TW Telecom’s enterprise value of $5.1 billion is 51 times
its free cash flow from the past 12 months, higher than the
multiple at the 13 peers for whom information is available,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Acquirers will probably be willing to pay up for TW Telecom
to gain access to its revenue growth, corporate clients and more
than 29,000 miles (47,000 kilometers) of fiber-optic lines, said
Dluzhevskiy of Gabelli, whose parent company Gamco Investors
Inc. oversees about $36 billion and owns TW Telecom shares.  TW Telecom sales are forecast to  reach  $1.8 billion in
2015, up 22 percent from 2012, according to the average of
analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg. That compares with
the median projected growth rate in the company’s peer group of
10 percent, the data show.  ‘Strategic Fit’  Dluzhevskiy said the company could fetch $32 a share, or 12
percent more than yesterday’s close of $28.55, in a takeover.  CenturyLink (CTL)  and Level 3 could be drawn to TW Telecom as
they seek to bolster their ability to provide direct
connectivity to end customers, said John Krause, an Appleton,
Wisconsin-based analyst at Thrivent, which oversees about $82
billion, including TW Telecom shares.  “This would be a strategic fit for a number of companies
that are looking for scale,” Krause said in a phone interview.
CenturyLink and Level 3 “would desire the growth, diversity and
the assets.”  Debra Peterson, a spokeswoman for Monroe, Louisiana-based
CenturyLink, said the company doesn’t comment on speculation.  Time Warner Cable and Comcast may be more logical acquirers
of TW Telecom because they have the financial firepower to fund
a takeover, said  Donna Jaegers , a Seattle-based analyst at D.A.
Davidson who personally owns TW Telecom shares. Time Warner
Cable of New York has a market capitalization of $29 billion and
Philadelphia-based Comcast is valued at $113 billion, compared
with $23 billion at CenturyLink and $5.1 billion for Level 3.  Corporate Clients  While a deal is more likely in about two years, the two
largest U.S. cable television providers could be drawn to TW
Telecom’s almost-nationwide network as they seek to attract more
corporate clients, Jaegers said. Time Warner Cable and Comcast
are facing increased competition from  AT&T Inc. (T)  and Verizon
Communications Inc. for television and high-speed Internet
customers.  “The cable guys have to realize that they’re going to have
more issues ramping up their own efforts in mid-size and large
business customers,” she said in a phone interview. “Customers
do want someone with a nationwide platform and a richer product
set. TW Telecom would have that appeal.”  John Demming, a spokesman for Comcast, and  Time Warner
Cable (TWC) ’s Justin Venech declined to comment on whether their
companies are interested in buying TW Telecom.  Jaegers estimated TW Telecom could fetch $35 to $40 a share
in a takeover, or as much as 40 percent more than yesterday’s
closing price.  Sticker Shock  That kind of price tag may cause some buyers to balk, even
if they find the assets attractive, according Frank Louthan, an
Atlanta-based analyst at Raymond James.  “I don’t see them as being an asset that everyone has to
have,” he said in a phone interview. “It’s nice to have and
it’s something that another telecom company could take a lot of
costs out of, but not necessarily something that they have to
have.”  Level 3, in particular, would have a difficult time pulling
off a deal of this size because its  leverage  would require the
company to pay with stock, which may not be attractive to TW
Telecom’s board, Louthan said. Level 3 has $8.5 billion in total
debt, more than its stock-market value.  While Time Warner has the financial wherewithal to do a
deal and is the “most natural buyer” of TW Telecom, the cable
company may not be motivated to seek a deal “unless it looks
like someone else is about to snatch it away.”  TW Telecom’s attractive assets and client base may make a
takeover inevitable, said Synesael of Cowen.  “It’s just a matter of time before a deal gets done,”
Synesael said. “There’s not that many national fiber-based
metro providers that remain in the marketplace today that are
independent. There is a scarcity value on that asset.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brooke Sutherland in New York at 
 bsutherland7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net  