-- Wal-Mart to Publicize Safety Inspections in Bangladesh
-- B y   R e n e e   D u d l e y
-- 2013-05-15T00:47:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-14/wal-mart-to-inspect-all-279-bangladesh-supplier-factories.html
Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  said it won’t
accept an agreement “at this time” to improve fire and
building safety in  Bangladesh  that’s supported by labor
monitoring groups and was signed by several retailers this week.  Instead, in the wake of the deadly Rana Plaza building
collapse, the world’s largest retailer announced it would make
public safety inspections at all of its suppliers’ authorized
factories in Bangladesh. Labor groups say that measure falls
short of what’s necessary to ensure worker safety.  The reviews of the 279 supplier plants will be completed
within six months, and the factory names and inspection
information will be posted on Wal-Mart’s website, the
Bentonville, Arkansas-based company said yesterday in a
statement. The company said it expects the costs of
“appropriate remediation and ongoing safety investments to be
appropriately reflected in its costs of goods purchased.”  Kevin Gardner , a company spokesman, declined to comment on
how the costs of increased monitoring efforts would affect
prices paid by consumers.  Wal-Mart and other retailers have been discussing an
agreement intended to improve labor conditions in Bangladesh
since the collapse of the Rana Plaza factory two weeks ago --
the worst industrial incident in the country’s history. The
accident killed at least 1,127 and followed a series of deadly
fires there that already had prompted activists to push Western
retailers to take more responsibility for  work conditions  in
that country.  Visual Inspections  “Preventing the kinds of tragedies that have recently
taken place in Bangladesh will only happen if all stakeholders
across the board set clear parameters and take action to drive
real safety and compliance improvements,” Rajan Kamalanathan,
Wal-Mart’s vice president of ethical sourcing, said in the
statement.  The company said it will evaluate factories’ electrical and
fire-safety systems, review their compliance with local building
standards and permits, and visually inspect buildings for signs
of structural distress. Production will cease immediately at
factories where urgent safety issues are identified, Wal-Mart
said.  Gardner declined to describe what kinds of safety
information would be publicly available, saying, “We’ll have
more to share when we launch on June 1.”  Labor activists such as Scott Nova, executive director of
the Worker Rights Consortium, a Washington-based labor-rights
monitoring group, are skeptical about how much information the
company will release.  Accountability Question  “Will they post inspection reports or just aggregated
data?” Nova said. “This is vastly different than having a
genuinely independent inspection. The bottom line is there’s no
accountability. It’s still a Wal-Mart run and controlled program
in which Wal-Mart calls every shot.”  Documents provided by the  Worker Rights Consortium  show
that merchandise bound for Wal-Mart was produced at Ether Tex
Ltd., a factory located inside Rana Plaza. One purchase order
shows that “skinny fit” women’s and girls’ jeans would be
produced for the fall 2012 season.  “Our investigation of the Rana Plaza building site after
the collapse revealed no evidence of authorized or unauthorized
production at the time of the tragedy,” Gardner said in an e-mailed statement. “If we learn of any unauthorized production,
we will take appropriate action based upon our zero-tolerance
policy on unauthorized subcontracting.”  Tazreen Fire  Clothing bound for Wal-Mart and  Sears Holdings Corp. (SHLD)  was
found in the charred ruins of Tazreen, the Bangladesh factory
that burned in November, killing 112 workers.  So far, Wal-Mart and Sears have declined to compensate the
victims of that factory fire. Other retailers and suppliers
involved there, such as  Li & Fung Ltd. (494)  and European retailer C&A
Group, have committed to payments for those victims.  Wal-Mart rose 0.4 percent to $78.78 at the close in New
York. The  shares  have gained 15 percent this year, compared with
a 16 percent increase for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  Wal-Mart’s announcement came one day before the deadline
for retailers to decide whether to accept the Bangladesh fire
safety agreement supported by labor monitoring groups and
already signed by companies including  Hennes & Mauritz AB (HMB)  and
 Inditex SA (ITX) ,  Europe ’s two largest clothing retailers.  PVH Corp. (PVH) ,
owner of the Tommy Hilfiger brand, said May 13 that it would
join the effort and pledged $2.5 million. Loblaw Cos., whose Joe
Fresh brand was produced in the collapsed factory, committed to
the safety accord in a statement this week.  Safety Accord  The accord would require companies to pay suppliers more so
factory owners could afford to make safety upgrades. It would
run for five years and be funded by the participants. The plan
calls for a review of existing building regulations and
enforcement, the development of a worker complaint process and a
mechanism for employees to report risks.  Fifty percent of Bangladesh’s garment factories don’t meet
legally required work safety standards, and those that have
improved working conditions have done so under pressure from
Western apparel makers, according to Kalpona Akter, executive
director of the Bangladesh Center for Worker Solidarity, a
nongovernmental organization founded by two former child garment
workers to promote safer factories.  Bangladesh’s labor law requires safety measures such as
fire extinguishers and easily accessible exits at factories.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Renee Dudley in  New York  at 
 rdudley6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  