-- F.A. Cup Winner Wigan Is Relegated From Soccer’s Premier League
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h   a n d   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-05-15T00:29:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-14/wigan-relegated-from-premier-league-after-4-1-loss-at-arsenal.html
Wigan Athletic became the first F.A.
Cup winner to be relegated from English soccer’s elite division
in the same season after losing 4-1 at Arsenal, which regained
control of the race for a  Champions League  place.  Last night’s defeat at the  Emirates Stadium  in  London  left
Wigan four points behind 17th-place Sunderland with one match
remaining, guaranteeing that it will join Queens Park Rangers
and Reading in dropping out of the 20-team Premier League.  Demotion to the second-tier Championship after eight
seasons in the top flight came three days after the Latics upset
 Manchester City  1-0 in the F.A. Cup final to win the first major
trophy in their 81-year history.  “I never expected this to happen,” Wigan manager  Roberto Martinez  said in a televised interview. “It is a tough day for
the football club. We have had an incredible eight years in the
Premier League. We have to take the good things and make sure we
build for the future.”  Arsenal climbed a point above Tottenham into fourth place,
the final Champions League spot, and can qualify for Europe’s
elite club competition for the 16th straight season by winning
at Newcastle in its last match.  Manchester City, which fired manager Roberto Mancini two
days ago following a trophy-less season, locked up second place
behind  Manchester United  after beating Reading 2-0 last night.
United and City had already qualified for the Champions League.  ‘All Open’  Going into the final round of games on May 19, third-place
Chelsea has 72 points, Arsenal has 70 and Tottenham has 69.
Chelsea and Tottenham host Everton and Sunderland, respectively.  “It is all open, but it depends on our result,” Arsenal
manager  Arsene Wenger  said in a news conference. “Even third
place is not out of sight if we win the game. I am confident
because we have experience. We play for a long time under
massive pressure and we have always found the solutions.”  Lukas Podolski  put Arsenal ahead last night in the 11th
minute and Shaun Maloney tied it for Wigan just before halftime.  Arsenal took control with three goals in eight minutes in
the second half. Theo Walcott made it 2-1 in the 63rd minute,
Podolski then added his second goal and  Aaron Ramsey  closed the
scoring in the 71st minute.  Wigan’s loss ended the threat of demotion for Sunderland,
 Aston Villa , Fulham and Southampton, the four teams directly
above it in the standings.  “The relegation is really disappointing but it is
something that we can rectify,” Martinez said. “We will bounce
back as we always do at Wigan Athletic. Our football style and 
philosophy is something for the long term.”  Cardiff City  and Hull City won Premier League promotion
this season by finishing first and second in the Championship.
Watford and Crystal Palace playoff for the other berth May 27.  City Wins  At the Madejski Stadium in Reading,  Sergio Aguero  got the
first goal for City five minutes before halftime and Edin Dzeko
added a second with two minutes left to play.  Assistant manager Brian Kidd took charge as City fans held
aloft banners thanking Mancini for his contribution after
guiding the club to an F.A. Cup win and first English league
title since 1968 during his 3 1/2-year tenure.  “What’s gone on in the last 24 hours, it was a shock to
the staff,” Kidd said in an interview with the club’s website.
“If you’d have said to me before the game ‘you’re going to get
three points and claim second place,’ I would have accepted that.
It would have been a travesty if we hadn’t finished second.”  City said in a statement about an hour before the match
that David Platt, another of Mancini’s assistant managers, had
declined the offer to continue working at the club.  “He has decided to leave his role with his close friend
 Roberto Mancini ,” read the statement on City’s website.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net ;
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  