-- Will Republicans Let Obama Have His Scandal?
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C a r l s o n
-- 2013-05-14T16:18:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-14/will-republicans-let-obama-have-his-scandal-.html
Republicans in Congress are so hungry
for scalps, they just can’t leave well enough alone. The scandal
engulfing the  Internal Revenue Service  is a story that’s playing
to their benefit. Yesterday, after having the weekend to think
about it, Senator Marco Rubio of  Florida  puffed himself up and
 called on  the president to “demand the IRS commissioner’s
resignation, effectively immediately.”  Only one problem: The position of IRS commissioner is
 currently vacant . (Rubio’s spokesman later clarified he was
referring to the acting commissioner.)  Chalk up his confusion to Obama Derangement Syndrome, which
afflicts Republicans as acutely as Bush Derangement Syndrome
once did Democrats. When you are in a hole, the saying goes,
stop digging. The corollary is that when you’re on top, don’t
pile on.  What happened at the IRS is significant, easily understood
by a distracted public and being taken seriously by President
 Barack Obama . What happened in Benghazi -- the other scandal
Republicans are currently obsessed with -- is none of the above. 
The differing ways the president is treating the two stories 
says a lot about the state of Washington scandals.  Not Seriously  With Benghazi, Obama takes the Republicans’ second go-round
at scandal-making personally but not seriously. He’s still
bristling over their treatment of UN Ambassador  Susan Rice , who
was said to be his first choice to replace  Hillary Clinton  as
secretary of state. After Rice became the target of criticism
last year for her Sunday-morning recital of the administration’s
talking points about the scandal, she was forced to withdraw her
name from consideration.  That’s why Obama was so sarcastic -- as close to ridicule
or anger as he generally gets -- talking about the latest
congressional hearings, saying the Republicans’ theory of the
case “defies logic.” If the president were worried, he wouldn’t
be baiting the Republicans he has been taking out to dinner for
the past two months.  The White House has also engaged in a little stonewalling,
which only raises Republican suspicions. Last week, Press
Secretary Jay Carney defended  his characterization  of the
 changes to  the talking points as “stylistic.” Hardly. Yes, the
changes reflected a tug of war between the State Department and
the Central Intelligence Agency, but everyone knows the White
House is more powerful than both and gets the final word.  Benghazi’s not nothing. People died. Yet it’s hard to turn
it into a sustainable political scandal when a prominent
Republican such as former Defense Secretary  Robert Gates  says
there wasn’t a way for the military to have saved the diplomatic
compound from an attack last September. Not to mention that
Republicans themselves have blocked the spending of more money
to increase security at dangerous posts.  So Republicans are turning their focus on the IRS. They
must know what I have learned in my polling: When I ask about
Benghazi whenever I go home to  Pennsylvania , I get no reaction.
I’m sure there will be no shortage of opinion when I mention the
IRS.  At the same time, this scandal at -- let me get this on the
record -- my favorite federal agency may not be as damaging to
the president as Republicans expect. The IRS was doing what it
should have been doing, but in a very stupid way. It will help
that the stupidity, and any Benghazi-type cover-up that took
place, happened under the IRS’s last permanent commissioner, and
that this commissioner was appointed by President  George W. Bush .  Serious Scrutiny  What the IRS was doing was, at long last, bringing scrutiny
to under-scrutinized groups that are classified under the  tax
code  as “social welfare” organizations but are basically engaged
in partisan politics. IRS investigators essentially took a
Google shortcut, asking for more information from any group with
“tea party” or “patriot” in its name. They did not have a
similar shortcut for liberal groups equally likely to have
engaged in inappropriate political activity, although surely
there were search terms they could have come up with.  Since the groups being profiled were the very ones
congressional Republicans fear most, the program quickly got
another kind of scrutiny: from congressional Republicans. The
then commissioner,  Douglas Shulman , was called before Congress
in March 2012 to answer for the program. He stonewalled. Now
Republicans are calling for a special investigation, since his
resignation is a little beside the point.  There really isn’t much of an argument to be had about what
happened at the IRS -- the president himself  twice called it 
“outrageous” at yesterday’s press conference. The question is
how the president and congressional Republicans will manage the
fallout.  For Obama, the risk is that the scandal undermines one of
the central goals of his administration, which is to rebuild
faith in the federal government. Sure, no one likes the IRS,
present company excluded. But the IRS is the one federal agency
that touches every U.S. household. If the president wants
Americans to be able to trust their government more, and he
does, then he needs the IRS to be beyond reproach.  Republicans have an easier task: ginning up outrage over
the IRS. They just have to be careful not to make too many calls
for the resignation of officials who don’t exist.  ( Margaret Carlson  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The
opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Margaret Carlson at   mcarlson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
 Michael Newman  at   mnewman43@bloomberg.net  