-- WTI Crude Near Two-Week Low; Europe Probes Oil Pricing
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2013-05-15T12:58:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-14/wti-crude-trades-near-two-week-low-as-u-s-stockpiles-increase.html
West Texas Intermediate crude fell
for a fifth day in its longest run of declines since December.
Antitrust regulators are questioning European  oil companies 
about possible manipulation of prices.  Futures dropped below $93 a barrel in  New York  for the
first time since May 2. Crude inventories gained 1.1 million
barrels last week, the industry-funded  American Petroleum
Institute  said yesterday. A government report today may show
stockpiles climbed 450,000 barrels, according to a Bloomberg
survey. Royal Dutch Shell Plc, BP Plc, Statoil ASA and Platts
said they’re being investigated after the European Commission
conducted raids on their offices in three countries.  “The world will remain well-supplied,” said  Andrey Kryuchenkov , an analyst at VTB Capital in  London . “Higher
prices lately have triggered a boost to capacity that will
continue to outpace slack post-crisis demand growth.”  WTI for June delivery fell as much as $1.29, or 1.4
percent, to $92.92 a barrel and was at $93.49 in electronic
trading on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  at 1:38 p.m. London
time. The volume of all contracts traded was 44 percent above
the 100-day average. Prices decreased 96 cents to $94.21
yesterday, the biggest decline since May 1 and the lowest close
since May 2.  Brent for June settlement fell 37 cents to $102.23 a barrel
on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. The volume of
contracts traded was 26 percent higher than the 100-day average.
The front-month European benchmark was at a premium of $8.77 to
WTI, from $8.39 yesterday. It closed at $7.65 on May 13, the
narrowest gap since January 2011.  Price Probe  Oil fell as the  euro-area economy  contracted more in the
first quarter than economists forecast, extending a recession
and adding pressure on the currency bloc’s leaders to relax
their budget rigor and do more to spur growth.  Gross domestic product for the 17 nations using the euro
shrank by a combined 0.2 percent after declining 0.6 percent in
the previous three months, the European Union’s statistics
office in Luxembourg said today. The median of 39 estimates in a
Bloomberg News survey predicted 0.1 percent shrinkage. The
economy contracted 1 percent from a year earlier.  The European Commission has concerns that companies “may
have colluded in reporting distorted prices to a price-reporting
agency to manipulate the published prices for a number of oil
and biofuel products,” it said in a statement yesterday.  Platts Benchmark  Shell is “fully cooperating” with the investigation into
trading activities, the company said in a statement. Statoil
said the suspected violations relate to prices on Platts, which
publishes benchmarks used in the oil industry and is owned by
McGraw Hill Financial Inc.  Price assessments could be vulnerable to manipulation
because traders participate voluntarily, meaning they may
selectively submit only trades that benefit their positions, the
International Organization of Security Commissions said in an
October report.  U.S. gasoline stockpiles fell 480,000 barrels last week,
the API said. An Energy Information Administration report today
may show they declined  1.1 million barrels , according to the
median estimate of 12 analysts in the Bloomberg survey.
Distillate inventories, a category that includes heating oil and
diesel, rose 1.9 million barrels, compared with a projected gain
of 475,000 barrels in the survey.  The API collects stockpile information on a voluntary basis
from operators of refineries, bulk terminals and pipelines. The
government requires that reports be filed with the EIA, the U.S.
Energy Department’s statistical arm, for its weekly survey.  “Inventories are high,” said  Jonathan Barratt , chief
executive officer of Barratt’s Bulletin, a commodity newsletter
in Sydney. “Given that there are no geopolitical issues at the
moment, oil should drop,” he said, predicting that West Texas
has buying support at $92.50 a barrel.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  