-- ZTE Says High-End Phones to Boost Margins as China Users Upgrade
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-05-14T08:45:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-14/zte-says-high-end-phones-to-boost-margins-as-china-users-upgrade.html
ZTE Corp. (763) ,  China ’s second-largest
maker of phone equipment, said new high-end smartphones will
help widen margins after the company posted losses in two of the
last three quarters.  “We expect healthy operations for ZTE for the whole
year,” George Sun, vice president of corporate strategy at the
Shenzhen-based company, said in a telephone interview today.  ZTE is poised to benefit as investment by China’s three
carriers in network expansion and handset subsidies spur
smartphone use in the world’s largest mobile-phone market. China
has 1.15 billion wireless users, with about one quarter
switching to high-speed networks at the end of March, leaving
more than 860 million users who could upgrade to smartphones.  “There will be a large number of 2G subscribers migrating
to 3G networks this year, or to the 4G network that will launch
this year,” Ricky Lai, a Hong Kong-based analyst with Guotai
Junan International Holdings Ltd., said by phone today. “The
three telco operators are increasing handset subsidies to boost
their subscriber growth.”  ZTE’s Hong Kong-traded shares fell 4 percent to close at
HK$13.38. The stock has gained 2.5 percent this year,  compared 
with the benchmark Hang Seng Index’s 1.2 percent advance.  ‘On Track’  In January, ZTE said it plans to boost smartphone shipments
50 percent this year with a focus on high-end phones that run on
fourth-generation, Long-Term Evolution, networks. ZTE’s
smartphone shipments more than doubled to 35 million units last
year, from 15.8 million units in 2011.  ZTE is “on track” to achieve that shipment target and the
market response to new flagship devices like the Grand S quad-core smartphone is “pretty positive,” Sun said.  “This year we can expect some growth at the high-end,”
Sun said. “Our margin has come mainly from the mid-end. Now the
high-end is making more contribution. The low-end contributes
very little margin. The low-end contributes a lot of volume and
revenue but doesn’t contribute a lot of margin.”  Sun didn’t provide any detailed figures on margins for the
company’s smartphones.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  