-- 
‘Apes’ Is Top Movie for Second Weekend With $27.8 Million in Ticket Sales

-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e   a n d   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 
2011-08-15T21:44:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-14/-apes-remains-top-film-for-second-weekend-with-27-5-million.html
“Rise of the Planet of the Apes,”
the prequel to the 1968 classic, remained the top movie in U.S.
and Canadian theaters for a second weekend, with $27.8 million
in ticket sales for News Corp.’s Twentieth Century Fox.  “The Help,” the civil rights-era drama from  Walt Disney
Co. (DIS)  and  Steven Spielberg ’s DreamWorks Studios SKG, was second
with $26 million, researcher  Hollywood.com Box-Office  said today
in an e-mailed statement “Final Destination 5” opened third
with sales of $18 million.  “Rise of the Planets of the Apes” outdrew four new movies
opening this past weekend. The picture revives the franchise
that began with the original film based on the Pierre Boulle
novel about a world where the roles of apes and humans are
reversed. Six previous movies derived from Boulle’s concept have
generated $691.3 million in domestic ticket sales, according to
 Box Office Mojo , another industry tracker.  “It’s a solid second weekend for ‘Rise of the Planet of
the Apes,’” said  Brandon Gray , president of Box Office Mojo.
“It couldn’t realistically have expected much more, based on
where it was at last weekend.” The film had $54.8 million in
receipts then.  “Rise of the Planet of the Apes,” featuring  James Franco ,
is the first picture from Chernin Entertainment, led by former
 News Corp. (NWSA)  President and Chief Operating Officer  Peter Chernin .
Chernin, 60, resigned from News Corp. in 2009 to open the movie
and TV production company. The film has taken in $105.2 million
in the U.S. and  Canada  since it opened Aug. 5.  ‘The Help’  In the movie, a chimp used in drug tests is endowed with
high intelligence. He leads a rebellion against harsh treatment
in the lab, setting the stage for the role reversal of humans
and apes explored in the original picture. Franco plays a
sympathetic scientist who treats the young chimp with kindness.  Tom Felton , who played Draco Malfoy in the “Harry Potter”
films, co-stars as one of the chimp’s antagonists. The cast also
includes  Freida Pinto  and John Lithgow. The effects-heavy movie
cost about $90 million to make, according to the  Internet Movie
Database . The website  Boxoffice.com  had forecast $26 million in
sales for the movie’s second weekend.  “The Help” stars  Emma Stone  as an aspiring journalist who
writes about the experiences of black maids in racially
segregated  Mississippi . Set in the early 1960s, the film
explores relations between middle-class white women and the
blacks who work in their homes.  ‘Final Destination 5’  Octavia Spencer and Viola Davis co-star as the black women
who cope with mixed emotions caring for their employers’ white
children while enduring thoughtless insults from the mothers.
The film has taken in $35.9 million since opening on Aug. 10.  In “Final Destination 5,” from  Time Warner Inc. (TWX) ’s  Warner
Bros ., a group of humans escape a bridge collapse only to be
pursued by death. The first four films in the horror series took
in $507.2 million in worldwide ticket sales, according to Box
Office Mojo.  “‘Final Destination 5’ had a disappointing debut,” Gray
said, adding this was the first time a “Final Destination”
sequel had a lower opening than its predecessor. The movie
“simply promised more of the same without any new twists.”  Sony Corp. (6758) ’s “The Smurfs” dropped to fourth place from
second, with revenue of $13.7 million. Combining live action and
computer effects, “The Smurfs” stars Neil Patrick Harris as a
 New Yorker  who helps the tiny, blue creatures after they are
forced from their village by an evil wizard.  ‘Glee’  “30 Minutes or Less,” also by Sony, opened in fifth place
with $13.3 million in sales. The film features “The Social
Network” star  Jesse Eisenberg  as a pizza-delivery man who is
ordered by criminals to rob a bank. They strap a bomb to his
torso to make sure he carries out the plot. Aziz Ansari co-stars
as a friend who is recruited to help out.  “Glee: The 3-D Concert Movie,” a musical drama based on
the Fox television series, was the fourth debut this past
weekend. It opened in 11th place with $6 million in receipts.
The ranking is due in part to moviegoers judging the film to be
little different from the television show, Gray said.  “It falls under the adage, ‘Why pay for something that’s
free on TV?” Gray said. “On top of that, you’re not getting
anything really new or essential to the show if you’re a fan.”  Weekend revenue for the top 12 films rose 8.2 percent to
$143 million from a year earlier, Hollywood.com said. Domestic
box-office sales this year have declined 4.2 percent to $6.93
billion, while attendance is down 5.1 percent.  The amounts below are based on actual ticket sales for Aug.
12 through yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael White in  Los Angeles  at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net ;
Donal Griffin in New York at 
 Dgriffin10@bloomberg.net  