-- 
Hong Kong Apartment Sellers Cut Asking Prices as 70% Property Surge Ends

-- B y   K e l v i n   W o n g   a n d   V i n c e n t   J i a n g
-- 
2011-08-15T09:24:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-14/h-k-apartment-sellers-cut-asking-prices-as-surge-ends.html
Derek Ma and his family in May sold
two of their eight properties in  Hong Kong , doubling their money
in four years. They’re struggling to sell the other six.  “We have been trying to offload more, but many sellers are
now cutting prices,” said Ma, 36, whose portfolio includes
units mainly in the upscale Mid-levels and Island South
districts. “There’s definitely a softening in prices.”  Hong Kong home values, which surged 70 percent in the past
two-and-a-half years and outperformed stocks, are set for their
biggest decline since Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. collapsed in
September 2008 as land supply increases and global growth slows.
 Midland Holdings Ltd. (1200)  and Centaline Property Agency Ltd., the
Chinese city’s two biggest real estate agents, said home prices
are being reduced by as much as 10 percent.  “We should see at least a 5 percent further correction in
the second half if the crisis in the U.S. and  Europe  deepens,”
said Sylvia Wong, a Hong Kong-based analyst at UOB Kay Hian Ltd.
“If there’s enough panic in the market, we expect to see more
price cuts.”  Hong Kong’s benchmark  Hang Seng Index (HSI)  has dropped more than
20 percent from a November high after  Standard & Poor’s 
downgraded the U.S.’s sovereign-debt rating for the first time
Aug. 5. The Hang Seng Property Index, a measure of Hong Kong’s
seven-biggest developers, is down 24 percent in the same period.
The index rose 2.1 percent at the local time close of trading.  Falling Transactions  Home transactions fell to a 30-month low in July, while a
land auction last week missed surveyors’ forecasts. The HK$5.5
billion ($704 million) paid by a group including Sino Land Co.
and  Kerry Properties Ltd. (683)  was 33 percent below the median
HK$8.25 billion and was the first and only bid.  “The government land sale policy has changed,” said
 Andrew Lawrence , a Hong Kong-based analyst at Barclays Capital
Plc who is predicting prices to fall as much as 30 percent by
2013. The result of the auction “implies a significant policy
shift from maximizing  tax revenue  to a commitment to increasing
housing supply.”  The site auctioned was the 15th put on the market by the
 government , which has pledged this fiscal year that began April
1 to provide more land for units to counter rising home values.
It sold 17 sites the previous financial year.  Home transactions fell for a seventh straight month in July
to the lowest since February 2009, according to Land Registry
figures. An index tracking home prices compiled by Centaline,
the city’s biggest closely held realtor, fell in June and July,
the first consecutive monthly drop since December 2008.  More Discounts  Hong Kong property buyers expect “another leg down” for
prices as transaction volumes hover near record-low levels and
deposit forfeits increase for the first time this year, Samsung
Securities Co. said in a report today.  “We expect it will be increasingly difficult for
developers to sell properties and see further downside to
developer stock prices,” Wee Liat Lee and  Patrick Wong ,
analysts at Samsung Securities, wrote in the report.
“Expectations of a top-out in property prices have increased.”  Hong Kong’s economy is sinking into a recession that is
likely to last for a year, Daiwa Capital Markets economist Kevin
Lai said today. Gross domestic product fell 0.5 percent in the
second quarter from the previous three months, seasonally
adjusted, the government said Aug. 12.  In Tai Koo Shing, the biggest middle-class housing project
by unit numbers on  Hong Kong Island , prices have been cut by an
average 10 percent since they peaked in May, according to Ken Ng,
a manager at the district branch of Midland.  “We are expecting sellers to offer further slight
discounts to lure buyers” following last week’s stock market
decline, said Ng, adding that deal volume in the area has
dropped more than 80 percent in July compared with January.  Crash of 1997  Li Ka-shing , Hong Kong’s richest man according to Forbes
Magazine, on Aug. 4 reiterated comments made in May that if
buyers need to borrow too much, they shouldn’t buy properties.  Li, who controls Cheung Kong (Holdings) Ltd., the city’s
second-biggest builder by value, warned property speculators and
signaled his concerns that the surge in Hong Kong  home prices 
may not be sustainable.  Hong Kong’s last major home price crash started in October
1997 and lasted six years. Prices fell almost 50 percent in one
year from that month after former Chief Executive Tung Chee-hwa
announced plans to add as many as 85,000 housing units in
response to a doubling of real estate prices over the previous
two years, and as the Asian financial crisis dampened confidence.  The decline was exacerbated as the Hong Kong dollar’s peg
to the  U.S. dollar  meant the city’s central bank was forced to
keep interest rates high to defend its currency as speculators
buffeted Asian currencies during the region’s 1997-98 crisis.  Tung’s Overhang  The real estate market extended its decline during the
bursting of the dot-com bubble, the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks
in the U.S. and the 2003 Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome
epidemic.  Home prices began to recover in August 2003, fueled by
record low  interest rates , an influx of buyers from other parts
of  China  and a lack of new supply.  The government, the city’s biggest owner of unoccupied land,
in 2002 introduced the so-called land application system, by
which land auctions are held only when a developer promises to
pay a minimum price from a list of sites published annually by
the government. It partially resumed regular land sale this year.  “A price correction is now becoming increasingly
politically acceptable,” said Barclays’ Lawrence. “Because of
the overhang experience of Tung Chee-hwa, the government had
always been trying to slow the rate of price increases rather
than cause a price correction. That policy is shifting.”  China Buyers  Tung resigned in 2005 and was replaced by  Donald Tsang , who
has been facing a public outcry over the past two years as
efforts to stem surging  house prices  have had little effect.  The government in June increased down-payment requirements
for some home purchases and foreign buyers, the fourth set of
restrictions imposed since October 2009.  Prices rose about 140 percent from the end of 2003 to the
end of 2010, according to Centaline. Average household incomes
increased 20 percent in the same period, according to the city’s
statistics department.  Part of that growth has been attributed to buyers from
other parts of China, which Centaline estimates accounted for
about a third of new luxury property purchases in Hong Kong in
the first half.  In a bid to quell inflation, the People’s Bank of China
raised interest rates five times and the reserve-requirement
ratio 12 times since the start of 2010. Some cities have imposed
property taxes and down payments have been increased.  Rising Mortgages  “China periodically undergoes cooling and that is likely
to have some knock-on effect on their demand in Hong Kong’s
residential market,” said  Simon Smith , Hong Kong-based head of
Asia research at Savills Plc. “I don’t expect it to be long-
lasting and I think previous growth would resume after six to
eight months.”  Banks, including HSBC Holdings Plc, the city’s biggest bank
by number of customers, have accelerated mortgage rate increases
since March to counter tighter liquidity.  The U.S. Federal Reserve on Aug. 9 pledged to keep interest
rates near zero through at least mid-2013 and signaled it’s
ready to use additional tools to stimulate the economy.  “With the  U.S. economy  in its current condition, the good
news is  mortgage rates  in Hong Kong won’t go too far up,” said
Wong Leung-sing, an associate director of research at Centaline.
“The downside is that a bad U.S. economy will also drag down
sentiment everywhere and that’s something no government policy
can reverse.”  Ma remains optimistic about the long-term outlook for Hong
Kong prices and for now he said he is happy to hold on to his
six apartments.  “From what I see, there’re already sellers who’re willing
to cut prices by more than 10 percent,” said Ma. “But everyone
looks at the market differently. My view is that the correction
is only short-term.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kelvin Wong in Hong Kong at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  