-- 
Manchester United Opens Title Defense With Win; Chelsea Ties 0-0 at Stoke

-- B y   J a m e s   C o n e
-- 
2011-08-14T23:00:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-14/manchester-united-opens-title-defense-with-win-chelsea-ties-0-0-at-stoke.html
Manchester United  took an early
advantage over Chelsea in the Premier League by opening its
title defense with a 2-1 win at West Bromwich Albion as the
Blues were held 0-0 at Stoke City.  United sealed the victory after 81 minutes yesterday when
West Brom defender Steven Reid turned Ashley Young’s cross into
his own goal at the Hawthorns. United, Bolton and Wolverhampton
Wanderers were the only teams to win their opening matches, all
three starting with an away victory.  “We’ve got that never-say-die attitude, we work to the
final whistle and we got our rewards in the end,” Young told
 Sky Sports . “We had to grind it out and that’s what we did.”  United’s victory came at a cost, with center-backs  Rio Ferdinand  and Nemanja Vidic picking up injuries. Full-back
Rafael da Silva was already facing about 10 weeks out after
dislocating his shoulder in training three days ago.  Wayne Rooney  had given United a 13th-minute lead, with
Shane Long scoring on his debut for West Brom after 37 minutes.  Tottenham’s game against Everton was postponed because of
last week’s rioting in London. Manchester City hosts Swansea
City today.  Andre Villas-Boas, Chelsea’s new coach, said he would take
positives from the performance at the Britannia Stadium even
though he was disappointed not to start his tenure with a win.  “I couldn’t be pleased with a point but it is one of the
most difficult grounds to play away from home,” Villas-Boas
told reporters. “It is not the greatest start of course but we
are happy we raised our game in the second half.”  Early Chances  At West Brom, the visiting team had early chances, with a
free kick from Young forcing a save by ex-United goalkeeper  Ben Foster , who also had to punch clear after Anderson lifted a ball
into the penalty area. At the other end, a Jonas Olsson free
kick was cleared by Rooney.  It was Rooney who scored the opener, exchanging passes with
Young before making room to shoot and hitting a low effort into
the far corner of the net.  David de Gea, signed by United following the retirement of
goalkeeper Edwin van der Sar, stuck out a hand to push Paul Scharner’s shot wide after 35 minutes to protect the lead.  Two minutes later, de Gea failed to deal with a low effort
from Long that went under his body. The Spaniard was criticized
after United’s Community Shield win against  Manchester City  last
week for failing to save a long-range shot from Edin Dzeko.  United lost Ferdinand and Vidic to second-half injuries,
though kept West Brom out and managed to snatch the win.  Torrid Time  Ferdinand will be out for six weeks with a hamstring
injury, manager  Alex Ferguson  said after the game, adding that
Vidic may miss a “couple of weeks.” Rafael had already been
ruled out of the first 10 weeks of the season following his
training-ground injury.  “We’ve had a torrid two or three days,” Ferguson told Sky
Sports. “But with Chris Smalling, Jonny Evans and  Phil Jones 
here, it’s a godsend to be honest. I’ve got options.”  The winning goal came after Young collected the ball on the
left, cut inside and attempted a cross that deflected off two
West Brom players. The final touch came off Reid.  At Stoke, the 33-year-old Villas-Boas, who received a
three-year contract in June to replace  Carlo Ancelotti , watched
his team face sustained pressure in the first half.  Chelsea, second in the league last season, then looked most
likely to score after half time. Substitute  Nicolas Anelka  came
closest for the Blues, with his shot tipped onto the bar by
Stoke goalkeeper Asmir Begovic late on.  “We played in their half in the second half,” Villas-Boas
said. “The game was more in our control but unfortunately we
couldn’t find the back of the net.”  Two days ago, Arsenal was held to a 0-0 tie at Newcastle,
Liverpool drew 1-1 at home to Sunderland, Bolton defeated Queens
Park Rangers 4-0, and Wolves beat Blackburn 2-1. There were no
goals in the Fulham-Aston Villa match, while Wigan and Norwich
tied 1-1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Cone  in  London  at 
 jcone@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 