-- 
Fabregas Joins European Champion Barcelona From Arsenal on Five-Year Deal

-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 
2011-08-15T13:10:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-14/arsenal-agrees-to-terms-with-barcelona-over-transfer-of-cesc-fabregas.html
Cesc Fabregas returned to his
hometown club  Barcelona  from Arsenal today by signing a five-
year contract after passing a medical exam.  European champion Barcelona introduced the 24-year-old at a
news conference at its Camp Nou stadium after agreeing on terms
with Arsenal last night. The transfer fee is 29 million euros
($42 million), plus 5 million depending on team results, and an
additional 5 million paid to Arsenal by the player, Sky
reported, citing Barcelona. His buyout clause is 200 million
euros.  “For me it’s a special day. I’m returning home,”
midfielder Fabregas, wearing a No. 4 Barca shirt, told
reporters. “I know Arsenal fans will be disappointed, but I’m
here to face an incredible challenge, the challenge of my
life.”  Fabregas joined Arsenal from Barcelona as a 16-year-old and
has been linked with a move back to Spain the past two off-
seasons. The Gunners had already rejected one offer from the
Catalan club this year and turned down two bids in 2010.  Fabregas praised Arsenal manager  Arsene Wenger .  “I will never have enough words to thank him for
everything he’s done for me, I’ll never forget him,” he said.
“I don’t think he has such a good image here, he has been
portrayed as something he’s not, in my opinion. I can’t express
my admiration for him strongly enough, I owe it to him that I am
here.”  ‘World Class’  Wenger told reporters in  England  that his team had lost a
“world-class player” and wished him good luck.  “We are sad about it, we did fight to keep him, but you
have to respect the desire of the player,” Wenger said. “This
club is 125 years old this season and many big players have left
the club and the club went on. We want to show that we have the
strengths and unity to fight as we ever did at this club.”  Though Fabregas had repeatedly said he was happy at Arsenal
and never publicly asked for a move back to his homeland, he was
part of just one trophy-winning team, in 2005 when the Gunners
beat  Manchester United  on penalties in the F.A. Cup final. The
London club won the last of its 13 English league titles in
2004.  After Fabregas helped Spain win last year’s  World Cup ,
Barcelona players repeatedly made media comments saying he
wanted to return to the club. Several national team colleagues
placed a Barcelona shirt over him during World Cup celebrations.  ‘One of Us’  “Cesc is one of us and I’m happy that he’s coming back
home,” Barcelona President  Sandro Rosell  told his club’s
website. “His arrival makes the group stronger. We have paid
what we wanted to pay. No more no less.”  Fabregas scored 57 goals in 303 games for Arsenal and was
appointed club captain in 2008. He was plagued by hamstring
problems last season and scored nine goals in 36 appearances as
the Gunners finished fourth in the Premier League.  Fabregas, who has played in 58 games for  Spain , became
Arsenal’s youngest first-team player in 2003 when he made his
debut aged 16 years and 177 days. He also became the club’s
youngest goalscorer when he netted against Wolves in a 5-1 win
later that year.  He wasn’t part of Arsenal’s squad for its Premier League
opener against Newcastle two days ago after missing the club’s
pre-season program because of a hamstring injury. The Gunners
are scheduled to host  Italy ’s Udinese tomorrow in the opening
game of their two-match  Champions League  playoff.  Champions League  Arsenal had said Fabregas’s transfer was subject to the
completion of formal legal agreements and registration
processes, together with the player agreeing to personal terms
and passing his medical.  Barcelona already has strengthened in the off-season by
buying  Chile  forward  Alexis Sanchez  from Udinese for as much as
37.5 million euros.  Sanchez played all 90 minutes last night as Barcelona drew
2-2 with archrival Real Madrid in their Spanish Super Cup
opener. Barca coach Pep Guardiola -- who’s led his team to two
Champions League titles and three straight Spanish league crowns
-- said he wasn’t sure if Fabregas will feature in the return
game in two days.  “I’m ready for everything, it’s not my decision if I play
or not, I’m going to enjoy it,” Fabregas said. “I’m going to
work very hard so that Guardiola can rely on me. If I can add
only a little to make this team stronger it would be a dream.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  