-- 
Australia’s Economy Can ‘Ride Out’ Global Markets Turbulence, Swan Says

-- B y   S a r a h   M c D o n a l d
-- 
2011-08-14T14:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-14/australia-s-economy-can-ride-out-global-markets-turbulence-swan-says.html
Australia ’s economy can “ride out”
the turbulence in global markets because of its strong outlook
and the continued growth of China, the country’s biggest trading
partner, Treasurer  Wayne Swan  said.  “Australia has very low public debt, low unemployment, a
massive pipeline of investment and we expect to bring the budget
back to surplus next financial year,” Swan said in an e-mailed
statement yesterday. While Australia isn’t immune to what
happens in the rest of the world, “the prospects for our region
remain much stronger” than for Europe and the U.S., he said.  The global economic outlook will remain uncertain for some
time as the U.S. and Europe seek to reduce debt and make their
fiscal budgets more sustainable, Swan said. There’s good reason
to be “optimistic” about continued expansion in  China  as
incomes improve, he added.  About $6.8 trillion was wiped off the value of global
equity markets from July 26 through Aug. 11 as Europe’s debt
crisis deepened and investors speculated the  U.S. economy , the
world’s biggest, may contract. U.S. stocks fell for a third
straight week, including the biggest one-day drop since 2008,
after  Standard & Poor’s  reduced the nation’s credit rating to
AA+ from AAA on Aug. 5.  The Australian dollar dropped 0.8 percent to $1.0355 in the
five days to Aug. 12, after reaching a record $1.1081 on July 27.
The Australian 10-year bond yield fell to 4.43 percent, the
lowest daily closing level since April 2009, sliding four basis
points since Aug. 5 in a third week of declines.  The turmoil will make it more difficult for the government
to achieve its target of returning its budget to surplus in the
2012/13 financial year, Swan said.  New Zealand   New Zealand’s budget is still expected to return to surplus
by 2015 as economic growth is spurred by demand for commodities
from China’s swelling middle class and rebuilding the city of
Christchurch after the nation’s deadliest earthquake in 80 years,
Prime Minister John Key said yesterday.  “Obviously if there’s a strong  United States  and a strong
Europe, that helps New Zealand, and if there’s not, that can
have some impact,” Key said in an interview broadcast on
 Television New Zealand . “But there are a number of different
factors going on.”  New Zealand’s economy is recovering after growth of 1.1
percent last year amid a lull in consumer and business spending.
A magnitude-7 quake near Christchurch, the nation’s second-
largest city, on Sept. 4 disrupted spending before a temblor on
Feb. 22 killed more than 180 people and shut the central
business district.  The Treasury estimates the combined cost of the earthquakes
will be about NZ$15 billion ($12.5 billion).  2008 Crisis  New Zealand’s gross domestic product shrank for five
straight quarters from the start of 2008 amid the global credit
freeze. Australia avoided recession in the wake of the collapse
of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in 2008, with just one quarter
of contraction.  Australia will benefit as expansion in Asian economies
spurs demand for commodities as well as tourism, education and
luxury goods, Swan said.  “The tyranny of distance is really a thing of the past for
Australia,” Swan said. “With the shift in global economic
weight from West to East, we’re finally located in the right
part of the world at the right time.”  Europe  and the U.S. are both facing a “sustained period of
sluggish growth,” he said.  China’s gross domestic product will increase 9.3 percent in
2011, according to the median forecast of 10 economists surveyed
by Bloomberg. That compares to predictions of 1.8 percent growth
in the U.S. and 2 percent in Europe.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McDonald in Sydney at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  