-- 
Bachmann Says Iowa Win Sends Obama ‘Loud and Clear’ Message

-- B y   B r e n d a n   M c G a r r y
-- 
2011-08-14T18:32:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-14/bachmann-says-iowa-win-sends-obama-loud-and-clear-message.html
Republican presidential candidate
and Minnesota congresswoman  Michele Bachmann  said her win in the
 Iowa  Straw Poll yesterday is a sign of voter discontent with
President  Barack Obama  and his handling of the economy.  “People in Iowa sent a message loud and clear to President
Obama,” Bachmann said today on CNN’s “State of the Union”
program. “They said, ‘We are done with your policies. We want
something very different.’”  “People want job creation,” she said on CNN. “They want
the economy to turn around and work.”  Bachmann, 55, a third-term Republican in the House, made
appearances on five Sunday morning television talk shows after
winning the Ames, Iowa, straw poll contest with 29 percent of
about 17,000 votes, edging out Texas Congressman  Ron Paul , with
28 percent, and placing well ahead of former Minnesota Governor
 Tim Pawlenty , with 14 percent.  Pawlenty, who had campaigned in Iowa since 2009, announced
an end to his bid for the White House on ABC’s “This Week”
program. Bachmann said he was a good competitor and didn’t say
whether she would seek his endorsement.  “He brought a very important voice to the race,” Bachmann
said on NBC’s “Meet the Press” program. “I’m grateful that he
was in.”  Bachmann, who was born in Iowa, said her victory there
marks a “tremendous accomplishment” since launching her bid
less than two months ago to seek the  Republican Party ’s
presidential nomination in 2012.  “We see this as just a very first step in a very long
race,” she said on NBC. “There’s a lot of work to be done.”  Lifetime of Experience  Bachmann said she has a “lifetime of experience” that has
prepared her for the presidential run, citing her work as a
federal tax attorney and starting a business -- a mental health
care practice -- with her husband, Marcus.  “I know up close and personal how devastating high taxes
are on businesses and families and farmers,” she said on NBC.  In her television appearances, Bachmann said she opposed
new spending, including extending  unemployment benefits .  “The economy will go into likely a double-dip recession if
we increase taxes, versus getting our spending under control,”
she said on CNN.  Bachmann, who voted against raising the federal debt
ceiling of $14.3 trillion, said on CBS’s “Face the Nation” the
market turmoil last week and Standard & Poor’s Aug. 5 downgrade
of U.S. long-term debt was a “punch to the gut.”  “The markets are roiling right now because people see that
this president is flailing without a plan,” she said on NBC.  Tax Code  Overhaul  Bachmann vowed as president to overhaul the tax code and to
repeal the health care reform law and Dodd-Frank financial
regulation law, which she said were “job-killers.” She said
she supports lowering the corporate tax rate of 34 percent “to
something that is more competitive” and reducing Medicare and
Social Security benefits for future recipients.  “We will reform the entitlement programs now, not five
years from now, not 26 years from now, now,” Bachmann said on
Bloomberg Television’s “Political Capital with  Al Hunt .”  She said on ABC that Medicare and Medicaid can be made more
efficient. “Why should we continue to run these programs the
way we did 45 years ago?” she said.  Modernizing Social Security  She also said social security can be modernized. “Why
would we continue to run it in the same way we did 80 years
ago?” she said.  Bachmann said on “Fox News Sunday” that one of ways she’d
move to reassure the markets if elected is to “work tirelessly
to make sure” the Senate becomes controlled by Republicans and
get to a filibuster-proof majority that will roll back spending.  Bachmann faces a new threat from Texas Governor  Rick Perry ,
who announced his bid for the GOP presidential nomination
yesterday in  South Carolina . When asked on Fox why voters should
favor her over Perry, she said, “I’ve demonstrated that I have
been a fighter in Washington.”  “I get  job creation ,” she said. “I have a proven
record.”  Bachmann said Perry’s entry won’t immediately force a
change in her strategy.  “He has his own message, I have mine,” she said on ABC.
“Our main strategy is to win.” Focusing on defeating President
Obama “is my strategy,” she said.  Bachmann also on ABC brushed aside a suggestion that her
credentials lack depth because she hasn’t served as a governor.
Having served as a governor “isn’t the No. 1 requirement,” she
said. “It’s really who is the person? What’s their character?
Who are they? What have they done?”  Former Democratic President  Jimmy Carter  was also a
governor but “I don’t think anyone would argue that America
prospered and flourished under” his presidency, Bachmann said.
During Carter’s presidency consumer prices rose by 11.3 percent
in 1979 and 13.5 percent in 1980.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brendan McGarry in  Washington  
 bmcgarry2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 