-- 
Bachmann ‘Real Deal’ Isn’t Reagan-Style Compromise: Albert Hunt

-- B y   A l b e r t   R .   H u n t
-- 
2011-08-14T15:01:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-14/bachmann-real-deal-isn-t-reagan-compromise-commentary-albert-r-hunt.html
The questions about  Michele Bachmann 
abound: Is she merely a pale copy of Sarah Palin? Is she smart?
Are her views extreme?  The answers are easy: No, yes and yes.  The 55-year-old Republican congresswoman from Minnesota,
who is seeking to become the first sitting member of the House
to win a major party’s presidential nomination since James Garfield in 1880, is the flavor du jour of national politics,
dominating magazine covers, punditry talk shows and the chatter
of the political class.  Michele-mania in conservative Republican ranks only will
soar with her victory in the Iowa Straw Poll this weekend.
Whether this really is a good guide to the outcome of the race -
- it has a mixed record -- she instantly is the favorite in the
Iowa Caucuses, which kick off the presidential contest early
next year.  Usually, politicians embrace important movements. Bachmann
was part of the culturally conservative religious movement
before she became a politician. She declared herself a born-
again Christian at 16, attended Oral Roberts Law School, an
evangelical institution, and was an activist against abortion
and gay rights before her first run for political office in 2000.
Her ability to rouse socially conservative crowds springs from
her instincts and convictions, not calculation.  ‘Nothing Phony’  “She’s the real deal, there’s nothing phony about her,”
says former  Minnesota  Representative Tim Penny, a Democrat
turned independent. “She’s smarter than most people give her
credit for.”  She is reasonably well-versed, or at least commands the
bullet points, and is quick on her feet. It’s tough to imagine
Bachmann getting tripped up when asked what she reads or what
Supreme Court decisions she dislikes, as Palin, a former Alaska
governor, did in an interview with  Katie Couric  of CBS in 2008.  “Michele Bachmann is a much better candidate than Sarah
Palin,” says  David Axelrod , President  Barack Obama ’s top
strategist and a close observer of the Republican contest.  Although for most of her career she’s been identified with
cultural and social conservative issues, especially the right-
to-life movement, Bachmann now stresses the economy, and her
positions are equally conservative. She wants to cut the
corporate  tax rate  to 9 percent from 35 percent, enact other
business tax breaks, and eliminate all levies on  capital gains 
and estates. She favors a mandatory balanced budget.  No Bailouts  This would require Draconian spending reductions, and
Bachmann says she would cut benefits for any future Medicare and
Social Security recipients. Unlike most other Republicans, she
pledged in an interview last week to “reform entitlements now,
not five years from now.” She opposed the increase of the debt
ceiling, as well as the federal rescues during the financial
crisis, arguing it would have been better for Citigroup Inc. and
General Motors Co. to fail.  Her foreign-policy views aren’t as clear cut; she supports
the war in  Afghanistan  and opposes intervention in  Libya . On
 China , she mixes free-trade rhetoric with a vow to be “a lot
tougher” than either Obama or former President  George W. Bush 
when it comes to currency manipulation. She opposes any overhaul
of immigration laws.  More than her positions, however, what is most striking
about the three-term lawmaker are the personal contradictions.
She has an ability to mesmerize audiences with her presence
while also making frequent careless misstatements. Campaigning
in  New Hampshire , she extolled the state’s patriotism, which
said stretched back to the Revolutionary War battles of Concord
and Lexington. Those battles took place in  Massachusetts . She’s
made many inaccurate statements about Obama.  Gays and Lesbians  She is genuinely compassionate; in addition to their five
biological children, the Bachmanns have helped parent 23 foster
children. She also can be mean, particularly when talking about
gays or lesbians; her husband’s clinic reportedly has a program
to “convert” homosexuals to a straight lifestyle. She says,
however, that she could appoint a qualified gay or lesbian to
her Cabinet.  Like all major Republicans today, she talks in glowing
terms of  Ronald Reagan , with whom she actually has little in
common.  “She has such certitude of her ideology and positions that
she doesn’t see nuance or room for compromise -- the other side
is always wrong,” Penny says. “Reagan found a way to
compromise on a whole range of issues, without being accused of
selling out. She is not in that league.”  Christian Nation  She has a history of embracing radical, conspiratorial,
even loony ideas. A recent article in the  New Yorker magazine 
cited her adoption of mentors or role models who championed the
Confederacy, and implicitly slavery, during the Civil War. Woven
through much of this is the notion that the Bible is inerrant
and America is a Christian nation.  Yet she has an ease in deflecting controversies that’s
unusual for a rigid ideologue. When  Vin Weber , a former
Minnesota congressman who backs former Minnesota Governor  Tim Pawlenty , was criticized for saying that she had political “sex
appeal,” Bachmann called him and joked, “When you’re 55 and
someone says you have sex appeal, you take it as a compliment.”  When questions arose recently about her history of migraine
headaches impairing her functioning, or when a Fox News anchor
asked her if she was “a flake” she didn’t rise to the bait.
When attacked, she went toe to toe with Pawlenty at an Iowa
debate last week. He dropped out of the nominating race
yesterday, after Bachmann beat him 2-to-1 in the Iowa Straw Poll.  Almost no leading strategist of either party envisions the
possibility of a President Bachmann. The conventional wisdom is
that she’ll soon be eclipsed by the entry into the Republican
field of  Rick Perry , the conservative Texas governor.  In Minnesota as in  Washington , however, it’s usually been a
mistake to underestimate her. The prospects that Bachmann will
win the nomination are slim, but the odds that she’ll help shape
the race and the agenda are much higher.  ( Albert R. Hunt  is the executive editor for Washington at
Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Albert Hunt in Washington at 
 ahunt1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 