-- 
Bonds ‘Swamped by Fear’ in Most Volatile Weeks on Record: Australia Credit

-- B y   S a r a h   M c D o n a l d   a n d   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s
-- 
2011-08-15T01:44:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-14/bonds-swamped-by-fear-in-most-volatile-week-on-record-australia-credit.html
Volatility in Australia’s  bond
market  is at a record high as debt crises in  Europe  and the U.S.
threaten the global economy.  The difference between daily high and low prices on three-
year government bond futures exceeded 19 basis points for a
10th-straight trading day, the first time that has happened
since Bloomberg began compiling the data in 1989. The daily
fluctuation for 10-year contracts exceeded 32 basis points twice
this month, a swing seen on 10 days since 2000, the data show.
Corporate bond risk surged the most in more than a year on Aug.
11, a day after posting its biggest drop since June 2010,
according to CMA.  “We’ve seen fundamentals and associated valuations get
swamped by fear, uncertainty and illiquidity,” said Damien McColough, head of fixed-income research in Sydney at Westpac
Banking Corp.,  Australia ’s second-largest lender. “If you made
money in the morning and held the position you’ve lost it in the
afternoon and that contributes to smaller positions, less risk
on board, high uncertainty and a general morale in financial
markets that is very, very low right now.”  The value of the global bond market has increased by $295
billion this month while more than $5 trillion has been wiped
off equity markets as  Standard & Poor’s  downgraded  U.S. debt  for
the first time, riots swept across Britain and Europe’s budget
crisis deepened. While Australia’s central bank considered
lifting borrowing costs on Aug. 2 to control inflation, traders
are betting on more than one percentage point of rate cuts by
year-end, cash-rate futures show.  Faster Inflation  Three-year bond futures for September delivery fell nine
basis points to 96.13 as of 11:09 a.m. on the Sydney Futures
exchange, after rising as high as 96.30 and touching as low as
96.09. The contracts fell 10 basis points in the week ended Aug.
12, after climbing by 71 the previous week. Ten-year contracts
fell 6.5 basis points, paring some of their 37.5 basis-point
surge over the past two weeks.  Bond investors bet last month that Australia’s central bank
would keep rates at the highest of any developed economy after
statistics bureau data on July 27 showed inflation was faster
than economists forecast. Consumer prices rose at an annual pace
of 3.6 percent, the most since 2008, the data showed.  Since then, S&P lowered the U.S. government’s credit rating
to AA+ from AAA and the  European Central Bank  was forced to buy
Spanish and Italian government debt to stem a bond-market rout.
Australian cash-rate futures, which showed a 94 percent chance
on July 28 that the RBA would keep its benchmark unchanged for
the rest of the year, now indicate the central bank will reduce
borrowing costs by at least 100 basis points from 4.75 percent.  JPMorgan Losses  Strategists at JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s Australian unit said
its trading portfolio lost money speculating that the price of
the December cash-rate future would drop, according to a
research note published Aug. 12. They had anticipated a decline
in the contract as the market started to price in higher yields.  “De-risking and potential for  risk aversion  suggests that
volatility and large intra-day ranges may persist for some time
yet,” Sally Auld, a JPMorgan interest-rate strategist, said in
the note. “We remain cautious on markets and recommend minimal
risk in the current environment.”  Nouriel Roubini , co-founder and chairman of New York-based
Roubini Global Economics LLC, said last week the U.S. was
heading into a double-dip recession and the ECB sought to halt
debt-crisis contagion from spreading to Italy and  Spain , the
region’s third- and fourth-largest economies.  The European debt crisis that began in  Greece  in late 2009
has triggered 365 billion euros ($522 billion) in emergency
bailout loans, exposed cracks in the euro’s architecture and
rattled markets around the world. U.S. President  Barack Obama 
said Aug. 11 that political gridlock in  Washington  has shaken
the confidence of investors and the public after the downgrade
by S&P on Aug. 5.  Debt Market  The rally in Australian  government bonds  over the past
month hasn’t matched the surge in Treasuries, as investors
sought the safety of the world’s deepest debt market.  The extra yield Australian 10-year notes offer over
similar-maturity Treasuries was 223 basis points today after
widening to this year’s high of 248 on Aug. 10. The Australian
10-year yield rose seven basis points to 4.50 percent, rising
from the lowest level since April 2009.  The gap between yields on Australian government bonds and
inflation-indexed notes shows investors estimate consumer-price
gains to average 2.67 percent for the next five years, the
highest inflation expectations among eight developed markets
tracked by Bloomberg. Similar U.S. notes show predictions for
1.8 percent annual price increases.  Economists Divided  The  Reserve Bank  will cut its benchmark borrowing rate from
4.75 percent by the end of the year, according to four
economists out of 20 surveyed by Bloomberg News on Aug. 11. Ten
expect it to remain unchanged, while six are forecasting an
increase to 5 percent, the survey shows.  “We do not expect the RBA to ease simply because markets
have been volatile,” Deutsche Bank AG economists said in an
Aug. 12 note. “Our argument is that we think markets have moved
sufficiently far to have real economy implications.”  Australia’s jobless rate unexpectedly rose to an eight-
month high in July as hiring stalled, prompting Goldman Sachs &
Partners Australia Pty to predict as many as two rate cuts this
year. Unemployment jumped to 5.1 percent in July from 4.9
percent a month earlier, the first increase since October, the
statistics bureau said Aug. 11.  Jobless Rate  “The shift in tone of the July employment report, in
concert with the sharp deterioration in business and consumer
surveys, is material new information for policy makers,”
Goldman Sachs economists David Colosimo and Tim Toohey wrote in
a report after the data was released, predicting 25 basis-point
cuts each in September and November. A basis point is 0.25
percentage point.  The RBA will publish minutes of its Aug. 2 board meeting
tomorrow, the same day euro-zone gross domestic product figures
are released and German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French
President Nicolas Sarkozy plan to meet in Paris to discuss the
region’s crisis.  The market value of Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s
Australian Governments Index has risen A$3.4 billion ($3.5
billion) this month to A$161 billion. An index of the nation’s
corporate bonds has increased by A$723 million to A$73 billion,
the data show. The nation’s benchmark stock index has dropped
6.2 percent to A$1.24 trillion between July 29 and Aug. 12.  Corporate Risk  The cost of insuring Australian corporate bonds from
default surged, according to traders of credit-default swaps.
The Markit iTraxx Australia index jumped 21.5 basis points last
week to 156.1, according to prices from CMA, which is owned by
CME Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the
privately negotiated market.  Australian sovereign debt has produced gains of 9.1 percent
this year, the best returns after  New Zealand  among 20 developed
markets tracked by the Merrill Lynch indexes.  The Australian dollar also swung between gains and losses
last week, with three-month implied volatility jumping to a 13-
month high of 17.43 on Aug. 9, when the currency dropped below
parity with the greenback for the first time since March 21. The
so-called Aussie, the world’s fifth-most traded currency, rose
0.7 percent to $1.0424 today, after reaching a post-float high
of $1.1081 following the July 27 inflation data.  “As markets are so volatile you can go from
underperforming to overperforming and back again very quickly,”
said Mat McCrum, investment director at Melbourne-based Omega
Global Investors Pty, which manages A$1 billion. “I think the
whole investment community is a bit weary of the volatility and
shell shocked.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Candice Zachariahs in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net ;
Sarah McDonald in Sydney at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net ;
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net . 