-- 
Bond Purchases May Reveal Whether ECB Has ‘Stomach’ for Fight: Euro Credit

-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k   a n d   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 
2011-08-15T11:53:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-14/bond-purchases-may-reveal-whether-ecb-has-stomach-for-fight-euro-credit.html
The  European Central Bank  may have
spent less last week to reduce Italian and Spanish bond yields
than it did when it entered the Greek market over a year ago.  The ECB probably settled 15 billion euros ($21.4 billion)
of bond purchases, according to the median estimate of 19
economists and strategists in a Bloomberg News survey. That
compares with 16.5 billion euros spent during the first week of
the ECB’s initial foray into Greek markets in May last year. The
central bank will publish last week’s settled purchases at 3:30
p.m. today in Frankfurt.  “The ECB needs to make sure it does enough to prove it has
the stomach for the fight,” said  John Davies , a fixed-income
strategist at WestLB AG in London, who estimates it spent 8
billion euros last week. “No doubt it would have been shock and
awe on Monday, but probably less on the following days.”  The ECB was forced to start buying Italian and Spanish
bonds on Aug. 8 after politicians failed to convince investors
they could contain the region’s sovereign debt crisis. Ten-year
yields in both countries, which had soared to euro-era highs,
dropped by more than 100 basis points to about 5 percent.  When the ECB started buying Greek bonds last year, the 10-
year yield fell to as low as 7.2 percent from more than 12.5
percent. Today, it was at 15.5 percent.  ‘Sustained Basis’  “To restore confidence and stability, the ECB will have to
be in there on a sustained basis,” said  Peter Schaffrik , head
of European interest-rate strategy at  RBC Capital Markets  in
London. “I don’t think the ECB can get away without spending at
least 100 billion euros on Italian and Spanish bonds.”  Together, the two countries have 2.2 trillion euros of
outstanding debt, compared with 630 billion euros for  Greece ,
Ireland and  Portugal  combined.  The difficulty for the ECB is the more it buys, the harder
it may become to “sterilize” the purchases by absorbing the
same amount from banks, a practice it employs to ensure the
extra liquidity it creates doesn’t fuel inflation.  The ECB will today seek 7-day term deposits from banks to
offset its bond purchases, which previously totaled 74 billion
euros. That total will climb by the amount settled last week.  “We fear that the sterilization constraint will force the
ECB out of the secondary market sooner rather than later,” said
 Carl Weinberg , chief economist at High Frequency Economics in
Valhalla,  New York . “If so, yields on Italian and Spanish bonds
will jump in a heartbeat.”  ECB Split  ECB policy makers are divided over the bond-purchase
program, which when introduced last year was intended as a
temporary measure while governments prepared a response to the
burgeoning debt crisis.  After a four-month hiatus, and over opposition from
 Germany ’s Bundesbank, the ECB reactivated its Securities Markets
Program on Aug. 4 as the crisis worsened.  It initially bought Irish and Portuguese securities in an
apparent attempt to reward countries that are sticking to fiscal
consolidation plans. Its failure to enter Italian and Spanish
markets helped fuel a worldwide stock sell-off as fears for the
global economy grew, increasing pressure on the ECB to act.  At the same time, central bankers are urging governments to
quickly sign off on plans to enable  Europe ’s rescue fund, the
European Financial Stability Facility, to take over the ECB’s
bond-buying role.  ‘Apparent Reluctance’  “Markets will remain nervous simply because of the ECB’s
apparent reluctance to greatly widen its SMP holdings,” said
Stephane Deo, chief European economist at UBS Securities LLC in
 London . “We are not convinced that relatively cautious action
by the ECB will keep Italian and Spanish spreads under
control.”  The cost of insuring Italian bonds against default for five
years declined on Aug. 8 only to creep back up later. The credit
default swap on Italian bonds rose to 353 basis points on Aug.
12 from 344 at the start of the week. The CDS on Spanish bonds
rose to 353 basis points from 408 a week ago.  “This suggests the market is very uncertain, and doubts
the ECB is able to control the situation,” WestLB’s Davies
said.  Some economists said the ECB may have spent considerably
more than the survey’s median estimate suggests. Forecasts
ranged from 5 billion euros to 50 billion euros. ECB President
 Jean-Claude Trichet  said on Aug. 8 that the purchases are
“undoubtedly significant.”  “The information we have suggests the ECB might have spent
15 to 20 billion euros on the first day alone,” said Pavan Wadhwa, the global head of interest-rate strategy at JPMorgan
Chase & Co in London, who estimates 30 billion euros of settled
purchases for the week. “They have no choice really, given the
size of the Italian and Spanish markets. Until the EFSF starts
buying bonds, the ECB has no choice but to remain there.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeffrey Black in  Frankfurt  at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net ;
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  