-- 
Bradley Beats Dufner in Playoff to Win PGA Championship at First Attempt

-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-08-15T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-14/bradley-beats-dufner-in-playoff-to-win-pga-championship-at-first-attempt.html
Keegan Bradley made his major
tournament debut a historic one, beating  Jason Dufner  in a
playoff at the PGA Championship to end the longest winless
streak for American golfers in majors at six.  Bradley, a U.S. PGA Tour rookie and nephew of Hall of Fame
women’s golfer Pat Bradley, won the three-hole playoff at
Atlanta Athletic Club yesterday by one shot to become the first
player since Francis Ouimet in 1913 to win in his major-
tournament debut in the U.S.  “It’s unbelievable considering that 2 1/2 years ago I was
on the Hooters Tour grinding for survival to keep playing,”
Bradley said. “It’s an amazing feeling. Golf can be difficult
and to know that you’ve got some security for a good chunk of
time is very nice.”  Bradley, 25, received $1.45 million, automatic status on
the  PGA Tour  through 2016 and exemptions to the other three
majors for the next five years. He is the first PGA Tour rookie
to win two events since Todd Hamilton, who captured the Honda
Classic and British Open in 2004. Bradley won the Byron Nelson
Classic in May.  Bradley trailed Dufner by five shots with four holes to
play after taking a triple bogey at the par-3 15th hole. Bradley
then had birdies on the 16th and 17th holes at the course in
Johns Creek,  Georgia , to get to 8-under par. In the group
behind, Dufner blew his lead with bogeys on Nos. 15, 16 and 17
before a par on No. 18 to force the playoff.  Bradley made a four-foot birdie putt to start the playoff,
while Dufner missed a birdie attempt of about five feet. Dufner
then had a three-putt bogey at the par-3 17th, where Bradley
made par to open a two-shot advantage.  Dufner’s Loss  At the par-4 18th hole, Bradley clinched the victory with a
6-iron approach over water that set up a two-putt par.  Dufner,
34, birdied the 18th hole, yet fell to 0-2 in playoffs and
remains winless on the PGA Tour.  “I’m not going to let this define my career,” Dufner told
reporters. “I have a lot more time to play golf and hopefully
I’ll have more time to win majors and use what happened today as
a positive.”  Bradley is the seventh straight first-time winner of one of
golf’s major titles, the longest streak in history.  The last player to win in his first trip to the  PGA
Championship , the year’s final major, was Shaun Micheel in 2003.
Ben Curtis was the last player to win a major championship in
his first start, at the 2003 British Open.  Ouimet was an amateur playing his first major when he beat
Harry Vardon and Ted Ray in a playoff at the Country Club in
Brookline,  Massachusetts , 98 years ago.  Ending Streak  Bradley’s success is the first for an American in golf’s
four annual Grand Slam events since Phil Mickelson won the
 Masters Tournament  for a third time in April 2010.  The streak of non-U.S. winners began with a victory for
 Northern Ireland ’s Graeme McDowell at the U.S. Open in June
2010. Americans occupied the top five spots on the PGA
Championship leaderboard entering yesterday’s final round.  “I would love to be up in a category with the best players
and mentioned with  Phil Mickelson , one of my idols,” Bradley
said. “I hope I don’t disappear. I don’t plan to.”  Bradley jumps to 29th from 108th in golf’s Official World
Ranking. He said watching his aunt compete helped prepare him
for professional golf. Pat Bradley is a member of the World Golf
Hall of Fame who won six women’s majors, including three in
1986, the year Keegan was born.  “I made my history in the game and now it’s time for
Keegan,” Pat Bradley said in an interview with the Golf
Channel. “He’s off to a wonderful start and he deserves his own
recognition.”  Woods Misses Weekend  Bradley’s win comes after a weekend that was noteworthy for
a group of unheralded players near the top of the leaderboard
and the absence of  Tiger Woods  for the first time in the 14
years he’s played in the tournament.  Woods, a four-time PGA Championship winner and 14-time
major champion, finished 10-over par for two rounds and missed
the cut line by six strokes. It was the third time Woods failed
to qualify for the weekend in a major as a professional, along
with the 2009 British Open and 2006 U.S. Open.  Steve Stricker  started the tournament with a 7-under-par 63
in Round 1, matching the lowest score in a major championship.
While he stumbled in the second round, Bradley shot a 64 and
Dufner a 65 to climb atop the leaderboard.  The third round saw the emergence of another unheralded
American rookie, as Brendan Steele shot 66 to tie Dufner for the
54-hole lead at 7-under. Bradley was a shot further back and had
a final-round 68 to make the playoff.  Top Five  Anders Hansen of  Denmark  finished third at 7-under, while
2001 PGA Championship winner  David Toms  was 5-under along with
fellow American Scott Verplank and  Sweden ’s Robert Karlsson.
 Adam Scott  of  Australia  finished 4-under par.  England ’s Luke Donald and  Lee Westwood , the top two players
in the world ranking, ended the tournament at 3-under par and
tied for eighth place. Mickelson, a four-time major champion,
tied for 19th at even par.  Mike Small, the lone PGA club professional to make the cut,
was 12-over par for the tournament, ahead of former PGA
Championship winners  Davis Love III  and Micheel. Rory McIlroy,
the  U.S. Open  champion and pre-tournament favorite, finished 11-
over after straining a tendon in his wrist during the opening
round.  The PGA Tour’s regular season wraps up with the Wyndham
Championship, which begins Aug. 18 in Greensboro,  North
Carolina . The top 125 players on the world’s richest golf
circuit then advance to the Barclays, the first of four playoff
events for the FedEx Cup.  “The top players are not dominating like they were, which
I think is great for the Tour,” Bradley said. “It gives an
opportunity for a player like me to win. I think it’s only
getting deeper.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in Atlanta at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 