-- 
Burgers Beat Steaks as Shoppers Tighten Belts: Chart of the Day

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   C a m p b e l l
-- 
2011-08-14T23:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-14/burgers-beat-steaks-as-shoppers-tighten-belts-chart-of-the-day.html
U.S. meat consumers are swapping
premium steaks for cheaper ground beef as concern for high
unemployment and slower economic growth forces families to trim
their food budgets, according to industry researcher CattleFax.  The CHART OF THE DAY shows retail ground-beef prices that
the Bureau of Labor Statistics says climbed 17 percent this year
and averaged $2.774 a pound in June, the highest since at least
1984. Boneless, choice sirloin steak averaged $5.891 a pound in
June, a nine-month low and down 3 percent this year.  “Consumers will continue to migrate toward hamburgers
because of price points, at the expense of some of your steak
items,” Kevin Good, a CattleFax senior analyst, said in a
telephone interview from Centennial,  Colorado . “Consumers
typically in times of uncertainty spend less of their disposable
income. They cut back on going out to eat. If your 401(k) got a
20 percent hit in the last couple weeks, you’re less likely to
go out and have that steak.”  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index slumped 12 percent from 
July 22 through Aug. 12 after a political battle over the U.S. 
debt ceiling prompted S&P to lower the country’s AAA credit 
rating. Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  vowed last 
week to keep borrowing costs at an all-time low to revive a 
recovery that has been “considerably slower” than expected, as 
equities echo the  bear market  in 2008-2009.  Steak demand is more dependent on restaurants, where
prospects have diminished as the economy languishes, Jim Robb,
the director of the Livestock Marketing Information Center, a
Denver-based research organization, said in a telephone
interview. Consumers also turn to ground beef over steak because
of convenience, Cattlefax’s Good said.  The shrinking cattle herd may keep steak prices from
softening further as supplies tighten in the fourth quarter and
into 2012, Robb said. The U.S. herd, including dairy cows and
beef animals on feedlots and ranches, totaled 100 million head
as of July 1, the fewest for that date since at least 1973, the
 U.S. Department of Agriculture  said on July 22.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Campbell in Chicago at 
 ecampbell14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  