-- 
Cameron, Blair Clash Over Response to UK Riots

-- B y   A n d r e w   A t k i n s o n
-- 
2011-08-21T09:30:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-14/cameron-to-stick-with-police-budget-cuts-as-riot-arrests-mount.html
Prime Minister  David Cameron  pledged
to fight the “the wrong-headed ideas, bureaucratic nonsense and
destructive culture” that led to riots across  England  earlier
this month.  Writing in the Sunday Express newspaper, Cameron said a
sense of personal responsibility had been eroded over many years
by a welfare system that reduces incentive to work and “the
twisting and misrepresentation of human rights.”  “The British people have fought and died for people’s
rights to freedom and dignity but they did not fight so that
people did not have to take full responsibility for their
actions,” he said. “So though it won’t be easy, though it will
mean taking on parts of the establishment, I am determined we
get a grip on the misrepresentation of human rights.”  In a separate article for the Observer newspaper, former
Labour Prime Minister  Tony Blair  said “muddled-head analysis”
of the riots risks producing the wrong policy prescriptions.  He dismissed the argument that Britain is in the grip of a
“moral decline,” saying that problems lie with individuals and
communities rather than society as a whole.  “Focus on the specific problem and we can begin on a
proper solution,” said Blair, who stepped down as premier in
2007. “Elevate this into a high falutin’ wail about a Britain
that has lost its way morally and we will depress ourselves
unnecessarily, trash our own reputation abroad, and worst of
all, miss the chance to deal with the problem in the only way
that will work.”  New Powers  Violence erupted in  London  on Aug. 6 and spread to other
major cities over the following three nights in the worst unrest
in Britain since the 1980s. A total of 3,296 crimes including
two murders were committed in London during the rioting. Home
Secretary Theresa May last week pledged to give police new
powers to control future disturbances, possibly including the
authority to place entire areas under curfew.  Cameron’s  Conservative Party  has gained 2 percentage points
to 38 percent since the riots, according to an opinion poll
published late yesterday. The ComRes Ltd. survey for the
Independent on Sunday and Sunday Mirror newspapers puts the
opposition  Labour Party  at 40 percent, unchanged from last
month. The Liberal Democrats, the junior partner in the
coalition government, gained 1 point to 11 percent. ComRes
interviewed 2,028 adults online Aug. 17-18.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Atkinson in London at 
 a.atkinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  