-- 
Citigroup, Goldman Boosted French Bank Ties Before Rout

-- B y   D o n a l   G r i f f i n   a n d   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 
2011-08-15T22:29:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-14/citigroup-goldman-sachs-boosted-ties-to-french-banks-as-rout-approached.html
Citigroup Inc. (C)  and  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS)  increased gross exposures to French banks in the
year’s first half before the European nation’s financial stocks
plunged amid perceived dependence on short-term funding.  Citigroup, the third-biggest U.S. lender, boosted gross
“cross-border outstandings” with French banks 40 percent to
$15.7 billion from Jan. 1 through June 30, according to the
company’s quarterly report. Goldman Sachs increased claims by 31
percent to $38.5 billion in the first half, its report shows.
The filings don’t disclose collateral the banks received or
hedges, which curb potential losses on existing bets.  Credit Agricole SA (ACA)  and Societe Generale SA, France’s
second- and third-biggest banks, led a rout in the Bloomberg
 Europe  Banks and Financial Services Index since the end of June
amid concern that some of the region’s lenders may struggle to
maintain funding during government-debt crises. Legg Mason
Inc.’s bond unit said its U.S. money-market funds won’t buy new
debt from French banks to shield themselves from the perceived
risk.  “There is a great cloud of uncertainty that’s hanging over
the U.S. banks about the full extent of the exposures they have
to French and other European banks,” said Andrew Karolyi, a
finance professor at  Cornell University  in Ithaca, New York.
“The market is clearly not reacting well to what they’re
seeing.”  Collateralized Loans  Citigroup and Goldman Sachs, both based in  New York , were
the only large U.S. banks to quantify their exposures to French
banks in their quarterly filings, known as 10-Q reports. Cross-
border outstandings include cash deposits, receivables, loans
and securities. They also include short-term collateralized
loans of securities or cash known as  repurchase agreements  or
reverse repurchase agreements.  The disclosures, which didn’t identify the French companies
involved in the two banks’ dealings, don’t provide a full
picture of the risks because investors can’t see any offsetting
collateral or hedges, said  David Hilder , an analyst at
Susquehanna Financial Group in New York.  “Unfortunately, I think the numbers in the 10-Qs are
really not economically meaningful,” said Hilder, who has a
“positive” recommendation on Goldman Sachs and “neutral” on
Citigroup. “The gross amount is very likely to be misleading in
terms of true economic exposure.”  Jon Diat, a spokesman for Citigroup, and  Stephen Cohen  at
Goldman Sachs declined to comment.  ‘Crave Greater Clarity’  The 2008 financial crisis showed how the interconnections
between financial institutions worldwide can cause risks in one
company to spread around the globe. Three years later, investors
remain unaware of U.S. banks’ Europe-linked risks, Karolyi said.  “As investors in these banks, we crave greater clarity
about the full extent to which they’re laying off their
exposures and how and in what form,” Karolyi said. “A little
bit more transparency would go a long way to alleviating a lot
of investors’ concerns about the extent of these exposures.”  Citigroup said Aug. 5 that it had a $31.7 billion gross
exposure to  Greece , Italy, Portugal, Spain and Ireland, which
are at the heart of the European debt crisis. The bank also said
it hedged against possible default by buying credit protection
from financial firms outside of those nations.  Chief Executive Officer  Vikram Pandit , 54, and Chief
Financial Officer  John Gerspach  had declined requests from
analysts seeking these details on a conference call last month,
citing instead a $22 billion net figure.  Citigroup has tumbled 25 percent since June 30. Goldman
Sachs, led by CEO  Lloyd Blankfein , 56, has slid 10 percent.  Short-Selling Ban  Credit Agricole and Paris-based  Societe Generale (GLE)  plummeted
more than 35 percent during the same period. Both banks gained
after French regulators announced a temporary ban on short-
selling on Aug. 11, with Credit Agricole climbing 3.3 percent to
6.74 euros today, and Societe Generale gaining 2.1 percent to
24.80 euros. Short-sellers sell borrowed shares with plans to
buy them back later at a lower price.  Societe Generale is among European financial firms with the
lowest net stable funding ratios, indicating they rely on short-
term sources of wholesale funding, Royal Bank of Scotland Plc
analysts wrote last week in a note. A loss of confidence is
“most dangerous” for banks that depend on that type of
funding, wrote the analysts, Stefan Stalmann and Jorge Mayo.  Societe Generale said Aug. 10 it had fulfilled “almost
all” of its funding plan for 2011 and that its performance in
July and early August shows it will be able to post “solid”
results in the future.  ‘Anxieties Subside’  “The French are particularly exposed to funding concerns
because of their funding structure,” the RBS analysts wrote.
“It is quite likely in our view that funding will not become a
serious issue for the large French banks, that anxieties subside
and that the shares rebound. But there is a non-trivial risk
that confidence deteriorates further.”  Citigroup has a total of $44 billion in cross-border
outstandings in France, when including dealings beyond those
with banks. It also had $64.9 billion in so-called commitments
to clients in France, which include legally binding letters of
credit, according to its quarterly report. Goldman Sachs, the
fifth-biggest U.S. bank by assets, had total outstandings of
$47.3 billion and didn’t disclose its commitments.  Morgan Stanley (MS) , the owner of the world’s largest retail
brokerage, last disclosed its outstandings to French banks in an
annual report, putting the figure at $39 billion as of Dec. 31.
Mary Claire Delaney, a spokeswoman for the New York-based firm,
declined to comment.  Derivative Exposure  French counterparties accounted for 3 percent, or about
$2.6 billion, of Morgan Stanley’s total corporate lending
exposure as of June 30, the firm said last week in a quarterly
filing. French counterparties also accounted for 3 percent of
over-the-counter derivative exposure. It had  credit derivatives 
with a total fair value of $10.5 billion, according to the
filing. The figures represented gross exposure before accounting
for collateral and hedges, according to the filing.  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , the biggest U.S. bank, had $8.1
billion in French-bank exposure, including loans and deposits,
at the end of 2010. The lender had total French exposure of
$20.1 billion at the end of June. The figures don’t include
hedges or collateral, Jerome Dubrowski, a spokesman for the
Charlotte, North Carolina-based bank, said in an e-mail.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , the second-biggest U.S. bank, had
$16.5 billion in claims on French banks at the end of 2010,
excluding hedges and collateral.  Jennifer Zuccarelli , a
spokeswoman for the New York-based bank, declined to comment.  “We have been in Europe for hundreds of years,” JPMorgan
CEO Jamie Dimon, 55, said in an interview with CNBC last week.
“We have manageable exposure to all of the banks. We won’t cut
and run. We are very careful what we do but we are not going to
leave Europe.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Donal Griffin in New York at 
 Dgriffin10@bloomberg.net ;
Christine Harper in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 