-- 
Commonwealth’s Norris Says ‘Substantial’ Rate Cuts Unlikely in Australia

-- B y   S a r a h   M c D o n a l d
-- 
2011-08-14T14:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-14/commonwealth-s-norris-says-substantial-rate-cuts-unlikely-in-australia.html
Australia ’s central bank is unlikely
to slash the nation’s benchmark borrowing rate amid turmoil in
global markets because inflation remains high, according to
 Commonwealth Bank of Australia (CBA)  Chief Executive Ralph Norris.  “The underlying Australian economy is in pretty sound
shape,” Norris, who is stepping down from the nation’s biggest
lender in November, said in an interview with the Australian
Broadcasting Corp. yesterday. If the  Reserve Bank  remains
focused on controlling inflation, “then it’s hard to see that
there would be substantial cuts.”  Reserve Bank Governor Glenn Stevens is seeking to balance
surging commodities exports to  China , which are boosting
expectations for growth and price increases, with  consumer
confidence  in its deepest slump since 2008 and a faltering
global economy. While Australia’s central bank considered
lifting borrowing costs on Aug. 2 to control inflation, traders
are now betting on more than one percentage point of rate cuts
by year-end, cash-rate futures show.  Consumer prices in Australia rose at an annual pace of 3.6
percent last quarter, the most since 2008, according to
statistics bureau data released July 27. Since then, more than
$6 trillion has been wiped off equity markets worldwide as
 Standard & Poor’s  cut the U.S. credit rating and the  European
Central Bank  was forced to buy Spanish and Italian bonds to
combat the region’s debt crisis.  China Growth  A slowdown in the U.S. may crimp growth in China,
Australia’s biggest trading partner, Norris said.  “That obviously has an impact potentially back on
Australia because of the tight linkage that we have into China
these days, so that would probably be my biggest concern,” he
said. Still, Australia’s strong wages growth, household savings
and record terms of trade would “suggest that the economy
should probably be a bit stronger than it is.”  Australian consumer confidence deteriorated for a fourth
straight month, an Aug. 10 report showed, as turmoil engulfed
global financial markets and threatened growth.  The nation’s jobless rate unexpectedly rose to an eight-
month high of 5.1 percent in July as hiring stalled, prompting
Goldman Sachs & Partners Australia Pty to predict as many as two
 interest-rate  cuts this year.  Commonwealth Bank can fund itself for several months
without needing access to global debt markets if there is
another credit freeze, Norris said.  Rates Cut  The lender, with A$299.4 billion ($310 billion) in
outstanding home loans, cut its fixed-rate housing loans by as
much as 0.6 percentage point on Aug. 9.  Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ)  followed suit
yesterday, reducing the cost of fixed home loans with terms of
one to five years, according to an e-mailed statement from the
lender. The bank said it is charging 6.44 percent on a three-
year fixed mortgage, down from 7.04 percent.  Commonwealth Bank said on Aug. 10 its second-half profit
rose 22 percent to a record on increased business and household
lending. Net income in the six months ended June 30 rose to
A$3.34 billion from A$2.75 billion a year earlier, the Sydney-
based bank said. Ian Narev takes over as CEO on Dec. 1.  RBA’s Stevens kept the benchmark interest rate unchanged at
4.75 percent on Aug. 2, saying that while the RBA board
considered boosting borrowing costs, it was prudent to hold off
because of a clouded global economic outlook.  He cut the cash rate to 3 percent from 7.25 percent between
September 2008 and April 2009, a record series of reductions, to
counter a global credit freeze that followed the collapse of
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. He then raised rates seven times
beginning October 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McDonald in Sydney at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  