-- 
Ditching Nuclear Risks Third ‘Lost Decade’ in Japan on Increased Oil Costs

-- B y   A k i   I t o   a n d   M a k i   S h i r a k i
-- 
2011-08-15T00:15:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-14/ditching-nuclear-risks-third-lost-decade-for-japan-on-increased-oil-cost.html
Japan  faces a third “lost decade”
of economic growth as rising energy costs resulting from its
shift away from nuclear power add to a fuel bill that already
accounts for  more than a quarter  of its imports.  Prime Minister  Naoto Kan ’s effort to reduce reliance on
nuclear energy would require the equivalent of 470 million
barrels of oil a year, swelling the 17 trillion yen ($222
billion) annual cost of fuel imports and further burdening
Japan’s $5.5 trillion economy, former Saudi Arabian Oil Co.
manager Osamu Fujisawa said.  “Growth will already be difficult with persistent
deflation, an aging and shrinking population and deficits,”
said Fujisawa, now an independent energy economist in  Tokyo .
“Rushing Kan’s vision under those conditions would spell chaos
for the economy.”  Japan is grappling with the worst atomic disaster since
Chernobyl after an earthquake devastated Tokyo Electric Power
Co.’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant, prompting nationwide safety
checks that have idled 72 percent of the nation’s 54 reactors.
Kan, in a speech in Hiroshima on Aug. 6 marking 66 years after
the U.S. dropped an atomic bomb on the city, promised “sweeping
measures” to move toward a “nuclear-free society.”  Shrinking Economy  Japan’s gross domestic product shrank at a 1.3 percent
annualized pace in the three months to June 30 after a revised
3.6 percent decline in the previous quarter, a Cabinet Office
report showed today. More than two decades of  government
spending  to revive growth following the bursting of the asset-
price bubble in 1990 have saddled the country with the world’s
highest level of public debt.  Turning away from nuclear power threatens a third “lost
decade” as energy purchases drain money from the economy, said
Hiroaki Norita, a researcher at JX Nippon Research Institute in
Tokyo. China’s economic growth averaging 10 percent a year since
1989 helped drive up  oil prices  fourfold in that period, lifting
Japan’s energy costs and stalling expansion by draining the
wealth earned through exports, he said.  Japan relied on imports to meet 80 percent of its energy
needs in 2009,  World Bank data  show, against 60 percent for
 Germany  and 22 percent for the U.S. China imported 6 percent of
its energy in 2008, according to the latest data available.  The suspension of reactors run by companies including
Tohoku Electric Power Co., Tokyo Electric and Chubu Electric
Power Co. helped boost Japan’s LNG imports by 35 percent in June
from a year earlier. Crude oil purchases climbed 30 percent, the
 Finance Ministry  said July 28. Total imports rose 9.8 percent,
compared with a 1.6 percent decline in exports.  Power Bills  Returning the country to an almost total dependence on
overseas oil and gas may increase power costs for companies such
as Toyota Motor Corp., Elpida Memory Inc. and Honda Motor Co.
Exporters are already struggling with a yen that has gained more
than 50 percent in the past four years and disruptions to
electricity and parts supplies after the magnitude-9 temblor.  Excluding capital and decommissioning outlays -- as well as
costs associated with the Fukushima disaster -- producing power
from gas and oil is more expensive than nuclear, according to
government estimates. It takes 5.3 yen to produce one kilowatt
hour of electricity from atomic power, compared with 6.2 yen for
LNG and 10.7 yen for oil.  “Companies are going to take considerable cuts to their
margins as electricity prices rise,” said Masaaki Kanno, chief
economist at  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  in Tokyo. “Manufacturing that
relies on heavy power consumption is over, and the country’s
economic structure needs to fundamentally change so that it
supports industries that actually save electricity.”  Market Prices  Japan’s entry into the global market to buy the equivalent
of an extra 1.3 million barrels of oil a day may lift prices.  If Japan “were to completely scrap its nuclear program and
rely entirely on fossil fuels, this would be a big boost to
demand for energy commodities,” said David Rea, Japan economist
at Capital Economics Ltd. in  London .  For now, concern that the U.S. and European economies are
slowing is sending global commodity prices lower. Crude oil
futures in  New York  fell as much as 7.7 percent to $80.17 a
barrel in Asian trading yesterday.  A surge in public opposition to nuclear power means a cut
in nuclear generation is inevitable, said  Toshihiro Nagahama ,
chief economist at Dai-Ichi Life Research Institute in Tokyo.
More than 70 percent of respondents in a Kyodo News survey
published July 24 said they favored phasing out atomic energy.  As higher electricity bills and concerns over power
shortages push companies to move factories overseas, Japan’s
demand for fuel will drop, offsetting some of the initial
increases caused by a nuclear phase-out, he said. By then, the
economy will have lost its “engine for growth” and will
“atrophy over time,” he said.  “In the long run, a nuclear-free Japanese economy isn’t
impossible,” Nagahama said. “Right now, we’re still fumbling
in the dark.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aki Ito in Tokyo at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net ;
Maki Shiraki in Tokyo at 
 mshiraki1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  