-- 
Egypt Sells $839 Million in Bonds on Domestic-Bank Purchases: Arab Credit

-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e   a n d   A h m e d   A   N a m a t a l l a
-- 
2011-08-15T13:41:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-14/egypt-bets-on-local-banks-to-snap-up-839-million-bond-sale-arab-credit.html
Egypt raised 5 billion pounds ($839
million) in  government bonds  today as demand from domestic banks
helped limit a European debt crisis-driven increase in borrowing
costs.  The Ministry of Finance raised 2.5 billion pounds in two-
year bonds at an average yield of 13.29 percent, 10 basis points
higher than last month, according to data on its website. It
sold three-year securities at an average yield of 13.48 percent.
The mean estimate of six analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News was
for an average yield of 13.26 percent and 13.47 percent,
respectively. Yields on sovereign bonds from Hungary and Ukraine
surged as much as 50 basis points this month, data compiled by
JPMorgan Chase & Co. show.  “The rise in yields was expected, but the rate of increase
shows high market liquidity and the resilience of  Egypt ’s
financial sector in the face of what’s happening abroad,” said
Moustafa Assal, head of fixed-income at Cairo-based investment
bank Beltone Financial. “It reflects the confidence of local
banks in local debt. Foreigners will return sooner or later.”  Egypt’s domestic banks have scooped up  government
securities  dumped by foreign investors after a popular revolt
ousted President  Hosni Mubarak  in February. State-owned banks
increased their holdings of treasury bills by 49 percent this
year, while privately owned lenders raised their purchases by 33
percent, according to central bank data.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Egyptian debt
instead of U.S. Treasuries advanced 62 basis points, or 0.62 of
a percentage point, to 386 in the two weeks ending Aug. 12,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Index. Emerging-
market debt spreads for the period on average climbed 69 basis
points to 372.  Third Bond Sale  Today’s bond sale was the third since Mubarak’s ouster.
Rising borrowing costs as a result of the chaos that followed
the uprising, prompted the  Finance Ministry  to halt bond sales
and raise money through short-term treasury bills.  The ministry raised 3 billion pounds at a fixed coupon rate
of 13.10 percent on July 25. It sold a similar amount in three-
year securities at 13.35 percent on Aug. 1.  “There’s a relatively growing demand for short-dated bonds
in the market,” Khalil El Bawab, the Cairo-based head of fixed
income at EFG-Hermes Holding SAE, the biggest publicly traded
Arab investment bank, said yesterday. “The current yields are
attractive and tempting for cash-rich investors. We don’t expect
yields to drop aggressively in the near future but eventually,
in the next six months, they will as the political situation is
expected to stabilize.”  Political Stability  Mubarak resigned on Feb. 11 after three decades in power,
handing interim power to the military. Parliamentary elections
are planned before the end of the year. Political stability and
economic policy after the vote are crucial to Egypt’s credit
profile,  Fitch Ratings  said in a report on July 1. The rating
company lowered the country’s creditworthiness one level this
year to BB, two levels below investment grade.  The yield on Egypt’s 5.75 percent dollar bond maturing in
April 2020 rose 10 basis points this month to 5.59 percent
today, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The average yield on
Middle East bonds fell six basis points to 4.79 percent,
according to the HSBC/Nasdaq Dubai Middle East Conventional
Sovereign US Dollar Bond Index.  Egypt’s default risk tumbled 13 basis points today to 375,
according to data provider CMA. Credit default swaps have risen
47 basis points this month amid concerns about  Europe ’s
sovereign debt crisis affecting countries with strong economic
ties to the euro zone. Credit default swaps for  Tunisia , which
ousted its leader in January, rose 26 basis points to 210,
according to CMA. The data provider is owned by CME Group Inc.
and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately
negotiated market.  Exports, Tourism  Europe accounts for 30 percent of Egypt’s exports, and the
majority of tourists visiting the country are European, the
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc said in an Aug. 9 report,
maintaining its “underweight” view on Egypt’s credit.  Still, the average yield on the Arab nation’s three-month
treasury bills fell nine basis points to 11.907 percent and
three basis points on nine-month securities at an auction
yesterday, according to central bank data on Bloomberg. The
average yield on one-year notes was 12.979 percent on Aug. 11,
the data show.  “Bottom line for me is that it is good that the Ministry
of Finance is issuing at longer maturities,” Gabriel Sterne,
London-based senior economist at Exotix Holdings Ltd., said by
e-mail today. “This reduces possible impact of funding cost
spikes should the tail risk of electoral-related disruption
materialize.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alaa Shahine in Cairo at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net ;
Ahmed A Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  