-- 
Fernandez Trounces Opposition with 50% Support in Argentine Primary Vote

-- B y   E l i a n a   R a s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-08-15T20:30:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-14/fernandez-seeks-boost-in-re-election-bid-as-argentines-vote-in-primaries.html
Argentine President Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner showed she has enough support to be re-
elected in October after voters backed her stewardship of  South
America ’s second-biggest economy in an open primary.  Facing nine other candidates from different political
parties, Fernandez had 50.1 percent in yesterday’s primary with
96.8 percent of the polling stations counted, according to the
 Interior Ministry . Lawmaker Ricardo Alfonsin and former
President Eduardo Duhalde were tied for second with 12.2
percent. Argentines were allowed to vote for any candidate and
none of the contenders faced challengers from their own parties.  Fernandez, who succeeded her husband  Nestor Kirchner  in
2007, consolidated her support by presiding over economic growth
that averaged 5.6 percent per year since 2008, giving monthly
payments to poor families who keep their children in school and
raising pensions.  “This is a recognition of all the work, the effort,
everything that has been accomplished in the past eight years,
but also for what we still need to do,” Fernandez, 58, told
supporters last night in  Buenos Aires . “My only promise is to
keep working for everything we still need.”  Opposition leaders have less than 10 weeks to regroup ahead
of the Oct. 23 presidential election. Under Argentine law, a
candidate needs to win 45 percent of the votes in the
presidential race, or 40 percent with a 10 percentage-point lead
over the second-place finisher, to avoid a Nov. 20 runoff.
Candidates who didn’t get 1.5 percent support yesterday won’t be
eligible to run.  Faster Inflation  In backing Fernandez, voters shrugged off annual inflation
that economists including former central bank President Alfonso Prat-Gay say is about 25 percent, more than double the 9.7
percent reported by the government in July. The economy grew 9.2
percent in 2010 and 9.9 percent in the first quarter from a year
earlier.  “This is a result of the economy which, with the exception
of 2009, has been going well for eight years,” said  Daniel Kerner , a political analyst at the Eurasia Group in a telephone
interview from Buenos Aires. “This shows the high level of
support Fernandez has and I think that it won’t differ too much
from what will happen in October.”  Investors have taken another view on concerns that
Fernandez, who nationalized the $24 billion pension fund
industry and fined economists who questioned official inflation,
will maintain her policies in a second term. Businesses and
individuals pulled $9.8 billion out of the country in the first
half of this year, compared with $11.4 billion in all of 2010,
according to the central bank.  Credit Rating Cut  After  Standard & Poor’s  cut the U.S. credit rating one
level to AA+ on Aug. 5, the benchmark Merval stock index tumbled
10.7 percent, the most in the world, while the cost of insurance
against a sovereign default over the next five years rose the
most after  Pakistan . At 9.86 percent, the yield on Argentine
dollar debt is the highest among major emerging market economies
after  Venezuela , according to JPMorgan’s EMBI+ index.  Warrants linked to economic growth rose 0.73 cent to 18.02
cents. The peso was little changed at 4.1595 per dollar. The
benchmark Merval stock index rose 0.8 percent to 2,989.67.  Rural Land  Fernandez today urged lawmakers to accelerate approval of a
bill she sent congress limiting foreign purchases of rural land,
legislation she proposed in April.  “This is a very important point to show society, the
productive sector and the world the idea that we have about a
vital and strategic resource,” Fernandez told reporters today
in Buenos Aires.  Yesterday’s victory was a rare electoral win for Fernandez,
who faced nationwide protests in 2008 after she announced a plan
to raise taxes on agricultural exports. That four-month battle,
which she lost in a Senate vote, helped the opposition end her
control of congress in legislative elections in 2009. A year
later, Kirchner, her husband and closest political adviser over
two decades of campaigns, died of a heart attack at the age of
60.  Regional Defeats  In recent weeks, pro-government candidates struggled in
regional races. Last month, opposition leader Mauricio Macri was
re-elected mayor of Buenos Aires with a bigger margin than
forecast and Fernandez ally Agustin Rossi finished third in the
gubernatorial race in Santa Fe province.  Stung by those losses, Fernandez saw her approval rating
fall to 52.5 percent in July from 60.5 percent in June,
according to a July 22-26 poll of 2,000 people by Buenos Aires-
based Management & Fit. The survey had a margin of error of 3.1
percentage points.  Fernandez has said she wants a second term to continue the
work she and her late husband did to boost the economy following
the country’s default on a record $95 billion of debt in 2001.  Last year Fernandez restructured $12.9 billion of bonds
remaining from the default, prompting Argentine dollar debt to
surge 36 percent, the most among major emerging markets,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. Nevertheless, the country
remains blocked from international credit markets and the
government has failed to reach a promised agreement over as much
as $9 billion in defaulted debt with the Paris Club group of
creditor nations.  Tapping Reserves  Fernandez’s policy of using international reserves to pay
debt and control fluctuations in the peso has caused reserves to
fall to $50.3 billion from a record $52.6 billion in January,
while central banks from  Chile  to  Brazil  keep accumulating. The
peso has tumbled 4.4 percent this year, the most among 25
emerging market economies tracked by Bloomberg after South
African rand and the Turkish lira.  A global economic slowdown prompted by a widening debt
crisis in  Europe  and the S&P decision on the U.S. credit rating
may erode Fernandez’s record and pressure her to make changes in
a second term, said  Boris Segura , a Latin America strategist at
Nomura Securities.  “The government will have to follow more coherent macro
policies that would slow the overheating economy that is
reflected in a high inflation and shrinking  trade surplus ,”
Segura said. “Once the government controls inflation, it will
start correcting the loss of competitiveness of the economy. A
soft landing is better than a hard landing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eliana Raszewski in Buenos Aires at 
 eraszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  