-- 
Germany Doesn’t Exclude Euro Bonds as Last Resort, Welt Says

-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 
2011-08-14T11:58:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-14/germany-doesn-t-exclude-euro-bonds-as-last-resort-welt-says.html
The German government is no longer
ruling out using jointly sold bonds as a last resort to protect
the euro area against an imminent breakup,  Welt am Sonntag 
reported, citing unidentified people in the government.  Germany , with its current funding structure, would have to
pay an additional interest charge of 2.3 percentage points, the
German newspaper reported, citing calculations from Kai Carstensen of the Ifo Institute in Munich. With a gross debt
level of 2.1 trillion euros ($3 trillion), that translates to
additional costs of 47 billion euros a year, Welt am Sonntag
said, citing Carstensen. Forty-seven billion euros are
equivalent to about 15 percent of 2012 government expenses, the
newspaper said.  Carstensen said that eurobonds would calm markets in the
short term but would drive  interest rates  higher in Germany in
the medium term, according to Welt am Sonntag.  A decision on eurobonds won’t be reached in coming days,
the newspaper said, citing unidentified members of the
government. It is unclear in the government whether  Chancellor
Angela Merkel ’s Free Democratic Party coalition partner would
agree with this step, it said.  Martin Kotthaus, a spokesman for the German Finance
Ministry, declined to comment on the Welt am Sonntag report.  German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said in an
interview with German magazine  Der Spiegel  that he opposed
unlimited rescue aid. He rejected eurobonds, saying that as long
as members of the  euro zone  had their own financial policies,
there were incentives and possibilities of sanctions to ensure
fiscal solidity, Spiegel said.  “There is no collectivization of debt or unlimited
support,” Schaeuble told the German magazine. “There are
certain support mechanisms that we develop under strict
conditions,” it cited him as saying.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Cruz in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  