-- 
Microsoft Guru Myhrvold Serves Wine in Blender, 30-Course Feast

-- B y   R i c h a r d   V i n e s
-- 
2011-08-14T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-14/microsoft-guru-myhrvold-serves-wine-from-a-blender-wacky-30-course-dinner.html
Nathan Myhrvold -- the former chief
strategist and chief technology officer at  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  --
opens a bottle of wine and pours it into a kitchen blender.  “Decanting is about doing two things,” Myhrvold, 52, says
before flipping on the power switch. “It’s about mixing oxygen
in with the wine and about taking dissolved gasses out of the
wine. So, if a little bit of decanting works, why not a lot?”  We’re in an industrial unit in suburban  Seattle , the home
of Myhrvold’s company,  Intellectual Ventures . He’s giving a
PowerPoint presentation before a 30-course dinner made up of
dishes from “Modernist Cuisine, The Art and Science of
Cooking,” the six-volume, 2,438-page book he’s produced.  (Myhrvold is also a columnist for Bloomberg View.)  To say the dishes are unusual would be an understatement.
The first consists of watermelon chips with spicy pickles. Thin
slices of fruit and pickle are mixed with modified starch
slurry, compressed in vacuum bags and then deep fried.  “I figured that if I could make chips out of watermelon, I
could do it for anything,” Myhrvold explains as we sip hyper-
decanted wine. (I wouldn’t have guessed it was from a blender.)  Next up? Corn and green-pea butter spread on brioche and
walnut-bread toasts. Run through a centrifuge, the corn and peas
yield three distinct layers: juice, starch and a small quantity
of a substance that has 20 times the flavor intensity of the raw
ingredient and the texture of soft butter, Myhrvold says.  MasterChef Contestant  Fifteen people from around the world are attending the
dinner. My table includes a journalist from  Germany , an academic
from  New York , a food technologist who works for Mars Inc. and
 Alvin Schultz , a Houston-based contestant from chef  Gordon Ramsay ’s Fox TV show, MasterChef. Myhrvold divides his time
between providing a commentary and helping prepare the food.  We’re sitting in the laboratory with chefs working along
one side. Heading the kitchen is  Maxime Bilet , co-author of
“Modernist Cuisine.” He graduated with highest honors from the
 Institute of Culinary Education  in New York and also worked at
the Fat Duck, outside  London .  The courses keep coming: Puffed Chicken Skin, Peking
Flavors involves the skin being cooked sous vide -- in an
airtight bag in a water bath -- then puffed in oil with hoisin
sauce, scallion oil emulsion, cucumber and shaved scallions.
Liquid Caprese is a cold, emulsified soup of olive oil and
tomato water. The equipment required? A rotor-stator
homogenizer, a pressure cooker and a centrifuge.  Baked Potato Soup consists of wafer-thin potato ravioli
filled with shallots melted in bacon fat, and dressed with an
intense broth of potato juice infused with roasted potato skins.  Kansas Ribs  The recipe for the Hot-Smoked Spare Ribs, Barbecue Sauces
from  Kansas City ,  South Carolina , requires an  Enviro-Pak  cold
smoker, an ultrasonic bath, centrifuge, liquid nitrogen, vacuum
sealer and a water bath. The ribs are cooked sous vide for 48
hours, then dry rubbed, smoked and vacuum sealed. The chefs then
warm them in a bath and “cryofry” by dipping them in liquid
nitrogen and then deep-frying them. This process creates an
intense crust without overcooking the meat below.  You may be asking by this stage: How does the food taste?
The answer is great. The flavors are intense, the textures
distinct, the aromas enticing. Many courses evoke memories of
childhood, when a simple strawberry may be a mouthful of heaven
and chocolate more fun than playing in the park.  Yet somewhere in multicourse modernist meals -- and 48
dishes at El Bulli was my limit -- I tend to tire of perfection.
I want a piece of meat that hasn’t been cooked for days, I don’t
need my vegetables uniform and I might even accept the
occasional lump in my gravy. It’s hardly a fly in the soup.  Lemongrass Egg  Myhrvold is such an entertaining host, sharing funny
stories and being completely un-precious about his food, that an
evening at his laboratory is a delight. Even the food has wit.
The waitresses said that one dish, Raw Quail Egg, came from
birds kept on the roof of the building. The yolk turned out to
be passion fruit, the white a gel of lemongrass.  Myhrvold was a postdoctoral fellow in the department of
applied mathematics and theoretical physics at  Cambridge
University  in the U.K. and worked with Professor Stephen Hawking
on research in cosmology, quantum field theory in curved space
time and quantum theories of gravitation. He doesn’t keep all
his eggs in one basket.  (Richard Vines is the chief food critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. He is U.K. and Ireland
chairman of the World’s 50 Best Restaurants awards. Opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Richard Vines in London at 
 rvines@bloomberg.net  or Richardvines on
 http://twitter.com/Richardvines .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 