-- 
Time Warner Cable Said to Be Near $3 Billion Insight Deal

-- B y   S e r e n a   S a i t t o ,   A l e x   S h e r m a n   a n d   Z a c h a r y   R .   M i d e r
-- 
2011-08-15T09:59:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-14/time-warner-cable-is-said-to-be-in-3-billion-talks-for-carlyle-s-insight.html
Time Warner Cable Inc. (TWC) , the second-
largest U.S. cable-television operator, is in advanced talks to
buy Carlyle Group’s Insight Communications Co. for about $3
billion, people with knowledge of the matter said.  Time Warner Cable may announce an agreement to buy Insight
as soon as today, said the people, who spoke on condition of
anonymity because the talks are private. The talks may also fail
to lead to a deal, the people said.  The acquisition would be Time Warner Cable’s biggest since
its spinoff from Time Warner Inc. in 2009 and may help the cable
operator compensate for declining pay-TV demand. A wider
footprint would let Chief Executive Officer Glenn Britt reach
more customers and cut duplicate sales staff and infrastructure.  Insight, based in New York, is the ninth-largest U.S. cable
operator, with 679,700 basic video customers in Kentucky,
 Indiana  and Ohio, according to its  website . Carlyle, a
Washington-based private equity firm, along with co-founder
Sidney Knafel and Michael Willner, took Insight private in 2005.  “Keeping up the scale is quite important for the cable
companies because they are able to leverage the scale in terms
of the number of TV subscribers they have when they are making
deals with the content owners,” said Richard Broughton, an
analyst at IHS Screen Digest in  London . “There are a lot of
smaller operators all over the place.”  Crestview, MidOcean  Justin Venech, a spokesman for Time Warner Cable, and  Chris Ullman , a Carlyle spokesman, declined to comment.  Time Warner Cable rose 77 cents to $65.51 on Aug. 12 in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading. The stock climbed as much
as 2.5 percent in  Germany  and rose 1.4 percent to the equivalent
of $64.88 as of 11:54 a.m. in  Frankfurt .  Two other private-equity firms, Crestview Partners and
MidOcean Partners, bought a stake in Insight from Carlyle and
other shareholders last year.  Time Warner Cable wanted to pay about $2.5 billion for
Insight and raised its offer after Insight’s owners lowered
their asking price, said one person familiar with the situation.
Insight had also sought a buyer in an auction, in which Time
Warner Cable didn’t participate, the person said.  Time Warner Cable and rival pay-TV companies are coping
with falling customer numbers as the  U.S. economy  slows and as
competition builds from online rivals such as  Netflix Inc. (NFLX)  and
Hulu LLC.  The six largest publicly traded U.S. cable and satellite-TV
providers lost about 580,000 customers combined in the second
quarter, the biggest such drop in history, according to company
and Bloomberg data. Time Warner Cable lost 130,000 residential
video subscribers in the period, more than analysts estimated.  Buying Insight would help Time Warner Cable consolidate its
position in states such as Kentucky and Indiana while boosting
customer ranks by as much as 5 percent. Time Warner Cable has
14.4 million “customer relationships,” according to its
website, compared with 759,400 at Insight. Those figures include
Internet and phone users, in addition to cable-TV customers.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Serena Saitto in  Sao Paulo  at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Sherman in  New York  at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net ;
Zachary Mider in New York at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  