-- 
Inflation in U.S. Probably Began Stabilizing in July, Backing Fed Forecast

-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 
2011-08-14T04:00:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-14/inflation-in-u-s-probably-began-stabilizing-in-july-backing-fed-forecast.html
The cost of living in the U.S.
probably eased in July, consistent with the  Federal Reserve ’s
forecast that inflation will stabilize, economists said before a
report this week.  Consumer prices excluding volatile food and fuel costs
climbed 0.2 percent, the smallest gain in three months,
according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of
economists before Labor Department data on Aug. 18. Housing
remained depressed, while a surge in utility use boosted
industrial production, other figures may show.  Lower costs for energy and other commodities may give
companies like  Sara Lee Corp. (SLE)  room to hold the line on retail
prices, providing some relief to consumers faced with stagnating
incomes and limited job growth. Less inflation also affords Fed
officials the scope to ease monetary policy further should the
recovery falter.  “Commodity costs have come down and will start to flow
through the supply chain down to consumers,” said  Russell Price , a senior economist at Ameriprise Financial Services Inc.
in  Detroit . “It gives the Fed more time to wait and see how
things play out in the economy.”  The  consumer price index  including food and energy climbed
0.2 percent in July after a 0.2 percent decrease, according to
the Bloomberg survey of 68 economists. Compared with the same
month last year, the price measure increased 3.3 percent, down
from a 3.6 percent gain in the 12 months to June, the survey
showed.  Informal Target  The core CPI index, which excludes food and fuel, rose 1.7
percent over the past 12 months after a 1.6 percent year-over-
year increase in June. The Fed’s informal target range for
longer-term  core inflation  is 1.7 percent to 2 percent as
measured by the gauge tied to consumer spending.  With the economic recovery showing signs of stress, the Fed
on Aug. 9 pledged to keep its benchmark  interest rate  at a
record low at least through mid-2013.  The “downside risks to the economic outlook have
increased,” the  Federal Open Market Committee  said in a
statement. “Inflation has moderated as prices of energy and
some commodities have declined from their earlier peaks.
Inflation will settle, over coming quarters, at levels at or
below those consistent with the Committee’s dual mandate” of
maximum employment and price stability.  Inflation in unlikely to accelerate as unemployment at 9.1
percent restrains  consumer spending . Sara Lee, the  Downers
Grove , Illinois-based maker of food products such as Jimmy Dean
sausages, said it raised prices in the year ended July 2 to
recoup commodity costs, and may not need to do much more.  Protecting Share  “As we start the new year, we have all the price increases
in place to deal with the commodity costs as we currently see
them,”  Marcel Smits , chief executive officer, said on an Aug.
11 conference call with investors. “That means that we have
some firepower to, where necessary, dial back at a tactical
level on prices wherever we need it in order to protect our
share.”  The CPI is the broadest of three price gauges from the
Labor Department. Economists forecast the import-price index,
the first of the three for the month and due Aug. 16, fell for a
second straight month in July. A day later, figures may show
prices paid to producers rose 0.1 percent after falling 0.4
percent.  Lower prices would help ease the burden on household
finances at the same time companies remain reluctant to step up
hiring. Employment in the last three months averaged 72,000
compared with 215,000 from February through April, Labor
Department data shows.  Weak Link  The housing market remains the economy’s weakest link. The
Commerce Department may report on Aug. 16 that housing starts
dropped 4.6 percent to a 600,000 annual pace in July, according
to the Bloomberg survey median. Permits, a sign of future
construction, probably declined 1.9 percent from June.  Sales of previously owned houses, due from the National
Association of Realtors on Aug. 18, rose last month after
slumping to a seven-month low in June, economists predicted.  The recovery from supply-chain disruptions related to
 Japan ’s natural disaster earlier this year is helping support
manufacturing, which accounts for about 12 percent of the
economy. Industrial production, to be released by the Fed on
Aug. 16, grew 0.5 percent in July after a 0.2 percent gain in
June, the Bloomberg survey showed.  The figures may also reflect a surge in utility use as
temperatures across the U.S. soared, with July records in Texas
and  Oklahoma , according to the  National Climatic Data Center .
July temperatures were “above normal” or “much above normal”
in 39 of the other 48 contiguous U.S. states. Last month was the
fourth-warmest July in 117 years, the agency said.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  