-- 
Iraq to Probe Kuwait Port Building, Warns May Take Case to UN

-- B y   N a y l a   R a z z o u k
-- 
2011-08-14T11:33:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-14/iraq-to-probe-kuwait-port-building-warns-may-take-case-to-un.html
Iraq  will send a committee to  Kuwait 
today to probe the construction of a port there after
threatening to take the case to the  United Nations  if the harbor
violates its maritime rights, Al-Iraqiya television said.  The committee will conduct a field study for the Iraqi
Cabinet on the potential effects of the Mubarak al-Kabir Port
which Kuwait is building on Boubyan Island in the Persian Gulf,
it said, citing the head of the panel, Thamir Ghadhban.  Iraq may resort to the UN and prosecute Kuwait if the new
port threatens to harm Iraqi maritime activities, Prime Minister
Nouri al-Maliki said in an interview with Al Sumeria television
Aug. 12. Iraq has officially requested that its neighbor halts
construction until the end of the investigation, he said. Kuwait
has still not issued an official response, al-Maliki said.  The Mubarak al-Kabir port has exacerbated tensions which
persist since Iraq under former President  Saddam Hussein  invaded
Kuwait in 1990. Iraq still pays 5 percent of its oil revenue to
Kuwait as compensation, and Kuwait continues to demand payments
on debt and more reparations.  Iraq sent a delegation to Kuwait in May to try to dissuade
it from building the port, saying the project may threaten the
operations of its own planned harbor in the southern region of
Basra. Iraq has said the additional traffic may hamper access to
its ports for the largest vessels. Kuwait said it welcomes any
further Iraqi visits and can show the port won’t violate Iraq’s
rights or obstruct its maritime activity.  Iraq has yet to implement plans announced a few years ago
to build the Basra port, which is intended to spur economic
activity and become a gateway for Gulf products going to  Turkey 
and  Europe . Iraq is eager to boost energy exports to pay for
reconstruction after decades of conflict and sanctions that left
much of the country’s infrastructure destroyed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nayla Razzouk in Amman, Jordan, at 
 nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Riad Hamade at 
 rhamade@bloomberg.net  