-- 
Israeli Inflation Probably Slowed for Third Consecutive Month

-- B y   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d
-- 
2011-08-14T21:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-14/israeli-inflation-probably-slowed-for-third-consecutive-month.html
Israeli monthly inflation probably
eased in July as the price of some consumer items fell after
protests against the high cost of living and growth in housing
expenses may have slowed.  Consumer prices likely rose 0.3 percent from June, the
third consecutive drop in the monthly increase, according to the
median estimate of 13 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. The rate
peaked this year at 0.6 percent in April. Annual inflation
slowed to 4 percent from 4.2 percent, according to the survey.  “The monthly inflation rate will probably drop in part
because of stable or lower food prices as a result of the
‘cottage cheese’ campaign,’” Yaniv Hevron, head of macro-
strategy at Excellence Nessuah Investment House Ltd. in  Ramat
Gan , Israel, said in a telephone interview.  More than 100,000 Israelis joined a Facebook group boycott
of cottage cheese to protest its rising price, prompting dairy
companies including  Strauss Group Ltd. (STRS)  to lower the cost and the
government to set up a committee to examine food prices.  The Jerusalem-based  Central Bureau of Statistics  is
scheduled to release the data at 6:30 p.m. local time.  Bank of Israel  Governor  Stanley Fischer  has increased the
benchmark  interest rate  four times this year, making home loans
more expensive, which is likely to moderate house price
increases, Hevron said.  Housing costs have increased about 40 percent during the
past three years, Fischer said on Aug. 1.  Inflation Expectations  Economists’ 12-month inflation expectations declined to 2.9
percent from 3 percent a month ago, the central bank reported
July 18, the first time this year that they have dropped below
the upper limit of the government’s 1 percent-to-3 percent
annual target range. DS Securities & Investments Ltd. cut its
12-month inflation forecast to 2.4 percent from 2.7 percent on
Aug. 7, citing expectations that the wave of demonstrations will
lead to a moderation of price increases.  Inflation has exceeded the target range every month this
year.  The Bank of  Israel  cut its forecast for economic growth
this year and next on Aug. 2, saying debt-reduction plans in
developed countries may lead to a global slowdown. The economy
will expand 4.8 percent in 2011 and 3.9 percent in 2012, the
central bank said, lowering its forecasts from 5.2 percent and
4.2 percent.  Tent Camps  Protests in Israel have been growing and include tent camps
in major cities and an Aug. 6 “Rally for Social Justice” that
attracted 250,000 people.  In response, Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has
appointed a committee of economic experts who next month will
present the Cabinet with recommended economic changes.  “We intend to bring concrete solutions, not general
statements, to the problem of reducing the cost-of-living and
closing social gaps in Israel,” Netanyahu told the Cabinet
Sunday, according to an e-mail from his office.  Strauss Group Ltd. has declined about 10 percent since the
beginning of July. The country’s largest food retailer,
 Shufersal Ltd. (SAE) , has declined about 16 percent during the same
period.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Calev Ben-David in Jerusalem at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 