-- 
Japan’s Noda Warns of Further Intervention as Yen Again Nears Postwar High

-- B y   K e n   M c C a l l u m
-- 
2011-08-14T15:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-14/japan-s-noda-warns-of-further-action-as-yen-again-approaches-postwar-high.html
Japan’s finance minister warned he’s
ready to intervene in the  currency market  again to stem a yen
advance that risks slowing the nation’s recovery.  “An unstable situation is continuing,”  Yoshihiko Noda , 54,
said during a talk show yesterday on public television
broadcaster NHK. “As foreign exchange market matters are my
prerogative, I will continue to closely watch the markets and
take bold action if it becomes necessary.”  The yen has risen above the level that prompted Japan to
sell the currency on Aug. 4 for the first time since March. Noda,
who signaled he won’t rule out a bid for the nation’s leadership
when Prime Minister Naoto Kan steps down, said the drawbacks of
a strong currency outweigh its benefits at a time when the
nation is getting over a record earthquake in March.  Japan ’s currency climbed to 76.31 per dollar on Aug. 11,
close to its post-World War II high of 76.25 reached March 17,
as the U.S. debt downgrade and the European sovereign debt
crisis increased its demand as a haven. The yen strengthened to
76.97 on Aug. 4 before Japan entered the market to sell the
currency that day.  The yen’s jump of about 8.6 percent against the dollar in
the past six months threatens to crimp the overseas earnings of
exporters such as Toyota Motor Corp. and Sony Corp.  Toyota, the nation’s biggest carmaker, has said that every
one yen gain against the dollar cuts operating profit by 34
billion yen according to its current full-year outlook, which is
based on 80 yen to the dollar. Nissan Motor Co. and Honda Motor
Co. also expected the same  exchange rate .  Yen’s Benefits  Noda said the strong yen has benefits including making it
cheaper for companies to make overseas acquisitions. “Still,
there are more negative sides at this time, when Japan is trying
to recover from the disaster,” he said.  A magnitude-9 temblor and tsunami devastated Japan’s
northeast coast on March 11, leaving about 20,000 people dead or
missing, causing an estimated 16.9 trillion yen ($220 billion)
in damage and triggering the world’s worst nuclear accident
since Chernobyl.  Japan’s economy probably shrank at a 2.5 percent annual
pace in the three months through June, the third straight
quarter of contraction, according to the median estimate of 25
economists in a Bloomberg News survey. The government will
release the report at 8:50 a.m. today in Tokyo.  Noda also said yesterday while he isn’t ready to declare
whether he will run for the presidency of the ruling  Democratic
Party  of Japan to replace Kan, he’s prepared to lead “when the
time is right.”  ‘Nation-Saving’ Coalition  The finance minister said on Aug. 13 a “nation-saving”
coalition should be created with opposition parties such as the
 Liberal Democratic Party  and the New Komeito to ensure the
smooth implementation of disaster-relief measures.  “We would need to bow and knock on the doors of opposition
party politicians to ask for help,” Noda said on a TV Tokyo
program.  Kan has said he will resign after parliament approves
earthquake recovery legislation, a bond-funding bill for this
year’s budget and renewable energy legislation.  The DPJ may hold its leadership election Aug. 28, the
Nikkei newspaper reported Aug. 10, citing party officials it
didn’t name. The new leader would likely become prime minister,
because of the party’s strength in parliament.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ken McCallum in  Tokyo  at 
 kmccallum4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  