-- 
Japan Prepares for Its First Import of Radioactive Waste Since Earthquake

-- B y   Y u r i y   H u m b e r ,   C h i s a k i   W a t a n a b e   a n d   S t u a r t   B i g g s
-- 
2011-08-14T15:02:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-14/japan-prepares-for-its-first-import-of-radioactive-waste-since-earthquake.html
Japan  is preparing to receive its
first import of highly radioactive waste since March, when an
earthquake and tsunami caused a meltdown at the Fukushima
nuclear power plant.  The vessel Pacific Grebe set  sail Aug. 3  to Japan from
Britain with more than 30 metric tons of radioactive waste on
board. The cargo, Japanese spent fuel reprocessed in the U.K.,
is returning sealed in 76 stainless steel canisters packed into
130-ton containers. It will arrive early next month at the
 Mutsu-Ogawara port  in northern Honshu for delivery to Japan
Nuclear Fuel’s nearby Rokkasho storage site.  About 400 kilometers south of the port, thousands of
workers are struggling to contain radiation leaks from the
meltdown of three reactors at the  Tokyo Electric Power Co. 
plant, which amounts to 300 tons of waste.  The Fukushima disaster and the voyage of the 5,100-ton
Pacific Grebe highlights the dilemma facing Japan and the
world’s nuclear industry:  Radioactive waste  is deadly and needs
to be locked away for thousands of years, so how can any storage
site be guaranteed safe and permanent?  “It’s a very big problem with no acceptable solution,”
said  Chris Busby , a visiting professor at the University of
Ulster’s school of biomedical sciences, who studied  Sweden ’s
nuclear waste storage proposals. “And more waste is being
produced every year.”  The issue ensnared U.S. President  Barack Obama  in 2009 when
he canceled plans to build a permanent repository for nuclear
waste at Yucca Mountain in  Nevada  due to opposition from local
residents and politicians. That was after 20 years of work and
an investment of $10 billion.  Not Permanent  Japan’s Rokkasho isn’t designated as a permanent storage
site for nuclear waste -- despite costing almost 3 trillion yen
($39 billion) to build its five facilities on 740 hectares
(1,828 acres) and having 2,450 staff on site. Japan won’t have a
permanent site operational until the 2040’s, according to
Yuichiro Akashi, a spokesman for the  Nuclear Waste Management
Organization of Japan . The group aims to identify a location by
2017, he said.  “It’s a tough situation considering how long it takes to
build one,” Akashi said. “A final repository is something we
can’t do without so the work will continue.”  Meantime, radioactive waste is piling up and Rokkasho’s
storage space for spent nuclear fuel is more than 90 percent
full; it has capacity for 3,000 tons and contains 2,834 tons,
 Japan Nuclear Fuel Ltd.  spokesman Hirotake Tatehana said.  Rokkasho, three kilometers from the Pacific coast in Aomori
prefecture, stores two main types of waste: spent fuel from
reactors, and what’s left over after spent fuel is processed to
extract uranium and plutonium for reuse. The latter is what’s
arriving on the Pacific Grebe.  Storage Shortage  Japan contracted the U.K. and  France  to process its fuel in
the 1970s and the waste from the procedure is shipped back for
storage. The Pacific Grebe cargo is the second of 11 that will
return a total of 900 canisters of waste, each weighing about
400 kilograms. Japan is now building its own spent fuel
processing plant at Rokkasho.  For waste from processed spent fuel, Rokkasho can hold
2,880 canisters and has reserve capacity for another 3,000, said
Tatehana.  Before Fukushima, Japan’s 54 reactors produced 1,000 tons
of spent fuel a year, which after processing would fill
Rokkasho’s capacity within four years, according to Bloomberg
News calculations. One ton of spent fuel creates one canister of
waste, said  Joonhong Ahn , a professor in the nuclear engineering
department at the  University of California , Berkeley.  Japan’s response to the storage space dilemma for spent
fuel is the same as the U.S., which is to keep it in reactor
buildings.  Spent Fuel  The fuel is stored in 40-feet deep pools of circulating
water that cool the uranium rods removed from reactor cores
every three years and block release of radiation. The fuel still
contains 20 times the amount of radiation that would kill a
human if exposed for one hour, according to U.S. regulators.  “Japan has 1,000 tons of spent fuel coming out of reactors
every year, and there are 7 more years before the spent fuel
pools are filled,” said Taro Kono, a Liberal Democratic Party
lawmaker and opponent of nuclear power.  “Tokyo Electric Power Co. is building a facility that will
give us another 5 years, so after 12 years we have no place to
put spent fuel,” said Kono. “At that point nuclear reactors
will be shut because there’s no place for the fuel.”  Work Suspended  Construction of the Tokyo Electric storage site in Mutsu
city, about 40 kilometers north of Rokkasho, has been suspended
since the Fukushima disaster.  In the U.S., 78 percent of the almost 72,000 tons of spent
fuel generated during the past four decades is in cooling pools
across the country, according to the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory
Commission. Another 2,000 tons of spent fuel is added each year,
the Institute for Public Policy estimates.  Japan’s March 11 earthquake and tsunami showed the
vulnerability of spent fuel cooling pools. The tsunami knocked
out power, which led to hydrogen explosions that blew the roof
off reactor buildings exposing spent fuel pools as they lost
cooling water and leaked radiation. Unlike fuel inside a
reactor, the pools have no blast-proof containment.  Loss of water in the spent fuel storage pool at the No. 4
reactor was the biggest risk at the Fukushima plant, the U.S.
Nuclear Regulatory Commission chief  Gregory Jaczko  said March
17.  Spent Fuel  Reactor pool No. 4 contained 142 tons of fuel that would
burn on exposure to the atmosphere and release radiation, Marvin
Resnikoff, a nuclear physicist for Washington-based Physicians
for Social Responsibility, said in a telephone press conference
the same day.  Moving spent fuel from pools inside reactor buildings will
be a priority, the NRC said in a review of the U.S. nuclear
industry after Fukushima.  Companies such as closely held  Holtec International Corp., 
based in Jupiter,  Florida , may benefit from that decision. It
has a process that stores spent fuel in steel and concrete casks
that cost as much as $2 million each, according to the NRC. The
casks are typically still stored in nuclear  power plants .  After the scrapping of Yucca Mountain as a storage site,
Obama set up a commission to find a solution. In a draft report
on July 29, it suggested that communities “volunteer to be
considered to host a new nuclear-waste management facility.”  Japan’s attempt at that approach didn’t work. In 2007, the
mayor of Toyo town on the southern island of Shikoku ran for
reelection on a plan to host a nuclear waste dump in exchange
for about 2 trillion yen in government and corporate subsidies
over 60 years. He lost the election and the plan was rejected.  Rokkasho Challenge  “The idea that these facilities would be around for
thousands of years would not be a popular topic,” said Michael
Friedlander, who has 13 years of experience running nuclear
power plants in the U.S. “The reality of it is until there is
an alternative that’s what we are looking at.”  Japan also faces technological challenges in processing
spent fuel. Reprocessing at Rokkasho has been delayed 18 times
since 1997 and is now due to start in Oct. 2012, according to
Japan Nuclear Fuel.  Another proposed solution to the waste problem is a so-
called  fast-breeder reactor  called Monju, the Japanese god of
wisdom, designed to use processed fuel from Rokkasho. That’s
also faced repeated delays. In theory, a reactor like Monju
would “breed” more fissionable fuel than it consumes and
reduce waste. In reality, Monju isn’t working, LDP’s Kono said.  “Back in 1967 the government was saying that a fast
breeder reactor would be ready in 20 years, in the 1970s they
said it will take 30 years. What will happen in 2050 is that
they’ll say it will probably be available in 70 years,” Kono
said. “We’re not going to have it, and we know it.”  Never Made Sense  Monju’s problems include a fire in 1995 that shut it for 15
years, and in June Japan’s atomic energy agency extracted a 3.3
metric ton fuel-exchange device that had been stuck inside the
reactor vessel for about 10 months following a malfunction.  “The Japanese reprocessing and fast breeder program has
never made sense from safety, security or economic
perspectives,”  Edwin Lyman , a senior scientist for the global
security program at the Union of Concerned Scientists in the
U.S., said in an e-mail. “It makes even less sense now after
Fukushima.”  Elsewhere, the storage search continues. After three
decades of research, the  Swedish Nuclear Fuel and Waste
Management Co.  picked the town of Forsmark in March to build a
repository that will have corrosion-resistant copper canisters
buried 500 meters in crystalline basement rock, isolated from
human contact for at least 100,000 years. Its analysis covers
“periods as long as a million years,” according to the
company’s website.  ‘Silly’  It’s “silly” to assume the waste will not leak from the
canisters and pollute the  Baltic Sea  over such a long period,
Ulster University’s Busby said.  While building a storage facility takes two to three years
and can be done to withstand known tsunami and earthquakes, the
dangers of the future cannot be forecast, U.S. nuclear engineer
Friedlander said. Guaranteeing a permanent site is difficult,
because no one can prove that it can last thousands of years.  Yet, endless debate on long-term storage doesn’t provide a
solution to the nuclear waste that is here and needs to be dealt
with, Friedlander said.  “How do you know that that is the strongest earthquake you
could ever experience and how do you know that you could provide
security for  a hundred thousand years ? It turns into an academic
discussion. How do you know anything?  ‘‘You do the best job you can with the information and
materials that you have available to you today. And you just
decide that you are going to do it.’’  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yuriy Humber in Tokyo at 
 yhumber@bloomberg.net ;
Chisaki Watanabe in Tokyo at 
 cwatanabe5@bloomberg.net ;
Stuart Biggs in Tokyo at 
 sbiggs3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Langan at 
 plangan@bloomberg.net  