-- 
Nestle’s Biggest Takeover in China Creates 23% Return: Real M&A

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-08-15T10:22:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-14/nestle-s-biggest-takeover-in-china-creates-23-return-real-m-a.html
Nestle SA (NESN) ’s biggest acquisition in
China is giving traders a chance to reap a 23 percent profit
without the risk of losing any money on the deal.  Nestle agreed to buy 60 percent of  Hsu Fu Chi International
Ltd. (HFCI) , the Dongguan, Guangdong-based candy maker, for S$2.07
billion ($1.7 billion) in July. After surging above the  all-cash
offer  of S$4.35 a share, Hsu Fu Chi gave up all the gains as
stocks around the world plummeted and Nestle’s baby food recall
in June raised regulatory concern over the cross-border
transaction, Louis Capital Markets said. Hsu Fu Chi ended last
week at S$4 -- the same level prior to the announcement.  While Nestle, the world’s largest food company, needs to
win antitrust approval from  China  for the deal, traders can lock
in an annualized 23 percent return if it closes by year end,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Since China’s anti-
monopoly law began three years ago, the Ministry of Commerce has
blocked only one of the more than 200 takeovers it has reviewed,
law firm King & Wood said. Hsu Fu Chi would give Nestle the
biggest share of China’s market for sweets without dominating an
industry where rivals control more than 90 percent of sales.  “You can see a guaranteed upside,” Alick Wong, a research
analyst at Louis Capital in Hong Kong, said in a telephone
interview. “Technically and fundamentally it is a good trade.”  Hsu Fu Chi’s shares rose 5.3 percent to S$4.21 today in
Singapore, the biggest gain since the deal was announced. Nestle
slipped 0.4 percent to 48.96 Swiss francs ($61.98) at 12:18 p.m.
in Zurich.  Four Taiwanese Brothers  Robin Tickle, head spokesman for Vevey, Switzerland-based
Nestle, declined to comment on the purchase because of the
review. Christine Sun, a spokeswoman for Hsu Fu Chi, said the
company respects all regulatory procedures.  The  Ministry of Commerce , known as Mofcom, didn’t respond
to a faxed request for comment on Nestle’s deal with Hsu Fu Chi.  Hsu Fu Chi  was founded in 1992 by four brothers from  Taiwan 
and makes cereal-based snacks, packaged cakes and traditional
Chinese “sachima” sweets. The stock trades in Singapore.  Nestle, which makes Nescafe instant coffee,  Kit Kat candy
bars  and Jenny Craig weight-loss products, said in a statement
July 11 that it agreed to take a controlling stake in Hsu Fu
Chi. The rest would remain with the Hsu family, the  statement 
said.  The deal, Nestle’s largest in China, would also be the
biggest cross-border deal for a mainland company outside the
banking industry since 2004 based on equity value, data compiled
by Bloomberg show. Nestle, which has more than $8 billion in
reserves, will pay for the transaction in cash.  Most Populous Nation  The purchase will help Nestle, valued at about $210
billion, tap demand in the world’s most populous nation.  Sales at Hsu Fu Chi will increase more than 20 percent next
year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Analysts estimate
that Nestle’s revenue will rise about 3 percent in 2012.  “It’s ultimately China,”  Sachin Shah , a merger arbitrage
strategist at Tullett Prebon Plc in  Jersey City ,  New Jersey ,
said in a telephone interview. “They want to increase their
presence in China, and I’m sure they’re going to work with the
insiders on cultivating this business.”  Hsu Fu Chi, which jumped to S$4.40 after the announcement,
has fallen for four straight weeks on concern regulatory
scrutiny will cause the deal to be delayed or fall apart.  Under China’s anti-monopoly law, an acquisition that leads
to “decisive influence” in the market and involves companies
that exceed certain sales levels needs the approval of the
commerce ministry, according to  Michael Han , a Beijing-based
partner at law firm Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer LLP.  Formal Review  The formal review process may take up to 180 days, he said.
The commerce ministry received Nestle’s application to buy Hsu
Fu Chi, Yao Jian, a ministry spokesman, said on July 15.  Based on last week’s closing price of S$4, the S$0.35 gap
equals an 8.8 percent gain, or an annualized return of 23
percent if the deal closes at the end of 2011.  Through May, the commerce ministry reviewed 240 mergers
under the anti-monopoly law, according to a newsletter in June
from Beijing-based King & Wood, which cited Director General
Shang Ming of the ministry’s anti-monopoly bureau.  It approved 233 acquisitions, cleared six deals with
certain conditions and rejected only one, the newsletter said.
About half were approved within 30 days.  The ministry blocked  Coca-Cola Co. (KO) ’s $2.3 billion bid for
China Huiyuan Juice Group Ltd. in 2009, saying at the time that
the combination would hurt competition.  Juice Versus Candy  The deal would have combined China’s largest and third-
largest juicemakers and given Coca-Cola a 17.5 percent share of
the market that year, according to  Euromonitor International .  Nestle currently has 0.3 percent of the sugar confectionery
market in China, while Hsu Fu Chi had 6.8 percent as China’s
largest sweets maker, the London-based researcher’s data show.  “Coke and Huiyuan had a much bigger dominance than Nestle
and Hsu Fu Chi in their respective markets,” Mei Xinyu, a
researcher at the Ministry of Commerce’s Chinese Academy of
International Trade and Economic Cooperation, said in a
telephone interview. The tie-up has a “low level of monopoly,”
which makes it more likely to gain clearance than Coca-Cola.  Louis Capital’s Wong says shares of Hsu Fu Chi have also
been hurt by a misunderstanding in China about Nestle’s baby
food recall in  June . Chinese media inquiries prompted Nestle to
issue a statement on its local website last week, according to
Jonathan Dong, Nestle’s Beijing-based spokesman.  The statement said the recall stemmed from glass found in
one jar of P’tit Pot Recette Banana baby food in  France , a
product that isn’t sold in China.  ‘Risk for Rejection’  “Investors are over-concerned, the risk for rejection is
low,” Larry Wan, Beijing-based head of investment at Union Life
Asset Management Co., which manages $2.2 billion, said in a
telephone interview.  Traders looking to bet on Hsu Fu Chi may find it difficult
to build positions in the stock because it trades less than most
of the largest publicly listed companies in  Singapore , according
to John Maysles, an event-driven analyst at Elevation LLC.  For the median company in the 30-member FTSE Straits Times
Index, a daily average of 4 million shares traded in the past
three months, data compiled by Bloomberg show. In the same span,
less than 300,000 shares of Hsu Fu Chi changed hands each day.  “If you are buying it for an arb spread and it doesn’t go
through, you are not going to hold it,” Maysles said in an e-
mail. For a thinly traded stock, it is “very hard to sell that
amount without having a significant impact,” he said.  With stocks globally fluctuating more than at any time
since the financial crisis, owning shares in a company that
Nestle, the world’s sixth-largest by equity value, intends to
purchase provides a buffer against market declines, according to
Tullett Prebon’s Shah.  “Heads you win, tails you don’t lose” on the arbitrage,
 Michael Holland , chairman of New York-based Holland & Co., which
oversees more than $4 billion, said in a telephone interview.
“You have to take a look. The reward is pretty palpable.”  -- Michael Wei , Debra Mao. With assistance from Weiyi Lim in
Singapore, Danielle Kucera and Daniel Hauck in  New York  and Paul Jarvis in  London . Editors: Mohammed Hadi,  Michael Tsang .  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Michael Wei in  Shanghai  at +86-21-6104-3044 or
 mwei13@bloomberg.net ;
Debra Mao in  Hong Kong  at +852-2977-6425 or
 dmao5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net ;
Frank Longid at   flongid@bloomberg.net . 