-- 
Dutch Say Better to Remove Greece From Euro Than Extend Loans, Poll Shows

-- B y   M a u d   v a n   G a a l
-- 
2011-08-14T17:59:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-14/netherlands-majority-prefer-removing-greece-from-the-euro-zone-poll-shows.html
A majority of Dutch respondents to a
poll published today said it would be better to remove countries
including Greece from the euro zone, rather than continuing to
support them.  This view was supported by 54 percent of people surveyed in
a poll by researchers Maurice de Hond and No Ties BV, published
on their  website . As many as 60 percent of the participants said
the Netherlands “should stop lending money to other euro zone
countries now.”  Lawmakers responsible for finance are cutting their
vacations short to question Prime Minister  Mark Rutte  and
Finance Minister Jan Kees de Jager on the size of the Dutch
contribution to a second Greek bailout package on Aug. 16.  The European Union and  International Monetary Fund  on July
21 agreed to a 159 billion-euro ($227 billion) package that
includes 50 billion euros from bondholders. Rutte created
confusion by telling reporters after the meeting the total
amount was 109 billion euros, including the private sector
contribution.  He said last week he plans to apologize to parliament for
the confusion he created, without withdrawing his calculations,
which he said related to Greece’s funding needs until 2014
instead of 2020.  Lawmakers may ask for a second, plenary, meeting on Aug. 17
to vote on motions submitted by them in which they request the
government to take certain actions, or to express discontent.  The government formally doesn’t have to ask parliament for
approval for the new support package for  Greece , or an amendment
to the European Financial Stability Facility framework
agreement, De Jager said in a letter dated Aug. 8, adding he
will discuss the matters with them anyway.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maud van Gaal in Amsterdam at 
 mvangaal@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  