-- 
Nigeria’s Finance Minister Vows Tighter Budget Amid Decline in Oil Revenue

-- B y   N a s r e e n   S e r i a
-- 
2011-08-15T09:51:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-14/new-nigeria-finance-minister-vows-tight-budget-amid-slump-in-oil-revenue.html
Nigerian Finance Minister Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala, who takes office this week, vowed to tighten
fiscal policy amid falling oil prices and turbulent global
financial markets.  Prices for oil, which accounts for 80 percent of fiscal
revenue, have slumped 14 percent in  New York  since July 26,
reaching as low as $75.71 a barrel on Aug. 9. At the same time,
economic growth in the U.S., which sources a fifth of its crude
imports from Nigeria, is slowing.  “We need to tighten fiscal policy,” Okonjo-Iweala said in
a telephone interview from  Washington  on Aug. 12, her last day
as a managing director of the  World Bank . “We need to get on a
better fiscal path.”  Nigeria boosted spending this year as the continent’s most
populous nation held elections and increased wages. Parliament
on May 25 approved an amended budget for 2011 that raised
President  Goodluck Jonathan ’s spending estimates by 17 percent
to 4.5 trillion naira ($29 billion).  “She’s going to have a lot of challenges as oil prices
fall,” said Sebastian Spio-Garbrah, managing director of New
York-based DaMina Advisors LLP, a frontier-market risk adviser,
said in a telephone interview. “The government won’t be able to
make the investments they want to without the money.”  Okonjo-Iweala, 57, was finance minister between 2003 and
2006, spearheading talks that led the Paris Club group of
creditors to write off $18 billion in debt. She resigned from
the Cabinet in August 2006 after then-president Olusegun Obasanjo moved her to the Foreign Ministry post and dropped her
as head of his economic team.  ‘Not Sustainable Path’  “Fiscal policy has been extremely loose over the last two
years and it’s just not a sustainable path,”  Samir Gadio , an
emerging-markets strategist at Standard Bank Group Ltd., said in
a phone interview. “This has to be addressed.”  The naira has dropped 1.3 percent against the dollar this
year and was trading at 153.95 as of 10:20 a.m. in Lagos.  Jonathan asked Okonjo-Iweala to return to government after
winning the presidential vote, expanding her mandate to include
the coordination of economic policy. Her priority will be to
find ways to meet Jonathan’s goals of increasing investment in
 power plants , roads and agriculture to help diversify the
economy and create jobs, she said.  Jonathan’s People’s  Democratic Party  won 205 of the 364
seats in the National Assembly in this year’s election, cutting
its majority to 56 percent from 74 percent in 2007.  “She will be operating in a more constrained political
environment than before,” Spio-Garbrah said.  Nigeria  is  Africa ’s biggest oil producer. The federal
government’s domestic debt rose to 5.21 trillion naira at the
end of June, from 4.87 trillion naira as of March, according to
 statements  on the website of the Abuja-based Debt Management
Office. Nigeria has an overall debt-to-GDP ratio of around 23
percent, according to  Razia Khan , the London-based head of
African economic research at Standard Chartered Bank Ltd. The
euro zone’s average debt as a percentage of GDP was 85.1 percent
by the end of 2010, according to Eurostat.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nasreen Seria in Johannesburg at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  