-- 
Taking Holiday When U.K. Riots Gives Cameron Cabinet Its Historical Momen

-- B y   E d d i e   B u c k l e   a n d   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 
2011-08-15T11:59:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-14/holiday-amid-riot-gives-u-k-cabinet-historical-moment.html
In the annals of the  United Kingdom ,
no one can remember the last time the Prime Minister, his
Chancellor of the Exchequer, the Home Secretary and Mayor of
London were on vacation abroad when the nation was convulsed in
riots.  As the worst violence to hit London streets since the 1980s
erupted on Aug. 6, Prime Minister David Cameron was in Tuscany.
Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne took his children to
Disneyland. Home Secretary Theresa May, who oversees the police,
was out of the country while London Mayor Boris Johnson had gone
to  Canada . It wasn’t until television screens showed a third
evening of fires and looting that Cameron ended his Italian
holiday to return to his Downing Street office.  “It is embarrassing,”  Steven Fielding , director of the
Centre for British Politics at Nottingham University, said in an
interview. “You wouldn’t have thought it was necessary to
coordinate holidays with the mayor, but for the prime minister,
the chancellor, the home secretary all to be away at the same
time? You’d think there’d be some kind of coordination.”  While nobody in the Cabinet says the same mistake will be
made next August, the prime minister continued to run the
country from his Tuscan villa. Cameron and Osborne already had
been berated by opposition politicians and newspapers over their
absence from Britain during the previous week’s financial-market
turbulence that wiped 220 billion pounds ($355 billion) from the
value of U.K. shares.  Zapatero, Berlusconi  The leaders of Spain and  Italy  were never far from their
people when their bond markets plummeted, increasing concerns
that they would need to follow  Greece  in seeking bailouts.  Spanish Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero delayed
by a week his vacation in the southern region of Andalusia, an
hour’s flight from  Madrid , to monitor the market turmoil.  Italian Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi paid a two-night
visit to his villa on the island of Sardinia before returning to
 Rome  to push through austerity measures needed to win European
Central Bank assistance.  By contrast, Osborne found himself in a time zone eight
hours behind London as concerns about the global economy sparked
a stock-market rout that saw the  FTSE 100 index (UKX)  plunge almost 10
percent in the first week of August. The Daily Mirror newspaper,
which supports the opposition Labour Party, accused Cameron and
Osborne of having “ Gone AWOL .”  ‘Get Back Quickly’  “I don’t think I could have got back much faster” after a
second night of unrest the night of Aug. 7, Cameron told the
Sunday Telegraph yesterday in an in interview. “There wasn’t a
clamour on Sunday. I spent a lot of the time on the telephone on
euro-zone issues, and the economy. Then everything turned and
changed. But look -- it was important as soon as what was
happening on Monday was apparent, to get back quickly and that’s
what I did.”  Johnson, who faces re-election next year, was an 8 1/2-hour
flight away in Calgary. He described waiting in the departure
lounge of the Canadian city’s airport for a plane home and
watching on television as “the images of a blazing  London 
filled the screen.”  Cameron used a speech today to pledge a “social
fightback,” promising action to turn around the 120,000 “most
troubled” families and dismissing suggestions that government
spending cuts or racial tensions were behind the riots.  ‘Twisted Moral Code’  “This was about behavior,” he said in a speech in
Oxfordshire. “People showing an indifference to right and
wrong. People with a twisted moral code. People with a complete
absence of self-restraint.” In a separate speech in London,
Labour leader  Ed Miliband  renewed his call for a public inquiry.  Cameron, Osborne and Deputy Prime Minister Nick Clegg all
have school-age children, giving them a six-week window between
the end of July and the start of September in which to take
vacations. Foreign Secretary William Hague, who has no children,
was the most senior Cabinet member in London last week.  It’s unusual in British politics to have all the senior
offices held by people in their early 40s. While  Tony Blair  had
children at school throughout his time as prime minister, John Prescott, his deputy, and Gordon Brown, his chancellor, didn’t.
Brown’s eldest son didn’t start school until after he took the
top job. His chancellor, Alistair Darling, had children in their
late teens.  “We insisted there was a senior minister about all the
time,” Prescott told BBC television Aug. 7. “People think
August is a quiet time. It isn’t.”  Caught on the Hop  Even so, the Labour government was also caught on the hop.  Blair was on vacation in southwestern  France  on Aug. 15,
1998, when a bomb exploded in the Northern Irish town of Omagh,
killing 29 people. In his memoirs, he said he had to borrow a
suit from one of his security guards to give a press statement.
He travelled to Northern Ireland the next morning.  As well as his security detail, a prime minister travels
with a small team of officials, including a clerk, and one of
the “garden-room girls,” a team of elite secretaries who work
in an office in Downing Street overlooking the garden. They
enable him to stay in contact with London even as he’s
vacationing.  “You are never on holiday when you are doing these jobs,”
the economic secretary to the Treasury, Justine Greening, told
BBC television last week, as she occupied the position of duty
minister in London at Osborne’s finance ministry. “The prime
minister and the chancellor are fully in control and aware of
exactly what is happening.”  In Contact  Cameron was forced last month to cut short a trip to  Africa 
as the scandal over phone-hacking at News Corp.’s News of the
World newspaper widened. Defending his decision to go ahead with
the visit, he told reporters in  Pretoria ,  South Africa , “Just
because you’re travelling to Africa doesn’t mean that you
suddenly lose contact with your office.”  The premier, though, is not as much in control as a U.S.
leader. Whenever the president leaves  Washington  for his
vacation, the full presidential apparatus travels with him,
giving him the same operational capacity as if he was in the
White House. The president may still make major announcements
during that time. Barack Obama nominated Ben S. Bernanke to a
second term as Federal Reserve chairman two years ago when he
was staying in Martha’s Vineyard,  Massachusetts .  Spreading Violence  The outbreaks of looting and arson that began on Aug. 6 in
the north London suburb of Tottenham spread across the city the
following night. Cameron was not back in his office to chair a
meeting of the government’s emergency response committee until
the morning of Aug. 9, about 60 hours after the start of the
unrest.  “The man who’s supposed to be the arch-spinner and gauger
of the public mood,  David Cameron , screwed up,” said Fielding.
“They underestimated its seriousness. Once it became clear that
this was London-wide, they should have come back.”  Once back in London, the prime minister recalled
Parliament, prompting the return of other ministers and the
Labour Party leader, who was also on vacation. More robust
police tactics introduced after the premier took charge proved
effective, preventing a fourth night of arson and looting in the
capital, though there was disorder in some other English cities.  To be sure, the British government is not the only one in
 Europe  where senior ministers head off for vacation at the same
time.  As the euro debt crisis worsened last week during Berlin’s
school holidays, German Chancellor Angela Merkel, who is
childless, was vacationing in northern Italy. Finance Minister
 Wolfgang Schaeuble , whose four children are all grown up, was on
the North Sea island of Sylt, and he stayed last week.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eddie Buckle in London at 
 ebuckle@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  