-- 
London House Prices Plunge as Financial Turmoil Takes Its Toll

-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-08-14T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-14/london-house-prices-plunge-as-financial-turmoil-takes-its-toll.html
London home sellers lowered asking
prices by the most in a year in August as demand in Britain’s
most expensive  property market  was hit by turmoil in financial
markets, Rightmove Plc said.  Asking prices in the capital dropped 3.4 percent from the
previous month, when they decreased 1.4 percent, the U.K.’s
biggest property website said in an e-mailed report today.
Nationally, values fell 2.1 percent, a second consecutive
monthly decline and the largest since December.  “Prices often fall back at this time of year, but the
renewed turmoil in global financial markets may be starting to
hit home with London buyers who have thus far been insulated
from the worst of the downturn,” Rightmove said.  While values are being supported by a lack of property
supply and record low interest rates, waning  consumer confidence 
and the potential impact on bank lending from an escalation of
Europe’s debt crisis may undermine activity further, Rightmove
said. U.K. business confidence fell last month and the recovery
in the labor market will slow, separate reports published today
showed.  National asking prices were down 0.3 percent in August from
a year earlier to an average 231,543 pounds ($377,000),
Rightmove said. That’s the first annual decline since September
2009. In London, prices were up 3.2 percent to 418,008 pounds.  ‘Bumping Along’  U.K. stocks have plunged this month, with the FTSE 100
Index falling 9 percent amid a global selloff sparked by concern
that Europe won’t be able to contain its debt crisis.  Europe ’s
Stoxx 600 has fallen 11 percent.  Rightmove said the impact of the financial turmoil across
the U.K. is “likely to be limited because prices are already
bumping along the bottom.” In London, prices probably won’t
continue to fall at the same rate as in August as the market
“is seen internationally as a safe haven in times of financial
upheaval,” it said.  Eight out of 10 regions in  England  and  Wales  tracked by
Rightmove showed monthly declines in August, led by London and a
2.6 percent drop in southeast England. In the U.K. capital, all
32 boroughs saw prices fall. The Kensington and Chelsea district
and Westminster both had a 2.9 percent decrease.  “With both buyers and sellers staying away from the market
unless they are strongly motivated to move, we expect prices to
stabilize with continuing subdued transaction volumes,” said
 Miles Shipside , commercial director of Rightmove, referring to
the London market. “It remains to be seen whether the latest
round of global financial jitters will affect the London market
over the next few months.”  For the reports, Rightmove measured 102,031 prices for
homes put on sale on its website between July 10 and Aug. 6.
That accounts for about 90 percent of the market, it said.  Confidence Weakens  U.K. business confidence weakened in July, BDO LLP said in
a separate report, with firms seeing “little economic growth”
over the next six months. Companies’ inflation expectations rose
to the highest in almost three years.  An index of sentiment fell to 95.1 last month from 95.6 in
June, while a gauge of estimated business output for the next
three months fell to 95 in July from 96.3. A reading above 95
signifies expansion. A measure of factory production for the
next quarter signaled contraction.  The Chartered Institute of Personnel and Development and
KPMG LLP said the U.K. jobs recovery may “slow sharply” this
quarter, citing a survey of more than 1,000 employers. An index
measuring the difference between the proportion of employers
that intend to hire and those that plan to reduce their
workforce fell to minus 1 in the third quarter from 3 in the
second quarter.  The recovery “continues to falter,” said BDO partner
Peter Hemington. “The rapid decline of the manufacturing
sector, championed as the key to a rebalancing of the U.K.
economy, is alarming. And the services sector is showing little
sign of picking up the slack.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in  London  at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  