-- 
Palestinian Drive to Pursue Statehood at UN May Aggravate Economic Plight

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r   a n d   F a d w a   H o d a l i
-- 
2011-08-15T11:14:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-14/palestinian-statehood-bid-at-un-may-aggravate-economic-troubles.html
Palestinians, mired in a financial
crisis that forced an emergency 50 percent cut in public
salaries, may find that pursuing statehood at the  United Nations 
next month puts them in a worse condition.  Israel, which opposes the UN bid without a return first to
peace talks, collects about $1.2 billion in fees each year for
the  Palestinian Authority . It has withheld the money in the past
during disputes and to pressure the Palestinians. Both the U.S.
House and Senate have called on President  Barack Obama  to reduce
the Palestinians’ annual $500 million in foreign aid if they
proceed at the UN’s September meeting.  “Even if statehood is declared and receives broad
acceptance at the UN, it’s not clear that it can be implemented
over the objections of Israel and the U.S.,” said Jane Kinninmont, a senior research fellow at the Chatham House
research institute in  London . “There could be a real problem if
people have high expectations” of what the UN effort will
achieve.  Palestinians are seeking UN recognition because they say 20
years of negotiating has led to a stalemate and they see little
hope of a breakthrough with Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu. The latest peace talks fell apart within a month of
starting last year. Palestinians plan to ask the UN for
membership Sept. 20.  End Oslo  Palestinian Authority Prime Minister Salam Fayyad is
wrapping up a two-year program of strengthening the courts,
roads, schools and other institutions that would form the basis
of a Palestinian state, a process the  International Monetary
Fund  says has largely succeeded. That effort may be short-
circuited, though, by fallout from whatever occurs at the UN.  While unwilling to specify what steps  Israel  will take to
respond, Foreign Minister Avigdor Liberman said at a July 17
news conference in  Jerusalem  that forcing a vote at the UN would
be “the end of the Oslo Accords,” referring to the 1993
interim agreements that created the Palestinian Authority and
have governed its relations with Israel ever since.  These include giving Palestinians limited self-rule over
most of the West Bank and Gaza Strip, enabling the movement of
commercial goods through roads and ports Israel administers,
collecting customs fees and cooperating at border stations --
Israel controls all but one.  Israel ending cooperation “would create a vicious circle
of violence, a curse that could spill over into the Palestinian
streets and the entire area,” said Samir Abdullah, the former
Palestinian planning minister who runs an economic research
group in the  West Bank  city of Ramallah and supports the
statehood bid. “It’s not in the interest of either side.”  Not a Stunt  Palestinian Authority President  Mahmoud Abbas  said he
wouldn’t continue the U.S.-brokered discussions unless Netanyahu
extended a 10-month freeze on settlement construction, a
condition the Israeli leader rejected.  Israeli Defense Minister  Ehud Barak  approved construction
of 277 new housing units last week in the West Bank settlement
of Ariel, his office said today.  Since 1993, the number of Jews who moved to the areas
occupied by Israel in the 1967 war doubled to about 500,000,
living amid some 2.5 million Palestinians. Another 1.5 million
Palestinians live in Gaza.  “Our quest for recognition as a state should not be seen
as a stunt,” Abbas said in a May column published in the New
York Times. “Negotiations remain our first option, but due to
their failure we are now compelled to turn to the international
community to assist us.”  Financial Crisis  Israeli Finance Minister Yuval Steinitz delayed transfer of
the custom fees in May -- almost $100 million for the month --
until Palestinian officials offered proof the money wouldn’t go
to the Islamic Hamas movement, which controls Gaza and is
considered a terrorist organization by Israel, the U.S. and
European Union.  Two months later, Fayyad announced that the authority was
in a financial crisis and he would have to slash June paychecks
by 50 percent for 151,000 civil-service employees. In a July 3
news conference at his office in Ramallah, Fayyad singled out
Arab donors as the key missing link, saying only Oman,  Algeria 
and the  United Arab Emirates  had fulfilled foreign-aid
commitments.  ‘Deep and Rooted’  Since then,  Saudi Arabia  sent $30.8 million to help bridge
the gap, representing two months of its total annual pledge.
That enabled the authority to pay full salaries for July so that
families wouldn’t have to reduce their holiday spending during
the holy month of Ramadan, according to Fayyad, who said budget
cuts would have to be found elsewhere. The Saudi contribution
leaves about $228 million from Arab sources still uncollected
and the rest of the June salaries still unpaid, according to the
prime minister’s figures.  The economic problems “are so deep and rooted that it will
be very difficult to overcome them in the near future,” said
Nasser Abdel Kareem, an economist at Birzeit University in the
West Bank. “ Government spending  is the core of the Palestinian
economy. Without it, the economy is close to collapse.”  Roughly a quarter of the authority’s $3.7 billion annual
budget comes from the U.S., Arab and other foreign aid,
according to Accountant-General Yousef Zummor. About 44 percent
of revenue that makes up the rest of the budget comes from the
fees the authority needs Israel’s cooperation to receive.  Clearing Roadblocks  Before the latest crisis, the Washington-based IMF praised
Fayyad’s institution-building program and said in an April 6
report that the Palestinian Authority is capable of running the
economy of an independent state. Though Palestinians have few
natural resources and no independent access to ports, growth in
the West Bank and  Gaza Strip  reached 9 percent in 2010, the IMF
said in the report. Unemployment in the West Bank was 17.2
percent in 2010 and 37.8 percent in Gaza, according to the
 Palestinian Central Bureau of Statistics .  Economic expansion would be even stronger if Israel removed
more of the roadblocks and other barriers to trade that slow the
movement of goods both for internal consumption and export,
Abdullah says. Netanyahu has cleared many of the heaviest-
traveled routes and says he wants to promote economic growth in
the West Bank within the bounds of security considerations.  Israel captured the  West Bank, Gaza  and east Jerusalem in
the 1967 Middle East war from Jordan and  Egypt . While ceding
much of its power with the Oslo agreements, Israel maintained
authority over roads, airspace and borders. Hamas seized control
of Gaza in 2007, taking charge of the southern border with
Egypt, though Israel operates a sea blockade of the territory
and allows only limited exports.  “Running businesses under military occupation isn’t easy,
so it’s not a big surprise that the drop in donor aid is
crippling us,” said Mukhemer Abu Sada, a political scientist at
Al-Azhar University in Gaza City.  Hilme Mustafa, a driver for the Palestinian Ministry of
Civilian Affairs and father of 10, was hit by the economic
crisis last month when his electricity was shut off because he
couldn’t pay the bill with half his June salary. Mustafa, 41,
who lives in the hilltop village of Beit Liqya, said he felt let
down because international supporters of Palestinian statehood
aren’t backing up their words with money.  “They promised aid and a better economy for us, but they
haven’t delivered it,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Ferziger in  Tel Aviv  at 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net ;
Fadwa Hodali in Cairo at 
 fhodali@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  