-- 
Perry Must Find Campaign Funds Beyond Pool of Rich Texas Donors

-- B y   A l i s o n   F i t z g e r a l d
-- 
2011-08-16T13:07:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-14/perry-must-find-campaign-cash-beyond-texas-pool-of-rich-donors.html
(Corrects amount of donation from Wareing & Co. in 23rd
paragraph)  Governor  Rick Perry  has shown
himself as a master of Texas-style campaign fundraising,
collecting more than $100 million during his decade as the
state’s chief executive, mostly from the deep pockets of rich
Texans and corporations.  Now that he is running for president, Perry will need to
find a way to raise that kind of money $2,500 at a time as
federal law, unlike Texas, limits how much an individual can
give to a presidential campaign and bans corporate donations.  Perry, 61, had 204 donors who gave him more than $51
million, which amounts to more than half the total he collected
in 10 years as governor, according to data compiled by Texans
for Public Justice. If all those donors give the maximum federal
contribution for his primary campaign, it would generate
$510,000. If they simultaneously give two checks, the maximum
for the primary and general election campaigns, they would just
break the $1 million mark.  “Mr. Perry is a very successful politician who has already
beaten other successful politicians,” said Michael Malbin,
executive director of the Campaign Finance Institute, a
Washington-based research group. “He knows well he has to live
within the federal contribution limits. He must know he’ll need
a new kind of base.”  Candidacy Announcement  Perry officially announced his run Aug. 13 in Charleston,
 South Carolina , at a meeting sponsored by RedState.com, a self-
described “conservative news blog.” He later flew to  New
Hampshire , site of the first 2012 primary election. He
campaigned yesterday in New Hampshire and  Iowa , where the
nomination process begins with caucuses early next year.  “We cannot afford four more years of this rudderless
leadership,” Perry said in his announcement speech.
“Washington’s insatiable desire to spend our children’s
inheritance on failed stimulus plans has given us record debts
and left us far too many unemployed Americans.”  While Perry is already reaching out to broader voting
groups, including Tea Party activists who propelled Republican
gains in the 2010 midterm elections, he also has been holding
private sessions with potential fundraisers. In  Los Angeles  last
month, the governor met with about 30 potential financial
backers.  Perry’s campaign will ask major fundraisers, “Patriots,”
to raise $500,000 from individual donors for his bid, Politico
reported. “Entrepreneurs” will be asked to raise $250,000,
“Explorers” $100,000. It’s a plan modeled after former
President  George W. Bush ’s record fundraising in 2000 and 2004
that dubbed major bundlers “Pioneers” and “Rangers.” By
contrast, Republican rival  Michele Bachmann , 55, a congresswoman
from  Minnesota  who outraised other Republican House members in
2010, has built a base of small campaign donors.  Independent Groups  Perry also could turn to independent political groups to
boost his campaign, several of which have already filed with the
 Federal Election Commission . Those committees can accept
unlimited individual and corporate donations, just as  Texas 
candidates can.  “Outside groups like Super PACs can raise unlimited sums
of money to expressly advocate for Perry or urge voters to
reject one of his rivals,” said Michael Beckel, a spokesman for
the Center for Responsive Politics, a Washington-based research
group that tracks money in politics.  Texas home builder Bob Perry was Perry’s biggest source of
cash after the Republican Governor’s Association, contributing
more than $2.5 million to the governor’s campaigns since 2000,
according to data compiled by Texans for Public Justice.  Perry and Rove  Bob Perry, no relation to the governor, was a  top donor  in
2004 to the Swift Boat Veterans for Truth, a group that ran ads
questioning Democratic presidential nominee  John Kerry ’s
military record. The businessman is also a major supporter of
 American Crossroads , an independent political group advised by
Republican strategist  Karl Rove .  Bob Perry gave $500,000 to American Crossroads in the first
half of this year after writing checks totaling $7 million last
year, according to FEC reports.  He wasn’t the only supporter of the Texas governor who also
backed the Rove-linked Crossroads group. Robert Rowling, chief
executive officer of TRT Holdings Inc., in Irving, Texas, along
with his wife Terry, has contributed $361,533 to Perry and given
a total $3.5 million to American Crossroads.  Rove helped Perry win his first statewide race, as
agriculture commissioner, in 1990. He was then elected
lieutenant governor in 1998 in a campaign in which Rove and
Perry disagreed over tactics.  Rove believed Perry had an adequate lead to avoid running
negative ads, while Perry’s pollster, Mike Baselice, saw a
closer race, Baselice said in an interview. Perry’s people took
Rove’s advice and won the race by a slim margin, he said.  Texan campaigns  Rove backed Senator  Kay Bailey Hutchison  in her 2010
Republican primary challenge to Perry. The governor defeated her
by about 20 percentage points, and went on to win re-election in
November with 55 percent of the vote.  Perry took over as governor in December 2000 afterBush,
another Rove client, resigned in preparation for his swearing in
as president in January 2001. Rove served as Bush’s chief
political strategist in the White House.  American Crossroads spokesman Jonathan Collegio said the
group doesn’t plan to be involved in the Republican presidential
primaries and will instead focus on the general election.  Perry supporters already are mobilized to help or protect
their favored candidate in the primary and the general election.
In June, they founded Americans for Rick Perry, an independent
political action committee that declares on its website a
mission to “encourage the governor” to pursue the party
nomination. The group raised more than $190,000 in a matter of
weeks, according to FEC disclosure reports.  Texas Billionaire  Harold Simmons, a Texas billionaire and Chairman of Contran
Corp. a holding company that owns firms including a chemical
producer, a waste management company and a manufacturer of ball
bearings, has given more than $1 million to Perry’s
gubernatorial campaigns. Simmons on June 27 gave $100,000 to
Americans for Rick Perry.  Simmons was a bundler for Senator  John McCain , an Arizona
Republican, in his unsuccessful run against  Barack Obama  in the
2008 presidential race. Simmons raised between $50,000 and
$100,000 for McCain’s campaign, according to the Center for
Responsive Politics.  A $10,000 check to Americans for Rick Perry came from
Wareing & Co. Ltd., according to FEC filings. The company is
listed at the same address as Wareing Athon & Co., a Houston
private equity firm run by Peter Wareing, whose holdings include
cement company Gulf Coast Pre-Stress Inc. Wareing, who is also
on the board of electric utility  CenterPoint Energy Inc. (CNP) , said
in an e-mail he intends to help Perry raise money for his
presidential bid.  Beyond Big Donors  Perry has begun to lay the groundwork to expand his support
beyond the big-money Texas donors who have helped him stay in
the governor’s mansion.  His fundraisers sent out e-mails appealing to donors to
help them “very rapidly” collect the first $1 million to help
the presidential campaign get started, the Washington Post
reported Aug. 12. His spokesman, Mark Miner, didn’t respond to a
request for comment.  In addition to his wealthy donors, Perry has received about
70,000 donations of less than $1,000 over the same 10 years,
according to a database compiled by Texans for Public Justice.
Those donors could provide the start of a small donor base for
2012.  Evangelical Campaign  Just a week before his announcement, Perry hosted a prayer
rally at Houston’s Reliant Stadium that attracted more than
30,000 people.  He read scripture and offered a prayer for the nation, its
leaders and American military personnel killed in a helicopter
crash in  Afghanistan . The event included evangelical Christian
leaders including James Dobson, founder of the Focus on the
Family ministry, and Tony Perkins, president of the Family
Research Council. A  website  promoting the rally said it aimed to
“call upon Jesus to guide us through unprecedented struggles.”  Perry has also won allies in the Tea Party movement, where
he was an early hero because of his anti- Washington  stance.  “He has this Tea Party-esque federalist appeal,” said
Matthew Wilson, a political science professor at  Southern
Methodist University  in  Dallas .  Perry said in an interview last year that it was Tea Party
members who inspired him to write his book, “Fed Up! Our Fight
to Save America From Washington.”  “I saw people who were really scared for the first time in
their lives that their government was so out of touch with
them,” Perry said in an interview at the Republican Governors
Association meeting in  San Diego  on Nov. 18. “That was my
Eureka moment.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alison Fitzgerald in Washington at 
 afitzgerald2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  