-- 
PGA Championship May Be Decided by Four-Hole Closing Stretch at Atlanta

-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u   a n d   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-08-14T04:00:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-14/pga-championship-may-be-decided-by-four-hole-closing-stretch-at-atlanta.html
Charl Schwartzel collected his first
U.S. victory at this year’s  Masters Tournament  and said he
already knows how the  PGA Championship  will be won today.  “These last four holes are going to decide this  golf
tournament ,” said Schwartzel, who is tied for eighth place at 2
under par, five shots behind co-leaders Brendan Steele and  Jason Dufner  at the year’s final major championship. “Definitely some
of the toughest I’ve ever played.”  Holes 15 to 18 at Atlanta Athletic Club have played an
average of 1.32 strokes over par through the first three rounds.
The par-3 15th hole and par-4 18th hole have yielded the fewest
birdies on the course and the most scores above par.  “You can make up six shots in the last four holes,” said
 Adam Scott , who is also tied for eighth at 2 under after winning
last week’s World Golf Championships event in Akron,  Ohio . “If
you’ve posted a number, it wouldn’t be a very comfortable
position to be in standing in the 15th tee with a one-shot lead
and someone in the clubhouse.”  Dufner has navigated the four-hole closing stretch with
more success than any player, at 3 under par, with three birdies
and no bogeys. Only four other players are below par for the
week from the 15th hole on and just two others have yet to make
a bogey.  Final-Four Confidence  “I’ve been confident on those holes,” said Dufner, who
birdied 15 and 16 during yesterday’s third-round 68. “I’m sure
I’ve picked up a lot of strokes on the field on those holes
playing them 3 under. So that can carry over.”  The stretch starts with the par-3 15th hole, which has
played as long as 260 yards from an elevated tee to an angled
green protected by water in front and to the right.  The 16th hole is a 476-yard par-4 that doglegs to the right
and climbs to a raised green surrounded by deep bunkers.  The 17th is another long par-3 that plays over water while
the finishing par-4 is a converted par-5 that stretches as long
as 507 yards. The fairway is lined by a pond on one side,
bunkers on the other and the approach shot is played over water
to a green surrounded by a stone wall.  The 18th hole has played to an average score of 4.57,
making it the most difficult hole on the course and currently
the fourth-hardest finishing hole at a major championship dating
back to 1983. There have been 37 double bogeys and 16 “others”
-- triple-bogeys or worse -- through three rounds.  Triple-Bogeys or Worse  The most “others” scored on any hole over four rounds on
the U.S. PGA Tour since 1983 was 22 at Royal Troon Golf Club’s
11th hole during the 1997 British Open.  “It’s demanding,” said world No. 1  Luke Donald  of
 England , who closed his third round with a double-bogey on 18 to
fall to 1 under par. “There’s no letup.  There’s no bailout on
that hole. You just have to hit good shots.”  Donald, one of 19 players under par entering the final
round, agreed with Schwartzel that the last four holes likely
will decide the championship. After shooting 5 over par on the
last four holes during the first two rounds, Schwartzel played
them in 1 under during his third-round 66.  “I guess the theory would be to play those holes even,
maybe 1 under, before the leaders do,” said Donald, who’s
seeking his first major title. “It’s a tough stretch under
pressure coming down the final holes in the last few groups.”  Donald said the stretch may be especially challenging with
the relative lack of experience among the leaders. Steele is
playing in his first major, as is Keegan Bradley, who’s in
second place at 6 under. Dufner hasn’t won on the  PGA Tour .  “Any time you get holes that are this difficult, it’s
going to make for an exciting finish,” Donald said. “Exciting
in terms of -- can you hold on? It’s not going to be exciting
how many birdies you can make to win.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mike Buteau in Atlanta at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net ;
Erik Matuszewski in Atlanta at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  