-- 
Traders Lower Bets Against Dollar by Record Amount as U.S. Treasuries Soar

-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 
2011-08-15T18:32:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-14/traders-slash-bets-against-dollar-by-record-amount-as-u-s-treasuries-soar.html
Foreign-exchange traders reduced
their bets against the dollar by the most on record as demand
for U.S. Treasuries soared amid concern the global economic
recovery is faltering.  Aggregate bets the greenback will weaken against the euro,
the yen, the Australian, Canadian and New Zealand dollars, the
pound, the Swiss franc and the Mexican peso plunged by 154,105
contracts to 153,216 in the week ended Aug. 9, the biggest drop
ever in Commodity Futures Trading Commission data compiled by
Bloomberg beginning in November 2003. The data show that for the
first time since January traders are betting the U.S. currency
will appreciate versus the 17-nation euro on speculation
 Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis is spreading.  “The selloff in risk assets is due to the repricing of
global growth,” said Ray Attrill, head of currency strategy at
BNP Paribas SA in New York. “The volatility levels have just
been off the scale in foreign exchange, and that has deterred
people from taking up the Fed’s invitation to use the dollar as
a funding vehicle for risk appetite.”  The  Federal Reserve  said in its Aug. 9 statement that it’s
prepared to use a range of policy tools to boost the economy,
including keeping the target interest rate for overnight loans
between banks at record lows until mid-2013. The central bank’s
decision came after the unprecedented cut of the U.S. AAA credit
rating by  Standard & Poor’s  on Aug. 5 pushed down equity markets
further amid concern a global slowdown will deepen.  Group of Seven  Group of Seven nations sought last week to head off a
collapse in investor confidence that saw investors demand assets
associated with traditional havens including  Switzerland ,  Japan 
and the U.S. The coalition issued a joint statement Aug. 8 that
said they will take every action necessary to stabilize
financial markets.  “The adjustment process, equities, risk currencies and
commodities with the exception of gold reflect a more realistic
assessment of economic output here and abroad,” said  John McCarthy , managing director of  currency trading  at ING Groep NV
in New York. “Waiting for the Fed to do something so asset
prices can go up is not a reason to buy risky assets.”  ‘Cautious View’  Treasuries soared, driving the yield on the benchmark 10-
year note to a record low 2.0346 percent on Aug. 9. The Treasury
sold $72 billion of notes and bonds last week, with the auctions
for three-year and 10-year debt priced at record low yields with
above-average demand from investors. The 10-year yield climbed
three basis points to 2.29 percent at 2:25 p.m. in New York.  “Our preferred strategy is to keep selling rallies in the
euro, sterling, Australian and Canadian dollars against the
greenback given our cautious view on the outlook for financial
markets,” Mansoor Mohi-uddin, chief currency strategist in
 Singapore  at UBS AG, wrote in a note to clients.  The greenback appreciated 0.6 percent last week, according
to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes, which track
the performance of a basket of 10 developed-market currencies.
The franc fell 0.9 percent, the Aussie dropped 0.4 percent, the
yen gained 3 percent and the euro strengthened 0.3 percent.  The dollar slipped 1.4 percent to $1.4449 versus the euro
today. The U.S. currency strengthened 1 percent against the
Swiss franc to 78.55 centimes and gained 0.1 percent to 76.77
yen. It weakened 1.3 percent against the Aussie to $1.0493.  Volatility Surges  Implied volatility among currencies surged last week,
reaching the highest since June 2010, according to a JPMorgan
Chase & Co. gauge. The JPMorgan Global FX Volatility Index
reached 14.58 before ending the week at 13.34. The gauge was at
12.61 today, up from this year’s low of 9.99 in March.  Wagers by  hedge funds  and other large speculators on a
decrease in the dollar are down from a record high 405,267 in
March, data released Aug. 12 show. The last time there were net
bets on a gain in the dollar was July 2010.  The number of bets on an advance in the dollar against the
euro compared with those on a decline -- so called net-longs --
rose to 8,273, from net short position of 1,763. Futures traders
cut their wagers the yen will gain to 42,149 from 58,833. Net
longs for the franc declined to 4,655 from 12,341.  The euro dropped last week by the most against the yen in
almost a month amid speculation the debt crisis will spread to
 France . The Swiss franc plunged from record highs against the
euro and dollar after the  Swiss National Bank  said a temporary
peg to the euro was possible to stem the franc’s gains.  The euro strengthened 0.6 percent to 109.98 yen today and
surged 2.8 percent to 1.13912 francs.  Sarkozy, Merkel  French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  and German  Chancellor
Angela Merkel  will meet Aug. 16 in Paris to discuss economic
governance of the euro region, according to statements from both
leaders’ offices. France, Spain, Italy and  Belgium  imposed bans
on short selling to stabilize markets after European banks hit
their lowest level since the credit crisis. A short is a bet an
asset will decline.  “If this ban is temporary and calms the markets and
restores the credit markets, the euro will breathe a sigh of
relief,” said Boris Schlossberg, director of research at the
online currency trader GFT Forex in  New York .  Bets against the dollar rose to 310,222 contracts on July
26, the highest level in more than two months, on concern
political wrangling in  Washington  on raising the U.S. debt limit
would erode the value of the world’s reserve currency.  Debt Compromise  President  Barack Obama  signed a debt-limit compromise that
prevented a U.S. default on Aug. 2, the day the Treasury had
warned the nation’s borrowing authority would expire, ending a
months-long debate that reinforced partisan divisions.  Strategists on average expect the dollar to fall 1 percent
by the fourth quarter against 47 currencies, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. That compares with a predicted 2 percent
decline on July 12. Against developed-nation currencies, the
dollar is forecast to gain 1 percent.  Cumulative inflows into the U.S. currency in the past five
days totaled almost four times the average amount compared with
the previous year, according to iFlow data from Bank of New York
Mellon Corp., the world’s largest custodial bank, with more than
$26 trillion in assets under administration.  “Our iFlow bond and equity indicators also confirm a shift
in asset allocation preferences with U.S. equities now the
strongest net bought across the board given portfolio managers
with longer-term investment horizons looking to avail of
bargains at very attractive re-entry levels,”  Samarjit Shankar ,
a managing director for the foreign-exchange group in  Boston  at
BNY Mellon, wrote to clients.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robert Burgess at   bburgess@bloomberg.net  