-- 
Rice Poised to Rise With Thailand Imposing Curbs as U.S. Crop Shrinks 20%

-- B y   L u z i   A n n   J a v i e r   a n d   S u p u n n a b u l   S u w a n n a k i j
-- 
2011-08-15T13:54:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-14/rice-poised-to-rise-with-thailand-imposing-curbs-as-u-s-crop-shrinks-20-.html
The smallest increase in rice
stockpiles in five years means global grain inventories will
extend a decline that already drove food costs to a record.  Combined global stores of wheat, corn and rice will drop
2.5 percent to a four-year low as farmers fail to keep pace with
demand, the U.S. Department of Agriculture estimates. Rice
prices will rise more than 20 percent by December as inventories
expand 1.1 percent, compared with a 29 percent gain in the past
four years, a Bloomberg survey of 13 millers and traders showed.  While wheat and corn prices as much as doubled last year,
rice retreated as the  United Nations ’ global food-inflation
index jumped 25 percent. Rice advanced 15 percent since May,
potentially worsening the lives of the 1.1 billion the  World
Bank  says live on less than $1 a day. Wheat fell 20 percent
since the middle of February on prospects for a bigger crop.  “World rice prices had been far more stable than other
cereals,” said  Concepcion Calpe , a senior economist at the UN
Food and Agriculture Organization in Rome. “Now this is
changing and rice is rallying, the international situation is
likely to worsen. Wheat may become the stabilizing foodstuff.”  Thailand , the biggest shipper, is bringing back a policy of
buying rice from farmers at above-market prices for storage.
Exports from  Vietnam , the second-largest, may drop 6.9 percent,
according to the FAO. Farmers in the U.S., the third-biggest
shipper, will harvest 20 percent less after planting more corn
and wheat in response to rising prices, the government says.  Damaged Crops  In Japan, radiation from a crippled nuclear plant may have
tainted rice, potentially boosting imports. China may buy
600,000 tons, 55 percent more than a year earlier, after drought
and rain damaged crops. Bangladesh may purchase 1.5 million
tons, 850,000 more than in 2010, the FAO estimates.  Indonesia  will ship in rice for a second consecutive year
to bolster stockpiles, Trade Minister Mari Pangestu said July
13. Imports may almost double to 2.2 million tons this year,
from 1.15 million last year, the USDA said Aug. 11.  The export price of Thai rice, the benchmark grade in  Asia ,
will reach $700 a metric ton by the end of December from $567
now, according to the median estimate in the Bloomberg survey.
That would be the highest since October 2008, a year when
increasing food prices spurred riots from  Haiti  to  Egypt .  Though USDA forecasts show there will be no global shortage
of rice, with production of 456.2 million tons and demand for
455.2 million tons, about 925 million people went hungry last
year, the second-highest figure on record, the UN estimates.  Food Costs  The organization’s index of 55 food commodities climbed 39
percent in the past year to 233.8 in June, just below the record
237.7 reached in February. The next update is in September.
Rough-rice futures advanced 1.8 percent to $17.44 per 100 pounds
by 8:52 a.m. in  Chicago , the first gain in three days.  The USDA cut its estimates on Aug. 11 for the U.S. corn
harvest by 4.1 percent and the spring-wheat crop by 5.2 percent.
The U.S., the world’s largest agricultural exporter, endured the
hottest July since 1955 in parts of the Midwest, the main
growing region.  While combined grain inventories are dropping for a second
consecutive year, they will still be 27 percent higher than in
2007. Rice prices reached a record $1,038 the following year, 48
percent more than the $700 anticipated in the Bloomberg survey.
Wheat would have to climb 84 percent to match its record of
$13.495 a bushel in 2008 and corn 12 percent to reach its peak
of $7.9925 a bushel, set that year.  Wheat Harvests  Global wheat harvests will increase 3.7 percent in the
2011-2012 season, the most in three years, the USDA estimates,
potentially helping fulfill Calpe’s prediction that the grain
may damp food prices. Wheat slumped as U.S. farmers planted more
acres and crops in  Europe  survived the driest growing season in
three decades.  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Agriculture Index of eight
commodities fell 11 percent since the beginning of March, while
the MSCI All-Country World Index of equities lost 13 percent.
Treasuries returned 6.8 percent, a Bank of America Merrill Lynch
index shows.  Increased exports are also curbing grain prices.  Russia ,
once the world’s second-largest wheat shipper, lifted an almost
year-long ban in July and Ukraine eased limits on sales.
 Australia , the third-biggest wheat supplier, expects farmers to
reap their second-highest harvest ever from October, the
government estimates.  Some countries may substitute wheat for rice should prices
extend their rally. That switch may happen once Thai export
prices breach $600, said Badrul Hasan, the director for
procurement at the Bangladesh Directorate General of Food, which
imports grains for the government.  Consumer Prices  Governments worldwide are trying to cool consumer prices,
in part driven by commodity costs. Even after tumbling since
March, the S&P GSCI Agriculture Index is 33 percent higher than
a year ago and food inflation in  China , the engine of economic
growth, reached a three-year high of 14.8 percent in July.  Costlier rice may contribute to faster inflation in
countries dependent on imports because there are few
alternatives should the biggest exporters curb sales or have
less to ship. Only 7 percent of the rice that’s grown is
exported, compared with about 20 percent for wheat and 11
percent for corn, U.S. government data show.  Thai exports, representing more than 30 percent of the
world’s total, may drop about half after the government pledged
to pay farmers above-market prices for supplies to boost
incomes,  Chookiat Ophaswongse , honorary president of the Thai
Rice Exporters Association, said July 27. The last time a
similar policy was implemented in 2008 and 2009, prices rose to
a record.  Uncle Ben’s  “It’s not like there’s a shortage in Asia,” said  Milo
Hamilton , a former buyer for Uncle Ben’s, the rice unit of
McLean, Virginia-based food and candy maker Mars Inc. “There’s
more and more political intervention in the market to provide
farmers higher prices. It’s not a supply and demand issue.”  U.S. rice production will slump 20 percent to 6.04 million
tons this harvest, the steepest decline since 1984, the USDA
estimates. Exports will drop 12 percent, draining stockpiles by
the end of the season to a three-year low, the data show.  Vietnam will export 6.7 million tons in the year from
November from 7.2 million tons a year earlier, the FAO said in a
report in July.  In  Japan , inventories may drop to a four-year low by the
middle of 2012 after the earthquake and tsunami in March curbed
harvests, the government said July 27. It ordered 17 prefectures
to test rice samples for radiation before the harvest, which
begins this month. The meltdown at the Fukushima Dai-Ichi power
plant north of  Tokyo  was the worst atomic energy disaster since
Chernobyl a quarter century ago.  “There’s an amazing number of factors like 2007-2008 in
play,” said Jeremy Zwinger, chief executive officer of The Rice
Trader, a weekly industry report based in  California . “The
situation has an explosive level of volatility.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Luzi Ann Javier in  Singapore  at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net ;
Supunnabul Suwannakij in Bangkok at 
 ssuwannakij@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story: James Poole at
   jpoole4@bloomberg.net ; 