-- 
RTS Stock Futures Gain as Europe Concern Eases: Russia Overnight

-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 
2011-08-14T20:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-14/rts-stock-futures-gain-as-europe-concern-eases-russia-overnight.html
Russia ’s RTS stock-index futures
rose, signaling stocks may extend gains in Moscow, as investor
concern over Europe’s banking sector eased following a rebound
in lenders’ shares, and an increase in U.S. retail sales helped
bolster the outlook for the global economy.  Futures on the dollar-denominated index expiring in
September climbed 0.5 percent on Aug. 12 to 159,145, after
Moscow’s Micex Index surged the most since April. Contracts on
OAO Rosneft, Russia’s biggest oil producer, fell 0.2 percent in
New York, and futures for OAO Lukoil, the second biggest, jumped
0.7 percent. Contracts for OAO Gazprom, the world’s largest gas
producer, advanced 0.4 percent.  Societe Generale (GLE) , the French bank whose shares tumbled 15
percent on Aug. 10, advanced for a second day, as  France ’s
stock-market regulator started an investigation into the rout.
President  Nicolas Sarkozy  and  Germany ’s Chancellor Angela Merkel
plan to meet this week amid market concern that the euro-region
debt crisis is spreading. Retail sales in the U.S., the world’s
biggest economy, climbed 0.5 percent in July, the most for four
months, a government report on Aug. 12 showed.  “This recovery may carry into next week,” Yan Gloukhovski
-- a trader at Alforma Capital Markets Inc., the New York unit
of Alfa Bank, Russia’s biggest private lender -- said by phone
on Aug. 12. “People are looking for some reassuring, stronger
statements and more importantly, actions coming out of Europe.”  U.S. Stocks, Oil  Stocks in the U.S. rallied at the end of last week, with
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index posting its biggest two-day
advance since March 2009.  Crude oil fell 0.4 percent to $85.38 a barrel in  New York ,
ending a two-day advance, after reports published on Aug. 12
showed France’s economy didn’t grow in the second quarter and
manufacturing in the euro region slipped in June. Urals crude,
Russia’s chief export blend, was little changed at $106.99 a
barrel, dropping 0.9 percent in the week.  The Market Vectors Russia ETF, a U.S.-traded fund that
holds Russian shares, rose 0.5 percent to $31.58, paring last
week’s loss to 10 percent.  Russian companies’ American depositary receipts gained,
helping the Bank of New York Mellon Russia ADR Index advance 1.1
percent. The ADRs of OAO Rostelecom, Russia’s dominant fixed-
line telephone operator, jumped 14 percent in New York, to
$31.25, or $5.20 per ordinary share. Each ADR represents six
ordinary shares. The Moscow-traded shares jumped 15 percent to
146.91 rubles, the equivalent of $5.04, after  Alfa Bank  said the
stock’s decline was “overdone.”  Equity Fund Withdrawals  The ADRs of OAO Gazprom Neft, the oil producer controlled
by Russia’s gas-export monopoly, rose 3.8 percent to $21.62, the
stock’s third straight daily advance.  More than $7 billion was withdrawn from emerging-market
equity mutual funds in the week ended Aug. 10, the most since
the third week of 2008, Cambridge, Massachusetts-based
researcher EPFR Global said in an Aug. 12 note. Investors
withdrew $412 million from Russia-focused equity funds during
the period, Moscow-based UralSib Financial Corp. said in a
report, citing EPFR data.  About $6.8 trillion was wiped off the value of global
equity markets from July 26 through Aug. 12 after S&P downgraded
the U.S. credit rating from its top rank on Aug. 5, and as
 Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis continued.  “Most of the asset classes are in a period of higher
uncertainty,” Alforma Capital’s Gloukhovski said.  Slowing Production  France, Spain, Italy and  Belgium  imposed bans on short-
selling starting Aug. 12. The halt is aimed at stabilizing the
market, reducing volatility in some stocks and preventing routs
based on false rumors, Societe Generale President Jean-Pierre Jouyet said in an interview that day.  Russian industrial production unexpectedly slowed last
month as growth in manufacturing abated. Output at factories,
mines and utilities rose 5.2 percent in July from a year earlier
after gaining 5.7 percent in June, according to government
figures released on Aug. 12. The median estimate of 18
economists in a Bloomberg survey was 6.3 percent.  The 30-stock  Micex index (INDEXCF)  rose 2.2 percent to 1,470.56 on
Aug. 12. The gauge has retreated more than 20 percent from this
year’s high of 1,865.25 reached in April, the mark of a  bear
market .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in Beijing at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  