-- 
Russians Come In From 20-Year Latvian Freeze as Austerity Plan Threatened

-- B y   K i r a   S a v c e n k o
-- 
2011-08-15T12:46:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-14/russians-come-in-from-20-year-latvian-freeze-as-austerity-plan-threatened.html
Latvia’s Russian minority may join
the government in September for the first time since the country
regained its independence from the  Soviet Union , threatening the
austerity measures needed to adopt the euro.  Ethnic Russians have been shunned because of fears their
allegiance was to the government in Moscow. Harmony Center, the
party that represents the Russians who make up a third of the
population, is tied for the lead before elections on Sept. 17.
Its chances of being part of the next coalition improved as the
fight against corruption made some parties untouchable after a
referendum to dissolve parliament.  “I would welcome Harmony Center in government,” Elina
Egle, President Andris Berzins’ economic adviser, said by phone
from the capital, Riga. It has a pragmatic attitude on the
economy and “tries to think outside the box,” she said.  Including Harmony Center in government would be a test of
 Latvia ’s resolve to reduce the budget deficit -- and of the
political elite’s ability to overcome decades of animosity
between the two ethnic groups. Most native Russian speakers were
settled in the country by the Soviet leadership after World War
II, replacing Latvians who died during Nazi and Soviet
occupation, were deported, or fled to the West.  The ratio of ethnic Latvians in the country fell to 52
percent in 1989 from 77 percent in 1935, according to the
statistics office in the capital, Riga. They currently make up
60 percent of the population, preliminary data show. The Russian
community of more than 600,000 people accounts for about a third
of Latvia’s population.  ‘Big Victory’  Many weren’t granted automatic citizenship and have
remained on the sidelines of politics since the Baltic country
regained independence in 1991 and continued to be excluded from
power after European Union entry in 2004, which also increased
tensions between Latvia and  Russia .  “It would be a big victory for Harmony Center to be
accepted in government,” Zaneta Ozolina, a professor of
political science at the University of Latvia, said by phone.
“People have voted for them in large numbers.”  Latvian parties will find it difficult to ignore the
Russian speakers, including ethnic Belarusians, because of
electoral arithmetic. Harmony Center was backed by 17.5 percent
of those surveyed in a Latvijas Fakti poll published July 22,
tied with former President Valdis Zatlers’s Reform Party.  Prime Minister Valdis Dombrovskis’ Unity party had 11.7
percent support, followed by its coalition partner, the Union of
Greens & Farmers at 8.1 percent and the National Alliance at 6.3
percent. No margin of error was given for the poll of 1,000
people.  Budget Concern  While Harmony Center’s participation in a ruling coalition
may be a milestone for ethnic relations, it raises concern that
economic policy may be derailed.  The party’s leaders say they will target a  budget deficit 
of 5 percent to 6 percent of gross domestic product as opposed
to the government’s plan to meet the European Union’s 3 percent
limit next year. The party also seeks to delay repayment of
Latvia’s 7.5 billion-euro ($10.7 billion) International Monetary
Fund bailout by two years to 2014.  After  Greece  persuaded the EU to delay loan repayments and
lower  interest rates , Latvia can “at the very least” expect a
postponement, Nils Usakovs, Harmony Center’s prime ministerial
candidate and mayor of the capital, Riga, said by phone.  Running a wider budget deficit would allow the government
to provide more support to businesses and increase social
spending, he added.  Austerity, Recovery  Dombrovskis helped implement austerity measures equal to 16
percent of gross domestic product after Latvia’s property bubble
burst in 2008, plunging the country into the world’s deepest
recession.  The economy has expanded for the past four quarters,
accelerating to 5.3 percent growth from a year earlier in the
second quarter, the fastest since 2007.  The inflation rate was 4.8 percent in June, tied for the
second highest in the 27-member EU, and the  unemployment rate 
was the sixth highest at 12.6 percent.  ‘Wrong Signal’  Renegotiating the IMF agreement would send the “wrong
signal” to international investors, said  Lars Christensen ,
chief analyst at Danske Bank A/S in Copenhagen. With looser
fiscal policy, “all the pain that Latvians have taken over the
last few years would basically be wasted.”  The cost of insuring Latvia’s debt against non-payment for
five years has increased 62 basis points since the July 23
referendum to 274 on Aug. 12, according to prices from data
provider CMA. Neighboring  Lithuania ’s credit-default swaps
advanced 64 basis points in the period to reach the same level.
A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  Harmony Center’s prospects for entering government are
“pretty good,” said Nils Muiznieks, director of the University
of Latvia’s Advanced Social and Political Research Institute in
Riga. “They really want to be in power. The party will sign on
to any conditions, no matter what they are saying now.”  Improved Chances  The party’s chances improved after then-President Zatlers
called the referendum to dissolve parliament as he sought to
curb the influence of “oligarchs” he says wield too much power
in government and the economy. Almost 95 percent of voters
supported the measure after Zatlers and Dombrovskis said they
wouldn’t work with political parties linked to the oligarchs.  That probably excludes the Greens & Farmers from the next
government because it is led by former Ventspils Mayor Aivars Lembergs, one of three men Zatlers named as oligarchs.  The  National Alliance  may be shunned after a member of the
party’s board used the Twitter Inc. microblogging service to
write that the victims of the attacks that killed 77 people last
month in  Norway  are on the “conscience of multiculturalists”
and their “islamization policy.” Janis Iesalnieks resigned and
said he wouldn’t run for parliament after the incident.  While Unity will talk to Harmony Center about forming a
coalition, “nationalists are unacceptable,” said Justice
Minister Aigars Stokenbergs, Unity’s co-chairman.  Reconciliation  After topping the vote in last year’s October parliamentary
elections, Dombrovskis offered to include Harmony Center in the
new government if the party acknowledged that Latvia was
occupied by the Soviet Union. Party leaders rejected the
conditions.  Reconciliation is difficult as citizenship 20 years ago was
granted only to people whose families held it before the 1940
Soviet occupation. Almost 327,000 Russians, who had to go
through a naturalization process, didn’t have Latvian
citizenship in January, down from about 715,000 in 1991,
according to the Office of Citizenship and Migration Affairs.  “Admitting there was an occupation would have consequences
for our voters,” Cilevics said. “All people who came to Latvia
after 1940 would be considered as occupiers and may face
limitations on their rights.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kira Savcenko in London at 
 ksavcenko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  