-- 
S. Korea, U.S. to Begin Annual Joint Military Drill: Week Ahead

-- B y   J u n   Y a n g
-- 
2011-08-14T22:01:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-14/s-korea-u-s-to-begin-annual-joint-military-drill-week-ahead.html
South Korea  will begin a regular
military exercise with the U.S. tomorrow, drills that annually
draw threats of retaliation from North Korea.  The two-week Ulchi Freedom Guardian maneuvers come
following an exchange of artillery fire last week near the
disputed sea border between North and South.  South Korea’s military said Aug. 10 it fired three
artillery rounds after hearing explosions coming the North. The
north fired a second round into waters near Yeonpyeong Island,
which was the target of a deadly shelling in November, Yonhap
News reported.  The start of the yearly exercise will follow a speech by
South Korean President  Lee Myung Bak  on Aug. 15 to celebrate
 Independence Day . In last year’s speech, Lee called for a
special tax to cover the costs of eventual Korean unification,
which  North Korea  called “sheer nonsense” and a “petty
trick” to conceal the true aim of bringing about regime change
in the communist country.  Woori Finance  South Korea will release data showing how much liquefied
natural gas it imported in July amid rising demand as the cost
of crude oil rises. The country buys LNG under multi-year
contracts from suppliers including Qatar, Oman,  Russia ,
 Indonesia ,  Malaysia , Brunei and Yemen.  State-run Korea Deposit Insurance Corp. will close
preliminary bidding for Woori Finance Holdings Co. on Aug. 17. A
group of private-equity funds including Vogo Investment, MBK
Partners Ltd. and TStone Corp. indicated interest in Korea
Deposit’s 3 trillion won ($2.8 billion) stake in Woori, a person
familiar with the matter said in June.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. may invest 600 billion won in a
consortium led by MBK Partners, the Seoul Economic Daily
reported on Aug. 12.  Second-quarter earnings announcements will continue, with
 Korea Electric Power Corp. (015760)  and Lotte Shopping Co. to report.
South Korea’s benchmark Kospi index fell 7.7 percent last week.  The following is a list of major events in South Korea this
week:  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jun Yang in Seoul at 
 jyang180@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  