-- 
Saab Customers Flee Dying Automaker as Swedish Town Frets About Jobs: Cars

-- B y   O l a   K i n n a n d e r   a n d   J o s h u a   A r m s t r o n g
-- 
2011-08-14T22:00:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-14/saab-customers-flee-dying-automaker-as-swedish-town-frets-about-jobs-cars.html
Chuck Ronson, a New York trader
who’s driven Saab cars since 2001, ditched the automaker last
month when the lease on his sedan ended.  “The brand is losing money, and dealerships are closing,”
said Ronson, who opted for a BMW instead. “Are they going to
have money or not for payroll this week? There’s too much
uncertainty. I wouldn’t buy a Saab again.”  Saab Automobile, the 64-year-old Swedish carmaker sold by
 General Motors Co. (GM)  last year to Spyker Cars NV, is fighting to
survive after halting production in March amid a payment dispute
with suppliers. Following a series of starts and stops, the main
Swedish factory has been quiet since early June, and the company
has delayed paying wages twice as it scrambled to raise money.  The market volatility caused by the European sovereign debt
crisis complicates Saab’s efforts to raise funds as banks become
increasingly reluctant to loan money. With the factory shut
down, the automaker’s dealerships are going bust and employees
are wondering about their future.  “The chances have definitely narrowed,” Martin Crum, an
analyst at Amsterdams Effectenkantoor BV, said of Saab’s
possible survival. “The longer it takes, the harder it gets.”  The uncertainty has also hit the carmaker’s stock. Spyker,
which changed its name to Swedish Automobile NV in June, has
plunged 69 percent this year, valuing the Zeewolde, Netherlands-
based company at 24.4 million euros ($34.7 million.)  Dealership Closes  New Salem Saab in  Albany ,  New York , closed its doors Aug.
12 after 50 years in business. The “continual disruptions of
the Saab brand and its operational difficulties” caused the
demise, dealer president Darryl F. Carl  wrote  on its website.  “It’s definitely a tough, tough time being a Saab
dealer,” said Wes Harris, general manager of Dirito Brothers
Saab in Walnut Creek,  California . “A lot of the customers that
are coming in that are Saab buyers are definitely nervous about
the car company and what’s going on.”  In Saab’s hometown of Trollhaettan, nestled in southwestern
 Sweden  along the banks of the country’s biggest river, political
leaders are already preparing for the possibility of life
without the town’s largest employer. Of Saab’s 3,700 employees,
3,500 work in Trollhaettan. In total, almost 9,000 people in the
region could lose their jobs in a shutdown, Paul Akerlund, the
city’s mayor, said in an interview.  “We have discussed what to do if Saab fails, and we have a
Plan B,” Akerlund said, adding the town’s current 10 percent
unemployment rate would soar. Actions would include helping the
unemployed get into university for retraining, he said.  Downward Trajectory  The river flowing through Trollhaettan powered local
companies in the 1800s, laying the foundation for the industrial
growth that’s still evident today with the dozens of auto
suppliers and other manufacturers surrounding the city center.  The town of 55,400 boomed as Saab, which began making cars
in 1947, gained a reputation for being offbeat, practical and
safe. Innovations that defined the brand included headlight
wipers, self-repairing bumpers and side-impact door beams.  Saab, whose global sales peaked in 2006 at 133,000 cars,
has been on a downward trajectory in recent years. The automaker
sold just 31,700 vehicles in 2010, with deliveries suffering
after it took months to restore the production flow because GM
had emptied the factory as part of a planned closure.  The brand has hovered near bankruptcy several times,
including in 1989, the year before GM bought half of it. In
December 2009, crisis-hit GM announced it would kill Saab as it
did with Saturn, Hummer and Pontiac -- before Victor Muller, now
Saab’s CEO, persuaded GM to change its mind.  Securing Funding  “Everyone here is rooting for Saab,” said Robert
Henriksson, a salesman at Trollhaettan hardware store
Industriprodukter AB, as he sold a fan belt to a Saab employee.  Saab has aimed to sell 120,000 cars and become profitable
by 2012. Those goals will be “re-evaluated” after Saab resumes
production, spokesman  Eric Geers  said.  Saab’s focus now is to secure funding and negotiate terms
with its 819 suppliers, Gunnar Brunius, the carmaker’s
production and purchasing chief, said in an interview at the
factory.  It may take a few weeks to restart assembly, he said.  Swedish Automobile agreed in June to sell a 29.9 percent
stake to Zhejiang Youngman Lotus Automobile Co. for 136 million
euros. Pangda Automobile Trade Co. offered to pay 109 million
euros for a 24 percent stake. Regulators and GM must still
approve the deals.  Saab also aims to secure a commercial loan and pay back
the 217 million euros it owes the  European Investment Bank  in a
move that would allow Russian banker  Vladimir Antonov  to invest
in the carmaker.  Saab has “great potential” if it can survive this crisis
as it has developed more new models than ever, Brunius said. The
9-5 wagon should reach dealers shortly after assembly restarts,
he said. The 9-4X, Saab’s first crossover that GM’s producing
for the Swedish carmaker in  Mexico , hit U.S. showrooms in June.  Akerlund, who worked at Saab for 32 years before becoming
mayor, is betting the carmaker will make it.  “If anyone will survive this, it’s Saab,” Akerlund said.
“Never count them out.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ola Kinnander in  Stockholm  at 
 okinnander@bloomberg.net ;
Joshua Armstrong in  Detroit  at 
 jarmstrong39@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net ;
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net . 