-- 
SNB, Swiss Government in Talks Over Franc Target, SonntagsZeitung Reports

-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r   a n d   M a t t h i a s   W a b l
-- 
2011-08-15T07:57:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-14/snb-government-in-talks-over-franc-target-sonntagszeitung-says.html
The Swiss government and the central
bank are in “intense” talks about a possible franc target to
stem currency gains,  SonntagsZeitung  newspaper reported, citing
unidentified people close to the situation.  The plans are “ready” and the  Swiss National Bank  may set
such a target in “coming days,” the newspaper reported
yesterday. The discussions are focused on the government’s role
and an “appropriate plan” may be adopted on Aug. 17, it said.
Walter Meier, a spokesman for the SNB, declined to comment.  SNB policy makers, led by Philipp Hildebrand, have been
seeking ways to deter investors from piling into the franc and
stop the currency’s ascent to near parity with the euro. While
the central bank boosted liquidity in money markets and cut
borrowing costs to zero, lawmakers from the  People’s Party  to
the  Christian Democrats  have signaled their support for tougher
measures to protect the economy and avert job losses.  “The SNB is ‘leaning against the hurricane’ in a major
way,”  Stephen Gallo , head of market analysis at Schneider
Foreign Exchange Ltd. in  London , said in an e-mailed note today.
While the central bank is probably “still looking for a better
entry point to initiate a new round” of currency purchases, it
“will have a very difficult time limiting the extent of the
franc strength.”  The franc traded at 1.1404 versus the euro at 9:45 a.m. in
Zurich, down 2.9 percent from Aug. 12. It reached a record of
1.0075 on Aug. 9. Against the dollar, the currency was at 79.74
centimes, down 2.5 percent.  October Vote  Lawmakers, facing elections in October, have become
increasingly concerned that the franc’s strength will erode
exports and hinder growth. Consumers became more pessimistic
about the economic outlook and job prospects in July and
investor confidence slumped. The government held an
extraordinary meeting on the franc on Aug. 8 and forecast growth
to weaken over the coming months.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  said in an e-mailed note on Aug. 5
that cut its Swiss economic-growth forecasts for this year and
next to 1.9 percent from 2.1 percent and to 0.6 percent from 2
percent, respectively.  Christophe Darbellay, head of the Christian Democrats, said
in a telephone interview on Aug. 12 that the party supports the
SNB and called for “extraordinary measures.” People’s Party
Vice President Christoph Blocher, who previously objected to
currency purchases, said policy makers need to use all tools to
fight a “war.”  Secret Meeting  While the SNB is formally independent, the government may
comment on a target to make such a step “as efficient as
possible,” the newspaper said. The SNB may introduce an initial
lower limit of slightly above 1.10 versus the euro before
gradually increasing it, SonntagsZeitung reported, citing
insiders.  Swiss Economy Minister Johann Schneider-Ammann led a secret
meeting in Bern on Aug. 2 with leaders including  Swatch Group AG (UHR) 
Chief Executive Officer Nick Hayek and Credit Suisse Group AG
Chairman Urs Rohner to discuss the franc,  Neue Zuercher Zeitung
am Sonntag  reported yesterday, without saying where it got the
information. The participants all agreed to support the SNB
weakening the currency, it said.  Andre Simonazzi, a government spokesman, confirmed that the
franc will be on the agenda when the Cabinet meets on Aug. 17 in
Bern. The government is in close contact with the SNB and
Hildebrand also attended the extraordinary session last week, he
said. He wouldn’t comment on possible measures.  ‘Several Hundred Billions’  SNB policy makers have been reluctant to start purchasing
foreign currencies to weaken the franc after intervention
attempts in the 15 months through mid-June 2010 sparked a record
loss of $21 billion last year.  Lukas Gaehwiler, head of UBS AG’s Swiss operations, told
SonntagsZeitung in an interview that the SNB has “better
chances of success” with interventions, given the current
 exchange rate . Policy makers would have to be ready to spend
“several hundred billions of francs or more,” he said.  “The SNB is wary of currency interventions given that they
were not very successful the last time,” said Ursina Kubli, an
economist at Bank Sarasin in Zurich. Still, “with the franc
moving closer to parity, a lot of measures are becoming more
realistic.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Simone Meier in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net ;
Matthias Wabl in Zurich at 
 mwabl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  