-- 
Sterling Proving No Refuge as King Eyes Stimulus While Gilt Yields Plunge

-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a   a n d   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 
2011-08-15T18:10:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-14/sterling-proving-no-refuge-as-king-eyes-stimulus-while-gilt-yields-plunge.html
Britain’s allure as a haven is
crumbling as global investors desert sterling amid the lowest
inflation-adjusted bond yields on record and a faltering
economy.  Amid a background of rioting and looting across the nation,
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  said on Aug. 11 that
the U.K.’s recovery will “take longer and be harder” and Bank
of England Governor  Mervyn King  signaled a day earlier he may
resume pumping cash into the economy to boost growth. Investors
have responded to the worsening outlook by pulling money out of
the country at the fastest rate in at least two decades.  Traders are betting on pound weakness even as the euro-area
debt crisis deepens because of slumping consumer sentiment and a
growth rate that may trail behind Germany’s by more than two
percentage points in 2011, analysts in Bloomberg surveys said.
Analysts cut forecasts for sterling versus the euro by 5.7
percent this year, the most of 17 developed-nation pairs tracked
by Bloomberg.  “I remain structurally quite bearish on sterling,”
 Stephen Gallo , the head of market analysis at Schneider Foreign
Exchange Ltd., the most-accurate currency forecaster in a
Bloomberg survey, said in an interview. He expects sterling to
weaken more than 8 percent against the 17-nation euro by year-
end. “When you compare growth potential in the core of the euro
area with the U.K.’s, the former’s is actually much better.”  Weaker Sterling Predicted  Sterling may depreciate to 96 pence per euro by the end of
2011, London-based Gallo said by e-mail last week, from 88.14
pence today. The pound rose 0.7 percent to $1.6390 at 2:05 p.m.
in  London . It slid to a record low 1.1470 francs on Aug. 9 and
has dropped 11 percent this year against the Swiss currency.  Obstacles to an economic recovery are intensifying “by the
day” and “weakness in underlying activity is likely to be
somewhat more persistent than previously expected,” King told
reporters in London on Aug. 10. “The recovery will take longer
and be harder than had been hoped,” Osborne said in Parliament
in London a day later, while defending his plans to cut the
 budget deficit .  Prime Minister  David Cameron  and Osborne addressed
lawmakers last week during an emergency session called to debate
the riots in  England , which started on Aug. 6 in the north
London suburb of Tottenham and spread across the capital the
following night and then to cities including Birmingham. Cameron
broke off his holiday in  Italy  to return to deal with the
violence, which he described as criminal.  Economic Laggard  Britain’s economy will probably grow 1.2 percent this year,
behind a 3.4 percent expansion in Germany and 1.8 percent
increase in the U.S., according to Bloomberg surveys. Even with
the Greek and Portuguese economies contracting, euro-region
gross domestic product will climb 2 percent, a separate survey
shows. The U.K.’s expansion was 0.2 percent last quarter after
stagnating in the six months through March, according to
government figures.  Investors  sold  a net 48.9 billion pounds ($79.6 billion) in
U.K. stocks, bonds and money-market products in the first
quarter, adding to the 55.3 billion-pound outflow in the
previous three months, according to the most recent data from
the Office for National Statistics in London. The next biggest
outflows were in the third quarter of 2005. Sterling declined
1.2 percent then on a trade-weighted basis, according to a  Bank
of England  index.  Gilts, Treasuries  Osborne, writing in the Daily Telegraph on Aug. 8, hailed
the “credibility” of his austerity plan, which may fend off
the loss of the nation’s AAA credit rating. He cited the U.S.
rating cut and  Europe ’s debt crisis as “vindication” for the
biggest fiscal squeeze since World War II.  U.K. government bonds underperformed Treasuries, and the
pound fell against the dollar and the euro last week after
 Standard & Poor’s  removed the U.S.’s AAA rating on Aug. 5 and
European Central Bank President Jean-Claude Trichet began buying
Italian and Spanish bonds to contain the debt crisis, which
threatened to engulf the currency area’s third and fourth-
largest economies. The  Federal Reserve  pledged last week to keep
its benchmark rate near zero until at least mid-2013.  The Bank of England’s benchmark rate is 0.5 percent, 1
percentage point lower than that of the ECB, which boosted its
refinancing rate twice this year.  The pound has declined 2.3 percent against the euro this
year as the sovereign-debt crisis spread, pushing borrowing
costs in Italy and  Spain  to euro-era highs relative to German
bunds this month.  ‘Growth Outlook’  Gilts, which are about 70 percent owned by local investors,
making them less sensitive to currency swings, have returned
2.49 percentage points more than German bunds this year as the
economy slowed. Foreigners hold 49 percent of U.S. Treasuries.  For Ken Dickson, investment director of currencies at
Standard Life Investments in Edinburgh, there will be demand for
sterling as long as the euro area’s debt crisis persists and the
Fed keeps rates at record lows.  “The austerity measures are good for the ratings, but in
the markets’ eyes they are also undermining the growth
outlook,” Dickson said last week by telephone. “Had the U.K.
been the only economy suffering this way, it’s likely that you’d
see pound weakness because you’d expect monetary policy to
remain loose. But much of the developed world is in the same
boat.”  Standard Life, Scotland’s second-biggest money manager, is
“neutral” on sterling against its major peers, Dickson said.  Euro Stronger  The U.K. is estimated by S&P to have a debt-to-GDP ratio
this year of 80 percent, 6 percentage points higher than the
U.S. In contrast with America, Britain’s net public debt is
forecast to decline by 2015, the ratings company said in a
statement accompanying the U.S. downgrade.  That hasn’t kept the pound from losing 8 percent over the
past year against nine major peers tracked by the Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Indexes, the biggest loser after the
dollar. The euro is little changed, while the Swiss franc jumped
20 percent.  “The  euro zone  is an economy that, on aggregate, does look
stronger than the U.K.,” Sara Yates, a London-based strategist
at Barclays Plc, said last week by phone. Yates predicted that
the pound would weaken to 95 pence per euro in three months.
“Sterling looks more vulnerable. When you look at the
fundamentals of the U.K. economy, it’s very weak.”  ‘B for Bankruptcy’  Sagging growth prospects prompted strategists to reduce
forecasts for the pound against the euro each month since the
end of March as the government vowed to eliminate the bulk of
the budget deficit, which reached a record 11 percent of gross
GDP in the year ended March 2010, by 2015. Analysts predicted
the pound would end the year at 84 pence per euro as of March
31, according to a median forecast compiled by Bloomberg. It was
85 pence on April 29, 86 pence as of May 31, 87 pence on June 30
and 89 pence as of July 29, the data show.  Cameron rejected calls to slow spending cuts, saying on
June 20 that “a Plan B would stand for bankruptcy.” The
government will miss its target of balancing the nation’s books
in 2015-2016 by around 1 percent of GDP, the National Institute
for Economic and Social Research, whose clients include the U.K.
Treasury and the Bank of England, said on Aug. 3.  Inflation may undershoot the central bank’s 2 percent
target, King said last week. “If we need to, we can carry out
more asset purchases,” he said. The bank bought 200 billion
pounds of debt from March 2009 until January 2010 in a policy
known as quantitative easing, designed to cap borrowing costs
and stimulate the economy.  Real Yields  U.K. manufacturing contracted 0.4 percent in June and the
 trade gap  widened, government reports showed on Aug. 9. That
deepened concern that spending reductions and Europe’s debt
crisis may undermine the recovery.  Consumer-price growth was 4.2 percent in June, with gilts
due in 10 years yielding 1.72 percentage points less than
inflation on Aug. 10, the most since at least 1992, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. That compared with a minus 0.27
percentage-point difference last week in  Germany , Europe’s
biggest economy. The so-called real yield in the U.S. is minus
1.3 percent, with  Japan  at 0.84 percent.  “What has been keeping the pound afloat is the aversion to
holding dollars or euros,”  Vassili Serebriakov , a New York-
based currency strategist at  Wells Fargo & Co ., the third-most
accurate forecaster in the six quarters through June, said last
week by telephone . “Fundamentally the pound remains
unattractive because real short-term  interest rates  in the U.K.
are among the lowest” in the Group of 10, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net ;
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net ;
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  