-- 
Syrian Navy Hits Latakia

-- B y   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 
2011-08-14T14:59:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-14/syrian-navy-fires-on-port-city-of-latakia-at-least-10-dead-activist-says.html
Syrian forces, backed by tanks and
fire from warships, killed at least 20 people as they pressed
forward with their assault on the port city of Latakia,
according to an activist, as the U.S., U.K. and  Saudi Arabia 
called for a halt to the violence.  The attack on the Mediterranean city, which began
yesterday, also left 70 people injured, Mahmoud Merhi, head of
the Arab Organization for Human Rights, said in a telephone
interview from Damascus today.  U.S. President  Barack Obama  called Saudi Arabia’s King Abdullah yesterday and agreed that the “Syrian regime’s brutal
campaign of violence against the Syrian people must end
immediately,” a White House statement said. Obama also called
British Prime Minister  David Cameron  and the two “reiterated
their belief that the Syrian people’s legitimate demands for a
transition to democracy should be met,” according to another
statement.  International pressure on Syrian President Bashar al- Assad’s government has been increasing as the violence
continues. U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  on Aug. 12
called on nations doing business with Syria to cut off trade and
arms sales. More than 2,400 people have been killed since the
uprising against Assad’s rule began in March, according to Merhi
and Ammar Qurabi of the National Organization for Human Rights
in Syria. The protests started after the leaders of Tunisia and
 Egypt  were toppled by street demonstrations.  U.S. Concerns  Two Syrian security personnel were killed and 41 injured in
fighting in Latakia as they fought gunmen with “machine guns,
grenades and explosive devices,” the official  Syrian Arab News
Agency  reported. The Syrian navy wasn’t used in strikes against
the city, the news service said, citing its correspondent.  The U.S. is concerned about the prospect of sectarian
violence in  Syria  and the chance that the Syrian situation will
spark instability in the Middle East, a U.S. official said Aug.
11. The Obama administration may soon call on Assad to step
down, said the U.S. official, who asked not to be identified,
because the administration is still discussing the issue and
considering the timing of any announcement.  Assad, who came to power in 2000, has blamed the protests
on foreign-inspired plots. Many of his top officials are from
the Alawite branch of Islam, an offshoot of Shiism, while most
of Syria’s population is Sunni. More than 500 members of the
forces have died since the start of the unrest, according to the
government.  ‘Some Mistakes’  Assad on Aug. 11 responded to growing international
criticism about the crackdown by admitting “some mistakes”
were made by his security forces in the “initial stages” of
unrest.  Syria, whose oil output is declining, pumps about 386,000
barrels of crude a day and has the ninth-largest oil reserves in
the  Middle East , according to data from BP Plc.  Canada  is extending sanctions on Assad’s regime to include
travel restrictions and the freezing of assets of two Syrian
companies, Foreign Affairs Minister  John Baird  said yesterday.  Canada has frozen the assets of Syriatel Mobile Telecom SA
and the Commercial Bank of Syria. Canada first imposed sanctions
on Syria in May, banning the export of military equipment.  European nations renewed a push earlier this month for a
United Nations resolution against the bloodshed and the U.S.
imposed new financial sanctions on Syrian banks and
telecommunications.  Russia  has indicated it isn’t convinced that
a UN resolution is needed.  Russia may lose as much as $3.8 billion of revenue from
Syrian arms contracts after the U.S. urged a halt to sales,
Kommersant reported, citing estimates by the Center for Analysis
of Strategies & Technologies in Moscow. Syria accounts for as
much as 10 percent of Russian military exports, Kommersant said
yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Glen Carey in Riyadh at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 