-- 
Syrian Warships Attack Port City of Latakia as Uprising Claims 2,400 Lives

-- B y   G l e n   C a r e y   a n d   V i v i a n   S a l a m a
-- 
2011-08-15T13:01:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-14/syrian-ships-attack-port-city-of-latakia-libyan-rebels-advance-on-tripoli.html
Syria ’s navy maintained a blockade
of Latakia following an assault on the port city during anti-
government protests that has left at least 42 civilians dead
over the past day, activists said.  Soldiers, backed by tanks and warships, also injured
hundreds of people, Mahmoud Merhi, head of the Arab Organization
for Human Rights, said today in a telephone interview from
Damascus. Gunfire was heard just before dawn as residents tried
to get food before the Ramadan fasting hours began. Power cuts
were reported across the city, Merhi said. Protesters also
returned to the streets in the cities of Dera’a and Homs.  “The people in Latakia got a real shock yesterday,” said
Merhi. “Now the city is surrounded by the army and navy and
most of the people have no electricity and the telephone network
was blocked for a while so it was difficult to reach people.”  More than 2,400 people have been killed since the uprising
against Syrian President Bashar al-Assad’s government began in
March, according to Merhi and Ammar Qurabi of the National
Organization for Human Rights in Syria. The U.S. State
Department estimates that the government has detained more than
30,000 people. Protests began after demonstrations toppled the
leaders of Tunisia and  Egypt , and destabilized  Libya .  Telephone calls seeking comment today on the report of
deaths from the Interior Ministry and Assad’s media adviser
weren’t answered.  ‘Real War’  “We are in a state of a real war -- shelling and shooting
everywhere in the city,” Abu Rayan, a witness from the al-Raml
district in southern Latakia, told Al Arabiya television. “The
situation is bad and there is a lack of water and electricity.”  In Homs, where a government crackdown killed at least 24
demonstrators on Aug. 8, protesters took to the streets today to
voice outrage over the violence in Latakia. Gunfire could be
heard outside the city, Nitham al-Siraj, an activist, said by
telephone from Homs.  “We are receiving the news of Latakia from our brothers
and sisters there who are under siege,” said al-Siraj. “The
government, the more they oppress us, the stronger and the more
determined we get to see our demands met.”  International pressure on the government is increasing,
with U.S. President  Barack Obama ,  Saudi Arabia ’s King Abdullah
and British Prime Minister  David Cameron  calling on Syria to
stop attacking its people. U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  on Aug. 12 urged nations doing business with Syria to
cut off trade and arms sales.  Canada  is extending sanctions on
Assad’s regime.  Impact on Trade  “If Syrian forces are using naval ships to attack the port
city it raises concerns of securing that port and how it
interrupts trade flow to and from Syria,” said  Theodore Karasik , director of research at the Dubai-based Institute for
Near East and Gulf Military Analysis. “Everybody is hoping that
 Russia  will mediate, but Russia stands to lose a lot if it loses
the Syrian and Libyan markets -- an estimated $10 billion a
year.”  Assad, who came to power in 2000, has blamed the protests
on foreign-inspired plots. More than 500 members of Syrian
security forces have died since the start of the unrest,
according to the government.  Many of Assad’s top officials are from the Alawite branch
of Islam, an offshoot of Shiism, while most of Syria’s
population is  Sunni Muslim .  The U.S. is concerned about the prospect of sectarian
violence in Syria and the chance it will spark more instability,
a U.S. official said last week. The Obama administration may
call on Assad soon to step down, said the official, who asked
not to be identified because the administration was still
discussing the issue.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vivian Salama in  Abu Dhabi  at 
 vsalama@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 