-- 
U.S. Bonds Mirror Japan’s in Biggest Rally Since 2008 in Sluggish Scenario

-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 
2011-08-15T13:55:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-14/u-s-bonds-converging-with-japan-heralds-biggest-treasury-rally-since-2008.html
U.S. government bond yields are
poised to converge with  Japan ’s for the first time in almost two
decades, sparking the biggest returns for investors in
Treasuries since 2008 while raising concern that America may be
stuck in a prolonged period of below-par economic growth.  “We are beginning to resemble Japan from an interest-rate
policy standpoint as well as potentially an economic growth
standpoint,”  Bill Gross , who runs the world’s biggest bond fund
at Pacific Investment Management Co., said in a telephone
interview Aug. 10. Investors are “fearful of low growth and are
fleeing to high-quality sovereign paper at whatever yield.”  Treasuries soared last week after  Standard & Poor’s  cut the
U.S. credit rating from AAA, Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis
deepened and stock markets gyrated, with the  Dow Jones
Industrial Average  rising or falling an average of 3.85 percent
each day. The bond rally drove two-year Treasury yields down to
a record low and within three basis points of similar-maturity
Japanese debt, the smallest gap since 1992, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  The outlook for the U.S. economy is so weak that the
 Federal Reserve  took the unprecedented step last week of saying
it will keep its benchmark interest rate at almost zero through
mid-2013. That promises to bolster demand for Treasuries as the
government sells bonds to finance a  budget deficit  that Congress
forecasts will exceed $1 trillion for a third straight year.  Estimates Slashed  Global financial strains, government fiscal austerity and a
lack of jobs led economists to slash their estimates for growth
in gross domestic product in 2012 to 2.4 percent, from 3 percent
in July, based on the median of 81 estimates in a Bloomberg News
survey. Japan’s government said last week the nation’s GDP may
expand 0.5 percent in the year started April 1.  Even Gross, who is co-chief investment officer at  Newport
Beach , California-based Pimco, has been building his holdings of
 U.S. government debt  since eliminating the securities from his
$245.5 billion Total Return Fund in February, saying at the time
that Treasuries “have little value” because of the nation’s
growing debt burden and inflation-adjusted yields below zero.
The fund had 10 percent of its assets in  U.S. debt  last month.  Treasuries have returned 6.73 percent this year on average,
exceeding the 5.88 percent gain for all of 2010 and the most
since they rallied 14 percent in 2008. That was the year the
economy shrank 3.5 percent as the subprime-mortgage crisis
deepened and Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. collapsed.  Yields Tumble  The yield on the benchmark two-year Treasury fell last week
10 basis points, or 0.1 percentage point, to 0.19 percent. Ten-
year yields tumbled 30 basis points to 2.26 percent, the biggest
drop since they tumbled 45 basis points in the period ended Dec.
19, 2008. The yield touched a record low 2.0346 percent.  The 10-year yield climbed two basis points to 2.27 percent
today as of 9:53 a.m. in  New York .  Strategists are having a hard time adjusting their
forecasts fast enough to keep up with the declines. A Bloomberg
survey of 46 economists and strategists released Aug. 12 showed
that they slashed their median 10-year yield estimate for the
first quarter to 3.10 percent from 3.75 percent in July’s poll.  “We may end up seeing the lows close to 1.5 percent before
the cycle is over,” said  David Rosenberg , the chief economist
at Gluskin Sheff & Associates in Toronto and the former chief
North American economist at Merrill Lynch & Co. Rosenberg said
early last month in a radio interview with  Tom Keene  on
“Bloomberg Surveillance” that 10-year notes would “retest the
lows in yields we had in 2008.”  Relative Yields  Treasury two-year yields compare with 0.15 percent in
Japan, whose $5.5 trillion economy finally surpassed the
previous peak of $5.25 trillion in 1995 last year. The Bank of
Japan’s benchmark rate has been at 0.55 percent or below since
1995. The Fed has kept its target rate for overnight loans
between banks in a range of zero to 0.25 percent since 2008.  The spread between two-year U.S. and Japanese note yields
has contracted from this year’s high of 85 basis points in
February. The average over the past 20 years is 214 basis
points. Treasuries overall yield about 44 basis points more than
Japanese bonds, down from 364 points in July 2007.  A financial model created by economists at the Fed that
includes expectations for  interest rates , growth and inflation
indicates 10-year notes are the most overvalued on record.  The term premium, which Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  cited
in a 2006 speech in New York as a useful guide in setting
monetary policy, fell to negative 0.41 percent last week. The
gauge averaged 0.84 percent this decade through mid-2007.  Investor ‘Fear’  The last two times the measure was this low, in December
2008 and November 2010, Treasury yields reversed course and
started to rise, producing a loss of 3.08 percent in the first
quarter of 2009 and 2.67 percent in the fourth quarter of 2010,
Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes show.  “There’s a fair amount of fear priced into yields,” said
Nic Pifer, a  money manager  in  Minneapolis  at Columbia
Management, which oversees $170 billion. Compared with Japan,
“the  U.S. economy  is a far more vigorous and dynamic economy.
It has stronger labor growth over time and better demographics.
We are nowhere near the extreme situation that Japan is in. I
don’t think you want to be a buyer of Treasuries unless you
expect the market to continue to experience panic,” he said.  Retail sales in the U.S. climbed in July by the most in
four months, showing consumers were holding up at the start of
the third quarter. The 0.5 percent increase reported by the
Commerce Department in  Washington  on Aug. 12 followed a 0.3
percent gain in June that was larger than previously estimated.  U.S. Ratings  U.S. bond yields fell even though S&P cut the nation’s
credit rating on Aug. 5 to AA+ from AAA. The Treasury auctioned
$72 billion of three-, 10- and 30-year securities last week at
an average rate of 2.13 percent, the lowest on record as
measured by Bloomberg data, saving taxpayers $647 million in
interest payments during the life of the securities compared
with the rates on the previous quarterly refunding.  Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch Ratings affirmed their
top Aaa and AAA grades on the U.S.  Treasuries have benefited as investors fled higher-risk
assets as stock markets tumbled,  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis
worsened and economists cut their growth forecasts. Japan, where
10-year notes yield 1.04 percent, shows U.S. bonds may have room
to rally further.  The nation has the lowest bond yields in the world even
though it’s rated AA- by S&P, Aa2 at Moody’s and AA by Fitch.
The country’s debt is projected by the Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development to reach 219 percent of GDP by 2012.  Bursting Bubble  Growth in Japan has been stagnant since an asset bubble
burst two decades ago, with the size of the economy at about the
same level it was in 1991, when not adjusted for price changes.
GDP in the U.S. expanded at a weaker-than-reported 1.3 percent
last quarter after 0.4 percent growth in the first quarter.  The major difference between the U.S. and Japanese bond
markets is that about 95 percent of the Asian nation’s bonds are
held by domestic investors, according to Tokyo-based Nomura
Research Institute Ltd. In the U.S., it’s about 50 percent.  Last week’s Treasury auctions showed direct bidders, a
class of investors that are typically U.S.-based, purchased 31.7
percent of the 10-year notes sold, the most in data going back
to 2003. Data from the Commodity Futures Trading Commission in
Washington show traders reversed bets last week and for the
first time since November no longer expect 10-year notes to
drop.  “Domestic investors are going down that same road that
Japanese investors did when they started to buy more local
debt,” said  George Goncalves , head of interest-rate strategy at
Nomura Holdings Inc., one of the 20 primary dealers are
obligated to bid at Treasury auctions. “That’s a new phenomenon
that will be with us for many more quarters. Irrespective of the
rate levels, people are willing to own more Treasuries.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robert Burgess at   bburgess@bloomberg.net  