-- 
Locke Tells China U.S Pledged to Getting ‘Fiscal House in Order’

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-08-14T16:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-14/u-s-committed-to-getting-fiscal-house-in-order-locke-says-in-beijing.html
Gary Locke , President Barack Obama’s
newly installed ambassador to  China , told America’s biggest
creditor yesterday that the U.S. is “committed to getting our
fiscal house in order.”  Locke’s comments come after  Standard & Poor’s  decision to
strip the U.S. of its AAA rating prompted a scolding from China.
The country’s official Xinhua News Agency said in a commentary
the U.S. must cure its “addiction” to borrowing. China held
$1.16 trillion in U.S. Treasury securities at the end of May,
more than any other country.  “We know that over the last several days more people are
buying  U.S. Treasuries ,” Locke said in Beijing, where he
arrived Aug. 12 after being sworn in as ambassador earlier this
month in  Washington . “It is a clear indication that investment
in the U.S. is safe and secure,” Locke, formerly Obama’s
commerce secretary, said in response to a question from a
reporter for Chinese state television.  “Many outside the United States believe the credit rating
cut is an overdue bill that America has to pay for its own debt
addiction and the short-sighted political wrangling in
Washington,” Xinhua said Aug. 6.  Ten-year yields set a record low last week as investors
snapped up Treasuries on signs of slowing growth and a widening
debt crisis in Europe, undeterred by Standard & Poor’s decision
to downgrade the U.S.  Locke, 61, a former governor of Washington from 1997 to
2005, also represented the state in Congress from 1982 to 1993.
From 2005 to 2008, he was a partner at Davis Wright Tremaine LLP,
a business and litigation law firm that represents clients in
the U.S. and China.  Locke was appointed commerce secretary in 2009. He replaced
 Jon Huntsman  as ambassador after Huntsman resigned in April to
make a bid for the Republican presidential nomination.  --Michael Forsythe. Editors: Mark Williams, Ken McCallum  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Michael Forsythe in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7580 or
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  