-- 
Mushrooms Join Growing List of Radioactive Threats to Japan’s Food Chain

-- B y   N a o k o   F u j i m u r a   a n d   C h r i s   C o o p e r
-- 
2011-08-14T15:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-14/mushrooms-join-growing-list-of-radioactive-threats-to-japan-s-food-chain.html
Mushrooms joined the threats to
 Japan ’s food chain from radiation spewed by Tokyo Electric Power
Co.’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear plant, as the country expands
efforts to limit the effects of the disaster.  Japan  is under pressure to enhance food inspections as it
has no centralized system for detecting radiation contamination.
About two-thirds of Japan’s prefectures now plan to check rice
crops, the Mainichi newspaper reported yesterday, citing its own
survey. Half of Japan’s rice is grown within range of emissions
from the crippled nuclear plant, and farmers are awaiting the
results of tests before harvesting begins this month.  “By strengthening inspection on rice, we want to make sure
only safe produce are in the market,” Agriculture Minister
Michihiko Kano said at a press conference on Aug. 12.  Nameko mushrooms grown in the open air in Soma, a city
about 40 kilometers (25 miles) north of the plant damaged in the
March 11 earthquake and tsunami, were found to contain nine
times the legal limit of cesium, the local government said Aug.
12. Japan’s farm ministry asked growers in Fukushima prefecture
to refrain from harvesting mushrooms off raw wood left outside,
public broadcaster NHK reported Aug. 13.  Authorities in Fukushima and neighboring prefectures are
conducting spot checks on a range of products in cooperation
with local farmers. Radiation exceeding safety levels has been
found in produce, tea, milk, fish and beef sourced as far as 360
kilometers from the nuclear plant.  Importing Vegetables  Kansai Super Market Ltd. (9919)  bought a 30 percent stake in
Masami Cattle Ranch Inc. in  California , to enable the farm to
expand production and supply vegetables to Kansai stores in
Japan, according to a statement the Hyogo prefecture-based
supermarket chain made to the Tokyo Stock Exchange.  The European Union plans to strengthen radiation inspection
on imported seafood, both from waters near Japan and from
farther out in the Pacific, NHK said Aug. 13.  Levels of cesium-134 in seawater near the Fukushima plant’s
No. 3 reactor rose to levels 30 times the allowed safety
standards last month, according to tests performed by Tokyo
Electric Power Co, NHK reported at the time.  Japan may join a U.S.-led treaty under which governments
agree to prevent excessive claims against other members for
compensation from nuclear accidents, the Nikkei newspaper said
yesterday, without giving the source of the information.  Contaminated Trees  The nation’s forestry agency urged Fukushima prefecture to
prevent shipments of any wood or charcoal that has been stored
outdoors since the nuclear crisis, the Yomiuri newspaper said
two days ago. Jiji Press reported that the farm ministry ordered
the local authorities to conduct tests on trees used for
mushroom growing.  Last month, hay contaminated with as much as 690,000
becquerels a kilogram, compared with a government safety
standard of 300 becquerels, was found to have been fed to cattle.
Beef with unsafe levels of the radioactive element was detected
in four prefectures, according to the health ministry.  Japan’s wheat crop will have little impact from the nuclear
disaster as cesium levels in the roots of the plants are low,
and the effect on the wheat spikes for consumption are likely to
be small, NHK said yesterday, citing a Tokyo University study.  Radioactive iodine has been detected in the thyroids of
half of 1,000 Fukushima children, NHK reported, citing findings
from a group led by Satoshi Tashiro, a professor at Hiroshima
University. Tashiro said the children should continue to be
monitored though the levels are low and not thought to pose a
threat to health, according to the report posted Aug. 13 on the
broadcaster’s website.  Prolonged exposure to radiation in the air, ground and food
can cause leukemia and other cancers, according to the London-
based  World Nuclear Association .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naoko Fujimura in Tokyo at 
 nfujimura@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  