-- 
Westpac’s Evans Goes From Zero to Hero With Outlier Australian Rate Call

-- B y   J a c o b   G r e b e r   a n d   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 
2011-08-15T03:27:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-14/westpac-s-evans-goes-from-zero-to-hero-with-australia-rate-call.html
Bill Evans , chief economist at
 Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC) , was  Australia ’s loneliest forecaster four
weeks ago as the first to predict an interest-rate cut.  Traders acting on Evans’s July 15 prediction would have
profited amid the market carnage sparked by Europe’s debt crisis
and the first U.S. credit-rating downgrade. The yield on the
nation’s three-year government bond dropped as low as 3.41
percent from 4.41 percent, handing investors a 23 percent
annualized return. The benchmark  stock index  has tumbled 5.4
percent and Australia’s dollar lost 2.9 percent.  Evans’s call, while yet to be proven right, is gaining a
following: Goldman Sachs & Partners Australia Pty and  Deutsche
Bank AG (DBK)  last week switched course to forecast the next Reserve
Bank rate move will be down. A recent trip to  Europe  helped
convinced Evans the region’s troubles would slow Australia’s
economy, which hasn’t been in a recession for two decades.  “The way we saw it, the global economy would provide the
catalyst, but the major reason would be the deterioration in the
 unemployment rate  in Australia,” Evans said in an interview
Aug. 12. “It got more attention than most predictions we make,
and at the time I didn’t expect that.”  The day he reversed his earlier call that rates were likely
to rise, Evans was the outlier in a Bloomberg News survey of 21
economists, with the others forecasting an increase or no
change.  RBA’s Inaction  The RBA will tomorrow publish minutes of its Aug. 2
meeting, when Governor  Glenn Stevens  left the overnight cash
rate target unchanged at 4.75 percent after considering whether
to end an eight-month pause and lift borrowing costs.  On July 26, Stevens said the nation’s subdued household
spending will likely rebound as consumers gain confidence. A day
later, a report showed inflation surged in the second quarter
above the central bank’s target range of 2 percent to 3 percent,
increasing speculation of further rate increases.  The RBA on Aug. 5 slashed its 2011 growth projection to 2
percent from 3.25 percent. Traders see a 100 percent chance
Stevens will lower the benchmark rate by 75 basis points to 4
percent by November, cash rate futures showed in Sydney at 1:10
p.m.  “He looked completely wrong for about 10 days and now he
looks like a genius again,” said  Annette Beacher , an economist
at TD Securities Ltd. in  Singapore .  ‘Rate-Cut Rory’  Former Macquarie Group Ltd. rate strategist Rory Robertson,
who now works for Westpac, bolstered his reputation after
betting against the market and accurately forecasting the
central bank would cut rates in 1996, earning him the nickname
“Rate-Cut Rory.” In 2009, JPMorgan Chase & Co. chief economist
in Australia Stephen Walters was alone in picking Stevens’s
decision to become the first Group of 20 policy maker to boost
rates after the height of the global recession.  Evans, who declined to disclose his age, spent two decades
at Westpac, the nation’s second-largest lender. Prior to that,
the Sydney University and  London School  of Economics graduate
worked as a research manager for the  Reserve Bank  and held roles
at Commonwealth Bank of Australia, the nation’s biggest bank.  “I’m an output gap guy,” Evans said in the interview in
Sydney. “If the output gap is widening because the labor market
is weakening, then workers can’t get the wage increase they want
to compensate for that and you end up with slower growth.”  EU Troubles  Evans said he and his team of economists found reasons to
change their outlook on Australian rates after he returned last
month to Sydney from a tour of London, Frankfurt, Zurich, Paris
and Edinburgh, where it became clear to him “how dysfunctional
that whole story” of European debt was.  “The biggest test with these sorts of things is how
comfortable do you feel telling the story to your customers. And
if you don’t feel comfortable, you’ve got to reassess it,” said
Evans, who also forecast the jobless rate would rise to as high
as 5.75 percent next year.  “Bill is renowned for going overseas on marketing trips
and coming back and changing his call,” said  Warren Hogan ,
chief economist at  Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ) 
who expects rates to stay unchanged. “And he obviously made the
trip to Europe just before his last change of view which proved
to be quite fortuitous. But there’s still a long way to go. The
RBA hasn’t cut yet.”  Jobless Rate  Unemployment jumped in July for the first time since
October, to 5.1 percent, according to a report last week.
Separate reports since July 31 show consumer confidence
deteriorated for a fourth straight month to the lowest level in
more than two years and demand for mortgages grew at the slowest
annual pace in June since 1977.  The central bank’s next meeting is on Sept. 6. Last week,
economists at Goldman Sachs predicted a cut next month, and
Deutsche Bank forecast a reduction in October. While Australia &
New Zealand Banking Group reduced home loan rates for three-year
fixed mortgages to 6.44 percent from 7.04 percent yesterday,
 Commonwealth Bank of Australia (CBA)  Chief Executive Ralph Norris said
he doesn’t expect “substantial” reductions by the central
bank.  Asked whether he now feels his December call may now be too
cautious, Evans replied: “I’m not going to change it.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jacob Greber in Sydney at 
 jgreber@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  