-- 
Swiss Franc Tumbles Most in Three Days Versus Euro Since 1999; Yen Weakens

-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 
2011-08-15T21:24:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-14/yen-franc-weaken-on-speculation-japan-switzerland-to-intervene-further.html
The  Swiss franc  tumbled against the
euro, dropping the most over the past three days since the
European currency’s 1999 debut, on speculation Switzerland will
take further action to counter recent gains.  The franc slid for a fourth day versus the dollar after the
SonntagsZeitung newspaper said the Swiss government and central
bank are in “intense” talks over setting a target for their
currency. The yen dropped the most in a week against the euro
after Japan indicated it’s ready to intervene in foreign-
exchange markets again. Sweden’s krona advanced against a
majority of its 16 most-traded peers.  “Given the strength of the franc, they’re trying to think
of everything and everything,” said Brian Kim, a currency
strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc’s RBS Securities
unit in  Stamford ,  Connecticut . “It’s tough to say this point if
whatever actions they take can reverse the safe-haven flows.”  The franc tumbled 2.2 percent to 1.1329 per euro at 5 p.m.
in New York, from 1.1086 on Aug. 12, after rallying to a record
1.0075 on Aug. 9. The Swiss currency gained 10 percent over the
past three days, the biggest drop on a closing basis since
January 1999. The franc fell 0.8 percent to 78.42 centimes per
dollar after advancing to a record 70.71 centimes on Aug. 9.  The krona rose 1.6 percent against the dollar to 6.4067
even as Sweden’s industrial projection fell. It advanced 0.3
percent to 9.2545 per euro.  Swedish industrial production fell more than forecast in
June, dropping 3.3 percent after rising a revised 2.1 percent in
May, Stockholm-based Statistics  Sweden  said. The median estimate
in a Bloomberg News survey was for a 0.9 percent decline.  Dollar Index  The Dollar Index, which IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback against the currencies of six major U.S.
trading partners, fell 1 percent to 73.869, from 74.607.  U.S. Treasuries dropped after a three-week rally as stocks
gained. Benchmark 10-year note yields rose to 2.31 percent after
touching a record low 2.03 percent on Aug. 9. The Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index climbed 2.2 percent.  “We’re now recovering risk appetite,” said  Sebastien Galy , a senior foreign-exchange strategist at Societe Generale
SA in  London . “The market knows it’s going to be negatively
surprised, but it couldn’t care less at this point in time.”  Bets Reduced  Foreign-exchange traders reduced bets against the dollar in
the week ended Aug. 9 by the most on record as demand for
Treasuries soared amid global growth concerns. Aggregate bets
the greenback will weaken against the euro, the yen, the
Australian, Canadian and New Zealand dollars, pound, franc and
Mexican peso plunged by 154,105 contracts to 153,216, the
biggest drop ever in Commodity Futures Trading Commission data
compiled by Bloomberg beginning in November 2003.  In June, global demand for U.S. stocks, bonds and other
financial assets weakened as the White House and Congress
wrangled over raising the debt limit, government figures show.
Net buying of long-term equities, notes and bonds totaled $3.7
billion, compared with net buying of $24.2 billion in May,
according to Treasury Department data issued today.  The yen weakened 1.5 percent today to 110.97 per euro and
fell as much as 1.6 percent in the biggest intraday drop since
Aug. 4. It slipped 0.2 percent to 76.83 per dollar after
climbing to 76.31 Aug. 11, approaching its post-World War II
record of 76.25 set in March. The 17-nation euro rose 1.4
percent to $1.4445 and touched $1.4477, the strongest level
since July 27.  Franc Overvalued  The franc surged 11 percent in the past three months and
the yen added 2.7 percent, according to Bloomberg Correlation-
Weighted Indexes, which track 10 developed-nation currencies.
The yen and franc have gained as debt crises in  Europe  and the
U.S. boosted demand for safety.  The Swiss currency is 41 percent overvalued against the
euro, according to an index developed by the Organization for
Economic Cooperation and Development that uses relative costs of
goods and services. It’s also the most overvalued currency
against the dollar, at 48 percent.  Switzerland ’s central bank may set a target for the
currency in “coming days,” SonntagsZeitung reported. Talks are
focusing on the role of the government and an “appropriate
plan” may be adopted Aug. 17, the newspaper said.  Swiss National Bank policy makers, led by Philipp Hildebrand, have been seeking ways to stop the franc’s ascent to
almost parity with the euro.  ‘Target Zone’  “My guess is people are looking for something between 1.10
and 1.15 as a sort of target zone for this arrangement, whatever
that may be, but really we’re in the dark here,” said  Shaun Osborne , chief currency strategist at Toronto-Dominion Bank in
Toronto. “Apart from the press reports, we don’t really know
what could happen.”  The yen has risen beyond the level that prompted the Bank
of  Japan  to sell the currency on Aug. 4, its first intervention
in foreign-exchange markets since March. A stronger yen reduces
the value of overseas income at Japanese companies.  “I will continue to closely watch the markets and take
bold action if it becomes necessary,” Finance Minister
 Yoshihiko Noda  said yesterday during a television talk show on
the public broadcaster NHK.  Japan’s economy shrank at a 1.3 percent annual pace in the
three months through June, the third quarter of contraction,
government data showed today.  The euro rose for a third day versus the dollar on
speculation a meeting tomorrow between French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  and German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  in Paris may result
in action to contain the region’s debt crisis.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Bennett in  New York  at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  