-- 10 Saudi Banks File Claims for $2.4 Billion From Algosaibi Family Company
-- B y   C a m i l l a   H a l l   a n d   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 2011-02-10T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-10/10-saudi-banks-file-claims-for-2-4-billion-from-algosaibi.html
Ahmad Hamad Algosaibi & Brothers Co.,
a holding company with interests from bottling to finance,
may owe $2.4 billion to 10 Saudi Arabian banks, according to
filings by the lenders to the country’s Committee for the
Settlement of Banking Disputes.  The  Saudi Investment Bank  submitted the largest claim of 2
billion riyals ($533 million), according to filings obtained by
Bloomberg News.  Al Rajhi Bank  and National Commercial Bank filed
for 1.5 billion riyals each, the documents show.  The dispute between Algosaibi and the founder of Saad
Group, Maan al-Sanea, marked the largest default in the kingdom
to come out of the financial crisis. Units of the two family
groups borrowed at least $15.7 billion from more than 80
regional and international banks, including Paris-based  BNP
Paribas  SA, New York-based  Citigroup Inc . and  Arab Bank Plc  in
Amman, Jordan, documents provided by lenders in 2009 show.  “AHAB is committed to continuing the ongoing dialogue with
all stakeholders, including its dialogue with Saudi banks,”
Eric Lewis, Algosaibi’s global legal coordinator, said in an e-
mailed statement yesterday. “Saudi banks will be part of a
normal commercial and legal process rather than subject to any
extraordinary process in Saudi.” The family is “committed to
recovering these funds and to work with the banks toward a just
and fair solution and working with Saudi banks is an essential
part of that solution.”  Saad Group reached an agreement in 2009 with Saudi banks,
the details of which haven’t been confirmed by the company.
Algosaibi and Saad are still facing court battles across the
globe to fend off international creditor banks. Five cases are
to be brought in the London Commercial Court in June, according
to a Cayman Islands court filing.  Bank Claims  The claims against Algosaibi, submitted to the Committee
for Settlement from Nov. 29 to Dec. 31, included:  Saudi Hollandi
Bank , 947.8 million riyals;  Bank Albilad , 309.8 million riyals;  Riyad Bank , 574.3 million riyals;  Banque Saudi Fransi , 256.3
million riyals;  Arab National Bank , 756.6 million riyals;  Samba
Financial Group , 357.6 million riyals; and  Bank Al-Jazira , 612.6
million riyals.  Executives and spokesmen at the 10 banks either declined to
comment or didn’t return calls or e-mails from Bloomberg. Saad
Group and the Saudi Arabian Monetary Agency also declined to
comment.  The Committee for Settlement was established by royal order
in 1987 to resolve issues over defaults and failure to pay
interest. During the mid-1980s oil prices fell to as low as $10
a barrel, forcing the government to cut capital spending as
revenue and foreign-currency reserves declined in the world’s
largest petroleum exporter. Saudi courts, which follow Shariah
law, weren’t structured for banking disputes that allowed for
the payment of interest, which is banned by Islamic law.  Cayman Islands  Saudi Arabia may be a more appropriate location for claims
in a lawsuit filed in the Cayman Islands against Al-Sanea by
members of the kingdom’s Algosaibi family, according to a June
25 copy of a Cayman Islands Grand Court decision. The Court of
Appeal then said the case should continue in the Cayman Islands,
Lewis said Dec. 1 in an e-mailed statement. Al-Sanea says Saudi
Arabia is the right forum for the case.  In the lawsuit, Algosaibi alleged Al-Sanea misappropriated
$9.2 billion from the group’s units, in part to fund his  Saad
Group  of companies. Al-Sanea has denied any wrongdoing, saying
Algosaibi was aware of the borrowing. Algosaibi faces claims for
“unauthorized” borrowings from 118 banks, according to the
Cayman Islands ruling.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Camilla Hall in Dubai at   chall24@bloomberg.net ;
Glen Carey in Riyadh at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at or 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  