-- Lagardere Annual Revenue Little Changed as Sales of `Twilight' Novel Slow
-- B y   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l
-- 2011-02-10T13:17:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-10/lagardere-revenue-little-changed-as-twilight-effect-subsides.html
  Lagardere SCA ,  France ’s biggest
publisher, said full-year revenue was little changed as sales of
Stephenie Meyer’s vampire-themed ‘Twilight’ novel series slowed.  Revenue at the publisher of Elle magazine rose 0.9 percent
to 7.97 billion euros ($10.8 billion) from 7.89 billion euros a
year earlier, the company said in a statement. Analysts had
predicted revenue of 7.94 billion euros, according to the
average of 18 estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Chief Executive Officer Arnaud Lagardere is focusing the
publisher on its main media businesses and pushing it into
sports marketing. Hearst Corp., the New York-based publisher of
Esquire and Cosmopolitan, agreed last month to buy Lagardere’s
international magazines business for 651 million euros.  On a like-for-like basis, full-year sales declined 1.8
percent, with book publishing revenue down 6.3 percent. The
company is looking for an early foothold in the market for
electronic books, which has doubled in size in the U.S. and U.K.
since a year ago, Chief Financial Officer Dominique D’Hinnin
said on a conference call today.  Lagardere fell 1.5 percent to 32.90 euros at 2:09 p.m. in
Paris trading.  Lagardere was dealt a legal blow Jan. 27 when French
prosecutors opened a probe into alleged  insider trading 
connected to the 2006 sale of part of its stake in European
Aeronautic, Defence & Space Co. Lagardere, which was cleared in
2009 in a similar investigation by France’s market regulator,
denies wrongdoing and is not making a financial provision for a
possible fine.  Canal Plus  The company is planning a public offering of its 20 percent
stake in Canal Plus France, the country’s largest pay-TV
operator, after failing to reach a deal to sell it last year to
Vivendi SA, which owns the rest.  Vivendi CEO Jean-Bernard Levy last month reiterated that
the owner of the world’s largest record label sees taking full
control of domestic units including Canal Plus as “a strategic
objective.”  Lagardere may also eventually explore “strategic moves”
for its wholesale press distribution business, which isn’t
growing, D’Hinnin said today.    Arnaud Lagardere  has promoted a push into sports marketing
and athlete representation through a new unit, Lagardere
Unlimited. In May, the company announced the acquisition of
Best, a U.S. sports agency with clients including basketball
player Rafer Alston. It also took a minority stake in the
Saddlebrook sports academy in  Florida .  The sports division’s revenue declined 22 percent last
year, which the company blamed on a dearth of high-profile
sporting events in  Europe  and the loss of contracts with clients
including the French Football Federation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Campbell in Paris at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net . 