-- Thai Consumer Confidence Rises on Wages, Subsidies
-- B y   S u t t i n e e   Y u v e j w a t t a n a
-- 2011-02-10T04:29:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-10/thai-consumer-confidence-advanced-in-january-on-wage-gains-price-controls.html
  Thailand ’s consumer confidence rose
for the second consecutive month in January as the government
increased wages and announced measures to help contain fuel and
food costs.  An index measuring sentiment climbed to 72.6 last month
from 71.9 in December, the University of the Thai Chamber of
Commerce said in a statement in Bangkok today. The gauge is
based on a survey of 2,240 respondents.  Prime Minister  Abhisit Vejjajiva  raised the minimum wage
last month and will increase the salaries of civil servants in
April, a move that may spur inflation. The government subsidizes
the cost of diesel, cooking gas and electricity, and in January
approved price controls on 39 products including pork and eggs
ahead of an election Abhisit plans to hold by the end of June.  “People have more confidence in the economy as they have
more money in their pockets and they are ready to spend,” said
Thanavath Phonvichai, an economist at the university. “The
government’s subsidies also help relieve their concerns.”  Thailand’s central bank last month estimated  Southeast
Asia ’s second-biggest economy expanded 8 percent in 2010, which
would be the fastest pace in 15 years, and forecasts 3 percent
to 5 percent growth this year. Governor Prasarn Trairatvorakul
said in December that growth this year will be “more
balanced,” driven by local consumption and investment, while
exports will expand at a slower pace.  Inflation a ‘Key Risk’  Central Group, which controls Thailand’s biggest operator
of shopping malls, earlier this week said revenue is expected to
rise 12 percent this year and the company plans to increase
investment by 57 percent to at least 20 billion baht ($651
million) because of rising local demand.  The Bank of Thailand raised its benchmark interest rate for
the fourth time in seven months on Jan. 12, by a quarter of a
percentage point to 2.25 percent. The central bank needs to
raise rates further this year because inflation is the “key
risk,” Prasarn said on Jan. 26.  “Rising food and fuel costs and political uncertainties as
well as border issues with  Cambodia  remain key risk factors
which may undermine confidence later,” said Thanavath from the
University of the Thai Chamber of Commerce.  Abhisit said yesterday he would hold an election by the end
of June as he moves to ease political turmoil marked by
demonstrations that have resulted in about 100 deaths since the
last vote in 2007.  The election notice comes as Abhisit faces street protests
from nationalists who want his government to take a harder line
against Cambodia amid border clashes that have killed seven
people since Feb. 4.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Suttinee Yuvejwattana in Bangkok at 
 Suttinee1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tony Jordan at 
 tjordan3@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  