-- AIG's `Track Record of Deficiencies' May Indicate More Charges on Reserves
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2011-02-10T22:08:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-10/aig-s-track-record-of-deficiencies-may-indicate-more-charges.html
  American International Group Inc .,
the insurer that said yesterday it had set aside $4.1 billion to
bolster reserves, may face further charges as customers submit
claims on policies sold after the company’s 2008 bailout.  “They have the track record of deficiencies, and here’s
one more data point supporting that,” Paul Howard, director of
research at Solstice Investment Research, said of the $4.1
billion charge. “I don’t see why we won’t see more of this in
the future.”  AIG is adding to reserves, a sign that it underestimated
the cost of claims, while rivals including Travelers Cos. and
Chubb Corp. take profits after determining they had set aside
more funds than necessary. Reserve additions at New York-based
AIG, including $2.3 billion in the fourth quarter of 2009, are
weighing on results as Chief Executive Officer  Robert Benmosche 
seeks private capital to repay the $182.3 billion U.S. bailout.  “With a charge of this magnitude, investors must question
the ability of the company to accurately set reserves,”  Cliff Gallant , an analyst with KBW Inc., who has an “underperform”
rating on AIG shares, said in a research note. “The company’s
major U.S. peers such as Chubb and Travelers have been reporting
material favorable reserve development, so they may ask: Why
can’t AIG get it right?”  AIG rose 17 cents to $41.28 at 4:15 a.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading after falling $1.26 yesterday.  ‘Significant Outlier’  The insurer’s property-casualty units were downgraded today
by  Fitch Ratings , which said the company was a “significant
outlier” in the industry for reserve additions. The financial-
strength rating was dropped to A from A+.  AIG’s “recent history of reporting significant adverse
reserve development raises concerns about the company’s ability
to generate consistent run-rate underwriting results,” Fitch
said in a statement.  Mark Herr, a spokesman for AIG, declined to comment on the
reserves, as did  Mark Paustenbach  of the U.S. Treasury
Department, which holds a 92 percent AIG stake.  AIG may have accumulated reserve deficiencies because of
inadequate pricing of policies after the company’s near failure
in 2008 and the subsequent bailout, said  Meyer Shields , an
analyst at Stifel Nicolaus & Co. Rival insurers including
Warren, New Jersey-based Chubb and Liberty Mutual Holding Co.
said that the company’s government backstop was allowing the
insurer to sell policies below competitive rates.  ‘Justify Your Rates’  “It’s certainly true that AIG was really aggressive when
they were fighting for survival,” Shields said of the company’s
pricing in an interview. “And it’s also true that when you’re
doing that you initially under-reserve because you have to sort
of justify your rates.”  AIG’s Pennsylvania regulator investigated the company’s
pricing after the bailout and said in a report last year that
rates were “not out of line” with competitors. Robert Pratter,
then the state’s acting insurance commissioner, also found that
AIG failed to report $18.7 billion of policyholder guarantees at
two property-casualty subsidiaries in 2008.  AIG has added to reserves in five of the last eight years,
according to data from Terry Leone, an SNL Financial analyst.
Insurers hold a portion of policyholder premiums in reserves for
future claims costs. Some claims, including workers’ injuries or
asbestos cases, may surface years after a policy is sold.
Insurers routinely update claims estimates and add or subtract
reserves accordingly.  SNL Financial  The reserve increase in 2009 was equal to 7.6 percent of
AIG’s prior-year surplus, according to SNL. That compares with a
reduction totaling 1.4 percent of surplus for a group of some of
the biggest commercial insurers, including AIG. In 2005, AIG’s
reserve addition was 24 percent of the prior-year surplus,
compared with a 7.7 percent for the group, SNL said.  “The adverse development suggests that AIG may have been
under-pricing its business over the past few years, as
competitors have complained,” wrote  Kathleen Shanley , a New
York-based analyst at corporate bond research firm Gimme Credit
LLC, in a note to clients today.  Travelers, the only insurer in the  Dow Jones Industrial
Average , reported a $1.25 billion benefit in 2010 as it reduced
the funds it holds in reserves against claims on policies
written in prior years. The company’s benefit in 2009 was $1.33
billion. On a July 22 conference call with analysts, Travelers
CEO Jay Fishman was asked about the company’s reserve
reductions.  “It feels terrific when your results are impacted this
way,” Fishman said. “It is a whole lot better than under-
estimating your loss costs, which means you are underpricing
your product, and that’s really a disaster.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Frye in  New York  at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  