-- Airlines Say Obama Ticket Fee Plan May Hurt Demand
-- B y   J o h n   H u g h e s
-- 2011-02-10T17:42:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-10/airlines-say-fee-boost-considered-by-obama-would-raise-fares-hurt-demand.html
(Corrects to clarify price increase in 11th paragraph.)  Airline industry officials said an
increase in passenger-ticket taxes being considered by President
Barack Obama would reduce  travel demand  and add to what the
industry’s chief lobbyist called two decades of burdensome
levies on carriers.  Raising taxes paid by airlines means “fewer business trips
are taken, tourism suffers,”  Nicholas Calio , chief executive
officer of the  Air Transport Association , told the House
aviation subcommittee yesterday. He called the increase in
airline taxes since 1990 “breathtaking.”  Obama in his fiscal 2012 budget, to be unveiled Feb. 14,
will likely call for a cut of $1.1 billion, or 31 percent, in
federal grants for airport construction projects, the  American
Association  of Airport Executives said yesterday.  Obama may suggest that Congress let airports raise their
so-called passenger facility charges included in airlines’
ticket prices to as much as $7 a flight segment, from $4.50 now,
to recoup the lost revenue, according to four people familiar
with the matter. They requested anonymity because the proposal
has not yet been made public.  A Federal Aviation Administration funding bill being
considered by the Senate would keep the maximum fee at $4.50.
The House hasn’t introduced its version after passing
legislation last year, when the body was controlled by
Democrats, to raise the fee to as much as $7.  The increase would bring in $1.3 billion more for projects
annually, the airport group said in testimony. The ATA put the
figure at $2 billion.  ‘Huge’ Impact  An increase would hit carriers including  Southwest Airlines
Co. (LUV) ,  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL) ,  United Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL)  and
 AMR Corp. (AMR) ’s American Airlines, which paid airports $2.8 billion
last year in passenger charges, Calio said in his testimony.
Passengers paid an average of $4.03 a flight segment in 2010,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg Government.  Airlines “can’t capture the entire cost” of a fee
increase, said  Vaughn Cordle , managing partner of
AirlineForecasts LLC in Clifton, Virginia. “The bottom line
costs are huge.”  Every $2 billion in fee increases for U.S. airlines results
in an average fare rise of about 1.5 percent, which in turn
reduces demand by about 1 percent, according to Cordle.  U.S. airline industry profits, which Cordle estimates to be
about $3.6 billion this year, would drop by about $1 billion, or
28 percent, due to $2 billion in fee increases, he said.  Spending Freeze  Delta spokeswoman Betsy Talton yesterday referred to a
letter Chief Executive Officer  Richard Anderson  wrote to
passengers in the January issue of the company’s in-flight
magazine, Sky. Anderson wrote that an increase to $7 would
increase ticket prices to an average of $112 per trip for a
family of four.  “Increasing the PFC tax would add unnecessary costs for
customers and have the very real potential of hampering the
industry’s returning demand,” he wrote.  AMR spokesman  Sean Collins  didn’t immediately comment on
the proposed increase in passenger fees. Southwest spokeswoman
Beth Harbin declined to comment, referring calls to ATA.  Obama is trying to propose a federal budget that will allow
more spending to update the air-traffic control system, a top
aviation priority for the administration, while adhering to his
call for a five-year freeze on discretionary spending outside of
security and national defense.  Jill Zuckman, a spokeswoman for the U.S. Transportation
Department, did not return a telephone call to comment.  Congress since 1990 has allowed airports to charge the
fees, initially set at $3 for each segment of a flight. Congress
in 2000 raised the cap to a maximum of $4.50.  Five Rejections  President  George W. Bush  tried for five consecutive years
to cut the airport grant fund, most recently in 2008. Congress
rejected the cuts each time.  While airports back a fee increase, they oppose a cut in
airport construction grants. Those grants, now funded at $3.5
billion, “would obviously have an impact” on airports in all
parts of the country, Kelly Johnson, first vice chairwoman at
the Alexandria, Virginia-based airports group, told the aviation
subcommittee yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Hughes  in Washington at 
 jhughes5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  