-- Akamai Technologies Falls After Revenue Forecast Misses Analyst Estimates
-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 2011-02-10T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-10/akamai-technologies-falls-after-revenue-forecast-misses-analyst-estimates.html
  Akamai Technologies Inc ., the
operator of a server network that helps websites load faster,
fell as much as 12 percent in late trading after its first-
quarter revenue forecast trailed analysts’ estimates.  Sales will be $265 million to $275 million, Chief Financial
Officer J.D. Sherman said yesterday on a conference call.
Analysts in a Bloomberg survey had predicted sales of $283.8
million on average.  Revenue from services such as application acceleration,
cloud-computing security and managing digital rights to content
didn’t grow as much as anticipated, Sherman said. Akamai also
faces mounting competition from rivals such as Level 3
Communications and Limelight Networks Inc. That may be crimping
how much it can charge.  “Some people are going to say Akamai is doing aggressive
pricing deals because they’re worried about the competition,”
Edward Maguire, an analyst at Credit Agricole Securities in New
York, said in a telephone interview. “The value-added services
should have grown faster and picked up share. It’s a
disappointment.”  Akamai dropped as low as $42.25 in late trading yesterday
after the earnings report was released. The shares had closed at
$47.99 on the Nasdaq Stock Market.  First-quarter profit, excluding some items, will be 35 to
37 cents a share, the company said. Analysts on average had
estimated 39 cents.  Delivering Data  Akamai handles 15 percent to 30 percent of all online
traffic, according to its  website , and the company counts more
than half of the largest 500 U.S. Internet retailers as
customers. The company delivers data for  Apple Inc .’s iTunes and
streams video for Netflix Inc.  Akamai’s fourth-quarter profit excluding some items was 40
cents a share, the Cambridge, Massachusetts-based company said.
That exceeded 38 cents, the average of analysts’ estimates.  An increase in e-commerce transactions and online video
content boosted earnings, Chief Executive Officer Paul Sagan
said in a telephone interview.  Fourth-quarter sales rose 19 percent to $284.7 million from
$238.3 million a year earlier. Analysts on average predicted
sales would jump to $283.2 million. Net income increased 31
percent to $52.5 million, or 27 cents a share, from $40.1
million, or 21 cents.  Before Akamai’s forecast, the shares had gained 90 percent
in the past 12 months. Investors have bet on the company’s
prospects as Internet use surges. Cisco Systems Inc., the
largest maker of computer-networking gear,  projects  global
online traffic will increase fourfold from 2009 to 2014.  Akamai’s shares have also gotten a boost from speculation
that the company may be a takeover target. Akamai has been the
subject of more published buyout rumors than any other U.S.
company since 2005, according to Bloomberg analysis.  “We’ve said for over a decade we’ve thought we could build
tremendous value as an independent company, and that’s what
we’ve done, and that’s our goal,” Sagan said yesterday. “I
have no idea where the rumors come from. They just fade away.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Sherman in  New York  at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  