-- Alcatel-Lucent Profit Boosts Shares, Gives Verwaayen Credibility
-- B y   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l
-- 2011-02-10T11:16:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-10/alcatel-lucent-fourth-quarter-net-beats-estimates-networks-spending-jumps.html
Alcatel-Lucent SA beat analyst
estimates for fourth-quarter profit, fueling the biggest jump in
its shares in 18 months and restoring Chief Executive Officer
Ben Verwaayen’s credibility as a turnaround artist.  France’s largest phone-equipment maker reported net income
adjusted for some items at 385 million euros ($527 million),
exceeding a 236 million-euro estimate of analysts in a Bloomberg
survey. The results help put Verwaayen, who became CEO in 2008,
on course to making the company consistently profitable by the
end of this year, reversing losses since the 2006 merger of  France ’s Alcatel and the U.S.’s Lucent Technologies.  “They have topped low expectations,” Mirko Maier, an
analyst at Landesbank Baden-Wuerttemberg in Stuttgart, said by
phone. “The CEO has met his target of being profitable, and
that should improve confidence in the company.”  Alcatel shares surged as much as 15 percent in Paris, and
traded 14 percent higher at 3.04 euros as of 12:14 p.m. A
revival in orders from phone operators beefing up networks to
meet demand from the popularity of data-hungry devices such as  Apple Inc .’s iPad is helping Verwaayen’s recovery plan. Network
revenue led the Paris-based company’s business units, with a 32
percent fourth-quarter rise to 2.95 billion euros.  Alcatel is targeting a “significant increase in
profitability” this year, with an adjusted operating margin
above 5 percent of sales, it said in a statement today.  Alcatel has lost money in all but four quarters since the
merger. Verwaayen, 58, the former CEO of Britain’s BT Group Plc,
was brought in after the company lost about 5.5 billion euros in
the quarters following its merger.  Turnaround Record  Verwaayen has pledged under his turnaround plan to make
Alcatel a “normal company” by the end of this year.  During Verwaayen’s time as head of BT, profit almost
doubled, from 995 million pounds ($1.6 billion) in 2002, the
year he took over, to 1.74 billion pounds in 2008.  His efforts to turn Alcatel around come in the face of
intensifying competition from both traditional European
companies such as Ericsson AB and newer Asian rivals such as
Huawei Technologies Co.  Alcatel “now appears much more credible” as a rebounding
company poised to gain from growth in the telecommunications
markets this year, WestLB analyst Thomas Langer said in a note.  The company has won contracts for so-called fourth-
generation wireless technology from mobile operators including  AT&T Inc . and  Verizon Wireless .  A shortage of basic components such as transistors hammered
Alcatel’s financial results early last year, with a first-
quarter loss double analysts’ estimates.  The component situation has now “improved dramatically,
and we don’t see any issue in terms of being able to meet
demand,” Chief Financial Officer Paul Tufano said on a
conference call with reporters today.  Spending to rebuild inventories left the company with a
negative free cash flow of 818 million euros for the full year,
though it is still targeting positive  cash flow  this year,
Tufano added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Campbell in Paris at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net . 