-- Allstate CEO Wilson Says Sale of Bank Lets Insurer Sidestep Tighter Rules
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r   a n d   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2011-02-10T13:35:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-10/allstate-ceo-sells-bank-after-fed-says-why-don-t-we-talk-.html
  Allstate Corp . Chief Executive
Officer  Thomas Wilson , who agreed to sell the insurer’s banking
unit four months after meeting with the  Federal Reserve , said he
expects to sidestep tighter regulation by exiting the business.  “Our meeting at the Fed in October was a ‘Hi, we’re about
to become your holding company regulator, why don’t we talk and
see what’s on your mind?’” Wilson said in an interview
yesterday. Northbrook, Illinois-based Allstate, regulated by
state insurance commissioners and the Office of Thrift
Supervision, was facing additional Fed requirements on debt-to-
equity levels and overall risk management that would create
“potential conflict” with existing oversight, Wilson said.  Financial companies are preparing for increased scrutiny
after the passing of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street overhaul law in
July. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. closed a proprietary-trading unit
last year in response to new rules. Allstate rivals, including  Prudential Financial Inc . and  Principal Financial Group Inc .,
own savings-and-loan units and are regulated by the OTS.  “The regulatory environment under Dodd-Frank is changing
and the holding company oversight would shift from the OTS to
the Fed,” said Wilson. By selling the bank “we avoid any
potential conflict between state-based regulation and federal
regulation.”  Wilson, 53, is deputy chairman of the Federal  Reserve Bank 
of Chicago, according to the regulator’s website. He is one of
the  Chicago  Fed’s three so-called Class C directors, which are
selected by the board to represent the public.  ‘New Role’  Cathy Lemieux, executive vice president of supervision and
regulation at the Chicago Fed, met with Wilson and two other
representatives of Allstate on Oct. 7, the Fed said in a
 statement  on its website.  Allstate “expressed interest in gaining better
understanding” of Dodd-Frank provisions, including the Fed’s
“new role in supervision of thrift holding companies, capital
and stress testing” and the so-called Volcker rule, which puts
limits on banks’ trading for their own account, according to the
statement.  Allstate agreed on Feb. 8 to sell “substantially all” of
the deposits at its banking unit to Discover Financial Services
and exit the business. The bank had about $1.1 billion in
deposits as of Sept. 30.  The company said it is focusing its Allstate Financial unit
on the business of selling insurance, retirement and investment
products.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Frye in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut in New York at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  