-- Hana Financial Boosts Profit, to Sell $1.3 Billion of Shares to Buy KEB
-- B y   S e o n j i n   C h a
-- 2011-02-10T09:01:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-10/hana-financial-boosts-profit-to-sell-1-3-billion-of-shares-to-buy-keb.html
  Hana Financial Group Inc .,  South
Korea ’s fourth-largest financial company, posted higher profit
in the fourth quarter and said it will sell 1.43 trillion won
($1.3 billion) worth of new shares to buy  Korea  Exchange Bank.  Net income climbed 40 percent to 271 billion won in the
three months ended Dec. 31 from a year earlier, the company said
in a statement in Seoul today. Hana will sell 34.1 million new
common shares for a provisional 42,000 won apiece, the company
said in a regulatory filing. The final price per share will be
set by the Feb. 21 subscription date.  Hana Chairman Kim Seung Yu signed a 4.7 trillion won
contract in November to buy a 51 percent stake in Korea Exchange
Bank from  Lone Star Funds , marking the company’s largest ever
acquisition. The takeover will help Seoul-based Hana challenge
bigger rivals  KB Financial Group Inc . and Woori Finance Holdings
Co., said Kim Hyun Wook at Yurie Asset Management Inc.  Buying KEB “will enable Hana to seek strategic growth and
help outperform rivals who are suffering from somewhat stagnant
loan growth potential,” said Kim, head of equities at Yurie
Asset, which manages the equivalent of $2.2 billion in Seoul.  Woori today also reported higher profit in the fourth
quarter, as the country’s lenders set aside less cash for bad
loans and benefit from higher  interest rates . Woori, the
country’s third-largest financial firm by market value, said net
income rose 28 percent to 201.1 billion won.  “Both the top line and bottom line at Korean banks will
gradually improve this year,” said Hong Ki Seok, an analyst at
Kyobo AXA Investment Managers Co. in  Seoul , which manages the
equivalent of $4.6 billion. “Provisions will decline after
heavier reserves last year and loan growth will probably speed
up from 2010 with a better economy.”  Interest Margins  Interest margins are climbing as the central bank raises
rates to combat faster inflation. The  Bank of Korea  will
increase the benchmark rate by a quarter percentage point to 3
percent at a policy meeting tomorrow, according to the median
estimate of 12 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  KB Financial, owner of South Korea’s largest lender, said
today that it turned to a 230.7 billion won loss in the fourth
quarter compared with profit of 17.8 billion won a year ago, on
costs tied to an early retirement program at its Kookmin Bank
unit. That was narrower than the 250 billion won average
estimate of 13 analysts.  “The worst is over for asset quality at Korean banks,” said
Ku Yong Uk, a banking analyst at Daewoo Securities Co. in Seoul.
“KB and the other lenders will show earnings gains this year
with a decline in provisions.”  Sold Building  KB Financial slid 2.2 percent to 57,000 won at the close in
Seoul trading before the earnings result. Hana fell 1 percent to
45,050 won. Woori Finance lost 1.7 percent to 14,850 won.  Hana’s earnings last quarter were aided by asset sales,
including a gain of about 100 billion won from selling a
building of Hana Daetoo Securities Co., the company said.  Net interest margin, a key measure of lending profitability,
widened to 2.24 percent from 2.1 percent three months earlier,
Hana said. The company set aside 214.4 billion won as loan-loss
provisions last quarter, less than 241.9 billion won a year ago.  The purchase of Korea Exchange Bank will enable Hana to
pass Shinhan Financial Group Co. to become the country’s third-
largest financial firm by assets. The combination of  Korea
Exchange Bank ’s corporate banking and overseas network will
complement Hana’s retail banking business, Hana President Kim
Jong Yeol said on Nov. 25.  Deal Financing  Chairman Kim said in December that Hana plans to sell about
1.2 trillion won worth of new preferred and common shares to
fund the Korea Exchange Bank purchase. Hana received 1.9
trillion won in dividend from its Hana Bank unit and sold about
1.5 trillion won of debt to help finance the deal.  Export and Import Bank of Korea, which owns a 6.25 percent
stake in Korea Exchange Bank, won’t exercise its right to sell
its stake to Hana for at least six months after the transaction
between Hana and  Lone Star  is completed. Kexim and Hana reached
the agreement today, according to Hana’s regulatory filing.  “The uncertainty over funding or the concerns over share
dilution are now over, said Ku Yong Uk, a banking analyst at
Daewoo Securities Co. in Seoul, who rates Hana shares “buy.”
“The takeover will enhance Hana’s business lineup in the longer
term.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Seonjin Cha in Seoul at 
 scha2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  