-- Tanzania's President Denies Road Will Harm Serengeti Wildebeest Migration
-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 2011-02-10T08:20:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-10/tanzanian-president-denies-road-will-harm-serengeti-wildebeest-migration.html
Tanzanian President Jakaya Kikwete
said conservationists have exaggerated concerns that a planned
road around the  Serengeti National Park  would disrupt the annual
migration of 2 million zebras and wildebeest.  Only an unpaved, 54-kilometer (34-mile) section of a
planned highway around the northern periphery of the park will
pass into the  Serengeti , Kikwete said in an e-mailed statement
late yesterday.  “No tarmac road will be built through the Serengeti,”
Kikwete said, according to the statement. “We will only build a
road around the park to ease very serious transport challenges
facing the poorer communities around the park.”  The proposed road will cut travel times for residents in
some northern  Tanzania  villages living without tapped water or
electricity who currently spend eight hours on a 170-kilometer
dirt track to reach Mto wa Mbu, a town outside the park, he
said.  The northern route has drawn criticism from
environmentalists including the  Wildlife Conservation Society ,
based in  New York , and the  Zoological Society of London .  Vehicles moving along the road may collide with the
migrating mammals, while the increased traffic may block their
northward migration to the Maasai Mara National Reserve in
neigboring  Kenya , the groups said on Aug. 25. They recommended
the government choose an alternative option to expand the road
network, possibly closer to the southern edge of the park.  Tanzania has declined a funding offer from the  World Bank 
to study the possibility of a southern route, Kikwete said.  Annual Migration  The annual migration of the zebras and wildebeest, also
known as gnus, starts in Tanzania around October as a seasonal
dry spell begins and herds follow rainfall north in search of
grazing, according to conservationists. The phenomenon was
chosen as one of the seven natural wonders of the world in a
 2006 survey  by  USA Today  and ABC News’s Good Morning America.  The  Serengeti , in northwestern  Tanzania , gets it names from
the word Siringitu of the Maasai tribe who are native to the
area, meaning “the place where the land moves on forever.”  The area is designated a  Unesco World Heritage Site  and
attracts as many as 90,000 tourists every year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at   smcgregor5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net  