-- Apple’s IPhone Dominance Leaves Operators With Utility Ratings
-- B y   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l   a n d   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 2011-02-10T23:01:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-10/apple-s-iphone-dominance-leaves-operators-with-utility-ratings.html
  Apple Inc . won’t attend the Mobile
World Congress in Barcelona next week. Yet the iPhone maker will
dominate discussions at the four-day, tapas-fuelled gathering.  Apple and  Google Inc . are increasing their lead in the
industry, leaving  France Telecom SA  and Telefonica SA to bemoan
their utility-like status. Europe’s five largest carriers
represent about 1 million jobs, 1.2 billion customers, 300
billion euros ($408 billion) in revenue and 50 billion euros in
annual investment,  France Telecom  Chief Executive Officer
Stephane Richard said.  “That’s the combined economic weight,” he said this week
in Paris. “And the combined market capitalization of these five
companies today is less than that of Apple.”  France Telecom, Telefonica and  Telecom Italia SpA , all
former state phone monopolies, are struggling to convince
investors they are more than “dumb pipes” that facilitate the
surging demand for data-hungry mobile devices. They are lobbying
to have Apple and Google share the burden of upgrading networks.  The battle won’t be easy, said Adam Daum, an analyst at
market researcher Canalys. “The question of being a dumb pipe
hangs on the mobile apps debate,” he said. “If you are
browsing the mobile Internet, it’s very difficult for the
operators to avoid being a dumb pipe.”  Utility Valuation  Operators’ shares have performed accordingly. In the past
year, Apple shares have advanced 84 percent. France Telecom
declined 1.6 percent, Deutsche Telekom rose 5.3 percent and  Spain ’s  Telefonica SA  gained 8.3 percent.  Investors are valuing European telecommunications stocks at
the same level as European utilities, according to Bloomberg
data. The dividend yield of 5.81 percent is the same for both
the Bloomberg European Telecommunications Services Index as well
as the European Utilities Index.  “It’s a pity, but it’s true that telcos aren’t seen as  growth stocks ,” said  Boris Boehm , who helps manage about 1.1
billion euros at Aramea Asset Management in Hamburg.  Revenue growth also shows why investors have shunned mobile
operators. Apple’s first-half sales rose 39 percent and Google’s
23 percent.  Vodafone Group Plc ’s first-half organic revenue
increased 1.8 percent, France Telecom’s slipped 1.2 percent.  Mobile Money, Health  Clawing back ground is becoming a preoccupation for
operators, who are demanding a piece of the revenue gained by
the likes of Apple and Google as fees for network use, while
also trying to push services from mobile money to mobile health.  Mobile-data connections in  Europe  are set to rise by an
average of 15 percent a year to 270 million in 2014, according
to market researcher IDC. At the Barcelona conference, which
takes off on Feb. 13, squeezing more revenue from this expanding
pie will be key piece of the debate for phone operators.  France Telecom’s Richard, along with his counterparts at
Telecom Italia SpA and Telefonica, has called for a system of
compensation for operators by companies that generate large
amounts of traffic, arguing they get a free ride on mobile
broadband networks as operators are left carrying the costs.  Apple’s iOS and Google’s Android -- and their associated
application stores -- accounted for 53.3 percent of smartphone
sales last year, according to Gartner Inc. Operators currently
get almost none of the revenue within what consultancy Booz &
Co. estimates will be a $40 billion market for mobile games,
entertainment, and workplace tools by 2014.  Demanding Payback  “The operators can’t sustain passing content through their
network without some degree of payback,” said Stuart Orr, the
head of  Accenture Plc ’s European communications practice. Yet
without ownership of that content, “what rights do the
operators have to force the content providers to release some of
that money? I don’t see an easy resolution.”  Finding a way to extract revenue from content that flows
over networks may depend on  government regulation . That effort
got a boost in December when French industry minister Eric Besson said he would seek to ensure that “services that occupy
the largest part of our networks contribute to the deployment
and maintenance of those networks.”  U.K. culture minister Ed Vaizey has also said he’s open to
operators charging content providers for access.  Tensions between operators and technology companies are
also mounting because of efforts by Apple and Google to extend
their reach further into the telecommunications world.  Cupertino, California-based Apple has experimented with
software that would allow mobile customers to switch operators
on the fly, possibly using its iTunes program, drastically
lowering the barriers to changing providers.  Service Standards  Phone companies “will not respond well to a consumer
savvy, technology savvy player like Apple aiming to develop an
app that dis-intermediates them from the consumer,” said Saeed Baradar, a telecommunications sales specialist at Societe
Generale in  London .  With Apple beginning to offer its iPhone on multiple U.S.
carriers, the time may be ripe for the introduction of such
technology, he added.  Meanwhile, operators are making their own efforts to
develop technological standards for services such as mobile
payments, which both Google and Apple are also targeting for new
generations of smartphones.  Either set could eventually manage the payment systems,
gaining access to lucrative transaction fees.  Operators’ best shot at increasing their role in the
digital economy may be through these so-called near-field
payments, which would allow mobile users to pay for retail
transactions or subway rides with a swipe of their phone.  Large mobile operators have information about customers and
have shown they can use it in a trustworthy way, said Patrik
Karrberg, a researcher in the  London School  of Economics’
Department of Management.  “If you look at the legislation on a lot of privacy
issues, it’s very national, and the operators are very attuned
to working with that kind of national legislation,” he said.
“It’s an opportunity.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Campbell in Paris at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net .  Jonathan Browning  in London 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root in Paris at   vroot@bloomberg.net ; 