-- 
Apple Is Said to Work on Cheaper, Smaller IPhones

-- B y   P e t e r   B u r r o w s   a n d   G r e g o r y   B e n s i n g e r
-- 
2011-02-11T15:04:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-10/apple-said-to-work-on-cheaper-more-versatile-iphone-models.html
  Apple Inc . is working on new
versions of the iPhone that are aimed at slowing the advance of
competing handsets based on  Google Inc .’s Android software,
according to people who have been briefed on the plans.  One version would be cheaper and smaller than the most
recent iPhone, said a person who has seen a prototype and asked
not to be identified because the plans haven’t been made public.
Apple also is developing technology that makes it easier to use
the iPhone on multiple wireless networks, two people said.  Chief Executive Officer  Steve Jobs , who remains involved in
strategic decisions while on medical leave, would use lower
prices to widen the iPhone’s appeal and keep it from losing
further ground to Android devices. Less expensive iPhones may
also ratchet up pressure on  Nokia Oyj , whose handsets are
especially popular in  Europe  and some developing markets.  “Instead of targeting 25 percent of the global mobile-
phone market, Apple would be going after 100 percent,” said  Charlie Wolf , an analyst at Needham & Co. in New York, who has a
“buy” rating on Apple shares.  Google’s share of the global smartphone market  more than
tripled  to 32.9 percent in the fourth quarter, eclipsing Apple’s
16 percent, according to Canalys. Apple will face another
challenge as Nokia and Microsoft Corp. join forces in smartphone
development, a partnership announced today.    Natalie Kerris , a spokeswoman for Cupertino, California-
based Apple, declined to comment.  Apple added $1.30 to $355.84 at 9:59 a.m. New York time in
Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The stock had climbed 9.9 percent
this year before today.  Smaller, Cheaper  Apple has considered selling the new iPhone for about $200,
without obligating users to sign a two-year service contract,
said the person who has seen it. Android phones sell for a range
of prices at  AT&T Inc ., Verizon Wireless and other carriers, and
typically come with agreements that include a fee for broken
contracts. The iPhone 4, sold in the U.S. by AT&T and Verizon
Wireless, costs $200 to $300 when subsidized by a contract.  While Apple has aimed to unveil the device near mid-year,
the introduction may be delayed or scrapped, the person said.
Few Apple employees know the details of the project, the person
said. Apple often works on products that don’t get released.  The prototype was about one-third smaller than the iPhone
4, and it had no “home” button, said the person, who saw it
last year.  Apple would sell it at a low price mainly because the
smartphone will use a processor, display and other components
similar to those used in the current  model , rather than pricier,
more advanced parts that will be in the next iPhone, the person
said. Component prices typically drop over time.  Dual-Mode Phone  Apple is also working on a so-called dual-mode phone, two
people said. This device would be able to work with the world’s
two main wireless standards -- the  global system for mobile
communications , used by AT&T and overseas carriers such as
Vodafone Group Plc, and  code division multiple access , used by  Verizon Wireless . It couldn’t be determined whether Apple
intended to include this capability in the cheaper iPhone.  Apple is working on a technology called a universal SIM,
which would let iPhone users pick from a variety of GSM networks
without having to switch the so-called SIM cards that associate
a phone with a network, according to one person. Having
universal SIM capability built-in would help cut the cost of
distributing and managing millions of SIM cards.  The new features could also give Apple an advantage over
mobile carriers in influencing customers. The device would be
affordable without a carrier subsidy, so buyers wouldn’t need to
agree to terms, such as termination fees, that carriers demand
in exchange for lowering the cost of the phone.  Global Appeal  A cheaper iPhone would help Apple make deeper inroads in
markets such as China and  India , where many shoppers opt for
lower-priced devices that don’t carry long-term contracts, Wolf
said.  Apple has also worked on redesigned iPhone software that
would let customers choose a network and configure their device
on their own, without relying on a store clerk or representative
of a carrier, according to the person.  Apple has gone down-market before. In 2004, when sales of
the original $299-plus iPod were still rising, the company
 introduced  the $249 iPod Mini. In 2005, when the iPod Mini was
still a bestseller, Jobs  discontinued  it in favor of the cheaper
iPod Nano. Apple began selling the last version of the iPhone,
the 3GS, for just $49 in January -- though it required a two-
year contract.  Price cuts and the absence of a carrier subsidy may put
Apple’s margins under pressure.  Still, Apple is able to get big discounts from suppliers
because of the large volume of iPhone sales and by signing long-
term contracts. The company said in January that it has executed
long-term agreements totaling $3.9 billion in recent months.  Google’s Android operating system also may suffer if Apple
makes the iPhone more versatile and affordable. The Google-
backed operating system benefited when Apple wasn’t available
from Verizon Wireless. Verizon Wireless began selling the iPhone
yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Peter Burrows in  San Francisco  at 
 pburrows@bloomberg.net ;
Gregory Bensinger in  New York  at 
 gbensinger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net ;
Thomas Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  