-- 
Marchionne Summoned by Berlusconi to Defend Fiat's Italy Plans

-- B y   T o m m a s o   E b h a r d t   a n d   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 
2011-02-11T13:06:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-10/marchionne-summoned-by-berlusconi-after-hinting-fiat-future-is-in-detroit.html
  Fiat SpA  Chief Executive Officer  Sergio Marchionne  needs to reassure Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  that he isn’t planning to move Italy’s biggest
manufacturer a month after winning government backing in a
battle with unions over labor concessions.  The CEO caused a stir in Italy this week after saying Feb.
4 that the Turin-based carmaker and Chrysler Group LLC may “end
up looking like one entity,” possibly based in the U.S. The CEO
later backtracked, saying no decision has been made. Fiat owns
25 percent of  Auburn Hills , Michigan-based Chrysler.  Fiat plans to build as many as 280,000 cars and SUVs a year
for the Jeep and Alfa Romeo brands at its Mirafiori plant in  Italy  starting in 2012 as part of a venture with Chrysler. Under
a deal with unions, workers will put in more hours, take shorter
breaks and risk having pay withheld for persistent absenteeism.  “Integration with Chrysler may lead to new combinations,
so it’s crucial to stress the importance now of a prominent
position for Italy,” Labor Minister  Maurizio Sacconi , who spoke
with Marchionne last week, said in an interview. “The
government wants to verify with Fiat’s management the status of
the Italian investment plan.”  Marchionne, 58, will meet with Berlusconi and other
ministers in Rome tomorrow. Fiat Chairman John Elkann will also
attend. The CEO will speak about the company’s production goals
at a parliamentary hearing in  Rome  on Feb. 15.  Parliamentary Hearing  The Mirafiori plant deal is part of a 20 billion-euro ($27
billion) investment project to revamp Fiat’s five Italian car
plants, where it aims to produce 1.4 million vehicles a year by
2014 from 650,000 in 2009.  “The government is moving too late, but better late than
never,” said Federico Bellono, the local head of the Fiom union
in Turin, which opposed the Mirafiori agreement. “Marchionne is
more oriented strategically toward the U.S. than Europe.”  Fiat shares were little changed in Milan, trading at 7.15
euros at 1:39 p.m. local time The stock has gained 7 percent
this year.  After  Italy’s main newspapers  all printed Marchionne’s
comments about a move to the U.S. on their front pages, Elkann
on Feb. 5 was forced to qualify the CEO’s remarks, saying that
Fiat would never abandon Turin, where it’s been based for over a
century.  Italians’ concerns that a combined Fiat-Chrysler may locate
its headquarters in the U.S. are overblown, Marchionne said Feb.
9 in an interview at the Chicago Auto Show. No decision has been
made on governance or a headquarters location, he said, adding
that the issue won’t be on his agenda before 2014.  20 Billion Euros  “Marchionne is taking the money and running to the U.S.,”
former Public Works Minister Antonio Di Pietro wrote in a post
on his  website . “Where are the 20 billion euros?”  Fiat is trying to improve productivity and capacity
utilization to restore profitability in Italy, still the
carmaker’s biggest market. None of the company’s profit in 2010
came from Italy, Marchionne said. The automaker may lose 814
million euros in  Europe  in 2011, according to Kristina Church, a
London-based analyst at  Barclays Capital .  Chrysler could earn as much as $500 million in net income
this year, its first profit since bankruptcy in 2009, the
company said Jan. 31. Marchionne has said he wants to take
Chrysler public in the second half of 2011 and that he’ll need
two quarters of profitability before he can do it.  ‘Two Different Games’  “Marchionne is playing two different games, one in the
U.S. and the other in Europe,” said Giuliano Noci, a professor
at the MIP Management School of Milan’s polytechnic university.
“In North America he’s creating consensus on Chrysler before
its initial public offering, while in Italy he needs to shock
the country into creating a more competitive environment.”  Fiat’s 22,000 auto workers in Italy assembled  650,000 cars
in 2009 , compared with 600,000 made by 6,100 employees at the
company’s factory in Tychy,  Poland . That means, without taking
into account differences in models and working hours,
productivity in Italy averaged 30 cars per employee a year,
compared with almost 100 at Tychy. Fiat is closing one Italian
car plant, at Termini Imerese, at the end of this year.  “The era of state aid is over,” Sacconi said, adding that
the government will stress the “current and historical”
reasons for keeping Fiat based in Italy in tomorrow’s meeting.
Italy doesn’t oppose mergers involving Fiat, the minister said.
“We’ve always believed that it’s necessary for Fiat to integrate
with other producers at a moment in which the global car market
is shrinking.”  Additional Stake  Fiat can gain an additional 10 percent stake in Chrysler in
two steps if the U.S. carmaker reaches milestones including some
sales objectives outside of  North America . Fiat has an option to
increase the holding to 51 percent after Chrysler repays U.S.
and Canadian government loans. Marchionne has said he aims to
get to 51 percent of Chrysler before the end of this year.  “There was an overreaction to Marchionne’s comments, which
shows how fragile the Italian economic system is,” said Turin
Mayor Sergio Chiamparino, who regularly plays cards with the
Fiat CEO. “I told Marchionne he should better explain his
business model, which represents a revolution for the Italian
culture.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tommaso Ebhardt in Milan at 
 tebhardt@bloomberg.net ;
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:  Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net . 