-- 
Mets Owners Seek Information Underlying Madoff Trustee Claim

-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 
2011-02-23T02:46:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-10/mario-cuomo-to-mediate-mets-1-billion-madoff-fight.html
Sterling Equities Inc., which owns
the Mets Major League Baseball team, asked a court to order the
trustee liquidating con man  Bernard Madoff ’s firm to turn over
documents supporting a $1 billion claim against Sterling.  In documents filed today in the case before U.S. Bankruptcy
Judge  Burton Lifland  in Manhattan, Sterling demands documents
and transcripts underlying what the trustee claims are “good
faith” allegations “based upon a serious investigation,”
according to the filing.  “Instead, the trustee, who acts as a fiduciary to all
Madoff victims, including the Sterling defendants, seeks to
delay the disclosure of this critical information” and
dismisses Sterling’s request as “frivolous,” according to the
filing.  The $1 billion legal fight, in which trustee  Irving Picard 
wants to recover $300 million in alleged phony profit from
Madoff’s scheme made by Sterling and as much as $700 million in
principal, is being mediated by former  New York  Governor  Mario Cuomo . The mediation has started and “will be impossible if the
Sterling defendants do not have access to all of the trustee’s
pre-complaint discovery,” according to the filing.  Sterling describes the discovery as documents and
transcripts, and copies of “third-party discovery that already
has been taken.”  Picard’s lawyer, David Sheehan, didn’t immediately return a
call seeking comment after regular business hours.  In court filings, Picard claims the Mets owners used
$90 million in Madoff profits for day-to-day operations,
blinding them to “red flags” signaling that Madoff was a
fraud.  Mets Chairman Fred Wilpon and Saul Katz, the team’s
president, have called the claims “abusive, unfair and
untrue.”  The case is Picard v. Katz, 10-05287,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in San Francisco at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 