-- Arizona Files Counterclaim Against Government Over State's Immigration Law
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n   a n d   A l i s o n   V e k s h i n
-- 2011-02-11T02:55:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-10/arizona-files-counterclaim-against-u-s-government-in-immigration-lawsuit.html
  Arizona  filed counterclaims against
the U.S. in the federal government’s lawsuit challenging a state
law that requires police to determine the immigration status of
people stopped for questioning.  Arizona Governor Janice Brewer, in a filing today in
federal court in Phoenix, accuses the U.S. government of failing
to maintain operational control of the state’s border with  Mexico , failing to protect it from invasion and violence and
failing to enforce federal immigration laws.  “The federal government has effectively conceded its
inability to protect Arizona and its citizens from criminal
activities associated with illegal aliens,” Brewer said in the
filing. “Within the last year, the federal government placed
warning signs in the desert 80 miles north of the border and
only 30 miles south of Phoenix warning people to stay away from
the area.”  Arizona is appealing a federal judge’s ruling that the
state can’t require police to make a “reasonable attempt” to
determine whether someone is legally in the U.S. and then detain
that person if there is “suspicion” that he isn’t. The  U.S.
Court of Appeals  in  San Francisco  heard arguments in November.
It hasn’t issued a decision.  Arizona Statute  Brewer signed the law in April, spurring protests and court
challenges, including the U.S. Justice Department’s lawsuit.
Opponents say the measure would invite racial profiling. Brewer
has said the law responds to the federal government’s failure to
curb illegal immigration.  “A meritless court claim such as this does nothing to
secure the border,” Matthew Chandler, a spokesman for the
Homeland Security Department, said in an e-mailed statement.
“Smart strategies, dedicated law enforcement personnel, and
strategic partnerships with state, local, and tribal governments
and agencies do.”  About 40 percent of illegal aliens enter the U.S. through
Arizona, Brewer said in today’s filing, citing federal
government estimates. Illegal immigration costs the state
$1 billion a year, she said at a news conference today
announcing the state’s filing.  “Arizona is unable to bear the staggering cost of
protecting itself,” Arizona Attorney General Tom Horne said at
the news conference. “And even if it could, the federal
government has argued that Arizona is preempted from taking
action to assist in the enforcement of federal immigration
law.”  Constitutional Obligations  Brewer said in the court filing that the state wants the
court to clarify the constitutional and statutory obligations
the federal government has with respect to immigration and
illegal aliens, as well as the rights of Arizona.  The federal government hasn’t reimbursed Arizona for more
than $760 million in costs to incarcerate illegal aliens, Brewer
said today in a statement. It seeks a court order forcing the
U.S. to pay for Arizona’s costs under the State Criminal Alien
Assistance Program.  The case is U.S. v. State of Arizona, 2:10-cv-1413, U.S.
District Court, District of Arizona (Phoenix).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in  Los Angeles  at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net .
Alison Vekshin in San Francisco at 
 avekshin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 