-- Arizona Republican Jon Kyl Says He Won't Seek Another Term in U.S. Senate
-- B y   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s
-- 2011-02-10T22:44:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-10/arizona-s-jon-kyl-said-ready-to-announce-he-won-t-seek-another-senate-term.html
Republican Senator  Jon Kyl  of
Arizona said he won’t run for re-election next year, setting the
stage for a contest between the two major U.S. parties to claim
a seat in a competitive state.  Kyl, the second-ranking Senate Republican leader, said at a
news conference in Phoenix there was “nothing negative”
prompting his decision to retire at the end of his third six-
year term.  “It’s time for me to have an opportunity to do something
else” and give others a chance to serve in the Senate, Kyl
said. “My heart says it’s time.”  As Senate minority whip, Kyl, 68, is the chief vote-counter
for Republicans, a post he was slated to give up next year. He
served four terms in the House before his 1994 election to the
Senate, where he has been a key architect of the Republican
agenda in recent years, including the push for tax cuts.  Senate Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell  of Kentucky said
that, while Kyl’s retirement will be a “big loss,” he will
remain for the next two years “helping us fight for the right
kind of America.” McConnell spoke at the Conservative Political
Action Conference today in Washington.  Fellow Arizona Republican Senator  John McCain  said on
Twitter that Kyl “will be missed.”  Kyl, a member of the Judiciary Committee, played a major
role in opposing President Barack Obama’s Supreme Court
nominations of  Sonia Sotomayor  and  Elena Kagan , both of whom won
Senate confirmation.  Leader on Immigration  The Arizonan has been a Republican leader on immigration,
pushing for strict border-security measures. He also backed
former President George W. Bush’s unsuccessful effort to give
the nation’s millions of illegal immigrants a pathway to legal
status.  Kyl said today he will use his remaining time in the Senate
to continue work on immigration and overhauling the  tax code .  In a letter to supporters, he said he isn’t retiring from
politics and still plans to help other elected officials and
advance his views. “My desire to advance conservative
principles is the animating force in my life,” Kyl wrote.  He was the fifth senator to decide against seeking another
term next year. The others are Kay Bailey Hutchison, a Texas
Republican, Democrats  Kent Conrad  of North Dakota and Jim Webb
of Virginia and Democrat-turned-independent  Joe Lieberman  of
Connecticut.  Republican Representative Jeff Flake said he is considering
running for Kyl’s seat and will decide soon, based on whether he
thinks he can win.  ‘Kyl’s Day’  “This is Kyl’s day, and we’ll have an announcement soon
enough,” Flake told reporters just off the House floor.    Arizona  Representative Trent Franks, a Republican, also
said he’s “seriously considering” a run.  Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano, a former
Arizona governor, is a possible Democratic contender.  Both parties said they will make an intense bid for Kyl’s
seat. While Republicans hold a voter registration advantage over
Democrats in Arizona, there’s a sizable swing contingent of
independents that can tip the balance in either party’s favor,
said pollster and former Arizona State University Professor
Bruce Merrill.  ‘Battleground State’  “It’s a battleground state, mainly because the division of
party now is about one-third Republican, one-third Democrat and
one-third independent -- and the independents control the
balance of power,” Merrill said.  Senator  John Cornyn  of Texas, the Republican Senate
campaign chief, said in a statement he is “confident that this
seat will remain in” his party’s hands.  Eric Schultz, a spokesman for the Democratic Senatorial
Campaign Committee, said Kyl’s decision “instantaneously
catapulted Arizona to a prime pickup opportunity” for
Democrats.  The last Democrat elected to the Senate from Arizona was
Dennis DeConcini in 1988.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in  Washington  at 
 jdavis159@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Mark Silva  in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 