-- Emerging Market Stocks Slump, Dollar Rises; Treasuries Drop
-- B y   S t e p h e n   K i r k l a n d   a n d   M i c h a e l   P .   R e g a n
-- 2011-02-10T21:38:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-10/asian-stocks-aussie-won-decline-as-china-u-s-damp-outlook-for-recovery.html
Developing nation stocks slid the
most since November as accelerating global inflation drove up
borrowing costs. U.S. equities erased losses as Egypt President  Hosni Mubarak  promised to hand authority to his vice president,
while Treasuries fell as demand slipped at an auction.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index sank 1.9 percent at 4 p.m.
in New York, while the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index erased a drop
of as much as 0.7 percent to close up less than 0.1 percent. The
Dollar Index added 0.8 percent, snapping a three-day slump. The  Market Vectors Egypt Index ETF , an exchange-traded fund tracking
equities in that nation, rallied as much as 6.1 percent before
paring its gain to 0.5 percent as Mubarak said he won’t step
down before September.  U.S. 10-year and 30-year Treasury yields climbed to the
highest levels since April this week, triggering concern that
the stock-market rally is in jeopardy as bond returns become
more attractive to investors and spur increases in consumer and
corporate lending rates.  Freddie Mac  said the 30-year fixed
mortgage rate rose to 5.05 percent last week, the highest since
April. China lifted borrowing costs this week for the third time
in four months and Korea is forecast to raise rates tomorrow.  “We’ve reached the point in which monetary policy is very
relevant for asset-market performance,” said  Michael Shaoul ,
chairman of Marketfield Asset Management, which oversees $973
million from New York. “We’re in a very strong trend of
improving data in the U.S., where I see favorable monetary
policy for at least 12 months. That’s not the case of emerging
markets, where I believe you should be scaling back in countries
which have clear inflationary pressures. It won’t be a problem
for the global economy, but they will go through a period of
adjustment.”  Emerging Markets Slump  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index fell for a sixth day, the
longest streak in three months. Benchmark gauges in  Russia ,  South Korea ,  Indonesia , Taiwan and the  Philippines  fell at least
1.3 percent.  The gauge of 21 developing countries has lost 5.4 percent
so far this year as central banks from  China  to Indonesia and
India raised  interest rates  to tame consumer-price gains.  Exxon Mobil Corp. and Schlumberger Ltd. paced gains that
sent energy stocks to the top advance among 10 groups in the  S&P
500 . Technology companies had the biggest decline and led the
market lower earlier.  Cisco Systems Inc . tumbled 14 percent, the
most since November, as the largest provider of networking
equipment’s gross margin and profit forecast missed analysts’
projections. Akamai Technologies Inc. sank 15 percent as its
sales and profit projections trailed analysts’ forecasts.  Mubarak Speech  The S&P 500 erased losses in the final half-hour of trading
as Mubarak said in a televised speech that he will delegate
powers to his deputy,  Omar Suleiman , while refusing to bow to
calls of protestors for his immediate resignation. Egyptian
government debt rallied, with yields on 5.75 percent dollar
bonds due April 2020 falling nine basis points to 6.50 percent.  The protests in  Egypt , which the United Nations says have
left about 300 people dead, sparked concern that contagion would
grip a region that holds more than 50 percent of the world’s
known oil reserves.  “The stock market always likes stability,” saidMark Bronzo,
who helps manage over $25 billion at Irvington, New York-based
Security Global Investors. “If Mubarak is willing to talk about
a transition, it will ease the unrest that is taking place in
Egypt. The market is very resilient. We had some earnings
misses, but that doesn’t change the very positive earnings and
economic picture.”  30-Year Auction  Yields on 30-year U.S. Treasuries climbed six basis points
to 4.77 percent. The 30-year bonds sold at the auction yielded
4.750 percent, compared with an average estimate of 4.729
percent in a Bloomberg News survey of 11 of the  Federal
Reserve ’s 20 primary dealers. The bid-to-cover ratio, which
gauges demand by comparing total bids with the amount of
securities offered, was 2.51. The average at the last 10
auctions was 2.68.  Thirty-year breakeven rates, the difference between yields
on 30-year inflation-indexed bonds and nominal Treasuries of the
same maturity, was 2.52 percentage points today, narrowing from
a 2011 high of 2.68 percentage points on Jan. 7. The breakeven
rate represents traders’ expectations for the rate of inflation
over the life of the bonds and has averaged 2.4 percentage
points for the past five years.  Americans filing first-time claims for unemployment
insurance fell to 383,000, the lowest level since July 2008.
compared with the mediate estimate of 410,000 in a Bloomberg
survey of 51 economists.  European Markets  More than two stocks declined for each that advanced in the  Europe ’s Stoxx 600, which slipped 0.2 percent.  Air France-KLM 
Group plunged 7.7 percent after posting an unexpected loss.
Credit Suisse Group AG, Switzerland’s second-largest bank, slid
5.8 after cutting its profitability target. Alcatel-Lucent SA
jumped 19 percent as France’s largest telecommunications
equipment maker reported profit that beat analysts’ estimates.  Portuguese 10-year bond yield slid seven basis points to
less than 7.30 percent. The  European Central Bank  bought
Portuguese government bonds, according to three people with
knowledge of the transactions. The central bank bought
Portuguese debt maturing in five years, two of the people said,
declining to be identified because the deals are confidential.
An ECB spokesman in Frankfurt declined to comment.  Dollar Rallies  The dollar appreciated against all but one of its 16 most-
traded counterparts, strengthening 1 percent versus the euro.
The pound rallied 1 percent against the yen and appreciated 0.9
percent per euro after the Bank of England kept its main rate at
0.5 percent today, matching the forecast of all 62 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg.  The Australian dollar depreciated 0.8 percent versus the
U.S. currency after a report showed full-time employment dropped
in January. Norway’s krone fell 0.3 percent against the euro and
1.3 percent versus the dollar after data showed Norwegian
inflation slowed more than analysts estimated in January.  Cotton for March delivery increased as much as 7 cents to a
record $1.8758 a pound on ICE Futures U.S. in New York after
exports jumped from the U.S., the world’s leading shipper. Wheat
for March delivery fell 2.6 percent to $8.6275 a bushel in
Chicago trading, declining for the first time in four days.
Crude oil for March delivery rose 2 cents to $86.73 a barrel in  New York  trading.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Kirkland in  London  at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net ;
Michael P. Regan in New York at 
 mregan12@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net  