-- Asian Stocks Decline for Third Day This Week on Commodities; ASX Advances
-- B y   A n n a   K i t a n a k a   a n d   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s
-- 2011-02-10T10:57:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-10/asian-stocks-decline-for-second-day-on-commodities-asx-jumps-on-takeovers.html
Asian stocks fell, dragging a
benchmark regional index lower for a third day this week, on
concern U.S. unemployment and efforts by emerging countries to
tame inflation will hamper a global economic recovery.  PetroChina Co., the nation’s biggest energy producer, fell
3 percent in  Hong Kong  after announcing an asset purchase as oil
and metal prices dropped.  China  Resources Land Ltd., a property
developer, sank 3.6 percent. ASX Ltd., the operator of
Australia’s main stock exchange, jumped 4.7 percent on
speculation yesterday’s merger announcements by overseas bourses
make it more likely that Australian regulators will approve its
takeover by Singapore Exchange Ltd.  “Investors are worried that if inflation continues to
accelerate, Asian central banks may be more aggressive in
tightening monetary policy,” said Lee King Fuei, a Singapore-
based  fund manager  at Schroders Plc which held about $292
billion as of September. “It’s also happening at a time when
the global economy is not yet stable.”  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index fell 1 percent to 136.98 as of
7:48 p.m. in Tokyo, with more than twice as many shares
declining as advancing. All 10 industry groups dropped.  The index, which rose 0.1 percent earlier today, climbed
1.4 percent last week for the sharpest weekly gain this year as
improving earnings outweighed concern over anti-government
protests in  Egypt .  Emerging Markets Drop  Benchmark indexes in developing nations led declines. The
MSCI Emerging Markets Index retreated 1.9 percent in its sixth
straight day of losses. The Philippine Stock Exchange Index
slumped 2.7 percent and  Taiwan ’s Taiex index lost 1.9 percent.    South Korea ’s Kospi Index fell 1.8 percent and Hong Kong’s
Hang Seng index slipped 2 percent. China’s Shanghai Composite
index rose 1.6 percent, erasing an earlier loss of 0.5 percent.  Japan’s Nikkei 225 Stock Average slid 0.1 percent, while
the broader Topix index gained 0.3 percent. The country’s stock
exchanges will be closed tomorrow for a public holiday.
Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index climbed 0.2 percent.  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index slipped 0.5
percent today. The index dropped 0.3 percent yesterday in  New
York  amid growing investor concern that accelerating global
inflation will lead to higher borrowing costs.  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said the U.S.
unemployment rate is likely to remain high “for some time”
even after the biggest two-month drop in the jobless rate since
1958.  PetroChina lost 3 percent to HK$10.22 in Hong Kong. The
company agreed to buy a 50 percent stake in Encana Corp.’s
Cutbank Ridge gas assets in  North America  for C$5.4 billion
($5.4 billion) in its largest overseas acquisition.  Aluminum Corp. of China Ltd., the country’s No. 1 producer
of the metal, sank 2.5 percent to HK$7.34. Mitsubishi Corp.,
Japan’s largest commodities trader, lost 0.5 percent to 2,331
yen in Tokyo.  Crude oil for March delivery slipped 0.3 percent to $86.71
a barrel in New York yesterday, the lowest settlement price
since Jan. 27. The London Metal Exchange Index of prices for six
industrial metals including copper and aluminum dropped 1.2
percent yesterday, the sharpest retreat in two weeks.  Emerging Markets Decline  SM Prime Holdings Inc., the  Philippines ’ biggest shopping
mall operator, sank 4.9 percent to 10.20 pesos. Samsung
Electronics Co., the world’s second-largest maker of mobile
phones, dropped 2.5 percent to 936,000 won in  Seoul . PT Bumi
Resources,  Indonesia ’s biggest coal producer, slumped 1.9
percent to 2,600 rupiah. China Resources Land fell 3.6 percent
to HK$12.88 in Hong Kong.  The People’s Bank of China raised the one-year lending rate
by a quarter point to 6.06 percent and the one-year deposit rate
an equivalent amount to 3 percent on Feb. 8 to curb inflation.  The Bank of  Korea  may lift its benchmark policy rate by a
quarter percentage point to 3 percent at its meeting tomorrow,
according to nine of 12 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News.
Also, the Philippine central bank meets on  interest rates  today.  “We continue to see funds flow out from Asian and emerging
markets,” said  Castor Pang , Hong Kong-based research director
at Cinda International Holdings Ltd. “Inflationary pressure in
emerging markets still high. That will have a negative impact on
stock markets.”  Exchange Takeovers  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index increased 0.5 percent through
yesterday in 2010, compared with gains of 5 percent by the S&P
500 and 4.2 percent by the Stoxx Europe 600 Index. Stocks in the
Asian benchmark are valued at 14 times estimated earnings on
average, compared with 13.8 times for the  S&P 500  and 11.4 times
for the Stoxx 600.  Deutsche Boerse AG is in advanced talks to buy  NYSE
Euronext  in an all-stock transaction that would create the
world’s biggest exchange operator, accelerating a day of
takeovers yesterday that began with London Stock Exchange Group
Plc’s acquisition of  Canada ’s TMX Group Inc. The latest mergers
may bolster the case for approving the takeover of ASX in
pursuit of the Australian government’s stated aim of turning
Sydney into a global financial hub.  ASX, operator of Australia’s biggest bourse, jumped 4.7
percent to A$38.41 in Sydney. Singapore Exchange’s shares rose
as much as 2.3 percent.  “This gives those in favor of the SGX deal a little more
ammunition,” said Jason Teh, who helps manage about $3.1
billion at Investors Mutual Ltd. in Sydney. “It shows that the
rest of the world is clearly moving in this direction and the
question now is whether  Australia  will adopt what’s happening
elsewhere in the world.”  Osaka Securities Exchange Co. advanced 1.5 percent to
419,500 yen on the Jasdaq exchange. Hong Kong Exchanges &
Clearing Ltd., currently the world’s largest exchange company by
market value, fell 3.6 percent, the biggest intraday decline
since October, to HK$169.90. The bourse operator said today it
remains open to “compelling” mergers today.  “This consolidation theme is going to continue,” said  Chris Hall , who helps manage $4 billion at Argo Investments Ltd.
in Adelaide, Australia.“It’s inevitable that you have to have
consolidation given that fund flows are a global game. I think
consolidation is going to continue globally.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna Kitanaka in Tokyo at 
 akitanaka@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Burgos at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at   ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 