-- ASX Shares Jump as Takeovers Boost SGX-Bid Confidence
-- B y   S h a n i   R a j a   a n d   G e m m a   D a l e y
-- 2011-02-10T07:32:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-10/asx-shares-jump-as-takeovers-boost-confidence-in-singapore-exchange-s-bid.html
  ASX Ltd . shares climbed the most in
more than three months in Sydney trading on optimism exchange
takeover deals elsewhere will boost the chances of its merger
with  Singapore Exchange Ltd . winning approval in Australia.  Shares in ASX, operator of the nation’s biggest bourse,
jumped as much as 5.2 percent in Sydney, the most since
Singapore Exchange’s takeover proposal was announced on Oct. 25,
and closed 4.7 percent higher at A$38.41 on the Australian stock
exchange. Singapore Exchange rose as much as 2.3 percent.    Deutsche Boerse AG  is in advanced talks to buy  NYSE
Euronext  in an all-stock transaction that would create the
world’s biggest exchange operator, accelerating a day of
takeovers yesterday that began with  London Stock Exchange Group
Plc ’s acquisition of Canada’s  TMX Group Inc . The latest mergers
may bolster the case for approving SGX’s bid in pursuit of the
Australian government’s stated aim of turning Sydney into a
global financial hub.  “This gives those in favor of the SGX deal a little more
ammunition,” said Jason Teh, who helps manage about $3.1
billion at Investors Mutual Ltd. in Sydney. “It shows that the
rest of the world is clearly moving in this direction and the
question now is whether Australia will adopt what’s happening
elsewhere in the world.”  ASX, SGX Shares  Singapore Exchange’s shares climbed as much as 2.3 percent
to S$8.53 today in Singapore, before paring gains. The shares
have lost 6.2 percent since the merger announcement. ASX shares
have dropped 8 percent in the same time, compared with a 4.3
percent gain for  Australia ’s benchmark S&P/ASX 200 Index.  “Certainly the market is taking it as positive for
increasing the probability of the SGX-ASX deal to get Australian
approval,” Matthew Smith, an equity analyst at Macquarie
Capital Securities (Singapore) said in an e-mail. “Perhaps this
reflects a view that the trend of global exchange mergers is
back on, and the Australians will have to play along.”  Singapore Exchange offered to buy ASX on Oct. 25 for A$8.4
billion ($8.5 billion) in a cash and share deal that would be
the first merger between two exchange companies in the Asia-
Pacific region. The bid, which won approval from Australia’s
competition regulator on Dec. 15, still requires the support of
Treasurer  Wayne Swan , the Foreign Investment Review Board, the  Reserve Bank  of Australia, the Australian Securities &
Investments Commission, and parliamentarians, several of whom
have opposed the sale.  ‘Seals Deal’  “This almost seals the fate of the ASX-SGX deal as it
potentially sets the precedent for both industry direction and
regulatory acceptance of consolidation,” said  Angus Gluskie ,
who manages about $350 million at White Funds Management Pty in
Sydney.  Since 2000, there has been at least $95.8 billion in
completed acquisitions at exchanges worldwide, including NYSE
Group’s purchase of Euronext NV and Nasdaq Stock Market Inc.’s
takeover of OMX AB, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
proposed Deutsche Boerse combination would unite equity and
derivatives platforms from the U.S. and Germany to France, the
Netherlands and Portugal.  “These developments highlight the global trend toward
exchange consolidation in response to the dynamic forces brought
about by technological, competitive and regulatory change,”
Leeanne Bland, an ASX spokeswoman, said by e-mail.  Lorraine Chan, a spokeswoman for  Hong Kong Exchanges and
Clearing Ltd ., the city’s bourse, said changes in financial
markets mean it’s open to considering “international
opportunities for alliances, partnerships and other
relationships.” Shares in the world’s largest exchange operator
by market capitalization had their biggest intraday decline
since October today.  Political Opposition  Tokyo Stock Exchange President Atsushi Saito said the
bourse, which has a 4.99 percent stake in Singapore Exchange, is
also open to potential tie-ups but is not in talks at the moment.  The latest takeover proposals make it easier for those in
favor of the ASX-Singapore Exchange tie-up “to argue that the
ability to compete internationally with other mega-exchanges may
be diminished if regulators decide not to approve the merger
between the Australian and Singapore exchanges,” said  Tim Schroeders , who helps manage $1 billion at Pengana Capital Ltd.
in Melbourne.  Even if  Singapore Exchange ’s bid wins all regulatory
approvals in Australia, laws amending the Corporations Act will
need to be passed in both houses of parliament. The minority
Labor government led by Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  needs the
support of four independent or Greens lawmakers to pass a bill
to raise ASX’s foreign ownership cap to make way for the
takeover.  ‘Good for Business’  Independent members of parliament  Rob Oakeshott  and  Tony Windsor  plus West Australian National Tony Crook say they
haven’t made up their minds on the merger and want to hold
further talks with the government.  “The feedback I have had so far is that this deal would be
good for business in Australia,” Crook said in an interview
today. “I am open-minded about it and want to have some further
discussions.”  Tasmanian independent  Andrew Wilkie , Queensland independent
Bob Katter and Greens lawmaker Adam Bandt this week reaffirmed
their opposition to the ASX sale.    Singapore  Exchange’s bid to win Australian parliamentary
approval for its offer for ASX “will be one of the key reform
battlegrounds for 2011,” Oakeshott said in a Dec. 16 interview.  Greens leader  Bob Brown  told reporters in Canberra today he
remained opposed to the Singapore Exchange bid.  “I don’t think the latest merger news will have a
significant impact on the dynamics in place before this,” said
Nader Naeimi, a Sydney-based strategist at AMP Capital Investors
Ltd., which manages about $93 billion. “Those that opposed the
ASX deal did so already knowing that we’re living in a
globalized world and that there is a case for mergers and
acquisitions.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shani Raja in Sydney at   sraja4@bloomberg.net ;
Gemma Daley at   gdaley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 