-- Mattel Ken Doll Wins Back Barbie With Bieber-Style Hair, `Toy Story' Role
-- B y   M a t t   T o w n s e n d
-- 2011-02-10T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-10/mattel-s-ken-wins-back-barbie-with-bieber-hair-toy-story-role.html
Barbie Millicent Roberts has fallen
for Ken Carson. Again.  The world’s most famous plastic couple is scheduled to
reunite on Valentine’s Day. The comeback will be no small feat
for Ken, who sank into obscurity after Barbie dumped him in
2004, ending a relationship that endured 43 years. The split,
described in a  Mattel Inc . press release as the “breakup of the
millennium,” cast Ken further into Barbie’s 11.5-inch shadow.  The rejection came as no surprise to Ken fans. Over the
decades they’d watched him become little more than an accessory,
like one of Barbie’s sparkly tiaras. Mattel even referred to him
as “arm candy.” Then in 2004, Ken disappeared altogether.  He’s an “underdog,” said Jef Beck of  Cedar Rapids ,  Iowa ,
who started the  He’s a Doll!  club and wrote “I (Heart) Ken: My
Life as the Ultimate Boyfriend,” which is due out next month.  Now, much as “Pulp Fiction” did for John Travolta, Ken’s
performance in “Toy Story 3” has restored him as a pop culture
icon, Bloomberg Businessweek reports in its Feb. 14 edition. The  Walt Disney Co .-Pixar film, in which Ken plays himself, was
2010’s highest-grossing movie, pulling in $1.06 billion
worldwide, and earned an Academy Awards Best Picture nomination.  Mattel’s publicity machine has been in overdrive ever
since. Ken, who turns 50 on March 13, now has his own Facebook
page and  Twitter feed  (sample tweet: “Weekend Ken-fession: I
may have knocked somebody over while walking and playing Madden
on my iPhone this morning. My bad.”). In January, Hulu.com
began airing a “Bachelor”-style reality show called “Genuine
Ken: The Search for the Great American Boyfriend.”  ‘Love is Real’  Beaming with confidence after his big-screen debut, Ken won
his ex back with professions of love on billboards and ads in Us
Weekly. One read: “We may be plastic, but our love is real.”  His handlers also revamped his image, giving Ken a Justin
Bieberesque makeover complete with floppy locks, skinny jeans
and graphic T-shirt.  “They softened his looks a little bit, but he’s still as
handsome as ever,” said Sandi Holder, a Barbie connoisseur from
Union City,  California , who once auctioned one of the dolls for
a Guinness World Record of $27,000.  Ken’s comeback has been years in the making. A shakeup at
the world’s largest toy brand -- Barbie sales top more than $1
billion a year -- began in 2008 when Richard Dickson took the
reins of a business in decline. Amid competition from such
upstarts as MGA Entertainment Inc.’s Bratz dolls, revenue at the
Barbie division had fallen by about a quarter since 2002.  ‘Bimbo Girl’  “Many people said, ‘Are you sure you want to get into that
mess?’” said Dickson, who previously ran Mattel’s consumer
products unit.  Before Dickson came along, Mattel watched over Barbie and
Ken like an over-protective father, firing cease-and-desist
orders at the slightest hint of image infringement. In 1997, the
world’s largest toy-maker sued the pop group Aqua for its
innuendo-laced song “Barbie Girl,” which featured such  lyrics 
as “I’m a blonde bimbo girl in a fantasy world.” Before
losing, Mattel appealed all the way to the U.S. Supreme Court.  The new guardian of Toyland’s First Couple was less
protective of the brand’s image than the previous regime.  “We gave people permission to play with our brand, to have
fun,” in the hope that it would become culturally relevant
again, said Dickson, who left Mattel a year ago to become brand
president at  Jones Group Inc .  In 2009, Dickson reconciled with Aqua and released a music
 video  that featured the couple gyrating to promote a new Barbie
line called Fashionistas.  ‘Huge Message’  “It sent a huge message to the company that just because
history suggests we couldn’t do these things, that’s us breaking
our own rules,” said Dickson, 42.  Under his watch, Mattel greenlighted the couple’s
appearance in Toy Story 3. Mattel didn’t have script approval
and let the filmmakers cast Ken, voiced by Michael Keaton, as a
vain, leopard-print-wearing metrosexual. In one scene, Ken
cries: “I’m not a girl’s toy.”  “Poking at Ken’s cultural noise is part of the fun. If
you’re talking about it, we are doing our job,” Dickson said.  The changes Dickson unleashed have boosted sales, which
rose 6.8 percent to $1.25 billion in 2010 and may increase 4
percent this year, according to New York-based UBS Securities
analyst Robert Carroll: “Barbie has gotten her groove back.”  Sales of Ken dolls have rallied too, says Stephanie Cota,
who succeeded Dickson as Barbie chief, though she won’t give
specific figures.  While Ken now has a breakout movie role and growing ranks
of Twitter followers, his future depends, as always, on the
woman he loves.  He’ll stay in the spotlight “unless he does something to
really upset Barbie,” Cota said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Townsend in New York at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net ;
James Ellis at 
 jellis27@bloomberg.net  