-- 
Australian Coal Premium to Widen on Asia Growth: Energy Markets

-- B y   D i n a k a r   S e t h u r a m a n
-- 
2011-02-11T07:39:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-10/australian-coal-premium-to-widen-on-china-india-growth-energy-markets.html
Australian coal’s premium over  Europe  is poised to widen as economies in China and  India  expand
after it narrowed 57 percent in the past month as floods in
Queensland receded and demand for winter heating eased.  Power-station coal at the Australian port of Newcastle, a
benchmark for Asia, cost $8.75 a metric ton more than prices for
delivery to the Amsterdam-Rotterdam-Antwerp region on Feb. 4,
down from a 10-month high of $20.25 on Jan. 14, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg and researcher IHS McCloskey in
Petersfield,  England .  “The market should first go through a correction period
once winter is over,” said  Emmanuel Fages , head of carbon, coal,
gas and power research at Societe Generale SA in Paris. As
Europe’s economic recovery stumbles along, investors should buy
Newcastle 2012 futures and sell European ARA derivatives, he
said.  Booming markets in  China  and India are boosting purchases
of Australian fuel, with overall Asian coal demand forecast to
rise 8 percent this year to a record 438 million tons, Societe
Generale said in a Jan. 21 report. Consumption in Europe and  Russia  will expand 5 percent to 145 million tons amid slower
economic growth and stricter environmental rules, down from the
170 million tons used in 2008, the French bank estimates.  Gross domestic product in China, the world’s biggest energy
user, will expand 9.5 percent this year, according to the median
estimate of eight analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. The euro
region may gain 1.6 percent, a separate survey showed.  Australia Devastated  Newcastle power-station-grade coal climbed for the first
week in three, gaining 1.2 percent to $126.75 a ton in the seven
days to Feb. 4, according to IHS McCloskey data.  Floods in  Australia ’s Queensland state in December and
January covered an area the size of France and  Germany . The
deluge shut coal mines and damaged infrastructure such as ports
and railroads, and sent prices of the fuel to a two-year high of
$138.50 a ton in the week through Jan. 14. While waters in
Queensland have now subsided, tropical cyclone Yasi destroyed
sugar and banana plantation areas last week and weather warnings
are in place for much of Victoria state, where flash floods last
week struck  Melbourne .  While the floods no longer provide such a boost, “what
should support coal prices are  oil prices , which again should be
supported by U.S. economic recovery,”  Helen Lau , a Hong Kong-
based analyst at UOB-Kay Hian Securities Ltd., said in an e-mail
yesterday.  Benchmark European coal derivatives for delivery to the
Rotterdam region this month fell 0.4 percent yesterday to $118 a
ton in  London . The contract has declined from $129.25 a ton on
Dec. 30.  ‘Overweight’ Coal  Coal prices in 2011 may rise to $130 a ton, Lau said,
recommending investors stay “overweight” in the commodity.
Brent crude oil futures in London have rallied 28 percent over
the past six months, touching a two-year high of $103.37 a
barrel on Feb. 3.  Societe Generale’s Fages said he expects free-on-board coal
prices in Newcastle to average $130 a ton this quarter, $125 in
the second and $140 in the fourth, while delivered prices at
Rotterdam will average $125, $115 and $130, respectively.  The Queensland floods curbed operations last month at 85
percent of mines in the area, crippling transport, Sanford C.
Bernstein & Co. research analysts said in a Jan. 21 report.  China became a net importer of the fuel for the first time
in 2009, accounting for 15 percent of global coal trade,
according to government data.  South Africa , a traditional
supplier to Europe, shipped more than twice as much of the fuel
to  Asia  last year, according to Richards Bay Coal Terminal Ltd.,
which runs the country’s export harbor.  European power station operators must weigh up additional
costs for carbon emission permits when burning coal instead of
less-polluting fuels, a burden not incurred by Asian buyers.  “World prices are now entirely driven by Asian action as
demand will set new highs in Asia,” Fages said. “There are
good conditions for a structural rise in prices once winter and
the flood sentiment effect is over.” He recommended buying
Newcastle 2012 calendar and selling CIF ARA calendar when the
spread is below $2 a ton, and booking profits at $10 a ton.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dinakar Sethuraman in Bangalore at 
 dinakar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Clyde Russell at 
 crussell7@bloomberg.net  