-- 
Aussie Falls Below Parity as Stevens Indicates No Urgency to Raise Rates

-- B y   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s
-- 
2011-02-11T05:45:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-10/australian-dollar-falls-as-stevens-says-sensible-to-keep-rates-unchanged.html
The Australian dollar fell below
parity with the greenback after  Reserve Bank  Governor Glenn
Stevens said financial conditions are on the “firm side” and
the bank had judged it “sensible of late” to leave  interest
rates  unchanged.  New Zealand’s currency declined as the nation’s bond yield
premium over the U.S. narrowed amid signs of recovery by the
world’s largest economy. Both South Pacific nations’ currencies
weakened before a report forecast to show confidence among U.S.
consumers rose in February, fueling speculation Treasury yields
will gain. They also dropped as Asian stocks slid after Egyptian
President  Hosni Mubarak  defied calls for his immediate
resignation, damping risk appetite.  “Stevens is leaning toward the dovish side and that saw
the Aussie drop with his comments taking a rate hike out of the
immediate picture,” said  Tim Waterer , a foreign exchange dealer
with CMC Markets in Sydney. “There’s continued uncertainty
about the transition of power in  Egypt  and any uncertainty the
market won’t react well to, which is why we’re seeing risk
assets fall.”    Australia ’s currency declined to 99.86 U.S. cents as of
4:29 p.m. in Sydney from $1.0044 in  New York  yesterday, set for
a 1.5 percent decline this week. It touched 99.80 cents, the
weakest since Feb. 1. The currency fell to 83.36 yen from 83.58
yen.  New Zealand’s dollar slid to 75.96 U.S. cents from 76.44
cents yesterday and 77.01 on Feb. 4. The so-called kiwi touched
75.95 cents, the least since Jan. 24. It fell 0.4 percent to
63.40 yen.  The yield premium Australian 10-year bonds offer over
similar-maturity Treasuries was 2 percentage points, the
narrowest since July 13.  New Zealand ’s three-year debt offered
248 basis points more yield than similar maturity U.S. bonds,
down from 264 basis points on Feb. 4.  Rate Expectations  Benchmark interest rates are 4.75 percent in Australia and
3 percent in New Zealand, compared with as low as zero in the
U.S. and Japan, attracting investors to the South Pacific
nations’ higher-yielding assets. The risk in such trades is that
currency market moves will erase profits.  “Overall, financial conditions are on the firm side,”
Stevens told a parliamentary committee today in Canberra. “In
view of the general outlook that I sketched at the beginning,
that seems to us to be appropriate. Having reached that position
in a fairly timely fashion, the Board has judged it to be
sensible of late to leave the cash rate steady.”  Swaps traders are betting the  Reserve Bank of Australia 
will raise its benchmark rate by 33 basis points over 12 months,
down from 41 basis points yesterday, according to a Credit
Suisse AG index.  Australia’s currency will trade at 99 U.S. cents by the end
of the year, according to the median forecast of banks surveyed
by Bloomberg News.  U.S. Consumer Confidence  The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan consumer
sentiment index may have increased as the economy showed more
signs of picking up and stocks increased. The preliminary
February reading rose to 75 from 74.2 in January, according to
the Bloomberg survey median.  “If the U.S. dollar recovers, Aussie and kiwi will find it
hard to move higher,” said Khoon Goh, head of market economics
at ANZ National Bank Ltd. in Wellington. “We’ve seen quite a
big sell-off in U.S. Treasury bonds with 10-year yields spiking
up and that’s part of the  U.S. dollar  story.”  Ten-year note yields in the U.S. gained five basis points
to 3.7 percent yesterday after touching 3.77 percent on Feb. 9,
the highest level since April 29.  Australian bond futures rose, with the 10-year contract for
March delivery at 94.295 on the  Sydney Futures Exchange  from
94.275 yesterday. The implied yield on the futures fell two
basis points to 5.705 percent.  New Zealand’s two-year swap rate, a fixed payment made to
receive floating rates, was little changed at 3.82 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Candice Zachariahs in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nicholas Reynolds at 
 nreynolds2@bloomberg.net  