-- Australian Employers Add More Workers Than Forecast
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2011-02-10T02:40:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-10/australian-employers-added-more-than-estimated-24-000-workers-in-january.html
Australian employers added more
workers than economists forecast in January, adding to evidence
that economic growth will accelerate this year.  Employment climbed by 24,000, the statistics bureau said in
Sydney today, surpassing the median forecast for a 17,500 gain
in a Bloomberg News survey of 20 economists. The jobless rate
stayed at 5 percent, matching the lowest level since 2008. Part-
time jobs sparked the rise, with full-time positions dropping.  Today’s report showed job losses in flood-hit Queensland
weren’t yet large enough to derail the nation’s 11-month hiring
streak, supporting the central bank’s view that the disaster’s
economic effects will be short-lived. The  Reserve Bank  of
Australia said last week growth will expand faster than forecast
this year as rebuilding boosts growth in the second half.  “The jobless rate isn’t far from full employment, which
will increase pressure on wage costs and is consistent with the
RBA’s tightening bias,” said Su-Lin Ong, senior economist at  RBC Capital Markets  in Sydney, who expects two interest-rate
increases this year.  The Australian dollar fell, trading at $1.0084 as of 1:05
p.m. in Sydney from $1.0095 just before the report. Australian  government bonds  gained, with the two-year note rising for the
first time since Jan. 28, pushing down the yield by four basis
points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 5.18 percent.  Full-Time Losses  Employment rose by a revised 1,800 in December. Full-time
jobs declined by 8,000 in January, while part-time employment
rose by 32,000. The participation rate, which measures the  labor
force  as a percentage of the population over 15 years old, rose
to 65.9 percent in January from 65.8 percent a month earlier, it
showed.  Flooding in Queensland disrupted the survey in the state
and reduced the quality of estimates, the statistics bureau said.
Queensland lost 5,100 jobs last month as much of it was
inundated, including parts of the capital, Brisbane.  The number of hours worked in Queensland, which accounts
for about one-fifth of Australian workers, dropped about 4
percent because of the deluge, according to the report.  Hours Worked  “The data isn’t as compromised by the floods as we’d
feared, showing up mainly in the number of hours worked, which
is consistent with Queenslanders not being able to get to work
during the floods,” Ong said.  Australia’s economy is getting a lift from demand in
developing nations for natural resources. Shipments of  iron ore 
and coal to  China  are increasing demand for workers, prompting
the RBA to raise  interest rates  seven times from October 2009 to
November 2010, sending the local currency to parity with the  U.S.
dollar .  The RBA said in a Feb. 4 policy statement that while
businesses are reporting the labor market has tightened, “most
are not experiencing significant difficulties in hiring
employees.” Still, it said, “looking ahead, a gradual increase
in wage growth is expected as the labor market tightens
further.”  RBA Governor Glenn Stevens held the overnight cash rate
target at 4.75 percent at the past two meetings.  In contrast, the U.S. Federal Reserve has held its
benchmark rate near zero since December 2008. That divergence
contributed to a 14 percent increase in the local dollar versus
the U.S. currency last year.    Australia ’s currency last year surpassed parity with its
U.S. counterpart and on Dec. 31 touched the highest level since
being floated in 1983.  Traders are estimating a 32 percent chance Stevens will
raise rates by a quarter percentage point to 5 percent by June,
according to Bloomberg News calculations based on interbank
futures on the  Sydney Futures Exchange .  Job advertisements rose in January for a ninth straight
month, advancing 2.4 percent from December, when they increased
a revised 1.2 percent, according to an Australia & New Zealand
Banking Group Ltd. report released in  Melbourne  this week.  To contact the reporter for this story:  Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang in Singapore at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  