-- Stevens Says Floods Don't Pose Inflation Risk to Australia
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h   a n d   G e m m a   D a l e y
-- 2011-02-11T00:53:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-10/australia-floods-don-t-threaten-medium-term-price-goals-rba-governor-says.html
  Reserve Bank  of  Australia  Governor
Glenn Stevens said natural disasters in the nation’s northeast
don’t pose a major threat to inflation goals and indicated there
was no urgency to change interest rates.  “We do not think the effects on activity of these events
will derail the expansion,” he told a parliamentary committee
today in Canberra. “Nor should the price effects pose a serious
threat to the achievement of the medium-term goal for inflation,
provided the community can understand their temporary nature and
expectations of ongoing inflation remain well-anchored.”  The governor’s  testimony  bolstered expectations the central
bank will keep the overnight cash rate target unchanged into the
second quarter. Responding to questions, Stevens said the RBA
isn’t considering a rate increase now and said current
expectations for RBA rate changes are “reasonable.”    Interest rates  are solidly on hold until at least midyear
and even possibly longer,”  Craig James , a senior economist at  Commonwealth Bank of Australia  in Sydney, said in an e-mail.  The RBA has paused for two straight meetings after raising
rates seven times from October 2009 to November last year,
spurring the local dollar to above parity with the U.S. currency.
Policy makers are forecast to hold borrowing costs unchanged
through the first quarter because inflation slowed at the end of
last year and households are saving more, even as a mining boom
stokes employment.  Dollar Falls  The Australian dollar fell 0.3 percent to $1.0017 as of
11:22 a.m. in Sydney, declining for a third day.  Traders are betting there is a 36 percent chance Stevens
will raise rates in June, according to Bloomberg calculations
based on interbank futures on the  Sydney Futures Exchange .  “We can’t know for sure, but that is currently what people
expect,” Stevens said, when asked if rates will remain
unchanged in the near future. “I think that’s probably, based
on the current outlook that we’ve got, reasonable.”  With the medium-term inflation outlook little changed after
the natural disasters and trade bolstering the economy, “policy
is about right,” he said.  Cyclones and floods in Australia’s northeast in the past
two months killed at least 36 people, destroyed crops and closed
mines in a disaster area the size of  Egypt .  “While the impact of the floods on the short-term path of
output and prices would be quite substantial, monetary policy
should not respond to those effects,” Stevens said in his
prepared remarks.  Job Gains  A government report released yesterday in Sydney showed
Australian employment climbed by 24,000, surpassing the median
forecast for a 17,500 gain in a Bloomberg News survey of 20
economists. The jobless rate stayed at 5 percent, matching the
lowest level in two years.  “Our assessment of labor market is it has been
tightening” and “probably the pace of employment growth is
slowing down a little,” Stevens said.  The RBA last week raised its forecast for 2011 growth to
4.25 percent, from a November prediction of 3.75 percent, as
flood rebuilding accelerates in the second half, tightening the
labor market and putting pressure on wages. Consumer prices will
rise 3 percent, from a previous estimate of 2.75 percent, it
said in a policy statement.  The RBA’s 1.75 percentage points of rate increases have
driven the Australian currency up by 12 percent over the past
year versus the  U.S. dollar , the biggest gains among the 16
most-traded currencies. The Aussie reached a record $1.0256 on
Dec. 31.  “The  exchange rate  is at peak levels for the floating rate
era,” Stevens said. “This is not especially surprising given
the level of the terms of trade, but nonetheless it is exerting
dampening pressure on the traded sector outside of the resources
sector.”  To contact the reporters on this story:  Michael Heath  in Canberra at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net ;
Gemma Daley in Canberra at 
 gdaley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang in Singapore at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  