-- Australia Looks to Anna Bligh Who Cries for Queensland in Cyclonic Floods
-- B y   G e m m a   D a l e y   a n d   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2011-02-10T19:54:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-10/australia-looks-to-anna-bligh-who-cries-for-queensland-in-cyclonic-floods.html
When  Anna Bligh  was 14, she was the
only girl at Star of The Sea Convent school whose parents didn’t
live together, after her mother left her alcoholic husband.  “It was a very difficult and courageous thing for a
Catholic woman to do,” the Queensland,  Australia , premier said
of her mother, Frances, who was ostracized by the Roman Catholic
Church. “I have taken on a lot of inspiration from her.”  The inspiration has helped forge a resilience that Bligh,
50, is tapping to help lead Australia’s northeastern state
through recovery from a cyclone and floods that killed at least
36 people, destroyed crops and closed mines in a disaster area
the size of  Egypt . Bligh’s success will help determine whether
her Australian  Labor Party  will be able to win a record sixth
term in elections that must be held before June 2012.  “She was knee deep in mud, she cried at press conferences,
she has touched every Queenslander through grief and loss,”
Jodi Tainton, a sales manager for New York-based drugmaker  Bristol-Myers Squibb Co ., said as she moved rocks while cleaning
up her apartment block in Brisbane, the state capital. “I’ve
never voted Labor before, but because of what she has done, I
will next year.”  Bligh’s performance has revived her popularity, which sank
when she sold off A$15 billion ($15.1 billion) in state assets,
including coal-train operator  QR National Ltd ., after Moody’s
Investors Service lowered the state’s credit rating to Aa1 from
Aaa in May 2009. The downgrade came two months after she became
Australia’s first popularly elected female state premier, when
she led the Labor Party to victory after replacing party leader
Peter Beattie, who retired in 2007 after nine years in power.  Even Contest  Support for her government dropped to 28 percent in
November 2010, trailing the opposition Liberal National Party by
20 points, according to a  Galaxy Research poll . While no major
opinion polls have been conducted since the floods last month,
former state Premier Rob Borbidge says the next election is now
an even contest.  “Anna Bligh is an extremely competent politician and
should not be underestimated,” said Borbidge, whose  National
Party  is currently in opposition. “Labor had little chance of
winning before but are now in with a real shot.”  Akash Reddy, an analyst at Citigroup Inc. in Sydney, said
investors see Bligh as a good economic manager and demand is
strong for Queensland Treasury Corp. bonds. The bonds still may
underperform relative to debt sold by neighboring New South
Wales as a result of the floods and the increased deficits
required to fund the rebuilding, Reddy said.  Widening Spread  QTC’s 6.25 percent bonds due in April 2016 are yielding
6.03 percent, or 9.6 basis points more than similar-maturity
debt sold by New South Wales state, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. That gap has widened from 6.5 basis points, or
0.065 percentage point, on Jan. 4, the prices show.  Bligh -- who earns A$273,803 a year overseeing health,
education, transportation and law enforcement -- has limited
power to raise revenue, so she was forced to delay a planned
city railway and sell a coal terminal to help pay for repairs
after the state’s worst floods on record. The government
 predicts  the devastation will cut growth to 1.25 percent in the
year ending June 30 from a previous forecast of 3 percent,
leaving Bligh with limited funds to adopt new programs ahead of
next year’s election.  Rebuilding Queensland, which accounts for 19 percent of
Australia’s economy and spans 22 percent of its landmass, may
cost as much as A$20 billion, with an estimated 28,000 dwellings
and as many as 90,000 kilometers of roads needing repair.
Insurance claims also must be processed, aid distributed and
airports rebuilt.  Sugar Plantations  Flood damage was compounded by Tropical Cyclone Yasi, which
hit Feb. 3 and was stronger than  Hurricane Katrina . It wiped out
sugar and banana plantations and killed one person.  Bligh’s mastery of detail as the crisis unfolded won
plaudits. She held press conferences every two hours until about
10 p.m. in the first few days of the floods, often dressed in
jeans, a shirt and hat as she explained what she had seen
herself and what authorities told her during briefings. Her hair
was sometimes wet as she told people which emergency centers to
go to and which roads were impassable.  Her style contrasted with Australian Prime Minister  Julia Gillard , who would appear at press conferences in a dark suit
and was accused by opposition leader  Tony Abbott  of being
“wooden” and displaying no emotion. More recently, Gillard
fought back tears in national parliament and clung to a muddy
Australian flag on Feb. 8 as she told of a boy who drowned after
insisting rescuers first take his younger brother, prompting
Abbott to say she has a “decent heart.”  ‘Gruesome Finds’  Bligh’s direct speech also won praise. She told Australian
Broadcasting Corp. Jan. 12 that search and rescue teams entering
the Lockyer Valley west of Brisbane were likely to make
“gruesome finds,” and any hope families still had for loved
ones probably would be ‘tragically crushed.” Seven people still
were missing as of Feb. 10.  At the height of the deluge on Jan. 13, she broke down
during a televised press conference.  “As we weep for what we have lost and as we grieve for
family and friends and we confront the challenge that is before
us, I want us to remember who we are,” she said. “We are
Queenslanders. We’re the people that they breed tough north of
the border. We’re the ones that they knock down and we get up
again.”  Bligh “laid it bare,” said Nick Jones, 33, a human-
resources manager for a national mining company in Brisbane.  Switch Vote  “Everyone needs to realize the reality of the situation
rather than have it sugar-coated,” Jones said, adding that
Bligh’s performance will likely prompt him to switch his vote to
her from the opposition.  “I feel like I have been tested,” and “had to find
something, some courage in myself to face it,” Bligh said in a
Jan. 22 interview, slumped on a bench under a frangipani tree
after shoveling mud out of a damaged apartment block. “Others
will judge whether I was successful or not.”  Born southwest of Brisbane in Warwick, Bligh is a
descendant of HMS Bounty Captain  William Bligh , whose crew
mutinied in 1789 and who later was appointed governor of New
South Wales. After splitting with Bligh’s father, her mother
trained as a nurse and worked at night while raising Bligh and
her three younger siblings.  While Bligh considered becoming a nun like one of her
aunts, she said the Catholic Church’s practice of not giving
communion to divorced people such as her mother led her to
question the faith as a teenager.  ‘Strong Women’  “A lot of 14-year-old girls are very passionate about
issues and protective of their mum,” she said. “I come from a
line of strong women.”  Queensland at the time was run by Premier Joh Bjelke- Petersen, whose government declared a state of emergency in 1971
to prevent anti-apartheid street protests against a visiting
South African rugby team. In 1977, he imposed a ban on all
street marches.  Bligh, who said former South African President  Nelson Mandela  is her political hero, describes the first protest she
attended, at age 17, as a “terrifying” experience.  “I sat on the steps of City Hall watching people getting
beaten with police batons” for protesting the restrictions on
demonstrations, she said.  She studied English literature and social science at
 Queensland University , where she met her mentor, Anne Warner,
then secretary of the student union who went on to become a
state minister. Bligh says she became politically involved upon
graduating in 1980, after the government tightened abortion laws
and she joined the Women’s Rights Collective, a pro-choice and
equal-opportunity group.  Children’s Program  Bligh worked for the next 15 years in a variety of jobs
including at women’s refuge in Brisbane and a children’s program
in Sydney, where she met her husband, Greg Withers, now a
Queensland civil servant with whom she has  two children .  Warner approached Bligh to run for parliament in 1995, when
her youngest son was 14 months old. Bligh was elected that year
and recalls the first two years as the harshest of her political
life, with sleepless nights as she looked after a toddler and
traveled three to four days a week.  “As often as it has been tough since, at a personal level
that was the toughest,” she said.  Bligh held several posts before becoming Queensland’s first
female education minister. In 2005, when the deputy premier
unexpectedly resigned, she replaced him and also was named
minister of finance and of state development and trade.  Global Crisis  A year after she succeeded Beattie as premier in September
2007, the global financial crisis hit, reducing state revenue
and prompting  Standard & Poor’s  to cut Queensland’s rating in
February 2009 to AA+ from AAA. The following month, Bligh won
the parliamentary election, and the Moody’s downgrade came two
months later. The asset sale she initiated hurt her popularity,
partly because she hadn’t given any indication before the vote
that she might take such action.  “People have long memories about that sort of stuff,”
said  Stephen Walters , chief economist for Australia at  JPMorgan
Chase & Co . in Sydney. “Economically, she seemed to be taking
the right moves and was being held in higher regard, but
politically her approval ratings were quite dire.”  Warner, who has known Bligh for more than 30 years, says
she’s dealt with far worse adversity.  “During her time as premier, she’s had almost everything
thrown at her and she’s stuck it out,” Warner said. “She’s not
one to sit around and examine her navel. Anna’s always said,
‘Let’s get on with it.’”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gemma Daley in Canberra at 
 gdaley@bloomberg.net   Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net 
Stephanie Phang in Singapore at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  