-- Bakrie Group’s Ridwan Plans Indonesia-Focused Stock Hedge Fund
-- B y   N e t t y   I s m a i l
-- 2011-02-10T01:31:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-10/bakrie-group-s-ridwan-seeks-capital-for-indonesia-focused-stock-hedge-fund.html
Edwin Ridwan, who helped set up the
proprietary equity trading desk of Bakrie Group last year, is
seeking capital to start an Indonesia-focused hedge fund that
will bet on rising stocks.  Ridwan, 41, is in talks with the Bakrie Group, a palm oil-
to-property empire controlled by Indonesian billionaire
politician Aburizal Bakrie and his brothers, to set up the hedge
fund, he said in an interview from Jakarta. Siddharta Moersjid,
a spokesman for Jakarta-based PT Bakrie & Brothers, said he
couldn’t give any information at this stage.  “I’m hoping to raise this fund, if possible, with the
Bakrie Group,” Ridwan said. “It’s tough to find seeders from
the local market; most people don’t even know what a hedge fund
is.”  HB Capital Partners’ Komodo Fund is currently the only
Indonesia-focused hedge fund managed from Jakarta, according to
funds tracked by Bloomberg. Bakrie & Brothers, the holding
company for several listed Bakrie Group units, said in December
2009 that it planned to start new funds aimed at foreign
investors.  The trading desk that Ridwan set up in November is
investing Bakrie Group’s capital in equities and aims to
eventually manage third-party money, he said. Ridwan said he
hopes to start the fund, to be called Amandana Capital, within
six months and is seeking $10 million to $15 million in  seed
capital , in return for a stake in the management firm or a share
of the fees that it earns. He aims to raise $50 million to $100
million from investors during the fund’s first year, he said.  The fund will bet on rising prices of companies earning
most of their revenue from Indonesia or have a majority of their
assets there, he said. The companies the fund can invest in may
include Singapore-based  Petra Foods Ltd ., the largest supplier
of chocolate products to Indonesia, and London-based  Churchill
Mining Plc , owner of a thermal coal project in  Indonesia .  ‘Entry Point’  “We are going to invest in non-Indonesian stock exchange
listed companies to expand our investible universe,” Ridwan
said.  The fund will focus on liquid, or easily traded, securities
and will also invest in companies that are preparing for initial
public offerings, he said. It may also take significant minority
positions in listed companies to influence their strategies and
improve corporate governance, he said.  The decline in Indonesia’s benchmark stock index this year
has provided a “good entry point,” Ridwan said. The Jakarta
Composite Index has fallen 7.7 percent this year.  “I believe in the Indonesian economy going forward,”
Ridwan said. “We’re going to have a tremendous period in the
next three to five years.”  Indonesia’s economy grew at 6.9 percent in the last quarter,
the fastest annual pace in six years. Rising consumer spending
is driving the expansion in the world’s fourth-most populous
nation, increasing pressure on the central bank to restrain
price gains and protect purchasing power.  ‘Bottom Out’  The  Jakarta Composite Index  has fallen almost 10 percent
from its Dec. 9 record high on concern the central bank has
fallen behind regional peers in boosting rates to cool inflation.  The stock market is set to “bottom out” in the next two
to three months, and Indonesia’s banking, utilities and
commodities industries will likely outperform, Ridwan said.  Ridwan has more than 15 years of equity trading and
investment experience, including a stint at Jakarta-based PT
Danareksa Sekuritas. Ridwan co-founded CFAdvisors, a credit
rating advisory firm, in 2002 and Bakrie Group was one of its
clients, he said.  Bakrie, the patriarch of the family business that includes
PT Bakrie Sumatera Plantations and PT Bakrie Telecom, is
Indonesia’s 10th-richest man, according to Forbes  Asia .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Netty Ismail in  Singapore  
 nismail3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  