-- Ban Calls for Egypt Power Change as He Builds Support for Second UN Term
-- B y   B i l l   V a r n e r
-- 2011-02-10T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-10/ban-calls-for-egypt-power-change-as-he-builds-support-for-second-un-term.html
When pro-government mobs attacked
demonstrators demanding Egyptian President  Hosni Mubarak ’s
resignation this month,  United Nations  Secretary-General Ban Ki- moon did something he’d seldom done before: He publicly called
on the government of a member state to cede power.  “The transition should begin now,” Ban told reporters in  London  on Feb. 3. “The protests reflect the great frustration
of the Egyptian people about the lack of change over the past
few decades. This discontent calls for bold reforms, not
repression.”  The comments, which the Egyptian government protested,
marked a departure from Ban’s style of quiet diplomacy at the
beginning of a year when he is well positioned to win a second
term in office. The 66-year-old former South Korean foreign
minister, who hasn’t formally declared his candidacy, has the
support of Britain, China,  France ,  Russia  and the U.S.,
permanent members of the  UN Security Council  that could veto his
re-election, diplomats from those nations say. He also is backed
by developing nations in Africa,  Asia  and Latin America.  “The world is getting very dangerous and I think he has
tried in a very realistic way to get things done,”  Portugal ’s
Ambassador Jose Morales Cabral said. “It’s a tough job, and no
attitude or decision satisfies everyone.”  Ban’s statement on Egypt drew praise from human-rights
advocates, who previously have criticized what they say is his
soft approach to repressive regimes. New York-based Human Rights
Watch said in a  report  last month that he is “reluctant to put
pressure on abusive governments” such as Myanmar’s military
junta or  China ’s leaders.  ‘Acted More Boldly’  “Ban has acted more boldly, clearly warning the Egyptian
regime of the need to respect the rights of demonstrators and
initiate immediate real change,” said  Philippe Bolopion , the UN
advocacy director for Human Rights Watch. “He even addressed
the deficit of democracy in the Arab world, which is sure to
make some UN member states uncomfortable.”  Still, Ban also has to contend with Republicans in the  U.S.
Congress  who say he has failed to end corruption and waste in
the world body. Representative Ileana Ros-Lehtinen of  Florida ,
58, who took over as head of the House Foreign Affairs Committee
last month after Republicans won a majority in that chamber,
called a hearing Jan. 25 to explore withholding of some of the
$517 million in U.S. contributions to the UN budget. Her office
said a bill would be introduced within the next month.  ‘Oil-for-Food’ Program  The U.S. pushed Ban’s election in 2006 after clashing with
his predecessor,  Kofi Annan , who said the 2003 invasion of  Iraq 
was illegal. Ban’s mandate was to improve the world body’s
management in the wake of reports of waste and fraud in the
purchase of supplies for peacekeeping missions and evidence that
former Iraqi dictator Saddam Hussein was allowed to skim $13
billion from a UN-administered “oil-for-food” aid program.  Five years later, Ban says the UN is a more efficient and
accountable organization. His top aides say his leadership has
saved the lives of millions of people in  Haiti , Myanmar,  Sudan 
and other countries in crisis.  During his tenure, markets -- including those in the
developing world -- have shown net increases. The MSCI Emerging
Markets gauge of 21 developing nations’ equities has risen 23
percent since Dec. 29, 2006 as gains in the last two years
erased record declines during the 2008 financial crisis. The
world economy grew 15 percent to $58.1 trillion through the end
of 2009.  The  economies  of the developing nations of  Africa , Asia and
Latin America averaged 5.6 annual economic expansion since Ban
took office and grew by 7.1 percent last year, recovering from a
drop to 2.4 percent in 2009 from 5.4 percent in 2008, according
to the UN.  Commodities Prices  The Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB Commodity Price Index has
gained 10 percent since Dec. 29, 2006. Crude oil in  New York  has
jumped 43 percent, copper has surged 60 percent and corn soared
73 percent during that period.  Envoys such as Cabral say Ban has won the respect of the
diplomatic community through a combination of discretion and a
work ethic that has him routinely calling world leaders from his
residence on the East River in Manhattan by 6 a.m.  Ban won’t discuss the details of the calls, saying pressure
on Iran’s President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad to scale back his
country’s nuclear program or talks with dictators to win the
release of jailed journalists and human-rights activists are
best kept private.  ‘Privately Rather Than Publicly’  “We are dealing with global issues, but at the same time
we are dealing with 192 countries which all have different
priorities, are all equally sovereign, and watch very carefully
how the secretary-general talks about their domestic
situations,” Ban said in a Jan. 20 interview at Bloomberg’s
headquarters in New York. “There are some issues that need to
be handled more privately rather than publicly.”  Ban’s deputies such as Assistant Secretary-General Robert Orr, a former U.S. official, say these below-the-radar methods
have been effective.  They cite the personal intervention that persuaded
Myanmar’s rulers to accept international aid after the 2008
cyclone that killed 138,000 people. They also credit Ban with
persuading Sudan’s President Umar al-Bashir, indicted by the
 International Criminal Court  for crimes against humanity in
Darfur, to accept UN and African Union peacekeepers during  South
Sudan ’s recent peaceful vote for independence.  Obama Administration Support  The Obama administration also is impressed with his
performance.  Susan Rice , the U.S. ambassador to the UN, told
reporters last month that while she wouldn’t announce a formal
position on the election, the administration has worked “very
constructively and productively” with Ban and was “grateful”
for his leadership.  Addressing the charges of mismanagement and corruption
within the world body that dogged his predecessor, Ban said he
has ordered financial disclosure by top UN officials,
implemented the 2006 creation of an Ethics Office and executed
most of the recommendations of a 2005 report by a U.S. Task
Force on UN Reform that was headed by former Senator George Mitchell, a Maine Democrat, and  Newt Gingrich , a former
Republican speaker of the House from  Georgia .  “The only complaint they may have is the lack of much
faster progress as they might have expected,” Ban said,
referring to congressional Republicans.  ‘Least Influential’  That doesn’t placate some of his critics, such as Elliott Abrams, who served as assistant secretary of state for UN
affairs in the administration of President Ronald Reagan. Ban,
he said in an interview, has been “very ineffective” and
“probably the least influential secretary-general in memory.”  Peter Yeo , executive director of the Washington-based
Better World Campaign, a group that pushes for strong U.S.-UN
relations, disagrees. In testimony to the House Foreign Affairs
Committee hearing, Yeo said Ban named a U.S. attorney,  Joan
Dubinsky , to head the Ethics Office, and  Canada ’s  Carman
Lapointe , who has “decades of auditing and oversight
experience,” as under-secretary-general in charge of internal
investigations.  Such changes, Yeo said in an interview, are “rarely
written about and not paid attention to by Congress, but they
have significantly improved the running of the UN.”  -- With assistance from Jonathan J. Levin in Mexico City.
Editors: Max Berley, Robin Meszoly  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bill Varner at the  United Nations  at 
 wvarner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  