-- Bank of England Keeps Asset Plan, Benchmark Rate Steady as Inflation Soars
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2011-02-10T12:59:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-10/bank-of-england-keeps-asset-plan-benchmark-rate-steady-as-inflation-soars.html
The  Bank of England  kept up
emergency stimulus as officials tolerated the prospect of
inflation accelerating to a two-year high to nurture Britain’s
economic recovery.  The Monetary Policy Committee, led by Governor  Mervyn King ,
left the benchmark interest rate at a record low of 0.5 percent,
as forecast by all 62 economists in a Bloomberg News survey.
They also left their bond program at 200 billion pounds ($321
billion), as predicted by all 38 economists in a separate poll.  The bank may hold fire until later this year, when it will
have official data showing the extent of the economy’s rebound
from a fourth-quarter contraction. Former policy makers DeAnne Julius and  Kate Barker  said the bank’s stance has damaged its
credibility and investors have increased bets that officials
will raise the rate by June to stem inflation.  “The weakness of the fourth quarter was probably temporary
and for the bank it’s a question of when to raise rates, not
if,” said  Alan Clarke , an economist at BNP Paribas in London.
“We’re at a super-emergency level of rates and the emergency
has gone away. We’re forecasting the first increase in August
but there are risks it could come sooner.”  The pound was little changed against the dollar after the
decision. It traded at $1.6058 as of 12:34 p.m. in London, from
$1.6102 yesterday. The two-year note stayed higher, with the
yield down 2 basis points to 1.520 percent.  New Forecasts  Today’s deliberations were based on new quarterly economic
forecasts, which King will present at a press conference on Feb.
16. Inflation accelerated to 3.7 percent in December, the
fastest pace in eight months, and King has said the rate may
rise above 4 percent before easing to the bank’s 2 percent
target. Food prices increased the most in 19 months in January,
according to the  British Retail Consortium .  Other central bankers have already said this month that
they’re looking through inflation pressures.  U.S. Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben Bernanke  said yesterday
“elevated” unemployment underpins plans to buy $600 billion in
Treasuries to boost the recovery, though two regional Fed bank
presidents said this week that rising prices are a threat.
European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  signaled
last week no immediate plans to raise the key rate from the
record low of 1 percent to tame inflation pressures.  Credibility  Julius said yesterday that the Bank of England must raise
its rate “sooner rather than later” to prevent rising price
expectations from getting entrenched in the economy, and said an
increase in May is likely. Barker said last week the bank’s
tolerance of a prolonged bout of above-target price gains has
cost it a “modest loss of credibility.”  The inflation outlook has prompted investors to add to bets
on an interest-rate increase. The implied yield on June short
sterling futures has risen 24 basis points this year and was at
1.14 percent as of 12:46 p.m. in  London .  Unilever, the world’s second-largest consumer goods
company, said Feb. 3 rising costs for raw materials such as corn
and palm oil will drag on profitability in 2011 and the company
may offset that with price increases.  Surveys this month showed U.K. service, manufacturing and
construction industries all expanded in January after the
coldest December in a century hampered activity. That suggests
the economy’s 0.5 percent contraction in the fourth quarter, the
most in more than a year, was a temporary setback.  ‘Relatively Slow’    George Buckley , an economist at Deutsche Bank AG in London,
said the bank may have held off from increasing its key rate
today because the economic impact of the weather is
“uncertain” and the panel wants a “clean print on some of
these numbers.” He forecasts the first increase in August.  “It looks like the economy is recovering, but at a
relatively slow pace compared with the U.S.,” he said in a
telephone interview. “There’s a long way to go before we get
back to normal levels of operation.”  The recovery may be jeopardized by the government’s plans
to tackle a record budget deficit. Prime Minister  David Cameron 
is cutting spending, raising taxes and eliminating 330,000
public-sector staff over the next four years. It is counting on
private companies to pick up the slack in the labor market.  Minutes of today’s decision to be published Feb. 23 will
show whether any of the other seven panel members joined a push
by  Andrew Sentance  and  Martin Weale  to raise the key rate.  For now, economists forecast the bank will keep the rate
unchanged until at least October, according to a Bloomberg News
survey. The median estimates are for a 0.25 percentage-point
increase in the final three months of 2011, with the rate rising
to 1.5 percent in the second quarter of 2012.  “Supply shocks will keep feeding through for the next few
months, but then inflation will drop off a cliff in 2012 when
the impact of the value-added tax increase and other shocks wear
off,” said Owen James, an economist at the Centre for Economics
and Business Research in London. “Any raises now won’t tackle
what’s causing inflation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  