-- Berkowitz Proposes Naming Former Florida Governor Crist to St. Joe Board
-- B y   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n
-- 2011-02-10T23:25:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-10/berkowitz-proposes-naming-former-florida-governor-crist-to-st-joe-board.html
  Bruce Berkowitz  of Fairholme Capital
Management LLC,  St. Joe  Co.’s largest shareholder, is seeking to
put former Florida Governor  Charlie Crist  on the real estate
developer’s board.  Crist was named as an alternative candidate to  Rodney
Barreto , chairman of Florida’s Fish and Wildlife Conservation
Commission, according to a regulatory filing today. Barreto may
not be considered an independent director because he has
provided services to St. Joe., Berkowitz said.  Crist “is well-known to all of you,” Berkowitz said in an
e-mail to the board that was included in the filing. The former
governor, 54, led Florida from 2007 until January.  Berkowitz and Fairholme President Charles Fernandez joined
St. Joe’s board last month, less than two weeks before the board
agreed to raise the 30 percent cap on Fairholme’s ownership of
the company. The Watersound, Florida-based developer hired
Morgan Stanley to consider options to increase value, including
a possible sale, the company said Feb. 8.  Berkowitz said he and Fernandez have raised “objections”
to current  executive compensation  at recent board meetings.  “We remain hopeful that constructive change can be
accomplished through consensual board action,” he said in the
filing.  The regulatory filing was made after the close of regular
U.S. trading. St. Joe shares fell 63 cents to $26.37 as of 4:15
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange Composite trading today. They
have gained 19 percent this year.  Fairholme owns about 29 percent of St. Joe, northern
Florida’s biggest private landowner. The company has been
criticized by hedge-fund manager  David Einhorn , who said he was
betting against the stock because the property owner needs to
take “substantial” asset-impairment charges on its land.  The company said in January that it was the subject of an
informal inquiry by the Securities and Exchange Commission over
its accounting for land values.  To contact the reporter on this story:  John Gittelsohn  in New York at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net . 