-- Bernanke Making Sure Fed Governors Remind Congress Deficit Bigger Than QE2
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   a n d   S c o t t   L a n m a n
-- 2011-02-10T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-10/bernanke-making-sure-fed-governors-remind-congress-deficit-bigger-than-qe2.html
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  is trying to make sure the U.S. central bank doesn’t
become a scapegoat for fiscal profligacy.  Fed officials are warning that Congress needs to balance
the nation’s budget, showing that policy makers are concerned
about a loss of confidence in U.S. finances and want lawmakers
to help prevent it, according to  Dean Maki , chief U.S. economist
at Barclays Capital Inc. Bernanke extended his campaign
yesterday, telling the House Budget Committee “anything that
can be done now to change that path” would have a “good impact
on the current economy” and  interest rates .  “There is this tremendous fiscal problem looming, and
Congress has to do something about it,” said Mark Gertler, a
professor of economics at  New York University  who has co-
authored research with Bernanke. “If they have a fixed amount
of time, spend it solving” that problem, rather than
“grandstanding about the Fed.” The central bank’s plan to buy
$600 billion in  Treasury securities  through June is “a
relatively modest policy undertaking” compared with balancing
the $3.7 trillion budget, he said.  The Fed sparked the harshest political backlash in three
decades after announcing a second round of so-called
quantitative easing on Nov. 3. Republicans, including House
Speaker  John Boehner  of  Ohio , said QE2 risks accelerating
inflation, weakening the dollar and fueling asset bubbles.  “What is needed is very clear communication to the
Congress at large and the American public,” that the program
isn’t “crazy or highly unusual and that it made sense, but that
it does involve some risk and that’s being managed,” said
Alfred Broaddus, former president of the  Federal Reserve  Bank of
Richmond. “You’ve got to be careful about turning this thing
around.”  ‘Can Be Overdone’  By acknowledging that buying government debt “can be
overdone,” the Fed may bolster confidence that it will withdraw
its record stimulus in time to avoid a surge in inflation, said
Broaddus, who was president of the Richmond Fed from 1993 to
2004.  Bernanke defended the bond-purchase program yesterday in
his first House testimony since Republicans took control of the
lower chamber last month. He repeated that Congress should adopt
a long-term plan to control a federal budget deficit that’s
projected to reach a record $1.5 trillion this year.  The Fed isn’t monetizing the nation’s debt because “what
we’re doing here is a temporary measure, which will be
reversed,” Bernanke said. QE2 is “providing significant
support to  job creation  and economic growth.”  Biggest Drop  The  unemployment rate  fell to 9 percent in January from 9.8
percent in November, the biggest two-month drop since 1958, and
gross domestic product rose at a 3.2 percent annual rate in the
fourth quarter, compared with 2.6 percent in the third and 1.7
percent in the second.  At the same time, “our nation’s fiscal position has
deteriorated appreciably,” and adjustments “must occur at some
point,” Bernanke said yesterday.  “The Fed wants to make clear it’s not going to underwrite
large deficits in the medium term,” Maki said in a telephone
interview from his  New York  office. The central bank is
responding to critics who’ve said it “is allowing the Congress
and the administration to run less-responsible fiscal policy,”
he said.  One such critic is Sarah Palin, the 2008 Republican vice-
presidential nominee, who says she’s considering a run for
president in 2012.  “It’s time for us to ‘refudiate’ the notion that this
dangerous experiment in printing $600 billion out of thin air,
with nothing to back it up, will magically fix economic
problems,” she wrote in a letter to the Wall Street Journal
published Nov. 18.  Curb Spending  So far, buyers of Treasury securities haven’t forced
Congress to curb its spending by making it expensive for the
nation to borrow. The yield on the 10-year Treasury note was
3.65 percent late yesterday in New York, lower than its average
of 5.25 percent during the last decade, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “Unfortunately, there’s no sense of urgency right now,”
said  John Lonski , chief economist at Moody’s Capital Markets
Group in New York. “Once you reach the point where concerns
about the federal  budget deficit  render financial markets
dysfunctional, then Congress will take action pronto.”  Representative  Paul Ryan , the Wisconsin Republican who
chairs the budget panel and offered his own plan last year for
cutting spending, asked Bernanke during his testimony if
Congress could aid short-term economic growth with a plan to
control spending. “That’s correct,” Bernanke said.  Inflation Launched  Bernanke may not have won Ryan over on QE2, though. Ryan
said during the hearing he’s concerned that “you’re going to
see inflation after it’s already been launched.”  Representative Ron Paul, a Texas Republican who has
advocated abolishing the central bank, said yesterday that the
Fed’s policies aren’t working.  “They haven’t been very efficient in producing jobs,” and
prices “really aren’t all that stable,” Paul said at a hearing
he held titled “Can  Monetary Policy  Really Create Jobs?”  Since Bernanke fueled speculation about additional asset
purchases during an Aug. 27 speech in Jackson Hole,  Wyoming ,
inflation expectations have climbed. The breakeven rate for 10-
year Treasury Inflation Protected Securities, the yield
difference between the inflation-linked debt and comparable-
maturity Treasuries, has risen to 2.33 percentage points from
1.63 percentage points, Bloomberg data show. The central bank
prefers an inflation rate of about 2 percent.  Congressional Legacy  “Deficits and the unfunded liabilities of Medicare and
Social Security are not created by the Federal Reserve; they are
the legacy of Congress,” Dallas Fed President Richard Fisher
said in a Feb. 8 speech. Fisher has expressed doubts about the
efficacy of quantitative easing and said this week he’ll oppose
further asset purchases after the planned $600 billion is
completed.  The Fed “would be more comfortable running a very easy
monetary policy if it could see firm evidence that a more-
sustainable fiscal situation was being put in place on a long-
term basis,” Maki said. Most Fed officials aren’t seeking
“sharp, immediate” cutbacks, given that they want the economic
recovery to gain traction, he said.  Quantitative easing is “hardly a panacea” and would
benefit from fiscal support, Fed Vice Chairman Janet Yellen said
in New York speech Dec. 1. “We would be wise to heed the
abundant empirical evidence of the superiority of taking action
before a fiscal crisis is upon us,” Richmond Fed President
Jeffrey Lacker said Feb. 8 in a speech in  Newark ,  Delaware .  $35 Billion in Cuts  House Republicans have started looking at reducing some
expenditures, announcing last week that they will seek $35
billion in cuts.    Washington ’s spending spree is over,” Ryan said in a
Feb. 3 statement.  While Bernanke and other Fed officials have voiced concern
that the nation’s financial situation is unsustainable, they
have stopped short of prescribing how lawmakers should fix it.  “The composition of spending and taxes is a Congressional
prerogative,” Bernanke said yesterday.  Policy makers must “be very careful about getting into”
too much detail with fiscal recommendations because that also
could politicize the Fed, Broaddus said. Bernanke’s predecessor,  Alan Greenspan , was criticized for expressing his opinions on
matters such as Social Security, he said.  ‘Different Tone’  “Chairman Bernanke has set a different tone than Chairman
Greenspan in that he has consistently avoided making near-term
fiscal-policy recommendations,” Maki said. “He’s taking this
approach in part to preserve the Fed’s independence and avoid an
image of partisanship.”  Congress shouldn’t become too involved in monetary policy,
either, because that could damage the credibility and
effectiveness of the Fed, Lonski of Moody’s said.  “Their primary focus ought to be on fiscal policy, not on
monetary policy,” Lonski said. “You have to worry about what
you have direct control over.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Caroline Salas in New York at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net 
Scott Lanman in Washington at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  