-- Bernanke’s Worst Nightmare Is This Man’s Boxes: Caroline Baum
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   B a u m
-- 2011-02-10T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-10/bernanke-worst-nightmare-is-this-man-s-boxes-commentary-by-caroline-baum.html
  Ben Bernanke  arrived at his office a
week ago and came face to face with his worst nightmare.  Staring out at the Federal Reserve chairman from page C1 of
the Feb. 3 edition of the Wall Street Journal was a  photo  of a
man and his boxes. The man was John Anton, founder and president
of  Anton Sports . The boxes contained his inventory of T-shirts.
Because the price was right, Anton borrowed $300,000 at 2.45
percent to lay in a year’s supply -- 2,500 boxes compared with a
more normal 30 -- in anticipation of higher cotton prices.  And why not? He has seen the future, and the future is
higher prices. When commodity prices are rising faster than the
cost of financing inventory, businesses have every incentive to
stockpile, even if they don’t expect a pick-up in sales. It’s
profit-maximization, pure and simple.  Is this what the Fed had in mind when it floated the idea
last year of raising inflation expectations to lower real
interest rates to get America spending again? I doubt it. But
it’s the natural outgrowth of all its efforts.  Take QE2, for example, the Fed’s second foray into
quantitative easing via the purchase of $600 billion of
Treasuries from November through June. To the extent that the
goal of QE2, as outlined by Bernanke, was to drive down Treasury
yields and drive up the prices of other financial assets to make
consumers feel wealthier, there is reason for concern.  Wealth Effect Redux?  It wasn’t long ago that double-digit annual increases in  home prices  made consumers feel wealthier. They borrowed and
spent until that wealth evaporated.  The Fed seems to have succeeded, and maybe too well, in
thwarting deflationary psychology, thanks to some help from
overly easy monetary policy in some  developing countries  and
booming commodity prices.  Which brings us back to Anton. He isn’t hoarding T-shirts
because he expects the  consumer price index  to rise, say, 3
percent next year. He’s hoarding T-shirts because he expects
cotton prices, which jumped 137 percent in the past year, to
increase further.  “Everyone faces a different expected inflation depending
on what he does for a living,” says Neal Soss, chief economist
at Credit Suisse in  New York . “That’s one of the real
weaknesses of the expected inflation/real rate story.”  Mistaken Models  Don’t tell Fed policy makers. Their models determined that
raising inflation expectations would lower the real interest
rate, making it less attractive to hold cash and increasing the
incentive for consumers to spend. Their models never envisioned
a rise in nominal rates.  The yield on the 10-year Treasury note shot up to a 10-
month high of 3.74 percent earlier this week from 2.4 percent in
October. Most of that increase has been in the real rate, which
the Fed now says reflects increased optimism about the economy.  Anton, of course, is an anecdote. Somewhere out there, just
waiting for a journalist to knock on his door, is his
counterpart, whose experience with prices is confined to those
that are falling.  It just so happens Anton illustrates a dominant theme,
which is rising global commodity prices, food riots in less
developed countries where a large share of income is spent on
necessities, and fears that the Fed missed the boat on QE2
(sorry).  No Such Beast  Forget the frequent references to “food inflation,”
“commodity inflation” or, even worse, “cost inflation.”
(Thank goodness there’s no “wage inflation” at the moment!)
These are all misnomers. Yes, food prices are rising, as are
commodity prices. They aren’t inflationary per se unless the Fed
allows those relative price increases to translate into a
generalized rise in all prices.  The best way to ensure that happens is to keep interest
rates at zero, creating an incentive to borrow at a low rate to
finance something that’s appreciating in price.  To date, there’s no sign of a borrowing binge. Commercial
and industrial loans, which companies use to finance
inventories, have inched up in the last two months after a two-
year decline. And the amount of credit-card debt outstanding
posted its first increase in December after 27 monthly declines.
Still, bank credit, which posted back-to-back increases in July
and August, is contracting again, according to Fed data.  At a hearing of the House Budget Committee yesterday,
Bernanke reiterated that the Fed has the means and the motive to
pare its $2.47 trillion balance sheet and raise the benchmark
rate to avert an unwanted increase in inflation “at the
appropriate time.”  The last time the Fed was prescient, and preemptive, was
1994, so I wouldn’t count on it. Let’s hope they start down the
Road to Normal before they find out we’re all John Antons now.    Caroline Baum , author of “Just What I Said,” is a
Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Caroline Baum in New York at 
 cabaum@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  