-- Big Lots in Play Poised to Bring $1 Billion Windfall: Real M&A
-- B y   S a r a h   R a b i l   a n d   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i
-- 2011-02-10T21:38:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-10/big-lots-in-play-poised-to-bring-1-billion-shareholder-windfall-real-m-a.html
  Big Lots Inc ., the discount retailer
exploring a possible sale, may reward shareholders with a
windfall of more than $1 billion as demand for discontinued and
overproduced brand-name goods lifts profit to a record.  Retailers have been paid a median of 10.2 times earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization in the
past decade’s acquisitions, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Using that multiple, Big Lots’ equity would be worth
$4.6 billion, based on analysts’ estimates for $459.8 million in
Ebitda this year. That’s 52 percent more than the Columbus,
Ohio-based company’s market capitalization, the data show.  A sale may help Chief Executive Officer Steve Fishman
recoup the value lost as shares of rivals gained twice as much
in the past year. The buyer would get a retailer analysts say
will benefit as consumers seek low-priced goods amid a recovery
from the longest recession since the Great Depression. Big Lots,
which was approached by  Bain Capital  LLC and Thomas H. Lee
Partners LP, hired  Goldman Sachs Group Inc . to study its
options, according to a person with knowledge of the situation
who declined to be identified because the matter is private.  Fishman “has really improved the performance of the
company, but unfortunately  Wall Street  hasn’t really recognized
the value that he has brought to Big Lots,” said Justin Akin, a
money manager at Louisville, Kentucky-based River Road Asset
Management LLC, which oversees $4 billion, including 2.5 percent
of Big Lots’ shares. “This is a market leader that’s going to
prosper even when times are tough.”  Frank’s Nursery  Big Lots buys closeout and overstocked items from furniture
to toys and small appliances and sells them at a discount at its
1,400 stores. The company posted five straight years of growth
on an adjusted net income basis since Fishman, 60, became chief
executive officer in July 2005. He has a history of cleaning up
businesses prior to a change in ownership, according to Ronald Bookbinder, an analyst with New York-based Benchmark Co.  Fishman led Frank’s Nursery & Crafts Inc., the largest U.S.
lawn-and-garden products retailer, during bankruptcy, and ran
retail-chain Pamida before a sale to ShopKo Stores Inc. in 1999.  At the industry’s historical takeover multiple of 10.2
times Ebitda for deals of at least $500 million, an acquisition
of Big Lots would value the equity at $4.6 billion, based on
analysts’ profit estimates for this fiscal year. That would
represent a per-share price of about $61, almost double the
average price of $32.06 in the 20 days prior to Feb. 7.  Shares of Big Lots advanced 2 percent to $40.77 in  New York 
Stock Exchange trading today. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
was little changed.  Dollar General  Dan Wewer, an analyst who covers retailers at  St.
Petersburg , Florida-based Raymond James & Associates Inc., says
Big Lots may sell for $54 a share, or a premium of 68 percent.
Only two takeovers in the retail industry have commanded higher
prices in the past decade, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Wewer based his estimate on a takeover multiple of about 9
times Ebitda, versus the estimated 11 times Ebitda that KKR &
Co. paid for  Dollar General Corp . in July 2007. Big Lots’
profitability and “attractive” balance sheet would make it
comparable to Dollar General when it was taken private, he said.  Big Lots generated free  cash flow  of 6.6 percent of sales
in the past 12 months, the second-highest among U.S.-traded
discount retailers with more than $1 billion in market value,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Chesapeake, Virginia-
based  Dollar Tree Inc . had a ratio of 8 percent. Big Lots had
$78 million in net debt at the end of October, the data show.  ‘Our Attraction’  “We thought that a private equity firm could make the
numbers work,” said Pat Becker, principal of Becker Capital
Management Inc. in Portland, Oregon, which oversees $2.4
billion. “It’s a great free cash flow generator and that was
our attraction to the name. Private equity guys are looking for
strong free cash flow and not much debt.”  Becker bought 256,890 shares of Big Lots in the fourth
quarter, in part betting that the company will be taken over by
a leveraged buyout firm.  Executives at Big Lots didn’t return calls seeking comment.  Shares of Big Lots have rallied 20 percent since Feb. 4,
the last day of trading before a person with knowledge of the
situation said that the company received interest from Boston-
based Bain Capital and Thomas H. Lee and was working with
Goldman Sachs of New York.  Wal-Mart Shares  Big Lots climbed 154 percent from the end of 2005 through
2010, versus an 11 percent gain for retailers in the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index. Bentonville, Arkansas-based  Wal-Mart Stores
Inc ., the world’s largest retailer, advanced 15 percent.  KKR’s return on Dollar General may provide a model for
potential private equity bidders.  Dollar General completed an $824 million initial public
offering in November 2009. The IPO gave the Goodlettsville,
Tennessee-based merchant an enterprise value, or the sum of
Dollar General’s stock and net debt, of about $11 billion, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. That’s about 50 percent more than
the $7.3 billion total value of the takeover, KKR’s last
leveraged buyout before credit markets froze in August 2007.  Dollar General paid a dividend of $239 million to its
owners in September 2009.  Using KKR’s own valuation models, the “fair value” of
Dollar General’s common stock was $12.95 each at the end of May
2009, according to filings with the Securities and Exchange
Commission. Dollar General sold shares at $21 each in the IPO
and the stock has since climbed 33 percent to $27.91.  Great Depression  While the 18-month recession that ended in June 2009 was
the longest since a 43-month slump during the Great Depression,
according to the Cambridge, Massachusetts-based  National Bureau
of Economic Research , discount retailers benefited as consumers
turned to lower-priced goods.  In 2009, when household spending dropped 1.2 percent in the
greatest decline since 1942, shares of Big Lots doubled. The
company reported a 34 percent increase in per-share adjusted
earnings that year, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Big Lots underperformed its competitors in the past year as
food sales fell in the third quarter because of gaps in its
product selection, according to  Brian Sozzi , an analyst with
Wall Street Strategies Inc. in New York.  As a private company, Big Lots would have the time to turn
around its food business, which draws more consumers into stores
to also buy furniture and clothing, he said. That would make it
an attractive target for private equity bidders.  “Private equity is sniffing around the retail sector,
trying in earnest to dig up a mispriced gem,” he said. “When
you’re publicly traded you don’t have the benefit of time.”  Stock Exchange Deals  Elsewhere in mergers and acquisitions,  Deutsche Boerse AG 
said yesterday it was in advanced talks to buy  NYSE Euronext  in
an all-stock transaction that would create the world’s biggest
exchange operator, accelerating a day of takeovers that began
with  London Stock Exchange Group Plc ’s acquisition of Toronto-
based  TMX Group Inc .  The combined organization of Deutsche Boerse and NYSE would
be home to publicly traded companies worth about $15 trillion,
or 28 percent of global stock-market value, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Duncan Niederauer , New York-based NYSE
Euronext’s chief executive officer, would have the same job,
according to a statement. Frankfurt-based Reto Francioni, CEO of
Deutsche Boerse, will be chairman. Deutsche Boerse will own
about 59 percent to 60 percent of the joined entity.  The talks between NYSE and Deutsche Boerse and the
agreement between LSE and TMX follow  Singapore Exchange Ltd .’s
October offer to buy ASX Ltd., operator of  Australia ’s main
bourse, for A$8.4 billion ($8.5 billion).  LSE, TMX  London Stock Exchange Group said that it agreed to buy
Toronto-based TMX Group for about $3.2 billion as the companies
cut costs to counter market share losses.    Encana Corp . of Calgary,  Canada ’s largest natural-gas
producer, agreed to sell a 50 percent stake in the company’s
Cutbank Ridge business to a unit of Beijing-based PetroChina Co.
for C$5.4 billion ($5.44 billion). The agreement creates a joint
venture with PetroChina International Investment that includes
assets in British Columbia and Alberta.  There have been 2,610 deals announced globally this year,
totaling $223.3 billion, a 24 percent increase from the $179.9
billion in the same period in 2010, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sarah Rabil in New York at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net ;
Cristina Alesci in New York at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net . 