-- Bill Clinton, Barry Diller, Woody, Elton John: Scene Last Night
-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 2011-02-10T17:48:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-10/bill-clinton-woody-allen-barry-diller-stevie-wonder-scene-last-night.html
William Jefferson Clinton stepped to
the podium at the gala last night for the  Foundation for AIDS
Research  to ruminate on his ancestors.  Research, he said, had recently shown that Caucasians are
descended from Neanderthals.  “The two women in my life were not surprised to learn that
I’m part Neanderthal. They were surprised they were, too.”  The event honored Clinton, Diane von Furstenberg and the
absent  Elizabeth Taylor , one of the founders of Amfar in 1985.  Furstenberg got some praise from a biased titan.  “My little earth mother wife, she is always extending
herself,” said husband  Barry Diller , chairman of IAC.  Friendship was the theme of the night. “The key is to be
really cheerful when a friend is in trouble,” said “Project
Runway” judge Nina Garcia, one of many guests from the worlds
of fashion, film and politics gathering at Cipriani’s catering
palace on Wall Street.  “I try to do good things, like offer to dog sit,” said
actor Cheyenne Jackson. Other actors attending included Michael
C. Hall of “Dexter” and Blake Lively of “Gossip Girl.    Woody Allen , accompanied by his wife, Soon-Yi Previn,
wasn’t into the friendship theme that dominated many
conversations.  “I have no friends and I trust no one,” he said.  The gala culminated with  Stevie Wonder , Gladys Knight,  Elton John  and Dionne Warwick performing “That’s What Friends
Are For.” The song has raised around $3 million for Amfar since
the quartet recorded it in 1985.  ‘Old Man’  Over at  City Winery  on the West Side, several performers
ran through the music of Neil Young at a private rehearsal in
advance of a sold-out concert tonight at  Carnegie Hall .  Jakob Dylan practiced “Southern Man,” Shawn Colvin
practiced “Birds,” and Ben Ottewell of the band Gomez offered
“Unknown Legend.”  “It’s romantic Americana,” said Ottewell, who’s releasing
a recording of the song this spring.  Joan Osborne arrived, taking off her white down coat and
ski hat to reveal bright pink ear buds. Appropriately, she was
listening to her Neil Young song, “Old Man.”  Tonight’s line-up includes Glen Hansard of the Swell Season
covering “Tell Me Why,” Pete Yorn performing “Rockin’ in the
Free World,” and the Roots putting their spin on “Down by the
River.”  A few tickets may become available even though the concert
is sold out, said producer Michael Dorf.  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
art and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon in New York at  agordon01@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 