-- Bank of America to Close Some Branches, Test Remote Video Wealth Advisers
-- B y   H u g h   S o n
-- 2011-02-10T11:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-10/bofa-to-trim-bank-branches-test-remote-video-wealth-advisers.html
  Bank of America Corp ., the biggest
U.S. lender by assets, will close some retail branches this year
and try to boost revenue from remaining locations by offering
investment  advice  by videoconference, a company manager said.  The bank typically closes underperforming branches and will
be “more conservative” about opening new ones, Walter Elcock,
the executive responsible for the firm’s  branches , said last
week in an interview. He declined to say how many will be
closed. The  Charlotte , North Carolina-based firm plans trials
this month of video conference rooms where Merrill Lynch
associates dispense advice to customers from afar, Elcock said.  Bank of America, socked by new U.S. regulation that reduces
overdraft and debit-card fees, plans to trim consumer banking
expenses and increase sales through its Merrill Lynch brokerage,
acquired in 2009. The company had 5,856 branches at the end of
2010, a 2.6 percent drop from the year earlier, and will
“continue to downsize” its retail footprint, Chief Executive
Officer  Brian T. Moynihan  told analysts last month.  “We’ve reduced the opening number, and the closure number
has been fairly constant, so over time I think the number will
keep going down,” Elcock said. “It’s not only because of
economic changes; there will be leases that come up on buildings
that just aren’t worth it anymore and we would leave a site.”  Branches Shrink  U.S. banks may close as many as 5,000 branches through
2012,  Meredith Whitney , the former Oppenheimer & Co. analyst who
now runs her own firm, said in a Nov. 18 report. Bank of
America, which peaked at 6,149 branches in 2007, is behind only
San Francisco-based  Wells Fargo & Co . in the number of U.S.
banking centers. Wells Fargo has  6,335  locations;  JPMorgan Chase
& Co . has  5,268  and  Citigroup Inc . has  1,001 .  “The trend is closing branches in less densely populated
areas and focusing on the more affluent, and to deck those
locations out with a full suite of offerings,” said Sophie Schmitt, a Boston-based senior analyst at research firm Aite
Group LLC.  As many as 10 percent of Bank of America branches
eventually may become “specialty stores,” with a Merrill
associate, a small-business adviser or mortgage expert, or video
links to those representatives, Elcock said. Moynihan emphasized
marketing products to customers across deposit, small business
and wealth management divisions in a November meeting for the
bank’s top 200 executives.  Video Trials  Branches in  Los Angeles  and the Washington, D.C., area will
begin trials of the video conferencing rooms this month. Clients
will speak with Merrill associates in Hopewell,  New Jersey ,
Jacksonville,  Florida , or Chandler,  Arizona , said Anne Pace, a
spokeswoman for the bank. While they are trained to give
investment advice, associates don’t have set relationships with
clients, as financial advisers do, Pace said.  New branches are more likely to be smaller with an area
dedicated to automated teller machines, said Elcock, who started
at a predecessor firm to Bank of America in 1974. There will
also be more ATM-only shops, Elcock said. He reports to Joseph Price, head of the company’s consumer-banking division.  “The physical channel is going to be an anchor for a long
time to come,” Elcock said. “Does it have to be more
efficient? Yes. Is it more challenging right now with the way
the economics have changed in the business? Yes. But what is
surprising is how many people want it there.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugh Son in  New York  at   hson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rick Green in New York at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net . 