-- Brazil Pledges $30 Billion Cutback in 2011 Spending to Ease Rate Increases
-- B y   A n d r e   S o l i a n i   a n d   A r n a l d o   G a l v a o
-- 2011-02-10T02:03:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-10/brazil-pledges-30-billion-cutback-in-2011-spending-to-ease-rate-increases.html
  Brazil ’s government pledged
yesterday to slash 50 billion reais ($30 billion) from this
year’s spending plans in a bid to ease pressure on the central
bank to raise interest rates.  The yield on the interest rate futures contract maturing
January 2013, the most traded in  Sao Paulo , is heading for its
biggest weekly drop in almost four months as traders trim bets
that inflation, now at a 26-month high, may surge.  “At the margin, it leaves breathing room for the central
bank,”  Siobhan Morden , head of Latin America strategy at RBS
Securities Inc, said yesterday. While the move was “a lost
opportunity for a shock of confidence” because the announced
amount was in line with market expectations, “there is some
relief they plan to deliver” on the cuts, Morden said.  Policy makers, after raising the benchmark rate to 11.25
percent from 10.75 percent last month, said they were counting
this year on a wider  budget surplus  before interest payment to
rein in consumer prices. The budget cut announced yesterday,
which still needs to be detailed, will remove all stimuli
implemented in 2009 and 2010 to spur the economy during the
global financial crisis, Brazil Finance Minister Mantega told
reporters in Brasilia.  Yields on interest rate futures contracts due January 2013
remained unchanged at 12.68 percent yesterday. The yield plunged
23 basis points, or 0.23 percentage points, in the two previous
days as traders anticipated the budget cut.  ‘Have to Wait’  Yields may rebound today as investors wait for details on
how the government plans to deliver the promised budget cut,
Marcelo Salomon, chief economist for Brazil at Barclays Plc. In  New York , said in phone interview.  “There was already the expectation that this would be the
size of the cut, but what we lack is how it will be achieved,”
said Alexandre Sant'anna, chief economist at Rio de Janeiro-based
BNY Mellon Arx, which manages 12 billion reais. “It’s a good
level, but with the fiscal policies of the former government and
not knowing where the cuts will come from, we have to wait.”  Social programs and infrastructure investments will be
maintained, while government hiring will be frozen, funding to
the state development bank reduced and all ministries forced to
trim spending, Mantega said.  Brazil missed its fiscal targets last year as Lula kept in
place tax cuts enacted after Lehman Brothers Holding Inc.’s
bankruptcy in September 2008 and boosted spending in the run up
to Rousseff’s election.  Deterioration  Rousseff has promised to curb spending that increased
faster than economic growth under her predecessor Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva.  In a speech opening Congress Feb. 2, the president told
lawmakers she is committed to “maintaining a macro-economic
policy compatible with fiscal balance, a firm control of
inflation and rigorous use of public money.”  Brazil’s budget deficit before interest payments, the so-
called primary surplus, ended 2010 at 2.8 percent of gross
domestic product, short of the government’s 3.1 percent target.  The  International Monetary Fund , in a report last month,
said Brazil saw a “particularly pronounced”  deterioration in
its public finances and is expected to miss its 2011 surplus
target by a “wide margin.”  The central bank, in the  minutes  to their Jan. 18-19
meeting, said they are counting on a primary surplus equal to 3
percent of GDP this year to help slow inflation.  ‘Shot in the Arm’  Mantega repeated today that the government would meet its
primary target of 117.9 billion reais this year without relying
on one-time revenue windfalls or accounting changes as it did in
2010.  The target is equal to 2.9 percent of nominal GDP, which he
estimated would reach 4.1 trillion reais.  Finding ways to do more with less resources will be the
government’s new “mantra,” Planning Minister Miriam Belchior
told reporters. To rein in spending the government will ban the
purchase or rental of new properties and also prohibit the
buying of new cars, she said.  Mantega said the budget cuts will deliver an immediate
“shot in the arm” of the economy that should allow the central
bank to reduce interest rates at an “opportune” moment. The
cuts won’t harm the economy, which will grow 5 percent this
year, he said  Traders are wagering policy makers will increase the
benchmark rate to 11.75 percent from 11.25 percent next month as
they seeks to rein in inflation running at a two-year high.  Inflation quickened to 26-month high of 5.99 percent in
January as record low unemployment and credit growth fueled the
fastest economic expansion in more than two decades.  The central bank forecasts Latin America’s biggest economy
grew 7.3 percent in 2010.  Balancing Act  Interest rate futures show central bank President Alexandre Tombini may lift the Selic rate to 13 percent by year end,
according to Bloomberg estimates.  Morgan Stanley, in a Feb. 7 report, said Brazil has
“limited maneuvering room” to cut its budget without
overhauling the country’s pension system and reducing 553
billion reais in non-discretionary earmarks that make up nearly
three-quarters of this year’s 773 billion reias budget.  A spending cut equal to 1 percent of GDP would slow
inflation by 0.32 percentage points, according to the median
estimate in a central bank  survey  published Nov. 8.  As part of the government’s austerity drive, Rousseff has
refused to budge on the government’s proposal to lift the  minimum wage  6.8 percent this year to 545 reais. Unions, who saw
wages rise 62 percent in real terms under Lula, are pushing for
a boost to at least 580 reais.  Inflation will remain “around” the 4.5 percent target in
the next two years if policy makers increase the benchmark
interest rate 150 basis points to 12.25 percent in 2011 and the
real remains stable, Carlos Hamilton, central bank director for
economic policy, said Dec. 22.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andre Soliani in Brasilia at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net ;
Arnaldo Galvao in Brasilia at 
 agalvao1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  