-- Brazil Consumer Credit Expansion Slowing on `Effective' Action, Bank Says
-- B y   A d r i a n a   C h i a r i n i   a n d   A n d r e   S o l i a n i
-- 2011-02-10T16:46:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-10/brazil-consumer-credit-expansion-slowing-on-effective-action-bank-says.html
  Brazil ’s central bank said that
measures to slow  consumer lending  are “effective” and may help
intensify the impact of higher interest rates on domestic
demand.  New personal loans granted daily by banks dropped to a
five-day moving average of 571 million reais ($340 million) on
Jan. 26, down from 708 million reais on Dec. 6, Carlos Hamilton,
the bank’s economic policy director, said at an event in  Salvador . Interest rates on those loans, which include payroll
loans, rose to 49.4 percent from 40.3 percent in the same
comparison, he said.  The central bank in December increased reserve and capital
requirements for local banks in a bid to slow credit expansion
and inflation. Policy makers said they were taking action to
prevent a credit bubble after vehicle financing surged 49
percent last year, payment terms extended to as much as 80
months and regulators launched an investigation into Banco
Panamericano SA, the biggest lender for used cars.  “The recent dynamic of payment terms, prices and volume of
new loans suggest that the macro-prudential actions taken at the
beginning of December are effective as an element to contain
aggregate demand,” the bank said in a slideshow presented at
the event.  Yields Rise  The yield on interest rate futures contract maturing in
January 2013, the most traded in  Sao Paulo , rose 14 basis
points, or 0.14 percentage points, to 12.82 percent at 11:45
a.m. New York time. The real weakened 0.6 percent to 1.6684 per  U.S. dollar .  Policy makers, after raising the benchmark interest rate to
11.25 percent from 10.75 percent in January, said they would
rely on higher borrowing costs and macro-prudential credit
measures to rein in consumer prices that jumped the most in 26
months last month.  The central bank disclosed credit figures today because
“the market was very skeptical about the effectiveness of the
prudential measures,”  Solange Srour , chief economist at BNY
Mellon ARX Investimentos, said in a phone interview from Sao
Paulo. “The message is that the measures are already having an
impact.”  The central bank’s measures removed 61 billion reais from
the credit market and were aimed mainly at curbing expansion of
consumer loans with maturities longer than 24 months. The bank,
in today’s slideshow, said that the credit measures are not a
“perfect substitute” for conventional monetary policy tools.  ‘Significant Adjustment’  There has been a “significant adjustment” in  consumer
credit , Hamilton told reporters in the northeastern city of
Salvador. The measures to slow credit expansion complement
interest rate increases, he added.  Inflation, as measured by the benchmark IPCA price index,
quickened to 5.99 percent in the 12 months through January, the
fastest pace since November 2008, according to national
statistic agency. The government targets inflation of 4.5
percent, plus or minus two percentage points.  President  Dilma Rousseff ’s government pledged yesterday to
slash 50 billion reais off this year’s budget in a move to ease
pressure on the central bank to increase interest rates.  Policy makers said in the minutes of their Jan. 18-19
meeting that to help fight inflation they are counting on
spending cuts that will bring the  budget surplus  before interest
payments equal to 3 percent of gross domestic product. The
government’s so-called primary surplus was 2.8 percent of GDP
last year, short of the 3.1 percent target.  Traders are wagering the central bank will increase the
overnight benchmark interest rate to 11.75 percent in March and
pushed it up to as much as 13 percent by year-end, interest rate
futures show.  State and non-state bank lending expanded 1.6 percent in
December to a 1.7 trillion reais, the slowest increase since
July. Tighter reserve and capital requirements pushed the
average interest rate for auto loans to a five-day moving
average of 23.1 percent on Jan. 26 from 19.2 percent on Dec. 6,
the central bank said today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Adriana Chiarini in Rio De Janeiro at 
 achiarini4@bloomberg.net ;
Andre Soliani in Brasilia at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  