-- BTA Bank Wins Court Bid to Block Ex-Chairman’s Conspiracy Claim
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2011-02-10T13:43:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-10/bta-bank-wins-court-bid-to-block-ex-chairman-s-conspiracy-claim.html
Mukhtar Ablyazov, ex-chairman of the
bailed-out Kazakh lender  BTA Bank JSC , can’t use allegations of
a presidential conspiracy to avoid bank claims he embezzled as
much as $4 billion, a U.K. judge ruled.  BTA seeks to recover assets for its creditors, including  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc , and the lawsuits are unrelated
to the takeover of the bank or Ablyazov’s disputes with  Kazakhstan  President Nursultan Nazarbayev, Judge Nigel Teare
ruled today in London.  “The claims are those of the bank,” Teare said in the
ruling. “They are not the claims of the government of
Kazakhstan, which is said to have brought about the
nationalization in breach of international law and human
rights.”  The ruling applies to four of Almaty-based BTA’s six U.K.
lawsuits accusing Ablyazov of conspiring with associates to
siphon money from the bank through a series of fraudulent loans
and share sales before it was bailed out during the financial
crisis and defaulted on $12 billion of debt.  A message left for Ablyazov’s spokesman, Locksley Ryan of
 RLF Partnership Ltd.  in  London , wasn’t immediately returned.  Lawyers for Ablyazov, who fled to London, said the bank’s
nationalization was politically motivated due to their client
being part of the “democratic opposition” to Nazarbayev, who
has been in power for more than two decades. Nazarbayev last
month scrapped a referendum to extend his rule until 2020.  Ablyazov was arrested in 2003 and imprisoned on “trumped
up” charges that resulted in the seizure of his assets, his
lawyers have argued. He was also tortured in custody and
survived two assassination attempts, they say.  BTA in December won a U.K. appeals court ruling that forced
Ablyazov to place his assets, estimated at $5 billion, into
receivership.  The case is: JSC BTA Bank v. Mukhtar Ablyazov, [2011] EWHC
202 (Comm), Royal Courts of Justice (London).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 