-- Budget Deficit in U.S. Rose to $49.8 Billion as Spending Grew
-- B y   V i n c e n t   D e l   G i u d i c e
-- 2011-02-10T19:17:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-10/budget-deficit-in-u-s-rose-to-49-8-billion-as-spending-grew.html
The U.S. government posted a wider  budget deficit  in January as spending climbed from a year
earlier when outlays were depressed by the New Year’s holiday.  The gap totaled $49.8 billion last month, lower than the
median forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News,
compared with a $42.6 billion shortfall in January 2010, figures
from the Treasury Department showed today in Washington. An 11
percent increase in spending exceeded a 10 percent gain in
revenue that reflected growing income tax receipts as the
economy improved.  The compromise between President  Barack Obama  and
congressional republicans that extended Bush-era tax cuts,
renewed emergency jobless benefits and reduced payroll taxes may
push this year’s budget shortfall to a record, surpassing the
$1.4 trillion reached in 2009. Republicans, who took control of
the House after last year’s election, have made spending cuts a
top priority.  “It’s still a very wide budget deficit,” said  Michael Moran ,
chief economist at Daiwa Capital Markets America Inc. in  New
York , who forecast a $50 billion gap. “We’re going to have a
similar performance as last fiscal year. Congress needs to do
something on the budget. The situation as it stands now is not
sustainable.”  This year’s budget deficit is projected to reach $1.5
trillion, according to a Congressional Budget Office  estimate 
released Jan. 26. Economists at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. in New
York projected it will climb to $1.35 trillion from last year’s
$1.29 trillion.  Year to Date  For the fiscal year to date, the deficit totaled $418.8
billion compared with $430.7 billion the prior fiscal year to
date, according to the Treasury’s data.  “Everybody agrees the deficit is too big, but no one is
willing to do anything about it -- raise taxes or cut spending,
and that means draconian cuts in government entitlement plans,”
such as Medicare,  David Wyss , chief economist at  Standard &
Poor’s  in New York, said before the report.  A survey of 29 economists by Bloomberg News showed a median
estimate for the deficit of $56.2 billion in January. Forecasts
ranged from $44.1 billion to $70 billion.  The non-partisan CBO, in a forecast issued Feb. 7,
estimated a January gap of $53 billion.  More Spending  The Treasury’s report showed that  government spending  rose
to $276.3 billion in January from $247.9 billion a year ago,
when the New Year’s holiday fell on a Friday, pushing more
government payments into December 2009, the CBO said in its
forecast. “If the effects of shifts in the timing of certain
payments were excluded, the deficit would be $16 billion less in
January 2011 than it was in January 2010,” according to the
CBO’s estimate.  Revenue and other fees increased to $226.6 billion from
$205.2 billion in January 2010. Receipts from individual income
taxes have climbed 24 percent year to date to $385 billion.
Corporate income tax receipts were up 6.5 percent year over
year.  Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner , at a town hall
event in Washington yesterday, said the Obama administration
soon will release “very detailed” programs for curbing future
deficits, and that the fiscal outlook is “fundamentally
manageable.” He also predicted that Congress would raise the
$14.29 trillion debt limit.  Obama on  Tax Code   Obama this week called for businesses to join him in an
effort to change a “burdensome corporate tax code.” In a
speech at the U.S. Chamber of Commerce on Feb. 7, Obama said
“various loopholes and carve-outs” distort economic decisions.  In an effort to help contain spending, a bipartisan group
of senators has revived a proposal to give the president a form
of the line-item veto enjoyed by many state governors. In 1996,
Congress approved the full line-item veto and then-President  Bill Clinton  used it until it was declared unconstitutional two
years later.  “I think the mood has changed,” said Senator Rob Portman,
an Ohio Republican who was President  George W. Bush ’s budget
director. “The legislative line-item veto is an important tool
in our toolbox to rebuild our fiscal house.”  Meantime, former Senator  Alan Simpson , co-chairman of a
White House panel budget reform, said Social Security, Medicare,
Medicaid and the pentagon need reining in, the Wyoming
Republican said Feb 6.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vincent Del Giudice in  Washington  
 vdelgiudice@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at  