-- Buffett Says Goldman Deal Was a Bet on Fed, Treasury
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2011-02-10T22:24:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-10/buffett-says-goldman-purchase-was-bet-u-s-would-leverage-up-.html
Billionaire  Warren Buffett  said his
$5 billion investment in  Goldman Sachs Group Inc . at the depths
of the financial crisis was a wager that Federal Reserve
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and then-Treasury Department Secretary  Henry Paulson  would take on debt to prop up the economy.  “It was a bet essentially on the fact that the government
would not really shirk its responsibility at a time like that to
leverage up at a time when the rest of the world was trying to
deleverage,” Buffett said in an interview released today by the
Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission.  Buffett’s  Berkshire Hathaway Inc . bought preferred stock in
New York-based Goldman Sachs in 2008 after the collapse of rival
securities firm Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. Paulson had left
the chairmanship of Goldman Sachs in 2006 to join the
administration of President  George W. Bush . Bernanke had been an
economist at Princeton University.  “I made the fundamental decision that we had the right
people, in Bernanke and Paulson, in there with a president that
would back them,” Buffett said.  Berkshire gets a 10 percent annual dividend on the
investment and received warrants to buy $5 billion in common
stock with a strike price of $115 per share. Goldman Sachs
traded for more than $165 a share today on the New York Stock
Exchange, compared with $84.39 at the end of 2008.  Buffett had said in 2008, when Omaha, Nebraska-based
Berkshire announced the investment, that he was betting on an
“exceptional institution.”  Goldman Sachs “has an unrivaled global franchise, a proven
and deep management team and the intellectual and financial
capital to continue its track record of outperformance,” he said
in a Sept. 23, 2008 statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Frye in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  