-- Weber Declines to Comment on Future Career Plans, Leaving ECB Race Open
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   V i t s   a n d   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 2011-02-10T14:14:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-10/bundesbank-s-weber-says-he-won-t-comment-on-plans-after-talking-to-merkel.html
Bundesbank President  Axel Weber 
declined to clarify his career plans, leaving the future
leadership of the central bank in question for a second day.  “I spoke with the German chancellor and promised her that
I would not comment before we were able to meet for another
talk,” Weber said in a speech at an event in Vienna today. “We
will coordinate in taking all necessary decisions.”  The race for the succession of European Central Bank
President  Jean-Claude Trichet  was thrown wide open yesterday
following reports that Weber may not seek a second term as head
of the Bundesbank. That prompted a drop in the euro, just as
European leaders are trying to resolve a sovereign debt crisis
that has shaken the foundations of monetary union.  “It’s a mess,” said  Ken Wattret , chief euro-area
economist at BNP Paribas SA in  London . “We need clarification
soon but may not get it. You could conclude that he simply did
not have sufficient support in the euro area and this is just
one extreme example of the messy, intransparent way of the horse
trading associated with allocating these posts in Europe.”  Leaders need to appoint a new ECB president by the time
Trichet’s term expires on Oct. 31 and economists had considered
Weber to be the frontrunner for the job. They are now looking at
other candidates, who may include ECB council members  Mario Draghi  from Italy, Erkki Liikanen of Finland, Luxembourg’s Yves Mersch and Nout Wellink of the Netherlands.  Reputation Damage  Weber plans to step down later this year, a person who
spoke to him yesterday said. That sparked speculation that he
might succeed  Josef Ackermann  as chief executive officer of
Deutsche Bank AG, the country’s largest bank. Deutsche Bank
Spokesman Armin Niedermeier declined to comment.  “It will be difficult for Weber to take any position of
prominence after this,” said  James Nixon , co-chief euro-area
economist at Societe Generale in London. “It is difficult to
pull out of a public position the way he did without
considerable damage to one’s reputation.”  Weber is scheduled to attend an event with ECB council
member  Christian Noyer , French Finance Minister Christine Lagarde and her German counterpart Wolfgang Schaeuble in Berlin
tomorrow.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christian Vits in Frankfurt at 
 cvits@bloomberg.net ;
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  