-- Carlos Slim Sees Colombia Rising as Commodity Choice
-- B y   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n   a n d   C a r l o s   M a n u e l   R o d r i g u e z
-- 2011-02-10T14:25:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-10/carlos-slim-sees-colombia-ascending-as-investment-choice-in-commodity-boom.html
  Carlos Slim , named the world’s
richest man by Forbes Magazine, said he’s seeking to boost his
investments in Colombia because of the country’s open policy on
oil exploration, its mineral assets and growing middle class.  Slim aims to expand the drilling and oil-platform services
he provides Mexico’s Petroleos Mexicanos through exploration
opportunities in Colombia, he said yesterday in an interview at
Bloomberg News headquarters in  New York . Slim, whose holdings
rose to $70 billion last year, has stakes in U.S. oil services
companies Bronco Drilling Co. and Allis-Chalmers Energy Inc.  “The government is actively looking at the development of
the oil industry and is promoting other investments,” he said.
“We’re looking at what to do beyond the telecommunications
business that we’ve been doing for 10 years in  Colombia .”  Colombian foreign direct investment more than quadrupled in
the past decade, to $7.2 billion in 2009 from $1.5 billion in
1999, after former President  Alvaro Uribe  repelled guerrilla
groups that attacked oil pipelines and assassinated politicians.  OGX Petroleo & Gas Participacoes SA, the  oil company 
controlled by Brazilian billionaire  Eike Batista , said last year
it may begin producing crude in Colombia in 2012. Batista is
also boosting his investments in the Andean country, joining
Anglo American Plc, BHP Billiton Ltd. Xstrata Plc and Drummond
Co. in tapping  South America ’s largest coal reserves.  Surging Prices  Commodity prices are surging as emerging markets such as
China and  India  require more resources to accommodate the needs
and wishes of their growing middle classes for infrastructure
and consumer goods, according to Slim. The depreciating value of
the dollar is also driving those countries’ governments to build
up their investments in commodities, he said.  “They don’t want to have Treasuries,” Slim said. “The
dollar is weak and there’s no interest, and also with
commodities they have reserves for internal consumption.”  Colombian President  Juan Manuel Santos , who took office in
August, is counting on rising commodity investments to fuel the
Andean nation’s growth. Oil blocks auctioned last year will draw
more than $1 billion over three years from companies including  Royal Dutch Shell Plc , SK Energy Co. and Repsol YPF SA,
according to the government.  Colombia attracted about $6.5 billion in foreign direct
investment through the third quarter of 2010. Foreign direct
investment in mining rose to $3 billion in 2009, the last year
of annual figures available, from $1.8 billion in 2008,
according to  central bank  figures.  Peso-Bond Slump  Still, Colombia’s fixed-rate peso bonds have slumped this
year and stocks dropped amid concern the Central Bank may miss
this year’s inflation target after floods choked off farmers’
supply routes, driving up food costs and sparking the biggest
jump in monthly inflation since May 2008.  Colombia’s benchmark peso bonds due July 2020 touched an
eight-month high of 8.2 percent on Feb. 8 and the IGBC stock
index has dropped 5.6 percent this year.  Consumer prices rose 0.9 percent in January from December,
pushing the annual inflation rate to 3.4 percent, the national
statistics agency said in a Feb. 5 report. Banco de la Republica
targets inflation between 2 percent and 4 percent this year.  As defense minister under Uribe from 2006 to 2009, Santos
oversaw the rescue of 15 rebel-held hostages and an air strike
into  Ecuador  that killed  Raul Reyes , a top commander of the
guerrilla group known as the FARC. Military offenses have
reduced attacks on pipelines, roadways and bridges to 76 in 2009
from more than 800 in 2002, according to government figures.  Security Policies  Uribe’s security policies helped almost cut in half the
number of murders and slash by 93 percent kidnappings by 2009,
spurring economic gains. The Central Bank expects the economy to
expand around 4.5 percent this year after growing en estimated
3.7 percent to 4.1 percent in 2010.  The son of a Lebanese immigrant who ran a dry-goods store
in downtown Mexico City, Slim took advantage of periods of
economic crisis in his native Mexico to buy real estate and
assets such as a bottling company and a cigarette maker to amass
his fortune. He acquired Telmex, as  Mexico ’s biggest land-line
phone company is known, in a 1990 privatization sale.    America Movil  SAB, the mobile-phone carrier controlled by
Slim, had 29.4 million mobile-phone subscribers in its unit
covering Colombia and  Panama  at the end of last year, up 3.8
percent from a year earlier. The unit’s sales jumped 10.6
percent to 1.9 trillion Colombian pesos ($1.01 billion) in the
fourth quarter as clients used their phones more for voice and  Internet access .  Wireless Company  The wireless company, Latin America’s largest, was a 2001
spinoff from Telefonos de Mexico SAB and has become Slim’s
biggest investment success. His holdings of America Movil were
worth about $49 billion at the end of last year.  The dollar has dropped 7.1 percent in the past year against
the Mexican peso. Gold has fallen 3.9 percent this year as an
equity rally, spurred by the global economic recovery, eroded
demand for an alternative investment.  Slim’s publicly traded assets were up 37 percent in 2010,
with the biggest gain coming from Grupo Carso SAB, a holding
company that was preparing a spinoff of its mining unit. Minera
Frisco SAB, which became a separate company last month, is
planning new mines in 2011 that will produce 437,577 ounces of
gold a year, more than double last year’s output.  New York Times  His worst-performing stock last year, publisher  New York
Times Co ., fell 21 percent. Slim’s publicly disclosed shares in
U.S. markets represented less than $500 million of his total
holdings, with the rest in Mexican companies.  He acquired shares of two of those companies, Bronco
Drilling and Allis-Chalmers, through his own Carso
Infraestructura y Construccion SAB, the contractor to Mexico’s
Pemex.  “We believe in all Latin America and that’s why we’re
investing,” Slim said. “The macroeconomic variables are sound,
healthy and many of the countries have raw materials that are
having good prices.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Crayton Harrison in New York at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net ;
Carlos Manuel Rodriguez in New York at 
 carlosmr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net ;
Dale Crofts at   dcrofts@bloomberg.net  