-- CBS, Turner to Show Entire NCAA Basketball Tournament Live for First Time
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2011-02-10T18:06:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-10/cbs-turner-to-show-entire-ncaa-basketball-tournament-live-for-first-time.html
  CBS Corp . and  Time Warner Inc .’s
Turner Broadcasting will televise all 67 games of the  National
Collegiate Athletic Association  men’s basketball tournament live
in their entirety for the first time in the tournament’s 73-year
history.  The two networks, which signed a 14-year, $10.8 billion
contract in April, will share broadcast, Internet and wireless
rights to the college basketball tournament. Games will be shown
on four networks -- CBS, and Turner’s TBS, TNT and truTV -- said
Christina Miller, the senior vice president of strategy,
marketing and programming for Turner Sports.  “Fans can now switch from game to game, from network to
network, to the game that interests them,” Miller said in a
telephone interview.  The new schedule will spread out the games’ starting times,
particularly in the early rounds, allowing for every game to be
seen from start to finish. In previous years, CBS grouped
starting times together so the network could switch between
contests if they were close.  “If one game’s a blowout, it’s no longer as complex to
figure out, ‘Okay, how do I get them to tune into that game or
can they only look in for five minutes?’” Miller said. “Now
fans can just change the channel and find the game.”  Miller said Turner and CBS will be in constant
communication to keep fans aware of games airing simultaneously
on other networks. The two companies will share in production,
graphics and on-air talent, including pregame, halftime and
postgame shows from studios in  New York  and Atlanta.  March 15-16  The tournament will begin on March 15-16, with truTV airing
the first four games, a new addition to this year’s event that
expands the tournament to 68 teams from 65. In the second round,
with 64 teams, games will begin as early as noon eastern and as
late as 9:55 p.m. eastern.  CBS will air 26 games and Turner will air 41 -- 16 on TBS,
12 on TNT and 13 on truTV -- the networks said in a news
release. CBS will carry the April 4 championship game for the
30th straight year, and the networks will begin alternating
broadcasting rights to the Final Four and title game starting in
2016.  Turner will also take over management of the March Madness
on Demand  website  player, Miller said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net . 