-- Chilean Peso Strengthens on Speculation of Interest-Rate Rise
-- B y   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d
-- 2011-02-10T18:15:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-10/chilean-peso-gains-as-interest-rate-speculation-offsets-copper-s-decline.html
  Chile ’s peso rose to the strongest
level in a month against the  U.S. dollar , erasing an earlier
decline, on expectations of an interest-rate rise next week.  The peso climbed 0.5 percent to 474.05 per dollar from
476.5 yesterday. It earlier slid 0.3 percent to 478.05 after the
price of copper slumped. The central bank paid an average 478.08
pesos per dollar for $50 million today, it said on its website.  The bank is buying $50 million a day to stem the peso’s
gain, having decided not to increase the pace of purchases this
month. The bank, which has raised  interest rates  more than any
other major rate-setting institution tracked by Bloomberg in the
last 12 months, will lift its benchmark rate by a quarter point
to 3.5 percent on Feb. 17, according to the median forecast of
35 economists in a central bank survey published today.  “Expectations for rate rises are growing and that’s
compensating for the decline in copper,” said Moises Junca,
chief Latin American currency strategist at Banco Bilbao Vizcaya
Argentaria SA. “That and the fact that the central bank didn’t
increase the amount of dollars it buys as had been mooted.”  The peso reached the highest since the central bank
unveiled on Jan. 3 a plan to buy an unprecedented $12 billion of
U.S. currency this year. It may keep appreciating to the
“important psychological level” of 470 per dollar, Junca said.  Economists at Banco Santander SA in  New York  recommended
investors close bets that Chile’s currency would outperform the
Colombian peso, they wrote in a client note today. The Chilean
peso gained to 3.97 Colombian pesos today from 3.84 Colombian
pesos on Jan. 28, when Santander recommended the position.  GDP, Inflation Forecasts  Economists expect Chile’s economy to grow 7.8 percent in
the first quarter of this year, according to the central bank’s
survey. They increased their inflation forecast for 2011 to 4
percent from 3.6 percent last month.  Foreign investors increased their net bet against the peso
in the forwards market to $2.1 billion on Feb. 8 from $1.7
billion on Feb.7, according to data published today by the
central bank.  Chilean breakeven inflation rates declined today as lower
fuel costs provided early evidence that the rising peso is
mitigating the higher dollar price of commodities. The peso
gained 5.2 percent in the last month, more than any other Latin
American currency tracked by Bloomberg.  Five-year breakeven inflation dropped six basis points, or
0.06 percentage point, to 3.65 percent. The two-year breakeven
inflation rate dropped 12 basis points to 4.07 percent and the
one-year fell 14 basis points to 4.08 percent. The measure
tracks interest-rate swap traders’ expectations of the average
annual inflation over a period.  Breakeven inflation “has corrected, but it’s still over 4
percent,” said Matias  Madrid , an economist at Banco Penta in
Santiago. “The peso has appreciated and that has had an
immediate impact.”  Chile’s state-owned refiner Empresa Nacional del Petroleo
was due to cut the price of gasoline it charges wholesale
distributors by 0.8 percent today, it said in an e-mailed
statement on Feb. 8.  To contact the reporter responsible on this story:
Sebastian Boyd in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 Papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  