-- Chinese Foreign Minister to Start Visit to Zimbabwe Amid Investment Hopes
-- B y   N e l s o n   G o r e   B a n y a
-- 2011-02-10T12:39:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-10/chinese-foreign-minister-to-start-zimbabwe-visit-amid-investment-hopes.html
  China ’s Foreign Minister  Yang Jiechi 
will begin a two-day visit to  Zimbabwe  as the government of the
southern African nation hopes to attract billions of dollars in
investment.  Yang will lead an 11-member delegation that arrives today
and is expected to sign economic co-operation agreements,
China’s ambassador to Zimbabwe said in a statement in the
capital, Harare.  “The visit is aimed at consolidating the friendship
between China and Zimbabwe,” said the ambassador, Xin Shunkang.
“The minister will sign various business deals during his visit
and will hold meetings with various government officials.”  Zimbabwean Economic Development Minister Tapiwa Mashakada
said on Jan. 31 that China is considering investments of $10
billion, mainly in the mining, agriculture and energy
industries, according to Reuters. The government is also
considering a $3 billion loan from China, to be repaid using
platinum reserves and income from state-controlled  diamond
mines , the weekly Zimbabwe Independent said last week.  Zimbabwe is struggling to rebuild its economy after almost
a decade of recession under President Robert Mugabe. Growth was
revived following a power-sharing agreement in 2009 between
Mugabe and former opposition leader Morgan Tsvangirai, who is
now prime minister.  Last year, Zimbabwe’s trade with China amounted to $520
million, according to the Zimbabwean Ministry of Industry and
Commerce. China has become the main purchaser of Zimbabwe’s
tobacco, which last year earned the country more than $300
million. It also has interests in the chrome and diamond mining
industries in Zimbabwe.  Yang’s visit is likely to see a raft of agreements, though
not all will produce long-term benefits, independent economist
John Robertson said.  “For any positive, long-term impact on the economy, there
has to be follow-through and implementation of whatever is
signed,” Robertson said by phone today. “We’ve seen countless
agreements being signed amid much pomp and fanfare in the past,
but nothing has materialized.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nelson Gore Banya in Harare via Johannesburg at   ngbanya@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 