-- Encana’s China Wagers Make Shares Most Expensive in 11 Years
-- B y   J e r e m y   V a n   L o o n   a n d   M a t t   W a l c o f f
-- 2011-02-10T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-10/china-wagers-make-encana-s-shares-most-expensive-in-11-years-before-deal.html
  Encana Corp . is more expensive than
it’s been in 11 years relative to earnings as Canada’s biggest
natural gas producer bets on Chinese appetite for energy with
yesterday’s $5.4 billion deal with PetroChina Co.  Encana yesterday sold a 50 percent stake in its Cutbank
Ridge gas assets to PetroChina, vindicating investors who pushed
up the shares 5.4 percent this year on expectations ventures
with Chinese competitors would shelter the Canadian company from
slumping natural gas prices.  Encana’s share gains are double those of the Standard &
Poor’s/TSX Composite Index this year and top the 2.8 percent
increase for the Canadian energy index. The rally drove Encana’s
shares to $17.42 per dollar of trailing 12-month profit on Jan.
24, the most since 1999, Bloomberg data show.  Ventures with Chinese partners “unrisk some of the
projects and get a better return on capital,” said Pierre Bernard, vice president at Industrial Alliance Fund Management,
who helps oversee about C$860 million in assets.  Encana’s push to take advantage of growing Asian demand for
gas is helping the company minimize its exposure to slumping
prices for the resource, Bernard said. The Calgary, Canada-based
company in June also signed a memorandum of understanding with
PetroChina parent China National Petroleum Corp. to produce
natural gas from shale formations in British Columbia.  Encana shares make up about 5 percent of the holdings in
Bernard’s IA Clarington Canadian Leaders Fund, which ranks fifth
among 62 large-cap Canadian equity funds over the past five
years, according to Bloomberg data. “All this makes Encana a
pretty attractive investment,” he said.  More Expensive  The rally has made Encana more expensive than competitors
such as Talisman Energy Inc and Imperial Oil Ltd., even as  gas
prices  fall.  Encana shares trade at $60.71 per dollar of forecast profit
over the next 12 months, more than twice as much as in September
and three times the valuation of the S&P/TSX Energy Index. It
has the highest forward price-to-earnings ratio among North
American companies with at least $18 billion in market value.  Encana closed yesterday at C$30.65, for a market value of
C$22.54 billion. The company’s U.S. shares rose 11 percent to
$34.08 in late trading.  Natural gas futures have declined 65 percent from their
July 2008 peak to $4.06 per million British thermal units
yesterday. According to the median forecast of analysts in
Bloomberg surveys, the fuel will remain at $4.45 in the second
quarter of this year before rebounding to $4.95 in the fourth
quarter.  Profit Estimates  Gas may trade as low as $3.50 this year as temperatures in
North America moderate and last year’s drilling activity leads
to an increase in supplies, Randy Ollenberger, an analyst at
Bank of  Montreal , said in a note to clients Jan. 6.  The average analyst estimate for Encana’s 2011 profit has
dropped to 58 cents a share excluding some items, from $2.12 a
share over the last 12 months. The company has not earned less
than 83 cents a share excluding some items since 1999.  Executives weren’t available to discuss the venture with
PetroChina, said Encana spokeswoman Carol Howes after
yesterday’s announcement.  “Many investors want exposure to serendipitous events,”
said John Herrlin, a New York-based energy-industry analyst at
Societe Generale. “People are hoping that the winter will push
up prices. But this doesn’t have anything to do with the
fundamentals.”  Shareholders  Shares of Encana, Canada’s largest natural gas producer,
are owned by 20 percent of Canadian-equity mutual funds and
three of  Canada ’s four largest pension funds, according to
Bloomberg data. The shares plunged 15 percent last year after
Encana spun off most of its oil assets into Cenovus Energy Inc.
in December 2009.  “They are making a price bet on the direction of a
commodity,” Herrlin said. “That strategy requires higher gas
prices. And this isn’t going to happen anytime soon.”  Investors may also be looking at Encana from a longer-term
perspective than analysts, said Bernard, who works for
Industrial Alliance Insurance and Financial Services Inc. in
Montreal.  “My time horizon is way over two to three years, and my
assumption is, through the next three years, natural gas will
surprise people, and Encana will benefit from it,” said
Bernard, who forecasts Encana shares soaring another 55 percent
over the next three years.  Gas Prices  The U.S. economic recovery, and the country’s attempts to
reduce reliance on imported oil, will lead to a recovery in gas
prices, Bernard said.  When gas prices recover, Encana will benefit from its early
investments in shale-gas basins such as Horn River and Montney
in western Canada and Piceance in  Colorado , said Ari Levy,
manager of the C$263 million ($263 million) TD Energy Fund at
Toronto-Dominion Bank.  Levy said the company’s assets and ability to produce at a
lower cost than its peers merit a higher price per dollar of
profit.  “It’s something that we certainly look at, but we can
explain why the multiple is where it is and how the company is
being valued,” he said. “Valuation’s an art, not a science.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeremy Van Loon in Calgary at 
 jvanloon@bloomberg.net ;
Matt Walcoff in Toronto at 
 mwalcoff1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  