-- China Vanke Says Sales to Drop `Sharply' This Month After Threefold Jump
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2011-02-10T09:35:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-10/china-vanke-says-sales-to-drop-sharply-this-month-after-threefold-jump.html
  China  Vanke Co., the country’s
biggest developer, said it expects a “sharp” drop in sales
this month after revenue in January more than tripled to a
record 20.1 billion yuan ($3 billion).  Revenue rose 221 percent last month from a year earlier,
making Vanke the nation’s first residential property developer
with monthly sales in excess of 20 billion yuan, the Shenzhen-
based company said in an e-mailed statement late yesterday. It
sold 1.65 million square meters (17.8 million square feet) of
properties in January.  Vanke’s sales came before the government extended property
curbs to ensure housing remains affordable amid soaring  home
prices . China last month raised the minimum down payment for
second-home purchases, told local governments to set price
targets on new properties and introduced taxes for residential
properties in Shanghai and Chongqing. The central bank raised  interest rates  this week for the third time since mid-October.  “Vanke has a good sales ability, while many buyers dashed
into the market ahead of the property measures,” Du Jinsong, a
Hong Kong-based property analyst at Credit Suisse Group AG, said
by phone today. “Sales will fall this month because homebuyers
held a wait-and-see position after the government policies.”  Vanke’s shares rose 2 percent to 8.18 yuan at the 3 p.m.
close on the Shenzhen stock exchange, trimming the loss in the
past year to 11 percent. The measure tracking property stocks on
the Shanghai Composite Index, which doesn’t include Vanke,
gained 1.6 percent today.  Lunar New Year  Many of Vanke’s December sales were booked in January,
boosting the figure, while February, which had the Lunar New
Year holiday, usually is a low season for property sales, said
Tan Huajie, the company’s board secretary, in the statement.
Chinese markets were closed for the holiday from Feb. 2 to 8.  “We proactively did promotions during the holidays, but
February’s sales are still likely to drop sharply from
January,” Tan said.  About 88 percent of Vanke’s apartments sold in January were
less than 144 square meters, according to the statement. Vanke
added 12 new projects in nine cities last month and entered the
smaller central city of Wuhu and the northern city of
Qinhuangdao.  Vanke’s strategy of moving into smaller Chinese cities may
drive their growth further this year, said Credit Suisse’s Du.  The company will pay close attention to the market’s
reaction to the government curbs, Tan said in the statement.  China’s property prices rose 6.4 percent in December from a
year earlier, increasing for a 19th month, the country’s
statistics bureau said Jan. 17.  --Bonnie Cao. Editors: Andreea Papuc, Tomoko Yamazaki  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bonnie Cao in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-3035 or
 bcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  