-- Christie's Firings, Pension Cuts Backed by New Jersey Voters, Poll Shows
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 2011-02-10T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-10/christie-pension-cuts-resonate-with-new-jersey-voters-poll-says.html
New Jersey’s voters back firing
workers, freezing wages and cutting pensions in a poll released
the day after  Standard & Poor’s  cut the state’s bond rating
because of underfunded retiree and health-care liabilities.  Fifty-six percent of respondents in a Quinnipiac University
poll said they support firing state employees, while almost four
out of five said they would support freezing wages. Two-thirds
said they are in favor of reducing pension payouts.  Governor  Chris Christie , a Republican who has said retiree
benefits may bankrupt the state, has called on lawmakers to undo
a 9 percent pension increase enacted in 2001, raise the  retirement age  to 65 and freeze cost-of-living increases.
Christie on Feb. 22 will introduce his second budget as
legislative budget analysts project he may face a deficit of as
much as $10.5 billion.  “As the reality of tough budgets begins to sink in -- in  New Jersey  and everywhere else -- voters are starting to get
tougher on state workers,” said  Maurice Carroll , director of
the  Quinnipiac University Polling Institute . “Furloughs and
wage freezes had won some approval in the past. Now voters
approve even layoffs and reduction in pension benefits for new
workers.”  Respondents were almost evenly split on whether they
approve of how Christie is handling education, as 47 percent
said they backed him compared with 48 percent against.  Rating Cut  The Quinnipiac survey comes a day after credit rating firm
S&P cut by one notch its ranking of New Jersey’s debt to AA-,
fourth-lowest, citing its growing pension and health-care
obligations. S&P’s downgrade means only  California , whose rating
was reduced last year, and  Illinois  have lower investment grades
than New Jersey.  In a Quinnipiac survey released yesterday, 54 percent of
voters said Christie’s first year in office was “a success”
and more than half said they approve of his job performance.  Sixty-five percent of those tallied also said they back
unpaid furloughs for state employees and 64 percent said they
would prefer cutting services to balance the budget as opposed
to tax increases. More than half, 53 percent, of voters said
they support the way Christie is handling the state budget.  The Quinnipiac poll echoed  one  from last November in which
54 percent of voters said they would support reducing the state
workforce, and in similar numbers supported wage freezes and
furloughs.  Researchers at Hamden, Connecticut-based Quinnipiac
surveyed 1,347 registered New Jersey voters from Feb. 3-7. The
poll has a margin of error of plus or minus 2.7 percentage
points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  