-- Cisco Systems Slumps as Profit Margin Falls Short of Analysts' Estimates
-- B y   J o s e p h   G a l a n t e
-- 2011-02-10T14:43:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-10/cisco-systems-slides-in-extended-trading-as-profit-margin-misses-estimates.html
  Cisco Systems Inc ., the largest
provider of networking equipment, fell the most in three months
in Nasdaq trading after a report showed higher spending on new
products eroded its fiscal second-quarter profitability.  Gross margin, the percentage of profit left after
subtracting production costs, slid to 62.4 percent in the period
that ended Jan. 29,  San Jose , California-based Cisco said
yesterday. That fell short of 63.3 percent, the average estimate
of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Cisco boosted spending on research and product development
by 19 percent, outpacing a 6 percent revenue gain. The company
was also undercut as competitors sold comparable gear at lower
prices. Chief Executive Officer  John Chambers  said new products
may take time to become as profitable as the established lineup.  “In terms of gross margins, we are going to hit a couple
bumps,” Chambers said in an interview after the results were
released. “It takes a while to come up the gross margin chain
with these new products.”  Cisco dropped $2.63, or 12 percent, to $19.41 at 9:41 a.m.  New York  time on the Nasdaq Stock Market, the biggest decline
since Nov. 11, a day after the company reported its fiscal
first-quarter earnings. The shares fell 15 percent last year.  Chambers said on a conference call with analysts that the
company will form a working group to find ways to improve
margins.  The company’s forecast for profit excluding some items this
quarter also missed analysts’ estimates. Earnings will be 35
cents to 38 cents a share, compared with the 40-cent average
prediction.  P&G Lookalike  Sales in the fiscal third quarter will rise 4 percent to 6
percent from a year earlier, the company said yesterday on the
call. That implies revenue of $10.8 billion to $11 billion.
Analysts on average estimated sales of $10.9 billion, with some
projecting as much as $11.3 billion.  Investors look to Cisco as a bellwether for the technology
industry because it dominates the market for routers and
switches, which direct  Internet traffic . Companies buy its
switches for corporate networks, while phone and Web-service
providers typically purchase Cisco’s more-expensive routers.  The company’s move into more than 30 new businesses,
including servers and consumer video, has given rivals an
opening to grab market share on its old turf, said Joanna Makris, an analyst at Mizuho Securities USA Inc.  “They’ve become the Procter & Gamble of networking,” Makris
said, referring to the world’s largest consumer-products
company, which has more than 70 brands. “The stocks that have
outperformed them have been the more focused, nimble companies.”
Makris has a “neutral” rating on the stock and doesn’t own it.  Rivals’ Inroads  The company’s broadened ambitions have let such rivals as  Juniper Networks Inc ., Hewlett-Packard Co. and Brocade
Communications Systems Inc. make inroads in switches, said  Mark McKechnie , an analyst at Gleacher & Co. in San Francisco.  Dell Inc. and Huawei Technologies Co. have also been able
to undercut Cisco on prices for certain switches and routers,
said Nikos Theodosopoulos, an analyst at UBS Securities LLC in
New York.  Cisco may also be extending better terms to its customers,
giving them longer to pay, said Mark Sue, an analyst at  RBC
Capital Markets  in New York.  “The product gross margins declined quite meaningfully,”
Sue said. “We know demand is improving, but will Cisco
capitalize on that? And will it have to resort to price cuts to
get its fair share?”  Cash For Deals  Second-quarter earnings excluding some costs were 37 cents
a share on sales of $10.4 billion, Cisco said. They compared
with analysts’ average predictions of 35 cents in profit and
$10.2 billion in revenue. Net income fell to $1.52 billion, or
27 cents a share, from $1.85 billion, or 32 cents, a year ago.  The company, which has about $40 billion in cash, plans to
issue its first dividend in the first half. Last week, it agreed
to buy Inlet Technologies for $95 million in cash, and said last
month it would purchase networking company Pari Networks for an
undisclosed price.  Juniper, the second-largest U.S. maker of networking gear,
said last month that profitability will improve this year as
customer demand boosts sales growth at a faster rate than
research and development costs. Its shares climbed 38 percent
last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Galante in  San Francisco  at 
 jgalante3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Tom Giles  at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net . 