-- Cisco’s Shares Swing as Earnings Show Consistency: Chart of Day
-- B y   D a v i d   W i l s o n
-- 2011-02-10T16:07:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-10/cisco-s-shares-swing-as-earnings-show-consistency-chart-of-the-day.html
  Cisco Systems Inc .’s stock
performance on the day after earnings reports is a crapshoot
even though the computer-networking company has consistently
exceeded analysts’ profit estimates.  The CHART OF THE DAY shows the stock’s post-earnings
percentage changes during the past six years, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The month shown at the bottom is the last
one of the fiscal quarter covered in each report. The latest
figure reflects the first half-hour of today’s trading.  Cisco traditionally reports after the close of U.S.
exchanges, as it did yesterday. The latest release showed that
earnings, excluding some items, amounted to 37 cents a share for
the fiscal second quarter ended Jan. 29.  The profit was two cents higher than the average analyst
estimate in a Bloomberg survey. Cisco’s earnings have surpassed
projections by at least 1 cent a share in each three-month
period since the fiscal third quarter of 2005.  Past earnings counted for less this time than Cisco’s
profitability and projected income. Gross margin, or earnings
after production costs, was 62.4 percent of sales. The average
estimate was 63.3 percent among analysts in a Bloomberg survey.
Cisco said third-quarter profit will be 35 cents to 38 cents a
share, lower than analysts’ average forecast of 40 cents.  Both shortfalls set the stage for Cisco’s 12th post-
earnings decline in the last 24 quarters. Analysts at five
brokerage firms -- Atlantic Equities LLP, Avondale Partners LLC,
Citigroup Inc., Piper Jaffray Cos. and Stifel Nicolaus & Co. --
lowered investment ratings on the stock after the report.  (To save a copy of the chart, click here.)  To contact the reporter on this story:  David Wilson  in New York at 
 dwilson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  