-- Clearwire Retail Retreat May Draw Sprint Investment
-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n   a n d   O l g a   K h a r i f
-- 2011-02-10T21:39:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-10/clearwire-said-to-stop-retail-expansion-keep-existing-stores-in-save-cash.html
  Clearwire Corp ., the provider of
wireless broadband services, may be able to get additional
capital from partner  Sprint Nextel Corp . with a retreat from its
retail expansion, analysts said.  Clearwire plans to stop putting money into new retail
stores to concentrate on building out its network, a person
familiar with the plans said yesterday. The company will
continue to operate its existing stores said the person, who
couldn’t be identified because the plans aren’t public.  Maintaining stores and its own brand has unnecessarily
drained Clearwire’s already short cash supplies, said Jonathan Chaplin, an analyst at Credit Suisse Holdings USA. Cutting the
stores also could persuade Sprint to contribute additional funds
to its partner, he said.  “Our sense is that Sprint was willing to invest in
Clearwire with a couple of conditions, one of them being that
Clearwire gets rid of the retail business,” said Chaplin, who
is based in  New York  and rates Clearwire “neutral.” “It’s a
huge drain on capital.”  The retail expansion has bred tension with Sprint, which
owns a majority of Clearwire stock, because it puts Clearwire
into competition with Sprint for customers, said analysts
including Sid Parakh of McAdams Wright Ragen. Sprint buys
capacity on Clearwire’s network wholesale and then sells high-
speed wireless service to consumers and businesses.  “Sprint’s preference is that Clearwire’s cash or financial
resources be used primarily for building out the network, versus
other purposes,” Dan Hesse, chief executive officer of  Overland
Park , Kansas-based Sprint, said in an interview today. “That’s
really where we want to see the money spent, building out the
best coverage in the most markets.”  Short on Cash  Susan Johnston, a Clearwire spokeswoman, declined to
comment ahead of the company’s earnings report next week.  “We’ve not announced a change in strategy,” she said.
“We’ll provide an update on the business on Feb. 17.”  Clearwire rose 20 cents, or 3.6 percent, to $5.71 at 4 p.m.
New York time on the Nasdaq Stock Market. The stock has added 11
percent this year. Sprint, the third-largest U.S. wireless
carrier behind  AT&T Inc . and  Verizon Wireless , climbed 25 cents
to $4.60 on the in New York Stock Exchange.  Clearwire has warned investors it’s short on cash, saying
it would run out by mid-year before it raised $1.325 billion in
bonds and exchangeable notes in December. The company probably
needs another $3 billion to be free  cash flow  positive by 2014,
even if it phases out its stores, Chaplin said. Cutting stores
more aggressively, ramping up the closings by the second half of
the year, could save Clearwire $1 billion, said Chaplin, who
doesn’t own shares in either company.  Clearwire said in November it would suspend retail store
openings in Denver and Miami and reduce sales and marketing
spending, as part of an effort to conserve cash.  In addition, Clearwire may be close to a deal to sell some
of its wireless spectrum to  Deutsche Telekom AG ’s T-Mobile USA
unit, two people familiar with the talks said this month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amy Thomson in New York at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net ;
Olga Kharif in Portland, Oregon, at 
 okharif@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  