-- Congressman Quits, Citing `Profound Mistakes' After Link to Craigslist Ad
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 2011-02-10T19:43:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-10/congressman-quits-citing-profound-mistakes-after-link-to-craigslist-ad.html
U.S. Representative Christopher Lee,
a  New York  Republican, resigned from the House after a report
that the married lawmaker responded to an online personal ad.  “I have made profound mistakes,” Lee said in a statement
announcing his resignation yesterday.  Lee, 46, described himself as a divorced lobbyist and a
“fit fun classy guy,” and included a shirtless photo of
himself in  his response  to a posting on Craigslist, according to
a report on the Gawker website.  “I regret the harm that my actions have caused my family,
my staff and my constituents,” Lee said. “I deeply and
sincerely apologize to them all.”  New York Governor  Andrew Cuomo , a Democrat, will decide
when a special election is to be held.  House Speaker  John Boehner  told reporters today that Lee
“made the right decision” to resign “for himself and his
family.” The Ohio Republican said he didn’t ask Lee to quit.  Lee is the second Upstate New York representative to resign
within a year. Democrat Eric Massa, 51, gave up his seat
last March. He had been under investigation by the  House Ethics
Committee  following complaints about his conduct toward his
staff.  The ethics panel announced last month that it wouldn’t
take action against Lee and six other lawmakers who raised
campaign funds around the time the House voted on overhauling
financial regulations.  Second Term  Lee first won election to the House in 2008, succeeding
Republican Representative Tom Reynolds in a district stretching
from suburban Buffalo to suburban Rochester.  Democrats had targeted the district in Lee’s first race,
though the party’s preferred candidate, Jon Powers, lost the
primary. Lee polled 55 percent even as the Democrats won three
other Republican-held U.S. House seats in New York. He was re-
elected with 74 percent in 2010.  Powers, an Iraq War veteran, didn’t rule out another run
for the seat. “I am talking with my family about all of this
and trying to make some decisions,” he said in an e-mail.  Voters in the district favored Republicans  George W. Bush 
in 2004 and  John McCain  in 2008; neither polled more than 55
percent. Democrats, including Bill Owens, have won other
Republican-leaning upstate districts.  Possible Target  “It could be a target and could be a race, depending on
who the Democrats nominate,” Democratic consultant
Glenn Totten said. “When it’s the only thing out there, a
number of things can happen.”  What could also help the Democrats is the extent to which
Cuomo decides to get involved. Cuomo polled more than 60 percent
of the vote last November in a strong Republican year. A
Democratic win in Lee’s district could help Cuomo politically,
said Alan Chartock, professor emeritus of political
communication at the  State University of New York  in  Albany .  “It shows he has clout,” Chartock said. “And therefore
it makes other politicians he has to deal with fear him.”  In a special election, state and local officials wouldn’t
have to give up their current posts to vie for the House seat,
and Republicans have a strong bench in the area. Potential
candidates include state Assemblywoman Jane Corwin, Monroe
County Executive Maggie Brooks and Erie County Republican
Chairman Nicholas Langworthy, who managed congressional
campaigns for both Reynolds and Lee.  The district may be reconfigured and merged with parts of
others when the 2012 general election is held. New York is
losing two congressional seats as a result of the 2010 census,
and state Senate Majority Leader  Dean Skelos  said this could be
one of them.  “I don’t know if it’s specifically that district, but in
the western part of the state there’s been a tremendous loss of
population so that in that whole area there probably will be a
loss of a seat,” Skelos, a Republican, said in  Manhattan  at an
appearance sponsored by Crain’s New York Business.  To contact the reporter on this story:  Jonathan D. Salant  in  Washington  at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  