-- Copper Rises as Supply May Trail Demand on Output Constraints
-- B y   Y i   T i a n
-- 2011-02-10T19:43:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-10/copper-rises-as-world-mine-output-may-fail-to-keep-pace-with-demand-gains.html
Copper rose for the first time this
week on renewed concern that the world’s mining companies will
struggle to boost output fast enough to keep pace with rising
demand in emerging markets.  The fundamentals for the metal used in wires and plumbing
remain “very positive” because of the production shortfall,
Alan Heap, a commodities analyst at Citigroup Inc., said
yesterday.  Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc ., the world’s
largest publicly traded producer, said last week that the
constrained supplies that drove prices to a record will persist
for the “foreseeable future.”  “Talk about a supply shortage in the near term is a
potential bullish catalyst,” said  Adam Klopfenstein , a senior
strategist at Lind-Waldock, a broker in Chicago.  Copper futures for March delivery rose 1.95 cents, or 0.4
percent, to settle at $4.5435 a pound as of 1 p.m. on the Comex
in New York. In the previous three sessions, the price fell 1.2
percent as China, the world’s largest metals user, raised  interest rates  to curb inflation.  “The global recovery continues to gather steam,” said  Matthew Zeman , a metals trader at LaSalle Futures Group in
Chicago. “The market has been sold off in the last few days and
is due for a bounce.”  Global demand will exceed mine output by 822,000 metric
tons in 2011, more than double last year’s shortfall,  Barclays
Capital  said on Jan. 20. JPMorgan Securities Ltd. and Macquarie
Bank Ltd. also predicted a deficit, and Australia & New Zealand
Banking Group Ltd. and Morgan Stanley have boosted their price
forecasts.  Copper has more than tripled since the end of 2008,
reaching an all-time high of $4.6375 on Feb. 7.  On the London Metal Exchange, copper for delivery in three
months advanced $15, or 0.2 percent, to $9,940 a metric ton
($4.51 a pound).  Tin also rose on the LME. Aluminum, lead, nickel and zinc
fell.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yi Tian in  New York  at 
 ytian8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  