-- Corzine Calls Most General Obligations ‘Safe’ Amid Default Talk
-- B y   E r i k   S c h a t z k e r   a n d   M a t t   R o b i n s o n
-- 2011-02-10T15:49:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-10/corzine-calls-most-general-obligations-safe-amid-states-fiscal-strains.html
  Jon Corzine , chief executive officer
of  MF Global Holdings Ltd . and the former governor of New
Jersey, said most bonds backed by municipalities’ full faith and
credit are sound even as states deal with fiscal stress.  “Most general obligation bonds are safe,” he said on
Bloomberg Television’s “InsideTrack.” People should “stop
talking about bankruptcy,” said Corzine, 64, who ran  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc . from 1994 to 1999.  Meredith Whitney, the banking analyst and chief executive
officer of  Meredith Whitney  Advisory Group, speaking Dec. 19 on
CBS Corp.’s “60 Minutes,” predicted that states’ financial
strains would spark a “spate” of defaults among municipalities
amounting to “hundreds of billions of dollars.”  Bondholders generally have priority in the repayment
system, so even if a state is defaulting on other obligations,
bondholders are repaid first, Corzine said. MF is a New York-
based futures and options broker.  In the wake of the national recession, 44 states face a
combined $125 billion of budget deficits next fiscal year,
according to a study by the Washington-based Center on Budget
and Policy Priorities, a nonprofit group focused on issues
affecting lower-income Americans.  Congress yesterday began looking at whether federal law
should let states enter  bankruptcy protection . In a hearing by a
panel of the Oversight and Government Reform Committee of the
U.S. House of Representatives, lawmakers considered how to avert
a possible rescue of state governments.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Erik Schatzker in New York at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Robinson in New York at 
 mrobinson55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  