-- Cosan Profit Declines After Sugar-Cane Shortage Added to Costs
-- B y   L u c i a   K a s s a i   a n d   K a t i a   C o r t e s
-- 2011-02-10T14:41:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-10/cosan-profit-falls-as-sugar-cane-shortage-boosts-costs-update1-.html
Cosan SA Industria & Comercio, which
controls the world’s largest sugar-cane processor with  Royal
Dutch Shell Plc , said quarterly profit plunged 83 percent after
a cane shortage boosted costs. Shares fell to a five-month low.  Net income dropped to 27.9 million reais ($16.8 million),
or 7 centavos a share, in the fiscal third quarter that ended
Dec. 31, from 167.1 million reais, or 41 centavos, a year
earlier, Cosan said late yesterday in a regulatory filing. The
result fell short of the expected profit excluding some items of
177.2 million reais, the average estimate from five analysts in
a Bloomberg survey.  A drought in  Brazil , the world’s largest sugar-cane grower,
pared output of the tropical plant, driving up prices and
trimming profit margins. Cosan said Jan. 28 that the cane
shortage forced it to spend 152 million reais to buy raw sugar
that was later refined and resold in the domestic market.  Cosan’s results were “weak,” Rodrigo Fernandes, a Banco
Fator analyst who has a “hold” rating on the stock, wrote in a
report to clients today. “We expect a better operating result
in the coming quarter as Cosan continues to benefit from high
ongoing sugar and ethanol prices.”  Cosan fell 89 centavos, or 3.6 percent, to 24 reais at
12:07 p.m. in  Sao Paulo  trading, after earlier touching 23.78
reais, the lowest since Sept. 10.  Profit Margins  Cosan’s margin on earnings before interest, tax,
depreciation and amortization fell to 8.7 percent from 12.9
percent a year earlier. Sales jumped 25 percent to 4.74 billion
reais, fueled by higher average sugar and ethanol prices. New
York-traded sugar futures have more than doubled since the end
of June.  The company plans to increase sugar output this year to
benefit from the price rally, Chief Executive Officer Marcos Lutz said today on a conference call. Cosan will boost the
portion of cane turned into sugar to above the current 55
percent, with the rest being used to produce ethanol, he said.  “Market prices are much better for sugar than ethanol,”
Lutz said. “We obviously plan to increase output of products
that bring higher profit.”  Raw sugar for March delivery rose 1.43 cents, or 4.5
percent, to 32.93 cents a pound at 9:06 a.m. on ICE Futures U.S.
in  New York .  Rebounding Margins  Cosan’s margins will probably recover in coming quarters
because of savings from its joint venture with Shell, said Auro Rozenbaum, an analyst for Bradesco Corretora. He rates the stock
“outperform.”  “There are overall positive prospects for Cosan,”
Rozenbaum wrote in a note to clients before the earnings were
released.  Cosan and The Hague-based Shell agreed in August to combine
sugar, ethanol and fuel distribution assets in Brazil. Shell
agreed to contribute as much as $1.95 billion of cash and assets
including 2,740 service stations, while Cosan put up 23 cane-
crushing mills, 1,730 gas stations and other assets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucia Kassai in Sao Paulo at 
 lkassai@bloomberg.net ;
Katia Cortes in Brasilia at 
 kcortes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  