-- Credit Suisse Reduces Profit Goal, Dividend on Capital Rules
-- B y   E l e n a   L o g u t e n k o v a   a n d   D a v i d   T w e e d
-- 2011-02-10T16:00:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-10/credit-suisse-fourth-quarter-net-misses-estimates-profitability-goal-cut.html
Brady Dougan, who guided  Credit
Suisse Group AG  through the financial crisis without a state
rescue, cut the Swiss bank’s profitability goal and dividend
after concluding stricter capital rules will constrain earnings.  The bank, based in Zurich, will now aim for a return on
equity of more than 15 percent over three to five years, down
from a previous target of more than 18 percent, it said today.
The dividend will fall to 1.30 francs a share for 2010 from 2
francs the prior year.  Credit Suisse dropped as much as 6.8 percent in Zurich
trading, the biggest decline since May, and led financial shares
lower across  Europe . Dougan, chief executive officer since 2007,
curbed risk-taking following the financial crisis, making the
bank’s performance more reliant on client trading. He said the
new profitability goal is “sustainable” in light of new Basel
III and Swiss capital rules.  The reduction is “a reflection of difficult market
conditions and increased competition and also Basel III, where
they’re not rock solid,” said  Christopher Wheeler , a London-
based analyst with Mediobanca SpA.  Credit Suisse declined 2.83 francs, or 6.3 percent, to
41.87 francs by 4:13 p.m. in Zurich, trimming the gain this year
to 11 percent. That compares with a 20 percent advance in  UBS
AG , the largest Swiss bank.  Fourth-quarter net income at Credit Suisse rose 6 percent
to 841 million francs ($876 million), less than the 928 million-
franc estimate of 18 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg, the bank
reported.  ‘Sustainable View’  A Swiss government-appointed committee in October proposed
almost doubling the capital requirements for Credit Suisse and
UBS compared with international Basel III rules that are
scheduled to come fully into force in 2019.  “We’ve obviously looked at those capital requirements,
looked at how Basel III will work through, and we’ve basically
come up with what we think is a very thoughtful but also a very
sustainable view of equity in this new environment,” Dougan
told Bloomberg Television in an interview today.  Dougan’s decision to lower the target, however, left little
reason to expect much of an pickup in the company’s performance,
after it already reported a 2010 return on equity of 14.4
percent, analysts said.  ‘Little Improvement’  “For the bulls who think that Credit Suisse is at the low
end of the cycle, they now have to face the possibility that
there could be little improvement,” said Andrew Lim and Kapilan Pillai, analysts at Matrix Corporate Capital LLP in  London , in a
note today. They estimate that Credit Suisse is lagging behind
UBS in accumulating capital.  Credit Suisse last adjusted its “mid-term” profitability
goal in February 2009, at the depth of the credit crisis,
lowering the ROE target to more than 18 percent from more than
20 percent.  Credit Suisse raised its goal for costs as a portion of
income to less than 72 percent from less than 65 percent
previously, and reduced the target for pretax margins at the
private bank and asset management units to more than 35 percent
from more than 40 percent.  “We’re actually poised to do extremely well going
forward,” Dougan said. “I think it will be proven out over
time.”  Revenue at competitors including  Goldman Sachs Group Inc .
was also held back in the fourth quarter by low client activity.  Investment Bank Slump  Pretax profit at Credit Suisse’s investment bank slumped 46
percent to 558 million francs, while earnings declined 3.9
percent to 824 million francs at the private-banking unit. Asset
management posted a 13 percent increase in earnings to 180
million francs.  Dougan, 51, has cut risk-taking at the bank’s securities
unit to make it less reliant on market swings. Credit Suisse
hired last year to expand in credit, rates and foreign-exchange
trading and gain a bigger portion of revenue.  The bank’s share of more than $146 billion in revenue from
trading and advising clients that the biggest investment banks
made in the first nine months of 2010 was 8 percent, compared
with 13 percent in 2007, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “It does not look like Credit Suisse is coming as a winner
out of the crisis,”  Kian Abouhossein , a banking analyst at
JPMorgan Chase & Co. in London, said in a note. “We think it
missed an opportunity to take market share, specifically in
fixed-income.”  Bonus Pool Cut  Credit Suisse cut its bonus pool by 25 percent for 2010,
Chief Financial Officer  David Mathers  told journalists on a
conference call today. The bank paid about 6.85 billion Swiss
francs in bonuses for 2009, meaning the bonus pool for 2010 is
about 5.14 billion francs. UBS lowered its bonus pool by 10
percent to 4.3 billion francs, including 1.55 billion francs
deferred into future years.  Credit Suisse added 120  wealth management  advisers last
year to attract more assets after pulling in 147.1 billion
francs in net new money since the beginning of 2008. UBS, the
world’s second-largest wealth manager behind Bank of America
Corp., suffered from client withdrawals until the third quarter
of last year. Credit Suisse added 9.6 billion francs in net new
money at the private bank in the fourth quarter.  Both Credit Suisse and UBS are seeing an erosion of
profitability in wealth management as an assault on Swiss
banking secrecy prompts some clients to move funds outside the
country.  The reduction in profitability targets at the private bank
are a reflection of increased regulation and stricter compliance
needs, Dougan said. “We have a state of the art compliance
structure, but that’s not cheap and is not going to get
cheaper,” he said.  Wealth Management  Credit Suisse ranks fifth worldwide in wealth management,
which typically caters to clients with at least $1 million to
invest, according to a survey by London-based Scorpio
Partnership.  Wealth management and retail banking contributed 46 percent
of pretax profit in 2010 at Credit Suisse, company reports show.
The businesses will become even more important as stricter  capital requirements  in the wake of the financial crisis make  investment banking  more costly, analysts estimate.  UBS’s chief executive, Oswald Gruebel, said two days ago
that the bank expects to attract more funds from wealthy clients
this year after recording a second straight quarterly increase.
Zurich-based UBS posted net income of 1.29 billion francs in the
fourth quarter, a 7 percent increase from a year earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elena Logutenkova in Zurich at 
 elogutenkova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  