-- Crude Oil Rises in London on Mideast Supply Disruption Concern
-- B y   R a c h e l   G r a h a m
-- 2011-02-10T11:39:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-10/crude-oil-trades-near-lowest-in-two-weeks-after-u-s-stockpiles-increase.html
Oil in London advanced a third day
amid renewed concern that unrest in  Egypt  may lead to a
disruption of supplies from the Middle East.  Brent crude rose as anti-government demonstrators planned
to escalate protests in Egypt, fueling fears that crude supplies
to  Europe  may be affected. The International Energy Agency
raised its forecast for global crude demand for a fifth month.  “Tensions in north  Africa  are keeping prices high,”  Hannes Loacker , an analyst at Raiffeisen Zentralbank
Oesterreich, said by phone from Vienna. “As long as those risks
remain, we’ll continue to see a premium.”  Brent crude for March settlement rose as much as $1.06 a
barrel to $102.88 and was at $102.30 at 11:21 a.m. on the ICE
Futures Europe exchange in London. Oil for March delivery on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  was at $86.53 a barrel, down 18
cents, after falling as low as $85.96. Brent’s premium over New
York-traded oil widened to a record of more than $16.  Hundreds of thousands of people have demonstrated in
Cairo’s Tahrir Square since Jan. 25, seeking an end to President
Hosni Mubarak’s rule. The unrest has stoked concern that crude
supplies through the Suez Canal and adjacent Suez-Mediterranean
Pipeline, which ship 3.5 percent of global oil output, may be
interrupted. More protests are planned tomorrow, dubbed a
“Friday of Defiance.”  Suez Impact  A closure of the canal would chiefly affect Saudi Arabian
and Iranian crude supplies and Indian oil-products cargoes
heading northwards, the IEA said today in its monthly Oil Market
Report. Crude shipments from Libya, Azerbaijan and  Algeria  would
be affected southwards, it said, citing tanker-tracking service
APEX. Customers suffering the biggest disruptions would be in
Spain and  China , the agency said.  Worldwide oil consumption will increase by 1.5 million
barrels a day this year, or 1.7 percent, to 89.3 million a day,
the IEA said in its report today.  The gain from last month’s estimate, amounting to 140,000
barrels a day, is driven by developing Asian nations and signs
of recovery in  North America , according to the report.  “The inescapable conclusion from our market balances is
that the physical market has tightened significantly,” the
Paris-based adviser said. “Remarkably strong oil demand ran well
ahead of global supplies” at the end of last year, it said.  Brent Premium  New York crude is lagging behind Brent after supplies at
Cushing,  Oklahoma , the delivery point for U.S. futures, rose to
a record high last month. The difference reached $16.07 today,
compared with $11.77 at the beginning of the week. It averaged
76 cents last year.  London-traded Brent may fall to less than $90 a barrel in
the short term, partly because of spare production capacity
among OPEC producers and as emerging markets growth may slow,
according to a report from Bank of America Merrill Lynch today.  “The end of the Northern Hemisphere winter is around the
corner,”  Francisco Blanch , Head of Global Commodities
Research at Bank of America Merrill Lynch, wrote in an e-mailed
reported dated yesterday. “We continue to see fast Emerging
Market Central Bank rate hikes, and high prices are starting to
create some demand destruction.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rachel Graham in  London  
 rgraham13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  