-- 
Oil Gains on Supply Concern After Mubarak Defies Call to Resign

-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 
2011-02-11T08:19:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-10/crude-oil-futures-rise-in-new-york-after-mubarak-fails-to-resign-in-speech.html
Oil rose as Egyptian President  Hosni Mubarak  defied calls for his resignation, stoking concern that
renewed turmoil may disrupt crude supplies through the North
African country.  Futures climbed as much as 1.2 percent in  New York  after
Mubarak reiterated late yesterday he intends to stay on as
president until elections in September, while handing powers to
Vice President  Omar Suleiman  in a bid to placate opponents.
Prices surged to a two-year high last month on speculation the
unrest may curb oil flows through Egypt’s Suez Canal and spread
to other oil-producing nations in the Middle East.  “The big risk is of contagion to the large oil-producing
countries like  Saudi Arabia  or Iran in the region,” said  Ben Westmore , a minerals and energy economist at National Australia
Bank Ltd. in Melbourne.  The March contract gained as much as $1.04 to $87.77 a
barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange , and was at $87.53 at 3:53 p.m. Singapore time.
Yesterday, it added 2 cents to $86.73 a barrel. Prices are down
1.7 percent this week and 16 percent higher than a year ago.  The gain in New York futures outpaced  London ’s  Brent crude ,
narrowing the spread between the contracts from a record.
Brent’s premium to West Texas Intermediate was at $14.03 a
barrel, from an all-time high of $15.11 on Feb. 9, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The gap averaged 76 cents last year.  Brent crude for March settlement climbed 68 cents, or 0.7
percent, to $101.55 a barrel on the ICE Futures Europe exchange
in London. Yesterday, it fell 95 cents, or 1 percent, to
$100.87.    Iran  1979  Protests in Egypt, inspired by the popular revolt that
ousted Tunisian President Zine El Abidine Ben Ali on Jan. 14,
sparked concern that contagion would grip a region that holds
more than 50 percent of the world’s known oil reserves.  Oil more than doubled in 1979 when the regime of Iran’s
Shah Mohammed Reza Pahlavi was toppled, slashing the nation’s
crude exports. Iran is the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries second-largest producer, after Saudi Arabia.  “What we don’t know is if this is 1979 Iran all over again
or if it’s completely different,” said  Stephen Schork ,
president of the Schork Group Inc. in Villanova, Pennsylvania.  About 3.5 percent of global crude output moves through  Egypt  via the Suez Canal and the Suez-Mediterranean Pipeline,
according to Bloomberg calculations using data from the U.S.
Energy Department.  ‘Chokepoint’  Oil in New York settled at $92.19 a barrel on Jan. 31, the
highest price since October 2008. The Suez Canal, which links
the Mediterranean and Red seas, is one of seven “world oil
transit chokepoints,” according to the U.S. Energy Department.  The International Energy Agency and OPEC said in reports
yesterday that if unrest in Egypt halts oil shipments through
the canal, flows can be diverted through the SuMed pipeline and
other export routes.  “Any further increase in risk premium due to the current
Egypt crisis is unjustifiable from a fundamental standpoint,”
Michael Lo and Cheng Khoo, Hong-Kong based analysts at Nomura
International Ltd., said in a report. “We do not see any
immediate threat to oil supply even if the Suez Canal or the
Suez-Mediterranean Pipeline are forced to halt operations.”  Crude also advanced amid signs of an improving economy in
the U.S., the world’s biggest oil user.  The number of people filing first time claims for
unemployment insurance fell to 383,000 in the week ended Feb. 4,
the lowest since July 2008, the Labor Department said yesterday.
A slowdown in firings means U.S. companies may begin creating
enough jobs to keep unemployment going down.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in  Melbourne  at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Clyde Russell at 
 crussell7@bloomberg.net  