-- Crude Oil Declines in New York Amid Concern About U.S. Demand
-- B y   R a c h e l   G r a h a m
-- 2011-02-10T13:55:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-10/crude-declines-in-new-york-brent-futures-pare-earlier-gains-in-london.html
Oil dropped in New York for a sixth
day as rising U.S. supplies signaled slowing demand in the
world’s biggest crude user. Brent crude widened its premium over  New York  oil to a record of more than $16 a barrel.  New York futures slid as much as 0.9 percent after
inventories climbed for a fourth week, the longest stretch of
gains since May, according to the U.S. Energy Department. The
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries has spare
production capacity of 5.4 million barrels a day, Bank of
America Merrill Lynch wrote in a report.  “OPEC’s spare capacity and crude inventories can’t justify
prices above $100 a barrel,” said Axel Herlinghaus, senior
commodities analyst at DZ Bank AG in  Frankfurt , which trades
Brent and WTI contracts.  Crude for March delivery on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  fell as much as 75 cents to $85.96 a barrel and was at
$86.49 at 1:02 p.m. London time. Brent for March settlement was
up 33 cents at $102.15 on London’s ICE Futures Europe exchange.  London-traded Brent futures advanced to more than $100 a
barrel for the first time since 2008 at the end of last month,
partly because of concern that unrest in  Egypt  may lead to a
disruption of supplies from the Middle East.  New York crude is lagging behind Brent after supplies at
Cushing,  Oklahoma , the delivery point for U.S. futures, rose to
a record high last month. The difference reached $16.07 today,
compared with $11.77 at the beginning of the week. It averaged
76 cents last year.  North  Africa  Premium  The disturbances in North Africa are adding a premium of
roughly $5 a barrel to crude, according to DZ Bank.  “Tensions in north Africa are keeping prices high,”  Hannes Loacker , an analyst at Raiffeisen Zentralbank
Oesterreich, said by phone from Vienna. “As long as those risks
remain, we’ll continue to see a premium.”  Hundreds of thousands of people have demonstrated in
Cairo’s Tahrir Square since Jan. 25, seeking an end to President
Hosni Mubarak’s rule. The unrest has stoked concern that crude
supplies through the Suez Canal and adjacent Suez-Mediterranean
Pipeline, which ship 3.5 percent of global oil output, may be
interrupted.    Brent crude  will fall to less than $90 a barrel in the
short term, partly because of spare production capacity among
OPEC members and slowing demand growth in emerging markets,
according to Merrill.  Curbing Demand  Rising oil prices are starting to curb demand,  Francisco Blanch , head of global commodities research at Merrill, wrote in
the report dated yesterday. That “could soon bite into
consumption” in the U.S., he said.  “The end of the Northern Hemisphere winter is around the
corner,” according to the report. “We continue to see fast
Emerging Markets Central Bank rate hikes, and high prices are
starting to create some demand destruction.”  Worldwide oil consumption will increase by 1.5 million
barrels a day this year, or 1.7 percent, to 89.3 million a day,
the  International Energy Agency  said today in its monthly Oil
Market Report. The gain from last month’s estimate amounts to
140,000 barrels a day.  “The inescapable conclusion from our market balances is
that the physical market has tightened significantly,” the
Paris-based adviser said. “Remarkably strong oil demand ran
well ahead of global supplies” at the end of 2010, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rachel Graham in  London  
 rgraham13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  