-- Record Dali, Bacon Triptych Top $150 Million Sotheby’s Auction
-- B y   S c o t t   R e y b u r n
-- 2011-02-11T00:51:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-10/dali-painting-sells-for-artist-record-21-7-million-at-sotheby-s-london.html
A record  Salvador Dali  painting and
a triptych by  Francis Bacon  last night boosted a sell-out
auction at Sotheby’s London as collectors snapped up 20th-century
art from a private collection.  The sale raised 93.5 million pounds ($150.5 million), led
by the Bacon portrait’s 23 million pounds. The Dali became the
most expensive Surrealist lot sold at auction, with its 13.5
million-pound price stirring interest in the Spanish artist and
breaking the record for his work, set 24 hours earlier at
Christie’s International.  Art buyers are continuing to invest in trophies, and this
sale was admired for its quality levels, said dealers. Sotheby’s
declined to identify the seller, who had acquired the material
from dealers and auctions from the 1960s to the 1990s. The
pieces had belonged to the Geneva collector George Kostalitz,
who died last year, said dealers with knowledge of the matter.  “Single-owner collections carry enormous cachet,’’ London-
based dealer  Offer Waterman  said in an interview. “The guy had
good taste and a lot of things made beyond expectations. The
market is good for great works.’’  Dali’s 1929 portrait of the poet Paul Eluard -- husband of
the painter’s future companion and model, Gala -- had been
valued at 3.5 million pounds to 5 million pounds. It beat the
4.1 million pounds paid on Feb. 9 at Christie’s for another work
from the 1920s, bought by the  Fundacio Gala-Salvador Dali  based
in Figueres,  Spain , where Dali was born.    Sotheby’s  painting, packed with erotic dream imagery, sold
to a telephone buyer represented by Stephane Cosman Connery, one
of the auction house’s New York-based specialists. There were
five phone bidders and one in the sale room. The 13-inch-high
(33 centimeter) piece had been bought by the collector for $2.1
million at Christie’s,  New York , in November 1989.  Eying Dali  “We will be offered a lot of Dalis after this,’’ Tobias Meyer, Sotheby’s worldwide head of contemporary art, said after
conducting the sale. “Connoisseurship and eye are keys to this
world. It’s real collectors who drive this market.’’  Though Dali’s Surrealist vision is familiar from millions
of posters, few of his sought-after early works have appeared on
the auction market in recent years.  The most highly valued work in the collection was Bacon’s
“Three Studies for a Portrait of  Lucian Freud ,” which had been
acquired by the seller from the artist’s dealer  Marlborough Fine
Art Ltd . in 1964, according to Sotheby’s.  The 14-inch (35.5 centimeter) high trio of expressively
painted heads had rarely been seen and carried an estimate of 7
million pounds to 9 million pounds. It had previously been
offered for private sale at about $25 million, dealers said.  It was bought by the Cologne-based dealer  Alex Lachmann ,
who buys for Russian clients, sitting at the front of the room
against competition from at least five telephone underbidders.  Testing Bacon  Works by Bacon, the U.K.’s most expensive artist, have been
in short supply at auctions during the last two years. In May
2008, at the height of the art-market boom,  Roman Abramovich 
paid a record $86.3 million for a 1976 “Triptych” at Sotheby’s
New York, said dealers, who regarded the performance of this
latest triptych as a boost for the Bacon market.  A 1952 self-portrait on copper by Freud sold in the room to
a U.S.-based collector, who declined to give his name, for 3.3
million pounds. It had a high estimate of 800,000 pounds.
Measuring 5 inches high, it had been acquired at Sotheby’s,
London, in March 1992 for 88,000 pounds.  The same American buyer gave 3.4 million pounds for
“Bathsheba,’’ the most expensive of a group of four Marc Chagall paintings commissioned by the collector during the 1960s
to decorate his salon. They had each been expected to sell for
between 2 million pounds and 3.5 million pounds.  Buying Gonzales  A telephone buyer paid a record 4.6 million pounds -- four
times estimate -- for the 1930  Julio Gonzales  iron sculpture
“Masque ‘Ombre et Lumiere.’’’  London-based dealer Alan Hobart, of the  Pyms Gallery , gave
4.9 million pounds for the 1961 Alberto Giacometti painting
“Portrait d’Annette,’’ valued at 2 million pounds to 3 million
pounds.  The 60-lot auction, titled “Looking Closely,’’ had been
estimated to raise 39 million pounds to 55 million pounds at
hammer prices.  The total was a record for a single-owner collection of
Impressionist and modern works at Sotheby’s in  London . Twenty-
five pieces sold for more than 1 million pounds and the average
price per lot was 1.6 million pounds.  Bidding was dominated by more than 60 auction house staff-
members on telephones. Sixty-two percent of the lots were bought
by European bidders, 35 percent by U.S. clients and 3 percent
from  Asia , said Sotheby’s.  (Scott Reyburn writes about the art market for Muse, the
arts and culture section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Scott Reyburn in London at  sreyburn@hotmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 