-- 
DBS Fourth-Quarter Profit Climbs 38% on Trading, Declining Credit Losses

-- B y   N e t t y   I s m a i l
-- 
2011-02-11T07:43:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-10/dbs-fourth-quarter-profit-climbs-38-on-trading-declining-credit-losses.html
  DBS Group Holdings Ltd ., Southeast  Asia ’s biggest bank, reported a 38 percent increase in fourth-
quarter profit as trading income tripled and allowances for
credit losses shrank.  Net income climbed to S$678 million ($530 million) from
S$493 million a year earlier, the Singapore-based bank said in a
statement to the stock exchange today. That beat the S$669
million average of eight estimates compiled by Bloomberg. The
stock fell in Singapore after outperforming the city’s benchmark
this year.  Chief Executive Officer Piyush Gupta, who joined DBS in
November 2009 after a 27-year tenure at Citigroup Inc., aims to
expand operations in China and India and build businesses that
cater to wealthy individuals as Asia’s economic expansion
outpaces the rest of the world. That’s helping bolster earnings
even as low borrowing costs in  Singapore  and Hong Kong crimp
income from lending.  “More evidence of new initiatives bearing fruit will start
to show up in the first or second quarter,” Kenneth Ng, a
Singapore-based analyst at CIMB Research Pte, wrote in a Feb. 7
report. “DBS provides both low-risk exposure to  interest rates 
creeping up at some point this year, and an equally attractive
proxy for the wealth-management business building up in
Singapore.”  The bank’s return on equity strengthened to 10.2 percent
last year from 8.4 percent in 2009, DBS said. Net income rose 28
percent to a record S$2.7 billion in 2010, excluding a one-time
goodwill impairment charge at DBS’s Hong Kong unit.  Stock Slides  DBS fell 0.8 percent to S14.70 at 3:35 p.m. on the
Singapore stock exchange, compared with a 0.6 percent decline in
the benchmark Straits Times Index. DBS had gained 3.5 percent
this year before today while the  Straits Times  slipped 2.7
percent. CIMB, which has an “outperform” rating on DBS,
expects the stock to rise to S$17, Ng said in the report.  Trading income tripled to S$164 million in the quarter,
with customer revenue accounting for a “substantial portion,”
the bank said. Net interest income, or the difference between
what DBS makes from lending and pays on deposits, fell 2 percent
from the previous quarter to S$1.11 billion.  Allowances for credit and other losses shrank 59 percent
from a year earlier to S$157 million.  Loan Margins  Total loans in Singapore grew to S$322.8 billion in
December from S$318.5 billion a month earlier, as lending to
businesses as well as building and construction increased,
according to data from the Monetary Authority of Singapore.  Gupta said today at a press conference that he expects
mortgage volumes to decline after Singapore introduced measures
to curb gains in property prices.  “We think there will be some slowdown but we think we have
the opportunity to grow in the upper segment,” he said. “The
top end is driven by cash and liquidity.”  Total loans grew 16 percent from the previous year to S$152
billion, DBS said. Growth will likely slow to the “low double
digits” this year, Gupta said.  DBS’s net interest margin, a measure of loan profitability,
narrowed to 1.79 percent from 2.02 percent a year earlier.
Singapore’s three-month interbank lending rate, or Sibor,
averaged 0.56 percent last year. The equivalent rate in  Hong
Kong , Hibor, averaged 0.25 percent.  “Overall, it’s pretty good,” said  Christopher Wong , who
helps oversee $70 billion of assets at Aberdeen Asset Management
Plc in Singapore. “The net interest margin seems to have
stabilized, there’s loan growth and the asset quality seems to
be quite good.”  Aberdeen will consider increasing its holdings in DBS “at
the right price,” Wong said.  ‘Investment Mode’  DBS’s net fee and commission income rose 5 percent from the
previous quarter to S$358 million, led by its investment banking
business, the bank said. DBS was the top arranger of share sales
in Singapore last year, helping underwrite 18 percent of the
$8.3 billion raised by companies, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Costs rose 12 percent to S$2.9 billion last year as the
bank increased staff and expanded its business, it said. The
cost-to-income ratio, which stood at 41 percent in 2010, should
“trend toward” 45 percent through this year, Gupta said.  “We see ourselves, in this couple of years at least, in
investment mode,” he said. “We are adding headcount and
technology.”    Taiwan  Business  DBS plans to convert its branch business in Taiwan this
year into a subsidiary, or a separate legal entity, allowing it
to grow its business more quickly, Gupta said. The bank is also
“quite hopeful” of doing the same in  India , where it has 12
branches, should discussions with the regulator go well, he said.  The lender plans to hire 1,500 people through this year as
it seeks to boost revenue from wealth management operations and
units serving small- and mid-sized companies, Gupta said in
November. He also plans to have 50 branches each in China, India
and  Indonesia  within three years.  In private banking, which serves clients with at least
S$1.5 million in disposable wealth, DBS aims for “double-
digit” percentage growth in new assets annually from emerging
markets over the next few years, the bank said last year. DBS
plans to increase its managed assets to $50 billion from $35
billion in three years, it said.  In Hong Kong, where the bank bought Dao Heng Bank Group for
$5.4 billion in 2001, profit fell 24 percent from the previous
quarter to S$144 million as non-interest income declined and
expenses rose, DBS said.  DBS said in December it will take over Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc’s retail and commercial banking businesses in
China. RBS will transfer close to 25,000 clients in Shanghai,
Beijing and Shenzhen to DBS China, it said then. DBS didn’t
spend any money on the deal, said Melvin Teo, chief executive
officer of DBS  China .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Netty Ismail in Singapore 
 nismail3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  