-- Deutsche Telekom Is Re-Entering Germany's Cable Television Business
-- B y   R a g n h i l d   K j e t l a n d
-- 2011-02-10T14:18:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-10/deutsche-telekom-is-re-entering-germany-s-cable-television-business.html
  Deutsche Telekom AG ,  Europe ’s
largest phone company, is re-entering the German cable
television market in “a tactical move,” Marc Sauser, a
spokesman, said in a telephone interview today.  “We want to throw a wrench in the works of the cable
companies,” Sauser said. “We’re a newcomer and will be the
smallest player in this market.”  The company, which disposed of all its cable assets at the
beginning of the last decade, has since seen cable companies
entering its telecommunications market with Internet and
telephony offerings in addition to TV. Deutsche Telekom is
looking to make deals with German housing associations, of which
there are 4,000 to 5,000. They control TV feeds for about 10
million households. It won’t sell directly to end-customers.  There are no plans to sell triple-play products that
include broadband and phone over cable, Sauser said. Depending
on which region they are in, customers will be able to receive
between 25 and 30 channels through the Deutsche Telekom cable.
Customers can also choose Sky Deutschland AG’s pay-TV channels.  So far, Deutsche Telekom has contracts with “some”
housing associations, and pilot projects have been running since
last year. Sauser said the company will evaluate each new
potential agreement and lay cable to supply the TV feed if it is
necessary and financially viable. He declined to say how much
the company has invested in the business.    Germany ’s three largest cable operators are Kabel
Deutschland AG,  Liberty Global Inc .’s Unitymedia and Kabel
Baden-Wuerttemberg GmBH & Co KG.  Deutsche Telekom already has a television offering with its
Internet Protocol TV business Entertain, which is transmitted
over broadband connections and has 1.2 million customers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ragnhild Kjetland in Frankfurt at 
 rkjetland@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at   vroot@bloomberg.net  