-- Deutsche Boerse Deal With NYSE Signals Wave of M&A
-- B y   W h i t n e y   K i s l i n g
-- 2011-02-10T21:08:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-10/deutsche-boerse-deal-with-nyse-may-signal-second-wave-of-market-mergers.html
The biggest day ever for mergers of
securities exchanges triggered rallies in shares of operators
from New York to Sydney and Sao Paulo as derivatives overtake
stock trading as the drivers of growth.    Nasdaq OMX Group Inc .,  IntercontinentalExchange Inc .,  CBOE
Holdings Inc . and  BM&FBovespa SA  -- all of which run derivatives
platforms for futures or options -- rallied as much as 6.7
percent yesterday. The gains followed  Deutsche Boerse AG ’s
announcement that it’s in talks to buy NYSE, valued at almost
$10 billion, and  London Stock Exchange Group Plc ’s $3.1 billion
bid for  TMX Group Inc .  While the combinations will create markets that control
trading in companies worth more than $20 trillion, or about 36
percent of the world’s stock-market value, what may prove more
lucrative is ownership of growing venues for trading options,
futures and derivatives whose profit margins are 57 percent more
than equities at  NYSE Euronext .  “We haven’t seen the endgame,” said James Angel, a
professor at Georgetown University in  Washington . “The margins
in futures are juicier than in equities because of the
clearing,” he said. “The profitability of equities is squeezed
because it’s kind of a dogfight with competitors.”  Shares Rally  The merger of NYSE Euronext, owner of the New York Stock
Exchange, NYSE Liffe and NYSE Arca Options, and Deutsche Boerse,
which runs  Europe ’s largest securities exchange, would create a
company that controls 11 derivatives markets, according to the
Futures Industry Association. Deutsche Boerse of  Frankfurt  also
has a stake in Eurex AG, which owns the International Securities
Exchange. NYSE shares surged 14 percent yesterday, the most
since December 2008, before falling 0.8 percent today. Deutsche
Boerse rallied 4.6 percent today.  The new organization’s market share of futures trading
would top the proportion at  CME Group Inc ., the product of the
$9.6 billion merger of the Chicago Mercantile Exchange and the
Chicago Board of Trade that rose 0.5 percent yesterday. The
merger would combine three of the nine U.S. options exchanges to
surpass the Chicago Board Options Exchange as the nation’s
largest market for the derivatives.  Nasdaq OMX surged 6.7 percent yesterday, the most since May
2009 for the New York-based firm. IntercontinentalExchange, the
world’s largest credit swap clearinghouse, climbed 4.2 percent.
The company, also known as ICE, is based in Atlanta. CBOE
rallied 4.3 percent, its sixth straight advance. Sao Paulo-based
BM&FBovespa, which owns Latin America’s biggest securities
exchange, rose 3.6 percent.    Hong Kong , Singapore  In  Asia , Hong Kong Exchanges & Clearing Ltd. said it’s open
to mergers, and its shares fell 1.7 percent yesterday and 4.9
percent today for the biggest two-day drop since May 2009. ASX
Ltd. rose 4.7 percent today, the most since Singapore Exchange
Ltd. agreed to buy the Sydney-based operator of  Australia ’s
exchanges for A$8.35 billion ($8.42 billion) in October.  Lee Underwood, a spokesman for ICE, as well as CBOE’s Gail Osten,  Nasdaq ’s Silvia Davi, BM&FBovespa’s Alcides Ferreira and
CME Group’s Michael Shore declined to comment on speculation
that there will be more industry mergers. Atsushi Saito,
president of Tokyo Stock Exchange Group Inc., said today the
operator of Japan’s No. 1 bourse is open to mergers if good
opportunities arise, reversing the private company’s stance from
November against alliances.  Profit growth for exchanges is being driven by derivatives,
after increased regulation reduced operating margins for stocks
at NYSE Euronext to 35 percent, compared with 55 percent for the
contracts whose value is linked to an underlying asset.  Higher Profit  ICE is earning higher pretax profit margins by guaranteeing
credit-default swaps, insurance policies linked to the
creditworthiness of corporations and governments, with its
clearinghouse than banks make by selling fixed-income securities
and equities to institutional investors, the company reported
yesterday. Clearing is when a processor guarantees payment for
transactions and ensures delivery of securities.  While stocks can be traded across platforms, futures are
cleared by only that exchange’s clearinghouse. That means once a
venue lists a contract, it remains the only one that offers it.
Deutsche Boerse owns Clearstream, Europe’s second-biggest
securities settlement company, as well as Eurex Clearing AG,
which clears equities, derivatives, repo and fixed income.
Clearstream handled a record 10.6 million settlement
transactions in December, up 23 percent from a year before.  ‘Tremendous’ Growth  Derivatives have been one of the fastest-growing revenue
units for exchanges, as  stock trading  slumped amid more
competition from alternative trading venues started in the past
decade. NYSE Euronext’s equity-trading sales fell 10 percent in
2010, while the options and futures unit gained 14 percent. At
Nasdaq, derivatives revenue grew 30 percent in the fourth
quarter, more than any other area.  “Growth in derivatives is tremendous,” said Jon Najarian,
the co-founder of OptionMonster.com, who owns shares of NYSE,
CBOE and CME.  The Chicago Board Options Exchange had the biggest share of
U.S. options in 2010, according to Options Clearing Corp. data.
The options exchange may entice bidders because of its exclusive
license to trade contracts linked to the VIX, as the CBOE
Volatility Index is known, and to the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index, Najarian said.  Nasdaq OMX, Hong Kong Exchanges & Clearing or BM&FBovespa
may consider buying CBOE to expand their market share, according
to Thomas Caldwell, chief executive officer of Caldwell
Securities Ltd. in Toronto, which, with its affiliates, oversees
about C$1 billion ($1 billion), including Deutsche Boerse, NYSE,
CBOE, LSE and TMX shares.  Interest-Rate Futures  CME, the owner of the world’s largest futures market,
controls 98 percent of U.S. futures trading, including contracts
on the  S&P 500 , and has been growing per-share profit every
quarter since the three months ended March 31, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  In 2007, the Chicago Merc merged with the Chicago Board of
Trade, creating CME Group, and offered trading in short-term and
long-term interest-rate futures. The tie up of Deutsche Boerse
and NYSE Euronext would do the same thing for European interest-
rate futures, said Rich Repetto, an analyst at Sandler O’Neill &
Partners LP in  New York .  “One question is, what will the CME do?” said Angel, the
finance professor at Georgetown. The company may merge “to
protect their home turf,” he said.  ‘What price?’  For Nasdaq, an acquisition is probably necessary to compete
with Deutsche Boerse and NYSE, said Sang Lee, co-founder and
managing partner at research firm Aite Group LLC in Boston. In
2008, the New York-based exchange operator bought Stockholm-
based OMX AB, Europe’s fifth-largest stock exchange, after two
failed attempts to acquire LSE. In April, the exchange announced
plans to shutter its euro pan-European alternative trading
system, which it had introduced in 2008.  “I do see synergies if they merge with someone, but it all
comes down to what price,” said Jeff Middleswart, based in
Dallas, who said he owns about 30,000 Nasdaq and 18,000 NYSE
shares.  Both deals this week should help the companies reduce
expenses, with the Deutsche Boerse deal saving 300 million euros
($411 million), according to yesterday’s release. Deutsche
Boerse plans to standardize on NYSE Euronext’s cash equities
trading system, a person familiar with the matter said
yesterday.  ‘Scale Business’  “The exchange business is a scale business,” said Justin Schack, managing director in charge of market structure analysis
at Rosenblatt Securities Inc. “You have technology
infrastructure to process transactions, so the more transactions
you can process the better. And by acquiring another exchange
group and running them all on a single technology platform, you
can generate significant cost savings.”  BM&FBovespa is ideal for an acquirer because of its
derivatives trading, Lee and Najarian said. Trading of interest
rate futures helped lift the average daily volume at the
company’s BM&F segment by 71 percent in the third quarter from a
year earlier, according to a BM&FBovespa statement. Volume at
Bovespa, where stocks trade, rose 13 percent in the same period.
The company increased net income by 50 percent in 2010,
according to the average analyst estimate compiled by Bloomberg.    Brazil  is such an active marketplace and they are already
an active exporter because they have such big grain exposure and
so forth,” Najarian said. “They’ve got a hold and they’re
doing really well.”  Partners  The company also partners with other exchanges, including
holding a 5 percent stake in CME and agreements with Nasdaq OMX
and Chile’s Bolsa de Comercio de Santiago. That should set the
company up for an easier merger with other exchanges, Lee said.  The Colombia and Peru stock exchanges on Jan. 19 announced
a plan to combine operations. Bolsa de Valores de Colombia, or
BVC, will own 64 percent of the new company and Bolsa de Valores
de Lima, or BVL, will own the rest. The merger, which seeks to
boost trading and cut costs, will be the first international
merger of Latin American bourses and will create the fourth-
biggest market in Latin America after Brazil, Mexico and Chile.  “Exchanges are struggling to a certain degree to try to
figure out how to grow,” Lee said. “If they want to continue
to try to evolve, consolidation is the way to go.” The
announcement of the deal between London-based LSE and TMX of
Toronto may have “triggered a second wave.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney Kisling in New York at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  