-- Diageo Sales Miss Analysts' Estimates as European Revenue Drops on Economy
-- B y   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 2011-02-10T08:15:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-10/diageo-sales-fall-short-of-analysts-estimates-as-european-revenue-drops.html
  Diageo Plc , the world’s biggest
distiller, reported first-half revenue and profit that missed
analysts’ estimates as growth in developing markets failed to
offset declines in European countries including Ireland and
Greece.  Organic sales, which exclude the effect of acquisitions and
currency swings, gained 4 percent, the London-based company said
in a statement. That missed the 4.5 percent median estimate of
11 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News. So-called organic
operating profit rose 2 percent, missing a 6.5 percent median
estimate.  Europe was “a bit more challenging than we had
anticipated,” in the second quarter, Chief Financial Officer
Deirdre Mahlan said on a conference call today. Sales fell 3
percent in the region, led by  Greece , Ireland and the Iberian
countries. Diageo is concentrating on growth in emerging
markets, where economies are expanding and consumers are
spending and drinking more, to offset the impact of sluggish,
heavily competitive markets in the U.S. and Europe  The stock dropped as much as 56 pence, or 4.5 percent, to
1197 pence and traded at 1204 pence as of 8:08 a.m. in London.
The intraday decline is the biggest since Oct. 14, 2009. The
stock has added 1.6 percent this year, giving it a market
capitalization of 30.1 billion pounds ($48.4 billion).  Net income advanced to 1.19 billion pounds in the period
ended Dec. 31, missing a 1.24 billion-pound average estimate of
8 analysts.  “Despite the economic weakness in much of  Europe , our
first-half performance gives me increased confidence that we
will improve on the organic operating profit growth we delivered
in fiscal 2010,” Chief Executive Officer Paul Walsh said in the
statement  European Conditions  Economic conditions in Europe, where governments are
imposing austerity programs and consumers are reining in
spending, hurt sales, Diageo said. In the U.K., higher growth in
wine and lower prices for spirits hit profitability, though
sales advanced 1 percent overall. Beer in Europe dropped 4
percent, led by declines of Guinness sales in Ireland.  Sales at the North American unit returned to growth in the
first half after consumers bought fewer products and traded down
to cheaper drinks last year. Organic sales in the region rose 3
percent, beating the 2.5 percent increase estimated by analysts,
aided by sales of Diageo’s Ciroc vodka and Crown Royal Canadian
whiskey. While the company cut its promotional activity, helping
it raise prices, it led to a loss of market share in many
categories.  Diageo “feels really good” about North American trends,
Mahlan said. “We don’t want to declare victory; the economic
conditions are still fragile.” The company aims to spend more
on marketing its brands rather than cutting prices, she said.  Diageo increased its marketing spending by 10 percent, with
35 percent of the increase behind its “strategic brands,”
which include  Johnnie Walker  and Smirnoff vodka in the U.S.
Diageo will focus 60 percent of its spending in “faster-growing
emerging markets.”  Growth Opportunity  Diageo aims to add businesses where growth is the fastest,
though Mahlan didn’t rule out acquisitions in developed markets.
The company is looking to buy “where we believe we can acquire
businesses that can improve our routes to market or fill in gaps
in the portfolio,” she said.  The company would look at Fortune Brands Inc.’ spirits unit
if it became available, she said. There are brands at the
business, which makes Jim Beam, that Diageo would be interested
in, she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clementine Fletcher in  London  
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 