-- Diamonds, Breguet Watches Boost Hong Kong Lunar New Year Sales
-- B y   F i o n   L i
-- 2011-02-10T08:28:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-10/diamonds-breguet-watches-boost-hong-kong-lunar-new-year-sales-to-chinese.html
Chinese tourists visiting Hong Kong
in record numbers over the Lunar New Year holidays splurged on
diamonds, cosmetics and watches, boosting retailers’ sales.    Chow Sang Sang Holdings International Ltd .’s revenue
climbed 17 percent during the first week of the Lunar New Year
and the 12 days leading up to it, according to Dennis Lau, the
jeweler’s director of sales operations.  Greater  China  will be the world’s biggest market for high-
end products in a decade, growing 21 percent a year on average,
according to Aaron Fischer, a Hong Kong-based analyst at CLSA
Ltd. That growth is a boon for Hong Kong, a favored destination
for Chinese shoppers, where  tax-free   luxury goods  cost 30
percent less on average and the risk of counterfeit products is
low, Fischer said.  “Per-capita spending on watches in Hong Kong is off the
charts,” Fischer said in a briefing today. While the Chinese
have been big buyers of luxury goods for several years, “growth
seems to be accelerating,” he said.  Visitor  arrivals  to the former British colony from mainland
China during the country’s Feb. 2-8 holiday period reached a
record 663,000, surpassing last year’s 570,000, according to
data from the Hong Kong Immigration Department.  That helped retailers like Chow Sang Sang, where the
biggest-ticket item sold during the period was a HK$300,000
($38,500) diamond bought by a customer from mainland China, Lau
said in a phone interview.  Breguet Watches  “Our sales representatives at the Rolex and Tudor boutique
in Tsim Sha Tsui were so busy with customers that they had no
breaks at all,” said Anna Luk,  Emperor Watch & Jewellery Ltd .’s
investor relations manager. LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA,
the world’s biggest luxury goods maker, owns a 7.4 percent  stake 
in Emperor, whose market value more than doubled last year.  Breguet  watches selling for more than HK$1 million were
among the items snapped up by mainland Chinese, Luk said.
Emperor, which has more than doubled in market value in the past
year, fell 3.6 percent to close at HK$1.08 in Hong Kong trading.  Hong Kong, a southern Chinese city with a population of
about 7 million, is the biggest market for Swiss watchmakers as
retailers sell the timepieces to visitors from across the
border.  About 20 percent of last year’s 16.2 billion Swiss francs
worth of watch exports from  Switzerland  were to Hong Kong, or
about double the share of the U.S., according to data from the
Federation of the Swiss Watch Industry. Sales in mainland China
-- which doesn’t include Hong Kong, Macau or  Taiwan  -- accounted
for another 7 percent.  ‘Wealth and Success’  “Chinese consumers love watches and jewelry for their
intrinsic value, and accessories are great vehicles to display
wealth and success,” CLSA analysts Fischer and Mariana Kou said
in a research report last month. “Some 24 percent of people we
surveyed that earn around 41,976 yuan ($6,400) per year said
they would be willing to spend more than 50,000 yuan on a
watch.”    Sa Sa International Holdings Ltd ., a Hong Kong-based
cosmetics and skin-care products retailer, increased sales more
than 10 percent from last year’s holiday period.  Sa Sa fell 4.9 percent in Hong Kong trading, trimming its
gain over the past year to 64 percent. Chow Sang Sang declined
2.4 percent and has climbed 83 percent over the past 12 months.  Retailers in the city are also benefiting as China’s
currency strengthens against the  Hong Kong dollar , increasing
the purchasing power of visitors from the mainland. The yuan has
gained 3.9 percent against Hong Kong’s currency in the past
year.  Dior, Estee Lauder  A housewife from mainland China who only identified herself
by her last name, Huang, said she planned to spend HK$100,000
during a two-day visit to Hong Kong.  “It’s much cheaper to buy in Hong Kong as the yuan is
stronger,” she said, holding a shopping bag filled with
Christian Dior clothes and Estee Lauder cosmetics as she walked
around the Tsim Sha Tsui tourist district on Feb. 7. “I have
spent HK$30,000 today so far.”  About 10 percent of global luxury goods sales are made in
greater China, and the sector will be the fastest-growing
consumer category over the next five years, Fischer and Kou said
in their report. Including sales to Chinese tourists abroad
would raise that number to 15 percent, they said.  “Given rising incomes and supportive social factors, we
expect greater Chinese customers to account for 44 percent of
global luxury sales by 2020,” the analysts wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fion Li in  Hong Kong  at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net ;
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  