-- Dish Jumps After Credit Suisse Says AT&T May Bid for Satellite-TV Company
-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 2011-02-10T21:22:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-10/dish-shares-jump-after-credit-suisse-says-at-t-may-make-a-bid.html
  Dish Network Corp ., the second-
largest U.S. satellite-television provider, rose the most in
almost a year after Credit Suisse Group AG said  AT&T Inc . may
make a bid to buy the company.  AT&T may be interested in Dish’s wireless-spectrum assets,
Jonathan Chaplin, a Credit Suisse analyst in  New York , said in a
note today. The assets make Dish an appealing buyout candidate
to any phone carrier because consumers increasingly want video
and broadband from the same provider, he said in an interview.  The purchase would let AT&T add customers and increase
their loyalty, Chaplin said. AT&T is trying to expand its  U-
verse  TV and Internet service to boost sales as customers
abandon home-phone lines and wireless competition intensifies.  “What AT&T believes, I think, is if you bundle Dish and
AT&T wireless on a national basis, that would reduce churn for
all products and potentially drive penetration,” said Chaplin,
who has an “outperform” rating on the shares.  Dish, based in Englewood,  Colorado , gained $1.31, or 5.9
percent, to $23.49 at 4 p.m. New York time in Nasdaq Stock
Market trading, the largest one-day gain since March 1. The
shares have gained 31 percent in the past 12 months.  Dish declined to comment on the note, according to
spokesman Marc Lumpkin. AT&T declined to comment, said Brad
Burns, a spokesman.  Verizon,  DirecTV   AT&T Chief Executive Officer Randall Stephenson told the
Financial Times in July there was “industrial logic” to the
company acquiring Dish rival DirecTV, although he said he
suspected regulators would block a transaction.  Now that the Federal Communications Commission has approved
new regulations governing Internet-service providers, AT&T may
understand regulators’ thinking better, making it more likely to
buy a satellite-TV provider, Chaplin said.  Dish, meanwhile, may want to combine with a faster, so-
called fourth-generation network that AT&T is rolling out, he
said. This month, Dish agreed to buy DBSD North America Inc. out
of bankruptcy for about $1 billion to add wireless spectrum.  AT&T has announced or completed 42 deals in the past 10
years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. There have been
849 satellite, telecom, cable and satellite-TV deals globally in
the same period. The average disclosed premium on those deals
was about 26 percent, which would value Dish at about $28 a
share, based on yesterday’s closing price.  AT&T has boosted earnings growth and stock performance
after making substantial acquisitions in the past, according to
Chaplin, including buying Cingular Wireless, the old AT&T Corp.,
and BellSouth Corp.  If AT&T were to purchase Dish, rival  Verizon Communications
Inc . could make a bid for DirecTV, although the New York-based
company doesn’t have to make a deal as urgently as AT&T, Chaplin
said.  “We always felt like if one of the companies bought
DirecTV, the other one would buy Dish,” Chaplin said.  Bob Varettoni, a Verizon spokesman, declined to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  