-- Disney’s Buzz Lightyear Battles Sharks in Hong Kong Park Contest
-- B y   W e n d y   L e u n g   a n d   B i l l y   C h a n
-- 2011-02-10T16:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-10/disney-s-buzz-lightyear-battles-sharks-in-hong-kong-park-contest.html
For 15 minutes, 11-year-old Lily Li
stared through a glass panel at hammerhead sharks and bluefin
tuna in Hong Kong’s newest attraction, Aqua City.  “It’s like a dream,” said Li, from China’s Guangdong
province, who crowded with her mother and about 50 others at the
window, the width of a basketball court, on the packed Jan. 27
opening day.  The egg-shaped building, with nightly water shows, is part
of a HK$5.5 billion ($707 million) redevelopment by government-
owned  Ocean Park  to profit from a jump in mainland Chinese
visitors. The revamp adds pressure on  Walt Disney Co .’s Hong
Kong Disneyland, which has trailed Ocean Park since its 2005
opening, has yet to make a profit, and is spending HK$3.6
billion on its own expansion, including “Toy Story Land.”  “Home-grown theme parks like Ocean Park have proven that
they can compete with a big global corporation like Disney,”
said  Jonathan Galaviz , managing director of Galaviz & Co., a
tourism industry economist. “As consumer disposal income
increases in Asia, the first place that Asian consumers will
spend that money on is travel, tourism, and fun experiences.”  The tussle between Hong Kong Disneyland, which lost $92
million last year, and Ocean Park underscores the importance of
tourism in Asia, with countries and cities including  Singapore 
and  Thailand  getting as much as 16 percent of gross domestic
product from visitors, according to an October report by HSBC
Holdings Plc.  Hong Kong , known for its dim sum restaurants and
luxury brand shops, tops the list of the 14 places HSBC surveyed.  Tickets Sold Out  Ocean Park sold all its admission tickets for Feb. 5 to
Feb. 7, with attendances during the Chinese New Year holidays,
started last week, up as much as 50 percent from a year ago,
spokeswoman Una Lau said. Disneyland’s two hotels were almost
fully-booked and attendances rose almost 10 percent for the
period, spokesman B.C. Lo said, declining to give specific
figures.  Mainland Chinese tourists, the only group of visitors to
increase spending in Hong Kong between 2008 and 2009, are
expected to more than  double global spending  to $110 billion by
2015, according to HSBC. The Chinese made about 54 million
outbound visits last year, the official Xinhua News Agency said
on Jan. 11, citing the nation’s tourism academy. That’s more
than the number of people living in  South Korea  or  Spain .  “We’re doing a lot of pre-arrival promotions” in China,
Andrew Kam, managing director of Hong Kong Disneyland said in an
interview. “We need to make sure they must come when they are
in Hong Kong.”  Narrow Losses  The park, which cut its annual loss to HK$718 million from
HK$1.3 billion a  year earlier , is marketing in secondary Chinese
cities including Jiangsu, Ningbo, Wenzhou and Shaoxing, Kam said.
It may soon introduce a HK$450 multi-day pass for Guangdong
visitors, he said.    Walt Disney ’s profit in the three months ended Jan. 1
jumped 54 percent to $1.3 billion on higher theme-park
attendance and advertising sales growth at ESPN. The parks in
Paris and Hong Kong saw higher spending, the company said Feb. 8,
without providing specific numbers.  “Mainland arrivals spend huge sums of money on shopping,
and they are the big drivers for Hong Kong retail sales,” said
Paul Tang, a Hong Kong-based economist at Bank of East  Asia  Ltd.,
“Chinese spending will not come down but keep going up.”  Chinese visitors to Hong Kong jumped 26.3 percent last year.  Record Visitors  Attendances at Disneyland rose 13 percent to 5.2 million
for the fiscal year ended Oct. 2, with mainland visitors
increasing 32 percent, according to the company. That’s behind
the record 5.4 million paid visitors last year at 34-year old
Ocean Park, which houses pandas An An and Jia Jia.  “Ocean Park has grown even in the midst of all other
developments,” Chief Executive Officer Tom Mehrmann said in an
interview. In 2004, there were 15 theme parks in Asia excluding  India , and by last year there were 35, he said. He expects
visitors from China to rise as much as 15 percent this year.  “Every city is working hard on promoting their tourism,”
said Joseph Tung, executive director of Hong Kong’s Travel
Industry Council. “Fierce competition is unavoidable.”    Genting Singapore Plc  opened its  Universal Studios theme
park  last year, with attractions based on the Jurassic Park
movies and science-fiction television series Battlestar
Galactica.  “Fifty million Chinese traveled abroad last year, so they
can easily fly to Singapore, the U.S. or other markets that are
fun,” said  Shaun Rein , Shanghai-based managing director of
China Market Research Group.    Shanghai  Competition  Walt Disney and state-owned Shanghai Shendi Group Co. plan
to jointly open the first Disneyland Park in China in Shanghai.
The Shanghai government is spending 40 billion yuan on
infrastructure for the park, expected to open in 2015, in the
city’s Pudong area, according to the Shanghai Daily.  “We’ll probably go to Shanghai Disneyland instead of
coming to Hong Kong in the future because the commute from
Beijing is shorter,” said Zhang Wensheng, 40, who went to the
Hong Kong park for the first time last week with his six-year-
old son. “I heard the park in Shanghai will be much bigger in
size too.”  Hong Kong Disneyland , 47-percent owned by Burbank,
California-based Walt Disney, will fight back later this year
with the unveiling of “Toy Story Land,” based on the exploits
of toy spaceman Buzz Lightyear and his cowboy friend Woody. The
latest film in the series was nominated for an Academy Award for
Best Picture. Disney is hiring musician Danny Elfman to compose
music for another attraction “Mystic Point,” which along with
“Grizzly Gulch” will be ready by 2014.  Too Few Rides  The expansion may address tourist complaints that the
smallest of the  Disney theme parks  needs more rides, said  China 
Market Research’s Rein. Hong Kong Disneyland has fewer hotel
rooms than counterparts in Paris and Tokyo.  “Disneyland seems a bit small and it feels like a waste of
time,” said Ge Lin, 36, a visitor from Guizhou who prefers
Ocean Park because of the pandas and marine attractions.  Disneyland’s Kam said the expansions will help. The park is
also planning to lure more visitors from other parts of Asia
with an Indian restaurant and looking at introducing Halal food
to cater to Muslims, he said.  For now, he’s relying on Chinese tourists like Susan Liu,
who bought her family of four to Hong Kong from China for the
first time last month. They stayed in Disneyland’s hotel,
spending 7,000 yuan ($1,063) as the children acquired Mickey
Mouse bags full of princess outfits and toy cars.  “We came here because of Disney,” said Liu, 33, as she
watched her 8-year old daughter dash around in a Tinkerbell
dress.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Wendy Leung in Hong Kong at 
 wleung12@bloomberg.net ;
Billy Chan in Hong Kong at 
 bchan101@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net  