-- Dong Opens $966-Million Gas Power Plant in Britain
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   A i r l i e
-- 2011-02-10T13:08:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-10/dong-inducts-966-million-natural-gas-power-plant-in-britain.html
Dong Energy A/S, Denmark’s biggest
utility, inaugurated its first power station in the U.K. today,
a plant fueled by natural gas.  The Severn Power station at Uskmouth in south  Wales  can
generate 824 megawatts, enough to supply 1.5 million homes, Dong
said in a statement. The company budgeted 600 million pounds
($966 million) to build the facility.  “The Severn Power station represents an important landmark
development for us,” Anders Eldrup, Dong’s chief executive
officer, said in the statement. “With the U.K. facing a
potential future energy gap in the next 10 years, gas-fired
generation will become more and more important.”  The U.K government wants to reshape the electricity market
to attract new investors, as about a third of Britain’s aging
fossil-fueled and atomic power stations are due to close over
the next decade. Britain has pledged to slash its carbon-dioxide
emissions to 80 percent below 1990 levels by 2020. The nation’s
power market is dominated by six major producers:  Centrica Plc ,  Scottish & Southern Energy Plc , E.ON AG,  RWE AG , Iberdrola’s
Scottish Power and Electricite de France.  Eldrup told journalists today it was “nice” to have a
plant to handle the future gas streams from Dong fields near the
Shetland Islands of northern Scotland.  Dong bought the Severn project, built by Siemens AG, from
the closely held Welsh Power Group Ltd. in 2009. Construction of
the plant began in 2007, and it started operating in November of
last year. The plant has a thermal efficiency of 58 percent.  The Danish utility also has 30 percent of the U.K.’s
offshore wind market, according to the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catherine Airlie in  London  at 
 cairlie@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net . 