-- Tea Party Lawmakers Find Conference a Meal Ticket to Raise Campaign Funds
-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 2011-02-10T05:00:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-10/tea-party-freshmen-find-conference-a-meal-ticket-to-raise-funds.html
When Utah Republican  Mike Lee  came
to the Conservative Political Action Conference last year, the
Senate candidate was at the forefront of a Tea Party movement
that  he said  was “ready for a change” in Washington.  A year later, now-Senator Lee will be the guest of honor
at a $250-a-head fundraiser sponsored by corporate lobbyists,
including for  Microsoft Corp . Tonight’s event, scheduled for
the opening day of this year’s three-day conference in
Washington, is intended to help pay Lee’s campaign debt.  Other Republicans, including almost one-fifth of the
party’s 87 new House members, have planned fundraisers during
the annual gathering of party leaders, lobbyists and activists,
according to data collected by the  Sunlight Foundation , which
tracks such events. After vowing to change Congress’s special-
interest culture during their insurgent campaigns, many
Republican members are embracing  Washington ’s ways.  “There’s just been fundraisers every week since Congress
came into session,” said Bill Allison, editorial director at
the Washington-based Sunlight Foundation. “A lot of members
did say they were coming to Washington to change it. It’s very
hard to change it when you are sitting down with the kinds of
lobbyists who are interested in keeping the status quo.”  As the party prepares to challenge President  Barack Obama 
in 2012, more than 10,000 activists are expected to attend the
conference, which has become an early proving ground for
Republican presidential candidates. Among the potential
contenders planning to speak are former governors Tim Pawlenty
of Minnesota and Mitt Romney of  Massachusetts , Indiana Governor
Mitch Daniels and Mississippi Governor  Haley Barbour .  ‘No Way Inconsistent’  Former governors Sarah Palin of Alaska and Mike Huckabee
of Arkansas won’t attend, citing scheduling conflicts.  Coinciding with the conference, dozens of Republican
lawmakers will be raising money in Washington, according to
Sunlight. The fundraisers kicked off yesterday morning, as
activists made their way to the capital for the event, which
goes until Feb. 12.  Lee, 39, who’s speaking at the conference tomorrow
afternoon, said the fundraisers are in “no way inconsistent”
with CPAC or the Tea Party movement, a loose-knit coalition of
activists who want to rein in federal government power.  “No one that I’m aware of has said that once someone who
believes in the need to change Washington gets to Washington
that they shouldn’t do what they can to make sure that their
campaign assets are adequately funded,” he said in an
interview.  Corporate Sponsors  His fundraising event is sponsored by Microsoft lobbyist
 Frank Cavaliere  and  Bryan Cunningham , a lobbyist who Senate
records show has represented companies such as  Verizon
Communications Inc .,  Southern Co . and  AT&T Inc . Neither
returned calls for comment. The invitation requests a minimum
contribution of $250.  Lee, whose victory over incumbent Utah Senator Bob Bennett
in a Republican state convention last year was among the first
demonstrations of Tea Party power, said he plans to talk about
“a failure to recognize the limits on what the federal
government can and should do.”  Freshman Representative Kristi Noem, a rancher from South
Dakota who also won her seat with Tea Party backing, was
scheduled to host a lunch yesterday at Sonoma, a Capitol Hill
restaurant. She’s speaking at the conference today. Noem
couldn’t be reached for comment.  Representative  Tim Scott , a South Carolina freshman who
hosted a $500-a-person event last night at Sonoma, said it was
“not connected” to the conference.  “Having fundraisers is what we do in office,” Scott said
in an interview.  ‘Scotch & Cigars’  Freshman Representatives Dan Benishek of  Michigan , Tom Reed of New York and Austin Scott of Georgia invited donors for
“Scotch & Cigars” tonight at the Marriott Wardman Park Hotel,
where the CPAC conference is also being held. The entrance fee,
which goes as high as $5,000 for a political action committee
to be a “patron,” entitles attendees to a “selection of
whiskey, wine and cigars as well as good conversation with
fellow conservatives.”  Also tonight, the National Rifle Association is hosting a
“Laser Shoot-Out & Hard Times Chili” for Texas Representative
Michael McCaul at the group’s Washington offices.  Not everyone is planning to raise funds. Pawlenty is
opting to hold a free meet-and-greet happy hour tonight at a
Washington bar.  Last year,  Marco Rubio , then a Republican candidate for
the  U.S. Senate  from Florida, spoke at the conference, and
attended a fundraiser. Now a senator, Rubio turned down an
invitation to speak, citing several events in his state.  Protest Over Gays  South Carolina Senator  Jim DeMint , a Republican founder of
the Senate Tea Party caucus, is also skipping the conference to
show support for some socially conservative organizations that
are boycotting the event.  Several groups, including the Family Research Council,
Concerned Women for America, and the  Heritage Foundation , have
refused to participate because GOProud, a group that represents
gay Republicans and opposes a federal ban on gay marriage, is
participating in the conference.  “FRC has chosen not to partner with a ‘conservative’
event that places the protection of marriage on the same plane
as redefining it,” the Family Research Council said in a
statement.  Major Platform  Still, CPAC remains a platform for potential candidates to
introduce themselves to activists at the event and voters
watching on C-Span.  The conference culminates in a presidential straw poll,
which has rarely predicted the winner of the primary campaign
even as it draws much of the attention. Last year, Texas
Representative  Ron Paul  won. Arizona Senator  John McCain 
skipped the conference in 2007, the year before he became the
Republican nominee.  Among other potential presidential contenders joining
Pawlenty, Romney, Barbour and Daniels in addressing the crowd
will be former Pennsylvania Senator Rick Santorum and  South
Dakota  Senator John Thune.  Several newly elected members of Congress will also speak,
along with Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell.  “It’s a self-selected audience of conservative activists,
so it’s a good way for someone to reach that audience and see
if they can click,” said conference organizer David Keene,
chairman of the  American Conservative Union .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Lerer in Washington at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Mark Silva  in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 