-- Lebanese Canadian Bank Linked to Drugs, Terror Group
-- B y   J u s t i n   B l u m
-- 2011-02-10T17:30:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-10/lebanese-canadian-bank-linked-by-u-s-treasury-to-drugs-terror-group.html
The Lebanese Canadian Bank SAL
facilitated  money laundering  by an international drug-
trafficking network and has ties to the terrorist organization
Hezbollah, according to the U.S.  The  Beirut , Lebanon-based bank, through management
complicity and failure of its internal controls, has been used
“extensively” by people associated with the network to move as
much as $200 million a month in proceeds from illicit drug
deals, according to a Treasury Department  statement  today. The
department filed a notice proposing banning U.S. financial
institutions from opening or maintaining certain accounts for
the closely held bank, known as LCB.  The U.S. today designated the bank as being of “primary
money laundering concern,” bringing its conduct to the
attention of the financial community and limiting its ability to
be used for criminal purposes, according to the Treasury
Department.  The U.S. is seeking “to protect the U.S. financial system
from the illicit proceeds flowing through LCB and to deprive
this international narcotics trafficking and money laundering
network of its preferred access point into the formal financial
system,” said  Stuart Levey , the Treasury Department’s
undersecretary for terrorism and financial intelligence, at a
news conference in  Washington .  Bank Chairman Georges Zard Abou Jaoude didn’t immediately
return a call to his office seeking comment.  $5 Billion in Assets  The bank, which had assets of more than $5 billion in 2009,
maintains correspondent accounts with banks worldwide, including
in the U.S., according to the Treasury Department. Correspondent
accounts opened at American banks are used by financial
institutions in other countries to gain access to the U.S.
banking system and conduct transactions in dollars.  Ayman Joumaa, a “drug kingpin,” along with his Lebanon-
based network and other individuals, have used LCB to launder
narcotics proceeds, according to the Treasury Department.
Hezbollah, designated as a terrorist organization by the U.S.,
received financial support from Joumaa’s network and bank
managers are linked to officials of the terror group, according
to the department.  The network moves drugs from  South America  to  Europe  and
the Middle East via West Africa and other locations, according
to the Treasury Department. The money is laundered through LCB
and through used car dealerships in the  United States , according
to the Treasury Department.  Joumaa’s alleged network has been under investigation for
several years by the Drug Enforcement Administration, said Rusty Payne, an agency spokesman.  The bank has 35 branches in Lebanon and an office in  Montreal , according to the U.S. The bank was a subsidiary of the  Royal Bank of Canada  Middle East from 1968 to 1988, according to
the Treasury Department statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Justin Blum in Washington at 
 jblum4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  