-- ECB Said to Buy Five-Year Portuguese Bonds After Yields Advance to Record
-- B y   K e i t h   J e n k i n s   a n d   P a u l   D o b s o n
-- 2011-02-10T15:06:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-10/ecb-said-to-buy-five-year-portuguese-bonds-after-yields-advance-to-record.html
The  European Central Bank  bought
Portuguese  government bonds , driving 10-year yields down from
the most since 1999, according to three people with knowledge of
the transactions.  The central bank bought Portuguese debt maturing in five
years, two of the people said, declining to be identified
because the deals are confidential. An ECB spokesman in  Frankfurt  didn’t comment.  Portuguese bonds rebounded from earlier losses, with the
10-year yield falling three basis points to 7.33 percent as of
1:42 p.m. in London. The yield reached 7.64 percent earlier, the
most since the introduction of the euro in 1999, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  The ECB, which buys bonds via its Securities Market
Program, didn’t purchase debt in the two weeks through Feb. 4,
according to data from the central bank.  The Frankfurt-based central bank has bought 76.5 billion
euros ($104 billion) of securities since the program started in
May. It neutralizes the additional liquidity through weekly
seven-day term deposits.  ECB officials are pressing governments to take more
responsibility for solving  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis, which
has already forced a bailout of Greece and Ireland. ECB council
members  Juergen Stark  and Athanasios Orphanides have said the
440-billion euro European Financial Stability Facility could be
empowered to buy government bonds, rendering the ECB’s program
unnecessary.  “The ECB is keen to step away from their SMP purchase,”
said Eric Wand, an interest-rate strategist at Lloyds Bank
Corporate Markets in London. “It’s clear that they’re trying to
shift that emphasis onto the EFSF and the governments. The
market was trying to see where the ECB’s interest lies and if it
was still there.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Keith Jenkins in London at 
 Kjenkins3@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Dobson in  London  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  