-- ECB Says Interest Rates Are `Still' Appropriate, Price Risks May Increase
-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w   a n d   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 2011-02-10T09:00:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-10/ecb-says-interest-rates-are-still-appropriate-price-risks-may-increase.html
The  European Central Bank  signaled
there’s no immediate need to raise interest rates even with
inflation seen holding above its limit for most of the year.  “The current key ECB interest rates still remain
appropriate,” the Frankfurt-based central bank said in its
monthly bulletin published today, echoing President  Jean-Claude Trichet ’s Feb. 3 policy statement. Inflation risks “could move
to the upside” and warrant “very close monitoring.”  Euro-area inflation accelerated to 2.4 percent last month
after energy and food costs surged. The ECB, which tries to keep
annual price gains just below 2 percent, has signaled concern
about faster inflation feeding into wage demands. Economists
forecast the bank to start raising borrowing costs from the
fourth quarter, a Bloomberg survey shows.  “We continue to see evidence of short-term upward pressure
on overall inflation, mainly owing to energy and commodity
prices,” the ECB said. “Inflation rates could temporarily
increase further and are likely to stay slightly above 2 percent
for most of 2011, before moderating again around the turn of the
year.”  In its latest quarterly survey of professional forecasters
included in today’s report, the ECB said economists predict
inflation of 1.9 percent in 2011, compared with a previous
projection of 1.5 percent. They predict 1.8 percent for 2012,
compared with 1.6 percent before.  The bank in December forecast inflation will average about
1.8 percent this year and 1.5 percent in 2012. It will publish
new projections next month.  Second-Round Effects  Trichet last week tempered investor expectations for higher
ECB rates after his change in tone on inflation caused a five-
cent surge in the euro at the beginning of the year. ECB Vice
President  Vitor Constancio  said on Feb. 4 he’s “satisfied”
with the market reaction to the policy statements.  Political tensions in  Egypt  are stoking  oil prices  just as
German workers are demanding higher wages.  Volkswagen AG ,  Germany ’s biggest automotive employer, this week agreed to give
100,000 western German workers a 3.2 percent pay raise to avert
strikes at times of record orders.  “We regard it as decisive, absolutely essential, that
there are no second-round effects,” Trichet said last week.
“We have no way of correcting the immediate increases in oil
and commodity prices ourselves, but we have the responsibility
of avoiding second-round effects.”  ECB Executive Board member Jose Manuel Gonzalez-Paramo told  Spain ’s ABC newspaper in an interview published on Feb. 6 that
policy makers will have to increase  interest rates  if inflation
doesn’t slow by the end of the year.  Risks to the economic outlook are “still slightly tilted
to the downside, while uncertainty remains elevated,” the ECB
said. Professional forecasters see growth of 1.6 percent in
2011, up from a previous prediction of 1.5 percent, and
maintained their projection of 1.7 percent growth in 2012.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net ;
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  