-- Hedge Funds Trailed Stock Indexes in January, Eurekahedge Says
-- B y   T o m o k o   Y a m a z a k i
-- 2011-02-10T00:39:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-10/hedge-fund-returns-trailed-stocks-in-january-on-losses-in-emerging-markets.html
  Hedge funds  worldwide were little
changed in January, returning 0.01 percent and underperforming
global equities as losses in some emerging markets limited gains,
according to  Eurekahedge Pte .  Last month’s return follows a 10.9 percent gain in the
Eurekahedge Hedge Fund Index, which tracks more than 2,600 funds
worldwide, in 2010, the Singapore-based data provider said in an
e-mailed report. The index rose 2.9 percent in December. More
than 30 hedge funds started in January, the firm said, without
elaborating.  Hedge funds had a seventh consecutive month of positive
returns, helped by better-than-expected earnings, a stronger
outlook for the  U.S. economy  and easing concerns over the
European sovereign crisis, Eurekahedge said. Last month’s gain
compares with a 2.2 percent advance by the MSCI World Index.  Japan led the increase, with the Eurekahedge Japan Hedge
Fund Index returning 1.4 percent as managers leveraged on a
stronger yen and earnings that beat estimates, outperforming the
Nikkei 225 Stock Average’s 0.1 percent advance, the report said.  North American funds gained 0.7 percent, while European
managers returned 0.1 percent, it said. The Eurekahedge Asia ex-
Japan Index climbed 0.2 percent.  By contrast, the index tracking Latin American funds
declined 0.4 percent as the region’s stocks slid, it said. The
MSCI EM Latin American Index lost 4.6 percent last month.  By strategy, managers investing in fixed income were the
best performers, returning 2.5 percent as yields rose, the
report said.  The report was based on 34 percent of the funds that have
announced January results, Eurekahedge said. It plans to release
a full version later this month.  Hedge funds are mostly private pools of capital whose
managers participate substantially in the profits from their
speculation on whether the price of assets will rise or fall.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tomoko Yamazaki in Tokyo at 
 tyamazaki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  