-- Teenage Suicide Bomber Kills 27 Recruits at Pakistan Army Training Center
-- B y   F a r h a n   S h a r i f   a n d   A n w a r   S h a k i r
-- 2011-02-10T08:35:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-10/teenage-suicide-bomber-kills-20-recruits-at-pakistan-army-training-center.html
A teenage suicide bomber dressed in
a school uniform blew himself up inside a  Pakistani  army
training center in the northwest town of Mardan, killing 27
recruits taking part in morning exercises.  Another 42 soldiers were injured when the boy triggered
explosives stashed inside his school bag, Zeeshan Raza, a senior
police official in Mardan, said in a phone interview. The center
was used by trainees of the Punjab Regiment, the army’s biggest,
the military said in a text message to reporters today.  Today’s attack was among the deadliest of scores of
bombings to strike Pakistan’s army since Islamic militant groups
began targeting it following military offensives against the  Taliban movement  from 2004. Mardan and the surrounding region of
northwestern Pakistan are heavily dotted with key security bases,
which have been attacked more than a half-dozen times.  The city’s Punjab Regimental Center, which was hit today,
lost at least four soldiers among 11 people killed in May 2008,
when a suicide bomber blew himself up at one of its gates. A
young bomber killed about 40 Pakistani army recruits training at
Dargai, north of Mardan, in November 2006.  Hundreds of civilians and security officials have died in
retaliatory bomb and gunfire attacks across Pakistan since the
army stepped up its campaign against the Taliban, sending
thousands of troops into the tribal region of South Waziristan,
near the  Afghanistan  border.  Battered Economy  Terrorist strikes are hampering the government’s efforts to
attract foreign investment and revive the economy battered by
the nation’s worst monsoon flooding last year.  Pakistan ’s $167
billion economy may expand 3 percent in the year through June,
slower than the original target of 4.5 percent, the central bank
said on Feb. 2.  Four bombs exploded yesterday near police offices in
Gujranwala, an industrial town in the central province of Punjab.
There were no casualties.  Mardan, 115 kilometers (70 miles) northwest of the capital,
Islamabad, became a military center under British rule in the
1800s. It lies within 30 kilometers (20 miles) of Swat and
Bajaur, two Taliban other strongholds from which the army ousted
the main guerrilla forces in offensives during 2009.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Farhan Sharif in Karachi at 
 fsharif2@bloomberg.net ;
Anwar Shakir  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Naween Mangi at 
 nmangi1@bloomberg.net  