-- Meet Motorola’s Mighty Morphin’ Laptop-Phone: Rich Jaroslovsky
-- B y   R i c h   J a r o s l o v s k y
-- 2011-02-10T21:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-10/meet-motorola-s-mighty-morphin-laptop-phone-duo-tech-by-rich-jaroslovsky.html
I wrote part of this column on a
telephone. No, really. Well, sort of.  The phone in question is the new Atrix 4G from Motorola
Mobility Holdings Inc., for which  AT&T Inc . will begin taking
orders on Sunday. To be honest, I didn’t actually do any writing
on the Atrix’s four-inch touchscreen. Instead, I used the new
Motorola Laptop Dock, which converts the phone, Transformers-
style, into the brain of a netbook computer.  These are challenging times for AT&T, which this week lost
its role as the exclusive U.S. source for  Apple Inc .’s iPhone
and needs to generate some buzz to counter the iPhone’s arrival
on archrival Verizon Wireless’s network.  While the Atrix is no iPhone-killer, it does deserve a
little buzz. Yes, it’s on the costly side, it’s kind of geeky
and its audience may be a bit narrow -- after all, how many
people really need a new phone and a new computer at exactly the
same time? -- but it’s also innovative and, with a few
exceptions, well-designed.  What makes the Atrix plausible as a netbook replacement is
the growing power being packed into smartphones. Many of the
phone’s specifications, including a dual-core processor and a
gigabyte of memory, aren’t out of place in an inexpensive
laptop.  Betting on Android  The Atrix, which costs $199.99 with a two-year AT&T
contract, is of a piece with the quality handsets Motorola has
been producing since it bet its future on  Google Inc .’s Android
operating system two years ago. It includes a 5-megapixel rear
camera with dual LED flash that’s also capable of shooting high-
resolution video, a front-facing camera to allow video calling,
and even a fingerprint reader. Unlike the iPhone, it will
display content that uses  Adobe Systems Inc .’s Flash technology.  The Atrix is, in other words, a very nice smartphone. But
there are lots of very nice smartphones these days. What sets
this one apart is the laptop dock. AT&T is selling it in a
bundle including the phone for $499.99 after a $100 rebate; it
requires an extra $20-a-month data-tethering plan that also lets
the phone share its Internet connection via Wi-Fi with other
nearby devices.  The dock consists of an 11.6-inch screen, a near-full-sized
keyboard, a large trackpad, two mouse buttons and two USB ports.
It weighs less than three pounds with the phone and is quite
useless without it.  Coming to Life  To activate the dock, you plug the Atrix into a cradle that
folds out from behind the screen. Immediately, the laptop comes
to life. A replica of the phone’s screen gives you access to all
its functions and apps. You can also surf the Web with Mozilla
Corp.’s  Firefox  browser, while a rudimentary file manager lets
you locate and navigate through information on the phone as if
it were a PC.  The dock provides you with a number of productivity
options. The phone itself comes preloaded with  QuickOffice , an
app that lets you create or open Microsoft Office-compatible
files. You can also use Firefox to access  Google Docs  or
Microsoft’s  Office Web Apps , which offer word processing,
spreadsheet and other software that runs in the cloud -- on
distant Internet servers -- rather than locally on your own
device.  In practice, you probably won’t want to write the Great
American Novel on the  Atrix  dock. Among other things, printing
from it is easiest if you have a wireless printer, which not
everyone does. Still, it works very well for tweaking a
presentation or memo, surfing the Web or updating your Facebook
status.  Emergency Jolt  The dock has its own battery and will recharge the Atrix
even if it isn’t plugged into the wall. So if you manage to
exhaust the phone’s battery -- Motorola claims nine hours of
talk time -- you can pop it in for an emergency jolt.  The principal drawbacks I encountered centered around how
you can, or can’t, use the phone while it’s docked. Making or
receiving calls automatically puts the Atrix into speaker-phone
mode, with the sound coming out of the dock’s stereo speakers.
While incoming calls were clear, they were also quiet, even with
the volume turned up as high as it would go.  Moreover, callers consistently complained that I sounded
muffled and distant unless I closed the laptop. In addition,
because the screen blocks the phone and the dock has no camera,
you can’t use it for video calls.  Besides the laptop dock, Motorola is also offering a
$189.99 entertainment kit that provides a wireless keyboard and
mouse, remote control and multimedia dock that lets you toss the
phone’s contents onto your big-screen TV.  Some people, I suspect, won’t see much advantage in all
this expandability. In particular, the $500 price on the laptop
dock if you buy it separately from the phone makes little sense
when the same amount of money can net you a more-than-adequate
laptop that comes with its own brain and doesn’t have to borrow
your phone’s.  Still, as smartphones grow ever more powerful and
ubiquitous, expect to see more blurring of distinctions among
mobile devices. The Atrix is clearly at the forefront of the
trend.    Rich Jaroslovsky  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Rich Jaroslovsky in  San Francisco  at 
 rjaroslovsky@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net . 