-- Egyptian Economy Will Need Help Following Unrest, El-Erian Says: Tom Keene
-- B y   C h a r l e s   M e a d   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 2011-02-10T18:27:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-10/egyptian-economy-will-need-help-following-unrest-el-erian-says-tom-keene.html
  Egypt  will need help restarting its
economy once the nation’s political situation begins to
stabilize, said Mohamed El-Erian, chief executive officer at
Pacific Investment Management Co.  “The one thing I worry about is a certain amount of
capital outflow, especially when the stock market is reopened,”
El-Erian, who’s also co-chief investment officer, said in a
telephone interview on “Surveillance Midday” with Tom Keene.  Egyptian President  Hosni Mubarak  may announce today whether
he will step down as the army discusses measures “to safeguard
the interests” of the country after more than two weeks of
protests demanding his ouster. Mubarak will decide “within
hours” whether to resign, Cabinet spokesman Magdi Rady said in
a telephone interview today. He will give an evening address
from the presidential palace in Cairo, state television said.  The world’s central banks should support Egypt with swap
lines to defend against investors removing money from the
country once markets resume trading on Feb. 13, El-Erian said.
Egypt’s $36 billion in reserves should allow the county to make
a transition to new leadership without crippling the economy,
El-Erian said from  London .  Egypt, with a population of about 80 million, saw its
economy grow 6.2 percent in the last quarter of 2010, compared
with 5.5 percent in the previous three months. The government
has said it needs growth of at least 7 percent to create enough
jobs every year.  El-Erian, born in New York, spent much of his youth in
Egypt and Europe, becoming fluent in Arabic, English and French.
His father was a lawyer and diplomat who represented Egypt at
the United Nations in  New York  and was an ambassador to France
and Switzerland.  Pimco, based in  Newport Beach , California, is the world’s
biggest manager of bond funds and oversees more than $1 trillion
in assets.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Charles Mead in New York at 
 cmead8@bloomberg.net ;  Tom Keene  in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  