-- Egyptian Party Pulls Out of Talks After Threat of Army Role
-- B y   M a r a m   M a z e n ,   A l a a   S h a h i n e   a n d   M a r i a m   F a m
-- 2011-02-10T13:48:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-10/egypt-says-new-constitution-months-off-as-u-s-criticizes-protest-response.html
  Egypt ’s Tagammu party said it has
withdrawn from talks with the government on the country’s
political future following comments from the foreign minister
that the army may intervene to avert chaos.  “We cannot continue this dialogue,” the party spokesman,
Nabil Zaki, said today in a telephone interview. “We cannot
engage in a dialogue under this kind of threat. The regime did
not respond to even the minimum level of popular demands.”
Tagammu has five of the 508 seats in parliament, and is one of
the few opposition groups allowed to take part in elections.  Egypt paid the highest yield in more than two years on its
six-month treasury bills today, with the average yield rising 30
basis points to about 11.8 percent.  Foreign Minister Ahmed Aboul Gheit’s comments on the army
came after the Obama administration criticized President  Hosni Mubarak ’s government for not sufficiently addressing the demands
of protesters seeking an end to his three-decade rule. White
House press secretary  Robert Gibbs  said Egypt has yet to reach
the “minimum threshold” of accommodating demands of the
country’s citizens.  Aboul Gheit said the army may protect Egypt from having
“adventure-seeking people” take power. “The armed forces
would be forced to defend the constitution” and “forced to
defend Egypt’s national security,” he told Al Arabiya
television in an interview aired early today. “Therefore we
will find ourselves in a very dangerous situation.”  Muslim Brotherhood  Vice President  Omar Suleiman  two days ago said negotiations
he has opened with opposition groups including the  Muslim
Brotherhood  are the only alternative to the “chaos” of regime
change. He said the talks “are the first way to achieve
stability in the country and to get out of the current crisis
peacefully.”  The Brotherhood, which is banned from a role in Egyptian
politics, is the largest group involved in the discussions.  Hundreds of thousands of people have demonstrated in
Cairo’s  Tahrir  Square since Jan. 25 seeking an end to Mubarak’s
rule in a movement that has spread through other Arab countries.
The protests have upset plans to cut the deficit, sent bond
yields to a two-year high and are likely to hurt economic
growth.  Protests yesterday were smaller after tens of thousands
gathered the day before in Tahrir Square. Another major
gathering is scheduled for tomorrow, dubbed by protesters as a
“Friday of Defiance.”  Constitutional Changes  Gheit also told  Al Arabiya  it will take four months to
change the country’s constitution.  “It will be four months until June, and in June, we open
the way for presidential elections after the constitution is
amended,” he said. Mubarak, 82, has said he won’t run again
after his sixth term ends in September.  President  Barack Obama  stressed the need for an “orderly
transition” to a new Egyptian government in a phone call with  King Abdullah  of  Saudi Arabia , Gibbs said in an e-mailed
statement.  Authorities must make “immediate and irreversible
progress” toward a transition of power and expand the scope of
negotiations, Gibbs said yesterday at the White House.  Mubarak’s refusal to quit immediately has created “an
impasse,” Shadi Hamid, director of research at the  Brookings
Institution ’s Doha Center, said yesterday in an interview from
Cairo on Bloomberg Television’s “InBusiness.”  “The protesters aren’t going to back down, but it seems
the Mubarak regime isn’t going to back down either, so we have a
problem,” Hamid said.  Talks Opposed  Many in the anti-government camp oppose the talks started
by Suleiman, who has promised steps within a month toward a new
constitution and free elections.  Egypt’s bonds and credit default swaps have pared losses
since negotiations began. The yield on the 5.75 percent dollar
bond maturing in April 2020 gained 6 basis points, or 0.06
percentage point, to 6.65 percent at 12:49 p.m. in Cairo, the
highest since reaching a record 7.21 percent on Jan. 31,
according to Bloomberg composite prices.    Central Bank   The central bank stepped in to buy Egyptian pounds two days
ago, halting the currency’s slide. The pound was little changed
today at 5.8888 to the dollar. The stock market is due to reopen
on Feb. 13 and banks including  Citigroup Inc . are restoring
services.  Egypt’s inflation accelerated in January to the highest
level in three months as rising food prices, a key cause of the
protests, add pressure on the central bank to raise  interest
rates . Inflation in urban areas, the rate that the central bank
monitors, rose to 10.8 percent from 10.3 percent in December,
the government said today. Annual food price inflation
accelerated to 18.9 percent from 17.2 percent.  Egypt is the world’s biggest wheat importer. The  United
Nations  warned yesterday that global wheat harvests may trail
demand for a second year, spurring hoarding and further price
increases. The March-delivery wheat contract advanced yesterday
to $8.9325 a bushel, the highest price since August 2008. It may
climb to $9.13 this year, a Bloomberg survey in December showed.  Suleiman said the country’s economic growth, which relies
on tourism and foreign investment, may slow to 3.4 percent in
the current fiscal year, from 5.1 percent. The government was
predicting 6 percent growth before the political crisis.  The unrest in Egypt followed a revolt in  Tunisia  that
toppled President Zine El Abidine Ben Ali on Jan. 14. Jordan,
Algeria and Yemen have also had anti-government protests in
recent weeks.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maram Mazen in Cairo at 
 mmazen@bloomberg.net ;
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net ;
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 