-- Egypt Bill Yields Rise at Auction as Growth May Slow
-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e   a n d   C a m i l l a   H a l l
-- 2011-02-10T15:00:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-10/egypt-treasury-bill-yields-climb-to-two-year-high-monday-sale-cancelled.html
  Egypt , rocked by the worst political
turmoil in three decades, paid the highest yield in more than
two years on its six-month treasury bills today as it struggles
to finance a  budget deficit  and rebuild its economy.  The Ministry of Finance raised 3.5 billion Egyptian pounds
($595 million) at the auction. The average yield rose 30 basis
points to 11.78 percent, the highest since January 2009, from
11.5 percent at the sale on Feb. 7. The ministry said earlier
today it had scrapped plans to raise 4.5 billion pounds in bonds
next week and decided to increase its offering of treasury bills
by the same amount.  “The auction fared reasonably well in the wake of the
ongoing turmoil in Egypt,” said Dubai-based Rawad Hakme co-
manager of fixed income allocation for the Middle East and North
Africa at EFG-Hermes U.A.E. Ltd. “While funding cost clearly
increased, it did so only marginally owing to the significant
supply coming to the market.”  Unprecedented protests to unseat President  Hosni Mubarak ,
in power since 1981, have led to the death of about 300 people,
according to United Nations estimates. The  finance ministry  said
the economy is likely to miss its growth target of about 6
percent in the current fiscal year ending in June and the budget
deficit may “deviate” from its target of 7.9 percent of gross
domestic product.  The ministry plans to sell a combined 6.5 billion pounds of
91-day bills and 266-day bills on Feb. 13, according to central
bank data on Bloomberg. That brings the total sale today and
early next week to 10 billion pounds. It had initially planned
to sell 5.5 billion pounds in bills.  Currency Intervention  “Because of current events, we have canceled the Monday
issuance of bonds,” Samy Khallaf, adviser to Finance Minister
Samir Radwan for public debt management, said in an interview
from Cairo today. He declined to elaborate.  Demonstrations aimed at ending Mubarak’s rule pushed the
yields on local Treasury bills to the highest level in two years
and weakened the currency. The central bank’s purchases of
pounds this week has helped  currency markets  return to an
“orderly” state, Deputy Central Bank Governor Hisham Ramez
said yesterday.  The Egyptian pound strengthened from a six-year low this
week after the central bank intervened to slow declines. The
currency was little changed at 5.8805 against the  U.S. dollar  as
of 4:55 p.m. in Cairo.  Rising Yields  The yield on the 5.75 percent dollar bond maturing in April
2020 advanced 9.6 basis points to 6.69 percent, the highest
since Jan. 31, according to Bloomberg composite prices. The cost
of insuring the nation’s sovereign debt rose for a second day,
with credit-default swaps increasing 5 basis points to 360,
according to CMA prices. Egypt’s stock exchange shut Jan. 27
after losing 16 percent that week as protests intensified.  Protests that began Jan. 25, inspired by an uprising that
ousted Tunisian President Zine El Abidine Ben Ali on Jan. 14,
have left about 300 people dead, according to United Nations
estimates. Egypt’s foreign minister Ahmed Aboul Gheit said in
comments to Al Arabiya television aired this morning that it
will take four months to change the country’s constitution after
the administration of U.S. President  Barack Obama  criticized
Mubarak’s government for not sufficiently addressing the demands
of protesters.  Opposition leaders, including  Mohamed ElBaradei , the former
head of the U.N. nuclear agency, want the constitution changed
to ease rules that make it hard for independent candidates to
run for president.  Raising Funds  Spending may push Egypt’s deficit into “double digits” in
2011 from 8.1 percent in the fiscal year that ended in June,  Standard & Poor’s  said on Feb. 1. Egypt’s transition government,
led by Vice President  Omar Suleiman , has promised higher wages
for government workers and  unemployment benefits  to those who
lost jobs in the past two weeks in an effort to placate
protesters.  The finance ministry said the government’s “budget
financing is unlikely to face bottlenecks” because banks have
funds, according to a statement on its website. The government
will need additional spending to “meet higher international
food and energy prices, ad-hoc measures in light of the recent
unrest, and accelerated wage increase,” the ministry said
today.  Rebuilding Economy  The U.N. FAO Food Price index has jumped 37 percent since
May and touched a record last month, the same increase as in the
year to July 2008, when the rise in prices sparked protests in
countries including Egypt.  “The government needs the money to rebuild the economy,”
Mona Mansour, a director at the research department of CI
Capital, an Egyptian investment bank, said today. Egypt will
need to fund the planned 15 percent increase in wages and
pensions announced by the finance minister, she said.  Inflation accelerated to an annual rate of 10.8 percent in
January from 10.3 percent in the previous month, the state-run
Central Agency for Public Mobilization and Statistics, said on
its website today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net ;
Camilla Hall in Dubai at   chall24@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  