-- 
Egypt ETFs Surge, Credit Default Swaps Fall as Mubarak Resigns

-- B y   J a s o n   W e b b
-- 
2011-02-11T23:15:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-10/egypt-bonds-stock-fund-advance-as-mubarak-pledges-to-delegate-authority.html
Egypt’s default risk dropped and
shares rallied as  Hosni Mubarak  stepped down as the country’s
president and handed power to the military, bowing to the
demands of protesters.  The cost of insuring Egyptian government debt fell 13 basis
points to 324, according to CMA prices for credit-default swaps,
tumbling from as high as 379 basis points earlier today. The  Market Vectors Egypt Index ETF , an exchange-traded fund that
holds Egyptian shares, gained 4.5 percent in  New York . Egypt’s
5.75 percent dollar bond due 2020 rebounded, cutting the yield
by 14 basis points to 6.33 percent, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  “The new blood that may come to the system may come up
with new ideas that will help the economy,” said Mohammed Ali Yasin, chief investment officer at Abu Dhabi-based financial
services company CAPM Investments PJSC. “You’d see an influx of
liquidity in loans from regional players.”  Mubarak resigned after protesters occupied central Cairo
for the past 18 days, demanding an end to his 30-year reign.
Military helicopters buzzed the presidential palace at dusk and
Arabiya television earlier reported that Mubarak had left Cairo
for the Sinai resort of  Sharm El-Sheikh .  “Mubarak has decided to relinquish the office of the
presidency,” Vice President  Omar Suleiman  said in a statement
on state television. “He has instructed the Supreme Council of
the armed forces to take over the affairs of the country.”  GDRs Rally  Centamin Egypt Ltd., a gold company operating in the North
African country, jumped 12 percent in New York, the most in more
than a year, to $2.48.  Egypt’s pound was little changed at 5.8800 per  U.S. dollar 
for a third day. The stock exchange in Cairo has been shut for
two weeks amid the protests. The country’s benchmark stock index
lost 16 percent during the week that ended Jan. 27.  “It should be positive for Egyptian assets, but that said
there is still a lot of uncertainty about who will take over and
how things will pan out over the coming months,” said  Nigel Rendell , emerging-market strategist at RBC Capital in London.
Market gains are “a knee-jerk reaction to the fact that Mubarak
has stepped down without further military action or further
deaths,” he said.  Exchange Opening  While the stock exchange is scheduled to open on Feb. 13,
“what happens today is very crucial for that decision,”
Finance Minister Samir Radwan said in a Bloomberg Television
interview today, before Mubarak stepped down.  “In the short term it’s very positive,” said Jamie Allsopp, who manages the Africa Equity fund at Insparo Asset
Management in London. “This would mean it’s more likely there
will be a rally in the equity market when it opens.”  Israel credit-default swaps rose 5 basis points to 144,
according to CMA prices. Contracts on Lebanon rose 3 to 354, CMA
prices show.  Bond gains for African Export-Import Bank, a Cairo-based
lender promoting trade among African nations, reduced the yield
on dollar notes due in 2014 by 3 basis points to 5.78 percent.  Constitution  “I expect bond yields to fall significantly,” said
Gabriel Sterne, senior economist at Exotix Ltd., a London-based
broker of emerging-market debt. “We still need more clarity on
what the new constitution will be, when elections will be and
what will be the role of opposition. In the long term, these
reforms are good for markets, good for investors and, dare I say
it, good for capitalism.”    Mark Mobius , executive chairman of Templeton Asset
Management’s Emerging Markets Group, said yesterday that he
remains “very positive” about investing in  Egypt  and that
political turmoil there will lead to reform.  “It is not a matter of democracy,” Mobius told reporters
on Feb. 10 in  Sao Paulo  after a speech to an investor group.
“It is a matter of reform. Of letting people get on with
business.”  Templeton’s $221 million FTIF Templeton Frontier Markets
Fund held 6 percent of its assets in Egypt at the end of 2010,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Egypt’s protests began Jan. 25, inspired by an uprising
that ousted Tunisian President Zine El Abidine Ben Ali on Jan.
14. Tunisia’s main equity index has lost 11 percent since Dec.
17, when Mohamed Bouazizi, a street vendor, set himself on fire,
spurring the revolt against Ben Ali’s 23-year rule.  U.S. Ties  The country has been one of the biggest recipients of U.S.
aid since Mubarak came to power three decades ago. The country’s
central bank intervened in  currency markets  three days ago to
stem a decline in the pound and says it’s ready to do so again.  The tremors caused by Egypt in world financial markets have
been small compared with those resulting from the uprising in  Iran  three decades ago that toppled Shah Mohammed Reza Pahlavi,
which sparked a 140 percent surge in oil and contributed to a
global equity rout. World equity-market capitalization climbed
to $53.8 trillion this week, the highest level since June 2008.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index gained 0.2 percent,
reversing earlier losses.  Brent crude  rose 0.6 percent.  Egypt has about 0.3 percent of the world’s crude reserves
and its foreign-currency holdings exceed overseas debt by $29
billion. Egypt controls the  Suez Canal  and the Suez-
Mediterranean Pipeline, through which 2.5 percent of global oil
production moves, according to  Goldman Sachs Group Inc .  Tens of thousands of protesters who crowded into Cairo
center after dark greeted the resignation announcement with a
roar of delight before dancing, singing and waving the national
flag. Outside the presidential palace in Heliopolis, a suburb,
cars honked their horns while a crowd of thousands chanted:
“The people have toppled the regime.”  The resignation removes “some degree of uncertainty in
terms of the stalemate,” said  Elisabeth Gruie , an emerging-
market strategist with BNP Paribas SA in London. “The crucial
question is what’s next and how long it will take to form a
stable government and whether it will be recognized and be
endorsed by the people of Egypt.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Webb in  London  at 
 jwebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  