-- Lehman Lives in CLOs Generating 50% Returns Amid Loans Rally
-- B y   K r i s t e n   H a u n s s
-- 2011-02-10T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-10/lehman-lives-in-clos-gaining-50-from-rally-in-loan-prices-to-3-year-high.html
More than two years after  Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc .’s bankruptcy caused the worst financial
calamity since the Great Depression, one of its structured
products is producing annualized returns exceeding 50 percent.  Gains in the Lehman collateralized loan obligations, which
buy high-yield loans and pool them into securities, compare with
12.8 percent for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index last year. Some
notes are paying about 6 percentage points per quarter more than
typical CLOs, said people familiar with the situation, who
declined to be identified because results are private.  The performance shows how opaque securities blamed for
contributing to $2 trillion of writedown and losses at the
world’s largest financial institutions and the collapse of the
158-year-old New York firm are now helping spur lending to the
companies most in need of credit. Loans with non-investment
grade ratings more than doubled last year, while sales of  junk
bonds  rose to a record, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “CLOs were highly undervalued by the wide-spread sell-off
of pretty much anything that could be prone to being considered
’toxic’,” Gene Phillips, a director at PF2 Securities
Evaluations Inc., a structured finance consulting firm in New
York, said in an e-mailed comment.  Credit Comeback  The rebound mirrors the comeback across credit markets as
the  Federal Reserve  holds  interest rates  in a record low range
of zero to 0.25 percent and buys $600 billion of Treasuries to
spur the economy and inject cash into the bond markets.  Leveraged-loan issuance increased to $385.6 billion in 2010
from $170 billion in 2009, Bloomberg data show. Junk bond sales
rose to a record $287.2 billion last year, up from $162.7
billion in 2009. Commercial-mortgage backed securities are
poised to climb to $45 billion this year, according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co, from $11.5 billion in 2010.  The improvement is contributing to a stronger economy.
Gross domestic product may expand 3.2 percent this year and 3.25
percent in 2012, according to the median estimate of at least 80
forecasters surveyed by Bloomberg. The last time growth exceeded
3 percent for two straight years was 2004 and 2005.  Prices of leveraged loans, those rated lower than Baa3 by
Moody’s Investors Service and BBB- at  Standard & Poor’s , have
risen 62.9 percent to an average 96.42 cents on the dollar Feb.
9 from a low of 59.2 cents Dec. 17, 2008, according to the
S&P/LSTA U.S. Leveraged Loan 100 Index. The 96.42 cents price is
the highest level since November 2007.  Chasing Yields  Increasing demand is allowing borrowers from San Francisco-
based retailer  Gymboree Corp . to Dunkin’ Brands Inc. in Canton,  Massachusetts , to refinance debt. The global default rate
dropped to 2.8 percent in January from 13.6 percent in November
2009, according to Moody’s. Ratings on 399 speculative-grade
companies were raised by S&P last year, compared with 267
downgrades, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Where the structured product market “has come back, it is
once again chasing yields without consideration of the lack of
standards,” said  Joshua Rosner , managing director at research
firm Graham Fisher & Co. in  New York .  CLOs pool high-yield loans and slice them into debt
securities of varying risk and return, typically from AAA
ratings down to BB. The lowest portion, known as the equity
tranche, offers the highest potential returns and the greatest
risk because investors are the first to see their interest
payouts reduced when loans backing the CLO default.  Buyout Boom  During the leveraged-buyout boom in 2007, $91.1 billion of
CLOs backed by widely syndicated loans were sold in the U.S.,
according to Morgan Stanley. They made up more than 55 percent
of the buyers of leveraged loans that year, helping finance $498
billion of LBOs, according to Bloomberg data and the Loan
Syndications and Trading Association in New York, citing figures
from  Wells Fargo & Co ., Intex and S&P’s LCD.  After Lehman’s bankruptcy in September 2008, the amount of
new CLOs tumbled to $1.22 billion in 2009, Morgan Stanley data
show. In the second quarter of that year, 75 percent of U.S.
CLOs stopped making full payments to equity holders. Now, about
85 percent are making them, Citigroup Inc. said in a Jan. 26
report.  In a typical CLO, when too many loans default or are
downgraded to CCC+ or below -- the lowest speculative-grade tier
-- payments slated for equity investors are diverted to holders
of the AAA portion. That causes the CLO to shrink.  Lehman’s Wrinkle  Lehman started the first of what are known as PAR CLOs in
2003, creating 24 with an initial total of about $10.1 billion
in assets that are rated by Moody’s. They’re managed by Boston-
based  Eaton Vance Corp ., ING Investment Management Co. and other
money managers.  In PAR CLOs, when a default occurs or a loan is sold at a
discount, the manager is required to divert payments from equity
holders to buy new loans, keeping the pool from getting
significantly smaller. That meant that managers were buying
loans when prices were the most depressed. With the market
reviving, some of those managers are reaping the biggest
returns.  PAR CLOs managed by Gulf Stream Asset Management LLC paid
its equity investors annualized returns ranging from about 25
percent to more than 50 percent in recent quarters, Mark Mahoney, president of the firm, said in an e-mailed statement.  Charlotte , North Carolina-based Gulf Stream oversees 10 CLOs
with a total face value of about $3.4 billion.  ‘Superior’ Results  “The PAR structures we manage were structured for highly
sophisticated institutional investors who understood that while
distributions may be diverted earlier than in standard
structures, the opportunity to re-invest that cash in cheaper
collateral created the potential for superior longer-term
results,” Mahoney said.  Some of the Lehman deals have produced recent quarterly
returns of about 11 percent, said the people familiar with the
results, who declined to be identified because the details are
private.  “There was some uncertainty about how this particular deal
structure would perform in a recession given the higher
leverage, but if you were able to avoid losses, then it
weathered the storm very well,” said Jeff Bakalar, a senior
vice president and group head at ING Investment in Scottsdale,  Arizona , which oversees about $10 billion.  Equity returns for 524 U.S. CLOs in the fourth quarter of
2010 averaged 4.78 percent, compared with 3.95 percent for the
year and 3.85 percent in 2009, according to Ratul Roy, managing
director for structured credit strategy at Citigroup in New
York.  ‘CLOs Have Worked’  “CLOs have worked as they were designed and the PAR
structures have recently experienced even greater returns due to
the structural provisions, which keep leverage at higher
levels,” said Michael Kinahan, a  fund manager  at Eaton Vance.
The firm had $188.7 billion under management as of Dec. 31, of
which about $22.7 billion was leveraged loans.  The highest-rated portions of CLOs were trading at 94.25
cents Jan. 27, up from a low of 69 cents in April 2009,
according to Morgan Stanley data.  Yield spreads on AAA rated pieces contracted to 175 basis
points more than the London interbank offered rate as of Jan. 27
from a high of 725 basis points in April 2009, the data show.
Spreads were as narrow as 23 basis points in 2007. Libor is the
rate banks charge to lend to each other.  In the last week of January,  Bank of America Corp . and
Citigroup raised $810 million for two separate CLOs. Bank of
America priced the $410 million Ares XVI CLO for Ares Management
LLC, and Citigroup arranged the $400 million Fraser Sullivan CLO
V for  WCAS Fraser Sullivan Investment Management LLC , according
to people familiar with the transactions. Morgan Stanley priced
a $413 million CLO for Oak Hill Advisors LP.  Morgan Stanley predicted in a December report that $15
billion to $20 billion of the securities will be created in
2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristen Haunss in New York at 
 khaunss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  