-- Emirates NBD Fourth-Quarter Net Rises; Provisions Drop
-- B y   A r i f   S h a r i f
-- 2011-02-10T12:54:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-10/emirates-nbd-quarterly-net-more-than-doubles-as-provisions-drop.html
  Emirates NBD PJSC , the  United Arab
Emirates ’ biggest bank by assets, said fourth-quarter profit
more than doubled as a decline in loan-loss provisions more than
compensated for a drop in interest income and fees.  Net income advanced to 403 million dirhams ($111 million),
or 6 fils a share, from 178 million dirhams, or 2 fils a year
ago, the Dubai government-controlled bank  said in a statement  to
the Nasdaq Dubai exchange today. The median estimate of three
analysts was for a profit of 400 million dirhams, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Provisions shrank 79 percent to 201
million dirhams.  U.A.E. banks have been hurt by the global credit crisis,
which weakened lending and investment banking, while provisions
for bad loans are rising amid the economic slowdown. Property
prices in the emirate have dropped by almost 60 percent as
speculators fled while state-owned Dubai World announced plans
to delay payments on at least $14.4 billion of loans.  “Pre-provision profit is slightly below our expectation,
and impaired loans rose sharply,”  Jaap Meijer , senior analyst
at Alembic-HC Securities said in a telephone interview today.
The bank will have to boost provisions this year to cover bad
loans and losses on investments in companies, he said.  Non-Performing Loans  The ratio of the bank’s non-performing loans to gross loans
jumped to 10 percent at the end of the fourth-quarter from 8.1
percent in the third.  The measure will “peak in the region of 14 to 15 percent
this year,” Ben Franz-Marwick, Emirates NBD’s head of  investor
relations  said on a conference call today. Loan restructurings
at Dubai Holding LLC, a property, hotels and investment group
owned by Dubai’s rulers, will add to bad loans, he said.  Provisions covered 40 percent of bad loans in December,
compared with 48 percent in September, the lender said today.
The bank has taken the required provisions of about 10 percent
to 15 percent for its loans to Dubai World, which agreed with
creditors to restructure $24.9 billion of debt.  Net interest income declined 16 percent in the quarter to
1.6 billion dirhams, while fee and other income fell 15 percent
to 578 million dirhams. The lender also had a 509 million-dirham
loss from associate companies, mainly from  Union Properties
PJSC , in which it holds a 48 percent stake.  The bank expects its net interest margin, the difference
between what it earns on loans and pays out on deposits and
funds, to be “stable” in 2011 after it fell to 2.41 percent in
the fourth-quarter from 2.51 percent in the third, Chief
Executive Officer  Rick Pudner  said on the call.  Emirates NBD shares fell 0.3 percent to 3.20 dirhams in
Dubai today. The stock has risen 16 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Arif Sharif in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  