-- 
Merkel Coalition Set to Back Alternative ECB Candidates After Weber Exit

-- B y   B r i a n   P a r k i n   a n d   T o n y   C z u c z k a
-- 
2011-02-11T11:55:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-10/merkel-coalition-set-to-back-alternative-ecb-candidates-after-weber-exit.html
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s
coalition parties have turned their back on Bundesbank President  Axel Weber , saying they are prepared to accept alternative
candidates to head up the  European Central Bank .  Two days after his withdrawal as the front-runner to
succeed  Jean-Claude Trichet , Weber will meet Merkel in Berlin
today as her coalition partners pressed her to focus on
candidates who will push German goals of fiscal rectitude to
boost the euro’s stability.  “It’s about content first and foremost, not the person,”
Hans-Peter Friedrich, the parliamentary group leader of Merkel’s
CSU Bavarian allies, said in an interview in Berlin yesterday.
While the CSU supported Weber, “that doesn’t mean you can’t go
for other candidates who have the same stringent policy views.”  Weber’s still-unexplained exit from the ECB race prompted a
barrage of negative headlines for Merkel yesterday, 10 days
before the start of elections in seven of  Germany ’s 16 states.
The Financial Times Deutschland said Weber’s move was “an
affront” to Merkel, while the best-selling Bild newspaper said
it was “a blow to the chancellor, and to the euro.”  Weber pulled out of a meeting with French officials to see
Merkel and Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  at 3 p.m. They’ll
issue a statement after the gathering. Bundesbank board member
Andreas Dombret took Weber’s place at the talks with French
Finance Minister  Christine Lagarde  and French central bank
governor  Christian Noyer , a Bundesbank spokesman said.  Lagarde ‘Dumbfounded’  “What a surprise,” Lagarde told journalists in Paris
yesterday about the Weber situation. “I’m dumbfounded.”  The swirl of events won’t have any policy impact, Merkel’s
spokesman, Steffen Seibert, told reporters today. “The
Bundesbank will continue to represent our conviction of a stable
monetary policy and nothing can upset that,” he said.  Weber’s public criticism of the ECB’s bond-buying program
to help stem the sovereign debt crisis may have stoked euro-area
resistance to the German’s appointment to the ECB post.  Merkel, freed of the need to push a Weber candidacy, may be
able to turn his departure to her advantage as she pursues her
agenda on reshaping  Europe  to prevent future crises, according
to Daniela Schwarzer, a European policy analyst at the Berlin-
based German Institute for International and Security Affairs.  “For the German position this is a day of bad news, but it
will pass,” Schwarzer said in an interview. “This will go by
as long as Germany keeps up its strong negotiating position on
the more important things -- the governance mechanisms that have
to be put in place in the euro zone.”  ‘Strict Attitude’  While there were “reservations” over Weber’s policy among
fellow euro-area governments, “that’s exactly the kind of
strict attitude that we see as the right one,” said Hermann Otto Solms, finance and economy spokesman for Merkel’s Free
Democratic Party coalition partner.  For all that, the question of ECB succession “has to be
separated somewhat from questions of content,” Solms said in an
interview. “We don’t have to push through the person, so we can
take an even tougher negotiating position on content.”  Still, it’s been an unwelcome distraction for a party
gearing up for elections.  “We are not amused,”  Michael Fuchs , the deputy caucus
chairman for Merkel’s  Christian Democrats  in parliament, said
today in a phone interview.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net ;
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  