-- Merkel Allies May Break With Policy on EADS to Balance Power With France
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e   a n d   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n
-- 2011-02-10T23:01:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-10/merkel-allies-ready-to-buy-stake-in-eads-to-keep-germany-even-with-france.html
Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s allies
are willing to break with German policy and buy shares in
European Aeronautic Defence & Space Co. from  Daimler AG  as a way
to keep the country’s industrial clout on a level with  France .  The position of lawmakers in Merkel’s Christian Democratic-
led bloc sets up a conflict with her Free Democratic coalition
partners, who object to the state stepping in when Daimler
reduces its 15 percent stake in EADS, the owner of aircraft
maker Airbus. German and French institutions have each held a
22.5 percent stake in EADS since it was created in 2000 to pool
the aerospace interests of western European governments.  “We would have to think about what the state can do, given
the strategic significance both in industrial and defense
terms,” said Georg Nuesslein, a lawmaker for the  Christian
Social Union  who sits on the economic-affairs committee, which
would have to approve any state purchases of industrial assets.  Daimler’s intention to change its holding in EADS by the
end of next year adds another area of tension between Germany
and France as they struggle to agree on issues such as the
European debt crisis and the next president of the  European
Central Bank . It also challenges Germany’s historical reticence
in direct ownership in companies to uphold industrial interests.  Voting Rights  In Germany, Stuttgart-based Daimler, the maker of the
Mercedes-Benz S-Class luxury sedan, has voting rights over the
22.5 percent stake -- including 7.5 percent held by a consortium
of German banks and states. The French government directly holds
15 percent, with another 7.5 percent held by publisher Lagardere
SCA, which has voting rights over its stake.  A 7.5 percent stake in EADS is worth about 900 million
euros at yesterday’s closing price. EADS stock has gained 52
percent over the past 12 months amid a rebound in Airbus orders,
valuing the company at 17.1 billion euros.  Merkel said in 2007 her preference is to wind down state
influence in EADS, telling reporters at the time that the
company “should further develop toward a normal industrial
company.”  Germany  has “no intention” of buying a stake in
EADS, she said.  “It would be a step backwards toward the idea of
government-directed strategic industry,” said  Richard Aboulafia , vice president of the Teal Group, a Fairfax,
Virginia-based aerospace consulting company. “France never
moved away from that but Germany was certainly headed in the
other direction.”  ‘Intensive Dialogue’  German officials will meet Feb. 23 to discuss the
government’s strategy. Merkel spokesman Steffen Seibert said
this week Germany and France are in “intensive dialogue” about
EADS’ ownership structure in anticipation of a Daimler sale.  Juergen Koppelin, a senior lawmaker in the pro-business
Free Democrats, rejected a direct purchase of EADS shares as
“undesirable,” saying the government’s independence with
respect to the industrial company must be maintained.  “The federal government doesn’t need stronger leverage
over EADS by buying Daimler’s stake,” Koppelin, who sits on the
parliament’s budget committee, said in a statement yesterday.  Lawmakers in Merkel’s bloc disagreed. Hans-Peter Friedrich,
the Christian Social Union’s parliamentary group chairman, said
in an interview that he wouldn’t rule out “either a private
industrial solution or a state solution.” Joachim Pfeiffer, a
senior  Christian Democrat  on the economic-affairs committee,
said the priority must be industrial interests.  “Right now all options must be considered calmly and
possibilities have to be examined openly and without taboos,”
Pfeiffer said in an e-mailed response to a question.  Daimler’s Stance  EADS oversees business in civil and military aviation, as
well as areas in space and security. While the participating
governments share the workload, they are also wary to guard a
balance on the  production line  as well as in management, with
France and Germany sharing most of the executive posts.  Daimler has fended off speculation that it may reduce its
stake before the current shareholder agreement expires at the
end of next year, saying that it will seek to find a “stable
and balanced” resolution for EADS.  “At some point there needs to be a discussion about an
ownership structure for the long term,” said Daimler spokesman
Florian Martens. Daimler began reducing its EADS stake in 2006
as Chief Executive Officer Dieter Zetsche moved to focus on the
company’s Mercedes-Benz and truckmaking units.  German officials are already struggling to lobby private
investors to take an EADS holding as part of any solution,
 Handelsblatt reported  today, citing government officials.
Officials are particularly seeking out EADS suppliers, including
defense contractors such as Diehl Stiftung & Co. and Rheinmetall
AG as well as engine-maker MTU Aero Engines Holding AG and
satellite maker OHB Technology AG, the newspaper said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at  at
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net , and Andrea Rothman in Toulouse, France,
at   aerothman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story: James Hertling
at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  