-- Esprit Profit Drops 21% as China Growth Fails to Offset Weak Europe Demand
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2011-02-10T13:05:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-10/esprit-profit-drops-21-as-china-growth-fails-to-offset-weak-europe-demand.html
  Esprit Holdings Ltd .,  Asia ’s third-
biggest clothier by market value, posted a 21 percent drop in
profit, missing analyst estimates, as sales declined in Europe.  Net income fell to HK$2.14 billion ($275 million) in the
six months ended December from HK$2.7 billion a year earlier,
missing some analysts’ estimates, as weak demand in Europe hurt
Esprit’s wholesale business. Profit trailed the HK$2.3 billion
median of five analyst estimates in a Bloomberg News survey.  Wholesale revenue, which includes transactions in
department stores, slid 13 percent to HK$7.62 billion in the
fiscal first half of Esprit, which competes against  Hennes &
Mauritz AB  and  Inditex SA ’s Zara. While overall sales in China
grew 5.4 percent to HK$1.4 billion, it wasn’t enough to offset
declines in  Europe , where the share of Esprit’s total revenue
fell to 79 percent.  "Esprit’s management clearly have a lot more work to do,"  Matthew Marsden , a Hong Kong-based consumer analyst at Samsung
Securities Co. who recommends buying the retailer’s stock, said
by phone today. "For example, the same-store sales growth in
China is barely positive at 0.5 percent -- this leaves much room
for improvement."  Same-store or comparable sales strip out the effects of
recently opened outlets.  Shares Decline  Esprit’s decline in wholesale revenue may narrow to a
“single-digit” percentage in the second half of the year,
Chief Financial Officer Chew Fook Aun said at a briefing today.
The company is aiming for a “50-50 sales mix” between its
wholesale and retail businesses in the long term, Chief
Executive Officer Ronald van der Vis said at the same press
conference.  Esprit fell 0.3 percent to HK$38.75 at the 4 p.m. close of
trading in  Hong Kong , extending its decline in the past 12
months to 32 percent. The stock rallied as much as 5 percent in
afternoon trading after the company released its earnings
announcement before resuming its slide.  "Esprit has turned the corner, at long last," said Marsden.
"The wholesale division returned to growth in the second quarter
of the 2011 fiscal year, which is the first time this business
has grown revenue since June 2008."  ‘Cautious’ Consumers  Wholesale revenue grew 3.2 percent in local currency terms
during the three months ended December, Esprit said, driving
overall sales. Still, the division, which contributed 43 percent
to total sales, remains affected by “cautious consumer
sentiment and spending” in core markets, the company said.
“Our wholesale customers remain conservative with their pre-
orders.”  Sales in the Asia-Pacific region surged 39 percent to HK$3
billion, boosted by the inclusion of  China  revenue after the
clothier bought out its joint-venture partner in the world’s
fastest-growing major economy. Esprit plans HK$1.3 billion in
capital expenditure in the second half, more than double the
investment in the first six months, as it expects to open about
70 directly managed stores while refurbishing old ones.  “With the acquisition of the remaining 51 percent equity
interest in the former China joint venture, China is our new
growth engine driving further expansion,” Esprit said.  China Earnings  China contributed HK$230 million in net profit, Chew said.
Esprit wholly owns its Chinese business after paying HK$3.88
billion in 2009 to buy China Resources Enterprise Ltd.’s stake.  Esprit also said it asked some suppliers in Asia to quote
prices and settle in U.S. dollars, rather than euros. The euro
lost 8.7 percent against the  Hong Kong dollar  in Esprit’s fiscal
first half, using the average  exchange rate  in the period
against the rate the year before.  The retailer of casual clothing, accessories and cosmetics
will pay an interim dividend of HK$1 a share, compared with 74
HK cents a year earlier, according to the statement.  Total sales fell 4.2 percent to HK$17.7 billion and
operating margin narrowed to 14.9 percent from 18.2 percent.
Earnings per share fell to HK$1.66, from HK$2.11.  Retail sales increased 3.3 percent to HK$9.96 billion, the
company said, while retail selling space expanded 2.3 percent in
the six-month period compared with a year earlier. Comparable
store sales fell 1.5 percent globally.  Esprit’s sales in Europe fell 11 percent to HK$14 billion.
H&M, Europe’s second-largest clothing retailer, also missed
analysts’ estimates when it reported fiscal fourth-quarter
earnings last month. H&M’s net income fell 11 percent to 5.49
billion kronor ($846 million) in the three months ended Nov. 30.  Esprit also announced Heinz Krogner resigned as non-
executive chairman and director, citing his “intended pursuit
of other personal commitments.” Hans-Joachim Korber, a former
chief executive officer of Metro AG, will replace Krogner, the
retailer said in its statement.  Susie and Doug Tompkins started Esprit in 1968 by selling
clothes out of the back of a station wagon in  San Francisco ,
according to the company’s  website . The company’s transformation
into a worldwide brand began three years later, when the couple
met Hong Kong businessman Michael Ying, who was chairman from
1993 to 2006, when Krogner took over.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net  