-- Ethiopia Probably  Won't Need to Fully Liberalize Economy to Join WTO
-- B y   W i l l i a m   D a v i s o n
-- 2011-02-10T07:48:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-10/ethiopia-probably-won-t-need-to-fully-liberalize-economy-to-join-wto.html
The  World Trade Organization 
probably won’t insist that  Ethiopia  open up all its key
industries to international competition in order to become a
member, a senior WTO official said.  Stalled eight-year-old negotiations to join the Geneva-
based body are about to resume in  Africa ’s second-most populous
nation, where the government retains monopolies in power
generation and telecommunications and foreign banks are barred.  “There’s hardly ever total liberalization,” Chiedu
Osakwe, head of the accession division, said in an interview
yesterday in the Ethiopian capital, Addis Ababa. “The acceding
government undertakes commitments, with restrictions on  market
access .”  The comments reflect a 2002 ruling by the WTO, which called
on members to “exercise restraint in seeking concessions and
commitments on trade” when the poorest countries try to join.
Ethiopia, which has had economic growth of about 10 percent for
the past seven years, will push to retain control of
“sensitive” areas, State Minister of Trade Yakob Yala said.  “Hopefully most of them will be respected,” he said in an
interview in  Addis Ababa  on Feb. 8.  Osakwe and Yakob attended a U.S. Agency for International
Development-organized two-day workshop on the accession process
that finished yesterday in Addis Ababa. There will be a second,
one-day working party in Geneva on May 6, which will be followed
by Ethiopia submitting its initial market access offers and
bilateral negotiations with existing members.  “All 25 countries that have recently acceded have made
offers on energy, telecoms, banking and financial services,”
Osakwe said. “What does not work is total closure.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
William Davison in Addis Ababa via Johannesburg at
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at   asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 