-- MetLife Says Bank Profit May Miss Target as Rates Rise
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e   a n d   A p r i l   L e e
-- 2011-02-10T19:13:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-10/metlife-bank-unit-may-miss-profit-target-as-rates-rise-cfo-wheeler-says.html
  MetLife Inc ., the life insurer whose
bank unit has about $17 billion in assets, said its lender may
miss profit targets this year as higher  interest rates  squeeze
margins and reduce customer demand for mortgages.  “It’s not a very good environment,” Chief Financial
Officer William Wheeler said today in a conference call with
analysts. “MetLife Bank’s profitability is probably going to be
a little lower than forecast.”  Interest rates rose in the fourth quarter, increasing the
cost of funding for banks that benefited from lower borrowing
expenses in the two years since the 2008 financial crisis. Two-
year Treasury yields surged 41 percent in the three months ended
Dec. 31, the third-biggest quarterly gain since at least 1981.
Higher rates will probably cause mortgage production to fall,  Bank of America Corp . said last month.  “The environment is challenging,” said Peter Winter, an
analyst with BMO Capital Markets Corp. “In general, margins
have been trending downward because of the interest rate
environment, and there’s been no loan growth.”  MetLife’s bank may report profit of less than $190 million
for the year, Wheeler said. In December, the New York-based
insurer  said  the unit would probably post 2011 earnings of $200
million to $220 million. The bank’s fourth-quarter profit fell
29 percent to $46 million.  Profit Declines  MetLife, the biggest U.S. life insurer, reported a 74
percent decline in fourth-quarter profit yesterday as the value
of derivatives fell. Net income slid to $82 million, or 5 cents
a share, from $320 million, or 35 cents, a year earlier. The
company fell 62 cents, or 1.3 percent, to $46.97 at 1:32 p.m. in  New York  Stock Exchange composite trading.  Bank of America, the biggest  U.S. bank ,  JPMorgan Chase &
Co . and other large lenders face a squeeze on net interest
margins, the difference between what they pay to borrow money
and what they get for loans and on securities. JPMorgan’s net
yield on interest-earning assets dropped to 2.88 percent in the
fourth quarter, from 3.01 percent in the third quarter and 3.02
percent a year earlier.  “Margins will remain under pressure for banks,” said
Andrew Marquardt, an analyst at Evercore Partners Inc. in New
York. “Another pressure is heightened competition” for assets.  MetLife Bank had 4,084 employees and  $6.6 billion  of net
loans and leases as of Sept. 30, according to the Federal
Deposit Insurance Corp. Total assets were $16.6 billion at the
end of September, according to the regulator. Allstate Corp., a
competing insurer, said this week it was exiting banking and
selling deposits to Discover Financial Services as regulations
tighten.  MetLife Chief Executive Officer Robert Henrikson added 20
million customers in the fourth quarter with the purchase of
American Life Insurance Co. from American International Group
Inc. The $16.2 billion deal, completed in November, boosted
MetLife’s presence in insurance markets from  Chile  to Japan. In
the U.S., the company retreated from the market for long-term
care insurance to focus on more profitable businesses.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Frye in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net ;
April Lee in New York at 
 alee355@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net . 