-- European Rules on Bank Bonuses Face Review, Financial Services Chief Says
-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y   a n d   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2011-02-10T18:13:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-10/eu-s-bank-bonus-curbs-may-not-be-enough-to-curb-risk-taking-barnier-says.html
European Union rules that force
bankers to get most of their bonuses in stock grants deferred
over three years may not be adequate to curb risk, the EU’s top
financial regulator said.  The European Commission will examine current legislation on
remuneration, to see whether “it is enough,”  Michel Barnier 
said at a conference in Brussels today. Barnier said he will
also investigate whether banks implemented the current rules
properly.  Barnier’s review of bonus rules comes as politicians
continue to question bankers’ compensation levels. Barnier last
month said lenders should exercise moderation while other parts
of the economy are suffering, and the U.K. yesterday reached an
agreement with banks to lower bonus payments and increase
lending to small businesses.  Barnier’s comments reflect a frustration “that the
financial sector has gone back to almost business as usual,”
said Wolf Klinz, a European Parliament lawmaker who heads a
committee on the financial crisis. Governments and the
Parliament must agree on possible changes before they can come
into effect.  The EU already approved laws to curb incentives for
excessive risk-taking last year, imposing limits on cash payouts
and the size of bankers’ bonuses. Those rules allow bankers to
receive about 25 percent of their bonuses in immediate cash
payouts and require the rest to be deferred or held in shares
for a minimum of three years.  Lower Bonuses  U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  said
yesterday that he reached an agreement with Britain’s biggest
banks, including  HSBC Holdings Plc  and  Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc , to pay lower bonuses and set targets for business
loans.    Credit Suisse Group AG ,  Switzerland ’s second-biggest bank,
today said it was following Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and
JPMorgan Chase & Co. in cutting 2010 compensation for traders,
investment bankers and other employees in response to a drop in
revenue and increased regulatory pressures.  The commission, the 27-nation EU’s executive arm, is also
planning to propose measures to bolster the role of shareholders
in the governance of lenders, Barnier said today.  The proposals will “ensure the shareholders are also made
responsible,” he said. Other rules, scheduled for November,
would bolster competition in the EU’s audit market, Barnier said
today.  Global Regulators  Barnier, who spearheads the Brussels-based commission’s
response to the crisis, is responsible for proposing draft
financial-services laws as well as working with global
regulators.  The former French minister said that attempts by the
 Financial Stability Board  to toughen regulation of so-called
systemically important lenders should target more than just the
world’s largest banks.  The failure of smaller lenders “could have consequences
for the global economy,” Barnier said. “I don’t believe that
our vigilance should stop at the largest banks,” Barnier said.  The FSB has said it’s planning by mid-2011 to identify an
initial set of banks that should face tougher regulation because
their failure would roil the global economy.  “We must also leave a certain room for maneuver to
supervisors so that they calibrate requirements to the risks
taken by each institution,” Barnier said today.  To contact the reporters on this story: Ben Moshinsky in
Brussels at   bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net ;
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  