-- EU Carbon Little Changed as Traders Buy Protection at 20 Euros
-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 2011-02-10T09:46:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-10/european-union-carbon-little-changed-as-traders-buy-protection-at-20-euros.html
European Union carbon allowances
were little changed after traders bought protection yesterday
against rising prices. The U.K. is scheduled to sell 4.4 million
metric tons of allowances today, boosting supply.  EU emission permits for December rose 0.1 percent to 14.70
euros ($20.06) a metric ton on  London ’s ICE Futures Europe
exchange as of 9 a.m. Traders bought 1.8 million tons of call
options yesterday with a strike price of 20 euros a ton, a hedge
against prices above that level.  Call options give the buyer the right to purchase at a
certain level. The call with the 20-euro strike price has more
open interest than any other for the December 2011 future,
according to data from ICE. That option’s open interest was at
11.2 million on Feb. 8, the latest data available. Open interest
is a measure of bets that traders have not yet closed.  More than two-thirds of the carbon options bought yesterday
were calls, according to a report today by broker CarbonDesk
Group Plc in London. The U.K.’s sale today offers traders the
chance to buy from the government as spot markets for allowances
are hampered. Registries that track ownership were ordered to
close Jan. 19 because of alleged thefts. Five registries,
including the one managed by Britain’s Environment Agency,
reopened on Feb. 4.  BNP Paribas will participate in the U.K. auction on behalf
of clients, Rex Kempcke, director of emission sales at the
Paris-based bank, said yesterday in an e-mailed statement. If
its bids are successful, it “will transfer to the indirect
bidder the EU allowances that BNP Paribas receives directly from
the relevant U.K. government department,” Kempcke said. The
U.K. sale is expected to finish at about 10 a.m. today.  The  put option  with the highest open interest, 17.4 million
tons, has a strike price of 13 euros, the ICE data show. Put
options give the buyer the right to sell at a certain price.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  