-- Mexico May Expand Monthly Auctions, Won't Limit Peso's Gains, Cordero Says
-- B y   J e n s   E r i k   G o u l d
-- 2011-02-11T00:01:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-10/mexico-may-expand-monthly-auctions-won-t-limit-peso-s-gains-cordero-says.html
Mexican Finance Minister  Ernesto Cordero  said policy makers may raise the size of monthly dollar
option auctions and said officials won’t intervene directly in 
the peso market no matter how much the currency advances.  “It’s one of the possibilities we’re exploring right
now,” Cordero said, referring to the monthly auctions, in an
interview at Bloomberg’s headquarters in New York.  Mexico auctions $600 million in dollar options per month, a
system that bolsters foreign reserves as it takes dollars out of
the market and eases appreciation pressure on the peso, which
has strengthened 2.1 percent this year, the most among Latin
American currencies tracked by Bloomberg. The auction program is
described as a “market-friendly mechanism” by JPMorgan Chase &
Co. because it’s announced in advance.  Mexican policy makers haven’t followed their regional peers
in trying to stem currency gains with restrictions on capital
inflows. Investors poured money into emerging markets last year
as near-zero  interest rates  in the U.S. and  Europe  prompted them
to seek higher returns in  developing countries .  “We don’t have a threshold,” Cordero said when asked if
there was a level for the peso at which officials would consider
intervening. “The capital controls policies of some of the
other countries in Latin America don’t have any effect at all.”  A stronger currency can hurt exporters by making their
products more expensive in dollar terms. About 80 percent of
Mexican goods sent abroad go to the U.S.  The peso weakened 0.1 percent to 12.0823 at 6:57 p.m. in
New York.  Regional Intervention    Brazil  tripled to 6 percent in October a tax on foreign
purchases of fixed-income securities in a bid to contain gains
in the real, which has advanced 39 percent gains since the end
of 2008, the second-most among 16 major currencies tracked by
Bloomberg, trailing the Australian dollar.  Chile triggered the biggest fall in its peso in 20 years on
Jan. 4 when the central bank said it would buy $12 billion in
the spot currency market.  Investors pulled $4.6 billion from exchange traded funds
that track developing-nation stocks in the week ended Feb. 2,
Bank of America Merrill Lynch wrote yesterday, citing data from
research firm EPFR Global. Outflows from all emerging-market
equity funds totaled $7.2 billion, the most since January 2008.  Cordero said he doesn’t expect a sudden reversal in capital
inflows to  Mexico , saying they may retreat gradually over time.  Cetes Investment  Foreign investment in short-term Mexican notes known as
Cetes had risen more than eightfold as of Jan. 31 from a year
earlier. Inflows increased to 147.6 billion pesos ($12.2
billion) last month from 100.6 billion pesos in December,
according to the central bank’s website  The increase in peso bond yields over the past months won’t
deter the government from issuing debt this year, Cordero said.  “Even with the increase in the rates, they’re still very
reasonable,” Cordero said. “We still feel there are some
opportunities in the  debt market .”  The yield on Mexico’s benchmark 10 percent bond due 2024 has
increased 152 basis points to 7.78 percent since hitting a low
of 6.26 percent on Oct. 12.  The government forecasts the economy will expand about 4
percent this year, more than the 3.7 percent median estimate of
13 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Cordero said today that the
economy probably grew 5.3 percent to 5.6 percent last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jens Erik Gould in  New York  at 
 jgould9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at   jgoodman19@bloomberg.net ;
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  