-- Facebook Is Said to Be Worth $60 Billion in Employee Offering
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k   a n d   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 2011-02-10T22:38:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-10/facebook-said-to-be-worth-60-billion-in-employee-offering.html
Facebook Inc. is considering letting
employees sell as much as $1 billion of their shares in an
offering that would value the company at almost $60 billion,
according to two people with knowledge of the matter.  A stock sale would allow large institutions to invest in
the social-networking company, according to the people, who
declined to be identified because the deliberations are private.
Jonathan Thaw, a spokesman for  Palo Alto ,  California-based
Facebook , declined to comment.  Facebook recently raised $1.5 billion in a financing round
from  Goldman Sachs Group Inc . and Digital Sky Technologies,
valuing the social network at $50 billion. Neither Goldman Sachs
nor Digital Sky will participate in the new offering, said one
person familiar with the matter.  Investor interest is surging because of Facebook’s
advertising sales growth and a user base of more than 500
million. Ad spending on the site will more than double to $4.05
billion this year, according to research firm EMarketer Inc.  The stock sale would give a windfall to employees as they
wait for an initial public offering, said Larry Albukerk,
 founder  of EB Exchange Funds LLC, a San Francisco-based firm
that specializes in private-share sales.  “They don’t want people to leave,” he said. “It would be
a smart thing for them to do.”  Facebook plans to start reporting financial results by
April 2012, even if it hasn’t held an IPO, according to a
document sent to prospective investors. The company would be
forced to make disclosures because it expects to have at least
500 shareholders by year-end, a threshold that makes reporting
results necessary under U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
rules, a person who reviewed the document said last month.  In July 2009, Facebook allowed employees to sell as much as
$100 million in stock for $14.77 a share under an agreement with
Digital Sky, a Russian investment firm.  All Things Digital  reported on the potential offer earlier
today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net ;
Douglas Macmillan in New York at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Tom Giles  at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net . 