-- More Outsourcing Planned for FDA Overseas Factory Inspections
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   L a r k i n   a n d   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2011-02-10T15:42:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-10/fda-to-outsource-international-plant-inspections-as-oversight-criticized.html
U.S. regulators plan to outsource
more inspections of overseas factories within the next decade
after criticism from Congress about a lack of oversight for food
and drugs made in other countries.  The  Food and Drug Administration  aims to increase its
reliance on third-party inspectors and has started reaching out
to industry trade groups about the change,  John Taylor , the
agency’s acting principal deputy commissioner, said today. The
agency will work more closely with other countries and share
findings, potentially reducing the number of inspections plants
would undergo each year, he said.  The FDA inspects foreign drug facilities once every nine
years on average, compared with once every 30 months for U.S.
plants, the Government Accountability Office  reported  in
September. While the agency has had federal employees in
countries such as  China  since 2008, Taylor said this model for
increasing oversight won’t be sustainable as demand for lower-
cost resources leads to more non-U.S. manufacturing.  “We recognize that third-party inspection programs need to
be a bigger part of the discussion because we can’t do all the
work ourselves,” Taylor said at a  conference  in  Washington 
sponsored by consulting firms Venn Strategies LLC and Greenleaf
Health LLC. “We’re looking at anything, anything and everything
that will allow us to leverage our resources better.”  FDA Commissioner Margaret Hamburg’s two top priorities are
globalization and innovation, Taylor said. A former executive at
Abbott Laboratories in  Abbott Park ,  Illinois , and the
Biotechnology Industry Organization trade association in
Washington, Taylor became the agency’s No. 2 official after
Joshua Sharfstein resigned last month to become Maryland’s top
health official.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Catherine Larkin in Washington at 
 clarkin4@bloomberg.net ;
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 