-- Fiat’s Mini Chariot Conquers Spain’s Citadels: Jason H. Harper
-- B y   J a s o n   H .   H a r p e r
-- 2011-02-10T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-10/fiat-s-15-500-mini-chariot-conquers-cuenca-soon-america-jason-h-harper.html
Dios mio, but these streets are
narrow! Squeezing a car through the walled medieval town of
Cuenca,  Spain , is hard, not least because it was built on the
edge of a cliff, its founders determined to keep invaders out.  Little thought was given to how automobiles a thousand
years later were going to navigate the citadel. Good thing we’ve
made the right choice for a 10-day vacation driving around the
country: the super-compact Fiat 500.  Known as the Cinquecento, the tiny Italian auto putt-putted
upon the European scene in the late 1950s, energized by a 500-cc
motor that had about as much power as a modern electric shaver.
Since 2007, the reprised 500 has become an urban fixture in
cities like  Rome .  This winter, a North American version marks the return of
the brand to the States, starting at $15,500.  When I first envisioned my motoring holiday, I had ideas of
Maseratis and Bentleys dancing in my head -- until I considered
European  gas prices  and scrunched roads.  With 38 miles per gallon highway, the savings meant better
hotels, better food, more wine. Besides, I was curious how the
mini chariot would handle hundreds of zigzagging miles from
Barcelona to  Madrid  via Valencia and wandering in between.  The 500 is more miniature pony than Italian stallion,
running on a 1.4-liter four-cylinder that makes only 101 horses
and 98 pound-feet of torque. That’s reasonable when you consider
it is smaller than a Mini Cooper, the car’s obvious retro-Euro
competitor.  Cute and Fluffy  It’s a cute thing, all rounded edges and oval headlamps
which look like bright eyes drawn on a Disney character. Even
the names of the three models -- Pop, Sport and Lounge -- point
to its inner fluffiness.  The Lounge is the top model, starting at $19,500, with an
automatic transmission and glass roof. Stability and traction
control, plus seven airbags, are standard on all.  North American-spec cars include tweaks to the suspension,
interior, gearing and additional noise deadening materials.
(Apparently Europeans don’t mind road noise, while Americans
don’t like to be reminded we’re actually moving.)  What I found most impressive was the car’s comfort, despite
my six-foot frame. It fit all of our luggage in the rear hatch
and neither my wife nor I complained of butt fatigue. There’s
plenty of upfront leg- and headroom.  Our car was a five-speed manual which hummed along the
Spanish autopistas capably despite the rather handicapped
wheelbase, which measures a mere 90.6 inches. (Consider that a
Honda Civic has 106.3 inches between its wheels.)  World’s Best Paella  We shot along the coast from Barcelona to Valencia, with a
stop in the small town of El Saler, lured by tales of the
world’s best paella. (A secret ingredient sometimes found in
the local rice dish: turnips.)  Valencia is a playful town where a glass of wine costs less
than bottled water, and after two days we decided it best to get
back on the road, heading out of Catalonia toward the interior
of Castilla-La Mancha.  The two of us have a habit of looking for the road less
traveled -- lucky she’s a master of maps as the Fiat had no
navigation system -- and we found ourselves on lanes of broken
asphalt and errant dirt tracks. At one point we picnicked on
hard bread and Manchego cheese by the side of a sparkling
stream, the Fiat’s rear hatch raised toward the sun.  La Mancha’s mountainous regions are a playground of hills
and curving byways where my steering wheel was in constant
motion. No wonder Don Quixote tilted at windmills here; I
suspect he was just dizzy.  Cuenca’s Citadel  The 500’s suspension held up incredibly well, giving me no
reason to gripe on even the most swooping of slopes. It is game
and brave-hearted, a car nearly better than it should dare to be
on these challenging roads. It doesn’t drive as sharply as a
Mini, a car which shows its BMW underpinnings, yet it’s
admittedly less harsh.  Perversely, the 500’s poor turning radius was a constant
annoyance. Attempting to park or make a U-turn, I found myself
reversing, creeping forward and reversing again. (European
garages are the size of broom closets.)  On our eighth day of the tour, we found ourselves in
Cuenca, a magical fortified citadel straight out of Lord of the
Rings. Located on that cliff and bisected by two river gorges,
its high crenulated walls seem impregnable. The 500 slip-
streamed around the skinny streets as easily as a Vespa.  In the U.S., the 500 will compete against cars like the
$15,100 Honda Fit, which it outclasses in style and ride, and
the Mini, pricier at $20,100, though arguably still slightly
cooler and better handling. The 500 will stand out for its
quirkiness and Euro flair, a mostly modern take on a classic.  Find yourself in a place like Cuenca, however, and be sure:
It’s an urban scooter at its best.  The 2012 Fiat 500 at a Glance  Engine: 1.4-liter four-cylinder with 101 horsepower and 98  pound-feet of torque.  Transmission: Five-speed manual or six-speed automatic.  Speed: 0 to 60 mph in about 9 seconds.  Gas mileage per gallon: 30 city, 38 mpg (manual); 27, 34  mpg (automatic).  Price as tested: $18,200 (estimated).  Best feature: Front comfort despite tiny size.  Worst feature: Poor turning radius, interior is spartan.  Target buyer: The Italian car fanatic on a Fiat budget.  (Jason H. Harper writes about autos for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Jason H. Harper at  Jason@JasonHharper.com  or follow on Twitter
@JasonHarperSpin.  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New York  at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 