-- French Government Plans Solar Energy Tender, Modifiable Rates, Besson Says
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2011-02-10T13:02:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-10/france-plans-solar-tenders-modifiable-rates-besson-says.html
  France  plans to start tenders for
large solar projects and adopt a “modifiable” system for the
tariffs that utilities pay for the renewable power, according to
Industry Minister Eric Besson.  “We are planning a mixed system,” Besson told an energy
conference in Paris today. Tenders could be used for ground-
based solar projects, while regulated tariffs for smaller
installations may vary depending on demand from industry to
develop them, he said.  “Prices will decrease depending on the number of projects
proposed,” Besson said. “This isn’t a system of quotas.”  France in December suspended solar-energy projects for
three months to study potential subsidy cuts and measures to
limit growth in the industry after a boom in installations. The
halt applied to projects with a capacity of more than 3
kilowatts. Prime Minister Francois Fillon announced the halt to
quell what he called a “veritable speculative bubble.”  “We want to get as quickly as possible to a point where
solar energy is competitive compared to other energies,” Besson
said today. “I want the system to reach this point within 10
years.”  The government wants to “protect” consumers who subsidize
the energy, he added.  At the end of last year, 6,000 megawatts of solar projects
were in the pipeline for development, according to a draft of a
study of the sector ordered by the government. Besson said a
final report will be given to him next week and new solar
regulations published March 8.  The 973 megawatts installed at the end of last year will
cost 560 million euros ($764 million) a year for 20 years in
subsidies paid for through a tax to consumers, the report said.
France is targeting 5,400 megawatts of solar energy by 2020.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  