-- Germany's Machinery Output Growth May Accelerate This Year on Asian Demand
-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 2011-02-10T09:56:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-10/germany-s-machinery-output-growth-to-accelerate-this-year-on-asian-demand.html
Plant and machinery output growth in  Germany ,  Europe ’s largest economy, may accelerate this year as
Asian demand boosts export orders, the VDMA association said.  Production may increase 10 percent after rising 8.8 percent
in 2010 when adjusted for inflation, the Frankfurt-based  machine
makers’ association  said in a statement today. In September, it
forecast output to rise 6 percent in 2010. Orders surged a real
44 percent in December a year earlier, with domestic demand up
38 percent and foreign sales rising 46 percent.  Germany’s economy expanded a record 3.6 percent last year
as companies increased output and hiring to meet orders. With
euro-region governments stepping up budget cuts, companies have
relied on faster-growing markets to boost orders.  Bayerische
Motoren Werke AG , the world’s largest luxury carmaker, has
forecast “significant” sales growth on Asian demand.  “For the current year 2011, we are assuming the recovery
will continue” as “we started the year with considerable
momentum,” VDMA President Thomas Lindner said in the statement.
While “global consolidation plans and renewed tensions in
Europe’s financial and debt crisis contain some risks, leading
indicators give reason for confidence.”  The  International Monetary Fund  raised its global growth
forecast for this year to 4.4 percent on Jan. 25 from the 4.2
percent predicted in October.  Developing countries  will grow 6.5
percent this year, while developed nations may expand 2.5
percent, the Washington-based fund said.  Job Creation  German exporters benefited from growth in  China , VDMA said.
Sales to the Asian nation jumped almost a third to 13.7 billion
euros ($18.7 billion) in the 11 months through November, making
it Germany’s largest export market, according to the statement.
Sales to the U.S. were at 9 billion euros.  Adding to signs of a strengthening recovery, German
business confidence rose to a record last month and investors
also became more optimistic. Unemployment declined to an 18-year
low in January, bringing the jobless rate down to 7.4 percent.  Employment in Germany’s machinery sector increased by
10,000 people from May, VDMA said. The industry may create an
additional 20,000 jobs this year, it added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jana Randow in  Frankfurt  at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  