-- Giants, Jets Get Seat Licensing Case Dismissed at New Meadowlands Stadium
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 2011-02-10T22:45:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-10/giants-jets-win-dismissal-of-stadium-personal-seat-licensing-lawsuit.html
The  New York Giants  and  Jets 
football teams won dismissal of a lawsuit claiming they breached
an implied contract by imposing personal seat licenses on fans
to help finance a $1.6 billion stadium.  U.S. District Judge Peter Sheridan dismissed the claim by
Harold Oshinsky, a retired businessman who held season tickets
for both National Football League teams for 24 years. Last year,
the judge dismissed Oshinsky’s antitrust, consumer-fraud and
unjust enrichment claims. Oshinsky died after filing his
lawsuit.  Oshinsky claimed it was unfair to force fans to pay as much
as $20,000 for the right to buy each Giants seat and up to
$25,000 to buy each Jets seat. The teams used the licenses to
help pay for the New Meadowlands Stadium in  East Rutherford ,  New
Jersey , which opened for the 2010 season. Both teams used to
play nearby at  Giants Stadium .  “The Giants and the Jets as purveyors of the season
tickets have substantially raised the cost of tickets every year
without any substantial objection,” Sheridan ruled Feb. 2 in
federal court in Trenton, New Jersey. “It is their
responsibility to oversee ticket prices and PSL contracts, not
the courts, absent a breach of an agreement.”  Giants spokesman Pat Hanlon declined comment. Oshinsky
attorney Andrew Friedman didn’t immediately return a call
seeking comment. Jets spokesman  Bruce Speight  had no immediate
comment.  ‘Irrevocable Renewal Rights’  Oshinsky had argued that the conduct of the teams conveyed
“irrevocable renewal rights,” and that the termination of his
season ticket subscription for failing to pay the PSL breached a
contract established by the teams’ prior conduct.  The Giants argued “there is no written evidence conferring
or acknowledging that any renewal rights were conveyed to season
ticket holders,” according to the opinion. The judge cited
ticket manager John Gorman, who said each ticket since 1973 has
“stated it is a revocable license and that admission may be
refused at the sole discretion of the Giants.”  Similarly, the Jets told their fans that they could revoke
season tickets, according to the opinion.  “The teams never promised renewal rights in perpetuity to
the season ticket holders,” Sheridan ruled. “There is no
conduct of the Jets and Giants that could be interpreted as
conveying renewal rights to season ticket holders.”  Sheridan said he had to decide the case based on law, not
emotions. He said the Jets’ attorney “intimated that season
tickets were a thing of the past, like his season tickets to the
opera,” the judge wrote.  ‘Causes of the Heart and Soul’  “Some fans will lose their tickets because they cannot
afford the PSL fee, and it will undoubtedly affect their
relationship with their team,” he wrote. “Knowing that
consequence, it is a difficult case to decide, and causes of the
heart and soul, as opera fans know, are never a thing of the
past.”  Sheridan cited a moment in Giants history that still
torments fans, known as the “Miracle at the Meadowlands.” On
Nov. 19, 1978, the Giants were beating the  Philadelphia Eagles 
by a score of 17-12. Giants quarterback Joe Pisarcik needed to
take one more snap, kneel with the ball, and run out the clock.
Instead, he tried to hand off to fullback Larry Csonka.  “Unbelievably, the ball was fumbled by Pisarcik, allowing
Eagle cornerback Herman Edwards to recover the ball and run for
a touchdown, giving the Eagles a victory,” the judge wrote in a
footnote. “Ouch!”  The case is Oshinsky v. New York Football Giants Inc.,
2:09-cv-01186, U.S. District Court, District of New Jersey
(Trenton).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Voreacos in  Newark , New Jersey at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 