-- 
GM, Chrysler Salaried Workers' Bonuses Said to Reach 50% of Pay

-- B y   K e i t h   N a u g h t o n ,   D a v i d   W e l c h   a n d   T i m   H i g g i n s
-- 
2011-02-11T19:05:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-10/gm-chrysler-salaried-workers-bonuses-said-to-reach-as-much-as-50-of-pay.html
  General Motors Co . and Chrysler
Group LLC, which each received government-funded bailouts, may
award some managers bonuses of as much as 50 percent of their
salary, said four people familiar with the plans.  GM plans to pay bonuses to most managers equal to 15
percent to 20 percent of their annual salary and as high as 50
percent to less than 1 percent of its 26,000 U.S. salaried
employees, said one of the people, who asked not to be named
revealing internal plans. Bonuses for Chrysler’s 10,755 salaried
workers will average about $10,000, with a small group getting
as much as half of their salary, one of the people said.  The payouts come as GM, Chrysler and  Ford Motor Co . prepare
for contract talks this year with the  United Auto Workers , which
is seeking a share of the industry’s growing prosperity. Ford,
the only U.S. automaker to avoid bankruptcy in 2009, is expected
to pay bonuses equal to 10 percent or more of base pay to some
salaried staff, said a person familiar with the plan.  “The union is going to be very angry about this,” Gary
Chaison, a professor of industrial relations at Clark University
in Worcester,  Massachusetts , said in an interview yesterday.
“If these kinds of bonuses are paid to salaried workers, then
the union’s demands will increase, knowing management can’t
claim an inability to pay.”    Tom Wilkinson , a spokesman for GM, declined to comment.
Gualberto Ranieri, a Chrysler spokesman, said in an e-mail that
“details regarding salaried performance awards are considered
confidential.”  Marcey Evans , a Ford spokeswoman, said the
automaker will pay salaried workers’ bonuses March 10 and
wouldn’t reveal details.  Bonus Timing  Chrysler’s bonuses may be paid as soon as today, one of the
people said. Bonuses for GM’s salaried workers without
management duties may be as low as 5 percent of their annual
pay, one of the people said.  GM reorganized in bankruptcy in 2009 with $49.5 billion in
government aid, while Chrysler got $12.5 billion in assistance
for its reorganization that year. Each is subject to pay
restrictions for top executives after receiving funding from the
U.S. government’s Troubled Asset Relief Program, which also
aided banks.  The  U.S. Treasury , which holds 33 percent of GM, would need
to sell its remaining 500 million shares for an average of
$53.07 to break even, according to a GM regulatory filing and
data compiled by Bloomberg.  GM rose 39 cents to $36.27 at 1:44 p.m. in composite
trading on the New York Stock Exchange. The shares have risen
9.9 percent since they began trading Nov. 17.  ‘Taxpayers First’  “The taxpayers should be repaid before bonuses go out,”
Senator Chuck Grassley, an Iowa Republican, said today in an e-
mailed statement. “Unfortunately, the Treasury Department never
asserted ownership rights. It didn’t put the taxpayers first. As
a result, the car companies are allowed to do what they want,
including giving lots of executive bonuses. It sends a message
that those in charge take shareholders, in this case the
taxpayers, for a sucker. ”  GM, which earned $4.77 billion in the first three quarters
of last year, plans to pay its 53,000 unionized hourly U.S.
staff profit-sharing checks of more than $3,000 per worker, two
people familiar with the plan have said. That is about 5 percent
of an hourly worker’s annual pay, said  Sean McAlinden , chief
economist for the Center for Automotive Research.  Chrysler Profit-Sharing  Chrysler, which lost $652 million in 2010, said Jan. 31
that it would pay each of its union workers a bonus averaging
$750. That is about 1.3 percent of an hourly UAW worker’s annual
pay. Chrysler Chief Executive Officer  Sergio Marchionne  said
that all eligible employees would receive a performance bonus
for 2010, when the automaker worked on introducing 16 new or
refreshed models.  Ford, which posted 2010 net income of $6.56 billion, said
it will pay an average of $5,000 to each of its 40,600 hourly
workers, or about 8.3 percent of their base pay.  “If bonuses are a lot more on average for all of salaried
workers, the UAW workers will be cheesed off and want a bigger
signing bonus this fall,” McAlinden said in an interview
yesterday. “It’s going to be tense down at the plant.”  UAW President  Bob King  has said he aims to recover some of
the $7,000 to $30,000 in concessions each worker gave up since
2005 to help the U.S. automakers survive. The union surrendered
raises, bonuses and cost-of-living adjustments. The UAW also
agreed to a two-tier wage system in which new hires earn about
$14 an hour, half the amount paid to senior production workers.  “All the sacrifices that our members made to turn these
companies around were part of the process that’s really led to
this amazing turnaround,” King said in an interview last month.
“We want our membership to share in a very meaningful way in
the upside of these companies.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Keith Naughton in Detroit at 
 knaughton3@bloomberg.net ;  David Welch  in Detroit at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net ;
Tim Higgins in Detroit at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  