-- Goldman Advises Keeping Soybean, Cotton, Corn Bets
-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 2011-02-10T10:17:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-10/goldman-advises-keeping-soybean-cotton-corn-bets-update1-.html
Investors should maintain bets on
higher prices for soybeans, cotton and corn, Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. said after the  U.S. Department of Agriculture  lowered
stockpile estimates.  The bank’s crop outlook is unchanged after the USDA
released new projections yesterday, analyst Damien Courvalin
wrote in an e-mailed report. The USDA cut its forecasts for
inventories before this year’s harvests and said world supplies
of crops including corn, wheat and soybeans will slump 2.2
percent.  Shrinking stockpiles have pushed up food costs, helping to
spark protests and riots across North Africa and the Middle
East. World food prices climbed to a record in January, the  United Nations  said on Feb. 3.  U.S. corn planting will likely climb “to the detriment of
soybeans this year, as corn margins will likely remain most
appealing to U.S. farmers in February,” Courvalin wrote.
“Acreage competition will keep crop-price correlation
elevated.”  Goldman Sachs kept its recommendation to hold long
positions in Chicago March-delivery corn futures and November-
delivery soybeans, as well as New York-traded December-delivery
cotton futures, the report shows.  Soybeans, Cotton  The bank forecasts soybean prices will rise to $16 a bushel
in the next three months, while the six- and 12-month target
price is $15.75.  “While soybeans may underperform corn in the near term, we
continue to expect further price strength in 2011, as a loss of
U.S. acreage would create high risks of another deficit in 2011-
12,” Courvalin wrote.  Goldman Sachs forecasts cotton prices in three months’ time
at $1.50 a pound, with a six- and 12-month forecast of $1.25.  “Inventory levels remain critically low,” the analyst
wrote. “The large deficit and strong emerging-market demand
require significantly higher new-crop prices to secure
sufficient U.S. acreage.”  Corn may rise to $7.15 a bushel in the three-month period
before falling to $6.75 later in the year, according to Goldman
Sachs. Wheat prices may drop to $7.75 a bushel within three
months before sliding further to $7.50, the report shows.  Ethanol Demand  “We continue to expect further upside in corn prices on
continued strong U.S. ethanol demand,” Courvalin wrote. “We
believe wheat inventories remain sufficient to absorb the 2010-
11 supply shortfall and view wheat prices as too elevated
relative to corn and soybeans.”  Stockpiling in the face of food inflation and social unrest
is likely to continue to support milling-wheat prices, creating
“upside risk” to the three-month price forecast, according to
the analyst.  March-delivery corn last traded at $6.96 a bushel on the
Chicago Board of Trade and November-delivery soybeans were at
$13.97 a bushel. Cotton for December delivery was at $1.27 a
pound on ICE Futures U.S. in  New York .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 