-- Groupon Says It Plans to Expand Its Online Coupon Service to China 'Soon'
-- B y   M a r k   L e e
-- 2011-02-10T13:06:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-10/groupon-says-will-start-service-in-china-very-soon-update1-.html
Groupon Inc., owner of the biggest
 coupon website , will “very soon” start service in  China 
through a joint venture, Danny Yeung, chief executive officer of
Groupon’s Hong Kong unit, said.  The Chicago-based company has already hired about 120
employees in China, and plans to expand the workforce to about
1,000 in three months, Yeung said at a briefing in the city
today. He declined to name the partner for the venture or
specify when the company will start its service in China.  Groupon, which rejected a $6 billion takeover bid from  Google Inc . in December, aims to expand its online sales of
discount vouchers for restaurants, spas and other goods and
services to China, the world’s fastest-growing major economy.
The electronic-commerce company faces competition from Chinese
operators including Lashou.com and Meituan.com.  “We want to dominate the market in China,” said Yeung,
who joined Groupon after the U.S. company last year bought
 uBuyiBuy.com , where he was chief executive officer, as part of
its expansion in  Asia .  Groupon said last month it would use the $950 million
raised from a round of financing to expand its website and buy
back shares. The company boosted its subscriber base in the past
year to 50 million worldwide from 2 million in the U.S. by
buying rivals in other markets.  Groupon agreed to set up a venture with  Tencent Holdings
Ltd . to expand in China, Donews.com, a Chinese-language
technology news website,  reported  on Jan. 13, citing people it
didn’t identify. Yeung declined to comment today on the report.
Catherine Chan, a spokeswoman at Tencent, China’s biggest
Internet company, declined to comment on the report at the time.  Yeung said he will have a role in setting up the China
operations. The business in China will be overseen by an
existing Groupon executive, he said, declining to elaborate.  To contact the reporter on this story:  Mark Lee  in  Hong Kong  at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at   ycho2@bloomberg.net  