-- Idenix Falls as FDA Places Hold on HIV Drug Licensed to GlaxoSmithKline
-- B y   R o b   W a t e r s
-- 2011-02-10T00:42:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-10/idenix-falls-as-fda-places-hold-on-hiv-drug-licensed-to-glaxosmithkline.html
  Idenix Pharmaceuticals Inc . fell 25
percent in extended trading after U.S. regulators placed a hold
on an AIDS drug licensed to  GlaxoSmithKline Plc .  Idenix said today it was told by ViiV Healthcare Co., an
affiliate of London-based Glaxo, that the U.S.  Food and Drug
Administration  had placed a clinical hold on GSK2248761, an
experimental AIDS drug. The action may jeopardize Idenix’s
ability to receive as much as $390 million in payments and
royalties if the drug clears certain milestones and reaches the
market, said Katherine Xu, an analyst for Wedbush Morgan
Securities in New York.  The FDA also changed a full clinical hold into a partial
hold on IDX184, an experimental drug for hepatitis C, said
Cambridge, Massachusetts-based Idenix in a statement. The
company plans to begin testing IDX184 in the second half of the
year in combination with two other medicines.  “Overall, I think it’s more good news than bad but I don’t
think the market will respond that way,” Xu said today in a
telephone interview. “From a market perspective, it’s not going
to be welcome.”  Idenix fell $1.01, or 25 percent, to $3 at 6:02 p.m.  New
York  time in extended trading after declining 10 cents to $4.01
at the close of Nasdaq Stock Market composite trading.  Share Price Value  Investors believed that the AIDS drug was worth $1 to $2 of
the company’s share price before today’s statement, Xu said. She
said she will probably remove all value from the drug from her
evaluation. Before today, she had an “outperform” rating on
the shares and a target price of $7.  Idenix provided no explanation for the clinical hold on the
AIDS drug in the statement.  A telephone message for Idenix spokeswoman Kelly Barry left
after the close of normal business hours wasn’t immediately
returned.  In September, after three patients developed abnormal liver
function in the trial of IDX184 and another company drug for
hepatitis C, IDX320, the FDA placed a hold on further studies.
Idenix said it conducted additional research and consulted
independent experts, and concluded the liver problems developed
as a result of IDX320. The company said it has stopped
developing IDX320.  To contact the reporter on this story:  Rob Waters  in  San Francisco  at 
 rwaters5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 