-- IEA Raises Oil Demand Forecast, OPEC Sees No Supply Shortage
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2011-02-10T13:49:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-10/iea-raises-global-oil-demand-forecast-while-opec-sees-no-supply-shortage.html
The  International Energy Agency 
raised its 2011 forecast for global crude oil demand for a fifth
month, saying inventories in developed economies fell to their
lowest level in two years.  Worldwide oil consumption will grow by 1.5 million barrels
a day this year, or 1.7 percent, to 89.3 million a day, the
agency said. That’s a gain of 140,000 barrels a day on last
month, driven by developing nations in  Asia  and signs of
recovery in North America. OPEC, which published its own monthly
report today, said crude’s surge past $100 a barrel in London
doesn’t reflect any deficit in supply.  “The inescapable conclusion from our market balances is
that the physical market has tightened significantly,” the
Paris-based IEA, an  adviser  to consuming nations, said today in
its monthly Oil Market Report.  The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
maintained that “supply fears are, however, unfounded.”  Crude futures traded above $100 a barrel in  London  today,
having climbed to a 28-month high of $103.37 on Feb. 3 on
concern that political turmoil in North Africa might disrupt
Middle East oil exports. The IEA and OPEC both said that if
unrest in Egypt halts oil shipments through the Suez Canal,
flows can be diverted through the Suez-Mediterranean pipeline
and other export routes.  Closure of the canal would have the biggest impact on Saudi
Arabian and Iranian crude exports, while the most-affected
customers would be China and  Spain , the IEA said.  OPEC on Prices  OPEC, responsible for 40 percent of global supplies, said
oil’s rally in London reflects dwindling output from the North
Sea and rising purchases among financial investors, rather than
any worldwide restriction in supplies.  While OPEC’s estimate of global consumption this year is
1.8 percent lower than the IEA’s at 87.7 million barrels a day,
the two organizations make similar estimates for the amount of
crude that will be needed from OPEC. The IEA puts this figure at
29.85 million barrels a day, and OPEC at 29.8 million, which is
close to current production levels among the group’s 12 members.  The IEA assessed OPEC’s January output at 29.85 million
barrels a day, while OPEC’s own estimate was 29.7 million. That
rate of supply leaves the organization with spare production
capacity of 4.7 million barrels a day, mostly in  Saudi Arabia ,
according to the IEA.  Lower Inventories  Oil stockpiles in the  Organization for Economic Cooperation
and Development , which groups 34 of the world’s most advanced
economies, fell by 55.6 million barrels to 2.67 billion in
December, the IEA said. Inventories amounted to 57.5 days worth
of consumption, their lowest in two years and “pretty close to
their five-year average.”  OPEC’s members are Algeria, Angola, Ecuador,  Iran , Iraq,
Kuwait, Libya,  Nigeria , Qatar, Saudi Arabia, the United Arab
Emirates and Venezuela. The organization will next meet to
review its production quota, from which  Iraq  is exempt, in June.  The IEA raised its 2011 estimate for supplies from outside
OPEC by 100,000 barrels a day to 53.5 million a day, on higher-
than-expected output from  North America . That means non-OPEC
production would be 700,000 barrels a day higher than last year.    Brent crude  for March settlement on the ICE Futures Europe
exchange gained 34 cents to $102.16 a barrel today. On the  New
York Mercantile Exchange , oil for March delivery dropped 33
cents to $86.38 a barrel as of 13:44 a.m. London time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  