-- Miley, Zac Fade; Baroque Obsession; Big Blocks: London Galleries
-- B y   M a r t i n   G a y f o r d
-- 2011-02-10T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-10/miley-zac-taylor-fade-baroque-obsession-giant-blocks-martin-gayford.html
Celebrity isn’t what it used to be,
in art at any rate.  Warhol’s  Marilyn Monroe  looked like a goddess, or maybe a
lapsed saint. Whereas the celebs in Richard Phillips’s show
“Most Wanted” at  White Cube , Hoxton Square, London, (through
March 5) seem more like the human equivalents of the fashion and
perfume brands whose logos cover the walls of the gallery.  Phillips is an American artist who takes the photographic
imagery of the mass media as his starting point and produces  oil
paintings  by methods that date back to the 15th-century Flemish
master Jan van Eyck (priced at $235,000). His subjects in this
batch of work are allegedly 10 of the U.S.’s most “instantly
recognizable” faces from films, television and music.  Many of these --  among them  Justin Timberlake ,  Kristen Stewart , Zac Efron, Taylor Swift and Miley Cyrus -- look
interchangeable. Such is fame today. The effect is cheesy.  That could be the artist’s message. There are those who
argue that in the online age, as the power of the old media
wanes, the cult of celebrity -- depending as it does on mass
communication -- is bound to fade too. This exhibition implies
celebrity worship has passed the stage of decadence and may be
heading for oblivion.  Classy Showbiz  For a different take on showbiz, try the exhibition of new
work by John Wonnacott, “A Tale of Two Houses” at  Agnew’s
Gallery , 35 Albemarle St.,  London  W1 (through Feb. 25). Most of
these new paintings concern the performing arts. Wonnacott, who
painted a group portrait of Britain’s royal family in 2000, was
commissioned to document the production of the U.K. comedy film
“First Night,” starring Richard E. Grant and Sarah Brightman
(scheduled to premiere on Feb. 27).  This was shot at an Edwardian country house on the Scottish
border. Wonnacott found an even more spectacular subject in
Tring Park, a school for the performing arts housed in a Baroque
mansion once owned by the Rothschild family. Wonnacott’s
pictures of young dancers practicing in the vast country-house
library are themselves as intricately Baroque as anything he has
done.  His unique feature as a painter is an almost obsessional
concentration on perspective. Many modernists ignored this
Renaissance discovery. Wonnacott, instead, opens it out,
depicting a wider angle than the human eye, let alone the camera
lens, can actually see. While this produces some strange
distortions, the effect in these pictures is exhilarating.
Prices for paintings range from 18,000 pounds ($28,912) to
125,000 pounds, drawings 1,800 pounds to 10,000 pounds.  Facing Victoria  In the bemusing exhibition “Modern British Sculpture,”
which opened last month at the  Royal Academy , a piece by the
abstract sculptor Phillip King confronts a massive 19th-century
bronze monument to Queen Victoria. I still don’t understand why,
but the King piece emerges well from the encounter.  There’s much more of his work on view in “Phillip King: A
Survey Through 50 Years” at  Flower’s , 82 Kingsland Road, London
E2 (until Feb. 19). King, ex-president of the  Royal Academy , is
the sort of senior figure who deserves a career retrospective
somewhere such as  Tate Britain . This isn’t really a substitute.  Although it contains a sprinkling of sculptures dating back
to the early 1960s -- when King was at the cutting edge -- the
bulk of the show is recent. Though his work has changed over the
years, King has ended up close to where he began: big, simple
shapes and bright colors. Prices range from 6,500 pounds to
58,000 pounds.  Walking around them gives you the impression you’ve been
shrunk and dropped among the play bricks and blocks on a
toddler’s floor. Some people might prefer that to finding
themselves in a gallery of this month’s celebs.  (Martin Gayford is chief art critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Martin Gayford in London at  martin.gayford@googlemail.com  or
Martingayford on  http://twitter.com/home .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 