-- IMF Chief Urges Changes to Monetary System, Advocates Adding Yuan to SDRs
-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 2011-02-10T15:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-10/imf-chief-urges-changes-to-monetary-system-to-prevent-future-global-crises.html
International Monetary Fund Managing
Director  Dominique Strauss-Kahn  urged policy makers to
strengthen the global monetary system to correct flaws that
could pave the way for the next crisis.  “Global imbalances are back, with issues that worried us
before the crisis -- large and volatile capital flows, exchange
rate pressures, rapidly growing excess reserves -- on the front
burner once again,” Strauss-Kahn said in the text of a speech
in  Washington  today. “Left unresolved, these problems could
even sow the seeds of the next crisis.”  His comments echoed calls by French President  Nicolas Sarkozy , who has made the issue a pillar of his agenda as he
holds the Group of 20 nations’ rotating presidency. Finance
ministers and central bankers from the club of developed and
emerging economies will renew attempts to coordinate their
economic policies when they meet next week in Paris.  Strauss-Kahn said growth can be bolstered by enhancing
international cooperation, reducing volatility in capital flows
and exchange rates and ensuring liquidity is available to
countries that need it.  “When we worry about the deficiencies of the international
monetary system, we are mostly worrying about volatility,”
Strauss-Kahn said. There is “a sense that money sometimes flows
around the globe in too-volatile a fashion and that countries
need a more stable, more predictable external environment in
order to prosper.”  Another way to achieve this stability would be to give a
greater role to special drawing rights, the IMF  basket of
currencies  that its members use to settle accounts with each
other, he said.  Artificial Currency  Ideas include increasing the global stock of SDRs, using
the artificial currency to price trade, and issuing SDR-
denominated bonds, he said.  Adding emerging markets’ currencies, including the Chinese
yuan, “could help the process of internationalization of these
currencies, which would benefit the system as a whole,”
Strauss-Kahn said.  Russian President  Dmitry Medvedev  last month said the
currencies of  Brazil ,  Russia ,  India  and  China  should be included
in the SDR valuation basket. The same month, Sarkozy said that
the yuan should be included, and U.S. President Barack Obama’s
administration said it supports such a transition “over time.”  G-20 officials are working on developing early warning
indicators to help identify large imbalances in the global
economy and actions needed to fix them. Sarkozy is also seeking
to give IMF a surveillance authority on capital flows and to
have the institution define guidelines on how countries should
deal with them.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Seoul at  srastello@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net . 