-- India, Pakistan to Restart Peace Talks Halted by Mumbai Terrorist Assault
-- B y   A n d r e w   M a c A s k i l l   a n d   H a r i s   A n w a r
-- 2011-02-10T11:29:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-10/india-pakistan-to-restart-peace-talks-halted-by-mumbai-terrorist-assault.html
India and  Pakistan  will resume
formal peace talks for the first time in more than two years
after they were derailed by the terrorist attacks on Mumbai that
killed 166 people.  The nuclear-armed neighbors will hold discussions on
terrorism, the disputed region of Kashmir, the Siachen glacier
and boosting economic ties, the countries said in a joint
statement today. The talks will take place before a July visit
to India by Pakistan’s Foreign Minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi.  “It’s good that talks will begin but let us not be over
optimistic about the chances of success,” said Kalim Bahadur,
former professor of South Asian Studies at  New Delhi ’s
Jawaharlal Nehru University. “The problems are very deep rooted
and any compromise or solution will not be easy. But talking is
better than shooting bullets at each other.”  The November 2008 attack on India’s financial capital by 10
Pakistani terrorists shattered a dialogue that over five years
had increased cross-border trade and strengthened transport and
cultural links. The two nations also made progress formulating a
self-governance proposal that may have ended their six-decade
dispute over Kashmir, former Pakistani foreign minister Khurshid Mahmud Kasuri told  India ’s Mint newspaper last month.  Improved ties are central to U.S.-led efforts to fight
Taliban and al Qaeda militants in  Afghanistan , where India and
Pakistan compete for influence. The rivals’ leaders have met on
several occasions in a bid to agree on moves to restore a wider
dialogue.  Lashkar Gunmen  India blames the Pakistan-based Lashkar-e-Taiba militant
group for carrying out the Mumbai siege. Lashkar was originally
formed to fight Indian rule in the part of Kashmir it governs.
Pakistan has begun a closed trial of some of the group’s members,
a process that will feature in the discussions announced today.  Seven hours of talks in July between the countries’ foreign
ministers ended in acrimony. Pakistan’s Qureshi said then that
India had not been “psychologically prepared” to discuss broad
issues bedeviling relations, while India’s S.M. Krishna called
further negotiations “futile” unless the government in
Islamabad embarked on an “all-out effort” to shut militant
groups plotting against India.  “India has realized that the policy of not engaging
Pakistan has run its course,” said  Talat Masood , an independent
political analyst and retired lieutenant general based in
Islamabad. “This policy isn’t paying any dividend and proving
counterproductive.”  Indian Foreign Secretary Nirupama Rao and her Pakistani
counterpart Salman Bashir met on the sidelines of a summit of
South Asian nations in the Bhutanese capital of Thimphu earlier
this week and agreed on the “need for a constructive
dialogue.”  Pakistan was carved out of India at independence from
British colonial rule in 1947. Since then the countries have
fought three wars, two of them over Kashmir, and several
skirmishes.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew MacAskill in New Delhi at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net ;
Haris Anwar in Islamabad at 
 Hanwar2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg in  Hong Kong  at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  