-- ING Keeps Guaranteed Debt as Peers Study Early Buyback
-- B y   J u r j e n   v a n   d e   P o l   a n d   M a u d   v a n   G a a l
-- 2011-02-10T14:10:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-10/ing-to-keep-government-backed-debt-as-other-banks-consider-early-buyback.html
ING Groep NV (INGA)  has no plans to redeem
about 10 billion euros ($14 billion) of state-guaranteed debt
ahead of schedule, while ABN Amro Group NV and  SNS Reaal NV (SR)  are
studying the Dutch government’s offer of early buybacks.  “We see no reason to make use of the possibility at this
moment because the close-out fee makes it uninteresting” from
an economic perspective, said Frans Middendorff, a spokesman at
Amsterdam-based ING. “In general we don’t expect much appetite
for this option.”  Banking units of Dutch firms such as ING, LeasePlan Corp NV
and SNS Reaal NV sold more than 50 billion euros of  debt  backed
by the government. The guarantees, aimed to restore funding to
banks during the financial crisis, were put in place in 2008 and
still covers about 39 billion euros of debt.  Dutch Finance Minister Jan Kees de Jager ended the  program 
in December after it hadn’t been used for more than a year
because lenders returned to regular funding. The ministry
offered banks the possibility to repurchase their state-
guaranteed bonds until June 30 at a fee of 15 percent of the
annual guarantee premium for the remaining maturity.  “Now we wait and see,” said Erik Wilders, who heads the
Dutch State Treasury Agency which oversees the guarantees. “We
hope that if banks want to apply, they’ll do so in the first
half of the year.” The ministry will evaluate the buyback
option after that and decide on a possible continuation.  ‘Strange Decision’  ING, the largest Dutch financial-services company, borrowed
4.15 billion euros and $8.65 billion using the guarantees, the
biggest amount after government-owned ABN Amro, which took up
18.8 billion euros, according to Finance Ministry  documents .  “I don’t think ING has a lot of trouble getting funding”
in the market, Benoit Petrarque, an Amsterdam-based analyst at
Kepler Capital Markets, said by phone today. “From this
perspective it seems like a strange decision to start talking
about economics when you received a big amount of state
support.” Petrarque has a “reduce” rating on the stock.  ING is splitting its insurance and banking units under
conditions for gaining European Commission approval for a
government bailout, which included 10 billion euros of state aid
and the transfer of 21.6 billion euros of U.S. mortgage assets.
Chief Executive Officer Jan Hommen has said ING aims to complete
repayment of the aid before the end of this year after returning
5 billion euros in December 2009.  Studying Early Buyback  ABN Amro and SNS, the Utrecht-based bank and insurer, are
studying the government offer for early buyback, spokesmen for
the firms said. NIBC Bank NV, which borrowed 4.44 billion euros
and $3 billion under the program, is considering its options,
said Diederik Heinink, a spokesman for the lender in The Hague.  Banks increasingly used covered bonds, which are backed by
mortgages or other loans, to fulfill funding needs, according to
a Dutch central bank  report  published Feb. 8. Lenders last year
issued 9 billion euros of covered bonds, compared with 5 billion
euros in 2009.  “The Netherlands as a country is doing well, which is
important when you want to put covered bonds on the market,”
Petrarque said. “We are not living in Portugal or Spain.”  Former Finance Minister Wouter Bos started the guarantee
program for bank debt after the collapse of Fortis, a Belgian-
Dutch financial-services company, in October 2008.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jurjen van de Pol in Amsterdam at 
 jvandepol@bloomberg.net ;
Maud van Gaal in Amsterdam at 
 mvangaal@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net ;
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net . 