-- 
Minneapolis Metrodome to Install New $18 Million Roof for 2011 NFL Season

-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-02-11T05:00:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-10/minneapolis-metrodome-to-install-new-18-million-roof-for-2011-nfl-season.html
The Minneapolis Metrodome will spend
about $18.1 million to replace its damaged roof before the start
of the 2011 National Football League season.  The inflatable roof partially collapsed on Dec. 12 under
the weight of 17 inches (43 centimeters) of snow, forcing the  Minnesota Vikings  to relocate their final two home games of the
2010 regular season.  The  Metropolitan Sports Facilities Commission  is seeking
 proposals from contractors  to replace the roof, which comprises
10 acres of Teflon-coated fiberglass. The work will be
“substantially completed by Aug. 1,” it said. The decision to
replace the roof was made after an engineering assessment
concluded that 60 percent of the panels were unacceptable.  “Due to a considerable risk of undetected flaws in the
remaining panels, caused by prolonged moisture exposure and wind
flutter in the deflated condition, we recommend a full
replacement of the fabric roof system,”  the assessment  by
Austin, Texas-based  Walter P. Moore and Associates Inc.  said.  Bill Lester, executive director of the MSFC, didn’t return
a telephone message yesterday.  The collapse forced the Vikings to move their Dec. 13 game
against the  New York Giants  to Ford Field in  Detroit . The team
played its Dec. 20 game against the  Chicago Bears  at the
University of Minnesota’s TCF Bank Stadium.  “We are pleased the Vikings will be able to play in front
of our fans during the final season of the team’s lease
agreement,” the Vikings said in a statement yesterday.  The team said it remains committed to constructing a new
stadium to replace the 30-year-old Metrodome.  “MSFC’s decision to replace the roof is not a long-term
stadium solution and does not change the urgency to build a new
multipurpose stadium for the state and the Vikings,” the team
said. “The Metrodome still ranks at the bottom of the NFL in
terms of revenue and fan experience.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  