-- Iran Keeps Options Open to Make Nuclear Arms, U.S. Intelligence Chief Says
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2011-02-10T16:42:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-10/iran-keeps-options-open-to-make-nuclear-arms-u-s-intelligence-chief-says.html
  Iran  is keeping its options open on
building nuclear weapons by pursuing ``various nuclear
capabilities,'' the U.S. intelligence chief said today.  The U.S. does not know if Iran will ultimately build
weapons, but its programs “position it” to do so, said James Clapper, President  Barack Obama ’s director of national
intelligence.  “There is a real risk that its nuclear program will prompt
other countries in the Middle East to pursue nuclear options,”
he said in testimony before the House Select Committee on
Intelligence. Iran will build weapons “if its leaders choose”
to proceed, he said.  “We do not know, however, if Iran will eventually decide
to build nuclear weapons,” he said. Still, “Iran’s nuclear
decision-making is guided by a cost-benefit approach, which
offers the international community opportunities to influence
Tehran,” Clapper said.  Iran’s leadership “undoubtedly consider Iran’s security,
prestige and influence, as well as the international political
and security environment when making decisions about its nuclear
program,” Clapper said.  Clapper gave his assessment during the intelligence
committee’s annual unclassified hearing on worldwide threats.  Clapper said Iran last year displayed a new rocket engine
design for its Simorgh space launch vehicle “that could be used
for an ICBM-class vehicle.”  “We are watching developments in this area very closely,”
Clapper said.  Latin America Inroads  Iran also continues to “reach out” to Latin America “as
a way to diminish its international isolation and bypass
international sanctions,” Clapper said.  So far, he said, those relations have developed “only
significantly” with Venezuela, Bolivia and  Brazil .  “Most moderate governments have responded coolly to Tehran
outreach although an increasing number of Iranian embassies are
attempting to spread” the country’s influence.  “We expect Tehran to continue offering economic and other
incentives to try to expand its outreach,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  