-- Business Targets Environment, Energy Regulations
-- B y   H e i d i   P r z y b y l a
-- 2011-02-10T20:14:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-10/issa-hearing-spotlights-regulations-u-s-companies-say-hinder-job-growth.html
Business association leaders and
company owners singled out environmental, energy and labor
regulations in testimony on impediments to job growth before the
 U.S. House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform.   The hearing, California Representative  Darrell Issa ’s
second as the chairman of Congress’s chief oversight committee,
is part of a broader push by House Republicans to make
regulatory overhaul a centerpiece of their party’s job-creation
plan.  The Republicans are offering a House resolution today that
instructs 11 of the chamber’s committees to compile a list of
regulations that should be targeted.  “It is not my intention to do away” with government
regulations, Issa said at today’s hearing. “Government must and
can provide opportunity, not smother it.”    ConocoPhillips  and  Boeing Co . were among 201 companies and
trade groups that responded to Issa’s request to identify
government rules they find onerous. Of the 111 regulations
cited, 57 were issued by the Environmental Protection Agency.  Issa’s effort was met with skepticism by Democrats on his
panel, who said the witness list excluded consumer groups and
labor unions that could explain how regulations, particularly
those governed by the EPA, protect Americans’ health and safety.  Representative Elijah Cummings of  Maryland , the committee’s
ranking Democrat, said Issa’s approach falls short of a full
examination of the costs and benefits of regulation.  Creating Jobs  “A lot of the responses we received had nothing to do with
creating jobs,” he said, citing rules to require chief
executive officers to disclose their compensation and giving
shareholders greater input on pay and “golden parachutes.”  Targeted rules included air-pollution standards, lead
contamination training requirements and rules to cut emissions
from boilers at pulp mills.  Witnesses at the hearing included Harry Alford, head of the
National Black Chamber of Commerce, Tom Nassif, president of the
Western Growers Association, and Jay Timmons, president of the
National Association of Manufacturers in  Washington .  Timmons said that for every $1 billion spent on complying
with boiler emissions rules, 16,000 jobs are put at risk. He
also said that EPA regulations on greenhouse gas emissions would
limit refineries and  power plants , which would pass higher costs
on to consumers.  25,000 Jobs  Michael J. Fredrich, president of MCM Composites LLC in
Manitowoc, Wisconsin, said it took his company three hours and
cost $2,500 to fill out forms to comply with health-care
regulations. Alford said the Obama administration’s restrictions
on oil drilling in the  Gulf of Mexico  have cost 25,000 jobs.  Issa has said that in fiscal 2010 federal agencies created
43 “major” new regulations at an estimated cost of $28
billion.  More than 50 of those responding to Issa’s request,
including Toyota Motor Corp. North America, cited concerns about
rules to limit greenhouse-gas emissions.  EPA rules limiting  carbon emissions  from power plants and
oil refineries took effect Jan. 2 after Congress failed to agree
on a plan to cap  greenhouse gases  blamed for  climate change .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heidi Przybyla in Washington at 
 hprzybyla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  