-- Italian Industrial Output Rose in December as Exports Gain
-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 2011-02-10T09:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-10/italian-industrial-output-rose-more-than-forecast-in-december-on-exports.html
Italy’s industrial production
climbed more than economists expected in December as the
recovery in  Europe ’s biggest economies fueled export demand.  Output rose 0.3 percent from November, when it climbed a
revised 1.3 percent, Rome-based  statistics office Istat  said
today. Economists forecast a 0.2 percent gain in December,
according to the median of 18 estimates in a Bloomberg News
survey. Output climbed 5.4 percent from a year earlier, compared
with 4.1 percent the previous month.  Production will show “significant” gains in the early
2011, Italian employers’ lobby  Confindustria  said last month and
the government yesterday raised its economic growth forecast to
1.5 percent for this year, from 1.3 percent in September. Prime
Minister  Silvio Berlusconi ’s Cabinet yesterday approved a plan
to spur growth, including fiscal incentives for small- and
medium-sized companies and proposed changes to the constitution
to make doing business easier.  Business confidence rose to the highest in almost three
years last month as executives grew more optimistic about the
recovery, citing “an improvement in expectations for orders and
the general economic situation,” Istat said on Jan. 31.  Still, with an unemployment rate of 8.6 percent, close to
the highest level since monthly records began in 2004,  consumer
spending  may not show a “real recovery” until next year,
retailers’ lobby  Confcommercio  said in a Jan. 10  report . Even
with the January gain Industrial production fell 0.2 percent in
the fourth quarter from the previous three months.  Export Gains  Italy’s economic growth is being driven by gains in exports
to trading partners such as France and  Germany . French
industrial output unexpectedly rose 0.3 percent in December,
after jumping 2.3 percent in November, a separate report said
today. Italian exports to euro-region countries rose almost 17
percent in November.  Italy’s new car registrations fell 21 percent in January to
164,356, the Italian Transportation Ministry said on Feb. 1.
Italian sales of  Fiat SpA , the country’s biggest manufacturer,
dropped 28 percent in the month and its market share fell to
29.2 percent from 32 percent a year earlier.  Gains in Italian production were led by clothing and
leather, refined oil and output of basic metals, today’s report
showed. Industrial sales gained 0.2 percent in November, Istat
said on Jan. 20. Sales rose 12.1 percent from the same month of
2009.  The statistics institute originally reported a 1.1 percent
annual increase in November production.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  