-- Ivory Coast Cocoa Beans Get Smuggled Through North Export Route
-- B y   P a u l i n e   B a x
-- 2011-02-10T15:01:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-10/ivory-coast-cocoa-beans-getting-smuggled-through-northern-route-amid-ban.html
Ivory Coast’s  central town of Bouake
has become a transit hub for cocoa beans that are being smuggled
to northern neighbor  Burkina Faso  as a one-month export ban
slows down shipments from the country’s southern ports.  “Every day, between 30 and 40 trucks carrying cocoa beans
pass the city borders on their way to  Burkina Faso ,” said Siaka
Coulibaly, who owns a transport business at the city’s wholesale
market, where the cocoa is being stored. “They are usually 60-
ton trucks,” he said by phone from Bouake yesterday. The cocoa
travels through Burkina Faso and back south to the port at Lome,
Togo, he added.  Trucks loaded with cocoa from Ivory Coast have arrived in
Bobo-Dioulasso, Burkina Faso, said Hyacinthe Tiendrebeogo,
manager of the inland port in the city. “I know that in the city
there are stores where cocoa is stored for sending to Lome,” he
said by phone today, adding that he wasn’t aware of the specific
quantity of the beans.  Cocoa smuggling has risen in  Ivory Coast , the world’s
biggest producer of the chocolate ingredient, since President-
elect  Alassane Ouattara  on Jan. 24 ordered all exporters to halt
shipments of beans that have not yet been declared for taxes.
The ban was designed to cut off tax revenues to incumbent
President  Laurent Gbagbo , who refuses to leave office since a
disputed Nov. 28 election.  Rebel Control  Bouake has been controled by the New Forces insurgent
movement since a 2002 uprising that divided Ivory Coast into a
rebel-held north and a government-run south. Despite a 2007
peace accord, the northern border between Ivory Coast and
Burkina Faso is still managed by rebel officials.  Each truck that passes through Bouake is obliged to pay
75,000  CFA francs  ($156) in taxes to the New Forces, Coulibaly
said. The rebel group is loyal to Ouattara, who hails from the
northern part of the country and earned a majority of the
region’s votes in November.  “This morning I counted 12 large trucks loaded with cocoa
waiting for clearance to drive on to Burkina Faso,” said Moussa
Diawarra, a resident, by phone yesterday. “Sometimes we see
trucks carrying coffee as well,” he added. Farmers in the
eastern cocoa-growing part of the country are selling their
beans to buyers in Ghana, said Bile Bile, the head of a regional
farmers’ cooperative, on Feb. 8.  “The president, Alassane Ouattara, has imposed an export
ban,” said Felicien Sekongo, spokesman of the New
Forces movement, by phone from Bouake. “Now, if people sell
cocoa beans to  Ghana  or Burkina Faso, all I can say is that they
are not following official government guidelines, and it does
not fall in any way under the responsibility of the New Forces.”  Increasing Security  The  Ghana Cocoa Board , which oversees the industry in Ivory
Coast’s neighbor and the world’s second-biggest grower of the
beans, worked with the country’s security forces to increase
monitoring of the 668-kilometer (415-mile) border, Noah Amenyah,
spokesman for the board, said by phone today. “There is no
indication of foreign beans in Ghana,” he said.  Alhaji Mohammed Mumuni, Ghana’s foreign affairs minister,
said Ivory Coast’s illegal cocoa could affect the quality of
Ghanaian beans.  “If there are restrictions on the Ivory Coast, it’s likely
that smuggling that has been going on along our border will
intensify and therefore you will have more Ivorian cocoa coming
into Ghana,” he said in an interview in  Addis Ababa ,  Ethiopia ,
Jan. 28. “It will contaminate our cocoa.”  A woman who answered the phone at the office of Ivory
Coast’s national Coffee and Cocoa Management Committee declined
to answer questions or give her name when called today. Enselme
Gouthon, the Togolese government official responsible for cocoa
exports, didn’t respond to a message left on his phone today.  March-delivery cocoa climbed for the third day, adding 42
pounds, or 2 percent, to 2,189 pounds per metric ton by 2:56
p.m. in  London  today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pauline Bax in Abidjan via Accra at 
 ebowers1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at   asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 