-- JC Clark Licks Wounds After Loss, Accepts Bull Market in Buying HP Shares
-- B y   M a t t   W a l c o f f
-- 2011-02-10T05:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-10/jc-clark-licks-wounds-after-loss-accepts-bull-market-in-buying-hp-shares.html
JC Clark Ltd., a Toronto-based hedge
fund manager that got burned by its forecast that stocks would
tumble last year, has reversed course and taken its most-bullish
position since the depths of the 2008-09  bear market .  Co-founder Colin F. Stewart says he’s convinced that U.S.
stimulus policies will boost stocks for at least this year,
before markets suffer the consequences of excessive government
debt. The C$175 million ($177 million)  JCCLark Preservation
Trust , which was voted best directional hedge fund at the 2008
and 2009 Canadian Investment Awards, has the widest ratio of
shares owned to shares sold short in almost two years, he said.  The fund bought stock in electronics maker  Hewlett-Packard
Co ., panelboard producer  Norbord Inc . and  Consolidated Thompson
Iron Mines Ltd . since reversing its view last last year. In
mid-2010 the fund was more focused on shortselling -- or
borrowing shares and selling them with the intention of
profiting from price declines by buying them back later.  “The long-term structural issues are still very much the
same,” Stewart, who took over as sole manager of the fund after
the retirement of founder John C. Clark on Feb. 1, said in an
interview at the fund’s Toronto office. “Those risks are
significant, and at some point in time, the significant  budget
deficit , the situation in  Europe  with sovereign debt, those
issues will start to be an area of focus for the equity market
down the road. Now I’m of the view that may be a couple of years
down the road.”  Bearish  Last June, JC Clark adopted its most-bearish portfolio
since before the Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. crash of 2008,
with Stewart forecasting that government-debt concerns might
drive equity benchmarks down 25 percent. The Preservation Trust,
which has returned 13 percent a year since its inception in
1999, lost 7.3 percent last year while the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index and S&P/Toronto Stock Exchange Composite Index had total
returns of 15 percent and 18 percent respectively.  “What I had not anticipated was that the  Federal Reserve 
is very determined in the U.S. to do whatever they have to do to
improve the unemployment situation in the U.S. and inject enough
liquidity into to the system to stimulate economic growth,”
said Stewart, who co-founded JC Clark in 1999.  The U.S. central bank announced a $600 billion asset-
purchase program in November and has kept  interest rates  at
record lows.  Stewart, 35, said he still believes the growing U.S.
national debt will lead to higher interest rates and bond
yields, making stocks more expensive per dollar of profit and
less attractive to investors than fixed income.  Signal to Sell  The S&P/TSX and S&P 500 should gain 5 percent to 10 percent
this year, before suffering a drop of as much as 20 percent
sometime during the next few years, he said. An increase of “a
few hundred basis points” in bond yields will be a signal to
sell equities. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  The fund’s net long exposure has increased to about 40
percent from 15 percent to 20 percent in mid 2010, he said. Net
long exposure is calculated by subtracting the percentage of a
fund’s equity capital invested in short sales from the
percentage used for long positions, according to the Alternative
Investment Management Association.  “We’ve shifted to being short-term more bullish, but we
still see longer-term structural risks,” Stewart said. “The
question is how do we protect against these risks, and the
answer is, we’re in larger, more liquid stocks today than we
have been in the past. We can make changes quite quickly.”  Stewart, who also manages the C$55 million Canadian-
oriented Focused Opportunity Fund, is buying stocks that are
comparatively cheap compared to their profits, have healthy
balance sheets or pay dividends. These companies tend to be in
the technology, telecommunications or health-care sectors.  The Preservation Trust bought shares of HP, the world’s
largest personal-computer maker, late last year. In December,
HP’s share price fell to $7.89 per dollar of analysts’ average
forecast profit, compared with $14.48 for the  S&P 500 .  Housing Bet  Stewart has also taken a bet on the housing industry,
buying shares of Toronto-based Norbord and Toll Brothers Inc.,
the biggest builder of luxury homes in the U.S. After the
subprime-mortgage crisis led to a 79 percent plunge in housing
starts in the late 2000s, home-builders are only building half
of the homes necessary to match  population growth , he said.  “There is a significant demand-supply imbalance,” Stewart
said. “It may take some time for that to be worked through, but
when it does, any company that had to become more efficient
through the downturn, when you get a rebound in demand, we think
you’re going to see a lot of that revenue improvement flow to
the bottom line.”  Because of its concerns about the U.S. national debt --
which the  International Monetary Fund  sees surpassing gross
domestic product next year -- about 65 percent of the equity
shares the Preservation Trust owns are Canadian.  The hedge fund invested in Consolidated Thompson, the iron
producer being bought by Cliffs Natural Resources Inc., to take
advantage of supply disruptions from last month’s floods in  Australia . Another company may seek to outbid Cliffs, Stewart
said.  JC Clark has reduced holdings of or sold short companies in
the industrial, retail and consumer-discretionary industries,
with Stewart citing surges in share prices since August.  Last month, the Preservation Trust shorted shares of  Cintas
Corp ., the largest U.S. supplier of uniforms.  “It’s a business whose key market, the manufacturing
sector, is in a secular decline,” Stewart said. “Manufacturing
jobs are leaving the U.S. and going overseas. That’s a trend we
think is going to continue.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Walcoff in Toronto at 
 mwalcoff1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  