-- Paulson Says Fed Gave ‘Little’ Oversight to Subprime
-- B y   G i l l i a n   W e e
-- 2011-02-10T23:58:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-10/john-paulson-says-better-mortgage-oversight-by-fed-may-have-limited-crisis.html
  John Paulson , whose Paulson & Co.
hedge fund made $15 billion betting against subprime mortgages
in 2007, said better oversight of home loans by the  Federal
Reserve  System would have helped prevent the crisis.  “The Federal Reserve did have oversight for the mortgage
area, and there was very little oversight given in the mortgage
area,” Paulson said in an October 2010 interview released today
by the Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission on its  website .
“Demanding that proper underwriting guidelines be followed, not
allowing ‘no doc’ loans, requiring a down payment, even if it’s
just 5 percent,” would have gone a long way toward preventing
the crisis.  The lack of underwriting standards, excessive leverage at
banks, and financial institutions that sold derivatives without
having sufficient equity are among the main reasons for the
crisis, he said in the interview with commission, which was
charged by Congress with delving into the origins of the 2008
financial collapse.  Paulson said his firm researched the mortgage markets in
2005 and early 2006 and found subprime loans had “no
underwriting standards at all.” Mortgages underwritten in 2006
were inferior to those from earlier periods, he said.  “None of this made any sense to us,” Paulson, 55, said,
recounting his experience obtaining three mortgages before the
housing boom. “When I purchased my home it was very strict
underwriting standards. I had to provide two pay stubs, two
years tax returns, three months of bank statements, all sorts of
credit card information.”  ‘Lightyears’  Clear and simple underwriting rules would have gone
“lightyears” toward preventing the crisis, Paulson said,
adding that regulators could also have eliminated loans with
negative amortization.  Rating companies failed to identify risky securities
because they had a “perverse” incentive, being paid to rate
debt by the companies that sold it, Paulson said.  The Basel III capital rules have since addressed the two
main issues that caused banks to fail, he said, by requiring
them to hold more capital. Margin requirements on derivatives
would have helped prevent the failure of AIG.  “If you had margin requirements against derivatives AIG
could have never happened,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gillian Wee in New York at 
 gwee3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  