-- JPMorgan, Credit Ratings, Volcker Rule: Compliance
-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 2011-02-10T13:20:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-10/jpmorgan-credit-ratings-volcker-rule-compliance.html
  JPMorgan Chase & Co ., sued by the
trustee for  Bernard Madoff ’s defunct firm for $6.4 billion for
allegedly aiding the con man’s fraud, asked a judge to remove
the case from bankruptcy court because it raises “novel and
unsettled questions” beyond the court’s scope and expertise.  In a lawsuit unsealed last week, Madoff trustee  Irving
Picard  accused JPMorgan of actively assisting Madoff’s crimes to
protect earnings from his bank accounts, in the process
violating federal banking law. The earnings were “wholly
immaterial” and the allegations about law-breaking were “not
the domain of bankruptcy law,” JPMorgan said yesterday.  Picard was appointed to liquidate the Madoff brokerage
firm, JPMorgan said in a filing in  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in
Manhattan. Instead, he is mostly pursuing non-bankruptcy claims
on behalf of Madoff’s customers, the bank said.  “The trustee is trying to pursue an enormous backdoor
class action to recoup damages incurred by individuals and
entities other than the firm to which he is the appointed
successor,” said JPMorgan, the second-biggest U.S. bank.  Picard “falsely” accused the bank of complicity in the
largest  securities fraud  in U.S. history, JPMorgan said. The New
York-based bank said it has a right to a jury trial by law in an
appropriate federal court.  The Madoff trustee’s suit against JPMorgan is “very
aggressive,” bankruptcy lawyer Harvey Miller told Bloomberg
Television yesterday. “He is pushing the envelope to the
limit.”  According to a statement by Picard last week, JPMorgan had
a “decades-long role” as Madoff’s primary banker, “aiding and
abetting” the fraud. While the bank was warned Madoff may have
been running a Ponzi scheme and “had a palpable concern that
Madoff was a fraud for years,” it was not until October 2008
that it reported Madoff to government officials, the trustee’s
lawyers said in the statement.  The banks’ executives didn’t restrict the Madoff firm’s
bank account, “even though it was being used to launder money
from the Ponzi scheme,” they said.  In response, JPMorgan said Picard’s interpretation of
banking law “would impose broad investigative duties on banks
that do not exist.”  While federal banking laws do provide “broad guidelines”
for detecting  money laundering , the guidelines have rarely been
interpreted by the courts, it said.  Picard asserted a “novel claim” that JPMorgan committed a
fraud on regulators including the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission and the Federal Reserve by not alerting them to
Madoff’s crimes, it said.  The Madoff liquidation case is Securities Investor
Protection Corp. v. Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities
Inc., 08-01789, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New
York (Manhattan). The adversary case is Picard v. JPMorgan Chase
& Co., 10-AP-4932, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  Compliance Action  U.K. Government, Banks Seal Bonus, Disclosure Accord  Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne yesterday
announced an agreement by Britain’s biggest banks --  Lloyds
Banking Group Plc ,  Barclays Plc ,  HSBC Holdings Plc  and  Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc  -- to lower compensation from last
year’s levels. Under the agreement, the banks will disclose the
remuneration details of their five most-senior employees below
board level, without naming the individuals. The announcement
came a day after the chancellor raised tax on the industry by
800 million pounds ($1.3 billion).  “Britain needs to move from retribution to recovery,”
Osborne told the House of Commons in London. “The banks will
lend more money, especially to small businesses, pay more taxes
and pay smaller bonuses, be more transparent about bonuses they
do pay and make a greater contribution to our regional
economy.”  The deal follows two months of talks during which ministers
have wrangled with bank chiefs over demands for lower bonuses as
the government raises taxes and reduces spending to narrow a
record budget deficit. Barclays Chief Executive Officer Robert
Diamond said Jan. 11 the time for “apologies and remorse” from
banks following the financial crisis was over. Britain’s bankers
learn the size of their bonuses this month and next. Following
the negotiations, known as Project Merlin, Lloyds, HSBC, RBS,
Barclays and Banco Santander U.K. also agreed to make loans of
about 190 billion pounds to companies to help bolster the
economic recovery, Osborne said.  “The banks are the clear winners here,” said Ralph Silva,
a strategist at London-based Silva Research Network, which
provides research to financial companies. “The banks had
already said they were going to increase lending to businesses
and that was to be expected given that the economy is
recovering. Coupled with that the salary disclosures are pretty
pointless as we aren’t going to know what the star traders
earn.”  The agreement was criticized as having no real effect.  Andrew Tyrie , the Conservative head of Parliament’s cross-party
Treasury Committee, said little progress had been made on
bonuses in the accord.  “Without further transparency on bonuses we will never
know whether banks are fueling risks and mistakes for which one
day we may have to pay as a result of the way they misallocate
risk,” Tyrie told lawmakers.  Ed Balls, who speaks for the opposition Labour Party on
financial affairs, said the agreement is “vague, toothless and
not a substitute for proper competition.”  The agreement is the latest occasion that RBS and Lloyds
have accepted the need to show restraint on bonuses, with both
banks first making the pledge in 2009. The state has majority
stakes in the two lenders after the previous Labour government
provided about 1 trillion pounds in bailouts and guarantees to
support the financial system.  For more, click here.  Fed Confirms Banks Would Have 2 Years to Adapt to Volcker Rule  The Federal Reserve confirmed yesterday that banks would
generally have two years to comply with the Volcker Rule, which
bars bank holding companies from trading for their own accounts,
once its provisions become effective.  The Fed yesterday announced approval of a final rule to
implement the provisions of the Volcker Rule. It said in a
statement that the final rule is “substantially similar” to a
proposal published in November. The Volcker Rule hasn’t yet been
completed.  SEC Seeks Comment on Cutting Credit-Rating References  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission is proposing to
replace references to credit ratings in forms used to register
securities.  SEC commissioners voted 5-0 yesterday to seek comment on a
rule that would remove credit ratings from a list of criteria
that could qualify issuers for expedited sale of non-convertible
securities. Ratings would be replaced by a new test tied to the
amount of debt an issuer has sold in the preceding three years.  “The global community has continued to express concern
with credit-rating reliance being embedded into regulatory
frameworks,” SEC Chairman  Mary Schapiro  said in a statement.
“We believe that having issued $1 billion of registered non-
convertible securities over the prior three years would
generally correspond with a wide following in the marketplace.”  The Dodd-Frank Act requires federal regulators including
the SEC to replace references to credit ratings in their rules
by July 21. The regulatory overhaul enacted last year calls on
agencies to replace the reference with an “appropriate” new
standard for measuring creditworthiness.  Lawmakers took aim at credit-rating companies after firms
including  Moody’s Corp . and McGraw-Hill Cos.’ Standard & Poor’s
unit gave top rankings to subprime mortgage bonds whose collapse
sparked the worst financial crisis since the Great Depression.  The Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission, assigned by
Congress to find the causes of the meltdown, said in its final
report last month that poor performance by credit-rating firms
was a significant contributor to the collapse.  The SEC is seeking comment through March 28 on the proposed
rule, which would also remove credit ratings from other agency
documents related to the short-form registrations. The proposal
is the first of a series of steps the SEC is taking under the
Dodd-Frank requirement to remove all references to ratings.  SEC Commissioner Troy Paredes, one of two Republicans on
the panel, said he would be “keenly interested” in comments on
the number of firms that might be inconvenienced by the change.  The rules “could hinder capital formation by making it
more difficult for some public companies to use the streamline
registration form,” said Bradley J. Bondi, a law partner at
Cadwalader, Wickersham & Taft LLP in Washington, in an e-mail.  “It will be important for any affected companies to
comment on the SEC’s proposed changes,” said Bondi, who
investigated credit-rating firms for the FCIC.  An SEC staff study, however, found that fewer than 5
percent of issuers from 2006 through 2008 would have been
prevented from using short-form registration if the proposed
rule had been in place.  SEC Said to Probe  Insider Trading  Through Exchange-Traded Funds  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission is
investigating whether exchange-traded funds are being used to
hide insider trading, a person with knowledge of the probe said.  The funds, which usually track an index and trade like
stocks, enable buyers to bet on price changes without trading
futures. An investor with non-public information about a company
may be able to hide illegal orders by trading in a fund that
includes that stock instead of buying or selling the equity
directly, the person said.  The number of exchange-traded funds has surged since they
were created in 1993, widening investors’ access to different
assets, including commodities. The SEC has said it is using
data-driven techniques to find patterns of insider trading and
market manipulation.  The probe was previously reported by the Financial Times.  Bank of England, Finance Regulator Propose Bank Auditor Rules  The Bank of England and the Financial Services Authority
proposed rules that would require auditors to share information
with regulators.  The rules would apply to auditors when they are dealing
with firms regulated by the FSA and require the external
auditors of “certain firms” to have formal meetings with the
regulator, the FSA said in a statement today.  “This increased coordination will enhance the ability of
the FSA to scrutinize specific accounting practices and related
judgments in order to understand fully their implications and to
highlight emerging problems,” the FSA said in the statement.  The London-based regulator said last year that bank
auditors must pay more attention to possible management bias in
the banking industry after accounting firms failed to uncover
problems before the financial crisis. Investors lost confidence
in banks’ financial reporting during the early stages of the
credit crunch because they didn’t reflect the reality of
emerging problems, the FSA said.  The FSA and the Financial Reporting Council, which
regulates accounting firms, said in a separate statement that
they reached an agreement to share more information to improve
oversight of audits at finance firms.  There are concerns “some auditors may not be exercising
sufficient professional skepticism in their approach to the
audit of key areas of management judgment,” said Richard
Thorpe, the FSA’s accounting and auditing section leader. “The
FSA relies on audited financial information to meet its
regulatory objectives and it is imperative that we have
confidence in the information provided.”  The Bank of England will oversee prudential regulation by
the end of 2012 in an overhaul of the current regulatory
structure. The FSA will be replaced by an independent Consumer
Protection and Markets Authority.  Compliance Policy  Senators Urge Regulators to Move Cautiously on Derivatives Rules  A bipartisan group of U.S. senators urged regulators
implementing derivatives measures under the Dodd-Frank Act to
move cautiously so the rules can be “completed without
unintended consequences.”  The senators, in a Feb. 8 letter signed by 13 members of
the Senate Banking and Agriculture committees, warned Treasury
Secretary Timothy F. Geithner, Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S.
Bernanke and two other top officials against “overly
prescriptive rules” that might push market participants abroad.
“If the major overhaul of our derivatives market is implemented
hastily, agency rulemakings could have negative effects on our
economy at a time when we can least afford it,” the lawmakers
said in the letter signed by three Democrats and 10 Republicans
including Senator Mike Johanns of Nebraska, who serves on both
the Banking and Agriculture committees.  The Securities and Exchange Commission and the Commodity
Futures Trading Commission are leading efforts to regulate the
$583 trillion over-the-counter derivatives market after largely
unregulated trades helped fuel the credit crisis. SEC Chairman
Mary Schapiro and CFTC Chairman Gary Gensler also were sent
copies of the letter.  The lawmakers urged regulators to exempt “end-users” --
non-financial firms that use derivatives to hedge business risk
-- from margin requirements stipulated by Dodd-Frank. Failing to
do so would “blatantly disregard” the law’s intent, they said.  Swaps and other derivatives are financial instruments whose
value is based on an underlying security or benchmark, such as a
stock option. Companies may use them to hedge risks and other
investors employ them to bet on markets.  The letter was signed by Republican Senators Pat Roberts of
Kansas, Thad Cochran of Mississippi, Ron Johnson of Wisconsin,
David Vitter of Louisiana, Mike Crapo of Idaho, Kay Bailey
Hutchison of Texas, Roger Wicker of Mississippi, John Boozman of
Arkansas and Jerry Moran of Kansas as well as Johanns. Democrats
Max Baucus of Montana, Herb Kohl of Wisconsin and Jon Tester of
Montana also signed the letter.  Republican Threat to Cut SEC Funding May Delay Fiduciary Rules  Republicans in the U.S. Congress may withhold funds from
the Securities and Exchange Commission, delaying a new standard
for brokers and registered investment advisers, said
Representative  Barney Frank .  The SEC’s potential budget shortfall “will have the effect
of either delaying or slowing down at best” fiduciary
rulemaking, Frank of Massachusetts, the senior Democrat on the
Financial Services Committee, said in a telephone interview. The
agency was asked by Congress to look at the effectiveness of
existing rules governing brokers and investment advisers as part
of the Dodd-Frank financial services overhaul law enacted July
21.  Without money for staff to help implement a common standard
and follow up on complaints, the SEC won’t be able to enforce
it, said Frank, a coauthor of the legislation. The SEC, which
can make the rules without additional Congressional approval,
recommended in a staff  report  delivered to Congress Jan. 21 that
brokers and registered investment advisers who give personalized
investment advice follow a uniform fiduciary standard.  Broker-dealers currently are held to a suitability standard
that calls for advice that meets their clients’ needs when a
product is sold, instead of the fiduciary duty followed by
registered investment advisers to put their clients’ best
interests first. Rulemaking is scheduled for between April and
July, according to the SEC’s  website .  “A dramatic spending increase to fund the SEC and CFTC, as
envisioned by the authors of the Dodd-Frank legislation, would
further the mindset that our nation’s problems can be solved
with more spending, not more efficiency,” Representative Scott Garrett, chairman of the Financial Services subcommittee that
oversees the SEC, said Jan. 25 in a  statement .  For more, click here.  Wells Fargo Says Fiduciary Standard May Narrow Customer Choice    Wells Fargo & Co .’s head of brokerage operations said banks
may reduce the number of investment products offered to
customers if regulators impose a fiduciary standard on brokers.  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission’s proposal for
a common fiduciary standard for brokers and registered advisers
may increase the need for due diligence from banks and advisers,
Senior Executive Vice President David Carroll said yesterday at
a Miami investor conference.  The SEC’s plan would make all brokers and registered
investment advisers who provide personalized investment advice
adhere to a common standard when dealing with clients. Broker-
dealers currently must ensure only that an investment product
and accompanying advice is suitable for their clients’ needs. A
fiduciary duty would mean putting clients’ best interests first,
which might require passing up choices with bigger commissions.  “It’s going to cause the investment menu to narrow,”
Carroll said. “We won’t have 6,000 mutual funds in our network
probably two years from now like we do today.”  Wells Fargo, with $1.2 trillion in client assets and based
in San Francisco, is the third-largest among U.S. brokerages,
behind  Morgan Stanley  Smith Barney and  Bank of America Corp .’s
Merrill Lynch.  The process of developing the standard is moving along the
way Wells Fargo would like because it’s being developed by
regulators “and not by congressional staff,” he said.  “We have been driving our brokerage business toward a
fiduciary model starting back in 2004,” Carroll said. “So
we’re pretty pleased with where this is headed.”  For more, click here.  Courts  Freeman Told Judge Inside Tips Came From Taiwan  Former SAC Capital Advisors LP portfolio manager Noah
Freeman told a judge this week that his illegal inside tips came
from sources in California, New York, Texas and Taiwan,
according to a court transcript.  Freeman, 35, pleaded guilty on Feb. 7 and agreed to
cooperate with Manhattan federal prosecutors in their probe of
insider trading by hedge funds. A transcript of his guilty plea,
which was initially under seal, was made public today.  In his plea, Freeman said he worked at two hedge funds
between 2005 and 2010, which he didn’t identify, and on several
occasions paid insiders for “detailed financial information
including revenues and, on some occasions, gross margins and
earnings per share.”  “Some of the people with whom I -- from whom I received
information were based in other states including California, New
York and Texas, and others were abroad including in Taiwan,”
Freeman said, according to the transcript.  The case is U.S. v. Barai, 11-mag-00332, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Activision Blizzard Loses EU Court Challenge to Antitrust Fine  An  Activision Blizzard Inc . unit lost a bid to have the
European Union’s highest court reduce an antitrust fine levied
on a cartel involving Nintendo Co.  The  European Court of Justice , the 27-nation EU’s top
tribunal, today dismissed the appeal, ruling that the documents
EU regulators had relied on “constituted sufficient evidence of
the existence of an agreement between Activision Blizzard and
Nintendo which was contrary to EU law.”  The European Commission, the EU antitrust agency, fined
Nintendo and seven distributors 167.8 million euros ($228.9
million) for colluding between 1991 and 1998 to raise prices of
games and consoles. Nintendo won an appeal to the EU’s second-
highest court in 2009 cutting its fine by 20 percent to 119.2
million euros from 149.1 million euros.  The Belgian unit of Germany’s CD-Contact Data GmbH, which
has since become Activision Blizzard Germany, was the only
company in the cartel to appeal its fine to the EU’s top court.
The lower EU court in 2009 halved its 1 million euro-fine to
500,000 euros because of the company’s “passive role.” CD-
Contact became Nintendo’s importer for Belgium in 1997,
according to the commission.  The case is C-260/09 P, Activision Blizzard Germany
(anciennement CD-Contact Data) v European Commission.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ellen Rosen in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 