-- Kinder Morgan Raises $2.9 Billion in LBO-Backed IPO
-- B y   L e e   S p e a r s
-- 2011-02-10T23:49:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-10/kinder-morgan-raises-2-9-billion-in-biggest-lbo-backed-u-s-ipo.html
Kinder Morgan Inc., the energy-
pipeline company whose owners include the  Carlyle Group  and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc ., raised $2.9 billion in the biggest
private equity-backed U.S. initial public offering.  The company, which was taken private in 2007, sold 95.5
million shares at $30 each, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. That’s 23 percent more than the company had
originally sought to raise in the offering.  The company had offered 80 million at $26 to $29 apiece,
according to a Feb. 3 filing with the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission.  The price indicates “a ton of demand for this deal,” said
Kevin Gallagher, a vice president at Dallas-based Swank Capital
LLC, which owns a group of funds that invest in master limited
partnerships, or MLPs. Selling shares as a corporation rather
than an MLP “opens up the potential universe of investors,”
Gallagher said.  Most of  Kinder Morgan ’s assets are owned by an MLP, whose
units are publicly traded. The partnership structure has tax
benefits for individual unitholders, though some institutional
investors avoid the structure because of tax issues and
liquidity, Gallagher said.  The share sale was the biggest by a U.S. oil and natural-
gas company since Conoco Inc. raised $4.4 billion in 1998,
according to Bloomberg data.  Growing Confidence  Kinder Morgan completed its offering after Nielsen Holdings
NV’s initial sale last month set the previous U.S. record for a
private equity-backed IPO. The deals are a boost to leveraged
buyout firms betting the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index’s rally to
the highest level since June 2008 will increase demand for sales
of debt-fueled acquisitions completed as credit markets started
to freeze four years ago.  “Now that people are seeing deals that are really coming
out and doing well, they’re willing to come back to the table,”
said Daniel Genter, president of RNC Genter Capital Management
in  Los Angeles , which oversees about $3.7 billion. “People are
willing to come back into the market with liquidity and extend
their risk profile. It’s the perfect time for private equity to
unwind deals.”  All of the shares offered were owned by Goldman Sachs, New
York-based Highstar Capital LP, the Carlyle Group and Riverstone
Holdings LLC, according to the filing. The four investors put
13.5 percent of the company’s common stock up for sale, assuming
full conversion of existing investors’ stakes from other
classes, the company said in a statement.  Valuing the Company  Kinder Morgan’s underwriters, led by Goldman Sachs and
London-based Barclays Plc, have the option to buy an additional
14.3 million shares after the offering, according to the company
statement. The shares will start trading tomorrow on the  New
York  Stock Exchange under the ticker KMI.  The midpoint of Kinder Morgan’s price range valued the
pipeline owner at $19.4 billion. Carlyle’s pre-offering stake
was worth about $2.2 billion based on that figure, more than
double the initial investment of $882 million that the
Washington-based firm disclosed in a letter to investors.  Nielsen, the New York-based television-ratings company,
raised $1.64 billion from its Jan. 25 IPO, which two days later
expanded to $1.89 billion after underwriters led by  JPMorgan
Chase & Co . and Morgan Stanley opted to buy more shares,
according to Bloomberg data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lee Spears in New York at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net . 