-- King Faces Ticking Clock on Interest Rates as Inflation Soars
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2011-02-10T10:03:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-10/king-faces-ticking-clock-on-interest-rate-increase-as-u-k-inflation-soars.html
The clock is ticking for  Bank of
England  Governor  Mervyn King  as the weakness in the economy
forces policy makers to endure soaring inflation and refrain
from raising  interest rates .  While all 62 economists in a Bloomberg News survey say the
bank will leave its benchmark interest rate on hold at a record
low 0.5 percent today, investors have added to bets on an
increase in the first half of the year. Former rate setter
DeAnne Julius said yesterday the bank needs to tighten policy
“sooner rather than later” or risk losing credibility.  “It’s now come to this position: we have to have an
improvement in inflation or they have to raise rates,” said
Steven Bell, chief economist at London-based hedge fund GLC Ltd.
and a former U.K. Treasury official. “The clock is ticking. May
is now everyone’s favorite date.”  The Monetary Policy Committee’s deliberations today will be
based on new forecasts, which King will present to the public on
Feb. 16. Inflation accelerated to 3.7 percent in December,
almost double the bank’s target, and minutes of the January
meeting showed “most” of the panel noted that medium-term
risks had “probably shifted upwards.”  The pound fell 0.3 percent against the dollar to $1.6045 at
9:35 a.m. in  London .  The central bank is due to announce its decision at noon in
London. It will also hold its bond-purchase program at 200
billion pounds ($322 billion) today, a separate survey shows.  Divided Committee  While former policy maker Tim Besley said in a Feb. 4
interview that the central bank’s new projections are likely to
show inflation easing to the 2 percent target, current officials
are divided on the outlook for consumer prices.  Six of the nine members voted to leave policy unchanged
last month, and  Martin Weale  and  Andrew Sentance  voted to raise
rates.  Adam Posen  maintained his call for additional stimulus
after the economy shrank in the fourth quarter.  U.K. manufacturing unexpectedly declined 0.1 percent in
December as economic activity was hampered by the coldest
weather seen in the month in a century, the  Office for National
Statistics  said today.  The inflation outlook has prompted investors to bet on a
rate increase. The implied yield on June short sterling futures
has risen 25 basis points this year to 1.14 percent. The pound
has gained against 15 of the 16 most traded currencies in that
period.  First to Raise  Forty percent of investors in a Bloomberg Global Poll last
month said the Bank of England will be the first major central
bank to raise its key rate, with 27 percent backing the  European
Central Bank  and 20 percent the  Federal Reserve .  “The bank doesn’t like surprising the market and a rate
rise would put a rocket under sterling, so they want to prepare
the ground a bit,” said Ian Kernohan, an economist at Royal
London Asset Management. “There is a danger that inflation
expectations move higher if the bank doesn’t remove some of the
stimulus. We are expecting rates to rise, but not this month.”  Recent data suggest the economy’s 0.5 percent contraction
in the fourth quarter may have been a temporary setback to the
recovery, adding strength to Sentance’s and Weale’s argument.
Surveys last week showed services and construction rebounded in
January, while manufacturing grew at a record pace.  ‘Finely Balanced’  Britons’ inflation expectations for the next year rose last
month to the highest level since 2008, Citigroup Inc. said on
Jan. 28. The minutes of the January meeting show that the rate
decision for some members was “finely balanced.” Data on gross
domestic product for the fourth quarter were published Jan. 25.  “Underlying economic activity might be a bit stronger than
we were thinking,” said Philip Rush, an economist at Nomura
International Plc in London. “On the basis of the fourth
quarter looking like a one-off shock, you could well see another
member, maybe more, change their mind and join Sentance.”  Rush sees a 20 percent chance of a rate increase today, and
a one-in-three chance of a move in May.  For now, higher inflation expectations haven’t fed through
to pay deals. A report from VocaLink today showed wage growth at
Britain’s biggest listed companies slowed to 0.6 percent in the
three months through January, the least since June.  Still, former official Julius said yesterday that the high
rate of inflation still poses risks.  “I think there is a credibility problem,” she said in an
interview. “We could well see that our high inflation gets
embedded into parts of the wage-bargaining system.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Svenja O’Donnell in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  