-- KNOC Plans to Spend $4 Billion on Oil Assets, Targets 33% Output Increase
-- B y   S h i n h y e   K a n g   a n d   S u n g w o o   P a r k
-- 2011-02-10T05:49:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-10/knoc-plans-to-spend-4-billion-on-oil-assets-targets-33-output-increase.html
Korea National Oil Corp., a state-
run energy resources developer, plans to invest as much as $4
billion in overseas oilfields this year as it aims to increase
crude production by 33 percent.  “We’re interested in assets in  Africa ,  Europe , Asia, the
U.S. and  Canada ,” Kim Seong Hoon, senior executive vice
president, said in an interview. “We plan to raise daily output
by 60,000 barrels to 240,000 barrels by the end of the year.”  The company known as KNOC invested about $3 billion in
overseas assets last year, leading the Asian nation’s drive to
secure raw materials and energy for an economy that relies on
imports for almost all its needs. Competition for resources is
intensifying as China and  India , the fastest-growing major
economies, scout around the globe for supplies.  “The overall trend is that  oil prices  will rise in the
long term as extra capacity for production seems to be limited
while global demand is set to grow as economies in emerging
markets and advanced countries expand,” Kim Jae Jung, an
analyst with Woori Investment & Securities Co. in  Seoul , said by
phone today. “The company should buy whenever it finds good
assets, in order to boost supplies.”  Chief Executive Officer Kang Young Won said in October he
will focus on investing in producing fields rather than buying
companies, after completing its hostile takeover of  Scotland ’s  Dana Petroleum Plc .  Buying Stakes  The company bought a 50 percent stake in Petro-Tech Peruana
SA of Peru, now known as Savia Peru, for $450 million in
February in 2009 and purchased Canada’s Harvest Energy Trust
worth $3.9 billion eight months later.  “There will be no more acquisitions of listed companies
because the process is too complicated,” Kim, 55, said
yesterday at the company’s headquarters in Anyang near Seoul.
“We will spend between $3 billion and $4 billion this year.”  The South Korean government said in 2008 it will spend 19
trillion won ($17 billion) to boost Korea National Oil’s
overseas production sixfold by 2012 and it will sell shares in
the state-run company after achieving that goal.  The government may sell a stake in Korea National Oil in an
initial public offering in 2015, Kim said.  The state company needs to increase its daily crude oil
output to 300,000 barrels by 2012 to meet the energy needs of  Asia ’s fourth-biggest economy. The company’s daily output was
50,000 barrels in 2008.  ‘Key Foundation’  “Energy is a key foundation of an economy and securing
fuel supplies is very important to sustain stable growth,” said
Woori’s Kim. “Those countries where demand exceeds supply need
to boost their own supplies.”  Recent gains in crude may inflate asset prices, Kim said.
New York crude futures rose to the highest since October 2008 on
Jan. 31 because of concerns the unrest in  Egypt  will spread to
oil exporters such as  Saudi Arabia  and disrupt supplies from the
Middle East.  London-traded Brent has closed higher than $100 a barrel
for five of the eight days through to yesterday. It was quoted
at $102.07 at 1:37 p.m. Seoul time today.  Korea National Oil isn’t interested in the North Sea fields
that  Exxon Mobil Corp . is trying to sell, Kim said. The largest
U.S. oil company is seeking to sell stakes held by subsidiary
XTO in some North Sea blocks off the U.K. coast.  Exxon Mobil is offering its 15 percent stake in blocks that
include the Platypus natural-gas discovery, operated by Dana
Petroleum.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shinhye Kang in Seoul at 
 skang24@bloomberg.net 
Sungwoo Park in Seoul at 
 spark47@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 