-- Kosmos Energy Makes Hydrocarbon Discovery Off Ghana
-- B y   K a r i   L u n d g r e n
-- 2011-02-10T08:00:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-10/kosmos-energy-makes-hydrocarbon-discovery-at-teak-1-off-ghana.html
Kosmos Energy LLC, a private equity-
backed oil producer that’s a partner in Ghana’s Jubilee project,
said its Teak-1 exploration well made a hydrocarbon discovery
off  Ghana  on the West Cape Three Points Block.  Oil, gas-condensate and natural was discovered in
“multiple pools,” the  Dallas , Texas-based company said in a
statement today. Drilling penetrated net oil-and-gas-bearing pay
of 73 meters (239 feet), Kosmos said.  The well, which lies  northeast  of the Jubilee field, could
open up a new area of exploration in the mid-to-lower area of
the Tano basin, the company said. Backed by private equity firms
Warburg Pincus LLC and Blackstone Group LP, Kosmos operates and
controls a 31 percent stake in the West Cape Three Points block.
Other partners include  Anadarko Petroleum Corp . with a 31
percent share and  Tullow Oil Plc  with a 23 percent holding.  The finding is “a great way to start our multi-well
exploration program,” Anadarko Senior Vice President Bob Daniels said in a separate statement. “The combination
structural and stratigraphic trap is up dip and separate from
the Jubilee field, and potentially covers a large areal
extent.”  Drilling on Teak-1 was carried out in 868 meters of water
to a total depth of 3,170 meters, the explorer said. The company
plans to suspend drilling at the well and use the semi-
submersible rig to drill a second well focusing on oil
reservoirs of a similar age to those discovered at Jubilee.  Tullow Oil began pumping oil from the Jubilee field in
November. The field is currently producing 50,000 barrels of oil
a day and will reach 120,000 barrels later this year, Tullow
said on Jan. 27. The field is estimated to hold one billion
barrels of crude.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kari Lundgren in London at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  