-- Kumba Says Thabazimbi Mine Expansion Project Is Not Open to ArcelorMittal
-- B y   N i c k y   S m i t h
-- 2011-02-10T10:31:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-10/kumba-s-project-phoenix-is-not-open-to-arcelormittal-ceo-says.html
  Anglo American Plc ’s Kumba Iron Ore
unit, locked in a supply dispute with  ArcelorMittal  South  Africa 
Ltd., rejected the steelmaker’s claims to the Thabazimbi mine
expansion project, saying it no longer had the right to
participate.  AMSA, as Africa’s largest steel producer is known, “made a
strategic decision and elected not to be part of that project,”
Kumba’s Chief Executive Officer Chris Griffith said today in a
telephone interview. Kumba would be willing to supply ore to
AMSA from the mine on a “commercial basis,” he said.  Kumba supplies more than 65 percent of the iron ore used by
AMSA, which has stepped up efforts to acquire its own mines to
reduce the burden of soaring raw-material expenses. The two
companies are in arbitration over Kumba’s termination of a nine-
year-old supply contract, which gave Pretoria-based AMSA  iron
ore  from South Africa’s Sishen mine at below-market cost.  AMSA Chief Executive Officer Nonkululeko Nyembezi-Heita
said Feb. 8 that the company will begin talks with Kumba over
working on Project Phoenix, which involves extracting iron ore
from dumps at the Thabazimbi mine. “We are now indicating that
we wish to re-engage in that project,” Nyembezi-Heita said.  Kumba had previously agreed to press ahead with the Phoenix
venture after AMSA said it wouldn’t participate, Griffith said.
“We would be very happy at some point in time, round about 2016
when the Phoenix project will be developed, to supply ore to
AMSA,” he said.  Thabazimbi Life Extended  In 2007, Kumba said the life of the Thabazimbi mine in  South Africa ’s Northern Province would be extended by about 20
years by exploiting the “low iron content banded ironstone.”
Currently, the mine’s 2.6 million metric tons of annual
production are sold exclusively to AMSA, according to Anglo
American’s  website .  Steelmakers around the world have sought to increase their
access to raw materials after surging demand in  Asia  pushed up
prices. Average iron-ore prices in  China , a global benchmark,
climbed 70 percent last year as Asian  steel mills  boosted
purchases, according to The Steel Index.  AMSA has reserved its right to take part in Project
Phoenix, even though it previously decided against being
involved, according to Nyembezi-Heita. The company expects to
establish its participation in the next six to 12 months, she
said.  Anglo owns about 63 percent of Kumba, the world’s fourth-
largest supplier of seaborne iron ore.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicky Smith in Johannesburg at 
 nsmith38@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net  