-- Nestle to Increase Local Output in Equatorial Africa, CEO Says
-- B y   K a m l e s h   B h u c k o r y
-- 2011-02-10T13:41:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-10/nestle-to-increase-local-output-in-equatorial-africa-ceo-says.html
Nestle SA, the world’s biggest food
company, plans to increase the proportion of goods it produces
in central  Africa  fourfold by 2016 to reduce costs, regional
Chief Executive Officer Pierre Trouilhat said.  The company expects that 76 percent of products sold in the
20-nation equatorial African region will be produced locally
within five years, compared with 19 percent now, Trouilhat said
yesterday in an interview in Balaclava, north-west of Port
Louis, the Mauritian capital.  “We plan to increase production to 52 percent in 2012 and
76 percent in 2016,” he said. “Opening factories will allow us
to have access to local raw materials, offer tailor-made
products to locals and these factories are geographically
strategically placed to serve other neighboring countries the
region and reduce costs,”  Nestle has operated in Africa for 90 years, and has 25
plants on the continent, Trouilhat said. The company’s central
African region comprises nations such as  Kenya , East Africa’s
largest economy, and  Angola , the sub-Saharan region’s second-
biggest oil producer. Nestle opened a 90 million Swiss franc
($94 million) plant in  Nigeria  this month and is investing 67
million francs building two additional facilities in  South
Africa , its biggest market on the continent.  “Our new finishing factory in Kinshasa, Democratic
Republic of Congo, which requires a $40 million investment over
two phases, will be operating by the end of February,” he said.
“A similar project is being put in place in Angola. Both of
these units have been designed to evolve to a fully-fledge
factory,” he said.  The company, which generated 16 percent of revenue and 18
percent of profit in  Asia , Oceania and Africa in fiscal 2009, is
upgrading plants in Nairobi, Kenya and Harare, Zimbabwe, he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kamlesh Bhuckory in Port Louis via Johannesburg at 
1999 or  pmrichardson@bloomberg.net  