-- N.Y. Mets Stadium-Bond Outlook Cut by Moody’s on Suit
-- B y   M a r t i n   Z .   B r a u n   a n d   H e a t h e r   B u r k e
-- 2011-02-10T20:17:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-10/new-york-mets-stadium-bond-outlook-cut-by-moody-s-on-madoff-lawsuit.html
Moody’s Investors Service lowered to
negative its outlook on municipal bonds issued to finance the
New York Mets baseball stadium because of a lawsuit against the
team’s owners brought by the trustee for  Bernard Madoff ’s
defunct firm.  The suit against team owner Sterling Equities Inc., headed
by Mets Chairman Fred Wilpon, may hurt the club’s performance
and attendance, Moody’s said in a statement today. It rates $695
million of bonds issued by  New York City  on behalf of Queens
Ballpark Co. LLC at Ba1, the highest non-investment grade.  The Feb. 4 suit by  Irving Picard  seeks $1 billion of
alleged phony profits from investments by Sterling in Madoff’s
illegal Ponzi scheme. It claims Sterling ignored warnings from
advisers of the fraud. Wilpon has said he’s looking to sell a
minority stake in the team.  “The negative outlook acknowledges the close connection
between the health and performance of the Mets baseball team and
the long-term  credit quality  of the stadium project,” Moody’s
said in a report.  The Mets sold tax-exempt bonds in 2006 and 2009 backed by
payments in lieu of property taxes, lease revenue and
installment payments to finance the construction of Citi Field.
The team also issued debt backed by payments in lieu of taxes in
2009, the year the ballpark opened.  Last year, Moody’s lowered its rating on four series of
bonds issued by New York City’s Industrial Development Agency on
behalf of the team because of the “diminished credit quality”
of Ambac Assurance Corp., which guaranteed the performance of
the debt-service  reserve fund .  Yesterday, a $600,000 block of Mets stadium bonds backed by
payments in lieu of taxes with a 5 percent coupon and maturing
in 2046 traded at 74.5 cents on the dollar to yield 6.952
percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. On Feb. 7, a
$100,000 block of the same bonds traded at 73.9 cents on the
dollar.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Martin Z. Braun in New York at 
 mbraun6@bloomberg.net 
Heather Burke at 
 hburke2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 