-- 
Newcrest First-Half Profit Doubles on Acquisition

-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 
2011-02-11T05:28:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-10/newcrest-mining-posts-first-half-profit-of-440-million-missing-estimates.html
  Newcrest Mining Ltd .,  Australia ’s
largest gold mining company, said first-half profit more than
doubled after the purchase of Lihir Gold Ltd. and a surge in
prices.  Net income was A$438 million ($437 million) in the six
months ended Dec. 31, compared with A$176 million a year
earlier, the Melbourne-based company said today in a statement.
This was less than the A$457 million mean of four analyst
estimates surveyed by Bloomberg.  Gold recorded a 10th straight annual gain in 2010 as
concern about rising inflation and currency debasement spurred
investors to seek the metal as a store of value. Sales from
Newcrest’s mines in Australia, Indonesia, Papua New Guinea and
West Africa rose 66 percent to A$1.97 billion.  Greg Robinson, Newcrest’s executive director finance, will
succeed retiring Chief Executive Officer  Ian Smith  from July 1,
the company said in a separate statement.  Newcrest will hold a board meeting in April, which will
discuss the company’s geographical focus as well as assessing
the potential to trade its shares in  North America ,  Asia  and  Europe , Robinson said during presentation calls.  Newcrest shares dropped 1.4 percent to A$37.16 at the 4:10
p.m. close of trade in Sydney, trimming gains over the past
twelve months to 15 percent. Newcrest doubled its first-half
dividend to 10 cents a share.  The company’s was “happy with” its assets in West Africa,
including the Bonikro mine in Ivory Coast, which it acquired
with the Lihir takeover, Robinson said. “Clearly our focus
during the transaction was on Lihir Island, but we’re happy with
our assets in West Africa,” Robinson told reporters during a
media call.  The change in leadership came at a “natural point” after
achieving of a number of strategic goals, including the takeover
of Lihir, Chairman Don Mercer said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  