-- NFL, Player Union Cancel Washington Negotiating Session on Labor Contract
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i   a n d   C u r t i s   E i c h e l b e r g e r
-- 2011-02-10T15:53:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-10/nfl-player-union-cancel-washington-negotiating-session-on-labor-contract.html
The  National Football League  and its
players’ union canceled today’s negotiating session aimed at
moving closer to an agreement on a new labor contract.  NFL Players Association spokesman George Atallah said
today’s second day of talks in  Washington  were called off after
representatives from the league and union met yesterday. No
reason was given for the cancellation.  “I don’t pretend to predict what’s going to happen,”
Atallah said at a news conference. “I know we’ve got 20 days to
expiration and none of this started yesterday.”  The two sides also met Feb. 5 in  Dallas , the day before the  Super Bowl . NFL Commissioner Roger Goodell had said the previous
day that “intensive, round-the-clock” negotiations with the
union were needed to reach an agreement.  NFL owners opted out of the current deal, which ends March
3, saying it doesn’t account for costs such as those to build
stadiums. Union Executive Director DeMaurice Smith has said
players already help with such costs by calculating their share
of league revenue, which is about 59 percent, after omitting $1
billion for items such as stadium costs, according to the NFL
Network and NFL.com.  Owners want players to take an 18 percent cut in their
share of revenue, which the union opposes. Other disputed topics
include expanding the regular season to 18 games from 16, a
rookie salary cap and health care.  “I won’t get into the specifics of negotiations,” Atallah
said. “It’s important given that we’ve got a small window that
we stay away from the specific issues. The players are all
committed to getting a fair deal done as quickly as possible.”  NFL spokesman Brian McCarthy didn’t immediately return an
e-mail seeking comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  