-- Nigerian Wealth Fund to Save for Future Generations
-- B y   P a u l   O k o l o
-- 2011-02-10T13:32:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-10/nigerian-sovereign-wealth-fund-to-save-at-least-20-for-future-generations.html
  Nigeria ’s sovereign wealth fund,
currently under debate in parliament, will set aside at least 20
percent of its assets accrued from crude oil exports for future
generations.  The Nigeria Sovereign Investment Authority will be split
into the Nigeria Infrastructure Fund, the Future Generations
Fund and the Stabilization Fund, according to a draft of the
bill obtained by Bloomberg. Each component will represent at
least 20 percent of the total fund.  The fund is designed to ensure some of Nigeria’s oil wealth
is saved and that it can’t be tapped on a regular basis to
finance the government’s running costs. The government of
Nigeria,  Africa ’s most populous country and top oil producer,
has pledged an initial sum of $1 billion for the fund.  Each of the three components will create a “ring-fenced
portfolio of investments,” the document says.  The finance minister can only withdraw money from the
stabilization segment, “upon a proper demonstration of
urgency,” in order to shore up the economy whenever lower crude
prices curb government revenue, the document says.  The West African country relies on crude exports for about
95 percent of its foreign currency earnings. It’s the only
member of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
without a sovereign fund, according former Information Minister
Dora Akunyili.  Oil is currently trading at about $86.15 a barrel, compared
with the $65 anticipated in Nigeria’s 2011 budget.  Depleting Reserves  The creation of the sovereign wealth fund comes after
Nigeria depleted its current excess crude account from more than
$20 billion in 2007 to less than $1 billion last year, according
to a report in Abuja-based  Daily Trust  on Jan. 27.    Fitch Ratings  lowered its outlook on Nigeria’s BB- credit
rating to “negative” from “stable” on Oct. 22, saying it was
concerned by withdrawals from the account and a drop in foreign
currency reserves.  The fund has the potential to improve Nigeria’s credit
rating, “especially if it manages to accumulate savings,”  Alan
Cameron , analyst at London-based Business Monitor International,
said in an e-mailed response to questions. “But this process
will need to be complemented by a stronger legal framework and
greater certainty about how the funds are being spent.”  The sovereign fund, to be based in the capital, Abuja, will
have a governing board headed by the president. Other members of
include governors of the 36 states, the ministers of finance,
justice and planning, the governor of the central bank and the
chief economic adviser.  Finance Minister Olusegun Aganga said on Jan. 7 he expected
the lawmakers to approve the bill before the end of the tenure
of the administration in May.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Paul Okolo in Abuja 
 pokolo@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 