-- Nokia Investors Seek Elop Plan to Challenge Android
-- B y   D i a n a   b e n - A a r o n
-- 2011-02-10T07:16:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-10/nokia-s-elop-said-to-partner-with-microsoft-to-challenge-iphones-android.html
Late last year, Sun Xuanyu, a
Beijing department store clerk, broke up with Nokia, the mobile-
phone brand she’d been using since she was a teenager. She had
fallen in love with an Android.  “Nokia used to be really good,” said Sun, 23, who got her
first mobile phone when she was 12. “Now they just don’t make
smartphones that do the kinds of things I want.”  Sun is among people  Nokia Oyj  Chief Executive Officer
Stephen Elop needs to woo back as devices based on  Google Inc .’s
Android platform gain ground. Elop, who unveils his strategy to
investors in London tomorrow, confronts a smartphones market
where Android shipments have overtaken Nokia’s for the first
time and  Apple Inc .’s iPhones dominate on the high end.  Elop’s plan to revive market share and profits may include
a software partnership with  Microsoft Corp ., a bet that together
the two companies can better challenge Google and Apple,
according to a person with knowledge of the discussions. Elop
may also seek changes in the executive suite, a review of
smartphone software Symbian and MeeGo, and try to squeeze more
out of the company’s 5.9 billion-euro ($8.1 billion) corporate
research and development budget -- more than four times  Apple ’s.  Some investors and analysts say the steps may be too
little, too late for the world’s largest mobile-phone maker.  “Very few companies regain their leadership once they’ve
lost it,” said Hakim Kriout, a  fund manager  at Grigsby &
Associates in  New York , who holds Nokia shares. “It’s a very
difficult thing to do because their demise tends to originate
from a combination of problems rather than one or two issues.”  Microsoft Partnership  Elop, 47, a former Microsoft executive, took the helm at
Nokia on Sept. 21 as the Espoo, Finland-based company was
struggling to catch up to Apple more than three years after the
2007 unveiling of the application-rich iPhone.  With Androids also now eating into market share, Elop has
held talks with Microsoft CEO  Steve Ballmer  about putting
Microsoft’s mobile operating system on Nokia phones, said the
person, who asked not to be identified because the discussions
were private.  “The market expects Nokia to announce adoption of Windows
Phone 7 either for the high-end or for some geographies
(U.S.),” Morgan Stanley analysts including Patrick Standaert
wrote in a report this week. Whatever Elop chooses to do,
“execution will be key,” they wrote.  Laurie Armstrong, a U.S. spokeswoman for Espoo, Finland-
based Nokia, didn’t respond to requests for comment. Dawn Beauparlant, a spokeswoman for Redmond, Washington-based
Microsoft, declined to comment.  Android Vendors  Since Elop joined, Nokia has risen 6.7 percent, closing
yesterday in Helsinki at 8.4 euros. In the period, Apple has
gained more than 26 percent, while Google has gained 21 percent.  Nokia, which in the past shrugged off the lack of a greater
presence in the U.S. by pointing to its dominance in developing
markets such as China and  India , now confronts the emergence of
Android phones and so-called “white-box” devices from
unbranded manufacturers in these countries.  Android is licensed to dozens of vendors including Samsung
Electronics Co. and  HTC Corp ., the two biggest makers of devices
based on the software, according to researcher Gartner Inc.  Android has more than 100,000 applications and a wide range
of price points. Android fans can get a 3,100 yuan ($470) device
like Sun’s HTC Desire or they can pocket a $150 ZTE Blade with
similar features. Cheaper Androids are a popular step up from
Nokia midrange phones -- even in Nokia’s home market of  Finland .  ‘Burning Platform’  “People who would earlier have bought a 50 to 80 euro
smartphone are trading up,” said Panu Lehti, head of business
development at Finland’s biggest phone company Elisa Oyj, where
the ZTE Blade has been the best-selling handset for the past two
months. “Before, new entrants didn’t have good enough software
and that’s been changed by Android.”  A memo purportedly written by Elop to employees -- which
Nokia neither confirms nor denies -- shows he’s aware of the
issues that ail Nokia. The company is “standing on a burning
platform, and we must decide how we are going to change our
behavior,” he is cited by technology blog Engadget as saying in
the memo. Elop said Jan. 27 that Nokia “must build, catalyze
and/or join a competitive ecosystem.”  Analysts and investors took the comments to mean that Elop
is willing to rethink Nokia’s device platforms. Berenberg Bank
analyst Adnaan Ahmad recommended in a note that Nokia scrap
MeeGo, the platform it’s developing with  Intel Corp . Nokia plans
to replace Symbian with MeeGo on high-end devices. Elop
postponed the first MeeGo handsets, due in 2010, to this year.  Massive Cut  “I think there’s a lot of hope that they’re going to have
a massive cut in R&D, and that may be hard to do without
abandoning Symbian,” said Stuart O’Gorman, director of
technology investments at Henderson Global Investors Ltd. in
Edinburgh.  Symbian needs more keystrokes to do less than the iPhone
and Androids even after a yearlong revamp, and its Ovi Store
apps catalog is far behind, driving customers to its rivals.
Clawing back lost ground won’t be easy.  Google has more than 300,000 activations of Android daily
on phones and tablets, according to Chief Executive Officer  Eric Schmidt . That run rate of almost 110 million activations a year
compares with Nokia’s 2010 sales of 100.3 million smartphones.  Retail prices for low-end Android devices will fall to about
$88 by the end of the year, from about $110 now, said Gavin Byrne, a London-based analyst at Informa Plc.  “There’s a clear shift downmarket,” said Kulbinder Garcha, a New York-based analyst at Credit Suisse.  Downward Drift  That price spiral and a declining market share resulted in
Nokia’s 2010 net profit of 1.85 billion euros, an almost 75
percent drop from 2007. Nokia’s average smartphone price fell to
156 euros in the fourth quarter from 186 euros a year before. It
discounted its new N8 smartphones soon after their release.  “Premium Android models from Motorola, HTC and Samsung
have eaten away at the share of Nokia’s high-end models,” said
Duncan Clark of BDA China Ltd., a consulting firm. “It’s a
global phenomenon.”  Taking on the competitive threats may require an overhaul
of the mindset at Nokia, Elop said. “We need an attitudinal
shift,” Elop said Jan. 27. “We must improve the quality of our
execution, accelerate the speed at which we execute, and enhance
the effectiveness of our partnerships.”  That may mean changing some managers.  Credible Strategy  Nokia has no executive vice presidents left from Chairman
Jorma Ollila’s “dream team” in the 1990s. Some executives
joined the ranks when Ollila was still in charge in the mid-
2000s, including Mary McDowell, who runs low-end phones, Kai Oeistaemoe, now in corporate development, Tero Ojanperae in
services and Niklas Savander in marketing.  “Stephen Elop does realize what the problems are, but the
question is whether there is a credible strategy and whether
they can execute it without compromising their existing sales,”
said Henderson’s O’Gorman. “They’ve done the easy step that
previous management didn’t take, which is realizing the problem.
The harder steps are still to come.”  Elop will need to take those steps if he is to win back
disenchanted customers like Beijing’s Sun. Sun says her “killer
app” on her new Android phone is a virtual private network that
lets her jump government blocks to watch videos on YouTube site.  It’s an iPhone-like experience at half the price, she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Diana ben-Aaron in Helsinki at 
 dbenaaron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root in Paris at   vroot@bloomberg.net  