-- Nokia Said to Be Near Software Partnership With Microsoft
-- B y   C a r o l   H y m o w i t z ,   D i a n a   b e n - A a r o n   a n d   D i n a   B a s s
-- 2011-02-10T09:24:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-10/nokia-said-to-be-near-partnership-to-use-microsoft-software-on-handsets.html
  Nokia Oyj  is close to announcing a
software partnership with  Microsoft Corp ., a bet that together
the two companies can better challenge  Google Inc . and  Apple
Inc ., according to a person with knowledge of the discussions.  Nokia Chief Executive Officer Stephen Elop has held talks
with Microsoft CEO  Steve Ballmer  about putting Microsoft’s
mobile operating system on Nokia phones, said the person, who
asked not to be identified because the discussions were private.
Elop also held talks with Google CEO  Eric Schmidt  about using
Google’s Android software, the person said. Those discussions
are unlikely to lead to an alliance, according to another person
familiar with the matter.  Elop will unveil a new strategy for Nokia at an event in  London  tomorrow, laying out his comeback plan for the smartphone
market. The partnership with Microsoft, if clinched, would be
aimed at helping both companies claw back ground lost to Android
and Apple’s iPhone at the high end of the market.  The 47-year-old former Microsoft executive may also seek
changes in the executive suite and a review of Nokia’s
smartphone platforms Symbian and MeeGo, and try to squeeze more
out of the company’s 5.9 billion-euro ($8.1 billion) corporate
research and development budget -- more than four times Apple’s  Some investors and analysts say the steps may be too
little, too late for the world’s largest mobile-phone maker.  “Very few companies regain their leadership once they’ve
lost it,” said Hakim Kriout, a  fund manager  at Grigsby &
Associates in New York, who holds Nokia shares. “It’s a very
difficult thing to do because their demise tends to originate
from a combination of problems rather than one or two issues.”  Strategic Alliance?  Laurie Armstrong, a U.S. spokeswoman for Espoo, Finland-
based Nokia, didn’t respond to requests for comment. Dawn Beauparlant, a spokeswoman for Redmond, Washington-based
Microsoft, declined to comment. Mike Nelson, a spokesman for
Google in  Mountain View ,  California , didn’t immediately respond
to a message seeking comment.  Nokia would prefer to have a strategic partnership with a  software company , rather than just being one of the many
companies that license Android software, one of the people said.
The idea would be to wed Nokia’s market share, which is
especially high in emerging markets, with Microsoft’s Internet
and software know-how, the person said.  Android is licensed to dozens of companies, which use it
for both smartphones and tablets. Samsung Electronics Co. and  HTC Corp . are the two biggest makers of devices based on the
software, according to research firm Gartner Inc.  ‘Attitudinal Shift’  Elop took the helm at Nokia in September after a stint as
head of Microsoft’s business-software division. Taking on the
competitive threats may require an overhaul of the mindset at
Nokia, Elop has said. The company currently relies on a
smartphone operating system called Symbian, and it’s developing
another software platform with  Intel Corp . called MeeGo.  “We need an attitudinal shift,” Elop said last month.
“We must improve the quality of our execution, accelerate the
speed at which we execute, and enhance the effectiveness of our
partnerships.”  That may mean changing some managers. Nokia has no
executive vice presidents left from Chairman Jorma Ollila’s
“dream team” in the 1990s. Some executives joined the ranks when
Ollila was still in charge in the mid-2000s, including Mary McDowell, who runs low-end phones, Kai Oeistaemoe, now in
corporate development, Tero Ojanperae in services and Niklas Savander in marketing.  ‘Burning Platform’  A memo purportedly written by Elop to employees -- which
Nokia neither confirms nor denies -- shows he’s aware of the
issues that ail Nokia. The company is “standing on a burning
platform, and we must decide how we are going to change our
behavior,” he is cited by technology blog Engadget as saying in
the memo. Elop said Jan. 27 that Nokia “must build, catalyze
and/or join a competitive ecosystem.”  Analysts and investors took the comments to mean that Elop
is willing to rethink Nokia’s device platforms. Berenberg Bank
analyst Adnaan Ahmad recommended in a note that Nokia scrap
MeeGo. Nokia plans to replace Symbian with MeeGo on high-end
devices. Elop postponed the first MeeGo handsets, due in 2010,
to this year.  “I think there’s a lot of hope that they’re going to have
a massive cut in R&D, and that may be hard to do without
abandoning Symbian,” said Stuart O’Gorman, an investment at
Henderson Global Investors Ltd. in Edinburgh.  Symbian needs more keystrokes to do less than the iPhone
and Androids even after a yearlong revamp, and its Ovi Store
apps catalog is far behind, driving customers to its rivals.  Credible Strategy  Android has more than 100,000 applications and a wide range
of price points. Android fans can get a 3,100 yuan ($470) device
like HTC's Desire or they can pocket a $150 ZTE Blade with
similar features. Cheaper Androids are a popular step up from
Nokia midrange phones -- even in Nokia’s home market of  Finland .  “People who would earlier have bought a 50 to 80 euro
smartphone are trading up,” said Panu Lehti, head of business
development at Finland’s biggest phone company Elisa Oyj, where
the ZTE Blade has been the best-selling handset for the past two
months. “Before, new entrants didn’t have good enough software
and that’s been changed by Android.”  Since Elop joined, Nokia shares have risen about 6 percent
and traded 1.2 percent lower at 8.3 euros as of 11:19 a.m. in
Helsinki. In the same period, Apple has advanced more than 26
percent, while Google has gained 21 percent.  “Stephen Elop does realize what the problems are, but the
question is whether there is a credible strategy and whether
they can execute it without compromising their existing sales,”
said Henderson’s O’Gorman. “They’ve done the easy step that
previous management didn’t take, which is realizing the problem.
The harder steps are still to come.”  For Microsoft  Microsoft shares also have lagged behind those of rivals.
The stock is little changed over the past year, hampered by
struggles in mobile phones and tablets. Even though Nokia’s
Symbian lost market share last year, it still  accounted  for 37.6
percent of smartphone sales, according to Gartner. That would
potentially give Microsoft a larger beachhead in the industry.  Microsoft released an overhauled mobile operating system
last year, aiming to get more phone manufacturers to adopt it.
So far, the new software hasn’t sparked a turnaround. The
company shipped 2 million copies of the operating system, called
Windows Phone 7, last quarter, disappointing analysts.  Microsoft needs to show accelerating growth, Kevin Burden,
an analyst at  ABI Research , said last month. A major way to do
that is to get a handset maker to put a considerable amount of
effort behind a Windows device, he said.  Microsoft shares dropped 31 cents, or 1.1 percent, to
$27.97 yesterday on the Nasdaq Stock Market, while Google
declined $1.88 to $616.50.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Carol Hymowitz in  New York  at 
 chymowitz1@bloomberg.net ;
Dina Bass in Seattle at   dbass2@bloomberg.net ;
Diana ben-Aaron in Helsinki at 
 dbenaaron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net ;
Vidya Root in Paris at   vroot@bloomberg.net  