-- North Korea Says `No Need' for Talks With South Korea as Meeting Collapses
-- B y   B o m i   L i m
-- 2011-02-10T00:04:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-10/north-korea-military-says-no-need-for-additional-talks-with-south-korea.html
North Korea said it won’t continue
talks with  South Korea  after their first meeting in four months
collapsed yesterday without an agreement on holding higher-level
discussions to defuse tensions.  “We no longer feel the need to deal with the traitor
group, which has no interest in improving relations,” North
Korea’s delegation to this week’s military talks said today in a
statement carried by the official Korean Central News Agency.
“It is our tradition to respond to dialogue with dialogue and
confrontation with confrontation.”  North Korean military officials walked out of the talks
after refusing to accept any involvement in the sinking of a
South Korean warship in March, South Korea’s Defense Ministry
said yesterday in an e-mailed statement. The rupture dims the
prospect of a thawing in relations between the nations that
exchanged artillery fire in November after  North Korea  shelled a
South Korean island.  The meeting at the border village of Panmunjom, held for a
second day yesterday, was aimed at setting a date and other
details for higher-level defense talks, which were meant to
discuss the two attacks that killed 50 South Koreans last year.
North Korea and South Korea last held talks on Sept. 30  “It shows how the differences between the two nations
cannot be resolved overnight,” said Kim Yong Hyun, a professor
of North Korean studies at Seoul-based  Dongguk University .
“It’s still too early to say the chance of mending ties has
been eliminated.”  ‘Missed Opportunity’  The walk-out represented a “missed opportunity” for North
Korea “to demonstrate its sincerity” in trying to improve
relations with South Korea, U.S. State Department spokesman  Philip J. Crowley  said yesterday in  Washington .  North Korea must first accept responsibility for the
attacks for relations to improve, South Korea’s Defense Ministry
said in the statement, repeating comments made on Feb. 8. North
Korea demanded that the discussions should touch on other issues
that could help prevent military provocations, the ministry
said, without revealing what those issues were.  North Korea said it shelled Yeonpyeong island near the
western maritime border because South Korean live-firing
exercises violated its territory. North Korea doesn’t recognize
the Northern Limit Line, as the sea border is called, demarcated
by the  United Nations  after the 1950-1953  Korean War .  The cost of insuring South Korean government debt jumped
after the shelling of Yeonpyeong as both sides ratcheted up
rhetoric and concerns mounted of a military confrontation.  The nation’s five-year credit default swaps rose 17 percent
on Nov. 23, the biggest one-day gain in two years, data compiled
by Bloomberg show. Since then, they have dropped 21 percent. The
CDS rose as much as 1.8 percent yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bomi Lim in Seoul at 
 blim30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  