-- NYSE Death as Dominant Exchange Presaged German Deal
-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a   a n d   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r
-- 2011-02-10T21:03:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-10/nyse-symbol-of-u-s-capitalism-lost-out-as-investors-sought-lower-costs.html
The New York Stock Exchange, the
symbol of American capitalism for more than a century, may merge
with a German rival after losing ground to smaller competitors.    NYSE Euronext , the owner of the NYSE, is negotiating to be
acquired by  Deutsche Boerse AG  with equity valued at $10 billion
after its market share dwindled to 23 percent from 80 percent in
the past six years. The new company will be the biggest exchange
owner, handling equities worth $15 trillion and 40 percent of
the U.S. options market.  The 219-year-old exchange led by Chief Executive Officer  Duncan Niederauer , home to General Electric Co. and  Ford Motor
Co ., was diminished as regulators opened U.S. markets to more
competition after investors demanded lower trading costs. The
sale to 18-year-old Deutsche Boerse in Frankfurt shows the
increasing importance of machines over humans in trading stocks
and the rising influence of derivatives, where profit margins
are as high as 55 percent.  “Sadly, the NYSE became a victim of its own success -- too
large and dominant to move quickly to adapt,” said Peter Kenny,
a managing director in institutional sales at Knight Capital
Group Inc. in Jersey City,  New Jersey , who became a member in
1987. “It is not all bad, but it is very sad to an old timer
like myself.”  Deutsche Boerse and NYSE Euronext announced merger talks on
the same day that  London Stock Exchange Group Plc  agreed to
purchase Toronto-based  TMX Group Inc . for about $3.1 billion.  Exchange Mergers  The biggest day ever for exchange mergers triggered rallies
in shares of operators from New York to  Chicago  and Sao Paulo.  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc ., IntercontinentalExchange Inc.,  CBOE
Holdings Inc . and BM&FBovespa SA -- all of which run derivative
venues for futures or options -- rallied as much as 6.7 percent
yesterday.  Deutsche Boerse rose 4.6 percent to 61.10 euros today in
Frankfurt. NYSE Euronext shares slipped 1.2 percent to $37.64,
paring yesterday’s 14 percent rally. Their total market value of
$26 billion exceeds Hong Kong Exchanges & Clearing Ltd.’s,
currently the world’s largest by market capitalization at $23.2
billion.  “We are still waiting for more details and are flying a
bit blind right now,” said  Timothy Ghriskey , chief investment
officer at Solaris Asset Management in Bedford Hills,  New York ,
which manages $2 billion. “But the market likes the combination
of cross-board stock exchanges.”  Fragmented Markets  With as many as 50 venues trading equities in the U.S.
compared with fewer than 20 a decade ago, competition has driven
down the amount exchanges can charge for executing trades.
Brokers who owned the NYSE 10 years ago earned 6.25 cents or
more when buying and selling 100 shares. Now, the spread is a
penny for the most heavily traded stocks.  NYSE Euronext said derivatives revenue climbed 14 percent
in 2010, while overall sales declined for two straight years.
Derivatives are contracts whose values are determined by
underlying assets.  Deutsche Boerse, which may buy NYSE Euronext for about $10
billion in stock, would own about 60 percent of the new company.
Niederauer, 51, would be chief executive officer of the new
organization. Reto Francioni, the 55-year-old CEO of Deutsche
Boerse, would be chairman.  ‘Better Off’  “You’ll have the two strongest stock exchanges together,
and it’s going to give us access to  Europe , and them access to
the United States in a way that some of our other competitors,
like  London , will not have,” New York Mayor Michael Bloomberg
said at a news conference today. “You’ll add jobs because the
stronger the New York Stock Exchange is in our global world, the
better off we are.” The mayor is founder and majority owner of
Bloomberg News parent Bloomberg LP.  The New York Stock Exchange, formed in 1792 under a
sycamore tree on  Wall Street , became the center of American
capitalism through its grip on stock listings and trading.
During the crash of 1987, Chairman John J. Phelan won praise for
securing pledges from executives of some of the exchange’s
biggest companies to buy back their own stock.  The Big Board’s reputation faded in the last decade when
scandals highlighted the potential for collusion on the NYSE
floor and faster technology reduced the need for middlemen.  In September 2003, Chairman Richard Grasso ended a 36-year
career at the exchange as regulators and directors said a $140
million pay package called his leadership into question. Two
years later, the U.S. charged 15 NYSE specialists with fraud,
saying they manipulated orders for four years to pocket $19
million at clients’ expense. The NYSE was censured for self-
regulatory failures and agreed to submit to outside monitoring
for the first time.  Thain’s Deal  Grasso’s successor, John Thain, orchestrated the 2006
reverse merger that gave the NYSE control of Chicago-based
Archipelago Holdings Inc. and turned the member-owned exchange
into a public company. By then, regulatory directives aimed at
lowering transaction costs were in the process of cutting the
NYSE’s market share.  The 2001 switch to decimal share pricing, from sixteenths
of a dollar, allowed any firm willing to sell for a penny less
than the best available price to step in and make the trade.
That reduced margins for specialists on the floor of the
exchange. Automated-trading firms such as Getco LLC in Chicago
used high-speed computers on electronic venues such as Bats
Global Markets in Kansas City, Missouri, and  Jersey City , New
Jersey-based Direct Edge Holdings LLC to overcome lower profits
by sending thousands of orders to trade every second.  Ways to Grow  At the same time, exchanges around the world were
combining, with at least $95.8 billion of mergers completed
since January 2000. NYSE combined with Euronext NV in 2007. TMX
bought Montreal Exchange Inc. in 2008, a year after London Stock
Exchange Group acquired Borsa Italiana SpA. ICE purchased the
New York Board of Trade in 2007 and Bolsa de Mercadorias e
Futuros bought Bovespa Holding SA in 2008.  Futures exchanges around the world traded 8.2 billion
contracts in 2009, almost three times the turnover in 2003,
according to data from the Futures Industry Association.  With rivals taking business, one of the quickest ways for
NYSE Euronext to grow is through mergers and acquisitions, said
Michael Pagano, a professor of finance who studies exchanges and
market structure at the Villanova School of Business in
Villanova, Pennsylvania.  ‘Just Electricity’  “It costs a fixed amount of money to build a computer
system for trading, but once you generate revenue that covers
those fixed costs the marginal cost of covering just one
additional trade beyond that is basically just electricity,”
Pagano said.  That’s led to a reduction in costs. Total salaries and
benefits at NYSE fell by 5.6 percent to $613 million last year,
the biggest drop since the data on the publicly traded company
began in 2005. Deutsche Boerse, which is scheduled to release
results next week, cut staff expenses by 3.7 percent in 2009 and
26 percent in 2008, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  NYSE Euronext owns exchanges in Amsterdam, Lisbon, Paris
and Brussels, as well as London-based Liffe, Europe’s second-
largest derivatives market. The company also runs three U.S.
stock exchanges: NYSE Arca, NYSE Amex and the New York Stock
Exchange, two options platforms and the NYSE Liffe U.S. futures
exchange, which trades contracts linked to  interest rates .  Deutsche Boerse operates the  Frankfurt  stock exchange and
Clearstream, Europe’s second-biggest securities-settlement firm.
The company also has Eurex Clearing AG and a 50 percent holding
in Eurex, the region’s largest futures market. Eurex bought a
stake in International Securities Exchange, an options market
that competes with CBOE, in 2007.  Cutting Jobs  “In Exchange 101, it’s about operating leverage,” said  Jamie Selway , managing director at Investment Technology Group
Inc. in New York and an expert in how markets are organized. He
said NYSE Euronext and Deutsche Boerse can combine and eliminate
more costs in personnel and technology. “You spend a fixed
amount of cost to operate platforms. Anything additional you can
trade on them is incremental revenue.”  NYSE and Deutsche Boerse may move to a single execution
system, coordinating trading services and eliminating jobs in
areas such as sales, marketing and computer support. The
combined exchange will use NYSE Euronext’s trading system for
cash equities, said a person familiar with the matter who
declined to be identified because the talks are private.  Options Volume  The deal would give the combined company about 40 percent
of U.S. options volume by adding NYSE Euronext’s two markets
with the ISE, currently the third-largest venue. CBOE was the
biggest options exchange operator last month with 30 percent of
contracts handled on its venues.  Combined, the companies will be the world’s largest futures
market by volume, according to data from the Futures Industry
Association, a trade group representing Wall Street banks active
in derivatives. The merged firm would control 11 derivatives
markets, including Liffe U.K., NYSE Arca Options, NYSE Liffe
U.S., Eurex and the International Securities Exchange. The
combined venues would have posted volume of 4.8 billion
contracts in 2010, according to FIA.  That compares to 3.1 billion trades last year at CME Group
Inc., the world’s largest futures exchange, FIA said.  NYSE Euronext would also handle clearing, the guaranteeing
of payments for transactions and delivery of securities, for
equities and futures in Europe through businesses run by
Deutsche Boerse. Combining products in the same clearinghouse
limits the ability of other markets to compete.  “Expanding a good, modern system that already exists like
NYSE costs very little,” said Alfred Berkeley, chairman of
Pipeline Trading Systems LLC in New York and president of Nasdaq
Stock Market from 1996 to 2000. “They can eliminate all that
redundancy in Deutsche Boerse and do a lot more business and a
lot more trades than they’re doing now.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nina Mehta in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net ;
Nandini Sukumar in London at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net ;  David Merritt  at   dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 