-- Obama Says U.S. Needs to Expand its High-Speed Networks, Pledges $15 Bln
-- B y   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r   a n d   T o d d   S h i e l d s
-- 2011-02-10T20:15:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-10/obama-says-u-s-needs-to-expand-its-high-speed-networks-pledges-15-bln.html
President  Barack Obama  said
expanding high-speed Internet networks will help the U.S.
compete economically with other countries and pledged to spend
more than $15 billion on wireless systems for emergency networks
and expanded access to mobile service.  “We can’t expect tomorrow’s economy to take root using
yesterday’s infrastructure,’’ Obama said at  Northern Michigan
University  in Marquette, Michigan. “To attract the best jobs
and newest industries, we’ve got to out-innovate, out-educate,
out-build, we’re going to have to out-hustle the rest of the
world. That means investing in cutting-edge research and
technology.”  In Marquette, a city of about 20,000 people on the shores
of Lake Superior, Obama said that high-speed Internet networks
have helped local businesses reach global markets. He said
further technology investments could help bring down the U.S.
unemployment rate, which was 9 percent last month.  Michigan ’s
unemployment rate was  11.7  percent in December, down from  14.5
percent  a year before.  “I’ve come here because in the 21st century, it’s not just
the big cities where change is happening. It’s also in towns
like this, where the jobs and businesses of tomorrow will take
root,” Obama said, after seeing a demonstration of the
university’s wireless network and discussing with local business
owners how broadband access has helped them expand and hire more
employees.  Airwaves Auction  The money would come from $27.8 billion raised from
auctioning airwaves relinquished by television broadcasters and
also contribute $9.6 billion to reducing the federal deficit
over the next decade, Jason Furman, deputy director of the White
House National Economic Council, said during a conference call
yesterday.  The FCC has proposed the government conduct auctions in
which broadcasters voluntarily surrender airwaves in return for
part of the proceeds. Buyers may include  Verizon Wireless ,  AT&T
Inc .,  Sprint Nextel Corp . and  Deutsche Telekom AG ’s T-Mobile
unit. The auctions require congressional approval.  That would raise enough revenue for the government to pay
for the $10.7 billion public-safety network, $5 billion to
expand access to high-speed wireless service, and to devote $3
billion to communications research, with money left over to
reduce the deficit, Furman and U.S. chief technology officer
Aneesh Chopra told reporters on the conference call.  Use of Resources  “The policy as a whole makes better use of our existing
spectrum, better use of our existing resources” Furman said.  Because it relies on auctions rather than tapping the
federal treasury, Obama’s initiative has “a better-than-even
chance of happening,”  Paul Gallant , a Washington-based analyst
for MF Global, said in a note to investors today.  The spending could help companies including network-
equipment maker Alcatel-Lucent and tower builders  American Tower
Corp .,  Crown Castle International Corp . and  SBA Communications
Corp ., Gallant said in the note. The announcement also should be
good for Motorola Solutions Inc., the dominant supplier of
handsets to public safety entities, Gallant said.  The initiative fleshes out a pledge he made in the  State of
the Union address  to make wireless high-speed Internet, or
broadband, available to 98 percent of Americans within five
years as a way to accelerate economic growth and job creation.  Expanding Business  ‘High-speed Internet allows small businesses to reach
markets beyond the one that they’re in, in the next town, in the
next state or even in a different country,’’  Federal
Communications Commission  Chairman Julius Genachowski said in a
Feb. 8 interview. “We need to take that as seriously as we took
electricity and telephone service in the 20th century.”  Concerns about the deficit, forecast by the  Congressional
Budget Office  to hit $1.5 trillion this year, prompted Obama to
propose a five-year freeze on discretionary federal spending
outside security. Still, the president said he wants to shift
more money into infrastructure, education and research by
cutting other programs more deeply.  “We’ve got to live within our means,” Obama said today.
“Even as we do so we cannot sacrifice our future.”  The White House budget for fiscal year 2012 is scheduled to
be released Feb. 14.  Infrastructure includes building wireless towers and laying
fiber to compete globally, Genachowski said.  The U.S. ranked 40th out of 40 countries in a study ranking
innovative capacity and competitiveness, he said in a  Feb. 7
speech  in  Washington . “We risk falling behind our global
competitors if we don’t accelerate our rate of progress.”  Swing States  Today’s visit marks Obama’s sixth to Michigan since taking
office, according to the White House. It’s his third recent
visit to a political swing state that will figure in the 2012
presidential election, following trips Feb. 3 to  Pennsylvania 
and Jan. 26 to  Wisconsin .  All three states “are suffering badly” economically and
they have lots of newly elected House Republicans, said Wendy Schiller, a political science professor at  Brown University  in
Providence,  Rhode Island .  Schiller said the president is making a calculation that he
can pressure newly elected Republicans to show voters what
they’re doing to help their district’s economies and embarrass
them if they stand in the way of his proposals.  “There is no better place to wage a political battle than
in your opponents’ backyard,” she said.  Obama carried Michigan in the 2008 presidential election,
winning by 16 percentage points. Two years later in the midterm
elections, Republican Rick Snyder, former president of computer-
maker Gateway Inc., won Michigan’s governorship, replacing
Democratic Governor Jennifer Granholm. Republicans won nine of
Michigan’s 15 U.S. House seats. Neither of their two Senate
seats was up for re-election.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kate Andersen Brower in Marquette, Michigan at 
1973 or  kandersen7@bloomberg.net ;  Todd Shields  in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  