-- Obama Budget Will Include $10.7 Billion for Emergency Networks
-- B y   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r   a n d   T o d d   S h i e l d s
-- 2011-02-10T11:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-10/obama-budget-will-include-10-7-billion-for-emergency-networks.html
President  Barack Obama ’s budget will
include $10.7 billion to build a nationwide wireless network for
emergency workers and $5 billion to help Americans get mobile
access to high-speed  Internet service .  Obama would pay for the networks with $27.8 billion from
auctioning airwaves relinquished by television broadcasters, and
still have $9.6 billion available for reducing the federal
deficit, Jason Furman, deputy director of the White House
National Economic Council, said during a conference call
yesterday.  The president will outline the proposal during a trip today
to Marquette, Michigan, where access to high-speed Internet has
helped local businesses reach global markets, according to an
administration statement. The initiative fleshes out a pledge he
made in the  State of the Union address  to make wireless high-
speed Internet, or broadband, available to 98 percent of
Americans within five years as a way to accelerate economic
growth and job creation.  “High-speed Internet allows small businesses to reach
markets beyond the one that they’re in, in the next town, in the
next state or even in a different country,”  Federal
Communications Commission  Chairman Julius Genachowski said in a
Feb. 8 interview. “We need to take that as seriously as we took
electricity and telephone service in the 20th century.”  The FCC has proposed the government conduct auctions in
which broadcasters voluntarily surrender airwaves in return for
part of the proceeds. Buyers may include  Verizon Wireless ,  AT&T
Inc .,  Sprint Nextel Corp . and Deutsche Telekom AG’s T-Mobile
unit.  Paying for Networks  That would raise enough revenue for the government to pay
for the public-safety network, the wireless improvements, and
devote $3 billion to communications research -- as well as
reduce the deficit, Furman and U.S. chief technology officer
Aneesh Chopra told reporters on the conference call. Some of the
$10.7 billion set aside for public-safety wireless networks is
already included in the $3 billion innovation fund, Furman said.  “The policy as a whole makes better use of our existing
spectrum, better use of our existing resources” Furman said.  Concerns about the deficit, forecast by the  Congressional
Budget Office  to hit $1.5 trillion this year, prompted Obama to
propose a five-year freeze on discretionary federal spending
outside security. Still, the president said he wants to shift
more money into infrastructure, education and research by
cutting other programs more deeply. The White House budget for
fiscal year 2012 is scheduled to be released Feb. 14.  U.S. Infrastructure  Infrastructure includes building wireless towers and laying
fiber to compete globally, Genachowski said.  The U.S. ranked 40th out of 40 countries in a study ranking
innovative capacity and competitiveness, he said in a  Feb. 7
speech  in Washington. “We risk falling behind our global
competitors if we don’t accelerate our rate of progress.”  In Marquette, Obama will see a demonstration of  Northern
Michigan University ’s  WiMAX  system, a wireless network that has
facilitated distance learning for students. He will also meet
with local business owners to talk about how broadband access
has helped them expand their businesses and hire more employees,
according to the White House.  The president has said that investments in areas like
technology could help bring down the U.S. unemployment rate,
which was 9 percent last month.  Michigan ’s unemployment rate was
 11.7  percent in December, down from  14.5 percent  a year before.  In his State of the Union address, Obama said expanding
high-speed  Internet access  “isn’t about faster Internet or
fewer dropped calls. It’s about connecting every part of America
to the digital age.”  Swing States  Today’s visit marks Obama’s sixth to Michigan since taking
office, according to the White House. It’s his third to a
political swing state that will figure in the 2012 presidential
election, following trips Feb. 3 to  Pennsylvania  and Jan. 26 to  Wisconsin .  All three states “are suffering badly” economically and
they have lots of newly elected House Republicans, said Wendy Schiller, a political science professor at  Brown University  in
Providence,  Rhode Island .  Schiller said the president is making a calculation that he
can pressure newly elected Republicans to show voters what
they’re doing to help their district’s economies and embarrass
them if they stand in the way of his proposals.  “There is no better place to wage a political battle than
in your opponents’ backyard,” she said.  Obama carried Michigan in the 2008 presidential election
winning by 16 percentage points. Two years later in the midterm
elections, Republican Rick Snyder, former president of computer-
maker Gateway Inc., won Michigan’s governorship, replacing
Democratic Governor Jennifer Granholm. Republicans won nine of
Michigan’s 15 U.S. House seats. Neither of their two Senate
seats was up for re-election.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kate Andersen Brower in  Washington  at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net ;
Todd Shields in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Mark Silva  at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 