-- Obama Says in Speech U.S. Will Fully Support Orderly Transition in Egypt
-- B y   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r   a n d   H a n s   N i c h o l s
-- 2011-02-10T23:18:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-10/obama-says-in-speech-u-s-will-fully-support-orderly-transition-in-egypt.html
President  Barack Obama  met with his
national security advisers as events in Egypt reached a new
crisis point after Egyptian President  Hosni Mubarak  defied
calls from protesters to immediately step down.  Obama watched Mubarak’s speech to Egyptians while
returning from a trip to Michigan on Air Force One. He made no
comments upon his arrival at the White House, where he headed
into a meeting on the latest developments. He is likely to
release a statement later today.  Before Mubarak spoke, Obama said the U.S. will do
everything possible to promote an orderly transition of power
in Egypt.  “We are following today’s events in Egypt very closely,
and we’ll have more to say as this plays out,” Obama said in  Michigan .  “What is absolutely clear is that we are witnessing
history unfold. It’s a moment of transformation.”  Mubarak, 82, said in a nationally televised address that
he is delegating powers to his vice president,  Omar Suleiman ,
and would remain in office until elections scheduled for
September. Crowds watching his speech in Tahrir Square
responded to his speech with cries of “down with Mubarak.”  ‘Enormous Bind’  Mubarak’s stance has put the U.S. into an “enormous
bind,” said Steven Clemons, an analyst at the Washington-based
research organization  New America Foundation  who has been
meeting with National Security Council officials.  “The administration is forced into this position of
either backing down and basically becoming more quiet,” he
said, “Or is this the point which Obama finally says more
publicly, you have to go, you have to leave?”    Aaron David Miller , a former Mideast peace negotiator and
State Department official and now a public policy fellow at the
Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars, said the
administration has little influence over the evolving situation
in Egypt at this point and further prodding of Mubarak without
results may end up making the U.S. look weak.  “The more we comment on it, the more we convince people
we’re somehow capable of managing this or what we say or don’t
say counts right now, the weaker we look,” Miller said. “If
the situation moves from phone calls to the streets, which is
where it appears to be going, we’ll have even less influence.”  ‘Troubling’ Speech  Arizona Senator  John McCain , Obama’s Republican opponent
in the 2008 presidential elections, called Mubarak’s speech
“unfortunate and troubling.”  “The voices of the Egyptian people are growing louder and
more unified,” McCain said in a statement. “I fully support
the peaceful aspirations of the Egyptian people, and I am very
concerned that every day their demands go unmet, the
possibility only grows that this hopeful call for change could
be exploited by extremist or violent elements.”  The U.S. priority continues to be an “orderly
transition” in Egypt leading to free and fair elections, White
House press secretary  Robert Gibbs  told reporters earlier
today. Until “irreversible change comes” in Egypt, the crowds
of protesters will continue to expand, Gibbs said.  In his remarks at Northern Michigan University in
Marquette, Obama said the demonstrations in  Egypt  are being
driven by a new generation of its citizens.  “We want those young people and we want all Egyptians to
know America will continue to do everything that we can to
support an orderly and genuine transition to democracy in
Egypt,” Obama said.  More Protests  Hundreds of thousands of demonstrators have taken to the
streets of Egypt’s cities since Jan. 25 to demand Mubarak’s
exit. The demonstrations have intensified since Mubarak last
week said he wouldn’t step down until September’s presidential
election, a statement he reaffirmed today.  The protests, inspired by the popular revolt that ousted
Tunisian President Zine El Abidine Ben Ali on Jan. 14, sparked
concern that contagion would grip a region that holds more than
50 percent of the world’s known oil reserves.  Mubarak’s announcement came after the army’s top military
body gathered in Cairo today to “safeguard the interests” of
the nation, sparking speculation about a military takeover.
Former United Nations nuclear agency head  Mohamed ElBaradei ,
who is now an opposition leader, said on Twitter that the army
should “intervene immediately to save Egypt.”  The Obama administration has been relying on close
contacts between the U.S. and Egyptian militaries to contain
violence in the country and help accelerate a transition.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kate Andersen Brower in Washington, at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net ;
Hans Nichols in Washington at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 