-- Home Prices Fall in Almost Half of U.S. Cities, Realtors Say
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   M .   H o w l e y
-- 2011-02-10T16:50:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-10/home-prices-fall-in-almost-half-of-u-s-cities-as-foreclosures-increase.html
Home prices fell in almost half of
U.S. cities in the fourth quarter as the number of foreclosures
rose to a record, hurting the confidence of buyers.  The median price of a single-family home dropped from a
year earlier in 71 of 152 metropolitan areas tracked by the
National Association of Realtors, the group said in a  report 
today. Prices in Cumberland,  Maryland , tumbled 20 percent, the
biggest decline, followed by a 14 percent drop in Kankakee,  Illinois . The median price nationwide rose 0.2 percent to
$170,600, as cities including New York and Boston posted gains.  Mounting foreclosures are depressing home values and
discouraging buyers who don’t want to make a deal if they
think prices have further to fall. The S&P/Case-Shiller index
of home values in 20 cities fell 1.6 percent in November from a
year earlier, the biggest 12-month decrease since December 2009,
data released last month showed.  “The flow of homes into foreclosure remains extremely
high,” said  Zach Pandl , an economist at Nomura Securities
International Inc. in New York. “The housing market is in very
poor shape.”  Big cities where employment is growing saw gains, according
to the Realtors group. The median price of a single-family home
in the  New York  metropolitan area climbed 4 percent. The  Washington  region had an 8.1 percent increase and prices in the
Boston metropolitan area rose 4.2 percent, the report said.  ‘Depressed’ Property Market  Federal Reserve policy makers described the U.S. real
estate market as “depressed” in a Jan. 26 statement following
the end of a two-day meeting in Washington. The central bankers
said declining home values continued to stymie the  consumer
spending  that accounts for about three-quarters of the world’s
largest economy.  The number of homes in foreclosure in December rose to a
record 2.2 million, according to Lender Processing Services
Inc., based in Jacksonville,  Florida . Including  foreclosures  and
late payments, there were 6.87 million non-current mortgages,
the company said.  Home sales gained 15.4 percent in the fourth quarter from
the previous three months, at a seasonally adjusted pace, led by
a doubling in  Idaho , the Chicago-based Realtors association said
in a separate report today. Sales jumped 55 percent in  Vermont 
and 34 percent in  Minnesota .  The state with the worst sales record was Virginia, with a
5.4 percent drop, according to the report. Sales in the nation’s
capital were unchanged from the prior quarter.  December Sales Gain  Unadjusted, there were 404,000 home sales in December, the
first gain after three consecutive declines, according to
Realtors association data. That level matched the unadjusted
sales average for all of 2010. In 2009, sales averaged 413,000 a
month.  This year, existing home sales probably will gain 7.9
percent to 5.3 million from a 13-year low of 4.91 million in
2010, the Realtors’ group said in a  forecast  posted on its
website.  The median U.S. home price may rise 0.5 percent in 2011,
following a 0.3 percent gain last year, the trade association
said in the forecast. In February 2010, the median home price
reached an almost eight-year low after tumbling 29 percent from
a 2006 record, according to Realtors data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen M. Howley in  Boston  at 
 kmhowley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at   kwetzel@bloomberg.net . 