-- Homebuilder Shares Undermined by Creeping Costs of Construction Boom Flaws
-- B y   P e t e r   R o b i s o n   a n d   K a t h l e e n   M .   H o w l e y
-- 2011-02-10T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-10/homebuilder-shares-undermined-by-creeping-costs-of-construction-boom-flaws.html
Seattle city planner Alan Justad is
reviewing a project that will bring back the cranes, dust and
noise absent since the real estate bust. This one will subtract
from the skyline rather than add to it.  The owners of McGuire Apartments opted to tear the 10-year-
old tower down after discovering corroded support cables and
other faults that would cost $60 million to repair, almost
double the tab to build it. “We’ve never had anything like this
happen before,” said Justad, who expects demolition of the 25-
story structure to begin later this year.  The U.S. construction boom between 2000 and 2005  added  more
than 10 million apartments, condominiums and single-family homes
to the nation’s housing stock. It is still generating a repair
bill for construction flaws that may hamper the industry’s
recovery, as homes with cracked foundations and sagging ceilings
add to the supply of hard-to-sell properties.  The rush to meet demand fueled by low  interest rates  and
liberal lending resulted in a doubling of defects per unit from
2000 through 2005 compared with the previous six-year period,
according to International Association of Certified Home
Inspectors Inc. estimates. Add to that the litigation legacy of
allegedly dangerous Chinese drywall imports, and builders are
facing a growing liability headache.  “It’s yet another detriment to real estate values,” said  Vicki Bryan , an analyst at Gimme Credit LLC in  New York .
“Homebuilders don’t want to draw attention to it, but they’ve
got creeping costs for construction defects.”  ‘Liabilities Are Underfunded’  PulteGroup Inc., the largest U.S. homebuilder, recorded a
one-time expense of $272.2 million in the third quarter, or 25
percent of its revenue in the period, to increase the reserves
that cover losses when homeowners demand repairs to new houses.
Chief Financial Officer Roger A. Cregg told analysts on a Nov. 3
conference call that there were a “greater frequency of newly
reported claims” by people with company-provided warranties
against defects.  Claims for defects can take time to surface, because
typical construction warranties are good for a decade -- which
is also the amount of time many states allow for filing lawsuits
for alleged defects.  That could mean some builders will need to set aside more
money for repairs and legal claims in years to come, said Ron
Kozlowski, a Hong Kong-based senior actuary at Towers Watson, a
consultant to insurers.  “Their liabilities are underfunded,” he said, not
specifying the builders. “They have their heads in the sand.”  Off The Peak  Replacing faulty Chinese drywall in U.S. homes may cost
more than $15 billion alone, Kozlowski estimated. He said he has
reviewed claims for other failings totaling $15 billion to $20
billion, including the kind of water intrusion that doomed the
Seattle apartment building.  “The whole construction defect issue is multiples” of the
drywall amount, Kozlowski said.  Last year, new home sales in the U.S. totaled 321,000, the
lowest level in data dating to 1963, according to the Commerce
Department. This year, weak demand and foreclosures may make it
harder for builders to maintain profits, Michael Widner, an
analyst with Stifel Nicolaus & Co. in Baltimore, wrote in a Jan.
27 note to investors.  While the Standard & Poor’s Supercomposite Homebuilding
index has more than doubled since its low of Nov. 21, 2008, it
is 74 percent below its July 20, 2005, peak. The index,
including D.R. Horton Inc. and  Lennar Corp ., has risen 1.9
percent in the past 12 months, trailing the 23 percent gain for
the  S&P 500 Index . Barclays Capital Inc. analysts cut
homebuilders to “neutral” from “positive” on Jan. 6 and a
Jan. 10 S&P report cited “continued market concerns.”  Neighborhood ‘Stigma’  Mistakes like those allegedly made in a Lennar subdivision
in Texas where at least 13 homeowners are suing can have an
outsized effect, said Jack McCabe, chief executive officer of
McCabe Research & Consulting LLC in Deerfield Beach, Florida.  “If only a few houses in a 600-unit housing development
are affected, that stigma exists for all of them -- you can’t
sell a house in that neighborhood,” he said. “It can take
years to overcome.”  Lawsuits over defects in states where homes went up most
quickly may be years from peaking, said Paul Amirata, chief
executive officer of Amirata Claims Consulting LLC in
Livingston,  New Jersey .  Horton, the second-largest homebuilder, put its net
liabilities for construction defects and other claims at $319.8
million on Sept. 30, more than double the $137.2 million on
Sept. 30, 2003. The increase was due to the number of homes
built, not any decline in quality, said Horton spokeswoman
Jessica Hansen.  Tapping Insurance  Seven analysts rated Horton “buy” and 14 “hold,”
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Their average earnings
estimate for fiscal 2011 is $50.1 million, or 13.9 cents a
share. Stock in the  Fort Worth , Texas-based builder closed Feb.
9 at $12.46 in New York Stock Exchange trading and has fallen
5.9 percent since it reported a wider than expected fiscal
first-quarter loss of $20.4 million on Jan. 27.  The availability of general liability insurance for
homebuilders and subcontractors has become increasingly limited
and more expensive in recent years, according to Pulte’s third-
quarter filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission,
which didn’t provide pricing details.  The companies are finding it more difficult than five years
ago to tap insurance to cover payments to homeowners because
insurers have added so many exceptions, said Dave Stern, vice
president at West Coast Casualty Service Inc., an insurance
adjuster in  Westlake Village ,  California .  In California, “basically, the thing leaks, it’s the
builder that’s liable,” Stern said.  ‘Tough Science’  At Pulte, most of the claims in the third quarter were
related to water intrusion, Chief Executive Officer  Richard Dugas  said on the Nov. 3 call with analysts.  “What was unusual here was the number of claims we
received in a particular quarter,” he said. “That was
completely unforeseen.”  Given the 10-year warranty periods, it’s a “tough science
to nail down” when people will decide to ask for defects to be
fixed, he said.  Pulte, of  Bloomfield Hills ,  Michigan , said Feb. 4 that it
reversed $10 million of the reserve expenses after further
review in the fourth quarter. Its net loss widened in the period
to $165.4 million, or 44 cents a share, from $116.9 million, or
31 cents, a year earlier. Pulte shares rose 4 cents to $7.82
yesterday and have dropped 29 percent in the past year.  In the rush to make deals, buyers often didn’t ask for
inspections, which some mortgage companies didn’t require, said
Bruce Barker, an inspector in Phoenix for more than a decade.  No Inspection  Natalie Crump didn’t have her house inspected before moving
into  Hutto Parke , built in an old cotton field a 30-minute drive
from Austin,  Texas . She bought a three-bedroom home there with
her husband Mike for $136,490 in 2006. Since then, the Crumps
and owners of 12 other houses have filed lawsuits against
builder Lennar, claiming foundations are fracturing and fences
sagging because the homes went up on unstable soil, according to
their lawyer, Kyle Pugh of  Dallas .  When neighbors see one another, “it’s never, ‘Hey, let’s
get together for barbeque,” Crump said. “It’s, ‘What did
Lennar do to you and what did you notice in your house today?’”  A year after they moved in, the Crumps spotted bubbles in
the ceiling of their daughter’s room that turned out to be nails
sliding out of sheetrock, she said. Lennar officials told them
it was because workers hammered the nails incorrectly, she said.  ‘Consistent Quality Standards’  Then the driveway sprouted a crack more than six feet long,
she said, while ceilings inside bowed. Lennar offered to make
repairs, she said. She and her husband sued instead.  “Who wants a brand-new, repaired house?” said Crump, a
horse trainer.  A Lennar spokesman, Marshall Ames, said the “nail pops”
the Crumps saw are common in homebuilding. The company offered
to make sheetrock repairs to the 443 houses in the subdivision
and 221 homeowners accepted, Ames said by e-mail. The
accusations in the lawsuits are unfounded, he said.  “Our homes have been built to the same consistent quality
standards for years,” and the construction boom didn’t change
that, he said.  The lawsuits, claiming negligent misrepresentation and
fraud, ask Lennar to buy back the homes and pay damages. A trial
date hasn’t been set.  Laborers, Plumbers, Electricians  Eleven analysts rate Lennar “buy” and nine “hold,”
according to Bloomberg compilations. Their average fiscal 2011
earnings estimate is $114.5 million, or 77 cents a share. The
company earned $95.3 million, or 51 cents a share, in fiscal
2010. The stock closed Feb. 9 at $20.85, up 18 cents, and has
risen 34 percent in the past year.  A material defect is defined as one that would, among other
things, affect a purchase decision or compromise safety. The
boom produced so many because companies “just moved everybody
up,” said Nick Gromicko, founder of the Boulder, Colorado-based
International Association of Certified Home Inspectors.  “Laborers became plumbers,” Gromicko said, “and plumbers
became electricians.”  During construction of townhouses in  Portland , tempers
boiled over when an inexperienced foreman pressed workers to get
the job done faster, said Rich Vial of  Vial  Fotheringham LLP,
who represented homeowners in a water damage suit that settled
in 2007 for an undisclosed amount. Vial said workers left the
foreman dangling by his toolstrap from a two-by-four one day.  Scaffolding Goes Up  “There’s no evidence that the quality declined” during
the boom, said David Jaffe, a vice president at the National
Association of Home Builders in  Washington . “There was so much
more building, so naturally you’re going to have more claims.”  U.S. builders imported more than 600 million pounds of
Chinese drywall from 2004 to 2006, enough for 60,000 to 100,000
homes, according to the law firm Weinberg Wheeler Hudgins Gunn &
Dial LLC, which has represented defendants in litigation. More
than 7,000 homeowners in  Florida , the  Gulf of Mexico  and other
regions are plaintiffs in drywall lawsuits, according to
Christopher Seeger, a lawyer at Seeger Weiss LLP in New York who
has represented families who say fumes leeching from the drywall
cause respiratory and other ailments.  The drywall was made with fly ash, a byproduct of coal-
fired power plants that can break down into sulfide gases. The
gases emit a rotten-egg smell, corrode wiring and blacken wall
fixtures,  according  to the  Consumer Product Safety Commission .
In October, a federal judge endorsed a supplier’s plan to repair
300 homes in the first step toward a settlement of coordinated
litigation against suppliers, builders and insurers.  ‘On The Cusp’  Insurance and legal claims can result from seemingly small
mistakes in installing windows or roofs. A 2007  study  by
University of Florida researchers found that 69 percent of
17,000 defect claims they reviewed related to moisture
penetration. About 53 percent were because of poor workmanship,
the researchers found.  “There’s a whole list of ways you can screw up the
exterior of a building, even something as simple as the vent for
a clothes dryer,” said Alan Mooney, president of  Criterium
Engineers , a home inspector in Portland,  Maine .  Seattle hairdresser Quint Eby suspected routine repairs
when scaffolding went up in 2008 at the McGuire building where
he rented space for his salon. Then merchants got notices
ordering them to vacate. The owner, Carpenter’s Tower LLC, told
them the city had determined the building was unsafe, he said.  “I had to liquidate everything,” said Eby, 40, who now
rents a chair at another salon. “Hairdressers started to leave
and the business declined.”  Carpenter’s Tower settled a suit against St. Louis-based
builder McCarthy Building Companies Inc. for an undisclosed
amount last year, according to court documents. McCarthy
spokeswoman Susan Garritano provided a statement that said terms
were “mutually agreeable.” Exposed rods weren’t sealed
properly with paint and grout, causing them to rust, said city
planner Justad.  The Seattle tower may not be the last to be torn down
because of defects, according to McCabe, the consultant.  “A lot of construction flaws slipped through the cracks,”
he said. “We’re just on the cusp of it now.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Peter Robison in Seattle at 
 robison@bloomberg.net ;
Kathleen M. Howley in Boston at 
 kmhowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gary Putka in Boston at 
 gputka@bloomberg.net  