-- HKEx Drops Most in 21 Months, Says Open to Alliance
-- B y   H a n n y   W a n
-- 2011-02-10T09:05:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-10/hong-kong-exchanges-says-it-s-open-to-compelling-alliance-deals.html
  Hong Kong  Exchanges & Clearing
Ltd.’s shares slumped the most in almost 21 months after
Deutsche Boerse AG and NYSE Euronext announced talks over a deal
that would create the world’s biggest exchange.  Shares in Hong Kong Exchanges, which said it is open to
possible mergers, plunged 4.9 percent to HK$167.70 at the close
of local trading, its sharpest drop since May 14, 2009.  Hong Kong’s stock exchange, currently the world’s largest
by market value, has the most cash or near cash items on its
balance sheet of any listed bourse, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. The company has not identified any immediate
targets but remains open to opportunities if and when they
arrive, said Lorraine Chan, a spokeswoman for the exchange.  “Due to changes in the financial-market landscape, Hong
Kong Exchanges will consider international opportunities for
alliances, partnerships and other relationships that present
strategically compelling benefits consistent with its focus on
markets in  China ,” Chan said in an e-mailed response to
questions from Bloomberg. “HKEx will not pursue alliances,
partnerships or other relationships purely for investment
gains.”  Deutsche Boerse and NYSE Euronext’s announcement came a day
after London Stock Exchange Group Plc said it will acquire  Canada ’s TMX Group Inc., owner of the Toronto bourse. Those
deals follow Singapore Exchange Ltd.’s bid for  Australia ’s ASX
Ltd., worth $8.4 billion when it was announced in October.
Exchanges worldwide are competing for a greater share of
globalized markets, creating larger exchanges and building
faster trading platforms to attract investors.  Mainland Cooperation  The Hong Kong exchange will only consider mergers and other
opportunities in the areas that it believes will enhance its
capabilities in technology, business and services, Chan said.  Hong Kong Exchanges signed a closer cooperation agreement
with the Shanghai bourse in January 2009 and with the Shenzhen
Stock Exchange, in a Chinese special economic zone near Hong
Kong, in April.  “After the announcement of more cooperation, they haven’t
made any follow-up announcements and investors are still looking
for that,” said  Castor Pang , Hong Kong-based research director
at Cinda International Holdings Ltd. “In the short term, it’s
quite difficult for that to happen.”  Sam Hilton, a Hong Kong-based analyst at Keefe, Bruyette &
Woods Asia Ltd., said while he doesn’t expect Hong Kong
Exchanges to be involved in any mergers and acquisitions soon,  Taiwan , Shanghai and Shenzhen bourses could be likely targets.  “For a straight-up exchange transaction, I guess the non-
Mainland candidates that could make sense in their stated
strategic context would be those exchanges with relatively
significant populations of Mainland companies listed on them, or
possibly Taiwan,” Hilton said. “A tie-up with Shanghai or
Shenzhen probably fits that strategic context the most naturally,
but it seems unlikely in the near or even mid-term.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hanny Wan in Hong Kong at   hwan3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 