-- Montana Cowboy Airlifts Herd to Russia, Hopes Appetite Follows
-- B y   R y a n   C h i l c o t e   a n d   S c o t t   R o s e
-- 2011-02-10T09:22:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-10/montana-cowboy-airlifts-herd-to-russia-seeks-to-whet-appetite-for-beef.html
Darrell Stevenson eats a minimum of
eight pounds of beef per week at his family’s cattle ranch in
Montana. Feeding that appetite in  Russia , which he compares to
America’s old West, can be tough.  “The only steaks I’ve had in Russia have actually been
imported,” Stevenson, who is transplanting a 1,400-head ranch,
complete with horses and cowboys, to the Voronezh region in
southern Russia, said in an interview with Bloomberg Television.
Local cuts, he said, are “maybe a step above shoe-leather.”  Stevenson, 41, created a joint venture, Stevenson-Sputnik
LLC, with two Russian partners last year. The group invested $18
million to build the ranch and import cattle, said co-owner
Sergei Goncharov. The company received a subsidized loan from
OAO Sberbank, Russia’s largest lender, and the state is
reimbursing 30 percent of investment costs, he said.  The ranch seeks to capture a slice of Russia’s live cattle
market. Russia imports 40,000 to 50,000 head annually, worth
about $150 million, the  U.S. Department of Agriculture 
estimates. While Russian beef consumption rose 2.6 percent to
2.23 million tons last year, government statistics show domestic
production fell 0.6 percent to 199,000 tons.  “Since 2005, we’ve had a herd of cattle, but we needed to
buy good genetics,” Goncharov said. “The best genetics for
livestock are in America. Everybody knows that.”  ‘High Aspirations’  Goncharov and partner Alexander Buzuleyev started buying
embryos and semen from Stevenson’s ranch in 2007 to improve
their herd. Stevenson went into business with the Russians after
his father turned the family business over to him.  “What they needed was assistance and management,”
Stevenson said. “They’ve got high aspirations and big goals and
want the most modern technology, but sometimes they’ve got to
step back and learn how to build a brace post to begin with.”  Russian government policies have helped. President  Dmitry Medvedev  signed a Food Security Doctrine in February 2010 that
seeks to have Russia produce 85 percent of its meat domestically
by 2020 to reduce price fluctuations and dependence on imports.  While Russia is the world’s second-largest beef importer by
volume, trailing only the U.S., the market has shrunk since the
collapse of the  Soviet Union . Per capita consumption dropped to
15.7 kilograms (34.6 pounds) last year, about half the level in
1990, according the U.S. Department of Agriculture.  ‘Potential for Growth’  The U.S. beef cattle herd was 92.6 million as of Jan. 1,
the USDA said last month. Russia’s is about 600,000, according
to the Agriculture Ministry. That’s about one animal for every
237 people in Russia, compared with a ratio of less than 1 to 4
in the U.S.  “There is tremendous potential for growth in beef
consumption in Russia,” Erin Daley Borror, an economist at the
Denver-based U.S. Meat Export Federation, said in an e-mail.  Russian beef comes mainly from dairy cattle, she said. The
USDA estimated Russia’s 2010 production at 1.3 million tons,
down from 4.3 million tons in 1990, with imported beef
accounting for more than 40 percent of consumption, she said.  Getting Russians to eat more whole cuts of meat, which
account for less than 1 percent of beef consumption, will
require more than just an influx of steakhouses in Russia’s more
affluent cities, Sergei Yushin, head of the National Meat
Association’s executive committee, said by phone from Moscow.  Russian consumers “are badly informed about beef, about
what you can do with it, and how you should cook it and eat
it,” Yushin said.  Demand for marbled beef, higher quality meat that gets its
name from the veins of fat running through it, is growing but
accounts for less than 1 percent of the Russian market, he said.  For traditional Russian dishes, “you can use regular cows,
it’s all just stewed or boiled.”  Mass Market  Stevenson says the ranch is targeting the mass market, not
just high-end sales.  “Our primary purpose is to produce and help populate a
herd that can feed the masses,” he said. “This is no doubt an
emerging marketplace. There is more expendable income and with
that in any country there is always an urge for more consumption
of protein.”  Real disposable income in Russia has grown by an average of
9.1 percent annually since 2000.  Production costs for live cattle at the Voronezh operation
will be as much as 30 percent less than in  Montana , and the
return may be 300 percent to 500 percent higher, Stevenson said
at the ranch, about 550 kilometers (340 miles) south of Moscow.  “Our operating profit, the difference between the price we
sell the cattle for and our costs, is more than 100 percent,”
Goncharov said. “I know it might not be a good idea to talk
about that.”  An imported heifer from  Australia  costs about $3,500 in
Russia, while bulls go for about twice that, Goncharov said.  “The market right now is formed by imported cattle from
America and Australia, and those cattle cost lots of money
here,” he said. “We’ll sell at the same prices but better
cattle.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ryan Chilcote in Shestakovo, Russia, at 
 rchilcote@bloomberg.net 
Scott Rose in  London  at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at   wmorris@bloomberg.net . 