-- Opti Canada Debt Plunges as Firm Reports `Liquidity, Balance Sheet Issue'
-- B y   T i m   C a t t s   a n d   J e r e m y   v a n   L o o n
-- 2011-02-10T22:07:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-10/opti-canada-debt-plunges-as-firm-reports-liquidity-balance-sheet-issue-.html
Bonds of  Opti Canada Inc ., the oil-
sands producer facing “constrained liquidity” that may prompt
its sale, plummeted in  New York  trading after the company
reported a sixth annual net loss and partner  Nexen Inc . said
production at the Long Lake site may miss targets.  “Given our current financial position and constrained
liquidity horizon, our ability and time to transact under our
strategic review process is limited,” Chris Slubicki, president
and chief executive officer of Calgary-based Opti, said today in
a statement. “We are dealing with a balance sheet and liquidity
issue, not an asset value issue.”  Moody’s Investors Service cut its debt ratings for Opti
Feb. 2, saying the company may be unable to meet payment
obligations this year and that  cash flow  from its Long Lake
project will be “slightly positive” at best. Pump failures at
the site cut production in January, Nexen executives said during
a conference call this morning.  Opti’s $1 billion of U.S. dollar-denominated 8.25 percent
senior secured notes due in December 2014 fell 4.4 cents to 49
cents on the dollar as of 4:54 p.m. in New York, according to
Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority. The debt has plunged from 71.5 cents at
the end of 2010 and 97.75 cents in April, Trace data show. Opti
shares fell as much as 15 percent to C$0.25 before rebounding to
30 cents.  Sixth Annual Loss  The company’s net loss narrowed to C$26 million, or 9 cents
a share in the fourth quarter, from C$212 million, or 75 cents,
a year earlier, according to today’s statement. Opti’s loss for
the year came to C$274 million.  Chief Executive Officer Marvin Romanow of Nexen, which owns
65 percent of the Long Lake oil sands project and runs the
operation, said on a conference call that production at the site
may miss 2011 targets.  “We’re working with Opti to find a solution,” he said.  Opti hired Lazard Freres & Co. LLC to assist in its ongoing
review of strategic alternatives, including a possible sale, the
company said Feb. 1. The stock has plunged 85 percent in the
past 12 months.  Moody’s lowered Opti’s corporate family rating to Caa3,
nine steps below investment grade, from Caa2.  Standard & Poor’s 
cut its  credit rating  to CCC- on Dec. 14.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tim Catts in New York at 
 tcatts1@bloomberg.net ;
Jeremy van Loon in Calgary at 
 jvanloon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  