-- Orascom Construction GDRs at Discount to Local Shares
-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 2011-02-10T09:58:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-10/orascom-construction-gdr-tumble-leaves-stock-at-discount-to-local-shares.html
  Orascom Construction Industries ’
London-traded equities are trading at a discount to local shares
after the global depositary receipts of Egypt’s biggest publicly
traded builder tumbled for a second day.  The GDRs sank 5.6 percent today, the most since Jan. 31, to
$36.35, or the equivalent of 213.97 Egyptian pounds, at 9:14
a.m. in  London . Orascom stock in Cairo last traded at 227.07
pounds on Jan. 27 before the government halted trading in the
wake of protests seeking to end President  Hosni Mubarak ’s 30-
year rule. The GDRs slumped 13 percent in the past three days.  Orascom Telecom Holding SAE  declined 0.5 percent. Bond yields
rose and the cost of insuring Egyptian debt fell.  “There have been ebbs and flows in  market sentiment  and
the longer the situation draws on the more uncertain it
becomes,” said Chet Riley, a Nomura Holdings Inc. analyst based
in Dubai. The two-day drop, which is not specific to the
company, “seems to suggest investors expect the market to
fall.” Stock trading in Cairo resumes on Feb. 13.  The yield on the 5.75 percent dollar bond maturing in April
2020 gained 3 basis points to 6.62 percent today, the highest
since Jan. 31, according to Bloomberg composite prices. The cost
of insuring the nation’s sovereign debt dropped less than 1
basis point to 354 today, according to CMA London prices.  Egypt ’s stock exchange shut Jan. 27 after losing 16 percent that
week as protests intensified.  London Discount  Protests that began Jan. 25, inspired by an uprising that
ousted Tunisian President Zine El Abidine Ben Ali on Jan. 14,
have left about 300 people dead, according to United Nations
estimates. Egypt’s foreign minister Ahmed Aboul Gheit said in
comments to  Al Arabiya  aired this morning it will take four
months to change the country’s constitution after the Obama
administration criticized Mubarak’s government for not
sufficiently addressing the demands of protesters.  The London shares’ discount of 5.8 percent to the Orascom
Construction shares in Cairo compares with a premium of as much
as 11 percent in intraday trading earlier this week, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  GDRs of  Commercial International Bank Egypt SAE , the
nation’s biggest publicly traded lender, have dropped 5.2
percent since Jan. 27, and are now priced 4.2 percent below
local shares.  Egyptian Financial Group-Hermes Holding  GDRs,
which each represent two ordinary shares, are priced 0.3 percent
lower than their counterparts in Egypt.  Telecom Egypt, the monopoly fixed-line operator in the
North African country, and Orascom Telecom, which make up about
15 percent of the EGX 30, traded at a premium of 9.6 percent and
3.8 percent, respectively, in London.  Telecom Egypt  GDRs weren’t
trading in London today.  Egypt’s bourse will cut the trading hours by one to three
hours and suspend the so-called daily discovery session when it
resumes operations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Shanthy Nambiar at 
 snambiar1@bloomberg.net ;
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  