-- Orphans Get Fleeced, Rich Widows Should Be Next: Susan Antilla
-- B y   S u s a n   A n t i l l a
-- 2011-02-10T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-10/orphans-get-fleeced-rich-widows-must-be-next-commentary-by-susan-antilla.html
It’s hard to imagine why anyone would
fleece a widow or an orphan when there are so many inexperienced
municipalities and dumb sports team owners to hoodwink.  Rich widows, I suppose, will always be tempting marks for
con artists. But orphans? If the allegations in a recent lawsuit
are true, I’d say we’ve sunk to a new low in financial roguery.  Hillcrest Children’s Center , formerly the  Washington  City
Orphan Asylum, claims a money manager stole $8 million of the
group’s $17 million endowment, according to a complaint filed
last month in U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia.  Hillcrest, founded in Washington as an orphanage in 1815 to
help children left homeless by the War of 1812, in its more
recent history has tended to the mental-health needs of local
children and families. In 2008, its board of directors retained
 Gibraltar Asset Management Group Inc. , which represented itself
as a prominent Washington wealth adviser, according to the
complaint.  If the allegations are true, Hillcrest would have been
better off stashing its money in a safe and leaving the door
open.  Gibraltar prides itself on the firm’s “availability to our
clients,” according to the company website. Rallying anyone
these days at Gibraltar is not so easy.  No Response  Gibraltar’s three telephone numbers have been disconnected.
Jeffrey A. King, the firm’s president and chief operating
officer, did not respond to an e-mail. A woman answering the
telephone at his home on Feb. 7 acknowledged that he was a
defendant in the lawsuit and said she would ask him to return my
call; he didn’t.  Maurice Taylor, a defendant who is the firm’s chief
investment officer and executive vice president, told me in a
brief telephone interview on Feb. 7 that he would get answers to
my questions and get back to me, but I haven’t heard from him
since.  Stuart H. Gary, a lawyer at Bailey/Gary in Washington who
worked on the Hillcrest account and also was named in the suit,
did not respond to telephone calls or an e-mail. I asked Maurice
Taylor for the phone number of Gibraltar’s chief executive,
Garfield Taylor, one of six individual defendants, and he
offered me a disconnected number I already had tried.  Not-for-profits that busy themselves with the work of
promoting ‘’the well-being and spiritual development of all
children and youth” as Hillcrest describes its mission, are not
typically staffed with bosses adept at discerning a Bernie Madoff from a  Warren Buffett .  Disappearing Act  While Hillcrest’s version of events is only an allegation,
the organization says that an $8 million investment made in
February 2009 had shriveled to $25,000 in 13 months. By the time
the suit was filed, $200 remained.  As the lawsuit describes it, in the summer of 2008,
Gibraltar persuaded Hillcrest to let it manage $1.2 million
using a so-called  covered call strategy  in which the money
managers would purchase stock while simultaneously selling a  call option  on the shares.  “Like an endowment, your principal will stay intact,” said
a Gibraltar Power Point slide during a presentation to
Hillcrest, according to the suit. Indeed, the Gibraltar guys
described themselves as nothing less than stock market geniuses:
“Gibraltar managers make money trading equity options in UP,
DOWN, or SIDEWAYS markets,” one slide promised. “Risk is
ALWAYS LIMITED.”  Priming the Pump  And so it seemed for several months. Hillcrest executed a
promissory note lending $1.2 million to Gibraltar on July 14,
2008, with Gibraltar agreeing to pay Hillcrest $20,000 every
month for six months, returning the principal by January 2009.
In a page taken out of a penny-stock peddler’s handbook for
priming suckers, the payments in this initial transaction came
in on time or early. The complaint describes Hillcrest taking
the bait, and by February 2009 entrusting $8 million to
Gibraltar.  Then, whoops, in March 2009, money began to be transferred
out of the account. By May, the suit says $6,650,000 had been
withdrawn without Hillcrest’s knowledge.  Gibraltar was teeming with red flags. It isn’t a registered  investment adviser . Its marketing materials are sprinkled with
typographical errors that suggest a sloppy operation. One of its
advisory board members, touted as being licensed with securities
regulators, had his registration revoked by the Financial
Industry Regulatory Authority in April 2008.  Gibraltar’s vice president of organizational development is
listed in a marketing document as a cum laude graduate of the
University of Hartford. A school spokeswoman said in an e-mail
that Randolph Taylor did not have the grades for cum laude
status.  ‘Ongoing Investigation’  Hillcrest is not the only investor claiming to have lost
money. In recent months, a company run by Gibraltar’s Garfield
Taylor was sued for breach of contract in two cases brought by
individuals who say they had promissory notes with Taylor and
lost everything. None of the defendants in any of the three
suits has yet filed a response.  The  District of Columbia   Department of Insurance,
Securities and Banking  has an “ongoing investigation” of
Taylor and his business entities, says Stephen M. Perry,
associate commissioner of enforcement and investigations.  It takes a special kind of chutzpah if, in the Hillcrest
case, it’s shown that money was stolen from people who help poor
kids. What happened to Hillcrest “is pretty raw” said William McLucas, one of the lawyers at WilmerHale who is working on the
case pro bono. That would be the same McLucas who used to run
the enforcement division of the Securities and Exchange
Commission, and suffice it to say he’s a guy who’s hard to
shock.  (Susan Antilla is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this column:  Susan Antilla  in New York at 
 santilla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  