-- Tottenham's Bale to Miss Milan Game With Injury, Guardian Says: Roundup
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r
-- 2011-02-10T08:54:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-10/tottenham-s-bale-to-miss-milan-game-with-injury-guardian-says-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  Bale Out  Tottenham winger Gareth Bale may miss next week’s Champions
League match with AC Milan in  Italy  after pushing himself to get
back in shape from a back injury,  the Guardian said .  Bale’s injury returned last month, when he was removed from
a game at Newcastle after just 11 minutes, and he’s missed the
last three matches. While the club sent him to a chiropractor,
the Welsh national team player had a setback in training, the
newspaper said.  Hughton’s Return?  Former Newcastle manager  Chris Hughton  may replace the
fired Roberto di Matteo as West Brom’s coach,  the Mirror said .  The 52-year-old, who was fired in December, led Newcastle
back to the Premier League after winning the second-tier
Championship last season. He’s had interviews at Ipswich and
Crystal Palace, the newspaper said. West Brom may offer him a 1
million-pound ($1.6 million) annual salary, and wants to make
the appointment in the next two days, the Mirror said.  Reina’s Price  Manchester United and Arsenal will have to spend 20 million
pounds, a British record price for a goalkeeper, to sign
Liverpool’s  Pepe Reina ,  the Mail said.   The 28-year-old wants to play in the Champions League, and
last year signed a six-year contract extension, which has the 20
million-pound escape clause, the newspaper said.  City Loses    Manchester City  lost 10 million pounds to get rid of
striker Emmanuel Adebayor,  the Daily Star said .  The player joined Real Madrid on loan last month, and the
Spanish team will pay 15 million pounds to sign him after the
season, the newspaper said. City paid Arsenal 25 million pounds
for Adebayor, who’s already scored twice for his new club.  Rio Injury  Manchester United defender Rio Ferdinand will miss three
weeks with a leg injury,  the Mirror said .  That puts the player out for this weekend’s game with City,
and he’ll likely miss United’s next matches in the F.A. Cup and
the Champions League, the newspaper said.  To contact the reporter on this story:  Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at   celser@bloomberg.net . 