-- Pay-Package Rulings Criticized as `One Size Fits All' by TARP's Watchdog
-- B y   I a n   K a t z
-- 2011-02-10T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-10/panel-criticizes-treasury-s-decisions-reviewing-executive-pay.html
The Obama administration’s rulings
on executive pay at companies that received taxpayer-funded
bailouts lacked transparency and may have been too similar
across different firms, a congressional watchdog said.  Pay packages approved by the Treasury Department “have
generally been quite uniform despite wide variations” in the
companies reviewed, the Congressional Oversight Panel for the
Troubled Asset Relief Program said in a report today. “It is
unclear whether one size truly fits all.”  The report focuses on the administration’s efforts to rein
in executive pay amid a public outcry in 2009 over compensation
at Wall Street banks and  American International Group Inc .  President  Barack Obama  named Washington lawyer  Kenneth Feinberg  the Treasury’s special master for  executive
compensation  in June 2009. Today’s report said that some of
Feinberg’s decisions weren’t adequately explained and “are
essentially ‘black boxes’ to the public.”  Feinberg reduced pay at companies including AIG,  Citigroup
Inc . and  Bank of America Corp . He left in September to become
administrator of  BP Plc ’s fund to pay claims stemming from the
Gulf of Mexico oil spill. Patricia Geoghegan, a Treasury
Department lawyer, was named acting special master.  “Whatever the special master’s accomplishments, the office
fell far short of permanently reforming Wall Street pay
practices,” the oversight panel’s chairman, former U.S. Senator
Ted Kaufman, said in a conference call with reporters yesterday.  ‘Ill-Advised’  In July, Feinberg said about $1.6 billion that 17 bailed-
out companies including  JPMorgan Chase & Co . and  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc . paid executives during the financial crisis was
“ill-advised” and showed “bad judgment.” He stopped short of
asking the firms to return money and declined to say the
payments were “contrary to the public interest.”  That decision was “troublesome,” the oversight panel said
in its report. “It may represent an end-run around Congress’
determination that the special master should make every effort
to claw back wrongful payments, and it may give the impression
that the government condoned inappropriate compensation to
executives whose actions contributed to the financial crisis.”  The Treasury followed “the mandate provided by Congress
to dramatically reduce both the total and cash compensation paid
to executives at companies that received ‘exceptional
assistance’ under TARP,” Tim Massad, the department’s acting
assistant secretary for financial stability, said in a
statement.  First Rulings  Massad noted that Treasury’s first rulings in 2009 cut in
half total pay at the seven companies whose compensation
practices Feinberg supervised and reduced cash pay by 90
percent. “A key goal of Treasury’s actions was to make sure
taxpayers were repaid in a timely manner, which is happening
faster than anyone expected,” Massad said.  Treasury officials have also said Feinberg’s decisions are
explained in  public documents  available on the department’s
website.  The panel said “it would be very difficult for any outside
expert to replicate the special master’s efforts” because of
Treasury’s lack of transparency on some decisions.  If compensation experts “lack the information needed to
use the special master’s deliberations as a model, what seemed
an opportunity for sweeping reform will be destined to leave a
far more modest legacy,” the oversight panel said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  