-- PayPal’s Revenue Will Double by 2013, Thompson Says
-- B y   J o s e p h   G a l a n t e
-- 2011-02-10T21:17:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-10/paypal-revenue-will-double-by-2013-ebay-chief-executive-john-donahoe-says.html
PayPal, the online-payment service
owned by  EBay Inc ., will double its revenue to $6 billion to $7
billion by 2013, PayPal President Scott Thompson said today
during a meeting with analysts.  The unit is on a course to become EBay’s biggest business
in three to five years,  San Jose , California-based EBay said.
PayPal posted sales of $3.4 billion last year.  PayPal, which estimates its hold on global online payments
has grown to 18 percent now from 14 percent in 2008, says its
early lead, fraud management, and relationships with more than
15,000 banking partners and networks globally put it ahead of
challengers.  “No one comes close -- not the banks, not the telecos and
not the startups,” Thompson said. “These competitors can claim
any one of the capabilities we have, but no one comes close to
the breadth we have.”  EBay, owner of the largest e-commerce marketplace, jumped
the most in more than a year, climbing $2.54, or 8 percent, to
$34.49 at 4 p.m. New York time in trading on the Nasdaq Stock
Market.  Mobile Revenue  Chief Executive Officer John Donahoe and other executives
also outlined progress made to the main e-commerce site, which
is two years into a turnaround to revitalize growth. Those
changes included visual search capabilities for apparel and a
revamped fashion site. EBay has also introduced multiple mobile
applications that will generate $4 billion this year in gross
volume for the company, double the amount last year, the company
said last month.  “The question becomes, ‘Can they duplicate the success
they’ve seen in the fashion business in other areas and reignite
growth at the marketplace division?’” said James Dobson, an
analyst at Benchmark Co. in  Boca Raton , Florida.  The company is already gaining share in the U.K., said
Douglas McCallum, senior vice president of EBay’s Marketplaces
division in  Europe . Business in  Germany , its biggest market in
the region, remains strong, with buyers and seller from  China 
and  Hong Kong  helping drive international sales, he said.  EBay’s main site is helping fuel PayPal’s growth. By 2013,
75 percent to 80 percent of EBay transactions will be done
through PayPal, up from 69 percent last year. Each percentage-
point increase in penetration is worth about $20 million in
annual revenue for PayPal, the company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Galante in  San Francisco  at 
 Jgalante3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  