-- PepsiCo Profit Falls 4.8%; Earnings Forecast Trails
-- B y   D u a n e   D .   S t a n f o r d
-- 2011-02-10T21:21:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-10/pepsico-fourth-quarter-profit-falls-4-8-outlook-trails-analyst-estimates.html
PepsiCo Inc., the world’s largest
snack-food maker, posted a 4.8 percent drop in fourth-quarter
profit and projected full-year earnings growth that trailed
analysts’ estimates as commodity costs increase.  Net income fell to $1.37 billion, or 85 cents a share, hurt
by acquisition costs, PepsiCo said today. The Purchase, New
York-based company forecast 2011 earnings per share growth of as
much as 8 percent, equal to $4.46. Analysts on average projected
$4.56, according to a Bloomberg survey.  PepsiCo Chief Executive Officer  Indra Nooyi  said the
forecast reflects “extraordinary” costs for raw materials, and
that raising prices likely will be difficult. PepsiCo and other
food and beverage companies are facing rising expenses for corn,
packaging plastic and other commodities. Corn futures, for
example, climbed 27 percent during the fourth quarter.  “Challenges remain, and Pepsi faces a struggle to maintain
profitability,” Philip Gorham, a senior equity analyst for
Morningstar Inc. in  Chicago , said today in a note.  PepsiCo, the world’s second-largest soft drink maker,
declined $1.06, or 1.7 percent, to $63.36 at 4 p.m. in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares have dropped 3
percent this year, compared with a 3.4 percent decline for Coca-
Cola.  PepsiCo’s commodity costs may rise by $1.4 billion to $1.6
billion this year, Chief Financial Officer Hugh Johnston said
today on a conference call. The company, which plans to make up
for some of that by raising prices, probably won’t be able to
recover the full expense, he said. The company also plans to
limit price increases as the economy recovers.  Coca-Cola’s Costs  Rival  Coca-Cola Co ., the biggest soft-drink maker, said
yesterday that commodity costs in  North America  will rise by as
much as $400 million this year.  Excluding items such as foreign-currency fluctuations,
profit was $1.05, compared with the $1.04 average of estimates
compiled by Bloomberg.  PepsiCo’s sales advanced 37 percent to $18.2 billion,
beating analysts’ estimates. A year earlier, fourth-quarter
profit amounted to $1.43 billion, or 90 cents a share.  Coca-Cola, based in Atlanta, said yesterday that net income
more than tripled to $5.77 billion because of a gain related to
the acquisition of its North American bottling operations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
{Duane Stanford} in Atlanta at 
 dstanford2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  