-- British Pound Rises Versus Euro on Interest-Rate Expectations as BOE Holds
-- B y   G a r t h   T h e u n i s s e n
-- 2011-02-10T16:48:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-10/pound-stronger-against-the-euro-after-boe-leaves-rate-unchanged-at-0-5-.html
The pound strengthened against all
of its major peers on speculation the  Bank of England  will be
forced to raise its benchmark interest rate before year-end,
even after it left the rate unchanged at 0.5 percent today.  Sterling advanced most versus the Norwegian krone and also
climbed against the euro. The bank’s nine-member Monetary Policy
Committee, led by Governor  Mervyn King , left its main rate at a
record low to boost the economy, even as inflation remains at
almost twice the pace of its 2 percent limit. The move was
predicted by all 62 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  “Despite that the bank hasn’t acted, the market is pricing
in a hike by the third quarter, which is supportive of
sterling,” said Mike Berg, a foreign exchange strategist at
4Cast Ltd. in  London . “The bank is going to tighten sooner
rather than later, but the expectations for a hike at this
meeting were unrealistic.”  The pound was 0.9 percent stronger at 84.47 pence per euro
at 4:41 p.m. in London. Britain’s currency added 0.1 percent to
$1.6121, for a second day of gains.  Short-sterling futures fell, lifting the implied yield on
the contract expiring in December by two basis points to
1.74 percent. A higher yield indicates investors are adding to
bets that policy makers will increase borrowing costs.  The Bank of England is under mounting pressure to raise
borrowing costs for the first time since July 2007 to help curb
inflation, which has exceeded its target level for more than a
year. Inflation accelerated to 3.7 percent in December, equaling
an April reading that was the highest since November 2008.  ‘Losing Credibility’  Former rate setter DeAnne Julius said yesterday the bank
needs to tighten policy “sooner rather than later” or risk
losing credibility. Policy committee member  Martin Weale  joined
colleague  Andrew Sentance  in voting for a rate increase at the
group’s Jan. 13 meeting on concern that inflation may become
entrenched.  Today’s rate deliberations were based on new quarterly
economic forecasts, which King will present at a press
conference on Feb. 16. The central bank governor has said
inflation may accelerate to more than 4 percent before easing as
government spending cuts and slower-than-estimated economic
growth curb price pressures.  U.K. two-year notes fell, with the yield on the 4.5 percent
security due March 2013 little changed at 1.56 percent. The note
fell 0.015, or 15 pence per 1,000 pound ($1,612) face amount to
105.975. Ten-year yields increased one basis point to
3.88 percent.  ‘Complacent’ Market  Gilts will probably underperform Treasuries and European
bonds as the Bank of England begins to focus more on inflation,
Michael Amey, executive vice president for U.K. fixed income at
Pacific Investment Management Co, said today in an interview
with Bloomberg Television.  “If anything the market’s being a little bit complacent”
about interest-rate increases, said Amey.  The U.K. 10-year breakeven rate, an indication of
investors’ inflation expectations over the life of the
securities, derived from the yield gap between conventional and
index-linked bonds, was little changed at 3.27 percent. The rate
climbed as high 3.33 percent on Feb. 7, the highest level since
September 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Garth Theunissen in London 
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  