-- Pound Advances Against Euro Before Today's Bank of England Rate Decision
-- B y   G a r t h   T h e u n i s s e n
-- 2011-02-10T09:51:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-10/pound-advances-against-euro-before-bank-of-england-interest-rate-decision.html
The pound appreciated versus the
euro before the Bank of England’s interest-rate decision as
traders sought to protect themselves against an unexpected
increase in the  bank rate .  Sterling appreciated against 12 of its 16 most-actively
traded counterparts monitored by Bloomberg. The Monetary Policy
Committee, led by Governor  Mervyn King , will leave its 0.5
percent key interest rate unchanged, according to all 62
economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Money-market rates yesterday
were pricing in a 20 percent probability of a rate increase,
according to  Sam Hill , a sterling strategist at  RBC Capital
Markets  in London. The pound stayed higher versus the euro after
a report showed U.K. manufacturing unexpectedly contracted in
December.  “Fear that the Bank of England may hike is likely to put a
floor under the pound in the next few hours,” Jane Foley, a
senior currency strategist at Rabobank International Ltd., said
in an e-mailed note. “The debate over whether the Bank will
bring forward rate hikes this year is wide open.”  The pound appreciated 0.4 percent to 84.93 pence per euro
at 9:50 a.m. in  London . Britain’s currency fell 0.3 percent
against the dollar to $1.6048.  U.K. two-year gilts rose, pushing the yield on the 4.5
percent security due March 2013 down four basis points to 1.51
percent. The note rose 0.85, or 85 pence per 1,000-pound face
amount, to 106.08.  The central bank is under growing pressure to raise
borrowing costs for the first time in more than 3 1/2 years as
consumer prices rise at almost twice the pace of its 2 percent
limit. Inflation accelerated to 3.7 percent in December,
equaling the reading in April, which was the highest since
November 2008.  ‘Losing Credibility’  Former policy maker DeAnne Julius said yesterday the  Bank
of England  needs to tighten policy “sooner rather than later”
or risk losing credibility. The comments come after Monetary
Policy Committee member  Martin Weale  joined colleague  Andrew Sentance  in voting for a rate increase at the group’s Jan. 13
meeting on concern that inflation may become entrenched.  “Nobody seems to be looking for a hike in rates, but few
seem to be entirely comfortable holding such a view,”  Steve Barrow , the London-based head of research for Group-of-10
currencies at Standard Bank Plc, wrote in a client note today.  Short-sterling futures rose, reducing the implied yield on
the contract expiring in December by five basis points to 1.67
percent. A lower yield indicates investors are reducing bets
that policy makers will increase borrowing costs.  Rate Speculation  Speculation that policy makers will be forced to raise
rates sometime in 2011 has helped the pound gain almost 3
percent versus the dollar since the start of this year, while
two-year bond yields climbed to a two-year high. Policy makers
will raise the rate by 25 basis points in the fourth quarter
with no further increase expected this year, according to a
Bloomberg survey of 41 analysts.  The U.K. 10-year breakeven rate, an indication of
investors’ inflation expectations over the life of the
securities, derived from the yield gap between conventional and
index-linked bonds, was little changed at 3.26 percent. The rate
climbed as high 3.33 percent on Feb. 7, the highest level since
September 2008.  Britain’s central bank announces its interest-rate decision
at 12 p.m. in London today.  Factory output fell 0.1 percent from November, when it rose
0.6 percent, the  Office for National Statistics  said today in
London. That’s the first decline since April. The median
forecast of 25 economists in a Bloomberg News survey was for an
increase of 0.4 percent. The decline has an impact of less than
0.1 percent on fourth quarter gross-domestic-product, which
showed a 0.5 percent drop, the office said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Garth Theunissen in London 
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  