-- Publicis 2010 Profit Increases on North America Growth, European Rebound
-- B y   K r i s t e n   S c h w e i z e r
-- 2011-02-10T06:40:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-10/publicis-2010-profit-increases-on-north-america-growth-european-rebound.html
Publicis Group SA, owner of the Leo
Burnett ad agency, said 2010 profit rose 31 percent on revenue
from North America and emerging markets and a return to growth
in  Europe .  Net income for the year rose to 526 million euros ($720
million) as sales increased 20 percent to 5.4 billion euros.
Profit had been seen at 496 million euros on sales of 5.29
billion euros, according to the average analyst estimates
compiled by Bloomberg.  “Due to the fact we were strong in 2010, the comparison
for 2011 is even more demanding,” Chief Executive Officer  Maurice Levy  said in a phone interview last night, adding that
January “has been good.”  The Paris-based company, whose client brands include
Cadillac, Nestle and Warner Bros., has boosted hiring and aims
to generate 65 percent of sales from digital activities and
emerging markets and double operations in China in three years.
Publicis expects to outperform advertising peers like  WPP Plc 
and Interpublic Group of Companies Inc. this year, even as the
companies face a difficult comparison with 2010.  The company posted an operating margin of 15.8 percent for
2010, an increase of 80 basis points from the year prior.  Before today, Publicis shares had remained largely
unchanged this year at 39.05 euros a share, giving the company a
market value of 7.5 billion euros.  Not Retiring Yet  Levy said he would stay to lead Publicis after his contract
expires at the end of 2011, although he has yet to decide for
how long. He was set to retire at the end of the year until the
board asked him in June 2010 to continue on to help weather the
global economic turmoil.  “The board is still insisting that I stay and yes, I’m
going to stay,” he said. “What I have not yet decided is for
how long.”  Publicis has several internal candidates to succeed Levy,
including Chief Operating Officer Jean-Yves Naouri, he said.  The company is also holding “lots of negotiations” to
acquire smaller companies that will either strengthen Publicis’s
digital arm or its position in emerging markets, Levy said. It’s
also considering several medium-sized targets.  Publicis, the third-largest network of ad agencies
worldwide, said organic sales in  North America , which excludes
acquisitions and mergers, grew by 9.9 percent to 2.6 billion
euros last year, led by revenue from digital advertising. Europe
returned to growth with an increase of 6 percent in organic
revenue, led by  France .  New Business Wins  Publicis won net new business of $5.9 billion last year,
for brands including Nokia, Siemens and Merrill Lynch.  “It’s been a great year, though it’s been very hard and
painful and people have been under huge pressure to achieve
these numbers and we are very pleased with the results we got,”
Levy said.  Web advertising is growing three times faster than the
market as a whole, Publicis-owned  ZenithOptimedia Group Ltd. 
said in December.  China  will become the third-largest ad market
behind the U.S. and Japan next year, displacing  Germany , it
said. While spending is recovering after the 2008 financial
crisis, advertising growth is short of the “long-term trend
rate of 6 percent.”  Publicis will recommend a dividend of 70 cents a share, up
from 60 cents a year earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristen Schweizer at 
 kschweizer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root in Paris at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net  