-- Rand Falls For a Second Day Against Dollar on Emerging-Markets Inflation
-- B y   A n a   M o n t e i r o   a n d   S i k o n a t h i   M a n t s h a n t s h a
-- 2011-02-10T15:48:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-10/rand-slumps-for-2nd-day-on-emerging-market-inflation-concern.html
The rand dropped and South African
stocks fell for a fourth day as gold declined, factory output
slowed and speculation grew that central banks will raise
borrowing costs, damping demand for emerging-market assets.  The currency of Africa’s biggest economy weakened 1 percent
to 7.2971 per dollar at 5:13 p.m., extending this year’s decline
to 9.1 percent, the most among more than 20 emerging markets
tracked by Bloomberg. Anglo American Plc led the FTSE/JSE  Africa 
All Share Index 0.8 percent lower to 32,409.48 as copper and
gold retreated for a second day.  Swaps traders have boosted bets that the  European Central
Bank  will lift its target rate in the next 12 months and  China 
raised  interest rates  for the third time in four months this
week to curb inflation. Manufacturing growth in South Africa
fell to 0.2 percent in December from 4.6 percent a month
earlier, according to a report today.  “Elevated food and energy prices have increased the
likelihood that many emerging markets will have to embark on
monetary tightening, which naturally is of concern to equity
bulls,”  Michael Keenan , a currency strategist at Standard Bank
Group Ltd. in Johannesburg, wrote in an e-mailed note to
clients. Disappointing mining or manufacturing data may further
weaken the rand as it curbs the outlook for  South Africa ’s
economic recovery, he wrote.  The rand may drop to 7.32 per dollar in the “coming
days,” according to the report.  Fund Outflows  Gold, which with platinum accounts for about a fifth of
South Africa’s export earnings, fell 0.6 percent to $1,354 an
ounce in  New York , and platinum slipped 1.3 percent. Copper
dropped 0.4 percent in  London .  Investors pulled about $7 billion from emerging-market
equity funds in the week ended Feb. 2, the biggest weekly
outflow in three years, according to research firm EPFR Global.  Swaps traders expect the ECB to increase its target rate by
82 basis points over the next 12 months, up from 44 basis points
predicted at the end of last year, a Credit Suisse Group AG
index shows. European inflation accelerated to 2.4 percent in
January, more than economists forecast, the European Union’s
statistics office said Jan. 31.  South Africa’s inflation may reach the upper end of the
central bank’s 3 percent to 6 percent target range “sooner than
expected” as oil and food prices increase, Governor Gill Marcus
said Feb. 6.  Raising Forecast  The South African  Reserve Bank , which left its benchmark
interest rate unchanged at a 30-year low of 5.5 percent on Jan.
20, raised its inflation forecast for this year to an average of
4.6 percent from 4.3 percent, and its 2012 estimate to 5.3
percent from 4.8 percent.  Investors in interest-rate derivatives are pricing in a 51
basis point increase in the central bank’s benchmark rate by its
 November  meeting. Three-month forward-rate agreements due in
eight months fell 2 basis points to 6.0040.  Bonds snapped three days of increases, with the 13.5
percent security due September 2015 falling 1.6 cents to 121.462
rand, lifting the yield by less than a basis point to 7.84
percent.  President  Jacob Zuma  delivers his annual State of the
Nation address at 7 p.m. in  Cape Town  today.  “While this event traditionally hasn’t introduced
completely new policy directives in the past, there is always
the outside likelihood,” the Standard Bank analysts wrote.
“The rand might also weaken should President Zuma re-emphasize
the need for greater export-related  job creation , which might
imply further reserve accumulation by the South African Reserve
Bank and Treasury.”  Rising Reserves  South African gross reserves climbed 3.7 percent, the most
in 10 months, to $45.5 billion in January as the central bank
boosted foreign currency purchases and the dollar weakened,
boosting the value of holdings in euros, pounds and other
currencies.  The Reserve Bank has increased purchases after last year’s
11 percent rally versus the dollar, reducing the competitiveness
of exports.  South Africa’s jobless rate, the highest of 61 countries
tracked by Bloomberg, fell to 24 percent in the fourth quarter
from 25.3 percent in the previous three month, the statistics
agency said on Feb. 8.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ana Monteiro in Johannesburg at 
 amonteiro4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  