-- RBS Will Be Biggest Loser From Britain’s Pay Accord
-- B y   G a v i n   F i n c h   a n d   J o n   M e n o n
-- 2011-02-10T09:32:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-10/rbs-will-be-biggest-loser-from-u-k-s-pay-accord-analysts-say.html
  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc ,
the U.K.’s biggest government-owned bank, will be the lender
worst hit by yesterday’s agreement with the Treasury to curb
bonuses and boost lending, analysts said. British taxpayers may
end up bearing the cost.  RBS cut the bonus pool for investment bankers by 27 percent
to less than 950 million pounds ($1.5 billion), the lender said
yesterday. That’s less than half the 2.2 billion pounds  Barclays
Plc  had allocated for bonuses by the end of the third quarter.
RBS will also limit individual cash bonuses to 2,000 pounds. The
bank had sought to pay as much as 50,000 pounds to keep
employees, a person familiar with the talks said Dec. 20.  Taken together, the concessions are greater than at any of
the other U.K. banks covered by the agreement with Chancellor of
the Exchequer  George Osborne . Barclays and  HSBC Holdings Plc 
both agreed to pay their U.K. employees less in bonuses than
last year, though they didn’t commit to a percentage cut.  Lloyds
Banking Group Plc , which is also subject to the 2,000-pound cap
on cash bonuses, doesn’t have an investment-banking division.  “RBS risks losing good employees to rivals,” said Joseph
Dickerson, an analyst at Espirito Santo Investment Bank in  London  who has a “sell” rating on the stock. “That has an
impact on the government’s value of its shareholding if they
can’t be competitive.”  An HSBC or Barclays banker awarded a 1 million-pound bonus
could receive as much as 250,000 pounds in cash immediately,
under guidelines approved by the U.K.’s  Financial Services
Authority . That’s 125 times more than an RBS or Lloyds employee.  ‘Two-Tier’ System  “There is a genuine issue here of why an investment banker
would want to work for RBS, given that there is this risk that
their bonus will be restricted,” said  Simon Maughan , the co-
head of European equities at London-based MF Global Ltd. “RBS
are going to find it tougher to retain or hire talent, and we
could see the emergence of a two-tier investment banking
system.”  RBS, which is 83 percent government-owned after it received
a 45.5 billion-pound bailout during the financial crisis, makes
proportionately more revenue in the U.K. than Barclays and HSBC,
which are both based in London. RBS generated about 58 percent
of net revenue in the U.K. in 2009.  Barclays, which expanded its investment-banking operations
outside London when it acquired Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s
North American and Asian units, makes about 44 percent of its
revenue in Britain. HSBC, founded in Hong Kong and  Shanghai  in
1865, makes 36 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘At Risk Commercially’    Standard Chartered Plc , which makes more than 90 percent of
its profit outside the U.K., said in November that it wouldn’t
take part in the bonus pact.  “Any organization that significantly reduces total
compensation for key players while other banks, particularly
foreign banks in London, haven’t done so is at risk
commercially,” Chris Roebuck, a visiting professor at Cass
Business School in London, said by telephone. Banks may opt to
raise base pay for employees to make up for shrinking bonuses,
Roebuck said.  Former Barclays Chief Executive Officer  John Varley , who
led the lenders’ talks with the government, said their pledge to
cut bonuses doesn’t mean total compensation paid to employees
will shrink.  “The commitment we have made relates to our bonus pool,”
Varley said, when asked yesterday by reporters whether total
compensation would decline. Pay has to be “appropriate in terms
of driving performance,” he said.  John Hourican  Edinburgh-based RBS paid the 19,500 employees at its global
banking and markets unit, led by John Hourican, a total of 1.3
billion pounds in bonuses for 2009. About half the unit’s
employees are based in Britain.  RBS employees on salaries lower than 37,000 pounds received
maximum cash bonuses of 2,000 pounds for 2009, while there were
no cash payouts for 2008.  CEO Stephen Hester, who will receive a 2 million-pound
bonus in stock for 2010, said last year he was walking a
“tightrope” as he tried to prevent top dealmakers leaving for
competitors amid public anger over the size of bankers’ pay.
Hester said that about 1,000 top investment bankers had quit
over bonuses, which had cost the lender as much as 1 billion
pounds in lost earnings.  “We could easily have made across the bank perhaps as much
as 1 billion pounds more of profit if we hadn’t lost people,”
Hester said at the time.  Hester wasn’t available for an interview yesterday, and RBS
spokesman Michael Strachan declined to comment.  Project Merlin  The agreement followed 10 weeks of talks in which ministers
have wrangled with bank chiefs over demands for lower bonuses as
the government raises taxes and reduces spending to narrow a
record  budget deficit . Under the agreement, known as Project
Merlin, Lloyds, HSBC, RBS, Barclays and Banco Santander SA’s
U.K. unit will make loans of about 190 billion pounds to
companies to help bolster the economic recovery.  Matthew Oakeshott, a House of Lords Treasury spokesman for
the British coalition government’s junior partner, the Liberal
Democrats, resigned last night after describing Merlin as a
“very soft deal” and saying the Treasury had been out-
maneuvered in its negotiations.  Banks will have to disclose the pay of at least seven
executives, compared with five individuals in the U.S. and  Hong
Kong  and only board executives in Germany and Japan, Osborne
told lawmakers yesterday. Each bank will have to write to the
FSA to confirm it has applied the agreement on bonuses.  “Merlin seems pretty painless for the banks,” said  Ian Gordon , a banking analyst at Exane BNP Paribas in London. “The
disclosure of a few more people’s pay is really of no interest
to anyone and, generally speaking, gross lending commitments are
useless as they mean very little if they aren’t net lending
requirements.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gavin Finch in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net ;
Jon Menon at   jmenon1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  