-- Treasuries Hold Place as World's Worst Performers Before Jobless Claims
-- B y   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 2011-02-10T08:14:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-10/treasuries-fall-before-jobless-claims-report-16-billion-30-year-auction.html
Treasuries held their place as the
worst performers among the biggest government bond markets this
month before a report today that economists said will show the
U.S. job market is improving.  Pacific Investment Management Co., which runs the largest
bond fund, said yields are poised to rise as the economic
outlook gets better. Rates on 30-year bonds were eight basis
points away from the highest level in 10 months as the
government prepared to sell $16 billion of the securities today.  “It’s risky to buy” Treasuries, said Kazuaki Oh’e, a debt
salesman in Tokyo at CIBC World Markets Japan Inc., a unit of  Canada ’s fifth-largest lender. “The employment numbers are all
coming in strong.”  Thirty-year bonds yielded 4.72 percent as of 8:09 a.m. in  London , according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The 4.25
percent security maturing in November 2040 traded at 92 18/32.  The rate increased to 4.79 percent yesterday, the most
since April 7. Benchmark 10-year yields were little changed at
3.67 percent.    Government securities  maturing in more than a year have
handed investors a 1.3 percent loss in February, the most of 26
bond-market indexes tracked by the European Federation of
Financial Analysts Societies and Bloomberg.  Treasuries recouped losses sustained in early Asian trading
today as stocks fell, increasing demand for the relative safety
of government debt.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index of shares slid 1 percent to a
one-week low. Futures contracts on the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index of U.S. share declined 0.3 percent.  ‘Change in Views’    Anthony Crescenzi , a portfolio manager at  Newport Beach ,
California-based Pimco, said the trend is for yields to rise.  “There is a change in views on the economy,” he said
yesterday during a Bloomberg Radio interview on “Bloomberg
Surveillance” with  Tom Keene . “The upward pressure on yields
will persist for awhile.”  Initial jobless claims fell by 5,000 last week to 410,000,
according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of
economists before the Labor Department report today. The  unemployment rate  slid to a 21-month low of 9 percent in
January.  ‘Upward Pressure’  The 30-year bonds being sold today yielded 4.71 percent in
pre-auction trading, rising from 4.515 percent at the last sale
of the securities on Jan. 13.  Investors bid for 2.67 times the amount of debt offered
last month, versus an average of 2.68 for the past 10 sales.
Indirect bidders, the investor group that includes foreign
central banks, bought 37.8 percent of the securities, versus the
10-auction average of 38.3 percent.  The government is also scheduled to announce today how much
it plans to raise in 30-year Treasury Inflation Protected
Securities Feb. 17.  Yields indicate investors added to bets this week that the  Federal Reserve  will raise  interest rates .  The difference between two-year rates and the central
bank’s target for overnight lending climbed to 60 basis points
on Feb. 8, the most since May, versus the five-year average of 5
basis points.  Fed Funds Futures  Yields on 30-day federal funds futures contracts for
delivery in January 2012 climbed to 0.515 percent the same day
from 0.315 percent at the end of January. The figure was 0.485
percent today. The contract settles at the average overnight fed
funds rate for the delivery month, making it a way for investors
to bet on when policy makers will increase borrowing costs.  “I disagree with the market,” said Tsutomu Komiya, who
invests in  U.S. debt  in Tokyo for Daiwa Asset Management Co.,
which oversees the equivalent of $104.3 billion. “The
unemployment rate is still high.” The Fed will keep the key
rate at the current level until the second quarter of next year,
he said.  Policy makers have held the fed funds rate, their target
for overnight lending between banks, in a range of zero to 0.25
percent since December 2008.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  told the House Budget
Committee yesterday that while the declines in the jobless rate
in December and January “do provide some grounds for
optimism,” he cautioned “it will be several years before the
unemployment rate has returned to a more normal level.”  Treasuries rose yesterday as demand at a $24 billion 10-
year auction surged from the foreign-central-bank investor
group.  Indirect bidders bought 71.3 percent of the notes, compared
with 53.6 percent in January and an average of 46.4 percent for
the prior 10 sales.  Stimulus Is Working  The central bank’s effort to pump $600 billion into the
economy by June 30 is supporting the recovery, said  Brian Sack ,
the Fed Bank of New York markets group chief.  “Risky asset prices such as equities have risen at a rapid
pace, and credit spreads and measures of credit availability
have continued to ease,” Sack said yesterday in Philadelphia.  An index of U.S. company bonds has fallen 0.4 percent this
month, based on Bank of America Merrill Lynch data, as corporate
debt outperformed Treasuries. The MSCI World Index of stocks
returned 2 percent in the period.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wes Goodman in  Singapore  at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net . 