-- U.S. Regulators Struggle to Keep Up With Dodd-Frank
-- B y   R o b e r t   S c h m i d t
-- 2011-02-10T18:55:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-10/regulator-struggles-to-keep-up-with-dodd-frank-six-months-after-enactment.html
When Congress overhauled the
financial regulation system last year, it handed the U.S.
 Commodity Futures Trading Commission  the tough task of policing
the bulk of the derivatives business. Then lawmakers refused to
give the tiny agency extra money to hire staff or upgrade its
computer systems.  The CFTC has been limping along on the same $169 million
budget it had before its portfolio ballooned to include nearly
$300 trillion in U.S. derivatives trades. It’s a little like
arming a big-game hunter with a pea shooter, Bloomberg
Businessweek reports in its Feb. 14 issue.  Six months after the Dodd-Frank law was enacted, the CFTC
is struggling under the weight of its expanded duties. The
agency has missed several deadlines as it tries to craft dozens
of rules to make the  derivatives market  more transparent. It has
restricted staff travel and cut $11 million from its technology
budget. On Feb. 4, Chairman  Gary Gensler  had to address
derivatives lawyers in Naples, Fla., by videoconference.  The agency recently warned Congress it may be forced to lay
off at least 35 from a staff of about 700 next month unless it
gets an emergency infusion of $31 million, according to two
people familiar with the commission’s budget problems.  Even that small boost may never materialize, with
Republican lawmakers and President  Barack Obama  girding for
battle over how much to slice from the fiscal 2012 budget, which
the President will release on Feb. 14.  ‘Serious Threat’  Representative  Barney Frank , a Massachusetts Democrat who
was co-author of the financial overhaul, says the budget
standoff could gut much of the law. “Let me be clear,” Frank
said. “This is a serious, serious threat.”  The Securities and Exchange Commission is better off,
though not by much. It’s operating on a $1.1 billion budget,
frozen at the 2010 level. Unable to afford new employees, SEC
Chairman  Mary Schapiro  halted the creation of five offices
required by the law, including units to supervise credit-rating
firms, encourage whistle-blowers, and oversee municipal bonds.
In a Feb. 4 speech, she said the funding problems were impeding
the SEC’s “core mission” of enforcing securities laws.  The head of the SEC division that reviews company
disclosures, Meredith Cross, says she’s been unable to replace
workers who have left and now looks out on 20 empty desks she
hoped to fill. The SEC enforcement chief,  Robert Khuzami , says
he told his attorneys to interview witnesses by videoconference
because of budget constraints. He says the agency can’t afford
technology upgrades to process the electronic tips and other
evidence it receives.  Gensler’s Plea  Gensler, speaking today at a House Agriculture Committee
hearing, told lawmakers, “We don’t have the budget, the
resources to oversee” the new derivatives regulations required
under the law.  Regulators are trying to balance congressional deadlines
with writing sensible, practical rules, according to Neal Wolin,
deputy Treasury secretary. “There has not been any compromise
thus far on getting it done right,” he said.  Frank sees the hand of Wall Street at work. “There is no
question,” he said, that Republicans are aiming their scalpels
at the CFTC and the SEC to slow the derivatives rules that would
harm bank profits more than any other new regulation.    Goldman Sachs Group Inc .,  JPMorgan Chase & Co .,  Morgan
Stanley ,  Bank of America Corp . and  Citigroup Inc . earned a
combined $28 billion on derivatives trades in 2009, the year
before the law passed, according to market sources and Federal
Reserve data. Those profits are likely to decline as the complex
securities are traded more in the open as required by the new
law.  Pause Button  Republicans deny they are trying to help the banks. “It
wouldn’t be all that inappropriate to hit the pause button or
extend some of those regulatory deadlines or requirements until
we get our arms around where we’re headed,” said Randy Neugebauer, a Texas Republican who sits on the House Financial
Services Committee.  Even without budget politics, the agencies would have had a
tough time following the Dodd-Frank law’s timetable. The act, by
some estimates, requires 243 new rules, 67 one-time studies, and
22 recurring reports. Most of the work is supposed to be
completed in July, one year after the President signed the
measure.  There have been some notable successes. The new Consumer
Financial Protection Bureau, still operating within the Treasury
Department, has hired 150 employees and is beginning to focus on
two priorities: making credit cards and mortgages more consumer-
friendly. Its interim leader, Presidential adviser  Elizabeth Warren , has set a goal of creating new loan forms that will
eliminate 80 percent of the paperwork involved in buying a home.  Snags  Across the bureaucracy, most of the rules that are on track
are at the earliest and least controversial proposal stage and
could still encounter snags. Others are already provoking fierce
opposition. Banks are fighting a Federal Reserve proposal to cap
the debit-card fees retail merchants pay to banks that issue the
cards.  Some analysts have estimated the rule could drain $12
billion in revenue from banks. Camden Fine, head of a trade
group for community banks, says he is usually fighting the large
banks, but in this case they have banded together to stop the
rule. “This has united the entire industry,” he said.  While  Wall Street  firms and their trade associations say
they’re not asking Republicans to cut agency budgets, there’s no
denying they want to slow-walk the process. Timothy Ryan,
president of the Securities Industry and Financial Markets
Assn., cautioned Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner  in a letter
earlier this month that the rule-making pace could disrupt
markets.  “In the balance between strict adherence to deadlines and
creating regulations that work to the benefit of the broader
economy,” Ryan wrote, “I come down on the side of doing it
right, rather than doing it fast.” Doing it fast may no longer
be a worry.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Schmidt in Washington at 
 rschmidt5@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Lawrence
Roberts  at  lroberts13@bloomberg.net  