-- Renault CEO Ghosn Says Nissan Merger `Not Feasible' on Internal Opposition
-- B y   L a u r e n c e   F r o s t
-- 2011-02-10T15:09:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-10/renault-targets-5-operating-margin-by-2013-after-posting-full-year-profit.html
  Renault SA  Chief Executive Officer
Carlos Ghosn said merging with alliance partner Nissan Motor Co.
was still “not feasible” after unveiling three-year goals that
fell short of previous targets.  Management integration with the French carmaker’s 43
percent-owned Japanese affiliate is not part of the mid-term
strategy because of internal opposition at both companies, the
CEO said today during a conference call with analysts.  Ghosn said any such move would backfire because of the
companies’ ingrained cultural differences and determination to
remain independent. Renault today announced its first medium-
term plan since the 2008 financial crisis, when Ghosn scrapped
2009 targets for a 6 percent operating margin and 3.33 million
deliveries. The CEO today pledged 3 million in annual sales by
2013 and a margin of more than 5 percent.  “A merger of Renault and Nissan would immediately lift the
value of Renault’s equity and Nissan’s,” said  Max Warburton , a
London-based analyst with Sanford C. Bernstein, who has an
“outperform” rating on the shares. Ghosn’s opposition to full
integration “misses the point,” he said.  Renault fell as much as 2.43 euros, or 5 percent, to 46.14
euros and traded 3.6 percent lower as of 4:06 p.m. in Paris. The
shares have gained 7.8 percent this year, valuing the carmaker
at 13.9 billion euros ($18.9 billion).  Renault is counting on the Duster pickup and other models
in its no-frills “Entry” range to power an emerging-market
expansion as it adds capacity in  Morocco ,  India ,  Russia  and  South America . Investment, research and development spending
will be capped at 9 percent of company revenue, while more
vehicle designs are pooled with Nissan.  Cutting Costs  The company also pledged to reduce direct production costs
by 12 percent and increase capacity utilization at underused
European factories by 20 percentage points. Electric car sales
will reach 100,000 a year by 2013, Ghosn predicted, drawing on
vehicle, battery and motor production lines in  France .  “If this is  Carlos Ghosn ’s idea of a strategy for the next
years, then the market will take a very negative view,” said
David Arnold, a London-based analyst at Credit Suisse who has a
an “outperform” rating on the shares. “There’s nothing on how
they will raise benefits for shareholders from the alliance.”  The automaker recorded a 3.13 billion-euro net loss and
2.31 million vehicle sales in 2009, more than one million short
of the abandoned goal. It last achieved a 5 percent margin in
2004, the year before Ghosn took over as CEO.  ‘Prudent’ Target  The “prudent” 2013 sales target of 3 million vehicles
reflects earlier “disappointments we had with some models”
that caused Renault to miss previous volume goals, Ghosn said.  The company, based in the Paris suburb of Boulogne-
Billancourt, is predicting a European auto-market contraction of
as much as 2 percent, with its home French market shrinking 8
percent. Markets outside the region “will remain dynamic,”
Renault said today.  While the company’s second-half net income was swollen by 2
billion euros in proceeds from the sale of a stake in Volvo AB,
earnings before interest, tax and one-time items came to 319
million euros, or 1.7 percent of sales. The operating margin in
the first half was 4 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurence Frost in Paris at 
 lfrost4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong in Berlin at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  