-- Rory McIlroy Leads by Two at Dubai Desert Classic; Tiger Woods Six Behind
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2011-02-10T14:45:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-10/rory-mcilroy-leads-by-two-at-dubai-desert-classic-tiger-woods-six-behind.html
  Tiger Woods  made an eagle on the
final hole to finish the opening round of the Dubai Desert
Classic six shots behind leader  Rory McIlroy .  Northern Ireland’s McIlroy shot 7-under 65 at the Emirates
Golf Club and is two strokes ahead of  Spain ’s Sergio Garcia and
South African Thomas Aiken. Woods, seeking his first victory
since November 2009, finished with 71.  Woods was grouped with England’s  Lee Westwood  and  Germany ’s  Martin Kaymer , the two players ahead of him at the top of the
 Official World Golf Ranking . The American won in Dubai in 2006
and 2008.  “We had a blast,” Woods said in an interview with Sky
Sports. “It’s nice to have this kind of pairing because we
don’t have a chance to do it very often.”  McIlroy, playing early before the wind started blowing,
made eight birdies and a bogey. The 21-year-old, who started on
the 10th hole, had five straight birdies from his eighth to 12th
holes.  “It was a great way to start the tournament,” McIlroy,
whose only European Tour victory came in Dubai two years ago,
said on the tour’s  website . “I felt in control of my ball most
of the day.”  Top-ranked Westwood and Kaymer both shot 3-under 69 and are
four shots off the lead. The duo’s pairing with Woods marked the
first time in 17 years the top three in the world ranking played
in a regular European Tour event, according to the tour’s
website.  ‘Very Special’  “It’s very special to have the top three in the world
here,” Kaymer told  Sky Sports . “Of course, you’re a little bit
more nervous the first two, three holes than normally on
Thursday. I had a solid first round and that’s all I wanted to
do.”  Woods finished his round by hitting his second shot at No.
18 to within five feet, then making the putt for an eagle.  “I had 254 (yards) to the hole and had to take something
off it,” Woods, who called his round “scratchy,” said. “I
threw it up in the air and it was perfect.”  Woods was ranked No. 1 when he previously played in a top-
three grouping at the 2008 U.S. Open with No. 2  Phil Mickelson 
and Adam Scott.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  