-- Roxy Music’s Sexy Charm Fades to Cheap Thrills on Stage: Review
-- B y   R o b e r t   H e l l e r
-- 2011-02-10T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-10/roxy-music-s-sexy-charm-fades-to-lazy-nostalgia-thrills-in-concert-review.html
It’s like a bad Internet date. On
disc,  Roxy Music  is a paragon of louche experimental
sophistication. In the flesh, the band is cheap, lazy and
interminable.  Roxy Music released eight influential albums of art rock
between 1972 and 1982 before disbanding in 1983. It has played a
few sporadic gigs since 2001 and reunited for its 40th
anniversary. Its tour, named “For Your Pleasure” after Roxy’s
second album, is heading to  Australia  and  New Zealand  for the
rest of this month and March.  Four members of the original lineup are participating:
vocalist Bryan Ferry, guitarist  Phil Manzanera , saxophonist Andy
Mackay and drummer Paul Thompson. Brian Eno, the most notable
other former member, continues to keep his distance, preferring
to theorize about pop and produce Coldplay. He may have a point.  Onstage at  London ’s  O2 Arena , every expense is spared.
There are some high-school art-project video projections and two
dancing girls. Of the Roxy Music that dressed Jerry Hall as a
mermaid for a record sleeve, nothing is to be seen.  The lighting is poor, with no screens broadcasting
magnified footage of the musicians: Unless you are sitting in
the front rows, there is very little to see. (There were a lot
of seats, not all of them filled, behind those front few.)  The music doesn’t plug the entertainment deficit. Ferry’s
vocals, although still beguiling, lack the strange sexual
urgency of his youth. The surrounding musicianship is safe,
satisfied and peppered with alternating guitar and sax solos.
The striking textures that once made Roxy Music songs so
singular are lost in a mid-tempo sonic mush.  “Virginia Plain,” without the shrill flamboyance of the
recording, is an average rock ‘n’ roll number. “In Every Dream
Home a Heartache,” decadently disturbing on record, is
embarrassingly awkward. Only the songwriting perfection of
“Avalon” still raises goose bumps. Yet its legendary pristine
smoothness is more akin to plastic-packaged cheese.  Disappointing.  Rating: *.  Information:  http://www.roxymusic.co.uk/     Robert Heller  is a music critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Robert Heller in London at  roberthelleruk@yahoo.co.uk   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 