-- Russia Stocks Drop Most in Seven Months on Global Inflation Woes
-- B y   J a s o n   C o r c o r a n
-- 2011-02-10T16:49:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-10/russia-stocks-retreat-3rd-day-as-inflation-curbs-risk-appetite.html
Russian stocks slumped the most in
seven months as concern deepened emerging-market inflation will
quicken and a pipe maker became the second company to pull a
share sale this week in Moscow.  The 30-stock  Micex Index  retreated 2.7 percent to 1,676.77
by the 6:45 p.m. close in Moscow, extending its three-day
decline to 5.1 percent and reversing this year’s gain. The
dollar-denominated RTS Index fell 2.8 percent to 1,846.92.  “We could be looking at a correction of about 15 percent
because of inflationary pressure and less risk appetite for
emerging markets,” Marina Shestakova, a portfolio manager at
Wermuth Asset Management who helps oversee about $400 million in
Russia and eastern  Europe , said by phone today.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index has dropped 5.2 percent
this year as countries from  China  and  Brazil  to Hungary and  Indonesia  raised  interest rates  to combat inflation. Investors
pulled about $7 billion from emerging-market equity funds in the
week ended Feb. 2, the biggest weekly outflow in three years,
according to research firm EPFR Global.  ChelPipe,  Russia ’s third-largest maker of steel pipes,
postponed its initial public offering in London because of
“unusual  market sentiment ,” the company said in a regulatory
filing today. It’s the second Russian company to shelve IPO
plans in a week after OAO Koks, the largest pig-iron exporter,
canceled on Feb. 4. HMS Group Plc, the country’s biggest
industrial-pipe producer, said Feb. 8 it sold shares below the
lower end of its price range.  Severstal Falls  OAO Severstal slumped to its lowest in two months, losing
2.6 percent to 493.69 rubles after Russian billionaire  Alexei
Mordashov ’s steelmaker said output fell and investors speculated
the company’s gold unit won’t sell shares at the price it wants.  Crude steel output fell 1 percent in the fourth quarter
from the previous three months to 4.16 million metric tons,
according to an e-mailed statement today. Severstal’s Nord Gold
NV unit is due to announce final pricing for its planned IPO in  London  tomorrow.  “Severstal is under pressure because Nord Gold won’t sell
at the indicated price range,” Julian Rimmer, a trader of
Russian shares at CF Global Trading in London, said in e-mailed
comments.  OAO Polyus Gold, Russia’s largest gold producer, retreated
4.1 percent. OAO Sberbank, the country’s second-biggest lender,
dropped 3.4 percent. OAO Gazprom Neft, the oil unit of Russia’s
gas export monopoly, slumped 2.4 percent, snapping four days of
gains. OAO Novolipetsk Steel, the largest steelmaker by market
value, lost 3.9 percent.  Copper for three-month delivery slid 0.2 percent to $9,905
a metric ton on the London Metal Exchange. Zinc, lead and nickel
all traded lower today on the LME. OAO GMK Norilsk Nickel,
Russia’s largest mining company, declined 2.9 percent to
6,853.35 rubles, falling for a sixth day to its lowest level
since Dec. 28.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Halia Pavliva in New York at 
 hpavliva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net 
David Papadopoulos in New York at 
 papadopoulous@bloomberg.net  