-- Russian Buyers’ Spending Spree Boosts $137 Million U.K. Auction
-- B y   S c o t t   R e y b u r n
-- 2011-02-10T01:08:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-10/russian-buyers-art-spending-spree-boosts-137-million-christie-s-auction.html
Russian buyers went on a shopping
spree at a London auction last night that raised 84.9 million
pounds ($136.6 million).  Collectors from the former  Soviet Union  bid a total of more
than 20 million pounds for works by 20th-century artists such as
Pierre Bonnard and Rene Magritte at Christie’s International.  “It’s shopping,” Guy Jennings, partner in the London-
based dealership Theobald Jennings, said in an interview.
“These are colorful works that will look good in a house in the
Cote d’Azur. This market is driven by Western-based Russians and
new European money. The rise in commodity prices has made a
difference to them.”  Trophy-quality Impressionist and modern pieces are in
demand after making up 7 out of the 10 priciest lots at auction
last year. Some collectors have been helped by higher commodity
values, with the Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot Index up 34 percent
in the last year.  Sandra Nedvetskaia, a Zurich-based Christie’s employee who
looks after Russian clients, gave a winning phone bid of 7.2
million pounds for the 1923 Bonnard landscape, “Terrasse a
Vernon.” The price with fees, the highest of the evening, was
more than double the low estimate and a record for the artist.  Nedvetskaia’s bidders gave a further 4.7 million pounds for
Magritte’s 1941 painting of a nude woman, “L’aimant,” and 3.1
million pounds for Kees van Dongen’s 1926 portrait of the fur-
coated actress, Lili Damita, which doubled its low estimate.  Russian Favorite  A 1912 landscape by Russian favorite Natalia Goncharova was
bought for 4 million pounds and Andre Derain’s 1905 Fauvist
landscape “Bateaux a Collioure” for 5.9 million pounds by the
same bidder represented by Thomas Seydoux, Christie’s head of
Impressionist and modern art.  Forty-nine percent of the auction’s buyers were from
continental  Europe  (including  Russia ), 23 percent from the U.K.,
23 percent from the U.S. and 5 percent from  Asia , said
 Christie’s .  Decorative paintings attracted competition, particularly if
fresh to the market. An 1896 Edgar Degas drawing of dancers,
“Danseuse jupes jaunes (Deux danseuses en jaune),” had been in
the same private European collection since 1899. It sold for 5.4
million pounds, beating a top estimate of 5 million pounds.  The 31-lot Surrealist section raised a record 23 million
pounds with a new auction high of 4.1 million pounds paid on the
telephone for Salvador Dali’s 1926 painting, “Study for ‘Honey
is Sweeter than Blood,’” influenced by his friend the poet
Federico Garcia Lorca. Never offered at auction before, it was
estimated at as much as 3 million pounds.  Brown Sunflowers  The one high-value disappointment was  Paul Gauguin ’s 1901
study of sunflowers in a vase painted in Tahiti as a tribute to
his friend Vincent van Gogh. “Nature morte a ‘L’Esperance’”
failed to attract any bids against a low estimate of 7 million
pounds. The brown color of the painting put off buyers, dealers
said.  Four works sold for 10.1 million pounds to raise
acquisition funds for the  Art Institute of Chicago .  Christie’s estimated its 76 lots would fetch at least 72.6
million pounds at hammer prices. Seventy-nine percent of the
works were successful, with 23 lots selling for more than 1
million pounds. The equivalent event last year totaled 76.8
million pounds, also boosted by Russian demand.  (Scott Reyburn writes about the art market for Muse, the
arts and culture section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Scott Reyburn in London at  sreyburn@hotmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 