-- 
South Africa's President Zuma Plans $5.4 Billion Drive to Boost Employment

-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 
2011-02-11T14:08:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-10/s-africa-s-zuma-sets-aside-39-billion-rand-to-curb-unemployment.html
South African President  Jacob Zuma 
said the government will spearhead a 39 billion rand ($5.4
billion)  job creation  drive to ease the unemployment crisis in  Africa ’s biggest economy.  A 9 billion rand fund will finance job-creation initiatives
over the next three years, while the state-owned Industrial
Development Corp. will invest 10 billion rand over five years in
labor-intensive projects, Zuma said in his annual state-of-the-
nation address to Parliament in  Cape Town  yesterday. The
government will also provide “20 billion rand in tax allowances
or tax breaks” to boost manufacturing.  South African companies have fired more than 1 million
workers since the global financial crisis hit, with the jobless
rate peaking at 25.3 percent in the third quarter of last year,
before declining to 24 percent in the final three months. The  unemployment rate  is 35.8 percent when those who are too
discouraged to seek work are taken into account, according to
the government’s statistics office.  “There is a very clear focus and emphasis on job
creation,”  Kevin Lings , a Johannesburg-based economist with
Stanlib Asset Management, said in an interview. “These are
meaningful amounts. The measures have the potential to encourage
investment.”  Promises, Wishes  Zuma pledged to make job creation a top priority on taking
office in May 2009. His failure to deliver on those promises may
cost the ruling  African National Congress  votes in local
government elections that must be held by mid-year.  To qualify for the tax breaks, companies must spend a
minimum of 200 million rand on new projects and 30 million rand
on expansion and upgrades, Zuma said. Companies can qualify for
a tax deductible allowance of as much as 900 million rand for
new investments and 550 million rand for upgrades and
expansions.  “We agree with the focus on job-creating economic
growth,” Helen Zille, leader of the Democratic Alliance, the
biggest opposition party, told reporters. The big challenge for
Zuma is policy implementation and “until there is a
capacitated, competent state, all this will be promises and
wishes.”  Mining Strategy  Zuma also announced that the government will transform the
state-owned African Exploration, Mining and Finance Corp. into a
company that will seek to tap important commodities, such as
coal and uranium, and adopt a new mineral-processing strategy
this year.  “The mineral wealth of our country is a national asset and
a common heritage that belongs to all  South Africans , with the
state as the custodian,” he said.  The measures announced yesterday follow criticism from
labor unions that the government has not done enough to combat
poverty and create jobs. The unions played a key role in helping
Zuma win control of the ANC in 2007.  “We will need more information on who will receive this
money and get the tax breaks,” the Congress of South African
Trade Unions, the country’s largest labor grouping, said in an
e-mailed statement today. “We have to be confident that the
businesses who benefit from all these concessions really do use
the money to create jobs and not just boost their profits.”  Zuma’s approval rating fell to 62 percent in November from
77 percent the year earlier, according to a survey released on
Feb. 9 by Johannesburg’s Ipsos Markinor. The company interviewed
3,558 people and had a margin of error of 1.6 percentage points.  Surging Rand  “South Africans are now saying that the government has had
time to show what they are made of and the public is not
impressed with what they see,” Anneke Greyling, a director and
political analyst at Ipsos, said in an e-mailed statement.  Zuma said the government will step up efforts to improve
the health and education system and combat crime. He also
announced that the government has set aside 800 million rand to
assist communities ravaged by flooding since mid-December.  The government’s efforts to bolster manufacturing have been
hampered by a surge in the value of the rand, which has
undermined the competitiveness of the nation’s exports. The
South African currency gained 42 percent against the dollar in
the two years to the end of last year. It has weakened 9.2
percent in 2011, the most of 16 major currencies tracked by
Bloomberg.  “Concerns about the  exchange rate  have been taken to
heart,” and exchange control reforms aimed at weakening the
currency are being implemented, Zuma said. Pravin Gordhan, the
minister of finance, will give more information on exchange
controls in his budget speech, he said.  The  budget deficit  will decline to between 3 percent and 4
percent by 2013, from 6.7 percent in the fiscal year through
March, Zuma said. The gap is in line with that announced by
Gordhan on Oct. 27.  The rand declined 0.6 percent against the dollar to 7.3059
as of 3:35 p.m. in Johannesburg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Cohen in Cape Town bureau at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  