-- Scotiabank to Sell Gold to Consumers in Mexico, Dubai
-- B y   S e a n   B .   P a s t e r n a k
-- 2011-02-10T21:30:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-10/scotiabank-plans-to-sell-gold-to-consumers-in-mexico-dubai.html
Bank of Nova Scotia, which sells
gold coins and bars to clients in  Canada  through an online
store, plans to establish similar programs in countries such as  Mexico  and Dubai, said Barry Wainstein, a bank executive.  “We’re looking at a number of different countries
simultaneously,” Wainstein, vice chairman and deputy head of
global capital markets, said in an interview. “In 2011, we may
be up and running in one or two countries.”  Canada’s third-largest bank by assets has been expanding
its  ScotiaMocatta  business, which trades and distributes metals
such as gold and has roots that date back to 1671. The bank’s
total revenue from precious-metals trading was C$245 million
($246 million) in the fiscal year that ended Oct. 31, a 53
percent increase from C$160 million two years earlier.
ScotiaMocatta doesn’t disclose its financial results.  “We think we can roll out our retail product suite to a
number of other countries,” said Wainstein, who is also the
global head of foreign exchange and precious metals for the
lender’s Scotia Capital investment-banking unit.  ScotiaMocatta opened its so-called  eStore  in September
2009, allowing Canadians to purchase physical gold valued at up
to C$10,000 by ordering online. Clients outside of Canada, or
those buying larger amounts, typically do so through
wholesalers, Wainstein said.  About 60 percent of eStore users aren’t Scotiabank clients,
said Wainstein, who declined to say how many customers have used
the site.  Mexico, Dubai  The Toronto-based lender, which has operations in about 50
countries, may expand in  Mexico  because of ties to its
Scotiabank Inverlat consumer bank.  Dubai would be a good market for expansion because of
demand for gold in the Middle Eastern country, Wainstein said.  “We’re not competing in the Canadian league; we’re
competing in the global league,” Wainstein said.    Bank of Nova Scotia  rose C$1.13, or 1.9 percent, to C$59.19
at 4:10 p.m. in Toronto Stock Exchange trading. The stock was
the best performer today among Canada’s eight publicly traded
banks.  The price of gold, which rose for 10 straight years, has
declined about 4 percent this year as signs of a strengthening
economic recovery curbed demand for the precious metal as a
store of wealth. Gold fluctuated near a two-week high yesterday
in New York and reached a record of $1,432.50 an ounce in
December.  “I’m not clear where the price of gold is going,”
Wainstein said. “In a market like gold, it could spike up in a
couple of days.”  Scotiabank has made two acquisitions in the bullion
industry since 1998, including the purchase of about $900
million in precious-metals loans from Bank of America Corp. in
2006.  Wainstein, whose bank owns gold vaults in Toronto and  New
York  and leases space within the Bank of England’s vault in  London , declined to say how much of the metal it stores.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sean B. Pasternak in Toronto at 
 spasternak@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 