-- LSE Offer for TMX ‘Positive,’ Toronto Holders Aitken, Hall Say
-- B y   M a t t   W a l c o f f
-- 2011-02-10T14:26:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-10/lse-offer-for-tmx-positive-toronto-holders-aitken-hall-say.html
Several of the biggest  TMX Group
Inc . shareholders say they plan to support  London Stock Exchange
Group Plc ’s C$3.2 billion ($3.2 billion) takeover offer because
of potential for cost savings and more comprehensive services.  Money managers at Bissett Investment Management, Mawer
Investment Management Ltd., Louisbourg Investments Inc. and
Brown Capital Management Inc., which combined own more than 6
percent of shares in the owner of the Toronto Stock Exchange,
said their first impression is that shareholders should benefit
from the combination, which would give TMX owners about 45
percent of the combined company.  “Initially, our thought is, it is positive for sure,”
said Garey Aitken, chief investment officer of Bissett in
Calgary, which manages about C$13 billion, including more than 3
million of TMX’s 74.4 million shares. “The LSE seems to be a
logical partner for the TMX Group. If they were able to achieve
the synergies as stated, that is a lot of value for both
shareholder groups.”  TMX shares rose 6.4 percent yesterday to a 31-month high of
C$42.85 after the companies agreed to exchange 2.9963 LSE shares
for each TMX share. The agreement requires the approval of two-
thirds of votes cast at a meeting of TMX owners, and of
regulators in the U.K.,  Italy ,  Canada  and four Canadian
provinces.  Extra Revenue  In a  press release , the parties said the combination may
lead to C$160 million more in annual revenue after five years
than the two companies could achieve separately, since the
merged firm will offer more services in more places. Costs
should drop by C$56 million a year after two years due in part
to technology savings.  The projected revenue and cost benefits have  Jim Hall ,
director of research at Mawer in Calgary, leaning toward support
for the deal, he said in a phone interview.  “These companies will be able to increase the
attractiveness of listing on their joint exchanges to companies,
and I think there will be technology-cost savings they should be
able to pass through to shareholders,” said Hall, whose company
oversees 1.31 million TMX shares.  Finding a merger partner was important for TMX because of
its declining market share, said Martin Steinik, a money manager
at Brown Capital Management in Baltimore. The TSX’s share of
Canadian trading dropped to  72 percent  in December from 76
percent a year earlier, according to the Investment Industry
Regulatory Organization of Canada. Alpha Trading Systems, an
alternative platform owned in part by Canada’s six largest
banks, had an 18 percent market share.  ‘More Dominant Competitor’  “They had an issue with a direct competitor in Alpha,”
said Steinik, whose company counts about $10 million in TMX
shares among its more than $500 million in assets managed.
“It’s a highly competitive space. You put TMX and LSE together,
you have a much more dominant competitor.”  LSE’s offer gives an 8.1 percent premium over the average
TMX share price in the 20-day period leading up to the deal
announcement. Singapore Exchange Ltd.’s agreement to buy  Australia ’s ASX Ltd. in October included a 42 percent premium.
When TMX bought Montreal Exchange Inc. in 2007, it paid a 22
percent premium.  Louisbourg money manager Mathieu Roy said that while he
would prefer a higher price for his TMX shares, an acquirer
offering more would demand a more-traditional takeover rather
than a so-called merger of equals that will keep some of TMX’s
Toronto-based executives.  A pure takeover would be less likely to pass muster with
Canadian regulators, Roy said. The country blocked BHP Billiton
Ltd.’s $40 billion hostile bid for Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan
Inc. in November on national-interest grounds.  “That type of scenario would be difficult to accomplish,”
said Roy, whose firm manages C$1.5 billion, including TMX
shares, in Moncton,  New Brunswick . “We saw what happened with
Potash. I think something like this has a chance to work.”  To contact the reporter on this story;
Matt Walcoff in Toronto at 
 mwalcoff1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 