-- SIC Insurance of Ghana to Borrow Cash for Units in Liberia, Sierra Leone
-- B y   M o s e s   M o z a r t   D z a w u
-- 2011-02-10T12:47:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-10/sic-insurance-of-ghana-to-borrow-cash-for-units-in-liberia-sierra-leone.html
SIC Insurance Co., Ghana’s biggest
insurer, plans to borrow 25 million cedis ($16.5 million) to
establish its first subsidiaries outside the West African
nation, the company said.  The Accra-based company will borrow the funds next month
“from a bank or mortgage finance firm to finance the expansion”
into Liberia and  Sierra Leone , Franklin Owusu Asafo-Adjei,
deputy managing director for finance and administration, said in
a phone interview today. “The target is that these subsidiaries
should start operations by the end of the year.”  The two West African nations are rebuilding their economies
after devastating civil wars in the 1990s and 2000s that
crippled growth and hindered investment.  “There is little competition in those countries compared
to Ghana with 44 different players,” said Doris Yaa Ahiati, an
analyst with Accra-based Databank Group’s stock market research
unit. “SIC should be able to get first mover advantage there
before others start to come in,” she said by phone today.  The new companies will do life, general and re-insurance
business, Asafo-Adjei said. “Unlike  Ghana , the laws of these
countries don’t demand that these businesses be split and run by
separate companies.”  The company also plans to use part of the borrowed funds to
establish in Ghana a re-insurance company and a real estate
management unit, he said.  Ahiati said the move may boost SIC’s share price to as much
as 65 pesewas by the end of the year. The stock has been
unchanged for the past four trading sessions, holding at 48
pesewas per share on the Ghana Stock Exchange.  SIC’s profit increased 15 percent to 8.26 million cedis
last year, according to a report e-mailed by Ecobank Research
yesterday.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 