-- Smith & Nephew Names Olivier Bohuon as CEO After David Illingworth Retires
-- B y   A l l i s o n   C o n n o l l y
-- 2011-02-10T17:00:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-10/smith-nephew-names-olivier-bohuon-as-ceo-after-david-illingworth-retires.html
  Smith & Nephew Plc ,  Europe ’s largest
maker of shoulder and knee implants, named Olivier Bohuon as
chief executive officer to replace David Illingworth, who has
decided to retire after four years in the job.  Illingworth, 57, will step down at the end of the annual
general meeting on April 14, the London-based company said in a
statement today. He will stay on as an employee through August
to help Bohuon, 52, chief executive of French drugmaker Pierre
Fabre SA, with the transition.  Smith & Nephew is switching CEOs at a time when investors
have been speculating the company has attracted takeover
interest. The stock has risen 20 percent since Dec. 1 after news
reports that  Johnson & Johnson , the world’s largest health-care
company, and Biomet Inc. had made approaches to Smith & Nephew.  “It’s quite surprising,” Lisa Bedell Clive, analyst with
Sanford C. Bernstein Ltd. in  London , said in a telephone
interview. “He’s very well liked and he’s been at the helm for
a relatively limited amount of time.” The firm has a “market
perform” rating on Smith & Nephew’s stock.  Smith & Nephew declined to comment today on speculation the
company may be sold. The company said Jan. 14 it wasn’t engaged
in any talks that could lead to a takeover.  ‘Difficult Decision’  “I came to a very personal and difficult decision to
retire and return to the U.S.,” Illingworth said during a
conference call with reporters today. He and the board have been
working on a  succession plan  for some time, he said. The CEO
selection process took place “over a period of months,”
Chairman John Buchanan told investors on a conference call.
Illingworth said he doesn’t have another job lined up.  Fourth-quarter trading profit rose to $278 million from
$254 million a year earlier, Smith & Nephew said today. Earnings
per share climbed to 20.5 cents, up from 14.5 cents a year
earlier, beating the 19.3 cents a share mean estimate of nine
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Smith & Nephew rose 15 pence, or 2.1 percent, to 727 pence
in London trading, giving the company a market value of 6.47
billion pounds ($10.4 billion).  Bohuon joined Pierre Fabre, a closely held company in
Castres,  France , on Sept. 1. He previously ran the
pharmaceutical business of  Abbott Laboratories .  The appointment may damp some of the speculation about a
sale, said Chris Donnellan, an analyst at Evolution Securities
Ltd. in London. He rates the stock “add.”  “The strong results will be overshadowed by the departure
of David Illingworth,” Donnellan wrote in a note to clients
today. The earnings “show the impact of the work of the CEO and
his team of the last four years in a positive light.”  Sales were the same level as a year ago at $1.07 billion,
compared with the $1.04 billion average estimate of 16 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg. Operating profit grew to $267 million
from $189 million, compared with the $237.5 million average
estimate of six analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Revenue from orthopedics, which represents about half of
the company’s sales, declined 1 percent to $584 million. The
advanced wound management unit’s sales increased 4 percent to
$251 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Connolly in  Frankfurt  at 
 aconnolly4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at   pserafino@bloomberg.net . 