-- South Africa's President Zuma Plans $5.4 Billion Drive to Boost Employment
-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 2011-02-10T18:14:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-10/south-africa-s-zuma-plans-jobs-fund-and-tax-breaks-to-tackle-unemployment.html
  South Africa  will allocate 39
billion rand ($5.4 billion) toward  job creation  programs and tax
breaks to tackle the nation’s unemployment crisis, President  Jacob Zuma  said.  “We are concerned that unemployment and poverty persist
despite the economic growth experienced in the past 10 years,”
Zuma said in his annual state-of-the-nation address to
Parliament in Cape Town today.  A 9 billion rand fund to finance new job creation
initiatives over the next three years will be established, while
the state-owned Industrial Development Corp. will invest 10
billion rand over five years in “economic activities” with a
high job-creation potential, Zuma said. The government will
provide for “20 billion rand in tax allowances or tax breaks”
to boost manufacturing.  South African companies have fired more than 1 million
workers since the global financial crisis hit, with the jobless
rate peaking at 25.3 percent in the third quarter, before
declining to 24 percent in the final three months of the year.
The  unemployment rate  is 35.8 percent when those who are too
discouraged to seek work are taken into account, according to
the government’s statistics office.  Zuma pledged to make job creation a top priority on taking
office in May 2009. His failure to deliver on those promises may
cost the ruling  African National Congress  votes in local
government elections that must be held by mid-year.  Mining Assets  To qualify for the tax breaks, a company must make a
minimum investment of 200 million rand on new projects and 30
million rand on expansion and upgrades, Zuma said. Companies can
qualify for a tax deductible allowance of as much as 900 million
rand for new investors and 550 million rand for upgrades and
expansions.  Zuma also announced that the government will transform the
state-owned African Exploration, Mining and Finance Corp. into a
company that will seek to tap strategically important
commodities, such as coal and uranium, and adopt a new mineral-
processing strategy this year.  “The mineral wealth of our country is a national asset and
a common heritage that belongs to all South Africans, with the
state as the custodian,” he said.  The measures announced today follow criticism from labor
unions that the government has not done enough to combat poverty
and create jobs. The unions played a key role in helping Zuma
win control of the ANC in 2007.  Approval Rating  Zuma’s approval rating fell to 62 percent in November from
77 percent the year earlier, according to a survey released
yesterday by Ipsos Markinor. The company interviewed 3,558
people and had a margin of error of 1.6 percentage points.  “South Africans are now saying that the government has had
time to show what they are made of and the public is not
impressed with what they see,” said director and political
analyst at Ipsos, Anneke Greyling, in an e-mailed statement.  Zuma said the government will step up efforts to improve
the health and education system and combat crime. He also
announced that the government has set aside 800 million rand to
assist communities ravaged by flooding since mid-December.  The government’s efforts to bolster manufacturing have been
undermined by a surge in the value of the rand, which has
undermined the competitiveness of the nation’s exports. The
South African currency gained 42 percent against the dollar in
the two years to the end of last year. It has weakened 9 percent
in 2011, the most of 16 major currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Taken to Heart  “Concerns about the  exchange rate  have been taken to
heart,” and exchange control reforms aimed at weakening the
currency are being implemented, Zuma said. Pravin Gordhan, the
minister of finance, will give more information on exchange
controls in his budget speech, he said.  The South African Reserve Bank boosted its dollar-buying
and the government relaxed exchange controls to curb the rand’s
strength.  The  budget deficit  will decline to between 3 percent and 4
percent by 2013, from 6.7 percent in the fiscal year through
March, Zuma said. The gap is in line with that announced by
Gordhan on Oct. 27.  Communications will be upgraded by converting television
and radio signals to digital from analogue, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Cohen in  Cape Town  Nef at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  