-- South Africa's December Manufacturing Climbed at Slowest Pace in 13 Months
-- B y   R e n e e   B o n o r c h i s
-- 2011-02-10T11:55:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-10/south-african-december-manufacturing-growth-slows-to-annual-0-2-.html
South African manufacturing growth
eased to 0.2 percent in December, the slowest pace in 13 months,
undermining expansion in  Africa ’s largest economy.  Growth slowed from 4.6 percent the month before, Pretoria-
based  Statistics South Africa  said on its website today. The
median estimate of 10 economists surveyed by Bloomberg was for
expansion of 3.8 percent. In the month, output slid a seasonally
adjusted 0.2 percent.  “The figures mean lower growth for the fourth quarter, but
the authorities won’t drop interest rates further because
inflation is on the up,” said Azar Jammine, chief economist at
Econometrix, which forecast annual growth of 1.5 percent.  Job losses and weak expansion in manufacturing hurt growth
in  South Africa  last year, easing expansion to an annualized 2.6
percent in the third quarter from 2.8 percent in the previous
three months. The recovery in manufacturing was slowed by weak
demand in  Europe , which buys about a third of South African
manufactured exports. The rand’s 13.7 percent surge against the
dollar in the six months through December also crimped
shipments.  The rand was at 7.285 against the dollar as of 1:33 p.m. in
Johannesburg, 0.2 percent weaker from its 7.2677 level before
the data was released. The yield on the R157 government bond,
due 2015, rose 0.1 percentage point to 7.84 percent.  The  Reserve Bank  cut its key interest rate three times to
5.5 percent last year to try to boost spending. The bank may
keep rates on hold until September to support the recovery,
according to  Citigroup Inc .’s South Africa economist, Jean Francois Mercier, who commented in a note on Feb. 8.  Higher production in sectors including food and beverages,
wood, paper and publishing were counteracted by decreases in
petroleum, chemical products, rubber and plastic products, basic
iron and steel, according to the statistics office.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Renee Bonorchis in Johannesburg at 
 rbonorchis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net 
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  