-- Won Slumps Most in Three Weeks on Foreign Fund Outflows From Bonds, Stocks
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   L u i
-- 2011-02-10T09:10:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-10/south-korea-s-won-declines-for-a-second-day-on-foreign-investor-outflows.html
  South Korea ’s won slumped the most
in three weeks on speculation overseas investors are pulling
money from the nation’s stock and debt markets due to concern
about inflation.  The Kospi stock index declined for a third day as foreign
funds sold $487 million more stocks than they bought this week
through to yesterday, exchange data showed. Overseas investor’s
net holdings of South Korean bonds fell for a second straight
month in January due to concern over interest-rate increases and
uncertainty about regulations on capital flows, the Financial
Supervisory Service said in a statement today.  “The equity market is not good and foreigners are
continuing to sell stocks,” said Andy Kim, a Seoul-based
currency trader at Standard Chartered First Bank  Korea  Ltd., a
unit of Standard Chartered Plc. “Foreigners are also selling
bonds. Inflation concern could be one of the factors.”  The won declined 0.7 percent to 1,116.78 per dollar as of
the 3 p.m. close in  Seoul , according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. That was the biggest daily loss since Jan. 20, paring
the currency’s gains this year to 0.8 percent.  Bank of Korea will lift its benchmark policy rate by a
quarter percentage point to 3 percent at its meeting tomorrow,
according to nine of 12 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News.
Consumer prices climbed 4.1 percent from a year earlier in
January, matching their biggest increase since 2008 and
breaching a central-bank ceiling of 4 percent. Finance Minister
Yoon Jeung Hyun said yesterday the government needs to act
“preemptively” to curb inflation as price gains can weaken the
foundation of a stable economy.  Bonds Rose  Benchmark bonds rose after the central bank reported that
bank lending to households declined in January for the first
time in 11 months as mortgage loans growth slowed, suggesting
that the three rate increases starting in July last year have
taken effect.  The yield on the government’s 5 percent bond due June 2020
slid two basis points to 4.79 percent, according to Korea Stock
Exchange. The rate reached 4.81 percent in the past two days,
the highest since the note begun trading in June.  Lending to households declined by 1 trillion won ($900
million) last month to 429.5 trillion won, the first drop since
February 2010, after a gain of 2.1 trillion won in December, the  Bank of Korea  said in an e-mailed statement today.  Foreign investor’s holdings of South Korean bonds dropped
by 441.7 billion won last month to 73.94 trillion won as of Jan.
31, the Financial Supervisory Service said in a separate
statement today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Lui at 
 plui4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 