-- Subprime Mortgage ‘Party Over’ as U.K. Rates May Rise
-- B y   E s t e b a n   D u a r t e
-- 2011-02-10T14:28:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-10/subprime-mortgage-bond-party-over-as-u-k-borrowing-costs-set-to-rise.html
The rally in U.K. subprime
mortgage-backed bonds that has cut yield spreads by 75 percent
in less than two years may be about to end as accelerating
inflation fuels speculation borrowing costs will rise.  “The party is now about to end,” said Patrick Janssen, a  fund manager  at M&G Investments in London, who helps oversee
more than 10 billion pounds ($16 billion). “Prices have gone
too far.”  Bondholders are demanding about 3 percentage points more
than interbank rates to hold subprime notes, compared with 12
percentage points in June 2009, as record low interest rates
help homeowners keep up payments on their loans. Investors have
increased bets that officials will raise the cost of borrowing
by June to stem inflation even as the  Bank of England  held its
benchmark rate at 0.5 percent today.  Lenders in  Europe  have $41 billion of non-conforming
mortgage-backed securities outstanding, of which 94 percent are
originated in the U.K., according to Moody’s Investors Service.
Markit Group Ltd., a data provider for credit pricing and risk
management, said it’s mulling an index that will allow investors
to bet on mortgage bonds and hedge against losses.  Markit “is in conversation with market participants,”
said Caroline Lumley, a London-based spokeswoman for the
company.  Hedge Risk  “An index will be an efficient way to express investors’
views on the U.K. property market, especially when people want
to hedge their risk in this sector, which is currently difficult
due to lack of liquidity in the market”, said Stefano Loreti, a
senior portfolio manager at Cairn Capital in  London , who helps
oversee more than $20 billion of asset-backed securities.  U.K. inflation accelerated to 3.7 percent in December and
the outlook has prompted investors to add to bets on an
interest-rate increase. The implied yield on June short sterling
futures has risen 24 basis points this year and was at 1.14
percent at 12:46 p.m. in London.  Investors demand 3.1 percentage points more than the London
interbank offered rate to buy three-year senior bonds backed by
U.K. mortgages to borrowers that don’t meet standard lending
requirements. That’s the lowest spread since March 2008,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. data.  Arrears of more than 90 days on U.K. non-conforming
mortgages declined to 17.7 percent in November from as high as
21 percent in June 2009, according to Moody’s. That trend may
reverse because of the lack of refinancing opportunities, the
negative impact from potential interest rate rises and U.K.
budget spending cuts, the ratings firm said Jan. 26.  Banks create residential mortgage-backed bonds by packaging
home loans into securities of varying risk and return that are
sold to investors. Non-conforming mortgages are loans that don’t
meet standard bank lending criteria including buy-to-let and
self-certified loans.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Esteban Duarte in Madrid at 
 eduarterubia@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  