-- Super Bowl Seat Dispute May Put NFL at Disadvantage in Labor Negotiations
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2011-02-10T19:16:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-10/super-bowl-seat-dispute-may-put-nfl-at-disadvantage-in-labor-negotiations.html
The Super Bowl seating foulup, where
400 people who paid $800 each for tickets to the  National
Football League ’s title game weren’t given seats, may fester and
put public opinion in the players’ favor in the NFL’s labor
dispute, crisis management experts said.  The league was prohibited from using 800 of the temporary
seats it installed for the Feb. 6 game at  Cowboys Stadium  in
Arlington,  Texas , by safety authorities. It found tickets for
half of the displaced fans. Since then, the league has been sued
over it, and it upped the compensation for the unseated 400
twice.  The NFL’s bungling may not be forgotten as it tries to
change players compensation in a new labor agreement, even after
the league two days ago offered each of the 400 a free ticket,
airfare and accommodations for any  Super Bowl . Without a new
agreement, the 2011 season is in jeopardy.  “I think the players’ union is salivating on this,” said
Ashley McCown, the president of Solomon McCown & Co., a Boston-
based crisis communications and public affairs firm. “It’s a
nice tee-up for the players’ association going into
negotiations.”  When the  Green Bay Packers  beat the Pittsburgh Steelers 31-
25 in the Super Bowl, the 400 fans without seats were forced to
watch the game on televisions inside the stadium. The league
offered them a triple refund that night; now it is up to a
ticket, airfare and a hotel room to any Super Bowl.  Record-Breaking  Ronn Torossian, chief executive officer of New York-based
public-relations firm 5WPR, said some may perceive that the NFL
was more concerned with breaking the Super Bowl attendance
record of 103,985 than fan comfort. The NFL, which said it
wasn’t targeting the 31-year-old mark, fell 766 people short.  “On the verge of a possible lockout, it something that’s
hurtful and anti-fan,” Torossian, who has represented clients
including Pamela Anderson and  Snoop Dogg , said by telephone.
“While there was a really great game on the field, the NFL’s
brand off the field has been hurt.”  Before kickoff at the Super Bowl, the NFL offered a $2,400
refund to inconvenienced fans. The next day, the league added a
ticket to next year’s Super Bowl. Then it gave fans the current
offer.  “If you look at the way the NFL has handled past
situations, they typically don’t move the chains down the field
so fast,” McCown said. “Their approach is frankly really odd,
and I think it shows the weakness of their position.”  McCown said by changing its policy the NFL sent the wrong
message to fans.  “A basic tenet of crisis communication is you don’t want
to die a death of 1,000 cuts, so come out of the gate with your
strongest offer, don’t up the ante every single day,” McCown
added. “To me, the message between the lines there is we’re
going to see how little we can get away with.”  Monday Morning Quarterbacks  NFL spokesman Brian McCarthy said the league is focused on
doing what’s right for fans rather than “Monday morning
quarterbacking by outside experts.” He said the NFL
acknowledged its mistakes, apologized and decided to offer a
broader range of options after talking with affected fans about
the seating situation.  “We know we have to earn back the trust of these fans,”
McCarthy said by e-mail. “We are reaching out to every single
fan who was affected to tell them we are sorry. We are listening
to their stories and offering them options that we believe are
fair.”  ‘Perception Is Reality’  Chris Rosica, CEO of Rosica Strategic Public Relations,
said the seat incident goes beyond how 400 Super Bowl fans were
affected. It may be publicly seen as a reflection of how the NFL
and owners take fans into consideration.  “We always say in our business that perception is
reality,” Rosica, who has lectured at Fordham, Seton Hall and
Pace universities, said by phone from his office in Paramus,  New
Jersey . “It certainly could be perceived as the NFL they’re
trying to set a record and they don’t care about the fan. That’s
the disparity among the ordinary fan in how they perceive the
NFL and in some instances the players’ union.”  By extension, any work stoppage might be regarded as NFL
owners again taking something away from fans.  The NFL and the players’ union remain apart in talks on a
new labor deal and canceled a negotiating session that was
scheduled for today in  Washington . The two sides also met the
day before the Super Bowl, holding talks which Commissioner
Roger Goodell called “beneficial.” Among the topics of dispute
are the share of revenue players should receive, rookie salary
limits, benefits for retired players, and the expansion of the
regular season to 18 games from 16.  Union spokesman George Atallah said a lockout would lead to
widespread ticketing problems worse than those at the Super
Bowl, a situation he called a “fiasco.”  “Imagine what’s going to happen to season-ticket holders
who bought a game they can’t get into,” Atallah said at a news
conference. “That’s what we have to focus on.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  