-- Switzerland's Inflation Unexpectedly Weakened in January on Franc Strength
-- B y   K l a u s   W i l l e
-- 2011-02-10T09:39:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-10/swiss-inflation-unexpectedly-weakened-in-january-franc-drops-versus-euro.html
Swiss inflation unexpectedly slowed
in January as the franc’s appreciation helped push down the cost
of imported goods.  Consumer prices increased 0.3 percent from a year earlier
after advancing 0.5 percent in December, the  Federal Statistics
Office  in Neuchatel said in an e-mailed statement today.
Economists had forecast a gain of 0.6 percent, according to the
median of 13 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey. The price of
imported products fell an annual 0.7 percent after climbing 0.3
percent in December, according to the statement.  The Swiss franc has gained 12 percent versus the euro and
11 percent versus the dollar over the past year, helping counter
surging commodity costs. The Swiss central bank in December kept
borrowing costs near zero and forecast inflation to average 0.4
percent this year as economic growth weakens.  “The franc’s gain is impacting Swiss inflation,” said
Claude Maurer, an economist at Credit Suisse Group AG in Zurich.
“Still, risks remain to the upside over the coming months.”  The Swiss franc weakened against the euro after the report,
trading as low as 1.3176. It was at 1.3116 at 10:37 a.m. in
Zurich, up from 1.3153 yesterday.  In the month, consumer prices fell 0.4 percent and the
costs of imported goods decreased 1.9 percent, today’s statement
said.  Core inflation , which excludes volatile components like
food and energy, fell 0.7 percent in the month and was unchanged
from the previous year.  Swiss consumers last month became more confident in the
outlook of their own financial situation over the coming 12
months, the  State Secretariat for Economic Affairs  in Bern said
today, citing a survey of 1,100 households. A larger share of
shoppers also considered it a good time for purchases of big-
ticket items such as cars and households, the report showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Klaus Wille in Zurich at 
 kwille@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  