-- U.K. Manufacturing Unexpectedly Declined in December
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2011-02-10T09:37:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-10/u-k-manufacturing-unexpectedly-declines-for-first-time-in-eight-months.html
U.K. manufacturing unexpectedly
declined in December as economic activity was hampered by the
coldest weather seen in the month in a century.  Factory output fell 0.1 percent from November, when it rose
0.6 percent, the  Office for National Statistics  said today in
London. That’s the first decline since April. The median
forecast of 25 economists in a Bloomberg News survey was for an
increase of 0.4 percent. The decline has an impact of less than
0.1 percent on fourth quarter gross-domestic-product, which
showed a 0.5 percent drop, the office said.    Bank of England  policy makers will probably leave their
emergency stimulus and the benchmark interest rate unchanged
today as they debate the strength of the recovery amid
government spending cuts and the outlook for inflation. While
the pound’s decline has helped exports, it’s also lifted import
costs and fueled inflation.  “The fourth quarter data was a temporary dip,”  Brian
Hilliard , an economist at Societe Generale SA in  London  and a
former central bank official, said before the report. “Policy
makers should look through the GDP data. It’s a muted recovery
that continues and the snow was an unwelcome distraction.”  Out of 13 categories in manufacturing, six rose and seven
declined in December from November, the statistics office said.
The decline was led by a 9.7 percent fall in non-metallic
mineral products, which include cement, bricks and clay. That is
the biggest drop since 1979 and the statistics office said there
was some evidence that the cold weather had an impact.  Energy Output  The pound was little changed against the dollar after the
report. It traded at $1.6044 as of 9:32 a.m. in London.  Large drops were also recorded for chemicals and man-made
fibers and machinery. From a year earlier, manufacturing rose
4.4 percent. Overall industrial output increased 0.5 percent in
December on the month, led by energy, and was up 3.6 percent
from a year earlier.  On the month, mining and quarrying fell 0.6 percent, oil
and gas dropped 0.6 percent and utilities rose 6.1 percent.    Diageo Plc , the maker of Guinness and Smirnoff vodka, today
reported first-half revenue and profit that missed analysts’
estimates as growth in developing markets failed to offset
declines in European countries. Reckitt Benckiser Group Plc, the
world’s largest maker of household cleaners, said yesterday that
2011 sales growth may slow as the global market stagnates.  All 38 economists in a Bloomberg News survey say the Bank
of England will leave the size of its bond holdings unchanged at
200 billion pounds ($321 billion) today. They will also keep the
key interest rate at a record low of 0.5 percent, according to a
separate survey. The decision will be announced at noon.  Surveys last week showed services and construction returned
to growth in January, adding to evidence that the economy’s
fourth quarter slump may have been a temporary setback to the
recovery. Still, officials have warned that government spending
cuts, which are forecast to lead to the loss of 330,000 public-
sector jobs, may slow the pace of growth.  To contact the reporter on this story:  Scott Hamilton  in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  