-- Bidding at U.K. Carbon Auction Shows Highest Demand Since March
-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 2011-02-10T12:00:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-10/u-k-sells-4-4-million-eu-carbon-permits-for-14-36-euros-a-ton-at-auction.html
Bids submitted for today’s auction
of carbon permits in the U.K. showed the highest demand since
March as the closure of 25 emission registries in  Europe  hampers
spot trading.  Britain, Europe’s second-biggest emitter, sold 4.4 million
European Union carbon-dioxide permits for 14.36 euros ($19.58) a
metric ton at the auction, with bids for 29.8 million tons. The
price on the BlueNext SA exchange in Paris settled yesterday at
14.33 euros, and there were no trades as of 12:58 p.m. The U.K.
auction received 6.8 times more bids than allowances, compared
with 6.6 times in the previous sale in January.  “The result is fairly neutral, since the participation is
lower than the market might have anticipated, considering the
continued concerns over the source of spot EU allowances,” said
Clemens Tummeltshammer, an analyst for Bloomberg New Energy
Finance in  London . “Given the recent problems within the EU
allowance market, the outcome of the auction should at least
inject some confidence,” he said today by e-mail. Prices may be
stable for the rest of the week, he said.  Today’s sale offered traders the chance to buy carbon
permits at a time of uncertainty. Spot markets for allowances
have been hampered since Jan. 19, when the EU suspended the
registries that track ownership of carbon rights in the wake of
thefts estimated at $40 million.  Britain’s carbon registry was among five of 30 such centers
in Europe that were allowed to reopen Feb. 4 after showing they
have adequate security, clearing the way for the U.K. auction.  “Today’s successful auction is a testament to the high
level of security the U.K. applies to its registry,” Climate
Change Minister Greg Barker said today in a statement. “The
U.K. will continue to press the European Commission and member
states to ensure security levels are improved across the EU,
which is vital to continued confidence in this growing market.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  