-- U.K. Sales of Carbon Permits About to Break 1 Billion Euros
-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 2011-02-10T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-10/u-k-sales-of-carbon-permits-about-to-breach-1-billion-euros-in-revenue.html
The U.K. is set to break 1 billion
euros ($1.4 billion) in proceeds from carbon auctions, and the
money should go to help the climate and poor people, according
to Carbon Retirement Ltd.  Britain has collected about 962 million euros since it
started auctioning European Union carbon allowances in November
2008. It is forecast to exceed 1 billion euros after selling 4.4
million metric tons of allowances in an auction today, Jane
Burston, founder and director of Carbon Retirement, said in an
interview.  The group , representing companies and non-profits
wanting to offset their  carbon emissions , buys CO2 permits and
takes them out of circulation.  The U.K. should spend its carbon proceeds on cushioning the
impact of higher power costs on poor people, Burston said. The
EU carbon market, the world’s biggest, drives up electricity
prices by adding to the cost of generation. Britain should also
earmark funds to help meet its target for cutting greenhouse gas
and assist poor nations coping with  climate change , she said.  “The percentage of people in fuel poverty has increased,”
Burston said.    Germany , which has raised 2 billion euros from selling EU
allowances, earmarks some of its revenue for domestic and
international climate protection projects, Burston said. The EU,
which has given away most permits since starting its carbon
program in 2005, plans to sell more allowances starting in 2013.
U.K. revenue from such sales is forecast to reach about 64
billion euros by 2020, she said.  Today’s sale offers traders the chance to buy carbon
permits at a time of uncertainty. Spot markets for allowances
have been hampered since Jan. 19, when the EU suspended the
registries that track ownership of carbon rights in the wake of
thefts estimated at $40 million.  Britain’s carbon registry was among five of 30 such centers
in  Europe  that were allowed to reopen after showing they have
adequate security, clearing the way for today’s auction.  EU permits were unchanged yesterday at 14.30 euros a ton on
the BlueNext exchange in Paris.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  