-- Most U.S. Stocks Advance as Egypt’s Mubarak Delegates Authority
-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2011-02-10T22:10:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-10/u-s-stock-index-futures-slide-as-cisco-margin-misses-analysts-estimates.html
Most U.S. stocks rose, erasing an
earlier slump, as Egyptian President  Hosni Mubarak ’s plan to
delegate authority to his vice president spurred optimism the
nation’s political crisis will not threaten the global economy.    Whole Foods Market Inc . surged 12 percent as the natural-
goods grocer raised its annual forecasts.  Goodyear Tire & Rubber
Co . rose 14 percent as the biggest U.S. tiremaker reported
earnings that beat analysts’ estimates.  Cisco Systems Inc . and  Akamai Technologies Inc . slumped at least 14 percent after
reporting forecasts that trailed analysts’ estimates.  About 10 stocks rose for every nine that fell on U.S.
exchanges. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index advanced 0.1 percent
to 1,321.87 at 4 p.m. in  New York , reversing an earlier slide of
as much as 0.7 percent. The  Dow Jones Industrial Average  slipped
10.60 points, or 0.1 percent, to 12,229.29, erasing most of an
earlier 83-point slump, and still snapping an eight-day rally.  “The stock market likes stability,” said  Mark Bronzo , who
helps manage over $25 billion at Irvington, New York-based
Security Global Investors. “If Mubarak is willing to talk about
a transition, it will ease the unrest that is taking place in
Egypt. The market is very resilient. We had some earnings
misses, but that doesn’t change the very positive picture.”  The S&P 500 has risen as much as 96 percent from its 12-
year low in 2009 as better-than-forecast economic data and
company earnings boosted confidence in the economic recovery.
About 74 percent of the 339 companies in the  S&P 500  that
reported results since Jan. 10 have topped analysts’ per-share
profit predictions, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.    Egypt   Stocks reversed declines after Egyptian President Mubarak
said in a televised speech that he decided to delegate his
responsibilities to Vice President  Omar Suleiman . Egypt will
need help restarting its economy once the nation’s political
situation begins to stabilize, according to Mohamed El-Erian,
chief executive officer at Pacific Investment Management Co.  “The one thing I worry about is a certain amount of
capital outflow, especially when the stock market is reopened,”
El-Erian, who’s also co-chief investment officer, said in a
telephone interview on “Surveillance Midday” with Tom Keene.
The Egyptian stock market has been shut since Jan. 27 as
protesters rallied in Cairo to demand Mubarak’s resignation.  Stocks also pared declines when Federal Reserve Governor  Kevin Warsh  resigned after five years at the central bank. Warsh
was one of Chairman Ben S. Bernanke’s closest financial-crisis
advisers before becoming the only governor to question the
expansion of record monetary stimulus in November.    China   Earlier today, U.S. equities fell after China lifted
borrowing costs this week for the third time in four months and
the Bank of Korea is forecast to raise rates tomorrow.
Treasuries slid as initial claims for unemployment insurance
fell to the lowest since July 2008. First-time applications for
jobless benefits dropped by 36,000 to 383,000, less than the
410,000 projected by economists in a Bloomberg survey.  Whole Foods soared 12 percent to $60.05. The largest U.S.
natural-goods grocer raised its annual forecasts, buoyed by
freer-spending consumers prepared to pay for healthy food.
Earnings will be as much as $1.80 a share in 2011. That compared
with a previous target of as much as $1.71. The grocer also
raised its sales growth forecasts for the year, citing
increasing  consumer confidence .   Goodyear gained 14 percent to $14.30. The tiremaker said
that, excluding some items, it earned 7 cents a share in the
fourth quarter. Analysts, on average, estimated a loss of 7
cents, according to a Bloomberg survey.  Cisco  Cisco tumbled 14 percent to $18.92. The company’s gross
margin, the percentage of profit left after subtracting
production costs, slid to 62.4 percent in the period that ended
Jan. 29. That missed the 63.3 percent average estimate of
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Cisco forecast profit excluding
some items this quarter of 35 cents to 38 cents a share, falling
short of the 40-cent average analyst prediction.  Akamai declined 15 percent, the most in the S&P 500, to
$40.75. First-quarter sales will be $265 million to $275
million, Chief Financial Officer J.D. Sherman said yesterday on
a conference call. Analysts in a Bloomberg survey had predicted
sales of $283.8 million on average.    Wal-Mart Stores Inc . slumped 2 percent to $55.59 after its
stock rating was downgraded to “neutral” from “buy” at UBS
AG. The 12-month share-price estimate is $60.  “We’re not in a long-term flight-to-quality trend, but
higher quality has been leading,” said Charles Bobrinskoy, vice
chairman at Chicago-based Ariel Investments LLC, which oversees
about $5.5 billion. “We have disappointing earnings out of
Cisco. There’s weakness in the fixed-income markets on concern
about inflation. The  U.S. economy  has been better than what many
people thought,” he said. “Still, there’s turmoil abroad.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  