-- Mortgage Rates for U.S. Loans Rise to 10-Month High
-- B y   R e b e c c a   M c C l a y
-- 2011-02-10T17:01:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-10/u-s-30-year-fixed-rate-mortgage-increases-to-5-05-highest-since-april.html
U.S.  mortgage rates  climbed to a 10-
month high, reducing affordability for homebuyers as the housing
market struggles to recover from depressed levels.  The average rate for a 30-year fixed loan rose to 5.05
percent in the week ended today from 4.81 percent, the fourth
straight gain, Freddie Mac said in a statement. The average 15-
year rate increased to 4.29 percent from 4.08 percent last week,
the McLean, Virginia-based mortgage-finance company said.  Mortgage rates are rising along with yields on the
benchmark 10-year Treasury note, which reached a nine-month high
this week. The increase in borrowing costs from record-low
levels in November may reduce demand for purchases as the market
enters its key spring selling season.  “It will have a slight dampening impact on homebuying,”  Paul Dales , senior U.S. economist for Capital Economics Ltd. in
Toronto, said in a phone interview. “Mortgage rates around 5
percent are still very low by historical standards, but these
increases do seem to be putting people off.”  Mortgage applications fell for the second time in three
weeks, a  Mortgage Bankers Association  index showed yesterday.
The group’s gauge of purchases decreased 1.4 percent in the week
ended Feb. 4, and its refinancing measure dropped 7.7 percent.  Price Declines  Mounting foreclosures and 21 months of unemployment of at
least 9 percent are reducing buyer confidence in the housing
market.  Home prices  fell in almost half of U.S. cities in the
fourth quarter, the National Association of Realtors said today.  The rate for a 30-year fixed mortgage reached 4.17 percent
in November, the lowest in  Freddie Mac  data going back three
decades. The increase in borrowing costs has pushed the monthly
cost for a $300,000 home loan to $1,620 from $1,462.  Rates may not have an effect on homebuying until they reach
about 6 percent, said Tom Tzitzouris, head of the fixed-income
department at Strategas Research Partners in  New York . The
current levels are a “neutral zone” where purchasers are
neither pushed to buy nor discouraged from the market, he said.  “If you get another uptick again next week, you may see
some movement,” said Tzitzouris, who previously worked as a
valuation manager for Freddie Mac and as a debt securities
analyst for Washington-based mortgage-finance company  Fannie
Mae .  Homebuilders and economists predict that new-home sales
will pick up in the next few months, traditionally the strongest
season of the year, after falling to record lows in 2010.
Housing forecasts from Fannie Mae and the Mortgage Bankers
Association show the new-home market will begin a rebound that
will last through at least 2012.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rebecca McClay in New York at 
 rmcclay@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
at  kwetzel@bloomberg.net . 