-- U.S. Not `Satisfied' With China's Progress on Boosting Yuan, Brainard Says
-- B y   I a n   K a t z
-- 2011-02-10T21:51:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-10/u-s-not-satisfied-with-china-s-progress-on-boosting-yuan-brainard-says.html
The Obama administration isn’t
satisfied with  China ’s progress in strengthening the yuan and is
“intensely focused” on the issue, a Treasury Department
official said.  “We’ve made progress on the currency issue but that does
not mean we are satisfied,”  Lael Brainard , the Treasury’s
undersecretary for international affairs, said in a speech in  Washington  today.  In a report to Congress on Feb. 5, the Treasury Department
said China had made “insufficient” progress in allowing its
currency to rise. The report declined to brand China a currency
manipulator.  “We will remain intensely focused on this issue to ensure
accelerated progress to address the remaining substantial
undervaluation,” Brainard, who is Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner’s top international adviser, told the U.S.-China
Business Council. She said the yuan has strengthened 3.7 percent
against the dollar in nominal terms since June. Taking inflation
in China into account, the real bilateral  exchange rate  is
rising even more, she said.  The yuan strengthened today, approaching a 17-year high, as
U.S. lawmakers introduced legislation aimed at pushing China to
let its currency strengthen faster. China is committed to the
gradual liberalization of its exchange-rate policy, Foreign
Ministry spokesman  Ma Zhaoxu  said at a briefing today in
Beijing.  China Imports  U.S. Representative Sander Levin of  Michigan , the top
Democrat on the House Ways and Means Committee, and Democratic
Senator Sherrod Brown of  Ohio  introduced a bill today that’s
almost identical to one passed by the House last year that would
let U.S. companies petition for duties on imports from China to
compensate for the effect of a weak yuan. That measure died when
the Senate didn’t vote before the end of the year.  The administration’s objectives on getting China to boost
its exchange rate “are very much similar” to the goals of the
House bill introduced last year, Brainard said in response to a
question.  “We’re seeing progress” from China, she said. “We want
to see more progress. We still believe that the Chinese currency
is substantially undervalued. We’re going to continue using the
mechanisms we have.”  The Obama administration and U.S. lawmakers say China’s
currency policy gives its exporters an unfair competitive
advantage. China had a $252 billion  trade surplus  with the U.S.
in the first 11 months of 2010, according to Commerce Department
data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kevin Costelloe at 
 kcostelloe@bloomberg.net  