-- Blackstone IPO Lawsuit Revived by U.S. Appeals Court
-- B y   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 2011-02-10T22:31:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-10/u-s-appeals-court-reverses-dismissal-of-blackstone-ipo-suit.html
A U.S. appeals court reversed the
dismissal of a proposed class action against  Blackstone Group
LP , the largest private-equity firm, alleging that it made
inadequate disclosures before its initial public offering.  The district court erred in throwing out the complaint in
2009 because the plaintiffs “plausibly allege” that Blackstone
omitted or misstated material information in its IPO prospectus,
the U.S. Court of Appeals in  New York  said in an opinion today.
The case was sent back to the lower court.  “We’re delighted that the appeals court reversed the
decision and the investors will have their day in court,” Sam Rudman, a lawyer for the plaintiffs, said in a telephone
interview.  The plaintiffs, including Landmen Partners Inc., sued
Blackstone, Chairman  Stephen Schwarzman , and others claiming
that at the time of the 2007 IPO, two Blackstone portfolio
companies and its real-estate fund investments “were
experiencing problems” that the firm knew would hurt revenue.  “The plaintiffs’ allegations are totally without merit and
we will mount a robust defense of this suit,”  Peter Rose , a
spokesman for New York-based Blackstone, said in an interview.  Blackstone and other investors bought a majority stake in
FGIC Corp. from  General Electric Co . in 2003. An FGIC unit,
Financial Guaranty, sold insurance on collateralized debt
obligations backed by subprime mortgages, in the form of credit-
default swaps, according to the complaint.  FGIC Writedown  When mortgage-default rates began to rise, Blackstone
should have disclosed the “uncertainties” at the unit, the
plaintiffs said. Blackstone wrote down the value of its FGIC
investment in fourth-quarter 2007 results.  Other defendants in the suit include Michael Puglisi, Peter Peterson and Hamilton James. The lead plaintiffs include Martin
Litwin, Max Poulter and Francis Brady.  Blackstone rose 31 cents, or 1.9 percent, to $17.06 at 4:15
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares
have climbed 21 percent this year.  The case is Litwin v. Blackstone Group LP, 09-4426,  U.S.
Court of Appeals  for the Second Circuit (New York).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Don Jeffrey in New York at 
 djeffrey1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 