-- U.S. Wholesale Inventories Rise More Than Forecast
-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 2011-02-10T15:13:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-10/u-s-wholesale-inventories-rise-more-than-forecast-sales-climb.html
Inventories at U.S. wholesalers rose
more than forecast in December as distributors tried to keep up
with improving sales.  The 1 percent increase in stockpiles compared with a 0.7
percent gain median forecast in the Bloomberg News survey and
followed an unchanged reading in November, Commerce Department
figures showed today in  Washington . Sales grew 0.4 percent to
$371.5 billion, the highest level since August 2008.  Strengthening demand indicates orders to factories will keep
climbing, which will keep manufacturing at the forefront of the
economic expansion in coming months. The need to replenish
stockpiles will probably contribute to growth in coming months.  “Demand is coming back and companies are seeing the need to
keep their shelves well stocked,” said  Sal Guatieri , a senior
economist at BMO Capital Markets Inc. in Toronto. “Manufacturers
are cranking up production to keep up with growing strength in
exports and growing domestic demand.”  The median projection for wholesale inventories was based on
a survey of 35 economists whose estimates ranged from an increase
of 1.8 percent to a decline of 0.4 percent. The November reading
was revised from a previously reported 0.2 percent decline.  Another report today showed the number of Americans filing
first-time claims for  unemployment insurance  fell last week to
the lowest level since July 2008, showing further strength in the
labor market after the jobless rate declined to a 21-month low.  Jobless Claims  Applications for jobless benefits decreased by 36,000, more
than forecast, to 383,000 in the week ended Feb. 4, Labor
Department figures showed. Economists forecast claims would fall
to 410,000, according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg
survey.  Stocks held earlier losses after the reports as profit
forecasts at Cisco Systems Inc. and PepsiCo Inc. trailed analyst
estimates and concern grew about accelerating global inflation.
The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 0.7 percent to 1,311.94 at
10:03 a.m. in  New York .  The increase in stockpiles, which would normally lead to an
upward revision to fourth-quarter growth, may reflect a surge in
imports which would widen the  trade gap  and counter the positive
contribution from inventories.  The Commerce Department will release trade balance figures
tomorrow. The median forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg
is for a $40.5 billion shortfall, up from the $38.3 billion
recorded a month earlier.  Influence on Growth  Inventory rebuilding, a major driver of the early stages of
the economic recovery, slowed in the fourth quarter as sales
jumped, detracting 3.7 percentage points from gross domestic
product, according to the Commerce Department data.  Wholesalers make up about 30 percent of all business
stockpiles. Factory inventories, which comprise about 38 percent
of the total, rose 1.1 percent in December, the Commerce
Department said Feb. 3. Retail stockpiles, which make up the
rest, will be included in the Feb. 15 business inventories
report.  Wholesalers’ stockpiles of durable goods, or those meant to
last several years, increased 0.8 percent in December, led by
automobiles and electrical equipment, today’s report showed.  The value of unsold non-durable goods inventories increased
1.2 percent as purchases dropped 0.3 percent.  Inventory Breakdown  The gain in non-durable goods stockpiles may have been
influenced by higher commodity prices. The average price of a
barrel of crude oil traded on the  New York Mercantile Exchange 
was $89.23 in December, compared with $84.31 in November. Corn,
wheat and soybean futures this week surged to the highest level
since 2008.  “Prices of many industrial and agricultural commodities
have risen lately, largely as a result of the very strong demand
from fast-growing emerging market economies,” Federal Reserve
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  told a congressional committee
yesterday.  At the current sales pace, wholesalers had enough goods on
hand to last 1.16 months in December, close to the record low of
1.13 months reached in April.  Holiday sales rose 5.5 percent, the best performance since
2005, according to MasterCard Advisors’ SpendingPulse, which
measures retail sales by all payment forms.  Consumer spending 
rose at a 4.4 percent rate in the fourth quarter, the fastest
since early 2006.  Sales Climb  Car sales began the new year on a strong note.  General
Motors Co . posted a 22 percent gain in January from a year
earlier, while Toyota Motor Corp. saw a 17 percent increase, the
companies announced last week.  “We’ve managed our business prudently, keeping inventories
in line and lowering our incentive costs while remaining
competitive,”  Don Johnson , vice president for U.S. sales at GM,
said on a Jan. 4 conference call.    Coach Inc ., a leading leather goods producer and marketer,
saw North American same-store sales rise 13 percent in the
quarter ended Jan. 1 from a year earlier, Chief Executive Officer
Lew Frankfort said on a conference call from New York on Jan. 25.  “Our current inventories support the strong underlying
business trends, and will allow us to maximize sales this
spring,” Michael Devine, Coach’s chief financial officer, said
on the call. “We’ve been right sizing our inventories this year,
bringing them up to more appropriate levels to support our
growing businesses.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Willis in Washington at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  