-- U.S. Has Capacity to Boost Oil Production 40%, Hofmeister Says
-- B y   K a t a r z y n a   K l i m a s i n s k a
-- 2011-02-10T19:06:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-10/u-s-has-capacity-to-boost-oil-production-40-hofmeister-says.html
The U.S. has the ability to increase
oil production more than 40 percent, to 10 million barrels a
day, within a decade to reduce dependence on foreign sources, a
former Shell Oil Co. president told Congress.  Developing resources in  Alaska , the Gulf of Mexico, off the
U.S. West Coast and in the Bakken formation of  North Dakota  and
Montana may also add 3 million jobs, John D. Hofmeister, chief
executive officer of Citizens for Affordable Energy Inc. and
Shell president in 2005-2008, told the House Energy and Power
Subcommittee in Washington today.    Royal Dutch Shell Plc , Europe’s largest oil company,
delayed drilling in Alaska until 2012 because it was unable to
obtain all the permits from the Obama administration, Chief
Executive Officer Peter Voser said on Feb. 3. The Interior
Department halted deep-water drilling in the Gulf of Mexico
after  BP Plc ’s well ruptured in April, and asked energy
companies to meet more stringent safety requirements before they
resume drilling.  “The decline in the  Gulf of Mexico , I believe, will be
sharper and deeper than anyone is currently projecting,”
Hofmeister said. “We have made a horrible error as a country.
The rest of the world did not discontinue offshore drilling.”  The U.S. consumes 20 million barrels of oil a day,
Hofmeister said. The nation produces about 7 million barrels a
day, he said.  “We imposed strong new drilling safety and blowout
prevention standards,” Tommy Beaudreau, a senior adviser to the
director of Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Regulation and
Enforcement, the Interior agency responsible for offshore
drilling oversight, said in an e-mailed statement yesterday.
“Industry has yet to demonstrate that it has the equipment and
systems in place to respond to a deep-water blowout.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katarzyna Klimasinska in  Washington  at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Geimann at 
 sgeimann@bloomberg.net  