-- Egypt's President Mubarak May Step Down as Army Meets
-- B y   M a r i a m   F a m   a n d   M a h e r   C h m a y t e l l i
-- 2011-02-10T19:08:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-10/mubarak-may-resign-before-september-egyptian-ruling-party-official-says.html
Egyptian President  Hosni Mubarak  may
announce today whether he will step down as the army discusses
measures “to safeguard the interests” of the country after
more than two weeks of protests demanding his ouster.  Mubarak will decide “within hours” whether to resign,
Cabinet spokesman Magdi Rady said in a telephone interview
today. He will give an evening address from the presidential
palace in Cairo, state television said. President  Barack Obama 
said people were “witnessing history.”  Egypt’s top military body decided today it will stay in
permanent session in response to the “legitimate” demands of
the Egyptian people, according to a statement read on state
television described as “Declaration 1.” The army has been
deployed in downtown Cairo since Jan. 29, when other security
forces withdrew from the center of the capital following clashes
with protesters.  Hundreds of thousands of demonstrators have taken to the
streets of Egypt’s cities since Jan. 25 to demand Mubarak’s
exit. Crowds gathered in Cairo’s Tahrir Square for a 17th day of
protests today, with many camping out after dark as loudspeakers
blared out music. “The thieves have robbed  Egypt  but the army
is protecting you,” the crowd chanted.  “What is absolutely clear is that we are witnessing
history unfold,” Obama said at an event in Marquette,  Michigan .
“It’s a moment of transformation that is taking place because
the people of Egypt are calling for change.” The U.S will do
everything possible to promote an orderly transition of power in
the country, he said.  Protesters’ Demands  An announcement by Mubarak that he is quitting today
wouldn’t be enough to end the demonstrations, said Ahmed Maher,
a member of an alliance of protesters said.  “Even if Mubarak stepped down tonight we will remain on
the street until all our demands are met,” he said in an
interview at the square. “We don’t like the idea of a military
coup.” Those demands include forming a presidential council
with civilian members, creating a transitional government and
dissolving parliament, he said.  The violence of the past two weeks, which the  United
Nations  says has killed more than 300 people, sparked concern
about spreading unrest in a region that holds more than 50
percent of the world’s known oil reserves.  Egyptian dollar bonds rebounded and global depository
receipts of  Orascom Construction Industries  in  London  pared
losses after news that the president may quit.  Bonds, Swaps  The yield on the 5.75 percent dollar bond due April 2020
fell 10 basis points to 6.49 percent at 8:36 p.m. in Cairo. The
GDRs of Egypt’s biggest publicly traded builder dropped 2
percent in London. Earlier they tumbled as much as 9.1 percent.  Credit-default swaps on Egyptian government debt fell 9
basis points to 345 basis points, according to CMA.  Oil fluctuated amid the reports on Mubarak. Crude increased
as much as 1.4 percent before paring gains as state television
said he would address the nation. Oil for March delivery rose 1
cent to $86.72 a barrel at 1:04 p.m. on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange . Oil has gained 16 percent in the past year.  Protests intensified after Mubarak last week rejected the
opposition’s demand for an immediate departure, saying he would
wait until September’s presidential election. Changes to the law
would pave the way for Mubarak’s departure and allow a transfer
of power to Vice President  Omar Suleiman , the ruling party’s
Secretary-General Hossam Badrawi said in an interview with  CNN 
today. Only Mubarak can make the final decision, he said.  “If all this results in a takeover by the military, the
people will be upset,” Ezzedine Fishere, a former Egyptian
diplomat who teaches political science at the American
University in Cairo, told Al Jazeera television in an interview
today. “It all depends on what time the military is involved.
This is the key question.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maher Chmaytelli in Dubai at 
 mchmaytelli@bloomberg.net ;
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Riad Hamade in Dubai at 
 rhamade@bloomberg.net . 