-- 
Cairo Protesters Converge in Message Aimed at Defiant Mubarak

-- B y   M a r i a m   F a m ,   V i v i a n   S a l a m a ,   A h m e d   A   N a m a t a l l a
-- 
2011-02-11T15:26:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-10/mubarak-ignores-calls-for-ouster-delegates-authority-to-egypt-s-suleiman.html
Egyptians converged on the
presidential palace and Tahrir Square in Cairo vowing to topple
President  Hosni Mubarak  after he yesterday defied calls for his
resignation for the second time this month.  Military helicopters flew over the palace before dusk, in
the suburb of Heliopolis, after state television said the
presidency would issue an urgent message “soon.” Earlier, the
army beefed up its deployment downtown as tens of thousands of
demonstrators poured out of Friday prayers and into the square
downtown, swelling the ranks of those who camped there
overnight. State television said Mubarak had left the capital.  With the army today reiterating its support for Mubarak,
attention is shifting to how far it will go as the protests 
gather momentum. The violence has already claimed more than 300
lives,  Human Rights Watch  says, and has sparked concern that
further unrest will grip a region that holds more than 50
percent of the world’s known oil reserves. The protests were
inspired by the revolt that ousted Tunisian President Zine El Abidine Ben Ali on Jan. 14.  “The nightmare of a coup is very bad for everybody, for
the young people, for the economy, and that’s the scenario we
would like to avoid,” Finance Minister Samir Radwan said on  BBC 
Radio 4’s “Today” program. “The military is highly
disciplined, they have taken a decision not to fire at the young
people, but of course this stalemate cannot continue forever.”  Emergency Law  A group of demonstrators gathered near the presidential
palace and protests were also under way in the cities of Suez
and Alexandria. Mubarak and his family left Cairo and arrived in
the resort town of  Sharm El-Sheikh , Al Arabiya television
reported today.  The Supreme Military Council said today it will guarantee
the implementation of the measures announced late yesterday in
Mubarak’s televised speech, including constitutional changes and
an eventual end to an emergency law that has marked his 30-year
rule. In a sign the government may offer further concessions,
the head of the ruling  National Democratic Party , Hossam Badrawi, said today in an interview that an early presidential
election may be possible.  Mubarak, 82, reiterated his intention to stay in office
until the vote in September, while handing day-to-day powers to
Vice President  Omar Suleiman  in a bid to placate opponents.
Protesters erupted in a roar of disapproval as they listened to
Mubarak’s evening address in Tahrir Square.  “In Cairo alone today it will be millions,” demonstrator
Abdel Rahman Sabry, a 24-year-old engineering student, said in
an interview. “Yesterday’s speech has really angered people. We
tell him to go, he tells us: ‘I won’t go, you love me.’ Either
he is crazy or we are crazy.”  ‘Not Worthy’  As Muslims gathered in a mosque near Tahrir Square, the
imam leading today’s prayers told them over a loudspeaker, “You
are bringing down a corrupt regime that is not worthy of ruling
you.”  The Supreme Military Council gathered yesterday before
Mubarak’s speech to “safeguard the interests” of the nation,
sparking speculation that a military takeover was in progress.
The panel is now in permanent session, the first since the
October 1973 war with  Israel .  Global stocks fell for a third day, U.S. index futures
declined, and the dollar and oil rose, after Mubarak spoke. The
cost of insuring Egyptian government debt soared 42 basis points
to 379, the biggest increase in two weeks, according to CMA
prices. Egypt’s 10-year bond yield jumped 29 basis points. The
global depositary receipts of Commercial International Bank
Egypt SAE,  Egypt ’s largest publicly traded lender, fell the most
this month, dropping 7.2 percent to $5.65.  “We were all hoping that the statement by the president
yesterday should calm things down, but obviously it hasn’t,”
Radwan told the BBC. “That makes for a very difficult situation
where things continue to deteriorate.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ahmed A Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net ;
Vivian Salama in Dubai at 
 vsalama@bloomberg.net ;
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 