-- Sotheby’s to Sell $121 Million of Meiyintang’s Chinese Ceramics
-- B y   A d a m   M a j e n d i e
-- 2011-02-10T03:35:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-10/ullens-to-sell-16-7-million-of-chinese-art-at-sotheby-s-auction.html
An 18th-century imperial vase worth
more than $23 million will lead a sale of works in  Hong Kong 
from one of the foremost private collections of Chinese ceramics,
auction house  Sotheby’s  said.  The Falangcai vase with golden pheasants from the
Jingdezhen imperial kilns in Jiangxi province and Beijing palace
workshops of the Qianlong emperor is one of about 80 pieces from
the Meiyintang collection to be offered in an April 7 evening
sale that Sotheby’s estimates will fetch as much as HK$940
million ($121 million).  “The Meiyintang Collection was acquired piece by historic
piece over the course of half a century,” said Nicolas Chow,
head of Sotheby’s Chinese Ceramics and Works of Art. “The
collector sought only the most significant objects from each
reign and worked closely with the foremost experts in the field,
leading dealers E.T. Chow and Giuseppe Eskenazi.”  The sale includes a blue-and-white dragon vase fired in the
Jingdezhen kilns almost seven centuries ago in the Yuan dynasty,
which has a top estimate of HK$12 million. A blue-and-white Ming
jar from the early 15th century, depicting lions playing with
balls, is expected to fetch as much as HK$60 million.  Meiyintang, which means hall among rose beds, includes some
2,000 pieces assembled by a European collector, providing an
overview of the history of Chinese ceramics from their origins
in the Neolithic period to the end of  China ’s imperial reign in
the Qing dynasty in 1911.  Guy Ullens  Also at the weeklong spring auctions, Sotheby’s will offer
106 works of Chinese contemporary art from the collection of Guy Ullens, founder of Beijing’s largest private art museum, that
the auction house estimates may raise up to HK$130 million.  The evening sale on April 3, from one of the biggest and
most comprehensive private collections of Chinese art, will
include  Zhang Xiaogang ’s 1988 work “Forever Lasting Love,”
Sotheby’s said in a release. A selection of the monumental works
from the late 1980s and early 1990s will be shown in traveling
exhibitions including in  London , Singapore and  New York .  “This will enable me to continue to work with new and
emerging artists, as has been my passion since I began this
collection over 20 years ago,” said Ullens in the release.
“Most of these works have rarely been seen publicly, and this
sale will provide a unique opportunity for people to experience
an extraordinary moment in the development of contemporary
Chinese art.”  The Belgian collector opened his  Ullens Center for
Contemporary Art  in 2007 in the Dashanzi art district of Beijing,
known as “798” after the former electronics factory on the
site.  Ullens sold 18 works from his collection through Chinese
auction house Poly International Auction Co. in 2009 for $22.2
million, including a classical 12th-century ink scroll painted
by the Northern Song Dynasty’s Huizong Emperor, “Rare Birds
Painted From Life,” which fetched 55.1 million yuan ($8.4
million).  (Adam Majendie writes for Bloomberg News. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Adam Majendie in  Singapore  at 
 amajendie@bloomberg.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 