-- Wheat Hoarding Likely to Be `Widespread,' Prompting Price Gains, UN Says
-- B y   L u z i   A n n   J a v i e r
-- 2011-02-10T09:00:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-10/un-sees-risk-of-widespread-hoarding-as-wheat-prices-jump-on-china-drought.html
Global wheat harvests may trail
demand for a second year, spurring hoarding and further price
gains, said the  United Nations .  “Whenever you get the market as tight as we are now,
hoarding becomes widespread,”  Abdolreza Abbassian , a senior
economist at the UN Food and Agriculture Organization, said
in an interview by phone from  Rome .  Wheat, corn and soybeans soared to the highest levels since
2008 yesterday as a U.S. government report showed smaller crops
and rising demand are eroding global inventories. Governments
from Beijing to Belgrade are raising imports, limiting exports
or releasing supply from stockpiles to curb inflation. Wheat in  Chicago , the global benchmark, soared 72 percent in the past
year as drought and floods ruined crops. Dry weather threatens
production in China, the top producer.  “We need at least a 3 percent to 4 percent increase in
total wheat production,” Abbassian said yesterday. The drought
in  China  may cut the chance of replenishing world stockpiles, he
said. Inventories may drop 6.4 percent this year, FAO data show.  About 42 percent of the total area planted with wheat in
China’s eight major producing provinces has been hurt by a dry
spell that may last into the spring, Minister of Agriculture Han Changfu said in a  statement  yesterday. Rain on the North China
Plain has been “substantially” below-normal since October,
according to the FAO on Feb. 8.  Food Costs  Wheat prices may keep rising until the next harvest as
importers speed up purchases to cool inflation, Abbassian said.
The chances of them staying high or extending gains are stronger
than for a decline in the next six months, he said.  Higher prices of wheat, rice, sugar and dairy products
helped push the FAO’s Food Price Index to a record for a second
straight month in January, stoking inflation in emerging
economies. The past month’s protests in North Africa and the
Middle East were partly linked to food costs.  China’s consumer prices advanced 3.3 percent last year,
breaching a government target of 3 percent. The January rate may
have accelerated to 5.4 percent, according to the median
estimate of 26 economists surveyed by Bloomberg, from 4.6
percent in December. Inflation in  Indonesia ,  Southeast Asia ’s
biggest economy, hit a 21-month high of 7.02 percent in January.  The People’s Bank of China on Feb. 8 raised the one-year
lending rate by 0.25 percentage point to 6.06 percent and the
one-year deposit rate an equivalent amount to 3 percent.  Shandong, Henan  The provinces hit hardest in China are Shandong, Jiangsu,
Henan, Hebei and Shanxi, providing 67 percent of production in
2009, the FAO said on Feb. 8. China has 14 million hectares
(34.6 million acres) planted with winter wheat in those areas,
of which about 5.16 million hectares may have been hurt, it said.  China is the largest wheat consumer, representing about 17
percent of global use in the year to June 30, according to data
from the London-based International Grains Council. The
country’s wheat output may have dropped to 114.5 million tons at
the last harvest from 115.1 million tons a year earlier, the
USDA estimates. Macquarie Group Ltd. expects production to drop
a further 4 million tons this year.  “For a country as big as China showing some early problems,
it’s not very encouraging,” Abbassian said. “We decided to
flag out China early to give signals to other countries. For
spring planting, it could affect decision-making.”  Planting Response  China’s potential for increased imports in the year from
July 1 may spur U.S. and European farmers to plant more at the
expense of other crops, he said. Increased acres and normal
weather in  Russia  may more than compensate for potential losses
in China, helping rebuild inventories, he said.  Global wheat production will probably drop 4.3 percent to
653 million tons in 2010-2011 from the previous year, while
demand may expand 1.2 percent to 667 million tons, the FAO said
in December. The  U.S. Department of Agriculture  estimates output
at 645.4 million tons and demand at 665.2 million tons. Without
a sufficient increase in plantings and normal weather, output
may lag behind demand in 2011-2012, he said.  Wheat for March delivery traded at $8.7925 a bushel in
Chicago at 4:37 p.m. Singapore time today after climbing to
$8.9325 a bushel yesterday, the highest price for the most
active contract since August 2008. The price may climb as high
as $9.13 this year, according to a Bloomberg survey in December.  Sales and shipments by the U.S. to  Egypt , the biggest buyer,
jumped to 2.9 million tons since June 1, more than sixfold the
455,630 tons a year earlier, according to USDA data.  Algeria,  Morocco   Algeria bought 2.95 million tons of all origins from Dec.
16 to Jan. 26, according to crops office FranceAgriMer. That was
“probably” the most the country bought in a five-week period,
said Xavier Rousselin, FranceAgriMer’s head of arable crops.  Loadings of French soft wheat destined for Morocco more
than tripled to 1.16 million tons from 350,000 tons a year
earlier, the company said. Hoarding of agricultural products
will intensify, although it will have limited impact on prices
because of sufficient supply, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. analysts
including  Jeffrey Currie  said in January.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Luzi Ann Javier in  Singapore  at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  