-- UniCredit Names Jean-Pierre Mustier Head of Investment Banking
-- B y   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i   a n d   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i
-- 2011-02-10T15:12:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-10/unicredit-names-jean-pierre-mustier-as-head-of-investment-banking-division.html
  UniCredit SpA , Italy’s biggest bank,
appointed Jean-Pierre Mustier head of corporate and investment
banking to succeed  Sergio Ermotti , who stepped down in October
after a management shakeup.  Mustier, the former  Societe Generale  SA investment-banking
chief, will join on March 14 as deputy general manager and
report to Chief Executive Officer  Federico Ghizzoni , the Milan-
based lender said in a statement today. The board backed
Mustier, 50, with a unanimous vote, the bank said.  “He is the right person in the right place,” said Davide Serra, founder and partner of Algebris Investments LLP, a $1.4
billion hedge fund. “He came from a bank similar to UniCredit,
in which the corporate division is just a part of the business,
and he has a global vision,” Serra, who owns UniCredit shares,
said in a telephone interview.  The corporate and investment banking business represented
about 83 percent of the bank’s 903 million-euro ($1.23 billion)
pretax profit in the third quarter.  Ghizzoni, 55, who replaced  Alessandro Profumo  as CEO in
September, is putting in place a new management structure and is
reviewing the bank’s strategy in some markets to increase
profitability.  “Our management team is now completed,” Chairman Dieter Rampl said in the statement.  Mustier, who led the Societe Generale division that
suffered a 4.9 billion-euro trading loss in 2008, was on a
shortlist of three, which included 48-year-old RHJ International
SA CEO Leonhard Fischer, people familiar with the discussions
have said. Mustier will oversee financing and advisory, markets
and transaction banking.  Stock Options  Mustier joined Societe Generale in 1987 in Paris as a stock
options trader, holding positions at the investment bank in
Paris, Tokyo and  Hong Kong  before becoming CEO of the corporate-
and investment bank in 2003. He moved to lead the investment-
management division in 2008 after the trading loss and left the
bank in August 2009 amid a probe into  insider trading .  The  Autorite des Marches Financiers , the French market
watchdog, fined Mustier 100,000 euros in June for selling shares
of the bank in August 2007. He liquidated most of his equity
portfolio at the same time. Mustier is appealing against the
ruling.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisa Martinuzzi in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net ;
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net 
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  