-- Valentine’s Day Brings Makerloveme Drinks, Fireplaces: Our List
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   S m i t h
-- 2011-02-10T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-10/valentine-s-day-calls-for-makerloveme-cocktails-hot-fireplaces-our-list.html
Valentine’s Day calls for cocktails
and atmosphere.  Where better to canoodle than in front of a roaring fire.
Here are a few places that can be counted on to provide the
atmosphere you desire all winter long.  One benefit to being in a hotel bar is that you’re also in
a hotel. This is especially useful on Valentine’s Day when
you’re in front of the fire and the next thing you know you’re
feeling all warm and fuzzy.  The fireplace at The Empire Hotel Rooftop Bar & Lounge is
located on the west terrace. With its soft lights and cushions,
it’s a perfect after-cultural-event spot to loll around and bask
in the glow with your honey.  The views of  Lincoln Center  and the Upper West Side are
spectacular.  Get in the mood with a Fairy Drunk made from Lucid
Absinthe, lime and grapefruit juices and a bit of mint ($16).
The bar menu includes yellowfin tuna tacos ($17) and wild
mushroom pizza with robiola cheese ($16).  The Empire Hotel Rooftop  features live jazz on Monday
nights from 6:30 to 9:30 and is located at 44 W. 63rd between
Columbus and Broadway; information: +1-212-265-7400.  The Royalton  The doors of the Royalton Hotel automatically open on what
looks like a movie set: a long, dark lobby with lots of action.  The fireplace flickers on one side, the barman is
bartending on the other. Hotel guests are checking in, luggage
is being lugged and at the back bar, the regular MTV crowd is
having drinks.  Despite all the activity it’s still possible to relax in
front of the monumental, glass-enclosed, cast bronze, double-
sided fireplace.  Depending on whom you’re with, it might be time for a
Reconciliation made with Rye whiskey,  Amaro Lucano  liqueur, a
bit of orgeat and a Sambuca rinse on the glass ($15).  If that doesn’t restore harmony, shift gears entirely and
have a Red Pepper Daisy ($15), a top-shelf margarita with a
sweet red pepper muddle, because tequila is happy-making!  Forty Four at the  Royalton Hotel  is at 44 W. 44th St.
Information: +1-212-944-8844.  Bookmarks  Bookmarks is filled with literary references to rooms like
the Writer’s Den, which has the fireplace, and the Poetry
Garden, where the collections of Dylan Thomas and Walt Whitman
sit.  Drinks reference titles, like the Catcher in the Rye, made
with rye whiskey, ginger liqueur, peach puree and agave nectar
($14), or authors, like The Hemingway, rum, lime and mint with a
splash of Champagne ($14).  The fireplace can be viewed from much of the Writer’s Den,
so if you can’t sit next to it you can warm yourself with a Love
Potion #299 made with Moet & Chandon champagne, rosewater and
pomegranate juice, garnished with a rose petal and a chocolate
covered strawberry ($15, served throughout February).  Bookmarks  is located in  The Library Hotel  at 299 Madison
Avenue at 41st St.; information: +1-212-204-5498.  21 Club  Looking to impress, not paw, your date?  The fireplace at the famed  21 Club  is located among the
Remingtons in the cocktail lounge and while canoodling has been
known to take place there, the room is more suited to a
restrained first date or before dinner drink.  The red leather wing chairs keep your date at arm’s length
and bright lights fortify your resolve to behave. The warm glow
will have to come from the heat of the fire and the thrill of
intoxication.  A Maple Manhattan ($15) pairs nicely with an order of
perfectly salted Pommes Soufflees ($14). The fried potatoes are
labor-intensive; only half of each batch puffs properly and
makes it to the table.  Opened in 1930, the former speakeasy has a storied past.
Brush up on the history of the secret wine cellar and the
jockeys that grace the entry so you’ll have something to talk
about.  If the logs aren’t lit, ask.  21 Club is located at 21 W. 52nd Street; information: +1-
212-582-7200. Nearby: Museum of Television and Radio, MoMA,
Radio City  Music Hall , St. Patrick’s Cathedral.  Cibar Lounge  Cibar Lounge in Gramercy makes petting a higher priority.
The classic martini bar boasts two working fireplaces. Low
lighting, pink walls and couches make the room inviting for
couples.  On Valentine’s Day, Cibar will serve a selection of
specialty drinks like Makerloveme, with vanilla-infused Maker’s
Mark and Dubonnet ($15) along with their regular cocktail menu.
The hummus platter ($14) includes grapes, which are fun to
dangle over the mouth of your paramour.  Cibar is at 56 Irving Place, between 17th and 18th streets;
information: +1-212-460-5656. Nearby: Irving Plaza, National
Arts Club, Gramercy Park.  (Catherine Smith writes for Muse, the arts and culture
section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on the story:  Catherine Smith  in New York 
 c.smith@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 