-- Verizon May Sell 2 Million IPhones in Bid to Lure AT&T Users
-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n   a n d   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o
-- 2011-02-10T21:06:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-10/verizon-may-sell-2-million-iphones-as-bid-to-thwart-at-t-begins.html
  Verizon Wireless , the wireless
carrier whose stores began offering the iPhone today, may sell 2
million or more of the devices this quarter and draw subscribers
from  AT&T Inc ., analysts said.  Verizon, which is ending Dallas-based AT&T’s monopoly on
the  Apple Inc . phone in the U.S., started sales at 7 a.m. New
York time. While online sales to existing Verizon users Feb. 3
ended within hours as the company exhausted its stock, there
were few lines at stores that began selling the device today.  The carrier gaining the iPhone will intensify competition
in the U.S. smartphone market and curb customer growth at AT&T,
said  Craig Moffett , a Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. analyst in New
York. The threat of losing users may encourage AT&T to increase
subsidies on its devices, which would force other carriers to
match the lower prices, benefiting consumers, he said.  “It’s unrealistic to think that AT&T is simply going to
watch as their subscriber growth falls off the table,” said
Moffett, who rates Verizon “underperform.” “They will
obviously try to present a more compelling lineup of Android
phones and Windows 7 phones of their own, but the main event
will be what they do with pricing.”  Verizon may sell 2 million iPhones this quarter, according
to  Rick Franklin , an analyst at Edward Jones & Co.,  Jennifer Fritzsche  at Wells Fargo Securities LLC and  Ashok Kumar  at
Rodman & Renshaw LLC. Sales in the first week may top 1 million
units, said  Mike Abramsky  of RBC Capital Markets LLC. The device
went on sale to all customers  online  on Feb. 9.  Empty Stores  Stores with the new iPhone opened today without the crowds
that in some cases camped out all night for the release of
previous models. Shortly after Apple’s flagship New York store
on Fifth Avenue in  Manhattan  opened, there were about four times
as many employees as customers in the store.  “I’m not sure you’ll get the same type of frenetic, crazy
reaction. It’s not like it’s a brand new device being offered,”
said Michael Nelson, an analyst at Mizuho Securities USA Inc. in
New York who rates Verizon shares “outperform” and doesn’t own
any. “I think that the largest appeal is to existing customers.”  Lines at stores were shorter than expected, which suggests
that Apple and Verizon incorrectly estimated the mix of online
orders and in-store purchases, said  Gene Munster , an analyst at
Piper Jaffray Cos. in  Minneapolis . He kept his estimate of 1.5
million Verizon iPhones sold this quarter.  Brisk Online Sales    Verizon Communications Inc ., the New York-based company
that co-owns Verizon Wireless with Vodafone Group Plc, lost 26
cents to $36.42 in New York Stock Exchange composite trading at
4 p.m. AT&T rose 27 cents at $28.24. Apple, based in Cupertino,  California , fell $3.62 to $354.54 on the Nasdaq Stock Market.  At opening time at a Verizon store in Oakland, California,
there were about 10 shoppers in line. Kimberly Ramsey, 27, had
lined up at 6 a.m. to switch from a BlackBerry Storm by  Research
In Motion Ltd . She said she hadn’t bought an iPhone through AT&T
because of poor reception in  San Francisco , where she works as a
security supervisor.  “I’ve been waiting years,” Ramsey said. “First I’m going
to set up my e-mail and then set up social-networking apps to
advertise I got the iPhone.”  Verizon sold more than 500,000 iPhones to current customers
through online preorders, estimates Philip Cusick, an analyst at
JPMorgan Chase & Co. On Feb. 3, the carrier said it sold more
iPhone 4s in two hours than any other Verizon product had sold
in its first day. Verizon stopped accepting orders because of
the demand.  A 16-gigabyte iPhone 4 costs $199.99 at Verizon and a 32-
gigabyte version $299.99, matching the prices at AT&T.  ‘New Front’  Verizon will sell 9 million iPhones or more this year,
Abramsky predicts. Verizon said last month 2011 sales and profit
may jump as much as 8 percent if it sells 11 million iPhones.
AT&T, which had exclusive rights for the device since its 2007
release, activated more than 15 million iPhones last year.  The iPhone is Apple’s top-selling product, accounting for
39 percent of its revenue in the first quarter, more than
Macintosh computers and iPads combined.  Adding Verizon allows Apple to roughly double the number of
customers it can reach in the U.S. Apple is facing increased
competition from Samsung Electronics Co., HTC Corp. and Motorola
Mobility Holdings Inc., whose smartphones run  Google Inc .’s
Android operating system.  Android phones accounted for 28.7 percent of U.S.
smartphones in the U.S. in the quarter ended in December,
compared with 25 percent for Apple, according to ComScore Inc.  “They are opening up a new front in the cellular phone
wars,” said  Michael Yoshikami , chief investment strategist at
YCMNet Advisors in Walnut Creek, California, which owns Apple
shares.  International Expansion?  The new iPhone, based on CDMA technology, may let Apple
expand in international markets where that standard is used,
said  Brian Marshall , an analyst at Gleacher & Co. in San
Francisco. CDMA carriers include Japan’s KDDI Corp. and Beijing-
based China Telecom Corp., he said.  The Verizon iPhone is different than the original iPhone 4
released in July, according to an analysis of its components by
IFixit. One change is to the antenna design, according to
IFixit. The design of the antenna was criticized last year
because calls were dropped if the phone was held a certain way.  “Apple is really focused on being a wireless mobile
company more than a computer company,” Yoshikami said. “The
Verizon iPhone is just one step towards that.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Amy Thomson in  New York  at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net ;
Adam Satariano in San Francisco at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net  