-- Wall Street Floods, European Heat on Tap in New Climate: Books
-- B y   P h i l i p   B o r o f f
-- 2011-02-10T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-10/wall-street-floods-european-heat-waves-on-tap-in-brave-new-climate-books.html
  Manhattan  is flooding from  Wall
Street  to the  United Nations . Local airports and much of the
subway system are submerged.  So it goes after a severe storm, circa 2100.  This scenario from “ Hot: Living Through the Next Fifty
Years on Earth ” may be familiar to amateur climatologists and
devotees of Al Gore. But Mark Hertsgaard’s grim primer about the
state of the earth dispels the notion that this is a crisis of
the far-off future.  Hertsgaard,  The Nation  magazine’s environment
correspondent, recounts being told in 2005 by David King, then
the chief science adviser to the U.K. government, that the
climate was already changing and “was guaranteed to get worse,
perhaps a lot worse, before it got better.”  While “Hot” can’t address recent U.S. snowfall -- it was
the snowiest January on record in  New York  -- the book explains
that warming causes a variety of extreme weather. It serves as a
reality check after dozens of newly elected Republicans arrived
in  Washington , voicing skepticism that climate change is an
immediate concern.  Hertsgaard dismisses deniers of climate change as anti-
science ideologues or shills for oil and automobile interests.
Not that behaving differently would immediately halt what’s in
motion.  According to Hertsgaard, even if we swore off fossil fuels
within 25 years, because of carbon amassed in the atmosphere,
the planet would still face “at least 50 more years of
intensifying summer heat, dwindling water supplies, and
persistent droughts like the one fueling civil war in Darfur.”  Long, Hot Summer  By 2050, as many as 45 days in  New York City  could exceed
90 degrees Fahrenheit, triple the average number today,
Hertsgaard says, citing  PlaNYC , a four-year-old city government
program to minimize and adapt to climate change. On average
every other summer in  Europe  will suffer a heat wave akin to
2003, which caused about 70,000 deaths, he writes.  Global flooding (now pummeling  Australia ,  Brazil  and Sri
Lanka) will worsen as glaciers melt and warming water expands.
He describes a 3-foot increase in sea levels during the next
century, an estimate he calls conservative, as an economic and
humanitarian disaster. The waterfronts of New York,  London  and
Tokyo are vulnerable, imperiling $1 trillion of assets overall.  Climate change represents “the greatest and widest-ranging
market failure ever seen,” Nicholas Stern, the U.K.
government’s former top economist, wrote in 2006, as quoted in
the book. Markets don’t just fail to prevent greenhouse gas
emissions, Hertsgaard writes, they encourage them.  Good Question  The  United Kingdom  and the Netherlands are among the places
praised for taking steps to slow “climate chaos” and adapt to
it. “Adaptation” will become increasingly thorny. For example,
governments can afford to build only so many seawalls.  Hertsgaard’s focus on his daughter at times grows tiresome.
So does his way of placing himself at the center of the debate.  In the prologue, he laments his “sense of personal
failure” that “time had run out on all of us who had tried to
halt global warming before it did serious damage.”  So what does he propose?  Hertsgaard offers an international “Green Apollo”
program, under which governments would encourage quick
development of green technologies and institute a price for  carbon emissions . Of course, legislation based on that
principle, to require companies to buy and sell pollution
allowances, died last year in the U.S. Senate.  Hertsgaard quotes a Greenpeace International leader, asking
how the developed world could find the money to bail out banks
but not the cash to save the planet. Fair question.  “Hot” is published by Houghton Mifflin Harcourt (339
pages, $25). To buy this book in  North America , click  here .  (Philip Boroff writes for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Philip Boroff in New York at 
 pboroff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 