-- Wall Street Justice Means Nobody Gets Pinched: Jonathan Weil
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   W e i l
-- 2011-02-10T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-10/wall-street-justice-means-nobody-gets-pinched-commentary-by-jonathan-weil.html
Here’s another discouraging lesson
for anyone hoping the people who caused the financial crisis
will be brought to justice someday. Just because the Securities
and Exchange Commission has accused a too-big-to-fail company of
committing an outrageous fraud, that doesn’t mean the agency
will hold anyone accountable for it.  Imagine that: A fraud without fraudsters. To believe the
SEC, this is exactly what happened at  General Electric Co .  It’s been 18 months since GE paid a $50 million fine to
settle the SEC’s  claims  that it had resorted to accounting fraud
to avoid missing Wall Street analysts’ earnings predictions back
in 2002 and 2003. At the time the deal was disclosed, the SEC
said it had concluded its  investigation  with respect to GE,
which neither admitted nor denied the commission’s allegations.  However, the SEC left open the possibility it would sue one
or more of the individuals responsible for the alleged fraud at
some later date. There’s been no word from the SEC about the
case since it filed its settled complaint in August 2009.  Now we can say how the story ends. An SEC spokesman,  John Nester , told me the SEC’s investigation is over, and has been
since spring 2010. The SEC won’t be suing any individuals as a
result of its probe. Nester declined to comment further.  For all the times the SEC has been criticized for going
soft on corporate fraud, the GE settlement stands apart. To
understand why, you need to dig into the details of the SEC’s
allegations against the company.  Knowing It’s Wrong  The SEC accused GE of committing fraud with scienter --that
is, with intent or knowledge of wrongdoing -- in violation of
 section 10(b)  of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. There’s no
more serious claim in the SEC’s arsenal. Yet somehow the SEC
couldn’t finger a single person at GE who violated any rules at
all, much less anyone who committed fraud deliberately.  The case is now such a distant memory that  Jeffrey Immelt ,
GE’s chief executive since 2001, last month was named chairman
of President Barack Obama’s Council on Jobs and Competitiveness.
A GE spokeswoman, Anne Eisele, declined to comment.  We can only guess why the SEC decided not to sue any actual
people in this case. Maybe the evidence was weak, and GE paid
the equivalent of greenmail just to make the SEC go away.
Perhaps the SEC’s original targets threatened to litigate until
the end of time if they were sued, draining the agency’s limited
resources. Or maybe the SEC’s lawyers decided to cut them a
break for some nobler reason.  We don’t know and probably never will. Too bad the U.S.
district judge who approved the settlement, Robert Chatigny of
Hartford,  Connecticut , rubber-stamped it without asking the
parties any questions.  Corporate Collectivism  Another possible explanation: Perhaps the SEC reasoned that
a bunch of individuals collectively had enough information to
know GE’s accounting was wrong, but no one person knew
everything. In legal circles, this theory sometimes is called
collective scienter. In other words, in a civil claim against a
corporation, the knowledge of one or more employees is combined
with the misstatement of another employee to establish scienter,
even if none of them acted with scienter individually.  The problem with this theory is that most federal appeals
courts have rejected it, according to a 2009 New York University
 law review  article by Bradley Bondi that was published while he
was counsel to SEC Commissioner  Troy Paredes , one of the
commission’s two Republicans. To be sure, all the judicial
rulings in the area of collective scienter involve private
securities litigation. So the question of whether the SEC can
use the theory remains unanswered, Bondi wrote. Bondi, now a
partner at the law firm  Cadwalader Wickersham & Taft  in  Washington , in his article urged the SEC to avoid the approach.  Proving Liability  Here’s how the Second Circuit Court of Appeals described
the traditional approach to corporate liability in a securities
fraud suit: “To prove liability against a corporation,” the
court wrote in a 2008  decision , “a plaintiff must prove that an
agent of the corporation committed a culpable act with the
requisite scienter, and that the act (and accompanying mental
state) are attributable to the corporation.”  The court where the SEC filed its GE complaint is part of
the  second circuit . By the logic of the appeals court’s 2008
decision, the SEC couldn’t have established that GE acted with
scienter unless it proved one of its employees did, too. Now we
know the SEC gave up trying to bring such a case.  Given all this, here’s why the GE case would worry me if I
were the general counsel for a public company. Even if the SEC
had no evidence that any of my company’s employees committed a
10(b) violation, its lawyers still could try to string together
a bunch of diffuse facts to make it look like the company had
deliberately committed fraud, in hopes of pressuring it into a
settlement that would lead to a splashy press release.  The message for investors is equally troubling. It makes no
sense that GE could have defrauded its shareholders unless some
living, breathing people committed the same violations. So
either the wrongdoers got off scot free, or the SEC shouldn’t
have brought the case it did against the company.  This isn’t enforcement. It’s a charade.    Jonathan Weil  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Jonathan Weil in New York at   jweil6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  