-- Warsaw Calls for Bids for SPEC, EU’s Biggest City Heat Network
-- B y   M a c i e j   M a r t e w i c z
-- 2011-02-10T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-10/warsaw-calls-for-bids-for-spec-eu-s-biggest-municipal-heating-network.html
Warsaw today began the sale of SPEC
SA, operator of the European Union’s biggest municipal heating
network, as Vattenfall AB plans to sell the company’s main
supplier.  The Polish capital, which values SPEC at more than 750
million zloty ($264 million), is seeking non-binding bids by
March 28 and will shortlist potential investors by April 20, it
said in a statement distributed at a press conference yesterday.  The deal may hinge on the sale of Vattenfall’s heat
generation unit, which supplies distributor SPEC. The Nordic
region’s largest utility, whose Warsaw units account for 24
percent of  Poland ’s municipal heat production market, has 12 to
36 months to sell the assets and has yet to pick an adviser,
Chief Executive Officer Oystein Loseth said yesterday.  “The sale by Vattenfall will definitely have an impact on
our deal,” Rafal Skowronski, head of the advisory department at  Bank Zachodni WBK SA , which is working for the city, said at a
press conference yesterday. “Many potential investors declared
they would be interested in buying both assets,” he said.  While the city and Zachodni have “quite good knowledge”
of what stage the Vattenfall sale is in, the processes aren’t
coordinated “in any way,” he said.  Finland-based  Fortum Oyj , Vattenfall’s biggest competitor
in the Nordic markets, could bid in both of the processes,
depending on the order of the sales. Izabela Van den Bossche,
Fortum’s head of strategy for Poland, said on Feb. 1. The
company could bid for a distributor once it owns generation
assets, but “rather not” the other way around, she said.  Gornictwo, Kulczyk    Polskie Gornictwo Naftowe i Gazownictwo SA , Poland’s
dominant gas company, will analyze the SPEC sale and may bid,
the PAP newswire quoted Chief Financial Officer Slawomir Hinc as
saying Feb. 1. Kulczyk Investments, owned by Polish billionaire
Jan Kulczyk, may also bid, Puls Biznesu reported on Feb. 4.  Warsaw plans to close the deal this year, Deputy Mayor
Jaroslaw Kochaniak told reporters. While the 2011 budget calls
for 750 million zloty from the sale of its 85 percent stake, the
final price will be higher, he said.  “The budget figure is only a book value and has nothing to
do with the market price, which is higher” Kochaniak said.  Warsaw will use the proceeds from the SPEC sale to fund its
four-year, 10.6 billion-zloty investment plan, which includes
building a 4.12 billion-zloty metro line, the biggest project by
a Polish city.  The 1,700 kilometers (1,057 miles) of pipes in SPEC’s
heating network generated net income of 36 million zloty on
sales of about 1.3 billion zloty in 2009, Kochaniak said.  Last year’s earnings will be “significantly higher,” he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story: Maciej Martewicz in
Warsaw at   mmartewicz@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story: James Gomez at
   jagomez@bloomberg.net  