-- Weber Will Make Statement at Start of Vienna Speech After ECB Speculation
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   V i t s   a n d   Z o e   S c h n e e w e i s s
-- 2011-02-10T11:23:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-10/weber-plans-to-comment-on-professional-plans-at-beginning-of-vienna-speech.html
Bundesbank President  Axel Weber  said
he will comment on plans for his future at the beginning of a
speech in Vienna.  Weber, who is also a member of the European Central Bank’s
Governing Council, declined to comment on details of his
statement when asked by Bloomberg News. He is scheduled to talk
about perspectives of European monetary and fiscal policies at
1:45 p.m. today in the Austrian capital.  Weber is under pressure to clarify his professional
intentions after a day of speculation that the German central
bank chief intends to step down in the coming months and has
withdrawn from the race to succeed ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet , whose term concludes in October.  Weber, 53, plans to quit the Bundesbank in a decision that
would rule him out of the ECB running, said a person who spoke
with him yesterday. That would mean he may leave about a year
before his Bundesbank term ends in April 2012, the person said.  The unexplained withdrawal of Weber, who was seen as the
front-runner to replace Trichet, has reignited the race for the
ECB top job. Potential candidates include Italy’s  Mario Draghi ,
Finland’s Erkki Liikanen and Luxembourg’s Yves Mersch.  It also sparked speculation in German media outlets,
including Die Welt, that he might succeed  Josef Ackermann  as
chief executive Officer of Deutsche Bank AG,  Germany ’s largest
bank. The newspaper reported yesterday that Weber is Ackermann’s
only external candidate to take over his post when he steps
down, citing people familiar with the matter.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christian Vits in Frankfurt at 
 cvits@bloomberg.net ;
Zoe Schneeweiss in Vienna 
 zschneeweiss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  