-- Weber Says European Central Bank Will Act If Price Expectations Increase
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   V i t s   a n d   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 2011-02-10T13:16:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-10/weber-says-european-central-bank-will-act-if-price-expectations-increase.html
Bundesbank President  Axel Weber  said
the  European Central Bank  will raise  interest rates  if inflation
expectations pick up.  While rates are “appropriate” for now and the ECB still
expects the inflation rate to fall below 2 percent, “we will
very closely monitor any potential deviation” to consumer price
expectations “and act appropriately,” Weber said in a speech
in Vienna today.  “There should be no doubt about the Eurosystem’s
determination to continue to secure  price stability  in the euro
area,” he said.  A survey of professional forecasters, published in the
ECB’s monthly bulletin today, predicted that inflation in the
longer term would breach the ECB’s limit. The ECB, which tries
to keep annual price gains just below 2 percent, has signaled
concern about faster inflation feeding into wage demands.
Economists forecast the bank to start raising borrowing costs
from the fourth quarter, a Bloomberg survey shows  Euro-area inflation accelerated to 2.4 percent last month
after energy and food costs surged. Economists surveyed by the
ECB forecast annual price gains of 1.9 percent in 2011, compared
with a previous projection of 1.5 percent. They predict 1.8
percent for 2012, compared with 1.6 percent before.  Weber said the increase in the inflation rate has been
boosted by “one-off factors” and should be “even if they
remain for a few months of a temporary nature.”  Weber’s appearance in Vienna was overshadowed by reports
that he will step down as Bundesbank President and has dropped
out of the race to succeed ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet .  Weber said he won’t comment on his plans for the future,
having spoken with German Chancellor  Angela Merkel .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christian Vits in Vienna at 
 cvits@bloomberg.net ;
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  