-- Wells Fargo CFO Atkins May Receive $22 Million After Resigning
-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 2011-02-10T05:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-10/wells-fargo-s-former-cfo-atkins-to-receive-22-million-after-stepping-down.html
  Wells Fargo & Co . former Chief
Financial Officer Howard Atkins may be eligible to receive more
than $22 million in compensation and benefits upon his official
retirement in August.  Atkins will be paid about $9.25 million in deferred
compensation and pension benefits, according to a company proxy
filing and an analysis conducted by Equilar Inc., a  Redwood
City , California-based executive-pay researcher. He may get
another $13.2 million in restricted stock and options that will
vest over the next few years, Oscar Suris, a Wells Fargo
spokesman, said yesterday in a telephone interview.  Atkins, CFO at Wells Fargo since 2001, resigned this week,
and will take an unpaid leave of absence until his retirement is
effective Aug. 6. His departure “is unrelated to the company’s
financial condition or financial reporting,” according to a
statement from the San Francisco-based bank. Suris declined to
discuss reasons for Atkins’s departure and said the former CFO
was unavailable for comment.  Atkins will receive about $7.4 million in deferred
compensation, almost $900,000 in a supplemental  retirement plan 
and pension benefits worth almost $940,000, said Aaron Boyd,
head of research at Equilar, citing the proxy statement.  “Whether you’re retiring or not, when you leave a company
those are the things you take with you,” Suris said.  The other $13.2 million will come in the form of stock and
options that will vest at a later date, and which he’s eligible
to receive upon retirement, according to Suris. Atkins, who’s
turning 60 later this week, will have worked at Wells Fargo for
10 years in August.  Value of Options  Of the options, about 461,133 currently have a strike price
that is below the share price for a total value of about $1.25
million if they were to be exercised, Boyd said.  Wells Fargo declined 97 cents, or 2.8 percent, to $33.13
yesterday in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. It has
gained about 7 percent this year.  The equity-based pay “is based on a grant date so it’s not
market value right now but it might be at some point down the
road whenever they vest,” Suris said. “That’s an important
point. They could be worth more or they could be worth less.”  Some information about the compensation was reported
earlier by CNBC.  Atkins was replaced by Chief Administrative Officer Timothy J. Sloan, 50, who previously was head of commercial banking,
real estate and specialized financial services. Sloan has been
with Wells Fargo for 23 years, Chief Executive Officer  John Stumpf  said in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dakin Campbell in  San Francisco  at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rick Green at   rgreen18@bloomberg.net . 