-- Wynn’s Fourth-Quarter Profit Beats Analysts’ Estimates
-- B y   B e t h   J i n k s
-- 2011-02-10T23:20:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-10/wynn-resorts-profit-exceeds-estimates-on-opening-of-second-macau-casino.html
  Wynn Resorts Ltd ., owner of the Wynn
and Encore casinos, reported fourth-quarter profit that beat
analysts’ estimates after opening a second resort in  Macau .  Net income of $114.2 million, or 91 cents a share, compared
with a loss of $5.22 million, or 4 cents, a year earlier, Las
Vegas-based Wynn said today in a statement. Profit exceeded the
70-cent average of 21 analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Macau is booming as Wynn’s  Las Vegas  home market recovers
from its steepest gambling and convention decline. The company
opened Encore Macau in April, doubling its presence in the
world’s biggest casino market, where overall gambling revenue
surged 58 percent last year.  “Macau, that market is very robust,” founder and Chief
Executive Officer  Steve Wynn  said today on a conference call. In
Las Vegas, “I think ‘11 is better than ‘10. The indicators
about visitation and room rate and convention bookings, which
are very important for the midweek period, are pointing up.”  Wynn said he has changed his mind about an earlier vow not
to invest in any more projects in the U.S., without elaborating.  Fourth-quarter  cash flow , measured as adjusted property
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization,
or Ebitda, rose 86 percent to $365.2 million, beating the
$289.2 million analysts estimated. Macau Ebitda more than
doubled to $296.8 million and Las Vegas gained 25 percent to
$68.3 million.  “Everything is up in Macau and Las Vegas” so far in the
first quarter, the CEO said. The company enjoyed a record
Chinese New Year in Las Vegas, while it has recently played
unlucky at its tables in Macau, he said.  Revenue Increase  Macau revenue climbed 79 percent, boosting total
company sales 53 percent to $1.24 billion and beating the $1.14
billion analysts expected.  Gambling in the Chinese territory has surged since the
government ended  Stanley Ho ’s 40-year monopoly and let other
companies, including Wynn, Las Vegas Sands Corp. and MGM Resorts
International, build resorts that attract mainlanders.  Wynn hopes to begin groundwork on its planned third Macau
resort in the Cotai area as early as March, and the building’s
design is complete, the chief executive said. Macau’s government
has agreed to let Wynn, MGM and Ho’s SJM Holdings Ltd. build
Cotai resorts, he said.  Emerging From Slump  Las Vegas, the biggest U.S. casino city, is emerging from a
slump that hurt room rates for more than two years. Total Strip
gambling revenue rose 4.1 percent last year. Wynn said its Las
Vegas average daily rate rose 7.1 percent in the fourth quarter,
with occupancy of 81.8 percent.  Convention room night bookings will account for as much as
22 percent of the company’s Vegas total this year, executives
said on today’s call. The rate was as low as 13 percent during
the recession.  Opening new casinos CityCenter and Cosmopolitan in Vegas in
the past year “dampened” the city’s recovery by adding
thousands of rooms, Wynn said.  Wynn Resorts declined 1.8 percent to $118 at 6:16 p.m. New
York time after the close of regular trading, after dropping
$1.38 to $120.15 at 4 p.m. in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The
shares climbed 78 percent last year.  Wynn Macau Ltd. fell 74 Hong Kong cents to HK$17.96 in  Asia . Wynn listed part of the Macau unit in October 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Beth Jinks in New York at 
 bjinks1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at   apalazzo@bloomberg.net  