-- Zuma May Tackle South Africa's Jobs Crisis in His State of Nation Address
-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 2011-02-10T06:43:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-10/zuma-may-tackle-south-africa-s-jobs-crisis-in-his-state-of-nation-address.html
South African President  Jacob Zuma 
may unveil measures to tackle an unemployment crisis in  Africa ’s
largest economy in his annual state-of-the-nation address today.  “Jobs, jobs, jobs, jobs are going to be at the top of the
state-of-the-nation speech agenda,”  Gwede Mantashe , secretary-
general of the ruling  African National Congress , told reporters
in Johannesburg on Feb. 8. “Employment creation has suffered a
setback because of the economic meltdown.”  Zuma is due to deliver the address in Parliament in Cape
Town at 7 p.m. local time. Mantashe declined to confirm a report
in the Financial Mail that he would announce the creation of a
10 billion-rand ($1.38 billion) jobs fund.  South African companies have fired more than 1 million
workers since the global financial crisis hit, with the jobless
rate peaking at 25.3 percent in the third quarter, before
declining to 24 percent in the final three months of the year.
The  unemployment rate  is 35.8 percent when those who are too
discouraged to seek work are taken into account, according to
the government statistics office.  Zuma pledged to make  job creation  a top priority on taking
office in May 2009. His failure to deliver on those promises may
cost the ANC votes in local government elections that must be
held by mid-year. Zuma may announce the date for the vote today.  ‘Huge Pressure’  “Zuma is under huge pressure to deliver,” Udesh Pillay,
head of the Pretoria-based Human Sciences Research Council’s
democracy, governance and service delivery unit, said in a Jan.
7 phone interview. “Over the next five years, you will begin to
see some shift in voting patterns if there is a failure” to
create more jobs and increase access to services.  Zuma’s approval rating fell to 62 percent in November from
77 percent the year earlier, according to a survey released
yesterday by Ipsos Markinor. The company interviewed 3,558
people and had a margin of error of 1.6 percentage points.    South Africans  are now saying that the government has had
time to show what they are made of and the public is not
impressed with what they see,” said director and political
analyst at Ipsos, Anneke Greyling, in an e-mailed statement.  The ANC has ruled  South Africa  since taking power under  Nelson Mandela  in the first all-race elections in 1994, and won
almost two-thirds of the vote in the last national elections in
2009.  The Congress of South African Trade Unions, the country’s
largest labor grouping, has warned that its future backing for
the ANC may be contingent on the government adopting policies
that boost employment and combat poverty more effectively.  Growth Plan  A new growth plan, unveiled by Economic Development
Minister  Ebrahim Patel  on Nov. 23, aims to create 5 million jobs
by 2020 in order to reduce unemployment to 15 percent. The plan
requires growth of as much as 7 percent a year, while the
central bank expects the economy to expand 3.4 percent this
year.  “The new growth path as a concept is laudable in its
intentions,” Pillay said. “It fails to spell out policy
instruments and delivery mechanisms” needed to create jobs,
which Zuma should address in his speech.  The announcement of a 10 billion-rand fund to subsidize
jobs for young people or to pay for apprenticeships at state-
owned companies may not be enough to satisfy labor unions. The
fund was reported by the Johannesburg-based Financial Mail on
Feb. 2, without saying where it got the information.  “We expect the president to announce a radical shift in
the government’s and  Reserve Bank ’s hitherto conservative fiscal
and monetary policy, to bring it in line with ANC policy to
promote manufacturing industries and job creation, rather than
its rigid obsession with inflation targeting,” Cosatu said in a
Feb. 7 statement. The federation’s affiliate unions represent
about 2 million members.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Cohen in  Cape Town  at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net . 