-- Abenomics Risks Deepening Global Financial Turmoil, HSBC Says
-- B y   S h a r o n   C h e n
-- 2013-02-26T08:43:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/abenomics-risks-deepening-global-financial-turmoil-hsbc-says.html
Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s
policies aimed at ending deflation could distort trade, drive up
asset prices in other nations and lead to global financial
instability, according to HSBC Holdings Plc.  “The world seemingly has yet to find a way of coping with
periods during which the Japanese have attempted to kick-start
their economy,” Stephen King, the London-based chief economist
at HSBC, wrote in a research report today. “The big risk for
the years ahead lies in a mix of rapidly widening current
account deficits, hot money inflows and a proliferation of
capital controls.”  Moves by  Japan  to revive growth have raised concern over a
so-called currency war as central bankers from New Zealand to
 Norway  signal they’re ready to stem exchange rate swings. Group
of 20 finance chiefs this month signaled Abe has scope to keep
stimulating the economy as long as officials stop endorsing the
yen’s more than 10 percent slide in the past three months.  “If Mr. Abe’s policies work primarily through a weaker
yen, Japan’s main export competitors will find themselves in the
firing line,” King wrote. “The most vulnerable include
 Germany , South Korea and  China .”  The Bank of Korea said on Feb. 14 that the “expansionary”
stance of the Japanese government is among risks for South
Korea’s economy.  Investors are cheering Abe’s brand of economics, with the
 Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average  advancing for 12 weeks  through Feb. 1,
the longest winning streak since 1959. The benchmark fell from a
four-year high today after Italian elections reignited concern
the region’s debt crisis will hurt financial markets.  Abe has pledged to use monetary easing, fiscal stimulus and
growth-boosting policies to lift the nation out of more than a
decade of price falls.      “Mr Abe’s policies may ultimately deliver the goods but
there is a very good chance that, instead, his measures will
only lead to further global financial instability, in turn
triggering an increase in economic nationalism,” King wrote in
the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sharon Chen in Singapore at 
 schen462@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  