-- CommonWealth Surges After Activists Challenge Stock Sale
-- B y   D a v i d   W e l c h
-- 2013-02-26T21:40:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/activist-meister-related-join-to-halt-commonwealth-s-stock-sale.html
CommonWealth REIT surged the most in
more than two decades after activist investor Keith Meister and
Related Cos. challenged the company’s plan to sell shares and
said they’re prepared to make a $2.1 billion bid.  Related and Meister, a onetime  Carl Icahn  protege who
started activist fund Corvex Management LP, said they see the
opportunity to “meaningfully increase” their $25-a-share offer
after completing due diligence, according to a letter sent to
CommonWealth today and obtained by  Bloomberg News . They are also
prepared to file a lawsuit to stop the share issue, the letter
shows. The shares jumped 54 percent, the most since at least
Dec. 18, 1986, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Related and Corvex own 9.8 percent of CommonWealth’s
existing shares and are demanding that CommonWealth abandon a
planned stock offering, according to a regulatory filing earlier
today. CommonWealth said yesterday it would issue 27 million
shares of new stock and use the $450 million in proceeds to
retire some of its debt, sending the shares down.  While activist funds like Corvex usually work alone,
Meister and Related may be pooling their shares to make it more
difficult for CommonWealth to resist their demands. Last year,
activist fund Relational Investors LLC joined up with the
California State Teachers’ Retirement System to force steelmaker
Timken Corp. to split the company. The activist firms sent a
letter to Timken’s board last week reiterating their position,
citing their combined 7.3 percent ownership.  Meister, Blau  Meister and Related CEO Jeff Blau, who signed the letter in
today’s filing, project that CommonWealth’s real estate assets
are worth about $40 a share, and assert that poor management has
driven down the stock. With better management, the two investors
expect CommonWealth shares could reach more than $50. Corvex has
already started lining up the funds to buy CommonWealth’s
shares, according to a person familiar with the matter.  CommonWealth, based in Newton,  Massachusetts , closed at
$24.40 in  New York . The shares were halted earlier after
triggering circuit breakers.  Joanna Rose , a spokeswoman for Meister and Related,
confirmed the contents of the letter. Tim Bonang, a spokesman
for CommonWealth, said the company will review its options and
decide whether to meet with Meister and Blau. He declined to
comment on the $25-a-share proposal.  Board Overhaul  Meister and Blau not only want to thwart the issuance of
new stock, they are also striving to overhaul the board and
would even be willing to buy the company’s assets at a premium
to its current market price, the filing shows.  REITs, whose primary income streams are from real estate,
are required by the  Internal Revenue Service  to distribute at
least 90 percent of their taxable earnings to shareholders in
the form of dividends. In exchange they pay little or no income
tax. Issuing 27 million additional shares will dilute
CommonWealth’s outstanding shares by more than 30 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg, lowering the dividends
paid to shareholders.  CommonWealth REIT (CWH)  owned $7.3 billion of office and
industrial properties as of Dec. 31, with about 54 million
square feet (5 million square meters) located in 31 states,
 Washington , D.C., and  Australia , according to its website.  If the company doesn’t cancel the share offering, Corvex
and Related may start a proxy fight and try to replace members
of the board. If necessary, Corvex and Related would seek to
replace the entire board, including CommonWealth President Adam Portnoy and his father, Chairman Barry Portnoy, according to the
filing. Investors can call a vote and replace the trustees with
a two-thirds vote, the filing shows.  Portnoys’ Role  The two Portnoys run Reit Management & Research LLC, or
RMR, which manages properties for CommonWealth. RMR collected
$77.3 million in management fees last year and more than $336
million in fees over the past five years, according to
CommonWealth’s proxy statement.  In the filing, Meister and Blau say that CommonWealth has
depressed its share price by paying excessive management fees to
RMR. Those fees represent more than 20 percent of the the firm’s
current market capitalization, they said in the filing.  CommonWealth’s Bonang said the company’s general and
administrative costs, which include management fees, amount to
5.2 percent of revenue. That compares with a 6 percent average
in the Standard & Poor’s U.S. REIT Office Index.  Part of Meister and Blau’s immediate proposal is to change
the management compensation to pay them for creating better
shareholder returns and replace the company’s charter and bylaws
to improve corporate governance.  ‘Strategic Rationale’  They also want CommonWealth to stop selling assets to
related parties and to use cash to buy back shares. Meister and
Blau said the managers’ fees reward them for making acquisitions
“regardless of financial returns or strategic rationale,”
which they want to change.  Together, Adam and Barry Portnoy  own  less than 1 percent of
CommonWealth, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Meister has been active in pressuring companies to make
moves that increase value for stockholders. In August, he
disclosed a stake in food producer Ralcorp Holdings Inc. and
three months later the company agreed to sell itself to rival
 ConAgra Foods Inc. (CAG)   To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Welch  in New York at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  