-- Advanced Breast Cancer Triples Among Young Women in Study
-- B y   N i c o l e   O s t r o w
-- 2013-02-27T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/advanced-breast-cancer-triples-among-young-women-in-study.html
Cases of advanced  breast cancer 
among women younger than 40 have tripled in the U.S. over the
last three decades, a trend that researchers said has “been
increasing at a steady or even accelerating rate.”  Advanced breast cancer in women ages 25 to 39 rose to 2.9
cases for every 100,000 women in 2009 from 1.53 per 100,000 in
1976, a small though statistically significant increase,
according to a study published in the  Journal of the American
Medical Association . Applying the findings to the  U.S.
population  showed that more than 800 cases of advanced breast
cancer occurred in this age group in 2009 from 250 in 1976.  “This study identifies a trend that hasn’t been described
in the past,” said Rebecca Johnson, medical director of the
Adolescent and Young Adult oncology program at  Seattle
Children’s Hospital  and the study’s lead author. “We’ll
definitely need future studies to figure out why this change is
occurring.”  The analysis found the percentage of advanced cases
increased annually and at a faster rate toward the end of the
study, researchers said. The rise was independent of race and
ethnicity. There was no corresponding increase among older
women, the study found.  Breast cancer is the most common cancer in 15- to 39-year-
old females in the U.S. and accounts for 14 percent of all
cancer in women and men in this age group, the authors wrote.
Those diagnosed with the disease at a younger age have a higher
risk of dying than those who are older. The national five-year
survival rate for 20- to 34-year-olds diagnosed with advanced
breast cancer is 31 percent, compared with 87 percent for women
with less aggressive forms of the disease, researchers said.  Reasons Unclear  “It’s a real phenomenon and an important one,” said Len Lichtenfeld, deputy chief medical officer for the Atlanta-based
 American Cancer Society . “Why it’s happening, we don’t know. We
have identified that this is happening and it’s consistent over
time and it’s a source of concern that we have to keep
evaluating.”  The researchers looked at data from the U.S. National
Cancer Institute’s  Surveillance, Epidemiology and End Results
registries  from 1973-2009, 1992-2009 and 2000-2009 to determine
if the breast cancer rate in young women was rising. The
findings show that only advanced cancers, those that have spread
beyond the breast to other organs, are rising and mostly among
25-to 34-year-olds, Johnson said in a telephone interview.  A separate analysis, not included in the paper, showed that
while the number of advanced  breast cancers  is rising, the
younger women with the disease are living longer than those
diagnosed in the mid-1970s. Death rates haven’t risen as
treatments improved, Johnson said.  Studies Needed  Until more studies are done, Johnson said she could only
speculate on the reason behind the increase. She said it could
be “toxic environmental exposure or changes in lifestyle over
the past 34 years.” The obesity epidemic though cannot fully
explain the rise as being overweight early in life is actually
protective against early onset breast cancer, she said.  Lichtenfeld, of the cancer society, said some of the
increase may be explained by the fact that women now delay
having children more than women 30 years ago. Having children
early in life is protective against the disease, he said.  Still, the findings don’t mean that more younger women need
to be screened for the disease with mammograms, Johnson and
Lichtenfeld said. Screening targets finding cancer at its
earliest stages.  Raising Awareness  “I don’t think that screening mammography practices should
change based on our findings,” said  Johnson,  a breast cancer
survivor herself who was diagnosed with the disease at age 27.
“We would advocate for awareness in younger women. In women who
get breast cancer before they start mammograms, most find the
tumors themselves.”  If young women and their doctors act quickly to diagnose
breast cancer when women have breast lumps or other symptoms,
perhaps some of these cases of metastatic cancers can be picked
up earlier, she said.  The  U.S. Preventive Services Task Force , an independent
medical advisory group to the government, in 2009 recommended
against routine mammograms for women ages 40 to 49 who aren’t at
an increased risk for breast cancer, while suggesting a
mammogram once every two years for those 50 to 74. The American
Cancer Society  suggests  annual mammograms starting at 40.  Stephanie Bernik, chief of surgical oncology at Lenox Hill
Hospital in  New York , said she has treated many younger women
for breast cancer and hasn’t noticed an increase over the past
12 years she has been practicing. She called the findings
“upsetting.”  She said doctors and women need to take any breast lumps
seriously no matter the patient’s age.  “If you have a breast mass you need to bring it to medical
attention sooner rather than later,” Bernik said in a telephone
interview. “The goal is to find things as soon as possible so
we can start treatment as soon as possible. We need to put more
effort into finding a way to best treat young women with breast
cancer.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Ostrow in New York at 
 nostrow1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  