-- African Rainbow’s Motsepe Says Good Time to Buy Mine Assets
-- B y   P a u l   B u r k h a r d t
-- 2013-02-26T16:28:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/african-rainbow-s-motsepe-says-mining-assets-are-good-to-buy-now.html
African Rainbow Minerals Ltd. (ARI)  is
considering buying mining assets that will boost long-term
profit, according to Patrice Motsepe, the South African
company’s billionaire chairman.  “We continue to look at opportunities, this is a good time
to buy,” Motsepe, who is the richest black South African and
has expressed interest in platinum assets for the last year,
said at a presentation in Johannesburg today. “You cannot be
affected by short-term periods of volatility as well as
uncertainty.”  Shares in South African platinum producers have dropped
since violence and illegal strikes broke out at operations in
the second half of 2012, shutting production. That’s cut the
costs of buying the assets.  The miner of minerals including iron ore, nickel, copper,
and manganese will next week meet investors in  Europe  and the
U.S., Motsepe said. “We have no intentions of overpaying” for
assets, he said.  The company has looked at copper assets in  Papua New Guinea 
in its search for exploration opportunities outside of  Africa ,
Motsepe said.  African Rainbow said earnings excluding one-time items fell
30 percent to 1.41 billion rand ($160 million) in the first half
through December as  iron-ore  prices dropped and costs rose at a
rate above inflation.  Coal Business  Motsepe said he was “very excited” about prospects for
the company’s coal business, which increased sales to Eskom
Holdings SOC Ltd., the utility generating more than 90 percent
of  South Africa ’s power, by 21 percent to 2.28 million metric
tons during the period.  Africa’s biggest economy is expanding its electricity-
generation base to avoid a repeat of power shortages that halted
mines for at least five days in January 2008. Eskom, which uses
coal for more than 80 percent of generation, is building what
will be the world’s third- and fourth-biggest plants that use
the fuel to make electricity.  Motsepe, who is also chairman of Harmony Gold Mining Co.,
pledged some of his wealth to charity last month, joining  Warren Buffett ’s initiative to boost philanthropy.  The stock declined for a second day, losing 2.3 percent to
188.51 rand in Johannesburg.  Zambia Operations  African Rainbow minerals began producing copper in Zambia,
Africa’s biggest miner of the metal, through a joint venture
with  Brazil ’s Vale SA last year. The Lubambe Copper Project
started production in October 2012, with a second phase
progressing with six exploration drill rigs being deployed.  As the project has been mined, the ground has been found to
require more structure and support than anticipated, the
company’s CEO Mike Schmidt said in an interview. “That slows
down your development rate and has a cost impact,” though it
won’t materially affect the project, he said.  Zambia’s state-owned  ZCCM Investment Holdings (ZCCM)  is a 20
percent stakeholder in Lubambe. “It’s a very enabling
environment to operate in,” Schmidt said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Burkhardt in Johannesburg at 
 pburkhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  