-- Thai Bankruptcies Rise as Minimum Wage Rolls Out: Southeast Asia
-- B y   S u t t i n e e   Y u v e j w a t t a n a   a n d   S h a r o n   C h e n
-- 2013-02-26T17:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/thai-bankruptcies-rise-as-minimum-wage-rolls-out-southeast-asia.html
Confederate International Co., a
Thai family-owned maker of nightwear, lost a German customer of
22 years after last month’s  minimum-wage  increase in the
Southeast Asian nation raised costs.  “They stopped talking to us, even though we have done
business together for a long time,” said Veerayuth Sookhattako,
57, owner of the Chiang Mai-based company that ships about 80
million baht ($2.7 million) of apparel to Germany and  France 
each year. “I established this company 28 years ago. I don’t
want to let it go, but I may need to close down our business by
the end of the year if we can’t get new orders.”  Veerayuth isn’t alone. Last quarter, 7,221 Thai companies
closed down, 27 percent higher than in the same period a year
earlier, when the worst floods in 70 years swamped most of the
country. The figure is also more than double the average of
3,000 in the previous nine years, according to data from the
 National Economic & Social Development Board.   Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra’s government raised the
daily minimum wage to 300 baht throughout the country last
month, after a similar increase in April in seven provinces
including Bangkok. Before the increase, minimum wages ranged
from 159 baht in northern Phayao province to 221 baht in Phuket,
according to the Labour Protection and Welfare Department.  Government stimulus measures, including the wage rise and
increased payments to farmers, come as the country’s
manufacturers struggle with a stronger baht and slowing export
demand amid a global slowdown.  Baht Strength  “The problem with the Thai minimum-wage hike is there
might be competitiveness issues because this will lead to high
costs for firms and if there’s no way to offset these costs, it
translates into higher inflation for consumers,” said Eugene Leow, a Singapore-based economist at DBS Group Holdings Ltd.
“There’s also some concern about how strong the  Thai baht  is.”  The baht is the biggest gainer this year among 11 widely-
traded Asian currencies tracked by Bloomberg. The Bank of
 Thailand  held the  benchmark rate  for a third straight meeting
this month even after Finance Minister Kittiratt Na-Ranong
renewed calls for lower borrowing costs to discourage inflows
that boosted the baht to a 17-month high in January.  Wages in Asia almost doubled between 2000 and 2011,
according to the International Labor Organization, and workers
from  China  to  Indonesia  have pushed for more pay in recent years
to counter rising living expenses. The increases will
permanently increase business costs, forcing companies to boost
prices, according to a report from HSBC Holdings Plc.  ‘Fundamental Change’  “Lately, far more persistent and permanent costs have shot
up -- wage pressures are now ubiquitous across  Asia ’s
factories,” HSBC economists Frederic Neumann and Julia Wang
wrote in a report last month. “A rise in wages is permanent and
should thus prompt a fundamental change in pricing.”  Thailand’s small and medium-sized enterprises will suffer
the most from higher wages because they’re labor intensive and
don’t earn enough to benefit from reduced corporate income tax
rates, according to the government and the central bank.  Costs for Thai companies will rise 6.39 percent on average
because of the wage increase, according to state planning agency
NESB. Costs will climb 0.57 percent for large companies, and as
much as 17.8 percent for small companies, it said.  There are more than 2.9 million small and medium
enterprises across Thailand, according to 2011  government data .
They account for 99.8 percent of all businesses in the country
and generate employment for 9.7 million people, or almost 80
percent of all jobs. These businesses earn 3.5 trillion baht
annually, or more than a third of GDP.  Beneficial Effects  Even with factories closing down, Thailand’s unemployment
rate is still among the lowest in the world, standing at 0.48
percent in the fourth quarter, down from 0.63 percent in the
same period in 2011.  While higher wages will increase costs for businesses and
boost  inflation , they will also improve the purchasing power of
consumers and help bolster economic growth, said  Fred Gibson , a
Sydney-based economist at Moody’s Analytics.  “By raising the minimum wage, you’re also allowing lower-
income households to consume and this will help lift  consumer
spending ,” he said. “It’s a trend we’re seeing across the
region, as governments try and spread the beneficial effects of
growth. Having a higher minimum wage also is one of the steps
that helps you transition into higher value-added manufacturing
because there’s more incentives.”  The salary increase boosted labor income by 16.5 percent in
the fourth quarter last year, while product prices rose 3.2
percent, according to NESDB.  Labor productivity  rose an average
of 2.3 percent in the last 10 years.  Cheap Products  “Productivity rose much slower than wages,” Suwannee
Khamman, deputy secretary general at NESDB, said yesterday at a
briefing in Bangkok. “This is not good. It means that we will
continue to produce cheap products, while our costs are
higher.”  Southeast Asia ’s second-largest  economy  grew a faster-than-
expected 6.4 percent last year. Gross domestic product is
forecast by the government to rise 4.5 percent to 5.5 percent
this year, with  export growth  predicted to be 11 percent.  For Veerayuth, whose business in  Chiang Mai  employs 140
workers, the benefits aren’t yet apparent. “My clients said
they can’t understand why our country raised wages drastically
like this,” he said. “It should be done step by step.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Suttinee Yuvejwattana in Bangkok at 
 suttinee1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  