-- AIA Group Beats Estimate With 89% Growth in 2012 Profit
-- B y   B e i   H u
-- 2013-02-27T08:58:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/aia-posts-higher-than-expected-89-growth-in-2012-profit.html
AIA Group Ltd. (1299) , the third-largest
Asia-based insurer by market value, reported higher-than-
expected 89 percent growth in net income last year, helped by
market value gains in investments and product improvements.  Profit rose to $3 billion, or 25.1 cents a share, in the 12
months to Nov. 30, from $1.6 billion, or 13.3 cents, a year
earlier, the Hong Kong-based company said in a  statement  to the
city’s stock exchange today. The number  beat  the $2.7 billion
average estimate of 12 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  The value of new business rose 27 percent to a record $1.19
billion, the first time it topped $1 billion in at least four
years. Chief Executive Officer Mark Tucker has been focusing on
the indicator of projected future profitability of new policies
after AIA was hurt by financial trouble at former parent
American International Group Inc. and  Prudential Plc (PRU) ’s attempted
 takeover  in 2010.  “We have built the momentum,” said Tucker in today’s
statement. “There is a lot more to come.”  AIA, under the leadership of Tucker since July 2010, has
more than doubled its annual new business value and lifted its
embedded value, used to assess the economic worth of life
insurers, by 50 percent over 2009, it said today. The shares
have risen 67 percent over the price of AIA’s October 2010
initial public offering, beating the about 8 percent slide in
the Hang Seng Finance Index.  Keeping Momentum  Today’s results will help the stock maintain the momentum,
Credit Suisse Group AG analyst Arjan van Veen said in an e-mail.
Investors and analysts will probably focus more on operating
profit after tax, which rose 12 percent to $2.2 billion, instead
of net income that includes the bigger-than-expected fair-value
gains in equity investments, he added.  AIA shares rose 4.1 percent, the most since Sept. 7, to
close at HK$32.85 after the results announcement.  Stocks in AIA’s six-largest markets advanced a weighted
average of 12 percent in the second half, adding to the 5.5
percent gain in the previous six months, analysts led by van
Veen wrote in a Feb. 20 report.  Currencies in the six -- Hong Kong,  Thailand ,  China ,
 Singapore ,  Malaysia  and  Korea  -- strengthened 3.1 percent
against the dollar in the second half, they said, bolstering
results of AIA, which sells policies in local currencies while
reporting earnings in U.S. dollars.  Wider Margin  The market-value loss of stock investments led to a 41
percent net income decline in 2011 for the insurer that books
fair-value changes of equity holdings through profit and loss
accounts.  AIA’s full-year new business value increase in 2012 beat
the average estimate of $1.15 billion of seven analysts
including those at UBS AG, Deutsche Bank AG and Goldman Sachs
Group Inc.  It booked a 9 percent increase in annualized new premium,
which tracks new policy sales, to $2.7 billion. New business
margin -- the value of new business as a percentage of
annualized new premium -- expanded 6.4 percentage points to 43.6
percent as the company shifts to more profitable policies with
lower premium size, it said.  Embedded value climbed 15 percent to $31.4 billion in the
year to Nov. 30 from a year earlier, the insurer said today.  AIA declared a final  dividend  of 24.67  Hong Kong  cents a
share, resulting in a 12 percent increase in total payout for
the year to 37 Hong Kong cents.  Overseas Expansion  AIA completed the $1.8 billion purchase of ING Groep NV’s
Malaysia business in December, boosting its market standing in
one of  Southeast Asia ’s most promising life insurance markets to
first from fourth and almost doubling its market share to 25
percent, it said in a statement in October.  The addition will start to contribute to AIA’s first-
quarter operating numbers, Tucker said during a call with
reporters today. The insurer set up its first note program as a
public company that gives it the flexibility to issue medium-
term notes to help refinance the purchase, he said.  AIA, which operates in 16 Asian markets after entering  Sri
Lanka  last year, has received provisional approval to open a
Myanmar representative office later this year, one of the first
foreign companies to do so, Tucker said during the call. The
country, an attractive market, won’t have a material impact on
AIA for at least five years because foreign companies are not
allowed to operate there until after 2015, he added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bei Hu in Hong Kong at 
 bhu5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  