-- AirAsia Jumps on Profit Surge, Dividend Plan: Kuala Lumpur Mover
-- B y   C h o n g   P o o i   K o o n
-- 2013-02-27T09:32:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/airasia-posts-fourth-straight-profit-increase-on-travel-demand.html
AirAsia Bhd. (AIRA) , Asia’s biggest
discount carrier, jumped the most in 30 months in Kuala Lumpur
trading after saying it will adopt a dividend policy this year
as profits rose for a fourth straight quarter.  The  stock  surged 8.3 percent to 2.86 ringgit at the close,
the most since Aug. 5, 2010. It was the third-biggest gainer in
the MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index. AirAsia shares have fallen 21
percent in the past 12 months. The benchmark FTSE Bursa  Malaysia 
KLCI Index was little changed today.  Net income  more than doubled to 350.6 million ringgit ($113
million) in the three months ended December, according to an
exchange filing yesterday. The profit beat the 301.3 million
ringgit average of six  analysts’ estimates  compiled by
Bloomberg. The Sepang, Malaysia-based airline also said it will
begin paying 20 percent of annual net operating profits as
 dividends .  “It’s the right time to pay dividends,” Group Chief
Executive Officer  Tony Fernandes , who took over the airline in
2001, said in a telephone interview with Bloomberg Television’s
 Susan Li  today. “We’ve always said to our shareholders give us
10 to 12 years to build the infrastructure, build the right
airline and then we’ll start paying some dividends.”  AirAsia started distributing profits to shareholders in
2011 after retaining earlier earnings to finance expansion. It
proposed yesterday a special dividend of 18 sen per share, in
addition to a final payout of 6 sen a share.  The company’s dividend policy is “part of our plans to
give more certainty every year to shareholders the expected
payout ratio,” AirAsia Chief Executive Officer Aireen Omar said
in a separate statement yesterday.  India Venture  The carrier, which has ordered more planes to accelerate
expansion, plans to start an airline in India with partners
including the  Tata Group , following similar ventures in Japan,
the Philippines,  Thailand  and  Indonesia .  CIMB Group Holdings Bhd. upgraded the stock to outperform,
the equivalent of a buy rating, with a share estimate of 3.10
ringgit, analyst Raymond Yap wrote in a report today. UOB-Kay
Hian Holdings Ltd. also raised its recommendation to buy with a
price target of 2.85 ringgit, according to a note today.  “We expect AirAsia to be re-rated following the
announcement of a formal dividend policy,” UOB-Kay Hian said in
the report.  AirAsia placed an order for 100 additional Airbus A320
aircraft in December, including 36 current-generation A320s and
64 fuel-efficient A320neos. The group will take delivery of four
A320 aircraft in the first quarter of this year, the company
said yesterday. It will deploy two in Malaysia and one each in
Japan and Thailand, the carrier said.  Jet kerosene prices  averaged $126.91 a barrel in Singapore
trading in the fourth quarter, compared with $124.73 a year
earlier, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chong Pooi Koon in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 pchong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  