-- Airlines Must Compensate Transfer Delays, EU Court Rules
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 2013-02-26T15:12:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/airlines-must-compensate-transfer-delays-eu-court-rules.html
Airlines must compensate passengers
on connecting flights who arrive at least three hours late at
their final destination, the European Union’s highest court said
in a ruling the industry said may backfire on travelers.  “The fact that the original flight was not delayed beyond
the limits laid down by EU law does not affect the right to
compensation,” the EU Court of Justice ruled today. The
Luxembourg-based court’s ruling can’t be appealed.  Today’s case is the latest in a line of rulings clarifying
the bloc’s law on compensation duties for airlines in cases
triggered by passenger compensation requests. The EU court has  
ruled  in previous cases involving  Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA) ,  EasyJet
Plc (EZJ)  and  TUI Travel Plc (TT/)  that passengers who arrive “three hours
or more after the scheduled arrival time” have a right to
compensation, except in “extraordinary” circumstances, such as a
strike or bad weather conditions.  The ruling is “a missed opportunity” to strike a balance
between passenger compensation rights and the ability of small
carriers to offer connecting flights across  Europe , Chris
Goater, a spokesman for the  International Air Transport
Association , said in a phone interview.  Smaller Airlines  Smaller regional airlines “cannot risk” becoming liable
to pay compensation for delays on connecting flights and the
ruling may see such airlines refusing to offer connections or
insisting on longer connection times, Goater said.  An EU review of draft rules on passenger compensation
should avoid “becoming a step too far” for the  airline
industry .  In today’s case, Luz-Tereza Folkerts is seeking
compensation from Air  France  SA after arriving 11 hours late in
Asuncion,  Paraguay  on a flight that took her from Bremen,
 Germany  to Paris, France and from Paris to Rio de Janeiro.  Air France is appealing an earlier compensation order and
the German tribunal handling the case asked the EU court whether
the compensation duty still applied if the first leg of the
flight was only delayed by 2.5 hours and as a result the
passenger missed her connecting flight.  Today’s ruling is one of more than 30 cases at the court on
passenger rights, Viktoria Vajnai, a spokeswoman for the
Association of European Airlines, said in an e-mail.  “This is a clear evidence that the current regulation is
not coherent, and it is substantiated by the patchwork of ECJ
rulings,” Vajnai said. The European Commission is planning to
review rules on passenger rights and airlines will contribute to
legislators’ debate on the issue to represent airlines’
interests, she said.  Air France said it took note of the court ruling and
declined to comment further, according to a company spokesman
who asked not to be identified in line with the firm’s policy.
Air France is the French airline unit of  Air France-KLM (AF)  Group.  The case is: Societe Air France S.A. v Heinz-Gerke Folkerts
and Luz-Tereza Folkerts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Bodoni in Luxembourg at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  