-- Taiwan’s Export Orders Climbed Most in Over Two Years in January
-- B y   S h a r o n   C h e n   a n d   C h i n m e i   S u n g
-- 2013-02-26T08:16:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/taiwan-s-export-orders-climbed-most-in-over-two-years-in-january.html
Taiwan ’s export orders climbed the
most in more than two years in January as a global recovery
boosted demand from  China  and the U.S.  Orders, an indicator of shipments in the next one to three
months, rose 18 percent from a year earlier after a previously
reported 8.5 percent gain in December, the Ministry of Economic
Affairs said in Taipei today. The median of 11 estimates in a
Bloomberg News  survey  was 17.6 percent.  A rebound in housing is helping broaden U.S. expansion,
while China, the island’s biggest trading partner, is also
recovering from a seven-quarter growth slowdown.  Taiwan
Semiconductor Manufacturing Co. (2330) , the world’s largest contract
manufacturer of chips, reported fourth-quarter profit rose by 32
percent as demand outstripped expectations.  “The near-term outlook of Taiwan’s export orders stays
positive,” Raymond Yeung, a Hong Kong-based senior economist at
Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd., said before the data.
Demand for electronics remains solid, he said, adding that
“sales of petro-chemical products and other non-tech products”
to China and  Southeast Asia  also continue to pick up.  Taiwan’s  exports  rose for a third month in January, while
manufacturing activity expanded for a second month. The data for
January and February may be distorted by the Chinese New Year
holidays, which Asian nations celebrated in January in 2012 and
in February this year. Factories from China to  Vietnam  typically
shut and reduce production during this period.  Orders from China jumped 28.7 percent in January from a
year earlier, while those from the U.S. gained 15.5 percent,
today’s report showed. Electronics advanced 13.1 percent and
information and communication products rose 22.2 percent.  Taiwan’s  unemployment rate  fell to 4.2 percent in January
from a revised 4.21 percent in December, the statistics bureau
said earlier today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sharon Chen in Singapore at 
 schen462@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  