-- Alstom Gets EU1 Billion Order for German Offshore Grid System
-- B y   F r a n c o i s   d e   B e a u p u y
-- 2013-02-26T10:57:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/alstom-gets-eu1-billion-order-for-german-offshore-grid-system.html
Alstom SA (ALO) , the French maker of
power-equipment, got an order worth more than 1 billion euros
($1.3 billion) from network operator TenneT Holding BV to
connect five offshore wind farms to the German electricity grid.  The record order for Alstom’s grid business will be booked
this quarter, Gregoire Poux-Guillaume, the head of Alstom’s
power-transmission division, said in conference call with
journalists.  “This project is based on reasonable schedule and costs”
for this “technological challenge,” Poux-Guillaume said.  The order marks Alstom’s first foray in offshore high-
voltage direct-current transmission projects that have prompted
Munich-based  Siemens AG (SIE)  to book almost 600 million euros of
charges in the past five quarters because of execution delays
and spiraling costs. Switzerland’s  ABB Ltd. (ABBN)  has also booked
charges on power-transmission projects in the North Sea.  “These projects are slipping mainly because of timetable
problems,” Poux-Guillaume said. “They had been sold with very
short delays” and on “quite tight budgets.”  Alstom, which had so far worked on onshore high-voltage
direct current and offshore alternative current projects,
previously chose not to participate in offshore HVDC projects,
preferring to “observe and learn,” the Alstom Grid chief said.
The “very sharp” HVDC technology is required to minimize power
loss in transmission of more than 50 kilometers, he said.  Underground Cables  Alstom will work with Nordic Yards and  Prysmian SpA (PRY)  to
build the DolWin3 project connecting North Sea wind farms to the
mainland with onshore and offshore converter stations and 162
kilometers of sea and underground cables. Nordic Yards and
Prysmian have the experience of similar projects, Poux-Guillaume
said.  Milan-based Prysmian said today it got an order worth more
than 350 million euros for the cable connection. Alstom’s order
doesn’t include the cables, meaning that the total investment is
about 1.4 billion euros, Poux-Guillaume said.  The global onshore and offshore HVDC market is worth about
3 billion euros per year and is growing faster than the rest of
the power-transmission market, Poux-Guillaume said. The HVDC
market may total about 50 billion euros from now to 2020, the
Alstom Grid chief said.  Together with the turnkey order for DolWin3, Alstom has
been awarded a five-year service contract worth “tens of
million euros,” Poux-Guillaume said.  The project with a capacity of 900 megawatts will be
completed in 2017, according to a statement. Including DolWin3,
TenneT said it will be able to supply more than 6,000 megawatts
of clean energy from the North Sea.  Germany , which is investing in clean energy after
announcing it will phase out nuclear power by 2022, wants to add
25,000 megawatts of sea-based wind turbines by 2030.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Francois de Beaupuy in Paris at 
 fdebeaupuy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  