-- AMC Tumbles After ‘Walking Dead’ Company Misses Estimates
-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 2013-02-26T21:37:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/amc-shares-tumble-after-walking-dead-company-misses-estimates.html
AMC Networks Inc. (AMCX) , the cable-network
company that airs “Mad Men,” “Breaking Bad” and “The
Walking Dead,” fell 3.6 percent after fourth-quarter earnings
missed analysts’ estimates.  Net income from continuing operations shrank to 21 cents a
share in the period, from 40 cents a year earlier, AMC said
today in a statement. Analysts had estimated 66 cents on
average, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Sales were
$366.7 million, compared with a projection of $370.3 million.  The decline in net income partially reflects the cost of a
lawsuit with  Dish Network Corp. (DISH) , which stopped airing AMC
programming on its satellite-TV service between July and
October. International sales also dropped in the period and
advertising revenue only grew 16 percent to $157 million -- less
than the 20 percent estimated by Amy Yong, an analyst at
Macquarie Securities in  New York .  “AMC is trading like a growth stock, which means it needs
to hit its ad growth numbers,” said Yong, who has a neutral
rating on the stock. “Excluding Dish, their top-line numbers
still missed.”  AMC fell to $56 at the close in New York, marking the
biggest intraday decline since Nov. 20. The stock has climbed 13
percent this year.  Sundance Channel  AMC executives, speaking on a conference call today,
declined to predict how much the company’s programming expenses
will increase this year. AMC will increase investment in its
Sundance Channel by adding more original programming, Chief
Executive Officer Josh Sapan said.  Fourth-quarter adjusted operating cash flow increased 5.6
percent to $107 million. The percentage growth would have been
in the “double digits” if not for increased costs, including
marketing expenses related to being pulled from Dish, the
company said.  AMC ran TV advertisements urging customers to cancel their
Dish subscriptions and switch to other providers when the
networks where dropped.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  