-- Anne Hathaway Oscar Words Lift ‘Girl Rising’: D.C. Scene
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   G r e e n
-- 2013-02-26T16:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/anne-hathaway-oscar-words-lift-girl-rising-d-c-scene.html
Last night was one big sister act at
the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars.  The center’s first female leader,  Jane Harman , jokingly
referred to Anita McBride, the former chief of staff to  Laura Bush , as her “little sister.”  McBride is now executive in residence at American
University’s School of Public Affairs. Harman is the center’s
director, chief executive and president.  She welcomed “many women and a few good men” to a
screening of “Girl Rising,” a documentary produced by  10X10 , a
global advocacy organization for girls’ education, and backed by
 Intel Corp .  The men included Frank Islam, the chairman and CEO of FI
Investment Group LLC.  “Why is everybody sitting in the back?” asked Harman,
looking at the rear of the theater. “I’ll be picking on you
first.”  Directed by the Academy Award-nominated Richard Robbins,
“Girl Rising” chronicles the struggles of nine young women for
basic education and dignity in various parts of the world. The
100-minute film is narrated by top Hollywood artists.  “I was 11 years old when my father arranged for me to be
married,” reads  Anne Hathaway , who won her first Oscar on
Sunday as best supporting actress in “ Les Miserables .”  Among the other narrators are Oscar winners Cate Blanchett
and  Meryl Streep .  Fantine’s Plight  Holly Gordon, 10X10’s executive director, said she was glad
Hathaway mentioned the plight of girls in her Oscar acceptance
speech. Her character in “Les Miserables,” Fantine, becomes a
prostitute to escape poverty like some of the children in the
film.  “We started asking ourselves if we were setting girls up
to succeed,” said Shelly Esque, Intel’s vice president of legal
and corporate affairs and president of the Intel Foundation.  Intel has a long history of investing in educational
causes, including donating millions to girl’s educational
programs. Last year on the International Day of the Girl Child,
about 4,000 Intel employees volunteered in company-sponsored
events.  Esque recently returned from the  World Economic Forum  in
Davos, where she screened “Girl Rising” to an audience of
political and financial players like  Klaus Schwab , the forum’s
chairman and founder.  Clinton Praised  After the screening of the first 30 minutes of “Girl
Rising,” guests gathered for a panel discussion featuring
Gordon and Rangita de Silva de Alwis, director of the  Global
Women’s Leadership Initiative  at the Wilson Center, Tara D. Sonenshine, undersecretary of state for public diplomacy and
public affairs at the State Department, and Shradha Basnyat, a
student activist from Wellesley College.  Sonenshine praised former Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  for creating the position of ambassador at large for
women’s issues in the State Department. Sonenshine said the
status of girls around the world must be “interwoven into the
fabric of American foreign policy.”  A buffet dinner of salmon and couscous was served after the
discussion.  “Girl Rising” is in theaters March 7, the day before
International Women’s Day. Gordon said that 22,000 tickets have
already been sold, and 850 requests have been made by concerned
citizens to bring the film to their communities.  ( Stephanie Green  is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include  James S. Russell  on architecture
and Catherine Hickley on  theater .  To contact the writer on this story:
Stephanie Green in Washington at  sgreen57@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter @stephlgreen.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 