-- Mantega Touts 10% Return on Brazil Roads to Lure Investors
-- B y   J u l i a   L e i t e   a n d   D a v i d   B i l l e r
-- 2013-02-26T18:29:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/mantega-touts-10-return-on-brazil-roads-to-lure-investors-1-.html
Brazil will offer investors high
rates of return for its infrastructure projects as it seeks to
carry out a $235 billion investment plan,  Finance Minister
 Guido Mantega  told investors today in  New York .  Financing conditions offered by the government will ensure
investors have rates of return of more than 10 percent as they
operate and build 7,500 kilometers (4,660 miles) of highways,
10,000 kilometers of railways, 159 ports, among other works,
Mantega said during a road-show that seeks to lure investors  President  Dilma Rousseff ’s administration is trying to
reverse a drop in investment that has kept the world’s second
biggest emerging economy from rebounding. Last year, Brazil grew
at the slowest pace of all major Latin American economies and
investment fell for five straight periods through the third
quarter.  “We are perfecting the model of the highway concessions
and other concessions so that they reach a high level of
profitability,” Mantega told reporters. “We have been talking
to the sectors that are interested and smoothing out rough edges
to improve the program.”  The government earlier this month delayed road auctions in
order to improve conditions and increase profitability to draw
more bidders. The government is revising the terms for new
auctions.  “When you look at the deterioration in business sentiment
and the experiences of past auctions that were not welcomed by
private sector, you have to adapt,” Andre Loes, chief Latin
America economist at HSBC Bank Brasil SA, said by telephone
yesterday. “I think the government is adapting.”  Central bank  estimates that growth slowed to 1 percent last
year even after policy makers reduced  interest rates  to a record
7.25 percent and lowered taxes.  Slower growth didn’t prevent inflation from accelerating in
January to 6.15 percent, the fastest pace in 12 months.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julia Leite in New York at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net ;
David Biller in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 dbiller1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  