-- Mao’s $300 Red Army Liquor Suffers Before China Congress: Retail
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-02-27T09:17:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/mao-s-300-red-army-liquor-suffers-before-china-congress-retail.html
Kong Guoqing hasn’t seen a quieter
Chinese New Year in the 12 years his family has been running
their small liquor and tobacco shop in downtown Shanghai.  They didn’t sell a single bottle of the high-end spirit
made by  Kweichow Moutai Co. (600519)  that has become synonymous with
banquets and gift-giving during  China ’s national holiday. Kong
blames the vanished sales on incoming President Xi Jinping’s
crackdown on extravagant spending by officials: Moutai’s sorghum
spirit can fetch $300 a bottle -- about half the average monthly
disposable income in China’s financial hub.  “Demand for the most expensive liquors and cigarettes this
New Year seemed to have just dried up,” said Kong, pointing to
red boxes of cigarettes costing about $10 a pack, or more than
six times the price of regular brands. “People are afraid to
accept gifts.”  The austerity campaign helped push down prices on some
high-end spirits by about 30 percent over the holiday, the
Ministry of Commerce said. Moutai’s shares have fallen 29
percent since Xi announced the clampdown in November, the
biggest drop of 996 companies on the  Shanghai  Composite Index.  Moutai fell 0.3 percent to 176.77  yuan  in Shanghai today,
for a third day of losses. The index rose 0.9 percent.  The test now is how committed Xi is to rooting out
corruption once the new leadership is cemented at the National
People’s Congress beginning next week.  “Whether it’s a short period as the new leaders are just
on board and they’re trying to do something, or whether it’s an
ongoing exercise, that will have different impacts,” said Sarah Xing, a Hong Kong-based analyst at Nomura International. “At
this point in time, there are some uncertainties.”  Slow Recovery  Three of 17 analysts covering Moutai cut their 2013 profit
outlook for the liquor maker in the past month, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Public criticism of ostentatious displays of wealth by
officials typically peaks when the nation’s elite gather
together for the annual congress in Beijing. Xi warned in
November that resentment at graft and the enrichment of cadres
and their families threatened the Party’s grip on power.  The role of Moutai and other liquor in seasonal banquets
and gift-giving means distillers are unlikely to see a recovery
until at least the mid-autumn festival in September, said
Katharine Song, Fortune CLSA’s Shanghai-based analyst.  “Last Chinese New Year, the baijiu makers had a splendid
sales season, Moutai bottles were selling for more than 2,000
yuan,” said Song, who estimates that Chinese officials account
for about a third of high-end liquor consumption. Moutai
suspended deliveries for March to encourage distributors to
reduce inventory, she said. Prices are falling because “no one
would dare to go out and throw lavish dinners and gatherings.”  Booze Banquets  Cognac and Scotch may also be hurt by the crackdown, with
Paris-listed  Remy Cointreau SA (RCO)  most exposed, said London-based
Deutsche Bank analyst  Jamie Isenwater .  “They will get caught in the crossfire of reduced
entertainment and less gift-giving more generally,” Isenwater
wrote in a note on Feb. 8, advising investors sell Remy and
Pernod Ricard shares.  Booze-fueled banquets at which guests are expected to give
the host cash-filled envelopes have become one of the biggest
ways to earn money, the Party-owned Global Times newspaper
reported in December.  Credit Suisse on Jan. 28 cut its rating on Moutai to
neutral from outperform saying it expects a 25 percent drop in
purchases from the government this year and a 40 percent slump
in direct orders from the military.  Li Hong Fang, Kweichow Moutai’s spokeswoman did not answer
two calls by Bloomberg News to her mobile phone.  Self Sacrifice  Moutai’s nearest rival  Wuliangye Yibin Co. (000858)  is down by 29
percent on the Shenzhen exchange since November. The Shenzhen
bourse has gained about 10 percent in that time.  Moutai’s current fortunes mark a reversal for a drink that
once embodied the revolutionary virtues of self sacrifice and
privation. In Communist Party lore, the 106-proof liquor was
used to clean the wounds of soldiers during the Long March, when
Chairman Mao Zedong’s soldiers endured immense hardships as they
fled over snow-clad mountains and through deadly marshes to
evade Chiang Kai-shek’s Nationalist forces.  Acquired Taste  As China’s economy boomed following Deng Xiaoping’s market
opening in the late 1980s, the fiery spirit -- with a taste
reminiscent of distilled engine oil -- came to symbolize instead
the growing wealth and power of the country’s elite. The
Guizhou-based company’s market value soared from less than $1
billion a decade ago to peak at $41 billion last year.  At about $30 billion today, Moutai remains the third-most
valuable distiller, behind London-based  Diageo PLC (DGE)  and  Pernod
Ricard (RI)  SA in Paris.  Xi’s drive is being felt in other parts of consumer
spending too.  Takings at high-end restaurants have fallen significantly
since the government first encouraged austerity, the Ministry of
Commerce said last week. Sales at luxury eateries in Beijing
fell about 35 percent and 20 percent in Shanghai, it said,
without giving exact dates. Demand for shark’s fin and pricey
hampers of food plunged over the Chinese New Year season, the
ministry said, attributing the drop to Xi’s policy.  Greater Scrutiny  Consumers also bought fewer watches costing more than
HK$100,000 ($12,892) over the Feb. 10-Feb. 17 break, said Karson
Choi, chairman of Hong Kong-based luxury watch retailer
Halewinner Group, which runs more than 30 branches in the city,
mainland China and Macau. Buyers switched to mid-priced
timepieces such as Biel, Switzerland-based  Swatch Group (UHR)  AG’s
Omega, Tissot, and Longines, he said.  While the government’s greater scrutiny of gift-giving will
weigh on China’s luxury goods market for now, the longer term
picture is clear: a rising share for private consumption, where
sales are driven by personal choice and not the capacity of a
gift to curry favor or win business and political allies.  “What’s currently causing the decline is gifting, which
doesn’t give healthy growth and is not sustainable,” Xing said.
“In the short run, we’ll definitely see a negative impact on
the high-end, but in the long run, we’ll see consumers with more
money who will be trading up to more branded products.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Liza Lin in Shanghai at 
 llin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anjali Cordeiro at 
 acordeiro2@bloomberg.net ;
Ben Richardson at 
 brichardson8@bloomberg.net  