-- Apax’s Cengage Said Poised to Pick Alvarez for Restructuring
-- B y   B e t h   J i n k s
-- 2013-02-26T22:53:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/apax-s-cengage-said-poised-to-pick-alvarez-for-restructuring.html
Cengage Learning Inc., the textbook
publisher owned by Apax Partners LLP, is poised to hire Alvarez
& Marsal Inc. to advise on restructuring options as deadlines
approach to repay or refinance maturing debt, said people with
knowledge of the matter.  Company executives and private-equity firm Apax have been
interviewing advisers this month, said the people, who asked not
to be named because the deliberations are private. Cengage,
which has more than $2 billion in debt due next year, reported
an 18 percent drop in revenue for the six months ended Dec. 31.  Cengage had about $5.36 billion in debt at the end of 2012.
Apax, which took the company private in 2007, has been buying up
the publisher’s debt at a discount, potentially giving the
London-based buyout firm more influence in any restructuring.  Cengage spent $50 million buying back its own debt at a
discount last quarter, Chief Executive Officer  Michael Hansen 
said on a conference call this month. Hansen, who joined the
publisher in September, has revamped management and shifted to
more digital products and subscriptions to help revive revenue
as students increasingly shy away from buying textbooks new.  James McCusker, a spokesman for Cengage, and Rebecca Baker,
a spokeswoman for Alvarez, declined to comment. Representatives
for Apax didn’t respond to e-mails seeking comment. The Wall
Street Journal reported earlier that Cengage is in talks with
Alvarez.  Cengage develops teaching materials for colleges, schools,
libraries and corporations, and provides print and electronic
publishing. Apax led the group that acquired the educational
publisher from Thomson Reuters Corp. for $7.75 billion in 2007.
Alvarez, founded three decades ago, has provided strategic
advice for industries such as consumer products, automotive and
health-care, according to its  website .  Apax’s Moves  Apax bought a “substantial” sum of Cengage’s debt on the
open market last quarter, mostly in first liens, Hansen said on
a Feb. 13 earnings call. First-lien creditors have priority over
other lenders. At the time, Hansen referred further questions to
the buyout firm.  Moody’s Investors Service lowered its corporate family
rating on Cengage in November to Caa3, citing declines in
revenue and earnings and the challenge of cutting back its debt
due over the next couple of years. The grade is the lowest in a
category of debt “of very poor standing,” and Moody’s warned
that the rating may fall further.  Cengage has $525 million in revolving credit lines, an
amount poised to shrink to $300 million in July, further
restricting its available liquidity and ability to buy back
debt.  Meanwhile, publishing peers have consolidated.  McGraw-Hill
Cos. (MHP)  agreed in November to sell its education unit to  Apollo
Global Management LLC (APO)  for $2.5 billion after deciding to focus
on its financial-services business.  Pearson Plc (PSON)  agreed in
October to combine its Penguin unit with Bertelsmann SE’s Random
House, forming the largest  book publisher  in the U.K. and the
U.S.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Beth Jinks in  New York  at 
 bjinks1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  