-- Mapletree Said to Plan REIT Pricing at Top End of Marketed Range
-- B y   J o y c e   K o h   a n d   F o x   H u
-- 2013-02-26T02:13:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/mapletree-said-to-plan-reit-pricing-at-top-end-of-marketed-range.html
Mapletree Investments Pte plans to
sell shares in an initial public offering of a real estate
investment trust at the top end of a marketed range, raising
about S$1.6 billion ($1.3 billion), said three people with
knowledge of the matter.  Mapletree Greater China Commercial Trust (MAGIC) , backed by assets
in Hong Kong and  China , will be priced at 93  Singapore  cents a
share, the people said, asking not to be named as the process is
private. The shares had been offered at 88 cents to 93 cents.  The REIT will include the Festival Walk shopping mall in
Hong Kong and Gateway Plaza office complex in Beijing, a sales
document for the IPO shows. The sale will be the biggest IPO of
a real estate investment trust in Singapore, surpassing three
earlier offerings by Mapletree, a real estate unit of Temasek
Holdings Pte.  Mapletree Investments officials couldn’t immediately be
reached for comment.  Gross proceeds from the offering could be as much as S$1.68
billion if a so-called over-allotment option is exercised,
according to the company’s share-sale prospectus. Mapletree
Investments will own 32 percent to 35 percent of the REIT after
the sale.  About 953 million of the 1.7 billion shares will be sold to
so-called cornerstone investors, including AIA Group Ltd. and
Morgan Stanley, according to a  prospectus  filed with the city-
state’s central bank on Feb. 15. Also among cornerstone
investors are Henderson Global Investors Ltd., Myriad Asset
Management Ltd. and Norges Bank Investment Management, which
runs  Norway ’s sovereign wealth fund, the sales document shows.  Citigroup Inc., Goldman Sachs Group Inc., DBS Group
Holdings Ltd. and HSBC Holdings Plc are managing the offer.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joyce Koh in Singapore at 
 jkoh38@bloomberg.net ;
Fox Hu in Hong Kong at 
 fhu7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  