-- Apple Versus Samsung’s Winner Is TSMC: Riskless Return
-- B y   T i m   C u l p a n
-- 2013-02-26T17:11:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/apple-versus-samsung-s-winner-is-tsmc-riskless-return.html
Whether a consumer buys an  Apple
Inc. (AAPL)  iPhone, a Samsung Electronics Co. Galaxy or a  ZTE Corp. (000063) 
Grand, one company benefits --  Taiwan Semiconductor
Manufacturing Co. (2330)   TSMC gets $7 in sales for every smartphone sold worldwide,
according to Chief Executive Officer  Morris Chang , because it’s
the only company with the technology to make the chips used in
the latest handsets. That ubiquity let Hsinchu, Taiwan-based
TSMC post the best risk-adjusted returns among the world’s top
20 chipmakers over the past three years, according to the
BLOOMBERG RISKLESS RETURN RANKING. It also beat Apple, Samsung,
Nokia Oyj and ZTE, the biggest smartphone makers.  Shares of the world’s largest contract maker of chips
doubled in Taipei over the period and had the lowest volatility
as the company was unaffected by market share swings between
smartphone-makers that sold 722 million units last year. TSMC’s
size and financial strength means it can maintain a technology
lead of at least 12 months over rival outsourcers  United
Microelectronics Corp. (2303)  and Globalfoundries Inc.  “As long as smartphones are growing, TSMC wins,” Jeffrey Toder, a Taipei-based Royal Bank of Scotland Plc analyst, said
by phone. “TSMC is the single most dominant supplier across all
products.” He rates the company hold.  TSMC makes chips designed by clients including  Nvidia
Corp. (NVDA) ,  Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM) , Texas Instruments Inc. and  Broadcom Corp. (BRCM) 
The components it produces include ones that let Apple  iPhones 
and Samsung Galaxy devices control touch-screen displays and
communicate with mobile networks.  Tablet Computers  The company’s grip also extends to tablet computers. It
gets about $11 from every one sold worldwide, according to Chief
Financial Officer Lora Ho. Global smartphone sales will probably
rise 22 percent this year, with tablets climbing 41 percent to
172 million units, according to forecasts from Bloomberg
Industries and IDC.  TSMC’s Taipei-listed shares returned 4.7 percent when
adjusting for volatility in the three years ended Feb. 25.
That’s ahead of Cupertino, California-based Apple, which posted
an adjusted return of 4.2 percent and Samsung’s 3.7 percent.
Qualcomm, the second-best performing dedicated chipmaker, rose 3
percent on an adjusted basis.  Intel Corp. (INTC) , the world’s biggest
chipmaker, had a 0.3 percent return as it missed out on the
growth in mobile devices.  Risk-adjusted return is calculated by dividing total return
by volatility, or the degree of daily price variation, giving a
measure of income per unit of risk. The returns are not
annualized. Higher volatility means the price of an asset can
swing dramatically in a short period, increasing the potential
for unexpected losses.  Low Volatility  While TSMC’s cumulative 105 percent gain in the three years
trailed Apple’s 122 percent increase, it topped the ranking
because its volatility of 22.1 was the lowest of all suppliers
and smartphone makers surveyed. TSMC’s New York-listed  ADRs (TSM)  also
posted lower volatility than Apple’s 28.9 score and Suwon, South
Korea-based Samsung’s 30.5.  Its Taiwan shares have advanced at more than six times the
pace of the  MSCI World Technology Hardware & Equipment Index (MXWO0TH) 
over the past three years. Still, the shares aren’t trading at a
big premium compared to the index: TSMC’s shares have a price-
to-earnings ratio of 16.2, compared with 14 for the MSCI World
Technology Hardware & Index, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Since Apple’s founder  Steve Jobs  put the iPhone on sale in
June 2007, TSMC has had an adjusted return of 2.9 percent.
That’s the best performance among pure chipmakers, helped by the
lowest volatility among all companies surveyed. Apple had a 6.9
percent adjusted return in the period and Samsung posted 5.2
percent.  Hon Hai Precision Industry Co. (2317) , the Taipei-based
flagship of Foxconn Technology Group which assembles iPhones and
iPads, had a negative return of 0.82 percent.  Rising Profits  TSMC’s annual  net income  rose 86 percent over the past
three years because of surging demand for smartphones and
tablets. It forecast sales this quarter that surpassed analyst
estimates. UMC, the world’s second-largest contract maker of
chips, unexpectedly predicted a first-quarter operating loss
after failing to keep pace in mobile-phone chips.  “TSMC is now being viewed as a profitable growth company,
whereas previously it was seen as just a profitable company,”
CFO Ho told  Bloomberg News  last month.  Its  sales  are more than four times the size of Hsinchu,
Taiwan-based UMC’s. Its net income margin, a measure of how much
of its sales a company actually keeps in earnings, is 32.8
percent, higher than 97 percent of 50 global peers by value,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Its  ratio  of debt to
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization,
or Ebitda, was 0.37, lower than 82 percent of peers, at the end
of last year. The company sold NT$21.4 billion of  bonds  last
month.  Spending Plans  Chang, TSMC’s 81-year-old founder, plans to spend $9
billion defending the company’s leading position this year,
adding capacity and improving technology. The investment means
the company can make more-powerful chips at smaller sizes. Its
shipments of 14 million 8-inch wafers of chips last year was
three times UMC’s tally. Globalfoundries is unlisted.  TSMC has grown as clients shun the risk and cost of
building their own factories. Neither Qualcomm nor Nvidia, the
biggest designers of mobile processors, operate factories.
Instead, they contract production to TSMC and UMC.  Texas
Instruments (TXN) , the largest maker of chips that convert sound and
video for use in electronics, and Broadcom also outsource
production to chip foundries.  “If you’re looking at jostling between Qualcomm and
Nvidia, it doesn’t matter because they’re both TSMC customers,”
said RBS’s Toder. “If TSMC were shut down tomorrow, there’s not
enough capacity in the world to make up for it.”  28 Nanometer  Demand for the latest 28 nanometer production technology
spurred it to spend $8.3 billion last year, 38 percent more than
originally planned, as the industry struggled to keep pace. One
nanometer, equal to a billionth of a meter, measures the size of
connections in a chip with smaller metrics being more advanced.  Customers were unable to turn to alternative suppliers
because of TSMC’s lead in the technology. Nvidia lost “a lot”
of revenue in the second quarter of last year, CEO Huang Jen- hsun said in May. Qualcomm also predicted lower than expected
profit as smartphone makers delayed new models because of the
lack of chips. The shortage was over by last month, according to
Qualcomm CEO Paul Jacob.  Samsung Risk  TSMC could face a risk from Samsung, the world’s biggest
maker of smartphones. The Korean company, which already makes
most of its own components including displays and memory chips,
is boosting production of its own mobile processors. Extending
this push into areas where it’s relying on outside designers
could take work from TSMC.  “If Samsung uses more in-house components, then other chip
designers like Qualcomm won’t be getting orders and TSMC won’t
be needed to manufacture them,” said George Chang, who rates
TSMC buy at Yuanta Financial Holding Co. in Taipei.  At the same time, TSMC could benefit from an Apple push to
pare its reliance on Samsung. Apple uses Samsung-made processors
in iPads and iPhones, even though the Korean company sells
competing smartphones and tablets.  TSMC could progressively replace Samsung as maker of the A-
series processors used in Apple devices, Sanford C. Bernstein
analyst Mark Li said in a Jan. 28 report. That could bring in
$2.5 billion of revenue over the next three years, he wrote.  Mobile Focus  The Taiwanese company is also less reliant on the slowing
PC market than Intel, the biggest maker of chips for desktop
computers. PC sales will likely climb 1 percent this year after
falling 3.2 percent to 352 million last year, according to
International Data Corp. figures compiled by Bloomberg
Industries. Sales have slowed on competition from tablets.  “Mobile devices like smartphones and tablets are what’s
driving the technology industry now and for the next few
years,” said Jitendra Waral, a Hong Kong-based Bloomberg
Industries analyst, in an interview. “That is where the supply
chain will find its growth.”  TSMC generated 54 percent of sales last quarter from
components used in communication devices and 16 percent from
computing chips, according to a company  presentation .  Santa
Clara , California-based Intel got 63 percent of sales from PC
chips and less than 1 percent from mobile devices.  Intel, which both designs and makes its own chips, is
trying to catch up in the mobile space with the Atom series
aimed at tablets. The series was later into the market than
products from competitors such as Qualcomm, making it difficult
to convince mobile device makers to use its offerings.  “TSMC has emerged as a key supplier benefiting from
handsets because it allows its customers to offer powerful
application processors and communication chips,” said Randy Abrams, who rates the stock outperform at Credit Suisse Group AG
in Taipei. “Being independent for all its individual clients
and chip designers will help it keep its strong supplier
position in the future.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Culpan in Taipei at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  