-- Apple’s Backing Puts Gay-Marriage Focus on Obama at Court
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 2013-02-27T05:00:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/apple-joins-morgan-stanley-to-back-gay-marriage-at-supreme-court.html
Gay-marriage advocates, aiming to
show broad support as the U.S. Supreme Court takes up the issue
for the first time, have enlisted  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ,  Morgan Stanley (MS)  and
dozens of Republicans who once held top government positions.  Now they’re eyeing the White House.  President  Barack Obama ’s administration has until tomorrow
to say whether it will join about 60 companies and a largely
Republican group that includes six former governors in urging
the court to back gay marriage nationwide.  Obama “has not yet said there is a constitutional right to
marry, but he has been very careful not to say there isn’t,”
said Evan Wolfson, president of Freedom to Marry, a New York-
based national gay rights group. “The time for him to say it is
is now.”  The justices will hear arguments March 26 on California’s
Proposition 8, the 2008 ballot initiative that halted gay
marriage in the state after it was allowed for five months.  The corporate group, which also includes  Facebook Inc. (FB)  and
 Intel Corp., (INTC)  will argue in its brief that gay-marriage bans in
41 states harm workplace morale and undermine recruiting.  “No matter how welcoming the corporate culture, it cannot
overcome the societal stigma institutionalized by Proposition 8
and similar laws,” the companies will argue.  Former Governors  The Republican brief will include Jon Huntsman Jr., the
former presidential candidate and ex-governor of Utah; Christine Todd Whitman, a onetime New Jersey governor who ran the
Environmental Protection Agency under President  George W. Bush ;
and three ex-governors of Massachusetts in William Weld, Paul Cellucci and Jane Swift. Gary Johnson, the former New Mexico
governor who ran for president last year as a Libertarian, is
also part of the group.  In backing gay marriage, they are challenging the
predominant view among Republicans. The leading Republicans
currently in office, including U.S. House Speaker John Boehner
of Ohio, oppose same-sex marriage virtually across the board.  “I don’t think you’re seeing a rift in the Republican
Party,” Alan Wilson, the attorney general of South Carolina,
said at a Bloomberg Government breakfast in Washington
yesterday. Wilson, whose state is one of 20 urging the high
court to uphold Proposition 8, says he believes marriage must be
between a man and a woman.  Another Republican,  Theodore Olson , is leading the legal
fight against Proposition 8. Olson served as Bush’s top Supreme
Court lawyer.  More Companies  The publicly traded companies backing gay marriage include
 Abercrombie & Fitch Co. (ANF) ,  Alcoa Inc. (AA) ,  American International
Group Inc. (AIG) , Becton Dickinson & Co.,  EBay Inc. (EBAY) ,  Marsh & McLennan
Cos. (MMC) ,  NCR Corp. (NCR) ,  Nike Inc. (NKE) ,  Oracle Corp. (ORCL) ,  Office Depot Inc. (ODP) ,
 Panasonic Corp. (6752) ,  Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM) , Sun Life Financial Inc.,  Xerox
Corp. (XRX) ,  Zynga Inc. (ZNGA) , Barnes & Noble Inc. and Caesars Entertainment
Corp.  A larger group of companies -- more than 200, including
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  -- is also poised to side with gay-
rights advocates in a second Supreme Court case, involving a
federal law that defines marriage as a heterosexual union. Under
that law, known as the Defense of Marriage Act, legally married
gay couples can’t claim the federal tax breaks and other
benefits available to opposite-sex spouses.  The companies in that case are part of a collection of more
than 250 employers, including cities, counties and law firms.  Influential Briefs  Although the high court often ignores so-called friend-of-
the-court briefs, at times they can shape the way some justices
view a dispute. When the court upheld university affirmative
action in 2003, the majority opinion relied on briefs filed by
corporations and former military officers touting the benefits
of racial diversity.  In a filing last week in the Defense of Marriage Act case,
the Obama administration hinted that it may also call on the
court to overturn Proposition 8. In arguing against the federal
law, U.S. Solicitor General Donald Verrilli said gays have
endured a history of discrimination and should be afforded
special protection under the Constitution, much like racial
minorities and women.  A call to make same-sex marriage a constitutional right
would be a shift for Obama, an opponent when he ran for the
White House in 2008. Even after announcing his support last
year, he has said states should take the lead on the issue.  One possibility is that the administration takes an
incremental approach, urging the court to reinstate same-sex
marriage in  California  without affecting the 40 other states
that prohibit the practice.  The cases are Hollingsworth v. Perry, 12-144, and United
States v. Windsor, 12-307.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  