-- Aquino Demands Sultan End Armed Occupation of Malaysian Town
-- B y   J o e l   G u i n t o   a n d   N o r m a n   P .   A q u i n o
-- 2013-02-26T05:44:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/aquino-demands-sultan-end-armed-occupation-of-malaysian-town.html
Philippine President  Benigno Aquino 
warned a Muslim leader he will face charges if he fails to order
a group of armed followers who invaded a Malaysian coastal town
two weeks ago to return home.  About 180 people, including 30 who may have weapons, have
been in a standoff with Malaysian police since occupying Lahad
Datu in Sabah state on Feb. 12. The sultanate of the southern
province of Sulu has claimed the area on Borneo island for
centuries.  “This is a situation that cannot persist,” Aquino told
Jamalul Kiram, who claims to be  sultan  of Sulu, in a televised
speech from Manila today. “If you are truly the leader of your
people, you should be one with us in ordering your followers to
return home peacefully.”  The incident revives a decades-old sovereignty dispute
several months after  Malaysia  helped broker a deal between
Aquino’s government and another Muslim separatist group in the
southern Philippines. The Sulu sultanate says it leased Sabah to
the British North Borneo Company in 1878, an  agreement  Malaysia
views as a cessation of territory.  Kiram’s followers won’t leave Sabah without an agreement
with Malaysia to “start talking about the long process of
settling” the sultan’s claim on Sabah, his spokesman Abraham
Idjirani said in a television interview with ABS-CBN News.  Jamalul’s title of sultan is disputed by other members of
the Kiram family, who claim it for themselves, according to the
 Philippine Daily Inquirer . The Province of Sulu’s  website  lists
Ismael Kiram as sultan.  Peace Talks  The  Philippines  and Malaysia are cooperating in an effort
to resolve the standoff peacefully, Aquino said. The deadlock
puts Filipino workers in Sabah at risk and disrupts commerce
with Sulu, he said, adding that the sultan may face charges of
provoking war.  “We have not yet reached the point of no return, but we
are fast approaching that point,” Aquino said.  The sultan felt excluded from peace negotiations between
Aquino and the Moro Islamic Liberation Front and may be trying
to derail those talks, said Benito Lim, a political science
professor at the Ateneo de Manila University.  “Aquino just wants the peace talks to be over,” he said.
“He doesn’t want another problem.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joel Guinto in  Manila  at 
 jguinto1@bloomberg.net ;
Norman P. Aquino in Manila at 
 naquino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  