-- Are Senate Supporters of Sane Gun Laws Ready for a Deal?
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-02-26T23:37:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/are-senate-supporters-of-sane-gun-laws-ready-for-a-deal-.html
For supporters of gun regulations, a
reckoning is here. Patrick Leahy, chairman of the U.S. Senate
Judiciary Committee, released a package of gun legislation this
week and plans hearings Feb. 28 on an assault weapons ban. A
 substantial majority  of Americans supports universal criminal
background checks for gun sales. Smaller majorities support a
ban on assault weapons and on high-capacity magazines.  Yet while the politics of gun control have shifted in favor
of regulation in recent weeks, they haven’t been upended. For
new gun laws to get through Congress, they will almost certainly
have to be less stringent than either reason or circumstance can
justify.  A Senate group, including Democrats Charles Schumer of New
York and Joe Manchin of West Virginia and Republicans Mark Kirk
of  Illinois  and Tom Coburn of  Oklahoma , appears close to a deal
on legislation to expand criminal background checks to most
private sales of guns. Perhaps as much as 40 percent of gun
sales take place in the unregulated private market, enabling
criminals to obtain lethal firepower without inconvenience or
oversight.  The main sticking point among the senators is private
record keeping. Coburn, whose gun-rights credentials can provide
political cover to some of his less-assertive colleagues,
resists requiring private sellers to maintain receipts of gun
sales. Police officers say these receipts would come in handy
when they’re tracing guns used in crimes. The National Rifle
Association characterizes the measure as just one more assault
on the Second Amendment.  So should gun-control proponents in the Senate give in on
this one? If that’s the price of achieving near-universal
 criminal background checks , then yes. If ill-founded fears of
gun-sale receipts leading to tyranny compel conservative
legislators to abandon meaningful legislation, the cause of
rational gun laws will be damaged.  Senators appear to have largely resolved privacy concerns.
Prospective buyers wouldn’t have to disclose any information to
sellers. Instead, they could upload their personal data to a
secure website, where a background check would be promptly
conducted. Perhaps once expanded background checks become law,
supporters of gun regulation can then make the case for more
comprehensive  data collection . Meanwhile, they would do well to
take the best deal in hand.  The massacre in Newtown,  Connecticut , changed American
politics; the consequences of lax gun laws became too horrifying
to ignore. We support a ban on assault weapons and on high-
capacity magazines, and we’re pleased that Leahy is moving to
bring such proposals to a vote. But neither of these policies is
as vital -- or seemingly as politically viable -- as a plan for
comprehensive background checks.  The path to sensible gun laws will be long. Senate
supporters must do whatever is necessary to pass a stronger
background check law. The nation needs incremental progress, not
magnificent failure.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 