-- Arsenal Eyes German Midfielder Rode for $11 Million: Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-02-26T06:36:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/arsenal-eyes-german-midfielder-rode-for-11-million-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers with clickable Internet links.  Arsenal Target  Arsenal is targeting a 7.5 million pound ($11 million)
offseason move for Eintracht Frankfurt defensive midfielder
Sebastian Rode, the  Sun reported .  Rode, 22, has 16 months left on his contract and is said to
be eager to play in the Premier League, though Arsenal would
face competition from  Bayern Munich  and  Borussia Dortmund , the
newspaper added.  Shaw Talks  Chelsea is in talks to sign teenage left-back Luke Shaw at
the end of the season and immediately loan him back to
Southampton, the  Daily Mail reported .  The Blues had a 10 million-pound bid for Shaw, 17, rejected
in January and also failed with an offseason offer last year,
the newspaper added.  Chelsea Tension  Chelsea’s interim manager  Rafael Benitez  was involved in a
training ground bust-up with his squad yesterday, telling
players their attitude had cost a series of coaches their jobs
and lecturing them on their failure to grasp tactics and a lack
of effort, the  Mail reported .  One senior player suggested to Benitez that he may be at
fault given the club’s success in winning its first Champions
League title in May, the newspaper added.  Weimann Rejection  Aston Villa  forward Andreas Weimann rejected a four-year
contract extension because he was unhappy with the terms on
offer, the  Daily Telegraph reported .  Weimann’s representatives are said to be “disappointed”
terms included a slight increase on his 15,000-pounds-a-week
salary and didn’t reflect the 21-year-old Austrian’s growing
importance to the team, the newspaper added.  United’s Ultimatum  Manchester United  gave Portuguese winger Nani a take-it-or-
leave-it offer of a new four-year contract and will sell him at
the end of the season if he doesn’t sign, the  Sun reported .  Nani, 26, was called into a meeting last week and told the
club won’t budge on its original offer of 90,000 pounds a week,
the newspaper said. Nani is seeking 130,000 pounds a week from
his new deal, the Sun added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  