-- Martowardojo Gets Some Support for Bank Indonesia Job
-- B y   N o v r i d a   M a n u r u n g
-- 2013-02-26T17:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/martowardojo-can-do-bank-indonesia-job-committee-member-says.html
President  Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono ’s
surprise choice of Agus Martowardojo to run  Indonesia ’s central
bank is gathering support among some members of the
parliamentary committee that will decide on the appointment.  Martowardojo, the finance minister, “is a good choice,”
Zulkieflimansyah, vice chairman at the Indonesian parliament’s
commission XI, which oversees financial affairs, said in an
interview in Jakarta yesterday. Should Martowardojo swap roles
with current Bank Indonesia chief Darmin Nasution, the economy
will be “in a strong and healthy shape,” said Arif Budimanta,
a member of the committee.  Yudhoyono last week nominated Martowardojo as his only
candidate to succeed Nasution, whose term ends May 23, meeting
with mixed reactions as some analysts questioned his record as
finance minister and others praised his banking experience. At
stake is the candidate’s ability to shepherd  Southeast Asia ’s
biggest  economy  as it faces a weakening currency, a widening
current-account deficit and inflation stemming from power tariff
increases and higher wages.  “Martowardojo has experience, integrity, firmness and
leadership, and all of these characteristics are needed to lead
the central bank,” said Zulkieflimansyah, who goes by one name.
“There won’t be any problem for him to get it, most likely
he’ll win it.”  The finance committee may hold a so-called fit-and-proper
test on Martowardojo’s suitability in the second week of March,
said Budimanta, who is from former President Megawati Soekarnoputri’s Indonesian  Democratic Party  of Struggle. The
assessment may be held about March 12-18, according to Harry Azhar Azis, another vice chairman of the finance committee.  Committee Members  The commission’s decision would then have to be endorsed by
a plenary session of Parliament. The finance committee has 14
people from Yudhoyono’s Democrat Party faction, 10 from the
Golkar faction, and eight from the Indonesian Democratic Party
of Struggle faction among its 49 members.  “There’s a chance for Martowardojo to be approved by the
parliament for the next governor but it won’t be easy,” Deputy
Speaker of the House Priyo Budi Santoso told reporters in
Jakarta yesterday, without elaborating.  Martowardojo, 57, former president director of PT  Bank
Mandiri (BMRI) , was rejected for the top central bank post by the
parliament’s finance committee when Yudhoyono picked him in
2008.  Yudhoyono hasn’t said who he would appoint to replace
Martowardojo at the  finance ministry  should he win Parliament
approval to move to the central bank.  Finance Minister  People who are eligible to become the next finance minister
include Vice Finance Minister Anny Ratnawati, Deputy Minister
Mahendra Siregar and Director General of Tax Ahmad Fuad Rahmany,
according to Budimanta.  That said, “if the president chooses Darmin Nasution to
replace Agus Martowardojo, I think it’s an excellent choice
because it would be a change from fiscal policy to monetary and
from monetary policy to fiscal policy,” Budimanta said. “Both
of them have strong experience in fiscal and monetary policy.”  Zulkieflimansyah, the finance committee’s vice chairman,
said having Nasution replace Martowardojo would be “good” as
he has experience working in the finance ministry and both men
have the ability to lead the central bank and finance ministry.  Others who have the capability to become the next finance
minister include Trade Minister  Gita Wirjawan , who would be
welcomed by investors, said Zulkieflimansyah. M. Chatib Basri,
chairman of the Investment Coordinating Board, and Rahmany are
also among the most suitable, he said.  Surprise Pick  The president’s decision to tap Martowardojo for the
central bank surprised analysts including Fauzi Ichsan, Jakarta-
based economist at Standard Chartered Plc, who said the move
would mean a second change in the Finance Ministry’s leadership
during Yudhoyono’s second term. Martowardojo has no experience
in monetary policy and may be rejected by the finance committee,
he said.  While PT Samuel Sekuritas economist Lana Soelistianingsih
says Martowardojo failed to provide fiscal support for the
economy last year, Bank of America Corp.’s Chua Hak Bin says the
minister has helped keep the  budget deficit  in check. Eugene Galbraith, deputy president director of Bank Central Asia, said
“he is a very experienced senior banker” and has done well as
finance minister.  Since Martowardojo became finance minister in 2010,
Indonesia’s government has sought to reduce fuel subsidies and
allocate more spending to infrastructure. The country limited
the use of partially government-funded diesel last month, after
protests derailed plans to raise fuel prices in 2012. He
replaced former Finance Minister  Sri Mulyani Indrawati  in May
2010, when Mulyani joined the  World Bank  as a managing director.  Amsterdam Born  Martowardojo started his career at Bank of America Corp.,
according to the Finance Ministry’s  website . He was president
director of PT Bank Mandiri, the country’s largest lender by
assets, before becoming finance minister. The Amsterdam-born
banker holds a bachelor’s degree in economics from the
University of Indonesia, according to Bank Mandiri’s website at
the time of his appointment to the finance role.  Nasution, 64, assumed the central bank governor post in
September 2010 after more than a year as acting governor. He has
a doctorate in economics from  University of Paris , Sorbonne,
 France , and is the 14th governor in the central bank’s six-
decade history. He became acting governor after Vice President
Boediono resigned in May 2009 to become Yudhoyono’s running mate
in the last presidential election.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Novrida Manurung in Jakarta at 
 nmanurung@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  