-- Mary Ross, Early Leader of Female New York Lawyers, Dies at 102
-- B y   L a u r e n c e   A r n o l d
-- 2013-02-26T18:47:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/mary-ross-early-leader-of-female-new-york-lawyers-dies-at-102.html
Mary R. Cowell Ross, a former
president of the New York Women’s Bar Association who got her
break in law because of the shortage of men in the civilian
workforce during World War II, has died. She was 102.  She died on Feb. 2 at her apartment at the  Pierre Hotel  in
New York City, according to a death notice published today in
the New York Times. She lived on the 24th floor overlooking
Central Park at 61st Street and Fifth Avenue, according to a
2003 profile in the Omaha World-Herald.  On her way to becoming the 14th president of the New York
Women’s Bar  Association , from 1955 to 1957, Ross led its
committee for equal opportunities. In a speech wrapping up her
two-year term, she reported that women being turned away from
law firms remained a “common occurrence” and that female
lawyers were paid less than men and had slim chances of becoming
partner, according to a New York Times article.  She told the World-Herald newspaper that she couldn’t
recall any personal sting of sexism.  “I don’t remember feeling terribly bad about being a
woman,” she said, according to the Omaha, Nebraska-based
newspaper. “I was not oriented to be a secretary or anything. I
was very happy to let the world go by as long as I could find my
niche.”  An Oklahoma native who also lived in  Nebraska , Ross donated
$3.5 million to the University of Nebraska-Lincoln for creation
of a  movie theater  that now carries her name.  Minister’s Daughter  She was twice married. Her second husband, John O. Ross,
was founder of the J.O. Ross Engineering Corp. of New York and,
following a merger, had been chairman of Midland-Ross Corp. He
died in 1966.  Ross was born Mary Riepma in 1910 in Oklahoma City,
according to the death  notice . Her father, Sears Riepma, was a
Protestant minister whose work brought the family to communities
including Olathe,  Kansas , and then to Lincoln, Nebraska,
according to the World-Herald.  Ross began her college studies at the University of
Nebraska-Lincoln and graduated from Vassar College in
Poughkeepsie, New York, in 1932. She worked as a department
store buyer in Lincoln, then as a legal secretary in
Springfield,  Missouri , before enrolling in what today is the
University of Memphis Cecil C. Humphreys  School of Law . She
earned her law degree in 1938.  She worked in Washington for the federal government during
World War II, chiefly in the branch of the Justice Department
that disposed of enemy-owned property in the U.S.  Private Practice  She moved to New York in 1946 to work for a predecessor of
law firm Rogers & Wells, which in 2000 became part of London-
based Clifford Chance LLP. Her specialty was wills, trusts and
estates. She left Rogers & Wells in 1961 to go into private
practice.  “Mary was instrumental in the expansion of our
organization and was a much-loved contributing member for more
than 40 years,” Elizabeth Bryson, a past president and current
board member at the bar association, said today in an interview.  She recalled Ross and another early president of the
association,  Florence Shientag , who died in 2009 at 101, as
“glamorous” figures who made newspaper society pages yet
reached out to help “women who got the opportunity to go to law
school but did not come from money.”  A brother and three sisters predeceased her.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurence Arnold in Washington at 
 larnold4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Charles W. Stevens at 
 cstevens@bloomberg.net  