-- Asia Bond Risk Climbs to Two-Week High on Uncertainty in Europe
-- B y   T a n y a   A n g e r e r
-- 2013-02-26T06:08:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/asia-bond-risk-climbs-to-two-week-high-on-uncertainty-in-europe.html
Asia-Pacific bond risk climbed to
the highest in two weeks after  Italy ’s elections sparked fresh
concerns over  Europe ’s debt crisis. Citic Telecom International
Finance Ltd. began marketing a sale of dollar-denominated notes.  The Markit iTraxx Asia index of 40 investment-grade
borrowers outside  Japan  advanced to the highest since Feb. 11,
according to credit-default swap traders. Citic Telecom, a unit
of  China ’s largest state-owned investment firm, is offering 12-
year securities in the low 6 percent area, according to a person
familiar with the matter. Bank of Communications Co. plans to
sell 10-year debt while Korea Housing Finance Corp. is marketing
covered bonds due 2018, people familiar with those deals said.  Former Italian Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi , running to
reverse austerity measures, called for a recount of the vote
after winning a blocking minority in the Senate. Voters in
Europe’s second-most indebted economy are repudiating budget
rigor, instigating fresh fears about the region’s financial
crisis.  “The market is broadly weaker following overnight flows
largely driven by uncertainty over the outcome of Italy’s
elections,” said Raymond Chia, the Singapore-based deputy head
of credit research for Asia fixed-income at Schroder Investment
Management Ltd., which managed the equivalent of $327.4 billion
of assets as of Sept. 30. “Investors are concerned the country
may abandon some of the austerity measures.”  Citic Telecom, based in Hong Kong, plans to use the
proceeds from its bond sale to help buy a 79 percent stake in
 Companhia de Telecomunicacoes de Macau, S.A.R.L.  from Cable &
Wireless Communications Plc and Portugal Telecom SGPS SA.  Covered Bonds  Bank of Communications is marketing its sale of as much as
$500 million of notes at a spread of about 210 basis points more
than Treasuries, the person familiar with the matter said,
asking not to be identified because the terms aren’t final.  Korea Housing Finance, a state-run mortgage provider, is
marketing the country’s first sale of dollar-denominated covered
bonds in 19 months at a spread of about 110 basis points.  The Markit iTraxx Asia index rose 4 basis points to 111.5
basis points as of 8:19 a.m. in  Hong Kong , Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc prices show.  The Markit iTraxx Japan index increased 3.5 basis points to
127 basis points as of 9:09 a.m. in  Tokyo , according to Deutsche
Bank AG prices. The gauge is set for its highest close since
Feb. 8, according to data provider CMA.  Australian Bonds  The Markit iTraxx Australia index advanced 3 basis points
to 118 as of 10:38 a.m. in Sydney, National Australia Bank Ltd.
prices show, poised for its highest since Feb. 8, according to
CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles prices
quoted by dealers in the private market.  Credit-default swap indexes are benchmarks for insuring
bonds against default and traders use them to speculate on
 credit quality . A drop signals improving perceptions of
creditworthiness, while an increase suggests the opposite.  The swap contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities if a borrower fails to meet its debt
agreements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tanya Angerer in Singapore at 
 tangerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  