-- U.S. Stocks Rise as European Shares, Italian Bonds Tumble
-- B y   S t e p h e n   K i r k l a n d   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2013-02-26T21:39:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/asian-stocks-fall-on-italian-election-concern-yen-oil-decline.html
U.S. stocks rose, rebounding from
the worst drop since November, as data on housing and  consumer
confidence  bolstered optimism in the economy. European shares
slid with Italy’s bonds as the nation’s election stalemate
spurred concern the debt crisis will worsen.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index added 0.6 percent to
1,496.94 at 4 p.m. in  New York  after the U.S. gauge slid 1.8
percent yesterday. The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  dropped 1.3
percent with volume 27 percent greater than the 30-day average.
Italy’s FTSE MIB Index fell 4.9 percent, the most since April,
and 10-year bond yields jumped 41 basis points to 4.9 percent.
The euro was little changed at $1.3063 after plunging 1 percent
yesterday. Ten-year Treasury yields increased two basis points
to 1.885 percent after declining for four straight days.  U.S. equities recovered after plunging yesterday as early
projections released following the close of European markets
suggested Italy’s election would lead to a hung parliament and
another vote. Democratic Party leader Pier Luigi Bersani, having
campaigned to maintain budget rigor, won control of the lower
house and not the Senate. Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S.
Bernanke  defended the central bank’s unprecedented asset
purchases today, while reports on  house prices , new-home sales
and consumer sentiment beat economists’ estimates.  “The economic data suggests that there’s further healing
going on in the housing market,” Tom Wirth, who helps manage
$1.6 billion as senior investment officer for Chemung Canal
Trust Co., in Elmira, New York, said in a telephone interview.
“On a global basis, I don’t understand what’s going on in
Italy. I think we’ll get beyond that and move forward. If bond
yields continue rise, that may weigh on the market though.”  Market Leaders  PulteGroup Inc. and KB Home climbed at least 5.7 percent to
pace gains among homebuilders. Home Depot Inc. rallied 5.7
percent, the most since May 2009, as it raised its dividend and
approved a $17 billion share buyback after profit beat analysts’
estimates. Macy’s Inc., the second-largest U.S. department-store
chain, gained 2.8 percent after forecasting earnings that beat
projections.  The VIX, as the Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility
Index is known, sank 11 percent to 16.87 after surging 34
percent yesterday in its biggest gain since 2011.  Home prices  in 20 U.S. cities rose in the 12 months to
December by the most in more than six years, with the S&P/Case-
Shiller index of property values increasing 6.8 percent from
December 2011, the biggest year-to-year gain since July 2006.
The median projection of 30 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
called for a 6.6 percent advance. Nineteen of 20 cities showed
gains.  Purchases of new homes in the U.S. jumped in January to the
highest level since July 2008, showing the industry will keep
adding to growth in the economy. Sales, tabulated when contracts
are signed, surged 15.6 percent to a 437,000 annual pace,
exceeding the highest forecast in a survey of economists.  Consumer Confidence  The Conference Board’s consumer confidence index climbed to
69.6, exceeding all forecasts in a Bloomberg survey of
economists, from a revised 58.4 in January. It was the first
improvement in four months and the biggest since November 2011.  President  Barack Obama ’s administration released a report
yesterday on how $85 billion in automatic spending cuts
scheduled to begin next month will degrade programs from defense
to education to public health. Even so, there isn’t a measure of
money in the U.S. that is forecasting worse times ahead as
lawmakers voice alarm that the cuts may damage the economy.  In European bond markets, the additional yield investors
demand to hold 10-year Italian bonds instead of benchmark German
bunds, a measure of perceived risk, increased 51 basis points to
344 basis points. Italy sold 8.75 billion euros ($11.5 billion)
of six-month bills today at 1.237 percent, the highest since
Oct. 29 and up from 0.731 percent at an auction of similar
maturity debt Jan. 29.  Italian Bonds  Credit-default swaps insuring Italian bonds rose 41 basis
points to 291, the highest level of the year. The Markit iTraxx
Financial index of swaps linked to 25 banks and insurers climbed
17 basis points to 168, also the highest level of the year.
Spain’s 10-year yield jumped 20 basis points to 5.37 percent and
Portugal’s climbed 39 basis points to 6.56 percent.  The Stoxx 600 erased its monthly advance as more than seven
shares fell for each one that advanced. Italian banks UniCredit
SpA, Intesa Sanpaolo SpA and Banco Popolare SC sank more than 8
percent.  Delayed Sale  Credit-default swaps on Telecom Italia SpA jumped and the
stock dropped 7.3 percent. The nation’s biggest phone company
delayed a sale of as much as 3 billion euros ($3.9 billion) of
hybrid bonds to boost its balance sheet until after the
election.  In the four-way race in Italy, pre-vote favorite Bersani
won the lower house by less than a half a percentage point.
Former premier  Silvio Berlusconi , who pledged to reverse
austerity measures, won a blocking minority in the Senate.  “The surprising outcome of the Italian election has not
only changed Italy’s political landscape,”  Hans Redeker , head
of global foreign-exchange strategy at Morgan Stanley in  London ,
wrote in a report today. “The impact of the election result
will be felt throughout  Europe .”  The  VStoxx Index (V2X) , a gauge of the price of options prices on
the Euro Stoxx 50 Index, climbed 22 percent to 25.9, the highest
level since September.  Commodity Movers  Crude oil in New York fell 0.5 percent to $92.63 a barrel
before a report that may show U.S. crude inventories rose. The
S&P GSCI Index lost 0.8 percent  to the lowest level since Jan.
16 as energy commodities led losses.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  sank 1.1 percent, with
benchmark gauges in  China ,  India ,  Russia ,  Hungary , the  Czech
Republic  and the  Philippines  dropping more than 1 percent.
Trading volumes were 113 percent higher than the 30-day average
for companies in Russia’s Micex Index. In  Shanghai , 9.5 percent
fewer shares changed hands than the 30-day average, while 14
percent more stocks traded in India.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Kirkland in London at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  