-- Massachusetts Loses Challenge to Entergy License Renewal
-- B y   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 2013-02-26T17:13:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/massachusetts-loses-challenge-to-entergy-license-renewal.html
Massachusetts lost a bid for review
of a Nuclear Regulatory Commission decision renewing the license
of  Entergy Corp. (ETR) ’s Pilgrim nuclear power plant in Plymouth.  The  U.S. Court of Appeals  in  Boston  yesterday denied the
state’s petition to review last year’s NRC order. Massachusetts
had cited an “inadequate” environmental impact study in
opposing the renewal.  “The Commonwealth’s substantive challenges to the NRC’s
decisions are not based in any alleged failure on the part of
the NRC to ensure basic health and safety under the Atomic
Energy Act,” the appeals judges said in their opinion.  Massachusetts had claimed the NRC’s environmental impact
statement was inadequate in light of the damage to the Fukushima
Daiichi nuclear power plant from an earthquake and tsunami off
the coast of  Japan  in 2011. The state said the study failed to
take into account possible accidents involving pools of spent
fuel.  The state is reviewing the court ruling and “considering
our options,”  Martha Coakley , the attorney general of
Massachusetts, said in an e-mailed statement.  “Nuclear energy, when done right, can be a valuable part
of our energy future,” Coakley said. “Our goal throughout this
process has been to minimize the public safety and environmental
risks for the communities surrounding the Pilgrim plant.”  Spent Fuel  The ruling states that although the Japanese tsunami
damaged three of the reactor’s six units, “virtually no damage
occurred to any of the spent fuel pools on site and there were
no spent fuel pool fires.”  The NRC  established a  task force  after the tsunami and
issued a report in July 2011 containing 12 recommendations. The
report stated that there was “no apparent significant damage”
to the spent fuel at Fukushima.  In July 2011  Massachusetts  made a motion to reopen the
Pilgrim licensing proceedings because of the Fukushima disaster.
The Atomic Safety and Licensing Board denied the state’s bid in
November 2011, stating in part that “spent fuel concerns were
not unique to Pilgrim.”  In May 2012 the NRC approved the license renewal for
Pilgrim. The agency assured the state that if new information
concerning the safety of the plant arose, it would be taken into
account, according to the court ruling. A review of the
Fukushima incident is continuing.  ‘Hard Look’  “We are pleased the court found that the agency had
appropriately addressed the various concerns raised by the
Commonwealth during the NRC proceeding on Pilgrim license
renewal,” Diane Screnci, a spokeswoman for the agency, said in
an e-mail.  Entergy, based in  New Orleans , fell 24 cents to $61.34 at
12:12 p.m. in  New York  Stock Exchange composite  trading . The
shares had dropped 3.4 percent this year before today.  “We are pleased with the U.S. Court of Appeals decision,”
 Michael Burns , a spokesman for Entergy, said in an e-mail. “As
stated in the court ruling, the record shows that the NRC gave a
hard look to the information Massachusetts presented to it, and
it engaged in reasoned decision-making in explaining why it
refused to reopen the record and why it denied the contention.”  The cases are Commonwealth of Massachusetts v. U.S. Nuclear
Regulatory Commission, 12-1404 and 12-1772, U.S. Court of
Appeals for the First Circuit (Boston).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Don Jeffrey in New York at 
 djeffrey1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  