-- Australian Dollar Advances as Gold Prices Increase
-- B y   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a
-- 2013-02-26T04:58:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/aussie-near-4-month-low-as-rba-says-currency-may-spur-rate-cuts.html
Australia ’s dollar gained against
most of its major peers, erasing earlier losses, as advances in
metal prices supported demand for the currency of the resource-
rich nation.  The so-called Aussie strengthened versus the greenback and
the yen amid speculation central banks in other major economies
will continue to loosen monetary policy more than the Reserve
Bank of Australia. Japan’s Prime Minister Shinzo Abe is likely
to nominate Haruhiko Kuroda as  Bank of Japan (8301)  governor, according
to two officials with knowledge of the matter. Local bonds rose,
sending 10-year yields to a one-month low on concern  Italy ’s
inconclusive election will result in renewed turmoil in  Europe .  “Longer term, we expect the underlying fundamentals for
the Aussie dollar to be stronger,” said Janu Chan, a Sydney
based economist at St. George Bank Ltd. “While we are expecting
the RBA to cut once more, interest rates are going to be
relatively high. We still have strong demand for Australian
government bonds.”  The Australian dollar rose 0.1 percent to $1.0268 at 3:53
p.m. in Sydney from yesterday, when it declined 0.6 percent. It
dropped to $1.0222 on Feb. 21, the lowest since Oct. 15. The
Aussie gained 0.3 percent to 94.44 yen, rallying from
yesterday’s 2.3 percent drop.  New Zealand’s dollar fetched 83.38 U.S. cents, after
falling 0.6 percent to 83.35 yesterday. The so-called kiwi
climbed 0.4 percent to 76.72 yen, after losing 2.4 percent by
the close in New York.  The  yield  on Australia’s 10-year bonds fell 14 basis
points, or 0.13 percentage point, to 3.37 percent, the lowest
since Jan. 25.  Gold Rises  Shares of  Newcrest Mining Ltd. (NCM) , Australia’s largest gold
producer, rose 1.8 percent. The spot price for the precious
metal gained as much as 0.3 percent to $1,598.55 an ounce. Gold
was Australia’s third biggest commodity export in 2010 after
iron ore and coal, according to government figures.  “Data out of  China  is suggesting growth has stabilized and
commodity demand will be still well supported,” said St.
George’s Chan. “That’s going to be supportive for the
Australian dollar longer term.”  Abe is likely to nominate Asian Development Bank President
Kuroda for the post of BOJ governor, and Kikuo Iwata and Hiroshi Nakaso for deputy roles, according to two officials with
knowledge of the discussions.  Further Easing  In a Feb. 11 interview, Kuroda said he favors additional
stimulus this year, and the central bank has “really
substantial room for monetary easing.”  Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke will deliver his
semiannual testimony on monetary policy to the Senate Banking
Committee today, and will speak before the House Financial
Services Committee tomorrow.  The Fed at its January meeting decided to continue buying
$45 billion a month of Treasuries and $40 billion in mortgage
debt without setting a limit on the duration or total size of
the purchases.  Benchmark interest rates are 3 percent in Australia and 2.5
percent in New Zealand, compared with as low as zero in the U.S.
and  Japan , attracting investors to the South Pacific nations’
higher-yielding assets.  RBA Policy  Australia’s dollar earlier declined toward the lowest in
more than four months after Reserve Bank Assistant Governor Guy Debelle indicated monetary policy may be eased as the currency’s
strength damps the economy.  Debelle said in a  speech  in Adelaide today the central bank
retains “scope to lower interest rates further, should the need
arise, including to counterbalance the pressures of an elevated
exchange rate.”  The RBA lowered its cash rate by 1.75 percentage points
since Nov. 1, 2011, to 3 percent, matching a half-century low
reached in 2009.  Australia’s currency has gained 1 percent this year,
according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. Its New
Zealand counterpart has strengthened 3.1 percent in the same
period, the best performer among the 10 developed-nation
currencies.  Interest-rate swaps  data compiled by Bloomberg show traders
see a 36 percent chance the RBA will lower the rate to 2.75
percent on March 5.  In Italy, partial election results suggested the four-way
race may end in a divided parliament, requiring another vote.
Broadcaster RAI showed Democratic Party candidate Pier Luigi Bersani winning the lower chamber and former Prime Minister
Silvio Berlusconi with a blocking minority in the Senate.  Risk aversion is likely to weigh on the Australian dollar,
according to Ray Attrill, the Sydney-based global co-head of
currency strategy at National Australia Bank.  “The ‘nightmare’ scenario of a Bersani-controlled lower
house and a Senate effectively controlled by former Prime
Minister Silvio Berlusconi is being rapidly priced in to
markets,” he wrote in a note to clients today.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  