-- Austerity Policies Toppled Bulgaria Cabinet, Roubini Says
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   K o n s t a n t i n o v a
-- 2013-02-27T12:32:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/austerity-policies-toppled-bulgaria-cabinet-roubini-says.html
Bulgaria  was too strict with
austerity as energy prices soared, angering voters and bringing
down the Cabinet, said  Nouriel Roubini , the  New York  University
professor who predicted the 2008 global financial crisis.  “Fiscal austerity is valid and countries should have some
fiscal policies,” Roubini said in an interview yesterday,
before a conference in Sofia organized by Doverie, the biggest
pension provider in Bulgaria. “Probably in Bulgaria austerity
has been very front-loaded.”  Prime Minister Boyko Borissov resigned Feb. 19 after mass
street demonstrations against high utility bills and low wages
turned violent and dozens were injured, while others were
arrested. Borissov’s administration came to power in 2009 and
was forced to freeze wages and delay value-added-tax
reimbursements to businesses to narrow a widening budget deficit
and stave off the impact of the euro-area debt crisis.  Government debt was 18.7 percent of gross domestic product
at the end of the third quarter, the EU’s second-lowest behind
 Estonia , compared with the 27-nation bloc’s average of 85.1
percent, according to Eurostat. The government wants to keep
this year’s budget deficit at 1.3 percent of GDP, the same level
as last year.  The Bulgarian Socialist Party rejected an offer to form a
Cabinet today. President Rosen Plevneliev will make one more
attempt this week to find parties willing to cobble together a
government before dissolving Parliament and calling early
elections for late April or May. He said Feb. 25 he will also
appoint a caretaker administration by the end of next week.  Austerity, Corruption  “The government collapsed because of austerity and other
concerns including high energy prices that affect the purchasing
power of the household sector,” Roubini said. “There is also
some element of corruption that is systemic and people are
frustrated with it.”  The European Union’s poorest state in terms of per-capita
output, has run a currency board system since 1997 that bans
central bank lending and requires tight fiscal and financial
policies. GDP expanded 0.5 percent from a year earlier in the
three months through December, the 10th consecutive quarter of
growth.  Missing Growth  “What is missing in Bulgaria and also other parts of
central and eastern  Europe  is economic growth,” he said.
“There have been massive job losses there’s been a rise in the
 unemployment rate , growth is mediocre.”  Unemployment rose to 11.9 percent in January, the highest
since April 2005.  The benchmark Sofix stock index rose 0.82 percent to 369.54
at 2:13 p.m. in Sofia, after it plunged 4.4 percent yesterday,
its biggest drop since Feb. 2, 2009, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. The yield on Eurobonds maturing in July 2017 rose
one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 2.254 percent. The
yield rose 19 basis points yesterday to the highest this year.  Borissov was admitted to hospital yesterday to treat high
 blood pressure , the government-run health facility said in a
statement today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Konstantinova in Sofia at 
 ekonstantino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  