-- Australia Exchange CEO Funke Kupper Hiring for Derivatives
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2013-02-27T05:24:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/australia-exchange-ceo-funke-kupper-plans-hiring-for-derivatives.html
ASX Ltd. (ASX) ,  Australia ’s main exchange
operator, will hire at least 25 more people this year to expand
its clearing business as the contribution of derivatives to
profit expands and equity volume falls.  “This is about 25 or 30 of the right people,” ASX Chief
Executive Officer Elmer Funke Kupper, 47, said in an interview
yesterday. “The main increases we’re seeing are the big
initiatives that we’re running, in the post-trade services of
clearing and collateral management. We’re seeing more of a shift
toward those new investments.”  Exchanges from the U.S. to  Europe  and Hong Kong are relying
more on derivatives as stock-trading profit wanes. Funke Kupper
is  diversifying  ASX’s business amid competition from Chi-X
Australia Pty and operators of so-called dark pools, venues that
don’t publicly display participants and prices. Average daily
value of equity trades on ASX fell by 24.5 percent in the six
months through Dec. 31, the bourse said Feb. 21.  The Australian exchange operator, which had an $8.3 billion
merger with  Singapore Exchange (SGX)  Ltd. vetoed by the government in
2011, this month won its battle to maintain a monopoly in equity
clearing and settlement. Clearers act as central counterparties
in derivatives contracts to dilute the risk of default.  “Over the last couple of years we’ve learned a lot about
the way financial markets operate, the role the exchange plays
and the way domestic and international competition is starting
to affect things,” he said. “That is all helpful because it
makes people better educated and better informed.”  Revenue Contribution  The contribution to ASX’s revenue from cash markets, which
include equities trading, dropped to 21 percent in the year to
June 30, from 22 percent the previous year and 30 percent the 12
months before that, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Cash-market operating revenue in the six months to Dec. 31
was A$54.9 million, 18 percent of total operating revenue, ASX
said on Feb. 21. Derivatives accounted for 31 percent of total
revenue in the half, the largest business for ASX.  The  derivatives market  made up 15 percent of  Hong Kong 
Exchanges & Clearing Ltd.’s revenue in 2011, while the cash
market proportion fell by 6.8 percent, the most recent data
show. Hong Kong Exchanges regained its place as the world’s
biggest bourse operator by market value after completing its
purchase of the  London  Metal Exchange in December.  Australian Treasurer Wayne Swan accepted advice from the
Council of Financial Regulators to defer for two years any
license application from an equities clearing facility seeking
to compete in the local market, according to a statement on Feb.
11. LCH.Clearnet Ltd., Europe’s largest clearinghouse, will
press ahead with an application to process over-the-counter
 interest-rate swaps  in Australia after being blocked from
equities, it said the same day.  Panic Button  “We don’t see an urgency to hit the panic button like
others have and go and chase deals,” Funke Kupper said. “The
Hong Kong Exchange, the  Singapore Exchange , the Japanese
exchange once it’s merged, look very much like us. They are
vertically integrated exchanges that operate equities
derivatives, trading, clearing and settlement. It doesn’t
necessarily mean it makes sense for those exchanges to work
together.”  ASX shares have risen 15 percent this year, compared with a
8.3 percent gain for the Singapore Exchange. The Hong Kong
bourse advanced 4.5 percent and the newly merged  Japan Exchange
Group Inc. (8697)  surged almost 80 percent since it began trading in
 Tokyo  on Jan 4. ASX gained 0.5 percent to A$35.96 today.  Attempted Mergers  Lower trading volume is driving exchanges around the world
to unite. Bourse companies have been the subject of $50 billion
in attempted deals in the past three years, most of them never
consummated, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Swan
rejected a takeover bid for ASX in 2011 from Singapore Exchange,
citing concern in having the sole provider of Australian
clearing and settlement services controlled by an overseas
party.  “It’s history now and mergers aren’t back on,” Funke
Kupper said. “We are observing what’s happening in the world
and observing that Australia is starting to learn a lot about
the way financial markets operate domestically and globally. For
some businesses, we can’t be an island, but there really is
nothing to talk about there.”  Intercontinental Exchange Inc., which agreed in December to
acquire NYSE Euronext, will control futures on  interest rates 
that trade on the Liffe exchange in London.  CME Bid  Chicago-based  CME Group Inc. (CME) , the world’s largest futures
exchange, has approached  Deutsche Boerse  AG to consider
beginning talks on a merger, according to four people familiar
with the situation. Deutsche Boerse’s Eurex division is Europe’s
largest derivatives market. The German exchange operator, which
had its takeover of NYSE blocked by European regulators last
year, has said it’s not in merger talks.  “We can see those players trying to shore up their
businesses, very, very significantly focused on derivatives,”
Funke Kupper said. “That’s what we’re observing right now. The
end effect of all this consolidation is you have few players and
you’ve gone through hell to get there.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  