-- Lavrov Sees Constructive U.S. Administration After Kerry Talks
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e   a n d   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2013-02-26T19:46:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/lavrov-sees-constructive-u-s-administration-after-kerry-talks.html
Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov said President  Barack Obama ’s second term will be
“constructive” after he held his first meeting with newly
appointed U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry in Berlin.  “It feels like the second administration of Barack Obama
will aim to play a more constructive role when it comes to its
foreign policy agenda led by John Kerry,” Lavrov told reporters
after meeting with Kerry today in the German capital.  The two officials had a “really serious and hard working
session” for an hour and 45 minutes, State Department
spokeswoman Victoria Nuland said as Kerry headed to Paris as
part of his first official trip, to  Europe  and the Middle East.  Kerry and Lavrov discussed trying to end the conflict in
 Syria  as the parties prepare for an international meeting in
 Rome  on Feb. 28 aimed at resolving the crisis. Lavrov urged the
Syrian opposition to join talks that included the government in
Damascus “as soon as possible.”  “The opposition has been making pretty contradictory
statements about it,” Lavrov said. Still, “I think we are
doing all we can to start that,” the Russian minister said.  Kerry earlier today said Syrian rebels should be given aid
if President Bashar al-Assad refuses to join talks and goes on
killing his own people.  “If the president of the country decides he isn’t going to
come and negotiate and he’s just going to kill his people, then
you at least need to provide some support for the people who are
fighting” for their freedom, Kerry said in remarks to students
in the German capital. He didn’t specify what support he meant.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net ;
Nicole Gaouette in Berlin at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  