-- Axa IM CEO Sees Outflows Ending at Rosenberg Division in U.S.
-- B y   F a b i o   B e n e d e t t i - V a l e n t i n i
-- 2013-02-26T23:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/axa-im-ceo-sees-outflows-ending-at-rosenberg-division-in-u-s-.html
Axa Investment Managers , a money-
management unit of  Europe ’s second-largest insurer, is close to
ending outflows at its Axa Rosenberg division in the U.S. almost
three years after a coding error spurred clients to pull funds.  “We’re seeing the end” of outflows at Axa Rosenberg,
Dominique Carrel-Billiard, chief executive officer of Paris-
based Axa IM, said in an interview. “The pipeline is recovering
and we see it already,” he said, declining to give a time frame
for the return to inflows at the Orinda, California-based
business.  Outflows last year at Axa Rosenberg, which uses computer
models to pick investments, amounted to about 3 billion euros
($3.9 billion), Carrel-Billiard said. That’s down from 5 billion
euros in 2011 and 29 billion euros in 2010, when the U.S. unit
had a coding error, according to Axa’s website. Axa IM returned
to inflows in 2012, helped by its fixed-income, private-equity
and Asian franchises.  Axa Rosenberg, which in 2011 agreed to pay $242 million to
resolve claims in the first U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission’s case on a quantitative-investment model glitch, had
$20.5 billion under management at the end of December, according
to the unit’s website. Axa Rosenberg is fully owned by Axa IM.  “Now the issue of the coding error is totally behind us,”
Carrel-Billiard said.  Axa SA (CS) ’s Paris-based asset-management unit
is “relaunching” Axa Rosenberg and is hiring salespeople in
the U.S. to market the division’s new equity-investment products
as well as fixed-income or real-estate investment products from
Axa IM’s other franchises, he said.  ‘Market Access’  “We need to recreate a  market access ” to tap U.S.
institutional investors, Carrel-Billiard said. “Historically,
we had a distribution team in the U.S. that was linked to
Rosenberg and sold Rosenberg products, and this team has been
largely lost during the crisis,” he said. Alongside Rosenberg’s
funds, Axa IM has other U.S. operations including fixed-income
asset management.  Axa IM’s total assets under management reached 554 billion
euros at the end of 2012, up 8 percent from a year earlier,
mostly helped by a rebound in bond markets. Most of Axa IM’s
managed assets are invested in fixed income, while 8 percent is
invested in equities, according to an e-mailed presentation.  Axa Rosenberg “isn’t any longer a dominant factor in our
stocks, but it can be a dominant factor in flows,” Carrel-
Billiard said, declining to give an outlook for Axa IM’s 2013
net money flows. Axa IM has a “distinctive platform” in
European asset management and its goal is to expand “both in
distribution and in production to become a true global leader,”
he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fabio Benedetti-Valentini in Paris at 
 fabiobv@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  