-- Bail-Ins Key in Ending Vicious EU Bank Circle, Rohde Says
-- B y   F r a n c e s   S c h w a r t z k o p f f
-- 2013-02-26T16:02:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/bail-ins-crucial-in-ending-vicious-eu-bank-circle-rohde-says.html
Europe  needs to copy  Denmark ’s
example in forcing bank bondholders to share losses if the
region is to break the vicious circle connecting its banks and
governments, Danish central bank Governor Lars Rohde said.  Denmark’s resolution framework has helped boost the AAA
rated nation’s credibility, Rohde said in a speech delivered in
Copenhagen today. The central bank supports a European bank
union that works toward a common resolution framework, he said.  “The creation of a strong common deposit guarantee
framework and not least a credible resolution regime with bail-
ins for troubled banks is quite crucial if the EU is to succeed
in limiting the negative contagion from banks to governments in
a future bank union,” Rohde said.  Denmark’s bail-in legislation was first tested in February
2011, when regional lender Amagerbanken A/S collapsed. The
 credit event  sent funding costs for Danish banks soaring and
meant some of the country’s mid-sized lenders were unable to tap
wholesale markets. Denmark’s example underlines the need to
ensure such legislation is enforced across the whole region,
Rohde said.  “It can’t be denied that Denmark’s decision to proceed
with its resolution framework alone raised banks’ financing
costs in the short term,” Rohde said. “That’s why it’s
important that we have a common European framework for
resolution.”  Nail It  European lawmakers and EU negotiators are due to meet
tomorrow to resolve disagreement over banker bonuses, financial
reporting and national regulatory power, which has stalled
progress on new common banking rules.  “On the next step of the banking union, the issue of bank
resolution, we want to nail the Danish bail-in model,” Economy
Minister  Margrethe Vestager  said in an interview. “It is very
important that shareholders will be the first in line to bear
losses.”  Denmark has so far made a profit of 11.2 billion kroner ($2
billion) on its five bank rescue packages, including its 2010
bail-in legislation, the government said Jan. 25. The ultimate
cost of the measures will depend on whether more banks with
state-backed debt fail, the business ministry said in a report.  About 12 regional banks in Denmark have been taken over by
the country’s resolution agency, Financial Stability. At least
another dozen have been absorbed by stronger rivals. Denmark’s
banking crisis, which followed a burst housing bubble in 2008,
sent the nation into a recession, and the financial regulator
warns more  bank failures  may follow.  Rohde, formerly the chief executive officer of Denmark’s
biggest pension fund, ATP, took over as governor of the
country’s central bank this month. He replaced Nils Bernstein,
who retired after reaching 70.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frances Schwartzkopff in Copenhagen at 
 fschwartzko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net  