-- Banks Lead Worst Drop for Czech Stocks in 7 Months: Prague Mover
-- B y   K r y s t o f   C h a m o n i k o l a s
-- 2013-02-26T16:38:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/banks-lead-worst-drop-for-czech-stocks-in-3-months-prague-mover.html
Financial companies led the steepest
drop in Czech shares in seven months as electoral deadlock in
Italy spurred concern the euro area’s debt crisis will worsen.  Erste Group Bank AG (RBAG)  of Austria tumbled 3.4 percent by the
close in Prague, while  Komercni Banka AS (KOMB)  declined 3.3 percent
and Vienna Insurance Group AG slid 2.1 percent. The  PX (PX)  index,
where the three companies have a combined 57 percent weighting,
fell 2.1 percent, its biggest slump since July 23.  Lenders and insurers were the biggest decliners in European
stock market trading while Italy’s borrowing costs hit a three-
month high as inconclusive elections threaten to derail 15
months of budget cuts under Prime Minister  Mario Monti . Silvio
Berlusconi, the ex-premier fighting a tax-fraud conviction, got
the second-most votes after the pro-austerity Democratic Party.  “New voting could favor Berlusconi, whose support rocketed
before the elections because of Monti’s unpopular austerity,”
Marek Hatlapatka, a stock analyst at Cyrrus brokerage in Brno,
Czech Republic, wrote in a report to clients today. “That is
very negative information for stocks and the euro.”  Komercni Banka, which owns about 7.9 billion koruna ($406
million) of Italian sovereign bonds, had its worst day this
month. The Czech unit of Societe Generale SA slid to 3,916
koruna, paring February gains to 2.6 percent. Komercni share
turnover was 159 percent of the three-month daily average.  “While risk premiums on Italian bonds rose today, they
remain well below last year’s levels,” Hatlapatka wrote in an
e-mail to  Bloomberg News . “I can’t see a reason for a bigger
selloff in Komercni Banka shares because of Italian bonds.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Krystof Chamonikolas in Prague at 
 kchamonikola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at   wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  