-- Bankers Fume at Fall From Grace in Berlin Play: Review
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   H i c k l e y
-- 2013-02-26T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/bankers-fume-at-fall-from-grace-in-berlin-play-review.html
His old office was carpeted, with
curtains reaching to the floor. Now Bertram Ansberger, a banker
in a new piece at Berlin’s  Deutsches Theater , has to endure
linoleum and no windows, even if he gets to keep his chauffeur.  Andres Veiel’s “Das Himbeerreich” (the title literally
translates as “The Raspberry Empire”) is based on interviews
with more than 20 top German bankers who survived the financial
crisis with their wealth and privileges intact, yet lost the
influence they once had.  Veiel spoke to them on condition of anonymity (some may
have risked losing pensions if identified) and melded the
interviews into a stage collage of their thoughts on the banking
meltdown. It can’t really be called a play; it is a collection
of loosely linked monologues, and with no plot or dramatic
tension, it’s a hard format to sustain for nearly two hours.  Even so “Das Himbeerreich” is a brave attempt to bring
derivatives, rating agencies, subprime mortgages, state bailouts
and banking bonuses to the theater-going public. To many
Berliners this is an alien, even hostile world -- unlike most
European capitals, the city is not a national financial center.  The six characters philosophize and self-justify, by turns
enraged and bewildered, disillusioned and unrepentant. Above
all, they resent the loss of power, a greater amphetamine for
these five alpha men and one woman than money could ever be. The
millions have long since ceased to have meaning except as a
point of comparison with peers.  Glass Elevators  The set is a gray, nondescript area that could be a lobby
or a waiting room, with two glass elevators that glide up and
down on either side. One banker, dismayed at the cut-throat
direction his industry has taken, looks back with nostalgia.  “We always used to ask where money is needed and put it
there,” he recalls. “Today we don’t ask where it’s needed, but
where it can achieve the highest returns.”  Much of the responsibility for the crisis of ethics is laid
at the German government’s door, with bankers recalling times
when politicians prodded them to take greater risks to help
 Frankfurt  keep pace with  New York  and  London  as a financial
center.  “It’s not as though a couple of nutcases suddenly start
doing crazy deals,” observes one character. “The political
establishment has to create the right structures.”  High Stakes  Avoiding becoming prey for bigger U.S. banks is another
reason cited for high-stakes gambles. Brigitte Manzinger, a
tough female banker who still champions her former employer,
defends a foolhardy acquisition as necessary.  “Otherwise we wouldn’t exist anymore -- Citibank or
Deutsche Goldman would be the name emblazoned on our branches.”  Veiel is known as a documentary maker, notably for his
highly acclaimed film “Black Box BRD” about Alfred Herrhausen,
a  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  chief executive who was murdered in 1989.
Veiel also made a fictionalized feature about the origins of the
Baader-Meinhof gang, called “If Not Us, Who.”  The material he gleaned about the financial crisis from
bankers is crying out for documentary treatment, though with
anonymous sources, that would be hard to pull off. An
alternative could have been a drama with character development
and plot. Rating: **  “Das Himbeerreich” is in repertory at the Deutsches
Theater in Berlin. The next performances are on Feb. 27, March
6, March 11 and March 14.  Muse highlights include  Richard Vines  on food,  Robert
Heller  on music and  Katya Kazakina  on art.  To contact the reporter on the story:
Catherine Hickley in Berlin at 
 chickley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 