-- Barnier Urges EU to Answer German Doubts on Bank Plan
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e   a n d   C a r o l i n e   C o n n a n
-- 2013-02-26T14:48:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/barnier-urges-eu-to-answer-german-doubts-on-bank-plan.html
The European Union needs a strategy
for handling failing banks that can win approval from the bloc’s
member countries and incorporate existing tools, EU Financial
Services Commissioner  Michel Barnier  said.  “We need to make proposals that will be accepted and we
know the reservations of countries such as  Germany ,” Barnier
said in a Bloomberg Television interview in Paris today. “We
need to be pragmatic.”  Barnier renewed his call for the EU to leverage national
resources as it determines how to restructure or shut down
failing banks. The Brussels-based commission will announce
proposals later this year for a European Resolution Authority,
which Barnier says should make use of national funds rather than
a central pot of money.  This approach contrasts with recommendations from European
Central Bank President  Mario Draghi , who said on Feb. 18 that
the planned resolution authority will need its own funds. Banks
should pay into this central fund, with European nations
providing a backstop, he said.  To prevent a repeat of the sovereign debt and financial
crisis that has crippled  Europe  for the past three years, the EU
is working on a banking union to bolster financial stability and
prevent contagion between banks and states. Bank resolution is
the second part of the plan, following last year’s decision to
give the European Central Bank oversight powers.  Barnier said resolution plans need to acknowledge German
insistence on more cost-sharing. Euro-area nations already
contribute to a 500 billion-euro ($655 billion) firewall. Five
of the currency bloc’s 17 countries have sought aid.  Deposit Insurance  “You have to differentiate between what’s possible today
and what’s ideal tomorrow,” Barnier said.  As a precursor to the central resolution authority, the EU
has proposed a plan to standardize national deposit insurance
schemes and to create a common approach for handling failing
banks. This interim legislation will call for nations to adopt
so-called bail-in rules for imposing losses on creditors of
failing banks.  “The resolution will be put in place in each country --
with a toolbox in each country -- so that banks pay for banks
when they go bankrupt,” Barnier said. His plan calls for each
country to have its own fund for handling  bank failures  that is
funded in advance by fees on lenders.  “Once this is put in place we will work on better
coordination between these various toolboxes at the European
level,” he said. “This is the role that will be played by the
European Resolution Authority that I will propose.”  ‘Fiscally Neutral’  Draghi said a common fund with a public backstop will be
required, augmented by industry fees collected in advance of any
crisis. Even if European authorities ultimately recoup their
costs from the financial industry, making the fund “fiscally
neutral” over time, they need to be prepared to fund short-term
needs from their own resources, he said.  The single resolution authority “should therefore have a
European resolution fund at its disposal, which should be
financed by the private sector via risk-based ex-ante levies,”
Draghi said. “The European resolution fund should be backed by
a public backstop mechanism, the support of which would need to
be recouped via special ex-post levies on the private sector.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rebecca Christie  in Brussels at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net ;
Caroline Connan in Paris at 
 cconnan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  