-- Barnes & Noble Stores Seen Topping Market Value: Real M&A
-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e   a n d   M a t t   T o w n s e n d
-- 2013-02-26T22:45:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/barnes-noble-stores-seen-topping-market-value-real-m-a.html
For  Barnes & Noble Inc. (BKS)  founder
 Leonard Riggio  to take his bookstores private, he may need to
write a check for more than the entire company’s market value.  Riggio said yesterday that he will offer to buy the retail
stores and website of the New York-based company he started more
than 40 years ago, leaving  shareholders  with Barnes & Noble’s
college book and Nook e-reader businesses. The retail chain
alone is worth about $1 billion, according to the average of
four analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg, more than Barnes
& Noble’s market capitalization yesterday of $902 million.  Buying the bookstores would give Riggio the  most profitable 
piece of a company that throws off more cash relative to its
share price than 94 percent of North American specialty
retailers, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Barnes &
Noble has been  dragged down  by concerns over the value of Nook,
which continues to lose money despite investments from  Microsoft
Corp. (MSFT)  and  Pearson Plc (PSON) , Credit Suisse Group AG said.  “This is the catalyst we had been expecting for a long
time to unlock the value of Barnes & Noble,” Albert Saporta,
managing director of AIM&R, a Geneva-based alternative
investment research firm, said in an e-mail. The chain “can be
run profitably as a private company.”  Riggio, Barnes & Noble’s largest  shareholder  with about 30
percent of the stock, said yesterday in a filing that the price
for the retail business will be negotiated with the board.  Bookstore Value  The stores and website may be valued at $700 million to
$1.2 billion, according to a range of estimates from analysts at
AIM&R, Janney Montgomery Scott LLC, Maxim Group LLC and Credit
Suisse. The average estimate is about $1 billion.  Mary Ellen Keating , a spokeswoman for Barnes & Noble,
declined to comment on a potential bid price or valuation of the
company’s retail assets.  A deal would come as the stock trades at an 88 percent
discount to its  revenue  for the past 12 months, even after
climbing yesterday by the most in four months, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. That’s the second-cheapest among North American
specialty retailers larger than $500 million, which fetch a
median ratio of 1.1. Barnes & Noble also had  cash  from
operations in the past year equal to about 11 percent of its
stock price, while the industry’s median free  cash flow  yield is
less than half that level, the data show.  “It’s extraordinarily cheap,”  John Tinker , a New York-
based analyst for Maxim Group, said in a phone interview. Barnes
& Noble “is a slowly melting ice cube and one that could be
repositioned.”  Small Premium  Tinker values the bookstores at $990 million, or almost $14
a share using what he calls conservative estimates for cash
flow. That’s just 2.4 percent higher than the stock’s average
price in the last 20 days. The shares ended yesterday at $15.06.  Today, the stock rose 2.7 percent to $15.46, ending at its
highest closing level in more than two months.  Barnes & Noble has been sacrificing  profits  to invest in
its Nook Media business, while battling  declining sales  as
readers spent less at stores and transitioned to digital books.
Selling the retail chain and website would leave investors with
just Nook Media, which may have losses of close to $300 million
this year, according to Credit Suisse.  “The issue for investors is not whether there is more
value than the stock price in Barnes & Noble bookstores,”  Gary Balter , a New York-based analyst at Credit Suisse, said in a
note to clients yesterday. “That is an easy yes. The issue is
whether there is positive value in the money-losing and
increasingly poorly positioned Nook Media division.”  Liberty Stake  Billionaire  John Malone ’s  Liberty Media Corp. (LMCA)  invested $204
million in Barnes & Noble in August 2011, allowing the company
to spend more on its Nook e-readers to keep up with competitors.
The deal gave Liberty Media preferred shares that are
convertible into 12 million common shares at $17 apiece and
 voting rights .  With $2.8 billion in cash and  no debt , Liberty Media could
back Riggio in taking the bookstores private and may have a
strategic interest in doing so, Maxim Group’s Tinker said.
Malone is also  chairman  of  Liberty Interactive Corp. (LINTA) , which owns
the QVC home-shopping television network. Almost half of QVC’s
sales now come from its website and Malone could seek to partner
it with Barnes & Noble should it want a retail presence quickly,
according to Tinker.  Courtnee Ulrich, a spokeswoman for Liberty Media, didn’t
respond to requests for comment.  Nook Future  “Riggio will win it, with Liberty’s backing,” he said.
“This is someone who has played the game extremely well and who
might be backed by the smartest financial engineers in the
business -- Liberty. The question then becomes, what does Nook
trade for on a standalone basis?”  The Nook business would need to reconsider its strategy
because investing that heavily in its own devices won’t be
sustainable without the profits from the bookstore operations,
according to Peter Wahlstrom, an analyst at Morningstar Inc. in
 Chicago . That could be a good thing, he said.  “I view this as a positive,” Wahlstrom said in a phone
interview.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tara Lachapelle in  New York  at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net ;
Matt Townsend in New York at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net ;
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net  