-- BASF’s Bock Pledges Cost Cuts to Push Back on Margin Decline
-- B y   S h e e n a g h   M a t t h e w s
-- 2013-02-26T12:01:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/basf-s-bock-pledges-cost-cuts-to-push-back-on-margin-decline.html
BASF SE (BAS)  Chief Executive Officer Kurt
Bock pledged further restructuring and cost cuts to stem
weakening profitability amid lower demand for paper chemicals
and cosmetic additives.  A cost-cutting program, which saved 100 million euros ($131
million) in 2012, will generate more than that figure this year
and next, Bock said today at a press conference at BASF’s
Ludwigshafen, Germany headquarters. Earnings before interest,
tax and one-time items increased 5.1 percent to 8.88 billion
euros last year. Analysts in a survey predicted 9 billion euros.  Bock is betting economic conditions will improve and the
company will benefit from a shift to newer technologies such as
battery materials for electric cars. The CEO is fighting to
maintain margins which slipped to 11.2 percent last year from
11.5 percent amid deteriorating demand for cosmetic ingredients
and paper chemicals. BASF already cut 400 jobs at construction
chemicals and reduced capacity at paper ingredients in  Europe .  “The focus on value over volume, innovation and
restructuring will be important in a sluggish 2013,” Andrew
Benson, an analyst at Citigroup Inc. said in a note to clients.
Last year’s earnings were a “mixed set of numbers and reflect
the slower activity in the second half. That said, BASF reacted
quickly and decisively to these tougher markets with an
acceleration of cost cutting and focus on cash management.”  The stock dropped as much as 3.7 percent to 72.25 euros in
Frankfurt trading and was down 2.8 percent at 72.88 euros as of
12:05 p.m. local time. European stock markets tumbled on concern
 Italy ’s elections will lead to renewed market turmoil.  Paper Cuts  The chemical maker is battling a shrinking paper market in
Europe by expanding its activities in  Asia  and switching its
focus more toward packaging, especially the environmentally
friendly variety which is a “hot” area, Bock said today.  “The problems in the  paper industry  are material,” Bock
said today. “We are really driving our research and development
people for solutions for sustainable packaging.  ‘‘There are
opportunities for BASF’’ as customers look for ways to reduce
packaging weight and damage to the environment.  BASF proposed an annual dividend of 2.60 euros per share,
up 4 percent from last year’s payout.  ‘‘The outlook is positive, although I would be careful
because they didn’t give any specific figures,” Oliver Schwarz,
an analyst at MM Warburg in Hamburg, said today by phone. “The
dividend is less than I had expected.” Schwarz, who rates BASF
buy, had forecast a payout of 2.70 euros.  Before today, the shares had  gained  19 percent in six
months, boosting the company’s market value to 68.9 billion
euros. BASF has the largest weighting on  Germany ’s benchmark DAX
index, which gained 10 percent in the same period.  Libyan Oil  Quarterly sales rose 9 percent to 19.6 billion euros
compared with a 19 billion-euro estimate. Net income declined 13
percent to 980 million euros as the restart of oil production in
 Libya  raised the company’s tax bill. Oil production in the
country had been halted between February and October in 2011
because of political unrest.  BASF today forecast world economic growth will accelerate
to 2.4 percent from 2.2 percent last year, with chemical
production growing even faster at 3.6 percent.  Bock, who became CEO in May 2011, has pledged to generate a
quarter of sales from products that are less than 10 years old
by the end of the decade. He’s helping drive that goal by buying
four battery-material companies as well as seed-treatment maker
Becker Underwood Inc. and drug-ingredient supplier Pronova
BioPharma ASA.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sheenagh Matthews in Frankfurt at 
 smatthews6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  