-- Berkshire’s Too-Big-to-Mess-With Bid for Heinz
-- B y   A l i c e   S c h r o e d e r
-- 2013-02-26T23:30:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/berkshire-s-too-big-to-mess-with-bid-for-heinz.html
(Corrects date of Heinz and  Standard & Poor’s  performance
comparison to December 2008 in second paragraph.)  After the announcement this month
that Berkshire Hathaway Inc. was leading a partnership to buy
 H.J. Heinz Co. (HNZ) , the ketchup maker was hailed as a growth stock
and an indomitable brand. By many accounts, Berkshire’s
chairman,  Warren Buffett , has pulled off another brilliant feat
in spotting an opportunity in food stocks.  If the market is truly that dumb, it must also have been an
oversight that Heinz lagged the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  from
December 2008 to January 2013. That wide performance gap still
shows up if you go back to January 1997 to exclude the noise of
the bubble era; Heinz stock rose about 67 percent, while the
index doubled. Heinz has been in and out favor with investors in
that period and Buffett says he studied the company all the
while. Yet until now, Berkshire hadn’t made a significant
investment.  A more realistic explanation is that Heinz’s stock was
fairly priced before the deal. As in every leveraged buyout, it
was debt that hoisted the price to 20 percent over market. (They
don’t call it leverage for nothing.) To make the deal work,
Buffett got terms to warm Don Corleone’s heart.  Berkshire (BRK/A)  is
putting down minimal equity in exchange for half of Heinz, a 9
percent dividend on $8 billion of redeemable preferred stock,
and warrants on top of that.  Price Premium  So what are we to make of Heinz? It’s always tough for a
board of directors to turn down a cash deal with a 20 percent
premium to market. When the company’s stock is a chronic
laggard, the directors may have no other option.  This raises an interesting question about investor
expectations. Let’s assume the  stock market ’s future performance
is more modest than in past decades, as seems inevitable, given
that growth forecasts are being cut.  Sluggish growth will put even more pressure on companies
that turn in Heinz-like performances (or worse). This is a
serious challenge for those who manage and govern public
companies, half of which, by definition, will perform below
average in an already below-average market. We should expect
more transactions such as  Office Depot Inc. (ODP) ’s $1.2 billion
purchase of  OfficeMax Inc. (OMX) , a merger of weaklings, and the
defensive $11 billion  US Airways  Group Inc. combination with AMR
Corp. If nothing else, these deals give companies more costs to
cut and appease their shareholders.  At this point, some readers are probably considering the
evidence showing that companies are usually better off returning
capital to shareholders than buying each other. This is true.
However,  Wall Street  doesn’t like businesses to shrink, and
companies that decapitalize are often punished. Investors create
incentives for acquisitions. This isn’t necessarily always
irrational. The accumulated capital that turned Berkshire into a
$250 billion company is a major business advantage.  Berkshire, for example, outperformed the S&P and Heinz from
January 1997 to January 2013. But since January 2008, Berkshire
also has lagged the index, as it had for lengthy periods in the
past. Why isn’t Berkshire facing pressure from shareholders?
They trust Buffett, though he won’t be around forever. When
Berkshire investors look at the company he has built, they
realize that his creation resembles a slice of the economy. As
such, it could operate essentially on autopilot for some time.
Not only that, Berkshire has reached the size that elevates it
to a corporate nation-state.  Competitive Advantage  Berkshire and other giants such as  General Electric Co. (GE) ,
Google Inc., Amazon.com Inc. and  Wal-Mart (WMT)  Stores Inc. aren’t
just huge. They have economies of scale, supply-chain
advantages, dominance in distribution, entrenched consumer
brands, and political, economic, regulatory and business clout
that allows them to effectively cripple their competition. These
companies aren’t “too big to fail,” but for the foreseeable
future, they are “too big to mess (or substitute your verb of
choice) with.”  United Air Lines Inc. (AAMRQ)  and Delta Air Lines Inc. are examples
of companies that already merged their way to this status. Their
combination was the natural prompt for US Airways and  American
Airlines  to join, leaving the U.S. with three airlines that
aren’t just powerful, but indispensable.  Likewise, Heinz will gain new advantages through its
ownership by Berkshire, which has the respect of Wal-Mart,
Costco Wholesale Corp. and other retailers, as well as friendly
relations with regulators. And of course, there is Buffett
himself, who will soon appear in Heinz advertisements drowning
his French fries in ketchup. Buffett’s other value is that he
has the ear of the media -- and of President  Barack Obama .  Buffett has always been fond of monopolies and years ago he
invented a concept: “survival of the fattest.” Each “little”
business that Berkshire buys dominates its market. Some are
virtual monopolies. Yet Buffett also has avoided combining with
companies so large and visible that they would put a bull’s eye
on Berkshire. Berkshire probably could buy a Heinz-size company
every year for decades without attracting complaints of being
predatory.  In this sense, Buffett is unique, and uniquely cautious.
The other behemoths can rest assured that the U.S. government is
now so dependent on large businesses for anti-terrorism work,
 Internet security , national defense, and carrying out economic
policy that it is hard to see how these interests could be
disentangled even if anyone in  Washington  wanted to do so.  Even with stagnant wages and  high unemployment , a steady
widening of corporate profit margins has continued thanks to
deregulation, lax oversight of financial institutions, lower
taxes, disempowered unions, shrunken worker benefits, tamer
judicial activism and a virtual freeze in social legislation.  The first major reversal of this trend in many years was
the enactment of Obama’s  health-care law  in 2009 and a
steamroller of new financial-service regulations. The one thing
these rules didn’t affect was the market dominance of a small
number of companies that are either too big to fail or too big
to mess with.  Antitrust Movement  Even so, there is no assurance that the economy will
continue to move in this winner-take-all direction. In fact,
history says otherwise. Modern U.S. antitrust law emerged in a
short period around the beginning of the last century. Courts
and public opinion, once wary of big government, underwent a
swift, savage cultural reversal under  Theodore Roosevelt ,
leading to the breakup of companies that had a tight grip on
major industries, including railroads, oil and tobacco.  Will the fragile reed of public tolerance ever snap? So
far, Americans have put up with crooked mortgage lenders,
bailed-out banks, “pink slime” in beef, Facebook privacy
policies, salmonella tomatoes and cruise ships full of germs.  Bursts of public outrage at the businesses responsible
flare and dissipate. Slowing growth, margin pressure, and
unstoppable competition from too-big-to-mess-with companies all
point toward more consolidation, at least for the time being.
That sound you hear in the distance is investment bankers
revving the engines of their Lamborghinis.  Meanwhile, if the public ever revolts against the corporate
nation-states, the one company that probably is safe from
retribution is Berkshire Hathaway.  ( Alice Schroeder  is the author of “The Snowball: Warren
Buffett and the Business of Life” and formerly a top-ranked
insurance analyst on Wall Street. The opinions expressed are her
own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Alice Schroeder at  aliceschroeder@ymail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
 mberley@bloomberg.net  