-- Berlusconi Ally and Northern League Head Set for Lombardy Win
-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 2013-02-26T17:41:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/berlusconi-ally-and-northern-league-head-set-for-lombardy-win.html
Northern League head Roberto Maroni
was set to win local elections in Lombardy, as Italy’s
wealthiest region remains a stronghold of the coalition led by
former Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi .  Maroni, an Interior Minister in the last administration led
by Berlusconi, is projected to win 42.4 percent of votes,
Piepoli projections for RAI show. Democratic Party head Pier Luigi Bersani’s candidate for governor, Umberto Ambrosoli, would
get 37.2 percent, according to RAI.  Italian 10-year yields climbed the most in 14 months after
the country’s national elections this week produced a hung
parliament. Bersani, the pre-election favorite, won the most
seats in the lower house, while resurgent three-time ex-premier
Berlusconi won a blocking majority in the upper house. Maroni’s
governor race helped Berlusconi’s bloc win the key region of
Lombardy in the Senate, where seats are doled out regionally.  Ambrosoli, a criminal lawyer who portrayed himself as an
outsider, failed to put an end to a 20-year cycle of regional
governments led by Berlusconi’s bloc. The vote followed a probe
targeting the previous governor and Berlusconi’s ally Roberto Formigoni, who is under investigation on allegations of
corruption, which he denies. Formigoni successfully ran as
candidate for the Rome-based parliament in this week’s vote.  “Eighteen years of a good center-right administration”
paid off, Formigoni said on Twitter.  With 10 million people, Lombardy is the most populous of
 Italy ’s 20 regions and its economy is equivalent to the size of
 Austria ’s, generating a fifth of Italy’s $2.2 trillion  gross
domestic product .  Lazio Vote  In separate elections held in Lazio, home to the country’s
capital, Bersani’s candidate to governor and former head of
Rome’s provincial administration Nicola Zingaretti was set to
win 38.5 percent of the vote, against 29.5 percent for
Berlusconi’s candidate, according to RAI projections by Piepoli.
The local vote followed last year’s resignation of the region’s
Governor Renata Polverini amid a party financing scandal.
Polverini wasn’t targeted in the investigation.  Both Polverini and Formigoni were elected as heads of their
regions in 2010 with the support of Berlusconi’s People of
Liberty Party. Polverini also ran as candidate for the lower
house with Berlusconi’s party. In the region of Molise,
Bersani’s candidate is leading with 42 percent against 24.7
percent for Berlusconi’s bloc, projections show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorenzo Totaro in  Rome  at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  