-- Bernanke Resuscitates QE, Downplays Risk and Cost
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   B a u m
-- 2013-02-26T23:30:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/bernanke-resuscitates-qe-downplays-risk-and-cost.html
Last week, the  Federal Reserve ’s
quantitative easing was about to undergo some quantitative
adjustment. At least that was the take-away from the  minutes  of
the Jan. 29-30 meeting, suggesting that Fed policy makers were
starting to view the costs of long-term asset purchases as
outweighing the benefits.  Chairman  Ben Bernanke  disabused us of that notion this week
when he delivered the Fed’s semiannual  monetary policy report  to
Congress.  “We do not see the potential costs of the increased risk-
taking in some financial markets as outweighing the benefits of
promoting a stronger economic recovery and more-rapid  job
creation ,” Bernanke said in prepared testimony. The Fed will
continue its $85-billion-a-month asset purchases, he said,
“until it observes a substantial improvement in the outlook for
the labor market in a context of  price stability .”  Bernanke did a good job of outlining, and downplaying, the
risks of expanding the Fed’s  balance sheet , which, at $3.1
trillion, is almost four times its pre-crisis size. Along with
the extended period of near-zero  interest rates , large-scale
asset purchases have the potential to increase the rate of
inflation, encourage excessive risk-taking and financial
instability, create market distortions, and, when interest rates
rise, produce capital losses on the  Fed’s portfolio  of long-term
securities.  I would add one more risk to his list: a loss of
credibility as the Fed appears more willing to tolerate higher
inflation in the short run in exchange for lower unemployment.  Diminishing Return  The Fed chief emphasized the substantial costs of
persistently high  unemployment , to both the individual and
society at large. What he didn’t do was explain how more of the
same is going to achieve a different result.  The  unemployment rate  has exceeded 7 percent for 50
consecutive months. It has come down to 7.9 percent from 10
percent in October 2009, but this has been a grudging decline
accompanied by a reduction in the percentage of the  population
in the labor force .  On the benefit side, Bernanke said that low long-term
interest rates have helped spark a housing recovery, although
it’s not clear how credit for the revival should be apportioned
among interest rates, time and a one-third collapse in
nationwide  home prices  in the six years following the 2006 peak.
To the extent that rock-bottom interest rates have goosed the
stock market, consumers will feel better and spend more,
Bernanke said.  Unfortunately, the “ wealth effect ” from equity markets
doesn’t seem to pack the same punch as that from housing,
according to research by Credit Suisse economists Neal Soss and
Henry Mo. Historically and for obvious reasons, housing wealth
has been regarded as more permanent and less volatile than
stock-market wealth. With housing values still depressed, the
Fed will have to “engineer even larger bull markets in  house
prices  and stock prices for any desired pick-up in economic
growth,” Soss and Mo wrote in the firm’s Feb. 13 U.S. Economic
Digest.  At this week’s hearing, Senator  Tom Coburn , a Republican
from  Oklahoma , asked Bernanke if there was a “diminishing
return” on the Fed’s efforts at quantitative easing. Bernanke
acknowledged that it was a good question, cited the “substantial
benefits” in 2009 when markets were chaotic, and concluded that
there were “some positive benefits in terms of growth.”  Fair enough. Still, I wonder if Bernanke isn’t
overconfident about the Fed’s ability to unwind its stimulus in
a timely fashion (we have the “tools”), identify potential risks
to the financial system (we have enhanced supervision) and
forecast the future (we have a model). Seven years after the air
started to leak out of the housing bubble, the  U.S. economy  is
still operating well below its potential. Housing seems to have
bottomed, finally, and is just starting to make a noticeable
 contribution to economic growth . Under the circumstances, you
would think avoiding a repeat of that whose name cannot be
spoken -- asset bubble -- would be a top priority for the Fed.  Lonesome Dove  In the three decades since inflation was tamed, the U.S.
economy has been prone to periodic bouts of irrational
exuberance in asset markets. Why? Both arise from the same
source, which is excess money and credit creation. Why isn’t the
Fed more concerned about how credit is allocated, or
misallocated as the case may be?  Senator  Bob Corker , a Republican from  Tennessee , accused
Bernanke of being a “dove” for his implementation of
expansionary policies. Bernanke responded by boasting of his
record on inflation. He said it was “the best of any Federal
Reserve Chairman in the postwar period -- at least one of the
best, about 2 percent average inflation.”  Alan Greenspan , Bernanke’s predecessor, could say the same.
With two bubbles -- one in Internet stocks, the other in housing
-- under his watch, he’s not exactly going to be remembered for
his track record on inflation.  (Caroline Baum, author of “Just What I Said,” is a
Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
 Caroline Baum  in  New York  at 
 cabaum@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net . 