-- Bernanke Semiannual Monetary Policy Testimony (Text)
-- B y   C h r i s   M i d d l e t o n
-- 2013-02-26T15:03:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/bernanke-semiannual-monetary-policy-testimony-text-.html
Following is the text of remarks made
by Ben S. Bernanke, Chairman, Board of Governors of the Federal
Reserve System in testimony before the Senate Banking Committee.  Chairman Johnson, Ranking Member Crapo, and other members of the
Committee, I am pleased to present the Federal Reserve’s
semiannual Monetary Policy Report. I will begin with a short
summary of current economic conditions and then discuss aspects
of monetary and fiscal policy.  Current Economic Conditions
Since I last reported to this Committee in mid-2012, economic
activity in the United States has continued to expand at a
moderate if somewhat uneven pace. In particular, real gross
domestic product (GDP) is estimated to have risen at an annual
rate of about 3 percent in the third quarter but to have been
essentially flat in the fourth quarter.1 The pause in real GDP
growth last quarter does not appear to reflect a stalling-out of
the recovery. Rather, economic activity was temporarily
restrained by weather-related disruptions and by transitory
declines in a few volatile categories of spending, even as demand
by U.S. households and businesses continued to expand. Available
information suggests that economic growth has picked up again
this year.  Consistent with the moderate pace of economic growth, conditions
in the labor market have been improving gradually. Since July,
nonfarm payroll employment has increased by 175,000 jobs per
month on average, and the unemployment rate declined 0.3
percentage point to 7.9 percent over the same period.
Cumulatively, private-sector payrolls have now grown by about 6.1
million jobs since their low point in early 2010, and the
unemployment rate has fallen a bit more than 2 percentage points
since its cyclical peak in late 2009. Despite these gains,
however, the job market remains generally weak, with the
unemployment rate well above its longer-run normal level. About
4.7 million of the unemployed have been without a job for six
months or more, and millions more would like full-time employment
but are able to find only part-time work. High unemployment has
substantial costs, including not only the hardship faced by the
unemployed and their families, but also the harm done to the
vitality and productive potential of our economy as a whole.
Lengthy periods of unemployment and underemployment can erode
workers’ skills and attachment to the labor force or prevent
young people from gaining skills and experience in the first
place--developments that could significantly reduce their
productivity and earnings in the longer term. The loss of output
and earnings associated with high unemployment also reduces
government revenues and increases spending, thereby leading to
larger deficits and higher levels of debt.  The recent increase in gasoline prices, which reflects both
higher crude oil prices and wider refining margins, is hitting
family budgets. However, overall inflation remains low. Over the
second half of 2012, the price index for personal consumption
expenditures rose at an annual rate of 1-1/2 percent, similar to
the rate of increase in the first half of the year. Measures of
longer-term inflation expectations have remained in the narrow
ranges seen over the past several years. Against this backdrop,
the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) anticipates that
inflation over the medium term likely will run at or below its 2
percent objective.  Monetary Policy
With unemployment well above normal levels and inflation subdued,
progress toward the Federal Reserve’s mandated objectives of
maximum employment and price stability has required a highly
accommodative monetary policy. Under normal circumstances, policy
accommodation would be provided through reductions in the FOMC’s
target for the federal funds rate--the interest rate on overnight
loans between banks. However, as this rate has been close to zero
since December 2008, the Federal Reserve has had to use
alternative policy tools.  These alternative tools have fallen into two categories. The
first is “forward guidance” regarding the FOMC’s anticipated path
for the federal funds rate. Since longer-term interest rates
reflect market expectations for shorter-term rates over time, our
guidance influences longer-term rates and thus supports a
stronger recovery. The formulation of this guidance has evolved
over time. Between August 2011 and December 2012, the Committee
used calendar dates to indicate how long it expected economic
conditions to warrant exceptionally low levels for the federal
funds rate. At its December 2012 meeting, the FOMC agreed to
shift to providing more explicit guidance on how it expects the
policy rate to respond to economic developments. Specifically,
the December postmeeting statement indicated that the current
exceptionally low range for the federal funds rate “will be
appropriate at least as long as the unemployment rate remains
above 6-1/2 percent, inflation between one and two years ahead is
projected to be no more than a half percentage point above the
Committee’s 2 percent longer-run goal, and longer-term inflation
expectations continue to be well anchored.“2 An advantage of the
new formulation, relative to the previous date-based guidance, is
that it allows market participants and the public to update their
monetary policy expectations more accurately in response to new
information about the economic outlook. The new guidance also
serves to underscore the Committee’s intention to maintain
accommodation as long as needed to promote a stronger economic
recovery with stable prices.3  The second type of nontraditional policy tool employed by the
FOMC is large-scale purchases of longer-term securities, which,
like our forward guidance, are intended to support economic
growth by putting downward pressure on longer-term interest
rates. The Federal Reserve has engaged in several rounds of such
purchases since late 2008. Last September the FOMC announced that
it would purchase agency mortgage-backed securities at a pace of
$40 billion per month, and in December the Committee stated that,
in addition, beginning in January it would purchase longer-term
Treasury securities at an initial pace of $45 billion per month.4
These additional purchases of longer-term Treasury securities
replace the purchases we were conducting under our now-completed
maturity extension program, which lengthened the maturity of our
securities portfolio without increasing its size. The FOMC has
indicated that it will continue purchases until it observes a
substantial improvement in the outlook for the labor market in a
context of price stability.  The Committee also stated that in determining the size, pace, and
composition of its asset purchases, it will take appropriate
account of their likely efficacy and costs. In other words, as
with all of its policy decisions, the Committee continues to
assess its program of asset purchases within a cost-benefit
framework. In the current economic environment, the benefits of
asset purchases, and of policy accommodation more generally, are
clear: Monetary policy is providing important support to the
recovery while keeping inflation close to the FOMC’s 2 percent
objective. Notably, keeping longer-term interest rates low has
helped spark recovery in the housing market and led to increased
sales and production of automobiles and other durable goods. By
raising employment and household wealth--for example, through
higher home prices--these developments have in turn supported
consumer sentiment and spending.  Highly accommodative monetary policy also has several potential
costs and risks, which the Committee is monitoring closely. For
example, if further expansion of the Federal Reserve’s balance
sheet were to undermine public confidence in our ability to exit
smoothly from our accommodative policies at the appropriate time,
inflation expectations could rise, putting the FOMC’s price-
stability objective at risk. However, the Committee remains
confident that it has the tools necessary to tighten monetary
policy when the time comes to do so. As I noted, inflation is
currently subdued, and inflation expectations appear well
anchored; neither the FOMC nor private forecasters are projecting
the development of significant inflation pressures.  Another potential cost that the Committee takes very seriously is
the possibility that very low interest rates, if maintained for a
considerable time, could impair financial stability. For example,
portfolio managers dissatisfied with low returns may “reach for
yield” by taking on more credit risk, duration risk, or leverage.
On the other hand, some risk-taking--such as when an entrepreneur
takes out a loan to start a new business or an existing firm
expands capacity--is a necessary element of a healthy economic
recovery. Moreover, although accommodative monetary policies may
increase certain types of risk-taking, in the present
circumstances they also serve in some ways to reduce risk in the
system, most importantly by strengthening the overall economy,
but also by encouraging firms to rely more on longer-term
funding, and by reducing debt service costs for households and
businesses. In any case, the Federal Reserve is responding
actively to financial stability concerns through substantially
expanded monitoring of emerging risks in the financial system, an
approach to the supervision of financial firms that takes a more
systemic perspective, and the ongoing implementation of reforms
to make the financial system more transparent and resilient.
Although a long period of low rates could encourage excessive
risk-taking, and continued close attention to such developments
is certainly warranted, to this point we do not see the potential
costs of the increased risk-taking in some financial markets as
outweighing the benefits of promoting a stronger economic
recovery and more-rapid job creation.5  Another aspect of the Federal Reserve’s policies that has been
discussed is their implications for the  federal budget . The
Federal Reserve earns substantial interest on the assets it holds
in its portfolio, and, other than the amount needed to fund our
cost of operations, all net income is remitted to the Treasury.
With the expansion of the Federal Reserve’s balance sheet, yearly
remittances have roughly tripled in recent years, with payments
to the Treasury totaling approximately $290 billion between 2009
and 2012.6 However, if the economy continues to strengthen, as we
anticipate, and policy accommodation is accordingly reduced,
these remittances would likely decline in coming years. Federal
Reserve analysis shows that remittances to the Treasury could be
quite low for a time in some scenarios, particularly if interest
rates were to rise quickly.7 However, even in such scenarios, it
is highly likely that average annual remittances over the period
affected by the Federal Reserve’s purchases will remain higher
than the pre-crisis norm, perhaps substantially so. Moreover, to
the extent that monetary policy promotes growth and job creation,
the resulting reduction in the federal deficit would dwarf any
variation in the Federal Reserve’s remittances to the Treasury.  Thoughts on Fiscal Policy
Although monetary policy is working to promote a more robust
recovery, it cannot carry the entire burden of ensuring a
speedier return to economic health. The economy’s performance
both over the near term and in the longer run will depend
importantly on the course of fiscal policy. The challenge for the
Congress and the Administration is to put the federal budget on a
sustainable long-run path that promotes economic growth and
stability without unnecessarily impeding the current recovery.  Significant progress has been made recently toward reducing the
federal budget deficit over the next few years. The projections
released earlier this month by the Congressional Budget Office
(CBO) indicate that, under current law, the federal deficit will
narrow from 7 percent of GDP last year to 2-1/2 percent in fiscal
year 2015.8 As a result, the federal debt held by the public
(including that held by the Federal Reserve) is projected to
remain roughly 75 percent of GDP through much of the current
decade.  However, a substantial portion of the recent progress in lowering
the deficit has been concentrated in near-term budget changes,
which, taken together, could create a significant headwind for
the economic recovery. The CBO estimates that deficit-reduction
policies in current law will slow the pace of real GDP growth by
about 1-1/2 percentage points this year, relative to what it
would have been otherwise. A significant portion of this effect
is related to the automatic spending sequestration that is
scheduled to begin on March 1, which, according to the CBO’s
estimates, will contribute about 0.6 percentage point to the
fiscal drag on economic growth this year. Given the still-
moderate underlying pace of economic growth, this additional
near-term burden on the recovery is significant. Moreover,
besides having adverse effects on jobs and incomes, a slower
recovery would lead to less actual deficit reduction in the short
run for any given set of fiscal actions.  At the same time, and despite progress in reducing near-term
budget deficits, the difficult process of addressing longer-term
fiscal imbalances has only begun. Indeed, the CBO projects that
the federal deficit and debt as a percentage of GDP will begin
rising again in the latter part of this decade, reflecting in
large part the aging of the population and fast-rising health-
care costs. To promote economic growth in the longer term, and to
preserve economic and financial stability, fiscal policymakers
will have to put the federal budget on a sustainable long-run
path that first stabilizes the ratio of federal debt to GDP and,
given the current elevated level of debt, eventually places that
ratio on a downward trajectory. Between 1960 and the onset of the
financial crisis, federal debt averaged less than 40 percent of
GDP. This relatively low level of debt provided the nation much-
needed flexibility to meet the economic challenges of the past
few years. Replenishing this fiscal capacity will give future
Congresses and Administrations greater scope to deal with
unforeseen events.  To address both the near- and longer-term issues, the Congress
and the Administration should consider replacing the sharp,
frontloaded spending cuts required by the sequestration with
policies that reduce the federal deficit more gradually in the
near term but more substantially in the longer run. Such an
approach could lessen the near-term fiscal headwinds facing the
recovery while more effectively addressing the longer-term
imbalances in the federal budget.  The sizes of deficits and debt matter, of course, but not all tax
and spending programs are created equal with respect to their
effects on the economy. To the greatest extent possible, in their
efforts to achieve sound public finances, fiscal policymakers
should not lose sight of the need for federal tax and spending
policies that increase incentives to work and save, encourage
investments in workforce skills, advance private capital
formation, promote research and development, and provide
necessary and productive public infrastructure. Although economic
growth alone cannot eliminate federal budget imbalances, in
either the short or longer term, a more rapidly expanding
economic pie will ease the difficult choices we face.  -----------------------------------------------------------------
---------------  1. Data for the fourth quarter of 2012 from the national income
and product accounts reflect the advance estimate released on
January 30, 2013. Return to text  2. See Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (2012),
“Federal Reserve Issues FOMC Statement,” press release, December
12. Return to text  3. The numerical values for unemployment and inflation included
in the guidance are thresholds, not triggers; that is, depending
on economic circumstances at the time, the Committee may judge
that it is not appropriate to begin raising its target for the
federal funds rate as soon as one or both of the thresholds is
reached. The 6-1/2 percent threshold for the unemployment rate
should not be interpreted as the Committee’s longer-term
objective for unemployment; because monetary policy affects the
economy with a lag, the first increase in the target for the
funds rate will likely have to occur when the unemployment rate
is still above its longer-run normal level. Likewise, the
Committee has not altered its longer-run goal for inflation of 2
percent, and it neither seeks nor expects a persistent increase
in inflation above that target. Return to text  4. See Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (2012),
“Federal Reserve Issues FOMC Statement,” press release, September
13; and Board of Governors, “FOMC Statement,” December 12, in
note 2. Return to text  5. The Federal Reserve is also monitoring financial markets to
ensure that asset purchases do not impair their functioning.
Return to text  6. See Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (2013),
“Reserve Bank Income and Expense Data and Transfers to the
Treasury for 2012,” press release, January 10. Return to text  7. See Carpenter, Seth B., Jane E. Ihrig, Elizabeth C. Klee,
Daniel W. Quinn, and Alexander H. Boote (2013), “The Federal
Reserve’s Balance Sheet and Earnings: A Primer and Projections
(PDF),” Finance and Economics Discussion Series 2013-01
( Washington : Federal Reserve Board, January). Return to text  8. See Congressional Budget Office (2013), The Budget and
Economic Outlook: Fiscal Years 2013 to 2023 (Washington: CBO,
February). Return to text  SOURCE: Federal Reserve  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Middleton in Washington at 
 cmiddleton2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  