-- Bernanke Defends Asset Buying as Benefits Outweigh Risks
-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s   a n d   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2013-02-26T19:48:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/bernanke-defends-asset-buying-as-benefits-outweigh-risks.html
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  defended the central bank’s unprecedented asset
purchases, saying they are supporting the expansion with little
risk of inflation or asset-price bubbles.  “We do not see the potential costs of the increased risk-
taking in some financial markets as outweighing the benefits of
promoting a stronger economic recovery,” Bernanke said today in
testimony to the Senate Banking Committee in  Washington .
“Inflation is currently subdued, and inflation expectations
appear well anchored.”  Bernanke used his testimony to push back against colleagues
on the  Federal Open Market Committee  who favor curtailing the
$85 billion in monthly bond-buying amid concern about the growth
of the Fed’s record $3.1 trillion balance sheet. He also
differed with senators who said the central bank was engaged in
a “currency war” and said he continues to work on ensuring
that even the largest financial institutions don’t get special
status as being too big to fail.  “He pretty much had a checklist of all the new arguments
about the efficacy of low rates and risks of QE,” said  Chris Rupkey , chief financial economist at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi
UFJ Ltd. in  New York . “And he checked them all off: these are
not the concerns that you think they are.”  Most U.S. stocks gained, following yesterday’s slump that
was the biggest since November for benchmark indexes, amid
 housing  and  consumer confidence  data that was better than
economists had forecast. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index climbed
0.3 percent to 1,492.14 at 1:28 p.m. in New York after rising as
much as 0.7 percent. The yield on the 10-year Treasury note was
little changed at 1.86 percent.  Too Big  Bernanke faced bipartisan questioning on the central bank’s
efforts to remove the impression that some banks are too big to
fail. Senators  Elizabeth Warren , a Massachusetts Democrat, and
 David Vitter , a Republican from  Louisiana , pressed him to do
more.  Warren asked Bernanke: “We’ve now understood this problem
for nearly five years, so when are we going to get rid of too
big to fail?”  Bernanke said that the Fed is putting “a lot of effort
into this” and that “as somebody who has spent a lot of late
nights trying to deal with these problems during the crisis, I
would very much like to have the confidence that we could close
down a large institution without causing damage to the rest of
the economy.”  Currency War  Bernanke also denied that the Fed was engaging in a
currency war, a term used to refer to competitive devaluations,
through its asset purchase programs. That was in response to
Senator  Bob Corker , a Tennessee Republican, who opened his
questions by asking “when the Fed decided it was going to
stimulate a global currency war as it did, did you -- did you
embark on that thinking, well you know, our country’s in trouble
and let’s -- sort of the heck with everybody else?”  Corker also said that “I don’t think there’s any question
that you would be the biggest dove, if you will, since World War
II,” Corker said, using the term for Fed officials who favor
easy policy.  Bernanke responded “well maybe in some respects I am, but
on the other hand my inflation record is the best of any  Federal
Reserve  chairman in the postwar period -- at least one of the
best, about 2 percent average inflation.”  The 59-year-old Fed chairman also used his appearance
before Congress to caution lawmakers that automatic  federal
budget  cuts set to begin March 1 will put a “significant”
burden on the economy if lawmakers can’t avert the reductions.
He also urged them to put the budget on a “sustainable long-run
path.”  Fiscal Cliff  A year after first using the term “fiscal cliff” to warn
of the cost of immediate spending cuts, Bernanke returned to
Congress with three days remaining to avert $1.2 trillion of
across-the-board cuts over nine years that take effect unless
lawmakers and President  Barack Obama  agree on an alternative.  CBO Director Doug Elmendorf told lawmakers at a hearing
earlier this month that his nonpartisan agency estimates the
cuts would reduce annual gross domestic product growth by 0.6
percentage point this year, enough to eliminate 750,000 jobs.  Citing that estimate, Bernanke said, “given the still-
moderate underlying pace of economic growth, this additional
near-term burden on the recovery is significant. Besides having
adverse effects on jobs and incomes, a slower recovery would
lead to less actual deficit reduction in the short run.”  Automatic Cuts  Congress agreed to the reductions as part of a deal to
increase the U.S. debt limit. The spending cuts would be split
almost evenly between defense and non-defense.  The reductions would cost the U.S. hundreds of thousands of
jobs and hamper military readiness, Obama said at a Feb. 19
press conference in which he urged lawmakers to at least approve
a temporary package that buys more time for negotiation.  The Fed chief said in his testimony that the FOMC was
evaluating the benefit of its policy in creating jobs against
potential risks such as complicating their efforts to eventually
return their policy to normal, causing financial instability by
spurring asset bubbles, and increasing the risk that the Fed
loses money on its operations.  Bernanke said that a “potential cost” of Fed policies
that central bankers take “very seriously” is the
“possibility that very low  interest rates , if maintained for a
considerable time, could impair financial stability.”  Financial Instability  Policy makers have publicly debated the risk of financial
instability, with Fed Governor  Jeremy Stein  saying earlier this
month that some credit markets, including leveraged loans and
 junk bonds , show signs of potentially excessive risk-taking.
Kansas City Fed President Esther George has warned of risks from
farmland prices at “historically high levels.”  Bernanke said that while the Fed’s policy “may increase
certain types of risk-taking, in the present circumstances they
also serve in some ways to reduce risk in the system, most
importantly by strengthening the overall economy.”  The Fed chief also dismissed concerns that the central
bank’s remittances to the Treasury could decline in the future
once interest rates rise. After the Fed returned a record $88.9
billion to the Treasury in 2012, recent research from the
central bank has shown that those payments to taxpayers could
disappear for as long as six years.  “To the extent that monetary policy promotes growth and
job creation, the resulting reduction in the federal deficit
would dwarf any variation in the Federal Reserve’s remittances
to the Treasury,” he said.  Labor Market  Bernanke has held  interest rates  close to zero since
December 2008 and pledged to continue buying bonds until the
labor market improves “substantially.”  Unemployment rose to  7.9 percent  in January and will
probably remain at the same level this month, according to the
median of 14 economist estimates in a Bloomberg survey. The rate
has fluctuated between 7.8 percent and 7.9 percent since
September.  Economists expect U.S. growth will slow to 1.8 percent this
year from 2.2 percent last year, according to the median of 76
forecasts in a Bloomberg survey. The world’s largest economy
unexpectedly shrank 0.1 percent in the fourth quarter for the
worst performance since the second quarter of 2009, partly
because of a 22.2 percent slump in  defense spending . The
expansion will accelerate next year to 2.7 percent, according to
the projections.  Growth Resuming  “The pause in real GDP growth last quarter does not appear
to reflect a stalling-out of the recovery,” Bernanke said
today. “Available information suggests that economic growth has
picked up again this year.”  The Fed’s asset purchases are helping to maintain gains in
the stock market. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rallied  13
percent (SPX)  last year and has climbed another  4.3 percent  this year
through yesterday, with  nine of 10  industry groups gaining. The
yield on the 10-year Treasury note climbed to 1.86 percent
yesterday from a record low of 1.39 percent on July 24.  Bernanke said U.S. stock prices don’t appear to be
overvalued.  “The so-called equity premium associated with stock prices
is quite wide,” Bernanke said in response to a question. So, by
that measure stocks “don’t appear overvalued given earnings and
interest rates.”  -- With assistance from Aki Ito in  San Francisco  and Craig
Torres in Washington. Editors: Mark Rohner, Kevin Costelloe  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Kearns in Washington at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net ;
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  