-- Best Buy Eliminates 400 Jobs in Cost Reduction Plan
-- B y   C h r i s   B u r r i t t
-- 2013-02-26T21:31:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/best-buy-eliminates-400-jobs-in-cost-reduction-plan.html
Best Buy Co. (BBY) , the world’s biggest
consumer-electronics retailer, cut 400 jobs at its headquarters
as Chief Executive Officer Hubert Joly works to reduce costs.  The cuts and other actions will eliminate about $150
million in selling, general and administrative expenses, the
Richfield, Minnesota-based company said today in an e-mailed
statement. Best Buy, which wouldn’t disclose how many people
work at its headquarters, employs about 8,000 in  Minnesota ,
including in stores, and more than 160,000 globally.  Joly, who took charge in September, is working on a plan
announced last year to reduce costs by $750 million as the
retailer competes with  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  and Wal-Mart Stores Inc.
The job cuts come three days before Best Buy reports fiscal
fourth-quarter results that will show whether holiday discounts
and a policy matching competitors’ prices hurt profit.  “If you price-match and discount, you either cut expenses
by an equal amount or end up producing lower returns,”  Erik Gordon , a business and law professor at the  University of
Michigan  in  Ann Arbor , said yesterday by e-mail.  Best Buy slipped 3.2 percent to $16.46 at the close in  New
York . The  shares  have climbed 39 percent this year after sinking
49 percent in 2012.  The cost reductions also come two days before the deadline
for founder and former Chairman Richard Schulze to make an offer
for the retailer.  Earnings Delayed  Best Buy said today it postponed its earnings release to
March 1 from Feb. 28 to see whether Schulze makes a bid. Best
Buy “wants to allow for the expiration of the period of time
that Schulze has to respond to the company,” Jeffrey Shelman, a
company spokesman, said today by telephone.  Schulze proposed a buyout of $24 to $26 a share in August,
about two months after resigning. He stepped down after a probe
found he had failed to inform directors about allegations former
Chief Executive Officer  Brian Dunn  was having an inappropriate
relationship with a female employee.  Schulze has worked with three private-equity firms --
Cerberus Capital Management LP, TPG Capital and Leonard Green &
Partners LP -- to arrange financing, people familiar with the
matter have said. In December, the company extended the period
for him to conduct due diligence through Feb. 28.  Best Buy shares sank as low as $11.20 in December and then
recovered after Joly stabilized holiday sales with discounts and
price-matching. He’s closing big-box stores, expanding smaller
outlets that sell mobile phones and spending to improve e-
commerce operations to compete with Amazon.  Sales Stabilize  Sales at U.S. stores open at least 14 months were little
changed in the nine weeks ended Jan. 5, Best Buy said last
month. Global comparable-store sales fell 1.4 percent, less than
the 2 percent decline projected by analysts Mike Baker at
Deutsche Bank AG and Scott Tilghman of B. Riley & Co.  Best Buy will extend its holiday price-matching policy to
get shoppers to stop using its stores for scouting products they
later buy online elsewhere.  The year-round policy, designed to end the practice known
as “showrooming,” takes effect March 3, Matt Furman, a Best
Buy spokesman, said in a telephone interview earlier this month.
The retailer also will reduce its merchandise return policy to
15 days from 30 days, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Burritt in Greensboro at 
 cburritt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  