-- Biggest Fund Sees Economy Reigniting China Stock Advance
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-02-27T08:45:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/biggest-fund-sees-economy-reigniting-china-stock-advance.html
Chinese stocks will resume this
year’s rally as the government works to shore up the nation’s
economic recovery, according to China Asset Management Co., the
biggest  fund manager .  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  dropped 1.4 percent yesterday,
extending its February drop to 3.9 percent, after back-to-back
gains in January and December. China’s new leaders are mulling
plans to revamp the central government this week to bolster the
economy as it emerges from a seven-quarter slowdown, the
official Xinhua News Agency reported Feb. 23. Communist Party
chief  Xi Jinping  is projected to become president during the
broadest reshuffle in five years at the National People’s
Congress starting March 5.  Gains this year in Chinese A shares, stock traded in
 Shanghai  and the southern city of Shenzhen, “didn’t fully
reflect the gradual economic recovery this year,” David Lai, a
portfolio manager at the Hong Kong unit of China Asset
Management, said by phone Feb. 25. “More projects or plans will
be rolled out to support short-term growth after the government
reshuffle next month.”  China Asset Management is the country’s biggest fund
manager with 246 billion  yuan  ($39 billion) of assets, according
to fund tracker Howbuy. Lai manages the ChinaAMC CSI 300 Index
ETF, a Hong Kong-listed exchange-traded fund that tracks the 300
biggest publicly traded companies in Shanghai and Shenzhen.  Economic Rebound  The ETF has returned 1.8 percent in 2013, compared with a
5.8 percent decline in the  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund , the
largest Chinese ETF in the U.S. The  Shanghai A-Share Stock Price
Index (SHASHR)  has returned 1.9 percent, while the  Shenzhen A-Share Stock
Price Index (SZASHR)  gained 7.3 percent. The Shanghai Composite rose 0.9
percent at the close today, adding to an 18 percent gain since
Dec. 3.  China’s economy , the world’s second largest, grew 7.8
percent last year, the least since 1999. Economic growth
accelerated for the first quarter since 2009 in the three months
to Dec. 31. The Shanghai Composite is up 1.9 percent this year,
after surging 20 percent in December and January. The gauge
added 3.2 percent in 2012, the smallest advance of benchmark
indexes in the biggest  emerging markets .  Gross domestic product will rise about 8 percent this year
as policy makers work to support private enterprise by opening
up highly regulated industries including telecommunications and
railways, Lai said. Inflation and rising property prices pose
the biggest risk to stocks this year, he said.  Expectations ’High’  Investors in Chinese stock markets are too bullish given
the prospect for policy disappointment at this year’s National
People’s Congress and the rally for equities since the end of
last year has run its course, Hao Hong, head of China research
at Bank of Communications Co. in Hong Kong, wrote in a note.  The focus at the NPC will be on the leadership transition
and not on fundamental reforms, Hong said. China is still early
in the economic recovery cycle and the stock rally may have been
a “little long in its tooth,” he wrote in a note today.  Premier  Wen Jiabao  called for home-purchase restrictions in
cities with “excessively fast” price gains last week, as
government data released Feb. 22 showed new  home prices  climbed
in January in 53 of the 70 tracked cities. The government may
tighten monetary policy because of excess cash on the market and
the situation with property prices, China Securities Journal
reported in a front-page commentary Feb. 26.  “I don’t expect the government to be forced to do any
drastic change in the short term,” Lai said. The Chinese
economy “seems that it’s still well on track,” he said.  The ChinaAMC CSI 300 Index ETF-JDR, tracking the CSI 300
Index, and the CSOP FTSE China A50 ETF, which tracks 50 largest
companies listed in Shanghai, will begin trading in  Tokyo  today.
They are the first RQFII A-share ETFs to list in Japan and the
first-ever foreign ETFs. The RQFII program allows offshore yuan
in  Hong Kong  to be invested in mainland Chinese stocks and
bonds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zhang Shidong in Shanghai at 
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  