-- Blinder Says Fed Can’t Predict Bubbles as No Strategy Risk-Free
-- B y   J e a n n a   S m i a l e k
-- 2013-02-26T22:32:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/blinder-says-fed-can-t-predict-bubbles-as-no-strategy-risk-free.html
Former Federal Reserve Vice Chairman
 Alan Blinder  said the central bank cannot accurately predict
asset-price bubbles, and that no risk-free strategy exists as
policy makers try to boost employment and the economy.  “It’s not just the Fed that’s not good at calling peaks of
asset bubbles, nobody is any good at it,” Blinder said on
Bloomberg Television’s “Market Makers” with  Erik Schatzker  and
Stephanie Ruhle today.  Blinder spoke before Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  told a Senate
committee in Washington the Fed was evaluating the benefit of
its policy in creating jobs against possible risks such as
spurring asset bubbles. Bernanke said a “potential cost” of
Fed policies that central bankers take “very seriously” is the
possibility that very low interest rates, if maintained for a
considerable time, could impair financial stability.  “What’s the other risk? The Fed gives up and just leaves
the  unemployment rate  at around 8 percent, and he doesn’t want
to see that,” Blinder, 67, said of Bernanke during the
Bloomberg Television interview. “There is no risk-less strategy
for the  Federal Reserve  to pursue.”  The Fed said in December 2012 that it would buy assets at a
pace of $85 billion a month. The Federal Open Market Committee
hasn’t specified an end date for the bond purchases, saying they
will continue until the labor market improves ’’substantially.’’  Interest Rates  The FOMC has pledged to keep the main  interest rate  near
zero as long as joblessness is above 6.5 percent and inflation
is projected to be no more than 2.5 percent.  Minutes from the FOMC’s January meeting, released Feb. 20,
showed several officials favored varying the pace of bond
purchases, raising concerns that the bank will scale back its
bond-buying program.  Fed staff members are probably “behind the scenes”
planning an exit strategy, Blinder said. He said he thinks
Bernanke has a broad idea of what will happen with the exit.  Blinder, an economics professor at Princeton University,
served as Fed vice chairman from 1994 until 1996. He advised
Democratic presidential nominee  John Kerry  during the 2004
election campaign.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanna Smialek in Washington at 
 jsmialek1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kevin Costelloe in Washington at 
 kcostelloe@bloomberg.net  