-- Bobby Valentine Named Sacred Heart University Athletic Director
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2013-02-26T14:39:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/bobby-valentine-named-sacred-heart-university-athletic-director.html
Bobby Valentine  was named athletic
director at Sacred Heart University, the latest stop in a career
that has included managing baseball teams in the U.S. and Japan,
running  restaurants  and overseeing his hometown’s police force.  Valentine, who was fired after one season by the  Boston Red
Sox  in October after leading the team to its worst record since
1965, was introduced by Fairfield, Connecticut-based Sacred
Heart today.  He succeeds Don Cook, who is retiring as head of the
school’s National Collegiate Athletic Association Division I
department with  31 varsity teams . Valentine never has worked in
college sports administration.  “We recognize that Bobby is an out-of-the-box selection,
but we believe his entrepreneurial spirit, extensive sports
background and love of athletics make him an ideal choice,”
Sacred Heart President John J. Petillo said in  a statement . “He
is a native son with strong name recognition, and his selection
demonstrates Sacred Heart’s commitment to its athletic program
and to innovation and excellence throughout the university.”  Valentine is a native of Stamford, Connecticut, which is
about 20 miles from Fairfield. The 62-year-old has a sports bar
in Stamford, where he was born, and was the town’s  public safety
director  before taking the Red Sox’s job.  The Red Sox posted a 69-93 record under Valentine, who
managed the  New York  Mets from 1996 to 2002 and the Texas
Rangers from 1985 to 1992. The Mets won the National League
title in 2000 before losing the  World Series  to the  New York
Yankees .  Valentine also managed in Japan and has been a television
analyst for ESPN.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  