-- Tucker Says He’s Open to QE as BOE Stresses Flexibility: Economy
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l   a n d   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2013-02-26T15:46:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/boe-s-tucker-says-he-s-open-to-expanding-asset-purchase-program.html
Bank of England Deputy Governor Paul Tucker said he’s open to adding to asset purchases as policy
makers stressed the central bank has the flexibility to expand
stimulus if needed.  Tucker was testifying alongside policy makers  David Miles ,
Charlie Bean and  Ian McCafferty  at a Parliament hearing in
 London  today on the BOE’s latest quarterly forecasts. The BOE
has said it will “look through” a period of above-target
inflation to keep nurturing growth, which Bean said “made
sense” in the current environment. Tucker also raised the
prospect of negative interest rates at the hearing.  Tucker’s comments signal a potential willingness to join
Governor Mervyn King,  Paul Fisher  and Miles, who were defeated
in a push for more bond purchases at the Monetary Policy
Committee meeting this month. With incoming Governor  Mark Carney 
having sparked a debate on how far central banks should go to
help economies, Tucker said  quantitative easing  wasn’t
necessarily at an end and that the MPC hadn’t dismissed other
stimulus measures.  “Nobody on this committee thinks that QE has reached the
end of the road and that it’s not a useful instrument any
more,” Tucker said.  In a  written testimony  published today, he said the
existing 375 billion pounds ($568 billion) of asset purchases by
the BOE “is likely to gain more traction on spending than it
had last autumn, given reduced tail risks from the international
environment.”  “I remain open to doing more QE depending on the outlook
for demand and  inflation ,” Tucker said.  ‘Major Threat’  Tucker also told lawmakers that while the risk from the
euro area had receded, it remains “a major threat.” McCafferty
echoed the remarks, saying while the worst of the debt-crisis
tensions have eased, the region is still facing risks.  Concerns over  Europe ’s crisis were triggered afresh this
week after election results in  Italy  proved inconclusive,
marking a rejection of austerity measures and creating a
potential political vacuum of at least a month. Italian bonds
and stocks tumbled.  U.K. government bonds rose today as the Italian election
boosted demand for the relative safety of British sovereign
debt. The yield on the 10-year gilt dropped eight basis points
to 2 percent as of 3:41 p.m. London time. The pound weakened 0.1
percent versus the euro.  Negative Rates  Asked about other possible stimulus measures, Tucker said
he has raised the idea of negative  interest rates  at MPC
meetings. Officials have previously discussed the possibility of
cutting their  benchmark rate  from a record-low 0.5 percent,
though they have said such a move has drawbacks.  “We’ll continue thinking about” policy options, Tucker
said. “I hope we will think about whether there are constraints
to setting negative interest rates. This is an idea that I have
raised. This would be an extraordinary thing to do and it needs
to be thought through very carefully.”  The MPC is maintaining stimulus to help the U.K. economy
recover from a  recession  at a time when inflation is above the 2
percent target and forecast to remain there for another two
years. Tucker, echoing King’s words at the Inflation Report
press conference earlier this month, said policy makers should
look through the period of elevated inflation.  “It is consistent with the MPC’s remit to look through a
period of above-target inflation, so as to avoid derailing the
recovery, provided that medium-term inflation expectations are
anchored,” he said in his written testimony.  GDP Data  A report today showed an index of U.K.  retail sales  fell
more than economists forecast to a five-month low in February.
The statistics office will publish its second estimate of
fourth-quarter gross domestic product tomorrow, including data
on exports,  consumer spending  and  government spending .  While  U.K. consumer-price growth  was at 2.7 percent in
January, Bean said this was partly due to administered prices.  “Some of the cost shocks we’re being subjected to -- in
the area of regulated prices and education -- will take longer
to pass through, so it makes sense to talk about getting
inflation back to take longer,” Bean said.  McCafferty also supported the idea of looking through the
surge in price growth, saying that the central bank has had to
exercise flexible inflation targeting over the past few years.  “We have to deliver over the medium term a low and stable
inflation rate, but at the same time a stable growth picture,”
he said.  U.K. Downgrade  The lack of economic growth in Britain has undermined
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne ’s deficit-reduction
plans. Moody’s Investors Service stripped the U.K. of its top
 credit rating  on Feb. 22, citing the “continuing weakness” of
the economy and its implications on fiscal consolidation.  Bean said that investors were expecting a downgrade and
“possibly other rating agencies may follow suit.” Still, he
said it reflects the economic backdrop and doesn’t “in and of
itself add anything new.”  In the U.S. later today, Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  will deliver his semiannual testimony on monetary
policy to the Senate Banking Committee in  Washington . Also in
the U.S., the New York-based Conference Board will probably say
its sentiment index rose to 62 this month from 58.6 in January,
according to a survey of economists.  Elsewhere in Europe,  Finland’s jobless rate  rose to 8.7
percent in January from 6.9 percent in December and  Hungary ’s
November-January rate increased to 11.2 percent from October-
December’s 10.7 percent. Singapore’s industrial production
unexpectedly declined in January as demand for electronics and
pharmaceuticals faltered.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Svenja O’Donnell in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  