-- BOE’s Fisher Sees Need for a Longer Run of QE at Slower Pace
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l   a n d   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2013-02-27T08:06:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/boe-s-fisher-sees-need-for-a-longer-run-of-qe-at-slower-pace.html
Bank of England policy maker Paul Fisher said he favors a more prolonged period of asset purchases
at a slower pace in a program that would be guided by the
economic outlook.  Explaining his decision to vote for 25 billion pounds ($38
billion) of additional  quantitative easing  this month, Fisher
said in a speech that the Monetary Policy Committee should
consider more bond buying “under a slightly different dynamic
approach.”  “This could be the first instalment of a more prolonged
run of purchases at a somewhat slower pace than previously, and
with a relatively modest addition to the total by the end,” he
said yesterday in London. “If we were to do that, then it would
be straightforward to accelerate or to stop purchases as the
economic outlook developed and the risks became clearer.”  Fisher, with David Miles and Governor Mervyn King, was
defeated in a push for more QE this month as the MPC discussed a
range of measures to nurture a recovery. Fisher’s proposal for
more prolonged bond buying tied to the economic outlook echoes
the Federal Reserve’s policy of linking stimulus to thresholds
such as labor-market developments, and comes amid a debate on
tools sparked by Bank of Canada Governor Mark Carney.  ‘Gradually Supportive’  “It is sustained momentum that the economy needs now
rather than emergency action,” Fisher said.  The economy is flat, not contracting, meaning the risk of
deflation is “considerably reduced,” he said. “A slower, more
gradually supportive policy might be more appropriate and less
risky to nurse the economy through the next phase of recovery.”  The pound fell 0.15 percent against the dollar from
yesterday and traded at $1.5103 at 7:51 a.m. in London.  With Carney -- who will succeed King in July -- having
signaled support for the BOE using greater forward guidance as a
tool, Fisher said this is a “very live” debate. He added that
the BOE already does this, noting its decision to “look
through”  above-target inflation  to aid the economy.  “In the U.K., market expectations are already consistent
with monetary policy remaining very supportive for some time to
come,” he said. “Yet there is still a debate about whether the
MPC should give more ‘forward guidance.’ In practice we have
being doing this through the Inflation Report. The most recent
edition makes it clear that we do not see much pressure arising
from domestically generated inflation.”  ‘Something Afoot’  Fisher’s comments came hours after BOE officials testified
at a Parliament hearing in London on the economic outlook. At
the hearing, Deputy Governor Paul Tucker said he has raised the
topic of negative interest rates at MPC meetings.  Simon Hayes, an economist at Barclays Plc in London, said
while he has “reservations” about MPC momentum toward open-
ended QE, there is “little doubt that something is afoot.”  “Whether it is the imminent arrival of Mr. Carney, or
simply frustration with the pace of recovery, the MPC is
thinking hard,” Hayes said. “It may take some time for a
consensus to materialise around what measures might prove most
effective. However, a policy of do-nothing seems like an
increasingly undesirable and unlikely outcome.”  The MPC’s discussion on measures comes as the economy
struggles to recover.  Gross domestic product  probably fell 0.3
percent in the fourth quarter, economists said before a report
due at 9:30 today. The second estimate of GDP will include data
on consumer spending, government spending and exports for the
period.  Credit Plan  Fisher, who is markets director at the BOE, also said
yesterday that while the central bank’s Funding for Lending
Scheme has been “remarkably successful” in reducing bank
funding costs, the impact on loan rates for customers has been
slower.  “We do need to keep the pressure on the banks individually
and collectively to make sure that they continue to pass through
lower funding costs and are lending where they can,” he said.
The BOE “has made the funds available to support lending to
U.K. households and businesses, it is up to the banks to
deliver.”  The impact of the FLS on credit growth is the “most
uncertain leg,” according to Fisher, who said he “would not
expect to see a return to rising aggregate quantities until we
start getting data for 2013 at the earliest.”  “Nevertheless, it does seem that we have the beginnings of
a revival in mortgage activity,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Svenja O’Donnell in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  