-- Bovespa Stock Index Rises as Gerdau Rallies on Metal Price Gain
-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i   a n d   D e n y s e   G o d o y
-- 2013-02-26T21:30:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/bovespa-falls-as-mmx-leads-producers-lower-on-global-growth-view.html
The Bovespa index climbed to a one-
week high as  Gerdau SA (GGBR4)  led a rally in Brazilian steelmakers
spurred by speculation that a surge in U.S. home sales will
bolster demand for metals.  Cia. Siderurgica Nacional SA (CSNA3)  rose for a second day. Iron-
ore producer  Vale SA (VALE3)  contributed the most to the benchmark’s
gain. Coal producer  CCX Carvao da Colombia SA  rallied as
controlling shareholder  Eike Batista  filed a request with
regulators to buy outstanding shares and delist the stock.
 Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4)  sank after Grupo BTG Pactual cut its
recommendation to hold.  The Bovespa added 0.6 percent to 56,948.87 at the close of
trading in Sao Paulo. Forty-five stocks advanced on the gauge
while 23 fell. The Bloomberg Base Metals 3-Month Price Commodity
Index rose 0.2 percent after a Commerce Department report showed
U.S. home sales soared 15.6 percent in January, exceeding the
highest estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  “There are signs that things are getting better in the
U.S., and that helps to push the Bovespa a bit higher,”  Alvaro Bandeira , a partner at Orama Asset Management, said by phone
from Rio de Janeiro.  Gerdau advanced 3.3 percent to 16.80 reais. CSN, as Cia.
Siderurgica is known, climbed 2.1 percent to 10 reais. Vale rose
2.5 percent to 35.15 reais.  CCX added 2.3 percent to 4.01 reais.  Petrobras, as state-controlled Petroleo Brasileiro is also
known, slid 1.2 percent to 16.74 reais.  Europe Concern  The Bovespa earlier dropped as much as 1 percent on concern
that Europe’s debt crisis will damp global growth after partial
election results in Italy indicated former Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  may have garnered enough support to deny victory to
Pier Luigi Bersani, who campaigned to maintain the austerity
program of outgoing Prime Minister  Mario Monti .  “Investors are concerned that these results may worsen
Italy’s situation,” Felipe Rocha, an analyst at brokerage Omar
Camargo, said by phone from Curitiba, Brazil.  Water utility  Cia. de Saneamento de Minas Gerais  rose 0.2
percent to 48.90 reais after reporting that profit beat
analysts’ estimates in the fourth quarter. Adjusted net income
jumped 20 percent to 124.8 million reais in the three months
through December, data compiled by Bloomberg show. That compares
with an average estimate of 108.6 million reais among six
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  The Bovespa has lost 10 percent from this year’s high on
Jan. 3 while the MSCI BRIC Index of shares in Brazil, Russia,
India and China slid 4.9 percent over the same period. Brazil’s
benchmark equity gauge trades at 11.2 times analysts’ earnings
estimates for the next four quarters, compared with 10.4 for the
MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index of 21 developing nations’ equities,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Trading volume for stocks in  Sao Paulo  was 8.24 billion
reais today, data compiled by Bloomberg show. That compares with
a daily average of 7.5 billion reais this year, according to
data compiled by the exchange.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ney Hayashi in Sao Paulo at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net ;
Denyse Godoy in Sao Paulo at 
 dgodoy2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  