-- Bovespa-Index Futures Fall as Commodities Slide on Euro Concern
-- B y   D e n y s e   G o d o y
-- 2013-02-26T12:23:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/bovespa-index-futures-fall-as-commodities-slide-on-euro-concern.html
Bovespa stock-index futures fell  as
commodities declined on concern  Italy ’s elections may reignite
Europe’s debt crisis, curbing global growth and demand for
Brazil’s exports.  State-controlled oil company  Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4) 
retreated in Frankfurt trading as oil reached a seven-week low
in New York. Water utility  Cia. de Saneamento de Minas Gerais 
may be active after reporting profit that beat estimates.  Bovespa-index  futures  slipped 0.4 percent to 56,520 at 9:08
a.m. in Sao Paulo. The real strengthened 0.1 percent to 1.9808
per dollar. The Standard & Poor’s GSCI index of 24 raw materials
fell 0.91 percent after partial election results in Italy
suggested former Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  may have
garnered enough support to deny victory to Pier Luigi Bersani,
who campaigned to maintain the austerity program of outgoing
Prime Minister  Mario Monti .  “Investors all over the world are concerned today about
the election in Italy as the results may affect the country’s
debt renegotiation, creating more instability in a region that’s
fighting to overcome a crisis,” Clodoir Vieira, an economist at
Sao Paulo-based brokerage Souza Barros Corretora, said in a
phone interview.  The Bovespa has lost 11 percent from this year’s peak on
Jan. 3 while the MSCI BRIC Index of shares in Brazil, Russia,
India and China slid 4.9 percent over the same period. Brazil’s
benchmark equity gauge trades at 11.1 times analysts’ earnings
estimates for the next four quarters, compared with 10.5 for the
MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index of 21 developing nations’ equities,
data compiled by Bloomberg shows.  Trading volume for stocks in  Sao Paulo  was 7.3 billion
reais yesterday, compared with a daily average of 7.5 billion
reais this year, according to data compiled by the exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Denyse Godoy in Sao Paulo at 
 dgodoy2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  