-- BP Profit Push ‘Root Cause’ of Gulf Spill, Witness Says
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y   a n d   A l l e n   J o h n s o n   J r .
-- 2013-02-28T05:15:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/bp-profit-push-root-cause-of-gulf-spill-witness-says.html
(Corrects Space Shuttle name in ninth paragraph of story
published Feb. 26.)  BP Plc (BP/) ’s push to maximize profits
and cut costs at the Macondo well was a “root cause” of the
explosion that led to the 2010 Gulf of Mexico oil spill, a
safety expert who studied the disaster said.  BP executives pressured supervisors of the Deepwater
Horizon rig to speed up drilling operations and hold down
expenses as part of a corporate culture that put profit ahead of
safety,  Robert Bea , a retired engineering professor from the
 University of California , told the judge today who is hearing
claims over the spill.  The Macondo well operators faced “intense pressure to save
time and money” and because of that, the company “made
sacrifices in safety,” Bea said. It was “tragic and
egregious” that BP didn’t implement its safety system on the
rig, he added.  U.S. District Judge  Carl Barbier  in  New Orleans  will decide
who is liable for damages tied to the largest offshore spill in
U.S. history and whether BP, Transocean or other companies that
worked on the project were grossly negligent in their handling
of the rig and well. His ruling on that issue will affect how
much each company may have to pay.  The April 20 explosion aboard the Deepwater Horizon
drilling rig killed 11 workers and sent more than 4 million
barrels of oil spewing into the Gulf. The accident sparked
hundreds of lawsuits against London-based BP, Vernier,
Switzerland-based  Transocean Ltd. (RIG) , owner of the rig, and
Houston-based  Halliburton Co. (HAL) , which handled cement work on the
well.  Negligence Finding  For BP, the well’s owner, a finding of gross negligence
would mean the  company  is liable to the U.S. for as much as
$17.6 billion in Clean Water Act fines, as well as unspecified
punitive damages to claimants who weren’t part of the $8.5
billion settlement the company reached last year. For Transocean
and Halliburton, a gross negligence finding would mean they
could be held liable for punitive damages.  Lawyers for the government and spill victims contend that
BP was overbudget and behind schedule for the Macondo well,
which was costing the  oil company  $1 million a day to operate,
and that prompted officials to cut corners and ignore safety
tests that showed the well was unstable. They also alleged
Halliburton’s cement job was defective and Transocean officials
disabled safety systems on the rig, failed to properly maintain
the platform and never adequately trained its well crew to
handle crisis situations.  Contractors Sued  BP sued its contractors, claiming Transocean employees’
miscues on the rig were the main cause of the explosion and that
Halliburton concealed flaws with cement work done on the
drilling line. Transocean and Halliburton pointed fingers back
at BP.  Bea, who has served as a BP consultant since 2001, was
hired by spill victims to investigate the causes of the
Deepwater Horizon disaster in April 2011. He’s recognized as an
expert in safety systems and has probe such high-profile
disasters as the Exxon Valdese  oil spill  in 1989 and the
Columbia Space Shuttle accident in 2003.  The professor’s review of the Macondo well explosion and
spill found BP’s failure to implement a comprehensive system to
insure its businesses operated safely led to the disaster. BP’s
culture rewarded operators who found and extracted oil quickly
and cheaply rather than supervisors who emphasized safe
production practices, Bea testified.  ‘Dollar Counts’  To maximize profits, BP adopted an “ Every Dollar Counts” 
culture that put cost cutting ahead of safety concerns, Bea
said. That manta extended to rigs such as the Deepwater Horizon,
he added.  On the drilling platform, BP managers’ cost cutting
included forgoing testing on the well’s cement work and dragging
their feet in creating systems to provide alerts if safety
equipment, such as the rig’s so-called “blowout preventer,”
wasn’t properly maintained, the professor said.  BP also failed to take many concrete steps to heed Bea’s
warnings that the company needed to beef up its “process safety
systems,” the professor said. Those warnings started in 2003,
he added.  BP officials acknowledged that the “largest risk to the
company” was an uncontrolled blowout on a deep-sea rig, Bea
added.  Management System  Under cross-examination by BP lawyer  Mike Brock , Bea
acknowledged BP had made some moves to improve its safety system
since Bea began serving as one of the company’s consultants.  The company developed an “operating management system”
focused on improving the safety of the company’s business
operations, Bea said. Still, that system wasn’t in place on the
Deepwater Horizon when it exploded in 2010, the professor said.  Brock pointed to an April 15, 2010, press release by former
BP Chief Executive Officer  Tony Hayward  that ranked the
company’s priorities as “safety, people, performance.” That
release was issued five days before the rig exploded. Bea
acknowledged Hayward’s comment was a “positive statement” in
regards to emphasizing safety over profits.  Bea, however, said he couldn’t always tell in the company’s
public statements whether executives were referring to safety
systems or workers’ personal safety.  Hayward stepped down in September 2010 as part of the
fallout from the rig explosion and oil spill. The executive
faced public anger in the U.S. and criticism from lawmakers over
his handling of Deepwater Horizon incident.  Maritime Law  Under U.S.  maritime law , which Barbier is using for the
trial, Transocean was legally responsible for providing for the
personal safety of workers on the Deepwater Horizon as the
drilling contractor, Bea said.  BP, as the well owner, was responsible for insuring that
systems were in place to insure the project was conducted
safely, the professor added. This includes systems to review the
well design and operations and whether its contractors conduct
proper maintenance on their equipment.  The case is In re Oil Spill by the Oil Rig Deepwater
Horizon in the  Gulf of Mexico  on April 20, 2010, MDL-2179, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of  Louisiana  (New Orleans).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jef Feeley in New Orleans federal court at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net ;
Allen Johnson Jr. in New Orleans federal court  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  