-- Branson’s Virgin Gyms Signs Deal with Tennis Star Robson
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2013-02-26T16:07:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/branson-s-virgin-gyms-signs-deal-with-tennis-star-robson.html
Virgin Active Ltd., the health club
chain owned by U.K. billionaire  Richard Branson , has signed a
deal with British tennis star Laura Robson.  Robson, who won junior Wimbledon in 2008 at the age of 14,
will become the chain’s first tennis ambassador for two years,
Virgin Active said today. It declined to give financial details
on the agreement, which starts on March 4 to coincide with World
Tennis Day.  “There are not only health benefits to playing tennis, but
it’s a great way to meet new people,” Robson, 19, said in an
interview today at the Chiswick Riverside Health & Racquet Club
in west London, where she started playing when she was eleven
years old.  Robson added she wants to inspire girls -- particularly the
ones who drop out of sports at an early age -- to pick up
tennis.  “It would be great to get more young girls and children in
general to play more,” she said. “Hopefully through this, more
people will stick with it.”  Robson found success in 2012, winning a silver medal in
doubles with  Andy Murray  at the London Olympics in August. At
the  U.S. Open , Robson ousted former major champions  Li Na  of
 China  and Belgium’s  Kim Clijsters  to become the first British
woman to reach the fourth round of a Grand Slam tournament since
1998.  Last month, Robson reached the third round of the
Australian Open, eliminating former Wimbledon champion Petra Kvitova of the  Czech Republic  along the way. She is currently
ranked at a career-high No. 43 on the women’s WTA tour.  Young, Fit  “She’s a perfect fit for our brand because she’s fit and
she’s young and she’s successful,” Gary Stewart, head of
racquets at Virgin Active, said in an interview.  Virgin has more than 100 clubs in the U.K. including 21
with racquet sports. It spent more than one million pounds ($1.5
million) on new court surfaces and facilities since it took over
the sites from Esporta. Virgin Active bought Esporta Racquets
and Non-Racquets Holdings Ltd. for 77.6 million pounds in 2011.  Virgin Active will offer cardio tennis, a junior tennis
academy and adult tennis lessons. It will open up its cardio
lessons to all of its 70,000 members, Stewart said. Virgin
currently has 20,000 customers who play tennis .  Three clubs where the tennis program has already been
introduced have seen good results, Stewart said. “On average,
tennis participation has increased 75 percent, and we’ve seen
membership double.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh in  London  at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  