-- Brazil Swap Rates Fall on Unemployment; Real Little Changed
-- B y   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a   a n d   J o s u e   L e o n e l
-- 2013-02-26T21:27:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/brazil-swap-rates-fall-on-surge-in-unemployment-real-declines.html
Brazil’s longer-term swap rates
dropped as the  unemployment rate  rose in January more than
forecast, bolstering speculation policy makers will refrain from
increasing borrowing costs amid tepid economic growth.  Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  said in  New York  that
February inflation has been more “benign” and that the
government has no plans to change the transactions tax known as
IOF. The central bank will decide next week whether to hold the
target  rate  at a record low 7.25 percent for a third meeting to
support the economy even as inflation has exceeded the 4.5
percent midpoint of its target range for more than two years.  Swap rates on the contract due in January 2015 decreased
two basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 8.45 percent. The
real was little changed at 1.9823 per dollar.  “The unemployment rate was a bit higher than expected, and
that is helping to bring down rate futures,” Flavio Serrano, a
senior economist at  Banco Espirito Santo de Investimento SA  in
Sao Paulo, said by phone. “We still need more data to see if
the labor market is really deteriorating.”  Brazil ’s jobless rate increased to 5.4 percent last month
from a record low 4.6 percent in December, the national
statistics agency reported today. The median forecast of 28
economists surveyed by Bloomberg was 5.2 percent.  While inflation is slowing, the government is still paying
attention, Mantega said at a New York event. The IPCA-15 index
of consumer prices rose 0.68 percent in the one month through
mid-February after a 0.88 percent advance in the prior period,
the national statistics agency reported Feb. 22.  Rate Outlook  “It seems that his comments suggest there won’t be any
rate hikes in the short term,” Joao Junior, a fixed-income
analyst at ICAP in Sao Paulo, said in a phone interview.  Mantega said “it is good” that the currency has
stabilized at a more realistic level.  The real rallied to a level stronger than 2 per dollar on
Jan. 28 for the first time since July after the central bank
intervened in the  currency market  as inflation accelerated.
Brazil pushed the real down 9 percent in 2012 and 11 percent in
the prior year as Mantega said major economies were debasing
currencies such as the dollar while driving up those of
developing nations.  Brazil exempted foreign investment in real estate funds
traded on the stock exchange from the IOF tax on Jan. 31,
spurring speculation that inflows will help sustain the real.  Brazil sees a small improvement in international market
volatility and will issue bonds in coming weeks, Treasury
Secretary Arno Augustin said to reporters in Brasilia today.
Issuing bonds would demonstrate once again that Brazil has solid
fundamentals, he added.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gabrielle Coppola in  Sao Paulo  at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net ;
Josue Leonel in Sao Paulo at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  