-- Brazil’s Unemployment Rises More Than Forecast in January
-- B y   D a v i d   B i l l e r   a n d   J o s h u a   G o o d m a n
-- 2013-02-26T13:28:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/brazil-s-unemployment-rises-more-than-forecast-in-january-1-.html
Brazil ’s  unemployment  rate rose more
than analysts predicted in January as the world’s second-biggest
emerging economy continues to respond slowly to government
efforts to spur growth.  The jobless rate jumped to 5.4 percent from the record low
4.6 percent in December, the national statistics agency said in
 Rio de Janeiro  today. Economists had  forecast  unemployment would
rise to 5.2 percent, according to a survey by Bloomberg of 28
analysts. The January jobless rate was the lowest ever for the
month.  Unemployment in 2012 reached a record average low of 5.5
percent, less than half the rate a decade earlier. Gross
domestic product expanded more slowly than in all other major
Latin American economies and the U.S., and the government has
lowered taxes and held the benchmark Selic rate at a record low
7.25 percent. Companies, anticipating a rebound last year,
maintained their workforces. Still, labor market data indicate a
slight increase in unemployment in 2013, said Felipe Tamega,
chief economist at Modal Asset Management.  “There is still a tight labor market, but it seems like
there will be an adjustment with a little higher unemployment,”
Tamega said in a telephone interview from Rio de Janeiro.  Swap rates on the contract maturing in January 2014, the
most traded in  Sao Paulo  today, rose one basis point, or 0.01
percentage point, to 7.81 percent at 10:05 a.m. local time. The
real was little changed at 1.9812 per  U.S. dollar .  Labor Shortage  Companies are facing a shortage of skilled labor and not
just holding idle workers idle as they wait for the next
upswing, said Masao Ukon, partner and managing director at the
 Boston Consulting Group  in Sao Paulo.  “There will be a need to increase productivity to increase
output in a more significant way, otherwise we will have lower
growth,” said  Ukon in a telephone interview. “Productivity is
key for higher economic growth in the coming years.”  Central bank president Alexandre Tombini said at an event
yesterday in  New York  that Brazil requires productivity gains,
as well as better qualification for Brazilian workers and higher
rates of investment.  The statistics institute will publish fourth-quarter and
full-year 2012 GDP figures on March 1. Lower investment in the
fourth quarter would mark the sixth straight decline. Economists
surveyed by the central bank estimated that GDP grew 0.98
percent last year, and will expand 3.1 percent in 2013.  ’Less Upbeat’  “There is no reason to think the labor market will keep up
this exceptional performance if we have a third year where
growth, even recovering from 2012, is far from being spectacular
or even very good,” said Andre Loes, chief Latin America
economist at HSBC Bank Brasil SA. “At some point it has to be
reflected with a little less upbeat labor market.”  Brazil’s economy  created  28,900 government-registered jobs
in January, the lowest for the month since 2009, following a
decline in December that was the second-largest since the series
began in 2003. The figures show companies are already starting
to hire less, Loes said by telephone from Sao Paulo.  The trend of falling unemployment will continue, Treasury
Secretary Arno Augustin said on Feb. 22.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Biller in Rio de Janeiro at 
 dbiller1@bloomberg.net ;
 Joshua Goodman  in Rio de Janeiro at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  