-- British Columbia Seeks to Be Competitive on LNG Tax, Clark Says
-- B y   R e b e c c a   P e n t y
-- 2013-02-26T00:09:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/british-columbia-seeks-to-be-competitive-on-lng-tax-clark-says.html
British Columbia Premier Christy Clark pledged the province will be the best place in the world
to liquefy natural gas even as she declined to quantify her new
tax on the industry.  Canada ’s westernmost province will be the “most
competitive” place to invest in LNG exports, offering certainty
and a “low-tax environment,” Clark said at an industry
conference in  Vancouver  today, less than three months before a
provincial election.  The province introduced an LNG tax this month it expects
will raise C$260 billion ($259 billion) in government revenues
over 30 years and didn’t spell out the rate.  The tax will give British Columbians a slice of the
industry’s profits without scaring away investment, Clark told
reporters.  “We are currently at the negotiating table with the big
proponents, and they know exactly what we’re talking about, but
we are in negotiations, so I don’t want to imperil the outcome
of those negotiations by talking about it here today.”  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ,  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  and  BG Group (BG/)  have
proposed projects along Canada’s Pacific Coast to liquefy
natural gas produced from shale formations for shipment by
tanker to Asian markets, where buyers will pay five times the
North American price. Executives are seeking clarity on the new
tax, according to Petroliam Nasional Bhd, which deems it unfair.  The tax is “added uncertainty” for LNG developers,
Michael Culbert, president of the Malaysian state energy
company’s Canadian unit, said in an interview today. “It’s one
single export being selected and a tax put on it. There isn’t on
coal, there isn’t on lumber that’s exported, so why LNG.”  Exporting LNG  Fewer than the handful of LNG terminals proposed in Canada
may be built to supply 3 billion cubic feet of gas a day this
decade, according to Calgary consultant Ziff Energy Group, which
forecasts global demand growth of 20 bcf/d by 2025. Petronas is
still studying the feasibility of a terminal near Prince Rupert,
British Columbia, Culbert said, which would export  as much as  18
million metric tons of LNG a year.  Drilling for gas in shale formations across  North America 
caused prices for the heating- and power-plant fuel to fall
starting in 2008. Gas has rebounded from a decade low in April.
 Gas in Asia  is linked to oil and typically fetches more.  British Columbia’s ruling  Liberal Party  is running behind
in public opinion against the main opposition  New Democratic
Party  ahead of election day on May 14.  NDP leader Adrian Dix’s party has 47 percent voter support,
ahead of the 31 percent for the ruling Liberals, according to an
Angus Reid Public Opinion online poll of 803 people surveyed
between Feb. 21 and Feb. 22 and published today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rebecca Penty in Calgary at 
 rpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  