-- Cablevision Sues Viacom Claiming Antitrust Violation
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o   a n d   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2013-02-27T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/cablevision-sues-viacom-claiming-antitrust-violation.html
Cablevision Systems Corp. sued
 Viacom Inc. (VIAB)  for antitrust violations tied to the industry’s
bundling of cable channels into subscriber packages, a practice
that spurred a consumer challenge in 2007 that failed in court.  Cablevision alleged in a statement yesterday that it was
forced to carry and pay for 14 less-watched ancillary networks
it claimed its customers don’t want. Details of Cablevision’s
allegations couldn’t be independently confirmed in court records
as a result of a sealing order.  Cablevision, the fifth-largest U.S. cable company, said in
the statement that it seeks an order voiding a December
“carriage agreement,” and a court order barring New York-based
Viacom from conditioning carriage of any or all of its core
networks on Cablevision’s licensing Viacom’s less-popular
channels. The programmer owns cable networks Nickelodeon, MTV
and  Comedy Central .  “Viacom and other programmers have long offered discounts
to those who agree to provide additional network distribution,”
Jeremy Zweig, a spokesman for Viacom, said yesterday in an e-
mailed statement. Zweig said Viacom will fight what it contends
is a “transparent attempt by Cablevision to use the courts to
renegotiate our existing two-month-old agreement.”  New Agreement  Cablevision said in its press release that it seeks a court
order requiring Viacom permit it to carry the core networks and
ancillary products while negotiating a new agreement. The
Bethpage, New York-based company said in its statement that it
also seeks triple damages and legal fees.  Charlie Schueler, a spokesman for Cablevision, declined to
comment on why the complaint was filed under seal.  “There are serious problems with the current programming
environment,” said  Alex Dudley , a spokesman for  Time Warner
Cable Inc. (TWC) , the second-largest cable company. “We think this
lawsuit raises important issues, and we look forward to their
resolution in the courts.”  Prior bundling suits alleging antitrust violations have
been brought by consumers: Comcast, DirecTV, Time Warner Cable,
 Walt Disney Co. (DIS)  and NBC Universal Inc. were among the cable and
satellite-TV programmers and distributors named in the antitrust
suit filed in federal court in  Los Angeles  in 2007 over claims
their bundling of channels prevents competition among providers
of televised content by offering only “pre-packaged tiers” of
programs and by refusing to allow customers to pay for only the
channels they want.  Dismissal Won  In October 2009, Comcast,  DirecTV (DTV)  Group Inc. and 11 other
pay-TV providers won dismissal of the suit brought by consumers
who said they were harmed by the industry practice of bundling
programs in subscription packages that forced customers to pay
for services they didn’t want.  Matthew Cantor, a partner at Constantine Cannon LLP, who
was a lead attorney for plaintiffs in several antitrust disputes
concerning electronic payments systems, said the “illegal
tying” issues in the Cablevision case aren’t new.  “The issue of tying one less valuable network to a more
valuable network has been one that has been dealt for years by
programmers and distributors,” he said. “Programmers have
sought to launch more innovative programs by bundling them with
more established brands. But there are some sustantial defenses
that can be made and no doubt the defense will have a number of
arguments that will be thoroughly examined by the court.”  He said the case raises an important question.  ‘’Can Cablevision make a credible economic argument that
they paid more for the bundling offerings than the individual
offerings?’’ Cantor said,  Request Denied  U.S. District Judge Christina Snyder in Los Angeles denied
a request by lawyers for the consumers that they be allowed to
proceed without showing the providers’ competitors had been
excluded by the bundling practice. Both sides agreed that, if
the judge denied the request, the case would be dismissed and
the decision appealed.  In the suit, the plaintiffs accused the companies of
preventing competition among TV providers by offering only
prepackaged tiers of programs and by refusing to allow consumers
to buy channels “a la carte.”  “Plaintiffs do not seek to allege that any actual or
potential competitors have been foreclosed from the tied product
market,” Snyder said in her ruling. “It is not sufficient to
allege that a desirable version of a product is excluded from
the market.”  The  U.S. Court of Appeals  in  San Francisco  last year
affirmed Snyder’s decision. Writing for the court, Judge Sandra Ikuta said the complaint failed to plead an injury to
competition.  ‘Absent an Injury’  “Businesses may choose the manner in which they do
business absent an injury to competition,” Ikuta said in the
ruling.  Ikuta said such injuries include tying arrangements, yet
only when the tie harms existing competitors, creates barriers
to entry for new competitors in the tied market, or facilities
horizontal collusion.  Cablevision’s complaint “doesn’t sound meaningfully
different from the allegations in the consumers case that was
dismissed by the 9th Circuit,” said Paul Riehle, chair of the
Antitrust and Unfair Competition Practice Group at Sedgwick LLP
in San Francisco.  Short Story  Ikuta said a contrary rule adopting the plaintiffs’ logic
would have undermined the ability of musicians to sell a hit
single only by purchasing of an entire album or a writer to sell
a short story only through a collection of short stories.  Ikuta said an alternate ruling could have called into
question cable channels because “such channels are themselves
packages of separate television programs.”  Viacom fell 3 cents to $57.28 in Nasdaq Stock Market
trading. Cablevision rose 27 cents to $15.29 in  New York  Stock
Exchange trading. The case is before U.S. District Judge Laura Taylor Swain.  “There’s no question that the current all-or-nothing
system dictated by programmers is completely broken,” Darris
Gringeri, a spokesman for DirecTV, said in an e-mailed
statement. “Our customers have told us time and time again they
don’t want to pay for channels they don’t watch. For programmers
to force this system on all pay-tv customers, just so they can
line their pockets with extra profits, is shameful.”  Cable Content  American Cable Association President and Chief Executive
Officer Matthew M. Polka said his group has consistently said
the practice of tying and bundling of major cable content
companies forces cable operators to pay for channels they don’t
want to offer to their customers.  “It’s a problem not just for Cablevision but also for
hundreds of small and medium-sized cable operators. If the
courts can address this problem, then we believe this would be a
good outcome for consumers,” Polka said in a statement.  Viacom isn’t the only provider of cable-television shows
and, as such, doesn’t have the market power that would be
required to establish an antitrust violation, said Jeff Riffer,
an antitrust lawyer with Elkins Kalt Weintraub Reuben Gartside
LLP in Los Angeles.  “These are tough cases to make,” Riffer said. “Courts
have ruled that companies can define how to sell their
products.”  The case is  Cablevision Systems Corp. (CVC)  v. Viacom
International Inc., 13-01278, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of New York ( Manhattan ). The  California  case was
Brantley v. NBC Universal Inc., 07-06101, U.S. District Court,
Central District of California (Los Angeles.)  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York federal court
at   pathurtado@bloomberg.net ;
Edvard Pettersson in Los Angeles at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  