-- Canadian Dollar Weakens to Lowest Since June on Growth Concern
-- B y   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r
-- 2013-02-26T22:11:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/canadian-dollar-fluctuates-before-bernanke-updates-u-s-outlook.html
The Canadian dollar declined to the
weakest level since June versus its U.S. counterpart as concern
economic growth is slowing increased and investors sought a
refuge from a renewal of global financial market turmoil.  The currency fluctuated as oil, the nation’s largest
export, fell to a seven-week low. Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said spending cuts set to take effect in three days
would harm the economy of Canada’s largest trading partner. A
slowdown could prompt the Bank of Canada to drop warnings of
impending interest rate increases later this year, according to
a person familiar with a Medley Global Advisors report, who
declined to be identified.  “Bernanke’s focus on the increasing burden the economy
will bear from the fiscal side is negative for U.S. growth and
therefore negative for Canada,” said  Camilla Sutton , head of
currency strategy at Bank of Nova Scotia, by phone from Toronto.  The Canadian dollar, known as the loonie for the image of
the water fowl on the C$1 coin, was little changed at C$1.0261
per U.S. dollar at 5 p.m. Toronto time. One loonie buys 97.46
U.S. cents. It weakened to as low as C$1.0304.  Futures on crude oil fell 0.4 percent to $92.74 per barrel
in New York amid estimates that U.S. crude inventories rose. The
U.S. is the nation’s largest trading partner and biggest buyer
of crude oil.  Canada’s benchmark  10-year bonds  were little changed to
yield 1.86 percent. The 2.75 percent security maturing in June
2022 increased 3 cents to C$107.55.  Medley Report  Canada ’s central bank will likely keep its guidance intact
when policy makers meet March 6, though they could eliminate the
reference later if business investment and exports fail to show
improvement, according to the person familiar with the Medley
report. A Medley spokeswoman declined to comment when reached by
telephone in New York.  “This Medley report basically says the Bank of Canada,
last month they said that tightening is perhaps less imminent,
and it basically says if the data continues to be poor, the
references for higher rates could be scrapped,” Darcy Browne,
managing director of currencies at Canadian Imperial Bank of
Commerce’s CIBC World Markets unit, said by phone from Toronto.  Bank of Canada Governor Mark Carney said yesterday that
some of the downside risks to the economy he highlighted last
month are materializing and policy makers are sticking to their
assessment that interest-rate increases have become less urgent.  Fourth-quarter growth seems to have been slower than
projected by the central bank, while inflation seems to be in
line with forecasts, Carney said in  London , Ontario.  Bernanke Focus  Bernanke warned $1.2 trillion of U.S. government cuts set
to take effect in three days would be a “burden” on the
“still-moderate” U.S. economic recovery in testimony before
the U.S. Senate Banking Committee today.  Options traders are the most bearish on the Canadian dollar
in six months. The three-month so-called 25-delta risk reversal
rate, which measures the premium charged for the right to buy
the U.S. dollar against the loonie versus contracts to sell,
traded as high as 1.49 percent, the most since Sept. 5. It
averaged 1.48 percentage points during the past 12 months.  The Canadian dollar is down 1.3 percent this year among 10
developed nation currencies tracked by the Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Index. The U.S. dollar is up 2.5 percent
and the yen is down four percent.  The loonie may be due to strengthen, a technical measure
indicated. Its 14-day relative-strength index against the U.S.
dollar fell to 20, its fifth day below the 30 level some traders
see as a sign an asset has moved too much, too fast, and may be
about to reverse direction.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Altstedter in Toronto at 
 aaltstedter@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  