-- Capesize Rates Seen Doubling on China Iron-Ore Reserves: Freight
-- B y   I s a a c   A r n s d o r f   a n d   R o b   S h e r i d a n
-- 2013-02-26T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/capesize-rates-seen-doubling-on-china-iron-ore-reserves-freight.html
Shipping rates for iron ore are
poised to double next quarter as Chinese steelmakers import
extra cargoes after stockpiles at the nation’s ports collapsed
to a three-year low.  Daily earnings for Capesizes hauling 160,000 metric tons of
cargo will jump to $11,250 in the three months ending June 30
from $5,088 now, according to the average of eight analyst
estimates compiled by Bloomberg. While that’s 30 percent less
than owners need to break even, investors may profit with
forward freight agreements, swaps used to bet on, or hedge,
future shipping rates, which currently anticipate $8,279 in the
same period.  Shipments this year were curbed by storms in Australia and
by Chinese traders that have the smallest ore stocks at ports
since January 2010, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Higher rates would help Tokyo-based Nippon Yusen K.K., which has
the biggest fleet, while adding to costs for producers including
Vale SA, the world’s No. 1 miner of the commodity, and  Rio Tinto (RIO) 
Group, the second-biggest supplier.  “I definitely expect an increase in iron-ore buying and
Capesize rates in the second quarter,” Jeffrey Landsberg,
managing director of Commodore Research & Consultancy in New
York, who correctly predicted the rates would rally in October
and January, said by phone Feb. 21. “At present, stockpiles are
very low and there’s going to be an increase in steel
production.”  Iron Content  Ore with 62 percent iron content surged 75 percent to
$151.90 a dry ton from September’s low, according to prices from
The Steel Index Ltd., a London-based unit of McGraw-Hill Cos.
The price will slump to $132.50 in the second quarter as the
supply of cargoes increases faster than demand, according to the
average of 10 iron-ore analysts in a separate Bloomberg survey.  Chinese  port inventories  declined 2.5 percent this year to
68.8 million tons, according to Beijing Antaike Information
Development Co., a state-backed research company.  China  needs to
rebuild those stocks toward last year’s levels as high as 100
million tons, Sam Walsh, chief executive officer of London-based
Rio Tinto, said on a Feb. 14 conference call.  Mills in the world’s second-largest economy will increase
demand for cargoes starting in March after curbing purchases
this year because prices were too high, Chen Zhenxing, a
Shanghai-based analyst at Mysteel.com, China’s biggest iron-ore
researcher, said by phone Feb. 22.  Capesize Cargoes  China has increased crude-steel production in the second
quarter of every year since 1990, according to data from the
National Bureau of Statistics. Iron ore accounts for 75 percent
of single-voyage Capesize cargoes, estimates Arrow Capesize
(U.K.) Ltd., a London-based shipbroker that specializes in the
vessels. The rest are coal. Demand for shipments of the fuel has
been curtailed by a strike at Colombia’s Cerrejon mine, making
more ships available, said David Webb, a broker at Arrow.  Any increase in cargoes won’t be enough to erase the glut
of vessels. The fleet more than doubled since 2008, when rates
were about 45 times higher than now, according to Clarkson Plc,
the world’s largest shipbroker. It will swell another 6 percent
this year, slower than the 11 percent expansion in 2012,
Clarkson estimates.  Earnings for Capesizes dropped 72 percent from a 10-month
high of $18,388 on Oct. 23, according to the Baltic Exchange,
the London-based publisher of freight rates on more than 50
maritime routes. The 1,000-foot-long ships need about $16,000 to
break even, estimates Pareto Securities AS, an Oslo-based
investment bank.  Largest Owners  The largest owners are  Nippon Yusen (9101)  and Kawasaki Kisen
Kaisha Ltd., according to Clarkson. The Tokyo-based companies
also own oil tankers and container ships. NYK will post net
income of $304.1 million in the year starting in April, up from
$70.2 million in the year ending in March, and its shares will
rise 1.2 percent in 12 months, according to 16 analyst estimates
compiled by Bloomberg. Kawasaki Kisen will earn $152.8 million,
33 percent more than the previous period, and its shares will
decline 11 percent, 18 estimates show.  Rising freight rates normally add to costs for miners who
charter ships, said Frode Moerkedal, an analyst at RS Platou
Markets AS, an Oslo-based investment bank. Gains in shipping
rates often reflect strengthening demand and higher prices for
iron ore, said Arjun Batra, group managing director of Drewry
Shipping Consultants Ltd.  Vale owns and controls a fleet including the biggest ore
carriers, each able to hold about 400,000 tons and nicknamed
Valemaxes. The Rio de Janeiro-based company owns vessels that
can transport about 7.5 million tons and has additional ships on
long-term charters, data from London-based Clarkson show.  Chinese Demand  The supply of ore cargoes hinges on miners’ ability to
produce and ship the commodity rather than on Chinese demand,
said Melinda Moore, an analyst specializing in bulk commodities
at Standard Bank Plc in  London . Global trade will climb 4.5
percent to 278 million tons in the second quarter compared with
the first, she said.  “Every ton that can be sold will be sold,” Moore said by
phone Feb. 21. “The Chinese are short iron ore and every
seaborne ton is profitable.”  Chinese steelmakers also keep stocks at mills inland,
making it harder to gauge demand for cargoes, said Sverre-Bjorn Svenning, an analyst at Fearnley Consultants A/S, a unit of
Astrup Fearnley Group, an Oslo-based investment-banking and
shipbroking company. While steel output and the strength of
China’s construction industry are more important than
inventories, the nation typically boosts imports in the second
quarter, he said.  Domestic Ore  Idled Chinese mines with capacity of 100 million tons a
year will return to the market starting in a month after the
winter ends, Macquarie Research said in a Feb. 22 report.
Steelmakers are using more domestic ore after the rally in the
price of imports, according to Mysteel.com.  Shipments will recover as weather disruptions in  Australia 
during the first quarter abate, said Erik Folkeson, an analyst
at Swedbank First Securities in Oslo. A tropical cyclone in
January halted loading in the largest iron-ore ports of Cape
Lambert, Dampier and Port Hedland. Australia is the biggest
exporter.  Global volumes will advance 6 percent to 1.18 billion tons
this year, with China buying 66 percent, Clarkson estimates. The
nation’s economy will accelerate for at least the next three
quarters, the average of 39 economist estimates shows. World
trade will expand 3.8 percent this year, up from 2.8 percent in
2012, according to the International Monetary Fund. About 90
percent travels by sea, the Round Table of International
Shipping Associations estimates.  ‘Restocking Phase’  “Chinese stockpiles are at very low levels, which should
be conducive to a restocking phase at some point in the second
quarter,” said Erik Nikolai Stavseth, an Oslo-based analyst at
Arctic whose recommendations on the shares of shipping companies
returned 17 percent in the past year. “Should the iron-ore
prices decline from current levels, as seen in previous
corrections, it is likely that we will see a lift in fixture
activity and the freight earnings for Capesizes.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Isaac Arnsdorf in London at 
 iarnsdorf@bloomberg.net ;
Rob Sheridan in London at 
 rsheridan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  