-- Chevron Reaped $1.49 Billion After U.S. Botched Leases
-- B y   J i m   E f s t a t h i o u   J r .
-- 2013-02-26T23:14:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/chevron-reaped-1-49-billion-after-u-s-botched-leases.html
Chevron Corp. (CVX)  reaped the most among
the five largest oil companies drilling on U.S. deep water
leases that mistakenly omitted drilling-fee provisions,
according to a report produced by a Democratic lawmaker.  Chevron avoided $1.49 billion in royalties, out of $2.62
billion that the companies would have paid for the right to
produce oil and gas in federal waters, according to the report
today from Representative  Edward Markey  of Massachusetts using
Interior Department information. More than 100 producers
including  BP Plc (BP/) ,  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ,  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  and
 ConocoPhillips (COP)  also benefited from the botched leases.  “Congress is now debating ways to avoid deep, across-the-
board cuts to defense and domestic priorities such as education,
transportation, law enforcement and environmental protection,”
according to the report. “Ending royalty-free drilling (and
other giveaways to oil and gas companies) should represent low-
hanging fruit in the search for budget savings.”  The Gulf of Mexico leases at issue were signed from 1996
through 2000 under a 1995 law intended to encourage drilling by
dropping fees when oil and gas prices were low and restoring
them when prices rebounded. Because of a bureaucratic error,
leases signed in 1998 and 1999 failed to include price
thresholds that would trigger royalty payments when prices rose.  Royalties Blocked  Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC) , an independent oil producer, in
2009 won a case that blocked the government from collecting
royalties on the leases issued during the late 1990s. The U.S.
Supreme Court later upheld the decision.  “We renegotiated these leases at the time that the
concerns were first raised,” Davy Kong, a spokesman for
ConocoPhillips, said in an e-mail. “That agreement terminated
when the courts ruled that under the law authorizing royalty
relief -- the Deep Water Royalty Relief Act of 1995 -- the
department did not have the authority to impose price triggers.
ConocoPhillips accepts the court’s decision and has no further
plans to address the issue.”  The administration of President  George W. Bush  in 2006
asked the companies to voluntarily renegotiate the leases.
Markey has sponsored legislation that would force them to
renegotiate.  BP declined to comment, according to company spokesman
Brett Clanton. Spokesmen for the three other companies didn’t
respond to e-mails seeking comment.  It is estimated that the five companies may yet produce the
equivalent of 1.6 billion barrels of oil and gas on the disputed
leases, according to Markey’s report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Efstathiou Jr. in  New York  at 
 jefstathiou@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  