-- Chicago’s $114 Million Arts Center Weds Warehouse, Castle
-- B y   J a m e s   S .   R u s s e l l
-- 2013-02-26T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/chicago-s-114-million-arts-center-weds-warehouse-castle.html
With its layered limestone brick and
silvery glass, the $114 million Reva and David Logan Center for
the Arts soars above the University of Chicago in a haunted take
on campus-Gothic grandeur.  I was drawn to the Logan because I thought its respectful,
unflamboyant  architects , New York-based Tod Williams and Billie
Tsien, might find a new way to nudge art and architecture into
playing nice together.  In the Logan, Williams and Tsien struggle to hold a variety
of tensions at bay. The tower’s layered planes appear ready to
peel apart. The tower itself erupts from a broad, plain-spoken
two-story base with a sawtooth clerestory roof.  This part of the center, which Tsien calls “the
warehouse,” has the industrial style that visual artists often
prefer. Its painted drywall and movable partitions say that it
wants to be malleable and accommodate whatever the imagination
throws at it.  The campus-facing northern entrance opens to a mystifying
intersection of stairs and hallways. On the left is a cafe,
while a turn to the right leads into a public gallery and a
suite of painting and sculpture studios that are gorgeously lit
by the roof windows.  Along the sprawling hallways, disciplines huddle in their
enclaves in a layout that allows but doesn’t engineer
sociability.  Three Theaters  One long corridor passes a pleasing outdoor courtyard
before entering a second unpretentious lobby serving three
venues: a 474-seat recital hall, a theater seating 105, and a
185-seat black-box theater.  These cluster near the southern entrance, which faces the
city, intended as an explicit gesture of gown meeting town. The
university hopes performances will draw in residents of
bedraggled south Chicago neighborhoods who have historically
felt ignored.  The building’s tower, which Tsien calls “the castle,” has
the academic sobriety of the university’s 1920s college-Gothic
style, signaling the importance of arts at an institution better
known for economics and sciences. Williams and Tsien have
distributed dance studios, music-practice rooms and classrooms
so that people from different disciplines cannot help crossing
paths.  Tower’s Crown  A top-floor wood-paneled room with a gorgeous corner window
crowns the tower -- a tall and lovely destination for intimate
recitals and gatherings.  One way people meet each other is descending the most
beautiful fire stairs you are ever likely to see. Cast in
austere pebbly concrete interrupted with railings in translucent
glass, cavelike staircases lead to skinny landings where bands
of sunlight slant through tall shafts of space. Split-level
views open into two floors at once.  In those stairs you find the contemporary take on a
traditional palette that has always distinguished these
architects’ work. There’s a feel for the innate beauty of
materials and an ethereal manipulation of space and light.  Tod Williams Billie Tsien Architects has won the American
Institute of Architects’ 2013 Architecture Firm Award.  Kahn Acolytes  I think of them as the last acolytes of Louis I. Kahn, who
saw his job as revealing what space or materials innately were,
rather than willing bricks to do something acrobatic.  At Logan, Williams and Tsien are more easygoing than Kahn
would ever be, accommodating every aspiration, no matter the
price in coherence. Architecture gets out of the way in the
warehouse; in the tower, assertiveness takes over.  This frustrates the side of me that looks for a singular
aesthetic mission.  In a conversation in their office at the southern edge of
 Manhattan ’s Central Park, they said they had learned not to
overdetermine their designs.  The Logan’s ambivalence may prove to be its secret weapon:
inviting students and teachers to make it their own.  (James S. Russell writes on architecture for Muse, the arts
and culture section of Bloomberg News. He is the author of “The
Agile City.” The opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include Katya Kazakina on  art , Susan
Antilla on  books .  To contact the writer of this column:
James S. Russell in  New York  at 
 jamesrussell@earthlink.net ;
and see  http://web.me.com/jscanlonrussell   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 