-- Chinese Duties on EU X-Ray Gear Violate Global Rules: WTO
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   M .   F r e e d m a n
-- 2013-02-27T08:38:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/chinese-duties-on-eu-x-ray-gear-violate-global-rules-wto.html
China’s anti-dumping duties on
European Union X-ray security-inspection equipment violate
global commerce law, the  World Trade Organization  said in its
second ruling condemning a Chinese trade-remedy measure.  China accused EU companies of selling the equipment on the
Chinese market below cost, a practice known as dumping, causing
what it called substantial injury to Chinese producers of the
scanners. Port authorities, customs officials and air-cargo
companies use the equipment to detect explosives, weapons,
radioactive materials, narcotics, contraband and fake goods.  “I will not accept tit-for-tat retaliation against
European companies through the misuse of trade-defense
instruments,” EU Trade Commissioner Karel De Gucht said in an
e-mailed statement from Brussels yesterday after the Geneva-
based WTO published its ruling. “The panel report is very
clear, so I expect China to remove the measures immediately.”  The case highlights EU concerns about retaliation by China
when it’s confronted by trade measures that punish its producers
for breaking WTO rules. The U.S. has also  accused  China of
initiating anti-dumping and anti-subsidy probes and imposing
duties to strike back at trading partners that have exercised
their WTO rights in ways it doesn’t like.  China will evaluate the WTO ruling and reserves its right
to appeal, the Ministry of Commerce said in a statement today.
The nation has 60 days to appeal the decision.  Dumping Levies  In June 2010, the EU imposed a five-year tariff on Chinese
cargo-scanning equipment to help London-based  Smiths Group Plc (SMIN) 
compete against cheaper imports. The 34 percent duty punished
Nuctech Co. -- China’s sole exporter of the gear -- for dumping.  Seven months later, China applied a 33.5 percent anti-
dumping duty on X-ray equipment made by  Germany ’s Smiths Heimann
GmbH in January 2011, with all other European exporters subject
to a 71.8 percent levy.  The EU argued that China failed to adhere to transparency
requirements, preventing the companies it was investigating from
accessing information that served as the basis for the dumping
finding. The 27-nation bloc also said China had failed to prove
that the targeted EU imports had undercut or depressed the price
of domestic products or that Chinese manufacturers had been
injured by the European goods.  “Having found China acted inconsistently with certain
provisions of the anti-dumping agreement, we recommend China
bring its measure into conformity with its obligations under
that agreement,” WTO judges said in a  136-page ruling  on the
trade arbiter’s website.  U.S. Complaint  China lost a similar case on Oct. 18, when the WTO’s
Appellate Body upheld an earlier panel ruling backing a U.S.
challenge of Chinese anti-dumping and anti-subsidy duties on
more than $200 million of imports U.S. grain-oriented flat-
rolled electrical steel.  The U.S. has also lodged WTO complaints against Chinese
anti-dumping and anti-subsidy levies on broiler chicken imports
and on more than $3 billion of American cars. WTO panels are
probing those challenges.  China faces more EU anti-dumping duties than any other
country. European levies to counter alleged unfair Chinese trade
practices cover about 1 percent of the bloc’s  imports from
China , which were worth more than 292 billion euros ($381
billion) in 2011.  EU- China  goods trade as a whole was valued at 429 billion
euros in 2011 compared with 4 billion euros in 1978. The EU is
the biggest market for Chinese exports, while China is the
bloc’s No. 2 commercial partner, after the U.S.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer M. Freedman in Geneva at 
 jfreedman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  