-- China Money Rate Jumps Most This Year on Bets PBOC to Drain Cash
-- B y   K y o u n g w h a   K i m
-- 2013-02-26T02:37:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/china-money-rate-jumps-most-this-year-on-bets-pboc-to-drain-cash.html
China ’s benchmark money-market rate
jumped the most this year on speculation the central bank will
drain funds from the financial system to cap property prices and
inflation.  China may tighten monetary policy because of excessive
market liquidity and rising real-estate prices, according to a
front-page commentary written by reporter Ren Xiao in China
Securities Journal today. The People’s Bank of China plans to
take as much as 5 billion  yuan  ($802 million) from banks by
issuing 28-day repurchase contracts today, according to a trader
at a primary dealer required to bid at the auctions.  “There is concern over tightening of policy,” said Wee- Khoon Chong, a Hong Kong-based strategist at Societe Generale
SA. “But I don’t think the rise in money rates is
sustainable.”  The seven-day  repurchase rate , which measures interbank
funding availability, rose 38 basis points, or 0.38 percentage
point, to 3.68 percent at 10:22 a.m. in  Shanghai , according to a
weighted average compiled by the National Interbank Funding
Center. That’s the biggest increase since Dec. 31. The rate rose
to 4.1 percent earlier, the highest level since Feb. 7.  China may manage liquidity in the first half by selling
repos or reverse repos, the commentary said. Home sales in
China’s 10 biggest cities almost quadrupled to 8.5 million
square meters (91.5 million square feet) in the first five weeks
from last year, property data and consulting firm China Real
Estate Information Corp. said on Feb. 19.  The one-year interest-rate swap, the fixed cost needed to
receive the floating seven-day repo rate, added two basis
points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 3.27 percent, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kyoungwha Kim in Singapore at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  