-- Christie Punching Below Political Weight on Debt Costs
-- B y   E l i s e   Y o u n g   a n d   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 2013-02-26T01:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/christie-punching-below-political-weight-on-debt-costs.html
Governor  Chris Christie  delivers the
final budget of his first term today as automatic federal
spending cuts loom and investors demand a 40 percent higher
penalty on New Jersey issuers since the Republican took office.  While state-tax revenue has improved since  Hurricane Sandy 
walloped the East Coast Oct. 29, it’s still $350 million short
of Christie’s goal. The 50-year-old governor, who is seeking re-
election with record popularity, will have to close that gap
before turning to his plan for the year that starts July 1.  Christie predicted a year ago that New Jersey’s comeback
had begun and revenue would rise 7.2 percent this fiscal year,
the most since before the 18-month recession began in 2007. He
said then that the state could afford a 10 percent income-tax
cut, even as Democrats and  Standard & Poor’s  challenged his
forecasts. Through January, collections are up 3.9 percent.  “My main hope is that the revenue picture for the state
will increase, and the state will use it to try to address its
ongoing revenue shortfall for budgets,” said Richard Larkin,
director of credit analysis at Herbert J. Sims & Co. in Iselin,
 New Jersey . “However, given the fact that it’s an election
year, that may be too much to expect.”  S&P View  S&P revised its outlook on New Jersey’s debt to negative
from stable in September, citing Christie’s “optimistic”
assumptions, an unfunded pension liability and the use of one-
time revenue to close shortfalls. The company will examine
Christie’s budget to determine whether his revenue targets are
reasonable, said John Sugden, an S&P analyst in  New York .  “We have a focus on structural balance and whether the
budget is relying on a significant number of one-time revenues,
and how the budget is set up to deal with some of the unknowns,
such as the Affordable Care Act and the potential sequester,”
Sugden said.  New Jersey has an Aa3 grade from Moody’s Investors Service
and AA- from Standard & Poor’s, both three levels below the top.
Only Illinois and  California  have lower ratings.  Christie has a record 74 percent approval rating, up from 56
percent before Sandy struck, according to Quinnipiac University
polls released Jan. 23 and Feb. 20. He has approval from 56
percent of Democrats in a state where that party’s registered
voters exceed Republicans by 703,000.  Higher Cost  Yet the governor is punching below his political weight in
the  bond market .  Investors demanded 0.49 percentage point of extra yield on
New Jersey and its localities as of Feb. 24,  data  compiled by
Bloomberg show. That compares with a 0.35 percentage point
spread when Christie took office in January 2010. It’s also 56
percent higher than the five-year average premium.  Christie’s prediction for 7.2 percent revenue growth was
second only to a 7.7 percent jump forecast by California
Governor  Jerry Brown , according to the New Jersey treasurer’s
office. S&P raised California’s credit rating in January for the
first time since 2006 after Brown, a 74-year-old Democrat,
projected that a tax increase and spending cuts would leave the
state with an $851 million surplus, the first in a decade.  States this week are preparing for federal cutbacks, as
President  Barack Obama  and Congress are locked in a standoff
over how to avert $1.2 trillion in spending reductions set to
take effect on March 1.  Funding Threat  New Jersey will lose more than $39 million in U.S. funds,
according to an Obama administration  report . That includes $27.7
million for primary, secondary and special education, which may
jeopardize 370 teacher, aide and staff jobs.  State-tax collections beat Christie’s target in December
and January after five straight months of missed projections.
Still, major revenue sources will need to jump 12.7 percent to
achieve Christie’s year-end target of $31.7 billion,  David Rosen , chief fiscal analyst for the nonpartisan Office of
Legislative Services, wrote in a Feb. 22 report.  In light of Rosen’s calculation, Assembly Budget Committee
Chairman Vincent Prieto said he expects Christie to make more
conservative forecasts for the next fiscal year.  “You’d rather err on the side of caution,” said Prieto, a
Democrat from Secaucus.  In December, as the state faced a $451 million shortfall,
Christie said mid-year budget reductions may be needed. He has
continued to push for a tax cut, saying it would help spur the
economy.  Storm Impact  Sandy kept shoppers and  Atlantic City  gamblers at home,
causing November revenue to miss Christie’s target by 11
percent. He has said collections may rebound as rebuilding
creates jobs. New Jersey’s unemployment  rate  was 9.6 percent in
December, the fourth-highest in the nation.  Christie has yet to explain how he will make up for the
current year’s shortfall, Prieto said. The lawmaker said he met
with Treasurer Andrew Sidamon-Eristoff on Feb. 21 for a budget
preview and got no particulars.  Assemblyman Declan O’Scanlon, the Republican budget
officer, said Christie has reason for optimism.  “The dynamics nationally bode well for end-of-year tax
collections,” said O’Scanlon, of Little Silver. “Automobile
sales have ticked up. The stock market went up 10 percent. In no
way does this mean we’re out of the woods, but these are the
signs.”  Neither  Michael Drewniak  nor  Kevin Roberts , spokesmen for
the governor, responded to e-mails or phone calls.  School Priority  The governor told reporters in Sea Bright Feb. 21 that a
priority was “making sure we have the strongest K-12 education
system we can possibly have.” New Jersey spends about a third
of its budget on school aid.  In his first budget, Christie reduced funding for schools
and towns, cut property-tax rebates and skipped a $3 billion
pension payment to help close a record $10.7 billion deficit.
The state’s highest court ordered him to restore some of his
school cuts. Last year, Christie provided $8.87 billion for
education, the most in state history, according to his office.  Christie has said reviving Atlantic City’s casinos, which
are battling a sixth-straight year of declining revenue, is key
to the state’s recovery. He said last week he isn’t giving up on
his five-year turnaround plan, even as the city’s newest casino,
Revel, plans to seek  bankruptcy protection .  Lawmakers today will consider Christie’s changes to a bill
that will let casinos offer  Internet gambling , and a federal
court this month may decide on his law that would allow wagering
on professional and college sports in Atlantic City and at
racetracks. Proponents say those moves could boost state tax
revenue by hundreds of millions of dollars a year.  Pension Effort  Larkin, who has lived in New Jersey since 1989 and has been
following the state since 1975, said he’d like today’s budget
proposal to show that Christie is “making an extra effort to
improve pension liabilities.”  New Jersey’s pension deficit reached $53.9 billion in 2010
after the state expanded benefits and skipped payments over a
decade. The gap fell to $36.3 billion after Christie signed
bills that boosted employee pension and health-care
contributions, raised the minimum  retirement age  for new workers
and froze cost-of-living adjustments.  A 2010 law required the state to make one-seventh of its
pension contribution in fiscal 2012, and then raise the payment
each year until it is making the full amount in 2018.  “In an election year, I’m expecting some kind of  tax-cut 
proposal even though the state is still not fully meeting its
ongoing obligations,” Larkin said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elise Young in Trenton  at 
 eyoung30@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Chappatta in New York at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  