-- Christie Said to Propose Medicaid Expansion in N.J. Budget
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 2013-02-26T18:58:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/christie-said-to-propose-medicaid-expansion-in-new-jersey-budget.html
New Jersey Governor  Chris Christie ,
a critic of President Barack Obama’s health-care overhaul, will
say that he plans to expand his state’s Medicaid program under
the act, according to four people with knowledge of the plan.  Christie, a 50-year-old Republican seeking re-election in
November, will call for the expansion as part of a $32.9 billion
budget that also includes a $1.6 billion pension payment and
raises spending by slightly more than 2 percent, according to
lawmakers and aides in both parties. They declined to be
identified because they aren’t authorized to speak before
Christie unveils his spending plan today.  Michael Drewniak , a spokesman for the governor, didn’t
immediately answer an e-mail seeking comment.  Christie joins at least seven other Republican governors
who have agreed to expand Medicaid, the federal-state health
program for the poor, after Florida’s  Rick Scott  said last week
that he supports doing so. Five of the governors backing
expansion -- Scott,  John Kasich  of Ohio,  Susana Martinez  of New
Mexico, Brian Sandoval of Nevada and  Rick Snyder  of Michigan --
will stand for re-election next year.  Until 2017, the U.S. government will pay the entire cost of
covering people made newly eligible for the program. Thereafter,
states don’t have to pay more than 10 percent of the cost. The
Congressional Budget Office estimates the expansion will cost
the federal government about $638 billion through 2023, and
states about $63 billion.  Obama’s health law, which passed Congress in 2010 without a
single Republican vote, may extend insurance over the next
decade to about 27 million people who are currently uninsured.  About 8 million additional people will enroll in Medicaid
programs next year because of the expansion, which raises the
income eligibility limits, the CBO estimates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  