-- Christie Seeks Medicaid Expansion in $32.9 Billion Budget
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p   a n d   E l i s e   Y o u n g
-- 2013-02-26T22:47:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/christie-seeks-medicaid-expansion-in-32-9-billion-budget.html
New Jersey Governor  Chris Christie ,
a critic of President  Barack Obama ’s health-care overhaul,
called for expanding Medicaid in his state as he proposed a
$32.9 billion spending plan ahead of his re-election bid.  The budget for the fiscal year that begins July 1 includes
a $1.6 billion pension payment as it raises spending by 2.3
percent and delays property-tax rebates. Christie’s plan counts
on revenue rising by 4.9 percent, a smaller increase than last
year, when the Republican’s predictions for more than 8 percent
growth were challenged by Democrats and  Standard & Poor’s .  Christie, 50, joins at least seven other Republican
governors who have agreed to expand Medicaid, the federal-state
health program for the poor, after Florida’s  Rick Scott  said
last week that he supported doing so. Five of the governors
backing expansion -- Scott,  John Kasich  of  Ohio ,  Susana Martinez 
of New Mexico, Brian Sandoval of  Nevada  and  Rick Snyder  of
 Michigan  -- come up for re-election next year.  “Let me be clear, I am no fan of the Affordable Care
Act,” Christie said during his budget speech. “I fought
against it and believe, in the long run, it will not achieve
what it promises. However, it is now the law of the land. I will
make all my judgments as governor based on what is best for  New
Jerseyans .”  November Election  Christie proposed expanding Medicaid by adding 104,000
clients to the state’s program, which already serves 1.4
million, to save taxpayers $227 million in fiscal 2014. Federal
money will cover the cost for the first three years.  The move will add three times the number of clients
Christie counted and will create health-care jobs, according to
Assembly Speaker Sheila Oliver, a Democrat from East Orange. She
attributed the governor’s changed stance to the budget savings.  “There is no way, in a state like  New Jersey , the governor
could walk away from Medicaid expansion money,” Oliver told
reporters.  Assembly Majority Leader Louis Greenwald, a Democrat from
Cherry Hill, said Christie failed to present a cohesive plan for
mending the state’s economy. New Jersey had a 9.6 percent
 unemployment rate  in December. Democrats want to see lower
property taxes and more  job creation , he said.  “There’s about 1 percent of this population that is doing
better,” Greenwald said. “We are three years into this
experiment and it has not borne fruit.”  Record Approval  New Jersey and Virginia are the only two states with
governor’s races this year. Christie’s approval among voters
rose to a record 74 percent in January, up from 56 percent
before  Hurricane Sandy  struck, according to Quinnipiac
University polls. Even among Democrats, who outnumber registered
Republicans by 703,000, his rating rose to 56 percent.  The governor praised Obama’s response to Sandy ahead of
Election Day in November, angering some Republicans who blamed
him for the Democratic incumbent’s win over  Mitt Romney . In
January, Christie attacked fellow Republicans in Congress for
delaying a vote in the  House of Representatives  on disaster aid.  Christie spoke last year at the Conservative Political
Action Conference’s Chicago-area conclave. He wasn’t invited to
the group’s 2013 Washington meeting because of his Obama praise
and his criticism of House Speaker  John Boehner , a Republican
from Ohio, according to a person familiar with the lineup, who
asked not to be identified and isn’t authorized to speak
publicly about internal group decision-making.  Sandy Rebuilding  On Nov. 26, Christie said he’s seeking a second term to
oversee the $36.9 billion job of rebuilding from Sandy.
Democrats, who control the Legislature, have said Christie is
using the storm to deflect economic concerns. New Jersey’s
December jobless rate was the fourth-highest in the nation.  In his budget address a year ago, Christie predicted that
the state’s economic rebound had begun, making a 10 percent
income-tax cut manageable. Democratic lawmakers refused to sign
off on his plan, saying the state couldn’t afford it. Christie
today continued to urge the legislature to pass the reduction.  “New Jersey has turned around and is growing again,”
Christie said today.  S&P revised its outlook on New Jersey’s debt to negative
from stable in September, citing Christie’s “optimistic”
economic assumptions, an unfunded pension liability and the use
of nonrecurring revenue to close shortfalls.  One-Shots  Christie’s reliance on such one-time revenue sources would
fall to 3 percent of the spending plan in fiscal 2014, from 4
percent in the current year and 13 percent in 2010, according to
Treasurer Andrew Sidamon-Eristoff.  In his speech today, the governor said the fiscal stalemate
in  Washington  is “nothing short of inexcusable.” Obama and
Congress are locked in a standoff over how to avert $1.2
trillion in spending reductions set to take effect starting on
March 1. Christie proposed a $40 million contingency fund for
Sandy expenses that aren’t reimbursed by the federal government.  “This will ensure that we can move ahead with maximum
speed, and that those things that fall through the cracks do not
bankrupt families, businesses or local governments,” he said.  The governor proposed raising school aid by $87 million to
almost $9 billion, a second-straight annual record. He also
plans $2 million to fund a pilot voucher program for students in
failing schools, and $5 million to implement new teaching
models, including the use of technology and the Internet.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net ;
Elise Young in Trenton at 
 eyoung30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  