-- Christie Said Not Invited to Speak to Conservative Group
-- B y   E l i s e   Y o u n g
-- 2013-02-26T18:37:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/christie-said-not-invited-to-speak-to-conservative-group.html
New Jersey  Governor  Chris Christie ,
who spoke last year at the Conservative Political Action
Conference’s Chicago conclave, wasn’t invited to the group’s
2013 Washington meeting, in part because he praised Democratic
President  Barack Obama ’s leadership during  Hurricane Sandy ,
according to a person familiar with the group’s decision.  Christie also angered CPAC organizers Jan. 2, when he
criticized House Speaker  John Boehner , a Republican from Ohio,
for failing to bring a Sandy aid package to a floor vote, said
the person, who asked not to be identified and isn’t authorized
to speak publicly about internal group decision-making.  CPAC 2013, scheduled for March 14-16 in Washington, where
the group is based, draws some of the Republican Party’s most
prominent members, many who espouse a free-market economy and
smaller government. Scheduled speakers next month include: Mitt Romney, the defeated 2012 presidential candidate; U.S. House
Majority Leader  Eric Cantor ; Wayne LaPierre, executive vice
president of the National Rifle Association; and Carly Fiorina,
the former  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  chief executive and unsuccessful
U.S. Senate candidate.  Obama and Christie, a first-term Republican seeking re-
election in November, toured the state together two days after
the Oct. 29 hurricane, and the two spoke on the phone almost
daily for weeks. The most devastating Atlantic storm cost New
Jersey $36.9 billion, about 16 percent more than its fiscal 2013
budget.  Sandy Aid  The House and Senate ultimately approved a $60.2 billion
emergency-spending bill for New York, New Jersey and
Connecticut.  The American Conservative Union, which sponsors the
Washington event, wouldn’t say why Christie, who has been
mentioned as a possible 2016 presidential candidate, wasn’t
among a list of speakers scheduled for the meeting.  “We’re still finalizing the schedule and we’ll be
announcing new speakers over the next three weeks,” Laura
Rigas, a spokeswoman for the union, said by phone. She declined
to comment further.  Michael Drewniak  and  Kevin Roberts , spokesmen for the
governor, didn’t respond to phone calls or e-mails for comment
on Christie not speaking at CPAC.  Christie, whose approval rating among voters in Quinnipiac
University polls has reached a record 74 percent for his
handling of the storm, has repeatedly said that party politics
has no role in the recovery.  The governor’s praise for Obama was a turnaround from June
2012, when he was a possible Romney running mate chosen to give
the conference’s keynote address in Rosemont, Illinois. During
that speech, he criticized Obama’s “audacity” for saying state
and local governments were moving in the wrong direction, and he
draw distinctions between the parties by saying, “We’re right
and they’re wrong.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elise Young in Trenton at 
 eyoung30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  