-- Clinton Backers Plead Guilty to Campaign Funds Violation
-- B y   A n d r e w   Z a j a c
-- 2013-02-27T00:51:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/clinton-backers-plead-guilty-to-campaign-funds-violation.html
Two contributors to the presidential
primary campaign of  Hillary Clinton  pleaded guilty to illegally
reimbursing straw donors in a case that tested a century-old ban
on direct corporate giving to political candidates.  William Danielczyk, 51, and Eugene Biagi, 78, admitted
today in federal court in Alexandria, Virginia, that they
improperly reimbursed donors who gave $186,600 to Clinton’s
Senate and presidential campaign committees from corporate
funds, U.S. Attorney Neil MacBride said.  “Direct contribution limits for corporations provide an
important check in the integrity of our electoral process, and
today’s conviction helps ensure that those who illegally go
beyond those limits are held accountable,” MacBride said in a
statement.  The guilty pleas came a day after the U.S. Supreme Court
declined to hear an appeal by Danielczyk and Biagi, who argued
that their indictment violated the Constitution’s free speech
guarantee as well as a 2010 high court decision allowing
corporations to spend unlimited sums on elections.  A federal trial judge threw out one of the seven charges
originally lodged against the two men, saying that the  Supreme
Court ’s 2010  Citizens United  ruling meant that companies can
make campaign donations directly to candidates as long as they
comply with general legal limits.  A federal appeals court in Richmond, Virginia, disagreed,
saying the majority in the Citizens United case explicitly
declined to allow corporate contributions.  Corporate Donations  In declining yesterday to take the Danielczyk case, the
Supreme Court turned down the chance to expand its ruling in
Citizens United and permit direct corporate donations to
political candidates.  Danielczyk and Biagi were accused of reimbursing the
Clinton donors from funds of McLean, Virginia-based Galen
Capital Corp., where Danielczyk was the chairman and Biagi the
secretary. Biagi admitted he disguised the nature of the
reimbursements by writing “consulting fees” on the checks,
according to the statement.  The guilty pleas cover illegal contributions made to
Clinton’s 2008 presidential campaign and her 2006 Senate bid.  The charge carries a maximum penalty of five years in
prison when they’re scheduled for sentencing on May 17.  The case is U.S. v. Danielczyk, 1:11-cr-00085, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of  Virginia  (Alexandria).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Zajac in Washington at 
 azajac@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  