-- CME Merger Talks Raise Fee Concern That May Stymie Deal
-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a ,   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r   a n d   I n y o u n g   H w a n g
-- 2013-02-26T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/cme-merger-talks-raise-fee-concern-that-may-stymie-deal.html
CME Group Inc. (CME) ’s overtures toward
 Deutsche Boerse (DB1)  AG are likely to raise the same concern among
customers about higher fees that helped scuttle last year’s deal
with NYSE Euronext.  The world’s second-largest exchange operator by market
value approached Frankfurt-based Deutsche Boerse about beginning
discussions for a merger at the end of 2012, before
Intercontinental Exchange Inc. announced plans to buy NYSE
Euronext on Dec. 20, according to four people familiar with the
situation. Deutsche Boerse, which had its deal with NYSE blocked
by European antitrust regulators, is hesitant about entering
talks, the people said. The German company said in a statement
it’s not in merger talks.  While a deal may yield “significant cost savings” through
shared systems for trading and clearing, firms that do business
on the Chicago and Frankfurt exchanges may balk at a merger that
could increase their costs,  Niamh Alexander , an analyst at KBW
Inc., said in a report.  Diego Perfumo , an analyst at Equity
Research Desk LLC, an advisory firm with hedge fund clients,
said any combination would face political hurdles.  “CME would be taking over half of the European derivatives
market and some member banks may like it and some wouldn’t,”
Perfumo, based in Greenwich,  Connecticut , said by phone. “CME
is a very strong competitor and they’d see CME concentrating
more and more power, first in the U.S. and then globally.”  Anita Liskey, a spokeswoman for CME, declined to comment
about the company’s plans.  Terrence Duffy , executive chairman of
CME, declined to comment on merger “speculation” in a CNBC
television interview today.  Eurex Market  Acquiring Deutsche Boerse would give CME the Eurex futures
exchange, the largest by number of contracts traded in  Europe .
Eurex’s main competitor is  NYSE Euronext (NYX) ’s London-based Liffe
market. Deutsche Boerse shares slipped 2.7 percent yesterday
after climbing 5.6 percent on Feb. 25.  ICE (ICE) , as Intercontinental Exchange is known, said in
December it plans to keep Liffe and NYSE Euronext’s U.S.
securities markets including the New York Stock Exchange while
exploring an initial public offering of the European stock
venues once the merger is completed. The New York-based company
runs share exchanges in Paris, Amsterdam, Brussels and Lisbon.  A deal between CME and Deutsche Boerse would reduce costs
by combining technology and trading and clearing systems,
Perfumo said. CME could structure it similarly to ICE’s, selling
the cash equities exchanges and keeping businesses that overlap,
he said. Getting management and regulators to agree to breaking
up Deutsche Boerse wouldn’t be easy, he said.  Rate Futures  Both companies trade futures on interest rates, commodities
and equity indexes, KBW’s Alexander said. Still, appeasing
futures brokers and other members worried that their trading and
clearing fees could rise might be a challenge.  “We don’t believe that the member customers would sit as
comfortably with a merged CME/DB1 given the power that this
combined entity could have over significant global interest rate
futures,” Alexander wrote, using the ticker symbols for the
companies. Merging the futures clearinghouses, which could
reduce the collateral customers provide to secure trades, isn’t
a “foregone conclusion” since they operate in different
jurisdictions with different bankruptcy laws, she said.  As Deutsche Boerse and NYSE Euronext negotiated with
regulators in 2011, customers represented by the Association for
Financial Markets in Europe raised seven areas for antitrust
scrutiny with the European Commission.  The group, representing banks and brokers including Goldman
Sachs Group Inc., Bank of America Corp., Deutsche Bank AG and
UBS AG, argued in submissions to regulators that competition in
exchange-traded derivatives and clearing would be stifled by the
merger. James White, a spokesman for AFME in  London , said the
organization had no immediate comment.  Minority Stakes  CME’s revenue from clearing and transaction fees declined 9
percent to $545 million in the fourth quarter compared with the
same period in 2011, the company said in a statement on Feb. 5.
It earned 83.1 cents per contract, up 2.5 percent from the
earlier period, it said.  Discussions between CME and Deutsche Boerse could lead to
an alliance in which shares are exchanged though not enough to
alter control, Perfumo said. Such a transaction could be modeled
on CME and  BM&FBovespa SA (BVMF3) ’s pact in which the Chicago and Sao
Paulo-based exchange companies own minority stakes in each
other. CME and the Brazilian equities and futures exchange
operator own about 5 percent of one another’s shares, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  An alliance in which “the two companies develop products
together, leverage their own distribution, link their
clearinghouses to the extent regulators allow and have a stock
swap” would be easier to negotiate than a breakup of Deutsche
Boerse, Perfumo said.  Takeover Bids  Exchange companies around the world have been the subject
of takeover bids amid shrinking profits for securities trading,
leading to the $8.2 billion offer for NYSE Euronext by ICE, a
12-year-old energy and commodity futures markets operator in
Atlanta.  The 2011 bid for NYSE Euronext by ICE and  Nasdaq OMX Group
Inc. (NDAQ) , rejected by the U.S. on concern the combination would
dominate American stock listings, is part of a three-year, $50
billion wave of attempted exchange deals, most of which haven’t
been consummated.  CME and Deutsche Boerse could achieve “economies of scale,
increase market share, offer a broader mix of products and try
to get a bigger share of institutional trades on their
platforms,”  Peter Kovalski , an analyst and portfolio manager at
Alpine Woods Capital Investors LLC in Purchase, New York, which
oversees about $6 billion, said in a phone interview.  “CME is the premier name for derivatives in the U.S.,” he
said. “A deal can be struck but the question is, can it be
approved, because it ends up becoming a political hot potato.”  Derivatives Volume  Equity derivatives trading fell last year for the first
time since 2004 as volatility subsided, according to a report by
the World Federation of Exchanges. Volume in futures and options
on stocks and equity indexes dropped 20 percent and interest
rate products declined 17 percent, the report said.  More than a decade after it went public, CME may have
missed its chance to acquire a European derivatives exchange.
Deutsche Boerse is the third company with operations in Europe
that CME, under the leadership of Phupinder Gill, examined in
the last year. It bid on the London Metal Exchange and talked to
NYSE Euronext about the clearing and Liffe businesses, according
to people familiar with the matter who asked not to be named
because the talks were private.  Jeffrey Sprecher , the chief executive officer of ICE, also
submitted a takeover bid for the LME.  Hong Kong Exchanges &
Clearing Ltd. (388) , which at $20.4 billion is the largest among its
peers, bought the metals market in December.  ‘Only Jurisdiction’  The U.K. is “pretty much the only jurisdiction where there
have been big exchanges and where the politics would allow them
to be bought by foreign companies,” Ruben Lee, chief executive
officer of Oxford Finance Group, a London-based consulting
company specializing in financial and commodity markets, and
author of “Running the World’s Markets: The Governance of
Financial Infrastructure,” said by phone. “The CME was in the
bidding for LME. The possibility of buying Liffe was always
there, it’s just that Sprecher took the opportunity.”  ICE bought the International Petroleum Exchange in 2001 and
acquired the New York Board of Trade in 2007. CME purchased the
Chicago Board of Trade that year and New York Mercantile
Exchange in 2008. It added the Kansas City Board of Trade to its
slate of exchanges in December.  ‘Merger Game’  “Both of these exchanges have shown an ability and
interest in acquisitions,” Bruce Weber, dean of the Alfred
Lerner College of Business and Economics at the University of
 Delaware , said in a phone interview. “CME sees the ICE
acquiring NYSE Euronext and being innovative playing the merger
game and they don’t want to fall behind.”  Antitrust concerns may not hinder a combination unless the
so-called vertical model of futures exchanges, in which the
market operator owns both the trading platform and clearing
operation, prompt regulators to condition approval on a remedy
such as spinning off a clearing business, Weber said. CME and
Deutsche Boerse are the “poster children” for the vertical
model, he said.  ‘Cultural Challenge’  The European Commission blocked Deutsche Boerse’s takeover
of NYSE Euronext in February 2012 because a combination would
have put 90 percent of European exchange-listed derivatives
trading in the hands of one company. Since then, several
companies, including CME and New York-based Nasdaq OMX, have
said they plan to introduce new markets to trade futures in
Europe.  Another hurdle for a deal between the U.S.’s CME and
 Germany ’s Deutsche Boerse is which company would have the upper
hand, Oxford Finance Group’s Lee said. CME market value is $19.5
billion compared with $12.1 billion for Deutsche Boerse.  “This would be a much bigger cultural challenge for
merging the two institutions than acquiring NYSE Euronext,” he
said. “Given that you can never have a merger of equals, one
would have to be on top and it’s difficult in the current
context to see either one being happy not being in this
position.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nina Mehta in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net ;
Nandini Sukumar in London at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net ;
Inyoung Hwang in New York at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  