-- CME Positioned to Compete as Standalone Firm, Duffy Tells CNBC
-- B y   W h i t n e y   K i s l i n g
-- 2013-02-26T22:24:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/cme-positioned-to-compete-as-standalone-firm-duffy-tells-cnbc.html
CME Group Inc. (CME)  is able to compete as
a standalone company, Chairman and President  Terrence Duffy  told
CNBC, declining to comment on merger plans for the world’s
largest futures exchange.  “We have the right pieces of the puzzle in place to
compete with anybody,” he said in an interview with CNBC today.
“We don’t comment about any speculation.”  The Chicago Mercantile Exchange owner approached Deutsche
Boerse AG in  Frankfurt  at the end of last year to consider
starting talks on a merger, according to four people familiar
with the situation. The Frankfurt-based owner of the Eurex
derivatives exchange is hesitant about entering discussions,
said the people, who asked not to be identified because the
information is private. Deutsche Boerse said in a statement
yesterday that it’s not in merger talks.  CME’s overture is the fourth time it has considered an
acquisition since Phupinder Gill replaced  Craig Donohue  as chief
executive officer in March 2012. The company has expanded in the
past decade through deals, buying the Chicago Board of Trade and
New York Mercantile Exchange. It unsuccessfully tried to
purchase the London Metal Exchange last year and also approached
NYSE Euronext about a deal with its derivatives business, two
people familiar with the situation said last month.  “Whether we continue to do transactions one way or another
to build on the CME Group is something yet to be decided,” he
added. “We would not be doing the business we are doing today
if we didn’t get the pieces of the puzzle over the last several
years.”  CME rose 2.1 percent to $58.98 today, bringing the 2013
advance to 16 percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney Kisling in  New York  at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at   lthomasson@bloomberg.net  