-- CME $17 Billion Decline No Barrier to Deutsche Boerse Bid
-- B y   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r   a n d   L i n d s e y   R u p p
-- 2013-02-26T06:39:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/cme-17-billion-lost-market-value-no-barrier-to-deutsche-boerse.html
While $17 billion of lost market
capitalization has cost  CME Group Inc. (CME)  the title of world’s most
valuable exchange owner, its stock commands a valuation that
would make buying  Germany ’s  Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1)  a bargain.  The Chicago Mercantile Exchange owner approached Deutsche
Boerse at the end of last year to consider starting talks on a
merger, according to four people familiar with the situation.
The Frankfurt-based owner of the Eurex derivatives exchange is
hesitant about entering discussions, said the people, who asked
not to be identified because the information is private.
Deutsche Boerse said in a statement yesterday that it’s not in
merger talks.  CME’s overture is the fourth time it has considered an
acquisition since Phupinder Gill replaced  Craig Donohue  as chief
executive officer in March 2012 and may be its best chance to
expand in  Europe . While down 59 percent from its peak in 2007,
its shares trade at 19.8 times last year’s earnings, a premium
of more than 30 percent over Deutsche Boerse.  “The big difference in the multiple is a function of CME
is really a pure play of a derivatives business, it’s best in
class, monopolistic and has got good growth,”  Alex Kramm, a
New York-based exchange analyst at UBS AG, said by phone.
“Whereas Deutsche Boerse, there’s a lot of other businesses and
cash equities in Germany, clearing. So they probably have a
conglomerate discount.”  Takeover Talks  CME and Deutsche Boerse officials met last month to debate
whether to begin formal takeover talks and haven’t made a
decision, the people said. No offer has been made, nor have
terms been discussed, they said.  Frank Herkenhoff , a spokesman
for Deutsche Boerse, and  Allan Schoenberg  of Chicago-based CME,
declined to comment.  CME shares trade close to the average multiple of 19.9 for
American and European derivatives venues in the Bloomberg World
Exchange Index. By contrast, markets that focus on stock
transactions such as  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ) ,  London Stock
Exchange Group Plc (LSE)  and NYSE Euronext are priced at an average of
13.2 times annual income, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Deutsche Boerse, with a market value of $12.4 billion
compared with CME’s $19.2 billion, is in the middle at about 14.  Trading futures is more valuable than stocks because
exchange operators usually control the clearing of derivatives
contracts, limiting the ability of rivals to offer the same
products. The ability to clear contracts inhibits competition
because member firms trading on different venues would have to
post collateral at separate clearinghouses, even for positions
that offset one another.  Higher Valuation  The higher  valuation  is little consolation to CME owners
who have held the shares since the credit crisis. While the
stock has rallied 9.8 percent since Intercontinental Exchange
Inc. agreed to buy  NYSE Euronext (NYX)  for $8.2 billion on Dec. 20, it
remains down 59 percent from its 2007 peak of $142.15. The
record was reached after an  848 percent  rally over four years
that was second only to Apple Inc. in the Russell 1000 Index.  “The markets aren’t robust, the sector is out of favor,
and CME is trying to do something about it,” Larry Tabb, chief
executive officer of the Tabb Group in New York, said in a phone
interview. “When they went public there was some optimism that
volumes would go to infinity and these guys were going to mint
money. Now investors are trying to figure out reality.”  Hong Kong Exchanges & Clearing Ltd. overtook CME as the
world’s largest exchange operator by market value in December as
the Chinese company completed its $2.2 billion takeover of the
 London  Metal Exchange. The Hong Kong bourse is the largest in
the industry with a capitalization of $20.8 billion, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Derivative Contracts  CME’s business spans agricultural, energy, metal and
financial futures linked to corn, oil, gold and interest rates.
The value of the company’s shares climbed as high as $38 billion
in 2007, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Earnings at CME slumped 13 percent to $989.4 million
excluding some items last year, the second decline since the
company went public in December 2002. Analysts’ forecasts show
profit will climb 6 percent to $1.05 billion this year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Deutsche Boerse’s Eurex division is Europe’s largest
derivatives market, hosting benchmark contracts on German and
French government bonds. Income tumbled 22 percent to 660.90
million euros ($863.7 million) in 2012 and may rebound 8 percent
to 715.6 million euros in 2013, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Antitrust Review  Any transaction would be subject to antitrust review by
regulators in Europe, who blocked a bid last year by NYSE
Euronext to merge with Deutsche Boerse. A deal would also face
opposition on political grounds, said  Peter Kovalski , an analyst
and portfolio manager at Alpine Woods Capital Investors LLC in
Purchase, New York, which manages about $6 billion. Alpine owns
shares of CME.  “Consolidation within the industry makes sense but seeing
the past, I’m surprised they would be trying to do something
like this,” he said in a telephone interview. “They should
probably wait for better economic times when antitrust and
political issues are less of concerns. In this environment now
with struggling employment, each country’s going to worry about
job losses.”  Competition authorities will also examine Intercontinental
Exchange’s takeover of NYSE. The companies said in December that
the new business will hold on to Liffe and NYSE Euronext’s U.S.
securities markets including the New York Stock Exchange and
would explore an initial public offering of the company’s
European stock venues once the merger is completed.  Attempted Deals  “CME doesn’t have the same obstacle from antitrust
regulators because it doesn’t have a material European business
today,” Elmer Funke Kupper, chief executive officer of ASX
Ltd.,  Australia ’s main exchange operator, said in an interview
in Sydney today. “They are not competitors in the way that NYSE
and Deutsche Boerse were. The reason that they said no is
that you had the German exchange and Liffe, which together would
be very, very large.”  Exchange companies have been the subject of $50 billion in
attempted deals in the past three years, most of them never
consummated, amid shrinking profits for securities trading,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Regulators scuttled a
merger agreement between NYSE Euronext and Deutsche Boerse in
February 2012 because it would have created a dominant European
exchange operator for derivatives.  Profit for companies in the Bloomberg World Exchanges Index
contracted 0.7 percent in 2012 and will increase 7.6 percent in
2013, according to analysts’ estimates.  Rebuffed Overtures  CME shares slipped 0.9 percent to $57.78 yesterday,
trimming their 2013 gain to 14 percent. Deutsche Boerse shares
jumped as much as 12 percent before ending up 5.6 percent at
49.30 euros, bringing the 2013 advance to 6.7 percent.  As Gill tries to turn around the share price, he has been
rebuffed in approaches for the London Metal Exchange and NYSE
Euronext. In October, CME said it would buy the Kansas City
Board of Trade and in August the company announced plans for a
new derivatives exchange in London.  “It would be a good use of CME’s high-multiple stock to go
shopping with it and there could be significant cost savings,”
 Niamh Alexander , an analyst at KBW Inc. in New York, wrote in a
report yesterday, referring to a purchase of Deutsche Boerse.
“An acquisition could be compelling even with the multiple
arbitrage alone, though we would see significant cost savings by
combining the operating systems.”  Revenue Slide  CME’s revenue is fading in the face of declining trading
following the 2008 financial crisis. Volume of contracts in the
fourth quarter fell 13 percent from a year earlier, led by
equity index, energy and interest rate contracts, the company
said on Feb. 5. Revenue slid 10.3 percent to $661 million last
quarter.  Average daily price moves for the S&P 500 have narrowed to
0.43 percent in 2013 from an average 1.08 percent the past five
years, the steepest decline for any corresponding period since
the 1930s, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “CME still has a strong business model,” Rich Repetto, an
analyst at Sandler O’Neill & Partners LP in New York, said in a
phone interview yesterday. “Investors think CME’s volumes are
suppressed by cyclical issues such as low interest rates and low
equity volatility, so volumes are seen rebounding over time.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nandini Sukumar in London at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net ;
Lindsey Rupp in New York at 
 lrupp2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  