-- Coeur Seeking More Acquisitions After Orko Purchase
-- B y   L i e z e l   H i l l
-- 2013-02-26T21:15:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/coeur-seeking-more-acquisitions-after-orko-purchase.html
Coeur d’Alene Mines Corp. (CDE) , the
biggest U.S. silver producer, is looking for more acquisitions
after the purchase of  Orko Silver Corp. (OK) , with an eye for smaller
deals near existing assets.  “There are some incremental-sized deals that could have an
impact on our existing assets between now and 2016 that we’ll
turn our attention to,” Chief Executive Officer Mitch Krebs
said in an interview yesterday. The Coeur d’Alene, Idaho-based
company will consider deals “smaller than Orko but big enough
to be meaningful enough to the company,” he said.  Coeur agreed last week to buy Orko for C$346.2 million
($337 million), trumping a bid from  First Majestic Silver Corp. (FR) 
The company plans to start production in late 2016 from Orko’s
La Preciosa project in Mexico, one of the largest undeveloped
silver deposits in the world, Krebs said in the interview in
Hollywood, Florida, where he’s attending the BMO  Capital Markets 
global metals and mining conference.  Silver prices on the Comex in  New York  averaged a record
$35.269 an ounce during 2011 as investors sought an alternative
investment. Silver futures for May delivery gained 0.9 percent
to $29.32 today.  Coeur, which mines in Mexico,  Bolivia  and the U.S., is also
expanding existing operations while seeking to contain costs,
Krebs said. The company will assess potential deals against the
requirements of its existing growth plans, including La
Preciosa, Krebs said.  Coeur, which “took a hard look” at Orko last year, made
its offer after the value of First Majestic’s all-stock bid
declined with the Vancouver-based company’s share price, Krebs
said. The deal is expected to close in April.  ‘Very Digestible’  The company was also prepared to take on La Preciosa
because the estimated $300 million to $500 million in  capital
costs  is “well within our means,” Krebs said. Coeur, with a
market valuation of $1.75 billion,  rose  0.8 percent to $19.31 at
the close in New York.  “It’s not a company maker or breaker kind of mega-
project,” he said. “It’s very digestible growth for a company
our size.”  The depressed market valuations and financing difficulties
for so-called junior companies for may be positive for Coeur,
Krebs said.  “The capital markets have been largely shut down for the
juniors,” he said. “It’s going to be a very interesting year
for the non-producers and that means opportunities for a company
like us.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liezel Hill in Hollywood,  Florida , at 
 lhill30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  