-- Colombia Central Bank’s Monetary Policy Rate Statement (Text)
-- B y   D o m i n i c   C a r e y
-- 2013-02-26T11:27:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/colombia-central-bank-s-monetary-policy-rate-statement-text-.html
Following is the text from
Colombia’s  Central Bank  statement on the benchmark  interest
rate  decision on Feb. 22. The translation to English was
provided by the Central Bank on its website.  22 February 2013  Banco de la República Lowers the Benchmark Interest Rate by 25
Basis Points.  At its meeting today, the Board of Directors of Banco de la
República decided to lower the benchmark interest rate by 25
basis points and, in doing so, placed the base overnight rate
for expansion auctions at 3.75%. The decision took into account
the fact that the Colombian economy is growing below its
potential, observed and forecast inflation are under the 3%
target, and there are no signs of upward pressure on inflation
in the near future.  The Board of Directors decided as such in light of the following
relevant factors:  • Global economic growth during the fourth quarter of 2012 was
somewhat weaker than expected. However, so far in 2013, the
indicators of economic activity and expectations in some of the
larger economies have been more positive and financial
conditions have improved.  • International oil prices rose and are at levels above the
average observed in 2012. If the price of oil stays at these
levels, it could offset the low coffee and coal prices and place
terms of trade in 2013 above the average for 2012.  • In  Colombia , the economic indicators for the fourth quarter of
2012 suggest private consumption grew slightly less than during
the second and third quarters of that year. The uncertainty
surrounding the behavior of investment remains high,
particularly with respect to investment in civil works and
building construction. On the supply side, the leading
industrial indicators again suggest a drop in production in this
sector during December, while the indicators for commerce point
to acceptable growth. This being the case, the technical team
estimates economic growth in 2012 should be within a range of
3.3% to 3.9%.  • Economic growth during the first quarter of 2013 will be
affected by fewer business days during that period, as well as
the supply shocks to coal exports and the risk of less demand
from  Venezuela .  • In January, annual consumer inflation (2%) was lower than
expected, predominantly due to less of an increase in the CPI
for food and regulated items. The  tax reform  helped to reduce
some of these prices, a development that has a temporary impact
on the annual change in the CPI. Other factors, such as lower
production costs and moderate wage adjustments, also explain
part of this behavior.  • The averages for both  core inflation  and inflation
expectations are below the long-term target (3%).  • The slowdown in inflation, which was more than expected,
occurred in the context of a negative output gap, a situation
that may keep inflation expectations at low levels for a longer
period of time. It also reduces the likelihood that
unanticipated increases generated by supply shocks may
jeopardize compliance with the inflation target.  • Lending continued to decelerate in January, but at a slower
pace. Nominal interest rates on the different types of loans
fell, with the exception of those for  consumer lending , which
increased during the month. In real terms, all the rates were
up, partly because of the reduction in actual inflation and
inflation expectations.  In these circumstances, an assessment of the risk balance
indicates the desirability of lowering the intervention interest
rate to 3.75%. The monetary policy actions being taken are
intended to place output near the economy’s productive capacity,
without jeopardizing the inflation target and the country’s
macroeconomic stability.  The Board reiterates that Banco de la República has sufficient
tools and resources to satisfy the economy’s regular liquidity
needs in both local and foreign currency, as well as any needs
that might arise in an environment of international financial
turmoil.  The Board will continue its careful monitoring of performance
and projections with respect to economic activity and inflation
in Colombia, asset markets and the international situation.
Finally, it restates that monetary policy will depend on new
information as it becomes available.  Bogotá, February 22, 2013  SOURCE: Banco de la Republica
 http://www.banrep.gov.co/   To contact the reporter on this story:
Dominic Carey in  Sao Paulo  at 
 dcarey5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  