-- Consumer Confidence in U.S. Increases More Than Forecast
-- B y   J e a n n a   S m i a l e k
-- 2013-02-26T15:11:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/consumer-confidence-in-u-s-rose-more-than-forecast-in-february.html
Confidence among U.S. consumers
jumped more than forecast in February as Americans adjusted to
a higher  payroll tax  and signs of a recovering housing market
spurred faith in the future.  The Conference Board’s  index  climbed to 69.6, exceeding all
forecasts in a Bloomberg survey of economists, from a revised
58.4 in January, data from the New York-based private research
group showed today. It was the first improvement in four months
and the biggest since November 2011.  The gain in sentiment from the lowest level in more than a
year signals Americans are beginning to cope with the a two
percentage-point increase in the payroll tax used to fund  Social
Security  and higher gasoline prices that are curbing disposable
income. Rising home values and gains in employment may be
brightening attitudes, helping to underpin spending.  “The job market is healing, we’re creating enough jobs to
at least keep the unemployment rate stable,”  Ryan Sweet , a
senior economist at Moody’s Analytics in  West Chester ,
 Pennsylvania , said before the report. “ House prices  are rising,
and that’s helping to improve confidence.” Economists at
Moody’s Analytics are the most accurate consumer-confidence
forecasters in the two years through January, according to
Bloomberg calculations.  The  median forecast  of 76 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
projected an increase to 62. Estimates ranged from 58 to 66.5.
The measure averaged 53.7 in the recession that ended in June
2009.  Bernanke’s View  Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke today defended the
central bank’s unprecedented asset purchases, saying they are
supporting the expansion with little risk of inflation or asset-
price bubbles.  “We do not see the potential costs of the increased risk-
taking in some financial markets as outweighing the benefits of
promoting a stronger economic recovery,” Bernanke said in
prepared testimony to the Senate Banking Committee in
 Washington . “Inflation is currently subdued, and inflation
expectations appear well anchored.”  An improvement in the housing market could provide
consumers relief from higher taxes and fuel costs. Another
report today showed  home prices  in 20 U.S. cities rose in the 12
months to December by the most in more than six years, a sign
the housing-market recovery is strengthening. The S&P/Case-
Shiller  index  of property values increased 6.8 percent from
December 2011, the biggest year-to-year gain since July 2006.  Home Sales  Purchases of new homes jumped in January to the highest
level since July 2008, showing the industry will keep adding to
growth in the economy, figures from the Commerce Department
showed today. Sales surged 15.6 percent to a 437,000 annual
pace, exceeding the highest forecast in a Bloomberg survey and
following a 378,000 rate in the prior month.  Stocks held earlier gains after the reports. The Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index climbed 0.5 percent to 1,495.7 at 10:07 a.m. in
 New York .  Treasury securities  fell, sending the yield on the
benchmark 10-year note up to 1.88 percent from 1.87 percent late
yesterday.  The Conference Board’s gauge of consumer  present conditions 
improved to 63.3 in February from 56.2 in January. The measure
of  expectations  for the next six months climbed to 73.8 from
59.9.  Brightening Outlook  The share of consumers expecting more jobs to become
available in the next six months rose to 16.7 percent in
February from 14.4 percent the previous month.  The share of respondents who expect an increase in their
income in the next six months climbed to 15.7 percent, the
highest since October.  The number of respondents who said jobs are currently
plentiful advanced to 10.5 percent in February from 8.5 percent.
The share saying jobs are hard to get rose to 37 percent from
36.6 percent.  Buying plans were more mixed. The share forecasting they
will purchase a car climbed, while intentions to buy a house or
major appliances fell.  Today’s figures match other measures of  consumer
confidence . The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index’s weekly gauge
rose in the week ended Feb. 17 to its highest level this year,
though the gap between positive and negative expectations was
little changed this month.  Other Measures  The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan preliminary index
of consumer  sentiment  rose in February to its highest level in
three months.  Employment gains could help to sustain demand, giving
consumers more money to spend. Employers hired a net 157,000
workers last month following gains of 196,000 and 247,000 in
December and November, Labor Department figures show.  “Employment growth, while subpar compare to economic
recoveries, has shown more recent signs of an improving pace of
pickup,” said Jon E. Bortz, Chief Executive Officer of
 Pebblebrook Hotel Trust (PEB) , in a fourth quarter earnings call on
Feb. 22. The company invests in hotel properties located in
large U.S. cities, particularly in coastal markets.  “Both
consumer confidence and business confidence have also been
improving recently. So, all of these seem to bode well for at
least a modest year of demand growth in 2013.”  Still, headwinds remain. A decrease in take-home pay from a
higher payroll tax had been dragging down consumer confidence.
Americans earning $50,000 a year are taking home about $80 less
a month after the tax used to pay for Social Security benefits
increased to 6.2 percent from 4.2 percent starting last month.  Gasoline Prices  Rising retail fuel prices are also costing consumers. After
falling as low as $3.22 in December, a gallon of regular
unleaded gasoline at the pump now is hovering close to $3.80,
according to AAA, the U.S.’ largest auto group.  As consumers try to adjust to smaller disposable incomes,
spending on goods and services -- such as restaurant dining --
could slow.  “There are still some lingering political issues such as
the sequestration that we believe are creating uncertainty in
the marketplace,” Elizabeth A. Smith, chief executive officer
of  Bloomin’ Brands Inc. (BLMN) , said in a Feb. 22 earnings call.
Bloomin’ Brands owns casual dining chains including Outback
Steakhouse and Carrabba’s Italian Grill. “Housing indicators
are showing signs of improvement, but  gas prices  now seem to be
rising. In addition, the payroll tax increase and inflation and
other categories represent real headwinds for consumer
disposable income.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanna Smialek in Washington at 
 jsmialek1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  