-- Consumer Stocks May Weather Retail-Sales Slump: Chart of the Day
-- B y   D a v i d   W i l s o n
-- 2013-02-26T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/consumer-stocks-may-weather-retail-sales-slump-chart-of-the-day.html
Retail sales are rising fast enough
to indicate the effects of tax-law changes and gasoline-price
increases on consumer spending will be fleeting, according to
 Jonathan Golub , UBS AG’s chief U.S. equity strategist.  As the CHART OF THE DAY shows, last month’s 4.4 percent
sales increase from a year earlier almost matched the average
4.6 percent pace for the previous 20 years. The comparison is
based on figures compiled by the Commerce Department.  “The general trend appears to be quite healthy” even
though the end of a payroll-tax break, a delay in income-tax
refunds and higher gas prices are weighing on consumers, Golub
wrote yesterday in a report with a similar chart.  Golub favors makers of food, beverages and other staples,
as well as companies most dependent on consumers’ discretionary
spending. His view ran counter to a recommendation yesterday by
David Bianco, a strategist at Deutsche Bank AG. Both strategists
are based in New York.  Bianco reaffirmed “underweight” ratings on staples
companies and retailers in a report, citing a “continuing
struggle of low- to middle-income households to make ends
meet.” His call means the two groups ought to be a smaller
percentage of investors’ holdings than their weight in the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index would suggest.  Social Security levies rose 2 percentage points on Jan. 1.
Tax refunds through Feb. 14 fell 29 percent from a year ago to
$55 billion, according to the Treasury Department. The average
price for unleaded regular gas has risen as much as 15 percent
this year, according to the American Automobile Association.  Consumers may offset the higher payroll tax mainly by
cutting into debt repayment and savings, rather than spending,
Golub wrote. Refunds will soon accelerate, he added, while gas
prices are poised to fall.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Wilson in New York at 
 dwilson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Nagi at 
 chrisnagi@bloomberg.net  