-- Copper Winding Earth 105 Times Shows Deficit: Commodities
-- B y   J o e   R i c h t e r
-- 2013-02-26T15:26:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/copper-winding-earth-105-times-shows-deficit-commodities.html
China , primed by  government spending 
to boost growth, will need enough copper every month to circle
the globe more than 100 times.  The nation required 4.2 million kilometers (2.6 million
miles) of copper cables in December, the most in nine months, to
satisfy demand for electric grids, housing, autos and exports.
That’s enough to go around the 40,075-kilometer equator about
105 times. Manufacturing and exports are growing at the fastest
pace in two years, while cars are selling like never before in
China, the world’s most-populated country and responsible for
about 40 percent of world copper consumption.  Copper use in China will jump 8 percent to a record 8.833
million metric tons this year, boosting global demand and
creating a 6,000-ton product deficit versus a surplus of 216,000
tons in 2012, according to Goldman Sachs Group Inc. Prices in
 London  probably will climb 15 percent to $9,000 a ton in six
months, more than double the advance for all of last year, New
York-based Goldman said in a Feb. 19 report.  “Copper is the preferred way to play China growth, and it
should be very strong,” said  John Stephenson , who helps manage
C$2.7 billion ($2.7 billion) at First Asset Investment
Management Inc. in Toronto. “The commodities that will do well
are the ones that China doesn’t have a hammerlock on in terms of
their ability to produce, and copper certainly would be that.”  Price Rally  Prices have slipped 1 percent on the London Metal Exchange
this year after a 4.4 percent rally in 2012. The Standard &
Poor’s GSCI gauge of 24 raw materials has advanced 1.4 percent
in 2013, and the MSCI All-Country World Index of equities added
2.9 percent. Treasuries lost 0.4 percent, a Bank of America
Corp. index shows.  China’s growth in the three months ending in June will
accelerate to 8.25 percent, the fastest pace since 2011, after
government stimulus measures helped pull the world’s second-
largest economy out of a seven-quarter slowdown at the end of
last year, according to a Bloomberg survey of economists. China
is the biggest user of copper.  Manufacturing in China has expanded for four straight
months, a Feb. 1 government report showed. January exports
gained the most since April 2011, and passenger-vehicle sales
surged 49 percent to a monthly record, data released Feb. 7 and
8 showed.  China Imports  The country needs to  import  copper because domestic
production of 6.541 million tons will fall short of demand by
2.168 million tons, Barclays Plc said in a Feb. 15 report.  More than 21 million Chinese -- almost the population of
 Australia  -- left their rural homes for jobs in cities in 2012,
according to China’s National Bureau of Statistics. The
migration creates greater demand for housing, new appliances,
cars and electricity transmission lines, all requiring copper.  Vehicle sales in China, including trucks and buses, will
probably accelerate this year and surpass 20 million for the
first time on a rebound in economic growth and urbanization,
according to estimates by the China Association of Automobile
Manufacturers. The transportation industry accounts for about 11
percent of the country’s copper use, according to data from
Bloomberg Industries.  China will rebuild 3 million homes for rural residents in
2013, the official Xinhua News Agency reported Feb. 10, citing
the Ministry of Housing and Urban-Rural Development. New-home
prices rose in December in the most Chinese cities in 20 months,
according to a government report on Jan. 18.  ‘Electric Grid’  “China is planning on urbanizing 100 million people over
the coming decade, and the No. 1 usage for copper in China is
the electric grid,”  John Goldsmith , who help manage C$5.2
billion at Montrusco Bolton Investments Inc. in Toronto, said in
a telephone interview. “That’s a boatload of copper they’re
going to need.”  Accelerating inflation may prompt the government to reign
in growth. The People’s Bank of China drained a record 910
billion  yuan  ($146 billion) from the financial system last week.
The government told local authorities on Feb. 21 to
“decisively” curb real-estate speculation and take steps to
cool the  property market  after January prices rose the most in
two years. Builders account for about 9.4 percent of Chinese
copper demand, compared with 50 percent in the U.S., where about
400 pounds of the metal is used in the average home.  Stockpiles of the metal monitored by the Shanghai Futures
Exchange have climbed 49 percent since the end of June, data
from the exchange show.  Oyu Tolgoi  A 3.4 percent surge in copper output may overwhelm demand
and keep prices in check, according to Barclays. Mines scheduled
to open this year include Codelco’s Ministro Hales near Calama,
 Chile , and  Rio Tinto Group’s (RIO)  Oyu Tolgoi Mongolia’s South Gobi
Desert. Production will jump the most since 2004 this year,
creating a surplus of 56,000 tons, Barclays estimates. The
London-based bank forecast prices will decline 0.3 percent on
average in 2013, according to the Feb. 15 report.  Chile, the world’s biggest copper-producing nation, said
Jan. 28 that domestic output will probably reach a record this
year.  “I’m not convinced we’ll see a  bull market  in copper any
time soon,”  Jack Ablin , who helps oversee about $66 billion of
assets as chief investment officer of BMO Private Bank in
 Chicago , said in a telephone interview. With the increase in
China demand, “it’s a favorable environment, but the rising
supplies are going to get in the way of that.”  Copper consumption is also poised to rise in the U.S., the
world’s second-biggest user, and the outlook for U.S. housing
will be an “important contributor” to demand growth, Goldman
said in a Feb. 19 report.  U.S. Housing  Builders broke ground in January on the most U.S. single-
family homes in more than four years, Commerce Department data
showed Feb. 20. The U.S. will account for 9.7 percent of demand
this year, while China will use 44 percent, according to
Goldman.  The world’s mining companies have fallen short of forecasts
by an average of 6.5 percent annually since 2006, data from the
Lisbon-based International Copper Study Group show. Companies
from Melbourne-based  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  to Phoenix-based
 Freeport-McMoran Copper & Gold Inc. (FCX)  have contended with labor
stoppages and aging mines. Refiners must process about 15
percent more ore than in 2000 to extract the same amount of
metal because of declining grades, according to Macquarie Group
Ltd.  Morgan Outlook  Rio Tinto , the world’s s largest mining company, said Feb.
14 its $6.6 billion Oyu Tolgoi copper mine won’t start until
disagreements with the government are resolved. London-based Rio
has twice rejected Mongolia’s demands in the past 18 months for
a greater share of profits from the mine.  The outlook for new supply will have a “muted” effect on
the market in the medium-term, in part because of the risk of
project delays, Morgan Stanley said in a Jan. 24 note. The bank
estimated prices will rise to $8,554 this year from $7,952 in
2012.  “The Chinese will continue to urbanize as they want to
bring more of their population to the middle-class platform, and
that means more infrastructure, and that in turn means more
copper demand,” said  Quincy Krosby , a market strategist for
 Newark , New Jersey-based Prudential Financial Inc., which
oversees more than $1 trillion of assets. “The economic data in
the U.S suggests that the economy continues to grow, and
particularly in the housing market, and that is positive.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Richter in  New York  at 
 jrichter1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  