-- CRH Profit Falls on Weak European Confidence; CEO to Retire
-- B y   F i n b a r r   F l y n n
-- 2013-02-26T15:06:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/crh-profit-falls-on-weaker-euro-region-confidence-as-ceo-resigns.html
CRH Plc (CRH) , the world’s second-largest
maker of construction materials, posted a 5 percent decline in
full-year earnings amid weak consumer demand in the euro-region.  Underlying like-for-like sales fell 2 percent, as a 3
percent  increase  in the Americas was outweighed by a 6 percent
decline for European operations, the Dublin-based company said
today in a statement. Pretax profit declined 5.2 percent to 674
million euros ($881 million). Chief Executive Officer Myles Lee
said he would retire at the end of the year after 31 years at
the company.  European operations “had to contend with weakening
consumer and investor confidence within the Eurozone,” said
Lee. Business in the Americas was “helped by a strong recovery
in residential construction and improving overall economic
activity in the  United States .”  CRH operates builders merchants and do-it-yourself stores
as well as manufacturing cement, aggregates and concrete
products for the  construction industry . Builders broke ground on
613,000 houses at an annualized rate last month, the most since
July 2008 and up 0.8 percent from December, U.S. Commerce
Department figures showed last week.  This year will be “another challenging year” in  Europe ,
said the company, even as the  European Central Bank ’s efforts to
support peripheral Euro area economies has created a more stable
financial climate. Improvements in the U.S. business will
“outweigh” pressures in Europe, CRH said.  CEO Search  Lee, who became finance director in November 2003 and CEO
in January 2009, will leave at the age of 60, the company said.
Chairman Nicky Hartery said the board has appointed a committee
to search for his successor.  “We would expect that Albert Manifold, chief operating
officer, would be a likely successor to Myles Lee and that this
would be perceived positively by the market,” analysts at NCB
Stockbrokers wrote in a note to clients today.  CRH dropped as much as 2.7 percent in London trading, and
traded up 1.7 percent at 14.45 pounds at 2:30 p.m., giving the
company a market value of 10.5 billion pounds. CRH rose 3
percent to 16.72 euros in Dublin.  “His tenure focused on strengthening CRH’s balance sheet,
which leaves it in excellent shape for his successor,” said
David Holohan, an analyst at Merrion Capital in Dublin who has a
sell recommendation on the stock. “Given that they are giving a
year’s notice of the retirement, the market reaction should be
limited.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Finbarr Flynn in Dublin at 
 fflynn3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Lytle at 
 dlytle@bloomberg.net  