-- Croda Record Skin-Care Profit Challenges Struggling BASF
-- B y   A n d r e w   N o e l
-- 2013-02-26T15:54:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/croda-record-skin-care-profit-challenges-struggling-basf.html
Croda International Plc (CRDA)  reported
record quarterly profit from skin-care formulations as the
world’s second-largest cosmetic-ingredient maker closes the gap
on larger competitor  BASF SE. (BAS)   The supplier of sunblock is winning smaller customers from
distributors employed by BASF and other rivals, as well as
expanding in  Latin America  and  Asia , according to Chief
Executive Officer Steve Foots. Fourth-quarter pretax profit at
Croda, today’s top gainer on the  FTSE100 index , rose 3 percent
to 61.2 million pounds ($93 million),  beating  estimates.  BASF is focusing on larger customers brought in by the
Ludwigshafen, Germany-based manufacturer’s $3.8 billion purchase
of additives maker Cognis. Croda is pursuing smaller clients who
buy “test-tube sized volumes” of products in addition to
bigger purchasers such as  L’Oreal SA (OR) , Foots said. Foots, in his
post for a year, has been conserving cash for reinvestment
rather than offering a special dividend to investors.  “We’d say we’re taking market share, particularly some of
the smaller customers at the outsourcing end,” Foots said in a
phone interview from London today. “BASF’s model is a different
model to ours.”  Stock Jumps  Croda, which joined the U.K.’s benchmark stock index last
year,  rose  as much as 3.3 percent to a record 2,639 pence and
was trading up 1.1 percent at 10:53 a.m. in London. BASF, which
today reported earnings in line with estimates,  fell  2.8 percent
to 72.89 euros in  Frankfurt .  Analysts  predicted  Croda would report fourth-quarter pretax
profit of 59.7 million pounds. The consumer-care division posted
an 8.3 percent increase in earnings to 185.4 million pounds last
year on a 2.6 percent advance in sales. By contrast, BASF’s
care-chemicals division, which encompasses Cognis, reported a
4.2 percent decline in revenue.  BASF said the Cognis-led business struggled with difficult
markets and “cautious buying behavior” that held back margins.
Chief Executive Officer Kurt Bock aims this year to turn the
division around through “strict” cost management and
efficiency gains.  Bock said today he checked back with managers of the care
chemicals business to ascertain whether it had lost customers
and couldn’t find any trace of Croda taking share. The area of
overlap is very narrow, yet competitive, and is the jewel of the
division, he said.  Croda, based in the northern-England town of Snaith, passed
on raw-material costs, giving up volume where necessary, and
introduced products with better margins to compensate, Foots
said. The company added 40 employees to its sales and marketing
workforce last year after taking most distribution activities
in-house, he said today on a conference call.  Crop Care  BASF’s takeover of Cognis, completed in December 2010, has
also brought crop-care clients to Croda as some crop-protection
customers switched suppliers rather than order from a direct
competitor, Foots said.  Croda predicted “further progress in 2013” after an
“encouraging” start to the year, with expansion in  North
America , Latin America and Asia.  The global market for beauty products expanded 4.6 percent
in 2012, led by L’Oreal,  Procter & Gamble Co. (PG)  and  Unilever (UNA) , and
the ranks of emerging and wealthy middle classes are expected to
almost triple to 2.7 billion consumers by 2020, according to
Bloomberg analyst Deborah Aitken.  Omega 3  BASF and Croda, along with  Royal DSM NV (DSM) , also compete in
Omega 3 fatty acids, used in drugs and nutritional supplements,
following the German company’s  purchase  earlier this year of
Pronova BioPharma ASA for $900 million.  Competition has intensified at a time when Peruvian quotas
limiting fishing are tightening the supply of oil used as a raw
material. Fish-oil prices may surge by 30 percent to 50 percent
this year, and some of Croda’s research efforts are focused on
biofermentation to seek alternative sources, Foots said. The CEO
declined to go into details.  Croda’s enterprise technology venture capital arm has a
“head of steam” and there is a lot of potential for
acquisitions at the “small end” of the market, consisting of
assets costing as much as 25 million pounds, Foots said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Noel in  London  at 
 anoel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  