-- Czech Policy Maker Renews Warning Koruna Sales May Be Needed
-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 2013-02-26T13:42:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/czech-policy-maker-renews-warning-koruna-sales-may-be-needed-1-.html
The Czech central bank may need to
relax monetary conditions further through koruna sales this year
to meet its inflation target, said Lubomir Lizal, a member of
the policy-making board.  The Ceska Narodni Banka is navigating in uncharted
territory after cutting the benchmark  interest rate  three times
last year to  effectively zero . Policy makers are debating
whether the longest  recession  on record, which is taming
inflation, warrants more policy easing through a weaker koruna.  The bank’s current forecast isn’t significantly different
from the previous prognosis in terms of the projected path of
market interest rates, Lizal said today, adding that the koruna
rate will be one of the factors for the central bank’s board
when deciding on whether to ease conditions further.  The interest rate “ trajectory is still moving in the area
where it may still be necessary to ease monetary conditions,”
Lizal said told reporters at the central bank’s headquarters in
Prague. “At present, it’s not possible to say explicitly yes or
no. In essence, the forecast isn’t qualitatively different in
terms of expectations of whether monetary conditions will need
to be relaxed or not.”  ‘Less Urgent’  The koruna strengthened 1.8 percent to the euro, its best
weekly rally in 14 months, after the bank’s policy meeting on
Feb. 6 when Governor Miroslav Singer said more monetary easing
may be needed, though “the need may look less urgent.”  It lost as much as 0.4 percent today, trading at 25.537 to
the euro as of 2:41 p.m. in Prague. It’s 3.9 percent weaker
against the euro compared with Sept. 17, which was one day
before Singer first said the bank may use currency sales to ease
monetary conditions.  “The  exchange rate  is only an instrument,” Lizal said.
The actual koruna level corresponding to policy easing “will
only be debated at the monetary meeting when there is an
agreement that conditions need to be relaxed.”  Zero Rates  The central bank, which targets inflation, left the two-
week repurchase rate at 0.05 percent for a second meeting on
Feb. 6, almost three-quarters of a percentage point less than
the euro-area benchmark.  It cut its economic forecasts for 2013 as the government’s
austerity measures continue to damp demand. The bank sees the
2013 gross domestic product contracting 0.3 percent, compared
with a previous estimate of 0.2 percent growth. It increased its
outlook for the  three-month  Prague Interbank Offered Rate to 0.4
percent in 2013 from 0.2 percent.  GDP shrank 0.2 percent in the final three months of last
year, marking the fourth consecutive quarterly decline,
according to preliminary data.  Inflation was the slowest in 16 months in January, with the
annual rate dropping to 1.9 percent from 2.4 percent in
December. Inflation relevant for monetary policy, defined as
price growth adjusted for changes in indirect taxes, was 1.1
percent, unchanged from December and near the lower end of the
central bank’s 1 percent to 3 percent target band.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Laca in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  