-- Danske Caps Covered Bonds to Win Over Senior Creditors
-- B y   F r a n c e s   S c h w a r t z k o p f f
-- 2013-02-26T08:59:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/danske-caps-covered-bonds-to-win-over-senior-creditors.html
Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE)  plans to limit
issuance of the safest bonds to avoid falling into a collateral
trap that threatens to drive senior creditors away and even push
funding costs higher.  Denmark’s largest bank, which is struggling to raise
profitability to match its five biggest Nordic rivals and
reverse  credit rating  cuts, will cap issuance of covered bonds
at current levels, said Steen Blaafalk, head of group treasury.
The decision follows growing reliance on the securities after
lawmakers first allowed banks outside the mortgage industry to
sell covered bonds in 2007.  “We don’t want to jeopardize our senior creditors’
opportunity,” Blaafalk said in an interview from Copenhagen.
Covered bonds now make up about 6.5 percent of total funding, he
said. “It will stay around there,” he said. “We cannot see
that number being double digit, percentage-wise.”  After rising in popularity among investors and issuers
during the financial crisis, covered bonds are now coming under
scrutiny as banks set aside an increasing share of their
collateral to back the notes. That’s depleting security for the
remaining creditors and may even hurt issuer ratings.  European Central Bank President Mario Draghi said last week
that overuse of the securities could limit access to unsecured
funding and introduce new risks into an industry still plagued
by the debt crisis. The European Systemic Risk Board, which
Draghi chairs, has recommended fuller disclosure and more
regulatory scrutiny.  Monitoring Overuse  The Danish Financial Supervisory Authority said it’s
monitoring possible overuse of covered bonds.  “Along with other supervisors, the FSA is also currently
looking into the possible risks of high levels of asset
encumbrance for relevant institutions,” Anders Raun, deputy
director at the Copenhagen-based agency, said in an e-mailed
response to questions.  Danske has used the bonds to cut its funding costs as
 Denmark  grapples with the fallout of its bail-in legislation.
The securities have also helped the bank keep a lid on its
capital costs as it targets tripling its return on equity to
more than 12 percent by 2015 to compete with Swedish rivals such
as Nordea Bank AB.  The bank’s “rule of thumb” for the past three years has
been to split debt issuance evenly between covered bonds and
senior debt, with some variations, Blaafalk said.  Costs Easing  Covered bonds made up 47 percent of  Danske’s long-term debt 
funding at the end of last year, or 167 billion kroner ($30
billion). Danske plans to cap its reliance on the securities
even as the cost of issuing the notes falls.  Last week, the bank sold 1 billion euros ($1.3 billion) in
seven-year covered bonds at the best price “we’ve seen in four
years,” Blaafalk said. Danske will issue 30 billion kroner to
60 billion kroner in debt this year, compared with as much as
100 billion kroner in some years, he said.  “We accelerated some of our long-term funding last year so
we actually have a strong liquidity position today,” he said.
“We are ahead of the curve so we don’t need to do much.”  Danske last month repaid 1.5 billion euros tapped from the
ECB’s first longer-term refinancing operations and may pay back
4 billion euros borrowed in the second LTRO, Blaafalk said. The
decision will depend in part on the market’s response to  Italy ’s
elections, he said.  Ratings Cuts  Danske’s unsecured funding has been dogged by downgrades
last year by Moody’s Investors Service and Standard & Poor’s
after burst property bubbles in Ireland and Denmark hurt
earnings.  The bank’s return on equity was 3.59 percent last quarter,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That compares with
 Svenska Handelsbanken AB (SHBA) ’s 14 percent,  Swedbank AB (SWEDA) ’s 13 percent
and Nordea’s 12 percent.  DNB ASA (DNB)  of Norway reported an ROE of 11
percent while Stockholm-based SEB AB’s was 11 percent.  Danske can fund itself using covered bonds at rates as good
as, or better, than those paid by its biggest Nordic peers,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The bank still pays more in other debt classes. Danske’s
senior unsecured debt maturing Feb. 28, 2017, bears a coupon of
3.875 percent. That compares with a coupon of 3.375 percent for
Handelsbanken’s senior unsecured debt maturing in July 2017.  Funding Costs  Yet the coupon on Danske’s February 2020 covered bond
issued last week is 1.625 percent, compared with 1.875 percent
on Handelsbanken’s bond due Oct. 2, 2019. Danske is rated Baa1
at Moody’s, A- at S&P and A at Fitch. Handelsbanken is rated Aa3
at Moody’s and AA- at both S&P and Fitch.  Investors have snapped up covered bonds from Danish issuers
even after the nation was dragged through a housing slump that
left property prices more than 20 percent lower since their 2007
peak.  That’s in part because Danish banks maintain strict loan-
to-value requirements. New mortgages can’t exceed 80 percent of
a property’s value, reducing the risk of foreclosure waves such
as those witnessed in the U.S. following its subprime mortgage
bubble.  Even though Denmark’s housing market remains a long way off
its pre-crisis levels, the average LTV ratio is 55 to 60
percent, Blaafalk said.  “That isn’t something that you find in the rest of
 Europe ,” he said. “You know you don’t get that much yield but
you also want to diversify yourself.”  Danske reported a more than fivefold surge in fourth-
quarter profit after impairments fell by almost half and the
bank closed 24 percent of its branches. Net income rose to 1.15
billion kroner in the three months through December.  “My pricing in the senior market is reflecting already
that the market is expecting Danske Bank will get a rating hike
earlier rather than later,” Blaafalk said. “We have to deliver
now on stable profit and loss results and to have falling
impairments.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frances Schwartzkopff in Copenhagen at 
 fschwartzko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net  