-- Delphi Initiates Dividend to Show Confidence in Business
-- B y   M a r k   C l o t h i e r
-- 2013-02-26T21:56:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/delphi-initiates-dividend-to-show-confidence-in-business.html
Delphi Automotive Plc (DLPH) , the former
parts unit of  General Motors Co. (GM) , initiated a dividend, its
first since returning to the public markets after bankruptcy.  Delphi will pay 17 cents a share on March 27 to
shareholders of record on March 15, the company said in a
statement. The shares rose the most in almost nine months.  Chief Executive Officer Rodney O’Neal said in an interview
last month the company was considering paying a dividend, as
Delphi weighed priorities for its cash. The company had
accomplished  three  of its four priorities for deploying its
capital: share buybacks, achieving investment-grade credit
metrics and “opportunistic” acquisitions, O’Neal said in the
interview.  “We’ve done three of the four,” O’Neal said at the time.
“We have not done the dividend, and it’s one that many
investors have encouraged us to look at.” Delphi had $1.1
billion of cash and cash equivalents as of Dec. 31.  Delphi shares rose 78 percent last  year  after an initial
public offering in November 2011 following the Troy, Michigan-
based company’s 2009 exit from bankruptcy. O’Neal, 59, has cut
expenses and reduced the company’s product lines to 33 from 131.
The CEO also has focused on  emerging markets  and emphasized
products such as fuel-injection and active-safety systems sought
by consumers and mandated by governments.  The auto-parts maker announced a $750 million share
repurchase program in September.  ‘Shareholder Value’  “Our strong balance sheet and significant cash flow
generation allow us to take this positive shareholder action
today,” O’Neal said in the statement. “The initiation of the
cash dividend, along with our existing authorized share-
repurchase program, continue to reflect our confidence in the
business and our continued commitment to enhance  shareholder
value .”  O’Neal is trying to balance Delphi’s use of cash with its
goal of achieving investment-grade  ratings . Chief Financial
Officer Kevin Clark said last year he expected Delphi to earn
such a rating by the end of April 2013. Delphi has a corporate
credit rating of BB+, the highest non-investment grade, from
Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services.  Delphi’s indicated dividend yield is 1.7 percent based on
today’s closing price of $39.73. That compares with a yield of
2.2 percent for the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  after trading
today. Delphi joined the index in December.  ‘Big Enough’  “This is one more piece of the puzzle on how Delphi’s
going to deploy its cash,” Matthew Stover, an auto analyst with
Guggenheim Securities in  Boston , said in a telephone interview.
The yield is “big enough to be meaningful and clearly there’s
some room to move the yield higher.”  Delphi’s  investors  include Elliott Management Corp., Silver
Point Capital and Paulson & Co., three of the private equity
firms that bought most of the original Delphi.  The company, registered in Gillingham, U.K., rose 4.2
percent today for the biggest gain since May 29. The shares have
increased 3.9 percent this year, compared with a 5 percent rise
for the  S&P 500 .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Clothier in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 mclothier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net  