-- Music Industry Grows First Time in a Decade on Digital Adele
-- B y   K r i s t e n   S c h w e i z e r
-- 2013-02-26T14:45:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/digital-music-with-adele-helps-record-industry-return-to-growth.html
The worldwide recorded music
industry’s revenue grew 0.3 percent to $16.5 billion last year,
the first increase in more than decade, as more people
downloaded music and used online streaming sites.  Adele’s “21” was the best-selling album and Carly Rae Jepsen’s “Call Me Maybe” was the best-selling single, an
industry group representing music labels said in a statement
today. Digital sales rose 9 percent to $5.6 billion and now
account for about 34 percent of total revenue, according to the
International Federation of the Phonographic Industry.  The improvement is welcome for an industry battered by
piracy, the shuttering of record shops and declining sales of
CDs. Digital sales of music now account for the majority of
record companies’ revenue in countries including the U.S.,
Norway, Sweden and India, the IFPI said.  “These are hard-won successes for an industry that has
innovated, battled and transformed itself over a decade,” said
Frances Moore, chief executive officer at IFPI. “They show how
the music industry has adapted to the Internet world, learned
how to meet the needs of consumers and monetized the digital
marketplace.”  Streaming Music  Major services for downloading and streaming music have
proliferated and are now available in more than 100 markets,
while subscribers to online music services increased 44 percent
to an estimated 20 million in 2012, the group said. The European
digital market grew faster than average at about 20 percent in
2012, the IFPI said.  Still, the industry has a problem with unlicensed music
services using tracks without permission. To halt such sites,
Internet service providers, search engines and advertisers need
to cooperate, the IFPI said.  The number of people using illegal music-file sharing
dropped by 17 percent last year as more streaming services
became free to use, according to research from New York-based
NPD Group. The practice peaked in 2005 when one in five Internet
users over the age of 13 accessed illegal file-sharing sites to
download music, the group said. The figure is now 11 percent.  “For the music industry, which has been battling digital
piracy for over a decade, last year was a year of progress,”
said Russ Crupnick, senior vice president of industry analysis
at NPD. “Among other factors, the increased use of legal and
licensed streaming services has proven to be an alternative for
music fans.”  The IFPI also reported today that British songwriter
Adele’s “21” was the first album to top the global chart for
two consecutive years since the IFPI began reporting worldwide
best-sellers in 2001. Taylor Swift’s album “Red” took second
place last year, followed by One Direction’s “‘Up All Night.”  One Direction had two of the top 10 albums of the year and
Maroon 5 and Flo Rida each had two songs in the top 10 singles.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristen Schweizer in London at 
 kschweizer1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net . 