-- Dish Says More Information Needed in Softbank-Sprint Bid
-- B y   T o d d   S h i e l d s
-- 2013-02-26T21:23:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/dish-says-more-information-needed-in-softbank-sprint-bid.html
Dish Network Corp. (DISH)  said U.S.
regulators should get more information on  Softbank Corp. (9984) ’s $20
billion purchase of Sprint Nextel Corp., which is vying with
Dish for control of  Clearwire (CLWR)  Corp.  The Federal Communications Commission needs to know more
about the consequences of placing U.S. airwaves under foreign
control, such as Tokyo-based Softbank, Dish said in a filing
yesterday with the agency. The FCC should listen to shareholders
who want to block Sprint’s bid for Clearwire, Dish said in the
filing.  “The applications are deficient and should be
supplemented,” Dish said. “The transaction puts more U.S.
spectrum than anyone else holds not only in the hands of one
company, but in the hands of a foreign company.”  Satellite-television provider Dish, expanding into mobile-
phone service, also has bid for Clearwire, a wireless-network
operator with valuable spectrum. Clearwire on Feb. 1 said it
remained in discussions with both companies.  Dish Chairman  Charlie Ergen  has said he wants more spectrum
-- the airwaves that let mobile devices operate -- to compete
with AT&T Inc. and  Verizon Wireless .  Sprint already owns just over 50 percent of Bellevue,
Washington-based Clearwire and has agreed to buy the rest for
$2.97 a share. Dish, based in Englewood, Colorado, has offered
$3.30 a share.  Clearwire Stock  Clearwire rose 6 cents to $3.20 in Nasdaq Stock Market
trading at 4 p.m.  New York  time.  Clearwire shareholder Crest Financial Ltd. in a  filing 
yesterday to the FCC said the agency should block the proposed
merger. The deal undervalues Clearwire shares and would harm the
public because the combined company could leave airwaves under-
used, Crest said in a filing.  Sprint, based in  Overland Park , Kansas, on Jan. 8 said it
wouldn’t relinquish its rights as a Clearwire shareholder to
allow Dish’s bid to be completed.  Sprint’s (S)  offer is superior to
Dish’s, the company said in a statement.  Sprint agreed to acquire 100 percent of Clearwire in
December, two months after its separate deal with Softbank
promised to provide a cash infusion.  Before the takeover offer, Sprint and Clearwire had run a
joint venture with the goal of building a nationwide wireless
network. The effort struggled to gain traction over the past
four years, leading to billions of dollars in losses for
Clearwire.  Sprint wants to take over Clearwire’s spectrum and use it
to enhance its own network.  The FCC is scrutinizing Softbank’s proposed purchase of
Sprint for its effect on the U.S. telecommunications market.
U.S. regulators may welcome the deal as a way to bolster
Sprint’s competitiveness in a mobile market dominated by  AT&T
Inc. (T)  and Verizon Wireless, Jeffrey Silva, a Washington-based
analyst with Medley Global Advisors, said in an interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Todd Shields in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  